Shiv closed his eyes and just breathed. "Fuck’s sake… At least you're honest. I'll think about what I can do. We're gonna have to handle this shit sooner or later. Just like we're going to have to handle the things between Jessica and Roland, Jessica’s grandkid… Shit, relationships are a lot of godsdamned trouble."

"That is all I can ask from you, Esteemed Deathless." Tulveg bowed. He placed a hand on his chest, left mostly bare by his silver vest. "Actually, I have another individual I would like your aid in making my acquaintance."

"Just how many people do you want to talk to, Tulveg?" Shiv grumbled. “Please don’t tell me you have another mysterious dead lover.”

"What? No. It is the one you call Angelo. The other child of the Divine Ichor. Another Liberated who has unchained himself from the aberrant ways of the First Blood. He avoids me too—for reasons I can't fully understand."

Shiv let out a very long breath. "Yeah, sure, I'll bring it up with Angelo the next time I run into him. But, uh, I don’t think he’s that excited about being around other vampires, even if they're also against the First Blood. It's a psychological thing. They destroyed his community. Did things to the people there.”

“Wretched. But I think I can give him a measure of peace through power.” Tulveg attempted a smile of gratitude toward Shiv. His facial muscles didn't seem to be acquainted with the concept.

"So, you still want to come into the Tutorial with me and do the kitchen stuff?" Shiv asked.

Tulveg froze. "Ah, no, I'm not truly interested. I apologize. I mainly came to ask you for favors, and I decided to queue behind Gone, for she was the first to arrive."

"And at least you're polite too," Shiv muttered. "Hey, Tulveg, if you want to make yourself really useful in the meantime, you can go outside and work with Helix to harass the First Blood. I'll be sending more orcs over too, and having someone without the itch around to make sure they don't butcher the slaves and refugees would be great.”

The Legendary vampire's nostrils flared in outrage, but Shiv cut him off with a raised hand.

"Look, I know you two don't like each other, but you can be useful. You don't need to like each other to work together. Besides, I need Helix a little bit unbalanced. I need him a little annoyed. That's when he's at his best."

Tulveg narrowed his eyes at Shiv. "Do you simply wish to use me to bully this orc of yours?"

Shiv paused. And then grinned. "Yeah, it's kind of fun. Consider it a favor for a favor.”

A low, chortling series of laughs followed as Tulveg threw his head back in amusement. His throat sounded like it was confused about what noise to make as well.

"Hey, Shiv, my guy, my man, listen," Candles said through a raspy throat, unable to stop himself from interrupting the conversation anymore. The Pyromancer scratched at his neck and looked from side to side, fidgeting. His body had deteriorated again, more of a charred husk than the male elf Shiv had seen a glimpse of in the Outside after Candles burned many of the Fingerlings.

"You got something I can burn soon? ‘Cause it's been a while since I've seen the flames dance."

"Shit," Shiv said. "I should have let you deal with the garbage earlier. But don't worry. You can burn some orcs. Oh, and we can have you handle the oven. If you're up for that."

"SoundsgreatI'minlet’sgo!" Candles practically squealed, grabbing Shiv by the shoulders and shaking him.

And with a new team formed with this group of tagalongs, Shiv turned to face the Culturist. He sized the Legendary orc up. "So, you still feeling like you want to be part of this brawl?"

Somehow, the Culturist managed to look downright adorable when he grinned. Probably a deliberate attempt to mock Tulveg's inability to control his facial expressions. "I wouldn't miss it for the world, my dearest Deathless."

"Great. Just so you know, if we win, I'm going to reach into your soul and destroy things. Things that won't ever heal right. You're gonna regret trying to do that metamorphosis shit with Adam."

"Oh? And who is going to make me regret? You? This band of addicts and traumatized victims?"

Shiv just sneered. "You didn't need to describe yourself twice, Culturist. Isn’t that what the Challenger made you? A violence-addicted, philosophically traumatized victim?”

The Challenger is roaring with laughter.

And a bit of the Culturist’s amusement vanished as a slight frown overcame his grin. "I must admit, Deathless, you are proving uncannily good at jabbing at someone's psychological weaknesses. I saw you inflict the despair upon poor Cripple earlier."

"And you still decided to do this with me. Culturist, have you considered the fact that maybe you're not broken? That maybe, among all the orcs, you're just kinda stupid?"

That set the Culturist off like a bomb. The orc threw his head back and laughed uproariously. "Oh, the temerity! I'm going to enjoy our time together, Deathless, and I'm going to reward you for granting me so much amusement by beating you unconscious as many times as it takes for you to become a perfect Pathbearer."

"Yeah, well, let's hurry up and get to the fighting, because if we keep talking with each other, I'm afraid I might do to you what I did to Cripple."

And instead of being offended, the Culturist seemed to take that seriously. "Perhaps you just might. Perhaps you just might…"

***

Deafening cheers rumbled from outside the Court Leviathan. The air itself was an endless series of thunderclaps. Orcs were gathering on the battlefield, each one clamoring for a chance to fight the Deathless. A main event was taking shape in the Tutorial: Team Deathless vs. 500 orc Heroes. And should Shiv and the others survive that encounter, the Culturist would then enter the fray as a dessert after the main course.

Despite Shiv's bravado, something told him he was likely not going to get the better of the Culturist today. But also that the Culturist was less of a risk to his life and the other prisoners than most of the orcs were. The orc Legend was likely going to scratch its itch good and deep using Shiv, but he didn't mind. It was just an improvement, and frankly, this reduced the risk of Adam suffering any unnecessary harm.

But peace came before carnage, and Shiv spent some time within the inner confines of his Court Leviathan, laying out all the kitchen appliances he'd secured from Monster Mystery Meat before he and Adam had burned the place down to avoid the Inquisition taking note of what had transpired there.

He had ordered the orc Biomancers aboard the massive beast to reshape a sizable portion of its interior into that of a kitchen. Rooms that were once separated by pulsating organs and dense layers of bone were consumed into sludge-like biomass and then remade until everything resembled a wide-open cavern. It was at the very back, next to the captain's quarters, where the kitchen was constructed. Courtney's shape-shifting capabilities always left Shiv in awe. But now, after his experiences examining spell patterns and shapes, he could better understand the exact magic that was unfolding before him, could glean certain details that might provide him further insight into his own Biomancy. His Aegis of Assimilation allowed him to shape spells and create organisms without directly risking his own biology. And so, Shiv played along, trying to emulate what the Court Leviathan did. Time and again, he formed dense clusters of tumors along his mana hydra. But that was fine; failing was part of the fun, and these cancers would be the material used for a new whip, one that he would apply towards his defense as well as offense.

As the space for the kitchen reached the end of its bio-excavation, Shiv ended up achieving his first success as well. It wasn't a major leap for his Biomancy, but he did manage to alter bone into blood without causing any cancerous cascades. And that was quite a feat indeed. Being able to turn someone's blood into bone or a bone into blood was an easy way to kill them, especially if you applied it just right. A small fragment of bone at the center of someone's heart was a subtle and insidious assassin, after all.

Aegis of Assimilation 132 > 134

Atlas of the Flesh Scryer 115 > 117

And that's another lesson for me, Shiv thought to himself as he created five logistical golems to speed up the process. I gotta keep thinking smaller. Everything I've done before was too big, too loud, too nasty. We gotta focus on the little things. Little things make up big things. That's how the world works.

With Gone’s help—and almost exclusively Gone’s help, because Candles was busy undergoing brutal withdrawals and Five proved to be what Georges might call a “shitfucking slacker”—the facilities and stations salvaged from Monster Mystery Meat were set up within the kitchen space nested at the very core of the Court Leviathan. Thanks to Gone’s Legendary speed, they tested several different layouts in quick succession, each one appraised by Shiv's experienced eye. He knew Georges preferred a central island where several stations were pieced together, and where he could quickly assist anyone who was failing in their tasks or close to being overwhelmed.

Shiv found himself more inclined to the inversion of that. The various stations were placed along the walls, and the center of the room was left entirely open, making it easier for one to launch themselves from place to place. There were a great many differences that separated Shiv and Georges. Among them was maneuverability. Georges had been an Initiate or Low Adept in Physicality, while Shiv could slow the pace of time and could move at an astonishing speed. Getting from one end of the kitchen to the other was no trouble at all, even with it orders of magnitude bigger than that of the Swan-Eating Toad.

When everything was installed, Shiv stood at the center of the room and spent a few heartbeats taking in the scene. The walls were coated in smooth white bone, so fine in texture that it seemed like plastic or concrete, or a mix of the two, more than anything else. Four swaying nodules of bioluminescence lit the room in a comforting ambience. If there was something Shiv could say about the orcs, it was that they always surprised. They always revealed just how much taste in culture and how much experience they accumulated across their many resurrections at the strangest of times. The interior design was better than Shiv could have imagined. A few of the grayskins with High-Tier cleaning skills even entered without Shiv asking, and they scrubbed down his various appliances. The stations glittered, their chrome polished to a reflective sheen, their damaged and rusted inner mechanisms purified as well, returned to pristine condition.

Outside the Court Leviathan, Shiv could hear countless orcs chanting his name, bellowing for him to come out and start the brawl.

Shiv didn't feel rushed. He didn't need to be rushed. He simply wanted to enjoy this and to also commemorate Georges. He wished Georges could have seen this. He wished Georges could have been here. He wondered what Georges might say about his crazy plan to bring a mobile kitchen across the land even while he was being hunted, and that made Shiv laugh. He could imagine the many faces Georges might pull.

"Are you absolutely bloody insane, boy?" Georges might say. Then the head chef might grab two pieces of bread and place them around both sides of Shiv's head and ask what kind of vegetable he was.

Shiv's vivid imagination of something Georges hadn't actually done, but the Deathless could definitely imagine him doing was briefly burst as an orc dressed in a maid's outfit walked by him while mopping the ground, humming a tune and singing about how he wanted to break free from something under his breath.

But soon Shiv's thoughts returned to thinking about his past and his future. Here, it felt like things could be different. Here, he was making a decision to go against everyone's will, especially the System's, now that he knew for sure that it actually had a will that he could actively spite, and that felt right to him. After so much pointless struggle and strife, this was what he wanted: adventuring, cooking, fighting giant monsters, and making a restaurant inside a giant monster. Everything else, all the schemes, they didn't matter. They weren't what Shiv wanted. And if the Deathless was going to be a true Pathbearer, he needed to place his will above all others, within reason, but still above all others.

"So, you serious about this?" Gone said softly from the side. “The kitchen?”

Shiv tilted his head and looked down, meeting the goblin's gaze. "Yeah, absolutely. This feels beyond right. This feels like where I want to be. This feels like it can be home, you know? Like it'd be something I can be proud of. I can make something of this. And I know what you're thinking. No, I'm not entirely stupid. It's going to be hard running a restaurant while most of the world's got a big incentive to kill me. But we already live in an insane world. Everything is going to end in strife. So why run from it? Why avoid it? The System's going to do whatever it can to push me deeper into conflicts, and I'm going to tell it to piss off every single time. Because I've got something to cook, people to feed, and a life to live. Strife, battles, levels, horrors, all that be damned."

Gone looked away for a moment, and it struck Shiv then just how young the goblin seemed sometimes. He was used to Legends all being centuries or millennia older than him, but he also knew that that wasn't necessarily always the case. "Gone, how old are you?"

"Don't know," she replied. "Doesn’t matter."

Shiv wanted to dig deeper, but the way she'd responded to that question told him it was a bad idea. It told him there was a wound there, something that hadn't completely healed right.

