"Well, what about your family?"

She shook her head a single time, slowly, and Shiv realized that was an even worse territory to venture into.

"Alright, uh, you think about what part of the kitchen you want to work in?"

"Don't know. Never worked in a kitchen before. But peeling potatoes sounds nice. I like peeling things."

At that, Shiv grinned. Despite the two false starts, he realized Gone was a goblin at heart after all.

"Gone, I'll let you peel all the potatoes you want. I'll show you everything you need to learn about working in a kitchen. And anything I can't teach, I'll learn, and then I'll show you anyway. And if you want to leave anytime, you can too. I just want people who want to be here to be here. You don't need to feel like you owe me anything for the escape from the Rubix Well. You've already done more than enough. That goes for all of you. All of you except for Five.” He turned to stare at the wolf-man, who was leaning against a countertop off to the side and fidgeting with some of the cybernetics in his left forearm before Shiv's mention of his name caused him to look up. “Five, I don't trust you. You're a weird Aviary spy, and you're lazy as all hells, but I prefer you being here rather than somewhere else planning whatever fuckery New Albion wants."

Five nodded and smiled genially, his sharp, metallic teeth showing. "Yes, Chef. Actually, have I mentioned that I worked in a kitchen before? I wasn't a very good cook, but basic sauces and soups, I can do."

That earned a chuckle from Shiv. "Heh. Prick. Right. Let's see if you can avoid poisoning any of our customers."

"Oh, we have customers already?" Five asked, almost sarcastically. "Where?"

"The Gate," Shiv said simply. "We have four thousand extra refugees that we're going to need to feed. We have all the existing refugees that we haven't dealt with yet. We have the mercenaries we haven't processed, the Arachnae Order, and we've got a bunch of orcs too."

And then a dark but ultimately amusing idea took hold in Shiv's mind. "And we got just what we need to feed all of them."

"And what would that be, Chef?" Five asked.

"Well, the Abyss is nearby, and we can gather vegetables from the rivers there. Some of those weeds are real nice. I think I'm going to collect some new mushrooms as well. On top of that, though, we're technically surrounded by meat here."

"Please don't tell me we're cooking our own kitchen, Chef. That sounds almost sacrilegious."

"No, not Courtney. Though that will work in a pinch. I'm talking about the other meat." Shiv cast a brief and subtle look at the orc in the maid's outfit who was still mopping the floor.

Five’s impressive composure cracked slightly. "You can't be suggesting—"

Shiv gave him a vicious and confident smile. "I'm not suggesting. That's what we're going to do."

Five started gagging. "Have you ever bitten one of them before? They taste positively wretched.”

"No," Shiv admitted. "And I don't think most people have cooked one of them either, but I think I can make something of it. That I can make some really good orc meat stew."

With that, the orc maid froze. A rope of fear snaked out from him into Shiv, and slowly he turned, holding his mop high and shivering before the Deathless. "Insul? What was that you just said?"

Shiv offered the orc a placid smile. "Oh, you don't worry about it. You're one of the good ones. Actually, stay aboard the Court Leviathan for a while. You'll be my taste tester, even. I insist."

It took a creative and twisted mind to make an orc feel fear and disgust, but Shiv managed. The orc maid looked like he really wanted to break free of this room and get away from his Insul, but it was too late. Far too late.

Shiv snapped his fingers. "Alright, we got some of the setting up done, so let's go out there and get our main course ready. We got a few hundred orcs to carve up."

He shaped his cancer whip and held up his Last Morsel, grinning at the wicked edges of orichalcum that jutted free from the sides of his pitch-black frying pan. Soon, the Deathless would release his stress in another way, and the grayskins would learn. They would learn they'd chosen right, and they would come to regret him as an Insul. He would teach them. He would show all of them.

“I am the cook,” Shiv muttered to himself, remembering the ancient words Georges had him say when he felt overwhelmed. “I am the cook, and all the world is my kitchen. And all the things that live beneath the sky and beyond are my meat. They are my vegetables. They are mine to cook.”

"Hells, yeah," Candles slurred cheerily from where he lay splayed out over a stove. "Burn 'em, burn 'em all…"

Gone simply flicked her claws out and allowed lightning to course across the golden quills growing from her back and head.

Slowly, the orc maid and Five shared a look. "For what it's worth, I too am realizing just how much of a mistake it was to involve myself with these maniacs," the wolf-man admitted softly.

The maid just whimpered.

"You ready to fight some orcs, Five?" Shiv asked.

"Absolutely not."

"Alright, well, you're gonna be in the vanguard."

"I wish to leave."

Shiv’s grin grew to shit-eating levels. “And I wish Georges would come back to life. But that’s not happening. Sometimes, you just gotta deal with things.”

A whine befitting an abused dog escaped Five. "When I return to New Albion, the Queen better make me a true noble for this. The sacrifices I endure, they are beyond measure…"
