<Alex, Real - Expert Training, Runa’s Glade>

Alex created more water in his mouth, swirling and swallowing to delay just a moment and ensure he wasn’t making too snap of a choice.

Then, he nodded to himself and selected Life-Fueled Runewrighting.

New Skill Acquired:Life-Fueled Runewrighting(Rare)

Life-Based Runewrighting(Rare)You have the ability to imbue magical symbols with power in order to create effects, either single-use or persistent.

If you use your own Life or health as fuel for or structure of the magical symbol, it has a lower cost and will have a greater fidelity during the creation process.

Mental and Magical Agility have a boost when using this skill.Magical Fortitude has a boost when using this skill.

He took a moment to read it, then re-read it, a smile growing across his features. He could work with—

The world disappeared around him.

A moment later, a room came into focus. It was a nearly twenty foot cube with metal sides and a large, heavy door centered in each of the four walls. The floor was also metal—divided up as large square plates—and the ceiling…

Alex’s eyes widened as he looked up at the clear expanse, open to a starry sky that seemed too close despite the obvious distance of the celestial bodies.

This… this is the ship. And we’re already in space.

He tried to center himself. This was going to be his next mission. There could be dangers around every corner, but hopefully, they wouldn’t be on the ship itself. He likely needed to find the bridge first… or cockpit? Pilot’s harness?

He really had no idea, but he expected his implanted memories would tell him.

He frowned. Shouldn’t they already be—

Alex screamed, barely feeling his knees hit the hard floor as he carved furrows down the side of his head with his nails, trying with uncontrollable fervor and desperation to get to his brain to relieve the building pressure.

The world swam around him as he suddenly knew that he was in a nexus storage room, near the center of his ship, on the uppermost deck of three.

His left arm went limp, his mind momentarily unable to control it. In fact, he felt that entire side of his body go slack, and he tipped over, flopping onto the cold steel.

He knew that he was needed in the pilot’s chair at the front of the ship. That was his station.

Alex’s body began to spasm, his mouth working like a fish’s.

The specs of this transport-class vessel, the Innominate, almost seemed to scroll through his mind.

Drool splashed as he twitched in the growing puddle under his face.

His mind did not like having more crammed in it after his time with—

Alex’s whole body spasmed as it tried to draw forth the name of his teacher. He knew it, he knew that he knew it, but it wouldn’t fully manifest.

He stopped trying to remember, and the withering cramps rolling through the folds of his mind subsided.

He didn’t know what it said that he could feel that… and he was rather sure he didn’t want to know.

He wasn’t sure if only a few breaths passed or if he lay there for hours, but he suspected it was the former even while feeling like the latter.

When he pushed himself up to his hands and knees, he noticed someone standing before him. A powerful voice radiated down upon him. “I know I have an effect on people, but this seems a bit extreme.”

Alex pushed himself upright, not trusting himself to come to his feet just yet, but still almost laughing in joy when he was actually able to do so. His body was shaky, but it was listening to him once more.

He lifted his eyes and beheld a man who seemed like he was too much for the world around him, as if space itself bent in his vicinity.

Honestly, it reminded Alex of images he’d seen created of black holes, though more in feel than in like kind.

The man was dressed plainly, in a form fitting black outfit that even molded around his feet and toes.

His hands were likewise covered, but the garment stopped below his neck. All told, it highlighted a body that was clearly refined for motion. The man himself was standing in a relaxed stance that Alex’s martial training and impartments told him would be combat effective.

Not wanting to be rude, Alex stood and pulled a towel from his Inventory to wipe himself at least somewhat clean. He then carefully pulled back energy from his throat as he spoke. “I apologize for my state. I’m Alex. Are you another member of the crew?”

His granted memories were still jumbled, but he was beginning to get them in proper order, despite his building migraine.

The other man blinked a few times then burst out with laughter.

Alex staggered backward at the force of the utterance, his head spinning. Even so, he was able to see the ripples that went through the surrounding bulkheads.

The metal wasn’t physically breaking or bending, but something about existence was responding to this man.

The stranger quickly contained himself and grinned. “A member of the crew. Hah!” He shook his head. “No. I am Ares.”

Alex frowned, entirely confused. Even so, he did recognize the name. “Like… the greek god?”

The other man—Ares—shrugged. “It does seem that my existence bled into some of your pre-System cultures. That is rather common for System adjacent worlds.”

There was a moment of silence, after which Alex cleared his throat. “Are you… are you expecting me to bow or worship, or…”

Ares huffed a laugh. “Some do, but no. I do not require genuflection.” He regarded Alex again. “Though, I am surprised that you can stand in my presence. I am restraining myself to maintain the coherence of the scenario, but I’d expected at least some strain on your mind.”

“My mind… is having other difficulties at the moment.”

Ares grunted. “Understandable, even from what little I can glean of you. As to your question of worship? I am not empowered by such. If you wish to do me service, learn the arts of war, and engage in them outside of this Tutorial, once you are home.”

That… made some sense to Alex, actually. “So… are you a ‘god’ then?”

He had to admit that the very idea made him a bit uncomfortable. Though, he supposed, many different cultures used the concept for many different things.

There were more considerations, but he decided to wait for the answer.

Ares wobbled his head back and forth before shrugging. “That seems to be the best translation that the System has into the overarching culture of your world and your native language.”

Alex bit his lip in thought. “If I may ask, what do you do within the System?” He hesitated before appending. “I mean no disrespect. I am simply trying to understand how things fit within my new reality.”

Ares shrugged again. “No offense taken, young Alex. I, and others like me, integrate, upgrade, and configure new worlds, resolve misalignments or errors that might arise, implement security functionality to protect subsystem integrity and maximize resources, all within the System’s purview.”

Alex was frowning in thought. “That… that sounds like an Administrator."

He rocked back as a notification forced itself into his perception.

System Notice:This is the first instance of this translation being applied. Do you wish to put this translation forward, despite it being slightly off of true or direct translation?

Y/N

Alex jerked his head back, trying to take in the notification, but nothing about it seemed negative so he muttered, “Yes?”

Accepted. This will be offered to any others who encounter this ??? word, and you will be rewarded for each who accepts your suggestion.

Thank you for expanding the System’s understanding of your culture.

Ares laughed, clearly at least sensing the notification. “It seems that the System agrees with you, at least in part. Regardless of how it is translated, I am a System Administrator.”

Alex nodded, somehow hearing that Ares had said the same word now heard as ‘System Administrator’ where before it was ‘god’.

Now that he had been able to put the clearly powerful man in a context he understood, Alex felt like he had a place to start. As such, he fell into long-honed habits. “Well, Admin Ares, to what do I owe the pleasure of this visit?”

Ares gave another amused smile. “I mainly wished to see the man who has thrown my Apology Tutorial into such tumult. What would an appropriate metaphor be in your culture?” The man’s eyes unfocused for a moment. “Ah yes, this is the single most important interview for your world since God talked to Moses.”

Alex cocked an eyebrow. “I am no prophet, and I think we just moved away from you being a god?”

Ares waved his hand. “Details. You're expensive, Alex. Some of that isn’t your fault, not entirely, but I'm quite interested in seeing how you shape my newest world."

“Your world?” Alex swallowed reflexively.

“Yes. I will be overseeing Earth in the coming years, ensuring a smooth integration with the System in a rather hands-on manner. I need to recoup my investment after all.” He grinned. “I feel no need to say more. Yet, I am curious.” His eyes focused. “Why are you so special?”

Alex swallowed, unsure how to answer. In his confusion and uncertainty, he momentarily lost control around his throat. As such, when he spoke, his voice seemed to grate at the very air. “I don’t know—”

Ares jerked a hand up, cutting Alex off. “What, by the System, is that? You will stop it.”

A flicker of power surrounded Ares, and the Admin imposed a working upon Alex’s neck.

Alex was only able to sense the barest edges of the power due to how advanced it was, but even so, he could tell that it was meant to suppress any negative effects coming from his throat or voice.

At the same time, another System notice triggered, once again forcing itself into his attention.

System Notice:A notable achievement has been accomplished.

One of your attributes has inconvenienced four beings of power well beyond your own, prompting them to act directly to oppose it or minimize its effects on them.

As such the System acknowledges that your attribute, Basic Dissonance of Tonality, is more potent than first understood.

This is interesting.

You will find it easier to level this attribute going forward.

Use this wisely. Provide good data.

Analyzing…

Analyzing…

Meta-Error recognized.

Notification altered.

Alex blinked as the ‘four’ was changed to ‘three’, reducing the number of powerful beings mentioned by one. That’s… odd.

But he really didn’t have time to think more on it.

“So, is that it? That wasn’t a spell. An odd skill? No… that was clearly unintentional. An attribute, then?”

Alex thought about lying, but what was the point? “Yes, sir.”

“So, it’s something to do with your race then? Fascinating.” Ares smiled and nodded to himself. “Very well. Such things are quite protected by the System, so I won’t dig.”

Alex relaxed, uncertain how he’d have handled a demand for more information. After all, it sounded like the Admin would be overseeing Alex’s whole planet, and that would make it rather… unpleasant to be on his bad side.

Ares nodded to himself. “I’ve held up the scenario long enough. Good luck, Alex. I’ll be watching.”

“Ummm… thank you, sir.”

He gave Alex a searching look, seeming to be considering one last thing. “You’re older for your world… Did you have any children?”

Alex frowned. “No?”

“Pity.”

He pulled back a bit in surprise at the assertion. “Why?”

“Well, your race is clearly pre-System, and it has just been recognized after the incorporation of your world. From the feel of it—and what I saw of you—I imagined that you can’t pull Life from others. Still, one of your descendants might have been able to.”

A subtle ringing began to build in Alex’s ears. “That… that could have been inherited?”

Ares frowned. “Of course dear boy, that’s what a race and attributes are. It’s basically the only part of your status sheet that can be.”

Without another word, the Admin vanished.

Alex felt tingling through his entire being, and he swayed on his feet. Inherited… likely to drain life…

His mind was filled with memories of a mountain trail and a body slowly cooling on his back as he ran for help with all that he could muster.

It was me.