“Perhaps,” Adam said. “I think that's a problem I can resolve using the other Heroic Evolution. If these creatures are comprised of eldritch fear, and the Feast of Dreaded Flame sources mana from fear itself… doesn't that mean they're already functionally covered in napalm?”

A bead of flabbergasted silence followed. Uva facepalmed as if she was a fool to miss such a fact, and Shiv slapped Adam on the back. “And that’s why you’re Gate Lord, I guess. Alright, say we do that. Say it works out. Say we have an army of eldritch terrors that we can control and use—what about that piece of kit you’re getting—one connected to your Path?”

“No choice with that one,” Adam breathed. “So. Let’s see what the System offers and build back from—”

The moment Adam accepted his equipment reward, a shadow fell from above. It was a shadow shaped like mist, the same kind that was suffused with Adam's Divinity and spilled forth from his soul. Yet as it passed through the dense, crystalline nest sprouting out from the mana core, it solidified mere meters away from Shiv, Uva, and Adam, and provoked Valor, the Culturist, and Roland to respond with alarm.

Yet everyone froze a half-second after, as they laid eyes on what the System gifted Adam.

It wasn't a weapon nor a piece of armor. It wasn't a mount he could ride or even a cape he could strap to himself. Instead, what spawned was a tessellating temple, the size of a small hill, nested atop a massive palm made from tumbling clouds. Beneath the cube-shaped pagoda that loomed over the temple was an effigy carved in Adam's likeness. It resembled him down to the last detail, forged from the same kind of desolating material that made up the rest of the temple—and it mirrored him as he was right now—closer to orc than man.

“Huh,” Shiv grunted. “It gave you a prayer shack.”

Adam’s misted right socket twitched in confusion and frustration. “So it seems… agghhh!”

And, for seemingly no reason at all, the temple came aglow with incandescent light, and the effigy of mana swallowed the actual person in a stream of radiance.

The last thing Shiv glimpsed through his mental connection to Adam’s was the following message.

Divine Anchor Gained: [Evangelizing Temple of Tyrannical Peace]

“Why?” Uva groaned. “What fresh shit is the System forcing on us now?”
