Uva could feel them building and growing, propagating, but there was a discipline to them now that she'd regained control over her being. Mana equilibrium had established itself as the mana core's crystallization spread beyond the Abyssal gateway. No longer did it need to infest the Stranger's Garden. Instead, it completely usurped the environments outside the Abyssal gateway, consuming the sediments and mud, swallowing the trenches, devouring the trees as everything was made into crystallized mana, as a part of the Outside bled over into Integration and stayed there.

A series of kaleidoscopic fangs rose around the entrance to Gate Piety, climbing high and pressing against the sky-like ceiling of the Umbral Wilderness. There was no flanking the gateway from above, no easy point of ambush. If someone came, they would have to breach the crystal, and in doing so, allow an exit for the Terrorspawn to spill free. With that, there would be no avoiding what followed. Uva would be alerted. The true defenders would be scrambled, and that was if the Terrorspawn didn't overrun and completely consume the fools who dared provoke them.

A similar series of residential districts had been constructed near the surface gateway. Yet Uva was only a supporting effort in the labors that took shape there. Instead, the main figures of the surface districts' reconstruction and the residentials that were established thereafter were Can Hu taking the lead and Roland as advisor.

A massive swarm of construction drones, numbering in the hundreds, swept through the Gate. They buzzed like bees, and their queen, the Penitent, worked tirelessly, using its Geomancy to sculpt and construct structures of great beauty and polish.

The platform that once carried Surfacer's Way had been repurposed as a separating layer. The Skyfolk visiting from the surface were granted the top side, while those who once lived on Surfacer's Way were moved down—along with all their buildings. The Industrial Transplantation skill was gained during such an effort as Can Hu secured the bases of entire residential clusters and moved them as if a chef carrying a stack of plates.

What followed then was an easy means of transportation for all stabilized constructs within the gate. Anything that could be moved was now capable of instantaneous transportation across all districts, meaning that a building in the surface district could be shifted over to the abyssal. So long as there was something to bear its weight, and it could sustain the momentum of its departure, the transplantation would always be a near-certain success.

With everything that was being built, the Quick-Fab Skill also took shape. It effectively allowed the rapid reconstruction of existing mechanisms and materials, provided that the resources were available. Between Uva, Can Hu, and all the workers within the Gate, all constructive efforts were accelerated to staggering paces.

And thus, it took less than a few days to rebuild the surface district to accommodate everyone coming through. The dimensional entrance to the surface was still being blockaded in part by Shiv's Sky-Swallowing Carp, with the restaurant effectively serving as an immigration center now. It was also an easy filter for anyone who was unwise enough to start problems in the Gate, who were provoked and lured by the promise of the Deathless. If they could claim his life, they would gain a wealth of Legendary skills and be among the greatest Pathbearers to ever live on Integrated Earth. Yet, after everyone Shiv had broken, the assassination attempts were only on a downturn rather than an escalation.

It seemed that the moaning victims he'd left festooned to the upper entrance of his restaurant sent the proper message. The fact that he wrote "behave yourselves" on their bodies in bright red sauce also added to the enforcement of discipline.

Beyond the Sky-Swallowing Carp, however, the bridge split in three ways. One was straight ahead to the platform that now held a series of hovering nests. The Skyfolk were used to manipulating gravity, and as such they danced weightless but still granted a measure of space away from the mana core and the terrifying creatures that now teemed within its crystallized nest.

Below them were the residential districts meant for man and machine. Charging stations had been established as massive influxes of automata spilled in, most of them representatives from Lone Star. The bots were the third most populous race within the Gate, behind the orcs and then the goblins.

The Grounder Residential District was the largest district because it encapsulated many rival empires and many diverse physiologies. It needed to be separated into over a thousand different communities. The Southerners refused to mingle with anyone who wasn't their own, and even among their own, they were separated by the banners they held to and the gods that claimed them as subjects.

Lone Star, Yellowstone Pathbearers from the far east, west, and the far, far north could co-mingle, but Yellowstone's Prismatic Guard needed to be on close watch as well. They were among the most threatening to Gate Piety, even if Veronica and Shiv were currently operating along the lines of a pseudo-détente.

But the Jotun needed to be isolated for what was to come and what might follow. Having the Frost Giants and those of Yellowstone in close proximity was an alchemical equation for violence. More than once, Uva had to break up a brewing battle. More than once, Shiv was called on to intervene, and when he did, he made sure that the example came with pain for all sides. Hospitality was a law that needed to be enforced, for any leniency would give other troublemakers fresh ideas. Ideas that would always see them suffer bleak fates beneath Shiv's pan.

It wasn't just Shiv who was in charge of security, however. Still Water and the rest of the Arachnae Order present in the Gate were granted a new headquarters. It was shaped to go underground, designed as a subterranean tower akin to a layered oubliette. At the very bottom were the prison cells that currently held certain Inquisitors, Aviary agents, and other dissidents of interest. Higher still were the barracks for the Arachne Order and a fourth permanent dimensional gateway that was being constructed, one meant to connect directly back to Weave. Then higher still were administrative modules.

Uva's personal abode was connected to the Farnest through an adjacent tunnel, but not directly and not so close either. Instead, she buried herself far and deep from all other districts, just in case she lost control again.

A final district stretched between the outer walls of Peacehold and the place where the Grounders lived. A series of stilt houses emerged from the surface of a vast lake, but the true district was made underwater and designed specifically by Can Hu to accommodate the aquatics. This place was separated in half between the freshwater aquatics and the saltwater beasts—apparently, those of the former considered themselves more individual than monster, and those of the latter, vice versa.

Despite this, their prejudice against each other was surprisingly far more muted compared to that which was expressed by the Grounders.

As to why, Can Hu had a pithy statement: "Empire cannot abide by empire. And soon we might enter that equation as well. For in this place, we might be sowing the seeds of a nascent empire in the process of becoming.”

Those words still resonated deep in Shiv's mind. After all those weeks, after the Delves experienced by the trio and the labors they'd performed, Gate Piety had transformed dramatically. It was sprouting before them, but that wasn't a purely joyous thing—a tension staying in the space like never before.

What existed prior was a blank canvas, rich with potential but not filled with becoming. Now it was in the process of becoming. Even though it was a draft, a sketch of the future, the gate was growing and changing dramatically, like the three unique Pathbearers who stained its core. That core was now swelling as well, rumbling with power as the glow which imbued it shifted between scintillating flame that shrouded a heart of azure blue from extending limbs of crystallized translucence.

It was a core unlike any other, and it was a core that yearned to taste the fruits of hard-earned rewards.

Success: Grants the Gate Lord a Master-Tier Elemental Dimension Biome they can select; grants 2 selectable Heroic-Tier Skill Evolutions; grants a Unique piece of Heroic-Tier Equipment based on the Gate Lord’s Path.

Adam, Uva, and Shiv hovered directly in front of the mana core. Not far away were Roland, Valor, and the Culturist, who kept a close eye on the Terrorspawn, as if they might betray the Gate at any time. The three looked at the rewards, and Adam just swallowed. His mind was raw with pain, but whole for now, yet his heart quivered, and his emotions failed, frail still. He didn't want to make any more decisions. He felt drained from all he'd gone through, and besides, it wasn't just his decision alone anymore, for the mana core now held more essence than his own.

“Alright,” Adam said, accepting the System’s bestowal of power. A flash went off inside the mana core, and the notifications he beheld updated. A spread of options manifested itself inside his mind, and through Uva, Shiv saw what Adam's choices were as well.

Select Elemental Dimension Biome:

Master-Tier: [Plane of Fire]

Master-Tier: [Plane of Frost]

Master-Tier: [Mithril Caverns]

[Unique] Master-Tier: [Psionite Quarry]

The trio paused as they all zeroed in on the final option. “What's that last one?” Shiv asked.

“I have no idea, and judging from the Unique modifier, neither does the System.” Uva frowned. “Although I do have a guess. I've been using my mind to construct things all this time, and so maybe it's a substance that can be shaped by Psychomancy. If so, however, I find myself more aligned toward the Mithril Caverns. We need a source of sustainable wealth—simply choosing the Unique option all the time isn't wise. Just because something is novel doesn't make it superior.”

Adam's disagreement was quiet at first. He continued fixating on the Psionite Quarry, and he considered what it might provide them. “If it's scarce, then doesn't that make it more valuable?”

“Generally, yes,” Uva said. “But what it does is another question. Mithril has an inherent worth all its own—it is a magical conduit. If nothing else, it will be a tremendous boon for our Gate even under conditions of autarky.”

“Under conditions of autarky, I fear we are fated to die,” Adam replied, drawing in a sharp breath. “I know what you’re thinking, but with what we are to defeat, I fear we need to steal strength from those around us. We gained two million orcs from the Tutorial. They are a minority still—the Challenger’s forces dwarf all others and us as well. If we find ourselves besieged and isolated further, then I fear defeat is unavoidable. Diplomacy is the only game we can truly play.”

“It's probably a good game too,” Shiv added. "We got a lot of Lone Stars in this Gate right now. If the Challenger is coming for us specifically, then maybe we can enlist an entire nation to help us.”

Adam and Uva shared a look. One of doubt.

“Okay, maybe not their entire nation, but we can get enough of them to help us. We have a direct access point to the Tutorial, after all. We have turncoat orcs. I'll talk to that Hero of theirs after this—guy’s been in my restaurant for the past week. Hasn’t even gone to the toilet or anything. He’s just sitting there watching Gone—and Helix when he comes in. If nothing else, we can get some experience from them.”

“Right. Do that. Do whatever you can.” Adam paused. “I’ll think about the biome some more in a moment, but… Uva, how well can you control the Terrorspawn?”

“Not very,” she reluctantly admitted. “I’ve been trying to study them with Hymn’s help, but beyond giving them specific targets or pacifying them with my Dreaming Storm, they are close to feral.”

“Hmm.” Adam scowled, the expression much more brutal than usual on his orc-like face. “Fortune favors the mad… We need numbers. Expendable numbers.”

“Adam, what are you planning?” Shiv asked, slightly worried.

“Skill Evolutions,” Adam replied. “I think they aren’t for me, but for the mana core. I want to see what I can make of the Skein of Hollow Dreams and Feast of Dreaded Flame.”

Uva and Shiv tensed.

“I… cannot advise that,” Uva replied. “I cannot guarantee my control. The flames, perhaps—they feed and burn hotter based on fear, so it might prove devastating to a demoralized army, but the Skein—”

“We don’t know what might become of the Skein,” Adam said. “But I have a feeling it might be part of our coming salvation.”

“A feeling,” Shiv muttered.

“A hope,” Adam corrected.

“This feels like how I used to make decisions, Adam,” Shiv said, cringing. “Me striking that original pact with the Challenger is—”

“The only reason we managed to save any bit of Blackedge at all,” Adam finished for him. “We agreed on that accord in desperation, but it wasn't the wrong choice. It might have been a shit choice, but a shit choice is still better than making no choice. Right now, I think we have something better. Uva, if you inherited the Dreamtaker's dimension, and these creatures are tied to that dimension and anchored to the Mana Core, then perhaps evolving it is the way to give them more intellect and to instill them with deeper control.”

“Or it might just make them stronger and more uncontrollable,” she retorted. “If that is the case, we could just end up getting invaded from within before we ever get the chance to be besieged from without.”

