The way most empires collapse is through unintentional suicide. It is not a suicide that the people or their rulers choose. It is a suicide nonetheless.

This suicide takes shape in many forms: Over-immigration; Under-immigration; Under-replacement; Over-replacement; overexpansion; and underexpansion.

This disease of empire mirrors metabolic disease. A nation that is unable to process its own people and logistics effectively overdevelops in specific areas while underdeveloping in others. The imbalance crushes the culture from within, and the people balkanize. They fragment into their own factions as they fight over conditions of pseudo-scarcity, and what once was a unified whole scatters into warring tribes once more.

For a nation is unnatural unto itself, yet also one of the greatest achievements of humanity: to create a nation, you must reach beyond your tribe, beyond those you know, and rely upon them. This is an act of highest trust, one might even call it faith, but this faith cannot be wielded blindly.

One cannot venture into nation-building without thought, for that is how you trigger a disease of nation. You must understand your limitations better than anyone else. When you make your decisions, choose what your nation can sustain, and do so with clear eyes. This is where most wise rulers fail, due to being susceptible to a singular flaw: they have a vision, they have a want, they have a model of how the world is to be in their head.

World models are always far removed from any kind of reality that will transpire, but there is also always something useful to be found in them. When you have a vision and you realize that vision is mistaken, you have to kill it. You have to kill your pride, and in that pride, where most rulers hide their egos, is a fragility they cannot abide. So they choose the disease if only to desperately prove their principles right rather than facing the material realities at hand.

The Yellowstone Republic has stood for centuries. That is centuries longer than most nations on Integrated Earth. If you have any knowledge of history at all, you'll see a brutal and stark truth: most tribes that roamed the surface of Integrated Earth after the arrival of the System barely lasted decades before they fragmented, before a new individual came to power. In these early days, the imbalance between the majority and the elite minority was so severe that the rule of one was ever so common.

The thing about tyranny is that it's a brittle thing, a fragile thing. For when one was laid low or when one reaches the extent of their knowledge, their tribe and slaves usually follow them into oblivion, because destruction awaits those that can not face a broad set of problems. Even when technocratic societies followed, small townships and city-states established themselves. The same problems applied. Those who over-expanded found themselves unable to subdue and fully culturally assimilate those they defeated, and thus constant rebellions ensued.

Remember this: might does not make right. Might makes law, but law is contingent upon your ability to enforce it. If you allow your enemy's culture to remain, then they will always stand apart from you, and you will always be assailed by a sickness from within. This, then, is a disease of empire: too much to process, too much to digest.

Then some city-states were too insular. The former rulers of Fortress-City Vermind, for example, were religious zealots that refused to proselytize, yet were extreme in their beliefs nonetheless. They created countless enemies, both among the monster nations of the North and the individual tribes to the east. When the Republic came to seize them, they put up barely any fight at all, as they were already on the verge of being overrun.

Their mistake, then, was also a disease of empire, for they failed to embody an empire. For they failed to assert themselves and grow, to grant themselves room to retreat or room to expand.

As such, if you are intent on developing a civilization, if there is a project you are building with countless people and many factions aligned, then there must be a common pillar they abide by, a common culture or a common goal they refuse to turn away from. It is not the perfect distribution of resources that holds a nation together, but a singular unifying faith. If we suffer, then we should suffer together in some measure. Not perfectly even in our suffering, perhaps, but everyone should bleed, if only to indulge in symbology.

But to ensure that remains the case, then the pillars of your faith must prove unassailable as well. For if the foundational ideas of your empire are suspects of decay, then those below will find themselves assumed of a nihilism, of a grand meaninglessness, and then the final disease of empire will take shape. The disease of the individual before the community, the individual before the project, where personal power reigns above all other expressions…

—Diseases of Empire, by Councilwoman Veronica Chandler

431

Seeds of Empire [I]

Gate Skill Gained: Quick-Fab (Adept) 1

District Updated: Surfacer Way > Farnest

District Gained: Skyfolk Residentials

District Gained: Grounder Residentials

District Gained: Aquatic Residentials

District Gained: New Blackedge

District Gained: Peacehold

District Gained: Abyssal Residentials

District Gained: Draconic Hoardnest

Gate Skill Gained: Industrial Transplantation (Adept) 1

“Uva, I'm starting to get the feeling that you should have been Gate Lord all along,” Adam murmured. Lightning flashed in the distance, and sheets of psionic rain fell, but rather than dissolving into nothingness, they crashed upon the land in symmetrical order and assembled grand edifices of matter from mental magic.

“Nonsense, Gate Lord—this place needs someone to bear its greatest burdens and to serve as its face. I am not that person. I am merely the rain and storm that accompanies the sunrise. Your shine should light this world, and as such, your shoulders should carry the weight of critical decisions—and their failures.” Uva’s voice was smooth and distracted—her mind focused on a greater task, and that was finishing what remained of the Peacehold.

The orcs had given the grand structure that name in both appreciation and mockery. For now, they were to be acolytes of peace, or so they boasted, as they were bound to Adam's Divinity. As such, they couldn't live in ramshackle fortifications among the corpses of their own kind and the debris that rained down upon the Tutorial. They needed an aesthetic change, as much to match their spiritual rebirth, and so the Peacehold was created and designed to their exact specifications.

The orcs merely played along with Adam's symbolism, as they were to be creatures of peace now. They couldn't represent themselves using violence or icons of violence, and so the Peacehold had to be a shield. Thus, it was shaped into a sloped series of battlements around Starhawk's Perch. Rather than containing a castle of its own, it was nothing but trenches and moats along the outside. Dense fields of wardings and literal constructs lit the air as orc mages shaped the first line of defense to warn off all who were foolish enough to approach this place without declaring themselves.

Beyond those initial protections, the battlements stood bright and tall, lit by Adam's divine glow and cast with each thunderclap of Uva's distant lightning. Whips of psionic energy sheared and remodeled its exterior, and eventually, a measured plainness became its face. It was smooth in a way that no matter could be, polished to a gleam that resembled the marriage between metal and crystal.

Furthermore, it was lined with countless turret slots that served as windows for the orcs, for the orcs who treated the walls as their abode. Inside, the space grew wider than that, for Uva's mind was the fundamental skeleton that supported the interior. She connected chamber to chamber, hall to hall, without needing to abide by physical laws. Though that made the Peacehold vulnerable, this was only its initial conception, for she would see it replaced bit by bit in tandem with Can Hu, the Geomancers, and orcs possessed of architectural talents.

Relying on her Dreaming Storm alone was too treacherous. If Uva was incapacitated in any form, all of her psionic constructs would collapse, and the people within would be exposed to gravity and the slights of materialism. As such, all architecture within the Gate would eventually be two-layered: while Uva was active, she would use her Psychomancy to create initial structures for people to reside in. With time, the constructs she made would be replaced with physical embodiments. Though she would apply her internal mechanisms, allowing halls to be interlinked and people to travel across gates using the connective bridges forged from her mind mana, everything else would exist upon a stable foundation.

As such, the Peacehold was only a work in progress for now, a draft of what was to come, but it was quite a magnificent draft at that. Each one of its walls was structured like a risen shield, painted bright as Uva interfaced and negotiated with the orcs within the panoply of colors that splashed down with the falling rains. She tweaked and modified every stretch of the outer walls to the appeal of the orcs that lived within. And she gave them ample space inside as well, for orcs were ultimately hyper-individualists, and keeping them in close proximity gave rise to foul behavior. Beyond the others, they were still taunted and incentivized to resolve old slights, and though they didn't hurt one another—as it would displease Adam and incur the Deathless' wrath—that didn't mean they weren't already sniping amongst each other: cliques grinding against cliques, and old rivals staring each other down as dark thoughts brooded in advance of retribution to follow.

Beyond the grand spaces allowed by her Psychomancy, Uva also decorated the interior with temporary psionic constructs. Furthermore, she staffed the orcs with a single communal servant that could be summoned with the ring of a bell.

***

Whisper, Mortar, Tequila, and a dozen more orcs rattled the hand-held bells they'd been granted as hard as they could. They were gathered within a block forum, a central space that allowed orcs to convene and debate one another within a single battlement block. In this space, a few hundred orcs could assemble around a wide-open table surrounding a platform for specific individuals to speak. This resembled debate forums across other worlds, or an amphitheater meant for public oration, but right now they simply wanted to watch a performance, and it was one the speaker was only too happy to oblige.

“Owl! Owl! Owl!” they all cheered.

A falling bolt of lightning cast the one they called for. She manifested, dressed as she had been during her assault on Passage. A look of absolute fury and overwhelming exhaustion swept over Lady Eileen Harkness' mental clone. She fell to her knees and screamed to the heavens, screamed to the cruel non-goddess that kept her enchained in her mind. “Mettabon! You bit—”

Her curse was cut off as the orcs lifted their bells in a unified cheer, and then they began throwing rotten fruits at her.

Because even without the itch, old habits died hard, and Harkness had a certain personality that brought out the worst in others.

***

The Peacehold wasn't allowed to completely surround Starhawk's Perch. Instead, it had wide-open thoroughfares to the east and west of the castle, granting the residents of New Blackedge twin valley-shaped passages if they wanted to venture toward the Abyssal gateway or the surface.

Major changes had taken shape at both dimensional poles of Gate Piety as well.

A vast stretch of Abyssal Residentials was constructed right beside the Abyssal gateway. The buildings there were built in imitation of those that could be found back in the Weave. Towering spires of glistening dark brickwork and crystal, lit by hovering spheres of light and connected through sprawling bridges, turned the Abyssal Residential District into an urban nest.

But this was for the more human-sized Pathbearers, and with there being other visitors who sported vaster, more monstrous dimensions for their physiology, there was always the nearby Draconic Hoardnest. The massive mounds of mithril and treasure established by the Dragon Brokers had been expanded. Though the Brokers stood as the nucleus of the Hoardnest, the Descenders had set up their own encampments. They cast out spore-shaped tents as massive fungal structures opened up and created bivouacs for them to rest at. Several dragons set flames at block-sized bonfires to warm their food and heat their tea—but ultimately, this was just a place for them to speak amongst their own kind as they spent the rest of their time mingling, mostly with the brokers, sometimes up near the surface, as they socialized with surfacers and Abyssals alike.

Some, however, found their interest captured by the vast, crystalline web-work forming above them. For there was a second layer to the Gate in development, a layering of eldritch nature. The Terrorspawns still crawled through sprawling tendrils connected to the mana core, and they grew in number with every passing day from every existing mind, nourished by fear and engendered by nightmare. They never broke free. Instead, they were contained within the core.

