He started by touching every part of his body he could to the blooddrinker’s cuirass, effectively scrubbing himself of every bit of blood that had been spilled. Next, he approached the edge of the edge of the crystals, drew his spear, and ran his hand across the closest edge. A trail of red appeared and disappeared.

The bloodletter that appeared died swiftly and harmlessly.

There, at the field’s edge, Edmund had the freedom to move, to wield his spear with the brutal efficiency he’d fostered. The beast hadn’t stood a chance.

Curiously enough, his challenger’s mark didn’t seem to empower the creature at all. He wondered if that had something to do with receiving the mark on that floor, or if it simply didn’t work now that the level was considered cleared. Either way it had no bearing on his next actions.

Edmund bled, and Edmund killed.

He fought two, three, four of the monsters at once. He killed them with his spear, with his sword, with his spells, with his hands, taking each new step at the field’s edge, where he could afford to bleed without overwhelming himself. He got what he could from the outside.

Then he went in.

He kept close to the exit, keeping his line of retreat open at all times. He fought them on their turf, among the tight and deadly crystals that threatened to slice him open and summon his death at the slightest slip up.

It was then that Edmund realized the true value of the fox’s gift.

He found an intuitive sense of where each crystal sat in relation to him. He had to see them first, know they were there to begin with, but once he did, it struck Edmund as remarkable how easily he could track exactly where each obstacle stood, even as he moved around them. Even in the midst of the fight, with whirling teeth descending down upon him, never once did Edmund fall into a sharp edge.

In the end, there was precious little to gain from inside the crystal field. He practiced moving in tight quarters, efficiency of motion and precision maneuverability, but the fights themselves grew repetitive. With so little space in which to work, Edmund could only kill a bloodletter so many ways.

He recognized the hints of stagnation immediately and reacted accordingly. Less than two days after the chime had rung, Edmund left the crystals behind. He gathered his gear, used his cuirass to clean himself of blood, and ran a hand over the mark on his arm. With a nod he said goodbye to the eleventh floor, to the challenges it’d brought and the prizes it had rewarded. The twelfth awaited him.

So Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand, Bearer of the Challenger’s Mark, Slayer of Beasts and Fiends and, one day, Dungeons, stepped into the darkness.

Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 12

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 5 - Provides access to the Firebolt spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 6 - Gain increased constitution while fighting alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 6 - Gain health regeneration.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 8 - See beyond reality. Touch the unreal.

Tier 2 Aspect: Sorcery - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Smoke Lash spell.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession. Gain mana for each consecutive month spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone. Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island - Gray Resonance

Level 3 - Grants resistance to over-time effects while in groups of two or fewer.

Tier 3 Aspect: Focus - Silver Resonance

Level 1 - Doubles spell damage when attacking a single target.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Ponder the nature of reality.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Rend active ability.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Fissure - Silver Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Magma Fissure spell.

Delver’s Mark of the Challenger

Empowers nearby dungeon monsters. Significantly increases the value of loot chests you open. Slightly increases the resonance of Aspects you unlock.

The Crimson Hand

Grants minor resistance to piercing damage. Bestows ownership of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Apprentice

The third step on the Path of the Azure Fox. Increases agility. Grants a single windstep. Increases positional awareness.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Rootmother

Non-intelligent Strethian lifeforms will treat you as an ally. Gain the ability to draw water and nutrients from fertile soil.

Trailblazer bonus: draw water and nutrients from all soil.

Cloudkith Sigil

Cloud-based lifeforms will treat you as an ally. Gain enhanced perception through vision-reducing effects.
