Edmund found himself alone in yet another stone room, lit by yet more smokeless torches, casting yet more dancing shadows upon the dark corners of the space. So ended the similarities to previous floors.

Instead of an enclosed beginning chamber with a passage to the level proper, instead of an empty section of hallway leading up to a junction or opening where the danger truly began, Edmund stood at the entrance, and the entire floor stretched out before him.

The rough, but even, stone felt familiar beneath his boots. The walls behind him reached out with arms wide to encircle the entirety of the challenge ahead. On a raised bit of stone opposite him, the exit stood closed. He figured it’d open by the time he made it there.

All of that, the walls, the floor, the shape of the room as a whole, Edmund spared only a glance before devoting his true attention to the level’s dominant feature.

A forest of crystals sprouted from the ground like so many blades of grass. No more than a few inches wide and several feet taller than he was, the violet-tinged translucent triangular prisms seemed to jut from the stone at a variety of angles, all pointing up, yet none pointing directly up.

As he surveyed the field, Edmund spotted four gaps between the crystals wide enough to allow passage, though two would’ve required some amount of contortion to slip himself through. He didn’t dismiss them entirely, but if he could avoid putting himself in a position that so-tightly limited his movement, he would.

His spear at the ready, Edmund stepped closer.

No sounds nor signs of life reacted to his approach, but Edmund knew by now not to take that as an indicator of safety. He started by tapping the tip of his spear against the face of one of the crystals.

It chimed with a resonant tone as his weapon knocked against it, its small and distant point of contact with the ground limited enough to allow it to vibrate pleasantly when tapped. Edmund froze as the noise reached his ear, his narrow gaze scanning the crystal field for motion as the sound slowly faded. Nothing came at him.

He swallowed. He’d have to be careful not to bump against the violet prisms as he weaved around them, their hum sounding altogether too much like a trap or alarm.

Still, through the crystals was the only way forward, so Edmund stepped closer still. His next test would be a risk.

He’d known from the moment he’d laid eyes on them that he’d have to touch one eventually. The way was too dense, the path too fraught, to ever imagine he’d make it through without accidentally coming into contact with one of the crystals. If anything attacked him in there, it would be a certainty.

So he’d find out now, while he still had the freedom to move. With his right hand still firmly grasping the shaft of his spear, Edmund reached out with his left and gently pressed the tip of his finger against the face of the crystal.

Nothing happened.

He kept it there for a moment, waiting and confirming that the crystal had no effect on his bare skin, before pulling back. From there he reached slightly past the crystal, allowing the leather of his vambrace to slide across one of its edges. It sliced clean through.

Edmund pulled back, his theory of the floor’s purpose solidifying. The crystals were sharp, brutally sharp. As far as he could tell, that was their only danger, and it was one he could deal with. It would be difficult, of course, to maneuver through the dense forest without cutting himself, more difficult still to win a fight under such conditions, but Edmund knew he could manage it. His abilities had gotten him this far.

Curving his spear into a hook and looping it around his neck and through his belt, Edmund drew his short sword. Scorpion’s Sting would serve him better in such tight spaces.

He chose the second most open path into the crystal field, considering the first too obvious and the latter two not worth the additional danger. As prepared as he’d ever be, Edmund ducked into the gap.

He progressed slowly and deliberately, pausing for a few seconds with every step to fully take in his surroundings, search for any signs of movement in the jungle of crystals around him, and plot out where he’d next place his foot. He contorted his body around tight corners, twisted his neck at odd angles, and lifted his knees to step over low-angled obstacles.

The further he progressed, the more Edmund grew to question the design of his path. With every step, every navigational decision he made, he dismissed a number of alternatives. He wondered if his choice of entry spot into the field even mattered, if Liam had left scripted pathways through the crystal forest or simply ensured there was a way through and let chaos handle the rest.

If it was the latter, Edmund only had to keep moving towards the exit. If it was the former, he’d want to find the paths Liam hadn’t left open. That’s where the secrets would be.

An hour of grueling travel drained Edmund of his stamina, the crystals unrelenting in their density, leaving him no place to sit, no moment he could relax every muscle at once without falling prey to their sharp edges. It wasn’t until his back ached, his bicep burned, and his left achilles protested every step that he caught his first flash of movement.

Something was out there.

Edmund froze, his gaze darting around in all directions at first for another sign of life, then for a place he could stand and fight. Whatever beast lurked in the distance, the crystals themselves would prove the greater danger.

There weren’t any good spots. To his left a crystal jutted just overhead in a way that’d force him to fight with his head tilted sideways. To his right one swept over the floor, forcing him to keep his feet planted or risk severing a tendon in his calf. One by one he evaluated and dismissed potential battlefields until nought remained but the painful truth.

He’d have to pick one.

Settling on a particularly bare section of ground with three intersecting crystals at chest level, Edmund stooped over and took his stand. He’d have to fight in a squatting position, but at least he’d have some space to move.

He started by casting a Magma Fissure behind him, readily accepting the haze that fell upon his mind with the mana expenditure. The ground split with a deafening crack, the warmth of molten rock radiating up Edmund’s spine. With his already limited maneuverability, he couldn’t afford to leave his back exposed.

The thing came from the left.

It was more mouth than monster, its four spindly legs and two-foot-long body put together smaller than its gaping maw. Bare skin the same tone as Edmund’s stretched across its bony form, taut around its joints yet dangling loosely around its torso. The thing’s legs bent in one-too-many places, three black talons scraping against the stone floor at their end.

But Edmund wasn’t concerned with its small, mobile body or its spindly legs or the loose folds of flesh about its body.

Its mouth held his attention.

A ring of barbed teeth lined its circular maw, its gums black and its tongue dripping with drool. For a moment it paused in its charge, rearing up on its hind legs and stretching its jaws to their full foot-wide circumference. It let out a roar, deep and wet and colored with rage, spittle flying from its mouth to land harmlessly on the floor in front of it.

Edmund watched with wide eyes as its teeth began to spin.

Razor-sharp and barbed to tear the flesh of its prey, the ring of teeth lining the creature’s mouth slowly turned counterclockwise, picking up speed with each passing second.

Edmund threw a Firebolt down its gullet.

The thing coughed and sputtered but continued its approach, its teeth accelerating and accelerating until they were no more than a white blur in the gaping black maw of the comparatively tiny creature.

Edmund lowered his hand and raised his sword. Already his mind moved dangerously slowly—he couldn’t afford another spell.

The abomination drew nearer, and Edmund scrambled for a plan. As far as he could figure, he had two options—stab it through the mouth, or try to get to its body. Neither appealed.

The latter seemed nearly impossible given how well the crystals restricted his motion, and the former meant both risking his hand to the flurry of teeth and depending on finding vulnerability in what seemed like the creature’s strongest part. If its throat could handle a Focus-empowered Firebolt, it was entirely possible it could handle a short sword.

The thing stepped closer.

Edmund’s window closed.

He switched his blade to his left hand and lunged, leaning hard to maneuver around the creature’s maw. He grimaced in pain as a crystal sliced a long gash down the back of his hand and into his vambrace. His grip on his sword slackened with the wound. Edmund pushed past it, embracing the agony of the motion as he fought beyond his base instincts to hold on tighter.

With his right hand he reached for the side of the creature’s mouth, his fingers curling around its outer lip to push its maw aside. His angle was awkward, his motions jerky and limited, but still he struck.

The tip of his blade pierced the loose flesh dangling from the monster’s ribcage. It sliced a narrow score down the folds of skin before tangling in the stringy muscles and tendons down there. Edmund dropped it, the steel clanging against the floor as he caught himself on his newly-freed palm before his own torso could slam into the edge of the crystal beneath it.

The creature didn’t even seem to notice the blow, raging on in its attempt to devour him. Edmund held it at bay with his right hand, shoving its mouth away from him and into a nearby crystal. Whatever its jaws were made of, the supernaturally sharp crystal failed to cut into it, leaving Edmund desperately holding it against the crystal for no purpose other than immediate survival.

That was all he needed.

It thrashed and bellowed and spun its teeth as it tried to push past Edmund’s guard. He held fast, his left arm aching as it held him up, his abdomen screaming with fatigue, his hand awash in agony. However long it took, he couldn’t relax. He couldn’t let go. He couldn’t fall.

The monster’s cries softened, grew weaker and further between, and, eventually, stopped altogether. With one last great shudder, it collapsed. The venom of Scorpion’s Sting had run its course.

Edmund released it, pushing himself back into a squat to take the weight off his injured hand. Already his Perseverance worked to shut the wound as he took in the outcome of the fight. Curiously enough, it wasn’t his injuries nor the corpse of the abomination before him that drew the most concern from the mad adventurer. It was the crystals.

He could see, on the ground, the trail of blood left by his injured hand.

No such trail remained on the crystal that had cut him.

Edmund glanced around, certain he’d missed something. Perhaps his viewing angle couldn’t see the bloodied crystal. Perhaps the dungeon had already reclaimed the spilled blood. He could test that.

Setting his gaze on a crystal to his left, Edmund flicked his injured hand towards it, drops of blood flying from the wound to land on both the crystal itself and ground behind it. Before his eyes the violet translucent prism seemed to drink in the blood, nigh-imperceptibly quivering as the flecks of red shrank and vanished entirely into the crystal. Edmund recoiled.

They drink blood, Edmund thought. That can’t be good. For a moment he wished Liam had been there so he could’ve asked what in the ever-loving fuck these crystals were, but Edmund knew Liam would never tell him, not before he’d cleared the floor.

He turned his attention back to the dead monster, snaking his hand under its jaw to lift it off the ground. It hadn’t landed on a crystal. Edmund let out a breath, grateful he hadn’t let them feast on the dead abomination. He wanted to avoid feeding the crystals as much as he could.

He focused in on the monster and Madness gave it a name.

Spintooth Bloodletter

These fleshy abominations can expand the loose skin around their abdomens to consume twice their body weight in a single bite. The shape and motion of their teeth aid them in drawing blood for their unique mode of reproduction.

Edmund’s eyes shot open. Shit. Shit shit shit shit shit. As if on cue a low-pitched hum rang out to his left. A second joined it, its tone mismatched. He spun, grabbing his weapon off the ground as he turned to stare at the two crystals that’d tasted his blood—the one that’d cut him, and the one he’d experimented on.

Cloudy darkness roiled within them, their translucence fading as their fell ritual crescendoed. Edmund thought for a moment to lash out at one of the crystals, to stop what was about to happen with a swing of his sword, but he knew it wouldn’t work. Liam would never have let him just smash the crystals. He’d only break Scorpion’s Sting if he tried.

The two discordant hums approached, alternating harmony and dissonance as they traversed the octaves to eventually meet. When at last they became one, it happened.

Tendrils a shade of red that painted them as veins began to stretch across the open space between the crystals, meeting in the middle and interweaving to form a single plane, twisted to accommodate its non-parallel progenitors, yet thin enough to be considered flat. The blood vessels continued to creep, weaving amongst themselves as they inexorably filled every bit of air between them. What remained was a membrane, red as blood.

A circle appeared in it, a foot-wide ring that seemed to be pressing in from the other side, but Edmund knew there was nothing behind the membrane.

The ring pushed out further, the veil of blood vessels coating it like a cloth. It wasn’t until the first outline of a barbed tooth tore through the membrane that Edmund struck.

He hit it hard and fast, driving the tip of Scorpion’s Sting clean through the roof of the bloodletter’s mouth.

It roared, hideous and horrible, and thrashed about, its teeth slicing the bloody membrane to shreds to reveal its full self beyond.

A sharp pain shot down Edmund’s arm as the thing’s desperate struggle slammed two of its teeth into the underside of his right forearm, just past the elbow. Edmund grit his teeth and pushed through it, doing a bit of slicing of his own.

He activated Rend.

The bloodletter’s head split open, the thing quieting and collapsing limply to the ground. It bled black, an oozing, sticky substance which the crystals thankfully seemed to ignore.

Edmund bled red.

As the beast fell its barbed teeth tore from the puncture wound in Edmund’s arm, flecks of blood splashing from the injury and its source alike. Two crystals, both nearer to the ground, drank their fill and began to hum.

Edmund cursed and readied himself.

