He couldn’t keep doing this. The accumulation of injuries beside, his spells had already given up too much clearheadedness for comfort, and he only had so many activations of Rend before his movements began to lag behind as much as his mind. He wracked his brain for a plan.

Running was off the table. He could never hope to outmaneuver the smaller creatures in the crystal field, and trying to move quickly would just lead to him cutting himself and spawning more of the things. He had to be slow, careful. It wasn’t enough to kill the thing. He couldn’t let it make him bleed.

Edmund tried to bring his sword between the weaving veins, but the weapon passed straight through. He couldn’t stop them spawning, not once his blood had been spilled.

He watched the red tendrils come together, twist and spin and tie into the solid shape that would birth the monster. He waited for the ring of its mouth to appear, for the first tooth to tear through the veil of blood.

Edmund struck.

He came in from the side, angling the tip of his blade around the outside of the spintooth’s jaw. He didn’t know how much of the creature existed on the other side of the membrane, so he had to keep this close to the mouth.

He got it through the cheek, piercing loose flesh to deliver damage and poison to the spawning bloodletter. It wasn’t even close to a lethal blow.

Until Edmund used Rend.

The membrane retreated as the thing collapsed, landing with a thump upon the ground before the dungeon could even reclaim its predecessor. Edmund nodded, muscles aching with exhaustion even as he reveled in downing the thing without injury.

To his right, a crystal began to hum.

Edmund clenched his jaw and spun to find another membrane already forming, the ground beneath it decorated in the few drops of blood that had flown from his previously-injured arm as he’d used it. Thrax’s name escaped his lips once more as he readied himself for this next foe.

He was sloppy this time, sluggish. He struck with his left hand to keep his bleeding right arm close, but the loss of control cost him.

The bloodletter jerked away as Edmund’s blade pierced its cheek, not enough to free itself or escape his lethal Rend, but enough to drag Edmund’s left hand across the edge of the crystal that had summoned it. By the time the monster fell, another membrane had begun to take shape.

Edmund grunted and switched hands yet again, containing the bleeding from his left while hoping his Perseverance had at least stopped the flow from his right. Now more than ever he needed the greater range of his spear, but he could already barely move in the tight quarters. He wouldn’t have even been able to aim the damn thing.

So once more, with his short sword in a bloodstained hand, he waited for his opening, and he struck.

He moved quicker this time, Rending the beast before Scorpion’s Sting could even fully pierce its skin. The resulting slash only penetrated half as deep, but slicing through half of something’s brain generally brought about the same result. Again, the bloodletter collapsed.

Edmund froze. He didn’t move. He didn’t breathe. He didn’t take in his injuries. He waited, and he listened. His heart raced in his chest, pumping more and more blood from the gash in his left wrist, but he kept it close, letting it drop down his chest rather than fall elsewhere.

Silence met him. No bloodletters cried. No claws scratched against the floor. No crystals hummed.

Edmund kept still. Drops of blood fell from his cuirass onto his boot and the stone beneath it. Drip. Drip. Drip. Still he didn’t move. The dripping stopped, leaving only the pounding of his heart for company. Still he didn’t move.

Seconds dragged to minutes as he waited there, first for Perseverance to stop the bleeding, then for nature to dry the blood. He didn’t know if the crystals could drink dried blood, so he’d have to avoid touching them at all. He could handle that.

He listened closely for the hint of another bloodletter, another monster roaming freely as the first one had been. None came.

The dungeon didn’t need to start with any more. One was enough.

Once a half hour had passed, Edmund pushed forward. He had no other choice. His muscles ached and his mind slogged as if through mud, but he couldn’t rest, not within the crystals. Even was there enough space to actually sit down, the inherent danger of the slightest misstep could allow no relaxation. He had to keep moving.

The progress was grueling. He made every motion with deliberate care, paying close attention to every part of his body that shifted with each step, not just his feet and head. He couldn’t afford to slip and start the chain of spawning bloodletters again, and he definitely couldn’t afford to fall and summon more than one at a time.

So on he trudged.

His heart skipped a beat when the opening in the crystals first appeared, only to sink when no path to it presented itself. Instead his way guided him left, at first away from the exit but then, in its own winding and indirect way, inexorably towards the way out.

Edmund collapsed when he finally escaped the forest of crystals, falling down onto his back as his muscles relaxed for the first time in what felt like an eternity. He twisted his neck back and forth, working out the stiffness from keeping it bent for so long. He rolled his ankles, he cracked his back, but most of all he lay there and he breathed.

He’d expected danger. He’d expected to fight for his life. He hadn’t expected a single fight to last for hours, but that was the only way he could describe this field of blades and blood. He hadn’t fought individual battles with the bloodletters, he’d fought one battle, against the crystals themselves.

And he’d won.

A chime rang out to signal the floor’s completion, and Edmund let out a breath. He shut his eyes, resting them, now that he could. A moment passed as he let himself enjoy his victory, reveling in the feeling of conquering that which seemed unconquerable.

He didn’t hear the thing coming.

No sounds of feet against stone reached his ear, no heaving breaths or gentle pants resounded through the air. He felt only the warmth and wetness of a tongue scraping against his forehead.

Edmund’s eyes shot open.

A blue fox stood over him.

The azure fox looked both the same and different than before. Its jaw dripped black with the blood of the bloodletters, a pair of unnatural, curved horns sprouted from the top of its head, but the look in its eyes didn’t speak of violence, nor of mischief, nor even of thanks.

It spoke of pride.

The thing bounded away and Edmund jerked upright, calling after it as it made towards the exit. “Wait! I want to talk to—”

It vanished, leaping into the darkness between levels without a moment’s hesitation. Edmund bit back the curse forming on his lips, choosing to divert his attention away from annoyance at unanswered questions and towards excitement at his newest boon. He lay back down and shut his eyes once more, this time rejecting the nothingness behind his eyelids to conjure his constellation. Sure enough, his sigil had changed.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Apprentice

The third step on the Path of the Azure Fox. Increases agility. Grants a single windstep. Increases positional awareness.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

Edmund let out a sigh. He’d been hoping for another windstep, another inch in what seemed to him the miles-long trek towards eventual flight. Instead he’d received positional awareness, a nebulous concept that he couldn’t quite quantify the use of. He supposed it had to be useful, but how much so remained to be tested.

With his constellation already open, Edmund turned his attention to the other bit of business he had there: his next Aspect.

A number of options presented themselves. While the base Aspects the scholar had highlighted held some appeal, making a tier three would be the most efficient. He’d need that extra strength if the next floor was as deadly as this one had been. Two combinations of his four base Aspects remained. Edmund eliminated the conflux of The Island and Elements out of hand, uninterested in making a confluence that didn’t involve the linchpin of his build.

He had two ways to combine Madness, Elements, and Solitude, and once he chose, the other would be locked away from him forever. Of course, as far as Edmund knew, the two paths led to the same end, and the only choice was in if he’d rather upgrade The Recluse or Sorcery. He also knew the chance existed that the two combinations formed different Aspects.

So Edmund thought about it. He had nothing resembling an encyclopedic knowledge of the various Aspect recipes, but he could imagine what types of concepts might’ve been Aspects, and he could reason which of those might stem from his potential options.

He found nothing.

He gave it a good hour’s analysis, but the more he thought about it, the harder it was to come up with an Aspect that Elements might make but Sorcery wouldn’t. Without that particular issue to guide him, it fell to a matter of preference. Sorcery gave him Smoke Lash, a powerful spell that utilized his Madness, but not his most powerful spell.

The Recluse, in contrast, empowered his most essential Aspect, and contributed to the sense of clarity and normalcy he felt when surrounded by others. He knew that latter shouldn’t have factored into his decision, but it did anyway. The ability to play nice in town could prove just as essential as his combat prowess for all Edmund knew.

With a last look around to confirm, Edmund focused in on The Recluse and Elements, and made his decision.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Ponder the nature of reality.

“Thrax damnit,” Edmund cursed. He didn’t need this metaphysical bullshit. He needed an Aspect that’d keep him alive now. He supposed this was what he got for upgrading an Aspect that did nothing but interact with Madness. He cursed again.

“Oh, come now, it can’t be that awful.”

Edmund opened his eyes to find Liam leaning comfortably against the razor-sharp crystals. “The Philosopher?”

“Ooh, that’s a good one.” Liam rubbed his hands together. “Shit now, of course, but get a few more levels in there and…” He trailed off. “This’ll be fun.”

Edmund growled, shutting his eyes again to confirm none of his newly upgraded Aspects had changed. As he did, he noticed something odd about The Philosopher—it didn’t shine entirely silver. Flecks of gold peeked through, glimmering in their own tones beneath the silver light. He started to wonder what that meant, but Liam redirected his attention.

“I made a mistake.”

Edmund’s eyes blinked open. “What?”

“What? I can admit it.” Liam shrugged. “Sending you to these phased-out floors to up the difficulty works well enough, but if you’re only ever on floors that I don’t serve up to the general populace, you’ll never run into any other delvers.”

Edmund raised his eyebrow. “And that’s a bad thing?”

Liam grinned. “Didn’t you want to see that princess of yours again?” He shook his head. “That’s not the point. If you don’t run into any delvers, it’s just violence and death until you eventually fuck up and die. There’s no drama, no interaction, no life.”

Edmund glared at him. “You want to change our deal so you don’t get bored?”

“Not change it. I’ve got a workaround.” With a flourish, a small square of translucent film appeared in Liam’s hand. It bore an image of two crossed swords behind a golden crown. Madness relayed the rest.

Delver’s Mark of the Challenger

Empowers nearby dungeon monsters. Significantly increases the value of loot chests you open. Slightly increases the resonance of Aspects you unlock.

Edmund paled. He’d imagined the increase in loot, but as far as he’d ever known, increasing resonance was impossible, not from an external source, anyway. That must’ve been what those gold flecks in The Philosopher represented, not close to a full resonance level, but a noticeable upgrade nonetheless.

Liam grinned. “I take it from the look on your face you already know what this is. Taking it will bar you from ever taking a gatherer’s or crafter’s mark, but you were always going to take a delver’s mark. It won’t stop you from taking more delver’s marks—I wouldn’t hold this one against you.”

Edmund stared at it. “And if I take this, then anyone I’m with has to fight more powerful monsters too.”

“They would.”

“Can I take it off?”

“At any time,” Liam said. “Though once it’s off it never comes back on.”

Edmund nodded. There’d be little point to fighting more difficult enemies if he couldn’t make them easier again as he reached the dungeon’s deadliest levels. “Okay,” he said, unbuckling his left rerebrace. “I’ll do it.”

Liam placed the mark on Edmund’s upper arm, the thin film vanishing entirely until what remained seemed little more than a tattoo. Edmund ran a finger over it, feeling nothing.

With a nod, he replaced the piece of armor and pushed himself to his feet. The loot chest by the door wasn’t silver with a few gilded spots. Its gold was solid.

Edmund looked past the trio of gold coins to the piece of armor next to them. It was a chest plate, formed of a layer of the same translucent crystal over one of normal metal. He ran a hand over it. It wasn’t sharp like those behind him, but he did notice the spot of dried blood on his palm vanished where it’d touched the piece.

Blooddrinker’s Crystal Cuirass

Provides major protection against piercing and crushing damage. Vulnerable to blunt-force damage. Absorbs blood that comes into contact with it to repair itself.

Edmund let out a satisfied breath as he collected his first true upgrade. His pale widow’s carapace had served him well, but the chitin chest plate had already collected its fair share of holes and weak points. His barkbreeches needed replacing even more, but they’d survive another floor or two.

He didn’t hesitate to strip away his old cuirass and don his new one, considering, for a moment, trying to fit the carapace into his satchel so he could sell it later. He chose not to, the armor damaged enough it’d probably fail to fetch a price worth the effort. Instead, he let it fall, abandoning the old loot in favor of the new.

His loot collected, his Aspect claimed, his sigil upgraded, and with a new mark upon his arm, Edmund stepped away from the golden chest and returned his focus to the field of crystals. There was still one thing the floor had to offer him.

