“No. I shouldn’t say lebt. More like…hold on. Schlafen. Aufwachen.”
“Ah.”
It was as if he’d taken a drink of water after being dehydrated. Laken felt everything snap more into place.
“I think I get it. Or at least, I have a hypothesis.”
“So do I. Either way? It’s bad news.”
“But from what you say, it doesn’t seem like that’s the reason we’re here. It’s probably a spell?”
“Someone said that there was a summoning spell. In Rhir.”
“Something to look into. I guess.”
Laken frowned and scrubbed at his hair.
“This is all so complex! How are we supposed to figure this out? It’s not as if we can just ask, and we don’t have people we can trust to find out. I don’t, at any rate. You have your [Lady] friend, but I don’t trust her further than I can throw her either.”
“Yeah, I’m not too keen on asking. But those angry ant people I told you about? Their entire race is scared spitless of this one person.”
Ryoka chewed her lip, feeling the same urgent panic rising in her chest when she thought about—
A God. A real God, sleeping under the earth.
She expected Laken to share at least a bit of her concern. But the blind man refused to panic.
“I get the issue. But they’re on another continent, right? There’s not much we can do right now—except spread the word, I guess, and find someone who can do something.”
“So you’re saying we don’t even think about it?”
It was impossible to glare at a blind man successfully. Laken smiled.
“Look, if we’re talking about this—person as a threat, then all we need is a devil, right? Anyone tried blood summoning, chanting in Latin, or hooded robes? Or we could get a few angry atheists. Who knows? It could work.”
Ryoka stared at Laken and then burst out laughing.
“You cocky bastard.”
He raised his hands, smiling and laughing with her.
“Hey, it’s a problem. But it’s not immediate, is it? If I panicked over all of the big things, I’d never get to sleep at night.”
“Fine. I get it. Back to you, then. You’re in a bind. Assuming no one catches wind of what you do, you’re going to need help for that village of yours.”
Laken nodded. He wove his fingers together and tightened his grip.
“I think we’ve got food and protection, but if you know anything about…anything, I’d love to have some help.”
Ryoka had to confess her knowledge was limited.
“I’ve got some information, but it’s all scattered. Ruling a village—good luck. Other than that, technology’s tricky. I’m not giving you the recipe for…well, firearms.”
“Perish the thought.”
“—And I can’t tell you how to make anything too useful. Steam engines, light bulbs…not exactly stuff your village needs right now.”
“No.”
Ryoka frowned as she tapped a finger on her leg, letting it bounce against the floorboards. Laken found the sound slightly annoying, but he waited patiently for Ryoka to finish thinking.
“Greenhouses might help. If you can get sheets of glass for the roof, you can build the rest of the structure out of other materials. That would extend your growing season—let you get a head start on growing.”
“Really?”
“There’s glass in this world. If you can get panes, or one large sheet—could be tricky, could be worth it. I see some parchment over there. I’ll use that, okay?”
“Feel free.”
Laken heard Ryoka rustling about and then her fiddling with the inkpot.
“Let me do a sketch. It’s all about keeping the heat in, more than letting it out—on that note, what about agricultural implements? I’d have to do more thinking, but the heavy plough is a good invention to check on.”
“I’m familiar with a plough—sort of. What’s the heavy one do?”
“It’s really just a way to make it better. You have wheels and…nah, it’s really just the wheels that change it. It lets a farmer move faster, reduces the burden, et cetera. See?”
“No, I don’t. But go ahead.”
He heard a chuckle.
“Okay…I’m drawing a diagram, but just ask whether the [Farmers] in your village use wheels on their ploughs. I’ll write down what I know about crop rotation too—”
They continued in that vein for a few more minutes. Then Laken switched the issue over to protection.
“I don’t think a palisade’s going to stop a monster, do you?”
“It’s worth a shot. A wall would be better.”
Ryoka raised her eyebrows as she sketched out the cross section of a wall. Laken had another thought.
“If we’re talking about walls, then what about trebuchets? You wouldn’t happen to know—”
“Hah. If you’re fighting monsters the size of castles, maybe. But they’re a pain in the ass to aim. Just build a catapult; you can probably figure out how. Actually, now that I think of it…a ballista might be easier than an onager.”
“Okay? What’s an onager?”
“That’s a catapult. The classic kind that hurls things like a spoon.”
“Oh. Yes, I could see that being useful.”
“I’ll write down how to make both for you.”
“And that’s not classified? I thought we were trying to reduce the spread of dangerous weapons.”
“I did my research. They’re already in use. The Drakes have them on some of their city walls, and they’re used around the world. The trick is that most people can’t build them. You have to have the [Engineer] class to build one.”
“Ah. No one bothers to learn. They just use a class.”
“Yep. But you can probably whip one together…just be careful with the tension on the rope. Build some prototypes and test them—carefully. Look, I’ll write this down and you can have someone read it. I’m sure your villagers can find some decent rope to use.”
“I’m sure they’ve got something. Okay, how about barns?”
“Barns?”
“Do you have a better way of building them, or something?”
“Good point. I can definitely tell you how to make a log wall…that’s just cutting the logs right. Uh…I don’t know about other building techniques. Let me get back to you on that. Shame there’s no metalworking industry or you could try mass-producing things like ring-shank nails…”
“You’re losing me here.”
Ryoka smiled as she bent over the parchment. She was running out of room. But surprisingly, she was enjoying her conversation with Laken. Did she trust him? A bit. A little bit.
An [Emperor]. She couldn’t imagine it. But he sat like one, or—perhaps the beginnings of one. She saw that now.
Emperor Norton. She remembered that story! The crazy guy who declared himself the Emperor of the United States. People might remember that story, but how many would think to do it here?
Not many. Ryoka had never dreamed of that. And it wasn’t just that. Could anyone really just become an [Emperor] by willing it? No. You had to have something else, or anyone could be an [Emperor], right? You had to have…
“The arrogance of a God.”
“Excuse me?”
“Nothing. What was I saying?”
Ryoka went to dip her quill in the inkpot. She wished she had a pen. As she did, she glanced at the window, still ajar. She wondered when Ivolethe would come back—
And she was there. Ivolethe. She was hovering outside the window, watching Ryoka and Laken talk. Just watching. Ryoka froze, quill dripping blobs of ink.
There was something about the way the Frost Faerie stared at her. Something…
She was watching. Waiting. Ryoka felt a chill.
“Ryoka? Is something wrong?”
“I—I don’t know. I think there might be—”
How could she explain it to Laken? Ryoka was grasping at words, when she saw something move in front of her.
It was on the table she’d pulled up to write on. Her iPhone, still recording every word Laken spoke, began to vibrate. It shuddered on the wood surface a microsecond before Ryoka heard the familiar, annoying jangle of her ringtone.
Someone was calling her. Ryoka felt her breath catch in her chest.
“Is that—”
Laken reached for the iPhone, but Ryoka was faster. She saw the familiar calling screen, but there was nothing listed under the caller’s phone number, only the option to accept or decline.
“It’s my iPhone. I’m getting a call—”
“From who?”
“It has to be [BlackMage]!”
“Who?”
“The person who—I’m answering it.”
Laken held his breath as Ryoka gingerly tapped the glowing green phone symbol. Instantly, she heard a voice.
“—he’s not answering. Maybe try ag—hello? Hello? Can you hear me?”
Ryoka traded glances with Laken. He missed. Ryoka tilted her iPhone’s speaker towards her mouth cautiously.
“I can hear you. Who is this?”
“Oh my god. Is this—are you [batman]? [batman]’s a girl?”
It was a young man’s voice, excited, with the touches of…an English accent? Yes, it definitely wasn’t American. Ryoka carefully put the call on speaker phone as she and Laken crowded around her device. She put a finger to his lips and he nodded.
“This is great! I’ve tried calling you before and you didn’t pick up. Hi there! This is [BlackMage]! From the chat? Do you remember me? Well, I was calling you to—”
“Fuck you.”
Ryoka heard [BlackMage] pause. She saw Laken glance at her oddly, but she didn’t care. Anxiety had become irritation and anger in a second.
“What?”
“Go fuck yourself. Do you know how stupid it is to call someone like this? What would have happened if I were in a dungeon, or trying to hide from a monster?”
“I—”
“You have compromised my damn phone! You know that asshole was trying to find out locations! Do you think he’s really not trying to track us down right now? I’d bet anything that this kind of call can be traced. Now people know exactly where you and I are.”
“Hold on! We don’t know anyone’s tracking this call. I’m with a bunch of [Mages] and they say—”
“Screw what they say. This is dangerous. Didn’t you get that from your call?”
“That’s why I’m calling you!”
The young man on the other end of the line was getting angry. He spoke quickly before Ryoka could insult him again.
“We—the mages of Wistram and I—are trying to find people across the world! I’ve called a bunch of people and we’re trying to bring them here. To Wistram!”
“That is the stupidest—how do you know you’re not revealing their locations?”
“We—we’re using magic in secret.”
“Oh? Well, that makes me feel better.”
“Look, if you’re going to be an arsehole about this, I can hang up.”
“No, it’s too late now.”
Ryoka tried to calm herself down. She took a deep breath.
“Okay, why are you calling? To invite me to Wistram?”
“Yes. We can send help. We can have money sent—or get in touch with a local [Mage] affiliated with us who can help you reach the isle. But I contacted you first because you managed to uncover that fake wanker—[Kent Scott] and warn everyone. Do you know who he is?”
“No. I have no idea. But I was suspicious from the start. Forget [Kent Scott]. How do I know I can trust you, or anyone?”
“I—look, you’re being fairly suspicious of me, don’t you think? I’m calling you—”
“And I don’t trust people who call me out of the blue. How can we prove that these people at Wistram are trustworthy?”
“We can’t.”
Ryoka heard [BlackMage] gasp on the other end of the line. Laken took the iPhone from her and spoke into it. She stared at him, wanting to signal him, but it was impossible to do visually. She tapped his hand with a finger—he waved his hand at her and then gave her a thumbs up.
“Excuse me? Who is this?”
“Call me L. I’m from our world as well. I just met [batman].”
Laken kept his voice low as he spoke into the receiver. He was smiling as if he was enjoying his conversation with the flustered [BlackMage].
“Wow! You’ve met someone else? Where are you? Do you need help? What’s your class—I forgot to mention we’re keeping a list—”
“My class is secret. So is my location. If you can trace this phone call, well, good luck searching the continent. I’m sorry to be so secretive, but neither [batman] nor I are able to trust you, or Wistram at this point in time.”
“Why? Hey, we’re acting in good faith here—”
“Just think about it.”
Laken leaned back on the bed as he spoke carefully, choosing each word with deliberation.
“You say you want to help us. But how can we be sure that’s the case? Putting aside the reputation of Wistram, we can’t tell if you’re calling from there. You could be impersonating them—we have no way to tell. Telling you our location is dangerous, especially on what could be an unsecured call like this. You understand that, right?”
“I—I suppose I do. But how am I supposed to convince you I’m trustworthy?”
“That’s impossible at this moment. There’s no one in Wistram who could convince us, and a truth spell can’t be used. However…there is a way to tell everyone where to go and not reveal confidential information.”
“Really? How?”
Laken could feel Ryoka’s eyes on him, even if he couldn’t see her. He smiled.
“Don’t call anyone. But have Wistram—the Isle of Mages, right? Have them send out a proclamation, a message to every corner of the world. Something simple. Something anyone from our world could understand.”
“Oh!”
Ryoka nodded as she realized what Laken was saying. That could work. She spoke into the receiver.
“Say something like…‘To all the millennials, the Americans and citizens of the European Union and’—no, wait. That’s not right. Instead…send something in every language you can think of. One word. Come home. 家に帰る.”
“Nach Hause zurückkehren.”
“Ven a Casa. In every language you can think of. Understand?”
“I see!”
“But don’t stop there.”
Laken angled the iPhone towards his mouth and spoke urgently.
“Set it up so that anyone affiliated with Wistram will help someone from our world. But have them ask for confirmation. Something only someone from our world would know. Easy things, for every culture.”
“Like if you’re American—who’s the current president? Actually—shit. Be prepared for different answers. Someone might say Obama and not know who the current president is.”
“Good point! And some people might not speak English.”
“Hold on, let me write all this down!”
[BlackMage] was scrambling to keep up. Laken and Ryoka heard other voices, muffled in the background. She nudged him and he squeezed her arm. There were other people listening to the call.
“Okay, we can do that. Thanks for the advice!”
“No problem. Just be sure you know what you’re doing.”
“…How do you mean?”
Laken paused.
“If you do this, you’ll paint a target on your chest for the world to see. Understand—some people who’ve come to this world will not be friends. Just think about it. Assuming everyone who’s arrived is around the same age—you could get anyone from any part of the world. What if you got a radical extremist from ISIS?”
