The baby bird was snoozing on a little platform made into a nest for him. He was surrounded by a warm blanket, and his ‘nest’ was more ripped-up shreds of fabric than actual cloth. It was also stained quite badly with his droppings. But the bird shone in Ryoka’s gaze.
“Wow.”
He looked like an eagle. Well, vaguely like an eagle. Ryoka had never studied bird species, but she knew only one kind of bird grew that big.
No—if size was the comparison, than Frostwing was more like an albatross than an eagle. Because he was clearly young, still a nestling, but he was almost the size of a full-grown chicken already.
And he was blue. That was the important thing. Frostwing’s feathers glittered in the light as he opened and flapped his wings, protesting this stranger’s intrusion into his home. Ryoka saw each feather glittering like a jewel; they had a subtle gradient that made the dark oxford blue of the inner part of each feather fade to a brilliant sky blue on the tips.
A blue bird. But not any bird. For a second, Ryoka was lost to the world. She was in another place, sitting on the balcony in her home, ten years old, holding a Gameboy and playing the video game that had defined her life at that time—
“Ryoka? Is that you?”
She looked up. Laken was sitting on the large bed, yawning and turning his head around the room. A young man was standing by his side, offering him assistance that Laken clearly didn’t need.
Laken, and…Gamel, was it?
“I’m here, Laken.”
Ryoka approached the bed. That was a bad move. She was still staring at Frostwing—too long. The bird may have been a child, but it had instincts that made it wary of anything that stared at it.
Frostwing shrieked his displeasure. Durene backed away, covering her ears as Gamel tried unsuccessfully to sooth the agitated young bird. Ryoka just stared as Frostwing spread his wings, shedding brilliant blue feathers onto the ground.
“Oh for the love of—here!”
Laken turned, frowning, and fumbled his way towards Frostwing. He reached out and the bird shut up as one of his hands found a piece of dried meat and offered it to the bird.
“Shh, Frostwing. Shut up. There’s a good bird.”
Laken stroked the crest on Frostwing’s head and the bird stopped shrieking. It tore greedily at the bit of meat and Laken turned to Ryoka, looking sheepish.
“Sorry. Pet bird. I’ve had to apologize to the innkeeper already. At least he wasn’t doing this in the middle of the night this time. It is daytime, right?”
“That’s right. I’m here to talk some more. Sorry about dropping in unexpectedly.”
“No it’s no problem—”
Laken rubbed at his face. He looked tired.
“Ah…Gamel?”
“Yes, sir?”
“Can you…get me something to drink? And a snack, maybe? Durene, did I hear someone else was here?”
“Yes. It’s that [Butler]. Reynold.”
“Mister Laken, I apologize for the intrusion. But—”
“Yes, yes. Okay, Gamel, I’ll handle Frostwing. He doesn’t need food—he just needs to take another nap. Durene, please guard the door? I think I need to talk to Ryoka. Alone.”
“Okay, Laken.”
There was something about Laken. When he spoke, things got done. Ryoka watched the protesting Reynold get slowly pushed out the door. She waved at him before Durene closed the door. Laken sat on the edge of his bed, slowly petting Frostwing as the bird rubbed its head against his palm.
“You have a bird.”
“Yes. Ryoka, meet Frostwing. Frostwing—don’t nip my fingers.”
Ryoka stared at Frostwing. Her eyes turned back to Laken.
“You have a bird. It’s blue.”
He frowned.
“Yes—yes I do. I found Frostwing near Durene’s cottage. I think his mother died of starvation or—something else. I took Frostwing in. I actually have a class from raising him. [Beast Tamer].”
“Oh?”
Ryoka stared at Frostwing. She felt like she had to repeat herself.
“It’s blue. I—excuse me.”
She reached for her pocket as Laken frowned. She knew it was stupid, but Ryoka had to do this. She pulled her iPhone out of her pocket and turned it on.
 
—-
 
Laken was still a bit bleary from waking up, but he was trying to get his thoughts together quickly. Ryoka was here. That was good. He had so many questions he wanted to ask her, but he had to be careful, didn’t he? He wasn’t sure of her. Not yet. But she was from his world. Or—and here his cautious self spoke up—she was pretending to be. Could this all be a ploy? Her knowing German meant someone had come from another world, but maybe she was using a Skill? Was that possible?
Ryoka wasn’t saying much. She seemed to be fixated on Frostwing. Was it really that special that he was blue? Laken tried to remember if there were other blue birds back home. Obviously he’d never seen any, but…blue birds, what about them? What made Frostwing stand out that much?
Then he heard something. It was faint, muffled, and familiar. Laken frowned.
“Ryoka? Are you there?”
No response. Laken hesitated, and then leaned towards the source of the muted music. His eyes widened.
“Is that…is that the Pokemon theme song?”
Ryoka pulled the earbuds out.
“No.”
“It is!”
Laken smiled and laughed.
“You’re a Pokemon fan!”
“I was. Once. A long time ago.”
Ryoka shifted, coughed. Laken couldn’t see, but she’d turned bright red. Laken grinned.
“Does Frostwing remind you of a Pokemon that much?”
“Yeah. He looks like Articuno, you know?”
“That’s a Pokemon?”
“A legendary. One of the legendary birds from the original one hundred and fifty.”
“Ah. I never actually played Pokemon growing up. Sort of hard when you can’t see anything.”
“Oh. Right.”
Ryoka coughed again, clearly embarrassed. Laken was smiling so hard it hurt. For just a few moments, he felt like he was back home, back in his world.
“You’re a fan. I had no idea. Did you play that new thing coming out? Pokemon Go?”
“I uh, a bit. It was a long time ago. Or it feels like it. I…was teleported here a few days after I downloaded the app, actually.”
“Oh.”
“Yeah.”
The conversation fell flat in an instant. Ryoka shifted as she glanced at Frostwing again. Laken blinked and gestured with his other hand.
“I’m so sorry. Please, sit. I don’t know where the chair is, but I’m assured we have at least two.”
“I see it.”
Ryoka dragged the chair over as Laken tried to make Frostwing go to sleep. He thought it worked, or at least, the bird had given up moving. He turned and sat cross-legged on his bed as he faced in Ryoka’s direction.
“I think Durene gave you some trouble as I was sleeping. Is that right?”
“Just a bit. She’s protective of you.”
Laken smiled wryly.
“She is. Thank you for not hitting her with that potion.”
Ryoka shrugged, and then remembered Laken couldn’t see any of her gestures.
“It’s nothing. Good thing we didn’t meet a month or two ago or I’d have gotten my head pushed through a wall.”
“Really?”
“I picked a fight with a Minotaur one time. That was one of the dumber things I’ve ever done.”
“Minotaurs exist in this world?”
“Yup. They’re touchy and prideful. And fairly rude, but they are honorable.”
“Fascinating. I’ve heard this continent has mainly…Gnolls, is it? And Drakes?”
“They inhabit the southern parts, yes. Invrisil is sort of an exception—it’s a major city so a lot of races come here. But you’ll generally find only Humans in the north.”
“I understand. Durene’s village is totally Human save for her.”
“Hm.”
The two sat in silence for another second. Ryoka sat still in her chair; Laken wiggled around, wondering if there was something that he was sitting on. A fork, maybe? Whatever it was, it was poking into his butt.
Unnoticed by the two of them, a third being was present in the room, listening. Ivolethe sat in Ryoka’s pouch, listening carefully. The Frost Faerie considered that her sisters would have hated the conversation between Ryoka and Laken. It wasn’t a thing of majesty or destiny. But it was important.
“I guess we should talk.”
“Yes, I guess we should.”
The boy and girl sat across from each other. They were old, but still young by the way the faerie reckoned such things. They had gone through sorrows, gone through trials. But they were still young. So young.
It was the girl who spoke first. She hesitated as she chewed at a lip, glancing towards the closed doors. Durene and Gamel stood behind it, but Ryoka knew the danger wasn’t something she could see.
“It’s complicated, you know? I want to say what’s on my mind but—”
“You did mention. Watchers and such.”
“Yeah. But if we assume we lost them or they can’t hear us—which I don’t—I’m fairly certain someone’s using magic to listen in.”
Laken raised his eyebrows calmly.
“Well, it’s not like we have anything to hide.”
“Hah.”
“Okay, fine. But how are you proposing we solve this problem? I have something I need to say which will clarify things.”
“I’m in the same boat. I can say that I have a friend—Erin Solstice who’s from our world straight off, but the rest is harder.”
“Someone else? You mentioned that—what’s she like?”
“Age wise? She’s twenty. Besides that, she’s…a normal girl. Sort of. She’s American, like me.”
“Interesting. I’m twenty-four. Not American. Can I assume you’re around that age?”
“Twenty one. You don’t look that old. You’re part German. Is there another half?”
Laken smiled.
“My mom’s German, but she married my dad in France. I’ve grown up all over Europe, though. As to my face—I’m told I have a youthful complexion.”
Ryoka had to smile. She glanced at the door and frowned.
“Good to know. I don’t think any of this is too bad to mention, but the rest…damn, I don’t know. Erin would probably come up with some special way of figuring this out. Flush out the spies with a crazy scheme and dispel the enchantments with an insane trick or just luck.”
“She sounds quite interesting.”
“She’s an [Innkeeper]. Look, I’m getting annoyed. Maybe we should just go for broke. What do you think? I doubt anyone knows German.”
“Wahrscheinlich. But can you speak it? I don’t want to be rude, but your pronunciation—”
“I know. But I’ve got a dictionary-encyclopedia. It’s an app—I might have to ask for spelling, but I can translate short sentences.”
“That’s…amazingly useful. In that case, translate this. Ich bin ein [Kaiser].”
It took Ryoka only a second to figure out what Laken had said. She didn’t need to use her iPhone. Instead, she dropped it. She fumbled around on the ground, heart beating wildly. When she sat back up she stared at Laken’s face.
“You’re lying.”
“I’m not. I know it’s surprising, but it’s true. What about you?”
“I don’t have a class. I’m a Runner without the class. But you—get out.”
“It’s true!”
Laken smiled. He had no way of seeing Ryoka’s face, but her tone made her feelings clear.
“No, seriously, get out. Run away as far as you can. Do you have any idea how bad that is?”
“Bad? Why? Because of your—your Daenerys-like friend?”
“Yes! Not just her—Ivolethe!”
Ryoka shouted the faerie’s name. Laken jumped, and then gaped as the faerie floated upwards and spoke.
 
“What do ye want, Ryoka?”
 
“Go downstairs and flush out the spies. Please? And if there are enchantments, dispel them. Please. This is important.”
The faerie considered the request. Then she reluctantly nodded.
 
“I shall bring havoc! From the outside.”
 
She flew out the window as Laken tried to find words.
“Was that—a Frost Faerie?”
“You’ve met them?”
“Yes! Hell, I knighted a few of them. But they helped save Durene’s cottage from an avalanche—or caused it and spared her home. I’m not sure of which.”
“Well, I’m friends with one. Look, sit down. I’ll explain as much as I can—but the Frost Faeries probably didn’t cause the avalanche. They don’t kill, although they do pull horrible pranks.”
Ryoka and Laken sat down as, below them, they heard confused shouting. Ivolethe’s laughter was drowned out as she buzzed by the inn outside, but Ryoka could just imagine her hurling snow and ice into the building.
“Okay, let me begin from the start. The first thing you need to know is that I got here a few months ago. I’d say around…September? A while back. But Erin arrived before me. We don’t know how we got here, but I know there are other people in this world. I also know that not a lot of people know we exist. That woman I told you about—Lady Magnolia Reinhart. She employs Reynold and a bunch of other servants, and she’s one of the most powerful people on the continent…”
Laken listened intently as Ryoka whispered to him amid the sounds of the inn clearing out. He turned to tell Durene everything was fine when she told him the bottom half of the inn was covered with snow, but he mainly just listened as Ryoka gave him an abridged version of what had happened when she entered this world.
And then it was his turn. Ryoka didn’t just listen—she had her iPhone held in her lap, recording Laken’s every word as he spoke. She didn’t mention this fact, and neither did Laken or Ryoka ever mention certain key words aloud.
Words like [Emperor], gunpowder, iPhone, dragon, or a thousand other words from home. Ryoka was glad that Laken understood, and he picked up what she feared from what Ryoka never said.
“It sounds like you’ve had a rough time without a class. I can’t say I understand that bit.”
“I don’t like conformity.”
“You think that’s an issue—wait. I think I get it. Game system, right? But is there a puppet master?”
“Probably, yes.”
“Oh, really? How do you know?”
Laken sat forwards. Ryoka hesitated, and then leaned forwards as well. Though she knew Reynold and the other spies in the building were probably gone, she whispered to him in German.
“Ein Gott…lebt.”
A slow frown was her only reply. Laken sat back carefully.
“How?”
“I don’t know. But I talked with someone who assures me it’s true. And I believe him.”
“In that case—that is concerning. But still, as far as I understand it, the system is essential. You can’t fight a…a monster without Skills.”
“Yeah. But do we lose anything if we have a class?”
Laken’s voice was thoughtful.
“I don’t know. And honestly, I’m not sure I’d be willing to try and find out, if it were me. But if you want to be the test subject…I’m glad. It’s good to have someone who might be impartial. Especially if what you say is true.”
“I don’t know if they’re connected, but it seems so.”
“Oh, I agree. But really…alive?”
“Yes. And apparently talking about them gives them strength.”
Laken shivered.
“That’s horrific. Terrifying. But it sounds like this—person—isn’t too active?”
