“He could let me live without interference. He could make amends by giving me the souls of my children. He could help me find these people who killed my people.

“But he doesn’t.

“Because once he makes a proclamation, he never wavers, no matter the cost."

She stared at Erick, with eyes of light and surrounded by rainbows. She said, “I have said my piece. You could have read most of this in the letter I gave you, but I can see the wisdom in not accepting my words as truth.” She added, “Do what you want, but know that Kirginatharp is a killer, just like you think I am. But That Dragon has managed to win every war he has ever waged, and teach his history in every Arcanaeum the world over.”

A long moment passed, while Erick stood on the side of the pool, thinking, and Messalina stood on top of the water; a woman made of light and color. Light slimes continued to bumble around the room, counterclockwise around the pool in the center; around Erick and Messalina. Erick felt his mind relax.

Erick asked, “What would he do if I asked for the souls of your children to give them to you?”

Messalina quickly went through several obvious emotions. Hatred, utter and complete. Hope. And finally, reluctantly accepted pain. With a fallen smile, she said, “He would be very angry. Then he would deny he has them. He would say they were destroyed, or some nonsense.”

Erick asked, “Could you two work on the same side, to kill the Shades?”

“No.” Messalina said, “Never again. I cannot ever trust That Dragon.”

“You spoke of a spell he held from you. What did he do to that spell?”

Messalina spoke like she was opening an old, soft wound, “He intercepted a tier 8 summoning spell. The resulting person would have been the start of the return of the Elementassi to Veird. They were a race of sapient elementals. They would be able to walk the land and fly the skies, and to help drive back the monsters, to help win the Real War against Melemizargo. That did not happen. Instead, I got a creature that was an automatic Slave. It tried to kill me, even after I went through the rituals to magically emancipate the thing.” She said, “It was a perfect spell. I had not accidentally created a slave in twenty years. My spell should have worked. It didn’t. And the only clue I had to how it went wrong, was the three minute delay from the summoning of the creature, to getting the box, because Kirginatharp was there, looking at the blue box first.”

“How did the people who attacked your town manage to kill everyone and reap their souls? Where were your defenses?”

Messalina chuckled. She said, “I was sleeping, and they targeted my champions first. It took the Cinnabar Hand ten minutes to turn my jungle into a crater. Sometimes, that’s all it takes for ten thousand people to die.”

“I was told you killed everyone on the way to Eidolon, searching for the killers. What about them?”

“I gave them new bodies, too. Later. Wynding talked some sense into me before I got too far in my wrath. I had known her since she was a babe in her mother’s arms.” Messalina said, “But they’re all dead again, Wynding too, because no one believes in True Resurrection. Kirginatharp’s people hunted down each one and put them to the sword, thinking that they would fall to monsterfication and become cannibals.”

“Thank you. This is a lot to think on.” Erick said, “I would like to be released from this vision, now.”

Messalina looked at him. “What is your decision about this [Scan] spell?”

“I told your Flare Couatl the truth. I don’t know if I can, or even how I would.”

Messalina stared at him, slightly frowning. She said, “The Flare Couatl’s name was Oyil. He was my Captain of the Guard for a hundred years. Yiralia was his wife. While he chose to become a knight, she chose to become a monster, instead. With her whole life gone, Yiralia was tired of being a person. She just wanted to kill hunters, so she chose the body of the Toxic Hydra.”

The world flickered.

- - - -

Erick came around slowly to the sounds of ten tiny flutes, like a chorus of birds chirping in the morning.

Poi said, “Easy there. You were heavily wormed. Everything is going to feel weird. You had a prolonged out-of-body experience. I’m putting you back together but it will take time.”

Erick blinked. He was in a hospital bed. The sun shone down outside. He rolled—

Poi caught him, then pushed him back onto the bed.

Erick laid there this time, taking in his surroundings. He was in a bed, under a blanket. Jane was sleeping in her own bed, two meters from him. Poi stood there, between him and his daughter, while Teressa stood to the side of the room, and Kiri stood at the feet of his bed.

Ten Ophiel, all tiny, leapt and played on top of Erick’s covered body, jumping from his feet poking up from the blanket, to his stomach, to the headboard behind him. They trilled in flutes and a few tiny harp sounds as their eyes and jumbles of wings moved freely around their bodies.

He must have been wormed before he could dismiss all but one of them.

Erick smiled at the Ophiel… Or… He tried to smile. He lifted a hand to touch his face and smacked himself across the chin. He mumbled, “Waaa.”

“Your mind is coming back to you. Your body is catching up.” Poi said, “You might be like this for an hour but it’ll get better.”

Kiri spoke up, trying to be chipper, “You’ll be fine. Alibeth and the other doctors think so. They healed you up well.”

Erick checked his Status, and sure enough, the blue boxes came to him. He shoved those away with a mental command. He sent to Poi and Kiri, ‘How long was I out?’

Kiri sent, ‘Eight hours. Maybe. The Headmaster visited.’

‘I’ll need to talk to him when I’m better.’

Poi sent, ‘He wants to talk to you, too.’
