Ameliah found Corrin and Clubbs aboard Temerity—the finding proving more difficult than she’d grown used to. Being without Detection was worse than being blind.

The Hydromancer-Geomancer pair had set up a table on the foredeck and were playing Ranks as they waited for her. Neither looked up at her approach, and a quick scan of the board revealed why. Things had come to a head.

Tentatively, Corrin reached and took a piece. Clubbs immediately responded, not by moving a piece but by extending a hand over the board.

“Nice try.”

“Hang on a minute, I—“

“The Mage.”

“Where? If I took...then you’d... Oh. You bastard.”

“Starting with just one was a good challenge,” Clubbs said as Corrin begrudgingly shook his hand. “I’ll start without both next time.”

“It won’t matter,” Corrin said with a sigh. He looked forlornly up at Ameliah. “He cheats, yeah?”

“I wouldn’t call it cheating,” Ameliah said, smiling. “Whatever it is he does, it’s certainly unfair.”

“People just need to consider the repercussions,” Clubbs said, getting to his feet. “In Ranks, and in life.” He nodded to Ameliah. “Welcome back. I didn’t get to say it at the party.”

“Thanks,” Ameliah said.

“Okay, what’s this mission you wanted us for?” Corrin said, getting to his feet and arching his back in a stretch. “You got a job for us?”

“Something else, first,” Ameliah said, reaching into a pocket of her Ascension coat. Neither Clubbs nor Corrin wore theirs, but they each had two brass rank pips pinned to their collars. “Here.” She opened her hand, revealing two pips, one for each of them. “I need you to take these.”

“You’re promoting us?” Corrin asked. “You can do that?”

“I’m asking you to accept promotion on Vanna’s behalf,” Ameliah said. “You could have been Entrusted from the start. I don’t know why you chose not to be, and I’m not going to ask, but I’m hoping your reasoning has changed between then and now. Ascension needs you. To be more specific, for what we’re doing today, Ascension needs to know you’re fully committed.”

“And what are we doing today?” Clubbs asked, taking one of the pips and pinning it to his collar.

Ameliah looked at Corrin. “Working on the canal.” She lifted her palm slightly. “I can’t explain more than that until you take this.”

“Fine,” Corrin said, hesitating for one moment more before taking the pip. “I’m not against it, yeah? I was just expecting there to be a ceremony. Kal was gonna ask Vanna. He, Ron, and I all wanted to put ourselves in for it together. They can get promoted too, right?”

“All they need to do is ask,” Ameliah said. “If you want a ceremony, you can ask about that too. I’m sure Vanna will accommodate. For today, I need you to uphold the responsibility you just took on. We’re doing skill training, and the skill in question could change everything. I chose you to test it because of the natural synergy between your magic. Synergy relates to what the skill does.”

“Which is what, exactly?” Corrin asked.

“You’ll see in a moment,” Ameliah said. “Ground rules first. The council has determined that the skill’s existence is to be concealed. We won’t be able to hide it forever, and people are going to have questions when they see it in action, but for the time being, you aren’t to answer any of those questions. If people ask, you say, ‘Entrusted only’. If Entrusted ask, you say, ‘It’s need-to-know’. The most important thing is that the knowledge doesn’t spread outside Ascension. That includes Bakal. Understood?”

“Understood,” Clubbs said, Corrin likewise bobbing his head.

Ameliah nodded. “Let’s head to the coast, then. I’ll explain on the way.”

From Corrin:

Earth Manipulation

Erode 10

Earthmolding 10

Rockbomb 10

Stonemolding 10

Magical Utility

Channel Mastery 10

Mana Manipulation 10

From Clubbs:

Water Manipulation

Condense 10

Hydrodirection 10

Internal Reservoir 10

Blinding Fog 10

Squid Kata 1

Magical Utility

Channel Mastery 10

Mana Manipulation 10

“How do you feel?” Ameliah asked, carefully watching the two men’s faces as she reviewed their shared skills in her mind. “Our first tests with the council caused some discomfort.”

“Fine,” Clubbs said. “Queasiness is passing.”

“More like vertigo,” Corrin said with a single shake of his head to clear it.

“Do you need a minute?”

“No, it’s fine,” Corrin said, raising a hand and pointing it at the muddy water, which rippled away from the force exerted by Hydrodirection. “Nice.”

“This applies in groups of eight?” Clubbs asked, raising an eyebrow at Ameliah. “This does change everything. And it works on unawakened?”

“With some caveats,” Ameliah said, drawing liquid from the damp earth to form a pair of watery tentacles encasing her arms. Squid Kata was a hidden skill, unlocked by Mana Manipulation, but not one she’d played with, as it wasn’t required for Aquifer. The first form guided her easily into shaping her new appendages, right down to the pods on the ends. “Atyl had a lot of trouble. The skill only gave him foundation-tier abilities. We’re still trying to find out why. Besides that, he’d also never used any skills before, so soulstrain set in quickly.”

“That’s impressive,” Clubbs said, nodding to what Ameliah was doing. She’d started whipping her new tentacles through the movements of the first form. “Progress must be maintained across sharings. Clearly, you’ve used that before.”

“Hold on a minute,” Corrin interrupted before she could tell Clubbs he was only partly correct. The Geomancer was peering at her with suspicion. “Something’s strange here. Are you holding out on us?”

“Sorry?” Ameliah asked, letting the tentacles seep back into the ground. Leveling a Kata required focus, even for her. She could play later.

Corrin pointed at what was obviously his interface. “You gave us Airwalk, which is tier two with prerequisites, but I don’t see them listed, yeah? What gives?”

“It’s because of her class,” Clubbs said. “It allows her to swap skills. She would obviously remove those of lesser benefit after they had served their purpose—in this case, unlocking a higher-tier ability. I also suspect she has some way of altering prerequisites.”

“That’s very perceptive of you,” Ameliah said, honestly a bit surprised he’d noticed. “Now that you’re Entrusted, you’re allowed to know the details of my class, but let’s stay focused. You can ask me later, and I’d like to start. Please face me and get ready to use the skills you’ve borrowed from each other.”

“I can think of other groups that would be more advantageous to use this with,” Clubbs said, doing as she’d directed. “Our crafters, for example, especially if Romer were to be included. Knowledge of runes would bolster every other discipline.”

“We’re starting slow,” Ameliah said, using Hydrodirection and Earthmolding in concert to lift a head-sized glob of mud from the bank. It really was easier with both. Trivial, even. Squid Kata was even murmuring at her, letting her know it would function just as well with mud as it would with water, but she wasn’t Rain, so she ignored the distraction. “The skill uses a resource you’re not well-equipped to replace, and we expect it to get worse the more skills are shared. You’re actually on better footing than most because of all the magical exercise you’ve been getting. More importantly, you’ve both learned the trick of rescheduling your daily summaries, which is vital if we’re to stress test this. Before the day’s over, I’d like to see each of you max the skills you’ve borrowed from the other.”

“That’s what you call starting slow?” Corrin asked.

“Yes?” Ameliah said, splitting her focus on the two skills and tearing the hovering mud ball into two—one of pure water and another of bone-dry dirt.

Corrin whistled. “I’ve never managed to make earth float unsupported. It really doesn’t like it.”

“It really doesn’t,” Ameliah agreed. “Now, I’m going to throw these. Your job is to deflect them with your borrowed skills. We’ll start working on the canal once you’ve got enough control to avoid sabotaging yourselves. If you start to feel soulstrain, even just a little, I need you to tell me. Remember, testing the limits is a good part of why we’re here. As we take breaks to refill your mana, I’ll fill you in on soul theory—another thing Entrusted are entitled to know. Are you ready?”

“A moment,” Clubbs said, looking down at the dirt. He made a beckoning motion, achieving little more than a ripple on the surface of the mud. “I’d like to get a feel for it first.”

“I’m not going to throw them hard,” Ameliah said, smiling sweetly. “Or even at you, really.”

Yet.

The skeptical looks this got her told her she hadn’t fooled anyone.

Progress Report

marker_1: just_two_weeks... [3061 First Harvest 21 12:00]

marker_2: there_and_back_again [3061 Second Harvest 08 08:00]

Span: 18.8 days

Essence

Intake Capacity: 116 MESS/s -> 3.76 GESS/s

Generation: 7.25 MESS/day -> 186 MESS/day

Upkeep: ~0 MESS/day -> ~174 MESS/day

Refinement Capacity: 16.8 MESS/s -> 1.07 GESS/s

Chaos: 1 GESS -> 1 GESS

Potential: 134 GESS -> 159 GESS

Soul: 111 GESS -> 1.39 TESS

Rain stared, transfixed, absently keeping hold of the metal case tucked under his arm.

He was having a revelation.

It wasn’t anything about the essence figures. The upkeep cost of his pressurized soul on the surface was much higher than expected, but he’d come to terms with that already, just as he’d come to terms with ‘intake capacity’ not being the same thing as actual intake. It was something much more fundamental that had caught his attention.

The date.

He slowed to a stop just outside the ring of ward panels. Beyond them was the reason he’d come out here—the airship—but realization had put his hitherto uncontainable excitement on complete pause.

I’ve been here for over a year...

He’d been so obsessed with tracking the date because of his situation that he hadn’t even thought about what it meant.

He’d fallen asleep in his bedroom after midnight on June 2nd, 2019. When he’d woken up in that forest, it had been the first of Second Harvest in the 3060th year since the Majistraal’s fall. The anniversary of his arrival had come just under a week ago in Nadir. He hadn’t even noticed its passing. Or his birthday’s passing, for that matter. He’d turned 24 on March 28th, 2019—66 days before the event that had sent him here—but time was wibbly-wobbly between universes.

Personal time was what counted. On the day of his transmigration, he’d been 8,832 days old, accounting for leap years. This world didn’t have those, having exactly 352 days per year—a fact he was sure came down to a long-dead demigod having gotten fed up enough to adjust the planet’s orbital period.

Simple subtraction placed his birthday on the 1st of First Harvest in the year 3035. He’d turned twenty-six local years old while he and Ameliah had been staying in ThreeCore.

Naturally, this led to another realization.

Shit! When’s Ameliah’s birthday?!

“Did you come here to stand outside?” a deep voice rumbled.

“Tallheart, when’s your birthday?” Rain asked, returning to reality to see his antlered friend staring at him through a gap in the panels.

“The third of Frostfall,” Tallheart replied without a blink, utterly unfazed by the random question. “You did not get me anything.”

“Oh, stop,” Rain said. “I’ll make it up to you in a second. Mine’s the 1st of last month, for future reference.”

“I will remember it,” Tallheart rumbled, walking out of the construction yard to join him. “Congratulations on your advanced age. I know you like it when numbers go up.”

“I’m twenty-six, thank you,” Rain said. “That’s hardly advanced. And what are you, like, fifty?”

“Twenty-eight,” Tallheart replied with amusement. “Cervidians age as humans do. You know this. Do not pretend otherwise.”

“I don’t suppose you know Ameliah’s birthday?” Rain asked, his hopes not high. “Or Jamus’s?”

Tallheart froze. “I do not. I have not thought to ask them.”

“See?” Rain said, gesturing his vindication. “Not just me. Hold on a second. I’ll fix this.”

Calling on his interface, he opened his combined master to-do list. What he saw when he filtered it for the words ‘Ameliah’ and ‘birthday’ was depressing.

#todo find out what Ameliah’s birthday is

#todo ask Ameliah about her birthday

#todo Ameliah birthday - remember this time

#todo find a way to bring up birthdays: Ameliah, Tallheart, Jamus, Carten

#todo Ameliah birthday for real just ask this time it’s not that awkward you goon

Five times. Five times, he’d thought of it, and five times, it had fallen off his priority list and been forgotten.

Never again.

Working in accelerated time, he coded up a new macro that would react to Ameliah’s proximity and forcibly remind him. He then duplicated the trigger for Jamus, Carten, and a few others. While he was at it, he set intrusive reminders for Tallheart’s birthday, Dozer’s birthday, and the anniversary of the start of his relationship with Ameliah, which he judged as the 28th of Winternight. If his Clarity-addled brain wouldn’t supply him with vital information at the appropriate times, he’d force the system to do it instead.

System: Am I a joke to you?

Rain suppressed a chuckle at the imagined message, coming back with no appreciable time having passed. “There, that’s handled. Anyway, here.” He held out the textbook-sized metal case. “I said I’d make it up to you, and I meant it. Take, take.”

“What is this?” Tallheart said, inspecting the heavily inscribed object as Rain pushed it into his hands. “These are not runes. They are clearly intended to be, but there is no power within them. Decoration? Deception?”

“Both, probably,” Rain said. He felt blind without Mana Sight, but he didn’t need it to know that there was nothing going on. “Doesn’t surprise me for a second that the Bank cheaps out on their rewards program; though, to be fair, they never claimed it was enchanted. Anyway, the case isn’t important. Open it.”

“Hmm,” Tallheart rumbled, finding the latch and flipping the case open. Sunlight glinted off what was inside—neat rows of GranCrysts nestled in a black velvet insert. There were eight of each variety for a total of sixty-four.

“The insert comes out,” Rain said excitedly. “There’s another layer below that that’s all GranTel.”

