When breakfast finished and the old Healer left to go tend his garden, Jorani latched onto the friendliest looking monk and bombarded him with questions. Not much headway was made, but the day passed quickly, and the next was the same, and soon enough, Jorani fell into a steady routine. He’d wake up cursing the rooster and all chicken-kind, followed by an hour of restful meditation, then an hour of lectures from the old Healer until breakfast, at which point he was free to do as he pleased for the rest of the day.

It was difficult making friends with the monks, mostly because they refused to share their names, but also because they were a quiet and indifferent bunch who paid him little mind. On the other hand, they also placed no constraints on his movements, so while the monks went about their daily business, Jorani drifted from group to group to help out and see what they were up to. Most of their activities consisted of the daily drudgery required to live in a secluded location like theirs. Chopping firewood, laundering clothes, sweeping the courtyard, polishing their stone fish drums, the work seemed endless and unrewarding, but there were no shirkers or layabouts to be found. Sloth and indolence were frowned upon, so even in their precious free time, the monks kept themselves productive, whether by Demonstrating the Forms, discussing scripture and philosophy, carving wood, sculpting clay, painting scrolls, writing poems, or any number of other activities which they performed with varying degrees of skill.

While hardly a man of culture, over the course of a week, Jorani saw many of the monks create several gorgeous works of art, some even rivalling those the bossman plundered from Yo Ling’s island. Every night, the monks displayed their works in the dining hall for others to appreciate, only to destroy those precious items right before heading off to bed, showing how seriously they took this whole impermanence thing and putting a damper on Jorani’s idea to get rich selling Brotherhood crafted art...

Though no monk himself, Jorani similarly kept busy throughout the week. The first thing he did was ask about the surroundings and see if he could find a village with a bar, but every monk he asked told him the only way to get around was through Cloud-Stepping. Apparently no one lived within walking distance, not even if he travelled for a month, which was impossible. The Empire was vast and had swathes of untamed lands, but even in the wild North, you couldn’t walk for so long in one direction without bumping into another living person. Probably. Never one to take a man at their word, even if said man was a monk, Jorani set out to explore the surroundings despite warnings of wild beasts and venomous creatures lurking about. While this once might have scared him into staying safe behind the walls, he was a Martial Warrior now, so he thanked the monks for their warnings, coiled his Spiritual Weapon around his fist, and set out into the wilderness to familiarize himself with possible escape routes.

He went as far as eight hours out without spotting a single living creature besides the tiny birds and rodents residing in the forest, not even the faraway smoke of a village or woodsman’s hut. Daxian didn’t show his face either, which set Jorani on edge, so he spent an hour yelling insults at the shadows thinking to draw the hateful snob out, but to no avail. There were too many questions to be answered regarding the Brotherhood, and Jorani’s finely honed instincts sensed trouble. Why was GangShu taking so long? Why wouldn’t Daxian show himself, even several hours away from the monastery? What happened to Wugang and Yelu Shi in the first place?

Most importantly, where in the Father’s shit-encrusted arsehole were these damned monks keeping their damned rooster?

On the bright side, Jorani never stumbled across anything more dangerous than an angry squirrel, so he figured the wild beasts were busy preparing for winter. When not exploring the mountains or suffering through the old Healer’s lectures, he stayed at the monastery and solidified his Martial foundation, taking the time to reflect on and digest all the hard-learned lessons he’d uncovered on the front lines. Consequently, he made a little progress along the Martial Path, so when the monks asked him to join in on their bi-weekly sparring session, it didn’t take much to persuade him. Thinking he would represent the soldiers of the Empire to show these ascetics a thing or two about fighting, Jorani promptly lost his first match to the helpful, cheery, somewhat chubby monk Jorani had mentally named ‘Happy’.

It turned out Happy wasn’t so Happy once he stepped into the sparring ring, transforming into an enraged brute with fists of fury. Due to his vows of non-violence and unwillingness to hurt even a fly, Happy never laid a finger on Jorani and always stopped his attacks short, but the wind pressure alone was enough to tell Jorani he wouldn’t survive a direct hit from those deceptively powerful arms. Being beaten by a pacifist was almost enough to shame him to tears, but he clung to the vain hope that he’d been unlucky with his first opponent, only to lose his second, third, and every other match of the day.

Why were these grass-fed hermits so strong? They didn’t even have Spiritual Weapons...

Even though he swallowed his pride and asked Happy for advice, the chipper monk smiled and said, “Like seizing water, the tighter your fist, the faster Insight escapes. The Martial Dao is but a part of the Eight-fold path, so once you accept the Four Noble Truths, then strength will come of its own accord, like water flowing into the sea.” No matter how Jorani approached it, he didn’t understand how becoming a self-flagellating eunuch pacifist was supposed to make him stronger, but he thanked the chubby monk and challenged yet another target, a tall, gangly fool he called Eyebrows, for obvious reasons. Jorani lost again, but defeat was nothing new to him, and the bossman always said you learn more from defeat than victory.

Before he knew it, two weeks had passed since he’d arrived at the monastery and GangShu still had yet to return. The old Healer waved off Jorani’s concerns, saying “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo, this old monk warned them of the dangers, but they forged onward regardless. Such sin, such waste, lives lost in the pursuit of fleeting impermanence.” What followed was another verbose lecture on the right view, the first step in the Eight-Fold path and according to him, the most difficult step of all, because who could say for certain what the right view was?

Oh Mother in Heaven, Jorani was even starting to think like them.

That was it. It was time to take matters into his own hands. Even with hundreds of monasteries nestled within these mountains, it shouldn’t take an Ancestral Beast this long to visit every last one and find Wugang and Yelu Shi, but there’d been no word from him yet, not even a Sending from Daxian. This meant they’d either abandoned him here to the monks, or something had gone disastrously wrong. Either way, Jorani intended to get gone, and while no one had said anything about keeping him captive, the old Healer’s trustworthy smile was starting to wear thin. There was something off about the way all the other monks looked at him which gave Jorani a feeling he couldn’t express, but he hadn’t survived this long by ignoring his gut. Instead of asking for directions again, directions he knew he wouldn’t get, he skipped afternoon sparring to take a much-needed nap until midnight, at which point he snuck out to the kitchen to steal a small bag of uncooked rice and slipped out over the wall unseen.

So there, cloaked in the darkness of night, Jorani leaned heavily on his night-vision and stealthily jogged down the somewhat familiar trail without too much of a plan. Head in one direction until he found someone who wasn’t a monk or a nun and knew where to get a drink was about as far as he got, and then he’d play it by ear from there. Whatever the issue with the Brotherhood, it was way above Jorani’s pay grade, so he might as well get while the getting was good. Besides, he had a promise to keep, and not even the Father himself would stop him from raising his cup in toast at Ral and Chey’s wedding.

The birds and squirrels were slim pickings, but with a makeshift sling and plenty of ammunition to be found, Jorani supplemented his meals adequately. He wasn’t eating quite as well as he would back at the monastery, but at least he didn’t have to sit through any more sermons. He still had two months and change before the new year, so it shouldn’t be a problem to make it back to Sinuji, what with the whole Empire mobilizing in that direction.

Or at least, this was what Jorani thought right up until a week later, when he stepped out of the mountain forest and found himself at the edge of a giant canyon, staring at a vast desert on the other side, one which stretched endlessly as far as the eye could see.

Well shit.

A small wonder there was no one living nearby, because only the Penitent Brotherhood were crazy enough to live in the Arid Wastelands…

Chapter Meme
