“Errrk-uh-erk-eh-errrrrrrrr!”

There it was, every morning without fail, the damned, insufferable rooster squawking up a storm as if offended by the mere thought of anyone still asleep. Neither loud nor quiet, the unholy screeching seemed to pierce clean through Jorani’s skull as if the idiot bird were in the room with him, sending his mind into a panic as he bolted up from his borrowed bed and gazed out into the darkness, ready to fight or flee at a moment’s notice. It took long seconds to remember where he was and longer still to remember he wore a blindfold, on account of the trauma his eyes suffered during GangShu’s Cloud-Stepping shenanigans. Sadistic was what he was, a vicious fiend who loved to see Jorani suffer. What ‘hidden monsters’ could possibly pose a threat to an Ancestral Beast, much less catch up while GangShu Cloud-Stepped so fast the wind alone was powerful enough to batter Jorani to near death?

And now he was stuck in this Mother forsaken monastery until Heaven knows when, with their lack of women, meat, gambling, alcohol, and anything else which could even remotely be considered fun...

Having worked himself into an indignant tizzy, Jorani took a deep, calming breath and counted backwards from ten. Then he questioned why vegetarian monks would keep a rooster and had to start over from a hundred. Somewhere around the thirties, he finally reined his temper in, but he pushed onward to the end because today was just one of those days.

Just as he finished, a knock came at his door, more an announcement of arrival than request for permission since the old Healer didn’t wait for an answer. “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo, it is good to see you up and about instead of hiding beneath your blankets. The greatest misconception is believing one has time to waste, for most will require more than a lifetime to traverse the Dao and understand its mysteries.”

“Er, yea... Good morning, honoured reverend.”

“Bah.” Snorting as he always did, the old Healer took Jorani’s chin in hand and turned it left, then right to inspect his health. “What ‘honoured reverend’? This one is merely a humble monk who knows a bit more than some and less than needed. Take Healing for example. I know how to mend your eyes but I haven’t a clue how you’ve adjusted so quickly.” Somehow tearing the blindfold without exerting pressure, the old Healer suddenly appeared in view and Jorani’s eyes watered from the shuttered candlelight just barely illuminating their surroundings. “Three days when it should’ve taken an entire week, if not longer, a mystery, to be sure.”

“Mm. I always did Heal faster than most.” Plus, Panacea did wonders to cut down on recovery time, but Jorani was sworn to secrecy. Blinking the tears out of his eyes, he inspected his benefactor for the first time and was sorely disappointed. Though expecting someone old, the old Healer’s grey monk robes hung loosely on his wizened frame, and his face had more wrinkles than most had hairs. While shaving one’s head was part and parcel of being a monk, it seemed the practice didn’t extend to trimming protruding nose or ear hairs, of which Jorani’s benefactor had plenty to spare. That said, though his arms were bone thin and back hunched, the old Healer’s hands were steady and eyes sharp as he turned Jorani this way and that in an attempt to uncover the mystery of his quick recovery. Unpleasant as it was, Jorani owed the man his life, so he swallowed his ire and let the old Healer appease his curiosity.

Proclaiming Jorani was ‘fit as can be’, the old monk hustled him out of the plain, unadorned room and out into the courtyard, a routine he’d long since grown accustomed to. Now that his eyes worked, he didn’t need the old Healer holding his wrist to guide him, but he didn’t mind matching the elderly monk’s slow but steady pace since it gave him time to take in the surroundings. Each room he passed had its doors wide open and looked exactly like his own, with a serviceable bed, nightstand, dresser, and writing desk, all lacking even the most basic of decorations or embellishments. They weren’t much to look at, but he passed at least thirty such rooms which were all clean and dust free, but also lacking mattresses, pillows, and covers which Jorani took to mean they were unoccupied.

Who would’ve thought an order of self-flagellating eunuchs wouldn’t be popular?

Stepping out of the empty dormitories, Jorani’s first glimpse of the surroundings took his breath away. Vast mountains loomed over the horizon in every direction he turned, each one covered in an array of vibrant autumnal colours which undoubtedly hid wild beasts and lurking dangers, but it was a damn sight more inviting than the stark, austere monastery which greeted him. Paved with identical grey flagstones, a smooth, unmarked pillar sat at each corner of the square courtyard, which was otherwise utterly devoid of decoration or personality, a trait which extended to the rest of the monastery too. Grey robes, grey furniture, grey walls, and grey roofs, even the wooden lanterns were painted grey to match the boring grey flagstones in an effort to blend the surroundings together so as not to distract the mind with petty matters like colours or contrast.

“Where are we?” Jorani asked, for he’d never seen such natural beauty, made all the more poignant by his immediate surroundings. “Like I know this be a monastery of the Brotherhood, but... where?”

“If you don’t know, then best not to,” the old Healer replied, pushing Jorani towards an out of the way stone bench and gesturing for him to sit. “We built our monasteries out of the way because we like things peaceful and quiet.” Understanding their position, Jorani held his tongue and settled down while the monks filed into the courtyard to take their seats, arranging themselves facing east in four neat rows with each monk equidistant from their neighbours, aside from the old Healer who took his place at the front alone, facing the other monks. Placing a stone-carved fish in front of him, the other monks sat still while the old Healer hammered out three slow and steady beats on his fish to set the tempo, and on the fourth beat, they all joined in and raised their voices in unison, chanting sutras in a foreign tongue to the measured cadence of their beating stone fish drums.

Jorani had no idea what they were saying, and in previous days, the monks refused to explain unless he joined the Brotherhood, but he found the low, droning chants rather soothing and helpful for seeking Balance, so he crossed his legs, wished he’d remembered to bring a pillow to sit on, and settled in to meditate. All the noise made it impossible to go back to sleep anyways, so he figured he might as well make the most of his time for his inevitable return to the battlefield, and since he couldn’t practice the Forms without disturbing the monks, quiet meditation would have to do. Maybe it was the chanting, the sensory deprivation, or maybe it was the complete and utter lack of anything else to do, but despite being blind and on the mend, he stumbled upon several Insights while meditating these past few days, so maybe the concept wasn’t as silly as he’d once thought.

When he opened his eyes once more, the sun’s orange-red radiance was just barely peeking out over the mountains while all thirty-seven monks stared at him in a mixture of confusion, amusement, and admiration.

“Would you care to join us in our penance?” The old Healer never failed to ask, but as before, Jorani declined with, “No thank you, benefactor. I’m still feeling a little sore.” And sane, because he’d have to be crazy to take part in the Brotherhood’s famed penitent punishments, but their palpable disappointment threw him for a loop. In the past three days, he didn’t get what GangShu meant when he said the monks were ‘mighty interested’ in Jorani, but now...

Though a small part of him wanted to run screaming for the mountains, he stayed to watch due to lack of options and morbid curiosity. To his surprise, the Brotherhood’s religious ceremonies involved a lot less self-flagellation than anticipated, and while they still stripped to their skivvies and pummelled themselves bloody, it wasn’t anything worse than what the bossman demanded from his soldiers during training. A far cry from how all the stories made them out to be, Jorani had expected to see hooked chains, hot coals, hammered nails, and whatnot, but the beatings were all self-inflicted using these dinky wooden flails like what farmers used to thresh grains. Each monk would take one and beat himself over the shoulder with it, alternating between left and right but leaving most of their body untouched.

Now that’s just poor coverage all around.

“Hmm?” Plopping down on the bench beside him, the old Healer raised a wispy eyebrow in question, probably passing on the self-inflicted beatings because they’d kill him. “Most people who see this react with fear or revulsion, but you seem unimpressed.”

“Just wasn’t what I was expecting is all,” Jorani replied, pursing his lips as uneven bruises formed on the monks’ backs. “I’d heard stories, ye see, and well... it ain’t my place to say, but fer someone who ses we ain’t got enough time, this don’t seem all too efficient.”

“How so?”

“Well, what we do is find groups of three. Two people with paddles going at full speed’ll get the beatings done nice and even. Then the injured parties shuffle off to recuperate while everyone forms new groups and repeats. It slows down a little after ye get through two or three rounds, but by then, the first group aught’a be fit ‘nough to lend a hand. Quick and easy, ye see?”

“Ah ha!” Clapping his hands in childish glee, the old Healer said, “I knew I sensed a wayward Brother in you. Your father claimed otherwise, but these old eyes have yet to fail. Describe your sponsor for me. Which monastery did you enrol in? A clever system for penance, though this one thinks it misses the point and is too impersonal to be effective. Why did you leave? You are a promising one, even better than the large comrade you came looking for, so forgive this monk’s clumsy attempts to guide you back onto the Eight-fold Path.”

“He ain’t my father and he’s a lyin’ sack of shit if he said otherwise.” Though he waited until he had an opening to speak, Jorani’s denial still came out hotter than intended, so he took a breath before continuing. “Pardon me tone, benefactor. I ain’t ever been an initiate of the Brotherhood either, and don’t know nothing about the Eight-Fold Path. I was talking about me training with the Bekhai, not any Brotherhood training.”

“Oh? Oh.” Hearing this, the old Healer’s wrinkled smile was replaced with a fearsome frown of dissatisfaction, though he didn’t bat an eye at Jorani’s angry outburst. “So you’re one of his, the young brother named by the Abbot himself, yet refuses to come take his vows. A mistake, that was, promoting him to the one of the five, a mistake we should never have allowed.” Jorani didn’t know the exact details, so he kept his mouth shut until the old Healer’s poor mood faded away and his smile returned in full force. There was something just so likeable and trustworthy about the old man when he smiled, though Jorani couldn’t put his finger on what it was. “Well, just because you were never an initiate doesn’t mean you can’t become one. Since we’ve time, why don’t I tell you about the Four Noble Truths? Now, to understand...”

The lecture lasted throughout the monks’ penance and right up until breakfast was served, at which point the old Healer finally fell mercifully silent to eat. While the ambience in the dining hall was as dreary and grey as the rest of the monastery and the monks all ate without conversation, the food looked and tasted more appetizing than vegetarian food had any right to be. While rice and green veggies made up the bulk of the meal, there were various nuts, beans, and tubers which added delectable flavours and textures to the meal, ones which he found strange and unappealing when he couldn’t see, but now that he knew what he was eating, it was all rather delightful.

Especially the steamed buns. Plain and without filling, but moist, sweet, and fluffy, hands down the best he’d ever tasted.

“Ye know,” Jorani said, mostly just to hear the sound of his voice. “With promise of good food, a warm bed, and a roof overhead, this ain’t the worst life a man could have. You’d probably fill a lot more rooms if ye did away with the eunuch business.”

Though most of the monks smiled at Jorani’s joke, the old Healer lost his smile for the second time today, and his furious grimace had all the other monks staring deep into their bowls and working their chopsticks in a frenzy. “There are reasons we do what we do,” the old Healer said, without bothering to finish swallowing first. “As laid out in the Four Noble Truths, suffering is inherent in all life, and suffering is caused by desire, so what is lust besides a cause of suffering? If something can only bring suffering, then why hold on to it? Remember, everything within this life is impermanent, so you will inevitably lose all you hold dear, whether you cling to it or not.”

As he sat through the shower of half-chewed rice and vegetables, Jorani vowed to never speak again during meal time. No wonder the monks ate in complete silence...

