“Rain doesn’t know, hasn’t asked, and has his own problems,” Vanna said. “It’s bad enough we’re distracting him with all of this.” She gestured at the lair, then extracted a flashing Radiance anchor from her pocket and tossed it to Tarny. “See what he’s saying, will you? We need to— Staavo, seriously? You too?”

“The goat’s a waste of time,” Staavo said. He closed his eyes, settling in beside Tallheart. “I’ve said my piece, and I know you won’t change your mind, so I’m having a nap too.” He cracked open one eye. “Unless you want to make me acting captain?”

“No,” everyone said together.

Two hours later, Staavo bounced impatiently on his artificial foot, using its springiness to distract him from his irritation. Lacking any skill with all that soul nonsense, he’d found himself unable to join Tallheart in resting through the endless politicking and discussion of optimal strategy. There’d been something of a shift change, with Myth, Reason, and Mereck joining them in the cavern and Bluewash getting herself banished to the surface under guard. Of the scouting party, only Kettel remained, somehow having kept his mouth shut enough to avoid a banishment of his own.

None of that mattered. What mattered was that now, finally, they were ready to get on with it.

“Send in the goat,” Vanna commanded.

“Okay, Mr. Widdershins,” Carten said, stroking the young goat as he approached the barrier. “Time to be brave.”

“You named it?” Lyn asked incredulously. “Do you like pain?”

“Don’t listen to ‘er, Mr. Widdershins,” Carten said, setting the goat down and giving it a little push. “Go on, now. You just hop right in there an’ come on back.”

The goat looked up at him with confusion, then released a high-pitched bleat. It shook itself, trying to slip free of the rope that had been tied around its neck along with a small pouch holding one of Rain’s Detection anchors.

“Today, please,” Vanna said, sounding tired.

“I can’t watch,” Myth said, turning away.

“In ye go!” Carten said, scooping one meaty hand under the goat and gently lobbing it through. “Ooh! Haha!” he quickly grabbed up the trailing rope and let it play out through his fingers. An even higher-pitched bleat sounded through the barrier. “Look at ‘im go! Such a brave explorer!”

“That’s good enough, Carten,” Vanna said after a few seconds. “Bring it back.”

“Aye,” Carten said. “Widdershins! Come ‘ere! Come to Daddy!”

“Pull the rope, Carten,” Lyn said tiredly. “It’s a goat, not your child. And if it were your child, I wouldn’t expect it to listen. You’d make a terrible father.”

“Oi!” Carten said. “I’d make a great father! Ye jus’ got ta understand when ta’ be friendly an’ when ta use disciplin’!”

“I will discipline the lot of you if you don’t stop fooling around,” Vanna said, a startling degree of irritation peeking through her usual composure.

“Ah, sorry, boss,” Carten said, sounding like he meant it. He began pulling the rope, gently at first, then with increasing urgency. “Oi, Somethin’s wrong. He’s barely fightin’ me!”

As the goat emerged from the barrier, it stumbled, still on its feet but looking like it was about to pass out. It released another bleat, even higher-pitched this time. Unnaturally so.

Fascinating.

“Mereck,” Vanna commanded.

The healer had already sprung forward, placing a hand on the animal’s side as it crumpled to the ground. “I healed it, but it’s still—”

“What’s wrong with him?” Carten asked urgently, fumbling to untie the rope. With a jerk, the goat began to struggle.

“I’m not sure, but it…he…seems to be recovering,” Mereck said.

Scratching at his beard, Staavo glanced to the side, where Rain’s anchor had begun a rapid series of flashes.

F…I…L…T…

Ah, so it didn’t work then.

It took a little while for the rest of the message to come through. Once it had, Tarny spoke for the benefit of those who hadn’t caught it.

“Rain says the anchor didn’t work once it crossed the envelope. He couldn’t see inside.”

“Well, we all knew it probably wouldn’t,” Vanna said.

“What do we think?” Staavo asked, still scratching at his beard as he looked back at the recovering goat in Carten’s arms. “Bad air?”

“Possibly,” Myth said.

“Knowledge is predicated on observation,” Reason intoned.

“You need a sample, eh?” Staavo said, bending and grabbing up the discarded rope.

“Staavo!” Vanna said as he tossed aside the pouch with the useless anchor and began tying the rope around his waist. “We agreed that Lyn would be the first one through when it’s time, and it’s not time. We need to wait to see how the goat—“

“I’m done waiting,” Staavo interrupted as he closed his eyes and stepped forward. He’d pay for it, he knew, but he doubted whatever reprimand she chose would be worse than suffering through another minute of pointless chatter.

“Damn it, Staavo!”

Vanna’s voice sounded odd through the barrier but was no different in pitch, which ran counter to his expectations. The air inside was cool on his skin but didn’t burn, so he opened his eyes to see a beige wasteland extending in all directions. There was no indication of the barrier on this side save a faint shimmer near where he was standing, which was fairly standard for lairs that pretended to be outdoors. The emptiness was broken only by a crumbling ruin directly in front of him, perhaps a two-minute walk through the dust. He saw no monsters, essence-charged or otherwise, and his interface reported the lair’s name as the ‘Breathless Wasteland.’

“Staavo?” Lyn’s voice came from right behind him, again only slightly off from how he expected it to sound.

“I’m fine,” Staavo said with some of his stored air. Again, the pitch was normal. Double checking his knot with a tug, he nodded to himself, then exhaled fully before taking a deep breath of the lair’s suspect atmosphere. The gas felt cold and thin as it filled his lungs—and quite dry, obviously. There were no immediate adverse effects, though, and the system didn’t pop up and tell him he’d been poisoned or anything. He nevertheless wasted no time taking a step backward through the barrier.

“Well?” Vanna asked through her teeth, her voice tight with fury. “What did you see?”

Staavo didn’t answer, instead tapping his lips and turning toward Reason.

“Ready,” Reason said, raising his hands.

“Not much,” Staavo said on the exhale, releasing his stored sample to the care of the Chemist’s Fume Control. Much like the goat’s earlier bleating, his voice came out high and squeaky.

“What the hells?” Kettel said, laughing.

To Staavo, any amusement he might have felt came second to monitoring his own condition. A faint sense of wooziness washed over him, and he was quick to refill his lungs with neutral air.

“This is…unexpected,” Reason said, sounding troubled as he stared at the captured breath hanging invisibly between his hands. “I believe this could be problematic.”

“I hate it when he talks normally,” Lyn said. “That means it’s serious.”

“Lyn,” Vanna warned. “Staavo, would you care to elaborate, or are you dying?”

“Just clearing my lungs,” Staavo said, waving Mereck away. “Bad air in there, for sure. No monsters that I saw, but there were ruins that could have hidden some. Besides that, it’s empty and dry. It’s called the Breathless Wasteland, and apt as that seems, no, I didn’t pick the name.”

“Did the goat?” Kettel asked.

Staavo grunted, the question not even justifying a response. He began coiling the rope, then paused.

Actually…huh. Maybe.

“I must dispose of this,” Reason said, turning toward the barrier with his hands still raised. “Just a moment.” He took a breath, then walked through.

Vanna blinked, remaining silent for a few seconds out of pure shock. “Really?”

Myth sighed, rubbing the bridge of his nose. “Sorry.”

Reason returned a few moments later, shaking his head. “The atmosphere within is entirely uniform. It is pure fund-one.”

“Pure hydrogen?” Staavo asked in shock, using Rain’s name for the gas.

“Indeed,” Reason replied, paling slightly as he noticed Vanna’s expression. “It is neither toxic nor breathable.” He swallowed, then turned to Staavo. “How do you feel?”

“A little tired,” Staavo answered, his voice back to normal after a number of deep breaths. “A little grumpy.”

“So…like always, then?” Kettel said, wearing a stupid grin. “Hey, Vanna, let me go next! I wanna hear what me voice sounds like!”

Vanna’s reply could have frozen a volcano. “Anyone else walks through that barrier without getting my explicit permission, they’ll be joining Bluewash, Reason, and Staavo on breakfast duty for the next month.”

Shit. Worse than I thought.

Hiding his frown, Staavo looped the coiled rope over one of Tallheart’s antlers.

Eh. I’ll talk her down.

“I didn’t think—“ Reason began, but Vanna cut him off.

“You knew my orders, and you ignored them. Whether it was on purpose or because your skull’s full of feathers and you forgot, that’s on you.” She narrowed her eyes, pausing to glare at Staavo. “Both of you. And no, you will not be getting out of it because you’re ‘too important’, so don’t even try. Rules are for everyone.” She looked back at Reason. “Now, when you say ‘neither toxic nor breathable,’ what do you mean? Sounds like a contradiction. Speak plainly. Is it dangerous or not?”

Myth was the one to respond. “Around him, very,” he said, nodding to Kettel. He began rubbing Reason’s back soothingly. “Fund-one is highly reactive. If it so much as touches flame, it will explode, but not—”

“We’re standing next to a bomb?!” Lyn interrupted, looking sharply at the lair.

“Fund-eight is required for the reaction,” Reason said dejectedly. “There is none inside, so there is no risk of a complete detonation. However, we will have to carry some with us if we wish to explore. Fume Control could work… For a short while.”

Vanna frowned. “Have to? Why would we bring this fund-eight whatever with us if the combination is dangerous?” She glanced at Rain’s anchor, which had begun flashing. It seemed their wayward captain was growing impatient.

“That which is unseen is not unneeded,” Reason said, then immediately winced. “Sorry, habit.” He swallowed. “Um… Fund-eight…oxygen…is what we breathe to keep breathing. It fuels the body’s chemistry and is twenty-one percent of regular air by volume. ” He looked around at the blank looks this got him. “Did I write Common Knowledge: Chemistry for nothing? Have none of you read it?”

“It wasn’t on the top of my reading list until now,” Vanna said, glancing at the rapidly flashing anchor. “So, hydrogen isn’t toxic, but it’s also not what the body needs. That’s easy enough to understand. Would a Waterbreathing potion work?”

“Unfortunately, no,” Myth said. “They are designed for, well…water. A true Breathless Draught would work in any environment, but we don’t have sufficient power to make one, even if we knew how. Perhaps with time, we could devise a tailored solution—a Hydrogenbreathing potion, if you will—but I am not hopeful. We will try a few things, but…”

“Okay then,” Vanna said. “No alchemical quick fix, got it. Tarny, please update Rain and see if he’s got any suggestions. The stones and the mat are in my bag. Lyn, make another run back to camp and post a bulletin with the details of what we’ve discovered so far. There’s no point in trying to conceal the fact that the lair’s here, and maybe someone will have an idea on how to deal with its Arcane bullshit. Chemical bullshit? Whatever. Myth, Reason, let’s talk options. Staavo, you’re in charge of Bluewash until I’m ready to deal with you.”

“What?!” Staavo demanded.

Vanna continued, heedless of his protest. “Mereck, don’t go anywhere in case we need you. Kettel, against my better judgment, you’re on fire safety. Get those torches out of here and get some flashlights or something.”

“An electrical spark could be as dangerous as a torch,” Myth said.

“Damn,” Vanna muttered. “I guess we’ll have Rain turn his anchor up for now. Still, lose the torches.”

“I’m not going to babysit some spoiled—“ Staavo began.

Vanna clapped her hands, silencing him. “You will if you don’t want it to be two months of kitchen duty. Let’s move, people!” She clicked her tongue. “And will somebody wake up Tallheart already?”
