 would be scarce, life would be just Spiders, and problems would arise.Honestly, ecosystems were there for a purpose. Nu had half a mind to rant at this Queen if not for the fact he was doing his best to act as a bandaid to her flavor of trouble. Nu knew that if this was another Dungeon… things would be rough and even worse, but this?He could handle this.Hunger... Mana… give to me! Give! Give!It was pure intent and Mana that sounded the Queen’s desire. Nu responded in kind.“Stop having so many kids and lose a few pounds. Your Mana is heavier than Bacon filled with gutrot,” he challenged. The miasma twinged with anger and the focus the Queen was trying to give to the battle was diverted to Nu.That’s right… split your attention, you dumb idiot.Nu felt the twisted Mana lash at him. He felt his box crack a little under the pressure. The joys of not being the Dungeon Core meant that in events like this... his power was a little less effective.“S-s-Sys, can’t you lend a hand?” he called.Her response was uncharastically sharp.

Nu shook himself and he began to just throw random pieces of Delta’s puns at the purple mana, puns he had stored outside his memory to preserve sanity. The Spider Queen paused.It seemed to struggle to digest the information for a second before it bristled and grew furious beyond belief at the jokes. The strict control she had shook slightly and the ranks of Spiders began to become confused.Nu tried to think about what Delta would say in this instance.“You’ve been watching us for a while, trying to figure out the best way to eat us. I guess you really are a spy...der,” Nu tried and the pun hurt him somewhere deep inside. The Queen went absolutely silent and her Mana even froze.Then she began to scream in utter rage.“And I thought I couldn’t take a joke...” Nu mumbled as the pressure grew and his screen cracked harder.---The scattered forces of the spiders went into many different directions. Most went straight for the stairs, crossing Giant’s bridge in a frenzied rush to find more food.They climbed and climbed until they burst into a room where the solid ground turned soft and sandy. The eight spiders all felt the very air began to crush down on them. The Queen, the Mother Queen, her touch seemed so far away...They moved forward, agitated. They could smell pig! Juicy pig...The leader, the one closest to evolution, neared the hole that smelled of chewy goblin and pig.Food, so close!The leader went still as a long metal object went through its mouth and the juicy pig walked out of the entrance and the seven left felt fear. The goblin that was supposed to be prey stared down at them.“You think you can walk into my house and act like you’re kings?” the goblin spat and he flicked his weapon and the spider on it fell and smacked against the wall.“It’s time you runts learned the pecking order,” the goblin growled and the juicy pig... licked its lips.They felt fear and they wanted their mother.---The lone spider rushed about in a panic as its fellow warriors had gone missing. The dense trees and hanging vines hid death. It reached a small clearing and hissed at everything. Where? WHERE? It turned as fast its legs would let it.It should weave a web, create defenses! It shot a single spool of the white thread and as it touched the branch, spears and rocks hurled itself at the web. Tangling it before it could do anything.The death shadows were here! The spider bared its fangs in a show of power and something came crashing through the trees. It almost leapt by sheer instincts but it stopped when it saw it was one of its fellow Spiders!Its legs had been hogtied and a dozen little fluffy things covered its body.The fluffy things shouldn’t scare it, but they did.It turned to run and found the trees all around it filled with little wooden faces. It froze as it tried to spot a way out.The fluffy things were blown from little wooden tubes and it felt numb....then it was being carried off into the darkness.The shadows of death had captured it. It prayed to the Mother for a swift end.---The scene of clean water and pure Mana drove a squad of assassin Spiders to scale the wall to a hidden place. They grew excited. Hidden places must hide the Source of Mana! The Queen had told them to find the source!The room beyond was mostly filled with water and a single road with two statues. The lead spider scuttled forward as the rest scaled the walls for ambushes. The only thing in this room was a small tiny frog. Unlike the two large ones or the small fast ones... this one looked old and frail.Easy prey.The leader moved forward, drooling as it readied to enjoy a quick snack of Mana.The old frog looked up and the leader paused as the feeling this thing gave off was not fear but... annoyance?That wasn’t right-It felt the world spin and light exploded behind all eight eyes. Confused it shrieked for help and tried to climb to its feet but the old frog had cast off it’s cloak to reveal powerful muscles and glowing tattoos.“May Mother Delta have mercy on you because this old man has had enough of you youngsters and your damn invasion games,” the frog said with a deep growl. He bent and his legs filled with power. Before it could understand, two of its brothers were smears on the walls.It turned to web or maybe bite the frog but a webbed foot smashed down on its head and it could only briefly feel surprised before its life ended.--Gramps walked forward at the last spider.“You’re hurting my family. For that, I’m gonna have to destroy you. They annoy me, and they’re too loud but I love my fellow frogs...” he sighed and then eyed the spider as it tried to flee.“Good thing they aren’t going to be told that - because you aren’t going to live to tell them, and I would rather eat Mother Delta’s mushrooms than admit it,” he promised. He dashed forward, cracking the stone below his feet as he grabbed the spider by the back leg and slammed it onto the side of the entrance. Soon, he was left holding only a leg and he chucked it to the jungle below. He stared out at the jungle as battle raged on.“Rale... you idiot,” he said quietly and took off into the trees with an agility that didn’t belong to such an old looking man.---Delta nodded as Fran made skewers of the Spiders, turning her attention to the largest group of invaders away from the main force.About 15 spiders were rushing towards her Core and Delta couldn’t help but feel worried as the idea of those spiders touching her core filled her mind. She shot off, flying across the room to see them squeezing into the door... why wasn’t it shut?!She phased through the tree wall and the air inside the Boss room was... chilling. She watched as the spiders marched forward through the mist.She felt Wyin’s excitement... tangible as if the mist itself was like a mood ring, turning pink then red the longer the spiders took to search the room.The tree in the center unfurled her branches like a bird and she looked up at Delta with a smile.“Let my love for you be clear,” she sang, her soft and willowy branches flexed and became whips of thorns as others pierced the spiders like javelins.Delta watched as Wyin tore the spiders apart, her glee and joy growing brighter as the mist grew redder.It took no time at all and while the Spiders tried to harm Wyin, her bark was strong and she easily brushed them off with a shake of her body. Delta could see she was playing... taking her time to end this.“Stop it.”The words were out her mouth before Delta even knew it. Wyin merely hummed.“I’m just doing my task,” the tree almost purred as she slowly pierced another spider. Delta felt the pain of the invasion, the effort her monsters were putting in to defending her... and watching Wyin invite danger in and toy with it made Delta bristle.“Enough!” she snapped and Wyin froze.“I...” she trailed off as she looked at Delta’s angry face.“This is is no time for this. You want to play games, do it on your own time. My family is doing their best there. I don’t know you... not yet but if you don’t respect their efforts to at least take this seriously then I won’t stand for it. Do your job or I’ll find someone who will,” Delta said quietly. Wyin looked as if she had been slapped.The last four spiders exploded in gore and Wyin’s face looked sullen.“Happy, oh mistress?” she bit out.Delta shook her head.“Not until this over. Just... give me time and we’ll talk. But now...” she winced as she felt Nu struggle.“Easy... do not force yourself. Despite your feelings. I do care. Go and worry. I shall keep the door locked and your core safe. I give you my word. My word!” the tree said with sudden heat.Delta hesitated before she nodded. She flew off and straight for Nu.---Wyin watched as the orange blur vanished. She felt angry... ashamed...Of course showing off now would be a stupid thing to do... Wyin cursed herself and slashed a dead spider to pieces in frustration.Mother was going to talk? Someone else do her job?!Wyin felt her very branches curl at the idea.This was her task. Her existence!The door before her locked tightly. The feeling of fighting and tearing the spiders to pieces was almost amazing. It was so... pure. But now it felt tinged with this shame and Wyin had no desire to invite more in. She wanted to rest... to sulk, if she was being honest.Mother was never in any danger.Never.Wyin would burn before she abandoned someone.She would never leave a loved one. Not like…Not like... Wyin had been?Hmm... odd. That was a new feeling.Loathing.Wyin closed her eyes, feeling the war beyond her door rage on. She felt, for the first time... trapped and helpless.Wyin loathed it.---
