The real reason was probably that the Sword Saint wanted to escape the conversation, but it didn’t seem like the merchant was willing to let go quite yet.

“Most certainly we should, but it would also be such a waste to...”

Unwilling to give up, the guy kept yapping, with the Sword Saint really proving himself an expert in the concept of patience. It was honestly a little funny to watch, and Caleb had to hold back a smile as he stood there for another ten minutes while the merchant really tried to sell himself as a great person and ally.

He would have likely kept going if he hadn’t gotten rudely interrupted.

“... thus, I shall personally make sure that any-“

Mid-sentence, two things happened at once. One, the merchant, five protectors, and even the summoned spaceship disappeared; everything turned into blue wisps of scattered energy. Two, they got a system message telling them why that had happened.

The second phase has now ended, with more than 90% of all Territory Beacons destroyed. All Territories that have failed to destroy at least one Territory Beacon have been permanently eliminated.

All individuals who have been...

After reading the message, Caleb shared a look with the Sword Saint, who let out a sigh.

“I did tell him to destroy the Beacon quickly.”

“You did,” Caleb nodded as he smiled.

The two were quiet for a few seconds before the Sword Saint spoke again. “That truly was impeccable timing. He was absolutely insufferable.”

“What? I thought you two were becoming best friends,” Caleb said, acting all surprised. “Didn’t he invite you to his daughter’s wedding? Pretty sure I heard him invite you to his daughter’s wedding.”

“He did, but unfortunately, I never got the chance to accept the invitation,” the Sword Saint answered with a nod. “Alas, we must move on. Do you want the Territory, or should I break the Beacon?”

“You go for it,” Caleb chuckled, shaking his head as he checked his communicator. “I’m already getting spammed down with messages about this Central Domain and Palace of Abundance...”
