"You are being far too melodramatic, Kelegas Thornblight," Emline said, laughing. "What are you doing, bowing to your queen consort? We have things to do! Chief amongst them being a visit to the Ocean Division, which I believe you have been neglecting."

Kelegas had begun to smile at her laugh, but the smile vanished at the mention of the Ocean Division, and his answer came out embarrassingly plaintive. "Do I have to?"

Ocean Division made him uncomfortable, as much as he hated to admit it. He loved all of his subjects equally, but the aberrations of the sea...

Well. It was not that he did not love them, exactly. He wanted for them what he wanted for everyone else, and he would fight for them with equal vigor. It was just that they made him viscerally uncomfortable in a way that he was consciously aware was unfounded—

"You really must get over your fear of tentacles, my dear," Emline told him, and Kelegas groaned, embarrassed.

"It is a rational discomfort," he said stubbornly. "There are entirely too many of them and they are entirely too wet."

"You have already admitted to me that it is an irrational fear, my dear. Backtracking now helps no one."

Kelegas grunted. "I do not understand why they all must have tentacles," he groused. "Can they not simply grow less of them?"

"Do not let them hear you say that." Emline patted his back consolingly. "Besides, overcoming your discomfort will be a worthwhile distraction, will it not? And they have an update that should please you; for one thing, they have acquired a new selection of recruits that bring a much-needed cheer to the division."

Kelegas winced. The other reason the Ocean Division made him uncomfortable was that its members consisted of aberrations that emerged from the deepest depths of the ocean. As much as the tentacles made him uncomfortable, the deep sea frightened him in a way that was difficult to explain.

Perhaps it was simply that it reminded him of the process of becoming a dark lord. That had involved an unrelenting, endless pressure around him, demanding a reshaping of his very soul, carving away pieces that did not suit its purpose.

He fought it, of course. The plan required that he fight it. He had to avoid allowing himself to be reshaped like so many of the others, yet still acquire enough of a dark lord's abilities to tap into the experiences of the others...

Kelegas was relatively certain he had succeeded, but the fight had left him scarred. Perhaps that was the root of his discomfort with the Ocean Division.

"Trust me," Emline told him. She took him by the arm, leading him to the transportation circle that would take them to the Ocean Division barracks. "I will be with you, and you know you cannot appear selective about your own people."

Kelegas sighed. "I am... aware of the problem," he admitted reluctantly. "Please ensure that I visit regularly moving forward. I should not allow my personal difficulties to hinder my relationship with my people."

"I will be sure to do exactly that," Emline said with a playful smirk. "Do not look so apprehensive! Ocean Division has made some great strides—you will be glad to hear of them, I promise you that. For instance, they have discovered fragments of prophecy within the ocean about one of the ritual components you have been searching for; apparently the blessed have been using it as a reward for this tournament they hold..."

Kelegas blinked, surprised—that was significant, and she was right in that he should have visited earlier. He listened attentively as she spoke, and found, against all odds, that he was relaxing. That the distraction was working, in some small way.

It wasn't nearly enough, but it helped, and it calmed his mind just enough to set it working.

Perhaps there were other methods he could use to draw out the other dark one he'd been so curious about. A ritual that would call to them, or to something they desired. He had a spell like that, did he not?

He would speak with the Ocean Division first, which he was no longer quite so apprehensive about. After that... well, he would have to see.
