This was a lot of gold, wasn’t it? Shouldn’t she go to the Merchant’s Guild to put it away or something? Liska worried. She didn’t know how to do responsible stuff. She wasn’t used to a steady job. Life had been simpler before Ishkr got her the job at the inn.
Go out, have fun with Shashi. Avoid the Watch or give them a bit of what they deserved and sit in jail for a day or two. Stay up to date on important stuff like who was in a relationship with who and what the latest gossip was. Keep yourself fed or go back home and argue with Ishkr. If you got caught by the Watch, well, hope Ishkr or someone you know had the coin to bail you out and keep your nose clean for a bit. Work a shitty job for a while until you had some coins, then quit and celebrate with Shashi…
It was why Liska glared at [Guards] on the street before they did anything to her. She was used to one of them shouting at her or getting arrested for public indecency.
In other words, kissing other girls, like Shashi, in public. Or telling someone shouting at her and calling her names to stuff her own tail up her unused, baggy, spider-infested—
Liska was so used to being in trouble she felt antsy in the Merchant’s Guild when she walked up to the desk. The [Receptionist] raised her brows when Liska mumbled her way to the front of the line.
“Um, hello, I’d like to open an account or something. I can put gold in here, right?”
“That’s right…Miss. We do offer accounts, but we have a minimum five gold requirement per account. Your name?”
“Liska. Liska Silverfang.”
“Well, Miss Silverfang, I’d like to help you, but unless you have the gold and a certification from an employer or person in good standings, I’m afraid we can’t just open an account. You could ask someone you know who has an account for a letter of reference, and we do have fees if you fail to keep your account open or overdraw from our lending services.”
She produced a long brochure, and Liska’s head hurt as her heart beat too fast, trying to figure out what it all meant. She almost turned around then and there, but the [Receptionist] was sighing.
“Um, I think my brother has an account here? Ishkr?”
“Let me just look it up. Ishkr Silverfang? I wish you people would take different names. Do you know how many entries we have under ‘Silverfang’?”
The Drake [Receptionist]—she was a Drake, of course—made Liska’s stomach hurt. She was pretty much the reason why Liska hated places like these. You people. As if Liska had asked to be a Silverfang or live in a city where everyone else had stupid last names like Yasstail.
This was a side of Liscor that Lyonette didn’t have to deal with. Sure, she was a Human and also a different species, but she was sort of lucky because she was a Human. Not a Gnoll. Drakes and Gnolls knew each other. Humans were outsiders. But Gnolls and Drakes had done this dance for ages. As for being a Turnscale…well…
The annoyed [Receptionist] had been pulling open a big filing cabinet at the back and searching for names. She paused and pulled out some papers, then double-checked it and then showed it to a co-worker at another desk. Then she hurried back and rather flusteredly sat down.
“Er…Miss Liska Silverfang? Do you have any other identification?”
“That’s me. Other identification?”
“Like…a card from the Merchant’s Guild?”
Liska blinked at the Drake woman and then reached into her bag of holding. She pulled out old snacks, loose change…then a shiny Merchant’s Guild card in brass.
“Hey, where’d this come from?”
The [Receptionist] snatched it, stared at it, and gave Liska a weak smile.
“Er, my mistake, Miss Liska! Your account is in good order! Were you looking to withdraw or deposit today? I do apologize for the delay!”
“My what? I have an account?”
Liska stared at the woman, and then, when the [Receptionist] showed her the file with her account in it—and the money banked—her eyes popped.
“When did I get this? I never had an account!”
The suddenly very-friendly [Receptionist] checked a few records.
“I believe yours is registered via The Wandering Inn? They put money in weekly. A ‘Yelroan’ is our point-of-contact for the inn. Would you like us to send a Street Runner to him?”
“Yelroan? No, I know him. Wow. Is this real?”
“Yes, Miss. Would you like to take out any gold…?”
Liska stared at the number on the paper. Then peeked around. And it hit her.
She was rich. Well, she’d sort of known she was being paid like that or something, hadn’t she? She vaguely remembered being given this card by Yelroan, come to think of it. But who paid attention to all the lectures you got at work? Not Liska.
“Uh…maybe I’ll come back later. Thanks.”
She wandered out of the Merchant’s Guild as the [Receptionist] shouted she was welcome back anytime, and then…well…
It occurred to Liska she hadn’t taken time off work in a long while. Certainly not long enough to investigate her finances. She went home every few nights, of course, but she usually didn’t have much time to do more than try and find where Shashi was and listen to her girlfriend complain she was never around before having to sleep. Now, it hit her again.
She had a job that paid well.
“Oh no. I’m an adult!”
 
——
 
Shashi Slisfang was a 5’5’’ Drake who was eighteen years old and had a spicy flash of red scales over her bright yellow pattern. It made her look like she’d been kissed by a fire, in her own words, and she was a Level 7 [Malcontent], a Level 4 [Thief], and a Level 3 [Kisser].
She always wore the same iconic, too-long leggings with frayed cuffs and a jacket, even when it was too warm in the spring, made of Corusdeer leather and cracklingly faded. She’d stitched an emblem on the back, which people thought was a rose but was supposed to be a Dragon spreading its wings.
She was always hanging out with a crowd, the coolest people Liska knew, trying to get the attention of Adrerni or Liffe, or just bumming a swig of a drink or Dreamleaf off the people who had it.
She was a Turnscale, Liska’s girlfriend, and she was put out.
“Why shouldn’t I date Adrerni? He’s single!”
She was arguing with some of her friends, who were her age or younger, the group of Drakes and Gnolls who weren’t in apprenticeships or who skived off. Rebels, even if none of them had the class. People who didn’t fit in. People who hated the Watch and who were openly Turnscales, or at least friendly to them.
She was arguing with Thaheart, a Gnoll, who had his arms folded as he posted up against one wall in the Antinium district. They were all standing around, bored, waiting for something to happen, and talking. They barely had a gold coin between them all, but they were independent. Free. Thaheart growled back.
“Well, because you’re dating Liska.”
“We’re only dating because she’s not around enough for me to break up with her. I’m telling you, Thaheart, she’s changed. She doesn’t do anything anymore. She just works all day for that inn.”
“Like her brother? He’s a real Miner. So not Archmage.”
Someone else in this group tried the slang on for size, but it didn’t really fit the, uh…group. Here was the thing: they were in their advanced teens. Seventeen was the youngest here. A lot of the old guard had quit. Gotten jobs or gotten into trouble with the law, real trouble. Shashi and her friends were a dying breed.
At the same time, though, they weren’t young enough to be running around with the real kids, who were hip with the new lingo and went around saying ‘Archmage’. Which Shashi and her friends had sneered at—until they realized everyone was doing it.
So they were too old to be young and too young to be adults. Trapped. Maybe—in the future—they’d need to get a shitty job. But not this year. Not right now. Liska, though…Shashi grumbled as she shoved her claws into her jacket.
“She’s never around to hang out, or if she is, she can barely do an hour before she just—has to sleep.”
“At what time?”
“Like, 11 PM. She gets up at 6 AM.”
“What? That’s crazy. She was so cool. Remember that time she kicked a [Guard] into the sewer grate for fun? She was arrested for three whole days.”
Shashi hung her head.
“She used to be fun. Then her brother got to her. He’s an asshole. And anti-Turnscale.”
Thaheart frowned as everyone peered at Shashi.
“Really? Ishkr, right? I don’t remember him, but he didn’t like us when we were hanging out at Liska’s place.”
“That’s because he hates me. Anti-Turnscale. Probably.”
Ishkr had glared at her a lot whenever Liska brought her over, which was the basis for Shashi’s take on that. And if you were anti-Turnscale, you were dead to her. Which was most of the city. She went on, angrily kicking pebbles across the street. She was aiming for a fancy glass window of a Drake version of a [Barber] shop; they clipped your neck-spines, removed dead scales, sharpened your claws, and so on. The [Barber] was glaring at her whenever she hit the window, but he knew better than to come out; the group might decide to toss a rock then run, and the broken glass was not worth the hassle.
“He got to Liska. Now she’s just another brain-dead worker.”
“She comes by. Didn’t she show up last time with some dough-nuts? I couldn’t believe she got them! They were new!”
“Yeah, like a year ago.”
Shashi grumbled, and another Drake put in. His name was Ulte, and he wasn’t a Turnscale; he vehemently denied that. His dad was some bigshot Drake in Liscor, but everyone knew he liked staring at attractive Drakes and Gnolls of the same gender. Shashi just bet he was crushing on Thaheart, who had amazing black chest fur all ruffled up—he was a [Flirt]—but Ulte was too shy. He also was the one who often had coins to share for something to eat or drink.
“I, um, I remember her being all shaken up about that. Remember? She was talking about that Goblin King thing?”
“She didn’t see it. She’s just making stuff up. Liska lies all the time about the inn. She says that [Innkeeper] can walk through walls or fought with Guildmistress Tekshia herself. She’s just trying to make it seem like she’s still cool.”
Shashi waved this off. Thaheart frowned.
“Wait, isn’t Liska working at The Wandering Inn? That place is crazy. I heard they once fought off a Creler attack then served them for breakfast!”
“I heard their [Head Server] threw claws with Facestealer, that monster that came out of the dungeon.”
“Everyone hears weird things about the inn!”
Shashi snapped, growing royally annoyed by all this. She was mad at Liska, and she complained to Thaheart.
“Adrerni just broke up with his latest girlfriend. He’s pining! Why can’t I flirt with him?”
“I mean, because he’s too hot for you?”
She kicked at him, and Thaheart retreated.
“Yow! Don’t get mad at me just because you don’t have a chance! Liska or not, he wouldn’t look sideways at any of us. Even me!”
He fluffed his fur up importantly as Shashi glowered, but she knew he was right. Adrerni was one of the most popular Gnolls in the city for anyone her age who had eyes. He was one of the top new servers at Wishdrinks, and he had a spot over one eye and a smile that could melt butter.
“I think he’s going to a party at Hariett’s tonight. Anyone got any alchemical makeup? C’mon!”
“What about Liska?”
Shashi was drawing breath to say what she thought about the Gnoll when someone called out.
“Hey, there you guys are! What about me? Hey, Shashi…how’s it going? Look what I’ve got!”
Liska! Shashi jumped and flushed under her scales as Thaheart bit his tongue and gave her a significant gaze, but there came the Gnoll of the hour. She appeared…
Well…
Decent.
There was something about Liska that had changed. She’d put on casual clothes today; just a loose two-layer tunic of green and beige that seemed like it came from the Great Plains and long leggings with faded silver wolves on them; her best clothing, Shashi knew.
She’d even combed her hair back, but it wasn’t that—that was just Liska standard. No, she seemed…more official? More formal? More stooge-like, Shashi decided. Like some kind of worker at a Guild.
She scowled at Liska as the Gnoll waved something, and everyone greeted her with hoots or insults.
“Hey, Liska! I haven’t seen your tail in ages! What, you afraid of all this rain?”
Thaheart teased Liska, and the Gnoll scowled.
“I was working, okay? I just got a day off today, and—hey, beautiful.”
She went to hug Shashi, and the Drake embraced her back, but she didn’t feel the spark they’d had earlier last year when they’d finally gotten together. Shashi felt a pang, but that was how it happened.
Liska’s not who she used to be. I’d better break up with her so neither of us gets hurt. It wasn’t really about Adrerni. Liska seemed to sense it too, because her hug was short, and she gave Shashi a questioning, sheepish smile.
“Sorry. I really was working.”
“Hey, someone has to make all the gold. Got any to share?”
A Gnoll broke in with a grin, and everyone laughed. Liska hesitated, then brought something out from behind her back.
“Well, actually…here’s a peace offering. Feast your eyes on this.”
She brought out a fancy bottle of wine, and Shashi’s eyes popped. Thaheart crowed as he snatched it from her,
“No way, this is the good stuff! Wait! It’s got a wax stamp on the cork and everything! Liska, did you steal this?”
Shashi got worried for Liska immediately; they stole things of course, but an expensive bottle of wine got you a lot of time in jail. But Liska put her paws in her pockets.
“Nah, I got paid from work, so I thought…it’s a really good bottle too.”
“It’s at least a gold piece.”
Ulte remarked quietly, and Thaheart paused as he was about to pop the wax seal. He stared at Liska, and she glanced at Shashi.
“I thought we could share it. Um, you know, because I have a day off. Go and pop it, Thaheart. Anyone got a cup?”
No one did, but they were used to taking a swig and passing it on. The wine tasted fancier to Shashi when she took a huge gulp, or maybe it was just knowing it was a whole gold coin. She stared at Liska.
“How much did you spend on this?”
“I mean—some money. But I had a lot of backpay, and—how’re things? Where’s Orrell or Lizze and Vakki?”
Liska stared about, naming some old regulars she knew, and Shashi’s stomach churned. She forgot the pleasant feeling of the wine in her veins. She began to get angry at Liska all over again, and the group went silent. Liska cast around, and it was Thaheart who replied shortly.
