“So when you find one, it’s a happy accident? You respecting my private domain was too much to ask for. That is the Watch for you, Liska. If they don’t wedge a boot in the door, they kick it in. Boots all the way down.”
Ancestors! Zevara had known friendlier people in the Corused Steer! And boots—that term put her back up.
Sounds like Miss Hariett here does have gang connections. However, Rose jumped in, all passionate anger, which neither woman really wanted. She waved a finger in Zevara’s face.
“If you get Hariett hurt or in trouble or tell anyone, Watch Captain, I’ll call the full wrath of The Wandering Inn down on you. I’ll erase your Watch House, I swear it.”
The threat made Zevara’s blood run cold, then hot. She snapped back.
“I’m not here to hurt or threaten anyone! I just want to know! How the hell can I decide if you need help or—or I’ve been misguided if you won’t talk to me?”
Rose opened her mouth, and Hariett pulled her to one side. She stood there, glaring down at Zevara in her high boots.
“Misguided. You’ve been Watch Captain near a decade, and you have the gall to say that to me? Your Watch has killed more innocent people than any gang, even Soot’s, and you want to come in here now and ask questions? A decade too late?”
Zevara recoiled. She got angry at once. Killed innocent—! Smoke began to come from her mouth, but it didn’t make her cough anymore. She growled.
“My [Guards] have always maintained the highest standards! If any of them step out of line, I come down on them like the High Passes themselves! I don’t recall any moments where I—”
Then she hesitated, because her mind had run to the place where Hariett’s burning eyes were already waiting.
“Strange. For a woman whom everyone seems to love for backing the Antinium, you don’t count all those Drakes your Watch hauled off for public indecency. Exiled, fled, beaten to death by family or neighbors. I suppose it’s not as bad as other cities, but then, I always liked you being bad at your job in this area. So if you think you’re coming in and—”
Hariett was on a tear. She was poking at Zevara, who backed up a step or two, until Liska caught her.
“Hariett! Hariett, what’re you doing?”
Even Rose was whispering.
“Zevara’s on our side! Or she thinks she is! C’mon, Hariett, let’s take this to the back.”
A good place to be ambushed and knifed, although Zevara wasn’t sure any assassin wouldn’t do a better job than Hariett’s tongue. Where had that come from? The Drake [Pub Owner] caught herself, breathing hard, and then…
And then she appeared afraid. Terrified. Of…Zevara? She backed up a step.
“That’s right. Not here. Let’s…you wanted to find someone to talk to, let’s do that, Captain.”
She motioned towards the bar and led the way. Zevara waited a beat and then muttered at Rose and Liska.
“Have I arrested her family or something?”
“I dunno. She really didn’t like you following me.”
Liska seemed just as confused. Rose? Rose just glanced at Zevara and sighed.
“You actually don’t get it. Do you? I guess you did do the right thing for ten years as you saw it, Captain Zevara.”
“I always have.”
The Watch Captain snapped back. Rose shrugged.
“Seems like some people don’t see it that way.”
That shook Zevara. She suspected Hariett was affiliated with the underworld, but there had been that righteous edge in her tone. Sometimes, you got indignant criminals, but…the vibe was off.
Her [Guardswoman] senses told her she was missing part of the puzzle. Zevara strode forwards, hoping to get to the bottom of this, but Hariett hadn’t gone into the back rooms. She’d stopped at the bar, then gone over to the front door, and now…she stood there. Her scales had gone from pale to almost whitish as she turned to Zevara.
“Funny. I knew you’d be trouble, but I actually believed Liska for a moment there. Well, Watch Captain, for a woman just ‘looking for information’—what kind of goodwill and honesty brings two full squads of the Watch down on my pub?”
Zevara turned, confused, and then she realized the people trying to leave had flooded back into the inn. There was a deafening silence, and she turned to Liska and Rose. The Human had gone white.
“What? I didn’t—”
No one believed her. They all backed up a step, and Zevara was striding for a window when there was a rap on the door, a banging of a fist, and a loud voice.
“Liscor’s Watch! Public decency inspection! Open up!”
Hariett exhaled, and Zevara’s mouth opened as Liska closed her eyes and Rose moaned. But the Watch Captain’s first thought was—
“Public what?”
She’d never heard of that before. Hariett opened the door slowly, and a bored-looking [Guardsman] walked in and saluted.
“Excuse me, Miss. We’re conducting a routine inspection for public decency in the name of safety. It won’t take long.”
“What—what is this about, Guardsman? I’ve never had one of those in my bar. This is an upstanding establishment! We never have issues that need the Watch!”
Hariett breathed, and her clasped claws were visibly shaking as well as her tail behind her. The Gnoll saluted.
“It’s a new protocol, ma’am. It’s very simple. We just come in and sweep the premises for anything problematic. Drugs, high-stakes gambling, crime—we have a truth stone, and we’ll just ask a few questions. If anyone’s witnessed a crime, is in fear of their life, if they’re a Turnscale, and so on.”
Zevara stared, and she felt her back-scales prickle as Liska grabbed Rose’s hand tight. Hariett’s voice was faint.
“That’s…very reasonable. But isn’t it against the law to ask if someone’s committed a crime on a truth stone?”
The Gnoll chuckled, though he was eying Hariett’s face and the very silent room. He had instincts.
“Oh, that is against the law, and you’re not the first establishment owner to say that, Miss. But this isn’t asking if someone’s committed a crime. Just if they’re witnesses to one.”
Or a Turnscale. The Gnoll gestured at the squads.
“We just post a squad around back so no one can slip out—plenty of [Sneak Thieves] and [Pickpockets]. We won’t arrest most unless they’re actively committing a crime. Just a fine and note. I understand it’s an inconvenience, but it really won’t take much time. Watch Commander Venim has instituted this to raise confidence in the Watch. It’s a Pallassian practice, Miss.”
“I know.”
Hariett was staring at Zevara. And the Watch Captain? She was cursing Venim under her breath. Of all the times…! And a Pallassian policy? She saw Rose searching for a window, but she knew the Watch had every exit covered. She’d trained them to do that, even the sneak exits.
Someone had to do something. In that moment, the [Senior Guardswoman], no, the [Smokebreath Detective] in Zevara told her who that was. She strolled forwards, threw back her hood, and spoke.
“That’s the stupidest damn protocol I’ve ever heard of in my life, Guardsman. Name and rank! And you’re lucky you didn’t try this Creler crap in The Corused Steer or you’d have every table in the inn taking shots at you. You walk in with a squad and take cover or not at all! Who taught you?”
The Gnoll [Guardsman] jumped and reflexively saluted.
“Guardsman Briv—who the hell is that? Oh! Watch Captain Zevara!”
His entire squad poked their heads in, and everyone in the pub turned as Zevara put her hands on her hips.
“That’s right. I was just having a lunch break here. Now Watch Commander Venim’s having you doing public decency inspections? How many establishments have you covered? When was this implemented?”
Briv was completely confused, but he answered automatically.
“Uh, just yesterday, Watch Captain. Our patrols have done twenty-four establishments so far. It’s slow because it’s new and we get tons of objections. And people who run for it. We, uh, he wants six patrols on permanent rotation once we get up to speed. Two per district.”
There was a moan of fear in the background. Zevara’s scales crawled, and she knew Rose and Liska were staring daggers at her back.
So perhaps Turnscales do have something to fear. She was more used to Liska being arrested for public indecency or attacking a [Guard] lecturing her.
This…this was new to Zevara. This felt like going on the offensive, and she had never considered Turnscales an issue worth fighting. You just swept them up where you found them or got tipped off—
Then exiled them or imprisoned them and—she saw Hariett staring at her out of the corner of her eyes. Zevara cleared her throat.
“I see. Well, Guardsman Briv, you remember what I said about how you enter a building. Now, I want you to take your squads and return to patrol. Have Acting-Captain Relc reassign you and spread the word to stop these inspections.”
“Us, Watch Captain? But Commander Venim said—”
“Commander Venim’s never seen a room full of [Rogues] lining up a [Splintershot Volley] on him. The Watch has the backing of their armies in Pallass. Not here.”
That’s how I’ll argue it with him, at any rate. Zevara jerked her chin around at the pub.
“This pub’s fine. If I’d seen anything illicit, I would have called it in myself. Let’s get back on the streets dealing with some real crimes, huh?”
Briv hesitated, but then he stared at her and clearly saw her riding after Moass and Hissl. He saluted with a grin.
“I should have known you’d beat us to the punch, Watch Captain. We’ll do that. I wasn’t keen on doing my first dive bar or hell bar either.”
She gave him a wry smile.
“No, you really wouldn’t be. Guards? As you were!”
“Let us know when you need backup, Watch Captain! And when you’re doing your next big chase!”
Someone shouted from outside. She glowered at a Human woman, and they spun on their heel and began marching back the way they’d come. She heard a few of them whispering loudly.
 
“That was her! She’s shorter than I thought!”
“I trained under her, you know. And Senior Guardsman Relc. I didn’t know she drank here.”
“I hear she pops up where you’re working, and if you’re not doing your job right, she thrashes you. One group of rookies did a patrol wrong, so she attacked them in the night and took out three squads by herself!”
 
Zevara was red-faced, but when she turned, she saw Hariett visibly collapse into a stool, and Rose let out a huge breath. Liska glanced around.
“Is…is that it?”
“That’s it. Everyone out!”
Hariett spoke after a second and turned.
“We’ll settle your tabs later. I’m closing up.”
People went for the doors at once, and Zevara saw a hooded figure slipping out the back. She frowned.
“There’s no need for that. I’ll go and talk to Venim now—”
The [Pub Owner] glanced at Zevara, and there it was again. Fear. Real fear, so sharp and present that Zevara felt her instincts chiming at her.
They’re terrified. Hariett turned.
“We’d be very grateful for that, Watch Captain, but even if I stayed open, I don’t think anyone would be in the mood to drink. We…I’ll be happy to answer any questions you have. Later?”
She sounded like she’d rather swim a lap in the Floodplains, but Zevara calling off the raid seemed to have won some kind of trust. The Watch Captain nodded as she backed up a step, and Rose gave her a grudging thumbs up.
“Thanks, Captain Zevara. I guess it was good you were here.”
“Yes. Er, sorry about that. It’s just—Pallassian standard operating procedure. The Watch was just doing what they were told.”
She felt like she was trying to justify something, and she saw Rose, Liska, and Hariett all turning to her with that same expression on their face. Guarded. Secretive. Wary.
“We know.”
 
——
 
Watch Captain Zevara was a fool.
A well-meaning fool, but a silly Drake nonetheless. Most law enforcement officers were, insofar as they believed in something called ‘laws’ and that these things should be enforced to the letter. Sillier were the ones who thought the law was something that could never tarnish, give, or be altered.
In that sense, Zevara wasn’t that stupid, but she was a fool.
Venim was a weak man, a spineless father who served dessert first at dinner. And, most would agree, a Watch Commander with his heart in the right place, who tried to do the right thing.
None of that mattered. Zevara’s explanations about Watch Captain procedure trailed off in the face of Hariett’s polite smile. She cleared her throat.
“Of course, I’ll be discreet. Absolutely. I’m no fool.”
“Naturally, Watch Captain. I’d expect no less in matters of life and death.”
Rose and Liska were watching, both vibrating with the anger of youth. Injustice, as they saw it, ready to give Zevara a piece of their minds. But Hariett was older. She had better knives. Zevara hesitated, then closed her mouth and nodded, eyes flicking to Hariett, around her emptying pub—
The [Pub Owner] moved ever-so-slightly to block Zevara’s view of the people streaming out the front doors, though she wasn’t that tall. The Watch Captain bit her lip, losing that imperious, all-or-nothing authority that she wore like a cloak at times, the mantle of someone Protecting the People, Doing the Right Thing, Enforcing the Law.
She cleared her throat and exhaled a bit of smoke upwards.
“I just—the squad was following orders, Miss Hariett. That was new to Liscor.”
“I am well aware, Watch Captain, and the Watch always follows orders.”
A longer pause, and now Zevara was trying to be a [Mind Reader] along with Liska and Rose. This was a new street to the [Watch Captain], a new beat, but it had only blood in the paving stones. Old sins. She felt like she’d walked into the Corused Steer by accident after all. But she couldn’t find the person she was supposed to arrest, which made her uneasy.
She defaulted to what she knew. Her back straightened, and she looked Hariett dead in the eyes, that ruler of a Drake [Guardswoman], and saluted her.
“I’d just like you to know, Miss Hariett, that if that squad had tried to press matters, I would have removed them first. I am not here to have a—a mob form or to get anyone hurt or killed. If trouble ever threatens your establishment, I will be the first one in line to defend it.”
Liska’s flattened ears rose a bit. That she believed. Antinium, Gnoll, Human—Watch Captain Zevara of Liscor would defend them if they were innocent in her books, and pursue them to the ends of the earth if they were guilty.
They believed that. Rose nodded grudgingly. And Hariett? She smiled gently at the earnest Watch Captain and spoke like someone trying not to hurt a child’s feelings.
