——
 
People didn’t talk about Turnscales. It was a dirty topic, a dirty word.
Someone called you that and you had to walk over and punch them. It was worse than being called an idiot, slow-witted, weak, a coward. It was worse, in a way, than being a deviant.
Just what a Turnscale was? Liska wasn’t sure if other people knew, but if someone thought you were one, then they got unpleasant. It was one thing for someone to shout at you, call you names.
When multiple people did it, you were almost relieved to see a Watch officer coming your way. And the fear was that they’d remember you and you were marked. Like a tattoo, a blemish. For being wrong. Disgusting.
There were rules for being a Turnscale in Liscor. Ones that Hariett had reminded Liska of.
 
-Never say you’re a Turnscale. Never admit it, never use the word in public. It’s just ‘us’, ‘the community’, ‘our perspective’, and so on.
-Under no circumstances should you ever reveal someone is a Turnscale to a non-Turnscale. Even to other Turnscales, only do it if you’re very, very sure and for a good reason.
-Always know at least three people you can turn to in times of trouble. Check in on them at least once a week, covertly.
-Support one another as best you can. Someone gives you something? Pay it back. Nothing’s for free with us. We have to contribute.
-Be careful.
 
It was a different world. When Liska left Hariett’s and wandered past Wishdrinks, she found Shashi, Thaheart, Ulte, and the others all drunk and having a great time. They were inviting her to keep the party going, but she just mumbled something about having to go and check on her dishes.
There are more of us? Hariett had sworn there were, but she’d refused to even tell Liska names.
“Just come back tomorrow around this time, alright? I’ll invite someone.”
“Can I bring someone with me?”
Hariett had hesitated.
“…Of course. Just as long as they’re sensible and discreet. And thank you for helping with Vakki. I’ll do my best to get her out tonight and make sure she understands how things are.”
How things are. As in, Lizze was getting married in another city, and that was that. The two [Lovers] were never going to see each other again. And…some male Drake or Gnoll would be leaving with Vakki, and she’d have to have babies and pretend that was normal.
That made Liska feel physically unwell. She went back to her and Ishkr’s apartment and lay down in her creaking bed.
Six minutes later, it began to drip on her head. Liska sat up and groaned. Then eyed a bulge in the ceiling.
“Great. Leaks.”
When she hammered on the [Landlord]’s door and he poked his head out and she told him there was a leak in her room, and probably the apartment above, he grumbled about low rent and told her to make space for him. So she had to clear her and Ishkr’s bedding and help him shove the bedframe aside, and he had to see if the people above were even in to fix whatever was seeping the water. By that time, Liska had had enough.
“Just lock the door when you’re done. I’m gonna go…somewhere else.”
Lacking a bed here, there was only one sensible option, right?
The Wandering Inn. She did have rooms there, and they were a lot nicer than her apartment. She didn’t know why she and Ishkr even kept the darn thing. Now that they had gold…Liska felt at her money pouch, but she didn’t know what to spend it on. So she just went to what she knew.
 
——
 
Shivertail Plaza was a mess of people waiting in lines, shouting at the Watch, and so backed up Liska stared.
“Hey, what happened to the door?”
It was never this bad. Had it malfunctioned or something? She wanted to push past the lines, but the Watch officer snapped at her.
“No cutting the line, Miss! The door is broken; the inn is working to fix it, but it will take some time! Please step back!”
“But I work there. I’m the [Doorgnoll].”
The Drake [Guardswoman] didn’t recognize Liska, but someone else did. Guardswoman Jerci was waving her arms and shouting, and when she saw Liska, the Gnoll guard practically dashed over in the rain.
“Liska! Why isn’t the door working?”
“I don’t know. I’m on break!”
“You’re on—can you fix it?”
“Um…maybe?”
They watched as Liska stumped over to the door and put a paw on it. It wasn’t set to Liscor, so the door was just an empty patch of air. Liska shrugged.
“Someone’s on the other side and using it.”
“You can tell?”
Jerci was around Liska’s age, but she was a [Guardswoman] and had on leather armor, a baton, sword, and all kinds of gear on her belt, and looked, well, adult-like. Liska in her casual outfit felt like a kid, but she shrugged again.
“I mean, sure. It’s not my door; it’s Erin’s Skill. But you can sort of feel where it’s connecting to. Like, there are a bunch of openings all over, and you just have to connect it to the right one. Obviously, the real [Door of Portals] is at the center. Looks like it’s in…Pallass.”
It was far enough away, and she recognized the direction, even though when she used her senses, there weren’t any cardinal directions. Jerci stared at Liska.
“Well, if we wait for it to open…”
“What? Oh, no, I figure I could open it. I’m just waiting for them to finish on Pallass’ side. No, wait, I forgot! Silly me.”
Liska smacked her forehead with the palm of her paw.
“[Door: Doubled Gateway]. Let me just—oh wow.”
She opened the door to The Wandering Inn and recoiled at the press of bodies. The door split in the air, and Jerci and the other [Guards] leapt back. They could see…people walking through Pallass’ door on the left side! The Pallassians recoiled as Liska split the doorway in half, but she just hopped through.
“Hey, Xinthe, hey, Asgra, what’s going on here?”
Twenty members of staff were in the portal room, shouting, placing down wooden stands and connecting them with pieces of rope to form lines, and no one was lying on her couch. Liska saw a harried Calanferian woman whirl.
“Liska? Oh, Eternal Throne—help!”
“What’s wrong with the door?”
It felt fine. Liska didn’t sense anything wrong with the wood or framework, and the magic was running a bit low, but she didn’t see why it was so backed up. Xinthe pointed desperately.
“We can’t funnel people in and out fast enough! They keep getting in each other’s ways, and we have to collect the fee or they can’t enter, and the door keeps running out of mana, and—”
Liska blinked in astonishment as the litany of complaints ran on and on. Then she held up a paw.
“Um, what if I just help for a second? It’s pretty easy for me. Like…you have to line them up by city, see? Hey! Who here is going towards…Invrisil?”
Liska shouted, and the long line of people revealed multiple hands scattered around. She pointed.
“Stand there!”
“But we’re first in line for—”
Ah, here was the problem that Xinthe had dealt with. Liska demonstrated the optimal technique by covering her ears with her paws.
“Shut up! It’s too loud! Stand over there or you won’t go anywhere! [Form a Line]! [Get in Line]! Shut up! [Orderly Conduct] or I’ll have Asgra eat you!”
The power of her Skills activated, and people left the line, ducking under the ropes to form a line to Invrisil. Xinthe’s jaw dropped, and Asgra held up a hand.
“Liska. I don’t wanna eat him. He look pretty unhealthy.”
“Sure, Asgra. Line to Celum there! Door to Invrisil—open!”
The dial spun, and the door opened, revealing a very angry crowd who began to push forwards.
“We’re late for—”
The people in front slammed into a [Forcewall], which Liska used to shove them back. Then she conjured a second on the other side.
“Everybody to Invrisil—get out! Wait your turn until they exit! You don’t wait, you don’t get in! And have your money! No, I don’t know how much it is, read the stupid sign!”
When the people began to file in, Liska turned to Xinthe.
“Okay, where’s the money go?”
She was pointed towards a bowl, and Liska nodded. Then she began waving people in, and they strode through, fast as could be.
“But the fee—”
They were tossing it in the bowl as they came without missing a beat. [Collect Fee]. One person clearly tried not to pay; they ran into an invisible wall at the door, and Liska shouted.
“Get out of line if you can’t pay! [Filtered Entry], dumbasses! Next—Riverfarm on the left, Celum on the right!”
The door split in twain. [Door: Doubled Gateway]. Liska sighed as she had to remind the idiots, again, which side was which. After a moment, she dragged over one of the poles and slung a rope between it and another, creating a dividing line.
“I guess we do need signs and waiting spots. We could do that one for Liscor, that for—”
Rather to her surprise, her vague ideas of organization became reality as Xinthe and the others ran to get ladders and hammer the signs up. Asgra herself came sprinting back with paint and began marking the floors.
“Hey, this place is gross.”
Liska realized there was mud everywhere and stuff. She kicked at an actual mud-slime someone had tracked in on their boot. She pointed, and something appeared in front of the [Door of Portals].
“[Doormat of Cleanliness]. Who got rid of…oh, wait, that’s my Skill. Wow, how do you do this without Skills, Xinthe?”
She turned, and the panting Calanferian had no idea. Even with organization, there was no beating Liska’s Skills.
For instance, without [Door: Oversized Transportation], getting a wagon through the [Door of Portals] was all but impossible unless you deconstructed it and hauled it through piece-by-piece. The portals to Celum and Riverfarm were draining mana rapidly. Liska yawned, then slapped the doorframe.
“[Item: Replenish Charges]! Right, I think that’s doing it.”
She went over to her couch and lay on it, sighing. She hadn’t even had to enchant the door with her new Skills. Liska cleared out all the people waiting for service, and after thirty minutes, things were back to normal, more or less. Only then did Lyonette come striding into the room.
“Xinthe, I think I’ve solved the mana crisis. I managed to get Valeterisa to agree to lend Montressa to recharge the door with Magus Grimalkin. They’re not happy, but—what happened here? Liska?”
“Oh, hey, Lyonette. I heard you had problems and…”
Liska sat up on her couch, and Lyonette stared at her. Then the Gnoll remembered.
“Aw. I’m supposed to be on break!”
Xinthe and the other employees shrank a bit as Lyonette exhaled. Then put on a strained smile.
“Well, you’re due at least another day. Why don’t we get you something to eat, Liska? Thank you so much for helping clear this up. And, er, let’s talk about organization.”
 
——
 
Liska did speculate about how to make the portal room more efficient with Lyonette over some very lovely lunch. Then it was evening, so she wandered back to Liscor, stuck her head out of the door, and stared at all the damn rain.
“Um…maybe Pallass?”
 
——
 
The [Guards] at the checkpoint asked if she had a passport or day-pass. Liska gazed at them and turned.
“Okay, Invrisil?”
Belatedly, one of the Pallassian security guards recognized Liska. Captain Kel nearly kicked his way out of the office, but she was already gone, so he chewed out the guards on duty for ten whole minutes.
 
——
 
Invrisil was nice. Dry. Busy. Liska walked out of their checkpoint and peered around. She felt at her belt pouch, eyed the gold in her bag of holding.
“Huh. Wow.”
 
——
 
That night, Liska came back to the inn loaded with souvenirs and considerably less gold. She had gifts for all her friends. A trendy parasol for Shashi, some really good fur cream for Thaheart, some awesome boots for Ulte since he hated anything from his father’s Guild in Liscor—
And for her friends in the inn!
“Hey, Nanette, look at this awesome hat I found.”
Liska handed Nanette a hat shaped like a cartoonish lightning bolt. Nanette instantly put it on. Mrsha eyed her sister, but accepted the latest installment of Tales of Adventure and Woe with alacrity. Inkpaper, the Goblin [Librarian], rubbed his claws as Liska gave him a second book.
“This is from Heartslayi…”
“Ugh, Inkpaper, that’s trash!”
Nanette complained as she checked out her hat in a mirror, and Inkpaper grinned.
“Yah, but is good trash.”
Asgra got a gigantic sugar lollipop she gleefully bit into; caramelized brown sugar and black sugar from Noelictus and just…sugar…in various colors. Liska had eaten two, and she felt vaguely sick.
It was a fun time out! Ishkr rolled his eyes, but accepted a random apple she’d bought him.
“You have some money left after all that, I hope, Liska?”
“Yeah, tons! I didn’t even use the money in my guild bank account. Which I have. Did you know that, Ishkr?”
“Yes. I told you about it.”
“Oh, well…good for you. Idiot.”
The [Doorgnoll] did feel a bit empty after all that despite the fun she’d had. She wished she could have gone out with Shashi.
Now how am I gonna find a girlfriend? That was her usual life goal when she’d broken up with someone, but she had work, and it was going to be hard to date…
Oh, right, I have tomorrow off. And she’d go to Miss Hariett’s. Liska searched around for the person she wanted to talk to.
“Anyone know where Rose is?”
Rosencrantz was trying to figure out how to use the yoyo she’d bought him.
“Pallass. She’s always there these days.”
“Darn. Do you think she’d be back tonight? And, uh, is my room open? Because I don’t wanna sleep in the apartment. Ishkr, there’s a leak.”
He groaned.
“Did you at least tell the [Landlord]?”
He seemed shocked when she assured him she had and even had arranged for it to be fixed. Rosencrantz, in turn, guaranteed Liska her room was all made up, but opined that Rose might be in late.
Well, Liska had only been going to go out to find her friends again and apologize for going off like that. She went to the bar and ordered a drink.
“Can I get a…Velrusk Claw and some peanuts?”
Peggy served her the drinks, thanking Liska for the bottle of perfume, and the Gnoll sat there, sipping on her drink and munching on her snacks. Another night at the inn where she was content. Even if her thoughts strayed towards Vakki.
Orrell…could she help him? But no one even knew where he was. How could you…?
What about the [World’s Eye Theater]? Liska’s eyes strayed towards the door to that room, but before she could make up her mind, she heard a pair of arguing voices.
“Listen, Lyonette, this is a genuine crisis if the door doesn’t work tomorrow.”
“It was temporary, Zevara! I know it was an issue, but we can’t always be perfect, and given the amount of people we transport daily—why are you being sent to harass us about it?”
