“Rose, we’re all for meeting other cities the door can connect us to, but we have to be careful. Especially now. You say you’re from somewhere where Turnscales are out in the open. Well, where?”
“I, uh—argh, it’s a long story.”
“I’ve heard this one. Miss Rose, I’ll buy all your terms, but the story’s far-fetched.”
Rose turned to Mirn, desperate. He was polishing a mug as he leaned against the bar.
“Mirn, vouch for me.”
“Nothing doing, kid. You want a war, and we’ve seen how wars are fought. Get Onieva on board.”
“But—!”
Liska followed Glideclaw away and over to the door, and the other voices and noise overwhelmed her ears’ ability to selectively listen in. She knew Rose was an Earther, but the other Turnscales didn’t. Glideclaw was brushing at her neck spines at the doorway.
“We take turns with Bouncer to make sure only people we know are let in. We have a passphrase, or we ask questions if we don’t recognize who it is—we get spies a lot, you know. Glideclaw. You’re from Liscor, right? With Miss V? She told me her name, which she shouldn’t have.”
“R-really? I’m, uh, L. Vakki, I mean, V’s desperate.”
“I heard. I’m a [Dancer]. Everyone knows that. What’s Liscor like? We’ll just tell Bouncer she can step inside; she’s scary, but trust me, she’s so sweet.”
“I, uh, well, you know. Liscor. Antinium, Goblins, a war or two. Nothing big. I saw the Wyvern attacks on Pallass, so you know what it’s like. We get monster attacks all the time.”
Liska rubbed her claws on her fur, trying to appear casually cool. Glideclaw eyed her.
“I hid in my dance hall with everyone else when that happened. Do you really have Antinium on the streets?”
“Sure do. I know tons. Hey, you could visit if you ever wanted to. I’d give you a tour.”
Glideclaw’s eyes lit up, then her face fell.
“I’d love to! But…I don’t know, it’s risky.”
“Hey, I happen to, uh, know the doorperson who operates the [Door of Portals]. I could get you in and out, no problem. Plus, it’s rainy in Liscor, you know. Floodwater season. It’s always wet, and the water rises up to the walls.”
Glideclaw shuddered.
“I read that in a book on Izril’s strangest cities! How could anyone live like that? Raining nonstop? I get depressed if it rains for three days straight! I can’t imagine months of it.”
Liska cleared her throat as they stopped by the front door, which was actually a very cool, revolving type. Mirn had pasted a bit of wood on the glass panes so you couldn’t see through if it was closed. She leaned against the revolving door, casual.
“Well, I think it’s great, actually. It’s kissing season in Liscor right now.”
“Wh—kissing season?”
Glideclaw did a double take, and Liska waggled her eyebrows.
“Definitely. It’s in the air and stuff. And because it’s so rainy, no one can tell, even if you’re kissing in the street, who’s who.”
“Oh. Oh. That’s…so risky! I’ll have to try that.”
“Anytime you want to visit—I know a great set of lips.”
“Really? Whose? Rose’s? Miss H?”
“Huh? Miss H!?”
Liska leaned back in outrage and nearly went tumbling out of the revolving door. Liska went stumbling around the turnstile, swearing. Glideclaw was giggling nonstop as she bent to help Liska up, which was a good sign, or so Liska hoped.
“Sorry, Bouncer. We came to relieve you.”
The Drake was grinning around the actually well-illuminated streets with hanging [Light] spells on the lovely 6th. She was speaking to a huge Drake woman leaning up against the pub entrance. Not that she was needed; the shuttered pub had been altered to appear empty from the outside and had soundproofing spells laid on it. Bouncer was indeed huge. As Liska got up, she put out one claw and grabbed Liska.
“Wh—hey. Sorry, I—”
“Get back inside, now. Glideclaw, get Mirn. Tell him we’re surrounded. I count at least four squads.”
The low, taut voice from the Drake took Liska out of her giddy mood. Glideclaw stiffened, and they realized Bouncer had put an arm out. Shielding their faces from…Liska tried to peek up, and Bouncer half-swivelled.
“S-surrounded?”
“I wasn’t sure. I had two busybodies walk up who I think were [Guards]. They’re sneaking up this time. Get Mirn, Glideclaw. Go!”
Glideclaw moved for the turnstile. Liska glanced up. She saw Bouncer turn, and the Drake’s eyes were wide with fright. Silently, Liska backed up into the second slot of the turnstile. Bouncer squeezed in with her.
“The Watch…?”
“Yep. Keep your head down, don’t use any names, and follow a senior out. Don’t go back home until you know you’ve lost them. Got it?”
“Y-yeah, I know.”
This wasn’t Liska’s first time evading angry [Guards], but never had she been at a party of Turnscales and they’d known she was…her stomach suddenly constricted. Liska glanced over her shoulder and swore she saw figures in the darkness. Or maybe it was her imagination. Crouched ranks of silent watchers—
Surrounding the pub.
Glideclaw had already said something when Liska and Bouncer popped into the pub; the Drake woman found a chair and wedged it in the turnstile, but there was an actual door right next to the revolving door in case it jammed. The room had gone dead silent, the fun, jovial attitude gone. Everyone was silent.
Fear in the air. Mirn stood on a table, voice calm, not loud, but audible.
“You know the drill, everyone. [Emergency Exit]. Go in waves.”
Someone was already prying up the door to the cellar larder. What should have been just a storage area apparently contained something Mirn always had with him: a way out. Liska saw people slipping down the hatch as Bouncer put a chair under the doorknob, then strode over.
“Mirn, there’s four squads—”
“I know. Out, out, out. Everyone, grab everything you can see. I’ll douse it all in de-scenting liquid. Keep going for the doors!”
Mirn was sweeping the bar, grabbing everything. Pinrose was hunting for his flowers, and Glideclaw was looking around for someone she’d come with. Liska was trembling, eyes wide, as Hariett and Vakki joined her. They were heading for the cellar when someone came back up, fighting against the bodies pressing downwards.
“Back up—back—Mirn! Miiirn! They’re at the back entrance!”
Mirn froze. He whirled on his heel.
“You saw them?”
“My [Advanced Dangersense] went off just in time.”
It was the young Gnoll who had wanted help with her dancing. She was shaking as more bodies heaved up the ladder, people climbing up, now white with terror.
“They’re outside. I see them skulking in an alleyway. Two squads, Mirn. T-they found the—”
Mirn’s voice was calm.
“What about the third exit?”
“They’re at both [Emergency Exits], Mirn. Both of them.”
The [Protector] went still. He stared down at the floor.
“Someone told them. Or they figured out that the [Emergency Exit] has to connect to the pub and they just put squads everywhere. Okay, silence.”
No one said a word. Now, the stink of terror was worse than Liska remembered with Skinner. She felt sick, nauseated, and she turned to Mirn. Waiting for him to unveil [Emergency Exit 3, Fooled You Suckers].
Silently, the [Protector] pulled something up from underneath the bar’s counter. He spoke to Roseblush.
“I’m barring the [Emergency Exit] Skill. If we have to go out that way, I’ll lift the seal. Break through them and don’t stop running. Everyone, listen for my voice, Roseblush’s, or a senior’s. We’re going to make a hole. You get out and start running. Assume you’re being followed. Don’t go home. Go to a safe spot. If you think you’ve been identified, get out of the city.”
Liska’s head snapped around. She saw Glideclaw go dead white. Pinrose was clutching his shaking claws together, and Roseblush was grimly glancing around, trying to count heads.
“Mirn—”
“They’re going to come through those doors with Tripvine Bags and smoke and flash spells. Everyone get clear of them. I can neutralize most of the first wave of alchemy. Anyone who can fight or has a combat class, step forwards. Kids, get back along the wall and pick up anything you can swing.”
—He wasn’t joking. He wasn’t—Liska looked for Hariett, and the Drake stepped forwards with Bigarmor, Roseblush, and even Pinrose. Liska heard a sound like a sob.
Then Bouncer bent down and snapped the leg of another chair off. Tossed one to Loverbird, who caught it and held it, pointed end out, and began throwing more pieces at other people in the inn. Rose stood there, panting.
“How’d they get—? Mirn, we have to get everyone out.”
“They’ve got my back door, Succubrat. No names. Remember, deny everything. This was the first time, this was a party someone invited you to…don’t speak in front of a truth stone. Don’t run until I tell you to go. They’re going to be waiting for runners.”
Mirn had a club in his claws. That was all. The [Protector] yanked something out of a bag of holding. A potion. He drank half, tossed it at Roseblush. Yanked another potion out, set it in his belt.
“Where’s Onieva? Where’s—?”
“Not here. She can’t always be here. Everyone back against the wall.”
Liska was searching for Vakki. The Drake [Lover] had gone for the bar, looking for a kitchen knife. She jerked back as someone came out of the kitchens. Loverbird.
He had—all the knives the pub had in the kitchen. He handed her one, and Vakki stared at him. Then he handed one to everyone. When he offered one to Liska, she showed him her belt knife. But she—
Was this a dream? It was like a beautiful dream, a bad one. She saw every Turnscale in the front, save for Glideclaw and Loverbird, were older. They were all afraid. They stank of it. Some were visibly trembling.
But they were also drawing weapons. Not clubs, not like Bouncer who was actually standing near the back with the terrified mob of younger Turnscales. Mirn glanced around.
“Don’t let them drag you out. Watch each other’s backs.”
“How do we tell who’s who?”
Bigarmor growled.
“Hit anyone wearing Watch or 1st Army armor. Mirn—”
“I know. They must have been preparing for this. If we make it out, I’ll do better. This is my fault.”
A few headshakes, and Roseblush snapped.
“It’s General Edellein’s fault! Is this what’s worth all this time, money? After 2nd Army died in the High Passes? Is this what—”
“Silence. We have to hear.”
Silence again, and now Liska could hear dozens of lungs panting for air. It was hot; the spring heat made sweat roll down her fur, and she heard shuffling outside. A scraping sound.
Mirn’s voice was too loud. He called out.
“Window detonation satchels. This is private property! You have no right to enter, nor will this go unsanctioned. Do you think you can blow down the walls of a pub on 6th Floor and not have every respected member of the community on you for that?”
The shuffling sounds stopped a second, and he shrugged.
“They might go through only the doors. Sounds like they think they have a reason.”
“They always have a reason.”
Someone muttered, and Liska wondered out loud.
“Am I dreaming? It was so pleasant. It really was.”
Hariett turned to Liska with an anguished expression in her eyes. It was Glideclaw who glanced over her shoulder and snapped back, no longer friendly or amused.
“It’s beautiful because they try to take it from us. Focus, L. When you hear someone say ‘run’, run! Until then, you fight.”
“That’s right.”
Mirn was walking down the room, and tables and chairs had been moved to the entrance, piled up in front of the doors when Liska hadn’t noticed. One of his Skills.
[Prepare Battlefield: Anywhere You Come for Us].
He paced up and down the line of Turnscales.
“No one runs. We hang or get out together. But also—don’t look back. What we know is that there are suspicious, unidentified people outside our legal gathering. We are going to defend ourselves with appropriate force.”
Another localized moment of silence caused by his words. Liska peeked over her shoulder, and she saw every Turnscale in the room was armed. Clubs, knives, chairs in the back.
Fight the Watch? She’d done that now and then, attacked them for being bastards, but this wasn’t punching or biting a single Watch officer. This was something bigger.
They’ve done this before. Liska drew the belt knife and saw the worn steel glinting. She almost sheathed it, then saw Loverbird nodding at her. He had two knives in his claws and…
“This is the Watch. By order of the Assembly of Crafts, we are investigating the premises under suspicion of violating Article 1 of Law 8. Public Decency. Put your weapons down and stand against the wall. Resist and you will be treated like criminals.”
A harsh, loud voice through the barricaded door. Mirn waited as the hammering of Liska’s heart grew louder, then called back.
“Anyone could say that. I am in fear for my life and those in my company. Have you drawn blades, officers? For a simple investigation.”
Silence.
Mirn bared his teeth.
“Sounds like a gang. Come on, you bloody boots. Do you think this is a good idea? There’s a purple-scaled Drake in here with us.”
“…You’ve been given your warning. Do not resist.”
Mirn sighed. And then his knuckles cracked on the club’s handle. They were coming. No one needed to tell the people inside that, but Liska could have told you exactly how many were outside.
Sixty-four, leaning against the windows they’d taken the detonation satchels away from, most clustered around the two doors, ready to burst through both. Someone had picked the lock. They did have weapons drawn.
Clubs and batons. And nets. They were wearing heavy leather armor and chainmail. Like they were on riot duty. Someone in the front had plate armor on.
She knew it. She was, after all, the [Portal Guardian]. Liska’s voice rasped; she babbled when she got nervous. Thoughtlessly, spilling what was on her mind. Like Erin; it was why she liked the [Innkeeper]. Because everyone respected Erin. She wished Erin was here.
“I—I thought there’d be a miracle. Bad things happen, but I never died or got hurt until now. I think that’s how it works. You always think, ‘it’s not gonna be me’. Until it is. And with us…it always is us.”
Some of the Turnscales near the front half-turned. Glideclaw opened her mouth, and Mirn glanced at Liska. No one said a word.
“I thought this was different. But it’s worse. Even if you get older. I thought it was just us—or that it was easier. But it’s not, is it?”
No.
They were so close to the 8th Floor, but Liska couldn’t form a connection to the [Door of Portals]. Anywhere else, maybe, or she’d be able to maybe do something with the door. But in Pallass, it was like a lead weight on any connections.
