ʟɪꜱᴋᴀ ᴛᴏᴏᴋ ᴀ ᴅᴀʏ ᴏꜰꜰ.
As one did. There she was, complaining on her couch as normal. People streamed into the portal room of the inn, heading to multiple destinations these days.
Liscor, Esthelm, Celum, Pallass, Invrisil, Riverfarm, that place north of Invrisil that Ilvriss wanted—you know, places. And Liska was talking nonstop as she herded them into their doors. Well, complaining really.
“I’m just so tired all the time, y’know? I wake up? Tired. I clock into work at, like, 7 AM and I’m tired. I need a break!”
Asgra stopped mopping the floors and gave Liska a look. The Cave Goblin had been up at 3 AM. The night shift ended around then and you got to spend the morning tidying up or just keeping an eye out. However, despite the platter of snacks in front of Liska, she did appear…tired.
Not physically, but she was all slumped, like someone had added a few bones to a fur slime. Asgra shrugged.
“You is paid, none of us dead. That good by Goblin standards.”
Although…that was a tired line she used to motivate herself when, in fact, Asgra sometimes wanted a bit more time off to go into Liscor with, more days off, or to just go visit Goblinhome and meet some nice Goblin…
She got worried because she felt like she was getting weak. No longer as used to hardship as her old, Cave Goblin self. But she reasoned she was still okay because Liska was alive, and it was hard to be less tough than Liska.
“I dunno, Asgra. I’m just so sleepy…”
Liska had the misfortune of yawning when someone came in for an inspection. Namely, the Demon Queen, the Mistress of Woes, the Chairbreaker, Lyonette du Marquin. The inn’s staff liked coming up with names for the [Princess]. The Rheirgest [Necromancers] also loved joining in. Actually, they took it a bit more seriously than the inn’s staff…Asgra had heard someone had made a shrine to Lyonette in Rheirgest, and there’d been talk of commissioning a portrait of her. Not for any religious reasons, but because it would really be ‘dark tyrant decor’ that would improve any area it was put in.
It came to something when regular Humans could outdo even Gothica. Well, Lyonette heard Liska and saw the full-slump Gnoll with her feet up on a cushion and put her hands on her hips.
“Liska, is this how you’re serving our guests?”
“Uh oh, the fuzz.”
Asgra began mopping furiously as Liska sat up.
“Er, Lyonette, I was just, um—”
Lyonette had this friendly-pushy way about her. She came over, eying the charcuterie snack tray that Liska got each brunch. You know, just your regular platter of meat, cheeses, silkap, fresh bread, flatbread, dips—Calescent liked to put on vegetables too. Roasted bell peppers, celery, just enough that Liska would eat the good stuff first, then notice she had some dip left and snack down on the rest.
He was probably the one reason she wasn’t overweight given her sedentary lifestyle. That and the fact that Liska was young. Eighteen this year. Lyonette would be turning twenty, but the difference between them? Liska shrank back as Lyonette smiled at her with that patient, pushing attitude.
“If you’re tired, Liska, that’s understandable, but we must be professional on duty. I’m sure you understand? When did you last take a vacation day? If you can put in some effort today, I’ll make sure you’re on vacation as soon as you’re allowed, deal?”
Here it came. Both Asgra and Liska groaned as the latter sat up and the former began to actually check her mopping, moving in deliberate patterns and cleaning all the cracks just like she’d been taught.
[Flurry of Efficiency]! Lyonette’s [Princess] class had a few Skills that helped with the inn and they were powerful. Her people would put out stellar results—but they didn’t have to like it.
“Sorry, Lyonette. I’m doing my job! It’s just—y’know—I haven’t had a day off in like…”
Liska began counting on her fingers as Asgra began mopping near a line of people. Drakes from Pallass waiting to be sent off. Mostly to Invrisil or Liscor. One turned to look at her.
“Is that a—?”
Before they could express some old-fashioned Goblin racism, they hesitated, glanced around at the silent, bored people in line, and Asgra’s Skill activated.
“[Hey, I Just Work Here].”
The Pallassian Drake dropped it. Because…they really didn’t want to cause a scene. Asgra’s Skill was probably why no one had tried to attack her for, well, being Asgra.
Liska had no such protections. She shrank under Lyonette’s friendly gaze.
“When was your last break, Liska?”
“Um…I dunno. When did I last take one?”
That drew Lyonette up. And she hesitated. A few people were following Lyonette around; they always did. The Calanferian staff, Ushar…Lyonette turned to Ushar.
“Ushar, when did Liska take a break last?”
“Er, it would have been before the Goblin King, Your Highness. When would she have taken it? Not since before the Winter Solstice…”
“Wait. Liska works each day of the week. She has to in order to run the [Door of Portals]. She hasn’t taken off a single day since then?”
Liska was sitting up on her couch, calling out.
“Everyone to Liscor? Door opening in three, two, one…all travellers wait for people to exit! [Form a Line]! Thank you. Oh, yeah, I haven’t taken a break since then, huh?”
Lyonette was growing increasingly anxious but trying to downplay the issue as the employer who realized she was in the wrong often became.
“Let’s see. Liska had to have been taking a break before—no…”
Here was the thing. Liska had to have taken a break because she was, well, Liska! Lazy! Complained all the time! Didn’t do anything but the door!
But she did manage the door, and she had to because she’d pretty much taken it over. So when had she last taken a break?
No one could remember, and so someone was called for. Ishkr.
Ishkr took breaks. Not often, and he was the inn’s 2nd-in-command, the fearless leader who managed the disparate groups, hero of cleaning and crowd control. When he came into the Portal Room, his first reflex was to scowl at Liska and assume she’d done something wrong. But when asked…he hesitated.
“Liska? She takes breaks all the time. Her lunch breaks are far too long. And she clocks out too early.”
“Are not! I work hard here, Ishkr!”
Liska shouted. Her older brother, who spent most of the day on his feet, gave her a flat look she couldn’t quite meet. But he had to admit, he didn’t recall her taking any days off this month. Or last month.
“I—well—this is distressing! Liska, you have time off!”
“Yeah, but I just didn’t know when to use it. And then we were busy after the Goblin King thing and…I know I took days off earlier on. I guess I just forgot to later.”
Liska was embarrassed, now, scratching her head. A few people in line were turning to stare as they heard the ‘Goblin King’ being referenced as a casual marker of time. Lyonette shook her head.
“Well, there’s nothing to it. Liska! Take tomorrow off. You might as well take longer, but at least tomorrow! Schedule your days off, and we’ll figure out how much you’re owed…and please, I know you’re tired, but a bit of effort?”
She smiled, and Asgra and Liska nodded and pretended to be busy. Ishkr flicked two fingers at his eyes and at Liska. I’m watching you; stop causing trouble.
Liska’s roll of the eyes and middle finger was her reply. Eat shit older brother.
But like that, it was arranged. Liska was on break the next day, possibly for longer. Lyonette decided she’d have Xinthe and two Calanferians take over the [Door of Portals] for the day. They were solid, hard-working, and the least ‘controversial’ members of staff. That would train them up for Liska taking more breaks and maybe allow for backups if Liska was sick or lazy. She was, after all, sort of a legacy hire since Ishkr worked here. They couldn’t just fire her, but sometimes, Liska did fail to pull any weight.
That was that. A day passed. The inn didn’t explode. Yelroan, who managed the staff roster, processed Liska’s day off and handed her some money she was due so she could spend it early. She nodded at him, then ambled back to the apartment she and Ishkr shared; he had already teleported in and was asleep. She lay down and realized she could sleep in because tomorrow was her day off. That was the most Liska or anyone thought about the matter.
The consequences were not apparent till the next day.
 
——
 
Liska was a Level 32 [Portal Guardian] with a class consolidation. Xinthe was a Level 24 [Clandestine Servant] with other, lower-level spy classes.
They were not the same. Nor did Liska leave any documentation about her workflow—nor did anyone ask, because, well, it was Liska. Managing a portal-door.
How hard could it be?
Within the hour, Xinthe, who was capable, eager to impress, and smart enough to realize when she had a problem, especially in this unique work environment, had documented a few issues with replacing Liska so suddenly:
 
Item 1. [Door of Portals] cannot be changed remotely; requires someone constantly to be at the door to manipulate the dial.
Item 2. People waiting to be transported do not form into lines; no such system is in place. They must be manually directed or a Skill used or chaos ensues.
Item 3. Door schedule is not written down. Each group expects prompt checking every ten minutes. Requiring constant cycling.
Item 4. Proper passports and documentation for each city are not guaranteed by checkpoints on other ends of the door. Leading to returned visitors and refunds.
Item 5. Visitors seem to be consuming more mana than door can hold in huge bursts. Door failure leads to waiting periods to recharge after 400 passengers; can hit this within the first hour.
Item 6. Rain or other dirt tracked in rapidly turns waiting room into a sty. How did Liska keep this clean???
Item 7. Everyone is asking too many questions, and we are getting behind on help. Some people just try to walk through any door they want. High levels just ignore all the rules and don’t want to pay.
Item 8. I hate it here. I hate people.
 
One hour. Lyonette wasn’t even up. The Portal Room was a mess due to the rain in multiple cities leading to mud being tracked in. People were slipping, forming into queues for the wrong city, arguing, pushing, and the [Door of Portals] had run out of mana already and needed a recharge.
Hilariously unfortunate for Xinthe and the staff being called in to help. A model of why a high-level individual who knew her job was essential. Little more than that, you’d say, right?
Wrong.
 
——
 
The day-workers in Liscor, Pallass, and Invrisil were late to their jobs. Day-workers, a concept largely invented via The Wandering Inn.
With the [Door of Portals], someone in Esthelm could wake up in their home city, have a hot breakfast, walk over to the door, wait for ten minutes, then be in another city and walking to work with such minimal loss of time that they were actually faster than someone who lived across the city from work.
Oh, it was not always ideal; the cost of using the door and wait times were a consideration, but Liscor and other cities had negotiated for bulk-discounts on such workers, and the inn offered monthly or even yearly passes.
Liska knew most of these people by name, and she could tell when someone was faking such a pass because she had [Filtered Entry]. They knew the system well enough to time their arrival so that they wouldn’t be late to work…under the Liska system.
When they were an hour late, most of the employers raised hell about their lazy workers calling off without being sick. The conscientious ones checked to see if there was an accident or holdup on the streets; they quickly realized there was a commonality between the workers not arriving.
As the few people who’d fought through the deadlock at the inn began to arrive, complaints were issued to the Watch, who in turn issued the complaints to The Wandering Inn. The Watch of each city were told they could shove those complaints back up their own asses—there was an issue with the portal door. Get lost.
The Watch turned around to complain back to their Watch Captains, who brought it up with civic leaders. The civic leaders put it down to ‘that damn inn’ until someone, a Merchant’s Guild representative, brought up how many day-workers weren’t going to work.
As in…there were jobs in the city that should have been filled by day-workers that didn’t have anyone overseeing them because they were so reliable.
The [Butcher] of Hoss’ Meats was still waiting in Esthelm to get to work. Half of the builders of a construction team for Liscor’s 3rd District weren’t there. Five separate [Enchanters] working for Pallass hadn’t made it out of Invrisil.
And that wasn’t counting regular foot traffic, people transporting items, important business deals or people who’d arranged to be in another city tomorrow. All of it, all of it, frozen.
At first, people blamed the inn or suspected an Ancient Creler had emerged beneath it or something like that. But when they realized Liska wasn’t there—a fact that the checkpoints on the other sides of the door had already picked up on—the tenor of the conversation changed.
For, you see, it became less about ‘that damn inn causing trouble again’ and more about ‘hey, what if this service we have taken for granted disappears or stops working as well’?
And that? That was gold. That provoked a response.
 
——
 
There was a rhythm to the dynamics of power that one could trace. Not in such prosaic terms as net profitability or income per capita between cities, but in more esoteric means.
For instance, between Liscor and Pallass, there had always been…bribes. Not that anyone called them that. They had been gifts. A basket of cookies here, a free hamburger there.
8th Floor, Pallass. The checkpoint that Captain Kel oversaw had changed from a single-squad operation to a full building that processed hundreds or even thousands over the course of a day. It was practically a second Watch House for the 8th floor, and it had gone from a miserable post with some Human that caused trouble to a place that had, well, perks.
And one of the perks had been, according to the old veterans, free cookies. That darn [Innkeeper] would come by with some posters to plaster on the walls, or with a favor to ask, and you’d have to chew your tail and deal with her. But…she left gifts.
Such as food, which she regularly fed the checkpoint [Guards]. For all they had complained, more than one had come away with a bag of cookies, gratis, or went through the door to buy some hot food, cheap and discounted, and considered it, well, a perk for having to deal with her.
