Anti-teleportation wards. The young Gnoll woman had tears in her eyes.
“When they come in, they’re going to beat us up, then arrest us. And then…if we’re lucky, they just exile us. Otherwise, you try and go home and there’s a mob. Or you just vanish. That’s why you run, right?”
She looked at Miss Hariett and remembered what she’d said to Zevara. Life or death. The [Pub Owner] said nothing, but the soft click was Liska’s answer.
Miss Hariett put her claws in the wide, ornamental belt buckle she wore, and two pieces of the metal belt slid outwards. There was a flash. Then two blades shot out of the handles.
[Flickclaw Blades]. She adjusted her grip, and they slid back into their sheaths. Hariett held her claws out, the hidden daggers almost invisible. She was preparing, readying herself for the moment someone got close to the unarmed woman to slash across a throat. Stab through an eyeslit or armpit.
Vakki twitched, eyes on Hariett and the blades even the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings respected. Then she heard a click. It was the sound of the Dullahan woman, the one with swirls of seashell color on her armor.
She had popped up a section of her armor on her arm. An inbuilt crossbow had clicked out, and she was loading it. Next to her, one of the older Drakes had put on brass knuckles. There was a sigh and then a faint hss of sound.
A glowing light split the dim pub light. Painful in its intensity. A beam of agony and death, silent as Pinrose ignited the kaalblade.
Mirn’s head turned, and he held out a claw. He mouth-whispered.
“Stow it.”
“What for?”
Pinrose held the kaalblade in his claws, and Mirn met his eyes. He stepped over, and Liska’s ears picked up the barely audible breath.
“They’re using clubs. When they go down, they’ll go to blades. They’ll ask who in Pallass bought one of those. Draw it then.”
Pinrose nodded and deactivated the enchantment, but he held the piece of innocuous wood in one claw. A weapon like Ryoka’s faeblade, which would cut through…
Well, they were ready. They had been ready. Was the Watch? Did they hear their [Dangersenses] ringing, ringing with such sound to tell them how bad an idea this was?
Liska’s voice was a whisper.
“I guess I didn’t think about it. I’m sorry. I don’t really think about things. I’ve…never really tried hard most of my life. And this is the first thing that matters to me. Really matters. Is it okay?”
Pinrose’s eyes slid back to her, and he closed them. The only place I feel alive. Liska went on, tears in her eyes, and she felt them tensing, outside and in.
“This matters. But I’m really afraid. I want to do something. But am I—am I allowed to do my best? To try even if it kills me? It’s easier if nothing matters. Is it okay if I care?”
Tears were matting the fur of her cheeks. Her shoulders shook, and she could barely stand. Voice wobbling like a cub’s.
No one looked at her. Every eye was fixed on the doorway. She didn’t even know if anyone had heard her until Mirn rasped one word.
“Yes.”
It was a weird kind of permission. Liska was glad he said it, because even if he hadn’t said it, she would have tried something anyways. But he said it like he needed her help.
Rose was shivering, holding a table leg, and there was a creak—
Then the Watch slammed the explosive vials, and the liquids inside detonated like thunderclaps as the first squads rushed forwards for the doors. They shouted as they came.
“On the ground! Hands up! H—”
They hit the unbroken doors and piled into one another. Inside the pub, Mirn lowered his claws from his face. He stared.
The explosive vials had gone off, but the doors hadn’t been breached. Instead, the vials had detonated outwards, hitting the armor of the squads. There was a cry.
“Guard down! Spell attack! Trap—”
“Failed breach! Failed breach! Get the ram—”
“Mirn. What kind of doors are…?”
Roseblush breathed. Everyone had flinched when the vials had exploded. Mirn shook his head.
“I didn’t do anything to them. I—”
His head came up and turned. Rose was twisted sideways. Vakki and Miss Hariett slowly peered over. Liska was staring at the two doors. A paw was raised. And she was whispering.
“Stop.”
Confusion outside. She could feel them milling around. Then someone brought something up. A hand-ram. Two took the enchanted ram and began to slam it into the door; another squad reset the explosive vials on the turnstile. Detonated them.
Whumph. Heavier.
Liska flinched. The ram swung with soft thunder. Enough force to break a steel door inwards with a few swings.
The doors shook.
Neither one opened. Liska was breathing harder. Her stomach hurt. Her arm shook, and she felt them pushing on the turnstile that refused to move now. A dozen claws, paws, and hands yanking. Grunting, cursing.
The ram swung again. And the doors cracked. Mirn was staring at Liska.
“Are you…?”
“No door lasts forever. Sanctuary ends.”
She looked at him, a dreadful certainty and memory in her eyes. He nodded.
“There’s no way out of here. We have to get through them.”
Oh. Okay. Liska concentrated. The ram was swinging. Again and again, and now—the Watch could see into the pub. Mostly darkness, as they pulled at pieces they’d literally smashed off the wood and found that the slivers of door seemed glued to each other. But then they were shouting.
“One, two, three, FOUR. One, two, three, FOUR—”
The ram swung with six arms combined, and Liska rubbed at her nose. It began to bleed the second time. She saw Rose reaching out.
“Lis—”
“—three, FOUR—”
The squad outside saw the door give way as the ram smashed through. It slammed open, and the surprised [Guards] stumbled into the pub, shouting.
“Breach, breach!”
The first squad rushed the gap. The second charged after them, abandoning the turnstile. A Gnoll [Patrol Captain] blew a whistle, charging after her buddies.
The door slammed into her face so hard it tossed her head-over-heels onto the street. Dazed, she lay there and heard the rest of her squad ramming into the door.
[Quick Doorslam]. And—when the second squad tried to get up and breach it—
It wouldn’t open. The broken-looking door was as hard as steel!
[Fourfold Reinforcement]. The [Patrol Captain] snarled.
“Get in there! Get in—”
She had heard nothing but deafening silence from inside the pub, the sounds of massed breathing. A single voice mumbling something. But now, she heard the shouting of the squad. And then—a single male voice, howling something.
The silence turned into massed shouting, screams—and the [Patrol Captain]’s blood ran cold as she heard a panicked voice from her linked speaking stone.
“Backup! Backup, where’s our—”
Sixteen members of the Watch entered the pub instead of the multiple squads ready to flood the building. They halted their charge as thrown Tripvine Bags and Smokepowder Satchels hit the ground and failed to activate.
When they didn’t hear more buddies at their back, they tried to retreat. The oldest Turnscales charged them before the squad could retreat half a dozen steps.
“You’re under arr—”
Mirn’s club struck the chin of the [Patrol Captain], and the Drake folded up. A Dullahan swung his club and gasped; went white.
A crossbow bolt was sticking out of his knee. He went down on one knee, and Roseblush swung a club down.
“[Oblivion Hit].”
“Squad 1 under attack! Reinforcements! Re—”
Half of the sixteen were down, and one went for a sword. He tried for a stab at Roseblush, and Miss Hariett grabbed him.
[Flip Throw]. She hurled the [Guard] head-over-heels, and they slammed onto the ground. When they went to get up, Loverbird kicked them in the helmet, and two more hit them with clubs. Mirn pushed them back after three blows.
“They’re out. Back up—back—”
Shouting from outside. Then the turnstiles swung, spinning in confused Watch officers. The door opened again, and there was a roar.
“Breach the building! I don’t care how! Breach both exits, now!”
This time, the Watch came in hard. Whatever Liska had done to block the door the first time, it was fighting against the bodies holding it open. Armored bodies pressing into the pub, but staggered. Mirn saw the turnstiles abruptly stop, then heard a curse.
He saw Drakes, fighting to keep the doors open, recoil as, suddenly, the front door burst into flames. The turnstile slowed; it was clogged, he realized. With spiderwebs. Huge ones.
Magic enchantments. He grinned.
The [Doorgnoll] holding the entryway was doing it all remotely, ignoring attempts to break the entryways fully. She was holding the windows too, he realized. Even his [Emergency Exit].
The Watch was trying to breach the Skill-based door, but a glowing seal had appeared over the basement entrance, and it—would not—give. They were deploying [Breach Fireballs] against it, and the glowing sigil refused to give.
But they were coming through the main doors. They had to. And the girl was no soldier, but her instincts were good.
Funnel them in waves. Don’t let them come in at once and crush us. They came in staggered and vanished.
A [Protector] swung his club into heads and legs, kicking down the Watch, fighting with brutal, economical grace learned on a battlefield. He wasn’t enough by himself, fast and hard as he hit, but there were dozens of Turnscales behind him, and they tangled with the Watch hard.
They were—fighting with the [Guards] and not giving ground.
 
——
 
Liska’s eyes widened as she gnawed on her lip, concentrating. Trying to keep them from coming in too fast. But it was a fight on the ground, and she saw Rose snarling, slashing a clawed hand at a Dullahan’s armor. She barely cut the leather before the angry Dullahan tried to tackle her, but five teens jumped him from behind, shouting, swinging—
That was the brawl closest to her. The highest-levelled people in the pub were at the front, and Liska was screaming, wishing her big brother were here, Bird, anyone from the inn—
Then she saw Miss Hariett throw another [Guard] across the room. And Roseblush hit another attacker who folded up and just dropped. But it was Glideclaw who was fighting with a swinging Garuda who came at her with a sap and buckler, striking nonstop. But she—leaned out of the way of one blow, which passed in front of her chin an inch away, ducked a swing, backstepped as he tried to bash her face with a buckler, stepping around him as he kept advancing, flowing from step to step as she swung a table leg with far less impact, hitting him on the face, arm—
But he never tagged her. The pattern the Drake [Dancer] wove through the fighting was hypnotizing. Incredible. She was dancing.
[Flowing Footwork]. [Phantom Grace].
She led the attacking Garuda straight into Pinrose, who tripped the Garuda up, and then they were kicking as he fell. And past them staggered Loverbird, whose beautiful beak was red with blood. He had it on his tunic and feathers, but it wasn’t his—
[Dire Peck]. Blood from a surprised Drake guardswoman’s chest, staring at the armor he’d gouged through in one blow. Liska’s head turned. Flashes—Vakki leaping past her to slash across another [Guard]’s face.
“[Agonizing Cut]!”
—A Gnoll boy diving under a thrown net.
“[Evasive Roll]! [Sand Throw]!”
Skills. Everyone was using Skills. Not normal ones, either, but combat Skills. Powerful Skills. Liska turned to Glideclaw, Loverbird, and realized they’d downed their opponents.
They were all…like her.
High level. Higher level than anyone their age. The reason Mirn hadn’t been that shocked by her level. Because he was used to it.
Turnscales. People who had learned to fight. The Watch was falling back again. They weren’t used to this. Liska gritted her teeth as she felt the turnstile sliding—the front door opened again, and another squad poured in.
Mirn turned, and someone walked through the doors in plate armor. A Drake wearing the insignia of 1st Army. He had an axe and shield in hand, and he snapped.
“Hold your ground, soldiers! [Hold the Line]! You—I recognize those moves, traitor. We’ll find you no matter if you’re active or retired.”
Mirn, panting, raised his club.
“Lot of former soldiers, brat. You think you’ve got a chance?”
Without a word, the [Captain] charged. Mirn hit his armor, shield, grunting, as he tried to batter down the Drake’s guard, but the [Captain] slashed with his axe, and Mirn barely dodged a cut to his chest.
He had no armor—the [Captain] had all of it and advanced, ignoring the heavy club blows. Mirn backed up as the Turnscales’ furious defense faltered. Higher level they might be, but they didn’t have training, weapons, armor. Liska saw Vakki go down, screaming, as someone tackled her. Bodies around her.
She was trying to hold the windows, the broken scraps of the doors. Liska saw Mirn stagger, glance down at a leg cut open despite having dodged the slash.
“Got you.”
The [Captain] shoulder-charged as a squad poured towards Mirn, and Liska’s eyes opened wide. Amel’s eyes met hers. She saw the Goblin King charging down the corridor and screamed.
“[Lesser Forcewall]!”
The [Captain] stumbled as he slammed into something; he began to hack at it, maneuvering around it, and Liska—pushed.
She shoved the door made of pure force into a wall, and the [Captain]’s back hit the wall. He gasped, tore free of the Skill, shouting.
“[Explosive Reposition]! Rally! Rally—”
He twisted and saw a wide-eyed Drake staring down at him. The [Guard] was pinned to the wall like a fly, rippling air flowing around him. The [Forcewall]. She’d pushed it at—
He saw the Gnoll, arms raised, and charged her before she could do it again. Her nose was bleeding as she stood there, panting, as he raised his axe.
“Never.”
He’d forgotten about Mirn. Mirn swung his club into the back of the [Captain]’s helmet. The Drake staggered and came around slowly, swinging wildly.
The club came up under his shield and slammed all the wind out of his stomach. He went over, and Mirn rotated. His final blow tossed the armored Drake back onto the floor. He lay there, gasping up at the ceiling like a fish, and Mirn put a foot on his chest. Bent down, yanked something up.
“Your field commander’s down. Unless you want the death of a [Captain] and every [Guard] in here on your claws, fall back.”
There was a pause, and Liska, gasping, lowered her paws. She gaped around, and the [Guards] she’d slammed into the wall hit the ground. Then she realized no one else was flooding into the pub.
They’d…won?
 
——
 
There was a pause when Mirn issued his threat to whomever was on the other side. Liska half-expected the Watch to attack again, but the ones inside were all down or playing dead. Not that she thought many were dead.
