Liska lifted her paws as the door closed by itself. Vakki and Hariett stared at it.
“Hey, I’m—like that’s really bad. Really bad. I only heard you were in jail yesterday. I’d have helped bail you out, I promise.”
Hariett walked around Vakki, into her kitchen.
“Liska’s the one who got the rest of the gold together to bail you out, Vakki.”
“You what? That’s way too much. I can’t pay you back.”
Vakki was astonished and horrified. It had been twenty gold. Liska shrugged.
“I, um, got all my backpay for like, months. It’s no big thing.”
“I’ll…I’ll pay you back.”
The Drake [Lover] lied. That was her main class. Oh, she had [Scribe] as her work-class, but she only did that for a job. She was who she was.
[Forbidden Lover]. Level 15. And she knew Lizze was crying. She could [Sense Emotions]. She knew Lizze was locked in her rooms, and no one was feeding her so she lost weight for the wedding before her fiancé came.
She wondered what Lizze felt from her. Confidence, Vakki hoped. Calm.
All she had to do was save Lizze from the worst. Then…she’d get out of the city, with Lizze if possible. But she was doing this for—
There was a wiggling sensation along her back, near her tail. Vakki whirled, and Hariett plucked the knife out of her trousers.
“Yep, there it was.”
“Give that—”
Hariett deftly stepped backwards and fended Vakki off.
“I swear I got rid of every blade in my apartment! How the hells did you get that?”
“It’s your neighbor’s. I borrowed it.”
“Vakki, I have told you again and again, this is not how you fix the situation! Leave it to us!”
Hariett cursed as she held onto the knife. Vakki glanced away, ignoring her. Adults said plenty of stupid shit, and Hariett was nice…but she had no idea what was going on. You could buy a knife anywhere in Liscor. All Vakki had to do was…
She turned to Liska.
“Hey, sorry about that. Want to go out?”
Liska had gold. Maybe she could—
“Vakki reset chop!”
The Gnoll hit Vakki on the forehead with her paw as hard as she could. Vakki sat down hard, and Liska rubbed at her paw.
“Ow.”
“Ow. Liska, what—”
Hariett blinked as Liska lifted her paw again.
“Are you going to listen to Miss Hariett or do I have to reset your brain again? She always gets like this when it’s about Lizze. You have to hit her first. Vakki, stop trying to stab people!”
“I’m not stabbing people. Just Lizze’s father. He’s the one who’s arranging the marriage. I’ll just stab him through the heart then leave the city.”
Vakki pointed out reasonably. Liska folded her arms as Hariett groaned.
“Vakki, you’re stupid.”
“You suck Shield Spider eggs.”
“Thaheart’s fur has more brains than you do.”
“Ishkr got all the brains in the family and you got all the fluff in that head. Lizze needs me.”
“Yeah, and she doesn’t need you dead! Did you really stab her dad once already?”
Vakki gritted her teeth.
“I tried, but he had a healing potion.”
“Well, there you are then. You’re terrible at stabbing. If you were any good at it, he’d be dead. Trust me, I work for an [Innkeeper] who’s great with knives. No one ever gets up after she stabs them.”
Vakki and Hariett eyed Liska, and the Gnoll glanced around.
“Why don’t you, um, like not stab people and wait for Hariett to do something? Is Lizze getting married this week?”
Despite herself, the [Lover] shook her head.
“Next month is when her fiancé is coming up. But she needs me now! What—what was that about your boss stabbing people?”
“Who, Erin? She stabbed the [Prince] and other people. I swear she’s good at it.”
“…Wait, from the television? Where do you work again?”
Liska turned and gave Vakki a huge frown.
“I work at The Wandering Inn. Don’t you listen to me?”
The [Lover] opened her mouth and retorted.
“You never tell us anything about work, just complain about Ishkr and ‘Lyonette’! I didn’t know you had a new job for three months!”
“Oh. Right. Well…I work there now. It’s pretty nice.”
At some point, Hariett had to pour herself a drink of Amentus juice because this really was like listening to the average conversation at her pub. But then, Liska’s eyes lit up.
“I heard about Orrell too. He’s alive. In Invrisil.”
Vakki blinked. Hariett twisted around.
“What? How do you know that?”
 
—-
 
Some people were like puddles that were deep as oceans. When you assumed they were shallow, easy-to-read, they had depths.
Liska was like a bucket. She was, mostly, exactly like what you assumed, and she was the one who thought that the most. It just turned out that, at times, she was a Bucket of Holding.
Neither Vakki nor Hariett had ever been to Invrisil. They insisted on dressing up in their finest; Hariett swapped out her bootlaces for two plainer ones, but added a scarf while she removed the jacket; it was warmer there without the ever-present rain.
Vakki just had her streetclothes since she’d lost her apartment after being arrested, but Liska loaned her a shirt. It said, ‘I Survived Liscor Hunted, And They Gave Me This Shirt’, and Vakki had cinched it and Liska’s baggier trousers up with her belt.
“You never survived Liscor Hunted.”
“Yeah, but Menolit gave me the shirt. Invrisil’s not that big a deal. C’mon.”
They skipped the line at Shivertail Plaza by virtue of Liska marching up to the door, which was still processing too-long lines. She opened up a side-door for them, and both women stared as she waved.
“Hey, Xinthe, how’s it going? Need a hand?”
She took seven minutes to clear the backlog, then went through to Invrisil. Hariett murmured.
“What—what level are you, Liska?”
“Um…Level 32?”
“Level 32?”
Vakki thought Liska was lying; Hariett blinked rapidly, and Liska glanced around as they walked into Invrisil’s busy, bright streets. There were so many people crowded around, walking about, that Vakki nearly shrank back, searching for Lizze.
This was a big city. She stared up at the buildings, mouth open. They were made of wood, and so bright! Glass and paint where Liscor was still smaller and the rains made everything drab and dreary. A huge poster was advertising the Players of Celum, performing tonight at the Season Theatre.
 
The Players of Celum present: Sir Balthinad, a tempestuous romance by Andel the [Playwright], the same author as Lady Elisial! Now on stage in the Season Theatre and being performed by Sir Wesle in Pheislant! Buy your tickets now; shows are sold out for this week next week the month!
 
*Tickets for sale at the Season Theatre, Merchant’s Guild, and Mage’s Guild only! Any other ticket sellers are not authorized for resale! Please ensure you have an authentic ticket!
 
“The Players of Celum are in Invrisil? There’s a new play? Ancestors, those prices!”
Hariett was startled. She knew of the Players of Liscor, of course, but Liska shrugged.
“They’ve got this really fancy theater here. I heard Temile once saying to Lyonette that they put on all the new plays here and Pallass first.”
“What? But Liscor had the Players of Celum for ages! Wait, you know Temile? The Temile? I’m a huge fan of plays!”
Liska scratched at her stomach as she stared around.
“Where’s…Hoplic’s Stand? It’s down Carroway Street. That’s where Orrell is. You like the plays, Miss Hariett? They used to perform all the time in the inn. I dunno why Liscor gets them later. Because it’s not so big? Apparently, it’s a rule from Emme, the manager. Temile didn’t like it, but…c’mon, Vakki!”
The younger Drake jumped then rushed after Liska. Without Lizze to give her courage, she was nervous.
“This city’s so big!”
“Yeah. I mean, I’ve only been here a few times. But I see it a lot. Pretty cool, right?”
So many Humans! And even other species like Selphids; Vakki saw Hariett striding after them, hooking her claws in her belt.
“I forget that inn started it, Liska—I really should have talked to you before. However, let’s focus. This isn’t our city. I don’t know where this inn is; let’s ask around, but keep together. No wandering off.”
There was danger in foreign cities. Liska and Vakki scoffed; they knew all of Liscor, but their confidence visibly dimmed when Hariett got directions from a passing Stitch-woman.
“Carroway Street? You’ll have to head that way. But it’s not a nice part of town. I’d stay clear if I were you.”
Hariett took a huge breath.
“Wonderful. I’ll go by myself.”
“No!”
Liska and Vakki chorused, and Vakki pointed out the obvious.
“Orrell ran away because he was worried people would come after him, because, you know…he’ll run if he thinks you’re there to bring him back. He needs to see us.”
The [Pub Owner] grimaced.
“We should get more people, but—it’s not good to be seen together right now. Argh. Fine, let’s go. But do not draw attention to yourselves. If it looks dicey, I’ll turn us around. I’ve heard how many gangs Invrisil has.”
They set off, and Liska saw Vakki perk up as she peered excitedly at all the shops.
“This is amazing! I just never had the coin to afford to go here and back—since it’s, like, eight silver all the way.”
“I’d have let you go through for free, Vakki!”
“Liska, I didn’t know you were working at the inn.”
“Oh, right.”
The two were arguing. Now that she knew Liska was working at the inn, Vakki was annoyed and fascinated.
“So you were there at the Winter Solstice? And the other events?”
“Um, I missed a lot of them, actually. Ishkr’s the crazy one who was there plenty. But yeah.”
“…You’re lying. You always lie about doing cooler things than you do. Lazy Liska getting to Level 32?”
“Hey! I found out where Orrell is.”
“Sure. I don’t even believe that. There’s some magic all-seeing room in that inn?”
“I’ll show you afterwards. Well, maybe not; you get in trouble for bringing in outsiders, but I swear—!”
Vakki was excited, happy, then gloomy.
“What’s the point? Orrell can’t go back home. And what’s she going to do?”
She jerked her head at Hariett, who paused to glower at her. They were definitely getting to a seedier part of the city. The crowds had receded, and a few people eyed the passing trio speculatively. Sizing them up.
Especially Liska’s bag of holding, which the Gnoll had hold of. Liska hesitated.
“Well, Hariett got you out, right? Hey, Hariett, what do we do with Orrell?”
Hariett sighed.
“We see if he’s well. We talk to him, and then…he might not want to come back, but there are ways to change his identity. If he wants to, we’ll try to make it happen. Find him a job in Liscor.”
The [Lover] scoffed louder.
“How?”
“Hariett’s got friends.”
“Friends? Friends who’ll help a T—”
Liska nudged Vakki, hard, and whispered.
“Hariett’s cool, Vakki. All her friends are. Super cool.”
The Drake was faster to catch on than Liska. She peered at Hariett as the [Pub Owner] sighed louder, adjusting her belt. She kept glancing around, pausing as a few fellows with hats strolled down the street. She took them left.
“I’ve never heard of anyone older than us who’s…cool.”
Vakki muttered darkly. Liska shrugged.
“They don’t talk to us, and we never talked to Hariett.”
“So there’s more of…?”
For a second, Vakki was hungry, gleaming with interest and a bit of hurt, but Hariett just glanced back and put a claw to her lips.
“Later, we’ll explain. But yes, I hope to help both you and Orrell, if you don’t go and get yourself in deeper trouble, Vakki. I said that to you—”
“You gotta reset-chop her first. Otherwise, it goes in one ear and out her tail.”
Liska helpfully added. Vakki was drawing breath for a slew of questions when Hariett took them down another street seemingly at random and cursed.
“Vakki, Liska—someone’s following us. We might have to run for it.”
Both young women stiffened. They glanced around, and Hariett jerked a thumbclaw over her shoulder.
“Men with hats. Four of them. I don’t like the looks of them. My [Detect Weapon] Skill is screaming they’re all armed. I think we start moving faster, and if we have to, I’ll start shouting for the Watch. We run back to the city, got it?”
Vakki glanced over her shoulder as the quartet came around the corner, strolling casually, but definitely the same four that had been following them two streets prior. Liska? She frowned, glanced over her shoulder, and sniffed the air.
“Men with hats? Are those Brothers?”
“Liska! Don’t draw attention to—”
Too late. To both Drakes’ horror, Liska turned, waved a paw, and shouted.
“Hey! Are you Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings?”
All four casual Brothers glanced up, and several people walking down the street took one peek at Liska and hurried somewhere else. But Liska just waved and shouted.
“I’m from The Wandering Inn!”
That, to Hariett and Vakki’s astonishment, was like a magic word.
 
——
 
“Oh, the inn, Miss! Here we was about to pickpocket you—I do beg your pardon. It weren’t nothing but a simple bump n’ swap. But when someone comes into our district loaded with coin, as it were—you’d best not walk around with so much!”
“Oops. Sorry.”
Liska was getting gently scolded a few minutes later. The four Brothers were standing in the street, and another added as he puffed on a cigarette.
“We were also treatin’ it like a fee, Miss. Protection and whatnot. Three young ladies from Liscor come in, all flash, into a bad part of the city? Bad things might ‘appen. Unless we were here.”
He glanced pointedly at Vakki’s t-shirt and Hariett’s good clothing, which gave the [Pub Owner] reason to blush. But she was wary, thumbs hooked into her belt, and one of the Brothers gave her a respectful nod.
“Leastwise the adult in the street’s got a bit of spike to her. Still, you got proof you’re from the inn, Miss?”
“Whuzzat? Proof?”
Liska had finished shaking hands and gazed blankly at the Brother. He was a sandy-haired man in his twenties; few Brothers were very old, and thirties was often ‘old’ for them. Crimshaw had been in his forties and a full veteran. The young man with a battered hemlock hat laced his fingers together, all eight of them.
“Well…proof would be required, Miss. Just on account that we’ve heard that line before. Plenty of folk claim to be from the good inn with the wondrous [Innkeeper]. At first, it was no bad thing, but it’s gotten a bit old of late. Not that we’d be unpleasant about it. Just stern.”
“I gotta prove I’m from the inn? I’m the [Doorgnoll]. Liska. Me. Um…how do I prove it?”
Liska panicked. The Brothers exchanged glances.
“What if you gave us the badge what all staff has?”
Liska panicked harder.
“We have a badge? I never got one! Ishkr never said!”
