Hariett added. They turned to Liska and waited. Liska glanced around and then shrugged, smiled, and said—
“And with a cool door. I’ll do that part.”
Mirn nodded to her, and there it was. No skepticism she could do the job or that she’d be able to keep their secret. No feeling like she was some idiot who was too dumb to do the big stuff.
“I’m counting on you, kid.”
Okay, she was still a kid. But Liska’s head rose, and Rose grinned; she was experimenting with a new hair color today. She’d decided to dye it like a rainbow, which looked cool…but was hard as heck to maintain. There was just one last thing that Liska felt like everyone was missing.
She kept waiting for Rose to bring it up, but then, she realized Rose might not ‘get it’. So Liska was deciding to do something about it. Wasn’t that weird? She was like…an Ishkr or something. Liska decided to be nicer to him; she hadn’t known how hard it was to do things without people telling you to. Mirn was speaking to Hariett and Rose, hands on his hips.
“I think this is it. I just need a good cover story. I reckon I expand my warehouse work here, and this just happens to be a place I buy. Bury it in papers; Pinrose can do it. We’ll get the gold together today, then. I’m still checking on everyone. Liska, you have work tomorrow, right?”
“Yep! But I’ll get time off in the evenings.”
“You sure?”
“Sure! Lyonette will give it to me.”
Liska felt very confident about that. But she tugged on Mirn’s and Hariett’s arms.
“There’s just one thing we gotta do before that. I want to introduce you to some people.
“Your friends? I could do that.”
Mirn and Hariett exchanged a glance, but were surprised when Liska shook her head.
“No. You all have, like, your secret groups and cool stuff, but so do I. If I’m one of you, you gotta listen to me, okay?”
She was nervous, waiting for one of them to tell her to shut up, but Mirn just raised his brows, and Hariett smiled.
“Of course, dear. And who are we meeting?”
Liska winked at Rose. Everyone turned to the young woman, and Rose hesitated.
“Um…”
Liska rolled her eyes. Rose really was new to the inn.
 
——
 
It was probably not the first time that any of them had seen an Antinium. Bird had stood on Pallass’ walls, and Mirn had been to the inn. But the [Protector]’s face said quite clearly that he had never talked to an Antinium.
Let alone a Goblin. And he was super uncomfortable. So Liska poked him.
“Mirn, you’re like Lizze’s parents meeting Vakki for the first time.”
The Drake jumped, then glared at Liska.
“How dare you. That’s the most insulting thing I’ve ever heard! Ancestors! It’s just—”
He fell silent as someone walked over, and the Antinium offered a hand to shake.
“Liska, thank you for introducing me to prospective clients. It’s good to see you—have you been eating well? Now, sir, don’t mistake my country accent and fine mustache for me being some hoity-toity Antinium. We here at Silveran’s Cleaners pride ourselves on being hard-working, down-to-earth sorts.”
The Antinium waggled his huge, bushy silver mustache as Hariett blinked rapidly. And she was Liscorian and knew Antinium; she’d seen all the new ones, but she was like Liska’s friends.
She didn’t know them. Any more than Mirn. The Drake gingerly pumped Silveran’s hand.
“How do you do…Silveran?”
“Oh, I’m not Silveran. I’m Silverstache, manager of this here establishment. Miss Liska said you might need help cleaning?”
Mirn wasn’t the best cleaner, any more than he bartended, since he moved from place to place. Hariett’s pub had needed a good mop, and there was no one better in Liscor.
“Are you sure I can, ah, afford your prices, Silverstache?”
“‘Course you can, Miss Hariett! We do very reasonable pricing, and our team of Ace Cleaners can deal with sewage backups, dirty wells—I’m getting into construction too.”
“Construction?”
“Nothing like levering up a floorboard to realize you have to fix a few joists. Now, when Miss Liska called me up she said she wanted to introduce two friends who didn’t know much about Antinium?”
“I mean, I’ve seen the new Painted Antinium march around all the time. We have no problem with Antinium, right, Vakki? Vakki?”
Hariett had to nudge the frozen Vakki, who jumped—Liska grinned as the second newcomer bared all of his teeth.
“T-that’s—Liska. That’s a—”
A little Goblin copied Silverstache by holding out a hand, and Vakki froze up again, but Liska nudged her. He grinned at the Drake, who slapped his hand with the fastest handshake of her life.
“Hi. I’s Picker. Here’s your money bag.”
“Picker? Is that a—a descriptor?”
Of all the Goblins to introduce, Liska really would have preferred Peggy, but Peggy had been working, and between Asgra, Sticks, and Picker, the little Goblins she hung out with…would you believe he was the best candidate? Picker nodded.
“Oh yes. I pick all things. Noses, locks, pockets. You got anything you want me to pick? Miss Lyonette never wants anything picked. Except trash.”
He beamed at Mirn, and the [Protector] shot him a very wary smile. He backed up a step and ran into Liska. When they exchanged glances, Liska beamed and shoved him forwards.
“Picker’s great.”
“Liska, why are we speaking to these two? They’re not under my protection.”
He drew her aside, and she gazed at him.
“You’re speaking to them because you gotta know Goblins and Antinium are people, Mirn.”
“Yes, yes, I’ve read the sign at the inn. I know Erin.”
“No—”
She made him stop and looked him in the eyes. Liska patted her chest as Vakki and Hariett turned. Rose was screaming; Silverstache was ‘cleaning’ her hair and removing the hair dye.
“No, Silveran, no, I worked so hard on—oh my Devils, my hair is amazing. Is that shampoo for sale?”
Liska just grinned, then spoke to them all.
“You gotta know Goblins and Antinium are people because I like ‘em. This is my community. It doesn’t have anyone you know—except Bird, maybe. We could invite her. In fact, we should! But even if they’re not all like us, you have to get it. I’m gonna bring everyone here.”
From Pinrose to Thaheart. Hariett just blinked at Rose.
“Bird. Bird the Hunter. You want to bring them to—?”
“She switched genders. Doesn’t that count?”
Mirn was having a small existential crisis. He slapped Picker’s hand away from his pocket.
“Ooh. You good.”
Mirn had to laugh at Picker. Then he sombered and squatted down. He glanced at the Goblin, then away.
“Look, this is hard for me. Picker, right? I don’t know how Saliss did it, and he’s got way more history than me with both species. But I’m…a [Soldier]. I was. I killed Goblins. I get what Erin Solstice is saying, but this is hard. You understand me?”
He gave Picker a level look, and the Goblin sombered. Liska held her breath, and Picker nodded.
“I get you. Me too. Sometimes I feel guilty. I killed Drakes too. Bad sleeps. Peace in the inn is better, yeah. Got to be good, make friends, so it doesn’t happen again. Even with Elia Kingslayer.”
Mirn stared at him.
“You killed Drakes? You?”
Picker was not a Cave Goblin. He sighed gustily.
“Oh yeah. Sneak up, pick pockets, put in boom flask. Then boom. I past that all now. No more wars. Too many friends die.”
He grinned, a pained smile, and Mirn sat down. Two veteran soldiers of completely different kinds eyed each other as Hariett exhaled.
“Well…after seeing Silveran’s prices, I don’t think I can afford not to take his work! Dead gods—Silverstache, do you have any time today? My pub is a mess.”
“A mess you say? Well, my good friend Silveran might be here—”
Silverstache whirled around excitedly and then hurried behind a curtain. He re-emerged minus the mustache.
“Hello! I’m Silveran! May I introduce you, Miss Harriett, to [Waterproof Coating]? Free application with every clean!”
Liska was grinning as Hariett hesitated, and Vakki stood there.
“They’re sort of funny, Liska. And I’m real glad everyone’s alright and helping. But d’you think—? Do you think Lizze’s going to be okay? Her fiancé’s coming to check her out, like today! Or his family is!”
She wiped at her eyes as Picker and Silveran turned. Liska hugged Vakki’s shoulders as Mirn got up from his chat with Picker. And then Silveran produced a handkerchief.
“Excuse me, Miss.”
He handed Vakki the handkerchief, and Rose put her hands on her hips.
“Can’t we do something? Or is it just going to be pressure and subtlety, guys?”
“Liska, what is this about?”
Silveran, a former employee of The Wandering Inn, gave Liska a concerned look. She told him some of the details while omitting the bad bit, but the Worker just scratched at his head.
“This reminds me of my time in The Wandering Inn. Sometimes, I miss the crazy. I am sure there is a sensible, logical solution. But have you considered crazy?”
He smiled as they all regarded him. And then Liska saw him wag an antenna at her and grinned.
 
——
 
Shashi, Thaheart, and Ulte were sitting in front of Lizze’s family’s apartment, a bit bored, a bit coinless—wishing they were more hungover. Liska had vanished, and Adrerni had been really upset that they didn’t know where she was.
They were waiting to see Lizze with the vague idea they could help…somehow. Or just throw a rock at her fiancé. And arguing.
“I’m telling you, I saw Orrell. His fur was changed, but I know that face!”
“Spidercrap, Ulte. He left the city, I’m telling you.”
“He was hanging around his home. If it was him—”
They all went silent as a carriage rolled up. The rain was coming down, and Lizze’s fancier apartment that her entire family lived in was aglow with lights. Lizze’s room on the top left window was boarded up.
“Oh shit, it’s him. Let’s get a—”
They fell silent as a cluster of Drakes emerged. They looked disgruntled. One audibly cursed.
“Does it rain forever in this city? I don’t think I can live here. Let alone with—”
They shot a glance down the street. They were definitely outsiders, because one look at an Antinium sweeping the street and they all shuddered. One of the Drakes spat.
“Asses. Look, is that him? Give me a rock.”
“Don’t be stupid, Lizze’s parents know you. They’ll arrest you too, Shashi!”
“But we gotta do something—”
Shashi was going for a loose cobblestone, and Thaheart and Ulte were wrestling with her when someone touched their shoulders.
“Hold on, you kids. Let a master work.”
A blue Drake pulled them back gently, but with incredible strength. They jumped, and Shashi nearly shouted at him to get away when Liska settled down next to them in the alleyway.
“Liska! What’re—”
“Shh.”
Liska, the weird Drake, Miss Hariett, and a really attractive Human all were watching! Thaheart’s mouth dropped open as a young Gnoll with dyed fur appeared.
“O-Orrell—?”
What were they doing here? All of them were waiting and watching the Drakes milling around in the street. One had knocked, and the door was thrown open, and Lizze’s father strode out.
“Hello, hello! Come in! Apologies about the rain—was the trip via Pallass smooth?”
“The door was all delayed. Some kind of staffing issue. And we saw a damn Goblin—er, hello. We have gifts. Where’s the bride-to-be?”
“Just upstairs. Dear? Our guests have arrived.”
There was a scrum at the door as the Drakes tried to get in with some rather large gifts. The fiancé was checking his clothing as someone held an umbrella out over his head, and then he froze. He recoiled, and the Drakes at the door all whirled.
“Dead gods.”
“Ancestors!”
One reached for a belt knife, and Lizze’s father froze. Because an Antinium, the one with the broom, had just walked up. A small group of rather smartly-dressed men and women of all species were standing behind him, all with the same uniform.
“Hello, sir. I’m here for your scheduled cleaning? Silveran’s Cl—”
“Antinium! Get it back!”
The outsiders screamed and tried to run into the apartment or just flee. They backed away in horror as Lizze’s father shouted.
“No, no, it’s just—Silveran’s Cleaners? I didn’t hire you!”
“Did you not, sir? I have an appointment on the books, right here. Oh dear, this happens now and then. I’m so sorry, let me just get my appointment book out.”
Silveran, the titular cleaner and hero of cheap cleaning everywhere, smiled, then noticed the frozen fiancé.
“Oh, hello, sir. I’m Silveran. Do you need anything cleaned? I’m delighted to offer cheap—”
He held out a hand, and the frozen Drake lashed out.
“Monster!”
It wasn’t a great punch, more of a panicked flailing motion. Silveran recoiled in shock, mandibles open, and he probably would have been fine—if he weren’t standing a bit precariously on the steps. And he must have been hit hard because he went tumbling down the stairs.
“Oh! Argh! My shell! My spleen! Aiieee—the pain.”
He landed, and his cleaning team shouted in horror.
“Silveran, sir! Boss!”
“Speak to me! Oh, Ancestors, that was a bad fall!”
“[Healer]! Someone get a—call the Watch!”
Lizze’s father panicked as the rest of his family rushed to the door, and other people began staring at the altercation.
“Wait, wait, it was an accident!”
He turned to the fiancé, but the Drake was backing away.
“Get away from me! I touched it! I need soap! This is the city everyone wants to move to? It’s a nightmare! Are you all insane?”
He began shouting as Silveran’s Cleaners clustered around their fallen leader, who was speaking weakly.
“Pass…my broom on…to the team. Do not weep for me. Tears stain terribly.”
Shashi was open-mouthed. The altercation grew louder, and she realized Orrell was laughing. Laughing? Then she saw Mirn’s grin.
“Unorthodox, but there’s no way to trace that back to us. Just the inn. The other bit’s crazy, though.”
He glanced upwards, and Shashi saw Liska’s eyes were on the apartment. On the boarded-up window. Odd. The light there had gone dark all of a sudden. And…Shashi narrowed her eyes.
They’ve got a back entrance to the apartment, but it was definitely locked. You’d have to have a key to get in.
Or…be good at picking locks. She stared as a little Goblin with pointed ears scurried down the alleyway, then levered something up. Picker dove into the sewers, and a pair of Drakes hesitated. But Lizze leapt in almost as fast, and Vakki was the one who clambered down behind her.
That wasn’t the power of Turnscales. Just The Wandering Inn. Community, wherever you found it. Liska was beaming right up until she groaned.
“Those two are gonna stink like heck. Glad I’m not sheltering them.”
Hariett mock-glowered, then rose.
