“Pinrose’s story.”
Liska was silent.
“I—don’t know. It sucks to not be able to wear flowers. It’s silly to have to want it for years and years and never get to do it because you’re afraid of what people think.”
Mirn winced, but Pinrose was smiling. Liska, flustered, raised her paws.
“I don’t mean that against you, Pinrose! I just mean it sucks because it’s like that.”
“Exactly. It bothers no one except, I suppose, if they have to look at me. But I am keenly aware of what would happen if I wore this in my day-to-day life. Let alone anything more.”
Pinrose put in, and Mirn swabbed the table with a cloth.
“Got a story to share, ‘L’? No pressure.”
Liska hesitated and then shrugged.
“Me? I dunno. I saw two male Drakes kissing in an alleyway one day and I thought I had to try that with a girl. That’s all.”
Everyone laughed at that, but Mirn just hugged Liska, grinning.
“That’s about my story, with a bit more running around trying to find someone to kiss. And being in the army. Good job, kid.”
“For what?”
“Getting a girl to kiss you! Unless Liscor’s so deprived that all eight Turnscales just take turns with each other!”
The [Doorgnoll] grinned.
“Oh, right. I’m great at meeting new girlfriends. I haven’t managed to get anyone like, um, V and her [Lover], though.”
Her face fell as she thought of Shashi, but Pinrose just chuckled and shook his head.
“That’s common, Turnscale or not, Miss L. Believe me, I’ve attended enough of my normal peers’ weddings only to have them divorce in a year or two—but we’re keeping you from the fun.”
“Oh, right. Go wild, kid. Anything goes here, except hard drugs. No Hazyflower, no Selphid Dust, but anything light—you can try it as long as you’re not bringing trouble getting it. Get drunk, kiss someone, but ask first. I don’t care if it’s embarrassing. Also, protection if you need it.”
“Protection? What kind?”
Mirn rubbed at his forehead and showed her an object she definitely wouldn’t need to use any time in her life: a little goatskin condom.
“We had a scare with the Yellow Rivers when it was running around. Not bad, and we got the cure fast, but it had us sweating. Rose was very insistent. Me, I’m more worried about inappropriate relationships.”
“What, here? What kind?”
Mirn gave Liska a level look.
“Anyone who can’t take ‘no’ for an answer, or who gets pushy. Anything you hear about in the fine, ‘normal’ folk—it can happen here. Only, in our community we’re all stuck together so sometimes we tolerate bad behavior too much. Most of us are lovely, decent people. However, there’s always bastards in a group, and I’m the one who deals with them. So if anyone treats you odd—you tell me. Got it?”
She nodded, and his warning made her feel better Mirn had said it. Mirn really was a Sentry, someone who protected a community. Liska turned to Pinrose.
“And are you an Architect, then?”
Pinrose choked on his drink.
“Me? Hardly! Those are big names in the communities, Miss L! I just do tasteful designs and help out here and there.”
“Not everyone’s got to be one of the three, L. It’s hard, dangerous work, and if you’re someone everyone knows, at some point people will come searching for you. I get by because I have the right Skills and I have a system. Miss H over there occupies my role.”
“But she doesn’t do this for us.”
Liska had a plaintive note in her voice as she waved a paw around, and Mirn shrugged.
“Each one to a different style. She does what she can, and anything is better than nothing.”
Liska thought of Hariett’s, which was always open for people and where she went and had met so many girlfriends and friends alike. She sighed.
“I guess. But…”
There was something beautiful about Mirn’s bar, even though Rose had told Liska that it would be torn down after only one meeting, how much work it was to set up. It was so—
Reassuring. As Liska got up, she found that plenty of people her age did leave the dancing or chatter to come to the side. And then they’d wave at someone they knew, or approach an older Turnscale, and…talk.
Sometimes, ask for help. She overheard one Drake younger than she was talking earnestly with a Gnoll who couldn’t be twenty or more.
“I just want to tell my sister.”
“Don’t. You have to be absolutely sure, Necky, and even then…
He had a kiss mark on his neck scales. He hunched over.
“But I just want to—”
“Think about what happens if you’re wrong. Hey, hey, Mirn, can you talk with…?”
The Gnoll waved over Mirn to have a word with Necky, and he was stern, but gentle as he laid out the potential downsides and contrasted it with the upsides. At another table, a Gnoll had a problem, but it wasn’t something so convoluted as her identity.
“I just can’t do this dance routine for school!”
She wailed, and she was almost in tears, apparently a student in, well, school. Half the people at the table turned.
“Hey, Glideclaw, can you give our friend a lesson? You’ll like Glideclaw. She’s the best dancer you’ll ever meet.”
Another Drake who was Liska’s age bounded over, and she moved like something fluid and graceful as the Gnoll girl stood up, in awe. Liska eyed the beautiful [Dancer] and peered for somewhere to put her drink down, because suddenly she wondered if she could buy a drink—for Glideclaw.
However, before she could edge over and turn up the Liska charm, Liska saw Pinrose sitting with Hariett, Rose, and a number of the more responsible, elder Turnscales, and she had to slow to listen in.
“It is getting harder in Liscor. Mostly, it’s the Watch. They’re asking questions. Pallassian doctrine.”
“That’s our fault. Though if you think it’s bad here—the raids have been ten times more frequent than under Chaldion.”
A male Dullahan coughed.
“Under Chaldion recently. He used to be just as bad, if not worse, Pinrose. But it is true. I was told you were low on funds?”
Hariett blushed.
“I…we do well enough, but it’s more of a get-together among older members of the community. The kids run around, and we’re not exactly able to pool our gold. We put money together, but the fine for Miss V, there, that was high.”
“Let’s see if we can’t help with whatever you’re doing. We should have made contact ages ago. But take this, if you need money for bail.”
A Drake pushed over a bag, and Hariett blinked as it opened and gold spilled out. She hesitated, studying him.
“You’re sure?”
He had ostentatious pink scales that were clearly dyed or illusory for the night. And he winked.
“We’ve got a big Architect that can help with this. We don’t waste gold, but our best member is high-level.”
“Anyone seen her lately?”
“She might be laying low. Let’s not talk names yet in front of Miss H.”
“Still, I’d love to attend a meeting in Liscor. But the risk of going through the door…they keep logs.”
“Who can find an excuse that can keep them there? Pinrose?”
“Oh, no. I could never represent us.”
“Why not? What would they do, shame you for not being Turnscale enough? Then they’ve got a problem with all of us—”
Hariett assured Pinrose no one would find anything wrong with him as they gabbled, and he blushed again. So she kissed him on the cheek.
“If you teach me how to do those roses, I’ll put you up in my apartment!”
“I—oh, you flirt. Look at her, she’s trying to sweep me off my feet.”
“Foul! Pinrose is our precious flower, and we won’t have some Liscorian come in and drag him down into degeneracy when we’ve been trying for ages!”
Good-natured laughter, and Hariett snorted.
“This fellow? He’s no shrinking violet; I can tell. As I told Mirn, we don’t quibble over who’s a Turnscale and who’s not. I’ve seen it in other cities, and it’s ugly. Big E, our leader, didn’t want any part of it either.”
Satisfied nods, and Pinkscales nodded as Liska was drawn back over, helplessly, because she wanted to know. Pinrose saw her hovering and pulled out a chair. She sat down, and the adults glanced at her, but no one told her to get lost or that this wasn’t for her. They let her stay.
That meant something.
“Excuse me, um…what do you mean about being a real Turnscale? Like who’s going to ban Pinrose? Sorry if that’s a stupid question.”
Liska mumbled, but the others just nodded at her, and Pinkscales explained.
“I’m Roseblush. Don’t laugh at the name; I chose it twenty years ago.”
“You’ve been here twenty years?”
He flashed a grin at her.
“Oh, yes. This community is centuries old, didn’t you know? One of the longest even in the Walled Cities.”
“Though no one knows how long we’ve been around in one form or another. I speculate from our records it could be thousands of years. Tens of thousands.”
Another Drake put in, and the male Dullahan rolled his eyes.
“You want to believe it. You’ve got no proof, Quilly. To answer your question, Miss. Sometimes, certain members of the community are not…believed like the others. Such as Pinrose, who isn’t as obviously Turnscale as, say, Roseblush.”
“Or anyone who takes both sides of the scale. Flipscales, they’re called. But I think that’s splitting hairs. Is it any less dangerous or makes you less of what we are to want it all ways?”
“Makes it easier to hide who you are if you can just turn it off.”
“But you can’t turn it off, you’re just staying on the safe half that people tell you to! It’s not fair. As for those who feel all switched up inside—Switchscales, they’re called, young woman—”
“Shh, don’t confuse the new girl with all the politics. That’s the saddest part of communities fighting. We’re all open-minded at Mirn’s bar. Other communities in Pallass? Less so.”
Liska turned from face to face.
“No, I want to know! What’s a Switchscale? There are other communities?”
The Dullahan, who looked like a big, stereotypical Dullahan aside from how he talked, winked at Liska, and his face was more animated and friendly as more people scooted in. Roseblush instantly sat on the Dullahan’s lap and wiggled around innocently. Several of the adults rolled their eyes. Pinrose pinched Roseblush.
“Behave in front of the kids.”
Liska was as wide-eyed as Vakki, who’d come over with Glideclaw of all people. Liska instantly got distracted and shyly waved at the [Dancer], who smiled back. Vakki winked at Liska.
Vakki was awesome. Liska’s best friend. The Dullahan, who just called himself Bigarmor, explained.
“Switchscales confuse me, and I’ll let Mirn explain that. But other communities? Certainly. We know for a fact there are a few of the high-ranking members of Pallass who know each other. Whether or not they meet, they have an arrangement. Nothing to do with us.”
The other Turnscales glowered. Liska ventured a guess.
“Because they’re important and it’s risky to talk to them?”
“Because they do nothing. They’re content to pass laws that harm us or let the Watch arrest and beat us, so long as they’re safe. And other groups just can’t stand the risk of meeting like we do. Don’t trust new, young members to keep their mouths shut. It is risky. We have to fight to keep our bar alive. We’ve had to fight more and more. It’s feeling like the old days under younger Chaldion again.”
That comment from Roseblush made everyone go quiet. Liska couldn’t believe her ears.
“You fight? The Watch?”
“The Watch, soldiers—it’s not us. It’s our Architect. She can clear…”
“I still think we shouldn’t escalate. If we just cleared out faster—”
That came from Pinrose, and Roseblush pointed a claw at him.
“Respectfully, lovely ‘Rose, the Watch is a bully. They never stop. I was a kid growing up in the old days, and when the Watch hauled you in, everyone ran because they’d get names out of anyone they tortured. Tortured. These days, it’s different because we pushed back, but if it comes to getting caught or running, you fight. Because it’s all over once they parade your name out; even if they let you go…”
Pinrose touched something on his belt.
“I know. I know, Roseblush. I guess I’ve just been in denial. I don’t want it to get worse.”
Roseblush embraced Pinrose and spoke, burying his head against the other Drake’s shoulder.
“Me neither. I’m not brave as she is. I don’t want it either. But we can’t let them think they can just bash their way in and grab us all. Because they will. They have to think twice. If the rank-and-file boots don’t hesitate, they’re a minute faster to storm a bar or run down some poor kid on the street. And then they catch more of us.”
Everyone was nodding. Another Garuda turned to Liska and Vakki, not quite changing the subject but trying to lighten the mood.
“It’s not all fighting with the Watch, kids. We’re just the biggest group, so we’re the nail that stands out. There might be dozens of groups like us in Pallass alone.”
“That’s an exaggeration.”
“Is it? How many Turnscales are there in a city? One in a hundred? One in a thousand? For a city of so many millions—”
“How many Turnscales are out there and never know who they are? Or are too scared to admit it?”
Hariett murmured into her drink, and everyone fell silent. Liska was glancing at Vakki, and both of them shared a thought.
I wish I had come here years ago. If Liska could have come to a bar like this, once a week, to just…ask questions or meet people, somewhere where it wasn’t embarrassing or—or strange.
That was it. Even with her friends, if she was too obvious about flirting with Shashi in public, someone would warn her, or they might give each other samples of the latest trends, but no one was like—Roseblush.
Or experimental like Loverbird painting nails or claws. There was something else here, and Liska didn’t know the word for it. Rose did.
“This is real gay culture, Liska. Like the old speakeasies in my home, but—different. Fewer good drinks, for one.”
Everyone chortled at this, and Mirn came over to slap one of the pub’s menus on Rose’s head.
“You ingrates! Rose, go relieve Bouncer, would you? She’s been standing watch for hours; she should have asked to trade off. Who’s volunteering to watch the door?”
“That’s me.”
Glideclaw leapt up, and Liska half-rose.
“I could, um, help too. I’m good with entrances.”
Pinrose raised his brows, but Glideclaw smiled at Liska, and the Gnoll followed. Rose was speaking louder as the others heckled her gently.
“No, see, this is what I’m talking about. You don’t think you have it, but you do. We have to organize! Liscor’s the first step!”
