“Young people missing the community is all too common. Clearly, no one’s spoken to Vakki either. She was going to haul off and try and break Lizze out. Or stab Lizze’s father to death.”
Elirr winced, but nodded at Liska.
“Thank you for helping pay for her fine, Liska. I would have put money in to cover it before the deadline, but it is hard.”
“I’ve, um, got more gold. I can give it whenever there’s a problem. Tons!”
Miss Hariett’s brows rose, but she held out a claw.
“Give me what you can spare, Liska, and I’ll put it away for moments like these. I won’t squander it, I swear.”
Liska all but emptied her coin pouch, and Rose eyed Hariett.
“No offense, but do you have any bona fides, Miss Hariett? I want to trust everyone, but I’ve heard of there being predatory members of the community.”
Liska bit her tongue. That was a heck of a thing to say to Hariett! But Elirr just nodded approvingly.
“Good. I vouch for Miss Hariett. And she’ll report what Liska did to the others when we meet. No names; we try to avoid knowing too much. But we do keep records.”
“Oh, good. Sorry, Miss Hariett. It’s just that my person says…”
“He sounds like an excellent Sentry, Miss Rose. No offense taken.”
Liska stuck up a paw.
“Excuse me, what’s a Sentry?”
Everyone re-focused on her, and Elirr nodded and smoothed his greying fur out.
“Let me start from the beginning, Liska, with apologies. The simplest way to say things is that in Drake society, people who find themselves outcast or who cannot share who they are easily…form communities. They must, to survive. Not just for fear of being found out, but because it is hard for us, yes? Community provides comfort, monetary help, assistance in many forms. But we must be secret and organized. So there are ranks within our communities.”
Hariett put in quickly.
“Nothing so fancy as how the Watch or military does it. Most of us are just…people getting by. But there are three types to know. Masons, Sentries, and Architects. Someone who builds up the community by helping individuals out—that’s a Mason. I’m one of them. Someone who protects people from harm, who takes the big risks to protect people in active danger—that’s a Sentry. We don’t have many of those in Liscor. The last is the person who’s trying to advance something for us as a whole. Big picture stuff. Ever since Elirr became a Councilmember, that’s him.”
The Gnoll nodded as Liska’s jaw dropped, trying to process all this.
“Not that I can do much overtly. We must be careful, cautious, and unified. But that is what we are, Liska.”
“So you adults have been looking out for us?”
But where were you when the Watch was after us? As if she could read Liska’s mind and the hurt on the Gnoll’s face, Hariett hung her head.
“We can watch out, but we’re afraid to trust young folk a lot of the time, Liska. You do talk—and if a scared kid is forced to confess by their family or the Watch? We have to be careful. For you, it’s an arrest and fine. For us? We lose everything if we’re found out. It’s being shunned, exiled, or worse.”
“Lynch mobs. I thought that this world couldn’t be that bad, not with so many species and monsters and stuff. Not with all this magic. Why’d it have to be the same as Earth in this area? Worse.”
Rose murmured. Elirr’s brows rose.
“You come from a third community we don’t know, Miss Rose. I would like to hear of this, yes? But first, Hariett said you were in Pallass?”
“That’s right. I know one of the top Sentries there. I’d like to invite Hariett to a party he hosts regularly. A moving bar.”
Hariett whistled.
“Risky. Do they not have a permanent place…? No, I heard the Watch raids them. It’s far, far worse than Liscor, isn’t it?”
Rose nodded, jaw set, but miserable.
“They hate people like us there. It used to be better before Chaldion lost power, I heard. I mean, it’d still get bad at times, but right now, it’s all General Edellein, that bastard. He’s super anti-us. Because they know the bar is running, they want to find it and arrest everyone.”
Elirr rumbled as Liska stared at Rose in horror.
“I cannot go. But if Hariett goes and reports back, we’ll try to make contact. Safety is the watchword always. Now, Liska. You know Liscor well enough. And I know your friends are mostly like us. If we think we can trust them and you vouch for them, we will consider having introductions made. But as someone who was not in this community, tell us. How can we help, and where were we missing as you grew up? After Az’kerash, the entire city was chaos and the Silverfangs were just coming in. But now we have something like a community, and with all these people…”
They were getting into it and treating Liska like she was an important new member of this…this community. Liska was so confused, so oddly gratified that this even existed, she didn’t notice anything else until Rose half-shifted in her chair.
“Someone’s coming.”
Elirr fell silent at once. Hariett hooked her thumb-claws in her belt.
“I told them to leave us alone. Don’t say a word…”
Someone hammered on the door as she rose, and Liska’s heart hammered too. But the voice was from the [Barman] from yesterday.
“Hariett! Hariett! Trouble.”
“What kind?”
The Drake was tense, and the Gnoll replied, breathless.
“Watch Captain Zevara just walked into the pub. She’s wearing a cloak, but it’s obvious it’s her! She sat down, and she’s looking around! Is there a crime happening or is it…?”
Elirr’s fur was standing on end, and Rose blinked.
“Zevara? Is she hunting for us? She—she wouldn’t, right?”
It was Liska who felt a pit in her stomach open up. She cleared her throat as Hariett began asking questions.
“Oh no. I think she’s following me. Maybe she overheard us last night, Rose!”
Hariett and Elirr spun. The [Pub Owner]’s face was suddenly filled with betrayal. She staggered away from Liska.
“You brought the Watch here?”
The young Gnoll woman waved her paws frantically.
“Nononono—I didn’t! But she knew I was a you-know-what, and she wanted to know more about us. Do you think she could have overheard…?”
Hariett half-spun to Elirr.
“Elirr, you need to get out of here now!”
“I’m going, I’m going.”
He put a hood up over his head, and Hariett hissed at Liska.
“If she’s here for you, then we’ll go out there and distract her while Elirr slips out the back.”
Rose was on her feet.
“Hariett, I am so sorry, I had no idea—”
The way the others were reacting had Liska’s stomach in her boots. Hariett shot Liska a look.
“It sounds like you didn’t know, and this is exactly the thing we worry about. Liska is the one in danger. I’ll…Zevara must think you’re here to learn something. I’ll put myself out there. Have a conversation with her.”
Elirr whirled.
“Hariett, you will not!”
The Drake was hyperventilating a bit.
“She never sniffed us out before. She might just think Liska’s here to meet someone and not pay much else attention. But we can’t have her take a close look at the children. Elirr! I’m turning off the [Safe Space] Skill. That’ll keep everyone away. I’ll feel her out. Got it?”
He gave her such a grave look that Liska began to feel more alarmed. It was just Captain Zevara. She was a good person. But Hariett was trembling, and Elirr…he just took her claws with his paws.
“Cities of hate turn on your scales, Hariett. I’ll watch for you. I’m sorry—”
He moved towards the door, and Hariett stepped back, taking huge breaths.
“I’m really sorry, Hariett. I can try to get rid of Zevara. What can we do?”
Liska got up, mumbling. The [Pub Owner] shot Liska a worried smile.
“Just…hope, Liska. Not every ‘normal’ citizen wants to expose us or kill us. But they don’t understand. And we Drakes hate what we don’t understand. Just…if it goes bad, Elirr, Vakki’s at my apartment. She’s got nowhere to stay.”
She took a deep breath, and Elirr stood there, face shadowed, as Rose and Liska turned from Hariett to Elirr. And then how it was hit Liska.
This is not better for adults. It’s scarier, worse. Rose seemed like she understood. But she seemed sick. Like a nightmare she’d been told as a kid had come back and become reality.
They left the backrooms, and Elirr put a paw on the doorknob to the back entrance as he watched the three women heading to the inn. He stared out the peephole drilled in the back door, then froze.
“Oh no. Oh nononono—”
He backed up fast. Then turned and dashed after Hariett. This was far worse than they’d thought.
He feared none of them were going to make it out of here safely.
 
——
 
Hariett’s Pub. Interesting. Watch Captain Zevara wore her raincloak over her head, sitting and sipping at a cheap ale and being unobtrusive as possible.
She felt bad about this, but she had to know. Turnscales were an issue she had to settle in her mind if she took on this new role. She had weird hints she was missing pieces of the puzzle with them. She was just re-investigating the facts, here, like a good [Detective] should.
She was uncomfortable, of course. Turnscales. Deviant acts. What was the difference between arresting someone for exposing themselves in public and a Turnscale…?
I have to gather information first. Liska’s a good kid. She’s been violent towards the Watch, but she faced the Goblin King. Listen to your gut: there’s a story here.
She just hoped she could eavesdrop on this conversation she’d heard Rose and Liska talking about. Another Turnscale?
Odd. From Zevara’s memory as a [Guardswoman], Harriett’s Pub was not a bad joint at all. It wasn’t the best, but it had a younger crowd in the day and a very polite, adult one at night.
She’d never had a problem coming from here. Which, in hindsight, was a bit odd. No drunk fights, even once? No calls for the Watch for a petty [Thief] or anything else? Every establishment that served alcohol that Zevara had ever been to had needed her help at least once over the years.
But not Miss Hariett. Indeed, when Zevara saw Liska, Rose, and Hariett stepping out of the back rooms, she casually sat back in her chair.
Liska and Rose are pretty young. If Miss Hariett’s a…could she be dragging them down into something nefarious? Criminal types did that all the time. Corruption classes and Skills. Nasty stuff.
Of course, Zevara knew Turnscales. Everyone denied being one; you’d get someone admitting to being in a gang before that. They were low on her tail-kicking list, but that was just because she’d grown up battling Soot’s gangs and the like, who did kill people.
Turnscales. Senior Guardswoman Zevara could have given a lecture to some rookies on the subject. Turnscales were all racketeering. Trafficking too.
Old, predatory creeps—either gender—who you had to catch dragging some innocent kid into a life working as a [Prostitute]. She’d arrested a decent number of those. Could Liska be in danger? This was why it was important for Zevara to follow her; she might just be a kid who liked kissing other girls, but there was danger here, Zevara knew.
But Hariett’s bar. Could Hariett be…? No, Zevara had no proof. And she didn’t want to believe nefarious things about anyone. She just didn’t know what this all was. However, she watched out of the corner of her eye as the three whispered, and then Liska strode over. Act natural. Keep your cover. Wait, was Liska—
“Watch Captain, what are you doing?”
Liska grabbed Zevara and began shaking her repeatedly. Zevara rattled around in her chair.
“Argh. How’d you find me? I was just—I’m just investigating, Liska! I had to! You’re my only lead!”
“You’re as obvious as Apista stealing a burger! Everyone can see a [Guardswoman] a mile away! Look, everyone’s leaving!”
Actually, Zevara had wondered why all the young people were giving her the side-eye, and there had been a definite shift towards people waving for the bill. She protested.
“I’m not trying to arrest or get anyone in trouble! This is a fact-finding mission, Liska. If you’d cooperated—”
“Wow. So we’re in trouble because we’re not bending over backwards to help you? Also, who investigates people without anything to hide? I’m beginning to think Kevin’s stance on cops is right.”
Rose was just as hostile as Liska as she slid into a chair at the table. Zevara hesitated.
“I’m just…educating myself.”
“By spying on people? Is that lawful?”
Somehow, the Watch Captain felt like she’d stepped on a landmine spell. Why the hell are you being so defensive? She wanted to snap that at the two young women. People who weren’t guilty shouldn’t act like they had something to hide! She bared her teeth.
“Listen. If things were all above-board, you’d be willing to sit down and give me a basic run-down on what I need to know. Why are you so paranoid and hostile?”
“Possibly, Watch Captain, because both young women are aware of what happens when things go poorly. And I might add, the Watch does not have a history of being kind to people like us. Like me. You wanted a conversation? You’ll have it. But please, leave my two friends alone.”
Pub Owner Hariett stood in front of the table, and Zevara looked her up and down, incredulous. So this was a Turnscale. It wasn’t just a kid-thing. She didn’t look…
No, Zevara had met people who ran tidy businesses and had all kinds of dark secrets in the back. Zevara held out a clawed hand.
“Watch Captain Zevara, Miss Hariett. I’m just here to get my perspective straight.”
Rose winced.
“Yeah, you’re as straight as a ruler, Zevara.”
That sounded vaguely like an insult, but Hariett just flicked her eyes to Rose. Then she turned to Zevara, and she didn’t smile. She put her claws on her hips, and whatever Zevara had expected, or even Liska or Rose…the look of pure animosity that came from Hariett made Zevara’s claw twitch towards her sword handle.
“I’d prefer to have a conversation in private if we must, Watch Captain. And let me be very clear: this is my pub. Touch either girl here or anyone of my clients and I will scream bloody murder to the streets. I would appreciate you walking out the door, but your kind never does, do they? I just hope you don’t end up getting anyone killed…today.”
Even Liska seemed vaguely shocked by Hariett’s tone. It certainly put Zevara on the back foot.
“Whatever you think I’m here to do, Miss Hariett, I assure you, I’ve just come as a private citizen.”
“Oh, in that case, get out of my pub.”
Hariett jerked a thumbclaw towards the door. Zevara hesitated.
“Let me rephrase. I’m conducting an inv…I’m fact-seeking without any actual suspicion of a crime being committed.”
