“I’m sure if that moment came, it would make you feel better, Watch Captain. But this isn’t a theft from Antinium, and the Watch has never been helpful in my books.”
Liska and Rose’s heads swung to Zevara, and the Watch Captain hesitated. Grimaced, then saluted again, schooling her face to impassiveness.
“—I see. I may return with questions, but I believe I need to have an urgent meeting with Watch Commander Venim. Would that be acceptable?”
“I suppose it must be. If you could be discreet, Watch Captain?”
“Of course. Excuse me.”
The Watch Captain turned on her heel, put her hood up against the rain, and walked out the front of the inn. Hariett walked over to the door, watching through a window as the Watch Captain splashed off. Then she turned.
“Tell, send a Street Runner to everyone who should know about the Watch’s new inspections. We should have a get-together.”
“Your place later?”
The [Bartender] glanced up as Hariett gazed towards Elirr, who’d poked his head up from behind the bar.
“That might be…”
“My shop. We’ll talk—later, Hariett.”
“Catch me up, and try to keep things calm. Sounds like this will stop. For today, at least.”
She forced a smile and then turned. The Drake woman took a huge breath, then forced a grin.
“I have time for this meeting, Miss Rose, if it’s acceptable. You might want to check in, first.”
“Oh, no, I already cleared it with—um, them.”
Rose began, but Hariett took her arm and squeezed gently, nodding at the door.
“You may want to re-clear it, Rose.”
Because the Watch Captain of Liscor knows who I am. Liska saw Elirr striding into the rain, followed by Tell, the Gnoll [Bartender]. And then…Hariett stood there, alone. Her claws were trembling, but she hid it by putting them in her pockets.
“You two scat. Nothing like the Watch to scare off all the kids smoking Dreamleaf or skiving off their apprenticeships.”
Rose nodded and backed up.
“I’ll just—come to the inn tonight. We can get you some free food and drinks even if—um, sorry.”
“I’m sorry too. I really didn’t know…”
Liska began, but Hariett just shook her head, a far-off look in her eyes.
“That’s why we’re cautious, Liska. I doubt you’d have been able to shake the good Watch Captain even if you tried. Just…it’s quite alright.”
Rose went for the doors, nothing left to say. And Liska?
She felt like she always did when Lyonette and Ishkr put their heads together. Or how she normally felt. Like a fish watching bigger events passing by her. Vast shadows of uncertainty and stress she liked to ignore. She had the intense desire to grab a bowl of chips, sit on the couch, and watch the television and not know what was…
It was her day off. Hariett was straightening a few chairs when she realized Liska wasn’t going for the doors.
“Anything else, Liska?”
“Um—I—”
Liska had nothing to say. No wisdom. She really didn’t know what was going on.
She never did.
 
——
 
“Liska?”
Miss Hariett prompted her again after six minutes of clearing up tables and chairs. Not that she didn’t have help, but it was settling her nerves. Or she was pretending it was helping. She turned, and the young Gnoll was still standing there.
“Um, I…um—well, that was bad, right?”
Where did you begin with her? Hariett opened her mouth and then, with practiced deftness, avoided snapping and put herself in Liska’s boots. She nodded as she found a mop.
“It wasn’t good. New protocols in place. Even if Watch Captain Zevara puts an end to it today, it’s a change in Liscor. We’ll be fine. We have our own protocols.”
“Your claws are shaking, Miss Hariett.”
The [Pub Owner] scowled.
“When did you become so observant? It’s fine, really. I’m just going to clean up and check on Vakki. Poor girl. I’ll have to leave her with someone. Tell, maybe, though he’s got a one-bedroom apartment. I’ll sort that out, see if Rose’s friends want me, and my schedule’s cleared.”
Her voice was light, airy, and she glanced at the door. Tried to motion Liska out with her [Nudge Customers] Skill.
It bounced off Liska’s fortress of obtrusiveness. The [Doorgnoll] was pressing her chin against the inside of her thumb and forefinger, doing a bit of deep thinking.
“…You’re free because Zevara knows your identity. And—and Elirr didn’t invite you to the secret meeting because everyone’s worried you’re going to get arrested?”
Hariett’s stomach flip-flopped, and she glowered.
“That’s only a remote possibility. You heard Zevara.”
“But that’s what’s going on, right? I don’t get things, normally, but that’s what that was? And you were so—mean to her! You were chewing her out!”
Annoyed, Hariett stopped mopping mud. She’d lost her head, honestly. She’d expected Zevara to arrest her on the spot, and then to see her call off that patrol…even so, she wasn’t going to let that lie.
She snapped at Liska.
“If you’re going to stand there and natter questions at me, grab a mop and help, would you?”
Liska did, and as they swished on the floor, Hariett spoke, heart still racing.
“I did lose my temper there. I shouldn’t have, but—Zevara deserved everything I said to her and more. I nearly decked her since I thought she’d haul me off like…”
“But she’s Watch Captain Zevara! Didn’t you see her arresting those stupid idiots from Fissival? She defends Antinium! Heck, she’s always fair!”
Liska was astounded. Hariett spat, then had to mop it up.
“Fair. Liska, she’s fairer to Antinium—Antinium—than she is to us. You think I was exaggerating? It’s true her Watch isn’t as hard on us as most cities, but I have known friends who have been exiled or killed because she had them arrested. Public indecency. Being a…she’s got our blood on her claws.”
“She doesn’t. She’s only arrested me a few times, and I hit Watch officers—”
Hariett spun. She grabbed Liska’s arm, and the young woman was bigger than her, taller, but she flinched, and Hariett wished she could turn off the look in her eyes. Years of fear and hurt and—
“I know you like her, Liska. And I hope she stays friends with you if that changes her. I’ll try to be nice, for all our sakes. But when you see how many lives she’s torn up by enforcing the law she thinks is so shiny and perfect—I hope you can keep smiling at her.”
That shook Liska. The young [Doorgnoll] kept mopping, but there wasn’t any real point; it was a mess, and Hariett couldn’t focus on cleaning. She tossed the mop down with a grunt.
“My floors are a mess. I’ll need to get Silveran’s Cleaners in here. Damn Bootheads stomping in here—the Watch never uses welcome mats.”
“Oh, um, should I get—?”
Then a new voice interrupted, a familiar drawl that made Hariett’s scales creep.
“Terrible things, those boots. I could get a fellow to do the cleaning cheap, Miss Hariett. ‘Scuse me. Just thought I’d drop in to apologize for the surprise.”
She swung around as Liska jumped and saw a Drake with oily-yellow scales standing there. Unlike whatever look Noiraid or Zevara liked to play into, he didn’t wear a stupid trenchcoat in the rains, just lightweight, black clothing that was oiled and shed water onto her floors.
Of all the things—she motioned for Liska to get back, but Liska just blinked at the intruder.
“Lable. I thought I was supposed to get warnings about trouble?”
He coughed into a fist, looking uncomfortable.
“The Watch moved fast. We were getting our own people out of the way…they didn’t exactly announce where they were going. All’s well that’s ended well. What was Watch Captain Zevara doing here?”
Oh, so that was it. Now they were in trouble, but Hariett been in trouble before, and she spoke with a casual briskness.
“A lucky break for us all: she was following Miss Liska.”
The Drake blinked, recognized Liska, then nodded to her. He didn’t have a cap to tip.
“The [Doorgnoll]. Hallo, Miss.”
Liska tilted her head. She recognized Lable for what he was, too, but she was confused.
“You’re not a Brother. They have hats.”
He stiffened at that, and a snarl crossed his mouth, revealing a scar on his gums running up his upper mouth.
“I’m not a damn—right, right, you know them from the inn. ‘Scuse me. I’m just having a word with Miss Hariett here. So it was just a coincidence?”
Hariett put her hands on her hips.
“She’s after me, Lable. Me and my people, not yours. Tell you what; how about we cancel our little arrangement for a month or two? She’ll be back, but I’m just going to have to explain my peculiarities.”
“Oh. Uncomfortable. But she’s not arresting you?”
“She’s curious.”
The Drake made the same face Hariett did.
“No such thing as a curious [Guardsman]. Just one that hasn’t decided to arrest you yet. But if you’re discreet—”
“Do you think I’m stupid? Go into the back and get your things. I’m no fool, Lable. Or did you think she’d walk away and tell that patrol to walk out if she’d found your things?”
He sucked on his teeth, not quite pleased, then jerked his head.
“We’ll do that. Just you remember to keep your lips shut, eh? And once we do get back to business, we’ll keep everyone informed in case the Watch decides to do that again.”
“For an extra silver per month?”
He spread his arms theatrically as two more Drakes stomped into the pub out of the rain.
“Money don’t rain down like…rain, Miss Hariett.”
“Odd how you think we have so much, then!”
He didn’t respond, and she grabbed Liska and towed her aside.
“Alright, we wait for them to go, and then you and I split, got it?”
“Who were they? They were criminals! You work with criminals?”
Liska was wide-eyed, and Hariett hissed at her.
“Don’t look at their faces! Lable’s just checking because the Watch spooked him. Damn idiots. I pay them so I don’t get trouble, and this is what I get?”
She shot a glower at the trio carrying boxes out, and Lable paused at the door.
“Oh, and just thought I’d mention one thing. If you, ah, get another offer from a competing gang, just remember how good we’ve been to you. You don’t want trouble, and them hat-boys can’t be everywhere.”
“It never crossed my mind. Liska’s not involved with you lot.”
“Yeah. Sure.”
The [Rogue] eyed Liska, who waved at him.
“I just send people places.”
Lable spat on the floor.
“You mind sending less men with hats into the city? Forget about it.”
He slammed the door, and Hariett debated scolding Liska about the smart comments, but she was actually impressed; the girl had a lot of poise, and she might have unnerved Lable’s crew. She sat back against a table.
“At least I won’t have to pay them off for a bit.”
“So you do work with—”
Hariett glowered.
“Yes, Liska, I do! Because my pub needs to be safe, and because we are not friendly with the Watch—who do you think I turn to for help?”
“But he was all shady! And not the cool kind like the Brothers—”
Liska protested. Hariett sighed.
“He’s a snake, but he knows who I am, and he’s not stupid enough to ruin a good thing. That’s how it works, Liska. If I were to suddenly want to stop paying money, he’d probably put a worm in some [Guard]’s ear to investigate me. At least he doesn’t know anyone else. Our distinguished friend you met is an upstanding citizen as far as Lable’s lot is concerned, and we’re keeping it that way. It’s not fun being…us.”
Watch breathing down your necks and gangs plucking from your pocket. That was just life, but Liska’s glimpse into it left her so stricken that Hariett felt guilty. She pushed Liska gently.
“Look, it’s fine. This has been a bad day by any standard. Just go home, please?”
So saying, the Drake woman strode off. Hariett locked the back door, flipped the sign to ‘closed’, and was closing up. Only when she turned and saw Liska standing behind her did she jump.
“Liska—what are you doing?”
“I dunno. What happens next?”
“What…I’m going to go about my day, pretend things are fine, and so are you. If something happens, it won’t be now.”
Hariett snapped. Liska stared at her.
“Can I see Vakki?”
“I—well, she is your friend—don’t you have things to do?”
Hariett spluttered, and Liska looked around. She scratched her stomach as rainwater dribbled down onto her shoulder.
“It’s my day off. And I’m worried about Vakki. So, like, what happens if Zevara does something bad?”
Hariett went striding off, motioning for Liska to keep her voice down. And she realized, belatedly, that Liska’s lack of any kind of involvement with her might have been a blessing over the years. As Liska’s girlfriends or Ishkr could tell you, she did get obstinate when she focused on something.
 
——
 
Vakki and Lizze, the [Lover] duo of Liska’s friend group, were a year younger than Liska. They were an interesting couple. Lizze was the one who looked like she’d stab someone, not Vakki. She was tall for a Drake her age, slightly overweight, and often smelled like dust from her part-time job powdering Corusdeer horns or processing monster parts; she was a [Grinder], only Level 11.
Vakki was the slimmer, shorter Drake who got catcalled and hissed at by Gnolls and Drakes alike. She was also the sweeter one of the two—
Well, normally.
She had a knife. She hid the knife when she heard the two voices coming up the stairs to Hariett’s apartment.
“—then I’d leave the city before trouble got me.”
“Leave? Just like that?”
“Yes. I know it sounds radical; plenty stay. But when you’ve seen how bad it gets…you leave. Liska, it’s fine. I doubt Zevara will tell anyone.”
“But what if the inspections continue?”
“…Well, then, we’ll have to take countermeasures and it’s bad. We hope that the gangs will make it so unpopular they stop.”
“So Pallass has them all the time?”
“Yes—hold on. Vakki? We’re coming in, dear. Are you in there?”
“Yep!”
Vakki had put the knife down the back of her pants. When the door opened, she blinked.
“Liska?”
“Hey, Vakki! I, uh, I had a day off, and I just heard about the thing with Lizze. Sorry. I mean…sorry.”
Liska perked up and then wilted at once before blurting out everything obvious. Classic Liska. But she seemed…older? Vakki didn’t know. She glanced at Hariett. Both seemed worried about something.
“Everything okay? Shouldn’t you be at work, Miss Hariett?”
Vakki had just been about to slip out, having thought the pub would be open all day. Hariett glanced at Vakki.
“We had a situation at the pub. Liska, close the door, would you?”
“Oh, right. That’s like my entire job. Um…so, Vakki. How’s Lizze?”
“Crying. I don’t know; they said they’d arrest me if I even got near her again. How do you think?”
