Such was the currency Erin Solstice had greased the wheels of Pallass with. When she had died, when she had gone off to fight wars and left her inn, the free food had stopped—but by that point, the 8th Floor Door Checkpoint had hawkers waiting for people to come through, a lounge area for important guests to wait for the ten minute window, and the [Guards] got other perks of the job like any contraband they confiscated from people going through the checkpoints. It hadn’t been the same, but some of them, especially Kel, had missed the days when he could get a free cup of tea, a snack, and chat when Erin Solstice was around.
Of course, he denied that vehemently when anyone brought it up. Yet those days? They’d come again. Just not as you expected.
 
——
 
“Hello, Miss Lyonette!”
“I’m terribly sorry, Watch Captain. But the door’s having issues; our regular [Doorgnoll] is out on leave, and we have some delays.”
Lyonette du Marquin recognized Watch Captain Qissa coming through the door and instantly apologized, but the Watch Captain, a female Drake, had a strained smile on her face.
And—a basket of goodies, including snacks, a cold-potion tonic, bath soaps, scented candles, and a second basket filled with Liska’s favorite snacks from the hawkers outside. Qissa hadn’t even had to pay for the second basket; the hawkers had tossed it in, gratis.
“Not at all, Miss Solstice! Not at all! This is just a gift in recognition of The Wandering Inn’s hard work. And, uh, how is Miss Liska? Not sick, I hope? We have [Healers]…I could see if Healer Demerra is free.”
Lyonette blinked as she tried to accept the basket; Xinthe and another member of staff rushed over to take them from the fragile [Princess]. Behind Lyonette, there were no less than eighteen employees trying to organize guests, clean, and recharge the door all at once.
“Healer…Demerra? I wouldn’t want to bother such an important Gnoll. Liska’s just having a day off.”
“Ah. Er, of course. Common, are they?”
“Well, as common as anyone taking a day off, Watch Captain.”
Qissa was no idiot. She’d been through this door before, and she’d heard about Liska from her reports. She and Lyonette both glanced at the empty couch where Liska was normally lying about. Neither one wanted to say it, but Qissa had her orders, and Lyonette had a problem. They smiled toothily.
“Well, I’m sure a day off is understandable. Er, one. How many days off does she have banked?”
“Er…quite a lot.”
Lyonette replied slowly. Qissa’s eyes shifted to the door, which changed to Esthelm. Instantly, half the crowd surged forwards, even if it was the wrong location, and the other people tried to run through. The door went dead, and Peggy threw up her hands. Qissa licked her lips.
“I see. Well, I’d just like Liska to know we in Pallass miss her, and we have some coupons for after she finishes work, you know? Shops, the bathhouses?”
Qissa edged back towards Pallass’ door with a note to say they needed a third gift basket to remind Liska why she loved her work. Only to realize…she was stuck here. Qissa stared as Asgra slapped some magicore on the side of the door and watched the runny, magical stone oozing down the side. Asgra turned.
“Hey! Where Liska? This not working, Lyonette!”
The [Princess]’ mouth was pressed shut, and she peered around for Ishkr. He was just standing there, and he glanced at Lyonette and shared a thought with her.
Liska was essential. More than anyone realized.
But they’d be damned if they wanted Liska to know that. It was so—well—when you thought about it, she had faced the Goblin King herself. She hadn’t been here as long as Ishkr, but she’d worked as hard as he did. They were related.
Yet surely—
If they just improved their processes—
“We’re late for work! Get that Gnoll back, you idiots!”
Someone screamed at Lyonette the moment the [Door of Portals] reactivated, and Lyonette recoiled. Ishkr began trying to take charge, and Lyonette raised her hands, working to restore order. It was just a day off.
Who could have foreseen this?
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn, kitchen. Calescent was grinding his patented death spices up. A new blend. He had on gloves and goggles over his eyes; noseplugs in. He was also flirting for all he was worth.
“Eh, more habaneros? More?”
He was elbowing an embarrassed half-Elf, who had just dumped forty-six more habaneros into a grinding bowl. She was reducing the peppers into a paste, and her name was Elia Arcsinger.
SLAYER OF THE GOBLIN KING. ANNIHILATOR OF GOBLIN TRIBES. NEMESIS OF GOBLINS.
Currently being elbowed by a Goblin [Spice Chef] as she helped him work on a new spice mix which he’d promised to whip up into her favorite spicy dishes. She elbowed him back, professional.
“I just think it’ll taste good. And something sweet? Chutney?”
“Oh, yah. For flavor.”
None of that bad spice stuff for them. They liked it hot, but Calescent had standards. Most ‘spicy’ stuff made for the sake of being spicy was just heat without flavor. He wanted your tastebuds to explode with flavor and heat.
“Maybe we should make some fancy flatbread with the scraps. Is very in these days. Flatbread.”
“Really?”
“Oh, yeah. Imani told me. Everyone can make fancy rising bread. So what’s new? Flatbread. You, uh, want to make some dough with me? Great snack.”
“Oh, I don’t know. I’m going to gain weight, and I have work—”
“This is important work! C’mon, you can show me more half-Elven bread. Is pretty good.”
“Pretty good? Only pretty good?”
That barbed Elia slightly, and Calescent grinned.
“Well, what you showed me is ‘pretty good’. You want ‘great’? Show me more.”
“I could do that! I haven’t even baked half the recipes I know! But see here, Calescent, I have to work! And to practice my archery! I can’t take too much time from my morning. Let alone to—to try Dreamleaf in the lounge for hours!”
“Oh, sure. No Dreamleaf today. That was just for fun. We’re not Palt.”
“Of course not. We’re professional.”
“Very professional. Say, you want to watch a movie tonight?”
“A movie? Calescent, I’m—well, which one? I swear I’ve seen all the ones everyone talks about.”
He waggled his eyebrows as he ground more of his deathspice up.
“There always another movie Kevin has on his laptop. He stole a bunch.”
“Is it really theft? That’s so…dishonest. Not that I’m complaining, but how does that work in his world if you can just copy anything?”
“Dunno. Sounds like Goblin stealing. If no one notices it, is it really a crime?”
“Calescent! Okay, how’s this for a base?”
“Let’s add some chutney and taste. Say ‘ahh’.”
He was trying to coax her into taking a bit of the devilishly hot mixture when someone kicked the door open to the kitchens. Elia instantly tried to professionally leap into a corner of the room, but it was just Asgra. She was panting, muddy-aproned, and glowering.
“Hey, Calescent! You got any free bread? Lyonette wants to feed the pigs. It going real bad in the Portal Room, just like you said.”
Calescent hunted around for his bread as he grabbed a basket and put a cloth in it, sighing. Elia appeared from out of nowhere and began to nibble at the new spice mixture as Asgra gave her a wary wave. Calescent shook his head as he opened a cupboard and began tossing little pieces of bread in.
“Thought so. You want butter?”
“They don’t deserve it.”
Asgra muttered darkly. Calescent added a pot of butter anyways and a knife.
“Which pigs are these? The Watch?”
“No. People. They tracking mud in, squealing about being late, and now they pooping. The outhouses. How they not pigs?”
Another wise nod from the [Chef]. He’d seen this coming.
“That’s because Liska sends them away too fast to use restrooms. Maybe Lyonette is nicer to her after this.”
“I’ll be nicer. This so nasty. Thanks for the bread. Hey, you making more spices? Can I try?”
Asgra stared greedily at the newest spice-paste which Calescent was thinking would go down like a treat on some pork belly and pickled cabbage. Spread that on some rice and you’d die—but happy.
“Sure is. I’ll give you some after work, huh?”
“Why not now? I get a break in forty minutes.”
He shooed her towards the door.
“Later, later. I’m busy perfecting it.”
“Oh, with your girlfriend. Sure.”
Asgra glanced at Elia, and the professional Named-rank adventurer turned red and began uttering denials at the top of her lungs. Asgra just strolled out, and that left Calescent and Elia. She spluttered.
“Asgra is the most insane Goblin I’ve ever—she’s just so—I’m sorry Calescent. It’s just…”
She waved her hands at the door, and Calescent pretended to be busy over the chutney he was marrying to the spices.
“Oh, she’s very silly. You never mind her, Elia. Who’d want to date a gross, ugly Goblin, anyways?”
For a moment, he thought of Hekusha, and his hands slowed as he stared at his chopping board, for that had hit a bit too close to home. Elia Arcsinger was silent for a long minute as she ground more habaneros up, then muttered—
“That’s not what I meant. You’re not gross or ugly, Calescent. I mean, I don’t know Goblin aesthetics, but…”
His ears twitched under his chef’s hat, and the [Spice Chef] smiled. He bent back to his work with a will as Elia continued trying to explain her position, not realizing he had gotten it already. But perhaps she didn’t understand her position. Or didn’t want to admit it.
 
——
 
Strange.
Strange how the inn changed you.
Or perhaps you were always able to change or not what you thought you were. Which was scarier, that there was a mystical building capable of altering your very destiny or that you could always do it…if you had only tried?
From Lyonette to Asgra, everyone had levelled and become someone important. Everyone, of course, except Liska.
Liska was the normal Gnoll just phoning it in. She was lazy, and she knew she wasn’t that smart or good at her job. She was there because everyone liked Ishkr, and she hadn’t changed. And there was something comforting about that, y’know? No great expectations.
Not for her.
When Liska got up after a long, long sleep in, she sat up in her little bed in the three-room apartment that she and Ishkr shared, with two tiny bedrooms next to each other. Not enough space for either Gnoll, really, but it beat sharing a room.
It was a cramped apartment. Neither she nor Ishkr liked it here; not the drips that came through the cheap floors, the permanent smell of cat pee they’d never gotten out of the floorboards, or that they’d been burglarized three times—but it was home. He’d paid for it with his first job when they’d moved out of their mother’s house.
There was always cereal with water in the cupboards. Of course, Liska could and did usually go to the inn for breakfast, but she was off-duty, so she reminded herself of that and ate some stale cereal with staler well-water and stared at a wall; there was one chair in the kitchen/livingroom/entryhall. It faced the wall, and there was no table.
“Someday, I’m gonna get my own place. Ishkr better wait and see. Just as soon as I have enough money.”
There were better places in the city, right…? Liska didn’t know. She hadn’t ever really had a job. Well, a really well-paying job, that was. She did odd-jobs for work, but Ishkr was the one with all the money, and that was only relative.
They both knew they were poor. Some Silverfangs who’d come to the city were rich like Krshia, but Ishkr had to support their mother, and their dad had run off…at least Liska was helping with grocery money.
Maybe in like a year or two she’d have enough money. Actually, the inn had unlimited gold. But…Liska squirmed. She couldn’t steal money from Lyonette. Take some for snacks, and stuff, but not just…that much. Not to buy a house! That was real theft. Drat. It was really tempting, but that’d be wrong.
Actually, she and Ishkr both had rooms at The Wandering Inn, nice ones. But this was where she lived, if that made sense. She and Ishkr had paid for this apartment—well, Ishkr had. If she stayed at the inn, it’d be like staying at the place she worked at; she’d never get a break.
“I’ll get some nice apartment someday. All to my own. And bring over all my friends. Heh. And Shashi…”
She smiled for a second at the thought, then grew pensive because it didn’t fill her with excitement or joy anymore. Shashi had been weird of late. Always complaining Liska didn’t have time anymore or wasn’t cool. No, wait, Archmage. Just because Liska had a job—
“I bet she’s hanging out at Hariett’s again. I can get something fun for us to share. Like, a bottle of wine.”
Could she afford that? She didn’t know where her [Dreamleaf Dealer] was—it’d been ages since Liska had bought some for them. Liska anxiously checked her money pouch. Then she stopped, stared, and pulled something out of it.
“Hold on a second. Did Yelroan make a mistake? No way. What’s this all doing in here?”
By ‘this’ she meant gold. As in, a lot of gold pieces. When had this appeared in her bag of holding? Well, when had she had a bag of holding?
She’d just gotten it one day when Lyonette had decided everyone on the staff needed one. And that was so big Liska had been so pleased about being able to hide snacks and stuff in there and bragged to everyone about it. She’d forgotten she kept her money in here.
Like…
A lot of money.
Gold pieces and pieces. Liska’s eyes went rounder as she pulled out more and more. By the time she’d counted to fifty, she shouted.
“I’m rich!”
The highest-class wine she’d ever eyed had been a gold coin per bottle! She could buy fifty bottles for her and Shashi! More! Dead gods…she could buy like a fancy restaurant meal for breakfast, not these stupid oats! Liska stared at her coins. She stared at her half-eaten bowl of cereal.
 
——
 
Liska walked back and forth in front of one of those trendy new cafés she’d wanted to go to six times before the [Waitress] asked her if she wanted a seat. Then Liska refused, ran off, and bought breakfast at a Gnoll market stall.
It was great. Fresh silkap, some bread, and a piece of sausage she cut up with her belt knife was a feast. Liska imagined having a cool latte or something at the café…but it wasn’t her style. Plus, she’d been too nervous to spend her money.
She never had this much before. She kept her paw on her bag of holding, worrying about [Thieves]. Did Ishkr have this much money? Were they being overpaid? She had to ask Yelroan about this.
I’ve never had so much money. I bet Ishkr isn’t used to it either, that idiot. Unless…he spends all of it on Mom and the apartment and me.
