Erin was scarier. Yelroan was higher-level. Even Mrsha was more important. Liffe, the Drake [Hostess], did make Liska blush with embarrassment, but the Drake was friendly.
“I think I’ve seen you around! I’m Liffe. I work at Wishdrinks with this airhead.”
She nudged Adrerni, and Liska smiled.
“I knew that! I’m Liska. I work at The Wandering Inn.”
The two Wishdrinks [Hosts] were half-turning to their table when they froze. They slowly spun back to Liska as she went searching for her friends.
“Wait, you work at the inn? The Wandering Inn?”
“What? Yeah. I mean, just as the [Doorgnoll]. It was nice meeting you two.”
Liska didn’t have any thought the two had more interest in little old her, but to her shock, Adrerni spun.
“Wait, do you have a moment? Come have a drink with us! No one from the inn ever comes to Wishdrinks! They went once or twice, but I didn’t get a chance to serve—this is crazy. Hey, clear a spot for Liska here!”
Liffe was on Liska’s other side, ushering her forwards.
“Do you want something to eat? Do you have time to talk? Some of our seniors got to work at the inn! When they had that beach thing? We have so many questions. Our boss, Mister Valiet, would love if you had a chance to ever come by. Drinks and food on the house! Any time! He’s been hoping someone comes by, but you guys don’t need us.”
“Wha—really? I mean, I’m with my friends. But I have time.”
“Bring them over!”
That was how Liska found a petrified Shashi, Ulte, and Thaheart sitting with Adrerni and Liffe and their friends as they grilled Liska with questions. It was strange, surreal, but at the same time…
Sort of felt like being back on familiar ground, if that made sense. Because it was the inn, and the wide-eyed [Host] duo were asking questions Liska knew the answers to.
“So that wasn’t an illusion, the beach?”
Liska waved a paw airily as she glanced at Shashi, whose eyes were bulging. She took a sip of some nice beer, not watery at all.
“Oh, no, that was part illusion, but real sand and stuff.”
“Ancestors, I heard it was nice! The [Innkeeper], she let all the staff party after they were done.”
“Who, Erin? Yeah, she’s like that. Everyone was dying to get in—it was a real pain. I had to wait until after work to get in.”
Liska scowled, remembering the crush of people demanding to get into the beach, but Adrerni gave her a second stare.
“Wait, you were there? Can you get in anymore?”
“The beach? No…it’s gone. It went in the Winter Solstice.”
Liska’s ears drooped again. That amazing moment would never reappear. Liffe stared at her.
“So you’re not a new hire?”
“Me? No, I’m new. I’ve been there only, like, half a year or something. Well, and this year.”
“That’s ages! No one’s able to get a job there—I mean, no one’s applying because it’s crazy. But…we’ve heard there are Goblins and Antinium there!”
“Oh, yeah. They’ve been there longer than I have.”
“And it’s not dangerous?”
“Not because of Goblins or Antinium.”
For some reason, that provoked something like a profound silence, and Liska sipped from a straw, uncomfortable, until Adrerni looked at Liffe.
“Well…if the inn ever wants something from Wishdrinks, they could come over, any time. Seriously, we have orders to let anyone from the inn stay, even the Antinium or Goblins. But, uh…is the inn hiring?”
Liska blinked at him.
“You want to work at The Wandering Inn? Why? You work for Wishdrinks! It’s like the most famous bar in Liscor!”
The Gnoll [Host] was smoothing his fur with one paw, and whatever Skills he had, they outclassed Thaheart by a magnitude.
“Yes, in Liscor. But The Wandering Inn? I could gain, like, ten levels in a year if I worked there.”
“If you lived.”
Liffe put in, face concerned. Adrerni rolled his eyes.
“I’d risk that. I’m just not sure I’m qualified. I’m a Level 25 [Host of Parties]. I know that’s not great, but if you mentioned me the next time they’re hiring…do you think I’d have a shot?”
This time, the [Doorgnoll] hesitated, because she didn’t know if Lyonette was hiring at all.
“I could ask Lyonette about that, sure. I mean, no promises…I levelled pretty fast myself, I guess.”
“Really? What’s your class?”
“[Doorgnoll]. I, um, work the magic door at the front of the inn. It’s nothing special.”
Liffe was resting her chin on her hands and giving the impression she was hanging on Liska’s every word. Her eyes flicked to the door.
“Wait, really? That’s important, isn’t it? I heard that the inn was having door problems all morning! There was a huge queue in Shivertail Plaza!”
Liska blinked.
“Really? I wonder if they’re having an incident. The door’s not that hard. You just swing it open, shout at people, change it, and repeat all day. Anyone could do that. Um, but don’t steal my job.”
She grinned, and everyone laughed at that. Liska peeked around.
“Shashi hates my job. She’s always telling me to quit.”
“What? I do not!”
Shashi jumped and broke out of her trance. She began refuting the truth as Adrerni grinned. Then one of the other Gnolls who’d been largely silent at the table sniffed. He was muscular and, Liska realized, wearing tribal gear.
A Plains Gnoll.
“If you’re from the inn, do you know ‘Mrsha the Great and Terrible’? She’s the most important Gnoll in the whole of Izril, to hear our Chieftain and [Shamans] talk about it. Some little Doombearer. I bet she’s just a crying brat.”
He grinned and got chuckles from other Silverfangs sitting with the two [Hosts]. Adrerni hesitated, but Liska frowned.
“Mrsha’s young, but she’s pretty important. Everyone likes her at the inn unless she plays a prank.”
“Oh, come on. She’s some child who wandered around and started that mess at the Meeting of Tribes. She’s got to be an obnoxious cub.”
“She’s pretty brave.”
Liska shot back, getting annoyed at the dismissive Gnoll’s attitude. The Silverfang teen growled.
“She’s got some Human for a caretaker, and her entire tribe got killed because of her.”
Liska took a deep drink from her mug and pushed it across the table.
“The Stone Spears tribe and Lyonette. Neither event was her fault, and she’s done more than you know. Don’t be rude.”
“Are you serious?”
He stood up abruptly, and the table went silent. Liska stared at the angry Silverfang.
“Yeah.”
She met his eyes as they narrowed, and he growled at her. Liska sat there, uncomfortable as heck for forty seconds, until, abruptly, the Silverfang Gnoll whirled.
“Ridiculous. Where’s the privy?”
He went striding across the room, and Liffe leaned over when he was gone.
“Dead gods, Liska! You stared him down! Are you crazy? Is that, like, mandatory for employees at the inn?”
“I did? He was being obnoxious. Plus, what was he going to do?”
“Hit you? He’s a [Warrior] from the Silverfang tribe! He’s going north with their people!”
“Oh. Well…I’d probably survive.”
If she’d been around her door, she’d have been fine. Here, Liska realized she might have been in trouble, but she watched the angry Silverfang Gnoll pulling at the handle of the restroom door. He growled, heaved—
It popped out suddenly and hit him so hard he fell down. Liska took a sip from her mug and hid a smile. She promptly lost the smile when said Silverfang warrior sprang up, stared at her, and put two-and-two together. He came striding back towards her.
“You—!”
“Aw, poop. Where’s my emergency wand?”
Liska began fumbling for her bag of holding. She had one somewhere. Adrerni got up, and so did Ulte and Shashi. They were trying to block the furious Silverfang as his buddies got up. Liska leaned back.
[Forcewall]. Use the [Forcewall] or—
Before she could draw the wand she’d just found in her bag of holding or do anything, someone got in between the lunging Silverfang and Liska. A short Drake blocked him and spoke.
“[Eject Patron]. Out of my bar.”
She grabbed the surprised warrior who was twice her size and tossed him down the length of the room. The door blew open, and Hariett, the [Bar Owner], watched as the Gnoll tumbled out the door.
“Alright, everyone sit! I don’t want the Watch being called! Settle down! Down, I said!”
She shoved the Silverfangs back, and with the help of a bouncer who’d appeared out of nowhere, the situation defused. Liska blinked, let go of her wand, and Hariett the old and, Liska recalled, curmudgeonly and bossy owner was there.
“No fighting in my bar with Skills, understand, Miss? And you lot—talk to your friend. If he growls at anyone in my bar again, he’s out. I want respect, understand? If you can’t have that towards each other, you will be banned.”
“Of course, Miss Hariett. We’re very sorry.”
Adrerni nudged Liska, but she just ducked her head.
“Sorry. I shouldn’t have used my Skill.”
Hariett eyed Liska.
“I may want a word later, Miss. But let’s consider this settled. Agreed?”
She was rather agreeable, especially for someone who’d nearly had a fight started in her pub. Lyonette would have chewed someone out and spat them into pieces.
Liska apologized repeatedly, and when they went back to the table, she sat there with Adrerni, Liffe, Shashi, and the others, and she felt it, that odd feeling that had come over her all morning.
Change.
 
——
 
It wasn’t that Liska was utterly reborn. She was sort of upset about Shashi. Mostly that they hadn’t gotten in one last smoochfest before breaking it up. Shashi was a great kisser.
And it was, y’know, hard to be a Turnscale in Liscor. Which is what Liska was, and had always known she’d been, ever since she was little. Whenever she and Ishkr had run out of their home when their mother was fighting with their father or using the Hazyflower, Liska had gone to different places than her brother.
How did you figure out you were a Turnscale? To Liska, it had been as simple as seeing a pair of Drakes stepping into an alleyway to kiss and realizing, with a jolt, that they were the same gender, and realizing that was something she could do.
Of course—she was a Gnoll. It was easier for her.
That’s what Shashi always said, and most of the other Drakes that Liska had dated had the same philosophy. All very well for her to live amongst the Silverfangs who were new to Liscor. Drakes had families, relatives—they were the ones who’d invented the word.
Turnscale. Someone who was wrong in the head.
Liska didn’t like to argue on that point because, well, she wanted to keep kissing pretty Drake girls, but sometimes it annoyed her. That had been her life until Ishkr told her she had to get a job at his stupid inn, and they’d made her sit and watch a door all day.
Running around to have fun, clashing with the Watch, trying to stay out of sight and trouble when ‘respectable’ citizens got mad at them.
And…dreading getting older and having to get a job. Feeling aimless, unwanted, and unloved, as if Ishkr and her parents were ashamed of her.
Worst of all, watching as friends vanished or had what Vakki and Lizze had gone through occur.
It wasn’t great.
So yeah. Maybe Liska had forgotten about Shashi and her life in the inn where she got paid, had respect, and got to sit on a couch all day.
It wasn’t like Liska was unimportant. She got that Erin was doing good things. She liked Mrsha and knew Lyonette was a real life [Princess]. She felt important there! Plus, she got to see things occur, like Valeterisa square off with Amerys, and say, ‘yeah, I opened the door for Valeterisa. Tons of times. Relc too.’
Well, it wasn’t much, but Liska felt like that was the best someone like her could dream of. Getting to touch cool moments. And sometimes, see super attractive ladies walking in. Like Ieka, Onieva, or the beach garden—that had been great for Liska’s morale. It was just, again—in the inn, there were no Turnscales except Rose. The Wandering Inn did important, great things.
Just not for the people Liska knew. For everyone, not specifically…her kind.
 
——
 
“So, uh, Liska. Are you free the rest of today? I was thinking we could hit the city. You know, cruise around like the old days? You could come too, Adrerni, Liffe.”
Thaheart was as obvious as the sun. Liska rolled her eyes, and she bet Adrerni knew what the other Gnoll was trying, but he grinned and nodded because he wanted to get on Liska’s good side.
That was…obvious to Liska. Normally, she didn’t get this kind of thing, but maybe it was because she was older or not trying to impress Shashi or something? It was like working her job at the door and realizing someone was buttering her up to try to avoid the fee or get her to do something.
It was nice at first, but after, like, a hundred times it just got annoying and obvious. All that to say that Liska suddenly felt like she was seeing everything in a new light.
“I could hang. What do you all like to do? When we’re not at work, we like to catch a drink here or hit up The Drunken Gnoll or Barehoof Kitchens.”
“Whoa. You are rich. I mean, the Gnoll’s great and cheap, but you can get into Barehoof Kitchens? With that Imani and Palt? Does he sell you smokes?”
Liffe winked at Shashi.
“On the sly; if you ask for it when you’re eating there, you get in trouble. But Palt’s cool, and that [Innkeeper], Timbor, he has really cheap plates.”
“I know! The Yellat-fries are awesome. Only two coppers for a basket! I mean, sometimes they’re all crunchy and don’t have enough salt, but…”
Ulte shook his head.
“Crunchy’s the best.”
“You weirdtail. It’s better when they’re all floppy and hot!”
The, um, level of conversation wasn’t high. Shashi rolled her eyes self-importantly as she turned to Liska.
“We like hitting bars. Or playing a street-game like lleroller. But the Drunken Gnoll could be fun. Liska, you like shopping down Merchant’s Way, right?”
She was playing up things too. Lleroller was one of the games you could play in the city where you tossed a ball down the street—it was an old game, pre-soccer, and caused tons of trouble. And they didn’t usually have the coin to do more than get water and a snack at most places, let alone buy anything in Merchant’s Way.
Well, Liska had money. But she didn’t quite feel like doing any of the things mentioned. She was actually looking for Miss Hariett, who was standing behind the bar, talking to the [Bartender]. She felt like she should apologize, but everyone wanted to talk to her.
Especially her ex-girlfriend, who seemed to be trying to reverse their breakup in real time. Though she was also making eyes at Liffe…
