The Brother with the cigarette nodded at the other three, and Vakki and Hariett understood that Liska was passing the test even without realizing it was one.
“Say, is there something in the inn that only you’d know about?”
Liska gave the Brother a big, earnest stare.
“No…definitely not anything important or secret. Nope.”
He gave her a dubious look and coughed.
“I mean anything of the stony persuasion, Miss?”
“…Um…do you mean all the Chemath Marble outside the inn?”
“The what now? Something else stony, Miss. Rather impressive in a heartbreaking way, as one might say?”
She was supposed to say the statues to validate her inn-credentials, but the Brothers had already gotten some confirmation she was more than hot air. They were trying to confirm it when they heard a shout.
“Is that Miss Liska there?”
She turned, blinked blankly, then brightened up as an older man with a limp strode towards them, holding a hand out.
“Hey! Hey, it’s you! Um, um—Mister Amel?”
She waved as all four Brothers whirled, then doffed their hats hurriedly. For who should it be than none other than the oldest member of the Brothers’ headquarters in Invrisil himself?
And the last person you expected to see on the streets. Amel, or rather, the [Doorman] who held the Brothers’ headquarters, slowed, massaging at his ankle.
“I thought I felt you about, young lady. What are you doing on these streets? You four—you had better have minded your manners.”
The glare he gave the four Brothers had them instantly shuffling their feet.
“Of course, sir.”
“Polite as could be, just going for a stroll.”
“Thought these ladies were a bit far out of their area, so we—”
“Is she really from the inn?”
The [Doorman]’s hand twitched, and they backed up a step. Whomever this was, he had Hariett’s scales on edge, but he shot a smile at Liska before giving the others a death-glare.
“She’s the [Doorgnoll] of the inn, and you’d jeopardize all travel if you gave her a hard time. To Liscor, and all the way to getting our lads to Oteslia! What’d you do?”
“Nothing, sir! Just, er—”
The sandy-haired Brother held something out, and Amel snatched it, then sighed. He handed it to Liska without a word. It was her bag of holding. She gasped, then saw the one at her waist go melting away into sand.
“Just a finder’s fee, sir. We’d have given it back if she’d proven she was actually from the inn.”
Amel glowered further, then turned to Liska.
“These are not the streets to walk down without some tact, Miss Liska. Lucky you ran into these four, even if they were a bit rude. What brings you here? And…when did you go ignorin’ my advice?”
He gazed at her with a mix of odd pride and sadness, and Liska ducked her head.
“Oh. Right. Um…we met after the Goblin King, right? Sorry. It’s all blurry after that.”
Everyone was staring at Liska as she fumbled for words, but Amel just put a hand on her shoulder.
“I didn’t expect you to do it all right away. You’re looking less shaken up, now.”
“I still have a few nightmares, I guess, but yeah. Yeah, it’s been good.”
“You didn’t die. That’s all that matters. You hold that door if it matters, let it break if not. As I told you, it’s just a damn door. But you protect yourself too! Whilst I’m here, I’d best walk with you. You four, with me. Where are you going?”
Liska gestured aimlessly, still hanging her head.
“Oh, to find a friend. He’s down Carroway Street. Um, Hoplic’s Stand?”
Amel nodded, then grimaced.
“That’s a rathole. Your friend must be in hard straits if he’s there. This is the wrong way to see him, even so. Let’s walk and talk. With the lads, you won’t have trouble.”
What he didn’t add was that with him, they’d not have trouble. Amel wasn’t quite a Face, but he was a high-level fellow employed by the Brothers. And he had Liska’s class.
 
——
 
For all the amazement that Liska threw Hariett’s way, the reverse was true now as the four Brothers whistled up twelve more, and Hariett and Vakki found themselves with a kind of honor guard.
Not for Liska or the inn, but old Amel. Him leaving his post seemed to be a rather big occurrence. But they were all listening to Liska talk with the old man with that incredulity that the Gnoll had learned to ignore.
Could it be true? Was what half of what she was saying possible? They had that earnest skepticism of people living in the real, sensible world who’d never had it shake and flip under their feet. The Brothers were a Gang, and they were still innocent like that.
Vakki and Hariett, as Liscorians, had a bit more tolerance to huge earthshaking events, but Liska was a realm they didn’t dream of. But Amel…
Amel didn’t even blink. He just spoke with that friendly wisdom.
“Done any practicin’?”
“On my off-time? This is like my one day off, so no…I was trying some of what you said, but I don’t get how my class is supposed to be powerful outside of my door. I mean, Erin’s door. Sure, I can hold it, but wouldn’t you just go through a window instead?”
He chuckled at that.
“You hold the area around the door. I’m sure your Skills let you do that.”
“Oh, yeah. And I had this really funny thing where I can [Apply Basic Enchantment] and…”
She wanted to talk about her Skills, but Amel was actually less interested in Liska’s new and mostly untapped Skills. He shook his head.
“I told you, it’s not the kind of thing that matters as much with us. Oh, it makes a door fancy. But that ain’t useful. Look at me. Where’s my door?”
He spread his arms out.
“I’m a sharp fellow with it, but walking the streets like this, am I any good or do I need all these young bucks with me?”
He nodded at the sixteen lads, and Liska frowned.
“…Right. So what’s the answer?”
She turned to him, and he sighed. Liska wasn’t exactly a student to come up with answers on her own.
“Perspective, young Miss. Just perspectives. The higher you go, the more it’ll matter for you. And I have faith you’ll go high if you’re dancing like this at your age. What is a door? What is a key?”
Liska’s head tilted as everyone else exchanged glances. But her eyes lit up slightly, as if there were a door in her head she was opening. Amel glanced about.
“Is that window a door, there? I think it is. Unconventional, but it lets a fellow go in and out. Is a door that sewer grate? Is a door that fence? Do I have a door on me, right now?”
He smiled, and Liska peered at him, then stared at his belt for a long moment.
“…How’re you doing that?”
“Preparation, practice. Perspective. You should’ve brought a door with you, but—ah, well, here we are. Just remember that a door’s more than a door. It can move and change, and it’s all metaphorical. As it were.”
He winked at her, and Liska, mindful of her new class, thought about Amel’ wisdom. She wondered…if her class was [Portal Guardian], what counted as a portal?
She actually didn’t know what a portal was, not the precise definition. She really should have gotten a dictionary or something. But then she saw a young Gnoll sweeping out the front of an inn, ears flat, looking miserable and unkempt. Liska shouted.
“Orrell?”
He froze, whirling, eyes wide, and she ran at him with Vakki. Liska tackled him into a hug, and he gasped. Amel stood back, smiling slightly as the Brothers chuckled, and Miss Hariett exhaled. Orrell hugged his friends, then burst into tears as they began to babble questions and talk.
Sometimes, one forgot what it was like to be young. Innocenter. Not innocent, but just…Amel tipped his hat at Miss Hariett.
“Nice young lady, there. Forgive me interruptin’, but I was worried. Miss Liska, she acts like she’s never even been mugged before in her life.”
“I don’t think she has. Liscor’s safer than it used to be, and I’d like to keep it that way.”
Hariett’s voice was cool, but she favored Amel with a smile. He had knife scars, magic burns, and he couldn’t see Hariett’s scars, but he nodded after a moment.
“Very fair, Miss. Very fair. Though, begging your pardon, you seem a bit wiser to the streets’n I’d expect, even from someone used to Liscor’s less-pleasant sides.”
She shrugged tiredly, eyes on Liska.
“You have to be. I’d love to be some fine, upstanding citizen who never has to do anything risky or break the law. But I can’t be. It’s not a choice I get to make.”
“I reckon that’s also very true.”
 
——
 
All things considered, it was a good moment.
Not only did Liska meet some friendly people like Amel, she got Orrell. The Gnoll appeared thinner, and he’d been having a hard time. He didn’t even have a fur comb; he’d run away the moment he’d been found out.
“I saw you in the portal room, but I had to go, Liska. I just…I can’t go back.”
His eyes were huge in his face, his fur was a tawny brown, but Hariett took his paw.
“Yes, you can, if you want to, Orrell. At the very least, I think you shouldn’t be working at this inn. It’s not safe.”
He sniffed and wiped at his nose.
“No, it’s not. Someone got stabbed last night over cards. But I…I can’t go back.”
“We can dye your fur or scales. And believe me, after a while, people searching for you will give up. There are illusion spells, Orrell.”
“But where will I go? I don’t have any money—”
“I have gold. Here—”
Hariett forestalled Liska, and she spoke to Orrell in that kind, matter-of-fact tone of voice.
“I have friends, Orrell. They can give you work if you can’t find any, and we certainly can find a place for you to sleep. No matter what happens, you won’t be penniless.”
“Why’d you run off, Orrell? Your family are Silverfangs, just like mine. They’re not…bad, are they? Not like Vakki’s.”
Liska wasn’t sure. Her parents didn’t really factor in her life anymore. Her mother was a Hazyflower addict, and her father was in the army. He never came back. Orrell rolled his eyes at her; he was actually a [Server], though he’d worked at a restaurant instead of an inn, but it was probably how he’d gotten this job.
“Liska, someone found out I’m—I’m—they were shouting, telling everyone. Everyone’s going to know, and they’ll burn down my home or—or find me and deal with me.”
“Who said that?”
The very words chilled Liska, and he averted his gaze.
“Someone. The—the guy who found out.”
“Not your family, was it? Mine kicked me out. But they haven’t told anyone because it’s shameful.”
Vakki was twisting the little ring she and Lizze had bought for each other on her finger. Her tail was thrashing, and Orrell stared down at his feet.
“It was just—I met him after work, and I thought he was flirting with me. I was so sure.”
“Oh, Orrell. You idiot.”
Liska closed her eyes. Orrell had always done this. Find people he thought were like him and talk them up in his head. Then put out a few feelers. For every correct guess, there were ten wrong ones. And this time…
“He didn’t react well. And I thought that was it; I ran off, but he followed me home. Then he was shouting in the street, and so I just ran.”
Hariett’s expression was grim as Liska and Vakki turned to each other.
“No going home, then. We’ll discuss it, maybe see about getting a letter to your family, but Orrell is right, Liska. He might bring down a lot of trouble if anyone thinks he’s still at his family’s house.”
“But Orrell’s parents are nice. They wouldn’t…”
“It’s not about them. If that Drake—he was a Drake, right? If he causes a huge scene, then everyone knows. And then you get a mob and…”
Vakki drew a line across her throat. Liska knew that was true too and hung her head. It wasn’t common, but it made her stomach churn. And then Orrell dropped the final [Fireball] into the conversation.
“He wasn’t a Drake. He was a Gnoll. I thought…I really thought he liked me.”
He was crying again. Liska held his paw until Hariett came over and gave Orrell a huge hug. Then she urged him up.
“Let’s get you something to eat. Do you have anything you need to take? I’ll talk to the [Innkeeper] for you.”
“No need, misses, sir. We had a little word, all polite-like. The fellow’s used to it. Shall we take you back to Liscor now?”
Amel smiled down at them, but Liska was no longer in a good mood. She trailed after Orrell as he talked about surviving the first week in Invrisil.
“I was on the streets for a week until I got work, and it was—pretty bad.”
“It happens quite a lot. You’re lucky you found work.”
“I know. I—there were other jobs I was considering.”
Liska frowned at him.
“What kind of jobs?”
“You know…red lantern district jobs. I’ve heard there’s money there.”
Liska laughed at him.
“You? Thaheart would do it for fun if he worked up the courage, but—”
Then she realized Hariett wasn’t laughing, and Amel, who was walking with them, gave her a side-eye and shake of the head. Not in denial—and Liska walked on.
“They have people like us working in…?”
“Oh, yes. Orrell’s lucky he didn’t turn to that either, or it would have been far, far harder to get him out of there. Liska, let’s wait until we’re out of public for this.”
That silenced the [Doorgnoll], and Orrell tried to force a smile at her.
“I don’t know how you found me, Liska. But thanks. Vakki, where’s Lizze?”
“Locked in her rooms. Her family’s marrying her to some Drake down south.”
“What?”
Explaining that to Orrell took them the rest of the march out of Invrisil. Liska thanked Amel again, and he nodded to her.
“A fellow in Liscor would know how to get in touch with me if you ever wanted a word. But remember, that was a favor. We don’t give out many for free, or get many chances.”
Chastised, she bowed her head and then saw Hariett leading Orrell into Liscor.
“I’ll be back tonight. Liska, keep an eye on Vakki for me? Don’t let her go anywhere. I’d take you two with me, but this should be as fast and secret as possible.”
She left the two in the inn, and Liska nearly went to sit on her couch until she realized it was occupied by an exhausted Peggy and Inkpaper. They brightened up when Liska waved at them, but Vakki just tugged on Liska’s arm.
“Let’s go somewhere we can talk, Liska. Your apartment?”
“Nah. It’s probably still leaky. Let’s just stay here. The inn has free food, and we can sit and talk.”
“The inn? Where?”
Vakki turned around, and Liska realized that thanks to the [Vault of the Mortal World], Vakki had no idea that the inn was actually through the door. She yanked it open, and Vakki gasped.
“Wait, the inn was here all along—?”
