“Lizze’s family got her engaged to some Drake down south. She’s going to get married. Vakki’s in jail; she got arrested for trying to claw Lizze’s father’s eyes out. Orrell’s gone.”
Liska’s ears flattened.
“Lizze? What, to some Drake…guy?”
“Yep.”
Shashi answered flatly, not-quite-glaring at Liska. She stared at the Gnoll’s feet as Liska looked around.
“Vakki? When’s she getting out of jail?”
“Never. Or they’re going to exile her or put her in an involuntary work program. She’s not paying the fine; it’s set at twenty gold pieces, and her parents can’t pay that.”
“Dead gods. But Orrell? What’s he—?”
Thaheart snatched the wine bottle from Ulte, who was examining it, and took down nearly a tenth of it in one go, ignoring the protests.
“No one knows. One day, he was gone, and when I went to check, his family told me to get lost. Everyone started throwing rocks at me. The entire neighborhood found out Orrell’s a Turnscale. He left the city; didn’t even say goodbye.”
Dead silence. Liska peeked around, and she wilted, that tentative smile gone. And that—that was why Shashi was mad at Liska, though it wasn’t Liska’s fault. It was what they were.
Not all of them Turnscales, but none of them were ‘good kids’ with safe jobs and prospects. Ulte didn’t want to join the family business. Thaheart refused to be another Silverfang, and both he and Shashi were Turnscales. Seeing friends vanish or get into serious trouble? That was life.
And Liska had left it all. Chosen the safe way out. Good for her. Shashi was mad at Liska, her girlfriend, and when Liska went to put her arm around her shoulders, Shashi muttered.
“Liska, let’s talk.”
 
——
 
Sometimes, being in Liscor sucked. Only, it sucked in ways even other people didn’t get. Erin had seen how bad Liscor could be, but she had never seen it like this. Ishkr always argued with Liska about the Liscor he knew and the Liscor she knew.
He liked the Watch. He didn’t mind them. She associated them with trouble and danger, or at least, she had before working at the inn. She didn’t trust to the goodness of strangers, and while he probably didn’t either—at least, Drake strangers—he was still a member of the Silverfang community.
As far as Liska was concerned, the Silverfangs hadn’t done much for her people either. Not as much to harm, but this was the familiar suck she knew.
The only difference was…
She was different.
She kept checking her bag of holding. What was that Thaheart had said? A twenty-gold fine? That was insane. Vakki was a hothead when it came to her [Lover]. She was meek as could be any other time. She must have done damage or…or…
“Liska, hey. You know—it’s good you came out today. I never see you. You’re always busy.”
Shashi leaned into the dry shelter under the eaves as the rains poured down. It was still raining, damn it. Liska folded her arms.
“I know. I’m sorry…”
She wanted nothing more than to kiss Shashi and catch up, but the vibe was all wrong. Shashi kept glancing away, and Liska—
Liska didn’t feel that crazy urge to jump Shashi, the heady, ridiculous excitement pulsing in her veins every time she saw her girlfriend. It had been there when they’d first met. But recently…
No, even the last few times they’d met, it hadn’t been there. It’d been fighting and arguing about whether Liska was too busy, and—
Liska had a bad feeling before Shashi checked her nails. She never did that when she was being straightforwards.
“You know Adrerni’s single again.”
“No way, whaaaaat?”
Liska…was trying to put some energy into the usual gossip but she didn’t feel it. Adrerni? From Wishdrinks. Really handsome Gnoll. Not her type, but Shashi appreciated both…types. Liska remembered thinking he was the coolest person ever—both someone who had a job and was important and worked at the most popular bar, but also someone who could still hang out and be real all the time.
But she just thought of Normen, one eye blazing in his face, or Saliss of Lights pointing at the ground as they stood before the shaking inn as the Goblin King prepared to break through, and—
I’ve changed. Shashi was still super cute and beautiful and…and Liska stared at the [Malcontent] and said it before she knew what was going through her brain.
“I think we should break up, Shashi. I’m sorry.”
“I think we should—huh? You’re breaking up with me?”
Shashi recoiled, and Liska flinched. She scuffed a foot on the ground as some of their friends glanced over, then talked louder, pretending they couldn’t hear the relatively commonplace occurrence.
“Sorry. I just—I know I’ve been a really bad girlfriend. And you were complaining last time we met. I just…yeah. So, um, I think it’s not working out. It’s me, not you.”
“It—but—it is you!”
“Yeah.”
“You’re never around! You’re working that silly job at the inn!”
“You wanted to work there, Shashi, remember?”
“Well, when I needed coin, but not when I realized you never do anything but work! Why did you even stay?”
It pays well. Liska didn’t say that out loud. Shashi’s tail swished in the street. She kicked a stone, and Liska winced as it cracked into a window of some shop.
She could break the glass. Doesn’t she care? Wait, I am being an Ishkr. Oh no. Shashi went on.
“You and I haven’t gone on a date in ages! You’re so inconsiderate—of course we have to break up! I was going to do it, but I guess you figured it out!”
She glowered until Liska hung her head. She heard thumping—an Antinium group was walking down the street, fast and noisy, talking as they hid their antennae from the rain.
“I’m sorry, Shashi.”
“You should be! You—! I’m done with you! No offense, but yeah. It’s not working. I’m sorry, Liska.”
That hurt. It really did. And yet, Liska had gone through a lot of relationships like this, and somehow, she felt relieved. She stood there awkwardly with Shashi, who took the moment to kick another stone. This time, it sailed past the group of Antinium, who stopped, and then one spoke.
“Excuse me.”
Shashi jumped and froze as a Worker lifted a hand. He turned from the group of seven and approached her.
“I believe it is considered bad manners to kick or otherwise maneuver stones at high velocity in the city. I had observed you striking the window there.”
He pointed at the barbershop window where the Drake was eying the Antinium. The Worker waved; the [Barber] waved back after a moment. The Antinium went on.
“It is dangerous to kick such stones, Miss Drake. You might hurt a pedestrian or damage the windows. As a person who replaces windows, I am very distressed to see glass in jeopardy. That is Ailendamus glass, you know.”
“I, uh, I—”
Shashi was backing up from the Worker, but Liska broke in.
“Hey, we’re really sorry about that! It won’t happen again!”
“Oh, hello, Miss Gnoll. Thank you for this clarification.”
The window-setting Antinium smiled at her and nodded. He stepped back, and Liska smiled at him.
“Thanks and sorry.”
The Workers marched on, and Liska stared at them. So they were random Workers on a stroll. How—
“That was crazy. Did you see that, Liska? They were threatening me! I heard the Antinium were getting worse, but that one was mad!”
Shashi clung to Liska’s shoulders when the Workers were halfway down the street. Liska half-turned.
“What? No, they were just worried about the windows.”
“Liska, they’re Ants!”
“…No, they’re just Workers. I work with them all the time on the job, Shashi. That one was smiling at us.”
Liska was nonplussed, but Shashi was shaken. So were the others. When Thaheart saw them come over, he tossed the empty wine bottle down.
“Let’s get out of here. They might call for the Watch or some Soldiers or something.”
Liska stared at the wine bottle as it rolled down the street. Was no one going to pick that up…? She saw everyone hurrying off and joined them after a second. Again, Liska realized—
She was different. Not them.
 
——
 
Adrerni was hanging out at Hariett’s, which was a bar that was far less clean or upstanding than Wishdrinks was—but which catered to a certain crowd.
Namely, Turnscales. He was at the center of the most popular people their age in Liscor, and Thaheart was fluffing his fur for all it was worth. He did have [Fluffed Fur], incidentally, but he wasn’t sure it was going to do the trick in this competitive room.
Well, he was also trying to get away from Shashi, but it wasn’t working. She was hissing at him and Ulte.
“Can you believe Liska broke up with me? Is she dating someone?”
“I don’t know. Dead gods, it’s Adrerni and Liffe!”
Liffe was a Drake with amazing neck spines in this swept back look that had each spine subtly dyed differently on the edges, so it slowly ran a gradient of colors—deep blue to purple today. Everyone wanted to talk to the Drake and Gnoll. Everyone wanted to be them.
However, Shashi was hung up on Liska.
“Do you think she spent all her pay on us? She’s never good with her coins. She’s always complaining about Ishkr being on her back—if she had money, she should keep it for herself!”
Thaheart rolled his eyes.
“Sounds like someone’s still acting like her girlfriend. Maybe she stole the bottle.”
Ulte muttered.
“I don’t think she did. That was a real bottle from a wine shop. They’d have it spelled.”
Both his friends turned to eye him, and the Drake flushed.
“I tried to walk out with one one time. My dad was there, so I didn’t get arrested; he just thought I was an idiot. It’s at least a gold coin.”
“Dead gods, how much money is she making at that inn?”
Thaheart was astonished, and Shashi’s tail swished.
“Not enough to justify her never coming to hang out! She’s changed. Do you think she’s seeing someone?”
Thaheart rolled his eyes again. He was working up the nerve to say hello to Adrerni and a group of Gnolls, some of whom looked like real Silverfangs from the tribes who’d stuck around the city, when Liska walked past them.
“Whoa, Hariett’s is hopping! I haven’t been here in, like, ages. Where’s Hariett?”
She meant the old Drake who ran the place, a busybody that sometimes got on people’s nerves, but who didn’t call the Watch—much. Thaheart sighed.
“Liska! C’mon, over here!”
He waved her over to their table where they were having cheap ales and water, and Liska sniffed and eyed the drinks.
“What? Aren’t we talking to Adrerni and Liffe?”
“Not like that! You can’t just walk over!”
“What? Oh, yeah, right.”
Liska had lost all her social instincts! She had nearly gone over in the middle of the dancing and partying to the table with the most popular Drake and Gnoll and…she seemed out of place here.
No…Thaheart glanced at Liska twice and realized she wasn’t out of place in the bar. She was bouncing on her feet, glancing at the dance floor, still excited, eyes sparkling. She was just out of place with his group.
It was like she’d lost some of that fear that she’d had. That kept Shashi being the one who led Liska around and egged her on. Was it confidence? Or just—a lack of worry?
Thaheart was so distracted he didn’t realize Shashi was arguing with Liska.
“You can’t go out there! You don’t have anyone to dance with since we’re broken up!”
“Aw, well—that’s okay. It’s a free dance floor, and you only die once. Or twice at most, I’ve heard.”
Liska wanted to dance. In defiance of protocol, a general movement onto the dance floor with a great song from a song crystal, or even a partner, she left the table, hopped out, and began to dance.
Horribly.
By herself.
Her three friends watched in horror. Ulte put a claw over his eyes. But Liska was just flailing her arms around, and worse—
“Hey! Is this the Ksmvr dance? I think I’m doing it!”
She was doing the Ksmvr dance! The one where you shook your fists out, shook your hips from left to right. It wasn’t a hard dance, and Liska was doing it well, but—that had been popular months ago.
Thaheart was drinking deeply from his well-watered ale, trying to pretend he didn’t know Liska. But heads were turning, and people were pointing and laughing at the Gnoll dancing there.
Of course, the [Doorgnoll] noticed. But she just blushed, then grinned and kept dancing.
“Thaheart, Ulte, c’mon! This is my only day off! Please? I’ve been sitting for, like, weeks! C’mon!”
She waved at them, and the Gnoll and Drake were hesitating. Shashi was gulping down her drink.
“Someone’s got to rescue that idiot. C’mon, you two—”
She was working up the nerve to rescue her ex when there was a laugh. It was loud, infectious, and it came from the high table in the center of the room where they sat. Adrerni stood up.
“Is someone doing the Ksmvr of Chandrar dance? That’s Archmage. Am I doing that right? I’ll join in!”
He appeared from behind his table so fast it was like a Skill—which it probably was. Adrerni was a high-level [Host], Level 25+, one of the greatest in the city for his age! He began to copy the dance as Liska jumped, and his moves were fluid. Then she grinned, stuck her arms out, and they were both—
“Oh Ancestors. It’s him.”
Shashi was about to faint, but then Thaheart was getting up, disbelieving. He began to leave the table—too slowly. Because, suddenly, there were dozens on the dance floor, who wanted to do the exact same dance move.
“Hey, wait, we’re with her—”
Thaheart, Ulte, and Shashi and their group tried to get to Liska, but they were suddenly slow to join in. A Drake girl practically teleported ahead of Thaheart. She smugly stuck her arms out, dancing with the room. She winked at Thaheart.
“[Follow the Trend]. Too late, loser!”
Damn, she had a Skill that let her copy what was going on faster than he did! Thaheart debated pushing past her, but there was no getting to Liska. He lamely copied the dance, wondering how Liska was pulling this off without cringing to death. And how she’d gotten so lucky.
Perhaps…it was that change in Liska. Because she didn’t even keep dancing long with Adrerni. She and he seemed to lose interest in the dance when Thaheart would have danced until he dropped to keep hanging out with the male Gnoll. But when Liska stepped off of the dance floor, and everyone went to follow her—she was the one talking with the Gnoll.
 
——
 
“I think I’ve seen you around. Do you hang around here often?”
“Oh, I mean—I used to all the time. Then I got a job. I’m just here to celebrate for a day or two.”
Strange. Liska was sure she should be having a panic attack from speaking with Adrerni. But he was a bit sweaty, grinning, and he was just—a handsome Gnoll. Because he felt like a person, she wasn’t stuttering or blushing.
