Getting Vakki into the inn, giving her a tour, and doing the old spiel about Goblins took some time. But soon enough, they were at a table in one of the private rooms. Liska hadn’t known if they were allowed, but when she’d asked, Calescent had told her of course, and arranged for a hot pizza to appear before they had even gotten themselves seated.
Vakki scarfed the sausage-and-mushroom pizza with the spice crust, and Liska picked at her food. She came out with it after a moment.
“It’s not fair.”
“What? Lizze? Orrell?”
“All of it.”
The Drake [Lover] licked her claws and went for another slice of pizza.
“This is great. You eat like this all the time, Liska? No wonder you look like you’ve put on weight.”
“Vakki, I’m being serious.”
Annoyed, the other Drake jabbed her chest with a claw.
“I’ve been living serious, Liska. You think I didn’t know what would happen when I tried to gut that bastard with a knife? Orrell’s an idiot. He always talks attractive people up in his head, and then—he should have known it’d go bad one day. He’s stupid.”
Her face crumpled up. She stopped eating, and Liska stared at her.
“Vakki, you’re so thin. Eat more. Didn’t they feed you in jail?”
“I mean, yeah, but I wasn’t hungry. There’s nothing to do in there. You get let out sometimes for a walk and stuff, but…mostly it’s just drunks or real criminals. They like to stare and make comments. They had weights inside too. Apparently, they had some prisoner, the Minotaur, who was there for ages, so they started doing stuff like letting you out.”
She’d been in a cell most of a month. Liska sat there, trying to imagine it. Vakki gulped down some juice.
“…You’re lucky, you know. You said you broke up with Shashi? It was always going to go like that.”
“Hey. I loved her. I used to.”
That hurt Liska’s feelings, but Vakki gave her a superior gaze.
“It’s not real love. You just want to have fun. Lizze and I got married and everything. We’ll die for each other. And now she’s going to have babies and have to live a lie unless I do something about it.”
Her fingers stole to a knife that had come with their plates, and Liska grabbed her claw.
“Don’t. Hariett’s going to help. I had no idea she knew people or they…you know, were like us.”
Vakki frowned darkly.
“Me neither. You heard her say how many there were? Why didn’t they do anything before this?”
“They’re worried.”
Liska murmured, remembering how scared Elirr and Hariett had been when the Watch came. Vakki gnashed her teeth.
“I mean, why don’t they fix this? Why do we have to run out of the city when someone shouts a word? Why is it our fault we—what’s wrong with us, Liska?”
Then she was crying as she ate more pizza. Crying, and Liska knew this was familiar too. Misery and sadness and—she hugged Vakki, and the Drake girl whispered in her ear.
“I levelled twice in prison, Liska. I promised myself I’d die before I let anyone take Lizze to that altar. Just help me save her. Please.”
Liska almost shoved Vakki back.
“Don’t say that! I don’t want to lose my friends!”
The [Lover] gave her a soulful look, all gentle kindness and remorse.
“It was really fun, Liska, but no matter what, we’re gonna have to go, Lizze and me. I mean, if I get out of here. I’ll be wanted by the Watch and—and we had a really good time. Nearly twenty years old. That’s as long as you get when you’re us. Then you have to hide, someone finds out, or it’s just over.”
Liska wiped at her eyes furiously.
“No! Hariett’s still there. And she’s…one of us.”
“She’s not really one of us. She just says she is. I’ve seen her for years at her stupid pub, and she’s never hanging out or, you know, finding people. If that’s our future, I don’t want any part of it.”
The two were bickering as they glared at each other over pizza, debating how to help Lizze, what’d happen to Orrell, and whether Shashi had really been into Liska, when the door opened.
Rose poked her head into the room and smiled. Both young women turned and stared.
Rose had changed her appearance. She’d changed her hair. She had fiery-orange hair she’d sheared short and given a wavy look with a comb and some hair gel. She was wearing a bloodred vest over a white, long-sleeved shirt and matching pants with a golden belt buckle. She winked at Liska as the Gnoll’s jaw dropped, and Liska swore Rose even had freckles; had she had them before?
“Hey, you two. I got the all-clear to bring both Hariett and Vakki over. You’re coming too, right, Liska? To the party in Pallass?”
“Party? Pallass? Who’s this, Liska? She’s awesome.”
Vakki blinked, and Liska sat up as Rose put her hands on her hips, mischief and excitement and something else in her eyes. Something bright.
Turnscales in Pallass. Liska was curious, so she nodded and rose—and then the young woman saw a different side to the world she’d known, and orderly, stuffy, lawbound Pallass. The City of Inventions as only a Turnscale saw it.
 
——
 
Mirn’s bar was on the 6th Floor for once. The rich district, in a pub whose owner was on vacation for the month. It had actual tables, chairs, and tonight was a special night because they had guests from out of the city.
So the [Protector] had invited more than the regulars. There had to be over a hundred people jammed into the dance floor alone, and—Liska kept gulping water with ice cubes in it—
It was hot. Spring heat and excitement filled the air, and it smelled like hormones and sweat, spilled drinks, fear, and fun. But it wasn’t like any party she’d expected.
The kind of party that Liska knew, the ones that Thaheart and Shashi had probably gone to with the others, would be drinks. Taking down shots of cheap Firebreath Whiskey, drinking until you forgot your nerves, and kissed someone you weren’t supposed to. Loud conversations half-shouted over someone playing the Singer of Terandria’s music.
And Mirn’s bar had elements of that, certainly. But it wasn’t all noise, drinks, or loud, rapid fun. There were plenty of people who sat at tables, away from all the action where the younger people were gathered, and just…talked.
Okay, talked and flirted and enjoyed themselves; Liska saw games of cards, even a chess match, but many were just sitting together with great familiarity and speaking, not always with pleasure, but with a weird energy to them.
As if almost everyone here was instantly, on the merits of entering, a friend. An ally, a conspirator on your side.
The same as you.
Turnscales.
It was strange and more intoxicating than the drinks that Liska hadn’t actually touched—neither had Vakki—because she had never, ever had someone like her for being…her. But when Mirn, the eponymous, blue-scaled [Protector] of his moving bar, leaned over the counter and offered her a beer, he was smiling at her with nothing but amused affection.
“Need a drink, dear? First time in a Turnscale bar?”
Liska jumped. Hariett had insisted on them not using the word! But here—she turned, and tried to smile at Mirn as she waved a paw around.
“I…yeah. This is crazy! I had no idea a place like this could exist!”
The Drake bared all his teeth and laughed.
“That’s probably because you didn’t know the right people in Liscor! Though I like to think my bar’s one of the best places in any Walled City.”
“Not for the drinks! Hey load ‘em up, Mirn!”
That was Rose. She came over with her hands full of empty tankards. He swatted at her.
“You wretched brat. See what I’m dealing with now that Onieva’s gone? If you didn’t pick it up, Rose is my little helper. She’s my acting waitress.”
“No class.”
“Which is why you suck at your job almost as much as I do mine!”
Mirn shouted as she grabbed the mugs he was refilling and took them back out. He leaned back over the counter.
“You two need anything, you holler. But remember—not a word of this leaves the bar. No names. Everyone knows me, because I’m the Sentry. If anyone starts asking where you live or what you do, you tell me. Got it? There are always rats.”
So there was danger here. Vakki and Liska nodded seriously, but then Liska went back to staring at Hariett.
“Hey, Vakki, remember how you said Hariett wasn’t like us? You’re dumb.”
The [Lover] said nothing, because she’d probably never seen Hariett as anything other than the annoyed [Pub Owner] yelling at them before now. Because that was Hariett’s job. Her cover. And right now, she was a person.
Namely, a Drake woman with bright, ruby-red gemstone laces and that stylish vest grinning at a Dullahan woman a head and a half taller than her, who was holding her head lower to talk. The Dullahan woman had the most bright and colorful armor that Liska had ever seen: swirls of color completely unorthodox to the regular paint schemes and more traditional armor that Dullahans favored.
She looked like a seashell’s pattern of colors in purple, yellow, and fiery red on her steel armor, and her dusky skin was slightly flushed. But then—Hariett was blushing too, and unless Liska was blind—
“Is she flirting?”
She whispered to Vakki, and the [Lover] whispered back.
“I think she is. But she’s, like, old. And that’s the most awesome Dullahan ever. Can she do that?”
Mirn overheard them as he filled more glasses.
“What, flirt? You young people, don’t make me hit you. Miss Hariett, right? She’s not even old!”
“She’s, like, forty!”
Mirn stared at the two teenagers, raised a piece of ice, and bounced it off both their heads with a single toss. That at least got Liska out of her chair, and she edged over to Hariett. The Drake glanced at Liska as she showed the Dullahan her boots.
“…these gemstones laces? I came up with them. I’ve never seen anyone else wearing them.”
“I am entranced. That jacket of yours—are they rhinestones? May I touch them?”
“Of course. They’re not fragile. Go ahead, and that armor. It’s so magnificent, but how do you wear it without people asking…questions?”
The Dullahan woman smiled.
“Go ahead and touch at it and see if you can tell.”
Hariett gingerly touched the armor, and Liska saw that pieces of the Dullahan’s woman were oddly segmented. The [Pub Owner] frowned—then gasped.
“Wait, do they—?”
The pieces of the Dullahan’s armor slid together and covered the designs on her plate metal body. They hid the colorful artwork with some golden insignia that the Dullahan woman gestured at.
“This is just Pallass and Invictel’s regalia. Very respectable. I had someone do the actual colors myself. They lock into place so there’s no chance anyone sees what’s beneath. Unless I were in combat, but I’m into armor.”
“Oh? Altering Dullahan armor? Very respectable. I do something like Mirn’s job, myself.”
That was as much as they wanted to share, and the Dullahan woman nodded. She glanced at Liska.
“Hello, and you’re new! Are you from Liscor too?”
“Um, um—yeah. I’m L—”
Hariett elbowed Liska, and the Gnoll remembered not to give out names.
“This is my friend who works in the service industry. She’s new to all this. Very new.”
“Well, this is a welcome place, and Mirn is always very careful. It’s been hard to get together of late, so we’re all cutting loose, a bit. Watch pressure.”
Miss Hariett rolled her eyes.
“We just had some in Liscor. I know we’re going to talk later, but do you…dance? Or did you want to try some darts over there?”
She nodded to a dart-board that had just been vacated, and the Dullahan woman chuckled low. She put down her head on a table, and her body walked towards the bar.
“Darts sounds lovely. I could get a drink for us. You have to wait because Mirn can’t make anything decent. His one flaw. At least he got food this time instead of making any…oh, would you take my head over with us to the dart board?”
She casually flicked her eyes over to the dart board, which made Liska think the Dullahan woman had put her head down on purpose. Hariett kicked Liska in the shins.
“Liska, why don’t you check on Vakki?”
“But I like d—”
Another kick. This time, Liska got the message and backed away. She sat back down at the table with Vakki.
“Vakki. Did you see that? She’s not just flirting, she’s Tier 7 flirting.”
Vakki wasn’t paying attention. She was sitting with a Garuda maybe five or six years older than they were. He was rolling his eyes, and he’d painted his beak, Liska realized, like someone else might apply lipstick, but not just on the tips; there was a lightning-like design all over the beak, very cool-looking.
“If you think this is a party, believe me, Mirn’s all straight-laced. He’s the best Sentry, though. No one ever gets picked up. There are plenty of other parties between us younger people.”
“Really? How dangerous?”
He grinned.
“Very. Sometimes, you get the Watch busting in—then you just jump out the window, even if the hotel’s on the sixth floor! Not a problem for me, but…”
“No way, that’s so crazy. Hey, you know I’m taken, right?”
She flashed her ring at him, and the Garuda didn’t miss a beat as he laughed.
“Miss, I’m not blind. I’m just inviting both of you! As for the jumping out the window thing—you have to. Here you get arrested, and it’s noted down as ‘indecency’. Once you have a record…you can sort of argue it, but the more times the more obvious it is. All the olds tell us not to be risky, but you have to live, right? We have one night where anyone who wants to, y’know, find out comes to the party and sees how far they want to go. No pressure. And if you just want a safe place to be with someone—you should take your [Lover] sometime! I can give you a list of dates…”
“She’s locked up in her rooms. Her family’s marrying her off.”
The Garuda’s wings bristled. He produced something and flashed it between his clawed fingers.
“Locked up? So what? Need a lockpick? Damn, you’re Liscorian, right? Otherwise, I’d say just let me fly down, unlock the window, and grab her. But old Mirn would never let us do that in another city. Too noticeable for a Garuda.”
Liska sat down at the table and was introduced. The Garuda casually produced something: a little rack of bottles and a brush.
“Want me to do up your scales or claws, Vakki? It comes off in a wash very fast. No traces.”
Vakki instantly stuck her claws out.
“Can you do something on my cheek? Like a heart with an arrow in it?”
“Vakki! You’re not supposed to do names!”
The Drake shrugged. She gazed around the bar, eyes a bit moist.
“I know, but it doesn’t matter. I won’t be coming back anyways. I just wish I’d known this place existed before, or that Liscor had one. It’s so…beautiful.”
