The Garuda slipped a second, and had to clean off Vakki’s claws he was dyeing like a blooming flower. He and Liska turned to Vakki, and before either could speak—
Mirn bopped Vakki on the head, demonstrating that he too knew the Vakki reset method. But the [Protector]’s fist was as gentle as his voice.
“None of that now. I hear you two are in some trouble, kid. Well, Miss H over there says her people are working on the issue, but if they can’t do anything, we’ll help too. And believe me, no single stubborn Drake family is a match for Pallass’ Turnscales united. So watch your damn mouth, and you, Loverbird, better keep your beak closed on anything you hear!”
‘Loverbird’ blew a kiss at Mirn and waggled his feathers.
“I’ll do it for a kiss, Mirn.”
“Hah. Kiss someone else’s ass, you brat.”
Mirn flapped his hands at Loverbird, then sat down. Vakki’s face was hungry, but doubtful.
“How can you do anything? Lizze’s getting married in a month! It’s already arranged!”
The [Protector] sighed, then whistled, and another Drake came over and pulled up a seat; he looked very posh and official in a suit, but he’d stuck a blue rose into the side of his spectacles. It made him completely different from the stuffy Drake that Liska would have dreaded to talk to. Mirn caught the other Drake up to speed, as well as a few other adults who’d drifted over.
“Plenty we can do, Vakki. A month? That’s enough time to work on both sides. Either you have someone put a word in the family’s earholes that, hey, this marriage is too sudden, why are you pressuring your daughter into something she’ll regret? Or if they’re too stubborn for that, you ruin the other side. Put some rumors out that this is just a ploy for money, that your [Lover]’s family are affiliated with the gangs.”
Vakki and Liska blinked. Do all that? Vakki protested.
“But how? No one would believe us!”
The Drake with the blue rose snorted.
“Not you two. But respectable gossip? And even if they get to finalizing the marriage, as Loverbird says, there’s a lot of time to get someone out who doesn’t want to be there. She doesn’t want the marriage, correct?”
“No! We’re married! We’re the ones in love!”
Blue Rose smiled at Vakki.
“Child, we’re not doubting, just making sure. In that case, she won’t make it to that altar. We promise. I wonder how Liscor wants to swing it?”
Mirn glanced around the room.
“Once Miss H stops dancing with Seaswirl, we’ll ask. But the simplest thing would be to forge two Grade 2 passports for them. Just in case.”
Blue Rose grumbled.
“Simple, you say. Getting ahold of the official paper and stamps isn’t easy.”
“I’ve got some from Onieva. I’ll work up two if Liscor needs it. You just watch that young, young Miss. And try not to let Loverbird sucker you into ‘fun’ with his friends. You lot play too fast and loose. You’ll all have Yellow Rivers in a month if you’re not more careful.”
Loverbird lost his smile and hunched his shoulders.
“We’re careful, Mirn!”
“Careful? Do you actually use protection?”
“Mirn—”
To Liska’s astonishment, the frank and graphic conversation actually made Blue Rose appear more uncomfortable than Vakki. He shifted to her instantly.
“I’m Pinrose, Miss. Your first time here? Are you from Liscor?”
“Oh, I thought it was ‘Blue Rose’ or something. I’m, uh, I’m—me.”
He grinned at her and shook her paw.
“Don’t let me keep you if you want to have fun, but I was actually going to ask if you knew anything about recent events in Liscor. There’s always something new, and odd, there. First that Shield Spider glue, next…? Do you have anything I should keep abreast of?”
She blinked, confounded by the question.
“New stuff? I mean, Valeterisa’s doing her academy, and I guess the New Lands is big, but…”
“Hold on, hold on. What about the Archmage of Izril and an academy?”
He was fascinated and took actual notes in shorthand as she talked. Pinrose knew more about Liscor and the north than Liska did!
“So you actually see the Order of Solstice?”
“Yep. Sometimes. They’re always on quests; why?”
The Drake blinked at her.
“Because…they’ve been fighting. I heard it was fourteen [Knights] against four. They fought the Order of Clairei Fields. It was a minor incident in the newspapers I buy, along with Taimaguros being in the north.”
“Really? Are they okay?”
Pinrose could only shrug.
“It sounded like both parties retreated with injuries, but it’s this business about…Vampires. It worries me, really. And Antinium in Liscor! Eugh, how do you function with them about?”
It was odd. He had all the foibles and misconceptions of any Drake. Liska began to correct the score on Antinium and Goblins to Pinrose’s frank incredulity, but she caught herself after a second.
“Wait, wait. Just one question. You are a…Turnscale, right?”
She hesitated on the word, and she saw his face freeze up before he smiled toothily. Liska flushed under her fur and sipped her beer.
“Sorry, I just…it’s so weird. I know Drakes and Gnolls who like other men. I do. It’s just…”
You’re old. But she didn’t mean that as rudely as Vakki. Liska meant it in the way that she sometimes didn’t think that adults were like her. As in, they had…sex…but it was weird to imagine them getting anything out of it other than children.
As if adults were another species, but it would only be a year or two before she was considered a full adult. She technically was.
However, to her, Pinrose seemed a world away, even more than Asgra or the Antinium. And perhaps he sensed that, because the Drake brushed at the flower in his spectacles, then turned his head.
“Like them?”
She saw more little flowers braided into his neck spines. Liska had never seen anyone with the look before.
“Oh, whoa. That’s so pretty.”
It was like he had ‘hair’ blooming, it was so subtle. And it wasn’t an expensive look or anything. It was literally flowers, cheap, fresh-for-a-day ones, attached with nothing but thread and a bit of wire artfully hidden.
“It takes nearly an hour to do with a mirror. It’s faster with help, but I want to look right when I come here.”
“An hour? I don’t do anything for an hour! I can’t even use the toilet for more than thirty minutes when I’m reading a book on break.”
Liska burst out, and Pinrose began chuckling as she turned red again. Then he sat back, nodding.
“Neither do I, really. My job is…well, I can’t say, but it pays well enough I think, and it’s important. But you’d never catch me working on a file for an hour as hard as I do with a little mirror. Then I come here under illusion spells, even though I’m sweating through my costume, and I’m terrified. Because it matters that much to me. All my friends are here. It didn’t use to be that way, you know.”
He had pale grey-blue scales, and he brushed at the flower again, then plucked it out of his spectacles to stare at it.
“I…haven’t ever been with someone in the community. I haven’t worked up the courage, and I don’t—am I a Turnscale? It sounds like such a dirty word, even now. I’m ashamed to say it. But it started with this. Flowers.”
“Flowers?”
She didn’t follow. For Liska, the path to Turnscaleness had been like stepping into a pit. She’d fallen into it the moment she wanted to kiss another woman, and that was that. But Pinrose? He murmured.
“I was a lot younger. Practically your age, but maybe a few years older when I was passing by a boutique. And I saw a flower just like this one, and I thought, ‘it would look dashing if I put it in my spectacles, just like this’.”
He glanced up, and Liska saw it, then. Pinrose added.
“I never did. It was this treacherous little thought I had for years. I passed that damn boutique every day after work, and I’d see a new flower and imagine this amazing way to add it to clothing. My neck spines. This concept? You like it?”
“I do. It’s awesome. My girlfriend…my former girlfriend would love the look, because it wouldn’t cost much, right?”
“Nine coppers if you buy the right flowers on sale. I have illustrations. It became a sickness. I learned to sketch—me. Everyone at work thought I was developing a [Sketcher] class to make myself better at my job. Instead, I had booklets of designs. Clothing. Not all of it good, but…years.”
Pinrose sipped from a straw and gazed around the club, and when Liska turned her head, she saw more art on people’s bodies, like Loverbird, the dancing Dullahan and Hariett’s apparel, Rose—
“I tried just once. I put the most handsome rose I could on a suit, and everyone thought it was fine. Fetching. I was asked who I was seeing and who put it together. I tried it the next day and got an odd look and comment. Into the trash went the flower! I lied and said it was someone I was seeing who just had to put flowers on me. Burnt half my artbooks and sat up vowing never to do it. Ashamed, wondering if I should find a [Healer] for what was wrong with me.”
The Drake sipped at his cup again, and Liska didn’t know what to say.
“But it’s just flowers.”
“For a Drake? A male Drake, Miss? You know how ridiculous it would be to wear them. Especially like…”
Pinrose shook his head out and the neck spines flexed, and swayed, almost like he had hair made of flowers. Vakki turned, and Rose, the Human, sighed. Liska saw it. It was a design she could only imagine a female Drake being allowed to wear. Pinrose lifted the flower again and smelled it.
“That’s all.”
Liska waited.
“Wait, what happened then?”
The Drake peeked up and smiled ruefully.
“Oh, I came back to it, of course. I swore not to, I’d ‘dally’, regret it, and then one day I must have taken a turn or seen someone wearing something provocative, something they shouldn’t wear. And someone said, ‘look at that Turnscale’, and I thought, ‘well, if that’s me, maybe I could wear that there.’ It took months to work up the nerve, let alone find this place. But Mirn finds you. That’s all I am. So tell me. Am I a Turnscale?”
He gazed at her with sharp green eyes, as if cut from the very gemstones Hariett wore on her shoelaces, and Liska faltered.
“I…I don’t know.”
“Neither do I! Mirn has a philosophy. If I don’t fit out there, I’m welcome here. So, over the years, I found I made more friends here than at work. I share my latest fashion tips here, I help out where I can, but mostly? I dress up once a week—or less if it’s dicey—and I come out here. It’s the most exciting, important moment I’m waiting for. I feel alive here.”
Pinrose sipped from his drink again and sighed. Then he eyed Liska, who sat, thinking deeply.
“But I’m still afraid of going further. I swear, but for the obsession with looking better than an idiot in typical Drake clothing, I wasn’t a Turnscale in any way. Now? Sometimes I wonder…but I’m afraid. Like I’m standing on the edge, and if I let myself try anything more, I’ll fall completely in.”
“Why not? I mean, you don’t hafta do anything. It sounds like you sort of want to try…”
Liska was curious, and Pinrose shuddered.
“Why, because it’d ruin my life, Miss. Not in the sense that it’d change anything, but I’d be—tainted. I’d be the deviant, the monster. Everything that I’m told a Turnscale is. I’m embarrassed by the thoughts, but they work. Someday, I’m sure, I’ll have a moment when I say to Rhir with it all and take a risk.”
He put his claws together, smiling with something beautiful and fragile.
“I hope I’m not too old, by then, to regret it.”
After a moment, he turned to Liska and coughed, then flushed.
“I am sorry, but that’s my little speech.”
Liska didn’t know what to do, but Rose had heard and applauded gently. She wasn’t the only one. Several others had listened, though it seemed they had heard Pinrose’s tale before. He stood up, flushing, and took a theatrical bow, then sat.
“We do get asked, us olds. And it helps to explain who we are and how we got here. Mirn’s story is far better and simpler.”
“Ah, Pinrose, you’re the one who makes people think. Too many kids or even newcomers come in here thinking they know what a Turnscale is. There’s no room for other definitions.”
They’d clearly had this little discussion before; Pinrose’s entire speech had the air of practice, but the Drake still bowed his head and looked at the roses. He couldn’t meet Mirn’s eyes.
“I know all that. I’m a good object case. I just…I’m embarrassed to look younger people in the eye, like Miss L here, and tell them I can’t even go further than this. I’m ashamed to be me.”
He seemed to shrink in his seat, and once more, Liska didn’t know what to say. She turned to Mirn, and the [Protector] said:
“I’m not ashamed of you, Pinrose. Or of anything that’s in me, or any one of us.”
He poured refills for Pinrose and Liska and sat with his hip on the table. Mirn turned to Liska, and he grinned.
“Rose, for all she’s a pain in my tail, has been good about talking members of the bar up. She’s what I want more people to be. Unashamed. Everything the cities tell us makes you feel like you’re doing something wrong. The cities are wrong. They get in your head, and I know how easy it is to hate yourself: that’s the most Drake thing in the world.”
He nodded at Liska, tapping his chest and growing serious. Then he nodded at Pinrose.
“Whenever you feel that, just look at someone you know who’s a Turnscale. And ask yourself: are you ashamed of them?”
“That’s such a good idea.”
Liska blurted out, face lighting up. Mirn snorted.
“I know. I came up with that trick. I’ve heard people say they wish they’d been born not being Turnscales. Me? I wouldn’t trade this for anything. Imagine if I were that less interesting or Pinrose didn’t have his style. Without it, what’s he got?”
“Hey, you [Rogue]. Don’t go buttering my scales up.”
Pinrose tried to jab at Mirn with his claws, but he was smiling. Mirn slung an arm around Pinrose’s shoulders and squeezed hard.
“Just keep showing up with your lovely self, and we’ll have you loving yourself like we love you, our more beautiful ‘Rose.”
Pinrose blushed, and his tail curled around Mirn’s for a second.
“You flirt. Watch out for him, Miss.”
“Oh, if you think I’m bad, let’s introduce Liska to Roseblush next. See that Drake singing karaoke? Ugh, he’s a menace with the microphone.”
Liska turned, and a Drake with rose scales that were definitely painted was singing bare-chested next to a Dullahan, dancing around. She grinned before Mirn looked to her.
“So, what do you think, Miss?”
Mirn topped up both’s mugs. Liska turned to the [Protector].
“What do I think about what?”
