Watch Captain Zevara herself followed Lyonette into the common room of the inn. The Watch Captain raised her claws.
“I’m not accusing you. I’m just asking if it’ll happen again tomorrow. Is Liska sick or something?”
She peered around and spotted Liska. When Lyonette explained it was Liska’s day off, Zevara muttered.
“I’m going to write to Venim and say that’s a ‘yes’, then.”
Lyonette bristled.
“We have systems in place for tomorrow!”
“Uh-huh. Thank you for your time, Miss Marquin. Oh, come on, Lyonette. That was a joke! I have to do my job, and this was a legitimate issue! Don’t be sour; I know I let you down with the choir thing, but I don’t sing. You don’t want me smogging up everything when I cough…”
Strife was had. Liska watched with urbane amusement as Lyonette went to check on Tessa, and Zevara ended up taking a seat at a table. Asgra sidled over, the go-to for the ‘interesting’ guests.
“Hey, Watch Captain, you want food?”
“Well, as long as I’m here, I might as well. I’ve got half a loaf of moldy bread in the cupboard.”
“Hmm. I can see if we got some here?”
“…No, no. Give me a Boar’s Dinner pizza, would you? And, uh, what’s an Apista Buzzkiller?”
Asgra brightened up as Liska grabbed the drinks menu.
“Oh, that. That my invention! It one shot tequila, one splash of flower wine—not Faerie Flowers, we out of those forever—peach juice, and a little cigar stick you light and it smokes. Very fragrant.”
“Huh. Give me a Firebreath Whiskey, would you?”
The full scowl that Zevara got made Liska laugh so hard the Watch Captain looked around. Liska waved at Asgra.
“I’ll take a Buzzkiller, Asgra!”
The Cave Goblin beamed at her and ran off to get her patented drink. Liska sat at the bar and realized she could eat an actual dinner despite all the snacks she’d had in Invrisil. After a moment, she saw someone come to sit at the bar out of the corner of her eye.
Watch Captain Zevara put her pizza down and glanced at Liska before clearing her throat and accepting her whiskey. Asgra put down the very odd drink, and then someone buzzed down and nabbed the fake spliff.
Apista landed on the bar and smoked on it next to Liska and Zevara as Liska asked for a Golden Hamburger. And then the three were sitting together.
“It was a rainy night in Liscor. But then, what night wasn’t? I was sitting at the bar with a pizza loaded with most of a boar’s insides in front of me. Prettier than the crime scenes I’ve had to wade through. The dame next to me was some kind of door-person. She liked to make people disappear. Since they reappeared in other cities, she wasn’t on my list. But then again, maybe I had a reason to talk to her.”
Liska stopped sipping on her drink and vaguely felt like she should be wearing a bowler hat and that Apista’s smoke was a hazy cloud wafting through the bar. Zevara stopped gulping down her drink, and her eyes narrowed. She turned.
“Noiraid, do you frequent this inn?”
A certain Antinium with a new purse, and a cigar of her own blew a smoke ring as she sat at a table with a bunch of other Workers and Bird.
“I locked eyes with an attractive lady of the insectile kind at another table. We were meeting in a half-decent place, for once, not my office or the streets, dripping with tension. I told myself tonight was the night I bought her a drink and we saw what happened from there. But maybe I didn’t have the courage. The last time I’d seen her, I was flat on my back, and she gave me a moment to remember.”
Everyone turned to stare at Zevara, and the Watch Captain’s face went flat.
“You healed me with a scroll after I was run over. I realize, factually, you’re close to the truth, but I resent the insinuations.”
Liska was giggling nonstop into her drink, and the Watch Captain clearly realized that the best way to survive this encounter was to ignore Noiraid and pretend the Antinium wasn’t narrating things out loud.
“Er, hello, Liska.”
“I didn’t do anything!”
Liska automatically replied, and Zevara exhaled some smoke.
“You’re not in trouble, Liska. Quite the contrary. This morning was a mess. Proof of how essential you are in your job. Nevermind that; I was just here to inquire, and Venim can sort out the rest. He’s in charge.”
She smiled at that thought, and Liska nodded. She did like being the person not in charge when the poo hit the windstorm spell. She saw Zevara chewing down on her pizza.
“Um, how’s the new job? Sorry again about letting Moass and Hissl through the door.”
She felt vaguely bad about that, but it had all worked out, and Zevara shrugged.
“So far? Nothing worth talking about. Lots of paperwork, setting up how things will work. Everyone wants me to investigate crimes in their city, but we need to sort out jurisdiction, how things will work. Lots of passports and documents. But I have a few offers already.”
She appeared better, excited about the future. Liska nodded a few times.
“Great.”
“Mhm. Speaking of which, I was wondering if you gave any thought to my request.”
“What? Sure, absolutely. No problem. Uh…what was it again?”
Zevara sighed.
“The request where I asked to see what your…what the, uh, what Turnscales were like?”
She lowered her voice, and Liska’s fur prickled as she recalled. The Gnoll hesitated.
“Oh, darn. This was my day off, and that would have been perfect…”
Zevara wore a pained expression.
“I can look into the matter myself. I was just hoping you had some insight.”
Well, maybe Liska did. But she felt annoyed by the request, uncertain, just like she had when Zevara made it last time. Plus, she no longer had a girlfriend, so she snapped.
“Maybe you should have asked me that all the times you had me arrested.”
A huge sigh from Zevara.
“I know it’s not ideal, but Liska, I’m pursuing my investigation—”
“Investigation to decide if we’re criminals?”
“Alright, it’s touchy. I’ll leave off. Sorry.”
The Drake lifted her claws, and Liska felt bad for snapping at Zevara—until she thought of Vakki. Then she frowned.
“One question. If someone has a big fine and they’re in jail, and it gets paid off, can they get out without trouble?”
Zevara’s eyes flickered.
“…Depends on the fine. If it was levied, it sounds like someone committed a crime but it’s within range of being a monetary offense as opposed to a jailable felony. In that case, you pay it off and maybe you have a mark on your record, but you walk free. If it’s murder or a serious crime, you can’t get out of it with money. So yes, pay it off and it should be fine. Someone you know?”
“A friend of mine. I don’t suppose you can help with that?”
Zevara instantly shook her head.
“I can’t compromise the law for any reason, Liska.”
“Yeah, sure. Then you can eat my tail.”
“Liska…”
The Gnoll girl got up and headed over to a separate table. Asgra, who’d gone over to the bar, threw up her hands.
“Stop moving around!”
Liska sulkily ate the gold-themed burger with mustard on it, then cleared out of the common room. She went to the [World’s Eye Theatre].
“Show me…Orrell.”
It revealed a Gnoll sweeping up at an inn with mostly Humans around. Liska perked up, and she tried to stare around the inn. Then she made the Skill zoom out and realized the inn wasn’t even that far away.
Wait a second, this is Invrisil! I must have let Orrell through and never saw him! The inn was called Hoplic’s Stand. It didn’t seem like a great part of the city, but Liska was excited. She could go get him or…
No, wait, she didn’t know what to do. Didn’t his family know he was a Turnscale? She had to talk to someone.
Liska hurried back into the common room and wrote down the name of the inn. Then she saw a young woman enter the room and turn everyone’s head.
“Whoa. Is that you, Rose?”
For some reason, the young woman was super attractive tonight. Maybe it was the Drake illusion she shed or the fragrance she was wearing, and she had a pretty-revealing outfit on, but one that looked classy. She threw herself down at a table.
“Hey, Liska! I had a big night. Didn’t get drugged out of my mind this time, so there’s that. But there’s this Garuda who keeps harassing me, and the other girls keep calling me ‘rookie’…Inkpaper said you wanted to talk. What’s up?”
She smiled at Liska. They didn’t really know each other, but Liska leaned over as Watch Captain Zevara sat at the bar, nursing her drink.
“Well…I met someone cool in Liscor today. And she said she wants to talk to me and introduce me to, y’know, people like us. The community?”
Rose’s slightly drunken expression turned sharp at once. She scooted her chair forwards.
“The community? I don’t know Liscor’s at all. I mean, I know you know.”
“Not much. I just know people my age, but—can you come with me? Please? It’s at lunch, Hariett’s pub.”
“Lunch? Sure. Absolutely. In fact, I’d love to make some inroads. I’ll see if I can invite them to meet some people I know in Pallass.”
Rose was instantly excited, and Liska exhaled. She sort of wanted to know what the Earther thought of Turnscales anyways. Rose smiled, and that was that. Liska stretched and then went up to sleep, happy. She had something to do on her day off after all!
She’d only made one mistake. Relaxing in The Wandering Inn, which was currently impossible to find by anyone not on the guest list, and surrounded by friends, Liska hadn’t kept her guard up.
Be careful. What Hariett had warned her of still hadn’t been hammered home to Liska, for all she’d seen. The next day proved that, indeed, things could be worse.
 
——
 
At first, it went well. The moment Hariett saw Rose enter the pub and turn every head, her brows rose.
“Excuse me, Miss? Whatever you’re doing, I need you to turn that down at least two levels.”
Rose blushed.
“Sorry, Miss Hariett. It happens if I don’t concentrate. Rose. Lovely to meet you.”
She was very respectful to Miss Hariett, and the Drake shot Liska a glance.
“Someone else from that inn?”
“She stays there, yeah. I thought she could hear whatever you wanted to tell us. And meet…whomever we’re meeting.”
Liska felt awkward as she sat and was served some juice again. Hariett nodded, glancing around the pub. People were coming in and out as per usual, though Liska didn’t see her friends. Knowing them, they were nursing hangovers and not rich enough to buy a hangover cure.
“Do I need to give you the same talk I did to Liska, Rose? Where are you from?”
“Oh, I’m from out west, Miss Hariett. I was pretty naïve when I came here to how things were, but believe me, I’ve had a talking to. A good sentry and an excellent architect took me in hand.”
Rose spoke casually, and Liska tilted her head. Sentry? Architect? She didn’t think Rose was referring to the classes, but Hariett’s eyes lit up.
“Very good. From here?”
“No, Pallass.”
“Pallass. That’s…far higher stakes over there, I’ve been told.”
Rose took a breath.
“Oh, yes. It is. I’m doing my bit, but I’m a rookie, and I’d love to hear more about Liscor’s particulars. In fact, I think the guy who mentors me would love to know. Even meet you?”
She floated that one out, and Hariett visibly hesitated.
“Now there’s something I didn’t expect. I may actually accept so I can report back. Not my friend, though. He’s very shy. And I trust you two are being discreet?”
“I didn’t say anything to anyone but Rose.”
Liska defended herself, and Rose nodded. Hariett focused on their faces, then smiled.
“Good. You’re understanding. Well, it’s because you two are at the inn that I’m making this introduction. Remember, this is life or death. Understand?”
She got their nods before she walked them to a backroom behind the bar. After heading down a tight corridor, they opened a break room and were introduced to the new contact for Liska and Rose. Who turned out to be—
“Councilmember Elirr?”
The Gnoll [Beast Tamer] and member of Liscor’s current Council smiled as he hugged Liska and Rose. He grinned at her expression.
“Not for much longer if I lose my election, yes? It might make it easier to be helpful, though.”
Hariett instantly objected as she closed and locked the door.
“You’re the most helpful where you are, Elirr. No one else can advocate for us! I wish I’d known last election or I’d have gotten more people to vote for you. Not that you needed it. But this election, everyone in your district who knows what’s what is coming out to vote.”
He nodded to her.
“One wishes we could do a citywide election instead of districts. Ah, well. Sit, you two. I am not someone who often introduces themselves to young people as a mentor or point of contact. But for you two, it is needed, yes? I should have reached out to you, Rose. But you were a bit…”
“Loose-lipped? Unserious? Too casual about matters of life-and-death?”
Rose grinned and adjusted her seat as she sat. She had, Liska noticed, a rather big butt.
As in…bigger than normal. Almost like Rose had something hidden in her posterior region. Like…Liska frowned.
A diaper? That’d be a terrible thing. Liska shook her head as Elirr smiled gently.
“Well, yes to all that. I feared you would learn the hard way. Not that Liscor is particularly bad there, but…let’s start from the beginning. I can see someone’s had a word with you, Rose. But Liska, no one ever talked to you?”
Liska shifted as all eyes fell to her.
“I mean, maybe? I was thinking, and maybe some adults wanted to talk to me, but I probably thought they were hitting on me or trying to rat me out for being a—a you-know-what. Elirr used to help bail me out but I thought that was just ‘cause we were both Silverfangs and he’s nice.”
Elirr was slightly amused by the comment. He coughed.
“Liska, I do not wish to embarrass you, but we did meet during the beach event at Erins’ inn. She made an entire…place for people like us. Did that not clue you in? We even had a passphrase for anyone like us to go through.”
Hariett blinked then gave Liska an accusatory look. Liska hesitated and her mouth dropped open.
“I remember that! I just thought it was super-cool people like that Onieva and Mirn. Erin did that for us? I…”
Rose slapped her forehead and Elirr grinned, and that made Liska stare at her paws, embarrassed. Because that was the Liska experience alright, that her brother sometimes complained about. Liska didn’t pay attention. She didn’t ‘get’ important things going on because she didn’t pay attention.
Well, she was trying now. Hariett sighed as she nodded to Liska.
