But there was blood everywhere. Vakki’s face was all bloodied, and Rose had a huge scratch down her cut shirt. Hariett was patching up someone who had a faceful of glass, but the Turnscales had won.
“They’re falling back. Everyone, get ready to run.”
Mirn called out, breathless, still standing on the [Captain]’s chest. Liska stared at him.
“What? What if they send reinforcements?”
“They’re getting reinforcements, but I told them I’ll slit everyone’s throats if they get within a thousand yards of either door. We’re going out the back. Then we scatter. Roseblush, take these and detonate them; they’ll fill the air with smoke. It’ll take away scent and won’t linger. Everyone, make sure you dispose of any clothes, cover any injuries—got it? I’ll find you; don’t come back next week.”
And then…then he was telling them to get ready to run, and Liska was waiting for the shoe to drop. She was last, with Miss Hariett and Vakki, and she panted as Mirn took his foot off the [Captain]’s chest at last. The Drake had passed out or something.
“Don’t run to the checkpoint. We’ll put you up for the night at my place. When I run, you follow, got it?”
He hissed at them, and she breathed.
“But how’d we win? They’re the Watch.”
He grinned at her, just once.
“You think this is the first time we’ve beaten them? They’re not as strong as they want you to think. Even we outnumber them. Go!”
Then they were running through the odd, scentless smoke that seemed to take all the noise, chaos, and smells of what they’d been through and stumbling onto the street blocks later. Mirn caught them and made them walk, even double back so they could point at the smoke and pretend to be confused, before stepping away. And Liska—
Slept.
 
[Portal Guardian Level 34!]
[Skill – Create Hidden Door Obtained!]
[Skill – Protect Identity: Doorguests Obtained!]
 
——
 
The next day, Liska returned to The Wandering Inn, and no one really noticed. Or rather, they all noticed she returned. Lyonette herself came by to remark on Liska looking wonderful and asking if she’d had a good break.
“Um…yeah. What’s all this for, Lyonette?”
Liska had gotten little sleep, her body hurt from running, and she stared blearily at the huge table of her favorite foods. She picked at it as Vakki and Miss Hariett hurried into Liscor.
“Liska, I was thinking you deserved a treat. I do hope you feel like you’ve had enough days off—which you do need more of, by the way. I was hoping to talk with you about your schedule, if you don’t mind? And Ishkr says your apartment is all but flooded; some huge leak. Why don’t you move to your rooms here permanently? I don’t see why you have an apartment in Liscor when this is so much more convenient. Ha, haha.”
Liska didn’t get it either, but she supposed that was the way things were until you asked yourself why they were different. She sat there.
“I guess that’d be good, Lyonette. I’m, um…quitting.”
Calescent dropped his ‘happy you’re here’ cake on his way out of the kitchen. Lyonette’s face went waxy. Ishkr whirled and went to scold his sister. But when he saw her face, he stopped. Liska was wiping at her nose, which still smelled like her blood, but she was determined.
 
——
 
Mirn laughed himself sick and chopped Liska on the forehead as he and Rose cleaned out a cellar in a nasty place on the 2nd Floor. Liska held her forehead.
“Ow. What’s that for? I’m serious.”
“Liska. I appreciate you being serious, but I don’t want you in my bar. I don’t need you; yesterday was bad, but it was me not being careful. We have Onieva; we don’t need you. And frankly, you’re a bit too noticeable. More importantly, you’re needed in the inn.”
Rose poked her head up, gloves full of trash. They were converting a ramshackle building into a new location for the bar. It’d be far less nice, but safe; the Watch had no idea there was even a cellar here.
“That’s right. Sometimes you do all you can, all the time. But most people give where they can, right, Mirn?”
He eyed her, then nodded.
“You’re learning.”
“But they were after us, and I—I want to help. I’ve never seen anything that matters more. They’re…my people.”
When she said that, she knew it was true. Mirn’s eyes softened, and he put a claw on her shoulder.
“I know, kid. And I appreciate it, but the Ancestor’s truth is, you’re too noticeable. You’re an amazing spark of brilliance, but you can’t do this. They’ll find you in a moment.”
That hurt. Liska hung her head.
“I guess. Lyonette was really upset and told me to think about it.”
“I just bet she did. But you know, Mirn, it’s not like we don’t need Liska’s help at all. That was bad, yesterday.”
Mirn grunted.
“Damn Edellein and damn the Watch. I’ve seen worse. We’ll buckle down. It’s Liscor I’m worried about. You want to help, Liska? Go there. Venim’s a stickler for the rules, but I don’t know if this is his idea or…something larger.”
He sighed, leaning against what might be a bar or just a bunch of crap piled up in the same shape, and Rose turned to face Mirn.
“Mirn, this is what I’ve been saying. Look around you. You can’t keep doing this same thing over and over. Hiding doesn’t work. They’ll never accept you. Onieva tried it for ages. She became their attack dog, and she gave herself away and for what? A compromise that ended as soon as Chaldion lost command. Do you want to live like this forever? Please…”
He leaned on the counter, seeming older, tired, less beautifully amazing, but Rose’s cheeks were flushed, and Liska turned to her.
“You talk like there’s something better, Rose.”
The Human threw a glance at Liska, and then she took a breath and closed her eyes.
“I thought I knew what I was. I thought I understood what the word meant, but I guess I grew up too safe after all. All the olds of my world told me stories, and I thought I got it, but if this is what it was like…Liska, you know I come from another world, right?”
“Well, yeah, sure. Everyone knows.”
Rose nodded at Liska.
“It sucks in so many ways. Racism and pollution and horrible wars we don’t need to have and corruption in government—”
“Everything we’ve got. She just says it’s worse.”
Mirn leaned on a broom, and Rose glared at him.
“But we have one thing that’s ahead. Even if it’s not perfect. Even if they keep trying to walk it back, make us illegal again, we can never go hiding in the closet. It’s like what Turnscales have, Mirn, Liska. Only, it’s not hiding anymore. It’s not just a community or a name for something bad. It’s…pride.”
Pride. The word jerked Liska’s head up. It was like the thing she’d felt in the bar. Belonging to something. An idea that if she wasn’t alone, maybe—just maybe—
“We’re scattered, Rose. We’re not like your world. If there’s a war, it’s not one I think we can win. We’ve tried.”
Mirn was rubbing at his face, but he spoke hesitantly, like he no longer believed the words he was saying anymore. Rose threw up her arms.
“After last night, what could be worse? No—I know it can be worse, Mirn. But at the very least, we need to organize.”
He stared at the ceiling, cursed.
“Ancestors. You’re right. Damn it, shut up, don’t speak.”
He threw out a claw, and they waited. Mirn’s lips moved.
“You’re right. I need a permanent bar. But there’s no damn spot in all of Pallass that can handle us.”
“What about the inn—”
“No.”
Rose and Mirn chorused, and he turned to Liska.
“With respect, I’d lose my [Protector] class if we held the bar there, Liska. I’ve seen what that inn attracts. It’s why me and Onieva have turned down the generous offers for help, even if we trust the inn. We need somewhere else. Liscor needs help, too. But how…?”
He was staring at a wall, and Liska was imagining a nice place. A bar, a secret location with all the awesome things Mirn had—even good drinks. Like a beach room. Like Erin’s inn, but…
“What if…what if you went through the [Door of Portals] and it took you to a secret place, Mirn?”
“Well, it’d look pretty damn obvious, Liska, no offense.”
He sighed back at her. Liska frowned.
“Okay then, how about not a secret door. You just walk through the door and go to Liscor, like you’re on holiday. Only, no one knows where you go. So you walk up to this secret door in the city, and when you open it…that’s how you get to a bar?”
Mirn glanced up at Liska.
“…Sounds nice. But you’d need a hiding Skill.”
“And a good [Doorgnoll] who can manage that kind of thing on her day off. Or after work?”
“You couldn’t do it nightly.”
“Why not?”
Rose turned to Mirn, and the [Protector] hesitated.
“The danger—”
“If they can find the door, and if someone tells, I bet the Watch will be a problem. If. But, Liska, how hard would it be to make a door that doesn’t lead to the same spot? Like a mini [Door of Portals]?”
Liska was rubbing at her chin.
“I mean…I think I can do it?”
Mirn was glancing from face to face. He leaned on his counter, pointedly scrubbing.
“That might be something, but it’d only work for Liscor. You need someone here, running a pub. But maybe…plenty of people travel these days. If the Pallassian version only opened every other week—we’d have to get Liscor on board. And test this thoroughly. Liska, you would have to be absolutely sure. This means everything. Are you sure?”
She swallowed hard.
“N-no. But I’d try my best, and if you don’t think it’d work—”
Mirn met her eyes. Then he smiled and tossed his dustrag down.
“To hells with cleaning today. Let’s at least take a look. At the very least…we owe Liscor some help.”
Rose turned to Liska, excited, but the [Doorgnoll] felt curiously wary, even a bit stressed. Because it was her idea, and if she got things wrong, people were gonna get arrested, hurt, just…vanish.
But that was how it started.
 
——
 
Miss Hariett had to come in and out of the door three times and walk around the building where Liska had put the door before concluding it really didn’t lead to any place on the inside. She stood in the empty room, frowning.
“If we pool our gold, we can buy this place.”
“The inn can help with that! And we can have drinks, real cocktails, a lounge—”
“Safety.”
Mirn put his foot down, and Rose stopped dancing in delight. Liska frowned as Hariett turned to her. The Drake inspected Liska, then smiled.
“I have some experience running a pub. If you want an apprentice-level Mason…I’m nowhere near Mirn the Protector, but I’ll gladly take help. I’d just need a good Sentry and an Architect with a vision.”
“I’ll be the—”
Mirn pushed Rose aside and sighed.
“Damn it, I never thought I’d be an Architect. Too much responsibility, I told Onieva! But someone needs to do this, and I know what it should look like. A high-level [Doorgnoll]. I’ve never had one of them. But say we do this, Miss Hariett. There would need to be changes. No disrespect to Liscor’s community, but they need to agree or we’ll have to think about doing this ourselves.”
Hariett hesitated and seemed to tense a bit.
“What kind of changes? Pallassian leadership?”
Mirn waved that off instantly.
“Nothing like that. What I mean is…Liscor’s getting way bigger. So many new Humans, Gnolls, Drakes, but your membership hasn’t skyrocketed.”
“We don’t know who’s—”
“I know, but there will be more of us. If I help with this, it has to be a place for everyone, even if that means risks. And there’s a requirement from Liska too, which I agree with.”
He nodded to Liska, and the Gnoll gulped as Hariett turned to her, but she gestured around.
“I, um, this—I want to take my friends here. Shashi, Thaheart, Orrell—”
The [Pub Owner] blinked, but nodded.
“Of course.”
“Not just them, Miss Hariett. I mean…everyone our age. Everyone who goes to your pub.”
Then the Drake woman did hesitate. Rose and Mirn watched Hariett’s face as she adjusted her belt.
“That’s…risky, Liska. I know it makes sense; I saw Mirn’s bar, and it was truly something, but that might have been why it was found so easily. You’re asking a lot.”
Liska’s heart was beating hard, but she faced Hariett, made herself speak instead of give up.
“I know, but…but they need it. I needed it, Miss Hariett. Even if we have your pub and it’s nice, that’s not enough. I never knew there were other people like me. Vakki didn’t. If she’d known that, she might not have stabbed Lizze’s father. Orrell wouldn’t have run away. We—we need something more. We need to know we’re part of something bigger. Otherwise, we’re just going to die before we get old, and the old ones aren’t going to trust anyone because no one was there for us. You have to trust us. We’re miserable and lonely, and we need to know we’re not alone.”
It spilled out of her, earnest, heartfelt, and Liska clenched her paws as Hariett stood there. Mirn leaned against one wall, waiting. Hariett looked to Rose, then Mirn, then to Liska. Then she came over and hugged Liska gently.
“Oh, Liska. You weren’t ever alone. But I’m afraid—we’re afraid too. We’ve been cowards because so many of us have seen what happens when it goes bad. We’ve lived through it.”
Liska hugged her back.
“I know. I know, but—it’s like being someone, when I knew I wasn’t by myself or just my friends. It’s what Rose said. Culture.”
“Dead gods, though. If we really all know each other, if we make this bigger—if we don’t all get found out and lynched, what will this be, Mirn? The biggest conspiracy ever? There might be as many as a thousand of us in Liscor!”
Mirn just turned to Rose, and for once, he nodded at the young woman. Rose’s eyes sparkled.
“There might just be, Miss Hariett.”
“Oh my. But we’d be a little town unto ourselves.”
“Try a nation. Try a—a people across the globe, if only we can find each other. Safely, secretly, but help each other out, Miss Hariett.”
“A nation!”
That dismayed the Drake, but Rose saw it. She lifted a hand up.
“Yeah. That’s what I can teach you. What we could be. No, what we are. We are a nation, a people even if we’re born in different countries, Hariett, Mirn, Liska. We recognize each other, we look out for each other. We have to be a community because apart they’ll pick us off. Why not? We even have a flag.”
Liska’s ears perked up.
“We do?”
“Oh yeah. A flag, colors, icons, and we shall stan for our own glorious queens and—and—”
Mirn chopped Rose on the head.
“That reset-chop is a good idea. Carefully, kid.”
“With great caution and attention to detail.”
