Liska wasn’t sure Liffe was actually a Turnscale in the sense that she was into other women, though. Not that there were hard and fast rules, but she wasn’t checking out Shashi’s back or responding to the little hints.
How did you explain it? It was like Thaheart reaching for a new round being served to the table, Adrerni taking it, and when their paws brushed, grinning at Thaheart in a way that made the other Gnoll blush and go all stammery.
Liska supposed it was like flirting between non-Turnscales, but she didn’t care for that. Too many guys, Gnolls, Drakes, Humans, all trying to talk themselves up when they smelled like desperation and bad body hygiene.
“I’m, uh, gonna talk to Miss Hariett. I feel bad about that thing before. I’ll come with in just a second!”
Liska got up and walked away from the table, conscious of all the eyes on her back. She clearly heard Thaheart speaking loudly behind her.
“Let’s figure out which bar we should go to first. I mean, we should celebrate, right? Plus, Hariett’s is a dump.”
Adrerni nodded as he gulped a drink and grimaced.
“Bad swill. But we always end up getting a drink here. I guess it’s because everyone comes here.”
Hey, that was right. Liska glanced around the pub. She’d been coming to Hariett’s for a long time. Ever since she’d been a Turnscale, really. It wasn’t the cheapest, and Hariett got mad at you for being too loud. Liska had badmouthed her a lot in the past too.
So why did it feel like, if she was going anywhere, she’d start at Hariett’s? And, Liska just bet, every Turnscale in the city around her age probably knew the pub?
Well…Liska stared at Hariett as the Drake woman saw her approaching and realized Hariett was wearing long, black trousers with a tail-hole and a high-cut shirt of the same color with that slightly-ragged sleeve look that was trendy with people Liska’s age in the city.
A bit like Gothica’s outfit, but Hariett had added some fake glass sequins to her shoulders and sleeves, in the pattern of a Rock Crab and Razorbeak. Plus, Liska noticed just now, she had a glittering topaz gemstone at the end of each shoelace, replacing the aglets. They flashed a bit and were super cool.
Add in a worn, but wide belt with blue waves on it and she was actually fairly stylish! Like real style, not Nanette-style. Now, how did Liska never notice that?
In her mind, Hariett was some frumpy old Drake who yelled at everything, but she smiled when she saw Liska come over.
“Liska, right? I haven’t seen you in a while. Need another round? No more fighting, I hope.”
“No, um, I wanted to say sorry about that, again. And thanks.”
Hariett blinked at Liska and eyed the young Gnoll woman up and down.
“It’s no trouble. Just don’t let it happen again. Those Plains Silverfangs like to throw their weight around. Like Bronze-rankers. I chuckled when that fellow fell down, but you’re way too obvious about using your Skill. What was that, some kind of holding Skill?”
“Um, just door-stuff. I’m a [Doorgnoll].”
“Really? Which inn?”
When Liska told her, Hariett’s eyes widened.
“You don’t say. That’s fascinating! But The Wandering Inn—did the Goblin King really come through there? Here, have a seat for a second. Do you want another drink?”
Liska took a juice happily since it was early, and she’d already had one and a half ales. This was familiar. The incredulity, the skepticism, the inn being, well, crazy—until Hariett flipped the usual script.
“It sounds dangerous.”
“I mean, yeah, but I wasn’t doing anything. I just got in the way, and Saliss had to save me. It was all over by the time I woke up.”
The Drake woman was glancing at the [Bartender] and her staff, who were busy running the pub, as more young people that Liska vaguely recognized came in and out.
“But it’s far too dangerous for…if you need a job, I could use someone minding the doors. We have bouncers, but I could hire you or talk to some other owners I know.”
Liska blinked.
“What, quit my job? Nah, I like it at the inn.”
“You’re sure? You’re not in danger or that hard up for money? I’ve heard it has…[Necromancers] as clientele.”
The Drake woman was scrutinizing Liska hard. The younger Gnoll squirmed a bit. Hariett was oddly worried for someone Liska barely had spoken to over the years.
“Who, the Rheirgest [Necromancers]? They’re funny. I’m fine, really, Miss Hariett. I, uh, I really like your boots and shirt.”
That threw the [Pub Owner], and she blinked and then smiled.
“Thank you! I’ve got probably fifteen different shoelaces, each one with a different gemstone. And far too many shoes, come to that.”
“What, really? Do you just re-lace them every time?”
“Yes, and it’s such a pain, but it makes an impact. Not that you lot ever notice.”
Hariett’s teeth flashed, and Liska protested.
“I noticed your shirt! That’s really cool too. Someone’s got to pay attention.”
“Oh, now and then, I’ll grant you. But if I was dressing to impress people at my pub—so you’re sure you’re fine?”
Liska thought of her friends and wilted a second.
“I am. But I didn’t know Vakki was in jail and Lizze was married off. Sorry, you don’t know them, they’re—”
The [Pub Owner] glanced at Liska sharply.
“I know them. It’s tragic, of course, but Miss Lizze’s family is her family. And Vakki—it’s a twenty gold fine, you know.”
“I know.”
Liska had enough to pay for it. She was fumbling at her belt pouch when Hariett sighed.
“We’re about eight gold pieces short. I’ve had a fundraiser going on this week, but it’s just a lot of gold. There’s a get-together later…don’t worry, she’ll get out, but I’m more afraid she’s going to land herself back there the moment she’s out. Or worse. She’s desperate for Lizze, but she needs someone to sit her down and talk sense—but she won’t listen.”
That sounded like Vakki. Liska was nodding along before she frowned.
“You have to actually shake her if she’s all honed-in on Lizze. But wait, you’ve been fundraising?”
It was Hariett’s turn to bring out a jar filled with mostly copper coins, but some silvers and even gold pieces. Liska’s mouth opened.
“Thaheart never said!”
“I haven’t seen him all week. Nor your other friends. If you had anything you could contribute, it would help.”
It was Hariett’s turn to go silent as Liska pulled out eight gold coins and plonked them into the jar without a second’s hesitation. The [Bartender], a Gnoll with a mustache—it was somehow visible despite the fur on his face—turned and eyed Liska.
“Well. I’d keep a hand on your moneypouch, Miss Liska. They must pay you well enough at the inn.”
Hariett managed after a moment, and Liska shrugged self-consciously.
“I haven’t had a break in, like, ages. So I never spent my pay. If it gets Vakki out…”
“I’ll bail her out this night. However, I still need to have a word with her. It’d be easiest, actually, if I could get someone to pay the Watch for me after I change this all to gold.”
“Oh, you could get Ulte to do it. He’s used to the Merchant’s Guild.”
Hariett swivelled and glanced at the Drake that Liska was pointing at.
“Ulte. That makes sense. He’d have money, so no one would be that curious about him bailing out a friend either. Hey, Shamre, go get Ulte for me, would you? That Drake there.”
She flagged down a [Waitress] and pointed. Hariett was so…organized. It occurred to Liska she was throwing out a lot of names of her friends, but Hariett knew everyone. Weird.
So weird, but Liska’s instincts, which were admittedly not in high demand most of the time, were nagging at her. Right up until the door opened and someone walked into the pub.
“Adrerni! I knew I’d find you here. Wishdrinks is throwing an after-hours party! Come on!”
More of the [Hosts] from Wishdrinks appeared, the older employees. Who were—Liska turned her head, and her jaw dropped.
“Drake’s Ancestors.”
Do you remember the beach day from The Wandering Inn? The grand hour of relaxation, surf, and fun?
For some, it had never ended. The [Hosts] that Erin had hired to serve food and help out her staff at The Wandering Inn had taken their lessons from that time and decided to make it core to their identity.
Or how else did you explain a pair of Drakes wearing swimsuits walking in out of the rain as if that was normal apparel? Both had glossy scales like they had suntan lotion applied, and the female Drake had on a bikini top and bottom, Earth-style, in bright blue. Her co-worker had on a pair of swimsuit trunks and his hands in his pockets.
And a six-pack. Liska gave his stomach exactly 0.1 seconds of attention. Her eyes were on the [Hostess], who was waving at Adrerni.
The entire table shot to their feet and practically dashed over; Thaheart, Shashi, Ulte, the others no one was going to miss this. Liska took a huge gulp from her Prelon juice drink.
“Pull my tail, she’s got scales for days.”
There were visible muscles under the swimsuit hostess’ scales, and she grabbed Adrerni. Liska could see all her back muscles moving as she towed him to the party. Hariett muttered behind Liska.
“She’s got to be cold in the rain and this weather. But you won’t catch me complaining.”
“Mhm. I’d go swimming with her even in Liscor’s waters.”
“Or apply that suntan. I’d fight for that honor.”
The [Bartender] murmured. All three of them watched the group heading out the door in a chaos of laughter and excitement as a crowd followed, clearly trying to win themselves an invite too, and Liska realized two things.
Firstly—her friends had utterly forgotten about her and left her behind.
Secondly? She turned and saw Hariett staring at the [Hostess]’ tail as it vanished out of the door, and Liska realized the obvious. Hariett was a Turnscale. Her jaw dropped, and the [Pub Owner] gave her a frown.
“What? Oh, drat, Ulte’s gone! Argh, I’ll do it myself. What, am I drooling?”
She wiped at her mouth, and Liska burst out.
“Miss Hariett! You’re a—you’re like us?”
She glanced at the [Bartender], and she saw him blink, then grin. Hariett’s face went blank as her eyes flicked around Liska, then she leaned forwards and smiled.
“Miss Liska. Do I look like I run this bar with you silly little kids just for fun? You don’t pay that well, you know. And I hear those comments about my ale!”
Then Liska saw her, and the world seemed to open up again. What she had taken for granted became something deeper. And with respect to very attractive people wearing swimsuits and free drinks and a party—
Far more interesting.
 
——
 
Hariett and Liska sat at a corner of the bar and talked as younger folk came in and out of the bar. Gossiping, trying to scrounge money together, arguing over this fad or that, talking about what they’d seen on television or the latest trend—and paying no attention to the owner or Liska, really.
Some had on black makeup in the new goth style. Others were flashing autographed cards or the latest things from Pallass, Invrisil, which they’d paid to visit.
One was an Antinium with a backwards baseball hat with two holes for an antennae and a posse of very protective teenagers who were thirteen to fourteen. Liska stared at them all and realized she had never paid attention to the fact that it was this place where they came, and it was Hariett who saw it all and made so much happen.
“Of course it’s mostly just younger people here, at least in the day. At nights, I get an older crowd.”
“And they’re all Turnsc—”
Hariett put a claw on Liska’s hand.
“We don’t use that word here, Liska. Ever.”
“What? But he’s cool, right?”
Liska glanced at the [Bartender] and most of the people here…but Hariett’s face was friendly, eyes glancing around, and warning.
“We don’t do it. Hasn’t anyone ever given you the talk?”
“Um, well, maybe? About being a…us?”
Liska vaguely remembered, and Hariett sighed.
“Maybe someone has, but it’s all more informal here. And I don’t have the time nor do I have perfect eyes for it. My pub’s just a place where young people gather, and if there are more than most like—us—then it’s because of my Skills. [Advertisement: Safe Space]. So long as I keep it active, people know to come here. I do my best to make sure it’s true as well. Hence how I dealt with that Silverfang back there and sometimes other matters. I do fundraisers for people like Miss Vakki and try to help out. It’s never enough, but here we are, Liska. I’ve run Hariett’s for nine years now, ever since the last Antinium War.”
Oh! Was that why Liska always thought to go to Hariett’s? Certainly, she’d never felt unwelcome for being a Turnscale. She blinked at Hariett, wide-eyed.
“But why are you doing all that for us? I mean, it’s great, but we don’t pay really well, and I know you get mad at us.”
The question seemed to perplex the [Pub Owner]. She sat back at her bar and then smiled, rueful.
“Why…? Because everyone does their part, Liska. No one gave you that talk about community, did they? No, you’re old enough that maybe it was when we were rebuilding after Az’kerash. And as I said, Liscor’s far less organized than other cities. It doesn’t need to be.”
She sighed.
“Well, it’s so huge these days I don’t know who’s with us. When I hear about Pallass, I get nervous. It reminds me of Hectval.”
“Hectval? The war?”
“Hm? No, I moved from there. Hectval is far less pleasant for us, Liska. Believe you me.”
This conversation was a wealth of information. Liska’s head spun.
“So…you’re doing this for us, and you knew about Vakki, and—”
“It’s not just me. I’m one of a community. Just like I said, Liska. You kids get to run around and have fun, mostly. But I think you’re someone I’d better catch up to speed. When you have gold, influence, or levels, it’s important to understand how to help.”
“Who?”
Hariett waved her foreclaw around in a circle.
“Everyone like us. Or do you think this kind of a place springs up without a lot of work?”
Liska didn’t know what to think. In hindsight, it made sense there could be adult Turnscales. But Hariett was describing an actual community, and Liska burst out, upset.
“I don’t remember anyone bailing me out of prison when I was in trouble, just Ishkr and my friends! And this pub isn’t that safe or great!”
To that response, Hariett’s face was pained, and she took a deep breath before replying.
“I know, and I’m sorry, but we don’t have unlimited amounts of money, and being careful is very, very important, Liska. We older folk try to keep our noses clean. It’s easier to be young. And, well, again. If you think this isn’t pleasant, believe me, it’s far worse in other cities.”
That, Liska could believe.
 
