Poi glanced up to see Ascendant One also release their hold on the Crossing. Various connections came back to Poi, and he began fielding them on his own. He sent his silent thanks to Ascendant One.

After a moment, Ascendant Two declared, ‘Archmage’s message has been enshrined in the Crossing, for all eligible to see at their need. Our people are now dissecting Archmage Flatt’s message on their own, and adding more messages and notes onto all of it. Oh. Looks like it’s gotten a Designation. ‘The (possible) Final Shadow’s Feast of Ar’Kendrithyst, 1436 Post Sundering’. Ah. That’s going to be a Big File.’

Poi watched, as the multi-Viewpoint ‘Final Shadow’s Feast’ shifted from a collection of Views, into a river of memories, beginning with Erick’s entrance into the Dead City, flanked by a primary View and three to ten others as Ophiel provided, then ending on Erick’s dispersal of the Feast Barrier. And then the tributaries came in. Countless copies of other files stitched into the main flow, allowing the viewer on the river to understand more about what was happening in the Main View.

Larger rivers attended Erick’s View. Quilatalap was an ocean. Every single Shade Viewed by Erick was a river. Various spells and sights received streams or pools.

And then the Archivist got involved, like a water-weaver, and some of those tributaries went solid, frozen, as it was decided that too many secrets were too out in the open. People could still view those files, as long as they got authorization first. Poi was automatically given a key, but he declined to pick that key up. He already saw which parts were locked out from public knowledge, and they were mostly the parts about soul magic and the various books Erick had read.

Ascendant Two brought Poi back to the moment, ‘I cleared out a Converted among your city, as well as another Converted in Kal’Duresh and Frontier.’

Poi almost startled.

‘I know, I know. Prime said not to get involved. But that beast has been infecting souls the world over. That’s bad for what’s to come, if you ask me.’ Ascendant Two said, ‘No one asked me, though, which was a shame, but you don’t get to Ascendant without doing what needs to be done every now and then. Keep that in mind, Poi.’

Poi almost voiced his question about how he hadn’t noticed the Converted.

Ascendant Two heard Poi’s question without the exchange of such silly things like ‘words’. They sent, ‘It’s a soul infection. You should read up on Erick’s soul magic lessons, instead of hiding from those thoughts. But I understand the reluctance. It is not our way to gain knowledge this way. You could always ask Erick for some lessons, though. The Converted infection is very subtle… Ah. And now there’s Silverite, asking me what-the-fuck I’m doing. You can tell her about the Converted.’ Ascendant Two sent a memory packet, then sent, ‘I’m out! Good luck!’

Poi took ten seconds to make sure everything was okay in the house, and it was.

Then he answered Silverite’s call.

‘Mayor.’

‘Give me an overview. Short version.’

This would have been a lot easier if Silverite was a Mind Mage and thus allowed to see the Crossing, but if she were able to do either of those things, then she wouldn’t be the Mayor.

Poi began, ‘All but seven Shades of Ar’Kendrithyst are dead. The Clergy of the Dead City is gone, with Erick having a direct hand in all of those deaths, but he only possesses a Kill Box for some of those kills. All of the various bombs set up that would have exploded and harmed us all, due to a dying Shade, have been mostly contained to the Dead City. Erick killed the Witch, and cleaned up the resulting Extreme Light Swamp. The entire Aerie exploded just like we thought it would. Moving right along:

‘He forced Hollowsaur to remake his Cursed Cows into a new species that Erick has called ‘Minotaurs’, but who are likely to be another stable Shifter people. He has worked with Quilatalap and attained Dark Knowledge of Souls, and gained every single new Stat, except Charisma, which has been turned into Perception. He has gained Perception. He has made artifacts that unlock and boost these New Stats. The tentative names for these two rings and one belt are the Flatt Rings and the Flatt Belt. The culture of the Brightwater has survived, and they are in there, right now, recovering. Quilatalap was not seen in the final battle. Erick has no idea if he survived. There are more smaller events, but those are most of them.

‘Shade Survivors: Farix, Lapis, Goldie, Queen, Treant, Hollowsaur, and Fallopolis. The first six each have a [Blessing of Empathy], but Fallopolis has this other one.’ Poi sent along the description for [Blessing of Empathy] and [Blessing of Minor Truth]. ‘Erick used a one-off artifact spell from Koyabez to create the Silver Prism; an artifact that instantly imparts the [Blessing of Empathy] onto their target.’

‘Oh My God.’ Silverite whispered through her connection without meaning to, ‘It’s real.’

Poi continued, ‘There are many things that Fallopolis has promised Erick that she will do to ensure that the first six act according to their Blessing, while those first six have likely all received a Redemption Quest that is similar, or perhaps exactly similar, to the one Hollowsaur received.’ Poi sent that Quest Box along. ‘The Armory is ransacked. The artifacts are missing. The Library is undefended. Melemizargo has abandoned his Clergy, and has possibly abandoned Ar’Kendrithyst altogether, but shadows remain inside the kendrithyst towers. That’s all.’

‘… Okay!’ Silverite took a moment to think, then she sent, ‘Erick is getting some more defenders. Suddenly! A good [Prismatic Ward] just isn’t enough! Shit! Gods damned… Erick! No no. Wait. This wasn’t his fault. There’s no way he did this on his own. Which gods were involved besides Koyabez?’

‘All of them.’

‘HA!’ She asked, ‘ Is Erick awake yet? He’s not answering my sending.’

Poi looked over to Erick. ‘He’s still out of it, but he’s coming around.’

‘Is he still human? Did he tell you about that? He got all the New Stats, right?’

‘There’s a question mark by his species.’

‘… Probably fine.’

Poi said, ‘One more thing: There’s an incani Juggernaut with the Black Star looking to kill the Converter Angel. There was a Converted man inside Spur.’

With much self-directed anger, Silverite said, ‘Yes. I heard about that part.’ With a suddenly lighter voice, she added, ‘Okay. Good work, Poi. Let me know when Erick comes around. I want to talk with him as soon as possible.’

Silverite cut the connection. Poi could tell she was already sending out a few other connections to other people. Likely to Killzone, at least, and to a few Team Leaders, for sure. Spur needed to secure the major parts of Ar’Kendrithyst before anyone else could, otherwise it would be a major problem.

Poi could see it now.

The World had stood back, only reacting to Shade aggression every now and then. But now that the Dead City truly was dead? Now that Ar’Kendrithyst was undefended, except by monsters and traps?

Like… The material wealth of the Palace District was worth several hundred kingdoms anywhere on Veird, except perhaps inside the Geodes. That place had solid gold gates, for gods’ sakes! There was no holding back when it came to [Duplicate] in there! And then there was the Library! And Truedark Arcanaeum! Securing some of those professors and probing them for information, and then gaining that information successfully, would mean solving existent monster threats the world over by knowing of monster weaknesses and then being able to exploit those weaknesses. And the Spire! If that place was intact at all, plumbing those depths and file cabinets and coming up with intelligible information would enable the deconstruction of many Shade affairs the world over.

Very soon, the opportunistic carrion feeders of the world would descend upon Ar’Kendrithyst and rip it to shreds, if the place wasn’t already being torn apart.

Erick came to, briefly, his lidded eyes opening and shutting just as fast. “Wha… What about…”

Jane sat with her father, but she looked to Poi. “When is the healer showing?”

“He’s been soul-damaged.” Justine spoke up from the staircase. “A normal healer won’t help.”

Jane whipped around to stare hatred at Justine. “How do you know that?”

“Peace, please.” Justine asked, “Anyone who has seen as much injury as I have could tell. There’s no blood. There’s no physical injury. Even if there had been, they’re gone thanks to that healing rod. If he’s still like this, then it’s either parasites, poison, soul damage, or mind damage. I’m just guessing it's the third option, as that makes the most sense.”

Poi said, “Justine is correct. He’s suffering from soul damage. It’ll take two weeks to heal, according to what your father has already managed to tell me before he fell into this state.”

A frantic smile alighted upon Jane’s face, briefly, and then it was gone. “Okay! Okay… Okay. That’s… That’s good news, I think. Isn’t it?”

Kiri allowed herself a small smile. “Yes. That is good news.”

“I still want a healer here.” Jane had been holding Erick’s hand, but now she held his shoulder as well. “Can you hear me, dad?”

Erick mumbled, “I’m fine. It’s just…” He did not open his eyes, as he said, “Withdrawal from a divine spell, or something. I want to go to bed but I can’t do that yet, can I? Or rather, I shouldn’t. All but seven Shades of Ar’Kendrithyst are dead. Melemizargo has abandoned the city and his Clergy.” As his news elicited gasps from everyone except Poi, Erick turned his head to Poi, and asked, “How bad is it?”

Poi was already fielding messages across the city, so answering Erick’s question was easy enough. “Not that bad right now. After the initial release of information on your trip into the Dead City has gone out into the world, there seems to be an immediate push back saying that this is all a trap, and that the Shades have tricked you into saying what you have said—”

“How much has he said?” Jane asked, suddenly nervous and worried for her father’s continued well-being.

“Almost everything,” Erick answered. “I’ll tell you, too.”

Poi continued, “And since we are still only a third of the way through this Shadow’s Feast it appears most actions from the rest of the world will not happen until dawn breaks on the week of the Triumph of Light, tomorrow.”

“Ahhh. That’s good. For the best.” Erick mumbled, as he recovered his senses, laid back on his recliner. He blinked a few times, then finally kept his eyes open. They were whiter than before, but he still had a pupil. He wasn’t a Shade himself. Poi couldn’t have gotten a read on the man if he was. Erick said, “But there are a lot of dangers I missed. They’re pouring out of that Dead City right now. I think the Witch—” Teressa went solidly still, standing at Erick’s side. Erick noticed, thanks to an Ophiel in the background watching them all. He continued, “I killed her, by the way, Teressa.” He produced a box and flicked it backward, toward Teressa. Teressa grabbed the box and stared at the blue rectangle. Erick said, “She created some new Moon Reachers. They’re shaggy black things instead of grey things. I killed some and I saw the Kill Notifications for them, too. They’re called Dark Reachers. I know some of them got away when her place exploded, but a lot of new toxic or Extreme Light monsters are in the Dead City, and I’m sure some are coming here.” With great difficulty, and with Jane’s help, Erick levered himself into a seated position. “There’s people that need rescuing, still trapped inside the city.”

Jane thought for roughly half a second, then she stood up, and said, “Then it’s my turn to help. You’ve done enough, dad.”

Erick smiled; an exhausted, happy expression. “I’m sure Killzone has started working out something. I’m going to have an Ophiel put an Imaging up near the Center Lane… Done.” He looked to his daughter, and said, “I missed you in there, but I’m glad you didn’t come. They would have murdered you right in front of me just to get a reaction.”

“Yeah…” Jane suddenly seemed to realize, all over again, the gravity of her father’s recent journey. “You’re right.” She looked on the bright side, saying, “But now they’re all dead, and they can’t threaten us ever again!” She chuckled, then joked, “Only the monsters are left.”

Erick let loose a large secret, like it was nothing, “There’s an entire people in the Brightwater. Hundreds of thousands, maybe. They’re going to be hard to deal with, but try not to interact with them too much, for now.”

Kiri, Teressa, and even Justine, all flinched.

Jane blinked. She was the first to recover. “… What?”

Poi interrupted the revelation, “Killzone is calling in all hands. Guardmaster Merit is doing the same. Jane, since you are asking to be involved, you’re needed. Report to Reform Point Three.” He looked to Erick, and asked a useless question because he had just been ordered to ask, “Can you exclude the Brightwater from your Imaging?”

“Uh.” Erick said, “Yes. Probably. But I’m not going to do that. To exclude that part of the Imaging would likely exclude all the people between the Imaging and the Brightwater. And that’s gotta be at least…” He glanced away. “Looks like 2 people. Well. I’m still not doing that.”

“Understood.” Poi said, “We’ll just put blackouts on parts of your Imaging.”

“Ugh. Poi.” Erick said, “The entire world will find out soon enough.”

“This is true. But not tonight. Those people are dangerous, Erick. They’re a society raised in the dark of the Shades. They make the monsters, and they would kill us all if they could.”

Jane turned to Justine, asking, “Who are these Brightwater people?”

All eyes turned to the former shadeling in the room.

“What are you looking at me for!” Justine honestly said, “I don’t know about people in Brightwater! All I ever knew was that it was off limits.”

“And this is true,” Poi said, “The Shades kept the people in the Brightwater out of the light for good reasons. Those people are the monster makers, and the plague spreaders. The arcanaeum there lives up to its name very well; Truedark.” He said, “And now they have no masters. They’re free to escape into the world to integrate into other societies and harm whoever they wish to harm.”

Erick said, “Everyone seems so worried about them but they didn’t seem that bad.”

