The Bastion hadn’t fallen, despite Dozer’s fears. When Rain’s soul had ruptured, the slime had felt the entire structure shake, buffeted like a dinghy in a hurricane. By the time Rain had made it inside, things had settled down, but outside, the chaos had changed. It was hotter and more turbulent, but also thinner, which Rain hadn’t taken as a good sign.

Since he’d arrived, Rain hadn’t noticed the chaos thinning any further, but that didn’t mean he was safe. For all he knew, his paling had burst like a balloon. If that were the case, then the Bastion would be the only thing keeping his consciousness from dissolving away completely. The chaos outside might not be his at all, but rather the ambient essence in the Ashen Jungle. That would have explained the heat.

Also, Snek was gone. Rain wasn’t sure whether the wayward avatar had been swept out of his soul or had simply dissolved over time. Either way, he had to hope that at least some of his paling was still intact. If it wasn’t, then the chances were good that he was utterly screwed.

Rain grimaced, pushing aside his worries for the umpteenth time. He was currently piloting his airship via Stubs, seated in the cramped cockpit and staring out through the windshield as he pedaled himself forward. The propulsion system was entirely manual, copying the forgewagon’s drive train—more or less—out of essence. Instead of treads, there was a prop situated behind him at the airship’s tail. It was turning quickly at the moment, thanks to the aggressive gear ratio he’d selected. For steering, he had rigged up a bunch of levers, connected to various exterior flaps by cables or direct mechanical linkages. In general, Kludge-1 lived up to its name.

The airship was poorly thought-out, shoddily built, questionably aerodynamic, and ugly, both inside and out. It was more like a lumpy potato than the sleek craft Rain had first envisioned. It was working, though, which was nice.

As for why it needed a propulsion system in the first place, Rain would have loved to have been able to just will himself forward, but that didn’t work out here. Within the Bastion, sure, he could fly around to his heart’s content. Adrift in the chaos, however, his control extended to the skin of his craft and no further. There was nothing to push off except the chaos, and it was mostly immune to his mental efforts. It did respond to physics, however. Rain had opted for a fan instead of Dozer’s method, which was, not to put too fine a point on it, fart-based.

Even with the fan, Rain hadn’t been able to find a way to get it to turn on its own. He could move essence around with his mind easily enough, but that didn’t mean he could just spin a prop with any sort of speed. Turn it, sure, but fast? Not so much. The gearing was important, and using his avatar to apply the force was little different than doing so directly. Pedal power was where it was at, at least for now. He’d revisit the problem once he figured out how to make essence into jet fuel.

There were other solutions, of course—Rain had considered making either an aquatic or an avian avatar, for example. He’d discarded such ideas. Firstly, he’d already half-completed the airship, and secondly, he hadn’t wanted to risk going outside unprotected. The airship’s hull put a comforting layer of hardened essence between him and the chaos.

Or at least it would have, had the ship not been leaking.

Taking an arm away from the controls, Rain focused. Slowly, the chaos-fogged air began to clear, the orange gas concentrating above one of the pirate hooks that he’d added to the end of his avatar’s arms. He turned his thoughts to purifying the growing orb, and the color began to lighten. Working with gases was tricky—the chaos, particularly—but his skill was improving. He couldn’t do this at range, even within the Bastion, but the cabin of Kludge-1 was tiny enough for him to manage.

Sensing that there was enough gathered, Rain tightened his will further. The compacted gas became first liquid, then solid, falling to the floor as a marble of pure white essence to join its fellows in rattling about beneath his chair. There were dozens of them down there.

He’d been at this for a while.

Rain sighed, taking his feet from the pedals and leaving the craft to drift.

I really should fix the seals…

Shaking his head, he sent his mind back to the Bastion, far, far behind him. Appearing in his core, he looked around, making sure that everything was still okay.

It was. The Bastion still stood. The chaos outside was calm. Dozer was still asleep.

Good.

Rain hopped back to Stumps, looking through the windshield to his dollar-store anemometer. It was nothing more than a scrap of fabric tied to a spar that jutted from the nose of Kludge-1 like the horn of a narwhal. The essence-fabric was snapping vigorously in the chaos at the moment, pointing slightly upward and off to the right.

“Getting faster…” Rain said, though his voice came out more like the dying wheeze of a rotting corpse. His avatar’s vocal cords definitely needed work, but that was WAY down on the priority list.

Using his hooks, Rain adjusted the position of a few levers, turning Kludge-1 until the pennant was pointing straight ahead. He resumed pedaling, but unlike every time before, he found himself unable to make the pennant reverse direction. The current was now faster than he could spin his prop.

Shit.

Rain peered out through the windshield in concern. The last thing he wanted was to slam into his paling at speed, or—maybe worse—to be sucked out through the hole. He wasn’t sure what would happen if an avatar bearing his consciousness were to exit his domain. It wasn’t something he wanted to test. He’d switch back to his core before he let that happen.

He slowed his pedaling, then stopped altogether, letting the current carry him as he used the levers to control his attitude, watching the pennant. The wind was still getting stronger, and quickly. The entire craft shook, groaning alarmingly as the pennant whipped and snapped more violently by the moment. Rain’s googly-eyes widened, watching as it tore free from the spar.

This is bad!

Frantically, he worked at the levers, trying to control the tumbling craft, focused wholly on keeping his view pointed straight ahead so he could see. The chaos in front of him was changing color, shifting from orange to a muddy purple as he hurtled forward. Quickly, that purple became blue as the chaos cleared and his paling became visible. It stretched before him in all directions, a wall so vast that it appeared to be uncurving. Its blue light cut through the rushing chaos, allowing Rain to see further than he’d ever seen before, but he had eyes only for the tear.

It was enormous.

A gaping slash in the blue wall of energy, stretching above and below him like a scar.

The current was sweeping him directly for the center.

“Shit!” Rain wheezed, returning his feet to the pedals. He pumped his stumpy legs with all his strength as the craft around him shook wildly. He tried to aim the nose away from the tear, but one of the control surfaces tore away, sending him tumbling entirely out of control. With no other options, he jumped back to his core. After a few moments of jarring stillness, Rain winced, his awareness of Stumps vanishing like a thread, snipped.

There would be no retrieving that particular avatar.

Well then.

The fearful yellow light of Rain’s core mellowed to blue as he spread his senses through the Bastion, checking to make sure everything was still intact. As far as he could tell, nothing had changed. Dozer was still asleep, safe in his crate. Looking outside, the chaos didn’t seem to be any thinner than it had an hour ago. There was another pennant on a spar out there, protruding from the recently-added airship dock. The flag hung mostly limp, buffeted by the chaos, but only occasionally pointing in the direction of the tear.

Rain’s core began to yellow again as he watched the flag, considering.

If the Bastion is drifting…

Before the color of worry could fully take over, Rain focused. His core shifted from dirty yellow to deep ruby, glowing with determination.

Not if I have anything to say about it. Time for Kludge-2.

Rain sat up sharply, folding at the waist. “Okay, so—“

“Ah!” Ameliah yelled, leaping away from him. He wasn’t even able to get out his own cry of surprise before she turned around and tackled him with a resounding clang.

“I told you not to do that!” she cried, a hitch in her voice. “You idiot.”

Rain coughed, finding his throat incredibly dry. “Ameliah, what…? Oh.” Shit. He flicked on his HUD, saw it was past 7 PM, then winced. Ten hours. They must have been worried sick.

“Tallheart! He’s back!” Ameliah yelled, her voice deafening in his ear.

Rain heard steady footsteps, and he turned his head as much as he could to see Tallheart’s feet approaching. His visor had been slammed closed by the force of Ameliah’s tackle, limiting his field of view, and he couldn’t get an arm free to raise it. He was still glad to be wearing the armor, though. He was sure that he’d be having trouble breathing without it. His head felt a little light as it was, even without having the life crushed out of him.

“Are you dying?” Tallheart asked, coming to a stop in front of Rain.

Rain blinked, looking up at him. “No. I think. Uh, no faster than usual, anyway.”

“Good,” Tallheart said, reaching down to grasp Rain’s shoulder. He turned his gaze toward Ameliah. “Have you told him he is an idiot?”

“Already covered,” Ameliah said. Rain felt her shaking against him, but he wasn’t sure if it was from tears or laughter. Finally, she released him, pushing him back to arm’s length and dislodging Tallheart’s hand in the process.

Rain grimaced beneath his helmet. Tears. Definitely tears.

Ameliah reached up to remove his helmet, pulling it away and tossing it aside. “What took you so long?”

“Sorry,” Rain said quickly, feeling horrible guilt. “I got caught up in what I was doing. I was worried about… I didn’t consider…” He looked at Tallheart, seeing a subtle mirror of Ameliah’s concerned expression on his stony features, though it was quickly hidden. Rain winced again. “Sorry.”

“Idiot,” Ameliah said, pulling him close once more. Now that he was without his helmet, he was able to feel the warmth of her cheek against his. It was damp. Numbly, he wrapped his arms around her in return.

“Come,” Tallheart said, gesturing toward the fire. “There is soup. Once you have eaten, you can explain what you have discovered.”

“I…yes,” Rain said, feeling Ameliah tighten her grip.

Belatedly, he became aware that the armor she was wearing wasn’t iron any longer. He’d gotten a look at it when she’d released him before, but it hadn’t registered until now.

Ameliah took a deep breath, then sighed and released him. She looked at him for a moment, then shook her head and got to her feet.

Rain clambered to stand with her, finding himself slightly unsteady, but not nearly as bad as he’d expected. His joints had none of the stiffness he’d grown used to when his soul had been damaged before, and his head, while a bit woozy, was headache-free.

He filed the observations down for later, more concerned by the carnage that he’d just noticed. While their campsite was clear, the surrounding area was littered with corpses. It was more like what he would have expected after a night’s defense, not the passage of a day.

“Here,” Ameliah said, and Rain tore his eyes away from the scene to see her holding out a water skin.

He took it gratefully, tilting his head back to take a deep drink. The water was warm and slightly stale, but to him, it tasted sweet. He gasped in satisfaction, lowering the skin, then using it to gesture around. “What happened?”

“Monsters happened,” Tallheart said. Rain spotted him by the fire, ladling soup into a bowl.

Rain’s stomach growled excitedly on seeing that, but he pushed aside the pang of hunger, looking to Ameliah for further explanation. She simply shrugged, and the motion brought his attention back to her armor.

Ameliah’s armor was narrower at the waist than his, obviously, but other than that and the dull adamant finish, it appeared nearly identical in design. She didn’t have the helmet on, but Rain assumed it would have the same unornamented and practical shape as the rest of the pieces. There were no gaps between the plates, and everything was rounded to remove edges where a weapon could catch. Her gauntlets appeared like his as well, the metal joints wondrously articulated despite her smaller, more nimble hands. She’d have no trouble using a bow, even while wearing them. She was also wearing rings, one per finger and of several different metals.

Did they find some Arcane Crysts somehow, or are those just for resistances?

“Idiot,” Ameliah said for the third time, shifting under his gaze. She sighed, running a hand through her disheveled hair. She looked as tired as he felt, and from the number of monster corpses lying around, she’d spent a lot of stamina. Mana, too.

Rain tilted his head.

In fact, he was sure her mana and stamina were low. He also felt a vague sense of…presence...from her, for lack of a better word. Tallheart too. What the hell is going on with linksight? Am I… Am I sensing their vitals? Their power levels?

“Stop staring,” Ameliah said, crossing her arms. “I’m a mess, and I blame you.”

“I think you look beautiful,” Rain said honestly, looking back up at her face. I’ll worry about linksight in a minute. “Again, I’m so sorry I made you wait.”

She rolled her eyes. “Complimenting me isn’t going to save you.” Then, she clicked her tongue and frowned before meeting his gaze. “I was...” She stopped, then shook her head and continued. “I was afraid you weren’t coming back. People that are unconscious for that long… Even with healing… Not that you were…” She stopped again, closing her eyes and muttering something to herself.

Ameliah…

She took a deep breath, then opened her eyes and forced a smile, speaking in a much lighter tone. “Tallheart was worried too. You should have seen it.”

“I was not worried,” Tallheart said. Rain turned to see him holding out a bowl, now full of soup. “Come. Eat before it grows cold.”

“See?” Ameliah said, wrapping her arm around Rain’s back. She rested her head on his shoulder, then started guiding him toward the fire. “He’s mothering.”

“I am not,” Tallheart said, still holding out the bowl. “Now eat.”

Rain glanced down at Ameliah, then back up at Tallheart and the offered bowl. “Look, I’m really sorry I didn’t—”

