“The time,” Rain said, getting to his feet, then looking around for his helmet. He gestured around the campsite at all the monster corpses, knowing that they’d catch his meaning. It was evident that the gigantic essence blowout from his soul had attracted them in some way. Ameliah and Tallheart had come to that conclusion even without him, telling him so while he’d been having his soup. They hadn’t lingered on the topic, more focused on convincing him that the damage to his soul hadn’t been his fault. He was grateful to them for that, but his feelings didn’t matter, not in the face of what he suspected was about to happen.

The only question was how bad it would be and how long it would take for the spawns to stop. If they needed to, they could retreat to the island at the center of the lake, though that wasn’t without its own dangers. They could even return to the fortress they’d left back in the trees. Unfortunately, they wouldn’t have much time to discuss it further. The Fire Moss was already beginning to fade, the pulses of light coming slower and slower by the moment.

A Deepcat yowled in the distance, answered by another, and then another. Rain’s clock ticked over, and the last of the moss-light vanished, leaving them with only their fire, the dim glow of the lava lake, and the green rings rising around Ameliah. Those provided no illumination, but Rain could still see her clearly enough to make out the look she was giving him.

“Have I told you that you’re a trouble magnet?” she asked.

“Once or twice,” Rain said, slipping on his helmet.

More howls joined in, the night coming alive with the sounds of waking monsters. Not just Deepcats. Dozens of cries became what seemed to be hundreds, accompanied by the snapping of twigs and the rustle of disturbed leaves in the distance. It sounded as if the entire Ashen Jungle was coming for them, the monsters no longer held back by their daytime skittishness.

Tallheart got to his feet smoothly, rolling his neck and reaching for his hammer. “At least we will not lack for Tel.” He rumbled, low in his chest, seemingly amused, though it was difficult to tell over the cacophony. “A magnet indeed.”
