“Eat,” Tallheart said, his expression uncompromising. “Or I will make you.”

Rain heaved a contented sigh, setting down his fourth bowl. “Alright, if I eat any more, I’ll explode. Can I talk now?”

“You may,” Tallheart said from Rain’s elbow.

Translucent green rings of energy were slowly rising around the seated cervidian. Ameliah was standing about ten meters away, keeping an eye on the tree line. She was surrounded by rings as well, but of two colors, not just one. The blue rings were rising twice as fast as the green ones, indicating a higher transfer rate. Rain had already gotten everyone’s mana back to full, so now he was just offsetting the cost of Energy Well for her. Rain himself was ring-free. Ameliah didn’t have IFF, so she’d needed to exclude him with simple geometry, lest he pop from overstamina.

Rain snorted, then used Purify to clean away the thin film of soup that remained in his bowl. “I’ll try to summarize. Stop me if you have any questions.” He raised his voice slightly. “Ameliah, can you hear me okay from over there?”

“I can,” she said. “I have Tallheart’s perception accolade. You don’t need to yell.”

“Great,” Rain said, returning his volume to normal. “If I wander off topic, pull me back, please. I’m running with a low bar.” The expression wasn’t literal, simply meaning that he was tired.

“Speak,” Tallheart said.

“Yes, get on with it,” Ameliah called over to him.

“Right,” Rain said, hiding a smile at her unintentional Monty Python reference. “So I already told you what Dozer felt before I went in, so I’ll skip past that. The Bastion was fine when I got there. All my experiments got tossed around, but nothing important was damaged. I finished the little airship I told you about before, then drove it out into the chaos, following the currents. I found my paling after…maybe an hour? It’s hard to keep track of time in there. Anyway, it manifested as this enormous barrier, glowing the same shade of blue as my body in soulspace, I think. Anyway, the tear is enormous. When I got close enough to see it, the current was so strong that my airship was going to get sucked out. I had to jump back to my core unless I wanted to go with it.”

“Sucked out into soulspace?” Ameliah asked.

Rain shrugged. “That’s my guess. It certainly seemed dark out there.”

“What would have happened if you hadn’t switched?” Ameliah asked.

Rain shrugged. “I don’t know, but I don’t think it would have been good. When Stumps went through, I lost contact with him. I have this sort-of…sense...of where all my avatars are. Anyway, best case if I went out there, I’d find myself in soulspace, still in my avatar…or maybe in my…avatar. I need a different word for that now. Damn. Soulform? Maybe I should just start calling my self-built avatars ‘puppets’ or something. They’re more puppet-like than any—“

Tallheart cleared his throat loudly.

“Sorry,” Rain said. “So best case, I’m in soulspace. Middle of the road, I’d get dumped back into my core. Worst case, I’d die.” He frowned. “No, wait. Worst case, I’d end up in soulspace with no way back, my body would die, and then my consciousness would be banished to the shadow realm for all eternity while whatever was left of my mind slowly went insane.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled. “A disturbing thought. A fate worse than death.”

Even from this distance, Rain could tell that Ameliah had reacted even more poorly. Admonishing himself for a fool, he decided it best to continue quickly. “Right, anyway, I rebuilt Stumps and a new, improved airship, then set off again. I was really worried then that the Bastion itself might be drifting, which is why I didn’t feel like I had time to come back and fill you two in. As bad as an avatar getting sucked out might be, my core would be infinitely worse. I didn’t find out until later that I don’t need to worry about that. As near as I can tell, my core seems to act like some sort of anchor.”

“How did you determine this?” Tallheart asked.

“I’m getting to that,” Rain said. “I didn’t take the new airship toward the tear this time. I found my way to my paling on the opposite side of my soul and made myself a little outpost, like a barnacle. You both know what a barnacle is?”

“Yes,” Ameliah said. “Though I’m a little surprised you do.”

“Continue,” Tallheart said before Rain could respond.

Rain smiled, snorting softly. “Anyway, I spent some time in the Barnacle, keeping track of the Bastion and making sure it wasn’t drifting further away or anything. While I was there, I was able to get a really good look at my paling. It’s…kinda like essence, but not. I can’t shape it or anything, and it glows with its own light. It feels soft, flexible, yet somehow harder than adamant. It’s also doing more than just being a barrier, though I didn’t find out about that until later.

“Eventually, once I was sure the Bastion wasn’t drifting, I switched back to my core and built myself another Stumps. I figured that would be faster than pedaling my way all the way back. Then I built Kludge-3— Oh, ‘Kludge’ is what I decided to call my airship model. The first one looked a bit like a potato with wings, but by the time I got to the third, I’d fixed that somewhat. Not enough for a new name, though. Kludge means—”

Tallheart cleared his throat.

“Sorry,” Rain said. “I’m a bit frazzled, I know. Anyway, I headed back toward the tear. I intended to set up a second Barnacle near the edge, but when I was only halfway there, the first Barnacle broke free from my paling. Like I said, I’m vaguely aware of where my avatars are, even when I’m not puppeting them, so I felt Stumps-2 get shot off the wall at speed. I switched back to him, and… I suppose you don’t need every last detail. I’m gonna skip ahead a bit. That okay?”

They both nodded, so Rain continued. “I think it all comes down to pressure. Essence pressure.” He paused, rubbing at the bridge of his nose, then looked up. “I’m level 24, right? So the ambient pressure inside my soul should be, well, 24. Don’t ask me for a unit. We’re in a rank 15 zone, and thanks to the tear, my soul has…depressurized down to level 15. But there’s still wind. That’s the key.”

He shook his head, not waiting for them to respond. “More essence has to be coming in. I think the soul tries to maintain pressure somehow, bringing in essence from outside the paling. It’s like…” Osmosis? No, that’s the wrong word. That has to do with equalizing pressure, not maintaining it. Homeostasis, maybe? Damn it, they wouldn’t understand if I tried to translate that anyway. Hell, I barely understand. Biology isn’t exactly high on my list of school subjects to devote a Winter session to.

He paused, taking a moment to collect his thoughts, raising a hand to signal his companions to wait. After a moment, he nodded, then continued. “So when I sealed off with the Barnacle, I enclosed a small section of paling. Right away, I noticed chaos getting in, but I thought that was just because my seal wasn’t perfect. That wasn’t it, though. The chaos was coming through the paling, and it kept coming after I left. The pressure built inside until it was too much for my seal, and then the Barnacle popped free. The essence that’s coming in is hot and smelly, not like the pure stuff from my core. We’re in a Heat zone, with a touch of Chem, so—”

“Rain, stop,” Ameliah said, raising a hand to stop him. “I’m getting a headache.”

“Huh?” Rain said, looking up. “Should I drop Essence Well?”

“No, not literally,” Ameliah said with a sigh. “I’m just having trouble keeping up. You’re jumping around too fast.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled in agreement.

Rain looked between them, seeing their confounded expressions, then ran a hand down his face. They aren’t used to talking about things like pressure. Let’s try this. “You know how when you climb a mountain, the air gets all thin? The pressure difference—”

“That is not the problem,” Tallheart said, raising a hand. “Not for me,” he amended, glancing at Ameliah. She nodded, so he continued. “I understand pressure. I am confused by what it means regarding essence.” He looked back at Rain. “Let me return to something you said days before. I wish to make sure that I understand.”

“Sure,” Rain said.

Tallheart nodded. “You say that you feel great pressure when you level, correct?”

“Yes,” Rain replied.

“And when you do not have enough experience, the pressure is less?”

“Correct. Yes, much less. Mostly, it’s just wind. It’s essence exchange through the paling.” Rain ran a hand through his hair. “The paling contracts in either case, but the order is different. Out then in, versus in then out. When you don’t have enough experience for a level, it’s like…squeezing a sponge underwater, I guess. When you do have enough experience, the paling expands first, then goes impermeable before it crunches down. The pressure builds and pushes your core to the next level.”

“You are sure of this?” Tallheart asked.

Rain nodded. “Bartum—Officer Bartum; you met him, remember? Anyway, he described what it looks like, and nothing I’ve seen from inside contradicts that image yet. I want to run some more experiments, but yeah, I’m pretty sure. I think most of the time, the paling is just holding pressure, keeping you at some base level, no matter what the essence density outside is like. It’s only during the daily—uh, daily for most people—essence exchange that…things…happen. Changes. Like leveling and stuff. Oh, another thing. Bartum said that only awakened souls do that. Not unawakened. I don’t know about animals or monsters. I was thinking about that, actually. I’m almost certain that the reason monsters get weaker in low-essence areas is that their palings are shit at maintaining pressure.“

“Hmm,” Tallheart said, frowning.

“You’re making a lot of assumptions, Rain,” Ameliah said.

Rain shook his head. “No. Well, yes, but it all fits. I have evidence. I’m…connecting lots of little bits and pieces from all over the place.” He smiled. “I tell you, if I had some red string and a corkboard…”

Ameliah and Tallheart looked at him blankly.

Rain sighed. “Sorry. Look.” He raised a hand. “Bartum says the souls of unawakened people are different from those of awakened.” He lowered the hand, raising the opposite one. “Staavo says the great families in Xiugaaraa send their kids out to the wilds around the city when they come of age, just like the commoners, rather than taking them straight to the bottom of the Great Delving.” He looked at his raised hand, then let it fall with a shrug. “Hell, even before that, Jamus told me that unawakened can’t survive in the depths. At the time, I assumed he was just talking about the monsters, but they really can’t survive down here at all, can they?”

“Is that a rhetorical question?” Ameliah asked, raising an eyebrow. When Rain shook his head, she answered. “It depends on how far down you mean. Past the wall, unawakened can’t handle the ambient mana. Yes, mana, not essence. At least, so I’ve always been told. Semantics aside, I can tell you that the one time an unawakened merchant found his way to Brightside, he wouldn’t stop complaining about feeling crushed. He didn’t stay long.” She tilted her head. “You really didn’t know about this?”

Rain nodded. “I didn’t. Like I said, I assumed it was just the monsters. You’d think by now, I’d have learned to stop doing that. Assuming, I mean. Oh, and Tallheart’s stamina is full, by the way.”

“What?” Ameliah blinked, looking at him. “Don’t tell me you were counting how much I was sending him.”

“No, though that is totally the kind of thing I would do.” He shrugged. “I just…know. Just like I know you’re at three-quarters.” Is this what Ameliah’s interface feels like? It’s…imprecise. He looked at her, seeing her wearing a shocked expression. He blinked, then hurried to explain. “That’s another thing. Linksight is…well. I mentioned it was stronger before I went inside, but it’s more than that. It’s almost as if… Almost as if…”

Hang on, what if I…? Rain tilted his head. Party.

Rain felt a vague sense of strain in response to the thought, like he had used to get when trying to force his interface to do something it didn’t want to do. No window appeared, but the simple fact of the resistance told him that he was on the right track. Somehow, the hole in his paling was letting him tap into information that was normally available only inside a lair. It was coming in through another channel, one outside his interface, but it looked like he’d be able to integrate it anyway with a bit of effort. Effort that was probably unwise at the moment.

“Almost as if what?” Ameliah asked.

“Huh?” Rain asked, looking at her, having become lost in his own thoughts.

Tallheart grunted, and they both looked at him. “He was correct about my stamina,” he said. “You may stop.”

Looking almost as numb as Rain felt, Ameliah took a large step back, and the green rings around Tallheart vanished. At the same time, the ones surrounding her doubled in speed, matching pace with Essence Well. “You can really sense…”

Rain nodded. “I can. I don’t think the resolution is that great, but… Anyway, I think it’s all related. The system is… How can I explain this?” He gestured vaguely. “It’s like… It’s like there are layers to it. There’s essence, right? But then, there’s experience, and they’re not the same. I think essence is the base layer, as in, how the world really works, and experience is something built on top of that. An approximation, or maybe…a currency or something.” Damn it, I need to start a new document. I’ve got notes on all of this, but it’s a total mess. Rain raised his hands, but stopped himself just short of summoning a keyboard. For one thing, he was in the middle of a conversation, and for another, he’d noticed the time. It was almost true dusk.

“What is it?” Tallheart asked, stiffening in response to Rain’s body language.

