“It seems there are matters I must attend to. Construction, a few emissaries—no, Gazi, Mars, I would hardly wish for you to bestir yourselves after your long journey. Rest here. We will have a short break! Orthenon, I will deal with this myself.”
Orthenon nodded as Flos strode out of the room. The tall man went back to stand with the other three, and Trey edged away from them slightly.
Now the mood in the vast throne room had changed again. In Flos’ absence, the smiles on the faces of his four vassals changed. They were still smiling; but differently towards each other.
Teres didn’t have to tell Trey that there was some tension between them. Mars was the first to break the silence. She shifted slightly, leaning down so her breasts were more obvious as she spoke to Gazi.
“It’s good to see you again, Gazi. A pity you didn’t come earlier; I would have dearly loved to see our lord’s face had we walked in together.”
Gazi smiled back at Mars, without a hint of actual joy in her expression. She had sharp teeth.
“I would not wish to sully the joy of meeting our King with your presence. He deserves someone by his side with the least amount of confidence and competence.”
“Oh? And I see you are as impatient as ever, Gazi. You might have waited; our lord was enjoying the poem of the long-dead king.”
The half-Gazer shrugged, almost regretfully and shook her head.
“What a shame he must listen to children from another world for entertainment. It seems the novelty of your presence has worn off already, Mars.”
The other woman’s eyes narrowed and her hand twitched towards the hilt of her sword. Gazi smiled smugly, but before the two could exchange another round of insults, Takhatres clicked his tongue softly. He spread his ‘arms’, two long wings with long feathers and nimble talons at each end.
“Do you two intend to exchange insults the instant you meet? Or am I so invisible that you don’t wish to ask me about how I have been, Gazi?”
Gazi looked at him, and her expression softened somewhat. Mars looked abashed, and scratched at her head as the two turned to Takhatres.
“My apologies, Takhatres. How is your tribe?”
“Right, sorry. How are your sons and daughter? Did your wives lay any more eggs since I last saw you?”
Orthenon moved over towards Teres and Trey as the three began to converse in earnest. Trey was relieved he was the one talking to them; his head was spinning again, and he desperately needed someone to talk to if he and Teres couldn’t get away to discuss things. And if there was someone Trey had to talk to, he’d choose Orthenon.
“How are you two doing, Trey, Teresa? It has been a long day and I believe my lord forgot that you two require food, even if he does not. Should I have something brought for you to eat?”
“What? No—I’m good, thanks.”
“I’m fine, thank you. I had a big breakfast.”
Teres smiled up at Orthenon. Apart from Flos, and Trey he was pretty much the only person she was comfortable talking to.
The tall, mustached man was kind, strict, and absolutely formal at all times. Trey admired him, and he knew Teres did…for more reasons than Trey did. Most importantly though, Orthenon was one of the few people the twins were comfortable talking to. He’d explained most of how this world worked to them, and his advice was always good.
As were his warnings. Orthenon lowered his voice as the three people behind him began to chat, Mars and Gazi trading the occasionally catty remark.
“A word of warning for you two: stay away from Gazi. She may be the weakest of the three, at least without her eye, but she is the most feared, and perhaps the most possessive of our King.”
“Oh. Okay.”
Trey didn’t know how to respond to that. Was Orthenon saying Gazi might hate them because Flos had made them his attendants? But wasn’t she more important anyways?
Teres was clearly thinking the same thing.
“Isn’t she one of the Seven? I heard someone mention that.”
Trey hadn’t heard that, but Orthenon nodded. He frowned at the two of them.
“Has no one told you of the Seven? Takhatres—no, I don’t believe he cares for boasting and I suppose it is considered common knowledge.”
He sighed, and tapped lightly on his pants as he thought.
“The Seven were once King Flos’ personal circle with whom he consulted and relied on. They were his generals, his leaders who each managed part of his kingdom. They were the strongest and best of his subjects. See the three before you; despite their squabbling, their names are known across this world.”
Trey felt a shiver go down his spine as he looked at Gazi, Mars, and Takhatres. Teres looked curiously at Orthenon.
“Aren’t you one of them?”
He smiled briefly.
“My role is different. I am the King’s steward; I can hardly leave his side.”
“In that case, who’s the strongest?”
It was a stupid question to say, but Trey was curious. He could feel Teres’ disapproval and blushed, but Orthenon treated it like a normal question.
“Mars is the highest-leveled, if that’s what you define as strongest. She’s Level 66; the second-highest level warrior class on the continent.”
That was certainly the highest number Trey had ever heard. Teres also looked impressed, and for good reason. Both twins had learned the conventions of this world by now, and they understood what that meant.
“In Chandrar she is second-highest, but in terms of levels, you would still be able to count those in the world with a level close or higher than hers between the two of you.
“So she’s stronger than Gazi?”
Orthenon hesitated. He looked uncomfortable.
“If the four of us were to fight here and now, Mars would likely be the one who walked away. But I would not place money on such a bet. The Seven were chosen because they excelled beyond all others at some aspect.”
“And why are they called the Seven? Do you mean they’re like the Seven Deadly Sins or something?”
Teres had clearly been thinking the same thing, but the look she gave Trey reminded him that not everything was a manga. Orthenon looked perplexed.
“Seven Deadly…? No. No names. Just the Seven. There was no history of them before Flos named the first four. And then he slowly added to their ranks. The number has no meaning; if there were another worthy of it, they would have been eight. As it stands, they might as well call themselves the Five.”
“Why?”
“Two of the Seven are dead. They perished before our King went into his slumber. And two more have yet to return. Amerys, the Calm Flower of the Battlefield and Drevish, the Architect.”
“Why do they have those titles? I mean, sorry, what do they mean?”
Orthenon paused, and a rueful look appeared on his face.
“I believe they would not like me to tell you. If you must know, it would be wiser to ask them yourselves.”
He nodded, and Trey unwillingly walked over to join the three with Teres. He hadn’t asked because he wanted to put the question to those three themselves. But Teres wanted to know, and she was going to make him ask, he just knew it.
Mars was speaking to the others as the twins and Orthenon moved back into earshot.
“—Still surprised Amerys isn’t here. Drevish I could see; if he’s got some sort of project going on he wouldn’t abandon it even for our lord, but Amerys?”
She paused, and smiled at the twins as they approached. Trey tried to smile at her and meet her eyes and nothing else while Teres ducked her head.
“You two are the ones who woke my liege lord, aren’t you? I owe you a huge debt, Trey and Teres, was it?”
She bowed formally to Trey, and he shifted awkwardly with Teres. He took Mars’ hand as she offered it and felt a callused, strong grip that nearly crushed his fingers.
“Um, it’s really nice to meet you.”
“And you.”
Mars gave Trey another smile. He blushed and tried to keep his eyes…anywhere above her shoulders, really. She looked exactly like someone out of an anime or video game, which was to say, stylized, unrealistic perfection of the female form…according to males.
His head was confused, and he was about to do something stupid, so Teres kicked him. Trey blurted out the question on his mind.
“Why—why do they call you the Illusionist? Can you do magic?”
Mars blinked in surprise, and Takhatres chuckled lightly in amusement. He saw Teres edging away from Gazi, towards him.
Trey knew Teres liked the bird-man, and he’d been nothing but kind to them in the week since he’d arrived. But still, the curved beak and predatory look of the Garuda bird-man made him look ten thousand times scarier than Falco. He had a habit of moving his wing arms out slightly and shifting from one clawed foot to another when talking.
Mars scratched at one bright red lock of hair in embarrassment. The others chuckled.
“I’m no [Mage], if that’s what you’re asking. My class is [Vanguard]—a variation of [Warrior]. I can’t do any magic, actually, although I have several magical items. That’s what the name refers to.”
That sort of made sense. Did she use illusions in combat? Trey wanted to ask more, but Mars looked uncomfortable, and Takhatres stepped in. He bowed his head so he could look down at Trey—the Garuda was quite a bit taller than he was.
“Most of our titles were given to us by our enemies. They’re true, but only to an extent. You might learn the full meaning behind them later, but for now—”
Takhatres smiled, and gestured towards the window.
“—Pressing matters await.”
It was as if a switch had flipped in the group. They looked towards the doors, and then abandoned the quiet bantering and casual conversations. They spoke quickly and decisively, as the twins listened. And the two realized they were having their own council before Flos got back.
“It is good you two are here. I’ve brought my warriors, but even with Orthenon here I was deeply troubled. Now that you two are here I believe we might truly begin to fulfill our lord’s ambitions.”
Takhatres spoke to Mars and Gazi frankly. Mars nodded.
“It’s good I didn’t stick around to confirm the rumors either. When I heard he was back—I was overjoyed, of course, but concerned. Now that I’ve gotten here, things are worse than I feared. Our forces are so weak any army could walk in here. Aside from us, who could protect our King?”
“We must simply fight and defeat our enemies. Now that our King has returned, what other choice is there?”
Gazi shrugged, as if unconcerned. Takhatres frowned at her.
“There is a difference between confidence and foolishness, Gazi. Perhaps alone you could slay an army, but can you protect our lord in the midst of battle by yourself?”
“Especially with your injured eye.”
Mars gestured at Gazi’s eye, and the half-Gazer frowned but made no retort. Takhatres nodded slowly.
“We must simply build up our strength as quickly as we can. I’ve brought my finest warriors here to act as security for now and my tribe is preparing to move into this area. In a few days’ time we’ll have an army.”
“But we need a legion to take this continent, let alone the world.”
“So? When he first began his conquest, our lord had little more than this.”
Mars frowned at Takhatres, but the bird-man did not look reassured.
“That was then. Now, the world knows of his might and our enemies will come at us full-force from the beginning. If we do not act, we may be wiped out before we even begin.”
“We have a few veterans from old wars, and the staff within the palace can aid us. But they hardly constitute a battalion. I tried to hold on to some soldiers, but there was no food or pay for them. If our King had asked it, they might have stayed but I alone…”
Orthenon sighed, shoulders slumping. Mars patted him on the back and even Gazi shook her head.
“You kept him safe and the kingdom intact. We must simply restore what has been lost. And we are four, here. Enough to defeat any army.”
Mars nodded cheerfully.
“Who could stand against our lord at the height of his power? He could rally the people here by himself if need be. Even now, between us, what force would be able to overwhelm us? That’s what we should be concerned with.”
Orthenon began listing names as the others nodded or shook their heads.
“In terms of major powers? The Four Companies of Baleros, Wistram, a coalition of Terandrian kingdoms perhaps, the Blighted King, the House of Minos…”
“Foreign powers. What about this continent?”
“There’s an alliance of nations to the north that formed after the empire fell. They’ll come for us.”
“But they’re fearful. Hm. We might have time there. No, I think it’s the Empire of Sands.”
“I heard of a growing nation before I left. What is the Empire of Sands?”
“A new [Emperor] emerged a while back. He absorbed many of the nations in our lord’s empire and created a vast army. He’s sweeping across the continent, and his soldiers are strong.”
“And our armies are all scattered or gone. That may be our greatest loss.”
Orthenon spoke the words quietly, and the other three nodded. He looked at the twins, explaining.
“The might of our lord never lay with one particular army, or even his generals. At the height of our power we had countless armies and individuals fighting underneath our banner.”
Mars nodded. She counted off on her fingers.
“The Rustängmarder, the Forgotten Legion, and the Silent Marchers are lost to us for now. But the Sunless Ghosts might rejoin us if we take the coast. And the Grave Wardens—“
“We don’t have the gold to hire them.”
“They owe us a debt. Is honor nothing to them?”
“No, but they swore a vow. And fighting wars isn’t part of that. If we could offer them support as well—”
“What about the Mad Ones? They’re staying in…Averach? They would surely send a delegation if asked. No other ruler puts up with them as our lord does.”
“Mad Ones? Who are they?”
Surprisingly, it was Teresa who asked that question. Orthenon nodded.
“[Alchemists], mainly. But also a new class—[Engineer]. They’re a group of walking disasters that create wondrous inventions and chaos. Having one of them in your city practically guarantees destruction and loss of life, but under our lord they worked to create miracles for us.”
Mars looked distressed. She tugged at her long hair.
“I can’t say I’d look to them first for help. Maybe some of them might provide funds, items—but they’re hardly the army we need.”
“What about—”
Takhatres broke off and looked towards the door. The other three fell silent, and then the doors opened.
Flos strode into the room, smiling as he rejoined the group. And the discussion was suddenly over. His vassals put aside their concerns to listen to the words of their king. And more—
“My lord. I had not the chance to offer you this earlier, but I wish to present you with the labor of my travels.”
