One of the real teenagers got elbowed by the fake ones. Cire didn’t look happy—and Rickel, again, didn’t know exactly why, except, perhaps, that Mivifa had once been Cire’s friend and then not?
But he smiled.
“Sure thing, Cire. Invite me over. Your place is great. Plus, your mother’s great.”
“You think so? She’s totally a monk sometimes, Rickel.”
“Eh. She’s hot.”
“Dude.”
 
——
 
When he was with Cire, Rickel was casual, shoving the Dragon, making jokes about his mother, getting shoved for it, flashing gold around, and seeing what Oteslia had to offer.
He was nursing a twisted ankle from trying a trick with a skateboard when he resumed his Drake guise and caught up with Ratici and Wilovan.
He was spotted, of course. The Drake [Thief] noticed him instantly, but since they liked Rickel, he was as safe as the two Gentlemen Callers as they took a break for lunch.
“How’s it going, you two?”
“Wilovan got shot this morning.”
“Another suit down.”
“Whoa. What? Can you afford more?”
Rickel had heard of it, of course, but he sat down as Wilovan regaled him with the brief tale. Ratici barely glanced at Rickel’s bag of holding.
“Funding for the suits is a small thing, as it were, Rickel. A fellow does appreciate the offer, but you don’t need to flash anything with us.”
They were rich, so Rickel shrugged.
“Just say the word, guys. How’s it going with the, uh, Brothers?”
Ratici and Wilovan exchanged a look, and Wilovan murmured.
“A few lads should have finally come down from the north. But let’s not discuss business here. This is a lunch.”
He emphasized the words, and Rickel sighed. Unlike Cire or Ecleeif, the two Gentlemen Callers held Rickel at a remove. They appreciated his help—but they were separate. And—in this moment—the two were seriously considering the all-vegetarian options at the café.
“Is it…safe here?”
“We’re in a lull. Neither side wants to attract the Watch. Collection day is usually quiet.”
“Huh.”
The Earthtenders and the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings were at war. They both had gangs that clashed in bloody ways, raiding each other’s safehouses, taking over streets—but it was a more civilized war than Rickel thought.
At least, in a Walled City. You rarely hauled off and stabbed someone in the streets. It happened, like their first battles and Wilovan’s assassination, but the worst thing to do would be getting a civilian killed.
For the Gentleman Callers, it was unacceptable. For the Earthtenders—the Watch would not ignore that. So you could have the two dining in the open.
True, there was a danger of poison, but Ratici was good enough to keep that from happening. He inserted a little strip into the first soup he was given.
“I can never do soups, Wilovan. Needles in the salad? Simple.”
“Soup is a weakness of yours, Ratici. But I, as a gentleman, never reproach you your weaknesses.”
Rickel loved their banter. He sat there, listening as the two mixed between complimenting the pumpkin-based soup, the raisins in the delightful salad with a refreshing vinegar dressing—sour and sweet—ribbing each other—
And talking shop. Which was why he was here.
“I heard all those Named-ranks are still fleeing to the new lands. Quite a stir, quite a stir from our delightful [Innkeeper]. Did you hear more, perchance?”
“Only a letter.”
Wilovan looked up in outrage.
“You don’t say. A letter? From Erin herself?”
Rickel really, really wanted to meet Erin. And Lyonette—who was not an Earther. He had felt really silly about it at the time, but that meant Erin Solstice was almost definitely one. The woman who lived! He really wanted to exchange notes with her, but again.
Oteslia. Ratici proffered Wilovan a letter, but snatched it back when the Gnoll reached for it.
“When you read this missive, addressed to the two of us, I might note that it came to me, Wilovan, old chap.”
“You held it back all morning?”
“You had been shot. I thought it would cheer you up.”
Wilovan snatched the letter and began to read. His furrowed brow turned into a smile.
“Ah, now that’s a pleasant missive. She has not forgotten us?”
“What an insult, Wilovan, to assume she would.”
“That is upon me, Ratici—and a poorer man to ever think it of Erin.”
They looked so contented at getting a letter from the mysterious [Innkeeper] that they sat back as if that were half the meal. Then they continued talking.
“Extraordinary that she helped the adventurers escape. I hear no less than Orchestra is upon their backs.”
“Hm. Nasty fellow, that Music Maker. A nasty fellow to cross. Who else is there with links to us?”
The [Thief] counted on his claws.
“Well, the Music Maker makes use of services. The Cheerful Lad helps everyone—”
“Of course—”
Rickel was decoding this. Ratici and Wilovan were giving him amused looks as he wrote down a few names, and Wilovan winked one huge eye in confirmation.
“—And the Luckless has debts. Speed Herself is not a pleasant one to cross, nor does she like us. A mixed bag, I’d say. The Haven doesn’t associate with many on our end.”
“No indeed. No indeed. Well, that’s as good as it may be for Miss Solstice. But now it’s my turn. I heard that Orchestra’s riled up the south. Especially their old rivals.”
The Drake had been adjusting his cap as he broke a cracker into his soup. He paused, spoon raised to his mouth, and nearly dripped some onto his immaculate handkerchief tucked into his shirt.
“You don’t say? Symphony?”
Now there was a name Rickel knew. He sat up as Wilovan lowered his voice.
“They’re not after Orchestra—yet. But I did hear they took a contract. Rather unpleasant business. Word is that fellow we heard about who causes ruckuses? Was at Cellidel, Salazsar?”
“Ah, Sellme?”
“Yes. The word is that he caused such an outrage that someone posted a rather high number upon him. So high Symphony’s out and playing.”
“Nasty business. Nasty business, and not the sort of thing to bring to a luncheon, Wilovan.”
Ratici patted at his mouth, and Wilovan raised a paw.
“I do apologize. I thought it was germane to the topic. The point is just that we should rather hurry to getting a nice place set up for the lads, Ratici. I can’t imagine our great friends in Poruniv’s lot are going to keep letting us walk all over their carpets.”
“Slow business, Wilovan. And you’re still talking work—”
The two were concerned. It was now that Rickel broke in. He felt filled on their talk, and of all the people in Oteslia—he did quite respect the two.
They were real. They had the style. They had the attitude—but they were also real as shit. Even Poruniv had been more of a caricature than they were.
The right folks to back. If only…Rickel were not so frustrated.
“Wilovan, Ratici. I have a question about—Symphony and that sort of thing. You know I’ve done well in the coffee business, right?”
The Gnoll brightened up at once, and the Drake grinned and nodded.
“A fine thing. A fine thing.”
Wilovan looked proud—and he wasn’t even a fan of coffee. Ratici was, but the Gnoll had staunchly stuck to tea.
It might be the biggest argument between them yet. Rickel looked between the two.
“If I can help with clothing for Wilovan or…any other way. How does one contact Symphony or spend all the kind of—the kind of remunerations one gets in a work such as this?”
He tried their style on, and Ratici chuckled with deep approval. He nodded to a young Gnoll with a cap waiting and got up.
“Be right back.”
He stood up, and Wilovan leaned over.
“It’s not the kind of thing we like to put a young man with prospects such as yourself into, Rickel. Best to stay clear.”
“I’m in it already. Plus—I’d just like to buy something interesting. I’ve been talking with Cire, you know. The nobility have their own access to—things. Auctions and so on. But I’d need to be a [Merchant] in some standing to get noticed. Even with gold, you have to have a name.”
Wilovan looked interested.
“I had heard how that worked. So above, so below. Well—I suppose it wouldn’t hurt to tell you the basics. You see, a fellow who’s successful in our line of work doesn’t know where to go either. There are a few known groups—but you tend to be reached out to.”
“Damn. It’s always the elite reaching out to you, isn’t it?”
Rickel wasn’t surprised. Wilovan gave him a huge wink.
“Can’t be too careful. But if you were really in need—we could give you an introduction. Our names do work. Once we settle this bit of unpleasantness, we’ll do just that. For now, any surreptitious folk won’t take our side.”
Ratici reappeared and sat down as Wilovan sat upright smoothly. The Gnoll shook his head.
“Not yet. Not good to upset Poruniv if you think he’ll hold a grudge. A petty man, that.”
Ratici held up a cautionary finger.
“With decent clothing.”
“Indeed, we must give him that. Poor form, though. Poor form.”
Rickel sat back. He frowned mightily, such that even Ratici noticed it.
“Something wrong, Rickel? Are you that interested in buying something? Well—I can see a young man needing something to protect himself. We could see about it…”
He glanced at Wilovan, and the two had offered Rickel protection, but the Earther just shrugged.
“I just wonder—how do you pay for something—expensive? Are you anonymous or what?”
Ratici coughed discreetly and knowingly.
“If you want to be secret—there’s ways. Moving about the kind of coinage is tough. Again, it requires having a few nice places, a system. If we were in Invrisil, we’d take you around.”
Rickel drummed his fingers on the table.
“Damn. I mean—darn. Excuse me, you two. What a problem to have, eh?”
The two laughed. Wilovan reached out and patted him on the shoulder.
“The best kind in the world, young Rickel! The best kind.”
The young Human man smiled wanly. You said that—but how frustrating it could be!
 
——
 
Let’s assume you had money. Great.
Money was so important. Money made the world go round, and contrary to what people believed, it did correlate with happiness to a certain point.
In this world, money mattered more. In Rickel’s, there was a limit to how far money ran. Money could buy favor and bribes—but the ultra-rich ran out of yachts and houses to buy. Then they built spaceships.
Well, in this world, money was a lot more actionable, and you could even argue that the economy of scale was greater. In this world—money could buy you a Relic.
If the relic was on sale. But more than that, Rickel had realized something else.
You could not bid on the Helm of Fire if you weren’t allowed at the auction table. Similarly—let’s assume you had a lot of money. Some people might ask where it came from. And…if you tried to spend it, they noticed.
Of course, getting said money was also a trick and a half. And after nearly a hundred days of investigations—
The team looking into the Golden Triangle disaster still hadn’t found where all the money went.
 
——
 
Oteslia’s Merchant’s Guild was where several Drakes stood. One of them had a rare class—[Investigator].
It was exceedingly rare, even among Watches and similar classes. The rest were just [Guards], [Scribes], [Tax Collectors], and similar individuals appointed across Izril.
They had a northern counterpart, but they weren’t united. There were other teams that had been formed and failed by private nations, and they’d all gotten in their way.
In hindsight, Investigator Gaills reflected that they should have worked together. They should have compared information—but Humans working with Drakes?
Well, everyone had suffered. Now he stood here, at a dead end.
Oh, it was to Oteslia where his trail had led from the City of Gems. He was a son of Salazsar, and he had worked with no less than the Walled Families on matters of espionage and corporate sabotage.
He was used to this kind of thing and had Skills to convince people to talk, to establish leads. But…he had never run into something like this.
A scam, they called it. People paid for membership in the Golden Triangle, recruited other people, and were given great amounts of wealth in return. The higher you went, the more you got—and it all seemed to be working until someone called the alarm.
Then they realized all the money coming out of this scam was less than what was going in. It was only sustaining itself based on the new people recruited, who were making a loss until they moved up the ladder—by recruiting more people.
It was unsustainable. It was doomed to fail—but crucially here—the ones who had perpetrated this scheme knew it.
The ones? The one? He didn’t know. All he did know was that a hundred days later, here he stood.
“Good morning! How can we help you at Oteslia’s Merchant’s Guild? Are you here to withdraw coin? Purchase something? Speak to a [Merchant]?”
The [Receptionists] and [Greeters] at the front desk watched the small team—warily. After all, they had been questioning the staff here for three weeks, and they were empowered by the Walled Cities to get answers.
However—Merchant Itrems, from Manus, had given up. He sat there, exhaling such that Investigator Gaills wondered where all the new air was coming from.
“Gone. The trail’s gone. We were too slow—I think this is it for me. I cannot waste another month of my life here.”
A hundred days. When he said it, the mostly-Drake group nodded. They were sick of it.
Gaills? He was too. He was annoyed by his superiors asking for answers. Tired of walking and talking in circles—but when he thought of the people who’d stolen all that gold, he did get angry.
How much? Even now, he couldn’t tell because each Merchant’s Guild had been in on it. They had jumped on the scheme and funneled the gold through countless groups that hadn’t talked to each other. Whoever had done this had been—smart.
Yes, smart. They’d covered their tracks, gotten the nobility in on it—and when they sensed the walls closing in, they were nowhere to be found. They had never been here at all.
Oh—the leadership of the Golden Triangle had. Rich Drakes and Gnolls and Humans had woken up to mobs and the Watch and angry leaders demanding answers. They had rushed to ask their superiors for answers, but the ‘top’ of the Golden Triangle had gone silent, and those below had no answers.
There had been a top. Gaills saw that. And the trail did lead to Oteslia.
Once you found the people who hadn’t gone into hiding or disavowed the entire scam—the ones not dead from the retribution of the people who’d been wronged—they told you who they’d reported to.
