“Quill! Then get me a list. Spread it around so we can figure out how to take that bastard down. Good work. Prepare a handsome payment for Seer Toenir.”
Poruniv exhaled. This wasn’t a complete waste of a morning after all. But he had to get rid of those two.
“…Maybe I need to send for help.”
Ecleeif looked up in alarm. That was not a good thing to say out loud, but Poruniv had to admit—as he stared glumly at Wilovan’s best Skills, he wondered if Zanzeil could take him in a straight fight, Creler-poison blades or not.
No, he couldn’t. Ancestors and Cire!
That one Skill made all the difference. How many free mortal blows was it? He’d survived an [Assassin] shooting him with a [Harpoon Bolt].
Damned Calanfer. Damn royalty.
“And damn that little bastard, Rickel! I want him dead! How has no one found him yet?”
Poruniv remembered the final splinter in his scales, and his temper flared once more. Yes, those two would have been dead and this would all have been over but for one little Human! He whirled on Ecleeif, and the [Sorcerer] flinched.
“Boss! Don’t throw the cup! I’ve been searching—”
“Do I have to put Neverwhine on it again instead of guard duty? Find him—you have a dog! With two noses! How have both of you failed to track down one Human?”
“It’s a big city, boss!”
The Drake protested, covering his hound defensively. Poruniv rested one claw on his snout. Idiots. They had no vision. No real loyalty to the city, to Cire. They didn’t know what he did. He growled.
“Find them. Ecleeif, you have one week before I get mad. Neverwhine? You’re taking the fight to the Brothers. But first—get me in contact with Oteslia’s Watch Captain or their Watch Commander. I’m doing it. I’m calling in the Gallowsmen.”
The rest of the Earthtenders looked up and blanched. But Poruniv was done. He was meant for bigger things. He’d been prophesied.
He hoped that old man hadn’t lied.
 
——
 
Ecleeif was nervous when he left the Earthtenders. Well, he was a known coward. Lazy, too, but he was still a Face.
He was cunning enough to cast [Invisibility], he could suck the air out of a room, and he was actually a better stalker than Neverwhine.
Not even the Earthtenders could follow him as he slipped out of their headquarters. Nevertheless, Ecleeif still checked his tail a dozen times as he went down the streets, took several wrong turns—
Then sat down, at a café, and hissed at the young man reading a book.
“We’re supposed to be meeting in the safe room!”
“Relax, my man. This is way less stupid-looking than slipping into some dusty backrooms. Plus, you’re wearing a different face. And so am I.”
Rickel, the young man from Earth, had no nerves. Or at least, not for this. He sat there, a somewhat good-looking Drake—Ecleeif knew how to do Drakes—sipping from one of Oteslia’s newest fads.
Coffee. In fact, he complimented the Drake [Server] as she passed by.
“This is a great mug. Can you do a latte?”
“Of course!”
She beamed—probably because he was a regular and he tipped very generously. In fact, this was the café outside the safe house they’d been using all month, and Ecleeif had spotted him sitting out here.
“You’re crazy. This is crazy.”
“You say that, but I’m paying you.”
Rickel wasn’t too loud, but he wasn’t nervous—mostly because Ecleeif was keeping their conversation private and running an innocuous conversation in the background.
He was an expert, after all. A real Face.
He got no respect from Poruniv. His cut was smaller than Zanzeil’s and Neverwhine’s. True, because Ecleeif was lazy and he had little loyalty—
But that was also why he refused to try and fight two Faces, two monsters from the north. They were criminals! This was the Earthtenders’ gang!
They should be enjoying their wealth, not risking their lives. That was his philosophy, and at least one young man shared it.
Although…why was Ecleeif risking his life and certain death by aiding Poruniv’s enemies?
Oh yeah.
The gold. The [Sorcerer] calmed down. And as always, he tried to see if Rickel had more on him, but the young man just had a bag of a few thousand gold coins—which he passed over the table.
“I need a bag of holding back, you know.”
“I’ll put one in the safe-house.”
The gold made Ecleeif happy. Four thousand gold pieces a week! That was a sum, and he had no idea how Rickel afforded it.
The young man was a mystery, but he was on the Gentleman Caller’s side and, apparently, the side of that [Princess] who had been here. Lyonette du Marquin. He had hired Ecleeif to help foil Poruniv’s efforts.
And now, he closed his history book and grimaced.
“Krsysl Wordsmith. Now there’s a name that’s hard to pronounce. History is fascinating.”
“You think so? It’s boring as shit to me. All the hidden treasure and spells get left out.”
Rickel shrugged.
“Sort of true. I hated history when I was younger—except for the interesting people and events. But I’d read a book on history any day, here.”
“You like Izril that much?”
The [Sorcerer] dourly looked around, but he was rewarded with a huge smile from Rickel.
“This world is great.”
When he smiled like that, you could see why Poruniv had let some random Human into his gambling casino. Rickel still had his scarf from the day he’d met Wilovan and Ratici, but he’d switched his clothes for a cardigan and some casual ‘jeans’. He somehow had achieved a level of style that eclipsed Ecleeif’s own clothing-game—and Rickel was a Human, not a Drake!
He flirted with the café server as the older Drake sulked. He had an infectious laugh, and he was friendly enough to be charming.
He also had no nerves, it seemed, a lot of wealth—and at least a few levels in a class similar to Ecleeif’s. What class, exactly, was unclear—but Rickel had depths. For one thing, he was an investor in the coffee industry, which he had begun by finding the beans and securing garden spots.
Now most of the city was growing the damn stuff, but Rickel was earning a percentage of the profits via the joint-effort that Wall Lord Ilvriss, Lyonette du Marquin, and a number of others were running.
Maybe that was where the gold was coming from? Ecleeif didn’t know, but he reported what Poruniv had done this morning.
“Seers. Damn. It’s always something cool. And terrifying. Could that old guy find out where I am?”
“Poruniv didn’t ask. Exact places are harder. You get a lot of worthless scale flakes from [Seers], in my experience. Asking for classes or Skills is safer.”
“Like a hints guide rather than a walkthrough. Got it…got it.”
He made no sense to Ecleeif, some of the comments. But Rickel’s eyes had lit up.
“I wonder if I could ask—no. No, there aren’t any independent [Seers] you know, are there? Ones that Poruniv would never talk to? Having him as an enemy sucks. I was just getting somewhere with my [Gambler] class, too.”
Rickel had a coin, which he flipped up and down—then added it to the tips. Ecleeif shook his head.
“The only one I can remember is some Rastandius guy who was here a decade and a half ago. Poruniv mentioned him—he was just a lieutenant back then.”
“Tell me more. And tell me everything else he said. Don’t hold back.”
Now, Rickel sat forwards, and Ecleeif tried to say everything in order. Rickel did demand that—if very little else. Ecleeif just had to keep him safe, report in, and sabotage some of the Earthtenders’ plans—carefully—and teach Rickel magic and about the underworld.
The young man was insatiable for that. Ecleeif had rather liked showing off his spells, and Rickel wanted to learn magic himself, though he had claimed [Mage] magic sounded more reliable.
“I can buy a spellbook, Ecleeif. Well, I could if I wasn’t being hunted. Maybe I should leave the city.”
“It’d be safer.”
“Yes, but then who’d help Wilovan and Ratici? Those two—I like those two.”
“I’m on their side!”
“Yeah, but you’re not reliable. Even if I kept paying you, you’d just take my money and play both sides by doing nothing.”
The [Sorcerer] opened his mouth with a glower—and decided this was definitely true. He sat back as Rickel mused over the last part.
“Gallowsmen. Gallowsmen. Who are they? Another gang, Ecleeif? Why was it so drastic, Poruniv sending for them?”
The [Sorcerer] blanched at the table.
“The Gallowsmen of Loeri. They are not a gang. The opposite. If Poruniv’s calling them in, he wants to take out the Brothers. But he’ll get the Earthtenders too!”
Rickel listened with a huge frown. The Gallowsmen were, in fact, a kind of law enforcement force from the city of Loeri.
Unlike the north, where huge gangs were multi-city, the Drake cities—even gangs—tended to be independent. So the Earthtenders ruled Oteslia—nowhere else.
In the same way, their powerful forces were sometimes unique to a city, like how you got the Yoldenites with their…colorful personality.
“The Gallowsmen hang anyone who’ve committed serious crimes. My guess is that Poruniv calls them in and sets them on the Brothers.”
“…And any Earthtenders who get caught. Wow, he must be pissed. But doesn’t he fear they’ll get him too?”
“Not Poruniv. He’s going through the Watch Captain. He’s got friends at the top of Oteslia.”
Rickel’s eyes sharpened. He took a long draft of his cup and, for some reason, glanced around.
“I bet he does. Well, that’ll be interesting—let’s talk later, Ecleeif. You sure you can’t get me in touch with one of the [Underground Merchants] here without Poruniv knowing?”
“Not without one telling Poruniv. They’re not trustworthy. Well, some are, but he can lean on them.”
Rickel sighed.
“Damn. Then charge up my illusion spells and let’s meet again. Same place, two days or earlier if something happens.”
He stood up, and Ecleeif looked around warily before leaning in.
“Are you sure Ratici and Wilovan are going to win? They’ve gained ground, but it’s them versus all the Earthtenders, and their lot is getting plucked. They might win on the streets, but not in the prisons. Poruniv has the prisons. He has the Watch! He’s got Oteslia!”
For a reply, the young man gave the [Sorcerer] a huge grin. Here was the last thing about Rickel—he jabbed a thumb at his chest.
“Yeah. But the Gentlemen Callers have me.”
The [Sorcerer] stared at Rickel as the young man sauntered away, hands in his pockets. The Drake leaned out of his chair to shout.
“That’s not clever! Or impressive! You’re just a kid! What do you actually have that Poruniv doesn’t, huh?”
 
——
 
Well, for one thing, Rickel knew Poruniv’s big secret.
Which was that Cire was Cire. Who, exactly, Cire was didn’t matter. Nor did Rickel actually think he wanted to know, not yet.
He might not be able to spot all the [Actors] and fake actors, but he could certainly tell when a woman in her thirties was playing someone half her age. It fooled Cire—but it was about on the level of a Hollywood set.
Like someone playing a teenage drama. And he didn’t miss how the Watch seemed to always be near Cire’s location.
You didn’t need to know a secret to know it was there—and like hell Rickel was touching the issue at hand. But Cire?
He slapped the Drake’s hands as the Human grinned.
“Cire, my guy. How’s it Archmaging?”
The Drake winced as he fanned his bronze wings.
“Rickel, you keep getting it wrong! Stop it. It’s so…terrible. No, wait, it’s cringe. Am I using that right?”
“Cringe is an artform to be appreciated, Cire. And I am all about it.”
First he slapped his palms down on Cire’s low down, then they went up and did it again, did a one-palmed high-five, and turned it into a hand-clasp and fist bump. The two of them were odd people to be friends…or not so odd.
After all, they had met when Lyonette was here, and Rickel was, if not Cire’s age of seventeen, young enough to actually mingle at twenty-one without being actually embarrassing. And Cire was important.
Maybe it was because he was the First Gardener’s kid. Maybe it was that Rafaema girl everyone also fawned over.
Maybe it didn’t matter, but Rickel just bet it did. Cire’s friends gave him fake grins—a few of the actual kids looked impressed by him, if exasperated by his inability to use slang. Cire rubbed his claws together eagerly.
“Alright, alright, what are we monking around for? Let’s do something Fetohep.”
Rickel raised a brow as even some of Cire’s friends groaned at the new slang.
“Is that a new word?”
“Yep. We’re Khelting. I’ve got a bag full of gold, and I’m going to hit the city. Did you see the scrying orb broadcast?”
It was a sign of how important you actually were to get Oteslian slang made up about you. Khelting around was going to become a thing, Rickel could tell. A show of wealth.
I’m gonna Arbiter this, meant you were interfering with a dispute. Interestingly, they didn’t have much slang like—‘I’m gonna pull a Zeres’. Or, ‘that was a real Plain’s Eye thing to do’.
Rickel supposed there just wasn’t much about the Meeting of Tribes that could be encompassed by that kind of language. Not that it didn’t affect Cire and his friends.
“Let’s go, let’s go! And if we find any more of those Zeres-loving bastards, I’m going to kick their tails in this time!”
—That was about the level of Cire’s actual will. But he had been at the Meeting of Tribes. Rickel doubted he’d swung a sword—but still.
It was not a good time to be a Zeresian in Oteslia, even with the siege lifted. A Gnoll? Well—Oteslia hadn’t been the ones marching into the Meeting of Tribes. Gnolls in other Walled Cities?
Not fun.
It was all fascinating to Rickel. He almost—almost—wished he were in Manus or somewhere so he could see the real intercity dynamics up close.
He wondered if it were hardcore racism like he could make an analogy to on Earth. Then again—as a Human, he doubted he’d enjoy it.
Poor Gnolls. Amazing new world. Here he was, in the City of Growth, and the Walled City was somehow not the most interesting thing.
Admittedly, Rickel could have left, but he’d miss out on the opportunities here. Plus, he was no warrior. He was, he had to admit—
A bit frustrated.
Not by Ecleeif, not by the Gentleman Caller’s progress, but by himself. Rickel hopped onto a skateboard with Cire—and promptly fell off. He wasn’t a great skateboarder, and Cire was. Still, he headed down with the group as a Human, fearless of Poruniv’s wrath.
He’d get away if he were trailed—but no one would harm him while he was with Cire. And besides—Rickel suspected if Ecleeif couldn’t help him, then Cire could.
“Rickel, want to hang out later? My mom’s got me having a stuffy dinner with her and…and Mivifa.”
“Ancestors. Mivifa of Feathers? That’s so—”
