As if seeing my worst fears confirmed, I find myself standing in the courtyard while Mila and Yan say their goodbyes. They’re leaving to meet up with their respective retinues and ride out to war, because the Wraith attack on me was only the beginning. The Defiled are out in full force again, marching on the Citadels and pressing the attack on multiple fronts. The mountain passes through Shen Jin are teeming with Defiled and Wraiths, desperately searching for an unguarded path into the North, while the outskirts of the Arid Wastes are much the same. The Western Wall has also come under attack at multiple points, and my wives have been called upon to defend the Empire once more. I should be there fighting by their sides, but I can’t go out there like this. I was lucky and sensed the attack coming, but who knows if it’ll play out the same way the second, third, or fourth time around. Rustram is also here to pay his respects to his Mentor, and Mom is brimming with pride for her one and only Disciple. As well she should, because after I helped him cheat his way to a Domain, Rustram remembered that feeling and found success on his own, allowing him to stand alongside the likes of Han BoShui, Lu Jia Zian, Tam Taewoong, and Ryo Geom-Chi on his own merits.

Sai Chou is here as well, making herself unobtrusive as she leans against a pillar in the corner, but I can sense Yan’s enmity from a mile away. Why doesn’t she like Rustram’s lady love? Sai Chou shares her fondness for short hair, tight clothes, and foul language, so similar in many ways except for two obvious...

Oh. I figured out why Yan doesn’t like Sai Chou. Because she thinks Sai Chou is her with bigger boobs. As if I would ever leave Yan for someone else, much less try to steal someone from a brother like Rustram, but jealousy is hardly rational.

My arms close around Yan’s waist and I hug her from behind, interrupting her farewell with Grandpa Du. I love everything about Yan, and I need her to know it, and though I don’t have the time to parse through what she’s saying, I feel like she understands the message well enough judging by her embarrassed laugh and loving embrace. Not wanting to take too much time away from Grandpa Du’s farewell, even though I know he’s going to follow Yan in secret to protect her and Kyung, I head over to share the same message with Mila, who I assume calls me an idiot before stealing a kiss when she thinks no one else is looking. Even with one eye, nothing escapes Husolt’s notice, and though he’s happy his daughter has found love, it’s a bittersweet experience for a father who loves his daughter so, knowing he’s been replaced as the most important man in his daughter’s life.

My condolences are tinged with smug satisfaction, which earns me a rough knuckling to the scalp, but Husolt means well and I love him too much to hold it against him.

Plus, I kinda deserve it.

I should help him fix his eye.

Something calls to me from outside the manor, outside the District even, a signal so loud it drowns out everything else. There is no malice or deception to the call, only hope and adoration, so I cannot help but head over to investigate. A single step brings me out of the manor and beyond the District walls, where I find an army camped on the plains and waiting for their commanders to come pick them up. The soldiers bustle about in readiness to move, brimming with frenetic energy and burning anticipation even though it might be days or weeks before they fight. For a short while, I stand unnoticed in the crowd, but soon someone recognizes me and word spreads quickly as I find myself standing before a crowd of adoring stares.

Though their hushed whispers are beyond my comprehension, I can feel admiration, devotion, and even reverence pouring off of them in waves, battering me from all sides as I stand lost in thought and confusion. Why are they so happy to see me? I’m terrible with names, but I’m pretty good at remembering faces, and I don’t recognize any of the Warriors here before me. I’ve never seen or spoken to any of them, not one on one at least, so why are they acting like I am their personal hero and saviour?

The answer soon reveals itself as my eyes adjust themselves to see beyond what lies before me, thousands of my severed Natal Souls whispering into the ears of the Warriors on these plains. These are the Irregulars who I helped become Martial Warriors, and they believe... no, they know I had some part in it, because they hear my voice whispering in their ears to reveal the secrets of the Heavens above. I did not think things through and figured they’d chalk it all up to Insight, but I forgot I am about as subtle as a brick hidden in a sock. My Natal Soul’s probably introduced themselves as ‘Definitely not Falling Rain’, complete with fake glasses, nose, and moustache.

Mm. I don’t know how to feel about having so many devotees, but considering my Natal Souls aren’t dissuading them from worshipping me, I evidently enjoy the veneration on at least some level. I mean, who doesn’t want to be admired in some way? Plus, I have a hero complex in that I believe I am here in this world for a reason, that I am meant to do great things and change the world for the better. Only then will my suffering have meant anything, which is yet another reason why I failed in my pursuit of the Eight-Fold Path and Nirvana. Not only was my interpretation flawed, but I myself was not ready to proceed along it, because I had yet to forsake the three Desires, of which permanence, or fame, is one of them.

It occurs to me I could probably Devour all these Natal Souls and be better off for it, but then where would that leave these Martial Warriors? No, no man is an island, and I will need stalwart soldiers to fight alongside me, and these three-thousand and eighty three individuals will follow me into the Father’s Maw if I only ask it, because they fight for the same reasons I do. Though this is technically their first tour of duty as Martial Warriors, they are already heroes one and all, because they were willing to face the Enemy armed with only courage alone, which makes them some of the bravest people I know.

Cupping my fist, I offer them all a Martial salute and bow in thanks for their service, a gesture which they return in the same manner. Some will live and others will die, but every last one of them will give their all in this war against the Enemy, and I can only hope I am able to meet their lofty expectations. Turning to Naaran who followed me out, I nod in thanks and head back to the manor to finish saying my goodbyes.

The next few days are a blur as I grapple with the hole in my chest, one left by the absence of so many loved ones. Mila, Yan, Mom, Dad, Alsantset, Akanai, and more, they all marched off to war and left me behind. I miss them all dearly, but I can hardly follow after them as I am, so I should be happy I still have Lin-Lin and Li-Li here to keep me company, alongside Taduk, Charok, and the twins. Luo-Luo went back to the Citadel, unable to stay away for so long, adding more to a debt of gratitude I can hardly hope to repay. This aside, the absence of so many loved ones proves just how vital they are to me, because I need their help before I can recover.

Wait.

How do I know that? I mean, I understand the basic concept, that it’s all about Balance. I need my family’s love, care, and affection to Balance out all the negativity I puked up and swallowed back again. The thing is, how do I know, beyond the shadow of a doubt, that this is true? I was never in doubt of this one singular fact, a truth I just knew and accepted because...

Because this knowledge did not come from me.

It came from the Heavens, in the form of Insight.

That’s not the only Insight I’ve had recently. How did I ‘fix’ my Core? How did I sense the Wraiths’ approaching? How did I slip out under the cloak of Concealment and Cloud-Step away? How did I unleash the Mountain Collapsing Stomp? How did I know those former Irregulars were out on the plains? Even my teaching moments were all initiated by moments of Insight, wherein I saw something I knew was wrong and knew exactly how to fix it, even if I didn’t really understand what was wrong in the first place.

Helpful as it might be, I don’t like Insight. It gives me answers, but doesn’t show me the work. It tells me the alphabet goes from A to Z, but doesn’t reveal all the letters in between, so how the hell am I supposed to use this information to learn how to read? That’s my gripe with Insight, and as wonderful and miraculous as it is, I would much prefer to have comprehension. Now that I think about it, I believe comprehension is absolutely vital if one wishes to follow the correct Path, even if I’m not sure what that Path might be, mostly because I lack comprehension. It’s a vicious cycle, one that has roots in my insatiable curiosity, but my experience with Ping Ping’s ascension seems to corroborate my conclusions. While I remember very little of what happened, I do remember Panacea was involved in some way, though I called it by another name. I also remember thinking Ping Ping’s Path wasn’t entirely correct either, that it was inherently flawed in some way, similar to the flaws in the Martial Path. This doesn’t mean the Eight-Fold Path is right either, nor do I know which Path is the right one, but I believe something is driving all living creatures towards the same ultimate goal, except we’re all doing it in less than ideal ways.

My current issues are troublesome, but I think I know how to fix it. I think I’ve known since I reforged Peace. The basic premise is simple enough really. Whatever the problem is, it stems from a disconnect between my body, mind, and soul. Somewhere along all the connections, something isn’t working right, but to fix it, all I have to do is what I did when fixing my reformed Core or calling down the storm over the Central plains. I just... did it. I wanted the Defiled gone and my Core fixed, but I didn’t sit down and plan out all the details, I just directed the Energy of the Heavens to work and it knew exactly what needed to be done.

This proves that the concept behind panacea works on more than just the physical body, which means it can probably fix what’s wrong with me right now and make me functional again, but I haven’t done this yet because somehow, I know it would be wrong. Not morally wrong, or even factually wrong, because it would technically be a working solution, but still just... wrong. Even though Insight tells me this is possible, at the same time, it’s also warning me that Insight is not enough. I almost died to those Wraiths, and only defeated them because one, I reforged Peace, and two, they kept moving in stupidly obvious ways and acting all surprised when I cut them down. They were fast and strong, but they left a lot of openings that were fairly easy to catch, and I’m not entirely sure why. Either way, if they were Demons or even Defiled Champions, I don’t think I would’ve walked away with my life intact, and I’d be even weaker than I am now if I were to fix my Core using the Panacea method.

Don’t ask me how I know I’d be weaker. I just know it. As I am, I space out a lot, but I also have easier access to Insight, access I’m fairly certain I’d lose if I use Panacea to fix myself. Insight is not enough. Comprehension is necessary if I want to come out of this stronger than before I shattered my Core, meaning I need to know why I’m broken and how to fix myself if I want to progress further along my Path. This means I need answers, answers which will lead to more questions, but who can I turn to and ask?

...

Oh.

Right.

Reaching up to pat the beak resting on my head, I turn around to see Kukku nestled up against me. The silly rooster has been here all along, or at least as long as I can remember, but he wanted to play hide and seek and did a damn fine job of it. I think he showed up after the Wraith attack, because he was definitely there the morning after, sitting on my legs while I lay on the hemp mat, because now that I think about it, I’m pretty sure Aurie was out to market with Mila picking out the materials she needed to complete Peace. Mischief glints in Kukku’s eyes as he chortles at his great joke, finding much amusement from hiding in plain sight all this time, but if he’s here, then that means someone else is here to watch over him.

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo,” comes the standard greeting, the meaning clear as day despite my inability to parse through language. Praise to the Heavens, and all the mysteries within, an acknowledgement of the complexities of the Dao and the endless nuances they contain. How do I understand this? I’m not entirely sure, but my best guess is that the meaning behind the four-syllable greeting has been ingrained in Monk Happy’s voice and body, allowing me to understand without actually understanding. Standing there with his customary smile, he says nothing else as he understands why I called for him, because I am finally ready to leave with him and seek out the answers I so desire. That is the Brotherhood’s original purpose after all, a community of like-minded answer seekers who banded together to share their collective knowledge of the Dao. Now I seek to add my knowledge to theirs, and hopefully come away with a suitable answer.

