I am a danger to the people I love, and not just because I’m afraid I might hurt them directly, but also because my actions might put them in more danger. What would have happened if I wasn’t strong enough to fight off those Wraiths? I would’ve needed help, help from my family and guards, who’d be caught off guard if I showed up out of the blue with a horde of killers hot on my heels. I could’ve warned people of the incoming danger and we could’ve taken steps to prepare, but I channelled my inner Leeroy Jenkins instead and just barely avoided a total party wipe by the skin of my teeth.

It sounds a lot less threatening when said using gaming lingo, but the reality of the situation is this: my actions put myself and my loved ones in danger, and we all could have died for it. That’s the cold hard truth, one I failed to recognize until I woke up and found Akanai wondering if she should kill me before it’s too late. I tried to tell her she should, that I would rather die than put my loved ones in danger, that she was the only one strong enough to do what needed to be done, but it didn’t work. Like the bard said, love makes fools of us all, and Akanai loves me too much to kill me, even if it might cost her everyone she loves and everything she’d ever worked for.

Then again, the bard also said, “Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind, and therefore is winged cupid painted blind.” Perhaps they see something I cannot and are right to cling fast to hope, but I fear for the worst and worry they have done nothing to prepare. At a bare minimum, I should be locked away and kept under strict guard until I can control myself again, because so long as I am bound to my whims and beholden to instinct, I am a threat to everyone around me.

And so we’ve come full circle, back to where I began, worrying that I was gonna somehow fuck everything up and get someone killed or worse.

“What’s the matter?”

The world is dark as I stand alone in my room, held in place by some restrictive force. Not really, actually, I’m pretty sure I could pull myself free, but then I might wake Mila and Yan, who are both asleep in my bed. Correction: were asleep, but now they’re both awake, probably because they’re attached to the other end of my restraints, silk cloths tied loosely around my wrists and daisy chained to similar cloths tied around Mila and Yan’s wrists. While Mila grumbles and glares lovingly from her pillow, so ravishing in her tired vulnerability, Yan climbs out of bed and makes her way to my side, dazzling me with how beautiful she is, illuminated by the moonlight streaming in from the window. Sensing my adoration, there is no suspicion in her gaze, only love and concern. “Do you need to use the bathroom?”

I only register her words after the fact, at which time I find myself already seated on the toilet. One of my silken chains remains bound to my left wrist, with Yan attached to the other end as she stands just outside the door, accompanied by Mama Bun and Ping Ping in her arms while Pong Pong hides in Mama Bun’s embrace. I had them all with me when she caught me trying to sneak out, which is exactly what I was trying to do. Leave without anyone noticing, escape to somewhere I could be alone and isolated so everyone else could be safe. A lie I told myself, as if my absence would ensure safety for all, but as stupid as it sounds, I panicked and wasn’t in my right mind, not after pondering the matter for so long.

Yan and Mila bound themselves to me, just to be sure I wouldn’t slip away. They weren’t trying to restrain me, nor did they expect me to run. They just wanted to know if I left, and I think Yan still suspects I meant to flee, though I don’t think she knows why. That being said, I don’t know what else I’m supposed to do. I tried nothingness and it didn’t work, so now I’m all out of ideas. How can they trust me so much when even I can’t control what I’ll do next? I could move to swat a fly and accidentally shatter someone’s spine, that’s how strong I am now, but neither of them seem concerned in the slightest. Come to think of it, I would expect as much from my wives, and Lin-Lin is the same, but why didn’t Alsantset freak out when I set out to teach Tate and Tali? Looking back on everything that happened, she didn’t even blink when I moved from her side, and she even signalled Naaran to stand down. She knew I wouldn’t hurt Tate, and sent Tali for another lesson, but how could she know?

A shame only Naaran has the determination to act, but lacks the authority to do so. The poor man is haunted by the echoes of past grief, so intimate and familiar with his pain it was akin to an old friend, and this morning, he saw history gearing up to repeat itself all over again. I don’t know what happened, but he lost several friends and loved ones to this pain, and is now resigned to possibly losing more. We all have our trials and tribulations, but I suppose I’m the only one who incessantly mopes and whines about it. The more I learn about the struggles of the people around me and how well they deal with it, the more I am convinced that I was never meant for this world, but I’m here now and I’ve come to love it, so I’ve no choice left but to adapt. The alternative is to fail and die, which wouldn’t be the worst thing in the world, but I’d really rather not. I want more time with my loved ones, more snuggles with my floofs, more floofs to love, and just... more.

“Rain?” Reaching out to take my hand, Mila watches me with hopeful eyes, hope that slowly fades away as I fail to respond. A new day has dawned, though seeing how Mila is up, it’s probably closer to noon. Maybe even later, considering she doesn’t look like she just woke up, all bright eyed and alert as she radiates strength and beauty. Her love and concern are so overwhelming, it takes long seconds for me to snap out of my thoughts and register what she’s saying, but by then, she’s already done speaking and has moved on to other things, though the pain of being ignored will stay with her for some time. She knows I don’t mean to do it, but it hurts her all the same, a message which comes in loud and clear even as I struggle to parse through her words.

“Seems I caught you at a bad time, beloved,” she whispers, clutching my hand oh so tight and rejoicing when I unconsciously squeeze back. Though she failed to catch my full attention, she knows I love her dearly and can see it pouring out of my eyes as I lose myself in her gaze, so she forgives me for my transgression before continuing with what she came here to say. “I don’t know what’s going through your mind to make you feel so worried and hopeless, but know that I am here for you. We’re all here for you, every last one of us, so don’t be your usual idiotic self and try to get through this all alone. We’re your family and your people, because we are the People, and we look out for our own.” Smiling as she touches my hand to her cheek, she sighs and shakes her head. “Then again, I don’t think you ever approved of that sort of divide, differentiating between the People and the rest of the Empire. So many of us thought you were distant and aloof, myself included, thought that your time apart from us kept you from seeing yourself as one of the People. I even resented you for it a little, because why would you go so far for commoners who weren’t your own and refuse to treat your own People better?”

Mila falls silent as she waits for a response that will not come, for I had yet to tear myself away from her beautiful eyes and the wealth of emotions portrayed within. Kissing my fingers, she gently places my hand back down atop Banjo’s head before picking something up from beside her. “I was wrong. You don’t limit your kindness to the People, but instead want to help those less fortunate than us, which is admirable in its own right. We would be wrong to try and limit your love to just the tribe you were born to, but I also know you will never mistreat us, because you have so much love to share.” Holding something up in the palms of her hands, she continues, “Just remember what I said though. I am here for you. We all are. You might be capable of wonderful miracles, but no man is a pillar unto himself. If the burden of shouldering the Heavens grows too wearisome, just know you have people you can rely on to help share the load.”

In her hands, she holds my sword, complete with a new sheath, hilt, and pommel, and it feels so different from before. Despite using this weapon for so long, I never properly appreciated the craftsmanship behind it, not until I had to reforge it on my own. The naked blade itself is not perfectly balanced, because it was crafted with the added weight of the hilt and pommel in mind. Mila has chosen her materials perfectly down to the last milligram, and the sword feels alive in the palm of my hand. That’s because the tang of the blade sits flush with the edge of the hilt, enabling me to have skin to metal contact with the blade, a point further emphasized by how the hilt’s decorative wrapping runs through the cold metallic tang by way of slits left in the metal for this very reason. The end result is metals, wood, and ribbon all woven together in absolute harmony, and while there’s no arguing that the metallic blade and tang constitutes the majority of Peace, the Spiritual Weapon was incomplete without the practical sheathe, wooden hilt, weighted pommel, and decorative ribbon laced around the hilt, all of which Mila has now provided.

My beloved wife has already left by the time I process this all, and I look up to find the courtyard awash in the orange-red rays of the setting sun. I have a faint recollection of resting in Mila’s arms on our way back from the bamboo grove, and a general sense of worry and unease, but I cannot for the life of me pin down any specifics. Did we take the carriage or did I ride on Zabu? Was I holding Mama Bun and Pong Pong, or were my hands empty save for Peace? Someone rode on my head, I think, probably Roc or one of the fledglings, but I can’t remember any of them ever doing that before. Glancing down at Peace in my hands, I am sure of one thing though, that I have yet to draw the blade because I’m still worried I’ll hurt someone I love with it.

A finger to the cheek brings me out of my thoughts, and I see Lin-Lin’s puffed up pout as she glowers down at me from above, peering over Banjo’s shoulder once more. No wait, that’s Baloo’s shoulder, and the day is bright and sunny again, which means I just skipped through an entire night. At least, I hope it’s only been a single night, which gives me something else to fret about, whether my mind will drift off for days or weeks at a time. Good god, this is utterly exhausting, or at least it is once I remember what’s happening.

Pressing both her palms against my cheeks, Lin-Lin squeezes hard and glares in mock anger, jolting me out of my depressive thoughts once more. “Don’t be silly hubby,” she’s saying, again not with her words but with her actions and emotions. “Stop thinking so much and just be happy, ya?”

If only it were so easy. I don’t know how she does it, because while my sweet wifey is as sharp as a tack, she’s also the happiest and most carefree person I know. That’s what drew me to her in the first place, her ability to just let sleeping dogs lie and not sweat the small stuff. I don’t know how she does it, stay so cheery all the time, even when she’s angry or scared, and I wish I could be more like her. Just seeing her angelic expression is enough to set my mind at ease, because her presence reminds me that all is not wrong with the world, and I bask in the relief while I still can.

Oh right. I should thank Mila. She’s nearby, to my right playing with Princess and Guai-Guai. Baloo isn’t sleeping, he’s just cuddling, so he’ll understand if I get up. Someone else is sitting on my legs, Aurie I thought, but it isn’t, because Li-Li is brushing him across from us. It doesn’t matter, whoever it is won’t mind too much, though I sense a bit of unhappiness at the disturbance. Pausing to headbutt Jimjam on my way over to Mila, I wrap my arms around her and share my love with her, and though she radiates love back at me, I also sense an underlying sadness and misery permeate through her as she leans into my embrace.

There is pain in her eyes as she gazes into mine, and her words fail to register until I tear myself away. “Oh beloved,” she said, so full of tender love and affection. “Is this truly how you truly feel? That you don’t deserve me, or anyone who loves you? You idiot.”

It’s true though. I don’t deserve any of them, but much like Peace, I am incomplete on my own. My family completes me, which is why I’m still here even though I am terrified I might accidentally hurt them. I’ve already seen what happens when I try to run away; I spiral into depression and apathy. If I am to have any chance of making it through these coming trials and tribulations, I need my family beside me.

