Thinking to bid Lin-Lin farewell, I find her waiting by my side with a rucksack over her shoulder and Guard Leader standing by her side. Next to them is Li-Li sitting in a wagon with all my pets, while Charok holds Tali and Tate in his arms as they bid me a teary goodbye. No idea how they all knew I was going to leave before I did, but I assume it has something to do with my lack of subtlety, or maybe Monk Happy figured I’d arrive at this conclusion and prepared them all for the eventuality. I might’ve even been broadcasting my intent for all to hear, I’m not entirely sure how this works. Despite this, I still try to convince Lin-Lin to stay, as it’ll probably be dreadfully boring at the monastery with no fun to be had. In response to my unspoken plea, my wifey merely points at Li-Li, who I now realize cannot be separated from my side, which means if Li-Li can go with me, then so can Lin-Lin, or at least that’s how my wifey sees it.

It’s crazy how well we communicate without words, almost magical even, but it makes me love her all the more.

As Guard Leader readies to carry the wagon and Monk Happy plucks a reluctant Jorani out from the shadows, Lin-Lin leaps onto my back with a wild grin, emanating anticipation and excitement all the while. Not willing to disappoint, I look to Monk Happy and follow him off into the skies, delighting in Lin-Lin’s elated shrieks as we Cloud-Step out of the District and across the Central Plains.

I am not running away, not this time. Instead, I’m chasing after answers with some of my loved ones at my side, and will reunite with the rest once I am whole again. The Brotherhood may or may not have the answers I seek, but even if I must walk my own Path, I now realize the greatest lie the Father or Imperial Clan ever told.

We each forge our own Path, this much is true, but this doesn’t mean we need to go at it alone. A little love and support goes a long way, and I am more loved and supported than most. That is my true blessing, the blessing of loving family and caring friends to stand with me through this arduous lifetime of trials and tribulations.

And thank the Heavens for that.

Chapter Meme

Chapter Meme 2

- End of Volume 36 -
