“Okay okay!” Darabella said, “I’m just making sure! Everyone is always changing their minds or doing some political thing behind my back, and I needed to be sure. You know he’s going to ask about how the building enchants work and I’m going to tell him and no one is allowed to get mad at me later, okay?”

Grosgrena probably had a lot of security issues with Darabella, didn’t she?

But that wasn’t Erick’s problem.

He couldn’t help but smile a bit at the ‘no one is allowed to get mad at me later’, though.

Grosgrena did not sigh, but she wanted to. “I’m sure if you tell him even the basics of runecraft then he’ll figure out all the rest on his own. That’s all it took you, after all.” There was a lot more to that story that she wasn’t saying, but Grosgrena left it there as she turned to Erick, saying, “Good luck. We’ve got lots more teachers for you to go through after Darabella, but she is the best.”

The Old Smith took her leave.

Erick turned to Darabella, asking, “So you carve into the history of an item, to produce magical anchors?”

Darabella’s eyes brightened. “Yes! That’s exactly it! Not many people understand this first point! Oh! This is going to be fun.” She smiled wide, saying, “Now let’s—” She held out her empty hand, trying to point at the sword on the table with a knife that wasn’t there. “Oh. Dammit. I lost another knife.” She began touching the top of the white stone table, as if her knife would suddenly appear. She paused. She turned to Erick, stared for a moment like deer in headlights, then she walked to the side of the room toward a cabinet, saying, “I seem to have misplaced my teaching knife. I can’t really use normal knives when teaching because I’m very good at cutting— Ah ha!” She slammed the cabinet shut then opened a very obvious drawer labeled ‘EXTRA KNIVES HERE!!!’. Twirling a new wooden knife in her hand, she asked, “How much runecarving have you done before?”

Erick took a second to look around the room. There were four discarded wooden knives hiding here and there. Under the stone table, in the bottom drawer of a desk, behind a crate that looked to be shipping out soon, and stuck in the dirt of a potted plant in the corner of the room. All of those knives were rather well used, and all the knives in the knife drawer were similarly well used. Someone probably came by after Darabella was done for the day and plucked them from their hiding spots, to stick in the drawer of extra knives. Maybe she even did it herself.

Erick answered her, “I discovered your discipline yesterday. So: none at all.”

“… I can work with that. How much enchanting?”

“Enough to know I’m terrible at it.”

Darabella narrowed her eyes as her fear vanished. She pointed with her knife, starting, “You have brought me a difficult—” And then she realized who she was pointing a knife at, and she almost fumbled the knife to the ground again. She caught it before it fell all the way, then she tried to casually continue, “—A difficult case.”

Erick smiled. “I have; yes.”

“Enchanting Spell?”

“Failed, so no.”

“Good. Enchanting spells are terrible. Do you have a knife?”

“Nope. Almost got one at your Black Blade shop, but decided against it.”

“What is your goal here?”

“To create anchors for a Gate Network.”

Erick didn’t know that he had a reason for coming to Enduring Forge until he was here and he heard what adamantium was capable of doing. This was his Worldly Path, for sure.

After a moment, Darabella said, “A single goal seems doable. I’ve been working on a Teleport Square design to improve the range on that spell, so maybe we can help each other.”

Erick smiled happily. “I hope we can.”
