Eventually, Tharagi’s nervousness left him and he began to speak with enthusiasm and deep knowledge, and with the skill of a teacher who had been teaching for years. Erick liked the man’s voice, and he liked what he taught, even more, but the man required calm words now and again to ensure that he remained unafraid.

It wasn’t long till Erick made a pair of gears of his own, but he didn’t shape them with [Metalshape], since that ruined the crystalline structure of the metal. Instead, he poured metal into molds, and let it cool naturally, until it was time to quench them in water and then throw them in the freezer. Cold treatment was a new idea to Erick, and apparently it helped stabilize the metal grain of smaller, precision parts. Tharagi swore by cold treatment.

“For the mechanism by which water becomes ice mirrors that which happens to metals when they’re brought to a sufficiently low temperature. And for some metals, especially the non-magnetic versions of rustless steel, they aren’t even capable of heat treatments to harden them; only cold treatments work.”

Erick almost argued that wasn’t how phase changes worked, and how heat treatments should work on all metal, but Tharagi was vastly more knowledgeable about all of this stuff, so Erick went with the flow. And then, after Erick’s second attempt at cold treatment, using a carefully shaped [Frozen Mist Aura], the gears were more solid than before. Erick had to actually work his lightform to break a properly cold-treated gear.

Erick was temporarily speechless, while Tharagi was all smiles to see Erick’s face.

Tharagi had also been quite impressed with [Incandescent Aura] and [Frozen Mist Aura]; both of which worked well for temperature treatments when they were used at sufficiently low power and high skill.

Soon enough, Erick shoved the gears he made onto a metal frame and stress-tested them against each other with his lightform. The frame broke before the gears, eliciting a laugh out of Erick. It was the first time the gears didn’t break before the frame.

“Thank you, Tharagi,” Erick said.

Tharagi smiled softly. “We’ve got lots more to cover, if you’re willing.”

“Of course!”

The conversation, experimentation, and creation, moved on to other gear designs, and of the nuances (and differences of) cold forging, hot forging, cold treatment, tempering, annealing, forging versus casting, and a bunch of other topics Erick had only ever read about in books, or half-remembered from his life back on Earth.

Tharagi knew it all, and in much better depth than Erick.

Eventually, the first brave student entered the room, and took their place at the edge, to watch. That broke the dam, and three more students who had been stuck on the other side of the door, unsure if they wanted to enter, followed the first one in. All four of those students stood to the side of the room to watch as their teacher and the visiting archmage spoke of stuff they had likely gone over long before now.

Erick wasn’t too embarrassed by his lack of knowledge, but he knew exactly how much privileged treatment he was getting. Very few other people could walk into Enduring Forge and get lessons like this, just because they asked for them. Anyone else doing this would probably be laughed out for not knowing the differences between cold forging and hot forging.

Eventually, as had happened with many of Erick’s previous teachers, Erick reached a serviceable level of skill that garnered a familiar comment.

Tharagi stepped back from the functioning differential, his eyes lifting from the myriad of gears and their solid structure, laughing a bit as he said, “That’s graduate-level work, right there. I’ve never seen anyone increase in skill so fast! And those spells —[Incandescent] and [Frozen Mist]— they’re pretty useful, and they don’t ruin the metal like normal Fire spells do! I think I know my next point investment! Ha!”

“Don’t buy them; Remake them.” Erick said, “Aura control for the excitement of particles and aura control for the decrease of excitement of particles, respectively. Easy.” He added, “If you have aura control, that is.”

Tharagi stood straighter. “Then I’ll have to try that.”

One of the girls to the side of the room mouthed at a fellow student, ‘Remake them?’

The fellow student shrugged.

Erick almost clarified his words for those students, but he decided not to. Instead, he said to Tharagi, “Thank you for your help. But if this thing I threw together is actual graduate work, then this is good enough for me, for now. I have many things to learn and little time to spare, so I will take my leave here. Thank you, again.”

Tharagi stood ramrod straight as he proudly said, “Thank you for blessing my classroom with your presence. Thank you for killing Ar’Kendrithyst, and tempering the Dark God.” He said, “There hasn’t been a major attack since Last Shadow’s Feast and— And there usually is. The lower platform almost always is threatened by a monster surge but this time it wasn’t. I don’t know what you did, but you’ve saved a lot of lives. I’m not sure you understand how many people you’ve touched in the Underworld, but… Thank you. If you ever need help with anything else, I am here, willing, and able.” He bowed, deeply.

His students bowed with him.

It was a bit too much for Erick, so he left it at that.

When Erick got rather far down the hallway, well away from Tharagi’s room, the man collapsed against a chair, barely supporting himself as he sighed in relief, a few brief tears escaping from his eyes. He got over that feeling fast as he waved off the students who rushed to him, saying that he was fine. And then he went right to Erick’s differential to manhandle it in ways that he would not when Erick was around.

It didn’t break under Tharagi’s stresses, either. The man started mumbling about the elegance and the strength of the piece, and how he couldn’t believe the growth displayed right in front of him. Tharagi didn’t fully believe the story of Last Shadow’s Feast until that moment when he couldn’t break Erick’s differential, but now… Now he believed.

- - - -

Erick found Grosgrena at the entrance to Hammerhall, for she was waiting for him to show. It was not hard to notice that Erick had minders here and there, in the form of the normal guards that were stationed on the walls of the Smithy, and by the entrances and the ends of every major hallway. They all reported to a central source, for sure.

For all the homey-feeling of this place, it was a high security area.

But none of that bothered Erick.

“Ready for something else?” the Old Smith asked.

“You have good teachers, Grosgrena.” Erick asked, “Know of someone to teach me the basics of runecarving?”

“I sure do.” Grosgrena said, “Darabella is one of the best Rune Smiths to come out of the Smithy in ten years. I let her know yesterday that you’d be asking after her sometime soon, so she’s all in a tizzy with worry and excitement. If you can stand her eccentricities, then you’ll learn a lot.” She added, “But it will be difficult.”

Erick chuckled. “Sounds fine to me.”

“If she doesn’t work out, then we got others.”

- - - -

In a different part of the practical half of the Smithy sat a lone, square mage tower three stories in height and about 20 meters to a side. The building itself was not too notable, except that it had no windows. The only notable part of it was a bunch of machinery that came out of the top floor and connected to the ground, like a frozen waterfall of gears and axles. It was covered in stone to hide all of that intricacy, of course, so it appeared more like a bulge in the building than what it truly was. When that machinery hit the ground, it extended out to the visually impressive part of the building: the curtain wall. The wall was plain stone, about a meter tall, but it was absolutely laced with gears and machinery, in order to connect the building to a series of seven turrets placed equally around the building, atop the wall. The turrets were five meters tall, with each holding its own sphere of adamantium a half-meter across. Each sphere was absolutely laced with inscriptions of all kinds. [Cleanse] featured prominently among them, but also [Telekinesis] and [Ward], though if Erick’s reading was correct, there were also inscriptions for every single basic tier spell and skill.

Those orbs sat upon the machinery, which was connected to the building, which, as far as Erick was able to tell…

He guessed, “The machines rotate the spheres, somehow, for some reason?”

Grosgrena said, “They’re of Darabella’s own design. When they’re imbued with magic they solidify the ambient mana making it easier for her to inscribe adamantium and other metals with functioning runes with the spells she wants to inscribe. I’m sure she’ll tell you about it if you ask her.”

“Of her own design?” Erick asked, “Then they’re not necessary to inscribe runes?”

“Also correct. But she does pretty well with them, and they’ve proven their worth. As has Darabella herself.”

Grosgrena cast a furrowed glance at the dark orbs. She was holding back some sort of scathing commentary, for sure.

Erick ignored that.

The Old Smith led the way up a small set of stairs that arched over the short curtain wall. Together, they came to the front door of Darabella’s workshop. There were no guards here, but there were guards standing on the roof, looking down at them for a brief moment, before returning to duty. Grosgrena touched the five centimeter thick metal doors with a flash of magic that soaked into the metal, which then opened the doors. A security measure? Yes. Some runes for [Telekinesis] and [Ward] flashed briefly inside, as some mechanisms had swiftly unlatched and others had provided the tension to open the door.

It was a fine security measure to prevent general snooping, but nothing that would stop a determined attacker... Which was rather normal, as far as locks on doors went.

The first floor was well lit, and split up into a few different rooms. In this first room, there were a few scattered weapons and armor and otherwise, each packed up in wooden crates on the right side, each clearly labeled for outgoing shipment. Only one of those items was adamantium; a short sword. The other rooms on the first floor were working spaces with a few people chipping away at various metals to create runic inscriptions. None of them were working on adamantium. They did a lot more here than just adamantium.

To the left of the entrance sat a man behind a counter.

The man hopped up, calling out, “Old Smith! Welcome!” And then he took in Erick, and Ophiel upon Erick’s shoulder. His eyes went wide. “Archmage Flatt. Welcome— Ah. It’s happening right now, then.”

“It is.” Grosgrena asked, “What’s she up to?”

“Darabella is currently working with students. It’s safe to interrupt.”

Erick could already see through the entire place.

On the second floor were individual rooms, much like the first, but all of them were simply set up for carving, with no actual carving being done. The second floor seemed primed for adamantium work, though, with various adamantium tools locked inside small vaults here and there.

The third floor was surely the primary enchanting room meant for special enchantments, for in the center of that space was a large, white stone table which was connected to the machinery that controlled the orbs outside, upon the wall. A black sword sat upon that white table, with the stone physically holding onto the blade and the hilt, looking like someone had stretched and stuck that stone like taffy to hold onto the weapon. This space also seemed to be the central teaching room.

A woman stood by the white stone table. She had to be Darabella, for she held a wooden knife in her hand and poked at the black sword while she spoke excitedly to the three students standing on the other side of the table, listening to her speak.

Darabella was a medium-tall woman of thick brownish hair and light brown skin, with bright brown eyes and a clear voice. She didn’t seem to notice that Erick and Grosgrena had arrived, or else she was just that engrossed in her lesson. Probably the latter, if she was as good as Grosgrena had said; she had to have a mana sense, for sure.

Grosgrena led the way up the stairs to the third floor. Erick followed. As they reached the landing and entered the main room, Darabella glanced their way, her eyes going wide. She instantly gave a little ‘Yip!’ and her wooden knife fell from her grasp to clatter upon the ground. Her students suddenly whipped around to see what was happening, and they, too, went wide-eyed.

Darabella cut off her lesson there, saying, “Ah hem! Uh! Students! We have a guest today— We have a private lesson today with Archmage Erick Flatt. Uh.” She whispered to them, “See you tomorrow.”

As Grosgrena and Erick stepped to the side of the stairwell, the students rapidly nodded and bowed and generally tried to move fast to get away, but one of them started to say something to Darabella and she waved him off with a ‘tsk tsk!’ and the kid got the message. Soon, the third floor was empty of students.

Erick called them students, and they were, but they were also all in their 20s, at least, and probably at the top of their field. More and more, Erick was becoming of the opinion that achieving certain levels of magic required less in the way of talent, and more in the way of knowing the right people and making the right connections. Brains helped, but they were not strictly necessary.

Grosgrena stepped forward, introducing Erick and Darabella to each other, saying, “Archmage Erick Flatt. Adamantium Rune Smith Darabella. She does about half of the adamantium runework that comes out of the Black Blade. She’ll likely be the one to inscribe your orders. Darabella, this is Archmage Flatt.”

Erick said, “Nice to meet you, Darabella.”

Darabella stumbled over her words, saying, “Nice to meet you too, uh, Erick— I mean! Archmage.” She looked down at the ground, at the wooden knife she had dropped. She nudged the knife under the table with the side of her foot, putting the instrument out of direct sight as she asked, “Uh. So what’s going to happen now?”

Grosgrena barely kept the frown off of her face as she stared at Darabella, calmly saying, “You’re going to instruct the Archmage in what he wishes to learn. Runecraft, primarily, but anything else he might wish to understand about our ways, you will tell him.”

“Of course!” Darabella paused. “… Everything?”

“Yes.” Grosgrena said, “We went over this once already. Yes.”

