For a little while, as Erick walked down the hallway to exit the building, he watched through the mana as the Old Smith’s stare firmly locked on the sphere of holyite. The aluminum was inert to the eyes, but to Erick’s mana senses, it started to flicker with the smallest bits of proper divine fire, like a wreath of golden flames, or someone suddenly upping the burner on a gas stove to full. And then that glow faded. Back to ephemeral. Like a bonfire that couldn’t decide if it wanted to light, or not. While it was fully powered, though, it had taken on a mirror finish. Now, it was back to cloudy silver white.

Erick asked Poi, ‘What god do you think wants the holyite?’

‘I have no idea.’ Poi sent, ‘Maybe don’t go releasing the knowledge of easy aluminum to everyone.’

Erick smirked, sending, ‘Why Poi! You must have read my mind! I was just thinking the same thing.’

Poi leveled a glare at Erick.

Erick changed the topic. ‘What do you want for dinner?’

- - - -

Laying in bed, staring at the ceiling, Erick had a few thoughts, mostly brought on by what he had seen with the aluminum. Pure aluminum normally oxidized and formed a hard layer which would prevent further oxidation. This is what Erick had seen with the aluminum (holyite) sphere. But then some divine empowerment happened and the white coating went away, leaving behind a mirror finish. Apparently, under a divine touch, aluminum turned shiny and incorruptible, and looked exactly how Erick’s Silver Star had looked before Koyabez changed it into the Crystal Star.

Erick couldn’t replicate the divine empowerment turning metals shiny…

Or maybe he could? An [Undertow anti-Oxidation] enchantment seemed possible. He could even stuff that onto a shield, or armor, or whatever, as long as he figured out the proper runework for such a spell.

Eminently doable, actually.

But a physical solution to oxidation might be better.

If steel was decent enough for most enchants, but the problem with steel was oxidation destroying long term viability, then perhaps Erick could fix that with galvanization. Galvanizing steel runework seemed cheaper than using rustless steel as the base material, and it was certainly cheaper than using any of the platinum group metals as anchors for enchantments.

… But then again, all galvanization did was hide the steel under zinc. Erick would need to ensure a good bond between the zinc and the steel to prevent flaking and destruction, but even if Erick overcame that hurdle, damage to that zinc would destroy the protective coating, and eventually lead to failure. Weapons and armor certainly suffered damage rather regularly.

It was probably better to make an [Undertow anti-Oxidation] runework spell, or something to that effect; something that Erick could attach to any bit of metalwork—

Ah.

[Mend] was already right there, wasn’t it?

… But [Mend] could only do so much, though, since even [Mend] couldn’t fix gradual permanent shifts in an item’s history. Oxidation was one such example of a gradual, permanent shift.

Well. These were all good theories and questions for long-term enchantment viability, weren’t they? If Grosgrena didn’t know the answers to these few questions, then someone over at the Smithy probably would. He would ask her tomorrow.

Eventually Erick’s thoughts wound down, and sleep claimed him. He had been up for almost 48 hours at that point, so he slept rather well.

In the morning, he awoke to Nirzir cooking a nice breakfast. While they ate, he had a nice little conversation with everyone about metals and magic and certain ideas about [Gate] and runework. Erick mostly just talked, while Poi and Teressa ate in relative silence and Jane and Nirzir offered small comments, but they didn’t know much about metalwork, either.

Before he left for the Smithy, he checked in on the grass travelers. Everyone was fine; nothing was on fire. Linxel was fine and Clan Pale Cow was still entertaining guests. After those checkups, Erick swung Ophiel over to the mountain where he Blessed people, and Blessed the single person waiting under the [Undertow Star], by the platform.

Not thirty meters from the platform and still very much under the Star’s influence, there rose a new church to Koyabez. It was small; only about three stories tall. But it was sturdy. Erick checked in with the priests on staff and talked to them for a bit, and then he enabled a few more priests to work under the Star without being subject to its [Luminosity] or Drain.

And then it was time to get back to the Smithy.

- - - -

“… My instinct is to tell you that doesn’t work.” Grosgrena said, “But you might prove me wrong and I don’t need that in my life. So what I will tell you... Is that this ‘galvanization’ process with molten zinc is a novel idea— And you want to use even more chemicals between each step to ensure a good bond? Repeat that all for me, again?”

Erick summarized, “Acid to bare the metal, then a coating of flux to ensure it stays bare, and then a dip in molten zinc which will burn away the flux and ensure a good bond between the zinc and the steel. Zinc will turn white as it oxidizes, but then the oxidation will stop.” Erick said, “There’s more to galvanization than that, but that’s the basic setup. Magic could take the place of many of those steps. [Particle Vacuum], for instance, could ensure a great bond between two cleaned metals, or at least to ensure that the metals stayed clean between the cleaning phases.”

Grosgrena listened, then she nodded, and said, “There’s at least two— Three problems I see right off the pour. Minor issue: you’re not preventing corrosion with any of these steps. The corrosion of the zinc will harm the runework. Any harm to the runework is a problem. Now a little bit of harm is fine, and a little bit of protective wax or oil is also fine, but you’re talking about coating up runes with other metals, and that’s a big shift. Another small concern: you’re just covering up the work you’ve done in the hopes that it won’t break down later and ruin the piece. But the main concern is this:

“We might not stuff core dust or other shit into metals when we carve them up, but we are carving into the very ‘soul’ of the metal when we make a rune. I use the term ‘soul’ loosely, here. Others call it ‘the history of the item’. That difference of style don’t matter much. What does matter is that the direct act of carving into a rune is what makes a rune work. A Master Runesmith can carve the simple Ancient Script words for [Ward] and Light into a block of steel and a [Mend] won’t restore the item to a block; it will always restore the item to its carved self. Furthermore, anyone who cast anything near-enough to a wardlight on the block will be able to use it to anchor their wardlight with uncommon power and duration.

“But messing with that carving —in any way— will fuck up the intent that is the runework.” Grosgrena said, “This is why we use incorruptible metals, and why adamantium is the best metal. Though you can still get away with working on steel if you don’t care about longevity. You can get away with a lot if you don’t care about longevity. But we care about that sort of thing.”

Erick had a deep think, then asked, “You mentioned runes on rocks, so what’s going on there? What sort of rocks? Plain granite, or obsidian, or other stone that doesn’t react with anything?”

“Dauntless jade is great for stationary [Ward]s and other stuff like that. Some crystals work well for [Scry]ing and [Reflection]-type spells. You can’t use something like granite, though; it has to be a single type of rock, as unbroken as you can get it, though there are ways to get past that limitation. Couldn’t make flexible armor without being able to get by those limitations, now could we?” Grosgrena said, “But aside from the specific uses of certain rocks in certain ways, and chaining enchantments, metals reign supreme for all uses. You can make a better [Ward] anchor out of adamantium than you could out of a mountain of quartz. You can make a better [Scrying Mirror] out of silver than you can out of glass or crystal. Metals simply have a better hold on themselves than most rocks, and therefore, you can carve away that solidity into useful shapes for magic to hold onto.” Grosgrena said, “Now: That’s the standard speech. But what I believe is the true answer is that the wrought are metals and the Script is anchored to Veird based on the magical anchors provided by the wrought, which are metal. So that’s why we use metals in enchants. This is also possibly why certain metals are better for certain things, and why adamantium is both the king of metals, and the royal caste of wrought.”

“… Oh. Yeah. That makes a lot of sense.” He asked, “So are wrought capable of magic beyond the Script?”

“What do you mean?”

“I mean, adamantium wrought. Does that actually do anything for them? Does being made of metal do anything for any of them, spell-wise?”

“Oh!” Grosgrena said, “Duration and power of spellcraft, but that’s a commonality shared across all wrought. Being literally made of metal does wonders for durability, too.” She waved a hand. “While different types of metal predisposes those types of wrought to various magics, the average wrought is no better or worse at magic than any fleshy sort of person. The only reason most wrought are better at magic than any fleshy-type of person is that wrought are immortal; they have the time to spare making a bad spell or a hundred. Save for a few diseases that they gotta watch out for, they’re going to outlive us all; even the dragons.” Grosgrena stood up from her desk and moved right along, “So where do you want to start today? Practical, or theoretical? Those options come in magical or non-magical flavors, too.”

Erick stood from his seat, saying, “Practical. I want to make metal parts that won’t break due to mechanical stresses. I also want to know how to make better tools for myself, and to know if there are any tools I could be using, but don’t know about.”

Grosgrena said, “Then we’re off to Hammerhall.”

- - - -

The Old Smith walked with Erick through the hallways of Hammerhall, introducing him to various people he would be working with if he so chose. There was Mordog, who had as much muscle as an orcol, but on a human-sized frame. He was the lead weaponsmith of Enduring Forge, and he could turn even the worst bit of steel into a weapon capable of cutting the shell of a dragonturtle. Then there was Idalial, a woman with half as much muscle as Mordog, and yet with twice as much muscle as any other human-sized woman Erick had ever seen. She was the lead armorsmith, and she was currently in an adamantium pour, with five different co-Smiths, so Erick didn’t get to talk to her save for a simple ‘Hello’. He did get to watch as molten black adamantium flowed into the mold for a shoulder piece, though, and that was rather interesting from a mana sense perspective. As the molten black metal cooled, it pulled nearby mana into it, but only for the briefest moments.

And then Idalial ripped the black, still-hot metal out of its mold with her bare hands and got to work inscribing runes into the shoulder piece, working as fast as she could.

Erick moved on from there when it became clear that he could watch this process many times over, if he wished.

His actual trainer for the day was a human male watchmaker by the name of Tharagi. He was rather thin, unlike most of the Smiths Erick had seen, possibly because he wasn’t a Smith; his Class was Adamantium Mage. The man’s workshop doubled as his classroom, where he made precision instruments sized from watches to watchtowers, for some of the most powerful people the world over.

Tharagi readily shook Erick’s hand, saying, “It’s a pleasure to meet you, Archmage Flatt. I did some work last year for Spur’s watchtower and I got to see your silver rains for myself. It was an absolutely wondrous sight!”

Erick smiled a bit as he let go of the man’s hand, saying, “It’s a nice watchtower. What did you do there?”

“Replaced some gearing and worked on the timing.” Tharagi said, “Your mayor Silverite replaced the original watchtower with one from us three hundred years ago, and we got contracts to repair it whenever it's needed.” He stepped back, saying, “So I understand you want to learn how to harden gears and all that scrap? How to make metal do actual work, instead of just chop off heads?”

“That’s one way to put it,” Erick said, grinning. “But yeah; that’s it exactly.”

“Then you came to the right place!”

Grosgrena excused herself, saying, “I’ll see you boys later. If you need to find me, Archmage, ask around. I’m always somewhere around here.”

“Thank you, Grosgrena,” Erick said.

Old Smith waved behind her as she walked away.

And then it was just Erick and Tharagi... And Poi, who kept to the side of the room.

Tharagi said, “I might have some students show up later but they can content themselves with watching from the sides of the room, if that’s okay with you.”

“That’s fine. So this is the thing I want to make work properly.” Erick held out a hand and cast a lightward of the torque-sensing differential he had made for the grass travelers. “The gears I made broke due to normal stress and my heat treatments didn’t seem to temper or harden the gears in any significant way.”

Tharagi studied the lightward for several moments, then he asked, “Do you know about the grain structure of metal?”

“Yes. I know about as much as you can read in a book, but I have no actual experience.”

“Ah! Then feel free to interrupt if you have questions— Which you would be allowed to do anyway— Uh.” Tharagi was nervous and hiding it, but with his small hiccup, his mask fell, his words leaving him high and dry. As sweat broke out across his body, Tharagi repeated, “Uh.”

In a calm tone, Erick said, “Please be at ease. I’ll ask questions when I have them, and don’t be afraid to correct me if I have a wrong idea or ten.”

Tharagi gave a nervous chuckle, then said, “Uh. Sure! Yes.”

Erick nodded.

Tharagi began slowly, “Creating metal parts that stand up to high-stress environments is not the same as creating a sword or armor. For gears and sprockets and chains, the primary metal we use is rustless steel, and its abilities and nuances are rather different when compared to normal steel. In addition, we use heat and cold applications in order to…”

