Which was the name Grosgrena gave to osmium, in its base form; had to be.

“—is thrice over shadowsteel and lightsteel and illusionsteel.” She continued, “No steel in any of them, though, and no platinum either. It’s complicated. Stonesteel is actually better known as dauntless jade, but that’s not steel neither; it’s crystal stone. Adding to that confusion, some of the elemental-imbued ‘steel’s actually are a type of steel. Bloodsteel is actually steel.”

Erick paused in thought. “… But adamantium is clearly dark. I haven’t seen a single instance of it being lightsteel at all? And this adamantite—” Osmium. “—isn’t bright white, or dark, or shadowy at all? It’s plain silverish?”

Grosgrena nodded, knowingly. “That’s a complicated story, but it basically melts down to: Melemizargo did that. Platinum used to be able to become shadowsteel and brightsteel and illusionsteel. And then Melemizargo ripped those three away from the rest, fucking with them all and creating adamantite in the process…” She paused, as if deciding how far to go with the story, then she decided that was far enough. “Some of the oldest pieces of untouched adamantium are purest white, though that’s also only what the wrought have told us. Don’t have first hand knowledge of any of that, and it’s all ancient history, anyway.” Grosgrena said, “Enduring Forge has always been black, though. Most people are put off by the black, but it grows on you.”

Erick had a small epiphany. He said, “Practically no one else has this knowledge you just laid out there, or if they do, then it’s not in their published books.” He added, “You’re some of the best enchanters in the world, aren’t you.”

“We’d like to think so.” Grosgrena said, “But we’re only in the top 5 percent, overall. The elites of Oceanside still got everyone beat in generalized study, but not everyone can do what we do when it comes to runework and metals. In that, we’re top half percent, easy. Not including the wrought, of course.”

Erick went, “Huh.”

He was gonna need to learn runework, wasn’t he. Well! Maybe he’d have better luck with this sort of enchanting than with normal enchanting. Casting spells into an item in order to give physicality to a magic seemed a lot nicer than imbuing spellwork into an item that could then only be used a set number of times, like how most of the world enchanted. Seemed nicer than how the Shades enchanted too, by mutilating souls and shoving them into items in order to have those souls cast the assigned magic. Nicer than bloodwork formations, too, like how Xue and Ari enchanted.

… There was probably a lot of relations between bloodwork formations and runework. Eh. Oh well. Missed connections, and all that.

Anyway.

Enduring Forge’s approach to runework seemed rather compatible with Erick’s Undertow line of spells. Pretty darn perfectly compatible, actually. Instead of having [Flying Sword] runes in a sword, and requiring the user to have that spell themselves, Erick could imbue an Undertow effect alongside the [Flying Sword] spell and then anyone could use the flying sword just by, for example, sticking their finger in a slot in the weapon where the [Undertow Drain] was exposed to the outside.

There was probably no way to make ambient mana turn into magic, though.

Erick asked to be sure, “Have you all figured out how to make ambient mana become magic? Any specific funneling systems, or perhaps through a manacycler?”

With a strong voice, Grosgrena said, “Can’t be done, far as I know. Best we can do is rune up adamantium for the end-user to extend and empower their own spellwork. The user still has to have the spellwork, though; we haven’t ever found a way around that.”

Maybe they just haven't yet, if Erick’s ideas about Undertow and adamantium turned out to be valid.

“You’re using the illusionsteel part of adamantium to do all of this, aren’t you?” Erick said, “To smudge reality into subjective Reality.”

“Hmm. Somewhat correct. You can put runes on a rock face, if you want. They won’t last long, but it can be done.” Grosgrena said, “Adamantium’s various shadow-illusion-light aspects do allow the metal an unrivaled ability to do what we tell it to do, and with great strength.” She gestured back to the table of ingots, her eyes full of interest. “Let’s continue?”

“Absolutely.” Erick asked, “Got a request for the next one?”

Grosgrena quickly pointed to the bar of pale white metal, about the size of three of Erick’s fingers. To Erick’s mana sense the metal glowed with a pale gold shimmer, but otherwise, it was completely boring to look at. She said, “I got a bet riding on this one. I think it’s a single source metal, but a friend of mine thinks its an alloy.”

“What is it?” Erick asked, stepping to Grosgrena’s side at the table.

“Holyite.” Grosgrena said, “It’s impossible to find as a vein, but you can refine it from certain types of rocks and crystals. Takes a damned lot of steps to do, but the end result takes to divine magic, if you can get it that refined.” She nodded at the Crystal Star on Erick’s chest, saying, “Your Silver Star was likely made out of holyite— before Koyabez changed it, of course. All real Silver Stars are. Almost all Holy-aligned items with any actual godly power behind them are made out of holyite before the gods are asked to anoint them, but even without a god behind it, holyite is still partially divine.” She added, “Any metal can be made into holyite, though, if a god wishes it so.”

“Ahhh.” Erick put a hand on the artifact pinned to his chest as he stared down at the silvery-white ingot. His Star had been about a hundredth of the mass of the ingot when he first got it. Erick only had his mana sense and his original Silver Star both at the same time, for a little bit of time, but he was pretty sure that his original Silver Star had a tiny golden glow. This block of holyite was ten times as bright as his original Silver Star. But compared to the current Crystal Star, which glowed with a radiant gold light when focused upon by a good mana sense, this block of holyite was barely a flickering candle. Erick asked, “This stuff is unaligned?”

“Yup; not dedicated to any gods.” Grosgrena said, “And I want to know what it actually is. Is it an alloy? Or is it an individual particle? I want to know.”

Erick picked up the small ingot, saying, “Time to find out.”

Five minutes later, they had their answer.

“It’s aluminum!” Erick said.

Grosgrena held the sphere in her hands, and stared.

Erick digressed, “And the barest bit of copper and manganese. Mostly aluminum, though.”

Grosgrena’s eyes were wide. She barely paid any attention at all to the two other drops of metal that had come out of the refining process. The aluminum sphere was perfectly shiny, reflecting the world like a mirror. But as moments passed and the sphere was exposed to the air outside of the vacuum, oxidation began on that surface, dulling the sphere. With enough time, Erick was sure that the aluminum would return to its previous silver-white look. It already looked to be regaining its small ‘divine fire’ glow.

While Erick had been pulling apart the metal with high heat, the flickers of Holy surrounding it had faded, and Grosgrena had panicked a bit, but now those nascent flickers of gold began to return to the manasphere, and Grosgrena had relaxed. The glow seemed to have returned even stronger, too, but the sphere was still barely Holy; no gods had descended to actually anoint the metal, as far as Erick could tell.

Grosgrena had yet to speak. She hadn’t even let the aluminum out of her grasp, to let her assistants weigh it.

Erick spoke again, “Looks like purity makes it more holy, I guess?”

He almost said that he knew a few ways to extract aluminum from various sources, but he decided to keep those to himself, for now. Grosgrena was obviously having a moment.

And then the moment was over.

Grosgrena sniffed, blinked, and handed the sphere off to her assistants to let them weigh it. She wiped away a stray tear as she turned and looked up at Erick, saying, “Which number is that? ‘Atomic number’ was it?”

“13.”

“It’s thirteen! Ha! Fuck. I coulda—” Grosgrena asked, “What’s iron’s number?”

“26.”

She nodded, then, tentatively, she asked, “Platinum?”

“78.”

Grosgrena’s face fell. “Ach. Shit.” She scowled. “What’s osmium?”

She asked after adamantite, but Erick was already mentally substituting that one, and he would likely continue to do so going forward. The word ‘adamantium’ had come from his daughter, anyway, when she told him it was the ‘toughest metal in the world, so it must be adamantium!’.

Erick said, “Osmium is 76.”

“Ah! Damn it all to shit.” Grosgrena huffed, then she let her worries go, saying, “The most anyone around here has gotten up to is tin, at 50, but they skipped around a lot. No one has been able to get silver or gold, but everyone who’s truly tried has gotten iron at 26, then they skipped 27, but continued on to nickel, copper, and zinc, all in a row at 28, 29, and 30. One or two people have managed to get cobalt at 27, but most don’t even try because failing seems to have compounding effects; nosebleeds first, then eventually face and lung hemorrhages.” She said, “We’ll be able to change up a few things thanks to Particle Magic, but we still need to figure all of that stuff out.” She gestured to the table. “Continue?”

“Yes.”

- - - -

Deep Sky Silver, a lustrous, lightly blue mirror-like silver metal, turned out to be 99.9% silver, but Erick’s spellwork killed the magic inside that metal. That magic had been what turned it into deep sky silver, instead of just normal silver.

As the sphere of silver came out of the heat, it tarnished almost instantly with a sheen of dark rainbows.

Grosgrena said, “Yup. That’s gonna happen a lot. You ruined the magic, but that’s fine. We can put it back in with enough effort. Let’s continue.”

- - - -

Hellite, Celesteel, and Starsteel were each beautiful in their own way. Hellite was ruby pink and warm to the touch. Celesteel had an iridescent sheen to its white, cool surface. Starsteel was a sky full of stars trapped in ingot form.

All of them came out of the furnace as plain platinum, now tarnished and missing less than 1% of their weights, for each had some ‘impurities’ removed. Hellite had a drop of extra copper. Celesteel had a drop of extra titanium. Starsteel had a drop of extra iron.

And with that sort of evidence before him, Erick couldn’t call them ‘impurities’.

Grosgrena said, “Yup. They’re in the exact right measurements, too. It’s part of the imbuing process. We’ll see all of that later.”

- - - -

Bloodsteel was iron, with traces of all the particles normally found in blood. Carbon, mainly. But also sodium, potassium, zinc, calcium, manganese, cobalt, copper, magnesium. Even molybdenum.

Grosgrena said, “Yup. Great for blood magic items. Not much use outside of that. All those impurities make it brittle until you craft it into a Healing Magic item, then those impurities stabilize the intent of the rod of [Greater Treat Wounds], for example, creating something worth twenty times its weight in gold.” She added, “Conservative estimate, obviously.”

- - - -

Rustless steel was stainless steel, but by a different name. It was mostly iron, but also 22% chromium, 4% molybdenum, and 8% nickel, along with another 1% trace metals. Barely any carbon at all, though.

“Yup,” Grosgrena said, “That’s right, too. A lot less carbon in rustless steel. A lot more of a bunch of other shit.”

- - - -

Before Erick knew it, several hours had passed. The sun had set hours ago, and the rent in the roof of the Cavern of Enduring Forge showed stars and a deep night above. Erick had pulled apart a full 43 ingots of metals both magical and not, learning a lot in the process, and coming to a conclusion which he shared with Grosgrena.

“I think imbuing a metal with magic adds a tiny fraction of weight, but not much.” Erick said, “Maybe not anything at all, really? All the missing weights could easily be gasses that escaped the set up.”

Grosgrena said, “We’ve done tests on this stuff. Magic weighs down metals, though it’s only about a gram or two per kilogram of metal. Those tests involve antirhine, though, and we don’t keep that shit around anything that we care about.”

“Oh. Well. Good to know someone has already done the tests.”

Grosgrena nodded. “Gravitysteel is pretty damned hard to weigh correctly, but even that stuff is only about a gram of magic to a kilogram of metal.”

“Huh.”

Grosgrena moved right along, asking, “You want me to set you up with someone else to talk about something, this night? I’m beat, but there’s always someone awake; we don’t keep the same day-night hours that surface dwellers do, so don’t go thinking that you’re keeping someone awake.” She added, “The Forge at night is the best time to learn the practical side of this stuff because barely anyone is in there right now. Want to meet a working Smith?”

Erick grinned, happy to know that the Old Smith even cared about the small stuff, like sleeping schedules—

Poi laughed. And then he cut his laugh short with a small cough, making both the first and second sounds he had made all afternoon.

Erick instantly said to Grosgrena, “I’ll show up tomorrow when I show up, if that’s alright with you. It’s time to check on my people and do something else for a while.”

“Sure enough.” Grosgrena waved, saying, “The way out is the way you came in; don’t try [Teleport]ing or lightstepping through the shield. They got instructions to let you in and out of the main gate whenever you wish. The Smithy is open to you, but don’t poke around anywhere besides the Campus.” She shrugged. “Or do. I’m sure you’ll end up swamped with people wanting to talk to you, though.”

“Then I’ll take my leave. See you tomorrow.”

Grosgrena nodded.

Erick went to Poi, near the door, and glanced to the table of metals on his way out. Grosgrena’s assistants had carefully labeled everything with weights and identifications. It had only been the work of an afternoon, but it would send ripples throughout the entire Smithing community, for sure. The two of them left the room, and kept going.

Back in the room, Grosgrena went to the table and stared down at the work, her eyes carefully moving from orb to orb.

