Short of stumbling across a Heaven sent Insight and making a miraculous breakthrough in the next few minutes, my time is better spent focusing on what I do know rather than what I don’t. While the details are hazy, I’m certain that whatever is happening with the Spectre restriction results in newborn Demons so weak I’m fairly certain a large group of commoners with crossbows could kill it. A weak Demon is hardly a downside considering the force I have here with me today, as even the most powerful Demon would die when faced with a few hundred Peak Experts, though this does deny me the chance to plunder Heavenly Energy from its corpse. This is most certainly due to skipping over the aforementioned linking between the physical and metaphysical, which is essentially the process of forging a Spiritual Heart. The only difference here is rather than the host merging his body and soul as one, the Spectres annex the lion’s share of the host’s soul before forcibly merging with his body. Whatever usable Heavenly Energy contained in the Spectres’ otherworldly forms manifests in this world as Ichor, while the host undergoes all manner of torment under the Spectres' directive to keep him or her from breaking free of their influence and seizing control of their body once more.

Which might explain why all Demons are universally horrific in appearance. Visualization is a large part of controlling Chi and Heavenly Energy, so the manifested Demons might well be creatures of literal nightmare, ones drawn from the subconscious of the host as he’s tormented by thousands of fractured and intermingled Wills, ones which they themselves take on ugly forms so that ignorant souls will fear them.

What I want to know is how Zhen Shi is controlling the Spectres. Are they truly the minions of some maleficent Divine Being known as the Father and following the commands of His Chosen representative in this world? I don’t think so, and not just because I’m inherently skeptical of all things religious. Instead, I suspect my formidable foe’s influence over the Spectres has something to do with the Keystone robes I saw his Natal Soul wearing (or possibly his real Soul, still not too sure on that), with threads festooned with millions upon millions of tormented Spectres. That’s likely how he controls them, through pain and suffering, though how he can inflict pain on something akin to a soul is a mystery to be sure, one I would love to solve before he does something unexpected like rip my soul from my body or something.

No, if he could do that, he wouldn’t have gone to so much effort to trick me out of my Natal Palace in the first place. Actually, now that I think about it, there were a bunch of Spectres just hanging out in the Void by my Natal Palace when I was trying to recover in the monastery. I always thought Zhen Shi put them there to watch and threaten me, but why would he do that while also keeping them away from me in the real world? He’d been playing keep away for months by then, so it wouldn’t make sense for him to park a veritable army of Spectres outside my Natal Palace just for me to Devour. I remember there were two groups back then, a disciplined force of guardian Spectres holding back the feral untamed masses, meaning Zhen Shi doesn’t have control of all Spectres everywhere, but rather only commands a portion of them and uses his forces to corral the rest. This means he’s not so much directing the Spectres as he is herding them away from me, and loosening the reins when he wants them to act naturally, like when he tried to destroy my Spiritual Weapon by allowing a Demon to go through with the whole transformation process with my sword embedded in the host.

Knowing he’s strong-arming the Spectres is somehow less terrifying than if he had complete and total control over them, though I suppose there’s something to be said about a man so threatening he scares the collective embodiment of humanity’s negativity. Then again, maybe he wants me to think that he doesn’t have total control and is really just testing the waters to see what I can do. Even after reading all his notes and facing him several times, I am unable to tell if everything he’s done tonight is an act of desperation from a cornered foe, or the machinations of an accomplished deceiver working to uncover the truth regarding my abilities. Impossible to say one way or the other with any certainty at all, but regardless of the truth, I cannot let my guard down, not even for a moment.

Truth is, bombarding this fleeing force is a risk I shouldn’t take, but the same could be said of attacking Meng Sha, Dong Jiang, and Huang Hai with a force comprised solely of Peak Experts. A calculated risk, but a risk nonetheless, even with Dad lurking nearby in Concealment alongside Naaran, Kuang Biao, and a number of other guards, though Binesi stayed behind to oversee the safety of the civilians in Huang Hai. Besides my protectors who have been holding back all night, most of the Peak Experts from my initial attack on Meng Sha have retired for the night, with other Warriors here to take their place. West led the charge with Central following suit, and here in our third engagement of the night, the Northern Warriors have taken centre stage, including a full complement of Peak Expert Sentinels. This is a big part of why I feel confident enough to run down these rats fleeing before me, because if I ever need to retreat, there’s a formidable force of crack-shot archers on hand to turn my pursuers into pincushions at the drop of a hat.

Another reason for my confidence emits a burst of uneasy Aura from his perch atop my head, which is Pong Pong’s way of warning me of danger nearby. The problem is, even after scanning the surroundings with eyes, Domain, and Aura for good measure, I’m unable to pinpoint the source of his concern, something he’s been warning me of ever since LuZhuo, which by now was several hours ago. I’m fairly confident there are no Concealed threats nearby, not with Grandpa Du, Exarch Gam, Tenjin, and a number of other Awakened Martial Warriors keeping watch, to say nothing of my own vigilance and paranoia, which leads me to believe Pong Pong is just scared by all the cannon fire. Poor little guy is not built for conflict or warfare, but he’s putting on a brave face to accompany me into the fray and keep me safe, because that’s what family does.

“It’s okay little guy,” I Send, accompanying my words with a burst of loving Aura to try and ease his nerves. He can’t understand what I’m saying, but at the very least, he hears my tone and knows I’m not ignoring him. “We’ll be done soon, and then we can head back to the sea for a swim.”

A small burst of cheery Aura is his response to my Sending, a moment of elation at hearing the word ‘swim’. The little guy was pretty happy back in SuiHua, swimming in the bay to his heart’s content with Rakky, the bears, and quins. The world would be a much better place if we could all be so easily satisfied, but the hearts and minds of humankind have far too much depth and darkness for that. Perhaps that’s why animals never turn Defiled, not even ones as murderous as Rakky, because they understand Balance in a way humans never could. Anger and hatred have their place upon the scale of emotions, but humans all too easily allow those darker emotions to consume us, while animals know how to let go and live life in the moment.

Though I remain unconvinced by Pong Pong’s warnings, I gauge the distance from Huang Hai and our allied forces before reluctantly putting an end to the slaughter. Much as I would love to kill every last Defiled before me, pursuing them any further would be pushing the limits of luck and good sense. I’ve gambled enough for tonight and even Peak Experts need to rest, as everyone with me tonight has travelled a far distance to get here. With four harbours under Imperial control, we’ve retaken close to twenty percent of the Western coastline, but it will take time and effort to secure our holdings from Enemy counterattacks. Despite our rousing success and lack of casualties, the mood in Huang Hai is weary and sombre as lofty Peak Experts labour like common mortals to assist the Brotherhood monks with the funeral rites. There is something particularly upsetting about pouring oil over the dead without the bed of firewood to rest upon, an act far too similar to basting for my sensibilities, but there’s no helping it. Wood is in short supply here in the West, and we’re even running low on lantern oil despite having brought several ships full of it with us. A fire hazard for sure, but even if Demon Gen or some other Fire-Blessed Defiled lights it up, the oil ships are kept separate from the rest of the fleet and never allowed to dock in order to minimize the potential for damage.

“We must speak,” Dad Sends, the moment we step foot inside my command tent, a bad sign if there ever was one. Not only is he speaking in his native tongue, he also didn’t call me boy or son, which means he’s upset.

“I’m sorry for ignoring your warnings to take it slow,” I Send, making my excuses despite knowing it would be better to just listen first, but I’m tired, frustrated, and just all around too cranky to be lectured tonight. “I knew the risks when I gave the order and weighed them against the benefits. We needed to make the Enemy bleed for this else our morale would suffer, and the Enemy commander never expected me to push things so far. Tonight is the only time we can afford to be so aggressive, so I took the chance where I saw it.”

“Still your tongue and listen, son.” Placing his hands gently on my shoulders, Dad looms over me until I find the courage to look up into his eyes, so bright and blue and full of compassion. “You need not justify your decisions to me, for your ability to command this army was never in question. Though I might disagree with your decisions, I rest easy knowing you weigh all your options well before deciding on a path to take. All I ask is that you answer me this one question, and that you do so with the utmost honesty.” Waiting until I acknowledge and agree to his request, Dad asks, “Do you feel better now that you have vented your fury?”

Mentally he means, not physically, and though my gut reaction is to say yes and be done with it, something in his gaze makes me think twice. Not only is my fearless Dad concerned, I would even go so far as to say he’s scared, because he’s not sure how to help me anymore. To him, Balance is a simple matter of following his heart, and the rest just falls into place naturally, almost as naturally as it comes to Pong Pong or Rakshasa, so he has trouble understanding my struggles with the same concept. Even though my Martial Path no longer requires Balance to channel Chi, this doesn’t mean I can do away with it altogether. A Balanced state of mind is a healthy one, though I wouldn’t go so far as to say it is the best state of mind, as I would say this sort of mindset is partially responsible for the plague of Spectres infesting the Empire as Martial Warriors divest themselves of their negative emotions in a misguided attempt to find Balance.

That’s a problem for another day though, as I don’t really know how to answer Dad’s question. With honesty, I suppose, so I take a deep breath and exhale before finding the courage to admit the truth. “No. Not even a little. I know I should be celebrating our accomplishments and happy we’ve come so far, but every time I blink, I see the slaughter in LuZhuo burned into the darkness behind my eyelids.” The scene flashes through my mind faster than I can blink, the memories haunting me in my waking moments after I denied them the chance to do so in sleep, for you can’t have nightmares if you never go to bed. Gesturing outside the command tent towards the ramshackle fort, I continue, “And this. The death here in Huang Hai is almost worse, because as grotesque and horrific as the scene in LuZhuo might have been, the slaughter here actually makes sense to me, a bid to deny these people their freedom and their lives. Death for the sake of death, cold and impersonal, a decision made and a consequence suffered because of a path I set out on. I know their deaths are not my fault, nor should I accept responsibility for it, but to see the lengths our Enemy will go to just to spite me makes my heart ache with grief.” Unable to stand tall any longer, I lean forward and rest my head against Dad’s chest, his steel armour like a soft pillow to my exhausted mind and body. “I promised everyone there would be no purge, but what difference does it make if the Enemy slaughters all our people before we can save them? I thought I planned for every eventuality, had a response ready for whatever our opponent might try, but how can we win a war if the Enemy refuses to fight?”

“I have no answer for you, my son,” Dad replies, all too quickly for my tastes, but his warm embrace is all the support I need. “Except to point out that while many have died tonight, you’ve saved a good number of people as well, the people of Meng Sha and Dong Jiang. Your wives should be in Meng Sha by now, so perhaps it would be best to head back after the funeral rites here. There should be no need to leave a force to defend Huang Hai, as I doubt the Enemy is keen to hold it.”

