Good point, and we’d be stretching ourselves thin trying to hold and fortify four harbours at once. “Yea, sounds good. We should gather everyone in Meng Sha anyways, and focus fortifying the area as it’s the most easily defensible location and a good place to base our offensive from.” LuZhuo would be better, but better to give it some time to clear the air of Zhen Shi’s foul workings, while Dong Jiang is just a subpar location for a military base. Even though the decision is all but made, I continue rambling without letting go, because even though I’m a grown ass man who can wipe his own ass, it’s nice to have a Dad to rely on from time to time.

Not to wipe my ass. I can still do that, and in no way want anyone to do it for me. Damn it brain, don’t make this weird.

Quietly wiping away tears of frustration and fatigue, I finally break away from Dad’s hug with a quiet smile, and see him smiling back. He’s proud of me, not just because of my Martial strength and military accomplishments, but because I was honest with him and shared my frustrations instead of bottling them up inside. It’s something I’ve always known I’ve needed to work on, but it’s just become second nature to keep my struggles to myself, because as much as I love to complain about the stupidest things, I’ve always been reluctant to unload my heavy baggage onto the people I love. They don’t need to hear it and are better off without being weighed down by my many issues, so even though I know they would be happy to help, I can never bring myself to voluntarily ask for it. “Thanks Dad,” I say, pushing the words past the lump in my throat and willing myself not to cry anymore. “For always being there for me.”

“Not always, my son,” he replies, shaking his head with a sad smile, and it takes a moment to register that he means he hasn’t always been there for me, not that he won’t always be there in the future. “But I am here for you now, and will be so long as I still draw breath.”

A brief pulse of warning from Pong Pong almost goes unheeded until Dad straightens up in alarm. Moving faster than I can follow, he turns around with sword in hand while standing between me and the still unseen threat, and then time slows to a crawl. The alarm sounds and the tent flap moves aside as the Death Corps Guards rush in to protect me, but despite standing only a few footsteps away, I can see they are far too late. The tip of a glimmering black bolt emerges from before my eyes, and I am transfixed by the crimson droplets dripping from its tip, stuck in a moment of time as I refuse to accept what is happening in the here and now.

For the bolt was not aimed at me, nor is the blood mine, as Dad utters a weak gasp of pain as his heart is pierced clean through.

No, no, no, no...

The world blurs and shifts around me and I find myself catching Dad as he topples over in place, his clear blue eyes fading fast as he stares up into mine. A shaky smile stretches across his lips, a helpless acceptance of fate, and he squeezes my hand with a feeble grasp that is so unexpected from one of the strongest men I know. He has no last words for me, no final farewell, only a shuddering wheeze and a gaze full of love as his body goes into extreme shock and his mind shuts down to spare him the suffering. The sounds of fighting outside tell me that the chances of assistance are slim, but even though I fear we have come under concentrated attack, I cannot bring myself to look away from my helpless, dying Dad.

My father is dying because of me.

There is no hope without him.

His death is only the first of many.

My mother. My wives. My siblings. My grandparents. My friends.

They will all pay the ultimate price, because I dared to overstep my bounds.

The deluge of blame and hatred rolls off me like water off a duck as I find clarity of purpose in this moment of crisis, knowing I have no time to indulge in anger or grief if I am to have any hope of saving him. Odd as it sounds, the destruction of the human heart does not result in instant death, not like decapitation would, but unless a Healer arrives in the next few seconds to stem the loss of blood and prevent widespread organ failure, then all hope is lost. My Death Corps Guards will be here in time, but while some of them are capable of Healing, none of them have the skill to save Dad. Maybe Taduk could do it, but I don’t think he’s here given how he shares Lin-Lin’’s love of sleep and has probably long since gone to bed. Monk Happy might be able to do it, and I Send word asking him to get here, but he responds with a frantic message telling me he’s under attack. Precious seconds were lost seeking outside assistance, and while famed Healers like Taiyi Zhushen and Taokang Geyan might be able to save Dad life, reconstructing a human heart in a short enough time to matter is beyond the skill of most, including the Healers here with me now.

My father is going to die, and there’s nothing I can do to save him.

“Shut the fuck up you decrepit old bastard!”

A wall of fury rises up within my mind, blocking out Zhen Shi’s insidious whispers meant to twist the blade in my heart, because I have more pressing matters to deal with than his shit. Dad is dying, and there’s no one available to save him, but where there is life, there is hope. Reaching for every scrap of love and affection I bear for the man who saved me, I funnel it all into my Chi, Aura, and Domain in a desperate attempt to Heal his injuries the same way I Healed Song, but Dad’s mind has shut down in preparation for death, and his body and Soul automatically reject my efforts to Heal him. It’s a defensive mechanism similar to the immune system, rejecting all foreign matter and Chi, but right now, it’s preventing me from saving him and I have no idea how to circumvent it with Dad being in no state to accept my love and help.

No, not just love, but fear, desperation, panic, and anger, all of it emanating off me in pulsating waves of dynamic emotions. That’s why Dad’s body is rejecting my help, because my unstable state of mind is tainting my efforts to Heal him. I need to divest myself of emotion, but even taking the time for a single deep breath is a luxury I cannot afford as my mind grasps at straws in hopes of helping Dad. A Keystone, that’s what I need, a neutral, impartial, Healing Keystone that works quickly and autonomously without my thoughts and emotions influencing the process. A huge ask, but I have some Energy of the Heavens stored up from the Demon Zhen Shi’s used to damage my Spiritual Weapons earlier tonight, so I just need to figure out the proper way to use it.

What can I Visualize to represent so monumental a Keystone? The med-kit again? No, that’s too... singular, too personal, an icon that represents Healing myself, because that’s what it was in memory. I need something that Heals anyone and everyone I deem an ally so long as they enter into range, and it needs to do it quickly. An image pops into mind and somehow it just feels right, so I Visualize my Intent and set my Will to work creating this Keystone within my Natal Palace. The foundation forms atop the concrete docks, where I spent many a night playing with Lin-Lin and the floofs, a central fixture for us to see and admire the next time we’re there. Three stone basins of differing sizes emerge, overlapping one another with the smallest at the top and the widest on the bottom, while a square sigil forms at its feet, one bearing the bow-tied bunny that so many others believe is a Cloud Chaser Hare. A deviation from my original intent when creating the emblem, but one that has changed in perception over time, for what better representation of Healing than one based on my Medical Saint of a Teacher and Father in Law? Water bubbles up from the topmost basin and soon overflows into the basins below, water which represents all the usable Heavenly Energy available to me. It’s precious little, and I pray that it is enough as I activate the Keystone and open myself to the Energy of the Heavens to Devour as much Chi as I possibly can, because if the usable Heavenly Energy is not enough, then I will need all the Chi I can get.

The fountain of Healing, from some stupid game or another, where heroes recalled back to so they could top up on Health and Mana, and there is no hero more deserving than Dad.

Divorced from the Healing process, I can only watch and wait as my Chi and Heavenly Energy pour into Dad’s comatose frame, unable to see or affect the Healing process. Hell, I don’t even know if it’s working, or if Dad is still alive, as I’m too afraid to touch him for fear of messing everything up. That’s the problem, my fear, holding me back as it always has, but since I cannot get away from it, I must find ways to work around it. The blood continues to pool out from underneath him as his pale complexion takes on the shade of death, but still I cling to hope and persevere because I cannot bring myself to do anything else. The seconds pass as my Core empties time and time again as even my Devouring capability is unable to bear the strain of fuelling my newest, most powerful Keystone yet, nor is my metaphysical Chi system capable of sustaining it for long. My Divine Senses scream in intuitive alarm as pain wracks my mind and spirit, telling me this Healing is costing me more than I know, but I don’t care. This is my Dad, my Mentor, my pillar, and my hero, so I will pay any price to save him.

The world fades to black, but I hold fast to hope and pray that this was enough, because even if I were to wash the world in Defiled blood, it would still not be enough to avenge Dad’s death.

Chapter Meme

Bonus Song
