“Young Master Fung, seeing your savage is upsetting enough for a frail little lady such as myself. Could you ask your barbarian pet to keep silent? My appetite will be ruined if he were to continue on about blood and war.” Jing Fei sits at the table, refusing to speak to me directly, as if I were a slave again. This little prissy bitch, how fucking dare she? I should gouge her eyes out and rip her ears off, then she won't have to watch or listen. That would ruin her looks, but she could still serve, with a bag over her head.

“Ignore her Rain. Let us eat.” The servants begin uncovering the plates, as we chat about the day's events, now my turn to talk about his accomplishments. I need to get a bigger spiritual weapon, if only to fight from Zabu's back easier. Fung's spear should be mine, something I would have earned. I could have won that whole damn contest if it weren't for the Society getting greedy. Nothing I can do about it now, killing him won't get me a spiritual weapon, just a useless metal polearm, maybe a bit heavier than most. We feast lavishly and drink moderately, relaxing after a long day's battle, but the battle still not won and combat possible at any moment. It doesn't really matter, I could probably kill Defiled drunk off my ass. Weaklings, all of them.

“I still cannot believe you attacked a fucking Demon, Rain! Such bravery, I could barely quail before it, and I was within Man Giao's protection! But you, you just roared in challenge, and threw your sword at it, a true Young Hero. I thought it would just collapse and die, and damned if I won't tell that story to everyone I know.”

“Oh, Young Master Fung, you are likely mistaking bravery for foolishness.” Jing Fei sniffs, the pompous little bitch still not looking at me. “As if a barbarian like your little friend could overcome the aura of a true Demon. I've heard it can render even the most stalwart soldiers into a crying mess, and this pet of yours is only a savage. However, it would not surprise me if the barbarian were more attuned to the Demons, accustomed to their presence.”

Swallowing my anger and smiling sweetly at her, I speak in a cordial tone. “Call me a savage again, and I'll give you a reason to name me so. You're a pretty young thing, and I will delight in ruining you.” She pauses to finally glare at me, probably looking into my eyes for the first time. Lovely brown eyes, I'd like to see them full of fear. “I will do things to you that will make you curse your grandmother for a whore for spreading her legs to your grandfather.”

Slapping the table, she continues to glare at me, as I ogle her tits, knowing it makes her uncomfortable. I really would like her to call me savage, just one more time, so I can act, tear the little bitches clothes right off, show her that I am to be respected. She backs down, glaring at Fung instead. “Well? Are you going to let this – your friend speak to me, your betrothed, like that?” Close. She's spirited, too scared to say savage, but her intonation of 'friend' says it all. She'll be fun to break.

“Fung! You never told me you were betrothed to such a lovely little creature. You really must share once you are married. She is a little headstrong perhaps, so I recommend that you have a wedding in the style of the People. That will properly teach her, that the weak are here to obey.” My eyes never leave her, and finally, she quails visibly, which does interesting things to her breasts. I love how everyone thinks we're terrifying and feral.

Fung remains silent, and after a long pause, Jing Fei storms out of the tent in anger. After another pause, Fung asks, “What happens at a People wedding?” I can hear the trepidation in his voice, and I delight at his discomfort.

Shrugging at him, I laugh. “I have no idea, actually. I don't think there actually is a ceremony, or at least I've never been invited to one. The imagination is a wonderful thing. Say a few words and they imagine the torture all by themselves, far worse than anything I could do.” Well, not without preparation, at least. I'd need some tools to really get to work.

He laughs with me, shaking his head. “It seems I will need to rely on you to keep her at arm's length. She has caused me no end of troubles lately, always needling me with her words, following me about.” He sighed. “It is a troublesome thing. She has been trying to become pregnant with my child, and then I fear she will have me killed or crippled. I cannot let my guard down, even for a moment. She is a vicious child, at odds with me ever since we were young.”

“Then why not -” I draw my thumb across my neck. “Strike first. Strike hard. No Mercy.” And... Sweep the leg? That doesn't make sense. “I'd be glad to take care of it.” I'd have some fun first, of course.

“Falling Rain, you are a good friend, and a terrifying enemy. Forget her, let us eat and be merry now that she is gone. Remain here for the night, I've some lovely courtesans to keep us company.”

A little debauchery will do me good, and a lot will do me better, and we return to feasting, intent on stuffing myself full until I cannot eat anymore. Before we finish dinner however, lovely little Mila arrives with Zabu in tow. “Rain! What the hell were you thinking? You disobeyed orders and broke formation. You could have been killed.” She is far too stressed about being in command, like I said, it doesn't suit her.

“I don't need your worry, this is war. Grow up.” My tone is harsher than intended. She's only looking out for me. Softening my voice, I continue, “Here, eat some food, have a drink.” Or five. Maybe she will join in the debauchery, that would be fun. “I'm going to rest here for the night. I'm too lazy to make the trip up the mountain, and I'll likely fight on the front lines in the morning.” I mean, I killed a Defiled Champion and attacked a Demon. I deserve to sleep on something other than dirt. What's the point of going back, just to get bitched at. Fuck that.

Her eyes narrow at me. “You are a Khishig, Rain, so you will camp with the Khishigs. If you do not return with me right now, I will ride to Mama – to the Lieutenant General instead.”

Tch. Little brat, ordering me around. Nothing I can do about it right now, I need to play my part of the dutiful Khishig. “Fine, threaten to run to mommy, that's very brave of you.” Standing, I say farewell to Fung. “Remember, if you ever need an ear to listen, or a borrowed sword, all you need to do is speak.” I'd love to get my hands on that pretty little bitch. “I'll find you on the battlefield in the morning, we'll kill some Defiled together, it'll be fun.” He smiles at me and I leave to follow Mila up the mountainside, the cold summer night refreshing and comfortable. There will be more bloody work to be done in the morning, and I can hardly wait. I will make the Defiled fear my name, and drive them out of my home, the lands where I was born.
