Lady Chaos. The Damsel of Drama. The Harbinger of Hilarity. No one ever called her these things, in point of actual fact. But her time had come again. And this city had no idea. No idea—
Was it all an accident, as she claimed? Or was it fate? Some Skill?
Or was she smart enough to plot it all out in advance? No one knew. But here was a question to keep you up at night: which would be more terrifying if true?
The next day began as Erin stared at her magical door now and then. Wondering what she was feeling.
Soon.
 
—-
 
And then they were at the gates. As the sun rose, so did the portcullis. And despite it all, the adventurers couldn’t say it had been an entirely unwelcome night.
They’d made a friend. Maviola stood with them, talking more naturally, even with Ksmvr.
“Just stick in the city for a day or two. Tell us where you’re staying; maybe we can get the same inn. We’re actually delivering cargo. And you’ll want to see what happens.”
Ceria was talking to Maviola, but the [Lady] herself wasn’t sure if she’d be staying.
“I don’t have a plan. What kind of cargo is this?”
She glanced at the door as the wagon rolled forwards. Ceria grinned.
“The best kind. I shouldn’t say just yet, but—”
“Reason for entry?”
The [Guardsman] was yawning as he checked people through the gate. But he did a double-take as he stared at Yvlon and Ksmvr in the driver’s seat.
“What is that?”
He grabbed for his weapon. Yvlon raised one hand.
“That’s our teammate. Ksmvr. He’s an Antinium. We’re the Horns of Hammerad, a Gold-rank team.”
“An Antini—they’re not—that’s a Drake thing. No one’s seen an Antinium in the north—”
The [Guardsman] backed up. Ksmvr opened his mandibles and smiled.
“Hello. I am Ksmvr. I am not a monster—”
The [Guards] heard the commotion. They aimed their bows and crossbows down at the adventurers. Ceria sighed.
“Damn it. Not again. Hey! We’re a Gold-rank team!”
She shook her fist upwards as Maviola turned her horse, eying the suddenly very awake Watch. The [Captain] on the gates hesitated.
“Gold-rank?”
The word was like a magic spell. Ceria sighed.
“Yes. Gold-rank. Adventurers! The Horns of Hammerad! This is our teammate! Not a ravening army!”
The [Guards] relaxed a bit, looking shamefaced. The [Captain] stared at Ksmvr, but the half-Elf had practice at this by now. So long as you didn’t let Pisces needle the local Watch, or Ksmvr didn’t do anything alarming…
“Stand down. Someone fetch the list.”
The [Captain] ordered the others. Ceria sighed in relief. Pisces sniffed.
“I told you we should have let Ksmvr hide in the wagon and sorted it out later.”
“We tried that. I’m not being run out of Invrisil.”
Soon, the [Captain] was walking out the gates. He stared at Ksmvr, but he was more interested now in Ceria’s claim.
“Horns of Hammerad? You’re not on our list of Gold-rank teams.”
The [Cryomancer] blinked.
“Well—we are. Ask the Adventurer’s Guild.”
“I have a Street Runner doing just that. If you’re on their registry, we’ll see. You are aware, Miss, that impersonating a Gold-rank team is a felony?”
The half-Elf gave the [Captain] a look. She turned to Pisces and he leaned forwards.
“Captain, why would we both have an Antinium teammate and claim Gold-rank status when we’re already under scrutiny?”
The Watch Captain’s brows snapped together. He glowered, but Pisces’ acerbic tone was a careful weapon.
“Move your wagon over there. Next! You, miss. Purpose of entry?”
“I may see you later. Thank you for the company.”
Maviola smiled at the Horns. She rode up to the [Guard]. They gave her a look; she had mismatching clothing, and slippers. And her horse was bareback.
However, they didn’t test her via truth spell. They were too distracted by Ksmvr, which was lucky. Maviola sighed as she rode through the gates. That might have been a problem, although she could have passed by telling them she was a [Lady] first.
She looked around as the Horns of Hammerad waited at the gates, arguing about whether they could have stormed the gate without taking a single wound. Not the kind of topic that endeared them to the Watch, but it was entertaining.
“What a strange group.”
Maviola smiled. She fidgeted; she was definitely sore from riding the horse without a saddle. Damn Lady Bethal’s eccentricities. Then again—that was why Maviola had stolen her horse.
And—just like that, she was in Invrisil. The young woman stared around at the city, with the towering buildings. One of Izril’s capitals.
“It’s changed so much.”
Wonderingly, she slid from her mount’s back. Her horse snorted. Someone swore as they walked around her.
“Get your horse off the sidewalk, woman!”
A man dodged around her, and waved a ring-bespectacled fist at the young woman. Maviola blinked. She pulled her horse left, nearly walked into traffic. Someone else yelled at her. It was a novel experience. No one had raised their voice to Maviola and not been immediately sorry in years.
The young lady smiled despite the ire. She looked around. What did you do when you first went into a city like this? Normally, her attendant, Zedalien, would arrange everything. But now…it had been so long.
“Stables. And then—clothes.”
Maviola looked down at her dress, and laughed. She glanced around.
“Excuse me, do you know where the nearest stables are?”
A young Stitch-girl, walking and talking with an older Stitch-woman, gave Maviola a look. She sighed, but pointed.
“Right there, Miss. Tourists.”
Revi commented to Dewlana and the two walked off. Maviola grinned. She debated kicking the rude Stitch-girl in the back. But then she walked off.
Soon, Maviola had her horse stabled. And then she found the nearest [Tailors], without asking for directions. She entered, reassured the salesclerk that she had gold, and emerged a few minutes later in travel clothes. Maviola looked around. And the city shone.
So did the young lady. People turned as she walked past. Her presence shone, even in the crowds. And so did her eyes. She looked around and smiled. The City of Adventure. A fitting place for something. Maviola El walked into the crowds.
“Oh, how it’s changed. I wonder if Seatale’s Tavern is still open?”
She walked forwards, excited. And she resolved to stay a day. If only to meet the Horns of Hammerad again. Antinium. How strange. They had just been faceless enemies two decades ago. Were they walking around now, as adventurers? She hadn’t known.
The thought made her feel…old.
 
—-
 
The Horns of Hammerad were not delayed long. Soon, the [Captain] found they were indeed Gold-ranks. Newly minted ones, but still Gold-ranks. He let them in, even with Ksmvr. Because the Antinium was indeed alone.
It was funny. Ceria had no doubt that in the south of Izril, Ksmvr’s very nature might get them attacked. But in the north? The Antinium weren’t as immediate; they had never passed Liscor. Pisces as a [Necromancer] was more reviled. An Antinium alone wasn’t a threat, especially in a Gold-rank team. Ksmvr was treated like a strange species, like a Selphid or Drowned Man.
And they were here. The adventurers stared around. Buildings, as tall as Liscor’s very vertical city, stretched upwards. But Invrisil was far vaster than Liscor, where you could almost always see the walls boxing in the city.
It might have been ten times as large as Liscor. Or twenty? People of every species bustled around the walkways. A thousand sights to see. People calling out the latest attractions. Gelato from Terandria, the latest sights at the Season Theatre, a menagerie showcasing a caught Griffin—
“Invrisil. I remember passing through with the original Horns…dead gods, must be three years ago. Have you been here before, Pisces, Yvlon?”
“Once. But briefly.”
The [Necromancer] murmured. Yvlon nodded, looking around.
“I used to visit all the time as a girl. Not so much after I became an adventurer, ironically. I always thought I’d come back here, though.”
Ceria nodded. Back. That was the thing. The City of Adventurers had a lot of work for adventurers. It was connected to most places and you’d pass through on missions. But—it was for higher-ranking teams. You’d come back here, after making your mark. And then you’d have the coin to buy all the magical items on display, to walk into the back of the Adventurer’s Guild and sit with the Gold-ranks.
The half-Elf found a smile crossing her face. And that was what had happened. She looked at Yvlon, who understood.
“We’re here. We made it back.”
“It took us a while. But we did. I wish the others could have seen it.”
Yvlon stood, looking around the city as if she’d never seen it before. Ceria was smiling and nodding, caught between—happiness and regret. Pisces scratched at the back of his head. He looked at his two friends, and about the city.
Ksmvr? He just stared. The [Skirmisher] turned his head, his attention rapt on this unfamiliar world.
And people were staring at the Horns of Hammerad too. Not as many as you might think, but even in this city, an Antinium, Ceria’s skeletal hand and Yvlon’s arms stood out. The adventurers slowly drove into the city.
“What do we do first?”
Ceria had to think. Her mind was spinning. There was so much.
“There’s the door to Erin’s inn. We should find a place to set it up. But we should go to the Adventurer’s Guild. You know? Introduce ourselves. And—and—get our loot appraised!”
“With that [Enchanter]. What’s his name? Hedault?”
“Yeah. But there’s also the market—and Ryoka’s in the north. Maybe the Runner’s Guild will know where she is? Erin said Reizmelt, but Ryoka’s bound to be all over.”
The Horns looked at each other. Now, they were getting excited. Like children at a fair. Ksmvr bounced up and down, staring about.
“This city is very big. And colorful. I am eager to see all the tactical advantages in the stores.”
Ceria was smiling as Ksmvr looked around, eyes shining. But then she felt a lump in her throat. Her excitement faded as the most important thing came to mind for her. She looked at Yvlon and Pisces.
“I need to visit the Adventurer’s Guild. I have to ask about Griffon Hunt—they might have come through before us. And I want to deliver some news. I’m sure they’ve heard, but you know, there are some families of teammates that live around here. Even in the city.”
“Oh.”
Yvlon sobered. She looked at Ceria.
“Crossbow Stan’s family lives around here, don’t they?”
“Yeah. And Gerial was born in Invrisil. I sent word—and the coin for both. But the Adventurer’s Guild would be able to connect us. I’ll go there, ask about.”
The half-Elf took a deep breath. She had sent a [Message] and the money owed to each family, of course. But she had never told any of her teammate’s families how they had died. And if they wanted to know from her—
“I’ll go too.”
Ceria forced herself to smile and shake her head at Yvlon.
“No—it’s just going to be an inquiry. Why don’t you and Ksmvr go find that Hedault guy, Yvlon? Take him around? Keep him out of trouble? Pisces, you too.”
The [Necromancer] hesitated. He sniffed.
“I think I’ll accompany you to the Guild, Ceria. I wouldn’t mind looking around the Gold-rank’s section.”
“Thanks.”
The half-Elf smiled as Pisces adjusted his robes. Yvlon looked at Ceria, but then she saw how happy Ksmvr was. She smiled.
“That sounds good. Where should we meet?”
“Um—easiest place is probably the Mage’s Guild. Let’s head there in—an hour? Then we’ll find an inn and set up Erin’s door.”
“It should prove entertaining.”
Pisces remarked drolly. His team grinned. They parked the wagon at the stables and Ceria leapt down.
“Renting?”
The [Hostler] walked up. He was leading Maviola’s horse into a stables. Ceria saw a [Lady] and her [Chevalier] speaking to the [Stablemaster]. That was Invrisil for you; you could see noblewomen mixing with the common folk. First Landing was even more cosmopolitan.
“Nope. Actually, we’d like to sell the wagon. And horses.”
“Can do. Say, why’s the wagon all chewed up? This happen on some kind of adventure?”
“Nope. Firewood.”
The [Hostler] looked at Ceria. Yvlon waved to the others as Ksmvr looked about.
“Yvlon, Yvlon. What is that?”
“…Looks like a sign for the menagerie. One must be in town. That’s a—place to see a bunch of animals, Ksmvr. Would you like to visit it?”
“Maybe after we locate the [Enchanter]. What is that?”
“…That’s a carriage, Ksmvr.”
“It is pink.”
“Yes. Yes, it is.”
“And that?”
“That’s—”
The Horns of Hammerad left. Ceria looked about and nudged Pisces, who was counting the coins he’d gotten from haggling with the [Hostler].
“Hey. The Adventurer’s Guild is that way. Anything you want to do?”
He sniffed. The [Hostler] glanced up as the [Necromancer] walked off. The magical door was in Pisces’ bag of holding. And who the heck carried a door about? The [Hostler] frowned.
“Nothing that cannot wait, Ceria. However, I am keen to learn how much money we will make.”
“And to see Erin?”
“Yes, I suppose. It will certainly be an eventful moment when we see her. Tell me—are you tempted by the bounty on the Wyverns?”
“Maaaaaaybe. But it sounds like trouble. The High Passes? I want to explore Invrisil, honestly. And didn’t you say that you had an adventure in mind?”
“Ah, well, that would be Selys’ request. Further north. I fear we might be under-leveled for it, but let’s first see how well we can equip ourselves…”
The two adventurers walked out into the crowd. The [Hostler] chewed over what he’d just heard as he tended to the two horses who’d been forced to pull the wagon for ages. He was planning on rubbing them down, but he murmured the name.
“Ceria. Ceria…where did I hear…?”
And the sniffing. It had been described to him. The [Hostler]’s eyes opened wide.
“Grev’s friends? Hey! Wait!”
He raced outside. But—too late, the adventurers were all gone. The [Hostler] cursed. There was a damn finder’s fee! Six tickets to the plays! But he’d get something for the word alone. He shouted at the [Stablemaster] and hurried off.
 
—-
 
The Horns of Hammerad were not the only Gold-rank team in the city. Another team had recovered from their injuries and an encounter with a dark legend.
Griffon Hunt had taken time to understand what they’d run into. And more crucially, decide if they were going south, to battle with Wyverns. That had been the plan, but as they nursed their injuries, Halrac had begun talking with Briganda.
