“Kevin. Are you insane? What are you doing?”
“Begging? We need money, Rose. What are you doing? I’ve got…one silver and three coppers. People think it’s funny.”
The young man stared at her challengingly. Rose shook her head, at a loss. She saw another figure, leading more of their group.
“Joseph! Where have you been? I’ve been trying to contact Ryoka, but they said she’s on a run!”
“I know.”
The young man rubbed at his head. he was sober, since their group had run out of coin. Imani and the other people from Earth were standing with him.
“Why are you all here? I thought we were going to look for jobs!”
Rose snapped at them. She was angry. They were out of coin, and yes, she was responsible for part of it for tipping their [Wagon Driver] and escorts, but everyone had mismanaged the coin. And now they couldn’t even find work?
“It’s settled, Rose. We’ll have enough money to rent an inn tonight. Not a good one, but we can figure out if we’re going to keep heading to Liscor tonight.”
Joseph stuck his hands in his pockets. He looked…miserable. Imani, nervous, glanced around as Rose threw up her hands.
“How? Did you steal the money?”
“No. I sold my sword. I got a good price for it.”
“What?”
Rose was appalled. Joseph looked at her.
“Don’t worry. I haggled for it. Hard. I went to six shops and checked the prices. I’m not an idiot.”
“You just sold one of our only weapons.”
“Yeah. Because I’m not good with it. I’ve seen our [Guards] training. And the Pithfire Hounds. I’d just get killed. Now we have money.”
“For now.”
“Well, what did you want to do?”
“Alms! Thank you, Miss. Alms for the—”
Joseph scowled.
“Don’t be an asshole, Kevin. Stop shouting at people. They’ll arrest you.”
“Hey! I’m making money—”
“We should be trying to meet the Players of Celum! Not wasting time like this! Why are you all following Joseph?”
Rose snapped at the others. Joseph closed his eyes.
“Rose! We’re not seeing a play! We can’t afford it and unless Ryoka gets money to us, we have to find our way to Liscor by ourselves!”
The others looked worried. Rose glared at Joseph. Neither one was in charge, or rather, both thought they were, so that led to these fights.
“If we could just find one of the Players—”
“They’re famous. We’re nobodies and we have no money.”
Joseph snapped back. Rose pointed at one of the big posters.
“But they could help us! Didn’t you see the play they’re putting on? It’s Pygmalion! They know about home! Don’t tell me we shouldn’t—”
“It could be a trap. We’re going to Liscor. Ryoka warned us about Wistram.”
“Well, she took our electronics and left us here—”
“Hey, guys. Chill.”
“Shut up, Kevin!”
Rose and Joseph shouted at him. The young man raised his hands and backed up. The two young people began to argue.
“This is all your fault, Rose. Not mine. If you didn’t give away our money.”
“I thought we had more! Everyone else kept borrowing from the money pouch, even though I said—”
“You’re the one who looked at our coins and said ‘yeah, that’s all we have, why don’t I give it away to these people?’ You tipped them the last of our coin!”
“And you were drunk half the way here!”
The passionate argument was attracting attention. Kevin furtively edged away and kept begging. One of the [Beggars] was taking notes from his unique style. But then—Rose began to sniff.
She wiped at her eyes. Joseph broke off and the other Earthers looked askance. Rose was angry, and crying.
“We messed this up. Why does it always go wrong? I tried. But we’re not Ryoka. Or that other girl. I tried so hard and—”
“It’ll be okay. We’re nearly there. Well…no, but we can try. We just have to work. No more Gnoll [Maids].”
Joseph murmured, trying to cheer up Rose. But the young woman was miserable. The group stood there. And at that moment, a young woman walked past Kevin.
“Alms for the poor, Miss?”
The young man tried hopefully. The woman’s head turned. And she blinked at Kevin, and then at Rose. The tableau of despairing young people, the begging Kevin—Maviola El took it in with a glance.
And unlike everyone who’d passed by, the [Lady] turned. She looked past Kevin.
“Is that your friend?”
“Um—yeah.”
Kevin lowered his hands. Maviola El hesitated. But she had nothing to do. And here was a crying young woman.
“Excuse me. Are you all in trouble?”
Rose, sniffing, turned. Joseph saw the young woman with the striking eyes like embers looking at him.
“Oh—I’m sorry. It’s nothing.”
“We’re poor. Anything you can spare will help us out, Miss.”
Kevin helpfully interjected. Rose glared at Kevin. He looked at her.
“We are.”
“Really? What happened?”
“We ran out of money. We were heading south.”
Rose sniffed. Maviola looked at the group. She stared at them.
“Small embers. What’s your class?”
“…[Mage]? We’re just…travellers.”
“Tourists.”
“Visitors from another—ow!”
The Earthers responded. Maviola smiled and chuckled a bit. She looked at them.
“Are you hungry?”
A stomach rumbled. Imani’s. The girl blushed, but the she couldn’t help it. Maviola laughed.
“Why don’t you come with me? I’m going to find some friends and have a meal. I can at least treat you to one.”
She felt at her belt pouch. She had almost no money left. Which meant for a [Lady] that she could probably buy a good horse or two. Certainly as many meals as she wanted. The Earthers stared at each other. They huddled, quickly.
“Maybe it’s a trick?”
“Don’t look a gift horse—”
“We shouldn’t—”
“I’m just going to an inn. You can follow me if you like. But I don’t mean you any harm. My name is Maviola.”
The [Lady] called out. And she pushed. And the Earthers looked at her. And Lady Firestarter conjured a small fire. In her, in their hearts. They looked at each other. And then followed her.
Maviola El smiled. She had no idea who these lost young people were. But they were in distress, and wasn’t helping them a good use of her time? She reached for her soul and found it burning.
 
—-
 
And the pieces came together. Like this. The Horns of Hammerad stood in the Players of Celum’s inn, talking and listening to old friends. They had told the story of the Adult Creler. Revi had wondered over Yvlon’s arms, admiring.
There was so much to say and do. Too much for one encounter. Ksmvr had just encountered Cade and the young boy was staring at the Antinium. So was his mother. Halrac was showing around the request for adventurers.
Jasi was autographing one of the cardboard squares for Pisces, and he, being Pisces, had done one for her. Wesle was listening to Ceria as Andel took rapid notes about the battle.
But—they were all waiting on one thing.
The door. Typhenous was inspecting it; it was set up against one side of the room. And both Pisces and Typhenous had sent a [Message] spell, to the Mage’s Guild and Montressa respectively.
“This is going to change so much. We have a play tonight; I hope Erin opens the door so she can attend! We have a box reserved for you all. And just imagine! We could perform in Pallass and Invrisil! Temile has more [Actors] for us—this is going to rock Invrisil.”
Emme predicted. Everyone was nodding. But Ceria looked at Wesle.
“One person’s going to rock Invrisil.”
The [Actor] smiled. His voice deepened.
“Ah, the Crazy Human of Liscor. The leader of Goblins, the [Innkeeper] herself. Erin Solstice.”
Everyone smiled or laughed. Halrac rolled his eyes, but he was sitting near the door. Typhenous smiled as he straightened.
“Everything looks fine from this end. Miss Solstice probably has yet to see the [Message].”
“We’ll head through. As many as we can. And then—perform! We have some guests scheduled—I just want Erin to see how much I’ve improved!”
Jasi fussed as she looked around. Grev laughed.
“You’ll blow her socks off, Jasi! And her trousers too! And that’d be a sight to see!”
“Grev, you little imp—”
“Excuse me! Ceria Springwalker, are you there? Pisces? Horns of Hammerad?”
There was a shout from the doorway. Ceria’s head turned. She heard a scuffle. Redit, the [Bouncer], stumbled back.
“Gah! Stay back!”
A young woman with hair like fire entered—no, wait. Her hair was fire.
Maviola El blazed. And the [Bouncer] flinched back as fire raced up her arm. She walked through the door. The Horns turned. Ceria saw Redit reaching for a club as a second [Bouncer] charged forwards.
“No, wait!”
Ceria pointed. Ice engulfed Redit’s arm, shooting up from the floor as he raised a club. Maviola saw the half-Elf check the second [Bouncer] with an ice wall.
“Maviola?”
The young [Lady] smiled.
“Apologies. Am I intruding? I heard you were here. I can leave.”
“No, no! Come in! I mean, if that’s okay?”
“Who is this?”
Kilkran stared at Maviola as her hair went out. The [Lady] blazed like a beacon, as strongly as Wesle or Jasi. She smiled, fearless, as Redit backed up and Ceria made the ice melt. And behind her came a group of young people.
“This is Lady Maviola Imarris. And these are—?”
“Friends I met. I hope they’re not intruding?”
Maviola gestured to Rose and Joseph, Imani, and the others. They stared wide-eyed.
“Oh my god. The Players of Celum?”
Rose squeaked. Pisces’ head rose and turned. But everyone else was shouting at Redit, telling him to back off, and asking Maviola what that Skill was. Ceria was looking at Wesle. He pitched his voice.
“Ladies and gentlemen!”
The [Actors], adventurers, and everyone else quieted. Wesle looked around.
“I think any friends are welcome here. Let’s have that door closed before anyone else shows up. We have a play tonight, but food is important! Come in, Lady Imarris was it?”
He swept a hand and the [Lady] smiled. She walked over and the Earthers fell forwards. Redit hurried towards the door and closed it.
“Oi, Halrac! It’s me, Todi, and Jewel and—”
The door slammed in front of the Gold-rank adventurer’s face. The [Actors] clustered around Maviola. Because they could recognize someone in a similar field.
“Hello. Did Maviola say she knew you?”
Ceria looked at Rose. The young woman stared at Ceria.
“You’re a half-Elf! Oh—your hand! Look at her arms!”
The [Cryomancer] smiled. Joseph started as Ksmvr turned.
“I am Ksmvr. Hello, I am not a m—”
Look at it. The chaos, the moment. Rose was babbling, trying to communicate something to Jasi.
“Um, I’m a fan. I haven’t seen anything, but Pygmalion. Do you—I mean, how did you learn the play?”
“We might go to this Riverfarm. I don’t know what your team’s doing, but—”
Typhenous was talking to Pisces as the [Necromancer] nodded, distracted. Joseph was trying to get to Rose and pull her back as Ksmvr happily kept talking.
“I have eaten no Humans. And I have killed Humans only in justifiable acts of law enforcement or bounty-hunting—”
 
—-
 
And in Liscor, a [Mage] burst into the inn from Pallass. Montressa shouted.
“Erin! The door’s in Invrisil!”
The young woman had a note saying the same thing from the Mage’s Guild, delivered by Drassi. She turned.
“No way! It’s there! The Horns are there! Everyone! Where’s Numbtongue? Lyonette? Mrsha, the Horns are in Invrisil!”
“And the Players of Celum! Wesle, Jasi! Emme! Someone grab the door!”
Temile leapt off the stage. The [Actors] shouted and poured forwards. And the inn exploded into motion. Mrsha leapt out of the Garden of Sanctuary as Visma peeked out of it. Numbtongue poked his head out of the kitchen.
“Someone go tell Relc! And Selys! And Krshia and—”
“On it!”
Drassi raced out towards the hallway, gleeful as a [Gossip] could be. Someone swore.
“I’d better tell the Watch Captain! And the Council!”
Beilmark raced after her. The Senior Guardswoman charged out. Erin looked around.
“Get the door! Get the—”
The [Actors] rushed back into the common room, holding the magical door. Erin saw Lyonette hurrying downstairs with Pawn. And Belgrade and Bird—they’d been making a Fortress of Fluff for Pawn. Nothing untoward. This time.
“The door to Invrisil?”
Grimalkin stood up. He looked around the inn as Erin pointed at the door. Lyonette was shouting.
“The ice cream! Get the ice cream, Ishkr! We’re going to sell everything!”
“Someone get the Halfseekers! In Pallass!”
Erin was laughing. She hurried over to the door.
“Everyone outta the way! I’m gonna open it!”
“Hold on. Everyone’s not here yet!”
“Erin! Wait! We need to get ready for the rush! Ishkr, we need all staff here!”
“Access to Invrisil will change how Pallass sees The Wandering Inn. Erin Solstice—”
Grimalkin was cautioning her. He tried to move forwards and a Gnoll bounced off his head. Grimalkin stared at Mrsha. She crawled over his shoulder and over Temile’s head.
“Someone get my ‘No Killing Goblins’ sign! I’m gonna open it! Apparently everyone’s with the Players!”
“Invrisil.”
Palt murmured to Montressa. She and Bezale stared as Erin adjusted the dial.
Too soon. No one was ready! The Council of Liscor exploded out of their seats.
“Stop that insane Human! We need to regulate this!”
Lism roared. Even Krshia was cursing and rushing out the door. Relc threw down his spear.
“I’m on duty! Watch Captain—”
“Get to the inn, Relc!”
“Really?”
The Drake brightened. Zevara roared and pointed.
“Get me a platoon to that inn! Before that [Innkeeper] does something!”
They all ran, cursing, laughing, expectant. Liscor’s inhabitants flooded after them.
“Now this is the crazy Human I know. About time!”
A Gnoll remarked as Selys pushed forwards, through the gates since the magical door was broken. And it was too late to stop.
Erin Solstice adjusted the magical mana stones. She threw open the door. She blinked.
“Whoops, wrong setting. This one.”
She closed the door, adjusted the dial. The inn roared. Laughter, excitement, a hundred little stories. It all came together. Erin Solstice, the [Innkeeper], chaos, threw open the door.
The Crazy Human of Liscor. And the doorway flickered to life. Another room appeared. And there she was. And no one was prepared for her.
“Hello, Invris—”
Erin Solstice paused. She blinked. And then she took a step back. The crowd froze. And someone stepped through the doorway.
Her. 
Lady Magnolia Reinhart. She looked at Erin Solstice as the young woman blinked up at her.
In the inn, Redit blinked at the sword Reynold was pointing at his throat. The Players of Celum, the Earthworlders, the adventurers stared as two [Ladies] walked forwards.
Lady Pryde, and Lady Wuvren. Ressa glanced at Imani and nodded once. And they walked through into Liscor.
