“Oh no. You mean, you’re going to his door? Don’t do that! You don’t have an appointment! Don’t you know? Hedault hates interruptions! He’s going to blacklist you.”
The two [Mages] looked askance. Revi pointed.
“Hurry! Let’s stop them before they annoy him! Dead gods! You rookies are nothing but trouble! Great to see you again, though. I can’t wait to visit The Wandering Inn. And the Players want to see you. Hurry up!”
 
—-
 
Invrisil had rules. Unfortunately, no one wrote them down. They were just unspoken rules. Things people ‘should’ know, but usually found out by erring. It was all status and connections. Respect, unearned or not, and proper procedure.
Was that better than Pallass, where laws were the law? It was hard to say. In any case, it didn’t matter.
“This is clearly the house. I appreciate the nameplate. This is an organized system.”
Ksmvr pointed to the nameplate over the small apartment in the upscale area of Invrisil. Yvlon nodded, eying the thick, enchanted door. There was something like a scrying orb—or half of one inserted into the door. Like a peephole, but magical.
Well, the apartment looked magical in itself. And rich. The sign plate read: Hedault—[Enchanter]. Nothing more. Ksmvr walked up to the door.
“Ksmvr, maybe I should knock—”
Too late. The Antinium used the door knocker and rapped a few times. He stood back.
Silence. The door didn’t open and no sound came from within. Ksmvr looked at Yvlon. She shrugged.
“Maybe he’s out.”
“He is not, though. I see a light through that window.”
The Antinium pointed at a window. Yvlon squinted and saw, behind a closed blind, a flash of magical light. She blinked. Ksmvr was observant.
“True. Maybe he didn’t hear?”
“I shall knock again.”
Rap, rap. This time Ksmvr was louder. Yvlon saw the people on the street staring at him, but no one was screaming. A good sign. Ksmvr happily rapped on the door six times. Then eight. Then twelve…
“Ksmvr, I think you’re knocking too long.”
The Antinium paused.
“But perhaps he is short of hearing. I should keep knocking.”
He began to knock again and Yvlon was raising a hand when the scrying orb flashed. Ksmvr leapt back, drawing a shortsword and his Forceshield in a moment. Yvlon saw words writing themselves in the air, in an irritable, fast scrawl, as if someone was writing them with a quill.
 
NO SOLICITORS. BEGONE.
 
The words hovered, and then vanished. Ksmvr and Yvlon looked at each other. Some of the pedestrians saw the armed Antinium and backed up fast. Yvlon took no notice.
“Well, he clearly heard that. Maybe he’s busy. We can try again later.”
Ksmvr sheathed his blade.
“But he owes us a favor. That is what Ryoka Griffin said. Hello? Enchanter Hedault! We are a team of adventurers who would like to speak with you! We are the Horns of Hammerad! I believe a favor is owed and we are here to collect it!”
He put two hands to his mandibles and bellowed at the apartment. Yvlon shook her head.
“Ksmvr! That’s not how you address someone.”
“How should I do it, then?”
The Antinium was walking towards the window where the light had been, waving his spare hand. Yvlon was about to tell him to come away and explain the intricacies of speech vis-a-vis what sounded like a threat when she heard marching boots.
“There it is!”
Someone pointed. Yvlon groaned as she saw a squad of Invrisil’s [Guards] appear around the corner. They jerked when they saw Ksmvr.
Apparently, word hadn’t spread fast enough about him. Because the Watch leveled their weapons at Ksmvr.
“Halt!”
Their leader, a female [Sergeant], aimed a hand-crossbow at Ksmvr, looking unsettled. Yvlon moved. She put her hand out.
“Lower your weapons. That’s my teammate, an adventurer.”
The Watch stared at Yvlon. They stared at her arms. Ksmvr looked up, and then crept over to the window. He peered through the little gap.
“Hello? I am an adventurer. Are you alive? I believe a favor is owed. Hello? …Is it w—”
Yvlon looked at him, cursing, but the Watch was spreading out. The [Sergeant] pointed at Ksmvr.
“What is that thing?”
“He’s Antinium—”
“Antinium? Those are just Drake stories!”
One of the [Guards] cried out. Ksmvr turned his head and someone drew back on an arrow. Yvlon blocked them.
“He’s an adventurer. I’m a Gold-rank adventurer. We’re part of the Horns of Hammerad.”
“A Gold-rank team?”
The [Sergeant] blinked at Yvlon, and then at Ksmvr. But her nerves had overtaken her sense. Ksmvr looked like a giant bug-man—a monster.
“I’m confirming this with the Adventurer’s Guild. You two, you’re…being escorted to the guild.”
Yvlon ground her teeth. This was a familiar scene. At least the Watch hadn’t actually attacked; there had been incidents in the other settlements they’d come to. But Yvlon was getting tired of it.
“That’s not necessary, [Guardswoman]. We’ve already been let through the gates by the [Captain]—”
“And I’m a member of the Watch. We’re confirming this! The city’s already under curfew at night after the attack! You could have snuck in!”
The [Sergeant] snapped back. She was throwing rank at this point. Yvlon glowered. Petty woman. She shook her head, trying to keep her voice reasonable.
“I don’t want to make a scene, Guardswoman. My teammate is clearly not a monster. He is a registered adventurer through Liscor’s Guild and he has taken on numerous requests in the north—you can contact Celum’s Adventurer’s Guild. He hasn’t—”
“Enough. Silence. Both of you! You’re under arrest—”
Yvlon reached the end of her patience as the [Sergeant] snapped at Ksmvr, who was tapping on the glass window with one hand. As the [Sergeant] marched past her, Yvlon turned.
“Excuse me.”
The [Armsmistress] reached out and grabbed the [Guardswoman] by the shoulder. She yanked the woman over and stared at her. The [Guardswoman] yelped and struggled, but Yvlon was strong. She held her effortlessly. The other [Guards] stared as Yvlon spoke into the woman’s face.
“I am Yvlon of House Byres. Magnolia Reinhart, the [Lady] of Invrisil, is my aunt by relation. Ksmvr of the Free Antinium is my teammate and I vouch for him. If you would like to question my authority, you may forward my complaint to Invrisil’s [Mayor]. I will discuss the matter with them. Or Lady Reinhart herself.”
The [Sergeant] stared. Yvlon let go and the woman staggered back. She looked at Yvlon, and the noblewoman folded her arms. The [Sergeant] backed away.
“Lady—um—”
“Lady Byres. Well? Your response and name, [Sergeant]?”
Ksmvr, staring through the window, saw movement. The magical light went out. He turned as the patrol marched off. The Antinium had left it to Yvlon, as he had been instructed to do.
“Are we under arrest, Yvlon?”
The woman shook her head. She ran a silvery hand through her hair and cursed.
“No, Ksmvr. But that was unpleasant.”
“You utilized your superior station quite effectively in establishing dominance, Yvlon.”
The Antinium smiled, but Yvlon did not. His compliment had the opposite effect. She shook her head, looking guilty.
“Don’t compliment me, please. That wasn’t…good of me to do. I try to be reasonable, Ksmvr. Someone has to be. I hate pulling rank. Or acting like Pisces. Don’t do what I just did. Unless you have no other choice.”
Ksmvr analyzed the contradictory statement and added it to his list of lessons.
“Yes, Yvlon. I will not do so unless necessary.”
The [Silversteel Armsmistress] smiled wanly at him. She nodded to the [Enchanter]’s door. People had seen the commotion and were staring from afar.
“I think we’ve caused enough trouble. Let’s go and sort it out later, Ksmvr. We shouldn’t bother people.”
“But we have a debt—”
“Remind me to teach you what politeness is, Ksmvr. And no, Pisces is seldom polite. Ceria either, for that matter.”
The two were walking off when the door to the [Enchanter]’s home opened. A man appeared in the doorway. He snapped after them.
“Why are you disturbing me?”
Ksmvr and Yvlon turned around. Ksmvr brightened, but Hedault was looking decidedly unhappy. His eyes locked on Ksmvr and he frowned.
“My apologies. Master Hedault?”
“That is my name. You have wasted my time and interrupted me as I was working. You two are now blacklisted from my services, as is your team. If you continue to linger, I will inform the Watch.”
He tapped his left wrist twice with one finger, a tic. Yvlon winced.
“Master Hedault, I apologize for—”
“Name your team and leave and I may consider removing your blacklisted status. I do not have time to waste on worthless apologies.”
The man’s voice was sharp. Yvlon bristled and tried to think of something diplomatic to say, and Ksmvr raised a hand.
“Enchanter Hedault, I believe you have much time to waste if you do not honor your debts. Is, perhaps, your unwillingness to answer the door a sign that you are being hunted by [Debt Collectors]? This would be a most disturbing turn of events.”
Yvlon and Hedault looked at Ksmvr. The [Enchanter]’s mouth opened and closed twice and Yvlon put a hand on Ksmvr’s shoulder.
“Please stop talking.”
“Why? I am only informing Master Hedault that he is refusing to honor his commitment to us. Ryoka said he would. Either she has lied, or he has.”
The [Enchanter] started at the name.
“Ryoka Griffin? And her…”
His eyes narrowed. He tapped his wrist again, twice.
“…Are you the Horns of Hammerad?”
Yvlon turned her head. She nodded.
“That’s correct, sir. We are.”
The [Enchanter] pinched the bridge of his nose.
“Of course. The similarities. And your need of my services?”
Yvlon opened her mouth, but Ksmvr spoke.
“We would like to appraise a number of artifacts retrieved from the dungeon. Some may be cursed, and we have jewels, gold of uncertain purity, and other mundane objects. We also were told we had a debt we could collect on.”
Hedault blinked at Ksmvr. The Antinium’s precise answer made the [Enchanter] focus on him.
“I see. Which dungeon?”
“Liscor’s. Do you intend to honor the debt? I am Ksmvr, by the way. Hello. I am an Antinium. Not a monster.”
The man’s gaze focused on Ksmvr. On his shortsword and the bucker on his side.
“Ah. The Ring of Jumping, Barkskin, and the Forceshield. I see. Liscor’s dungeon? In that case…”
“Master Hedault, Master Hedault! Stop annoying him, you idiots!”
Revi shot around the corner. Again, too late. Yvlon turned and saw her team and Griffon Hunt running at her. Revi, breathless, shoulder-charged into Yvlon. She bounced off and fell down; Yvlon was too solid.
“I am so sorry, Master Hedault. They didn’t know. We’ll make an appointment—”
The [Enchanter] blinked at the second team of adventurers. His eyes focused on Halrac.
“Griffon Hunt? Your team is scheduled in two weeks. Are you related to this team?”
“They have treasure from the dungeon too. We would also like it appraised as part of our debt.”
Ksmvr put in helpfully. Revi raised a hand to slap it over his mouth and stared at his mandibles. She lowered the hand.
Hedault looked at Ceria. No, at her wand. He stared through her, at Pisces, noting the [Necromancer]’s ring. He saw Halrac opening his mouth, grimacing, and nodded a few times.
“I understand. I will make time. Tomorrow. Come at dawn. Bring both team’s treasure. Kindly make the Antinium stop peeking through my window.”
He stepped back. Both Gold-rank teams stared as the [Enchanter]’s door swung closed. Revi gaped at Yvlon and Ksmvr.
“Wait—did he just say you’re visiting tomorrow? He never does that!”
“He owes us a debt. He was a most agreeable person. Very precise. Hello, Revi. Hello, Halrac, Typhenous, and whomever this woman is. I see we have met Griffon Hunt.”
Ksmvr smiled happily. Yvlon exhaled, and looked at Griffon Hunt. The established Gold-rank team looked at each other. Typhenous raised his white brows.
“Master Hedault is notoriously difficult, as befits the best [Enchanter] in all of Invrisil. Even the nobility must avoid offending him. He must owe a rather large debt. More than I expected.”
“From Albez. Yeah.”
Ceria was panting. Pisces was not. The [Necromancer] turned, looking somewhat exasperated.
“We appear to be doing everything wrong. Except, unless I heard incorrectly, we are now scheduled for tomorrow with Master Hedault. Should we return to the Adventurer’s Guild to kowtow now?”
The other adventurers looked at the Horns of Hammerad. Revi was panting, but as she looked at Pisces’ somewhat smug expression, Ceria’s bemusement, Yvlon’s confusion and Ksmvr’s happy innocence, she had to finally reconsider.
Look at them. The Horns of Hammerad. They were rookies in a new city, unaware of how things should be done. As they headed back to the Adventurer’s Guild, catching up, the Gold-rank teams within talked about the team.
A [Necromancer]. An Antinium? They were oddballs. Idiots. And they had no sense of the way things worked.
Still—look. And listen. The Horns of Hammerad never made it to the Adventurer’s Guild. They were intercepted, just outside of it. By a crowd and a familiar set of faces.
“Ceria! Pisces! Is that Yvlon? And Ksmvr!”
A Drake cried out. Jasi, radiant, spread her arms. And the Gold-rank adventurers heard a roar from outside. They peeked out of their private space. And saw a crowd.
The Players of Celum were in the street. All of them. The first-stringers, the A-team. Wesle, Jasi, Kilkran, Yimur, Pralcem, Emme—being led by a triumphant Grev.
And their admirers filled the streets. A group of [Bodyguards] had to keep them back. Jasi embraced Ceria and the half-Elf blinked at the resplendent Jasi. She looked completely different. Radiant. Wesle was beaming and slapping Pisces on the shoulder. The [Necromancer] stared past him at the cheering crowd.
“No fucking way. Is that the Players of Celum?”
The Gold-rank teams were coming out of their bar, because even they were fans. Arcsinger’s Bows and Elia Arcsinger herself emerged with the Gold-rank teams to see—
The Horns of Hammerad, standing in the middle of the crowd. Emme was shaking Ksmvr’s hands as he shook Kilkran’s and Yimur’s at the same time. The Gold-rank team’s jaws fell off their faces.
“Is that the Players of Celum? We have tickets for them tonight! But they didn’t have time to visit us!”
Elia’s daughter exclaimed. The Gold-rank teams saw Pisces flourishing, smiling broadly. Yvlon’s arms were drawing every eye. And Jasi was hugging Yvlon now.
Star power. The Horns of Hammerad stood in the middle of it all, bemused, amazed. And Todi slowly swallowed his tongue. Because they didn’t know how things should work.
