Pisces puffed up slightly and he tended to the second serving. And there were certainly a lot of mouths to feed. Yvlon was a [Warrior] and hungry—and the rest of her team was just gluttonous by nature. Maviola no less than the others.
“May I ask, what brings an Antinium out of their Hives? I don’t…know the Antinium nearly as well as I thought I did. I thought they never left their Hives. Much less became adventurers. Or…spoke. Except for their leaders.”
Maviola had to breach the question at last. Yvlon was impressed by her restraint, but she was still clearly wary for all she was relaxing. It was Ceria who replied with a smile.
“Ksmvr’s a bit—different. He was kicked out of his Hive. And he was an uh, Prognugator. That’s one of their leaders. But he’s alright. Don’t mind him if he makes any mistakes.”
“I am learning. And I was a disgrace to my Hive so I was exiled. Hello! Again!”
Ksmvr waved at Maviola. She blinked, and her eye sharpened with interest.
“Really? May I ask—if it’s not too impolite? What brought an Antinium into a team? Are there more like that? And—”
She glanced at Yvlon and Ceria. The [Armsmistress] smiled crookedly.
“Don’t worry, everyone wants to know. And it is a story.”
The other Horns chuckled. By now, the tale of their slaying of the Adult Creler wasn’t something that filled them with an abundance of embarrassment and pride. But—it still felt good to tell. Yvlon told it as quickly as she could, with Ceria helping and Pisces adding anecdotes as he stirred the potatoes. Maviola listened. And her eyes lit up.
“You killed an Adult Creler as Silver-ranks?”
“Not alone. We lost a lot of good adventurers. We got lucky. It was Yvlon who kept bashing it in the head.”
“It was all luck, Miss Maviola. But we’ve had a lot of it. We paid for it, though…Ceria’s hand, my arms.”
“Even so. Adventurers. I dreamed of being one as a girl.”
Maviola looked at them, eyes shining by firelight. Somehow, the fire wasn’t dying down. Yvlon hadn’t needed to add to it for over an hour. Ever since Maviola had arrived. And—the young woman had an aura about her.
Not just a presence, an aura. Yvlon recognized it. It wasn’t hostile, though. But when the young [Lady] leaned over, you felt like she was looking only at you. It made you want to tell her everything. It was also, vaguely…familiar. Different, but familiar.
“It’s not all glory and treasure. Being an adventurer is sometimes wading through muck. Or getting hurt. But it is—something. Not that I’m saying you should dive into it, but you could get into adventuring, Miss Maviola. Sorry—is it [Lady]? You’re young enough.”
The young woman laughed ruefully.
“If only. I’m not the best for fighting. And I think I’d better leave such things to you. I’m just envious from afar. Once again, thank you for hosting me. I haven’t had a meal like this in…dec—years.”
“You don’t really need to thank us. It’s just a little bit of food.”
But the [Lady]’s smile was infectious. And Yvlon, sitting in the ice fort, listened as Maviola had to ask what had led to Ceria’s skeletal hand. Her ice magic—the conversation turned lively.
And outside of Invrisil’s walls, the people were sitting around campfires. Even if not protected from the wind, they huddled together. Taking something from the communal experience. Strangers, moving closer in the darkness.
And enterprise was a thing of beauty. It could fit anywhere. As Ceria was explaining about Skinner and Maviola was gripping her bowl, Pisces looked up from his second round of potatoes.
“Wine! Half-price if you’ll throw in part of your pot! Silver a cup; twelve a bottle! And that’s a bargain!”
A [Trader] was shouting as she went down the lines of campfires. Pisces’ head rose. So did Maviola’s. She reached for her purse, but Ceria was faster than both.
“Ksmvr, secure that wine!”
The [Skirmisher] shot to his feet. He rushed out the door, like a shot. Maviola jerked as the [Skirmisher] moved with all the Skills afforded to him and a Prognugator’s reflexes. He was as fast as a horse for a second. Yvlon heard his voice from outside.
“Excuse me! I would like to purchase—”
A scream. The [Trader] saw a huge bug-person coming at her in the night. Yvlon jumped to her feet, sighing. Ceria looked shamefaced.
“I’ll go.”
It took Yvlon a minute to calm the [Trader] and get her coin. When she came back, it was with three wine flasks.
“Oho! That is generous for you, Yvlon!”
Pisces rubbed his hands together, beaming. Yvlon gave him a look, although it was true.
“We have a guest, Pisces. It’s not the best, Lady Maviola—”
The young woman’s eyes were locked so hard on the wine flasks that Yvlon thought she was a [Drunkard]. But her first sip of the wine made her sigh. And her eyes watered with emotion.
“I haven’t had a good cup—tasted it in—eight years?”
“Eight years?”
Maviola jumped.
“Well—I had poor taste buds. I um—had a sickness. And restrictive family members. [Healers]. I’m free to drink now, though. And allow me to pay for my share.”
“It’s no—”
“I insist. Here.”
Maviola dug out some silver coins and handed them to Ceria. The half-Elf accepted.
“Thank you. And let’s all have a drink. To burning Flesh Giants outside of Invrisil and good potatoes!”
Everyone laughed. The wine began to flow as Maviola settled back. She sipped liberally, and Yvlon found the drink was a welcome comfort in the cold; Ceria’s ice walls kept out the wind, but they themselves had a chill. And soon—the Horns of Hammerad were back to their usual mood, plus one.
“Okay—hear me out. This is a hypothetical scenario.”
Ceria was smiling as she waved at the others over a third helping. Yvlon sat back, groaning and adjusting her armor as she lifted the wineskin. She squeezed a bit too hard and splashed far too much wine into her cup. She didn’t know her strength, sometimes.
“So—here we have some uh, cute, fluffy—uh—uh—things. Like bunnies, except they have two legs.”
“Sounds horrifying.”
Yvlon laughed. Ceria waved at her.
“Shh! Listen! Here’s the thing. The bunny-things are magical. They don’t hurt anyone, and they go around eating grass and crap all day. And they’re intelligent, and cute, and they’ve done nothing wrong. But if you kill them, you level up. In any class. And you get…one level for each fifty you kill.”
Everyone stared at Ceria. Yvlon checked how much wine Ceria had had. It was fairly strong, but—
“Ceria!”
“Okay, twenty? Kill twenty per level, then. I’m just asking—would you? If you could level up, but they were crying and begging when you killed them—”
“No! Not even one! Let alone fifty, or twenty!”
Yvlon was disgusted. She raised a finger and then hesitated.
“—I mean, they’re sentient, right? And you can’t level up forever, right?”
“Forever, let’s say.”
Ceria spread her hands out, grinning. Yvlon had to think.
“But that’s so wrong. Even if they were just bunnies….”
“Wait, is killing bunnies better?”
Yvlon was trapped. Pisces slowly raised a hand and Ceria pointed at him. The [Necromancer] tapped his fingers together thoughtfully before speaking.
“…Is this in an isolated place with no possibility of the consequences of my actions coming back to haunt me, or would this be a known fact? How morally acceptable would this practice be, culturally?”
“Pisces!”
Ceria was laughing. Yvlon raised a fist. Pisces edged back.
“It’s worth levels, Yvlon! Morality aside, or even with morality—the benefits are—”
“I have an opinion.”
The Antinium made Maviola look up slightly from her cup. She regarded him with the slightest haze of wariness. But Ksmvr spoke brightly, looking innocently from face to face.
“I would divide the totality of these creatures up into segments of fifty, or twenty and kill one fourth of them to thus split the potential level growth, Captain Ceria. Or perhaps it would be most efficient for one of us to kill all these creatures to achieve the highest level in one person? I can see why this question is so difficult.”
Everyone looked at Ksmvr. Yvlon put her head in her hands. And Maviola El began to laugh.
It was an old laugh, at first something like a cackle. And then—it became younger. She began to chuckle, giggle. Hiccup. The laughter turned into hiccups as everyone laughed. And the [Lady] kept laughing. She had tears in her eyes, but she forced herself to speak.
“May I share my opinion?”
“Please.”
Yvlon looked exasperated at the ethical dilemmas Ceria and Pisces loved to argue over. Maviola quieted. And then she nodded authoritatively at Ksmvr.
“It’s a nice idea—Ksmvr? However, flawed.”
She took a deep drink from her wine, tossing her head back. And her hair caught the light. Yvlon saw Maviola smiling. And in that moment, Yvlon was envious of that young [Lady]. Because here was a beauty people would talk about. As much as Lady Dealia. Maviola must have been from an obscure family if she wasn’t famed for her looks. The [Lady] smiled.
“Regarding these creature—if you wanted to maximize their worth, you’d breed them and keep leveling…forever. Then sell them to people. No, wait. You’d allow them to open up your own businesses. They’d have to slaughter on-site and you’d have to make sure no one walked off with one. That’s a mistake I’d make.”
The adventurers stared at Maviola. Yvlon’s jaw dropped. Ksmvr was nodding. So was Pisces. Yvlon looked at Ceria—
And then they all began laughing. Yvlon found herself holding her side and wheezing because it wasn’t funny. But they had drinks, food, company. And this was her team.
Pisces was cooking the last of the food, Ceria was splashing wine into the pot to ‘give it taste’ as he flung spices at her, furiously, and Ksmvr was speaking to Maviola. She caught herself, looked at him. And an expression of strange curiosity flickered across her face. Wariness, reserve, hostility—but she looked at Ksmvr again. And smiled, spoke. Answered his question.
Who was she? Yvlon didn’t know. Not Maviola’s deepest secrets, or why she had ridden towards Invrisil with naught but an ill-fitting noblewoman’s dress and slippers, for all she had money. Or why the fire blazed around her and the young woman made the air feel alive. Made each moment feel worth living.
But she didn’t have to know. You could fail to be friends with someone after knowing them for years. Or find a fast connection in a night. And that night, Maviola El sat and ate and talked and drank with the Horns of Hammerad, a chance meeting, long into the night. She slept in the house of ice.
And she felt more alive than she had in a long time. The cooking fire blazed all the way into dawn as she slept. Smiling.
 
—-
 
An ordinary night, to follow an ordinary day. No monsters attacked The Wandering Inn. No armies marched on Liscor.
That was a good sign. It was going to be uneventful today. Erin could feel it. And that was okay.
And she didn’t know. The young woman was surprisingly ignorant of many things. Perhaps—it was willful. Perhaps ignorance was bliss.
“Morning, Mrsha. How’re you doing today? Where’s Lyonette?”
The white Gnoll cub was sitting at a table when Erin came down. Arms folded. Scowling. Erin blinked at the uncharacteristic look on Mrsha’s face.
“Is Lyonette asleep?”
Nope.
Two shakes of the head. Erin frowned.
“Oh—maybe she’s getting our new guests ready. Right—we need breakfast for everyone! Good thing we have the preservation stuff, right?”
She closed her eyes, thoughtfully. Yes, Temile and some of the [Actors] were in their rooms. Palt was too, and Montressa. Beza was—in the outhouse.
Erin could feel their presences. It was part of her new power as an [Innkeeper]. Perhaps—[Crowd Control]? [Inn’s Aura]? Or was this just her class? She couldn’t tell what they were doing, just their general area.
“Hm. Looks like…oh, good. Our Antinium guests are still asleep. And Lyonette is with Pawn. I bet she’s teaching him dancing and stuff. They’re pals. Isn’t that great?”
She smiled at Mrsha. The Gnoll gave her a look. But she said nothing. And Erin didn’t pick up on the look. She just assumed Mrsha was jealous, which was a conclusion perpendicular to the truth.
Willful ignorance or not? Erin Solstice got ready. By the time her guests came down and Lyonette hurried out to help, the food was ready.
And—the inn had guests. Erin stared at her magic door, tilting her head sideways from left to right. Lyonette frowned as she looked at Erin.
“You’re doing it again, Erin.”
“What?”
“Staring at the door. What’s wrong? You keep doing it, every few days.”
“I do? I guess I do. It feels—different today. Huh. Say—do you have a fever? You’re sweaty.”
Lyonette jumped.
“Me? No. I just did some sword training this morning. Let’s get to work, Erin. Liscor—hello, Drassi! Welcome, guests.”
“Well, okay. But stay healthy! That’s important because you can’t get sick in an inn. I mean, you can, but it’s not good. Hi, Drassi! Menolit. And there’s little Visma!”
“Hello. I came to have breakfast.”
Visma stared solemnly up at Erin with her brother holding her claw. Erin smiled at Feiss. He ducked his head shyly as the other guests came through.
“Hi, Feiss! We have breakfast! Come in!”
“Ah—my mother wanted to give you the coin for last time. Visma ate the ice cream, Miss Solstice…”
The young Drake, blushing, shyly offered Erin some coins. She waved it away, laughing, and slapped him on the shoulder. He jumped.
“Don’t worry about it! Visma’s Mrsha’s friend. And a friend of a friend is…uh, it’s on the house!”
She nodded at Lyonette and the [Princess] nodded back. Anything for Mrsha’s little friends. The older brother watched his sister run into the inn, shouting for Mrsha. He nodded to Erin, blushing still, and hurried after her.
“Esthelm. Hello! Anyone for Liscor? Come on through! One moment please!”
Erin waved at the Humans waiting in line. A few she knew; the others bowed to her, having heard of her by reputation. Erin adjusted the door as Lyonette let her take over. She moved the dial to the third setting.
“Anyone for Wailant’s—”
A gaggle of Humans stared at Erin. She stared back. Citizens of Celum, [Farmers], and more were waiting.
“Is this the inn?”
“Told you. Pay up. I mean, pay me later. Morning, Miss Solstice! Just spreading the word about your inn to other folk. Good business, I imagine.”
The [Pirate], Wailant, winked at Erin. She gave him a look. But she had to welcome people through. And whatever Wailant’s finder fee was—she wasn’t in the mood to catch him today.
“Hey, is Numbtongue here? Thought I might stop by.”
