Grimalkin growled. Ishkr started and looked alarmed.
“The book?”
A few of the Gnolls in the crowd groaned. Mrsha looked up, alarmed. She ran through the door.
“Mrsha!”
Lyonette ran after her. Erin sat there, as most of the inn ran after Magnolia. She looked at Grimalkin. He gazed down at her. Erin raised one hand.
“This one wasn’t my fault.”
The [Sinew Magus] gave her an uncharacteristically alarmed and sympathetic look. He nodded, and folded his arms. His legs twitched, but he couldn’t walk through the door. After a moment, he growled.
“I know. But at least now you know how it feels.”
Erin caught herself nodding.
 
—-
 
Magnolia Reinhart walked through Liscor. Through a storm of questions, through crowds of people. And her name was on every lip.
Magnolia Reinhart. The savior of the city, long ago. But her presence here was like a lightning bolt. Before any emotion could be had, people had to get over the shock. And it was a physical thing.
But some of them were fast on their feet. Some had sworn an oath to protect this city. Some had the will.
“Lady Reinhart! Please halt!”
Zevara barred the way as Magnolia walked towards one of the staircases leading up to the ramparts. Instantly, Pryde pointed.
“One side. We don’t have all the time.”
Zevara stepped to one side. The Drake blinked in outrage, but she kept pace with Magnolia.
“Lady Reinhart, what are you doing in my city, may I ask?”
The [Lady]’s Skills were even forcing her to formality in speech. Magnolia nodded at her.
“I am just taking a short visit, Watch Captain. I can assure you, this is meant in all aid to Liscor. You have my word as a [Lady] on it.”
Somehow, that reassured Zevara. Because it was part of the very Skill that bound her.
“Even so, Lady Reinhart—I must protest.”
“By all means. I’m aware how irregular this is. Ah, the Council. Hello. Are you…Lism? I have heard so much about you.”
The Drake thrust his way forwards. He was gritting his teeth, jaw clenched to fight his way past the invisible field around Magnolia and the two [Ladies].
“I’m Councilmember Lism of Liscor. And this is my city.”
“Our city.”
Krshia pushed Lism to one side. She was panting too, but she followed Magnolia as the woman walked up the stairs. Pryde had already strode past the others thanks to her mobile tracksuit and was staring off the battlements.
“Councilmembers, I am delighted to meet you. And again, I apologize. But you really will see that my intentions are good. Nalthaliarstrelous?”
“I’m doing it. Go. Away.”
The [Druid] was standing in the street, not with the [Ladies]. He’d planted his staff into the street by smashing through a cobblestone. He closed his eyes. Magnolia nodded.
“Then—Reynold? Escort one of the [Mages] up here. Preferably Miss du Valeross”
She was on the battlements. Lism was drawing breath.
“You are violating Liscor’s laws! There are no civilians allowed on the walls, much less foreigners! I demand to know what you’re doing and—”
“Silence. Thank you.”
Lism recoiled and clawed at his mouth. Magnolia saw Montressa being escorted up the stairs by Reynold.
“Ah, Miss Montressa. I think we’ve actually met. I visited the du Valeross estates about twelve years back. Hello, how do you do?”
“L-Lady Reinhart? I am Montressa—I mean—hello. How can I help you? And why are you…?”
Montressa stared wide-eyed at Magnolia. The [Lady] sighed.
“All questions will be answered. Would you kindly cast a [Scrying] spell to Wistram? I’m sure you’ve already informed them I’m here. If they’re waiting, please connect me. Onto that new television network.”
How did she know? But it was all cause and effect. Of course, Palt and Beza and Montressa had been screaming the news. But how had Magnolia known they were here?
But there was nothing for it. Wistram was screaming at her for a broadcast anyways. The [Aegiscaster] slowly raised a finger to her temple. Her eyes unfocused and then she felt part of her consciousness fade away.
“[Scrying].”
“Thank you. Ah, Reynold, the scrying orb?”
The [Butler] produced it. Magnolia stared into the blank orb. So did everyone else. Pryde edged over and gently…shoved Magnolia to one side. Wuvren took up the background. And then—there was an image of Magnolia Reinhart.
Just her. No Noass—or anyone else. The broadcast had cut off and Magnolia had appeared. The Floodplains were at her back. Well, Pryde was in the way. Then Magnolia gently shoved her aside.
There was the [Lady]. People began to tune in. The King of Destruction, idly watching and not understanding all the nuances. Terandrian royalty. But most importantly—the Walled Cities. Pallass especially.
And [Lords] and [Ladies]. Ieka Imarris choked as she saw the image. Maviola, standing in the inn with the Horns and Players of Celum, gazed at Magnolia Reinhart’s face.
And Tyrion Veltras saw Magnolia smiling at him. His gut clenched.
Magnolia Reinhart spoke to her audience, which was really Montressa, as if she was used to the idea of a camera. She adjusted her hat. And then nodded.
“Good evening to you all. I am Magnolia Reinhart. And I have your attention.”
The [Lady] looked about, and laughed a bit to herself. Self-consciously.
“My, I didn’t plan this part out at all. Well—to begin, I’m in Liscor. On the walls, with Lady Pryde and Wuvren. Wave for the people, Pryde.”
“No.”
The view moved. Magnolia stepped to one side, and the viewers saw the city from above. Magnolia spoke, and everyone could see the staring Drakes and Gnolls, gazing up at her. Watch Captain Zevara and the Council were frozen in the background.
“Liscor. It is quite a lovely place. I feel privileged to stand on the walls. Rather than see it damaged.”
She looked at the audience. Straight at Tyrion Veltras. Standing on the walls of Liscor. The [Lord]’s hand cracked the scrying orb as he stared at her. Magnolia went on.
“But I don’t mean to harp. I only asked for a bit of attention at this moment to make a small speech. Something about alliances. Here—we have Liscor’s Council. Councilmembers Krshia and Lism, I believe. And the stalwart, fiery, I daresay, Watch Captain Zevara.”
The Drakes and Gnoll started. Lism looked at the scrying orb, saw himself in it, and gave the worst smile to the scrying orb. Krshia did the same. Magnolia’s was more realistic.
“I was just saying how delighted I was to visit Liscor. And it is a rather unique thing, a Human coming to this city. But Liscor is…an important place. It marks the boundary between south and north. And it is also where Drakes and Gnolls and Humans fought. Against a common foe.”
She looked across Liscor. Something was moving. A thread of black bodies and a blue one. Magnolia smiled tightly.
“The Necromancer. Ah! I mean, the Antinium of course. Well, both. But the Antinium are the living ones, aren’t they?”
She chuckled. Az’kerash stared at her face. So did Ilvriss. Magnolia Reinhart went on, and the viewers saw something moving in the streets.
“It is a curious thing. War. And I realize the north and south are traditionally opposed. However—there are some things I think we can agree on. I’m sorry, I’m rambling. But I really just wanted to attract some attention. Naughty of me, I suppose. But look—”
She pointed. And everyone in the world turned and saw the Antinium.
They marched down the street. A flood of Antinium. Black-bodied Workers, Soldiers. And more.
Xrn the Small Queen strode forwards with Klbkch. And there was Pivr. Xeu. Tersk and Dekass.
And they did not know they were being watched. Lism recoiled as he saw Flying Antinium, stalking Silent Antinium. Armored Antinium and Painted Antinium. Magnolia’s eyes glittered.
“Ancestors! What are those Antinium doing? Those aren’t the Free Antinium!”
Zevara made a strangled sound. She hadn’t seen the other Antinium. Magnolia didn’t look surprised.
“I believe they’re from other Hives.”
Every head turned towards her. Watch Captain Zevara caught herself.
“But—we didn’t see them. And we’ve kept a lookout—”
Her scales turned white. And Magnolia Reinhart’s eyes glittered.
“Imagine that. Pryde, as I recall, your House fought in both Antinium Wars.”
“Of course. And excuse me.”
Pryde walked down the battlements. The [Lady] was staring at the Small Queen. But Xrn wasn’t focused on her.
“You! Stop! Enough!”
She shouted. At a figure standing in the street.
Nalthaliarstrelous. The [Druid] ignored her. His eyes were closed, but there was no sign of what he was doing. At least—obviously. Xrn pointed her staff at him.
Pryde barred Xrn’s way. The Small Queen saw the Lady Ulta standing in front of her. And two figures flanked Pryde.
Ressa and Reynold. The Antinium halted. And Magnolia spoke.
“The Small Queen of the Antinium. Good evening to you.”
Xrn looked up. And her eyes fixed on Montressa, the scrying orb. Klbkch made a sound next to her.
“Kvetch. That is not good.”
“You. Are Magnolia Reinhart. Call off that spellcaster. Now.”
The Small Queen spoke flatly. Magnolia looked at her.
“No. I have never met you, myself. But then I never fought on the front lines. Xrn, I believe your name is?”
“Yes.”
The Small Queen raised her staff. Looking at Nalthaliarstrelous. The [Druid] was unmoving.
“Stop him. Or I will do it.”
“That. Would be war. And I would take that as a personal affront if you tried.”
The [Lady] looked down at Xrn. The Small Queen hesitated.
“Why are you here? We bear you no specific enmity. Nor you us.”
“True. It is nothing personal. But that makes us the best sort of enemies. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe in only one thing. And that is unity. I am a [Lady] of Izril. And before politics, before species. I believe we do not stand alone. When an enemy comes, Izril repels it.”
Magnolia Reinhart looked down at the Antinium. And they gazed up at her.
What was the point? Of any of it? To denounce the Antinium? No—show that they were in Liscor? How had she known? But the last piece of puzzle was this. Magnolia waved a hand in Montressa’s face as Nalthaliarstrelous’s head rose.
“How do you turn her off? Excuse me—I’m done.”
“What?”
Montressa blinked. Lism started.
“What did she say?”
“What?”
It was a universal question. But Magnolia Reinhart was snapping her fingers.
“Excuse me, would you mind cutting the spell? I’m quite done. And this distraction is fin—”
The [Scrying] spell cut out. And that was it. There was only silence, as Magnolia turned to Wuvren.
“Time.”
“Go first. I’ll go last.”
The [Eternal Beauty] was looking down at Klbkch and Xrn. Magnolia strode down the steps. The air was humming between Pryde and Xrn. The [Lady] looked away as Ressa and Reynold backed up.
“Nalthaliarstrelous?”
The [Druid] was panting. He nodded to her.
“I have it. Not all that lies beneath. That dungeon—it’s vast. But I have it. Tunnels. You’re right. There’s a damn one going south. Big. And all the numbers.”
The…Klbkch’s mouth opened. He looked at Xrn. And the Small Queen’s anxiety made sense. The [Druid] looked at the Antinium.
“Counted all of them too. Some are higher level. Most’re the same. Here’s the numbers. I’ll do the map later.”
He scribbled down on a piece of paper Ressa produced, with a quill. Magnolia studied the first one.
“How. Interesting. Nalthaliarstrelous, you are a treasure. And with that, our work is done. Watch Captain, Council. Miss Xrn.”
“You have made an error.”
The Small Queen stared at Magnolia. Her staff was glowing. But Wuvren took Pryde’s place. The [Lady of Pryde] looked at Wuvren.
“No.”
“I’ll go last. Pryde, don’t be stubborn.”
Pryde retreated. Wuvren blew a kiss. It went through Klbkch and nothing happened. Her face fell slightly.
“Not even a bit?”
Magnolia was walking back towards the door as Reynold helped Nalthaliarstrelous. He looked tired, from the life-sensing spell. Because that was what a [Druid] did. And of course, they could sense things like nature. Like…tunnels in the earth.
Klbkch ignored Wuvren. He put one hand on his sword and looked at Xrn.
“Do we stop them?”
“You may try. But that would be war. And you’re surrounded.”
Magnolia called out cheerfully. The Antinium looked around. At the crowds. At Watch Captain Zevara, who had suddenly put herself in their way. The Watch Captain looked at Magnolia.
“That number—”
“I plan on sharing it. And I will of course have Nalthaliarstrelous copy the map.”
“I hate maps.”
The [Druid] growled. They walked through the door. And the Antinium just watched.
Erin Solstice saw Magnolia Reinhart enter the inn, then Ressa and Reynold and Nalthaliarstrelous.
Then Pryde. Wuvren was last. Warily backing up. And Erin just looked at Magnolia. Just—looked.
“What have you done?”
“What matters, Miss Solstice. I hope you’ll forgive me. But even if not—Ressa? Our next destination.”
Magnolia turned. And Ressa was adjusting the door. Erin saw a glowing yellow stone.
Pallass. And it all came together. Erin reached out and Pryde and Wuvren blocked her.
“Stop. Please. They’re not—”
Grimalkin caught Erin’s arm. Gently. And Magnolia Reinhart walked through the doorway.
In Pallass, the Drakes and Gnolls on duty stared at her. And Lady Magnolia spoke.
“I am Lady Magnolia Reinhart. I would like to speak to Grand Strategist Chaldion, please.”
They hesitated. The other [Ladies] and servants walked through. Nalthaliarstrelous walked back towards Erin’s garden. [Sergeant] Kel looked at Magnolia.
And whatever he thought about Erin, Lady Chaos, whatever you wanted to call her—
Here was an actual [Lady]. And a City Runner stormed into the checkpoint.
“Sergeant Kel! Immediate orders!”
The [Sergeant] read. The gate rose instantly. And Magnolia Reinhart walked forwards.
“We have orders to escort you to Grand Strategist Chaldion at once.”
The Watch informed the [Lady]. She nodded.
“Of course.”
And she entered Pallass. Magnolia Reinhart stepped along the street. Drakes and Gnolls looked up as she walked. Pryde and Wuvren fell in behind her.
“The last time a Reinhart walked on Pallass’ walls was nearly six hundred years ago. And that was to be executed after capture in battle.”
Magnolia Reinhart spoke lightly. She followed Kel, pausing as she walked along the 8th Floor. And Pallass looked up at her. A [Lady], dressed in a new style.
“Ressa, my documents. Also—how do I look?”
“Dressed.”
The [Maid] was glancing around tightly. She had a manila folder. Magnolia accepted it. Pryde paused on the 8th Floor.
“Not a bad city.”
She looked down her nose at the city. The embodiment of a deadly sin. Or a virtue for Drakes. Wuvren blew a kiss as she walked and broke ten thousand hearts.
