Ceria’s lips compressed. There was a laugh—although Jewel and her team looked sympathetic and definitely annoyed at Todi. But he had seniority. Yet—Ceria was more like Pisces than she liked to admit. She glowered at Todi.
“So we should come back, introduce ourselves properly, and you’ll forgive us? And we do that because everyone has, right?”
“That’s the way it works, girl. You want to change it? Become a Gold-ranker with experience yourself and let a little snot-ranked Silver come in and think you’re equals. But you can do it when you’re in my boots. But everyone else here knows that respect matters.”
Todi laughed at Ceria. She had heard the same kind of line back in Wistram. And—just like in Wistram, here came Pisces.
The [Necromancer] strolled over and smiled at Todi. The man gave him a toothy grin. Pisces looked around.
“Respect does matter. Both ways, one assumes. Seniority? I don’t think I’ve ever heard of your team. The ah…?”
“Todi’s Elites. We might not have been heard of in a backwater like—what? Celum? But that’s fine.”
The man laughed. Pisces’ brows rose.
“Indeed not. Nor in Wistram Academy. Or in First Landing, or any other city I’ve ever visited. But well done. Your career must have been illustrious. So much so that in your…forty years, my companion hasn’t heard of you either? She would also be older than you. A different kind of seniority, then. Age is clearly not worthy of respect, only age as an adventurer.”
The room went quiet. Todi’s eyes narrowed.
“M’boy, you have a fast mouth. But you’re not exactly as smart as you look if that’s how you want to introduce yourself.”
“To a man like you? I’d prefer to say—”
Ceria kicked Pisces. He winced and she looked around.
“Pisces, enough. I’m sorry about that. Captain Todi. He does have a fast mouth. And a big one.”
“Well, at least one of you knows respect.”
Todi relaxed a bit. Ceria nodded. She glanced at Pisces—he was glowering, but his mouth was shut. The rest of the adventurers saw Ceria bite her lip.
“I apologize, again. I didn’t know you were senior adventurers. Respect is important. I only wish I’d known. Like Pisces said, I haven’t ever heard of you either.”
She turned and walked off. Todi’s face went flat as Jewel and the Glitterblades burst into guffaws and the other teams laughed too. Ceria felt a bit hot—but mostly cold. Pisces grinned as he walked after her.
“Well, we just burned that bridge. Damn it, Pisces—”
“You would have frozen his boots to the floor.”
“Yeah, yeah.”
Ceria calmed down. She sat back down as Todi turned his back on them without another word. The man said something and his team laughed along. Ceria saw some of the other Gold-rank teams glancing at them, but they turned their backs too.
“We can sort it out later. Let’s leave.”
Pisces sighed. Ceria was nodding, but she didn’t want to just run away after that. She glanced around. There had to be some team willing to—
Oh. The half-Elves were sitting at their table, ignoring Todi. In fact, they looked annoyed by his presence and the man made no effort to include them in his conversation. Ceria stood up.
“I think we can at least make one group of friends. Hold on.”
She walked over to the team of three half-Elves and three Humans. Todi glanced up.
“No fucking way. They are green as grass.”
The other Gold-ranks looked about. Jewel’s mouth dropped. Ceria was waving at the other team. Two half-Elves, both female, one very young, a teenager nearing the end of her growth, and the other older—but appearing in her late twenties—looked up.
“She doesn’t know. I’m going to stop—”
Jewel felt an arm. Todi had grabbed her. She shifted, and he let go.
“Let them. It’s their funeral. Exactly what they deserve.”
The woman sat down slowly. She didn’t like Todi at all. And she heard, in the sudden silence, Ceria’s bright voice.
“Hi! Are you all from Terandria? Mind if I have a seat and talk about home? I’m from The Edwivil Forest. How about you?”
The third half-Elf was male. He looked up. Slowly. And he stared at Ceria and then at his teammates. Incredulously. The other Humans looked similarly nonplussed. And the youngest half-Elf—dead gods, she might only have been in her twenties biologically!
Half-Elves aged as quickly as Humans, more or less, until they were of around their teen years. Then they slowed. Puberty took a long time and this young half-Elf looked…sixteen.
For all that, she was in this room. And she sneered at Ceria.
“Tree rot. Everyone we meet uses the ‘we’re from home’ line on us. Then they want to waste our attention.”
The aggressive response made Ceria blink. She looked around, and then heard the beginning to at least six fights she could remember. A haughty sniff.
“That is a commonality of superfluous people. Thank you for noticing and refraining from wasting our time.”
Pisces looked dismissively down at the team. Ceria groaned, but the [Necromancer] was clearly keen on not making any friends here. The young half-Elf blushed as she glared at him.
“You have no idea who we are, do you? Even that obnoxious Human knows about respect.”
She nodded at Todi. The man flushed, but he didn’t call her out. Ceria began to feel uneasy, but Pisces had had enough. He rolled his eyes.
“Respect, as I previously stated, goes both ways. No one here knows who we are. It would be courteous to inform us of social norms politely. Perhaps then we’d care to be polite in return. Or are Gold-rank adventurers all as petty as that obnoxious Human?”
He pointed a thumb at Todi. The Captain rose from his chair.
“That’s it. I’m gonna—”
The other adventurers shushed him. One of the Humans—a [Warrior], shifted. He looked at Pisces—he was in his late thirties.
“You’ve got a loud opinion, fellow. But Captain Todi’s right. You’re walking in here, throwing a lot of weight around. Most good teams listen first.”
Pisces flushed. And that was a good point. He opened his mouth—and Ceria put a hand on his chest. She looked at the [Warrior]—his gear was clearly enchanted, all of it. The rest of the team of six was decked out. The older female half-Elf had a silver bow, gleaming with magic. Ceria pushed Pisces back and ducked her head.
“You’re right. Sorry about bothering you all. We’re leaving. And we’ll come back and buy everyone a drink. Except Todi.”
She looked around. The room was silent as Pisces turned. And then—the other female half-Elf, the older one, spoke.
“What happened to your hand?”
Ceria turned. She realized she’d blocked Pisces with her skeletal hand. Now, the adventurer with the silver bow was staring at it. So did the other two half-Elves.
“Dead gods. What’s that?”
The half-Elf girl recoiled. Ceria flexed her skeletal hand. She addressed the wielder of the silver bow.
“This? I lost it casting a spell. But it’s nothing big. I’ll introduce you to my teammate, Yvlon. One of her arms was torn off in our last big encounter. But she got better.”
The line made some of the adventurers chuckle. The female half-Elf smiled. She looked at Ceria.
“What was that? The battle that made you Gold-ranks? What were you fighting?”
“Probably Mothbears.”
Todi grumbled out loud. The half-Elf looked past Ceria and he went quiet. Ceria blinked. She had a feeling…this was the leader of the team. She looked at Pisces and he smirked.
“We took out an Adult Creler around the Bloodfields. And fought a bunch of Crelers with Silver-rank teams.”
The other Gold-rank teams looked up. Jewel turned in her seat and Todi lost his smirk. The older half-Elf looked at Ceria and the male half-Elf murmured.
“Hell’s Wardens.”
A susurration. The woman with the silver bow looked Ceria up and down. The man who’d spoke gave Pisces and Ceria a second look, almost incredulous.
“You’re telling me you took out an Adult Creler to become a Gold-rank team?”
“Not by ourselves. There were a lot of Silver-rank teams there. And a lot more Crelers. We got torn to bits. But we took it down.”
Ceria answered modestly. The team in front of her looked at each other. The silver-bow wielder nodded.
“Take a seat. Tell us about it. I’ve fought an Adult Creler four times in my career. I can’t imagine a Silver-rank team besting one, or even a dozen. How did you get through their armor?”
“Mom!”
The youngest half-Elf protested. Her mother gave her a reproving look and she fell silent. Two chairs were pulled over. Ceria was about to sit when she had to ask.
“Sorry, my name’s Ceria Springwalker. Can I ask who you all are?”
A smile. The others laughed and the half-Elf Captain, the one with the silver bow raised a hand. She was young. A bit older than Ceria, but…young. And her daughter was super young. She replied, calmly.
“My name is Elia Arcsinger. Named Adventurer and Captain of Arcsinger’s Bows.”
Ceria’s jaw fell. Pisces started.
“Oh dead gods. You’re famous! My entire village talked about you—I’m so sorry!”
Ceria stammered. Pisces just eyed Elia up and down as her daughter smirked. But they were at the table and Elia looked amused. Intrigued, even.
Hell’s Wardens. That was a title that had respect, even among Gold-ranks. Todi grumbled under his breath. He eyed Pisces from behind.
“Pisces. Pisces. Where do I know that fucking name? I’ve heard it, but I haven’t met an asshole like him—”
“Captain. I know it!”
One of Todi’s teammates leaned over. He whispered. Todi shot up.
“I knew it! You’re that fucking [Necromancer] with the bounty!”
He bellowed. Every head turned as he pointed at Pisces. Ceria froze. Pisces’ shoulders hunched, and then he swung around. He looked at Todi’s triumphant face.
“Yes. And?”
The man faltered. Pisces looked at him.
“You can try to claim it. I need a new wand.”
Then he turned around. Todi went crimson. He looked at his team, at Pisces’ back, and at Elia Arcsinger. What might have happened next was anyone’s guess. One more smart comment from Pisces—or Elia’s frown turning into an order for Ceria and Pisces to vacate the table—
It could have been any of these things. But at that moment, the door blew open and Griffon Hunt strode into the room. Revi was in the lead, panting. She took one look at the scene and assumed the worst. And she wasn’t really wrong.
“Oh dead gods. I am so sorry. You idiots! Get up! Miss Arcsinger, sorry—get over here! Didn’t you even bring your entire team?”
She yanked Pisces and Ceria up, and was dragging them to the door before anyone could blink.
“Halrac! Revi? Ow, let go of my hair!”
Ceria protested. Pisces was yelping as Revi scolded them. She saw Halrac, Typhenous—and a woman she didn’t recognize standing in the doorway. And she was very confused.
“You didn’t come here with your team? Don’t you know anything about how this works? What did you say? That’s Elia Arcsinger. You can’t just bother—”
“Revi.”
Halrac put a hand out. Revi shut up and looked about. The Gold-rank teams were all staring. Todi blinked a few times.
“You know these two jackasses, Halrac?”
“That’s right, Todi. We’ve adventured with them. So have the Silver Swords and the Halfseekers. They’re new, but they’re good adventurers.”
Ceria blinked and the tips of her pointed ears turned red as Halrac stood with her. Had someone hit him on the head? Who was this Halrac? Pisces was blinking as Typhenous whispered to him, using a miniaturized [Silence] spell.
“The Half-Freaks and those insane snobs? They don’t know anything, Halrac. Came in here, rude as you like. To me.”
Todi emphasized the words. Halrac sighed.
“Todi, you’re not the most welcoming Captain in the world. I apologize on their behalf.”
He glanced at Elia’s team. She waved a hand, looking vaguely amused. Halrac glanced around.
“Let’s forget this happened.”
“Fat chance of that.”
Todi growled. But the Gold-ranks were nodding. Todi’s face soured, but Halrac saw more than a few teams looking mildly respectful. He grimaced, and motioned to the two [Mages].
“Out here. Let’s have a quick word.”
The reunion of the two teams was held in the common room of the Adventurer’s Guild. Revi hugged Ceria, to the half-Elf’s surprise, and then kept scolding.
“You two are idiots. Congratulations on your Gold-rank! Are you insane? You don’t bother a Named Adventurer and you have to introduce yourself, even to a muleskin idiot like Todi! You killed an Adult Creler? You have to tell us about it! Please tell me you didn’t say anything offensive!”
The mix of compliments and insults poured over the two. Ceria was blinking as Pisces nodded at Typhenous and the [Mage] smiled back. The other woman put an arm around Revi.
“Revi, you’re blabbering. So these are the famous Horns? Hey there. Where’s the fellow with the nose problem, Revi?”
Ceria let out a guffaw. Pisces colored and Halrac took over.
“This is Briganda. She’s one of our teammates who rejoined us. Ceria, Pisces. It’s good to see you. Apologies for Revi, but the Gold-rank teams do have their hierarchy.”
He delivered that with his classic dour expression. Ceria nodded slowly.
“It’s great to see you, Halrac. Sorry, I mean, thanks. We just walked in there and met that Todi guy. We—might have said a few things.”
Halrac grimaced and Typhenous winced. So did Revi. Briganda just laughed. Halrac nodded to the closed door.
“We’ve all been there. Todi’s…unique. But we’ll smooth it over.”
“Don’t worry about it. Todi deserves a kick in the ass. If he mouths off, I’ll smack him around. I’ve done it before and we’re as senior as his team. Hello. I’m a [Shieldmaiden]. Part of Griffon Hunt; just rejoined.”
She held out a hand with a warm smile. And Pisces and Ceria smiled too. They shook hands, introducing themselves.
“Ceria Springwalker.”
“Pisces.”
“Oh, so you’re the [Necromancer]?”
Pisces froze, but Briganda shook his hand. Typhenous shook his head.
“Everyone knows I’m afraid, young Pisces. Your bounty was circulated, and even if it’s much lower than what it was—it is common knowledge.”
“Some Gold-ranks’ll care. But most are adventurers. You can worry about that later.”
“And right now, we should go back in there and smooth some feathers. We can catch up later. But we need to talk to you all—and Erin. You have the door, right? We need to make sure you all don’t cause trouble. Invrisil has rules. Let alone that insane Human.”
Revi added, looking serious. Pisces and Ceria glanced at each other. Pisces tapped his bag of holding and Typhenous’ eyes lit up.
“We have it here. Yvlon and Ksmvr are going to meet us in about forty minutes, however. They’re finding the [Enchanter]. Hedault.”
The four adventurers of Griffon Hunt froze. Revi groaned.
