Charm and pride and…Magnolia saw a figure being carried towards her. Chaldion himself was sitting up in his bed. The Lady Reinhart stopped, in clear view of everyone.
“Grand Strategist, I would have come to you.”
“Save it. That—show me what you found. Did you just detect the exact count of Antinium in Liscor? Magus Grimalkin says there’s a tunnel—”
Chaldion was reaching for the piece of paper. Magnolia offered it to him. He read, cursed, and read again.
“Completely accurate. Nalthaliarstrelous is a high-level [Druid]. I hope you’ll copy this information to the other Walled Cities, and Liscor of course. Also—”
Magnolia’s next words were drowned out by a cheer. People were pointing up at her. And word was spreading. Grimalkin paused, staring at the [Ladies]. And now it was becoming clear.
An ally. Chaldion blinked with his good eye at Magnolia. He glanced over the side of the 8th floor.
Drakes and Gnolls and Garuda and Dullahans were cheering. Calling Magnolia’s name. Not all of them. A minority in fact. But some remembered.
During the First Antinium War, Magnolia Reinhart led the defense of Izril against the Antinium.
That was a page from a history book. And they remembered it now. The [Lady] waved a hand, and the people cheered. More were looking at Pryde’s dress, or Wuvren’s style.
Wistram had reinstated the scrying spell. It was zooming in on the three [Ladies]. All adorned in unique fashion. Someone in Wistram was having a fit.
And Lady Magnolia? She looked at Chaldion.
“I hope you can appreciate the moment, Strategist Chaldion. It took some doing. I have a few more gifts as well. This would be for your [Engineers].”
She offered him a page. The [Grand Strategist] looked at a diagram of a gear. A system of pullies…he looked up.
“This is the elevator. And this?”
“Moving floors. Escalators. I’d be happy to discuss it more. I have a few more notes, but this is goodwill.”
The [Lady] looked at the Drake. His good eye narrowed. She had taken more than just dresses from her guests. Information. All that mattered.
“You’re putting all your eggs in one basket, Lady Reinhart. Why now?”
“Hm. I hope you’ll attend a…little party in Oteslia in the near future, Grand Strategist. As for why?”
Magnolia Reinhart turned her head. She lifted her hat and smiled down at the people of Pallass. And they shouted her name.
“Reinhart! Magnolia Reinhart!”
Cheering for her. A member of the Five Families. What madness.
Onieva, looking up, sighed longingly at Magnolia.
“Ancestors. What a presence. And that dress.”
Mirn gazed up at Magnolia’s stylized dress. At Pyrde, Wuvren. The [Protector] spoke longingly.
“Especially that dress. What style is that? I need it. Onieva, go up there and strip them.”
Magnolia glanced at Chaldion as the cheering went on.
“Humans should not be alone. How long have our species fought? Consider this a gift, Grand Strategist. And think on my words? We have bigger enemies than each other.”
The Drake eyed Magnolia. But he nodded. And Magnolia Reinhart turned. She waved once, and left. And chaos? She turned a Walled City on its head. And perhaps only the old Drake heard Magnolia murmur.
“Besides. I owe Zel Shivertail this, at least.”
Chaldion looked at her back. And he half-rose, ignoring the [Healer] and his bodyguards. And he wanted to believe.
 
—-
 
Erin Solstice sat in her inn. Liscor and Pallass were ringing with Magnolia Reinhart’s name. The Antinium had retreated to their Hive. And Erin stood up as the three [Ladies] returned.
“That will be all. A success. Pryde, Wuvren, thank you ever so much for your help. Let’s reconvene tonight. I should have a fair amount of [Messages], but I will be free to attend this play.”
The door to Invrisil was opened. Pryde and Wuvren walked through. The Players of Celum parted as the [Ladies] walked past them, talking. And Magnolia watched as Reynold led a grumbling Nalthaliarstrelous through.
And no one stopped her. Grimalkin had helped her, when he’d figured it out. Magnolia Reinhart sighed. She fanned at her brow; she allowed herself to sweat lightly only now. In relief. She turned her head.
“[Minotaur Punch]!”
A fist flew at her face. Ressa caught Erin and the [Innkeeper] staggered as the momentum of her fist stopped. She strained, but Ressa had her neck in a hold—
“Ressa, stop that. Miss Erin is quite upset. As she should be.”
Erin breathed as Ressa let go. The [Innkeeper] staggered back. Magnolia waved at the doorway.
“Everyone, stand back please. I will be returning to Invrisil in a moment. But I think this is a private conversation.”
Everyone else shuffled back. But Erin and Magnolia stood in the young woman’s inn, in a circle of silence.
“You—you ruined it. They didn’t do anything.”
Erin pointed at Magnolia with a shaking finger. The [Lady] looked at her, calmly, coldly.
“On the contrary. I haven’t ‘done’ anything other than make Pallass and the Walled Cities wary. As they should be. Or were you aware that multiple breeds of Antinium were in Liscor?”
The [Innkeeper] opened her mouth. She bit her tongue. Xrn had hinted, but Erin hadn’t realized—
“Some of them are good. The Antinium! How could you just walk in and—do that?”
It had felt like all three [Ladies] had just squished her against the floorboards. She hadn’t been able to do anything. In her own inn. Magnolia’s eyes were sympathetic. But cold.
“Miss Erin Solstice. Drakes and Humans have torn each other apart for countless generations. I made an overture, of goodwill. Did I step on your toes to do so? Yes. And I will be called traitor by some of my peers. But this may lead to peace in a war as old as my House. Consider that.”
Erin opened and closed her mouth. Ressa was standing next to her. Erin made a fist—and then just shook it at Magnolia.
“Just—just answer me this. Do you know what you did? Really? If they die—I’ll never forgive you. Do you have any idea? Or is this just politics? Is it—”
“Erin Solstice.”
Magnolia Reinhart snapped. Erin fell silent. And Magnolia looked around. At the inn. At all the people whose names she’d known without ever having met them.
She glanced through the doorway, at the Players of Celum, whom she was going to watch that very night. And at the Earthworlders. Some were hiding behind the tables. But Magnolia just looked back at Erin.
“My dear Erin Solstice, I know exactly who my enemies are. And I watch young women like you. Yes, I know what I’ve done. I planned it. The only part I didn’t account for was the eggs.”
“Eggs…? What eggs?”
Erin whispered. Magnolia shook her head.
“I will remand Rose and the others into your care, since Miss Griffin seemed so insistent on it. Do you know where she is? Reizmelt, or the area thereabouts. I apologize, again, Erin. That is all I can truly say.”
She nodded and turned away. Erin whispered.
“I hate you.”
The [Lady] walked through the doorway. Ressa followed, sparing Erin a look. Magnolia sighed as she walked out of the inn.
“Another one on a rather long list. A shame. But she shouldn’t forgive me.”
“Absolutely not. That was an incredibly underhanded move. Milady.”
Ressa opened the door to the carriage. Magnolia gave her a reproving look.
“And would you have done otherwise? I didn’t hear you gainsaying any plans.”
The [Maid] settled herself into the coach.
“Absolutely not. Better to try this than war. But don’t expect Erin Solstice to ever forgive you.”
“I know.”
Pryde had already walked off, but Wuvren was sitting in the coach.
“My feet hurt. Did that young woman have words for you? She was strong. I didn’t believe you when you said you feared you might not be able to suppress her, Magnolia.”
The [Lady] smiled thinly as the carriage began to move.
“I told you she was significant, Wuvren. I fear she hates me.”
“With good reason.”
“Oh, shut up, Ressa.”
Lady Wuvren smiled. She was older now, closer to her actual age. She looked thoughtfully out of the window as the coach pulled away. Nalthaliarstrelous was riding on the roof, closer to nature. And because he smelled.
“She was something. She has a number of charm-related Skills. [Crowd Control], I think. She doesn’t control it. I can see how she could start a riot if she wanted to, especially if it began in her inn. Why did you feature Liscor in that scrying broadcast?”
“Because it’s not war yet. And either way—the city could grow. Invrisil, Liscor, Pallass—Wuvren. I should like it so very much to be the case that the Antinium are changing. That we can ally with the Drakes and deal with…unpleasant people. But if that is not the case? Liscor will not fall easily.”
Magnolia’s eyes flashed in the darkness. Wuvren just nodded. And they rode away.
 
—-
 
The end. Chaos had hit. The [Lady] had come and gone. And no one had been prepared for her. But—the door to Liscor was open. And timidly, slowly, the Horns of Hammerad entered the inn.
“Erin?”
The young woman was resting her head on a table. But her friends were there. And a group started at her name.
“She didn’t go after us. But she saw us.”
Rose looked at Joseph. Imani just stared at the magical doorway. She didn’t know what had happened, not all the details. But she heard the name. And she saw a familiar face.
“It’s here. The Wandering Inn.”
The group from Earth stared into the inn. Amid Magnolia Reinhart’s splendid chaos. Montressa du Valeross looked up as the Earthers followed the Horns into the inn. So did Palt, blinking as Griffon Hunt followed.
Change. A growing flower of trust between the north and south. A blow against Antinium plans. Was it good or evil that had been done? One thing was for sure.
“How inelegant. How—rude. She is the rudest [Lady]. But the Reinharts are. She could have lit a flame. But the Deadly Flower of the North just pricks with her thorns.”
Maviola El scowled after Magnolia. She had disapproved of all of it. But her head turned back to the inn. And inside it, the doorway.
Pure magic. A bridge from north to south. And Magnolia’s first thought had been to sabatoge the Antinium. That was a Reinhart for you. But look—
It called to her. Maviola El stared into Liscor. And she felt it. In her chest. In the inn itself. It burned.
Fire. Her heart beat in her chest. And the [Lady] smiled. She walked, almost stumbling towards the door. That young woman had the fire. More than that. A living spark, as strong as Maviola had ever seen.
But she was inexperienced. That was why she’d been faltered. But she could learn. Grow. The door called to Maviola. One last time. One last—
“Aha! I have it back, you [Thief]!”
Someone shouted in her ear. Maviola whirled. A [Lady] was riding past her. Bethal Walchaís, laughing merrily, was atop her bareback mare. She galloped past Maviola, raising a finger. Maviola blinked. Bethal rode off through the streets, triumphant.
And a figure—Maviola turned and saw a [Chevalier]. Thomast. He looked apologetic as he bowed to her.
“Apologies, Lady El. My wife thinks it would be a merry prank for a day or two. I will ensure it is returned. But Bethal claims it is part of youth.”
“Are you…Thomast? Her husband?”
Maviola blinked. And then looked at Thomast. The man bowed, with a regretful smile. Handsome—a [Fencer] with a silver bell. Some [Ladies] had all the luck.
“Bethal insists on fair turnabout. I apologize, again.”
Lady Firestarter grinned. And her eyes lit up, like burning embers, beautifully orange.
“Well, I stole the horse from her.”
Thomast coughed.
“That is not what I meant, Milady. But Bethal was insistent. I hope you will cope with the loss. It may prove to be…eventful. I did meet Bethal under a similar situation. I apologize again, but Bethal knows how to live, if anyone.”
The words were very confusing. But Maviola was also drawn to Thomast. And Bethal glanced back as she stopped her horse. In sudden, abrupt paranoia.
“Thomast! Hurry up!”
The [Chevalier] bowed and walked away. And Maviola? She blinked and realized something. Thomast had been her type. And that was the problem.
Charming young men. Well—youngish. The suave ones stole more than just your heart for a moment.
“He took my money pouch.”
She stared after Thomast and Bethal. But they were already gone. Maviola had her bag of holding, her three vials. And nothing else.
But that was fine. She looked at the magical door. And Liscor was changed. But—here. Maviola walked forwards, smiling. She saw Grev dash through, calling Erin’s name. And Maviola walked forwards, into the inn. Into—
Into a wall. The [Lady] bounced off the inn’s wall. She stared at the blank door. She opened and closed the door a few times. Nothing happened.
“Well—damn.”
