But clearly—people didn’t know who they were talking to, either. How big were these cheeses? Ceria started laughing. She hugged Wesle and looked around. Halrac was bemused, Revi shocked but smiling. And Ceria saw Pisces feeling at his bag of holding, looking at the others. He met her eyes and she nodded. Typhenous was watching the [Necromancer]. Invrisil began to turn around the Horns of Hammerad.
And it had seen nothing yet.
 
—-
 
Something was up. But only the Players of Celum, Griffon Hunt, and a few others knew what yet. As they practically carried the Horns back to their inn, the door awaited.
But no one knew. And other people were living their lives, separate from the drama that was the Horns of Hammerad’s life.
Maviola El walked through Invrisil. She had a little snack of a sandwich in her hand. She was savoring each bite.
Even her taste buds were fresher. The taste. The feeling of being able to walk, to breathe in the air and not cough or feel cold. She felt alive.
Alive—and older. The [Lady] paused in front of a shop. And she stopped eating. She looked around. And then, slowly entered the shop. She asked a question, and then slowly walked out.
“Seatale’s Tavern.”
The [Lady] stood in the street, and looked at the shop. Next to it was a [Seamstress]’ shop. And this place was a Cloth District, filled with Stitch-Folk. They glanced at the young [Lady]. And she looked around.
“It was right here.”
But the tavern was gone. Closed, turned into this shop and the Stitch-Folk’s parlor. Over two decades ago. That was what the [Shopkeeper] had kindly told Maviola.
She had been—amused to know that anyone still remembered that old place. Maviola looked around.
Even the street was different. It was called Satin’s Way. But it had had a different name, long ago. Maviola tried to remember. But her memory was fading.
The cobblestones were the same. Similar, to the ones of long ago. But nothing else was. Maviola felt a pit in her stomach.
She slowly bit into the sandwich. But the explosion of flavor, the joy of eating it with strong teeth—it suddenly soured.
The food turned to dust. Maviola lowered the sandwich. And she looked around. And everything was different. That wasn’t the problem. The problem was knowing what should be. What had been. And realizing how much had changed.
“I walked this very street. Sixty years ago. This very place. And nothing remains.”
The young woman whispered. Dewlana, returning to her shop, glanced at Maviola and checked the stitching on her ears. And Maviola felt—
Wrong. She stumbled away from the street full of memories. Because like ghosts, they clung to her. She walked away. And she realized—
“Lord Reinhart is dead. Magnolia owns this land now. All the other nobility moved back north. Who—who—was I going to call on?”
No one. The young woman looked around. And realized she was alone. Everyone she had known, all her old friends, even her enemies—almost all were dead.
The world had moved on without her. And that was fine. She had seen it. Lived it. That was fine. But Maviola El suddenly realized that she didn’t know what to do next.
She had planned for this ending. Hoarded her personal fortune, bought three vials of miracles. And she had reclaimed her youth.
Yet she was now aimless. She had wanted to reclaim her youth from her armchair. But now, having it, reliving her memory, she realized how much had passed.
“I am Maviola El. Matriarch of…”
The woman trailed off. And she realized that was no longer true, either. She had left the House of El. Her duties had gone. The weight that she had carried for decades had been like the wheelchair. A prison. But it had also meant she had been strong enough to carry it.
Now—she was unbound. What did she have to live for, these last weeks? Maviola stumbled, as she walked. And her footsteps grew slower.
All her physical pains were gone. But this world—the changes cut her deeper than any blade or ache. Look. She remembered a different city. It was too tall now. Magnolia had made it a capital. But everything was different.
Maviola El had been happy, a minute ago. Living, breathing, rejoicing in her youth. But happiness becomes sadness in a moment. Darkness engulfed her heart, moving at the edges of her vision.
“It’s so…different. What was I going to do? There’s no one alive. Only…”
She began to count on shaking fingers. Less than ten. Less than ten, enemies and friends. Maviola looked around, and had to rest her hands on her legs. She stopped, by the side of the street, as people glanced at her.
A beautiful young lady. Maviola looked around. There was so much she could do.
Find love, drink, explore, run as fast as she dreamed. And yet—she suddenly felt it. Her age. It crept up on her, making her breath slower. Her heart faltered.
She was old. And it was more than a word you could throw off with a magic spell. And this place—this was all wrong.
She shouldn’t have come here. Because it just told Maviola her time was over. Her memory had faded away. Just like her.
The young woman sank to her knees. Something was wrong with her heart. It was beating too slowly. She touched her chest. She heard it thumping. And waited.
But the next beat was too late. Maviola lay with her back to a wall, breathing slower. She reached for something. Something to blaze for. But they were all gone.
And she would like to go too. She had made her peace. Why had she wanted another week? A day was enough.
This was enough. Maviola saw some people peering at her with concern. But the [Lady]’s gaze was fading.
“It’s all left me behind. When did that happen?”
“Excuse me? Miss. Are you alright?”
Lady Maviola saw a figure waving a hand at her, concerned. So young. They were all young, but for the half-Elves. And they went mad with age. It was so hard to be old. She sighed.
And on the street, a slow-rolling carriage halted. A door opened. And a voice tsked. The young man waving at Maviola turned. And the young lady, the old lady, heard a voice.
“You look unwell, Lady El. Are you quite alright?”
The voice was familiar. Maviola’s eyes moved. She blinked. Magnolia Reinhart was standing over her, smiling. Ressa stood behind her.
Maviola breathed. She knew Magnolia. But…she didn’t think to ask why Magnolia was here. Dreamily, she spoke.
“Magnolia? I feel silly, all of a sudden. I was so fired up. And now, I feel quite tired.”
“Indeed?”
Magnolia Reinhart gracefully sat on the ground. Maviola jerked her head. Her vision was…dark. And her heart. Fading, not because it was weak physically. But because her soul was.
“It’s all so…different. Good. But different. I saw an Antinium. An adventurer. Are they…no longer monsters? Everything’s changed.”
She looked at Magnolia. And the [Lady], not the girl Maviola remembered, smiled. At least the smile was the same. Mischievous, bold, and fearless.
“I know. And they are still our enemies, Maviola. There are just—new things happening. But the garden of Izril is infested with insects. And the guardians of Izril must prune them away. As we always do. That is the same.”
“Guardians?”
Maviola breathed. She raised her head and shook it.
“We’re not guardians. You are. A soldier, to fight the Goblin King. And the Antinium. Perhaps we need you. But we are caretakers, not guardians.”
“A small difference.”
“No. You don’t understand. Then—that Antinium—”
The young woman breathed again. Her heartbeat increased. She saw Magnolia Reinhart, looking at her. Ressa stood with Reynold, keeping the passersby back. And two [Ladies] gazed at Maviola from the carriage.
“I think I fell down. I felt so tired. And I do, despite the potion. Is it flawed?”
“I don’t believe so.”
“Then I’m just old.”
Maviola closed her eyes. The Lady Reinhart nodded.
“Quite.”
The young Lady Firestarter opened one eye. Magnolia smiled.
“Lady Maviola El. Presumptuous as it may be, may I ask you to stand? You shouldn’t rest here. Not now. There is still something left for you to do?”
“What?”
Magnolia reached down. And her hands squeezed Maviola’s hard.
“Something. Find it, I pray you, Maviola. Age wears you down. But you must not sleep. Wake up.”
Her voice deepened. And it grew urgent. Maviola felt herself stirring as the other [Lady] held her hand.
“Age is your foe. But keep moving. Find something to do, even if it is selfish. But don’t lie there. Stand. Move, and burn. Fire dies when it stops moving. Maviola, do you hear me? There is still something for you to do, isn’t there?”
She had a meeting to go to. The Lady El inhaled. And her heart began to beat faster. Her vision slowly swam back. And she remembered.
She looked up. And she saw Magnolia more clearly. Slowly, Maviola’s head rose. She got up, looked around at the small crowd, at herself.
“Oh. I think I nearly died.”
“I feared as much. Do you feel yourself, Lady El? A stamina potion might help—”
Magnolia brushed off dirt from her dress. She studied Maviola, as the [Lady] looked around and blinked.
“I—shouldn’t have come back. Memory changes. Thank you, Magnolia. That was most fortunate.”
“It would be a poor ending. I think Invrisil is not for you, Lady Maviola. If you wish it, my carriage can take you somewhere—new.”
“No, no. And yes. But I will find my own way away. I have a meeting to keep.”
Maviola smiled. She looked back once, but then shook her head. Not yet. She clutched at her heart and breathed deeply. Savoring each breath.
Not yet. She had forever to rest. But what was the point if she wasted even a second? She looked at Magnolia, slightly mystified.
“Why are you here?”
The [Lady] gave Maviola an infuriating smile. Maviola remembered she always hated that little upstart smirk.
“I have business in my city. But I wanted to make sure you were quite well. I bid you adieu, Lady El.”
“Thank you.”
Their meeting had not been coincidence. But Maviola simply nodded and watched the coach roll off. Then, shaken, she walked forwards. Searching. For a flame without fuel did go out. If it stopped, it died. She wondered how Magnolia had known that.
But then the young woman walked on. Searching for that source.
And Magnolia Reinhart settled back in her carriage and watched the young lady with hair like embers in the darkness disappear into the crowds. She looked sideways as Ressa joined her.
“Apologies, ladies. I had to make a quick check. To our appointment, Reynold.”
“At once, Lady Reinhart.”
The famous carriage began to move. It rolled down the street. And Magnolia turned to her two guests.
Lady Pryde and Wuvren. They sat in the carriage, Pryde impatient, Wuvren staring after Maviola.
“What a [Lady]. When I was a girl, I grew up to stories of Lady Firestarter.”
“She seemed rather insipid to me. Her flame is long past.”
Pryde tossed her head. Magnolia tsked gently.
“You are in a foul mood, Pryde. Maviola deserves all of our respect. It cannot be easy, watching the world change.”
The two [Ladies] glanced at Magnolia. She had been rarely intense as she held Maviola’s hand. Pryde just turned her head.
“You said you had grave need of our aid, Magnolia. But so far we’ve been idly circling the city. I grow tired of discussion. What is it you want of us?”
“Well—first of all, I have gifts. We’re nearly at the [Seamstress] I mentioned. Ah, but she does hair very well.”
The carriage stopped in a Human district. The three [Ladies] got out as Reynold and Ressa swept forwards. The [Hairdresser] herself, the best in all of Invrisil and Magnolia’s personal stylist, hurried forwards.
“Lady Reinhart! And Lady Ulta and Lady Sitil.”
“Wuvren, if you please.”
Lady Wuvren smiled, and she was as young as Maviola. She didn’t match with Pryde and Magnolia; both women were older, although Pryde was about three years younger than Magnolia. But then—that was Wuvren.
She could be middle-aged, or a young flower, or anywhere in between in a moment. And it was almost always the age and appearance that struck the hearts of those around her most.
“Deepest apologies for the delay, Cedava. We might have to hurry. I hate to rush your art, but…”
“Not at all, Lady Reinhart. We will work our fastest and best. We have the designs ready, and the clothing. We’ve been waiting for you.”
The [Hairdresser] swept the three [Ladies] forwards, and her famous salon’s windows were shrouded. Pryde glanced at Magnolia.
“Is something wrong with my dress? This is the height of fashion in Ulta.”
And indeed, it was a Terandrian dress, much in style with that lace that critics claimed was good for strangling yourself with. Magnolia laughed.
“Pryde, this is something special I’ve been saving. Do me a favor and don’t judge until you see it—and the hair style. Cedava has a picture, don’t you?”
The Balerosian woman was nodding and showing Pryde an image. The [Lady of Pride] hesitated as she blinked at the image. Wuvren murmured.
“Oh my. And is that one of me? I can certainly—accommodate.”
She aged up a few years, struck the pose. Some of the assistants in the salon murmured. Pryde was striking, her features as strong as her personality. But she was a contender for one of Izril’s beauties, even if it was in her age bracket. Wuvren on the other hand had dominated the top list all her life.
If anything, Magnolia was the odd duckling. But that was only by comparison. The [Lady]’s eyes twinkled.
“I thought you’d like it. Well then, [Ladies]? As I said, we have much work to do. Reynold, we’ll be busy. Kindly pick up our guest?”
All the women turned, half in outrage; Wuvren was already being undressed. Pryde turned fearlessly, but the [Butler] had his back to the entire affair and it hadn’t moved once.
“At once, Lady Reinhart.”
“Ressa will mind us until then. Try to be tactful?”
“Absolutely, Lady Reinhart. Shall I pick you all up?”
“No, simply meet us at our destination. We shall walk. And I’m sure we’ll enjoy the attention.”
Magnolia saw the [Butler] exit the salon. Then she turned. And she clapped her hands together.
“Time, [Ladies]! We are on a schedule.”
 
—-
 
The pink carriage rolled down the street. Most people stared, but only as they did with idle curiosity, knowing that it was Magnolia’s famous carriage. As it rolled, it passed by a young woman who hid from the carriage. But Reynold took no notice and Magnolia Reinhart was absent from it.
Rose hurried down the street after the carriage had left. She turned the corner, searching. She didn’t take long to find the person she was looking for. Because he was standing on the corner, holding out his hands and shouting.
“Alms? Alms for the poor?”
“Oh my god.”
Rose hurried towards him. Another young man appeared, leading another group at the same time. Rose reached the other young man and looked at him.
