She was poking at her ribs and leg, which up till now had been healing the minor fractures she had received. The lot were staying at the Players of Celum’s inn. Briganda and Halrac, at least. Typhenous was teaching Grev a few street tricks.
And Briganda was bouncing her son, Cade, on her knee. She nodded at the mission request she’d pulled from the Adventurer’s Guild’s board.
“Told you it was near your home. Riverfarm, where the Windrest folk got to. Most of them. I thought it was insane, but—read it.”
Halrac did. He stared at the request, which, like the incredible bounty on the Wyverns, was an unusual piece of literature unlike most quests offered at the guild. Most were utilitarian, listing the monsters or type of assignment, defense, search and exterminate, escort, and the prices and locations as well as the guild’s analysis on the threat level. But this?
 
By order of His Majesty, [Emperor] Laken Godart of the Unseen Empire, a Gold-rank team or high Silver-rank team is requested for a range of tasks, including treasure finding, bandit and monster extermination, and other assignment as needed on a long-term contract.
Payment is minimal per week and may be negotiated, but a share of any treasure recovered will be awarded to the team. Food and lodging will be provided for free, as will most mundane supplies. 
Adventurers must be willing to work with a variety of individuals, open to command. Also, the killing of Goblins under Emperor Godart’s protection is strictly forbidden. Adventurers must be willing to refrain from killing Goblins.
 
Below was listed the location, Riverfarm, and the pay. Halrac stared at the numbers. Even for long-term duty, it was very, very low. Barely more than a few gold per adventurer per week. For a Gold-rank team?
Well, that wasn’t the least of it. The terms were—insane.
“The Unseen Empire? I’ve never heard of it. Is that—Riverfarm, now?”
“Yup. Some [Emperor] showed up out of nowhere. I heard a lot of weird rumors from there. Isn’t it hilarious. It was being shown around the Adventurer’s Guild for near a week. Mind you—some people would have jumped at the request if it wasn’t for the last bit about the monsters.”
Briganda snorted. Halrac glanced up.
“Really?”
“Oh yeah. That [Emperor] visited Invrisil, once. Left a big impression. Two Silver-rank teams went with him on some quest to his lands. Around mid-winter. Liked it so much they stayed. And there’s rumors this Godart fellow has some kind of seeing Skill. Knows whatever’s in his domain. But—Goblins?”
“Goblins.”
Cade repeated, and his little box of wonders produced some Goblins he instantly put on the table. Halrac saw a bevy of the [Knights] chasing the little green figures around, hacking at them. There was no blood, but—
“Stop that.”
Briganda saw Halrac tap the box. Cade’s expression went horrified as the Goblins disappeared.
“My box!”
“Halrac! Don’t do that to Cade. It’s okay, just make more.”
“No Goblins.”
The [Veteran Scout] looked at Briganda. He read the line again. The [Shieldmaiden] glowered at Halrac and then frowned.
“What’s gotten into you? We’ve smashed enough Goblin tribes before. ”
“Things are different now. I told you about the inn? It has a Hobgoblin. It—had more. This is an odd request.”
Halrac went back to reading as Cade glared at him and then produced some little Crelers, which his illusory [Knights] began to battle. Halrac looked at the assignment.
“Minimal pay. But a share of treasure…”
“That’s the funny thing. How much treasure are we getting? Treasure-finding? Eliminating [Bandits] is the work we’d be doing, I bet. And being a permanent militia. It’s clever, but that’s just an empty line.”
The [Scout] nodded absently. That was what he’d have assumed. But that last line…
“Maybe it’s worth looking into. We don’t have to accept. Riverfarm isn’t too far, and—we might go.”
Briganda looked up as Typhenous produced a coin behind Grev’s ear. And the boy’s money pouch in the other hand. Grev looked at the [Mage] with awe as the Plague Mage winked.
“Seriously?”
“I have a hunch. ‘No Killing Goblins’.”
Halrac’s mouth twitched. And he had a sense—this might be something. Briganda blinked a few times.
“Well, if Halrac the Grim has a hunch…it’s not far, yeah. Fancy that. Cade, we might get to visit an [Emperor].”
“What’s that?”
The boy looked up blankly. Briganda was scratching at her head when the door flew open.
“Grev! Grev!”
A boy shouted as he tried to kick past the [Bouncer], Redit. The man had him in one arm. Grev stood up.
“What’s up? Redit, that’s a pal. Let him in.”
The urchin tumbled past as the [Bouncer] grumbled. But Grev was of the Players of Celum and they were faces in this city, however new. The boy panted.
“Grev! It’s them! One of the [Hostlers] saw ‘em, the ant-fellow, the sniffing [Mage], and the half-Elf! Ceria! He didn’t catch ‘em, but they’re in the city!”
“What? Where?”
Grev’s eyes widened. Typhenous sat up and Halrac and Briganda turned. There was only one group with that description.
“The Horns of Hammerad?”
The old [Mage] looked at Grev. The boy was panting.
“Southwestern gate. Is there a reward? You said, six tickets—”
“One for the [Hostler]. I’ll give you one for running the information, but the rest only go to someone who brings me to them.”
Grev produced two glossy pieces of paper, and the young boy’s eyes went round. He snatched at one. And then Grev held out the other.
“Straight to the [Hostler]. It doesn’t disappear. [Street’s Honor].”
“I wouldn’t sell it! I’ll get it to ‘em—only let me out the back so I can get out!”
“This way.”
Grev led the boy out and then whirled around. His eyes were shining.
“Did you hear? The Horns’re here at last! Took them long enough! But if they’re here, that means so’s the magic door!”
“Yes indeed. This should be interesting.”
Typhenous stroked his beard, smiling broadly. Halrac didn’t smile, but he did lean back in his chair.
“Might be worth finding them to visit the inn. Briganda will want to see it.”
“Too right! These are the new Gold-ranks, right?”
“Yup. They’re an odd team. New, but competent. We should find them and join up; the Players will want to meet them too—”
Revi skidded into the inn around Redit as Halrac was trying to explain each member to Briganda.
“Halrac! Typhenous! I just heard that the Horns of Hammerad were in the city! Someone was talking about this giant bug and it has to be—”
Typhenous gave Revi a smile and she stopped.
“Grev just got word, Revi. The street moves faster than gossip. We were just thinking of finding them. It shouldn’t be too hard. I imagine the first thing they’ll do is visit the Adventurer’s Guild, right, Halrac?”
The [Scout] was nodding.
“That, or the [Enchanter], Hedault.”
Revi snorted, annoyed by the name.
“Good luck with that. We haven’t gotten more than an appointment in two weeks, and that’s just because we’re established names. There’s no way the Horns will…”
She trailed off. The [Summoner] looked at Typhenous and Halrac. Briganda sat up.
“Cade, sit on the table for a second. Halrac, is this a new Gold-rank team?”
“…Yes.”
The [Scout] frowned. He looked at the others. Briganda raised her eyebrows.
“Which means they’ll go to the Gold-rank section. First time?”
“Damn. We have to catch them.”
Revi shot to her feet. The other Gold-rank adventurers stood up. Grev looked confused.
“I was gonna go out and find them. What’s wrong?”
“They may not know how things work, Grev. Let’s go to the Guild. That should be their first stop. Briganda, can you leave Cade here?”
Griffon Hunt hurried towards the doors. Briganda pointed at the [Bouncer]
“Watch after Cade.”
“Me?”
The man protested, but the adventurers were already out in the street. To save the Horns from themselves.
The Horns of Hammerad were in Invrisil. And that news was worrying. To their friends in particular. Because if Invrisil was unprepared for magic doors and Erin Solstice—the new Gold-rank adventurers weren’t prepared for Invrisil.
They were used to Liscor and Celum. But Invrisil was one of the cities. It had rules which the Horns didn’t know about, even if they’d visited a few times. They might have been the big cheese in a small city, but in Invrisil?
There were rats.
 
—-
 
Pisces and Ceria walked into the Gold-rank section of the Adventurer’s Guild. Ceria was breathing a bit heavily. With nerves.
She’d already checked into the Guild and inquired after the families of the deceased. That had been hard, but the [Receptionist] had assured her they’d get in contact within three days’ time. Then—after verifying their rank, she’d pointed Ceria towards this room.
The Gold-rank’s bar and private area. It was, to adventurers, something of a holy land for anyone under Gold-rank status. A place everyone wanted to enter.
“Oh wow. I can’t believe we’re here.”
“Try not to gape, Ceria. Myself, I think it looks rather plain.”
“Plain? Shut your mouth, Pisces! I’ve dreamed of being in here! So has Yvlon!”
Ceria looked around the bar. It may have been just another room, albeit far more plush than the main room of the Adventurer’s guild, but there was the board with requests meant for Gold-ranks and higher. Worn, from all the many teams who must have touched it!
And the room had teams in it! They turned to see the two new adventurers. Ceria stared around as Pisces, cool as a cucumber in the shade, looked about. She knew she was gaping.
“Well, well. Fresh meat! Are you two lost or do you belong here?”
A swarthy man with a bandage on one shoulder stood up. He strode over with a swagger; Ceria saw him pass by a table of three half-Elves and three Humans, who looked up and dismissed him. The man walked over to Ceria.
“Name’s Todi. Captain Todi. And you’re what, greenhorns? Silver-ranks?”
“Gold-ranks, actually. We just arrived to Invrisil. I’m Ceria, Captain of the Horns of Hammerad.”
Ceria smiled. Todi glanced at Pisces. The [Necromancer] nodded.
“Pisces.”
Todi’s eyes flickered. He frowned.
“Name’s…familiar. Do I know you?”
“Not at all.”
“Well, you two are clearly new in Invrisil. Greenhorn’s stare. Know it anywhere. You have more teammates?”
The man’s presumptuous questioning made Ceria blink, but she was still riding a high from being here.
“That’s right. Two of our teammates are out, but—”
“Excellent. In that case, why don’t you get them and come back. Introduce yourselves properly and we’ll all have a drink.”
Todi smiled. He patted Ceria’s shoulder and gestured towards the door. Ceria stared at him.
“What?”
“It’s customary. New teams come in together. Buy everyone a round. Then, we talk. It’s respectful. Don’t worry, I’m just saving you some embarrassment. Not everyone would tell you. Off you go.”
He motioned them towards the door. Ceria blinked. She nearly turned, but Pisces just sighed.
“This reminds me of Wistram. Thank you. Todi, was it? You may buy us drinks if you wish. But we’re not staying around long. Let’s check out the requests, Ceria.”
He glanced past the man and walked past Todi. The Gold-rank adventurer’s face darkened.
“Hey. Rude fellow, aren’t you? Sure I don’t know you? You’re making a mistake.”
“And you’re being quite rude yourself. How do we know you are not new yourself, sir?”
Pisces looked back. There was a chuckle from around the inn. Some of the other Gold-rank teams were watching the spectacle. Todi blinked at Pisces. Ceria sighed.
“Excuse me. That’s my teammate. Pisces, be polite. Thank you—Captain Todi? But my other teammates are out.”
She walked past Todi as well. The man looked at the two Horns and shook his head.
“Brats. So that’s the new generation, huh? Don’t say I didn’t warn you.”
He walked back, chuckling to himself. Ceria felt a dozen pairs of eyes on her back. She hesitated—but Pisces was studying the requests board.
“Hm. Interesting.”
He appeared unaffected by the stares. But that was just because he was an excellent actor. Ceria looked at the requests. Or pretended to.
“Maybe we should leave.”
“And bow to a petty little tyrant? We can play their game, or not, Ceria. This is hazing, like the 3rd Year’s swim around the island. Remember?”
Ceria nodded glumly. Wistram had their own groups like this. But—she hesitated.
Everyone was watching. Pisces eyed a few requests, and then went to sit down. Ceria followed him. Conversation started back up, but she was aware of other teams glancing at them now and then. Amused. Todi was watching with his group.
No one went over to talk to the Horns, as they might in another guild. Ceria fidgeted.
“I think, Pisces—”
“Ignore them. I refuse to humor the man. I may have a drink. Then we can leave. Relax, Ceria. We belong here.”
The [Necromancer] leaned back and studied the bar’s menu. The other adventurers began talking, and Todi’s voice rose among them.
“So, as I was fucking saying, we should muster up and head south. We lost too much time to that damn [Witch]. And my team just healed up!”
“Head south? Maybe with one of the faster carriages. It’s not going to be cheap.”
“Then we pool our money. Sounds good?”
Todi was leaning on a table, talking with a few other teams. Ceria stood up.
“I’m gonna talk to them.”
“You’re making a mistake. You know what sort of man that is. Play their game or don’t, Ceria.”
“There’s such a thing as politeness, Pisces. Hello! Are you going after that Wyvern bounty as well?”
Ceria walked over. She smiled at another Gold-rank team. The woman glanced up as Todi turned his head. The half-Elf paused and smiled.
“I’m Ceria Springwalker. We were just from down south, around the High Passes. We arrived in Invrisil today.”
The woman shifted. She was athletic, clearly a [Warrior] and she carried a thin blade of some kind at her side. A [Fencer] type? She glanced at Ceria’s proffered hand; the half-Elf had hidden her left, skeletal hand in her robes. Always easy to talk about it later.
“…Jewel. Captain of Glitterblade. Pleased to meet you.”
But she didn’t take Ceria’s hand. The half-Elf wavered. Some of the other Gold-ranks who’d pulled their chairs out to join the discussion looked at her. Some amused, some blank-faced. Jewel hesitated. She glanced at Todi.
“Come back and introduce yourself properly.”
The man grinned at Ceria. She stared at him. She withdrew her hand slowly.
“Rank means a lot here, huh?”
“Gold-rank is something you earn. Even if you get certified, girl. And you two are definitely new.”
