The [Necromancer] sniffed. That was somehow reassuring to Yvlon; he hadn’t been replaced by some phantom taking his body.
“I seldom do. I find cooking quite inconvenient and time-consuming since I have few Skills. But it behooves one to know a few tricks of the trade. Cast-iron is a wonderful retainer of heat, incidentally. Ksmvr, some salt?”
“Here, Comrade Pisces.”
“And you found the rhubarb and other plants, Ksmvr?”
The Antinium that had been adopted by the Horns of Hammerad, whom Yvlon thought of like a younger brother sometimes, the one she had never known she wanted—smiled brightly.
“Yes, Yvlon. I have studied many edible plants as part of my training to become a Prognugator. And Comrade Pisces is a good cook. He has cooked many times, with things he has purloined. Or so he informs me.”
Pisces coughed hurriedly and turned his head. Yvlon narrowed her eyes, but Ceria was inspecting the tea.
“It’s sort of weak, but it’ll do. We’re sleeping in the wagon tonight, everyone. I was just telling Yvlon I doubt the magic door to Erin’s inn is open.”
“I could send a [Message]. I have the spell now. To that…Palt? Or Montressa?”
Pisces commented neutrally. Ceria chewed on her lip. She glanced at the wagon, part of which had been cannibalized.
“Nah, this isn’t bad. Besides…I want us to be in Invrisil before we see Erin, you know? Hey, who destroyed part of our wagon?”
Yvlon turned red. She looked at the fire, which she’d made. The food, water, everything else? Her team. She’d been about to suggest they all have a handful of seeds and dry flatbread and call it a night.
“I uh—I did. Sorry.”
“Lowers the resale value.”
Pisces murmured with a frown. Ceria waved it off.
“The Halfseekers bought the wagon, Pisces. It’s fine. Nice fire. Say—it’s getting a bit cold, isn’t it? Windy.”
Indeed, a wind was beginning to whip around Invrisil. Yvlon didn’t feel it on her arms, but her face objected to the sudden chill. She heard a curse—the young [Lady]’s fire had gone out. Another mark of inexperience; you couldn’t make most Skill-based creations last more than an hour. She needed actual firewood to keep the fire going.
Pisces frowned as he adjusted the pan. He was putting in shredded cheese and a bit of milk and watching his potato slices marinate.
“Inconvenient. Oh glorious captain, can you deal with that?”
“Sure.”
Ceria rolled her eyes. Yvlon got up quickly; she’d unhitched the horses and tethered them.
“I can help push the wagon against the wind—”
“Nah. My [Ice Walls] should do. They’ll last a few hours. I’ll recast as we sleep and we won’t notice once we’re out.”
Ceria drew her wand. The [Artic Cryomancer]’s pale eyes, like a winter’s chill, flashed as she pointed. Yvlon saw walls of opaque ice rising out of the ground. On all four sides, the ice rose higher. And then made a slanted roof overhead. Critically, Ceria added a few windows. And the ice house was done.
“There. Shouldn’t whistle with the winds in the background. And the campfire shouldn’t melt it.”
Yvlon stared about the temporary dwelling. Ceria had even included the wagon inside.
“…Won’t the ice drip over time? Even if the campfire doesn’t melt it?”
The [Warrior] lamely looked at Ceria. The half-Elf shook her head.
“Magical ice. It’ll just vanish if it does. Whoops! Good catch, Yvlon. Nearly forgot the chimney.”
The ice reshaped itself as Ceria pointed. Her mastery of her magic had improved; before she had only been able to conjure simple walls of ice. Ksmvr happily stared around.
“Very defensible, Captain Ceria. I will then take first watch. I see there are also spaces for cover that I might shoot our enemies through. I would expect nothing less.”
Pisces snorted as he checked on the potatoes. Ceria sighed.
“Ksmvr, we don’t need a guard. I mean—it makes sense. But we’re not in that much danger here.”
The Antinium [Skirmisher] thought about this.
“Ah, this would be part of our talks about ‘paranoia’ and ‘not alarming people’, yes, Captain Ceria? In that case, I will obey. And simply set up a few tripwires.”
He bustled out of the ice home’s door. Yvlon saw the Antinium produce lengths of thin string. And he hung a few bells on them that would jangle if anyone tripped over them, tying the strings to stakes he hammered into the ground.
One of the first things Ksmvr had bought with his share of the immediate profits from killing the Crelers and his adventures was more gear. He already had his personal bag of holding with a number of crossbows in it; Crossbow Stan’s legacy. But he’d added bells, two bear traps, and any number of gadgets to his repertoire.
And with that, their security for the night was taken care of. Yvlon would have wanted a watch, just in case. But between the ice house and Ksmvr’s traps…
The daughter of house Byres looked around. More people had set up camp, but the Horns of Hammerad’s camp was by far the most…luxurious. Ceria was laying out blankets in the wagon. Ksmvr was patting horses. Pisces pronounced his first bowl of potatoes done and the smell was making Yvlon’s mouth water. She decided to pour everyone some tea.
“Thanks for the fire, Yvlon. Really helped to come back to it.”
Ceria smiled at the [Armsmistress]. Pisces handed a bowl of food over.
“Yes, thanks are in order.”
He nodded. Ksmvr bowed his head slightly. Yvlon—waved her hand.
“…It was nothing.”
Humbling, surprising, but gratifying. The Horns of Hammerad sat about the fire and Yvlon realized—this was why she liked her team. They, including her, were a band of idiots. But they were united idiots. Teammates. She was laughing as Pisces began to complain about the flesh giant’s smell—muted by Ceria’s ice walls.
“I’m not saying I approve of the methods. I am just saying that it was inefficiently made! Solid flesh? You can make a framework and—no, I’m not endorsing killing that many people, Ceria! I’m just saying that if I were doing it—hypothetically—”
Dingaling.
The sound of a few bells ringing made the Horns of Hammerad look up. The adventurers immediately stood. From outside their fort, they heard a muffled curse. And then a voice.
“Excuse me! I’m unarmed! I just came to ask if you’d be willing to share some food? I can pay!”
The adventurers looked at each other. Ceria relaxed. Pisces—vanished.
The invisible [Necromancer] brushed against Yvlon and she glanced over his shoulder. He was at a window. Paranoia? Or sense? Ceria called out.
“Come on over, by all means!”
She stood. And that was when Yvlon saw the young woman she’d observed earlier.
The [Lady]’s dress was mussed from travel. And her hair was in disarray. More than that—she looked a bit saddle sore. Yvlon hadn’t seen a saddle on her horse. The young woman was wearing slippers, not riding boots.
Her clothing didn’t fit, Yvlon realized. And that made her suspect a [Thief]. But who wore what they stole? And for all that, she belonged in the clothes. She had a presence.
Her hair was jet black, mixed with fiery red and orange. Like embers in the smoke. Long gleaming hair, a strong profile—oh yes. Yvlon recognized the blood of a noble house at once. Many mothers had childbearing or bloodline Skills. Some fathers, come to that. The nobility and even royalty bred their offspring to be the best.
But the young woman was perfectly respectful. She bowed slightly, smiling with a touch of wariness as she held up a string with bells attached.
“I broke it, I’m sorry. I—hope I’m not intruding? I was wondering if I could—share the pot? I can pay, but I was locked out of the city with everyone else. And I don’t have supplies for the night…”
Her words were also a bit odd. Not as if she had a lisp, but rather the tone and wording themselves. She switched from authoritative to polite halfway through. Yvlon got the impression the young woman’s preference would have been to demand the adventurer’s food.
All heads turned to Ceria. The [Ice Mage] blinked, but she only had to look at Yvlon for a second before she smiled.
“Of course. Don’t worry about the money. We’re all stuck. I’ve never heard of Invrisil being closed. Come on in—we’ve got more than enough food. Come to that, I wonder if anyone else is hungry? I thought I saw some families.”
She looked at Yvlon. And that was why she liked Ceria. The [Armsmistress] half-rose.
“I saw a few families. I can check.”
The young woman was hesitating at the opening to the ice house. She looked at Ksmvr and then pretended not to be. Ceria smiled and waved her over.
“Come in, have a seat. Don’t mind Ksmvr. He’s…”
“Antinium.”
The young woman murmured. She walked forwards. Not afraid, but wary of Ksmvr. She studied him as Ksmvr raised two hands on his left side.
“Hello, I am Ksmvr. I am not a monster. Also, I do not eat people. I am an adventurer and perfectly safe.”
He’d been working on that introduction. It hadn’t ever quite worked beforehand, but the young woman nodded tightly. She sat on the other end of the fire as Ceria checked the pot. Yvlon was heading for the door when a figure bustled in.
“I’ve just done a quick circuit of the other fires. It looks like most people are well attended to—oh, hello. Who is this, then? A guest? Many people are sharing fires.”
Pisces smiled innocuously at the young lady. Maviola glanced at Pisces, and smiled in a friendly way as Yvlon stared at Pisces. He gave her a nod and stepped back.
“Thank you, I didn’t know where to go. I was about to ride back, but I was afraid my horse would stumble in the darkness.”
Maviola didn’t seem surprised to see him. Nor had she blinked at his sudden entrance as the rest of Pisces’ team had. The [Necromancer]’s [Invisibility] spell…hadn’t worked on Maviola El.
But no one noticed that. Ceria sighed as she stared at the browned cheesy potatoes, bubbling hot.
“Dinner’s ready! Don’t worry about paying. Miss…?”
“Maviola. And thank you. Are you sure you wouldn’t accept—?”
The half-Elf impatiently waved off the offer as she ladled the piping hot food into bowls and passed them around.
“We’ve got money. We’re adventurers, actually. The Horns of Hammerad. Any idea why Invrisil is closed?”
Maviola accepted a bowl, murmuring thanks. She shook her head.
“I heard there was a failed attack. That Flesh Giant. No casualties in the attack, but an entire village was…killed to make it.”
The Horns looked shocked. Pisces just counted as he moved his lips silently. You could make three if—Yvlon punched his shoulder and he winced.
“We had no idea. Where did it come from?”
“A [Necromancer], or so they say.”
Maviola’s face was guileless. She was dissembling, but she couldn’t have known how that comment would make the Horns wince.
“That’s not good. [Necromancers], huh? Sounds like whoever killed those people was a monster. Right, Pisces? I wonder who might have done that?”
The [Necromancer] burned his tongue on his food, but it really was delicious for such a simple meal. He put more potatoes into the pot to be seared as he thought out loud.
“I can’t think of any cult or group with the power to make a giant undead like that. It must have been a Level…40 [Necromancer]. Surely.”
Maviola’s head turned. She saw a chitinous hand waving at her and instantly recoiled.
“Would you like some salt, Miss Maviola?”
The Antinium was politely offering some salt in a packet to Maviola. The [Lady] hesitated.
“I—very well.”
Gingerly, she accepted the salt packet, taking care not to touch Ksmvr’s hands. And she looked at him. The Antinium was smiling, forgetting that most people had no idea of how to read his face.
The other adventurers noticed. Yvlon chewed, swallowed, and then spoke.
“Miss Maviola. Are you part of the noble houses of Izril, by any chance? Perhaps related to the House of El? Their matriarch is named Maviola.”
The [Lady] blinked. She looked up—and again, she was very good at hiding her feelings. Her eyes flickered.
“…Slightly, yes. I was named after Maviola El. And I’m a distant relation. Not that noble, but my family thought it was a good way of currying favor.”
Wariness. Yvlon instantly tried to clarify.
“I see. I just ask because I’m Yvlon Byres. Third Daughter of the House of Byres. I know a lot of the family names.”
Instantly, Maviola relaxed. Her expression cleared and a smile flitted across her features at last. She seemed to notice Yvlon’s arms again.
“House Byres? That’s an honorable lot. What is a daughter of the Byres family doing here? I know of a Ylawes Byres, a Gold-rank adventurer. Would you be…?”
“His younger sister. Gold-rank as well, actually. We were just promoted.”
“Really?”
The young woman blinked. She chewed on the burning-hot potatoes. Even Ceria, who would eat bugs, and Pisces, who would eat hot dishes, had to wait. Yvlon too. Only Ksmvr and Maviola seemed immune to the sheer heat of the food. The [Lady] looked around.
“Forgive me, but I didn’t know I was bothering a team of Gold-rank adventurers.”
“Forgive what? We’re not that big. And we just got promoted. I’m sorry, we haven’t introduced ourselves, have we? The Horns of Hammerad, adventurers from down around Celum. I’m Ceria Springwalker, the Captain. [Cryomancer]. Don’t mind the hand.”
The half-Elf waved her skeletal hand. Maviola blinked at it. Pisces bowed slightly.
“Lady Maviola, I am Pisces, a [Mage] from Wistram at your service.”
“Yvlon Byres, [Armsmistress]. My arms are recent too.”
Yvlon stared at Pisces. Ksmvr raised one of his hands.
“I am Ksmvr, formerly of the Free Antinium. But I was kicked out. I am a [Skirmisher] and the least-able member of my team. Hello!”
The young [Lady] was blinking at the introductions. Skeletal hand, silversteel arms—Ksmvr. She looked around.
“I am Maviola Imarris. Distantly related to the House of El and the Imarris family, but an offshoot branch. Not really of the high nobility, but I am a [Lady]. Thank you for gracing me with dinner.”
“Not at all. Heck of a thing, isn’t it? Invrisil being closed. Even if there was an attack, I can’t remember it ever happening in the years I’ve been in Izril.”
“It’s happened three times in recent memory. But it is rare.”
Maviola murmured. She was eating with a passion. Her eyes lit up as she savored each bite while trying to scarf at the same time. It was rather reminiscent of Ksmvr, actually. The sheer joy she had for the food made Yvlon envious, and she liked the meal.
“This is amazing food. Thank you so much for sharing it.”
“It’s not that excellent. But I have to admit, there is some pleasure in cooking a meal well. By all means, have seconds.”
