Garia was at the end of the pack. The fit City Runner looked like she’d dropped another few pounds. Erin blinked at her. This was more than just weight loss. She even looked more…lithe.
“Um—yeah. He’s having breakfast. Come on in, Garia! You’re looking good!”
“I know. Thanks, Erin!”
The young woman closed the door as Garia came through. Wailant sighed, and walked off. And then—Erin stared at the door.
“Curious and curiouser.”
The feeling hadn’t disappeared. Erin felt like something was calling to her from the door. Her eyes moved to two unused stones on the door. She kept trying one, on a hunch. The red stone that had belonged to the Redfang Goblins and Cave Goblins. But the other one? Her hand reached for it—
And then, Erin remembered.
“Pallass.”
Almost perfunctorily, she switched it to Pallass and threw the door open. Then she’d try—
Muscles stared down at her. Erin looked at the green wall of scale and sinew in front of her and blinked. Then she looked up. Grimalkin was standing in the doorway, arms folded.
“Miss Solstice.”
“Oh. Grimalkin! Hey! You want to come through?”
“Among others.”
The [Sinew Magus] stepped through. And Erin saw—six people waiting in line. She blinked. Octavia hurried forwards.
“Sorry! I’m late for my meeting with Master Saliss! Thanks for breakfast, Erin—I took some food for—”
“Halt! No entry without—”
“She’s on the list!”
Erin shouted at Kel. Grimalkin waved a claw and the [Guardsman] checked his list. Erin stared at the two Drakes, a Dullahan, and two Gnolls and a Garuda. She recognized none of them.
“Are they on the list?”
“They are.”
Kel informed Erin. She crossed her arms and smirked at him.
“How do I know?”
Sergeant Kel’s right eye began to twitch uncontrollably. The Drake [Sergeant] slowly turned his list towards her.
“But you could have just written that down. How do I know—”
“I don’t have time for this. Miss Solstice, kindly stop harassing Pallass’ City Watch.”
Grimalkin sighed. Erin looked at him.
“Oh, fine. Come on through! Anyone want to go to Liscor? Anyone for the Strongheart Farm? They’ve got good eggs! Esthelm?”
“Me! Me, please!”
One of the two Drakes pushed forwards. It was—Emessa. The Drake [Blacksmith] apprentice glanced at Erin.
“I’m going to Liscor, and then Esthelm. To look into—um—can I go to each? Do I have to pay…?”
“Nope! Free of charge! Which one first? Liscor? Through you go! And you just have to wait like ten minutes, tops, and the door will open! Have a nice day!”
Erin waved after Emessa. And then she smiled to herself. Aha! The other guests hurried past, staring at the inn, asking about the play.
And then—Erin turned back to the door and saw Grimalkin. He was standing there. Watching her.
She jumped. The [Sinew Magus] eyed Erin and then stared at the door that Emessa had hurried through.
“Miss Solstice. May I have a word? On behalf of…Pallass.”
Erin stared at Grimalkin. She looked at the door, and then at the [Sinew Magus]’s narked expression.
“Aw. What, am I in trouble?”
“Yes.”
 
—-
 
The inn was back to normal. Or rather—the pain had ceased. The danger was non-imminent. For now—the inn was peaceful.
And because it was, on such a day as this, Apista woke up. She was rather miffed as she flew around the Garden of Sanctuary. Someone had been having a good time. And it hadn’t been her. She’d rather enjoyed the sensations, but it wasn’t her mating.
And in fact, the Ashfire Bee had a purpose today. She flitted about the Garden, busily inspecting the growing plants. They were shooting up, thanks to a certain Gnoll [Druid] who was racing around the garden with her best friend, Visma. Ekirra was grounded due to throwing a ball through a window.
Soon, though, Apista flew towards the special hill at the back of the garden. There were no statues for her. But there were the flowers.
The Faerie Flowers bloomed in the garden, vibrant. Magical. The bee alighted on each, sucking up the nectar, spreading pollen.
Not getting high. A shock! An upset! The bee ingested the nectar, but it didn’t go into her stomach-stomach, but her other stomach. Her honey-stomach, which bees had and was separate from the digestion one.
Bee fact. And that was deliberate on Apista’s part. Now she was feeling better, she was working on her project.
Because Apista had a life. She was a bee who knew how to take care of herself, even if she and Lyonette were a pair. She had mixed feelings on the Pawn thing too, but at least Lyonette might increase the size of her Hive in time.
And when her second stomach was full, the bee flew off. She did a loop-de-loop out of the joy of flight as she flew up, through the garden’s roof. And she appeared on top of the inn.
A Worker Antinium stared as Apista flew past him. Belgrade, waking up and sitting in his room and marveling at his own Fortress of Fluff TM, saw Apista fly by his window. He waved.
Bird aimed his bow down from his tower in progress on the third floor.
“Oh. It is Apista. How disappointing.”
The bee flew through a window. Lyonette’s. Mrsha had been the only one asleep the entire night there. But the bee was a third occupant from time to time, although she had a lovely little nest in the Garden of Sanctuary. But today—she climbed up to the top of the dresser. And there, on the top, was a bit of…hive.
A few small, hexagonal cells made of propolis and other substances. Honeycomb. Just a few sections, nothing like an actual Hive with walls. The inn was her hive. And still, it was part of the Hive.
A crucial part. Apista crawled over to the little container. She had to process as her insides moved for a moment. And then—
Blergh. She vomited the contents of her honey-stomach into the little wax honeycomb cell. Apista regarded the nectar from the Faerie Flowers she normally liked to ingest. Then she began eating the contents of her stomach and chewing it up.
She was adding to it, making it into honey. This was the job of a worker bee in the hive, but Apista was a bee alone. And she was…different. Not a Queen, or a Worker, or anything else. So she was doing a full Hive’s job.
Chew, chew, chew—Ashfire Bees were good at making honey. So it wasn’t long before Apista felt it was time. She forced the new substance out of her honey-stomach once more.
Apista vomited a second time and regarded the syrup that would become honey with time. That was how bees made honey. Second bee-fact.
It was just a little bit. Not even enough to fill the cell up a quarter. So Apista covered the honeycomb with a bit of wax. She, in her vast intelligence, had made a removable lid! It still preserved the honey within.
Even with her labors, the end result wouldn’t be vastly impressive. It was her project. Just a bit of honey to pass the time away. She was a bee after all, and honey was food for the future. And it was fulfilling work.
Was it crucial? No. It didn’t really matter. It was just honey. Made from faerie flowers. Apista liked the labors of her work as she flew off to begin the laborious task of making more. She just wondered if she was doing it wrong. No one had ever taught her.
…Was honey supposed to glow like that?
 
—-
 
In the inn, a bee flew upside down past Erin’s head where she sat at a table with Grimalkin. The Drake and Human looked at the bee for a second. That was just Apista being playful, incidentally. And maybe a tiny contact high from all that processing. Just a buzz.
“…As I was saying, Miss Solstice. Stop poaching our best artisans.”
Credit to him, Grimalkin was by this point inoculated against minor weirdness at Erin’s inn. The [Innkeeper] sighed.
“I didn’t steal—”
“You were heard by a number of sources. And the Assembly as well as Pallassian leadership turned to me. Because we have a relationship.”
“Aw, stop, you. We haven’t even dated!”
Erin laughed and waved one hand. Grimalkin’s expression didn’t change.
“Pelt is considering moving to Liscor. On your suggestion. That is active poaching of an exceptionally high-level individual. Miss Solstice. This is what we would recognize as economic attack or even destabilization against the Walled City. A hostile action.”
The [Innkeeper] hesitated.
“N-no it’s not. I mean, I just suggested it. If he’s happy, it’s okay, right? It’s not a big deal, even if he moves. Right?”
The huge Drake leaned over.
“Miss Erin. I would not be here if it wasn’t a ‘big deal’.”
The young woman gulped.
“But…what do I do? Tell Pelt not to come?”
Grimalkin pinched at his snout, tiredly.
“Unfortunately, that isn’t how it works, Miss Erin. Pelt is a free individual. The wheels are in motion, to use a Pallassian term. I am telling you that you have done something that is jeopardizing your relationship with Pallass, and Liscor’s by proxy. There will not be any immediate consequences…especially if Pelt does not move. But it will not be forgotten.”
Erin looked at Grimalkin.
“What kinda consequences?”
“The kind that involve a Walled City blacklisting you. Or taking other punitive measures. Erin. Frankly speaking, I think you understand that it is better to have a Walled City on your side?”
“…Yes.”
“And you know your actions are punishable? You were jailed. The goodwill certain members of our society have towards you does not place you above the law. You understand that when I warn you, it is a true warning?”
“…Yes. I’m sorry.”
Erin hung her head. She felt her stomach twisting a bit. Grimalkin sighed. He drummed his claws on the table as Erin fidgeted.
“Pallass would like to be—strongly connected with The Wandering Inn, Erin. I’ve been aiming for that myself. This warning is, I hope, carefully taken, but without animosity.”
“You’ve been wanting Pallass to be buddy-buddy with the inn and Liscor? Aw, Grimalkin! I didn’t know you cared!”
Erin glanced up, smiling. The [Sinew Magus] looked at her.
“Why did you ask Pelt to begin with, Erin? You’re not a fool. You clearly knew…”
He broke off, eying her. Erin shrugged.
“I thought he’d be happier. That’s all. I mean, it would help Liscor. But I thought Pelt would like it more.”
“Just that?”
The [Mage] looked incredulous. And Erin gave Grimalkin a cheerful, and unsettlingly direct smile.
“Yes. Sometimes I like doing things that I think will make people happier. And do other things. But I like doing good things for friends. Is that strange for Pallass’ leadership to consider?”
The Drake narrowed his eyes. And the [Innkeeper] glanced at him.
“Why does Pallass like me, though?”
“Aside from the fact that you have a magical door?”
“…Oh. So the Walled City actually likes me?”
The Drake had a headache. How could someone be so intelligent and so obtuse at the same time? He saw Lyonette giving him a sympathetic shake of the head as she passed by. Grimalkin shook his head slowly.
“Affection has nothing to do with this, Miss Solstice. It’s about courting useful allies and individuals. Their relationship matters, but…this is a matter of forging connections. Do you—do you understand the basics of politics?”
“Um…you make laws?”
How much was deliberate? Erin turned as a welcome relief came for both sides. Drassi stopped at the table.
“One…Meat Supreme Sub…and two letters for you, Erin. Street Runner from Liscor.”
Drassi panted. She put down the gigantic disgrace to cuisine on the table. Grimalkin eyed the stacked meat.
“I heard people talking about it. Excellent. This is an absurd amount of meat you realize, Miss Solstice?”
“Yup. Are you…gonna eat all of it?”
Not even Palt and Beza and Numbtongue had managed anything close to one whole sub. Relc hadn’t come by, but—Grimalkin nodded.
“It’s hardly…elegant. But I’m still rebuilding my body to its optimal condition. I’ll digest it—I may need more drinks.”
“Coming up! Drassi, water! And—aw, it’s just more of the spam letters.”
Erin sighed. She looked at both letters, addressed to her. Grimalkin eyed embossed lettering and rather delicate penmanship.
“Spam?”
“Mhm. Junk mail. You know—it’s like Pallass courting me. Wait—these can’t be real, can they?”
Laughing, she showed him one of the letters. Grimalkin choked on his bite. The letter was from Oteslia—the other from Manus. Erin waved both as she began to fold one to make an airplane for the fireplace. Then she thought better; Mrsha liked drawing on the backs.
“I keep getting them. Invitations. You know, ‘would you like to visit Oteslia? Travel and lodging paid for a week!’ I dunno, it looks like a tourist advertisement.”
The [Sinew Magus] just stared. He began thinking, and then slowly, nodded.
“They sent letters addressed to you. And you think…? No, you’re absolutely right. Another piece of the puzzle. [Tourist]? Where is that a common class in…?”
He was adding to his notes on her. Erin scowled. She liked Grimalkin. He was sort of a jerk at times, but she thought he was a genuinely good person.
But like Xrn—she wasn’t a Pallassian. And she didn’t trust him. Heck, Erin slightly regretted telling some of her other friends. How many knew or suspected? And they didn’t know…
“Wait, these aren’t real offers, are they? No one just pays for people to visit! Why me?”
“Why indeed.”
The Drake gave Erin a searching look. But her confusion was genuine, which in turn genuinely confused him. Erin stared down at the letter. And part of the problem was that she didn’t think of herself as…important enough to be sent an offer like this. She laughed a bit.
“No way. Right?”
That was Erin Solstice. She felt the tugging again, from the door. And she turned her head. On days like this, there was so much she missed. So much she saw through.
And it was coming. Can you feel it in the air? Erin could. But what, she didn’t know for certain. She had plans. Plans that involved, yes, advantage to Liscor, to her inn. But also making Pelt happier. And luring him out of a city so she could ask about magic rings.
Because Dwarves probably knew about magical rings. Or was that racist? And her coin. And…
Was it today? Invrisil awaited. The gates were opening, and the Horns of Hammerad stood in line, speaking with a young [Lady] who had lived in an era when three times as many nobles ruled Izril. And—was it now?
The City of Adventurers. As famous as Pallass, the City of Invention. But if Pallass had begun to take note of the temptress in her garden, the other city was unprepared.
Unsecure. Unable to comprehend what waited. A laughing trickster that mocked law and tradition.
The door entered the city. And it called to her.
