In the darkness, there was fire. And fire, that elusive, dangerous thing, was brightest as night fell around Invrisil.
It was a horrible thing. It could burn the land to ash. But it was also essential. And it was at its most beautiful when the shadows closed in.
Fire. A contradictory thing. It blazed in a young woman. If you looked at her and saw, you could witness it. An old flame, emitting one last surge of radiance.
For the [Lady] remembered. And fire was like memory. They had called her Lady Firestarter, once.
She watched as another spark of fire blossomed. This was mundane light. But no less welcoming for it.
Outside the gates of Invrisil, an adventurer was starting a fire. A woman wearing somewhat battered plate armor, well-maintained, but clearly damaged from fighting, was attending to it.
There wasn’t that much tinder to be found lying around Invrisil. It wasn’t as if she could jog towards the nearest forest miles distant and find the waiting sticks and logs of wood pre-chopped on the ground. And trees didn’t actually like to burn that easily.
So she’d had to improvise. She had pried off sections of the rickety wagon the adventurers had been riding in. The guardrails, taken her sword to the back of the wagon—
They were burning their ride. But they’d come to their destination, so the wagon was so much scrap. It was, in fact, a very practical action. And Yvlon Byres only despaired that other people weren’t capable of thinking on their feet. And that number included her team.
“What do you mean, the city’s closed? The gates never close!”
A [Trader] was wailing at the [Guards] on the gate. One of them shouted down as the others ignored the plaintive voice. A crowd was milling around the shut gates.
“Mayor’s orders, sir! The city was attacked less than a week ago! There’s a travel restriction—whomever sent yonder giant at our walls is still out there!”
He pointed. Every head turned to the decomposing flesh giant in the distance. It was being burned. But flesh liked to burn even less than wood, and the thing was massive.
The [Trader] paled.
“But what are we to do?”
“Find an inn. Come back in the morning.”
The [Captain] was unhelpful. The crowd milled about. Yvlon watched, sighing as she fed the small blaze she’d created with some flint and tinder.
“What a mess. Invrisil almost never gets attacked. Let alone closes the gates.”
She remarked to no one in particular. Her teammates had wandered off the instant they realized they weren’t getting into the city that night. They might still be milling around the gates. But the [Silversteel Armsmistress] had immediately taken stock of the situation. She’d moved the wagon off the road, set up a small camp.
She was an adventurer. And unlike the distressed [Trader] who was terrified of having to camp with his valuables outside, Yvlon was already planning out a night in the open. It wasn’t hard; they didn’t have a tent, but they could sleep in the wagon or under it if it rained. She wished they’d kept the outdoor tents adventurers brought, but they had blankets aplenty.
She’d started the fire, checked their supplies. Another mistake; they had little more than dry rations, but with some water from a well somewhere, they’d make do. A bit of hunger never killed anyone. Well—a bit.
And Yvlon would dig a latrine. Maybe Ksmvr could help with that; he was Antinium. The [Armsmistress] glanced about.
“Where are they? I swear, if Pisces gets caught trying to go over the walls…”
She grumbled under her breath. Her team. She loved them. But they were a disaster of a group in some respects. She still remembered the eggs incident. Food poisoning! For nearly two days she’d had to herd her teammates around. And they could get into other trouble as well.
Ksmvr, at least, had the excuse that he was three. Ceria and Pisces on the other hand? [Mages]. And while Ceria wasn’t as arrogant or inclined to causing mischief as Pisces, she could be just as crazy.
Yvlon’s old team hadn’t been that bad. They’d had characters, but—actually, no. Compared to the Horns, they’d been as interesting as dirt. Yvlon had never walked in on one of the Silver Spears rolling around in a pile of treasure. That had happened twice with her teammates. First Pisces and Ksmvr, and then Ceria who’d heard about it and wanted to try it out.
“Let’s see. Fire’s good.”
The [Armsmistress] critically examined the fire. She added some more wood, fearlessly inserting her hand into the fire. Because her hands and arms up to her shoulder weren’t flesh.
They were a strange metal, a mix of silver and steel, hence her class. And the metal imitated her arms perfectly. Down to the curvature of her muscle; they even flexed and tendons rippled as she adjusted the fire.
Metal like flesh. Or rather, metal that had replaced her flesh. Yvlon could even feel the heat; she felt exactly how hot it was. But the sensation was removed from the burning she would have experienced normally. It was passing strange.
Yet, here were her arms. And they were far better than the crippled mess she had been resigned to a month ago. Yvlon inspected her hands as she took them out of the fire. She touched her leg and burned herself.
“Ow.”
Her arms kept the heat of the fire. Yvlon stared at them, slightly exasperated, slightly…
She’d had time to get used to them. But how much time was enough? These were her arms. And they were beautiful.
And foreign. They were lovely art. People stared at them when they met Yvlon, even more than her features, which had always been the case beforehand. They told her how beautiful she looked.
But she was Yvlon, not art. She would have admired her arms too. But they were hers. And that changed everything.
Nevertheless—she had her team. That was what mattered. Grumbling and looking around for them now, Yvlon made sure the fire wouldn’t spread and then dusted her hands. She looked about.
The smart visitors to Invrisil, the City of Adventurers, were on the move. [Farmers] were taking their goods back, bemoaning the lost time, but with homes to visit. Or—they were heading back down the road to find lodging.
Some were milling about. Unable to cope with events so dramatic and profoundly troubling to their way of life as being locked out of a city for a night. They’d make poor adventurers. Yvlon had some sympathy for them, but it had limits. They were all adults. They had to take care of themselves; if they couldn’t handle this, how could they even live in this world where monsters might attack out of nowhere?
The uncharitable thought gave Yvlon some pause. Of course, it was the Byres way to give aid to anyone in need. Her brother would, at this very moment, be organizing everyone, making sure no one went hungry. He was like that.
But she wasn’t. Yvlon sighed as she watched a family milling about. Well—maybe they could share their rations. Such as they were. Just a few mouthfuls of some seeds Ceria had bought to snack on, some flatbread, two days old…where could she find food?
“And where is my team?”
The Gold-rank adventurer complained. She looked around and spotted a young woman tethering her horse to a rock. She was well-dressed, in a somewhat ill-fitting noblewoman’s garments. But they were expensive and Yvlon imagined the young woman—around her age—was a [Lady] of some sort. At least of the landed gentry. But she seemed industrious. Industrious and inexperienced, that was.
She’d started a fire. A brilliant flame on the ground. But—Yvlon frowned. There was no firewood. Some Skill? The young woman had left her horse some grazing room and tied it securely, but now she was rummaging around. And she clearly had nothing to eat or anywhere to stay.
A traveller for a day. Yvlon shook her head. Now, Ylawes, or her father, Yitton Byres would be trying to figure out how to feed everyone. Ylawes would raise his voice, stride into the road, and tell everyone he’d watch out for them. Yvlon didn’t have that kind of courage. Her older sister did, and Ylawes—but of different sorts.
“Hah—Ysara would be selling them food. And Ylawes…did Pisces go looking for a way into the city? We have to bring the door.”
One of the objects in the wagon was a wooden door, inset with a magical stone. It should have been the first candidate for burning, rather than the wagon, which could be sold. But Yvlon hadn’t touched it. Because it was a magical door.
And they were nearly at Invrisil. So nearly. But one last hurdle eluded them, after a long while of small adventures. Fighting off natural stone golems, experiencing food poisoning—hostility against Ksmvr as a member of the Antinium—Yvlon sighed.
“If only we could hop through the door. But—no, that would never work. It wouldn’t be able to take us all, anyways. Just two of us at best, right? Still—”
She rolled her eyes.
“Pisces would demand to be first. And Ceria. So Ksmvr and I get to guard the wagon. I suppose that’s better than listening to Pisces grumble all night. Hm.”
She reached for the door. In the darkness, other people were setting up camp outside the walls. Yvlon coughed as some of the foul odor of the burning flesh giant in the distance wafted to her. She reached for the door’s handle—
“I wouldn’t do that, Yvlon. The door won’t activate. And even if it does, I think we’re good.”
A female voice. Yvlon Byres’ head turned. She saw a half-Elf, her hair shining by firelight. The [Cryomancer] smiled as Yvlon straightened. And she was different too.
Ceria’s eyes were pale. And the air was colder around her. Just a bit. If she lost control, it turned to ice, and it might even snow in her presence. One of her hands was skeletal. And the [Ice Mage]’s magical powers in her element had grown even stronger of late. She was also carrying something.
“What? I thought you’d want to try the door, Ceria.”
Yvlon gestured at the door. She saw the young noblewoman looking around and cursing, clearly unsure of how to find food at this hour. Ceria grinned.
“What, me? I can sleep outdoors one day. And I doubt Erin’s attuned her door to ours. It won’t open if she doesn’t set the stone, remember? We’ll have to [Message] her. You can try it, but I think we’re stuck for the night.”
“Oh. Right.”
Yvlon lamely opened the door. And of course, nothing happened. She sighed. There went one of her food options.
“Where did Pisces and Ksmvr go?”
“I have no idea. But I’ve got water.”
“What?”
The [Armsmistress] looked up. Ceria held up something. Her bag of holding.
“I went to find some. First things first, we need water, right? I don’t know how much food we have, but conjuring water is a pain. Magical ice you can’t eat, so…here. Enough to fill the pot a few times.”
She held out the bag of holding. Yvlon blinked. She peered inside.
“Did you pour the water inside? It’ll get—”
“I took everything else out first. I’m not an idiot, Yvlon. Shame we don’t have a bag of holding with multiple pocket-spaces. Anyways, it’s simpler to find a river, like I did than to keep conjuring water. I’m a [Cryomancer] after all; I sensed it. Did you make that fire? Nice!”
Ceria sat down with a smile and began to warm herself. Although it was mostly for pleasure; she felt little cold anymore. Yvlon blinked at her friend.
Ceria Springwalker, Captain of the Horns of Hammerad. She was a good leader in a fight and the most easygoing of all of them, but Yvlon had never really thought she was this resourceful. But she forgot—Ceria had lived in a forest growing up.
“Well, did you see Pisces and Ksmvr?”
“Nope. But I’m sure they’re just scoping out things.”
Yvlon doubted that. But—her uncharitable thoughts about her team’s expertise in a survival environment were shattered yet again. Because out of the darkness emerged a glowing [Light] spell. And there was a young Human man, dressed in white robes, a rapier at his side, and an Antinium Worker.
At her fire, the young [Lady] raised her head warily as the two approached. But Pisces, for all his newfound power, looked like…Pisces. And until he sniffed or sneered or conjured an undead creation, he was actually fairly handsome. As for Ksmvr—he was a Worker. And they were both carrying armfuls of—food?
Yes, food. Pisces put an armful of potatoes on the wagon’s back—enough to feed everyone dinner and then some. Ksmvr had a jug of milk, a half-wheel of cheese, and a small jar filled with strong-smelling spices among a few other sundry ingredients. Pisces pulled a few more items out of his pockets, some onion, a bit of wrapped butter, as Yvlon stared.
“Where have you two been? I thought you were looking for a route over the walls! And where did you get that food? Don’t tell me you—”
Pisces glanced up at Yvlon. He shook his head, mystified.
“We stole nothing, Yvlon. Rather, I was securing our dinner. Ksmvr helped me carry the lot.”
“I have also found some natural growing rhubarb and an herb I believe is known as basil out of the ground, Miss Yvlon. I had also dug up a number of nutritional worms, but Comrade Pisces believed they were unnecessary.”
The Antinium watched as Pisces fished around in the team’s belongings. He had a bag of holding too and he came over to the fire with a pot, cast-iron kettle, and nodded at Ksmvr.
“Ksmvr, peel those potatoes. We can cook the food in here. Where’s the butter…?”
“Here. What are you making?”
“Hm. I have no idea. Cheese and potatoes were all we could get. I intercepted some of the [Farmers] and this was cheapest. Brown the potatoes with the butter, add in a bit of the milk and cheese?”
“Mhm. Any meat?”
“None.”
“Damn. I’ll live. Ksmvr, how tasty were the bugs you found?”
“Mostly worms, Captain Ceria. I can retrieve them if you’d like.”
“…Nah. Nah, I’m good.”
Yvlon watched in a minor state of shock as the rest of her teammates gathered around the fire. Ksmvr peeled potatoes with all three hands as Ceria levitated a few ingredients to Pisces. He was gently heating the cast-iron pan and cooking the first of the potato slices in the butter before she came to her senses.
You could know someone, and not know someone. Her teammates had changed so much since she’d met them, but still—Pisces sat by the fire. And he grumbled about the weight of the cast-iron pot, and began to levitate it instead of holding it. And he was browning the potatoes as he made an impromptu meal of cheesy potatoes. Ceria was making some tea in a kettle, and Ksmvr had found more wild plants to add to the meal.
Yvlon had assumed prior to this moment that if they were ever dropped without her in the middle of a forest, her team would starve—or Ceria and Ksmvr would eat Pisces.
“I had no idea you could cook, Pisces.”
