The pure and consolidated unique ancient glyphs that have been refined to perfection after over a hundred billion years are now being imprinted back into the very ether pathways that nurtured them.

All of the tree's roots that wrap around the Lower Realm become more robust and shimmer with green and blue glyphs. The entire ether pathways glow bright white with the vitality that they did tens of billions of years ago.

Even the sturdy trunk of the tree within the Upper Realm, and the long branches and leaves in the Purple Zone that house many of the domains of the most prominent races in this era—

A hot and soul-nourishing wave of ether flows outward to fill every zone of the Upper Realm, perfectly coinciding with the release of flawless-grade ether out into the membrane to flow back into Maria and my main forms.

These are the most extreme soul tie deaths we have ever felt. They alone are releasing an equivalent amount of ether that the last few billion years' worth of deaths have granted us.

There is also a noticeable fluctuation of laws that bend the fabric of space throughout this release of ether.

It is directly affecting every single lifeform that it manages to pass through, instantly healing every link of loyalty of their ailments, restoring them to their peak condition, and even raising their natural talents.

The residual laws of the Immortal Healer and the Last Blue Wyvern are being left behind in far more ways than one.

The entire Construct surrounding the Origin Plane quivers, and even the fabric of the membrane ripples as though it is paying its respect to a pair of mortal lifeforms that have made it this far.

The bends in space where the Primordial Tree of Life has made its home within the Origin Plane grow deeper, as this last burst of strength has permanently altered minor laws of reality.

It reminds me of when Maria and I formed our Immortal Cores, withstanding the explosive nature of rippling laws being altered and adapted to our minds, bodies, and souls. Of course, this was an immense event, with one single ripple being millions of times greater than what has transpired before us here right now.

Yet, they have not just lived out their lives within the natural means and rules that were provided. Without a doubt, they have subtly altered the true laws of the entire universe in their own way.

Our avatars made of Emperor's Essence fade back into the membrane in order for this process to finish in its natural manner.

We pull on the remaining soul ties as more white mist seeps out of the Construct, and watch from afar.

This whole reaction vibrates in the depths of my mind, bringing with it a strange collection of memories that I have already sorted in my Immortal Mind Palace in the past.

They are memories that I have seen quite a few times before, linked directly to my sword. This faint ripple in the laws, created by beings that are not past wielders, has been recorded and sorted already.

I did not realize their full significance until now. Their remnants are not only memories passed on to me in my mind, there is real physical proof of their existence meticulously stored away deep within the Ravine below the Cyan Zone.

They coincide with the artifacts I once scanned and came to the conclusion that they were not from this universe. They were artifacts somehow brought along from past iterations of this sword and wielder's life.

My eyes widen in the membrane, and I release another drop of Emperor's Essence to plunge an avatar back into the Upper Realm.

As the red drop of energy manifests beside Maria's mirror-like icy form deep within the dark passageways of the Ravine's data collection caves, the passage of time is extremely noticeable. It was only a matter of seconds that flew by in the membrane since Abby and Seraphel's passing, but a full trillion years has just been ripped away from the Origin Plane, and the remains look almost unrecognizable.
