Shiv reverted himself back across time, blinking into perfect shape where his temporal echo was. His Chronomancy field began to splinter, but that didn't matter. He had wounded the Vicar. And he knew this was an enemy he could kill.

This was a fight he could win.

Strider of the Unbending Path 151 > 152

Damaging Sullain’s spiritual skill had put him on the defensive, and now Shiv's enemy was vulnerable to an entire domain of magic: the Vicar no longer had a stranglehold over time.

Shiv dismissed his temporal shell as he shot through the air once more. The Vicar reeled, screaming in pain as he clutched at himself. Parts of his physical body fell away, but Shiv knew that wasn't where he was wounded.

"NO!" the Vicar shrieked. "How… how could you damage my skill?!"

The Vicar’s wails brought a swell of warmth into Shiv in Shiv’s heart. Sullain’s head snapped toward Shiv—ignoring the deluge of magic hammering into him. Part of his body twisted and cracked, but a great deal of the magic simply flowed through Sullain. Shiv narrowed his eyes. He'd seen that effect when facing a dragon. Sullain’s body was made of magically conductive materials.

Best way to finish you is brute force, then.

Awareness 46 > 47

Sullain held up a hand, gathering the forces of Necromantically-charged gravity, and the same hand was knocked aside as Bonk suddenly appeared once more, bursting out from a rift of Dimensionality. A wave of cascading mana was unleashed, but not towards Shiv. Rather, it tumbled across the sky, ripping a path through distant clouds and reaching across the horizon.

The Vicar's body shook. He let out a screech as he ignited himself, but the flames that spilled out from him were black and lined with static. As attacks splashed against the Vicar, they faded out of existence. They were displaced entirely, emerging behind Sullain or not at all. Bonk vanished from sight.

At the same time, Sullain’s other hands began to perform a series of rapid and intricate gestures, but it wasn't the motions that caught Shiv's attention. It was the swelling of power.

A chain of Biomancy formed along his skeletal hands. A chain that glistened with so much mana, Shiv felt his mouth run dry. The Vicar was outputting so much power that it somehow made even the Composer’s magical workings seem pathetic.

The Biomancy rushing out from Sullain rivaled the light of his corrosive sun, and there were so many microspells lining the Biomantic construct that Shiv couldn't even begin to fathom what it was.

Then Sullain grasped the construct and twisted.
