"What?" The worm-thing said at the same time. Leo winced at the cacophany of noise that assaulted his ears; he'd only barely understood that word, and he was pretty sure it wasn't speaking any language he knew.

Again, this would have been a lot more terrifying if Cale hadn't accidentally led them into a language-scrambling trap two weeks ago.

"I'm kind of busy," Cale said, gesturing to the... was that Cale's echo-clone? Why in the world were they cuddling? "And you're better with mazes than I am. Blood-That-Crawls over here is casting a sacrificial spell that's going to kill it; I need you to navigate the spell construct and get to the core. Then just blast it or something. You should be able to destabilize it."

"Oh," Leo said dully. "Is that all?"

"Pretty much," Cale agreed.

"Can I ask what's... you know, what's going on with all this?" Leo asked. He started to gesture at what he meant, paused, then just flopped his hands in Cale's general direction.

"Oh!" Cale said. "You know how the soul acts as an inviolable barrier that prevents a mage from just reaching into another mage and manipulating their mana?"

"Yes...?"

"Well, in order to delay that sacrificial spell, I have to prevent Blood-That-Crawls from absorbing Echo here," Cale said. "And it just so happens I know this trick that lets you expand your soul a little bit. So I'm keeping my soul wrapped around Echo, which will keep them both safe until you do your thing."

Leo stared at Cale, stricken. Was the man serious? His expression was light and casual, and he spoke as if nothing was wrong, but Leo knew what that meant.

He'd read dozens of books about mages experimenting with the nature of the soul, looking to find a way to expand its boundaries. It was at the forefront of magical research, in large part because souls and mana cores were intrinsically linked; success would mean gaining a consistent, repeatable means of expanding any given mage's mana reserves.

But Cale didn't need to expand his reserves.

It was the last thing he needed. He'd been working for all this time to gain better control of his mana, and Leo knew from the time they'd spent together how much he celebrated every step forward. They'd even held a little party right before Cale left to handle affairs with House Greenthistle, all because he'd managed to scrap out one iota of extra control. Almost enough to push down to fourth-tier spells, which would open a new range of magics up to him.

Had he given all that up just to save... was this not the monster that had caused all this? Leo could feel the connection between it and the copy, and his mana sense told him its magic was the same as the kind that suffused the library's wounds.

"Why?" Leo asked helplessly. "You worked so hard—"

"And I can always do it again," Cale said with a shrug and a small smile. "Still going to need your help, though."

"I don't understand you sometimes." Leo sighed, but stepped up to the worm-thing anyway. "Fine. But I might have an easier way to do this. Just show me the spell construct, if you can."

There was no realm in which palewater could affect wyldfire, and even with the time getting here had taken, he hadn't regenerated enough mana to destabilize a spell construct as Cale suggested. Leo became especially aware of this the moment the serpent began to peel apart, revealing a vibrant core of wyldfire and the complex maze of a spell matrix tangled into it.

A palewater [Asterion's Gaze], as powerful as it was, would have no effect on a wyldfire construct. This was the tyranny of the hierarchy of magic as he understood it.

But then there were the creatures that defined that hierarchy. The Monoliths, those embodiments of cosmic law, were one of them. Cale Cadwell Cobbs was another. The Abyssal Ones simply existed outside of it, bound by their own rules external to the hierarchy.

And then there were the Named, who defied it entirely.

[Asterion's Gaze, Level 1] [Sixth Tier, Active] [8,000 Mana]

Take active control over any part of a labyrinth that falls within your sight. This spell allows you to freely manipulate anything that would be broadly perceived as part of a labyrinth.

At the cost of a Favor, call on the Named Asterion to bestow his personal attention onto a labyrinth of your choice.

Favors remaining: 1

This spell is but a fraction of the Labyrinth.

At the heart of the Labyrinth, Asterion awaits.

Leo had no idea why Asterion apparently owed him a favor. Quite frankly, he hated the thought, and he despised Asterion for what the Named had done to his people. But if Cale was willing to sacrifice his progress for this...

Well, it was a small price to pay.

I'm claiming my Favor, Leo thought. Break the damned spell.
