Her admiration for Cooper swelled like the noontide. To be able to squeeze [Traits] from a [System] as stingy as hers was an amazing feat for an instructor. If she had to roulette for the skill, lord knows how many units of karmic capital she had to burn.

For now, all she could do was silently thank her instructor. In the future, she would repay the man tenfold.

Their final hour was returned to their homeroom instructor, Dr Costello. As the heart of the trio of instructors, he continued to break down the speeches of Antigone and Ismene, this time having the boys perform lines from King Creon.

Discussions were held about Creon’s rule as the head of state and the head of a civil system. And a journal review of his characterisation was set as homework.

Back in the hallway, Eppie was once more drowned by the ritual of students stripping off their sweat-soaked all-blacks for the more colourful casual wear they wore to go home. The overpowering profundity of hormones and excessive body spray was nauseating, and she survived only by making her way outside as soon as possible.

This time, she had a quest for herself.Unlike regular schools that seldom held stock of books, CSULA possessed far more resources than any elite private preparatory school could begin to imagine. Once she trudged home to shower and change, she emerged again in unmarked tees, a breezy skort and K-mart Nikes, carrying an enormous tote.

Then she simply went to the College Counselling Office half a kilometre from the LAPA hub, where she charmed her way into multiple copies of multi-year AP Physics Prep Packs using her pretty privilege.

After that, she went to the school library and borrowed a multi-year series of AP Japanese listening, writing, and speaking exam recordings on CD-ROM from the reserve collection.

Her final stop was the Co-OP bookshop, where a very eager college part-timer tried to chat her up by giving her as much advice as humanely possible on the nature of quality second-hand annotations.

Unnerved by the boy’s hopeful eyes, she quickly left with books in tow for the Student Union’s dining hall.

At this time of the day, LAPA’s students were just readying to return home from their volunteer practice. Among the university’s own students, her peers manifested as a strange phenomenon, like Hogwarts students sitting at a popular Muggle bar. Over yonder were the dance students, long-limbed and athletic, attention-drawing in their leotards, tracksuits and hyperbolic body language, dominating their side of the arena. At the musician’s corner, students noisily talked, hummed, or engaged in percussive contests using their utensils.

In her corner, where she had gravitated to the Theatre kids, kids were doing their homework, marking scripts, or practising lines.

And among all of this, CSULA’s students ate, read their phones, or studied, completely oblivious that they were among an invasive species from another universe.

From an industrial-grade Panda Express, Eppie ordered food for three, then returned to her table.

She ate with eyes open and ears alert, hoping for some extraordinary encounter with her former tormentors, only to eat in complete peace, save for a few “Theatre” friends who stopped to say hi and joke about her suicide-chilli Laksa.

The latter was her favourite. After all, her [Pain Suppression] was B+.
