Kon stared at Lute. “Will you really ask your uncle or are you just saying that?”


“Why would I lie? I like your brother,” said Lute. “He’s always been nice to me. I’ll annoy Corin for him.”


“Most of us were nice to you. I’ve never been anything but nice to you.”


Lute felt a crack, just the smallest chink, in his diamond skin. Careful now, he thought. Careful.


“I guess,” Lute said slowly, “that I don’t mean nice. I mean that your brother acts like he sees me every now and then.”


And you never have.


“I thought he’d hate you,” said Kon. “When I told him about the dice. It seemed like the kind of thing that would make him hate you. He gets mad about stuff like that…but you’re right. He still gets along with you for some reason.”


He slammed his locker door. “Anyway, thanks for asking for him. He’s freaking out about his selection day.”


Lute went to class.


Conversation with a Mandarin speaker in one of the language exchange booths. Calculus 1. Chemistry.


Does anyone actually need to memorize the half-life of actinium? When is this going to be useful? When is this going to be useful in a situation where we don’t have a computer handy to look up the answer?


He was in the second row from the back, trying to draw a picture of what Angela Aubergine would look like if she were a girl with that name.


When I color it in I’ll give her purple hair obviously…does that make her look too Artonan? Maybe a purple t-shirt?


His whole body spasmed. His pen dropped from his hand and thumped onto the notebook.


Lute froze in his seat. What was that?


Some kind of…tiny seizure? Was he hurt?


I think I feel fine.


He didn’t reach for his pen, though. Is it going to happen ag—


“Hello, Lute,” a voice whispered in his ear. “In 1963, the peoples of Earth accepted an infusion of magic and technology, as well as a promise of future protection, as part of an agreement with the Artonan Triplanetary Government. In doing so, Earth became an Artonan resource world, with all the accompanying rights, privileges, and responsibilities afforded by that designation.”


Oh, though Lute. Oh, those assholes are at it again.


He guessed a few months of quiet cold-shouldering from his classmates was more than he should’ve expected.


This was the System’s selection speech. Everyone knew it verbatim.


He would not react. Not another flinch. He picked up his pen calmly and went back to drawing Angela.


“As part of this alliance,” the voice continued quietly, “Earth is required to deliver a number of suitable individuals into contractual servitude. You have been selected for this honor. You may refuse to sign your planet’s version of the Interdimensional Warriors Contract out of personal principle, and your objection will be taken into consideration hereafter. Ultimately, however, you may not refuse to serve.”


I wonder which of them it is.


Declan, Carlotta…someone else finally retaliating for me shoving the scariest parts of their future in their face?


“Upon signing, you will become one of your planet’s Avowed.”


They were probably using one of those devices that magically directed sound into a single person’s ear. There were toy versions, but this was extremely realistic. Someone who’d borrowed it from a parent maybe?


“As a signing bonus, you will receive an additional gift. Refusal to sign will result in the loss of this bonus.”


This is so savage of them, thought Lute. Before I was made of diamond, it might have broken me.


“Upon becoming one of the Avowed, you will be subject to summons, for emergency and non-emergency purposes, by members of the Artonan wizarding classes. By Artonan law, all Avowed are justly rewarded for any service rendered.


“Your rank has been determined. Your class has been randomly assigned based on the Triplanetary Government’s current requests. You have ninety Earth days to sign the Contract of your own free will. During that time, you may trade your class with equivalently ranked selectees from your own planet. Once affixed, your class assignment is immutable.”


Anesidora flows past me.


“Welcome, Lute. And thank you for your future service.”


None of this can really touch me.


It was over now. That was all there should be of the speech.


Lute was fine. He would be fine with things like this until he left this—


A single point of gold light appeared, at the center of his vision, and then it oozed outward.


It turned out he was not made of diamond after all. He was something much more fragile than that. Because words appeared, and they pierced right through him and everything he thought about himself:


 


Pre-affixed Selectee: Lute Stellan Velra


Divergence Rank: S


Assigned Class: Wright
 
 
 
*
