Paragon was the kind of school where an eighth grader got selected once in a while. Not a U-type, of course. A true pre-fifteen. It had happened to a girl the year before last, and it had been like an emotional bomb went off in the middle school building.


The eighth grade had gotten so wild they’d just let them skip classes and fling their enthusiasm back and forth at each other for a day.


It tended to be similar when the first ninth grader walked through the doors with their pin each year, but that usually happened around February or March to someone who had turned fifteen earlier in the year. Everyone knew it was coming. After that initial sign that it was finally starting for all of them, the ninth graders settled into a routine of freaking out over their new selectees for the first half hour of a school day and getting back to business.


The eighth grade selectee had taken over the school’s collective mind for weeks.


“It could be you, Vandy! Or you, Haoyu!”


Haoyu smiled nervously. “I don’t think I’d want to be picked this year,” he told them. “I’d have to leave and head to high school without any of the rest of you. I’d be younger than all the other students in my new school. And I’m almost sure about what I want but not a hundred percent. I’d have to make important decisions in a big hurry. I think it would be really hard.”


He sounds like he’s seriously thought about early selection, thought Lute.


At least he wouldn’t do something horribly arrogant…like throwing himself a premature Coming of Age party.


I think Hazel jinxed herself with that. She’s going to be a late fifteen instead of a fourteen like she wanted.


It would probably happen in the next few weeks. Before her sixteenth birthday. She’d been attached to Aulia like a favored parasite for the entire past two years. Their grandmother had been so busy with her that Jessica had been forging Aulia’s signature on all the gifts and birthday cards, even for the important relatives.


And Aulia had forgotten to kiss Miyo on the cheek when her family walked through the door of the mansion for the big Christmas breakfast, because Hazel had made a pronunciation error during one of her “Hold on, let me perform a wordchain,” moments.


Grandma’s Cheek Kiss was a whole ritual Aulia used like a spell on all of them on Christmas morning. And it was Miyo, who was probably her second most beloved pre-Avowed grandchild.


Miyo was almost as good at wordchains as Hazel had been at her age. So was Roman. They spoke Artonan just about as well as she did. They were both learning to read logograms even though a massive memorization project of that scale would probably be way easier for them in the future, after the System had whacked up their Processing a little.


They just couldn’t feel special mystical feelings when they chained or when other people did. So they weren’t considered competition for Hazel at all.


Lute didn’t care much for either of them, but he’d felt annoyed on their behalf a few times recently.


Oh wouldn’t it be crazy, he thought, heading for the train station. He liked riding the train so much more than the helicopter. Train and bus rides took longer, extending the blissful transitional period when he wasn’t in school or at home. Wouldn’t it just be crazy, if Hazel turned out to be an A instead of an S?


The idea of her getting a lower assignment than that didn’t cross his mind. Even an A-rank Hazel felt like a flight of fancy he was allowing himself as a response to pin day and his future as a member of the sugar cookie class.


She could already do something like magic. The Artonans all the family Chainers worked with were reportedly fascinated by her.


She had had the S in the bag since birth.


At least she’s not having a party this year.


The idea seemed to be that she’d be such an in-demand, important Avowed that there was no point in planning one. She might be off working on another planet on her birthday.


On the train, Lute stared at his pin case for a while, then stuffed it back into his backpack. He wouldn’t open it. He’d do it for the first time on the day they tossed him out of Paragon Academy.


That felt more appropriate for someone like him.


 


 


******


 


 


Lute turned fourteen on a Saturday. Instead of a party, he asked Jessica to spend time with him. She’d been so busy dealing with all the things Aulia was letting slide because of Hazel that it felt like they weren’t seeing enough of each other.


He’d planned the whole day himself, taking full advantage of his family’s money in a way he rarely had any real desire to do. He booked out an entire movie theater so that it could be just the two of them, and his mom wouldn’t feel like bringing bodyguards.


She didn’t usually do it when she traveled alone. He didn’t do it when he traveled alone. But she still wanted the guards every time they were together.


He hated it so much for her—the fact that she couldn’t stand the idea of someone like Declan or Hazel saying things about her where he could hear them. But there was no way for him to say, “It’s fine. They do it even when you’re not around. I’m old enough now. We can just go get burgers wherever we want and ignore them.”


Not yet. He didn’t know how to put the words so that they wouldn’t upset her even more.


Instead, he did this—just the two of them blowing Velra money and eating their favorite takeout while, on the screen, the lineup of famous musical performances he’d chosen played. Not a single Avowed musician in the entire bunch.


“Mom,” said Lute, dipping a fry in the remoulade that was suppose to go with the crab cakes, “when I move to Austria, you’ll come with me, won’t you?”


Jessica chuckled. “You’re still on Austria? I didn’t realize!”


Lute frowned at her. “But you know I’m planning to go there. As soon as I’m old enough. At twenty-one. I’ll finish uni at a music school if I can. I’m hoping they’ll let me take some of the early curriculum long distance because of my situation, but even if they don’t, it’ll be fine.”


The details had all been coming together for the past few months. He hadn’t actually discussed the specifics of timing and coursework with her yet because she’d been so busy, but since everyone else his age was career planning right now, Lute was career planning, too.


One of the only great things about being born on Anesidora as a non-Avowed was that nearly every country on Earth was a signatory to an agreement that said you could have your pick if and when you made an exit. When he turned twenty-one, Lute could declare himself a citizen of wherever he wanted.


His mom’s eyebrows drew down. She opened her mouth. Closed it. Opened it… “Baby, you’re not really serious about that, are you?” she said slowly. “You don’t really want to leave?”


Lute was sure his own mouth was goldfishing.


“What?” he said at last. “Mom, I’ve wanted it forever. Since Mrs. Yu first told me about…” 
 
He gave her a smile. “I mean…you know this.”


“You can’t want the same thing you wanted when you were six!”


Yes I can, thought Lute. I do.


He was completely confused by the fact that there had been a misunderstanding of this magnitude. Somehow. He couldn’t quite believe there had been because he’d never, ever told her he wanted something different, not since he was too young to swim without floats.


“I wanted it when I was seven. And when I was eight. And ten. And twelve. And last year. And now.” He was getting a little upset. “Mom, this is…it’s practically the main thing about me! I’ve told you. I’ve told Dad. I even told Grandma a couple of times. You could ask anyone in my entire class at school and they would tell you. It’s—”


“All right! All right,” said Jessica, hastily. “I understand. Don’t…don’t get upset on your birthday. We’ll talk about this.”


There’s nothing to talk about, thought Lute. The words almost popped out of his mouth, but he clamped down on them. The thing was, he did want to talk about it. Really seriously. With her. An adult conversation.


Because it was very important to him that she come with him and get away from this place where she picked up trash her sisters, brothers, nieces, and nephews dropped. Where she was ashamed for people to say things Lute might hear.


Where she had to grow older, watching her own relatives grow younger.


Hazel had rubbed Lute’s face in a monstrous truth a couple of years ago. Not a monstrous lie.


Lute hadn’t been able to ask Jessica about something so awful, but he’d started to pay attention. He’d been unable not to. Everyone had their calendar month for it—the rejuve. Even Keiko, who acted like being part of the family was beneath her while she was walking around with their signature class by her own choice, had been penciled in for a few years from now.


Keiko was younger than Jessica. Cady was on the list, and she was a C-rank Brute who wasn’t even blood related to Aulia.


Mom, thought Lute, staring blankly at the conductor on the towering screen. Mom, you can’t keep cleaning up after someone who doesn’t think you’re worthy of it. The big gift.


Most people didn’t get everlasting youth. Not even most Avowed.


But Aulia was very good at getting her hands on it. She’d locked one of the S-Healers into a contract when they were both, like, thirty. An eternity ago.


That dumbass had been taking rejuve talents ever since, and he belonged to her. And what drops of eternal youth couldn’t be squeezed out of him, she extracted from other Healers with money, favors, and backroom deals.


It was one of those things that enraged people…but only because they wanted to do the same themselves. Life was life, not a luxury good. How could you reasonably blame anyone for buying themselves more years to breathe?


But Lute could blame Aulia. He found it very easy. Because Aulia wasn’t just buying years for herself, she was choosing who else in the family got them. And it looked like she was choosing everyone except for his mom.


This whole country was just…not for them. There was a world out there for them. They needed to get there.


It might still be hard for Jessica in the real world, but there, at least, their name wouldn’t add to their troubles.


Lute would even have taken his father with them, if Cyril was the kind of person who’d be interested. He wasn’t. He’d literally never had a job and never wanted one. He wouldn’t do well in an environment that didn’t allow him to loaf endlessly.


Lute and Jessica could both get jobs. He wanted a job. How cool would it be to play his harp for people who appreciated it? For money?


Even if he didn’t start out formally, he’d always wanted to try busking.


Let’s do it, Mom, he thought. He couldn’t even hear the music playing on the theater screen. Let’s get out of here. Let’s leave.


If he was going to grow old, if he had a single century ahead of him instead of who knew how many, then Lute Velra wanted to spend it with other ordinary humans beside him. Not here, on this island, with millions of Avowed crushing him and his dreams beneath their feet.


“I want,” he said, as they left the theater that evening in his grandmother’s Bentley, “to have a serious talk about this.”


“About what?” Jessica asked.


“Mom, I’m not going to work for the family one day. Like—” Like some kind of servant instead of a relative. “Like a lot of Velras do. I am going to be a musician. I’m going to travel the world. I won’t live here. I really, really want…no, I need…for you to come with me. I think you should. We should. It’ll be amazing.”


“I understand,” Jessica said, paying an enormous amount of attention to the contents of her purse. “I see that you feel that way. But you’re only fourteen, Lute. Let’s wait and see how you feel in a couple of years. Let’s wait and see what happens.”


Why won’t she talk about this with me?


Why didn’t she believe me every other time I’ve told her about this? Has she even been listening to me at all?


“Mom, I love you,” said Lute.


“Oh baby,” she said, leaning over in the sea to kiss him on the nose. “I love you, too. More than anything. I’m sorry if I upset you on your birthday.”


 


 


******


 


 


A few weeks later, Hazel turned sixteen. Her mood was so dark it eclipsed the mansion. She was so mad it went from funny to scary then all the way back to funny again.


Lute had basically been living with her for the past year and a half. She and Aulia being inseparable and Jessica being attached to his grandmother made that unavoidable. But they’d been on tracks that didn’t intersect for a while. She was so busy preparing for her ascension, so certain it would be any day, that she really only had time to bother him if they happened to run into each other by accident.


If Lute chose to eat breakfast on the way to school and hide in his room for supper, he could usually go days without hearing her opinion on anything. Her parents, who came along with her, were harder to hide from. But Cousin Hugh and Cady treated him like he didn’t exist even if they were standing three feet away from him, so that was fine.


That evening, Hazel was sitting in the White Parlor, staring at an arrangement of lilies like she was trying to wilt them with her aura. Cady, who had been trying to cheer her up all day, said, “Oh look, Hazel! It’s 8:04 PM! This is the exact minute you were born!”


Hazel stood up and rounded on her mother. She shouted something in Artonan.


