Lute was sitting quietly in a corner social nook, eating one of the gourmet grilled cheeses, with light butter, that Chef Kabir had been making periodically since noon. Just in case Hazel decided that she couldn’t live on indignation alone.


This one was brie, arugula, and apple. Seasoned with schadenfreude.


It’s delicious.


He looked down at his phone. He’d had it opened to an Artonan translation app for the past hour, since Hugh and Hazel were both speaking the language like they thought not doing it would add to the curse that was her sixteenth birthday.


<<Why would you say that to me?! Are you making fun of me!? I know you said I should have a party! You wanted this!>>


She has lost her marbles.


Cady was a real social climber, and Hazel was her ladder; but she didn’t hate her daughter. She’d been trying to talk Hazel into having some people over or going out for the night so that she wouldn’t just sit here and stew.


<<And you!>>


Hazel glared across the room at Lute, her chest heaving under her sweater vest. She’d decided prep was the look to have recently. All of her socks were knee highs, all of her skirts were pleated, and she was never without something argyle.


Lute did not laugh around his mouthful of brie. But he did smile.


“I’m just doing my homework in here.” He gestured at the notebook he’d been doodling in with his latest fountain pen. “Quietly. Not bothering anyone.”


I should say Happy Birthday, he thought, staring at her red face. Or better yet, play it for her on the piano like she demanded that time. Right before she read all those jokes to me.


Before he could decide if that was cruelty or justice, Hazel picked up a wooden figurine from its place of honor on the coffee table. She flung it. Lute couldn’t even track the motion. There was a whistling sound and then a crash as it impacted the stone wall beside the fireplace. Splinters flew.


Cady screamed. Hugh was off the sofa in an instant and in front of Hazel…a little too late to shield her from the splinters, if that was his intent.


“What the hell,” hissed Lute, his heart racing.


Hugh was swearing too. “How many strength chains did you stack?” he shouted at his daughter. “Which ones?!”


“Just a few!” Hazel screamed back.


“You can’t act like that when you’re empowered!” her father said. “If you’d thrown that at your cousin, you could end up in prison!”


Uh… thought Lute. If she’d thrown that at me, I would be dead.


He felt like that was the more dramatic point to make, but he wasn’t about to do it himself. He decided to vacate the room as Aulia swept in to see what the crash was. Her blonde hair was in a clip, and she had a couple of crumbs from her own grilled cheese dinner on the front of her silk dressing gown.


She looked from Hazel to the pile of splinters on the hearth.


“That was one of the first gifts I ever received from one of my friends on Artona I,” she said mildly. Her eyes flicked up to meet Hazel’s face. “I hope you don’t expect me to defray the cost of all those chains you’ve piled on yourself as a birthday present this year. You’re in for a bad time paying them back.”


Oh shit, thought Lute, pausing on his journey up the staircase. She might actually be mad. At Hazel.


“You will be chosen any day now, dear,” said Aulia. “I understand you’re frustrated, but now is the time for you to act more like one of the leading lights of this family. Not less. Come with me to my office. We’ll talk about the future.”


Then, she glanced up the stairs toward Lute.


“Would you grab a dustpan or vacuum? We don’t want people stepping on splinters.”


“Yeah,” he said. “Sure.”


He was standing in the storage room where the cleaning supplies were kept before he even realized what he’d agreed to.


It was only because he really wasn’t busy. It was only because Aulia had brought up the danger of splinters, and he’d thought, Right, that needs doing. Don’t want anyone to hurt themselves.


The main housekeeper was off for the night. If a mess was made, it needed cleaning up. It hadn’t seemed weird until just now.


Lute grabbed a broom and dustpan, and he went back to the parlor and swept up every last splinter. He was afraid that if he didn’t, his mother would come down from her shower and clean it up herself.


He never made a single complaint about it to anyone. He wasn’t even very mad about it, considering how closely connected to all of his sorest points it was. But as he threw Hazel’s mess into the kitchen trashcan, he felt what he could only describe as the cleanest break in the world happening inside him.


Goodbye, Anesidora, he thought as he took one of the last grilled cheeses out of the oven they’d been put in to stay warm. Roasted red pepper and basil on homemade whole wheat.


I think I loved you a little still, right up until this moment. It’s all gone now. You can’t hurt me anymore. And every last magical person, place, and thing here can kiss my human ass.


 


 


******


 


 


 


Cousin Roman got selected two weeks later.


Seconds after it happened, he booked a car to come to the mansion. It was a warm, sunny afternoon, and he arrived just as Lute was walking up the driveway on his way home from school.


The car stopped, and Roman scrambled out of the backseat, smiling so widely that his eyes almost disappeared. His dark brown hair was tangled. He ran toward Lute, who stopped walking in surprise. He couldn’t actually recall any of his non-adult cousins ever greeting him with such obvious delight.


“Lute!” he said breathlessly. “Lute! I got it!”


Got what? Lute thought.


“The S!!” Roman said in a strangely jubilant sounding hiss. “I got S. Just now. I drove straight here. I mean…I rode straight here. In this car! With an S.”


“Okay,” said Lute. “That’s great. Congrats.”


His brain, not being tuned in to The Chainer Channel 24/7 like everybody else’s, hadn’t quite caught up with the significance of what his cousin saying.


“Lute, I’m eight months younger than her!”


Oh, thought Lute. Ohhhhhh.


“I’m not even fifteen and a half yet! They’re going to have to give it to me.”


Lute couldn’t process it all as fast as Roman clearly expected him to, but, yeah, that sounded like a definite possibility, didn’t it?


The S had been held for the past few years. Hazel had hit sixteen. She was…


Well, Lute hadn’t seriously considered this as much as he should have because she was Hazel and she was the most special of the special ones, but if they were going to be logical about this, then…
 
Wait a second. She actually isn’t that likely to get S anymore. She isn’t likely to get S at all. She’s not even that likely to get A.


It could still happen. Sometimes the System picked you late. But if you were betting the odds, you wouldn’t bet on Hazel over Roman today, would you? Not with such a big age gap. Not with him being so devoted to Aulia and Chainer himself.


Surprise shot through Lute. “They’re going to give you the S.”


Roman held a hand to his mouth. “I could’ve been a B. I was bracing for it. I expected A, but I told myself B could happen. And then…it’s this! And Miyo can take an A!” He looked at the car. “I can’t even get back in. It’s too slow. You take it. I have to run!”


He shoved Lute toward the car like he expected him to ride a few meters down the driveway in it, and then he sprinted toward the mansion.


Lute smiled. He could enjoy things like this now that whatever it was that tied a person to the place of their birth had completely ruptured for him. Ever since Hazel’s birthday, life here was like a very realistic movie he was watching. Anesidora, the Velras, and his classmates flowed past him. Occasionally they brushed against him. But his skin was diamond-hard, and nothing broke through anymore.


He liked it. Nothing wounded him. It was like he’d found easy mode for the first time ever.


He thought it might actually be making him a better person. The other day he’d held the door open for Carlotta to carry a project into the classroom because the disdainful looks she shot him just didn’t bother him anymore.


Good for Roman, thought Lute. What an interesting part of the Anesidora movie this is.


He hurried after his cousin to see what would unfold. He expected it all to be resolved in a single afternoon. Roman was eight months younger than Hazel. He was an S. He was thoroughly accomplished and prepared.


Lute would have to look up some numbers to see how the high-rank parentage played into it, but if they were going just by age, Hazel was now much more likely to be a C than any other rank.


He was betting the numbers were heavily in favor of Roman. He seemed so sure, and the cousins didn’t slouch on knowing this kind of thing.


The next three months were ludicrous.


Family members divided into camps. There were meetings of the high ranks. Aulia, Hazel’s parents, and her grandparents defended her right to the Chainer S. Aunt Hikari stepping in on Hazel’s behalf almost certainly had more to do with her trying to save the S in case her daughter Miyo needed it than anything else.


Aulia was busy putting out fires within the family, so Jessica was busy helping her.


Lute watched it all fall apart, feeling untouched. Though he was surprised that his grandmother really would burn down a success story like Roman, even for the sake of Hazel.


One morning before dawn, he woke up to the sound of Roman screaming his head off about superstitious bullshit ruining his life, and the next day, Aulia moved their little household to Libra and had it set sail.


Lute had to start going to school by helicopter again. But what did that matter? The important thing was that teenagers who were about to get Rabbit instead of Chainer couldn’t show up at five AM to condemn Aulia if she was a mile offshore.


 


 


******


******


Nilama Paragon Academy


June 20, 2039


******


******


 


 


 


Lexi and Kon had their heads together beside Kon’s locker when Lute made it to school. Lexi sounded annoyed with his little brother again. They’d always been close. Lute didn’t know why they were arguing a bit lately, and he saw no reason to pry.


Kon was still perky. With most people. And he was in the middle of one of those growth spurts that seemed to land on the other boys in their grade every couple of months. Lute suspected some of them were shooting up centimeters as they slept in their beds at night.


His own short stature was an annoyance but not the emotional crisis that his father seemed to think it should be. That was probably because he’d always had plenty of other difficult things to agonize over. If he’d had more Artonan-resembling features, like his mother, he was sure it would have been a larger issue. As it was, he had round cheeks and long lashes that made him look like a primary schooler who’d gotten lost in a pile of big kids.


Shopping for interesting clothes to wear when he wasn’t in his uniform was a pain in the ass. But other than that…


He was still growing, and the baby face would disappear soon enough. Did it really matter what he looked like between now and when his real life started at twenty-one?


Boy, I like not caring. It’s so much easier.


His locker was near Kon’s this year, too, so he had to slip past the brothers to reach it.


“Hey, Lute.”


“Hey, Lexi,” said Lute.


His eyes checked the ninth grader’s lapel. Even if Anesidora had become a movie recently, he couldn’t help doing things like that. They’d been baked into who he was for too long.


Plus, Lexi was still talking to Lute when they met in the halls, and Lute didn’t mind that at all.


The guy worked to be good at ballet even though nobody else in his age group was taking it seriously anymore, unless they wanted to be a dancer for the rest of their lives. Lute felt like they had an artistic compatibility or something, though he’d refrained from ever saying it out loud in case Lexi disappointed him by disagreeing.


And he’s doing all that hero prep stuff with Kon on top of it.


Lexi was hitting the prime time for his selection right now, and when he wore his pin, Lute planned to be sincere in his congratulations.


“Do you know what the rates are going to be for Meister trades for the next few months?” Lexi asked. “If they’re going up or down? I know it’s an out-of-the-blue business question, but if you happened to have heard anything…”


Kon was giving his brother an uncomfortable look.


“I don’t,” said Lute. “I’m not sure if Uncle Corin even knows things like that or if he just pretends to have his finger on the pulse of the class trading business. The System spits out what it spits out, and he just pays people to hold good stuff for bargaining…I can ask.”


“You don’t have to.”


“I’m living in the cabin next to his. He’s not there a lot, but it’s no trouble.”


Roman was a Rabbit now, but they were still offshore. Lute wondered if Aulia was hiding from him out of guilt. He wondered if she even had the capacity to feel guilt.


Lexi nodded. “Thanks. I was in a big swap group. Some of them have gotten selected earlier than they expected and dropped out. If I’m a few months late…”


“I’ll ask,” said Lute.


The swap groups always left a ton of people with short straws, even if everyone was sticking to their agreements.


Lute had the impression that the Roberts family was right at the edge of being able to give their kids the best education and the classes they wanted. As long as the System didn’t throw a wrench in the works by giving them something awful to trade out of.


Lexi headed off to join his friends. A couple of them were wearing their pins already.


