Draskil didn’t hesitate as he flapped his wings once, teleporting down right in front of the Bristleboar Champion. The boar responded quickly by raising its axe and swinging it down towards the far lower level C-grade.

Raising a claw, Draskil blocked the blow directly as his arm only slightly buckled from the impact. “Weak.”

With his other hand, he swept upwards as a large green claw of malefic energy cut into the boar, but its metallic hide managed to block the attack for the most part. This seemed to please Draskil as he unleashed a barrage of blows, the poor boar barely able to fight back.

Holstred took this opportunity to move and apprehend the City Lord with the other officers. Inside the mound, he found three space mages trying to prepare a new magic circle for them to flee the planet, likely with the goal of ultimately escaping the universe.

The City Lord had given up surprisingly easily after Draskil’s appearance, and while some fought back, it was nothing he and his officers couldn’t easily handle. Holstred took out a pair of handcuffs made by Arnold himself, the metal strong enough for most peak C-grades to struggle with breaking it.

He cuffed the most dangerous ones, and while it wouldn’t pacify them entirely, it would make them a lot weaker if a fight were to break out again. Holstred doubted they would be foolish enough to try with the presence of the Malefic Dragonkin, but he’d already been surprised quite a few times that day.

And it turned out the world had at least one more surprise in store for him.

While still inside the mound, they all heard a massive explosion sound from outside, and while that in itself wasn’t concerning, seeing as two C-grades were fighting, the yell that came after certainly was.

“Fuck!”

Draskil had been the one to yell, making Holstred charge out in concern, and once outside, he was met with a sight that felt straight out of a nightmare.

He saw Draskil looking down at his bleeding arm that had a nasty cut on it, and about a hundred meters away, the Champion was kneeling on the ground, his entire body covered in rotting wounds.

Right behind him, another boar stood. This one was nearly ten meters tall and covered in a combination of red and golden fur. The new boar casually reached out his hand and grasped the head of the already dying Champion.

“Weak indeed.”

A nasty crushing sound echoed through the clearing as the skull of the Champion was crushed into paste. Holstred could barely stay upright on his legs when he identified the new arrival.

[Supreme Bristleboar Warchief – lvl ??? – Greater Blessing of ???]

B-grade. He had heard B-grades had begun being observed around the planet, and that a few had even been hunted down already... but that had been by large elite parties, such as a group led by the Judge from the Court of Shadows.

However, perhaps more concerning than the appearance of a B-grade was why the B-grade was here in the first place. It was evident that some god had deep roots on Earth and had managed to stay mostly undetected until now. Moreover, if there was one B-grade serving this god, there could be more.

Holstred would be lying if he said a deep sense of panic didn’t begin to well up in his chest, but he still had one source of calm. Despite being injured, Draskil didn’t look afraid in the slightest. In fact, he looked nearly as annoyed as anything else.

“Malefic Dragonkin,” the B-grade Warchief said as a large halberd appeared in his hand. “I’ve heard much about you. A rising star in the Order of the Malefic Viper... and someone my Patron would love to see dead.”

Draskil looked at the B-grade as he licked his lips “Fuck... man, I would also love to see you try. I’ve been itching for a good fight.”

The B-grade scuffed and lowered his halberd. “Then come. Show me what one who received the Legacy of a Primordial is capable of.”

“Again, I would bloody love to, but you’re really not in a state to be fighting anyone right now,” Draskil sighed.

“Your posturing and faux confidence would almost be impressive if it weren’t so delusional,” the B-grade Warchief chuckled. “But please. Do humor me. Why am I not in a state to battle?”

“Well,” Draskil shrugged. “You’re already dead.”

“What do you-“ the B-grade said as he tried to take a step forward, but his leg buckled under his own weight. Blood began bleeding from the Warchief’s eyes as wounds spontaneously appeared all over his body, leaking black pus. “Wha... what did you-“

“Me? Nothing,” Draskil said casually, shaking his head. “You were already dead before you even arrived.”

The B-grade shook all over as his gaze lowered to two small puncture wounds on his ankle that he hadn’t noticed before now. He tried to reach down toward the wound but fell forward, his entire body breaking apart upon impacting the ground, spreading flesh and gore everywhere.

“Damn,” Draskil said in an impressed voice as he looked somewhere behind the Warchief. “That’s some serious venom you’re packing.”

Holstred was confused about who the Malefic Dragonkin was speaking to until he saw a faint shimmer in the forest. Seemingly walking out of nowhere, a woman who looked to be in her early twenties with almost sickly white skin appeared. She wore an odd dress that didn’t quite look like fabric, and her two eyes were entirely red and sent a shiver down the Knight Commander’s spine.

It was another B-grade, but one on a whole other level from the Warchief that had just died. He was almost afraid to do so as he used Identify.

[Jadescale Crimsoneye Snake – lvl ??? – Greater Blessing of the Malefic Viper]

When he saw the name, he realized who it was, but before he could say anything, Draskil spoke up again.

“Shit, that was hot. There’s nothing more attractive than a woman who can kill someone without them even noticing,” Draskil grinned as he began walking toward the B-grade snake. “Hey, how about the two of us-“

Holstred didn’t even see what happened next, as Draskil was sent flying into the forest. A trail of blood and thousands of toppled trees in his wake as he slammed into a hill over a dozen kilometers away, exploding the entire thing. Scarlett, the former Alabaster Crimsoneye Snake, lowered her raised hand as she looked at Holstred and smiled.

“Hi there!” she said in a cheery tone. “Miranda asked me to help out. Seems like her suspicions were correct... oh, and she told me to apologize for keeping you in the dark. She said something about it being necessary to bait out the real prey.”

Once more, Holstred didn’t even have time to answer as a bloody Malefic Dragonkin walked out of the forest with a big smile on his face. “You really are one hell of a woman, eh? But you know, you could have just said no. Unless-”

A second whipping sound echoed through the valley as the Malefic Dragonkin was sent flying once more, Holstred and Scarlett continuing to speak as if Draskil wasn’t even there.

“I can only be grateful for Ms. Wells’ foresight,” Holstred said as he looked toward the listless City Lord, who looked as if his entire world had just crumbled. “Hopefully, at least one of these can provide some insight.”
