Oh, shit! Not that kind of more! His health spiraled down rapidly, and he was helpless to do anything about it, entirely at the mercy of the healers, and the timing of what would be a powerful explosion. He heard the sizzling flight of the magic ball of fire, and in the instant before it struck, he felt the twin surge of magic – holy and soul – one gently caressing, and the other tearing through his body in a dramatic contrast of healing, leaving him momentarily full, right as the fireball exploded.

Guided by Survival Instinct, he closed his eyes just in time for the explosion, and his nostrils were filled with the stench of seared slime and his own scorched fur, while his flesh crisped and burnt in an instant, his body buffeted by the enormous detonation. Ugh.

But he sensed the instant the roots weakened, burned and shattered by the potent magic. He wheeled on his hind paws, heedless of the massive Forest Guardian, and charged, accelerating rapidly across the scorched beach toward Ali. In a fraction of a second, his body cleared the boundary of the aura of plant growth, and he continued running as fast as he was able to where she marked the runic circle with her body.

Run, Ali! Frantically, he roared at her. From behind him, he could already feel the ground-shaking charge as the guardians immediately gave pursuit, and for a moment he realized Ali was staring at him in shock. But before he reached her, she suddenly vanished, replaced by a Kobold blinking in surprise. Less than a second later, a golden barrier appeared beneath the Kobold and tossed him into the air.

Mato skidded to a halt on the otherwise unremarkable stretch of beach where Ali had been standing.

Am I…? His half-formed question was interrupted by a sudden burst of notifications confirming that he was indeed in the right spot.

Poison removed. x3Poison removed. x8Poison removed. x4…

The notifications began chiming in quick succession, all removals, surprising him with the speed and quantity. I do have a lot of poison. And he suddenly recalled that antidotes were more effective if they were much higher level than the poisons they were removing.

While the two guardians were almost on top of him, the slimes were far slower and would take a bit longer to reach him. A nice breather, he decided as the poison removal chimes continued unabated. He set himself, lowering his center of gravity and bracing his paws, and unleashed his most potent Challenging Roar – perhaps more to bolster his own courage than for its Taunt effect – accepting the charge of the massive Forest Guardian with a shoulder block before he lashed out with a Swipe. He felt the regeneration aura boosting his own as Ali’s guardian crashed into the back of the wild one, and the annoying roots began grappling with him once more.

But his health was stabilizing quickly, benefiting greatly from the window of time he had created by charging away from the slimes.

“Mato’s health is stabilizing, let’s kill the guardian quickly,” Malika shouted.

“On it,” Calen answered.

A volley of golden Arcane Bolts whizzed by his ear, slamming into the Forest Guardian’s chest and shoulders.

In the few moments that remained on the last Kobold’s holy enhancement, Mato spent his health to power his attack. His claws struck, shredding through the armor plates, leaving great tears through the bark and deep into the wood below, spraying sap into the air from the force of the strike. His Brutal Restoration pulsed powerfully, adding to the healing that was finally stabilizing his health against the still huge, but quickly reducing poison damage. The jagged gashes in the bark armor would be easy for Malika and Calen to exploit. And me too, he thought, powering a second strike as the slimes finally began to reach his new position. I’ll beat you into kindling, you overgrown tree!

“The ooze is splitting again!” Ali called out.

“Ignore it, the guardian is the key,” Calen answered.

Mato simply roared, taunting all the monsters around him, reminding them that he was the target of their fury. He used it often, making sure none of the newly spawned oozes would wander off and attack the healers. It cost a lot of stamina to use it that way, but if there was one thing he wasn’t short of in this fight, it would be stamina – Battle Trance had never once dropped below five stacks since the oozes began attacking.

“My Acolytes need mana. Malika, can you cover Mato?”

“No problem,” Malika yelled. “I have more stamina than I know what to do with.”

Inwardly, Mato chuckled, recalling that his Battle Trance boosted the regeneration aura he was sharing with Malika.

His friends continued to shout back and forth, coordinating the diverse aspects of the fight that he wasn’t involved in. He did sense the change in the healer rotation, though. The female Kobold Acolyte’s magic was withdrawn, easily identified by the distinctive power and cadence to her spells. She was the highest-level Acolyte Ali had made, and Mato had come to rely on the precision of her spells. But everyone needed mana. Except for her, he corrected, feeling the burn of Malika’s inexhaustible healing magic replace the Kobold Acolyte’s efforts.

He hunkered down, mostly ignoring the walls of oozes trying to overwhelm him, relying on the collateral area damage of his Swipe skill to take care of them, instead focused on making sure he kept at least two to three Living Rends on the guardian at all times. Now that the poison wasn’t running rampant and out of control, he could afford the health cost to ensure they could efficiently damage the monster. It was still challenging, and he was still timing the health cost by predicting the healers’ spells, but he was getting so much more familiar with that.

After what seemed like an age, he Swiped another fully empowered attack, and the guardian trembled, collapsing to one knee, and then suddenly gave out with a crash that bounced most of the Toxic Slimes into the air for a moment.

Mato roared, letting his frustration thunder up and out through his vibrating throat. The roots subsided as the giant monster died and he finally turned his attention to the enormous horde of slime monsters, swiping furiously with both forepaws. There were an unbelievable number of them, but on the second strike, Mato immediately felt the difference.

They’re dying now. Instead of his Swipes being healed between strikes, the slime monsters remained damaged, dying to a subsequent strike, collapsing in droves as his much higher-level attack skills tore them to shreds.

And after several minutes, he could tell that the horde was visibly thinning. Beyond the walls of slime monsters, the Toxic Spitters were still spitting up new monsters, but while there were now five of them, the rate at which they were churning out slimes had slowed to a crawl.

No more healing aura for you, boys. He grinned a toothy grin as he confirmed what he had suspected for most of the fight. Calen was right, the Guardian was the key. It was a slog, and while he was no longer pinned to the ground, Mato resolutely refused to budge from his poison-curing runic circle. He had no idea if he could ever find it again under the sludge and goop if he moved.

He leaned into his attacks, ignoring the burning of his overused muscles. It was a pain that would quickly be taken care of by his rapidly regenerating stamina, and he was eager to get through the remaining oozes.

Surprisingly, it took less time than he expected to clear the Toxic Slimes – the low-level monsters died far more rapidly without the support of the regeneration aura. Ali even began tossing in the occasional Fireball to thin the ranks. By the time the last one was dead, all the giant Toxic Spitters were slamming him with their pseudopods, no longer able to spawn new slimes. A few minutes of focused fire later, they too splattered to the ground, punctured, and popped, dumping their foul-smelling goop everywhere.

He wrinkled his nose, remaining in the circle to wait for it to finish cleansing him of the remaining poisons. He was tired and drenched, and he smelled like burnt slime. He shook his body, causing slime juice to fly off his fur in all directions.

“Hey, stop that!” Malika exclaimed, holding up her hands to block the flying slime. She may as well have been trying to stop a rainstorm with her fingers, her hair was plastered to her head, and everything was wet and covered in gobs of slime. “Seriously, Mato?”

He dropped his Bear Form, switching back to Beastkin so that he could have a chuckle at Malika’s expense, but his transformation magic did nothing to clean the goop from his body, and he found himself equally bedraggled.

Fuck it, he thought and plopped himself down on the ground with a wet splat and opened his notifications.

Your group has defeated Bamboo Crawler – Grass – level 23-31 x6.Your group has defeated Forest Guardian – Wood Elemental – level 53.Your group has defeated Toxic Spitter – Ooze – level 55 x5.Your group has defeated Toxic Slime – Ooze – level 1-12 x3017Druidic Shapeshifter has reached level 38 (+2).+20 attribute points.Arboreal Sanctuary has reached level 19.Swipe has reached level 25 (+2).Brutal Restoration has reached level 27 (+3).Bear Form has reached level 26 (+2).Bestial Combat has reached level 26 (+2).Natural Prowess has reached level 17 (+2).Survival Instinct has reached level 16.Battle Trance has reached level 9 (+3).Identify has reached level 9.

“Holy shit, we did it,” Malika said.

“Yup,” Mato said, offering her a fist bump. “Ali’s circle was clutch.”

“You can say that again,” Malika said, punching his fist with a final flash of searing healing magic.

“What was that about my circle?” Ali asked, grinning.

“It was ok,” Mato offered. “Not too bad for a few hurried doodles…”

“Hey!”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
