Fork tines raked across Thomas's forearm. In retaliation, he turned and buried the axe into the sideboard, even as silverware launched through the air around him as if propelled by springs. They'd gotten away, but they could spring back just as easily.

The room was filled with ghostly, warring images, and a pounding headache was building behind his eyes, probably a warning that his stamina was draining fast. Thomas stumbled, and Zach helped haul him up.

"Bro, the door! Hurry!"

Then the chandelier itself crashed downward on them.

Just before it hit, Zach gave him shove forward before rolling to the left.

And suddenly, Thomas was in darkness again.

But it wasn't complete darkness. The ghostly warning images still flashed through the black, showing him attacks before they happened. It was literally the only thing he could see.

He used them to dodge, sidestep, and strike blindly through the dark. All around, he heard crashing plates, the roar of fire, and the sounds of fighting as if they were on the other side of a huge stadium.

The door had to be around here, hadn't it?

He reached out blindly through the empty air, and his knuckles struck wood. Sliding a hand downward, Thomas found the doorknob.

He turned, bellowing, "Zach! Over here! The door's here!"

The chandelier decided to jump for him, and Thomas chopped upward to meet it. It shattered in one hit but not before the thing chomped down on the head of his axe. He heard the snap of wood.

It was hard to breathe. The air was so hot he suspected fire he couldn't see was close. Thomas coughed on smoke and called out again, trying to be heard over the too-distant crashing and fighting.

Then, a long way away, he heard Zach scream. It was short and abruptly cut off.

"Zach!" Thomas yelled.

No answer.

He tasted smoke in the back of his throat, and the ghostly warning images had disappeared. Had all the mimics gone after Zach at once?

Thomas closed his eyes and searched again for that strange sense of life that had led him to Zach before.

Nothing. There was only emptiness.

He opened his eyes just in time to see a ghostly attack from a napkin with fangs coil towards him. Thomas struck blindly, but the axe was much lighter than it should be. He only knocked the mimic away instead of killing it. As soon as it collected itself, it would come back for him.

"Zach!" he yelled one final time.

There was no answer, and he felt no spark of life from his healing mana.

Cursing, maybe crying a little, Thomas opened the door and stumbled through. The darkness was just as deep as ever, but the fresh air was a pure relief.

Thomas stood perfectly still, facing a room he couldn't see. With terrible clarity, he knew that Zach was dead.

He was trapped in this dungeon alone.
