As the sky turned red and purple with the oncoming night, nine Ophiels, bloomed out to their full three meter height, blipped into the Crystal Forest west of the shadeling city of Candlepoint. They flew in formation, over the sands, making their way forward. They held under their control floating platforms laden with stone boxes, full of marquise-cut rads that shimmered under the sunset, cloudless sky.

The gates of Candlepoint were not there; this city was always open to whoever wanted inside. Guards in dark armor stood to the sides of the open space, but they were not there for actual defense, except from the occasional wandering mimic. The guards were there for show. Upon seeing Ophiel’s flight, two of the guards quickly ducked into the buildings beyond the gate. By the time Ophiel had flown forward another ten meters closer, another person had taken to standing on the sands, in the center of the open gate. She had white hair, horns, and skin, while her grey robes fluttered gently in the slight wind. It was hard to mistake Justine Erholme for anyone else than herself.

Erick flew closer to Justine, to the gate, taking his time, not wanting to appear threatening. For the guards’ part, they formed up, shifting from a casual stance of leaning against the gate walls and talking with each other, to standing tall and in formation to Justine’s sides. All of the guards looked more or less the same, but one of them was shorter than the rest. As Erick neared, he recognized the short guard. It was that Irkil human kid. Erick smiled to himself, happy that the kid had gotten into the Guard. Even if it was an emotional trick, it was still a nice emotion.

Erick restrained eight of his Ophiel to hover where they were, while moving closer with the leader and a platform full of cargo. He said, “Hello, Justine.”

Justine held her hands in front of her, one clasped to the other. She stood stiffly tall, but her eyes were happy, and the slight upturn of her lips almost seemed to betray her joy. “Greetings, Archmage Flatt.”

Now that Erick was closer, he saw the unabashed smiles on the faces of the other guards, as they tried and failed to hold their proper stances on the sand. But then the air filled with a weird buzzing, and every single shadeling stood in perfect form, smiles gone, joy erased. Or rather, held back?

Yes, yes. The buzzing was Bulgan making himself known. Erick could barely bring himself to care about that asshole. What did he want now?

A shadow formed out of Justine’s own, then stepped up into the light, revealing the asshole himself, in full, smug, assholishness. Dark skin, black hair, black horns, Bulgan smiled wide, revealing white teeth. His bright, wholly white eyes seemed to glow brighter as he spoke with a predatory mien, “Hello, Erick.”

Erick kept his words perfunctory, through the [Prestidigitation] projection of his voice, “Hello, Bulgan.”

Bulgan stood on the tips of his toes for a second, then pantomimed looking off into the distance, with one hand held flat across his forehead to shade his sight from the sun. “Oh my! Such a haul you have!” He dropped the slight act, and said, “Standard rate!” He nudged Justine with his shoulder, saying, “You’ve done pretty good securing his support. Do you think it’s enough to get him to turn to our side in the coming war?”

Justine was white-skinned, but Erick was sure he saw her pale, further.

Erick ignored Bulgan, saying to Justine, “I’ve got it all split into thousand mana boxes. This is only the first shipment—”

With a near-casual reach into the air, like he was picking up a grapefruit from a grocery story display, Bulgan grabbed a sword that had not been there, and planted it into the guts of a nearby guard. The guard crashed to the ground, as the meter-long length of shadow vanished into nothing. Blood gushed, as the guard died.

Erick lost all train of thought.

Bulgan plucked another length of shadow from the air, saying, “I told you before, Erick. Don’t ignore—”

At that moment, as a man who might have been a ploy died on the ground, Erick knew he was going to do something. He wasn’t quite sure what his action would be, until it happened. So it surprised him just as much as it surprised Bulgan, when Erick cast [Shadow Shape] and [Telekinesis], grabbing the length of shadow in Bulgan’s hand, right before it entered Justine’s skull, just above her ear. Brief surprise crossed Bulgan’s face, as he smiled, seeming to flicker his fully white eyes between the sword and Ophiel. He let go of the sword. It remained hovering where Bulgan left it to hover.

Erick had tried to telekinetically control the conjured weapons of another, well before today. Sparring with Kiri gave him a lot of experience in that regard. Telekinetically controlling something already in the control of another was a very difficult thing to do. Erick had only managed the feat in his spars with Kiri, when Kiri’s grip had been less than perfectly secure.

Bulgan’s grip had been secure. It should not have been that easy to stop his sword.

And once the sword was out of Bulgan’s control, Erick should have been able to move it away from Justine, but he couldn’t. The length of shadow was stuck in the air, where Bulgan had let it go.

Justine, for her part, stood strong, unflinching, while a trace of red trickled through her white hair, to travel down her ear, where it collected like a ruby earring before dropping onto her grey robes. She did not move, or betray a single thought about repositioning. Frozen in fear, or perfectly in control of her own actions, or under the control of another, Erick could not tell.

The wind howled in Ophiel’s ears, while blood pumped in Erick’s, all the way back in Spur.

Bulgan slowly smiled, wider and wider. He stepped back. He laughed. Then he whirled around and slammed his fist like a great hammer against the hilt of his still-hovering sword, driving it—

A hint of spider-like magic zipped out of Ophiel, striking the sword, cracking it from the inside out, shattering the conjured weapon into shadow-crawling fragments that spread in every direction. Bulgan whiffed on his hit, striking nothing but air, as dark [Spell Breaker] spiders exploded across his face, and across the rest of him. The unnatural darkness of his skin and clothes flickered and faded, briefly revealing purple incani hues and fine, dark fabrics, before shadows crawled back over him.

Bulgan laughed loud, then stepped back, setting one foot behind the other while spreading his arms and hands down to his sides, open palmed, like the magnanimous loser of an inconsequential series of events. He smiled. He said, “Expect a test every time you arrive.”

Bulgan vanished into shadows.

At that moment Erick knew he had failed one test, but passed another. Bulgan had let him gain slight telekinetic control over the sword, but Erick had certainly dispelled the conjuring.

Three things rapidly happened. The guards next to their fallen companion dropped down to their fallen companion, holding onto him as they shouted at him, trying to bring the redscaled man back from the dead. But the man was not dead. Justine moved down to the man, flaring white light, holding a glowing palm to the fallen.

Other guards stepped back, giving Justine space. One held onto his dying friend, turning him onto his back to aid Justine’s healing spells. The small hole that Bulgan had made through the redscale’s armor, into his chest and out the back, healed over; pale red scales covering pale red flesh. Justine kept her healing light on the man, until he coughed loudly, sputtering blood across Justine’s face. But she didn’t care. The dragonkin breathed deep. His friends helped him upward, as Justine pulled back, the white glow of her hands fading as she moved away.

Erick wasn’t sure where his mind was right now, when he offered, “Does he need rads? He can have a box if he wants.”

Justine flinched. Then she reoriented. She stood straight, then bowed to Erick, saying, “Thank you for saving this one’s life.” She stood up.

“Speaking like that makes me think you’re not really yourself.”

Justine flinched again, as though struck. She said, “Apologies. I… I can see how you could think that. This was merely how I was raised to speak to my betters.”

Erick was not, at all, in the mood to correct anyone’s thinking, but it had to be said, so he said, “I’m not your better.” Erick said, “But we’re all better than the Shades, though I don’t think I need to tell you that. Not when one of them tried to kill you just now.”

Justine remained silent, as her grey eyes seemed to whirl as her mind turned with unsaid thoughts.

The impaled dragonkin-shadeling had been moved into the shade behind the gate while Erick and Justine spoke. He rested on a stone bench, just outside of the sunset light. He seemed to be doing better now that he was in the deeper shadows. His breathing evened out, anyway.

Erick pointed a few of Ophiel’s eyes toward the man, asking again, “Does he need some rads to properly heal? I don’t know how this works for your people.”

Justine said, “Uh.” She clarified, “Yes. Uh. He could use some, I’m sure. Rads help the healing process.” She added, “Um.”

Ophiel raised a wing, and a stone box lifted from the floating platform behind. Erick moved the box forward, setting it down on the other side of the gate, next to the recovering man. The dragonkin then picked up a rad, nodded toward Ophiel, and crushed a stone in his palm. He breathed deep, inhaling an almost imperceptible white glow. He breathed easier. When he opened his palm, the rad was gone; not even dust remained.

Erick turned Ophiel to Justine, saying, “I’ve got about 18,000 boxes to give. Each one has 1000 mana worth of rads inside, give or take a bit.”

Justine said, “Right away.” She glanced to the guards at her sides. They moved out.

Erick moved his squadron closer and set the stone boxes down on the sands outside of the gate. But what he had brought was not the full count of his loot. Ophiels blipped away, then came back with even more stone boxes. It wasn’t long till the haul of two separate Ballooning Spider incursion laid in front of Candlepoint; boxes upon boxes upon boxes. Guards moved with swiftness, telekinetically picking up fifteen to twenty boxes at a time, forming an assembly line to move them into the deep shadows inside the guard stations behind both sides of the gate. Rads went into the darkness, but only the boxes themselves came back out.

Erick dismantled most of the discarded stone boxes back into sand, which he scattered to the land outside of the gate, but he kept some stone boxes for the guards to have a place to deposit his darkchips. It was 1500 darkchips to a box, according to Erick’s correct calculations. The currency of Candlepoint was much smaller than rads, after all. A darkchip was only about a square centimeter large.

While that was happening, Erick asked Justine about the city. Casual questions, about the state of things. Justine answered as honestly as she seemed able to answer. Candlepoint was doing much better with the food he had provided. They had even taken some of the beans and used [Grow] to have a few strains of spicy beans, and salty beans, and savory beans, in order to flavor the rice and beans that everyone was eating these days. They were still growing vegetables with their water gathering runes, too, but Erick’s donation had cleared up all of their immediate problems.

Erick approved. When he was done moving rads out for the guards to pick up, he dismissed an Ophiel on site and conjured another one at home, to gather up some vegetables from his own garden. Carrot vines, tomatoes, corn, potatoes, and a whole bunch of spices, went into a simple stone gift basket. He gave those vegetables to Justine and refused further payment when Justine offered extra darkchips.

Time passed, and Erick certainly noticed the people sticking around down the way, at the intersection of where this gate’s street led into the main street. Some of them eyed the stone boxes full of darkchips. Some of them openly gaped at the glittering rads just outside of the city. But not a single one moved into the area. Everyone stayed away. A few inquisitive [Scry] eyes appeared over the haul, but every Ophiel popped those after two or three seconds, ensuring that whoever was viewing the scene was aware enough to not blip into the area. That would have gone poorly, Erick was sure. He certainly didn’t need any extra drama, either. Whoever needed to blip in could just use one of Candlepoint’s other gates.

It took the guards half an hour to fully accept Erick’s exchange. By the time the last floating box disappeared into the shadows of the guard house, the sky was full dark. Stars shone above, while the moons crested the horizon, but the city of Candlepoint was a riot of colored lights bright enough to drown out the heavens.

Erick had already moved 11 darkchip-full stone boxes to another location, under the sands outside of Spur. One box remained beside the Ophiel at Candlepoint. He looked down at the final black-filled box, as the last guard tossed the final handful of darkchips inside.

With a smile that had only grown larger as rads disappeared into shadows, Justine asked, “Erick, sir?” She had also gotten used to using his name, because Erick had told her to use his name no less than three times. “Are you going to purchase anything from the Crystal?”

“No.” Erick didn’t mention how he was absolutely sure that those items were traps. He had already said it once. He didn’t feel like repeating himself.

Justine tried a different tactic. “I can show you how every item works, if you wish?”

“No.” He said to Justine. “Tell me: What would happen to you if I decide to never come here again?”

Justine paused. “… If I have given offense—”

“That is not it, and you know it.” Erick said, “Besides. The next time I show up Bulgan might actually kill you. Or any number of other people.”

Justine said, “My duty is to my people. If I were not here, I would be casting myself dry in the garden houses, bringing sustenance to others, and helping those who are still trying to regain themselves.”

Erick hated himself for falling for this trap, but he asked anyway, “Valok. The man who was here last time. Where is he?”

Justine said, “If it is your wish, I will ensure he stays out of your sight, but I will not end the man. He fell down a dark path after the events of our previous encounter but he is gradually regaining his sense of self, immersed in the green, as he is accustomed.”

That was fine. He could stay away from Erick, for now. Probably forever.

