Distracted by her idle thoughts, Mila almost missed seeing the force of Demons headed her way. Led by a formidable, Water-Blessed abomination which could only be the Demon Rain had dubbed ‘Pudge’, the monstrous cadre was accompanied by nine other Demons and a large contingent of gajashia cavalry, no doubt here to silence the People’s longbows and keep the dangerous Royal Guardians in check. The smart move was to fall back and pepper the gajashias with arrows, but she wasn’t sure if the lions could keep up with quins and still have strength left to fight afterwards. Probably not, since the cats were built for power rather than speed or stamina, so she ordered the Guardians to withdraw to the North while the Sentinels distracted the Enemy and drew them north-west. Another bait to set up for a flanking charge, but Gongsun Qi was paying close attention and split his forces well, sending the Demons after Mila while the gajashia cavalry chased after the Royal Guardians.

How was the man so adept at battlefield command, never missing a single detail even whilst embroiled in bitter combat with Situ Jia Yang? A duel which lasted much longer than it should have, by the way, considering Zian’s uncle was no match for Baatar, much less Mama. It didn’t make any sense for Gongsun Qi to take this long to defeat his opponent, and Mila was almost offended since this might lead others to think Mama was only so-so, rather than one of the foremost Warriors of every generation since the one she’d been born to.

With no targets to aim at, the longbows fell silent as Mila carefully weighed her options with Tursinai’s input, unsure if she should fight or flee from this formidable threat. Tenjin had almost died to Pudge once, and that was without any other Demons to support it. Were Naaran, Yaruq, or even Mother-in-Law Sarnai here, then Mila would order the charge and be done with it, but the strongest Sentinel Demon Slayers had left to support the centre, meaning Mila had limited options to deal with these Demons. Sending word of their plight to Hongji, she received a vague assurance of aid coming as soon as possible, though it sounded like ‘soon’ would be anything but.

Hesitation and indecisiveness did little to aid her cause, but the Enemy was in no rush either. To the south west, the Royal Guardians had already engaged their foes, and the Demon-contingent seemed happy to let them fight it out. No doubt there were even more forces on the way to bog down the Royal Guardians, because if Mila could see that they were lacking in stamina, surely Gongsun Qi knew it as well. To make matters worse, Mila’s five-thousand Sentinels were too valuable to be wasted playing cat-and-mouse with their foes, which meant a decision had to be made now.

And she was never one to back down from a challenge.

Rattling off a string of orders, Mila dispersed her Sentinels to circle around the Demons and lend assistance to the Royal Guardians, for in this coming clash, there was little they could do to help. Tenjin, Tursinai, Dagen, Orgaal, and less than twenty others Mila only knew by name remained behind, a paltry force of Demon Slayers if she ever saw one. If there was another Demon comparable to Pudge, then this fight was doomed to defeat, for the Water-Blessed abomination was a fearsome foe to be reckoned with.

Last time, Rain’s forces only emerged unscathed because GangShu stepped in to deal with Pudge, but this time, direct action from a Divinity seemed unlikely. Even if he were so inclined to do so, Guan Suo was dead and gone now, and with Mama still injured and Papa back in the Citadel, there was no one left to hold the Heavens up for Mila.

So she would just have to bear this burden herself.

Leaping off Zabu and signalling him to hold, Mila drew her spear and raised it to throw once more. Casting it away with all her might, her heart sank as the weapon was stopped short by a barrier of murky Water. Though her spear passed through the obstacle unscathed, its momentum was utterly spent and all but crashed to the floor behind it. Her attempt to summon the spear back to hand were met with failure again as the Demon erected another barrier between Mila and her weapon, almost taunting her to keep trying and see which of them had more Chi. No matter, for Paragon had been crafted with more than just its whip form in mind, as she flicked it twice to form a flexible spear that was more blade than shaft. Technically, it could be considered a terribly balanced double bladed staff, but Mila intended for it to be used as a one-handed spear, albeit one with a fixed grip and pointed blades on both sides.

“I’ll distract the Water Demon,” she said, drawing looks of consternation from the others. “Split the rest among yourselves. Kill your targets if you can, but take no unnecessary risks. We only need to delay until stronger allies arrive. If there is another Demon too powerful for us to face, then call out and retreat away from our forces.” At best, the Demons would chase them, and at worst, the Demons went after the Sentinels and Royal Guardians, the former of which could easily retreat. As for the Royal Guardians, well... perhaps they still had some Peak Experts to spare, though having seen no less than a full-score of Royal Guardians fighting Demons in the Centre, Mila wasn’t entirely confident they had hidden talents left to reveal.

To their credit, none of the Sentinels tried to persuade Mila out of this foolishness, not even Tursinai who all but radiated concern. They trusted Mila not to overreach, which meant that if she said she could keep Pudge busy, they expected her to do so without dying. Oh how she wished she’d spent more time practising Panacea under battlefield conditions, but she was still of the mind that it was better to focus on avoiding injury in the first place than spend time learning how to treat them on the fly.

Sensing her gaze locked upon it, the Demon Pudge lumbered towards Mila at a deceptively fast pace, a torrent of water swirling all around it which no doubt stretched to the limits of its Domain, one which measured at least two metres in radius from torso to the outer edge. Seeing this, the other Sentinels split off, neatly drawing the remaining Demons away from the Water-Blessed monstrosity’s influence. A standard Demon was unpredictable enough, but add in a Blessing, and the possibilities were near endless and impossible to guard against. Even though the Warriors here were all aware of Pudge’s Water bullets, tentacles, and barriers, it could still easily catch one of them off-guard if attacked mid-battle with another Demon.

As if reading her mind, Pudge attacked without warning and Mila hunkered down to block, the water bullet smashing against her shield and sending her sliding back several meters. Muscles screaming in protest as she quick-stepped out of the furrows dug by her heels, she circled around her foe dodging and Deflecting bullets as she went. Manoeuvring into place until it stood between her and her allies, she forced it to focus solely on her and minimized the chances it would launch attacks of opportunity at the others behind it. While it could still do so through the use of Scrying, this was beyond the ability of most Demons, since intelligence was rarely a part of their strengths. Cunning and guile, yes, but true, calculating intelligence? Mila would sooner expect Aurie to sprout wings and fly than a Demon to exhibit human-level intellect, for despite their forms or origins, the Demons were naught but mindless beasts, hate-filled minions of the Father hell-bent on overturning Balance as it currently existed.

And this one, this Water-Blessed Pudge, with its pale, corpulent flesh and gaping chest wound spewing murky water at an alarming rate, its hatred was wholly focused on Mila.

A towering liquid tentacle surged up beside her and slammed down without warning. Hopping back to avoid the strike, she spun on her heel and Deflected the next oncoming Water bullet, praying her movements looked better than they felt. ‘Nimble’ or ‘graceful’ were not words often used to describe Mila, as she was more used to overpowering her foes through raw strength, but this wasn’t an option against the bulky, towering Pudge. Calling this beast gargantuan was an understatement, as its legs were thicker than Mila’s entire torso and her eyes level with its protruding belly, which thankfully hung loosely down to its knees and hid whatever might be tucked away between its legs. Inwardly disgusted at the unpleasant thought, she put her mind to better use coming up with a solution to all her woes, but aside from dancing around the Demon and avoiding its ranged attacks, she wasn’t certain what she should do. Paragon’s whip form would be as useless as her thrown spear, since a Water barrier would sap away whatever strength and momentum she could put into the attack, which meant she would have to wade through the murky puddle in order to land a solid hit. The problem was, even though she was Mama’s Disciple, Mila never picked up the trick of her signature charge, the one Rain so easily emulated after seeing her use it once.

The Heavens were unfair, but Mila had more than her share of benefits, a favoured child matched with Rain or Yan. The problem was, against an opponent of this calibre, enhanced strength and a dense physique were more hindrance than advantage, which meant she had little else to rely on. If Song were here, she would fearlessly charge into the ominous puddle of swirling water and lop off a leg using a quick-draw strike, while Yan would gracefully dance about avoiding Water Bullets wherever she could and countering with Wind Blades when she couldn’t, but alas, Mila was not fast or brave enough for the former and unable to do the latter, for her still unnamed Blessing was not one that manifested itself in the same way.

Diving forward to avoid yet another smashing tentacle, Mila tucked her head and rolled to her feet. Despite the awkward, bumbling image she knew she presented, her grin never once slipped from her face. Dire though the situation might be, she never felt more alive than when faced with a challenge, especially now that she knew Mama was in no condition to come save her. All her life, Mila had endured gruelling training sessions and faced many a precarious situation, but every time, she knew Mama, Papa, or one of their friends would be lurking nearby to protect her. That was the source of her indomitable courage, the knowledge that there were taller shoulders to hold up the Heavens should they come crashing down upon her, but now, all those taller shoulders were busy with their own burdens, leaving Mila to fend for herself.

And she loved every second of it.

The Demon’s attacks picked up in power, speed, and frequency, but Mila weathered the storm and emerged unscathed, for she noticed one critical detail. She was right, the swirling water around Pudge marked the limits of its Domain, so every time it loosed a Water Bullet or formed a Water Tentacle, the waters receded in the general direction Pudge’s attack would come from. It wasn’t much of a warning, but deep in the throes of Balance and Enlightenment, seconds stretched into perpetuity and gave her ample time to react. Joy and excitement surged through her veins as she revelled in the glory of battle, so much that they almost threatened to Unbalance her, but she kept a firm handle on her emotions and focused on the Demon at the expense of all else. Even then, she couldn’t avoid every attack, but her shield and Paragon served her well as she fought with all her heart, blocking and parrying attacks that should have rendered her into meat paste, and would have done so to most Martial Warriors, like Tursinai, Alsantset, Dagen, and possibly even someone as strong as Gerel.

Because unlike her, they lacked a Blessing to blunt the impact of these Elemental attacks.

This was the sole reason Mila was confident enough to face Pudge, because she’d suspected her Esoteric Blessing would protect her the same way it marginally protected her from Tenjin’s flames or Yan’s Wind Blades. She’d tested it thoroughly in the last few months, and discovered that the first would still burn her, while the second left shallow cuts, but only because those were the results of the secondary functions of their Blessed attacks, which were otherwise ineffective when used against her. Tenjin’s Fire Chi was not truly Fire, but it was still able to heat the air to burn her, while Yan’s Wind Blades were not really made of wind, but were still wholly capable of driving real wind to cut through flesh. However, the Elemental Chi portion of both those attacks were almost wholly negated by Mila’s Esoteric Blessing, which worked so mysteriously to strengthen her skin, bones, and muscles while providing her an innate resistance to mundane flames.

And now, she knew it also passively opposed any and all Elemental Chi which approached her, offering her an indisputable advantage against Awakened Demons and Warriors alike.

The Water tentacles were powerful enough to shake earth and shatter steel, but like any attack, most of the power came from the follow through. Since Mila’s Blessing negated the Water Chi before impact, those attacks were only as powerful as momentum would allow, which wasn’t much considering this was Water rather than Earth or Fire. Even Wind would be more effective, and Mila understood why the Blessing of Water was so universally looked down upon, because against a Martial Warrior who knew what they were doing, it didn’t offer much of an advantage, or at least nothing as impressive as what came bundled with the other three Primal Blessings.

