To those ignorant of her Blessing, it would appear as if she were matched with the Demon in strength, but she was desperately avoiding close quarters combat because she really wasn’t. Her Blessing wouldn’t do much against an attack backed by pure muscle, and despite Pudge’s plump figure, only a fool would think this gargantuan Demon physically weak. Thankfully, it wasn’t particularly fast as far as Demons or Peak Experts went, and while Mila was confident she could beat it in a foot race, staying out of its reach while avoiding a barrage of Water-based attacks was far more difficult than she’d ever care to admit.

Because despite her razor sharp focus dedicated to immediate survival, a small part of her mind couldn’t help but ponder the mysteries of her Esoteric Blessing.

During the meditative trance induced by Taduk’s bamboo grove, Mila had concluded that the Primal Blessings weren’t specifically about mundane earth, air, water, or fire, but rather a representation of the myriad of unique forces of the universe broken down into their four most fundamental units, or perhaps categories. Exactly what forces fit into which category, she had yet to decide, for there were simply too many options to pick and choose from. Push and pull, friction and momentum, heat and chill, gravity, tension, resistance, and magnetism, these were but a fraction of the forces she had names for, and only the Heavens knew how many she didn’t know. Regardless of the details, she knew that the four Primal Elements represented the basic building blocks of the universe, and that every other force which existed within the universe could be broken down into some interaction between two or more of the Primal Elements.

That was the theory at least, and though Mila ultimately concluded that the name of her Esoteric Blessing didn’t matter, she still would’ve liked to have one, since not knowing made it difficult to figure out how to actively use it.

This was why she spent so much effort modelling her Natal Palace after the Bamboo grove, studying how the forces interacted and putting her knowledge to use in modifying her Natal Palace to better suit her needs. All four Primal Blessings were present in her bamboo grove. Earth in the Mountain the whole structure sat upon, Water in the river which ran through it, Air in the wind whistling through the trees, and Fire in the heat of the sun shining down from above. This wasn’t all though, for there were plenty of Secondary and Auxiliary Blessings represented as well, such as Light and Shadow playing out over the grove, Wood and Plant in the bamboo and flowers, Cloud and Scent, Mountain and River, Gravity and Pressure, and thousands upon thousands more. There were forces she had no name or concept for, but existed all the same, like the forces dictating how concentrated or diffuse a certain scent would be, or what image was presented in the water’s reflection, or which direction a plant grew in to face the sun.

...

The epiphany struck Mila like a hammer to a gong, and once sounded, she could not shake the thought. During her extended bout of Insight, she felt like the Mother Above had been trying to explain what her personal Blessing entailed, but alas, she’d been unable to comprehend the message laid out before her. Now... now she felt like she had an inkling of what the message might’ve meant, and she followed this line of thought in hopes of a breakthrough. Guan Suo Awakened to the Blessing of Smoke, an Esoteric force comprised of all four Primal Blessings. Fire for the heat, Air for the form, Earth for the ash, and Water to bind it all together. As the blood of his blood, Mila’s Blessing was undoubtedly the same, and she suspected that everything she built and studied in her Natal Palace were in some way connected to her own personal Blessing.

And now she knew what name to give it.

Calling upon her Blessing, Mila felt her body thrum with power as she deliberately exerted her efforts to do what she unintentionally had been doing all along. Buoyed by her new Insight, she surged forward to meet the Demon in battle. Twirling Paragon like a staff, she ducked Pudge’s opening back-handed swing and leapt over the follow through punch delivered by its other hand. Calling upon her Blessing to dissipate the murky Water Chi, her grin widened when the swirling torrents parted around her as she charged in headlong for a stab. Paragon glanced off the Demon’s thick belly, scoring a superficial gash across one side of its belly, but even this was enough for Mila’s Blessing to take effect. The pale, loose skin around the insignificant wound scorched and blackened before her eyes, and she allowed herself a small chuckle of glee. Leaping over yet another wide swing, she ducked and Deflected the follow-up which came much faster than the first. Minutes ago, this strike would have hammered her flat into the ground, but now? Now, she barely felt the impact through her shield, for the sun shone brightly overhead on this clear, cloudless day.

And just as its presence enabled so many different forces to function, so too did the sun fill her with strength and purpose.

Everything within her Natal Palace tied directly back to the sun. The light and shadows, the plants and bamboo, even the wind and clouds were somewhat dictated by forces set in motion by the mere presence of the sun, emanating warmth, light, and Heavens knows what else by mere virtue of existence. Water evaporated and fell back to the earth as rain, cutting channels through the rocky mountain to form the ever-flowing river which ran through it, a source of sustenance for the plants and animals around it. Even the most fertile fields would lay barren without the nourishing light of the sun, and the air would grow stagnant and stale without heat or cold to drive it. What’s more, the sun itself was a source of energy, and each day, Mila drew a little more nourishment from its rays, nourishment her body put to good use moulding her to be as strong as an Earth-Blessed Warrior through means she didn’t entirely understand, but understanding didn’t matter, so long as she realized what forces were in play and could harness them effectively.

Plus, now she finally had a reason to explain why she never could wake early: when the sun hid below the horizon, her source of strength was no longer within reach.

Well, not really.

Drawing upon her Chi to replicate the forces of the Sun, she emulated it as best she could and turned this against her Demonic foe. Thrusting Paragon directly into Pudge’s belly, she laughed even though her weapon once again bent and failed to pierce its flesh, for her blow still blackened flesh and sent the Demon stumbling back a full step, forced away by the sheer power of her Reinforced, fortified physique. Hers was not a Blessing to solely use directly against her opponents, not in the way Wind, Fire, or so many others were but rather a Blessing which augmented everything Mila herself could do, drawing her strength from the sun itself. No, better to say she herself was the sun, and the Natal Palace her world, marking her as the source, the origin, the catalyst of all forces within.

Warmth, light, life, and nourishment, the Sun was the source of this and so much more, and was no doubt also the result of countless interactions between countless forces, all of which Mila could now tap into.

Thoroughly enjoying her newfangled prowess, she gave up on piercing the Demon’s defences and shield charged into its knee, all but ignoring three Water tentacles which brushed against her with the force of a gentle push. Domain or not, natural laws still held sway, and Pudge’s knees carried a lot of weight, making them easy targets. Though unable to break bones, she sent the Demon stumbling back once more, and as soon as she recovered, aimed a second tackle at the same knee while the other leg was raised in the air. Crashing through multiple Water barriers as she went, the Demon’s Elemental Chi never touched her as she Emanated Sun Chi to counteract it, her body glowing with invisible light and searing heat as she tackled the Demon’s leg once again. The impact drove the breath from her lungs and she felt her forearm fracture, but Pudge’s leg shot back and sent the Demon toppling down into the dirt. The thrill of near victory superseded any pain as she brought her shield down on her fallen foe’s leg, Reinforcing, Honing, and Amplifying for all she was worth in a desperate attempt to cripple it. A flick of her wrist sent Paragon hurtling out behind her, and a second flick drew it back, where affixed to its end was her short spear, which she caught in hand and drove down into Pudge’s thick flesh. This time, she focused all her will and effort into the attack, and her weapon plunged deep, spraying her with Ichor in the process, but she cared not for the pain as she cackled in pure delight.

For if she could hurt it, then she could kill it.

A massive foot slammed into her and lifted her off her feet. The world spun, and when it finally stilled, Mila found herself staring up at Tokta, who grimaced as he mumbled, “Fool of a girl, laughing while within arms reach of Demon. Smack it around a bit and you think yourself invincible? Have a heart, dear child. Think about what your Mother would do if you died under my care. I still have yet to bounce a grandchild upon my knee, and might never get a chance if you are not more careful.”

“Sorry,” she whispered, her head aching too much to lift it, but she didn’t have to because Song knelt down beside her. “Hi. What are you doing here?”

“Sister Tursinai brought you over,” Song replied, her expression drawn in worry, but not worry for Mila, as her eyes darted to something out of sight. “You should know. Rain is not well, and possibly dying.”

Panic welled up from within as Mila fought to sit up, but a growl from Tokta and his forceful hand pressed upon her head kept her from moving too much. “I need to see him,” she whispered, staring at the kindly Healer who’d treated all her injuries since she was a little girl, one who made silly faces so she would focus on something other than the pain. “Please.”

Grunting in wordless neutrality, Tokta paused a beat before gathering Mila in his arms and moving her over to Rain’s side, who wasn’t all that far away and looked like death warmed over. A Death Corps guard was tending to him, even though there was no visible sign of injury, just a pale, wan, tired Rain, who seemed so fragile and weak in his resplendent, golden armour. There they lay, side by side, for how long, Mila could not say, but she was soon joined by sweet Lin and Song who held her hands tight, as well as Yan who joined them so silently, Mila didn’t even know she was there until her sister wife stroked her hair and reassured her that all would be well despite being terrified all the same.

Then, without warning, the Death Corps guard collapsed, the last of his strength spent ensuring he would not fall upon Rain. Someone tended to the Healer, but no one moved to attend to Rain, because the Healer’s Chi was still at work and would interfere with anyone elses attempts to Heal until it wholly dissipated, though how long that might take, no one knew. With help from the others, Mila moved closer to Rain’s side, propping herself up on one elbow to stroke his cheek and cry, while Lin-Lin sobbed and Yan held them both tight. Sensing their distress, Ping Ping ambled over to check on Rain and emanated an Aura of sorrow which had tears spilling from Mila’s eyes. The turtle wandered away soon after, patrolling the perimeter with anxious vigilance, but Mama Bun joined them soon after, hopping out of the wagon to nuzzle Rain’s face. Soon enough, the rest of the animals were there to crowd around Rain, with Aurie’s mewls a match for Ping Ping’s Aura while the rest could do naught but watch and wait.

“Please save him,” Mila silently prayed, hoping the Mother above was listening. “For though You have Blessed me with the Sun, he is the light in my life, and I cannot live without him.”

Chapter Meme
