At twenty years of age, there was no denying that Mila was a formidable woman and Warrior.

Today, she single-handedly slew three Demons and participated in no less than a dozen more kills, tying down or distracting her monstrous foes while her allies dealt the killing blow. Many of the Defiled were well armoured in Runic helms and breastplates, but they proved meagre defence against Paragon’s chain-whip form, scything through unprotected legs and necks with laughable ease. Wherever she rode, the Enemy tide parted aside as if readily giving way as she killed them faster than they could charge in, and even Spiritual Weapon wielding Champions and Chieftains were unable to stop her. All they could do was avoid her attacks and leave their comrades to die beneath Paragon’s eight-hundred and eight segmented blades, capable of striking someone over seven meters away when stretched to its utmost limits.

Her accomplishments weren’t confined to the battlefield either. She was a married woman now, wife to Falling Rain, her beloved idiot who she could not imagine a life without. Though many wives of the Empire derived their status solely from their husbands, Mila intended to make her own mark in history, but this did not mean she took no pride in being a wife. After moving into their new manor at the Northern Citadel however, she’d come face to face with her own glaring ineptitude when it came to domestic aptitude, utterly useless at cooking, cleaning, sewing, decorating, or really anything that had to do with the household. She couldn’t even make heads or tails of the manor expenses, wholly reliant on Luo-Luo to handle everything from hiring servants and gardeners to ensuring their kitchen was well-stocked without letting food go to waste. It didn’t matter that her sister wife Yan was equally useless, but it irritated Mila that her husband was so adept when it came to managing the household. However, instead of complaining to no end, she took precious time away from contemplating the Martial Path to learn how to be a better wife, a path which was far more difficult and troublesome than she’d ever imagined, because Mama made everything look so easy.

All her life, Mama had been larger than life, not just as a Warrior, but as a mother too, a paragon who excelled in everything she tried. Mama could stitch together a new outfit for Mila and have time left over to cook a sumptuous lunch, without skipping her morning training or forgetting to tend to her flourishing courtyard garden. She kept the house impeccably clean and the pantry generously stocked, sometimes too generously as if afraid they might go an entire year without a good harvest or clean catch from the forest, yet nothing ever went to waste. All while running the Sentinels to flawless perfection mind you, ensuring that every village in the Saint’s Tribulations mountains was properly protected while simultaneously keeping track of everyone’s personal contributions so that they were appropriately rewarded without fail. In Mila’s eyes, Mama was an indomitable force of nature, someone who bore the weight of the Heavens on her shoulders so that others could walk freely without this burden to inhibit them, and she did so as easily as turning a hand.

Which was why seeing her strong, domineering, confident mother lying in the grass with eyes closed and a gaping stomach wound made Mila feel like a girl in pigtails once again. Warm courage gave way to icy dread as the Healer tended to Mama’s many grievous wounds, made all the more visible due to the minimal blood covering each horrific injury. Logically, she understood Mama’s eyes were only closed so she could replenish her spent Chi, and that the lack of blood meant she stopped the bleeding within seconds of taking injury, but the truth did little to reassure Mila. Instead, she fixated on the open cavity along Mama’s pale stomach and the various bone-deep cuts distributed about her body, including a particularly gruesome one running along her left cheek which exposed not only broken bones, but also shattered teeth inside Mama’s mouth. Her wounds told a tale of a hard fought battle, and for Mila, who’d never seen her formidable Mama even lose a sparring match, it was a difficult tale to swallow.

Whenever people came to Mama for help, she would often smile and say “There are still taller shoulders to hold up the Heavens”, or something to that effect. Only now, the Enemy delivered unto them a foe even Mama could not defeat, so who was left to bear this burden now that she’d faltered and fallen?

A comforting arm wrapped around Mila’s shoulders and she started in place, caught by surprise in Tursinai’s embrace. “Hold firm to your courage, Mila of the People,” she whispered, her gaze more solemn and serious than ever. “The Chief Provost is injured, but she still yet lives and will return to the fight soon enough, so it would be best if you stopped scaring everyone with your frightened expression.”

Right. Mama’s injuries looked daunting enough, so there was no need for Mila to make things worse by overreacting. Doing her best to put on a brave face, she rallied her flagging spirits and sought Balance to calm her mind, before turning to watch the Royal Guardians go about their business. The lion-mounted warriors were a fearsome sight to behold, driving deep into the Defiled flank to slaughter tribesmen and Chosen with near impunity. Much of it was due to the deafening roars of their mounts, inspiring sheer terror and causing their targets to bleed from all seven apertures, panicking, blinding, and deafening their foes before slashing them apart with single swipes of their massive claws. Golden creatures with dark, luxurious manes, even the smallest lion was the size of an average horse, while the largest had shoulders standing at over two-metres tall. Then there were the Royal Guardians themselves, powerful Experts who fought with wickedly hooked spears, mundane weapons which did little to hold them back as they made short work of their foes.

It took almost a full minute for the Enemy to respond to this unexpected attack, one which threatened to crumble the entire right flank unsupported. Fur-laden garo riders appeared in the distance, moving around to cut off the Royal Guardians’ path of retreat, but rather than disengaging to fall back, the Royal Guardians pivoted as one to meet the Defiled charge head on. Where a battle between horses and gajashia heavily favoured the latter, garos and lions were even more mismatched as the powerful felines made short work of the wiry, armless lizards. Time and time again, the same scene repeated itself on the fields of Central, the garos leaping at their chosen targets only to be swatted down mid air. Whether it was power, speed, reach, or intelligence, the garos were sorely outmatched, unable to hold a candle to the majestic, graceful lions of the Imperial Clan.

The sight was far from inspiring though, as a single thought gnawed on Mila’s mind. “The Royal Guardians,” she Sent, wasting this Chi because she dared not risk being overheard. “They were not trained to do battle against the Defiled.” Disciplined as ever, Tursinai refrained from replying through Sending, conserving every last iota of Chi for use in battle, but Mila had to share this information with another. “The lions’ roar is a tool meant to overwhelm a foe and scatter them to the winds. This is only marginally useful against the Defiled, who by and large, do not rout.” Understanding dawned on the older woman’s face, and her brows drew together in concern. Turning her gaze upon the Royal Guardians, Tursinai’s eyes had the look of a predator studying a potential rival, for that was what the Royal Guardians were. Their purpose was the defend the Imperial Clan, but their tactics had not been developed to use against the fearless and almost suicidal Defiled.

No, they were meant to be used against Imperial citizens, rational Martial Warriors who still understood the meaning of fear.

This training served them poorly here today, for while Imperial infantry would’ve likely routed under the initial, devastating charge, the Defiled infantry had already rallied to chase after the Royal Guardians, pinning them between a rock and a hard place. Their only chance was to fight their way through the garo forces, but even as the thought came to mind, Mila spotted a force of gajashia riders moving around to lend their weight to the battle. Though fierce and powerful beyond expectations, the Royal Guardians’ numbers left much to be desired, less than three-thousand in total and in grave danger of being overwhelmed by sheer numbers.

Whistling as she ran towards the fray, Mila yelled, “Tursinai, send word to Hongji. Sentinels, on me. Our allies require our aid.” Eager for battle as always, Zabu trotted out next to her, his head lowered and pace steady so she could jump on without slowing down. Drawing her short spear from its holster affixed to her shield, she flipped it into an overhand grip, Reinforced for all she was worth, and came to her feet in the harness. Zabu slowed and growled as she placed a tremendous weight upon his furred frame, but he bore it without much complaint as Mila took aim and loosed her weapon at the foremost clump of Defiled infantry. The spear shot out like an arrow and took the closest Defiled through the shoulder, passing through in a spray of blood and shooting down the line to kill seven more tribesmen before finally coming to a stop.

The Sentinels with Mila lent their bows to the cause, but there was only time for a single volley before battle was joined. Waiting until the last moment to deploy Paragon, she whipped the wand about and grinned as the sectioned blades hurled out into the Defiled crowd, cutting through flesh and bone like a hot knife through cold butter. That was the beauty of her weapon, for a mundane weapon would have to deal with issues like friction and density, but Paragon’s sectioned blades were so slender and light, they were all but weightless once Honed and Lightened. This meant that so long as they didn’t get caught on anything like the edge of Runic shield or wrapped around a Spiritual Weapon, it didn’t take much effort to send Paragon hurtling through the Enemy ranks, unlike Tursinai’s longer, thicker, and heavier chain and sickle which she used to the same effect.

There they stood, two Warriors of the People spearheading two separate attacks. Like twin wolves working in concert to rend apart a stag, Tursinai baited the Enemy out of position while Mila’s forces bit in deep, a gambit they used to great effect time and time again. Gongsun Qi was an able commander, but his underlings lacked training and discipline, a flaw which inhibited his tactical options since his Junior Officers could not be counted on to keep their subordinates in check. No doubt Gongsun Qi knew how to deal with the quin-mounted Sentinels, by ordering his soldiers to present a unified front and march forward together, rather than letting sections break away to chase a ‘retreating foe’, but he might as well try to hang the moon on his belt instead. Though dressed differently, the Chosen were still Defiled in the end, and no matter how many times the Sentinels used this same tactic against them, the Enemy fell for the bait every single time.

Quick to divine her intentions, the Royal Guardians soon fought their way free of the garos and infantry, though not without their own losses. More than one Guardian sported dire injuries, and their mounts fared only slightly better, with many a golden flank looking a little worse for wear after this singular exchange. What’s more, being shock cavalry, their effectiveness likely plummeted the longer a battle drew on, largely due to their lions’ lacking stamina. Ordering her Sentinels to fall back, Mila escorted the Royal Guardians back to safety with a sense of smug superiority, for the roosequin was still the king of all mounts in her eyes, a creature which could run, fight, and kill with the best of them, while also being the most aesthetically pleasing to boot.

Patting Zabu’s neck earned Mila a mild glare of reproach, but she paid his grumpy demanour no mind as she put her spear and Paragon away to take up the bow once more. With Tursinai to pass along her messages, she ordered the Royal Guardians to block for the Sentinels as she loosed arrow after arrow into the horde, directing their aim towards the infantry whenever she could solely because there were more of them. Part of her wondered if this was a mistake, because technically, Mama’s unit was supposed to be resting in reserve, as even loosing arrows took stamina and focus, both of which would soon be in short supply. However, if she could whittle away the Enemy cavalry numbers until they were no longer a threat, then the Imperials would have free rein to pick and choose their targets. Up until now, the cattle chariots had yet to be deployed, meaning Ulfsaar and almost five hundred Warriors were standing idly on one flank, which lent credence to Rain’s idea of training more commoners for the battlefield. A commoner in a chariot could easily mow down dozens of Defiled under the right circumstances, and if they should die in the process, then little of value would be lost. It seemed callous to even think it, but a chariot driver could be trained in a matter of weeks, whereas a Martial Warrior took years to develop. In fact, should a chariot be lost, Mila placed more value on the cattle and wagon than the driver, even if they were a Martial Warrior themselves.

She had Rain to blame for this, him and his animal loving ways. Truth be told, the cattle were quite cute once you got used to their smell, which really wasn’t all that much worse than horses.

