The moment I catch a glimpse of the beyond, I feel my consciousness being pulled into a strange yet familiar place.

This pocket of reality is the outer edges of the entire universe. It feels like another infinitely large space, but it can be accessed from anywhere. When peering deep enough into the laws of reality with enough pressure, there are weaknesses all throughout the universe that can be seen through.

The only other physical presence I feel with me in this space is Maria. I have felt and seen this place before, when interacting with the Creator's Legacy and a Void Creeper from beyond this universe.

That very place they came from is what I see.

There are evenly placed artifacts floating within a void. They do not have a color, but the human fragments of my mind fill in these sensations with darkness.

They are not truly lined up in even rows, nor do they take up any real space. Yet, when peering into this place, I see hundreds of billions of stone tablets all lined up together.

Sometimes they appear as one single file line, yet from other directions it looks like perfect grids with millions of rows. It even takes the shape of cubes, stacking the grids of tablets atop each other.

The longer I try to make sense of these tablets, they begin to turn into the shape of time, emanating the reflections of strange laws, and I can start to map them to the galaxies in the true Origin Plane. These are the manifestations of the opposite side of the void where these galaxies affected space.

Upon this realization, the shapes and orders become even more bizarre, creating 4th, 5th, 6th, and up to 11th dimensional objects and patterns that break all of the coherent ties to the linear visualization of the universe I came from.

After a resolute mental blink, the tablets all return to the simple grid shape I perceived when I first entered this place.

We start floating over the dead and cold tablets, and soon feel the presence of other movement inside this void beyond space.

The outlines of long-limbed humanoid shadows indent reality in my vision, guiding me along in a certain direction.

They are all void creepers.

I don't know when they began appearing, or where they came from, but wherever I mentally probe, more shadows seep out from this abyss.

There are no laws fluctuating on these creatures. No matter how hard I look into their beings, it appears as though time has never affected them. They have no past, and no future.

Even the present moment we're existing in now, none of them interact with the laws of the universe. If I weren't here to see them move, or be created from the void, there would be no proof these ever existed.

Even Maria's and my mind are interacting in very strange ways with this place.

I can feel that we did not break into it with strength or mental prowess alone. Something let us in as visitors, and there is a building pressure that will soon reject us out. Even our capacity to wield laws in this space is limited, like there is a shield around us only allowing us to observe. There may not be any proof we ever came either.

Despite this chilling observation, we still drift alongside the many void creepers that wander through the dead stone tablets, moving toward a single point. There is no gravitational pull, or fluctuation in the void that is tempting anyone to move this way.

It is just an underlying inevitability, that everything in this place knows, they must move forward to where they are meant to go.

The moment I shift my thoughts from the journey to the destination, the trip across the void is already complete.

I remember clearly how far we traveled, past every single tablet, and as I think back I return right to the spot on the way over like it hasn't happened yet.

When I focus on the destination again, the passage of time and space moves forward once again.

Without completely letting my mind go, it is hard to comprehend how this space works. Life as I know it cannot exist in a plane devoid of mass, energy, or the linear passage of time.

Yet, I am capable of experiencing it with the parts of my immortal emperor's consciousness that have been pulled into the Void Creeper's True Domain.

I see the final tablet that all of the summoned Void Creepers are gathering to and floating around.

It is the only tablet in this entire space that is lit up, shining a bright white light in the void. While it may not be actual color, it is emanating laws that trigger the opposite of darkness. This is the visualization of the reflection of life in the Origin Plane.

This tablet's laws are all connected to the underside of the galaxy I come from.

The Void Creepers do not move, nor do they make any noises. They all just gather around the last tablet that has not been extinguished, waiting for something.

I try to take advantage of the rules in this place, and think about what they are waiting for. I try to peer into the future to see the end result, yet no visions come.

Instead, an overwhelming pressure grabs onto every fiber of consciousness in this void and tears us out. Resistance is impossible, we have seen everything it wants us to see.
