The building overall was slanted enough that I could slide down the nearest wall to the bottom. But, as I was already aware, there wasn't any hidden treasure down here. While most of the building was still intact, it was slowly breaking down around what used to be the windows and door, allowing large amounts of soil to fall in.

The ground was littered with bricks that had come loose over time and were the reason I wanted down here. Reaching down, I grab one of the still intact ones to scrutinize it. Tabitha slides down behind me, but she only needs to see the state of the building before frowning in disappointment. I ignore her pointed glare and instead focus on the brick in my hands.

What a unique mana structure. It almost looked like there were tiny springs of mana throughout the stone. Moreover, it was handmade and not carved from naturally forming rock. What's more, I was having trouble picking out what elements it was made of.

There were small traces of iron, but that was only one of a dozen different metals contained within it. I was tempted to build an external frame backpack like Dad taught me and carry as many of the stones back with us as I could. Who knows what I could get from them if I melted a bunch down?

But I already knew that wasn't viable, so I took the brick in my hand and stashed it in my bag.

“All that for a brick,” Tabitha complains in the dark.

“At least we learned how strong the buildings are and how they lasted so long," I try to get Tabitha to see that this wasn’t pointless.

“I suppose,” Tabitha reluctantly agrees.

“If we come across another one of these, then maybe we can use it as a campsite,” I suggest.

“Only if it doesn’t have too many holes,” Tabitha walks over to the part of the nearby wall that's in the process of collapsing. "I'm sure you noticed it; once a hole is made, it's much easier to break through."

I did notice that. To be precise, it was the mortar that went out first. “It’s just conjecture, but I think the stones needed the support of the mortar to displace the energy of our attacks.”

“Whatever; can we get going now that you have your brick?” Tabitha grumbles, most likely because she's tired or annoyed she had to use so much energy to break through a simple brick wall.

“Of course, thanks for helping me,” I smile under the light of my spell.

Tabitha pretends to ignore me, but I can see the corner of her mouth threatening to curve up.

The two of us climb out of the underground building together, but before we set off again, I collect a sample of the mortar from where Tabitha made the hole. You never know; maybe I'll find something out if I examine it with Sandra.

With our detour completed, we began running again; only this time, I had to slow down because Tabitha was more tired than she wanted to admit. Nevertheless, we still easily avoid all the strong magic beasts with Sense Mana's help, and we pass dozens of more buried buildings, some of which were remarkably intact, while others were just piles of those strange bricks.

The buildings weren’t the only thing changing. The ground was gradually sloping upwards, and the mana in the air was reaching even more obnoxious levels. Finally, we were getting close to the heart.

The gradual incline grew steeper, and soon Tabitha and I were climbing a mountain instead of running. The towering cliff face wasn’t completely vertical, but it was damn near.

Halfway up the mountain, the last tree branch overhead disappeared, and we were treated to an open sky for the first time in weeks. The fun felt amazing on my face and was the boost we needed to climb faster and reach the top.

And when we did, everything we went through until now was worth this moment. The silent falcon, the goblins, the elemental, the water phoenix, the sleepless nights; I would do it all again if it meant I was treated to the sight before me.

We reached the heart of the Endless Forest. We made it!
