Even if the escalation of violence in the valley had been averted, thanks to the vault being once again out of reach, and their distiller retrieved and diagnosed, Niala still felt annoyed at the state of things.

She insisted on finding out Hugo Landretti's true fate, though she didn't meet much resistance from the rest of the group, who would all rather punish a murderer, if he really was one.

After another day of investigation and questioning, and in a twist that did nothing to help her mood, they were able to confirm that Hugo had... hanged himself.

The group that had been seen visiting him the night prior had turned out to be a mix of long-time family and personal friends. Even Raoul, the close associate of Sebastian, had an uncle who had been good friends with Stefan, and who the Landretti elder had asked to help look over his son after he was gone.

All the testimonies, taken along with the clearly rehearsed ones from the direct family and the methodical steps taken to try and frame the hanging as a crime, pointed at Emile attempting to use his father's death as leverage, and nothing more.

It was a minor crime, but one that had no hard evidence and thus impossible to pursue properly.

They ended up giving Anna their support, offering to be the ones to deposit the charges she had accumulated, both to shield her from reprisals and to lend more weight to the claims. That, and having actual proofs and documents, sent the local court of law into a fit as hearings were rapidly organized.

Niala and Sybil did take some vindication in how nobody seemed in a hurry to come to the two men's defence beyond their hired lawyers, with the usual delays surrounding such occurrences mysteriously absent.

Both girls privately celebrated the “greedy corrupt nobles” getting plunged into hot waters and left to boil by their evidently angry peers, all blaming them for failing to acquire the vault's treasures.

The proceedings would still take several weeks at the least, so they wouldn't be there to witness the results, but a win was a win.

During that time, Sammie had several more dates with Anna. Sybil grew increasingly paranoid during that time, and eventually had to be ordered to remain with the ship instead of tailing her colleague.

A colleague who, Niala remarked, was showing ever greater melancholy as time passed and their eventual departure approached.

David had to remind Niala several times that it wasn't their business, and that Sammie knew he could talk to them if he wanted.

Which is exactly what he ended up doing.

Niala's eyes went wide as her ears drooped. “Anna was fired?!”

Sammie sighed. “Yeah. Sebastian somehow figured she was the source of the incriminating documents we had, or at least that's what she told me.”

“What is she going to do now?!” She asked.

“For now, she's going to wait and see how his case progresses. If it looks like he'll get ousted from the company, she'll reapply for her old job once the new manager is in. If not, she'll probably leave the valley. She doesn't quite trust him, or Emile, to let her have a peaceful life out of spite.”

Niala turned to David, eyes pleading. He sustained her sad kitty eyes for as long as he could, which was about three seconds. Letting out a breath, he looked at Sammie. “We might have an offer for her, if she's interested.”

“An offer that would have her move to Riverwall?” He asked, with one of Sybil's ears swivelling his way.

“Ultimately, yes. Not necessarily right away. That would be up to her.”

“Then... if you don't mind, I'll go find her.”

The guardsman turned and left before David had finished nodding.

Niala blinked. “He's awfully eager... Do you think he's-”

“It's just a phase!” Sybil cried out.

David doubted that.

Anna had really thought she'd been discreet enough, and she'd even had the Allwardens to shield her from scrutiny!

It really sucked that she'd been found out anyway. Just to add to the injury, she'd spotted a couple of scary-looking guys hanging near her apartment block who made a point to stare at her whenever she walked by.

Classic intimidation. It double-sucked that it was working. She wasn't a warrior! Or a steel-nerved spy! She was an archivist! A specialized clerk!

She'd told Sammie that she'd wait and see how things went, but the truth was that she'd already looked into leaving Montaroyal and where she'd have the best chance of finding new work.

It was while she was reviewing her options that Sammie, sweet Sammie, knocked on her door and, subtly failing at appearing unperturbed, told her that his employers might have a proposition.

The way he was almost pleading for her to accept got him a few more points, though she wasn't about to let him know.

It was just a tiny bit irritating that she liked him so much and in so short a time. He had been supposed to be a step toward her goal, with a fun pit-stop along the way.

She felt a little disarmed that he was turning into something she'd hate having to let go. That wasn't like her.

But, then again, she didn't dislike it. And she especially didn't dislike the way he couldn't hide his smile when she said she'd go and listen to their offer.

The thugs' stares didn't even register with Sammie escorting her.

As she received sympathies and gratitude, Anna was convinced that they were, in fact, trying to bribe her with food. By the time Sammie had gone and retrieved her, Niala had put together a little snack. Something simple; just crackers, a mix of soft cheeses and some lightly roasted veggies on top, with the whole heated just enough to be warm and gooey.

But it was the spices, again, that elevated something merely delicious into a category of its own. Whatever they would offer her, she was tempted to accept as long as it included access to that woman's cooking.

The last “cheese-beds”, as the catkin called them, disappeared into someone's mouth, and the niceties were put aside to get to the actual matter at hand.

Niala opened the discussion. “So, Anna, Sammie probably told you, but if you'd like, we have a job that you'd probably like.” Her ears folded. “It would, however, involve leaving Montaroyal. Maybe not right away, but eventually...”

The little bunnykin nodded. “I suspected as such. I'm not thrilled at the idea, but it might be for the best, even if I don't like admitting it.” She sighed. “What would the job be?”

Niala smiled. “Well, what if I told you we're planning on relocating the greatest collection of knowledge that this kingdom has into a brand new archive in Riverwall?”

Anna narrowed her eyes. “Why would the Royal Amberose Archive relocate to Riverwall?”

Niala's ears wiggled. “The Royal Archive isn't the greatest repository. We know of something at least twenty times that.” She teased.

“...I'm sorry, but aren't you laying it on a bit thick?” The claim was just a bit too absurd for her. The Royal Archives comprised three buildings, the smallest being three stories high, and covered a space large enough to house an entire neighbourhood. Something twenty times that size... She appreciated the attempt at winning her over with a pretty painting, but she'd rather work for honest people who didn't try to lie to get what they wanted.

Niala's ears straightened up as her smile widened. “It's the truth, though! It's called the Radiant Archive, and it was the central repository for an ancient country called the Luminous Reign. We went there! Sammie was there! Ask him!”

Anna turned her gaze to the man in question. He nodded. “I didn't get to see the entire thing, but it was massive. I think we spent four weeks there, and Sir and Madam came back with over a thousand books.”

He turned his head toward David and Niala. “I wasn't aware we were moving the archive's contents? I thought you just wanted to get the core consciousness out of it?”

“Sabi.” Niala corrected.

“Right, Sabi, sorry.”

Niala smiled. “It's alright, but yes, we talked about it with Isaac, and he agreed it was a great idea! Once the current phase of construction in Riverwall winds down, we're going to build a giant library where Tobbie is. We already asked him, and he answered that he was interested!”

She had both hands on the table and was leaning forward quite a lot by now. “It's going to be ten stories high, and as deep as we can before we hit the waterbed, and it'll have an attached school and auditoriums and reading rooms and-”

David put a hand on her shoulder, stopping her mid-flow. She lightly blushed and gave him a small smile. With drooping ears, she looked back at Anna. “So, anyway, it's going to be awesome, but there's a lot of knowledge in there that would be dangerous to let out, so we'll need someone to properly sort it all out.”

Anna slowly nodded, her long ears following along. “And that's the job you want to offer me.”

Niala worked her head up and down.

“If you're not lying about the size of the archive, this is a life's work, isn't it?”

David dipped his head. “Probably, though you'd be free to quit whenever.”

“I... honestly, it sounds amazing, but you haven't even started building the place, from what I understand.”

Sammie smirked. “Anything that Madam Niala wants this badly ends up happening, so don't worry about that.” Sybil threw him a look, which he ignored.

With a hand to her chin, Anna ran the opportunity in her mind. The Allwarden had given her no cause to doubt them, and the file she'd built for the company painted them as honest and honourable.

She could always ask for some money up front, to make sure she didn't get trapped in Riverwall if it ended up being a smoky farce.

There was just one thing that bugged her, though. “Honestly, I'm interested, but could I ask you... Would you have a place for the other employees that Sebastian got fired over the years?”

Niala's ears lopsided. “The other...? Did Sebastian fire that many people just for looking at him wrong?”

Anna nodded once. “Almost two dozen. They all found other jobs, but things well below their skill level, and I know a lot of them are struggling. There isn't exactly a whole lot of job opportunities for enchanters and craftsmen specializing in distillers. The few other companies hired a few, but they don't need that many.”

The catkin's eyes widened, and her ears flapped excitedly as she looked at her husband. “David! Do you think, for the handy brewer?! And the control module?”

He bobbed his head to the side. “Probably. It would be the kind of precision work and enchanting they'd be familiar with.”

Anna looked at each in turn. “That looks like a yes.”

Niala smiled. “Totally a yes! Where are they?! Can we meet everyone? How soon can we get them all together?!”

Anna leaned back into her chair as the Catkin had begun climbing over the table in her direction, eyes fixated and her tail fanning the wind strong enough to make David's hair flutter.

He sighed, got up, and picked up the excited catkin in his arms like a woman-sized baby. She hiccuped and folded in on herself, hiding her blush beneath her balled hands and looking up at him.

Anna watched him smile down at her, both totally silent, and yet she had the feeling they were still communicating, somehow.

She cocked her head.

Is that what the fabled true love looks like?

The next few days were spent meeting with fired craftsmen and women. As Anna had said, a few of them had found gainful employment in the handful of smaller, lesser-known distilling tool companies.

Most, however, had been very interested, having had to make do with whatever unskilled labour positions were available.

By the end of their recruitment drive, David and Niala had gotten fifteen new employees to form the core of their as-yet unnamed enchanting company.

Many of them were also coming with their direct family, for whom Niala had quickly offered to pay for their relocation.

It would take a little while to set up a proper enchanting shop in Riverwall, especially in getting the tools and materials, but between Cornelius and Luke, along with the Wardenfel's influences, they didn't expect any major obstacle.

The new employees were, in fact, as excited, if not more, to be part of the founding of a new company as they were at getting a new job that fit their set of skills.

One person had even wanted to pay to be taken along so he could quit his waiting job at the corner cafe.

The Golden Innocence had just enough room to ferry everyone back in relative comfort, although many would have to make do with temporary partitions in the cargo holds.

With the time of departure scheduled, and their cargo of employees set to arrive in the morning, there was only one thing left to do;

Wait for the passage to open.