I don't even make a fuss when Mom uses her medieval toothbrush to brush my eight teeth, and soon I'm laying in my crib in Brother's room. The whole house was soon silent, which was good for me. Everybody else's day was done, but thanks to that nap not too long ago, I was wide awake, and now was the perfect time to work on my skills without drawing any suspicion toward me.

Plus, it was rare not to hear the parents having 'fun' through the walls. You would think at the rate they were going, they'd have a dozen children by now, but surprisingly it was just Brother and me.

Either way, I relax and clear my mind. Activating Meditation, I try to better feel both the mana around me as well as the mana inside me.

I spend what I think is an hour in that state without feeling any of my skills leveling up. Oh, well, it was a marathon, not a sprint, and I'd already unlocked a new skill today.

I'm about to call it a night and discharge the mana I've regained until now when I hear what sounds like drums in the distance.

Why would someone be playing the drums this late at night?

I don't have long to ponder that thought when another drum starts playing closer to our house. Now I was starting to worry. The noise wasn't enough to wake Richard, so I did the only thing I could. I cry.

Richard groans in the dark, but he's soon up, and if the shuffling I hear in the nearby parent's room is any indication, they are too.

Richard pulls me out of my crib as Mom bursts into our room, holding a light candle and a knife in a sheath. Thanks to the light, I can clearly see down the hallway and catch Dad running for the front door, holding his largest woodsman's axe.

He shouts something as he runs, which has Mom looking like she'd seen a ghost. Then, after ordering Richard to do something, Mom rushes after Dad.

Richard places me up against the wall farthest from the door and window. Outside our room, I hear the tell-tale sound of our front door being flung open before being shut and locked.

Mom rushes back into our room and closes the door behind her. Then, with Richard, she and he push his bed against the door like a makeshift barricade.

Mother then directs Richard to sit down next to me. He pulls me into his lap and protectingly wraps his arms around me.

Meanwhile, Mother is standing in the middle of the room looking between the barricaded door and the shutter sealing the window in the room closed.

My anxiety spikes as Mom carefully unsheaths the dagger she's carrying.

All manner of horrible thoughts fill my head. The way she was acting, we were under attack, but by what.

Bandits? Monster? This world had magic, so I couldn't rule anything out.

For thirty agonizing minutes, Richard and I stay huddled together, watching our mother, until the three of us flinch hearing dad calling mom's name from outside the house.

Mother visibly relaxes hearing Dad's voice, and with help from Richard, they move his bed away from the door, and mom runs out of our room.

Richard picks me up and runs after Mom. The two of us find her crying while hugging Dad in the middle of our living room. He was sweating and covered in green paint.

Only as we got closer to them did I realize it wasn't paint. Instead, Father was covered in green blood. The stuff was dripping from his axe and pooling on the stone floor.

Mom soon realizes this and rushes to grab a bucket of water and a rag.

Needless to say, I didn't get much sleep that night.
