“That is, was it not for the reports we have, by signed witnesses, of ground tremors felt in the north. Of purple lights in the sky, visible over The Spines. Of a most troubling corruption in the forest, visible from The Pass. And, perhaps most damning of all, reports that Hector sent eighty men to try and deal with these matters himself. Not to vanquish them, but to rouse them.”

“What?!”

“He wouldn’t!!”

“Blasphemous!”

Nodding, he gave a long sigh. “And, my brothers, only half of those misled souls came back. Half, from a forest full of what should be no more than beasts and exiles.”

Now, the crowd’s gazes were uncertain. An apprehension growing.

Arthur stood still, hardening his will. For this next part would be the true test. “My brothers, the losses in men were not from beast, nor man. It was because when Hector’s troops set out, delusions of the arcane in their eyes, they found not treasure. But a calamity.” Pausing, he spoke softly. Even so, the entire hall heard. “Demons. Real, flesh and blood demons.”

Demons.

That single word hit harder than anything else. The whole chamber felt it. No one moved. No one spoke. Even the sun, ever bright, seemed to dim.

Then, all at once, sound returned. Bishops behind Oren jumped to their feet in disbelief, Oren the first among them to rise. In return, supporters of Arthur stamped and shouted. And, those in the middle wavered.

“Demons?!” bellowed Oren. “Demons in Valdren!? Arthur, have you lost your Five blessed mind?!”

“Preposterous!” barked another.

“This is fear-mongering!”

The gavel came down three times. Four. Five. “ORDER!”

Order, however, did not come. All semblance of it was quickly dissolving.

From the floor, even the archbishops stirred. Vielle and Seraine were both glaring openly at Klive. Something was muttered, but Arthur could hardly hear.

Again, the gavel came down. Harder this time.

High Bishop Arthur Demetri waited. He thought this might happen. Expected it, really. But that was what he was after. Shaping the hall into an emotional decision, not a rational one.

While he firmly believed that making this writ was the logically right choice, he feared his devout brethren would not.

So he played on something they could understand. Fear.

Watching, arguments shouted from Oren’s side were answered by those to his back. Arthur’s supporters, while not entirely informed of what he knew, would still follow him. It was the middle section of bishops he was hoping to win over. And, one by one, he knew that at the very least, a seed was planted. One that grew, little by little. He could see it in the tremble of their eyes. The clasping of fists. The shivering of spines.

By the time the Arbiter and arch bishops had managed to coax the conclave back into a semblance of order, more than one grievance had been added to the record.

From the floor, Seraine raised her hand. “This is most irregular. I call for the conclave to conclude on grounds of—”

As if waiting for those very words, Archbishop Klive, who’d been so quiet all this time, pounced. “Do the thoughts of demons scare you so much, that you fear even The Five could not come to our aid?”

This time, no response came. Eyes went wide, Seraine’s mouth locked open. Before she could reply, Archbishop Vielle joined from the floor. “Seraine is not suggesting anything of the sort. I believe she merely is calling attention to the undeniable truth that Klive’s sponsored this writ. And, as it happens, did we not just elevate his own son, Brexin, to Lord Paladin and send him with a full hand to The North already? Is this not corrupting your motives? Perhaps it is you that fears your own son can not vanquish the foe in front of him?”

Arthur broke in. “This was my idea. I had to convince Klive, mind you. He was adamant that Brexin could deal with any threat, but I reminded him that the threat Brexin set out to conquer may no longer be the same it was before he left. And, is this not an apt opportunity to finally gain a consecrated domain in the North? Something that so far has proved elusive and costly. But, perhaps in the face of what lies beyond The Spines, the north will be more malleable. More accepting of Solari hands.”

Demetri watched as that last carrot sunk home. He swept his gaze across the chamber, reading the faces of his brethren. The fear was still fresh.

Good. By The Five, I hope it lasts.

Looking up, he gave Lys a nod.

The canon rose. "The floor has spoken. The conclave will now review the proposed writ in detail."

***

Arthur’s legs ached from standing, the sun having shifted from one side of the Solarium to the other.

He couldn’t say he was exactly satisfied. Nor was he unsatisfied. Arthur was… Unsurprised. After several hours of debate, the writ had been carved down to a compromise. Too many bishops, even his own supporters, just didn’t understand or really even believe about the threat in the north. Not truly.

They weren’t privy to the more revealing reports he got, and he wasn’t willing to bring them into the light. Even Arthur Demetri had limits.

As a result, the writ had several major amendments. At Oren’s persistence, the champion was struck. Few bishops would approve one for an unseen threat. Aldara's treasury faction carved it further, reducing five hundred paladins to two hundred. And, most frustrating of all, the consecration failed to gain enough support, and was deferred to a future conclave.

That, at least, wasn’t a total loss. He could make a new case for it in the coming weeks. Especially with new evidence, it might gain enough traction.

Sighing, the high bishop looked at the newly scribed parchment in his grasp.

This will have to do. If I push for any more, I’m afraid the fear from earlier won’t carry.

“Arbiter, I request a vote be given to bring the writ to The Five.”

Before Oren or any other bishop could refute it, Lys was ready. She shot to her feet. “Accepted! The conclave will vote.”

Growls and gasps filled the audience, but a shuffling filled the hall as hand mirrors were grabbed.

When an arbiter called for a vote, there was no stopping it. Not even an arch bishop could halt what came next.

One by one, mirrors were either turned away or forwards. And, in just seconds, over thirty rays of sunlight bent towards the dais at the center of the chamber. It made a majestic display of light, far undercutting the political implications of what it truly was.

Three quarters of the chamber sparkled. One quarter, nearest Oren, stayed dim.

“Thirty one for, ten against, one abstained. The writ passes!”

***

Arthur approached the dais, unfurling the scrolled parchment and spreading it taut. Golden weights were used to hold it steady. One by one, each archbishop laid their blessing upon it. Thumb to index, in front of a spread palm.

Seraine and Vielle weren’t happy, but neither did they object. They simply nodded, sat down, and looked onwards. Stone-faced.

Stepping back, he waited. It didn’t take long.

Cascading from above, radiant sunlight blazed into the parchment. Golden letters flared, turning orange, red, and then black. Wisps of smoke burned, going inside to out. In moments, the writ crumbled into a pile of ash.

In its place, something took hold. The column of ash rose from dais to sky. Gravity was defied in the face of The Five. The conclave watched, some in awe, others in anger, and more than a few in worry, as the writ disappeared.

Softly, the arbiter spoke. “The Five Speak.”

And speak they did. Behind Seraine, the obelisk of The Vigil blazed to life.

Questions sounded in the crowd. Vigil was never first. Yet today, The Five of Defense had come to life in mere seconds.

With a disgusted look on her face, Seraine flicked her hand. “Vigil is for.” The result was undeniable.

Stomps sounded behind Arthur.

Not long after, Pyre followed suit. Not as brightly. But it lit.

Smiling, Klive nodded. “Pyre approves.”

More stomps. Louder this time.

Bounty flickered, before going dark. “Bounty rejects,” said Tomas. That made sense. There was no provision in this writ.

Lens lit, dimmed, lit, and then dimmed again. Vielle looked at Arthur and Klive triumphantly. “Lens is uncertain. Abstain.” This was what made being an archbishop so powerful. Interpreting the meaning of The Five. One bishop might have called that approval, even if hesitant. Unfortunately, Vielle was not a friend of Klive, nor Arthur.

Come on. One more. By The Five, if we ever needed you, it was now, thought Arthur.

And, to his prayer, they answered.

The final obelisk glowed to life. “Radiant approves,” proclaimed Jeseph.

Two slams of the gavel. “The Five have spoken! May their hands be carried forth!”
