Luo-Luo never felt like more of a stranger in the household than in the days following Lord Husband and Sister Mila’s wedding.

To celebrate their nuptials, the husband and wife pair retreated to their new Citadel manor, which sat on the other side of Lord Husband’s ranch and adjoining office, and also bordered the lovely park. His new manor was close enough to Father-in-Law’s home to conveniently visit, yet far enough to allow for a sense of separation and independence, even if it was only a few minutes away. Expecting to move in soon after the nuptials, Luo-Luo had Sorya and Anrhi pack her things that very same night and eagerly awaited Lord Husband’s summons to their new home, but it never came. Instead, she lived out of her luggage for three full days without laying eyes on Lord Husband a single time, not even for the traditional post-wedding family dinners. The Bekhai had their own customs and traditions, which made Luo-Luo loath to speak up, for she worried it would lead others to think she looked down on Lord Husband’s people’s customs or was unhappy living with her in-laws.

Nothing could be further from the truth, for even though Mother-in-Law had a sharp tongue and Father-in-Law a stern demeanour, they treated her warmly and always made sure her needs were met. They were far more welcoming with Sister-in-Law Alsantset, always greeting her with warm smiles and open arms, which was curious since it was clear who the favoured child in their family was. Lord Husband was gifted an expensive Citadel manor, while his poor, talented artist of a brother Charok had to move his family out to the farm...

Had Lord Husband’s extended absence taken place a month prior, Luo-Luo would have dispatched a Death Corps guard with a message to remind him of his concubine, but ever since he proposed to raise her status to proper wife and she turned him down, she began expecting so much more from him. Thus far, she’d been sorely disappointed. Nothing changed, except now she saw even less of him, though he still made time to come collect his pets. Jimjam was still with her, but only because the skittish kitten refused to leave her side and often pestered her to play or sing him a tune. Roc and the Laughing Birds were free to come and go as well, and sometimes the rabbits were left in the courtyard to fend for themselves for a few hours, but otherwise, Luo-Luo saw neither hide nor hair of the others, save for Sarankho who sometimes dropped by with Li-Li.

Family dysfunction and absent pets aside, Luo-Luo was unsure where she stood in the new family dynamic, so she spent as much of her time at the workplace as possible. It wasn’t difficult since there was plenty for her to do, what with organizing Lord Husband’s wedding gifts, writing personalized thank you notes for him to sign, and preparing for the impending War Bond auction, which would take place later today.

All things Lord Husband should have overseen, but once again, he left it for Luo-Luo to manage...

After a quick and lonely breakfast, she went into Lord Husband’s old room to feed and spend time with the newest member of their family, a gifted snake who had yet to be named. It was ironic how she spent more time in Lord Husband’s bedroom during these last three days than she had since moving into the manor many months ago, but the humour was lost on her. With Lord Husband too distracted to care for the beast, Luo-Luo took responsibility for its well-being and had an enclosure custom designed and built to house the beautiful, verdant green creature. The walls were fashioned of an iron mesh framework to allow air to flow through, with a solid iron base and a clear-glass roof which could easily be replaced with an iron one when in transit. A marvellous thing, this clear glass, recently developed by Lord Husband’s think tank, and already her people were fielding orders after Lord Husband revealed it at his wedding, not just for flowers, but also so that Sir Inky the octopus could dine with the rest of the family.

The aquarium, as Lord Husband called it, only had one glass wall, and was much too fragile to transport for any long distances without significant risk. For this same reason, only the snake enclosure’s roof was made of glass, rather than the entire thing as Luo-Luo had initially wanted, since it would be most disastrous if a highly venomous and aggressive snake was set loose inside the manor. Still, a glass roof would suffice for now, so Luo-Luo peered down at the lovely little creature and greeted it with a cheery ‘hello’. Curled up in the corner, it raised its head and eyed her closely whilst she topped off its water dish and left three quail eggs in the outer compartment. The double gated approach was quite necessary until the little snake could be trusted not to bite, so she made sure the outer gates were sealed tight before sliding the inner gate aside.

A smile etched across her face as the beast slithered over for its feast, its movements so strikingly sinuous. A gorgeous, verdant green creature with eyes in the most vibrant shade of yellow she’d ever seen, Luo-Luo found herself most enamoured by the curious little reptile, though Lord Husband wanted nothing to do with it. His antipathy was not without reason, as the Bekhai viewed gifted animals as an insult of the highest level, something she only recently learned herself, but it was not the little snake’s fault that the Situ Patriarch used it to show his scorn.

Truth be told, this revelation explained so much regarding Luo-Luo’s own situation. As far as she could tell, the Bekhai did not keep concubines, and they considered the title... beneath them, in some ways. Perhaps to them, a concubine was only a few steps removed from a breeding mare or cattle stock, so it was easy to see why the Bekhai would be upset when their most distinguished young talent was gifted a concubine for his crowning achievement. A most fascinating example of how the most minor misunderstandings could lead to disastrous results, for this difference in custom was responsible for a near-hostile working relationship between Lord Husband and his Patron, the man most likely to become the next Emperor of the Azure Sea.

It also cast new light onto Lord Husband’s desire to elevate Luo-Luo’s status to wife proper, in order to mitigate the stigma from an unintended slight rather than out of any actual fondness for her company...

Disillusioned by this most recent discovery, Luo-Luo felt a certain affinity for the gifted snake. A highly venomous creature hailing from the dense jungles of the South, Emerald Vipers were notoriously aggressive killers who blended in with the lush greenery of their treetop habitats. Though not the largest of snakes, their fanged-bite could inject a powerful toxin that caused instant paralysis in commoners before killing them seconds later, through an unpleasant process one book described as ‘complete organ failure’. Martial Warriors were supposedly able to withstand the venom of a single bite, but Emerald Vipers rarely struck only once, often biting their foes a dozen times in a frenzied bout of agitated anger. Short of immediate amputation, even a Martial Warrior’s natural resilience was no defence against Emerald Viper venom, which was why Luo-Luo took no chances when visiting her newest friend currently residing in Lord Husband’s old room.

The Situ Patriarch had delivered the poor thing in a tiny box that was barely bigger than Luo-Luo’s hand, no doubt in an effort to agitate it beyond all reason. Assuming he gave sufficient warning in advance, it would be difficult to lay the blame at his feet if Lord Husband should succumb to the venomous bite of an openly gifted pet. Furious as she was, Luo-Luo’s heart broke when she peeked through the lattice box and found it curled up in obvious fear, so the first thing she did was let the creature out into a stone tub, albeit using a long broomstick she abandoned immediately when the snake sprung out in search of escape. Thankfully, she had two Death Corps guards standing by to seal the tub with a heavy wooden plank, which in retrospect made it incredibly difficult to safely feed the little snake or move it into its new home, where it currently resided.

“Are you doing well?” Luo-Luo asked, though she knew the creature would not understand her. “I’m not feeding you too much again, am I?” The snake never took its golden reptilian eyes off her as it swallowed the quail eggs whole, and had there been more eggs, it would have eaten until it was too bloated to even move, like it did on their first day together. A tiny little thing which maybe measured from her wrist to fingertip and barely even two fingers thick, the Emerald Viper ate quickly before retreating back to its sleeping spot, half of a hollow wooden log Luo-Luo had placed inside, alongside a smattering of other creature comforts like a bed of dirt, rocks, twigs, and other debris. At some point she would have to clean the cage, but it’d only been inside for two days and she saw no sign of droppings. She wasn’t even sure if snakes urinated or excreted, as the books she’d read had all been geared towards warning readers of the many dangers lurking in the Southern province, rather than a treatise on how to properly care for your new pet.

Perhaps Luo-Luo would write one, should the people of the Empire wish to follow in the footsteps of their most visible Imperial Scion. Already, the young nobles were starting to dress like Lord Husband, and Luo-Luo had seen many a fool carrying around their pet cats, weasels, and other small animals, though it’d done nothing to endear them to Lord Husband. Instead, he released a scathing condemnation of these new pet owners citing that pets were not fashionable accessories, but significant responsibilities to be sheltered and cared for. While he didn’t go so far as to wish death upon all unfit pet owners, he only stopped short because Luo-Luo insisted, and even then it’d been a close thing.

To think, this had been one of the first pieces published by his newly acquired printing press, which for once was not something of his own genius design. Instead, he purchased the device from an enterprising young clerk who designed it himself after hearing how Han BoShui spent a fortune making copies of ‘Storm over Sinuji’, his personal account of Lord Husband’s fall from grace. Though Lord Husband didn’t seem too impressed by the device and complained often about its inefficiency, Luo-Luo made sure to hire the inventor to run their printing press, which had already recouped the initial investment by stamping out pamphlets detailing the intricacies of War Bonds. A copy had been distributed to every guest at his wedding and delivered to every merchant and noble household in the Northern Citadel, even those Luo-Luo deemed too poor to spare the minimum 9,523 gold, just so they could familiarize themselves with the concept.

A wondrous device, this printing press, though Lord Husband wasn’t wrong to complain. It was rather unwieldy to set up, as each character on the page required its own stamp made from baked clay, so if someone only needed fifty or sixty copies, then it would be faster to hire two clerks to write it out by hand. To be fair, the standards Lord Husband laid out in his book of inventions were also impossibly high, as he described a device that could print off multiple pages at one time with little more than a single written document and no time to set up.

Insisting on exacting standards while putting in minimal effort was becoming something of a habit for Lord Husband, but there was nothing Luo-Luo could do but go along with it.

Directing four Death Corps guards to carefully bring the snake enclosure out into the courtyard, Luo-Luo took her zither outside and played a little tune for the beast. She wasn’t sure if the creature enjoyed her music, but she’d read accounts of how some southern musicians could charm snakes with their flutes, so it was worth a try, and she had nothing more pressing to attend to today. Over the past half-year, she’d trained Junior Yimu and a dozen other loyal clerks to carry out the bulk of her duties, though she still intended to go into the office to make sure everything was in place for the War Bond auction this afternoon. Until then, she was free to play music to her heart’s content, with only Jimjam, Sorya, Anrhi, and the little snake for her audience.

Perhaps it was only her imagination, but the little snake seemed disappointed when Luo-Luo stopped playing some minutes later to look in on it. It seemed so pitiful and lonely inside its cold, desolate home, but there was nothing she could do for the poor thing, not without risking what she read was almost certainly a quick and painful death, so she bade the little snake goodbye and left it out in the courtyard to enjoy the sunlight. That had been a part of Lord Husband’s published rant, ensuring a high quality of life for any domesticated animals, but much like the women in his life, he only cared for the animals he favoured and left the rest to rot in lonely despair.

Well... someone should show him he couldn’t treat people like this... or animals for that matter!

