When it came time for the auction, Lord Husband called his Death Corps guards to fetch his litter, which was rather out of character. Seeing the unasked question in her eyes, he sheepishly looked away as his cheeks turned shockingly scarlet. “I er... pulled a muscle. Yea. And uh... fell down some stairs. Just a minor injury, I can still walk, but stairs are tricky, so there’s no need to bother the Healers.” A lie if there ever was one, but before Luo-Luo could ask more, he continued, “Oh that reminds me: do you remember reading something about someone coming up with a super strong metallic alloy?”

Taking a moment to organize her memories, Luo-Luo nodded as the details returned. “Yes, of course. The creator claimed the tensile strength was twice that of normal steel, allowing for a sturdier framework at lower weights, but it was prohibitively expensive, something along the lines of fifteen to twenty times the cost of high-grade steel by volume, and even more if measured by weight. We turned down the meeting, because at those prices, we could use thrice the amount of steel and still come out ahead in both sturdiness and cost.”

“Right, right.” Still unable to meet Luo-Luo’s curious gaze, Lord Husband coughed and said, “Could you arrange a meeting with the creator? I... uh... have a project that could benefit from having stronger steel. Much, much, much stronger steel.”

Though Luo-Luo was still burning with curiosity, Lord Husband would say no more, so after boarding his carriage, they set off for the main square and arrived just as the Justicar announced he was no longer accepting bids. Lord Husband’s idea, to have the Justicars ensure complete fairness, and he even went as far as to refuse to even touch the box of sealed bids when he arrived. “No, no, we must ensure there is no room for suspicion and the entire process remains beyond reproach,” he said, gesturing at the large table which was set up for this very purpose. “If you could bring the box over there, and maybe shake it a bit so all the bids get mixed up? Thank you.”

Already, Luo-Luo could feel the audience’s discontent, because Lord Husband had yet to address them. In their eyes, they were here to do Lord Husband a favour and give face by bidding on his War Bonds, but he didn’t spare any of them a single glance. Instead, he did what he only just accused Luo-Luo of and skipped all the preamble to jump straight to business, and the esteemed members of the audience did not like this one bit. It didn’t help that there were people with less than kind intentions here to stir the pot, but Luo-Luo was unfazed. Let them pout all they wanted, because Lord Husband was right; he didn’t need their favours. He was here to help them, to better the Empire as a whole, so why should he grovel and debase himself for the burden of working for their benefit?

Following Lord Husband’s instructions, the accompanying Justicar announced that until now, no bids had been tampered with or removed since being placed inside the box, and guaranteed that the collection had concluded without issue. Then, the Justicar unfastened the lock, flipped open the lid, and pulled out a sealed bid before passing it to Lord Husband, who opened the unmarked envelope without any fanfare. “The first bid is from the Situ Patriarch, Rang Min,” he announced, only for Kuang Biao to echo his words and project them across the Citadel with his Chi-infused voice. Somehow, the former Royal Guardian’s dry monotone made the disrespectful use of the Situ Patriarch’s name even funnier than usual, and many coughs sounded as nobles and merchants alike tried to cover up their laughter. “He bids 9,523 gold per War Bond, which is the exact value.” The crowd burst into murmurs, as this was something of a controversial move, a statement which declared the Situ Clan would give face to the Imperial Clan, but had no faith in Lord Husband’s endeavour.

Hardly surprising, but Lord Husband seemed pleased by this turn of events, and held his hands up for silence. “This is great, because I forgot to mention beforehand: should there be multiple winning bids who offer the same amount, the War Bonds will be distributed to whichever bid was drawn first. So it looks like Rang Min’s luck is going strong, because if everyone bids this same amount as expected, then he will receive the first batch of War Bonds.”

After a short pause to take in Lord Husband’s declaration, a few shouts rose from the crowd asking why order mattered, and again, Lord Husband held his hands up for silence. “Because not only are the War Bonds limited, they’re also numbered,” he explained, flashing his mischievous smile. “For security and identification purposes of course, and all War Bonds are equal, but some of you might have lucky numbers you would prefer to hold onto. For example, the first batch is not only the most prestigious, but it also holds War Bond number one-hundred and eight.”

Which of course was a significant number because it was a widely accepted belief that the human body contained a hundred and eight feelings. Brilliant, Luo-Luo hadn’t even thought of this, and now Lord Husband had introduced a collector’s market for certain numbered War Bonds. What’s more, no one was talking about the Situ Patriarch’s snub anymore, which made Luo-Luo wonder if Lord Husband had planned this, but how? No, this was merely fortuitous happenstance, rather than god-like planning, which showed that Lord Husband still held the Mother’s favour, despite his recent string of hardships.

One by one, Lord Husband opened and announced each bid, and as expected, almost every winner was already tied to his cause. Sister Mila’s parents won with the highest bid, offering thirty-thousand for each ten-thousand gold War Bond, while Lord Husband’s parents came in second, at one gold less, which was no doubt something they’d discussed beforehand. Marshal Yuzhen, Marshal Yo, and Marshal Quyen were next at twenty-five thousand each, with the latter two having stayed after Lord Husband’s wedding for this very purpose. The Ryo Family, the Lin Clan, the Harmonious Unity Sect, Magistrates Tong, Situ, and Chu, all of Lord Husband’s most powerful allies were represented amongst the winners, though there were a few loosely associated investors who saw this opportunity for what it was.

Most surprising was the name in last place, one which was wholly unfamiliar to Luo-Luo’s ears. MuYang knew who this Chun-Qiu consortium was, as he seemed to know everyone, but even he didn’t know why such a large group of trivial merchants would band together to offer eighteen-thousand and one gold per War Bond on a risky gamble, but Luo-Luo was confident they’d made the right choice.

Announcing the forty winners and stamping the War Bonds for everyone who had their gold on hand took the better part of two hours, and by the time he was done, the crowd had dwindled down to almost nothing. No doubt Lord Husband’s enemies were already celebrating his ‘failure’, because thus far all he’d done was take money from his closest allies, but they did not understand the full breadth of his brilliance. “Okay, now that all the formalities are over and done with, it’s time to reveal my initial investment plan.” Again, Kuang Biao echoed Lord Husband’s words, but Luo-Luo felt the monotone Death Corps Guard was too lacking to convey Lord Husband’s joyful and playful tone. “I know, I know, it sounds crazy. An investor with an actual plan. How surprising. Seriously though, I found it strange no one asked about it beforehand, so I must thank the noble and patriotic supporters who have professed so much confidence in my abilities, and I hope to live up to their expectations. As thanks, I would like to invite every War Bond holder to a private banquet, paid for out of my own pocket and...”

After listing out the various ways he intended to show gratitude, Lord Husband turned to Luo-Luo with a grin and stretched out his hand. Taking it in her own, she smiled and squeezed back while nodding in support, even as her heart pounded with excitement. Their efforts had finally come to fruition, and this was a victory she shared with him and no others, a bond between her and Lord Husband. “Using these generous funds raised from this first batch of War Bonds,” he continued, “I intend to put forth a program to lend gold to farmers, ranchers, tradesmen, and professions from many other walks of life, for the sole purpose of purchasing property along the Western border, where they will work, reside, and provide for the entirety of the Western Wall.”

And there, in a single sentence, Lord Husband revealed his brilliant scheme to the world at large. Everyone expected him to pocket the money as a bribe and pay off the people above him, but Lord Husband was far more devious and instead invested in the people below him. This was a sure-fire path to victory, or at least as close to one as Luo-Luo had ever seen. In recent times, vast swathes of land just east of the new Western Wall had been abandoned in droves, because commoners did not feel safe living so close to the border, and land owners were not willing to pay the increased wages required to tempt workers to stay. Take Lord Husband’s beet farm for example, which he purchased at one-twentieth of the price it would have sold for only two years back, but he paid a heavy premium to convince farmers to work on his beet farm, and it was only profitable due to the high price and low costs of producing beet sugar. Eventually, the price would fall as competitors joined the fray, and they would be able to offer even lower prices because they could pay their farmers less and ship their product in, but what if Lord Husband gave his farmers the land they worked? Why, then the farmers would fight amongst themselves for the privilege to work the land, and Lord Husband would collect a portion of their harvest each year to slowly pay off their debt, while also being poised to purchase surplus goods for cheap before reselling it to the closest outpost or Citadel and earning coin hand over fist at both ends.

What’s more, he was earning coin three, four, or even five times over, because not only had he already bought up most of the land bordering the Western Wall, as Minister of Finance, he picked which lands to settle new owners on, set the price for each parcel of land, and paid himself for said lands, all of which allowed him to collect the War Bond funds in a legitimate, above-board fashion. The transaction was all on paper, and the farmers would never even see the coin. They would simply be saddled with a debt they would pay over the next forty years, but so long as they made their payments on time, then the land was theirs and could be passed down to their children, grand-children, and more. Lord Husband was selling a dream using money which was not his, and the people would love him for it.

All this was only scratching the surface of Lord Husband’s brilliant, long-term investment, one which would pay off in more ways than just coin, but first came the most difficult part: Convincing Shen Zhen Wu to authorize it, for without his backing, Lord Husband’s plans would come apart before ever getting off the ground. Not a problem if the favoured successor to the throne was patient and blessed with foresight, and since Luo-Luo had no reason to believe he was not, with a lot of time and a little luck, Lord Husband was on track to become the most financially powerful person in the outer provinces, and in time, possibly even the entire Empire itself.

No matter how phenomenal his Martial Skills might have been, Lord Husband was wasted as a mere Warrior. This was his true calling, a merchant lord rising to the top with creativity and ingenuity, and now his future was limitless.

If only he were clever enough to find his way into her bed-sheets...

Chapter Meme

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
