Filled with righteous discontent, she stopped short and ordered the Death Corps guards to go back and fetch the poor snake, so she could spend a little more time with it out in the park. With her zither in hand, she picked out a lovely little spot next to the cattle pen and beamed as the burly beasts hopped and skipped their way over to line up at the fence and voice their enthusiastic welcomes. After checking on the little snake once again, Luo-Luo settled in for another performance and played song after song in an effort to remind Lord Husband of his forgotten concubine. She played until her fingers ached and she could play no more, giving voice to her anger, frustration, sadness, and desire through the magic of music. When her fingers came to a stop and the last note faded into nothingness amidst the bleating of cattle and scattered applause of the gathered crowd, Luo-Luo felt unburdened by her woes and ready to return to part with the snake and return the office, where she would no doubt finally come face to face with Lord Husband once again.

The warehouse office was right next to the cattle pen, and there in the upstairs office, she found Lord Husband hard at work. Despite all her woes and grievances, or the pithy remarks and snippy statements she’d readied to wound him, all her antagonism melted away as he greeted her with a cheery smile in his distressingly plain black outfit. “Morning Luo-Luo,” he said, beaming as he glanced up from a sheaf of documents. “I’m just looking over the details, but you’ve done a wonderful job preparing for the auction while I’ve been away.” Pulling out the chair beside him, he waited until she finished greeting Aurie and took her seat before continuing. “I want to thank you for giving me and Mila this time to ourselves,” he said, clasping her shoulder warmly. “It means so much to both of us, especially with all that’s going on.”

Now that Luo-Luo thought about it, perhaps she’d been a tad insensitive in wanting to move in immediately after the wedding, for the newlyweds surely deserved some time to themselves. No! He all but abandoned her for these past few days, after proposing marriage only a week before. What’s more, yesterday, he brought Lin-Lin out to the farm and spent the day flying kites and looking for groundhogs while Sister Mila, Yan, and Li-Li all meditated in the bamboo grove, but Luo-Luo didn’t hear about it until Mother-in-Law Sarnai mentioned it at dinner. Lord Husband was a liar and a cad, and Luo-Luo could not forgive him so easily, with but a sweet smile and soft touch.

Favouring him with a frosty smirk, Luo-Luo sat upright and kept as much distance between them as she could without leaning away, a thinly veiled condemnation of his actions. “Thank you for your kind words, but this one had much help from her subordinates, and Lord Husband’s instructions on the matter were clear and concise.”

Too concise, in fact, and she had words for him regarding this, but he pushed the papers away and shook his head when she moved to point out her first objection. “You always skip the preamble and jump straight to business,” Lord Husband teased, pouring her a cup to tea. “Not the worst thing in the world, but sometimes a man needs time to warm up. Work can wait while we catch up. Mom tells me you’ve taken a shine to the little snake.”

“Yes Lord Husband.” No scathing condemnation followed, and in fact, Lord Husband seemed more amused than anything else, so she went on to detail how she’d been caring for the snake and what she hoped to do next. “Feeding it quail eggs is not a viable long term solution, as they are a seasonal delicacy here in Central, but this one knows not what else to feed it.”

“Calling it ‘it’ sounds so impersonal.” Stroking his chin in thought, he fell silent for a few seconds before lighting up with delight. “How about we call it ‘Noodle’? Works for a boy or girl snake, once we figure out its gender.”

Resisting the urge to laugh and fall victim to his boyish charms, Luo-Luo nodded at the silly name. “Noodle then, but the question still stands. What can we feed Noodle to ensure it has a healthy diet?”

“Well, you said you’ve been feeding Noodle every day right? I’m pretty sure snakes don’t need to eat that often, especially if it stuffed itself to the point of not being able to move on the first day.” Shrugging, Lord Husband said, “If you’re really concerned, pen a letter to Rang Min asking for advice regarding pet care, and let him do the research for you. He gifted us Noodle after all, so it’s only right, though I’m pretty sure he expected us to kill it. I mean, I was ready to feed Noodle to Roc, if I’m being honest.”

“No! You can’t!” Was that why he named the snake Noodle?

Laughing at her horrified response, Lord Husband promised he wouldn’t have Noodle killed, provided it didn’t escape. “About the snake venom though,” he mused, “Do you think it could be weaponized? Even if it doesn’t cause total organ failure in Defiled, complete or partial paralysis would be pretty nice if we coated crossbow bolts with it.”

Ugh. Men. Always thinking up new ways to kill things, and Lord Husband was guilty of this more often than most. “One author tried, but when collecting the venom, he discovered it was actually an amalgamation of two different fluids, which Emerald Vipers produce in two separate glands. On its own, neither fluid is deadly to humans, but they come together inside the snake’s body only fractions of a second before being discharged by its fangs. The amalgam is what constitutes the Emerald Viper’s deadly venom, but it coagulates and loses potency within an hour after combination, which makes it impossible to collect it for anything besides immediate use.” Unless one bred a ridiculous number of Emerald Vipers and killed them to harvest the fluids inside each gland separately, which the author tried. At less than a thimble-full of each fluid per full-grown snake, he concluded that the time and effort was not worth the reward, since Emerald Vipers were notoriously territorial creatures who flew into a frenzy if kept in the presence of a competitor, not to mention how they only gathered to mate once every five years. However, knowing Lord Husband’s dedication to finding new ways of dealing death and his tendency to spend coin like water, Luo-Luo kept quiet about this particular line of thought, for she did not wish to lose her new serpentine friend so quickly.

Noodle was very similar to Lord Husband; small, anti-social, lovely to look at, and deadly as sin.

“Ah, what a shame.” After puffing his cheeks like Lin-Lin often did, Lord Husband deflated with a sigh. “Then again, I suppose if it was this easy, someone else would have done it already. Either way, I look forward to meeting Noodle later on.”

“Oh? Lord Husband will be having dinner at home?”

“At Mom and Dad’s yes. I’ve got my own home now, and you should make ready to move in.” Finally the invitation came, and Luo-Luo almost jumped in delight, but Lord Husband instantly ruined everything. “Mila, Yan, and Lin-Lin already claimed their rooms, but you can have any of the other three. Not to rush you or anything, but once you’re settled in, I’d like to make preparations to host a family dinner, and...”

While Lord Husband made plans, Luo-Luo found herself stricken with indecision as to where she wanted her room. On the one hand, being physically closer to his room meant there was more of a chance he would stumble in drunk one night, but on the other hand, Luo-Luo had no wish to spend the next year listening to his bedroom antics with all her future sister-wives while wasting away with loneliness...

They chattered over tea and crackers for a little while longer, until Luo-Luo almost forgot she was upset with Lord Husband. Looking away to break the enchanting spell his amber-eyed gaze cast upon her, she asked, “Where is Mama Bun? Did the Medical Saint finally allow her into his garden again?”

“Ha. As if. No, the little glutton’s over there,” Lord Husband said, pointing at the corner behind Luo-Luo. There, she found the sweet, fluffy rabbit pressed flat against the hardwood floor with her eyes half-open in an accusatory glare. Meeting Luo-Luo’s gaze, Mama Bun sneezed and stomped her back legs with such tremendous force it made her droopy ears flap in an amusing fashion, before she turned away and bodily threw herself into the corner. “I’ve been neglecting her these last few days, so she’s throwing a tantrum. Isn’t that just adorable?”

It was, but once again, Luo-Luo felt a certain empathy for one of Lord Husband’s pets and it was hard to keep the accusation out of her tone. “And you’re just leaving her there? Poor thing.”

“Can’t help it. She’s in a big mood today,” he replied, smiling at the faint accusation in her tone. “Twenty minutes before you arrived, she was curled up in my lap and cuddling so sweetly you’d think I was gone for three years instead of three days. Then she remembered she was angry and ran off, so if she wants to pout in the corner, then that’s fine too. She’ll come around again eventually.”

Upon hearing his explanation, Luo-Luo realized her thought process was all too similar to sweet Mama Bun’s, and she did not find the comparison flattering.

Their conversation soon turned to business, and Luo-Luo jumped on the opportunity to ask, “Lord Husband, are you certain this is how you wish to proceed? This first sale of War Bonds should be a momentous occasion, so we should strive to make a spectacle of the auction.” Instead, he’d chosen to go in the opposite direction and purposely arranged matters to be as sober and sedate as possible. A silent auction he called it, selling forty batches of ten War Bonds each all at once, with no opportunity for prospective buyers to change their bids on the fly. Once all the bids were received by the Justicar charged with accepting them, Lord Husband intended to open the envelopes in full view of the crowd and announce each bid from each household one by one. Once all the numbers were tallied, the forty highest bids had three days to present the money, else they forfeited their chance which would then be offered to the next highest bidder.

Not only was there no pomp or grandeur to be had, it was as if he wanted it to be a dull and boring affair.

After hearing Luo-Luo’s arguments on the matter, Lord Husband nodded and said, “You raise a valid point. This should be a festive affair, but my worry is that the harder we try to make it seem like this is a good thing, the more suspicious our investors will be. Right now, they’re expecting us to convince them to buy War Bonds, but why should we?”

“...Because the point is to sell them?”

“No, not this time.” Settling back into his chair, Lord Husband explained, “While greeting guests at the wedding, I kept wondering, ‘Why am I working so hard to sell War Bonds? This is a chance of a lifetime, and they’re all treating me like a crook’.” Grinning, he added, “Early investors will probably make money hand over fist when people realize how valuable they are, so if the first batch goes for a discount, that just means more money for me when I resell. That’s why I asked you to scale back on advertising. This is the initial batch of War Bonds, only five hundred in total. At value, that’s four and three quarters of a million gold raised, and a quarter million we’ll need to pay in interest within the year, give or take. Easily doable, which is why this is such a great opportunity. Right now, no one has faith in War Bonds, so most people will bid low. Not too low, but not too high either, which means our allies probably don’t need to bid too high to win.”

The pieces came together and Luo-Luo cried out in delight. “Thus ensuring our allies benefit the most while risking the least.” Eyes widening in realization, she said, “The second batch is not for another two weeks, correct? Can you delay it?”

“Sure, should be easy enough. Worst comes to worst we can just ruin the batch and make them print replacements. Why?”

“Because then we can use the time to reward the early investors while laying groundwork for future endeavours. Private banquets, political favours, even just accompanying some of the less prestigious investors to unaffiliated events, we can do all this and more to raise envy and discontent. Then, when the next batch goes on sale, the nobles and merchants of the Empire will enter into an all-out bidding war, because they too will wish to rub shoulders with an Imperial Scion.”

“Smart. We can even take the extra time to bring in our early investors on certain plans, so they make even more money from our efforts.” Grinning from ear to ear despite being told he would have to socialize, Lord Husband added a few ideas into the mix, and they spent the next hour or so discussing how to proceed from here, as well as putting the final touches on today’s historic events. Then they had lunch in the workroom together, along with sweet Mama Bun who’d finally gotten over her fit of pique and promptly melted into Lord Husband’s embrace, and for a few hours, they talked, worked, joked, and laughed, and Luo-Luo felt closer to him than she ever felt before.

