But that didn't mean only servants enjoyed this struggle. Beyond these butlers and maids, other razor queens inspected the scene. They carried hulking yet ever-shifting frames, each of the amorphous blobs a different color and shape. One of them shifted like a pool of cerulean water, maintaining no resolute form. Another kept themself covered in a keratinized shell of sharpened teeth, none of its amorphous body exposed.

The other razor queens fell somewhere between those two extremes. It was a feast for the eyes, given their ambient colors, and they stuck out like a rainbow come to life. A lavender-shaded razor queen caught me gazing, so it wriggled up towards me, about half my size. It spoke out, "Your follower is a dichotomy. It leaves its eldritch mind behind, but those instincts remain. It consumes many times its size, yet it hungers forth, as all the eldritch do."

The lavender razor queen shivered, "Wrath has spoken of your hunger as well. She says it is legendary, unending, a void of consumption lasting an eternity...But I know nothing of it. Those tales are but words, and words can mean little."

I shrugged, "Those stories are definitely true, in this case. I could probably outeat Hod if I wanted to."

Hod turned to me. He lurched forward, but his bulbous mass of a belly held him back, "Hod disagree with Harbinger. Harbinger lie! Harbinger not outeat Hod. Hod challenge Harbinger. Hod never lose."

He raised both his winged hands, each arm looking more like a rail than a limb. I walked up and smiled, "Come on, you know I could tear through all the food on this planet right now if I wanted to."

Hod's imposing demeanor deflated as he rested on his previously eaten food. His eyes watered, "But...But Hod want victory. Victory taste better than food. Some food. Ok, most food better than victory, but victory still nice."

He stared up at me in desperation, so I put my hands on my hips, "I surrender. You win."

Hod lifted his hands, the hollow victory meaning no less to him than a real one, "Yes. Hod relish victory forever."

Without a second of consideration, Hod turned to a different razor queen. Hod puffed his chest out and put his hands on his huge gut, "Hod may not have mentioned, but Hod outeat even Harbinger."

The razor queen stared at him as if he was an idiot.

Hod nodded, "Hod know. Hod impressive."

I laughed a bit, his oblivious innocence both funny and refreshing. The guy enjoyed his simple pleasures, taking life on in a literal fashion. I envied that candor at times, and most people could use more of that attitude in general. I knew I could. I turned back to the lavender razor queen,

"Anyways, what's your name? Mine's Daniel."

The lavender slime shifted, its form rippling as jagged teeth spawned over its surface. Eyes bubbled up from beneath its outer membrane, the orbs more mock imitations of eyes than anything. They floated about in an unsettling, eerie way before locking in on me. Those eerie oculi remained off-center.

It was like the slime was trying its damndest to fall in the uncanny valley, and it was doing a great job of it. It said, "I am Envy."

It created limbs before trying to stand my height. Lanky and thin, it did so with effort. I tapped my sides while trying to manage the situation, "It's good to meet you too, Envy...So, uh, what are you doing?"

"I am trying to emulate your form. It is invigorating to do so, as you hold combative aggression at all times. I wish to have this for my own."

"It sounds like you live up to your namesake then."

Its disturbing 'face' pooled up close to mine, no fundamental understanding of personal space in its mind, "I would take everything from you. Your mind, your metal, that ominous glow of your mask...I wish for all of it, and I would take it if only I could."

It got even closer. The stench of rubbing alcohol permeated its body, dense like a napkin drenched in the stuff. It echoed, "If only."

I pressured it with Event Horizon. It shivered, returning towards its previous blobular shape. I raised my eyebrows, "That's good to know, but you might want to be a bit less candid when meeting someone new. Especially when you have a personality like that."

Envy backed away, "I...Yes. I understand, Harbinger. I meant what I spoke of like a compliment, but it is difficult for me. My urges, they carry me away at times, as if I were but a stick within a river."

"Huh, alright. I get that. Just keep some distance between us, and we'll be fine. No harm, no foul."

Envy skulked away, disheartened by our encounter. Dammit, now I felt bad. It wasn't how I wanted my first talk with a razor queen to go, but if I allowed Envy to pressure me, the others would do so as well. Speaking of other razor queens, I turned to them, "So, does anyone else want to introduce themselves, preferably with more personal space involved?"

The slimes stared at me without a word. They all blanked, their shifting bodies unreadable. One slithered towards me, an emerald-hued razor queen with forest green blotches closer to its center. It murmured, "You speak without riddles on your tongue. It is joyous for us, as many who walk on two legs are difficult to understand. I am simple to comprehend, as I am known as Reason."

"Huh, it's good to meet you. I'll be visiting your homeworld soon to eradicate Plazia. Sorry for the wait."

"It is a battle centuries in the making. To wait further is no tall ask for such a short time. We wonder yet worry what you will think of our home."

"That depends on what kind of place it is."

"It is a darker world than this. It carries little water, plumes of gas crawling along its surface like an ahcorus youngling learning to uphold a form. We live in caverns beneath the ground, ones we carved ages ago. You will find food present, though not like this. It is far coarser and less rich."

I raised an eyebrow, "You mean rocks, right? Wrath told me that you all ate minerals."

"She is correct. We serve visitors crystallized mana, as they may consume little else aside from that delicacy."

I squeezed a hand, throwing Reason a chunk of quintessence, "Like this?"

Reason reached out with a partitioned section of herself. The blob spread about before claws expanded from her outer membrane. They grasped the gemstone, ogling it. Reason rippled back and forth, "Great joy in this gift. Thank you. Thank you."

The crystal submerged into her body, and it dissolved as the razor queen radiated with white energy. Reason inched closer, "I may host your colony, if need be, within my own domain. From there, you may attack the great besieger and ruler of the underworld. It will desiccate your mind should you allow it to."

I shrugged, "Alright. Sounds good to me."

Reason trembled as memories passed through her mind, "That monster is beyond reckoning. Its moves are more than we may understand. Its intentions are beyond comprehension. No matter your approach, it will be the greatest battle of your life. Anticipate a journey that will hollow your soul and leave your life forever altered."

I blinked, kind of intimidated but keeping my confidence, "Is it hungry?"

Reason jiggled, "Always."

I raised a hand, "I'll give it a knuckle sandwich."

Another razor queen came up, the cerulean one. It spoke with a voice like harmony, "Ah, I know of this sandwich. Are you serving your hands as a poisonous dish. That is quite clever."

The other razor queens nodded to each other. I gave up correcting them, and they each introduced themselves. They took on various names from common concepts. As with Envy and Reason, those concepts reflected the razor queens' approach to life and their colonies. It was an exciting conversation.

I even learned that Wrath convinced them of Plazia as a threat worth exterminating. As insinuated by her name, Wrath acted with the most aggression, so it made sense she championed the effort to kill the nested Ruhl. We continued the discussion, our topics revolving around their food and lesser slimes, but before I learned much, a spike in mana nearby lured me away from them.

Stepping back, I found an ark or two of arcane energy amidst a group of albony. I leaned over, curious about who controlled the violet electricity, and I found a familiar face. It was a Speaker I met a long time ago before I even killed Yawm. I remembered him as a skeptilian who covered himself in runic markings. The Speaker turned to me, still covered in the blackened scales of some draconian eldritch.

It was Tera, The World Breaker. I spread out my hands when I saw him, "Hey, Tera, it's good to see you again. Long time no see."

The Speaker turned to me, gawking as I loomed over him like a giant,

"I'm sorry, Harbinger, but I don't think we've met."
