“I concur,” Tallheart said with certainty. “It will work.” Without asking for Staavo’s permission, he grabbed a metal handle, then gradually twisted open the valve leading to the piston.

Steam hissed loudly, making Jamus and his son freeze in their approach. Staavo clenched his fists with expectation as the piston began to move, forced to the right by the pressure. It reached the end of its travel, and at the same time, the sliding valve below it unblocked the exhaust tube, releasing a plume of steam in the process.

*Chhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh*

With the slide valve in this position, steam was now being forced onto the other side of the piston head, shoving it back toward the boiler. As the piston began to accelerate, the exhaust valve closed, cutting off the steam, only to open again upon the piston reaching the other end of the cylinder.

*Chhhhhhhhhhh*

“Yes!” Staavo shouted, jumping. He clicked his heels together, wooden-foot thunking hard against that of flesh and bone. Tallheart adjusted the valve, allowing more steam through and into the piston, and the piston began to move faster as the flywheel gained speed.

*Chhhhhhhhhhhh*

The piston slid back again…

*Chhhhhh*

…and forward….

*Chhhuug*

*Chuug*

*Chug*

*Chug*

*Chug*

“What the hells is it?” asked Jamus’s son over the noise.

Jamus laughed, shouting back. “I told you! A steam engine!” He turned to Staavo and Tallheart. “Well done! I’m sorry I doubted you.”

“Hey!” Rain’s voice shouted from outside the camp. He came into view at a dead sprint, wind trailing after him, indicating that his speed aura was active. “It’s working?!” He skidded to a stop nearby, then deactivated his aura and closed the remaining distance.

Tallheart removed his hand from the inlet valve as the speed of the flywheel stabilized. The two metal rods were scissoring past each other in a hypnotic blur as the noise of the engine blended into one long, unending sound.

*…ChuggaChuggaChuggaChuggaChuggaChuggaChuggaChugga…*

“And now…” Tallheart said, walking around to the other side of the flywheel. He pulled a lever mounted there, and with a screech of slipping leather, a pulley engaged. The heavy flywheel didn’t even slow as the belt found its grip, coupling its momentum to another bulky apparatus sitting nearby. Sudden light bloomed in the encampment, welling up from dozens of glass bulbs strung along wires hanging from the earthen walls.

A pair of strangled cries rose—one from the mayor of Vestvall, who was staring at the steam engine with his jaw in danger of touching the earthen floor, and another from one of the sleeping rooms.

Staavo scratched at his white-stubbled chin. Oh yeah, I put some bulbs in there, didn’t I?

Rain was laughing as he clapped Staavo on the back. “Looks like Stint’s awake. I’d better go make sure he doesn’t touch the wires.” He nodded to Tallheart, then turned to leave. “Great work, you two. Not nearly enough decorative cogs, though. And we’re going to need more goggles. Also, top hats. With gears.”

Exhausted, Ameliah dropped heavily to the ground, not bothering to cancel her momentum, relying instead upon her base stats to weather the impact. She dusted herself off with a small burst of Purify, then trudged through the camp until she found a chair, which she promptly collapsed into. She closed her eyes and let out a tired sigh. She’d spent the whole day in the city, healing what seemed like every last resident.

Vestvall’s population had been around a thousand before the Shift, though nobody had an exact count. Now, it was less than that, but not by a lot. Again, nobody had counted. Everyone was focused on their own situation. The mayor, to his credit, had organized them somewhat, but he was just one man. Only a few of the other council members had made it through the Shift, and the people of Vestvall, she was coming to learn, all shared a fierce independent streak. The situation in the city could perhaps be described as guided anarchy, as contradictory as that was.

Ameliah sighed, rubbing at her eyes. Her fatigue was more mental than physical. It wasn’t even the strain of casting Healing Word over and over for hours on end; it was the stress of broken people treating her like some sort of divine savior. They came to her with injuries, small and large. Cuts. Diseases. Missing limbs. She’d helped those she could and tried to comfort those she couldn’t. It was the second task that had really taken the toll.

Ameliah grimaced, remembering the manic tears of one woman in particular. She’d kept insisting that her child was only unconscious and begging Ameliah to help, despite the fact the body had clearly begun to decompose. She’d tried anyway, but her initial assessment hadn’t been wrong. You couldn’t heal a corpse.

A sudden wetness touched Ameliah’s left hand where it was hanging limply from the arm of the chair, startling her out of the memory. She took a deep breath, then heaved a ragged sigh and formed a fist. The wet object pulled itself back, then slapped into her knuckles.

She snorted, opening her eyes and smiling down at Dozer as it retracted the formless protuberance it had used to perform the fist-bump. Dozer had taken to greeting her this way every time she returned after being gone for more than five minutes.

Quivering with what she’d come to recognize as happiness, the slime jumped toward her face, and she quickly moved to snag it out of the air, shifting it to sit on her lap. The uncomfortable folding chair creaked, and she had to fight to keep it from tipping over as the slime snuggled against her, ‘licking’ at her face. It had learned that from Cloud, just as it had learned fist-bumping from Rain.

“Hey,” Ameliah said, half-heartedly pushing the slime away from her face. The slime popped a bubble at her but stopped squirming, settling down onto her lap like a pillow stuffed taut with mud.

“Welcome back,” Rain said, walking up to her.

Ameliah’s nostrils twitched as she smelled the aroma wafting off the bowl he was holding.

“Here,” Rain said, offering it to her. “Beef stew. With actual beef.”

“Wait, really?” Ameliah said, sitting up and almost displacing Dozer from her lap as she reached for the bowl.

“Yup!” Rain said, grinning as she accepted it. “Mlem’s been trading all day. There’s not a lot to be had, and the prices are a bit insane, when people will even accept Tel, but I figured we could afford a little luxury, seeing as we’ve finally reached civilization.”

Ameliah took a big bite of stew, heedless of the temperature, then melted back into the chair as the flavor washed over her. “Mmmm…”

Rain laughed. “I know, right? Beats the hell out of Murder Shrew.”

Ameliah took another bite, chewing with relish. Dozer probed at the bowl, and she snatched it away from the slime, growling at it through her teeth. “Mine.”

Rain laughed again. “Don’t get used to it. We’re back to eating monsters after tonight. We should still have a bit more variety, though. Milk and eggs, vegetables, that kind of thing.” He looked around, then, spotting another chair, dragged it over to sit next to her.

Ameliah gestured with her spoon as he returned, swallowing a bite of stew. “How have things been here? I see Staavo got the steam engine working.”

Rain glanced over at the working engine, then back at her. “Good enough. People are mostly finished with the jobs I sent them on, and we’re getting ready for the night. Tallheart just pulled the muffler off the forgewagon and installed it on the steam engine. You should have heard it before. There’s no sound quite like it.”

“I’m sure,” Ameliah said, taking another bite of stew. She forced herself to slow down, as she wanted to savor it while it lasted.

“The mayor stopped by,” Rain continued. “Vanna worked out a deal with him. The company is going to go secure the crack tomorrow. It’s up in the hills, over that way,” Rain gestured. “We’ll be on double-watch tonight. They had a Stumper crawl up from there, once. Fortunately, Crimson’s team was around to take care of it.”

“A Stumper?” Ameliah asked.

Rain nodded, and she shrugged. “Huh. Thought we were done with those. Tallheart will be pleased, I guess.”

The cervidian was the only one who actually enjoyed Fungiform. He’d been just as sick of them as everyone else, but once they’d passed out of the higher-rank area around Fel Sadanis, he’d said he’d come to miss the flavor. Ameliah could understand, having watched him make a salad out of shriveled shrubs, tree bark, and sadness. Cervidians could eat that kind of thing, but still.

“You think it’s really them?” Rain asked, bringing her attention back to the present.

Ameliah nodded. “Hegar, Anton, and Brovose? Yeah, if I wasn’t sure before, I am now. The descriptions I’ve heard fit too well. They’re not using their real names, though. It seems they’ve taken on adventurer nicknames and have been going around claiming that they’re world-famous.”

“Are they?”

Ameliah shook her head. “Not even close.”

“Mmm,” Rain said. “Crimson Gar. Psh. There’s a word for this, hang on…”

Ameliah raised an eyebrow as the feeling of Winter that Rain was throwing off redoubled.

“Chuuni, that’s it,” Rain said, snapping his fingers as he opened his eyes.

“What language is that?” Ameliah asked, scraping at the bottom of her bowl.

“Japanese,” Rain said.

“Oh, yeah,” Ameliah said. “You told me about that one after Kettel dyed his hair. Do you speak it?”

Rain smiled, then rubbed at his neck. “No, but I might be able to re-compile it with some effort. It’s…a little scary how my memory works sometimes.”

“Mmm,” Ameliah agreed. Having had significant exposure to Rain’s aura, she fully understood. She found herself remembering things she’d thought she’d forgotten years and years ago. As a Dynamo, the effect would be significantly stronger for Rain. I don’t even know how he can think with all the random information that must be bouncing around his skull.

“How about in the city?” Rain asked. “How were things there?”

Ameliah shrugged, feeding her bowl and spoon into Dozer, who engulfed them, along with her fingers. Pulling her hands free with a sucking sound, she turned to look at Rain. “About what I expected. Some are hoarding, some are starving, some are injured or sick. I did what I could for today. I think things will be okay now that we’re here, but it’s going to take a while. Did Tahir and Mereck make it back?”

“Yeah, hours ago,” Rain said. “They’re resting, still. I have good news on the food situation, at least. I went hunting today, and I gave most of what I caught to Mlem to trade. A few haunches of beef cost us like five hundred kilos of shrew-meat. The mayor said people here wouldn’t take kindly to charity, so I just told Mlem to haggle badly on purpose.”

“Five hundred kilograms?” Ameliah raised an eyebrow. “You hunted that much? Really?”

“I got a little carried away,” Rain said. “Anyway, after tonight, it shouldn’t be a problem anymore. The food will come to us once the sun finishes setting.”

“Mmm,” Ameliah said, taking the cleaned bowl from Dozer and setting it on the ground beside her chair. She turned her thoughts to the city, contemplating where things would go from here. Ascension might stay here for quite a while. Unless the adventurers cause a problem, it looks like Rain’s got things under control… I could—

“What are you thinking about?” Rain asked.

Ameliah blinked, looking at him. “Nothing. I was just thinking about tomorrow.”

“Me too,” Rain said. He got to his feet, then stretched with his arms over his head. “I’ve been thinking about tomorrow all day. There’s just so much to do to get things evened out here, and then we’re going to have to decide whether to stay here a while, or try to evacuate everyone. It could go so many ways. It’s exhausting, and I’m so done!”

He lowered his arms, then looked at her. “Play a game of chess?”

Ameliah snorted away her surprise. “No way. You cheat.”

“Come on,” Rain pleaded. “It’s Clubbs who cheats. Every time I think I’ve got him, he finds some unique way to wiggle out of it. I thought it was just Ranks he was good at, but it’s more than that. There’s something weird about his brain, I’m telling you. I taught him the game, for crying out loud! It’s not fair that I’ve never even beaten him once.”

Ameliah sighed, looking at Rain’s hopeful face. I… She hesitated.

“It’ll be fun, and I need to practice,” Rain said. He made his lip quiver. “Please. You’re my only hope. You’re the only one other than Clubbs and Tallheart who’s any good, and Tallheart’s asleep. I can’t practice against Clubbs because that would help him get better, too. The man is inhuman!”

Ameliah snorted, then got to her feet. “Stop making that face. Fine. I’ll play. Just one game.”

She smiled at Rain’s enthusiastic response, then looked away. If he had a tail, it would be wagging. Her smile took on a slightly bitter note as she looked at the open sky, the clouds crimson with the setting sun. Just one game.
