Weeks of trial and error had given them a basic understanding of how the Mercurial Court’s memories worked. They’d already confirmed that the memory domains and memory winds acted the same, having no borders or exit after you’d entered. They’d since realized those borders were still there, it was just that one couldn’t see them.

So long as you stayed inside a memory domain, you wouldn’t be kicked out unless the domain itself collapsed. The clock would only start ticking after you left its borders, like a battery slowly running out. The realm would eventually destabilize and throw you out unless Zac prolonged their stay with Imperial Merit. When you reached that point, returning to a static memory domain wouldn’t help. You’d still get booted and appear at the domain’s borders.

However, the clock would be paused if you returned to a memory domain before the signs of instability appeared. That worked in their favor during their exploration of the Peregrine Isles. Most of the islands had small memory domains. Therefore, you only risked getting kicked out at a bad time while exploring one of the few unoccupied islands.

These rules possibly applied to the roaming memory winds, but following their path while inside was impossible. For one, the winds could change direction at any time, and you’d be none the wiser while staying in the past. Secondly, space wasn’t linear inside the Mercurial Court. Citadel was made from countless spatial layers and illusory realms, and those layers didn’t match between present and past.

How long one could stay in the past after entering through a memory wind wasn’t a given. Thankfully, the first time they were booted within a few hours appeared to be an outlier. Their other visits had at least lasted a few days, even when Zac caused a commotion that would normally cause a drain on a memory.

Figuring out the difference in time flow had proven trickier, and there still appeared to be an element of randomness. They lost nearly a month when exploring the Scripture Tower. The last time they were sent out, they only lost an afternoon. If there were a method to the madness, it’d need a Temporal Cultivator to make sense of it.

There appeared to be two factors influencing how much time passed, the first of which was fluctuations of Fate. The greater the changes, the more time passed on the inside. They believed the trial takers still working on their threads of fate were part of this equation, and it wasn’t only Realmsingers that influenced the Mercurial Court.

New Halos had appeared at a rate of one a week since they’d arrived at the Peregrine Isles. Each forced an immediate expulsion the moment they left the borders of a memory domain. When they’d returned, at least a month had passed. In that sense, the halos acted as a countdown clock for the trial. They believed that the Sealbearers’ stay at the Outer Courts would come to an end when each court had gained a full set of nine halos.

Zac felt it was too early to worry about running out of time. He suspected that the halos would become harder and harder to trigger and that some of them needed to be activated from within the courts themselves. Even if much shorter than the real opportunity, their stay in the Outer Courts would likely be measured in years.

The second factor affecting how quickly history progressed was more of a theory than observation. Just as memory domains focused on important events, so did the Mercurial Court’s timeline. The memories were essentially fast-forwarding through uneventful periods to get to the important points.

They’d noticed how the timeline was moving slower and slower. The first halo added three months, the second one and a half. Altogether, roughly a year had passed in the memories, which wasn’t much for a Hegemon.

The trial was still at the stage where only a few dozen Sealbearers had reached the Mercurial Courts, and many would likely stay months in seclusion to digest the insights they’d gained during their crossing. On the other hand, failing to produce any tangible results wasn’t a great look for someone wanting to hug Astora Theomore’s thigh.

More importantly, Zac could sense they were approaching a surge in destiny. The Starfall Court’s new halo might have taken them all the way to the critical point in time. Zac could feel the winds of destiny blowing. They might lose the opportunity unless they could produce some results.

They’d only found one infiltrator after visiting nine islands and the harbor district attached to the archipelago, and it was only a weak Servant Disciple. By all accounts, the infiltrator had been lucky enough to stumble onto a dimensional weak spot, or perhaps unlucky enough. After all, he was actually an anomaly—someone without an alter ego in the main timeline.

The invader had mostly kept to himself out of fear of his unusual identity being exposed. He only had one piece of valuable intelligence. There were indeed a few stable passages and a hidden base of operations somewhere in the isles. Unfortunately, the corrupted doppelganger was still looking for it in hopes of joining up with his compatriots and getting a proper identity.

Zac needed to uncover a bigger target, and quickly. There’d be no one to complain to if Astora or one of her helpers raided the hidden base while he was dallying around. If Zac couldn’t find the main base, uncovering one of the passages would do. Even a Sealbearing doppelganger or a well-connected Inner Disciple would let him present some form of progress.

“Good news, I was right!” Esmeralda suddenly exclaimed.

“Of course you were,” Zac distractedly said, slowly turning away from the Starfall Court’s pillar. “Wait, what are we talking about?”

Esmeralda rolled her eyes and waved a Spatial Ring at him. Zac recognized it at a glance. It was the ring she had lifted from a corpse on Monkey Island. They’d found four bodies altogether. Three were just skeletons, meaning their deaths occurred before the invasion began. Only the owner of the Spatial Ring was a recent death.

Most would think it was a fellow Disciple who’d discovered the [Peregrine Almond] and died before they could seize it. At the same time, the persistent presence of corruption indicated a dimensional weak spot, so the corpse could have been an unlucky infiltrator who’d popped out at an unfortunate location. Esmeralda had leaned toward the latter based on traces of unusual spatial fluctuations. Based on her smug expression, she’d been proven right.

“Well, let me have it. What did you find?” Zac asked curiously.

Esmeralda took out a ruby signet ring with a grin. “We should head over to the Explorers Guild.”
