Maesovio offered to personally lead Zac to the First District. Zac rejected, excusing himself before hurrying in the direction he pointed. Accepting attendants was a matter best left to stew. Zac had thrown out the bait, and news would spread through the Transformation Docks. The offers would come on their own. This was a money-making scheme he and Esmeralda had thought up before, and his exchange with Kaltosa Lu didn’t change anything.

The First District was one of the few areas located in uncompressed space, allowing its residents to fully take advantage of the unsurpassed environment. Zac headed straight for his accommodations. Each inch of the first district’s land was no doubt worth its weight in gold, yet Zac was assigned a freestanding villa with a walled courtyard halfway up an artificial mountain.

The luxurious treatment was wasted on Zac, but not even the most talented Hegemon could make use of such boundless Cosmic Energy. While the environment wouldn’t bottleneck their cultivation speed, they would still be limited by their talent and cultivation manuals.

Zac still enjoyed the comfort and clarity it brought, and the courtyard’s view was stunning. It provided a perfect line of sight to the docks, and he finally spotted the [Peregrine Gondolas]. Zac hadn’t expected the term docks to be literal. The silver waters didn’t hold the threat of spatial decay inside the memory domain, but the mysterious power he’d seen in Dawndeep Bastille was magnified many times over. It wasn’t something Hegemons could deal with, so Zac had expected the docks to be equipped with a teleportation array.

The gondolas weren’t flying ships or majestic galleons, either. Their shape and make differed, but even the largest couldn’t seat more than six or seven people. None of them held cabins. At most, some had partial roofs to protect against the sun. As ludicrous as it sounded, it really looked like sealbearers were supposed to take those boats to the Mercurial Court. The First District was too far to make out any details. Zac couldn’t see what would make one gondola better than another.

One of the boats set out just as Zac was about to look away, and its passage triggered a reaction from the ocean. A mist rose around the gondola while fleeting windows to different worlds appeared on the water's surface. Zac could make out a vague outline to confirm only one person was aboard before the view was obscured.

The sealbearer either couldn’t control the gondola or chose to ignore the surrounding phenomena. The boat maintained a straight course until it reached the edge of the memory domain and disappeared. Zac frowned at the sight. What would happen if he did the same thing? Would he sail out of the memory domain, where the much more terrifying ocean waited? Could those rickety old boats really keep him safe if that happened?

That problem would have to wait. Zac really needed rest, and not just because of his wounds. The past two months had been no less hectic than the ones before. He first spent half a month tracking down a memory lantern with a ticket to the Mercurial Court. After confirming that wasn’t enough to activate the Transformation Docks, they returned to Dawndeep Bastille.

Altogether, Zac managed to compete in six trials before the Mercurial Court awakened. While generous helpings of Imperial Merit were welcome, Zac’s main goal was to trigger a change and reach the Mercurial Court Early. In the end, they had to rely on someone else to open the path.

The trials were more like the deadly pilgrimages of the Empyrean Flame than some festive games. The outwardly safe river-defying event had literally cost him an arm and a leg. He’d been unable to react to the unpredictable currents in time, and his limbs had been whisked away to another dimension. The other trials held other dangers that threatened physical or spiritual destruction.

Zac’s results were a mixed bag, though he only failed one. It was a pebble-searching event. Zac had thought it would be the easiest one since you could pick as many as you liked within the timespan. Except each stone held a brutal attack aimed at his Dao Heart. Neither his Luck nor Esmeralda’s scans managed to sniff out the hidden prize, and he was forced to concede after randomly picking eight stones.

Now that Zac had arrived, the suffering he’d endured was more than worth it. The six trials had almost doubled his Imperial Merit. The next step was to rest up and wait for Esmeralda to wake up. Zac’s guts said he was better off avoiding the opening ceremony. Still, he would have to go if he couldn't figure out the secret behind the gondolas.

Zac didn’t even get to settle in before a series of loud, angry thumps announced he had guests. Someone was knocking on his doors with enough power to activate the courtyard’s protective barrier. Zac sighed. He didn’t need to look outside to know who’d arrived. Zac's third memory lantern worked just as advertised. Everit Draom’s invitation was transferred to him, smoothly providing passage to the challenges and the Mercurial Court.

He just wished he’d picked an identity with less baggage.
