Meeting a Void Cultivator with actual mastery, not someone like Daoist Hidden Earth who was copying without understanding, would be a huge opportunity. A few words of guidance could dispel most of Zac’s confusion. What was the Void, why did it exist, and how did you cultivate it in a world shaped by the Dao? If anyone in the current era knew, it was Fuxi.

At the same time, Zac’s ties to the Limitless Empire had already grown more numerous than he would have liked. If he kept going like this, he would end up being swept up in the storm that would follow the Fifth Pillar’s ascent. Zac didn’t particularly care whether the Limitless Empire would successfully step out of the dream or if their ambitions would be foiled yet again. He just didn’t want to get involved.

It wasn’t like he hadn’t thought about it. What if he stopped fighting the winds of fate, fighting his birthright? Depending on how things panned out, a reborn Limitless Empire could become the protective umbrella that the Atwood Empire would need in the coming years. Whether it was his heritage or status as the Terminal Son of the Imperial Chalice, joining their ranks shouldn’t prove very difficult.

The idea made sense on the surface, yet Zac wanted to avoid that outcome unless he was left with absolutely no choice. He could imagine how the Multiverse could react to the empire’s resurgence. The new factions wouldn’t tolerate an old dynasty reclaiming its former glory, possibly seizing control over the System itself. The Empire would trigger a massive, cosmos-spanning war with the Left Imperial Expanse at the center.

The Atwood Empire was too young and weak to be thrown into a war of that scale. They would be much better off staying in some remote corner of the Multiverse where they could gather strength in silence. Above all, the primal voice from the depths of Zac’s soul railed against the idea. Joining the Limitless Empire meant giving up on his own path.

It was one thing to accept their benefits during the trial. They were just using each other, maintaining balance through equivalent exchange. But how could he possibly perfect his Void Road while becoming yet another of Laondio’s followers? He would end up like the broken Realmlords, moths to the flame of the Emperor’s ambition. His personal goal to find Kenzie would be replaced with the grand undertaking.

There were no plaques or steles accompanying the statue, nothing to explain its presence or purpose. Zac didn’t believe for a second it was just an expression of vanity or a commemoration of service. The statue felt like a lynchpin that helped stabilize the whole mirror realm, further evidenced by the enormous amounts of Destiny swirling around it.

An hour of careful investigation only left Zac with an unbearable mental itch. The runes filled his mind whenever he closed his eyes, swirling around, taunting his ignorance. Zac finally couldn’t take it any longer. He turned away and entered his Void State to quell the voices. The result was the opposite.

When witnessed through the lens of the Void Road, a hidden layer was exposed of the chaotic runes. Roaring echoes coming from the deepest recesses of time superimposed, forming a tapestry ancient beyond compare. Zac gasped as he finally understood. The Decaying Death of the Ninth Hell, the Primo, and Fuxi’s Void.

It was all connected.
