In contrast to the grand stature and titanic profile visible from outside, Glyphward Fortress was rather barren within. He’d seen it once before, prior to engaging and overcoming his set of death loops against the Mage, but the austerity within was something noteworthy all the same.

Orodan had seen the capitals and grand cities of various worlds. Xian, Lonvoron, X2 and even Druhmiyan in the hells themselves. All of these places had a level of… culture to them. Some sign that the place belonged to the inhabitants, little things which gave away their way of life. An aesthetic which told a story beyond just the visual.

Glyphward Fortress had none of that.

There were no murals, no specially designed furniture, no trinkets, books, art, music. Nothing.

Hells, even X2, the world of the Unity, had more robotic character to it than this place did. And the Unity were machine-beings!

He stood within the war room of Glyphward, and everything around him, from the walls to the table to the stools, were made of a sleek black stone which revealed nothing about its makers.

A gigantic map of the System, its galaxies and the cosmos outside of it was sprawled before him on an equally large table.

“A grand but soulless fortress, is it not?” a quiet voice spoke up from behind him. “The duties laid upon us are of an engrossing sort which leave scant time for furnishment.”

Orodan took in the features of the speaker. Skin paler than the white of a star when viewed from the void, and a tall lankiness to the Embodier which was covered by loose-fitting robes. All topped off by a hood of midnight obscuring the face. From surface-level appearances, the Master of Death, a being he’d seen on his last visit here, was not a combatant.

But a part of him refused to believe that, for the subtle danger sense which he’d had since his street rat days in Ogdenborough poked him sharply whenever looking at the being’s hands. Those were hands which were used to gripping a weapon.

He had heard that the Master of Death, was responsible for ensuring that the souls of the System’s casualties never left System space itself. An important task, especially prior to his takeover of the time loops, where if a soul was taken past the boundary it became irretrievable.

“The decor does inspire a sense of dull uniformity,” Orodan admitted. “Though I suppose my own home is no better.”

He hadn’t changed the furniture or bought anything to add to his hovel since he’d bought it. Just as the day-to-day of Glyphward left little time for such things, so too did his daily training leave him no interest in decorating what was, to him, just a place to sleep.

Back when he needed such things anyhow.

“None call this skeletal bulwark home, time looper, not even the Administrators. For those of us who are not among their ranks, our own duties and meditations beckon us attend them. Every moment spent here is a moment wasted in a service with little reward, but such is the price paid for the mutual defense of System space which harbors us all,” the pale Embodier spoke.

And though the Master of Death’s voice was icy cold and full of dispassion, Orodan felt those words carried much frustration beneath them.

“I suppose it’s fifficult to go about your business with Invaders and anomalies everywhere,” Orodan replied. “I was in the midst of my own endeavors as well when something got through a number of loops ago. I intend on ensuring that doesn’t happen again.”

He had slain Anomaly #3 and the alliance now had countermeasures for enemies which used memetic attacks, but that had still been a most unpleasant intrusion of foreign predators.

“A rather proactive time looper I see. Versus some of your predecessors I daresay the attitude is an… interesting one,” the Embodiment of Death spoke. “Mayhap you shall find more ails in need of remedying here at Glyphward. More than just the foes without, what is within at Glyphward may be of more pressing concern than you know. Be wary, Orodan Wainwright. For the truly powerful such as yourself, the dagger of consequences rarely ever comes from the enemy in front.”

Orodan’s eyebrow rose at that. Cryptic words from a cryptic being.

“I don’t do well with riddles and tongues. Speak plainly,” he directly said in return.

If being cryptic was the aim, then the Master of Death had chosen the moment well. For just as Orodan finished speaking did more people enter the war room.

A familiar zealot and an unhappy spellcaster came in behind the orc, as did a dwarf Orodan was familiar with and had battled in the past. The Prophet, the Mage, Azkar the War-Father and Kharadun Voidfortress. Two Administrators and two of the strongest Embodiers in all System space.

“Shepherd of the unfortunately lost, patient guide with a heart of frost,” the gigantic orc walking into the room spoke, addressing the Master of Death with a pleasant little rhyme. A contrast which was more than a little stark considering that the speaker was over sixteen feet of height while not even attempting to stand straight. “And Orodan Wainwright the time looper. Come to bring Glyphward out of its stupor.”

“Hmm… a warrior and a bard both. Impressive,” Orodan hummed in approval with a nod. He himself certainly had no talent for song, but could appreciate this sort far more than any frilly performance he’d ever seen put up in the noble functions of House Firesword.

“War and song go hand-in-hand, warrior. I am still working on composing what will come to be known as yours. Grezka-Thal the Celestial owes you a great debt. As does all of Azkar’s Gate for your role in repelling the assault tendril of Swarm-Lord Excrodatar’s hivemind.”

Excrodatar? Twice now had Orodan seen that name affiliated with Fallen Void Archons.

It was not Azkar, but one of the Administrators who spoke up. Specifically, one who had recently been the victim of kidnapping and then received a rather savage beating from Orodan’s companions. The Prophet looked better than it had right after facing Almyra, Zaessythra and Talricto.

And in a surprising move, the Prophet even gave him a curt nod of acknowledgement. In it, Orodan could sense no grudge off of the dogmatic Administrator.

“It is clear to see you recognize the last name. It is no secret… I and every other Fallen Void Archon within System space bear that name. A continual reminder of our roots, our lineage… the chains we were beholden to before the grace of provenance descended during the great formation and brought us into System space, liberating us,” the Prophet explained. “Excrodatar… a powerful Embodier. One of the Swarm-Lords of the Void Archon hive and their strongest.”

A bit rich to be speaking of former chains when the Prophet had merely traded one form of servitude for another. Orodan wouldn’t say he trusted the Fallen Void Archon at all. Even reformed, the Administrator’s loyalties lay solely with the Eldritch Boundless One. And prior to Edrosic’s artwork curing it of its madness? It was no different to the mindless drones of the Void Archon swarm he’d seen among the Invaders.

But… he supposed he did not detest it nearly as much in this liberated form of its.

“It’s an Embodier? I slew a number of them the last time I ventured past System bounds. Perhaps it was among those?” Orodan pondered out loud.

“Impressive, and quite helpful if you are to repeat such a feat, but no. Swarm-Lord Excrodatar controls the largest Void Archon hivemind in the cosmos. Excrodatar bears a particular grudge against System space for stealing a large portion of the swarm during the formative era. The lord of the swarm is not so easy to slay; in fact… you will find that they are not even a Void Archon of flesh and blood like you are used to.”

“The Prophet speaks truth. For long have we tried in futility, to catch the Swarm-Lord in an assault. The Warrior has even attempted to sally out in years past. All for naught. It is as wily and averse to engagement as it is dangerous at directing the coordinated armies of Void Archons we face,” Azkar added, stoic in his reminiscence. “I saw it once… briefly, thousands of years ago. I have never seen a thing like it… pure consciousness, no form of flesh, metal or even air. Just a shadow of thought passing over the arrayed armies of the enemy.”

“A craven then… or a very elusive enemy,” Orodan added.

“The line between coward and cunningly evasive is thin when the result is so lethal. Entire regiments of my children have perished fighting the hordes whenever the Swarm-Lord descends to take control. Their already deadly coordination turns hyper-effective whenever it assumes direct control of a commanding node,” Azkar elaborated. “Those Embodiers you slew? Mere parts of the swarm themselves.”

Which begged the question of why Orodan had never seen or felt the presence of this Swarm-Lord before. Unless… his display of what the Eidolon of Violence was capable of had caused it to wisely monitor from a distance rather than risk a direct engagement. From what these two were telling him of it, such cautious and assessing behaviour lined up with its temperament.

Still… what good was a commander without an army? Orodan wondered if he could cause enough casualties among the Void Archons that the Swarm-Lord would be forced to intervene.

“I see that look upon your face, Orodan Wainwright. Your mettle in defense of System space is admirable, but be warned… the Swarm-Lord is not without recourse in a direct confrontation nor would it be alone,” the Prophet warned. “It only ever emerges whenever Lord Talasgan attempts sallies, and in those moments it controls the most powerful of the Void Archons as a combat form, to fight as part of the Seven Tyrants.”

“The Seven Tyrants?” Orodan asked, though he had a feeling he had vaguely seen them last time even if he hadn’t gotten to meet them face-to-face.

“Seven of the most powerful Embodiers among the Invaders’ ranks. Be they their leaders, or merely their most powerful weapons we do not know. But they are dangerously powerful all the same,” the zealous Administrator clarified. “Even mighty Talasgan cannot beat all seven of them arrayed at the same time. In the days of yore, when we were less constrained and the Custodian was not bound to the thankless task of preventing the spread of the truth, we barely drove them off. Four of us to their seven, and even then it was a close thing. They have only grown more powerful since then.”

“For eons of siege did the sadist assail, its tyrants battering the boundary to no avail. Yet on the eve of the time loops’ capture, does the foe return with renewed rapture.”

The orc’s rhyme summarized the situation well. Orodan thought as much. Not all did however.

“If your attempts at waxing poetic were but a tenth the measure of your martial prowess, we might succeed in enticing the Invaders to our side, War-Father,” the Mage coldly remarked. “We have little time for such frivolities. While you rhyme words, our enemies amass in force beyond the boundary. Their battering ram, that black hole, draws ever nearer.”

“And if your magical skill matched a tenth of your obnxiousness, you might’ve bested me in our duel of magic,” Orodan interrupted, crossing his arms with undisguised contempt as he looked down upon Kalmiron.

“You are not a better mage than I.”

“But is combat not the critical part of being a mage? If another warrior were to best me in a fight, I would accept them as my better. Therefore, I am a better mage than you.”

“You…!”

“I bested you while throwing spells at you, thus I am your superior. Does this line of reasoning seem unsound?” Orodan asked, scratching his chin as though in great thought.

“Your churlish attempts at pricking my pride will not gain you the satisfaction of seeing my temper unleashed.”

“I have seen it unleashed once already and found it unimpressive. Try facing me while calm next time and you may yet reclaim the honor of calling yourself my better.”

Orodan didn’t actually think himself the better mage. That would have been delusional.

But he did enjoy mouthing off to this arrogant bastard and feeling the scoundrel’s hatred simmer underneath.

Of all the Administrators, he hadn’t thought it possible to hate anyone more than the Prophet. But Kalmiron, the Mage, had upended that assumption. The cur mistreated his own allies, acted exceedingly prideful and was now yet again mouthing off to another ally of his merely reciting a pleasant rhyme.

Perhaps a repeat of their duel was in order?

Just as the question crossed his mind, the doors on the opposite side of the war room flung open and the most powerful Administrator of them all walked in.

A presence which made the entire war room feel very small, as though a galaxy contained within a body had just arrived. The room itself felt inadequate for containing such a force of nature.

Talasgan. The Warrior.

“Kalmiron. Do not mock the War-Father so, he is a valued partner in the defense of our home,” the Warrior warned, and then the obsidian-skinned giant looked at him. “And Orodan Wainwright, such petty barbs are beneath a warrior of your caliber. We share aims; is this truly the time for such things?”

Orodan shifted his stance off-center from the Mage, showing that he was done with the matter.

“I am always happy to fight. If he can’t temper his mouth towards an ally of his then I’ll take that as an implicit wish to fight again,” he replied, and then grinned while giving the Mage a brief but predatory glance. “A wish I’m more than pleased to oblige.”

