A Void Archon. The true natural state of the Fallen Void Archons Orodan had seen within System space. Even an individual Void Archon was a frighteningly good spellslinger. Multiple arms, naturally generous mana pools and minds used to multitasking by virtue of having six arms to coordinate meant that the humanoid spellcasters wasn’t a match for them one-to-one.

From the briefings Orodan had been reading prior to this war council, it was the Void Archon hive which presented the single greatest bulk threat to the defenders. The Void Archons he’d annihilated in the Crimson Sink Galaxy while aiding the orcs had been but a small part of the overall hive belonging to Swarm-Lord Excrodatar. And Orodan’s own foray beyond the boundary last time had also confirmed that they had plenty more in waiting.

Barring solitary forays by powerful individuals, any assault by conventional forces was doomed to fail in a headlong charge. The deep void was after all, massive.

“A lot of distance to close while under fire…” Orodan muttered. “I can see why the orcs nor the dwarves of Kharadun Voidfortress have charged out.”

Covering that much empty void to get to the enemy’s black hole would be suicide for any force composed primarily of warriors. And the Invaders had gross superiority in overall spellcaster quantity and perhaps even quality, dependent on how powerful this Swarm-Lord was.

However, it was Almyra’s hand which came down upon the table, cutting into the topic of discussion.

“The perfect opportunity then, for the Alastaian alliance to provide an edge which your existing forces lack,” she declared. “The Swarm-Lord’s dominion over the void has not been contested by Blackworth gunnery ships nor Vylrystian half-dragon troops. You will find, Warrior, that allying with us has many benefits beyond having Orodan Wainwright on your side.”

“A conveniently timed offer. Your maneuver to gain more influence in the hopes of swaying our minds regarding the Mantle is apparent,” Kharadun icily spoke.

“This offer will stand regardless of what occurs during our duel, Kharadun Voidfortress,” the previous looper calmly replied. “Neither shall influence the other. Your defeat at my hands shall soon lay this insulting notion to bed.”

The dwarf’s face twitched at that response, thirsty for battle. As for him, Orodan held full faith in Almyra. He had seen what she was capable of now.

The grueling training she’d put herself through alongside him, the loops where she too had fought the Mage and experienced death after death? It was so far removed from the sort of looping she’d done in her own time loops that it was a shocker to see. But something in the normally reserved and calculating woman had clearly changed after the first three deaths in combat against Kalmiron.

Whatever it was, it had lit a fire under her the likes of which Orodan could respect.

“A bold offer, shrouded one,” Talasgan replied. “It has been but a day since the breaches appeared, and slightly less since the Invaders began their assault. Your arrival to this fortress was less than half an hour ago and each second which passes is of critical importance. The question is not whether we would welcome your forces, but whether your troops could reach us in time to make a difference.”

“I will make no secret of my skepticism of you and yours, time looper. Yet I would welcome any reinforcements in a heartbeat,” Kalmiron spoke up. “Do you assume that we have not tried summoning aid? That every call, summons and dispatch was not sent out? We have done all of that and more. Beacons have been lit across all corners of System space… but those who would witness them are beleaguered themselves. The War-Father’s orcs and the King of King’s dwarven mercenaries are the only forces currently near enough to reach us in time. The rest are too far or too preoccupied with saving themselves.”

A grim picture. If this was the hand they had been dealt then so be it, Orodan would personally-

“That will not be a concern,” Zaessythra spoke up, causing Orodan’s brow to furrow upward. She gestured towards Old Man Hannegan and Fenton Penny. “With the help of these two and a few others, our teleporter is capable of moving the entire army of our alliance to Glyphward Fortress in less than an hour.”

“…since when?” Orodan asked, surprised. “Weren’t they invading Narictus all this time? They have nothing to do with a battle of this nature.”

“Orodan…” Almyra muttered, pinching the bridge of her nose through the shroud she wore. “You’re the central time looper, but the alliance isn’t exactly sitting around pawing dirt like a pack of lost puppies waiting to follow you. Work on the grand teleportation array has evolved over the past eight-hundred loops. Just as you have gained in power, as have they. This sortie to Glyphward has been in the planning for many loops now. We were hardly about to let you go charging off alone without any support.”

“And might we ask how many troops and of what levels you shall be bringing?” the Master of Death asked, in that voice which sounded like unliving personified. “It is… unprecedented, to have such a large unvetted force in this ancient fortress.”

“Enough of both, that you may be assured of,” Almyra coolly answered.

“A suspicious non-answer,” Azkar remarked. “With the Void Archon assault repulsed, the Crimson Sink is ready to provide twenty-thousand of our finest. Kharadun and his mercenaries, eleven-thousand. We are allies, why do you obscure your numbers as much as you do your face? You demand the Mantle, you ask to bring your own troops inside, and you have yet to reveal your true intentions. Orodan Wainwright, is this the sort of schemer you associate yourself with? I would rather speak to you than this magically shrouded ally of yours who deals in obscurities and half-truths.”

Talasgan’s sharp arm gesture cut through the air. And most inexplicably, also cut through the argument itself, causing both Azkar and Almyra to flinch as though the spark of confrontation within the two had been extinguished.

That was certainly a Celestial skill. Orodan felt his own Eidolon flare instinctually, almost as though offended that a rival was present.

“Our eye should be upon the enemy, not ourselves. War-Father, I hope you shall not be offended if I ask you to overlook our newest allies’ peculiarities. In a time of such grim calamity desperation necessitates we avoid scrutinizing a generous offer of aid too closely. And you… guised one, ally of Orodan Wainwright, we shall welcome whatever aid you can bring within the hour starting now,” Talasgan spoke and then looked down at the map. “The Moon Devourers, the Swarm-Lord’s forces, the seven tyrants and that damnable black hole which draws ever nearer, heralding our doom. And if we delay any longer in sallying out, the enemy will concentrate more and more force with their greater numbers and find numerous ways through all the breaches. A bleak tactical situation… Identifier, was there anything else you saw?”

“Identifier sees nothing else. Well… not true. Sneaky things which enjoy looking at Identifier from deep void also moving towards boundary,” the gigantic eyeball answered. Those could only be Anomalies. “And… religious group. Priests, priestesses… Identifier does not know what they pray about.”

A religious group? Some sort of enemy Avatar or Chosen? Perhaps the Invaders had their own version of Gods? An odd thought, when the only sort of divinity Orodan knew of was that manufactured by the System and kept bound for its own purposes.

“Unfortunately, that is the extent of our knowledge on that front,” the Prophet spoke up as though sensing the question upon Orodan’s face. “Our sanctuary has ever been under threat since its inception. Accordingly, our chances to venture outwards and learn about the greater cosmos are nonexistent. Whether these are apostles of the enemy or not, remains to be seen.”

“Of course, Identifier should not need to remind Warrior of the presence of the seventh tyrant among the enemy,” the floating eye warned.

“Ah yes… the traitor himself. I believe he shall have quite an eye out for you, Orodan Wainwright,” Talasgan said. “You did after all, clash blades with him recently.”

Nothing else needed to be said, for that could only be one person.

It seemed Xia, the Reject, was in league with the Invaders.

He was the seventh tyrant.

#

Glyphward had an inner ‘courtyard’ of sorts, which was really just an endless void whose construction Fenton, Clyburn and Destartes had begged to be allowed study of. Orodan and Talasgan were on one of the viewing balconies of Glyphward, Zaessythra was on another, opposite them. This inner void was an ideal arena and where the current duel was occurring, all while the steady trickle of Alastian alliance forces, orcish and dwarven troops entered as the minutes passed. A final conglomeration of whatever hastily assembled forces could be gathered before time necessitate they act.

Old Man Hannegan was likely somewhere directing work crews to more optimized results, and King Alstatyn was still directing the alliance’s voidcraft to enter through the portal the grand teleportation array of Alastaia had created.

Little time as they had, the waiting before a battle was universally seen as one of the most tense times. And what better way to bide it than by spectating the duel for ownership of the Reject’s Mantle?

“You keep impressive company.”

“For the longest time, I had none. Save a dusty old book of course. But it took me a while to realize my love for literature,” Orodan replied, glancing at Zaessythra on the balcony adjacent to theirs.

Said impressive company was currently dismantling her opponent systematically in the deep void while most of Glyphward’s inhabitants watched.

Talasgan seemed taken aback, but this outcome was of no surprise to Orodan himself. Almyra’s ability to generate and use clones of herself was a real problem for most. The Prophet, she had even bested a few times by now before Orodan even made his way to Lonvoron. Among those at Glyphward, in a head-to-head, perhaps only the Mage and Talasgan could beat her as she was now. And for the former, it was getting to be a very close thing by the time Orodan had successfully beaten him. With Mantle in hand, she was not too far off from Kalmiron.

Eight-hundred loops ago, that wasn’t the case. But now? Kharadun Voidfortress was learning the hard way why a clone specialist mage was a nightmare matchup for him. The dwarven King of Kings was a fearsome warrior in melee, durable, mighty and ferocious. But with a far more limited toolkit for mobility and ranged assault, the dwarf was beginning to feel the innate weaknesses of his style of fighting.

A barrage of spellfire caused the silent canvas of the deep void itself to quake. One thousands pairs of hands from a thousand clones, each of them shrouded in illusory magics. Yet, Kharadun Voidfortress was neither stupid nor incompetent. Reaching the Embodiment-level was no small feat and the dwarf had surely fought countless mages during his ascent to power.

This was evident in how the dwarf’s eyes glimmered with some strange light, and Orodan felt the metallic walls of Glyphward subtly vibrate, alongside the assortment of metals, earth and gemstones he held in his dimensional storage ring.

Some manner of rock sense? How would that help?

The answer made itself clear when Almyra suddenly stilled, or rather, her main body did.

His senses were fine enough to feel it, but Orodan’s new Genesis of Life skill in particular let him get a good grasp of the life flowing through everyone and everything. And with it, he saw Almyra’s blood begin to subtly tremble.

Specifically, the metal within it.

“Found you!” Kharadun roared as the dwarf closed the distance with impressive speed. In a straight line, the King of Kings was quick indeed.

Orodan’s eyes narrowed.

“Blood bending?” he asked out loud.

Still, Almyra did not look distressed or in pain leading to Orodan concluding that it did not seem like the blood bending he knew.

It was Talasgan near him, spectating alongside, who answered. “Ground Commandment; A Mythical skill. A step beyond its lesser, Earth Communion which is merely Legendary.”

Merely? What was ‘mere’ about Legendary-rarity? His own Wood Communion skill was so. The very notion was just…

Orodan shook his head and kept his mouth shut about his ‘mere’ Wood Communion skill. He finally understood how people felt when he spoke about his Celestial and Mythical skills as though they were standard.

Brushing aside the blow to his pride, there was no denying the fact: Ground Commandment was a powerful skill. That a level of control beyond communion existed was news to him. And evidently, the commandment version encompassed a far greater scope of control than its lesser sort.

Ground, not earth. What was within the ground? Not just earth, but metals, precious stones. Iron of course, was under that. And the blood of most creatures contained it. Little wonder the dwarf was able to differentiate between Almyra and her clones. The King of Kings was sensing the very iron within her lifeblood in the midst of combat.

Impressive. Even more so when he realized that the dwarf made no move to press such a skill harder by assaulting Almyra’s very blood or whatever other minerals were present within her body.

It was far from an omnipotent skill, and Kharadun would need to overcome Almyra’s sizeable mana and soul energy pools before being able to freely do such things. Yet despite the new avenue of potential attack the dwarf had chosen not to press it.

