The Mage seemed more than a little angered at the direct challenge. But also… afraid. Good. Even with tricks involved in Kalmiron’s favor Orodan had solidly proven who the better was in direct confrontation.

“Peace,” Azkar firmly interjected, making a downward cutting gesture of denial with his hand and stepping between the two of them. “I am not so easily offended that I require you to defend my honor over mere words, time looper. Though the gesture will be remembered.”

Orodan settled down at that. As did the target of his contempt. Still, despite the cooling it was evident there would be no friendship between them anytime soon.

Yes, Talasgan and Kalmiron had their memories ferried over via Fenton’s orb. It was part of the agreement to work together that they’d negotiated the last time Orodan and company had made it to Glyphward. But the memories of an orb being transferred to him still didn’t mean the Mage liked him or vice versa.

The Custodian, despite being the reason for Orodan’s lot in life and his parents dying, was possessed of a strange sense of honor and honesty about the whole matter. That wound and grudge was still present, but some days he wondered whether he would even carry it out when the time came.

The Reject was a madman whose crazed violence was straightforward. He owed that lunatic his sword to the heart for killing Zhou Shan and W78 in a prior loop, but that was the extent of it. Life for life. The nutcase had helped him more than once, so there was that too. Which meant, at the very least, Xia deserved an honest warrior’s death.

And the Prophet, despite being a zealot… was not so bad once reformed. And Talasgan the Warrior had done him no ill whatsoever.

But of all these Administrators, none had a character he despised as much as the Mage’s.

Even though they were currently aligned, Orodan made no secret of his dislike for the cur. Similarly the ancient spellcaster wanted nothing to do with him; and if the non-reply to his challenge was any indication, Kalmiron knew how the outcome would go a second time.

“There are enemies enough for us all to do battle with beyond the bounds of this fortress,” Talasgan spoke, shaking his head. “Kalmiron, have your skills returned to normal?”

“Despite the most… underhanded ability used against me, they are functional once more,” the Mage answered, shooting a barely concealed glare at Orodan.

“A Celestial skill which can lay waste to one’s direct capabilities. Not so far removed from my own. It shall be a great boon when we take to sallying out against the foe beyond the boundary,” Talasgan spoke, looking at Orodan. “His skills are truly returned to normal?”

“He has nothing to worry about. I made sure to strike in a non-permanent manner in case he wanted another go at me later,” he replied. “And if his skills were so easily crushed by me… it was only because his insights into those were shoddy to begin with. It’s not as though I can simply eliminate someone’s most important skills on a whim.”

It would be functionally equivalent to slaying their soul outright.

Which exposed the real limitation of that avenue of attack. Just like how Orodan had skills he was absolutely comfortable with and were integral to him, so too did other people. His advantage in having his own System and the ability to turn off the flow from the central rune of knowledge meant that the overwhelming majority of his skills were earned the honest way. System or not, he knew how to fight, how to swing a sword, how to maneuver a shield and turn all that towards killing someone.

If someone removed every skill level he had, he would simply smile and run them through right after.

Kalmiron, in the skills Orodan had temporarily disabled via Eidolon of Violence, did not.

That being said, the Mage did have skills he was comfortable with. The skill levels and knowledge of which were woven deep within the soul core. In their recent fight Orodan had disabled fringe skills and the sudden shock of that alongside the relentless pressure he put Kalmiron under led to the Administrator’s defeat. Such a feat could not be repeated with the ancient spellcaster’s core skills.

Those dual black holes Kalmiron liked to conjure and that powerful spell dispelling ability seemed quite integral to the Mage’s skillset and self. If he wanted to target those? He would have to kill the Mage. For getting to that necessitated total destruction of the soul core itself.

It was nothing out of the ordinary. Someone attempting to eradicate Orodan’s own Celestial skills would have to do the same.

“Now then… I believe we are still missing a few important individuals,” Talasgan spoke. “Your companions are not yet here, Orodan Wainwright.”

“They shall be arriving momentarily,” he replied.

Which meant all they could do was stand there and wait.

Azkar and Kharadun were on opposite sides of the table. The dwarf had remained oddly quiet, a notable divergence from the headstrong and authoritative King of Kings he’d fought not too many loops ago. The Prophet and Mage were on opposing sides too, the both of them remaining silent. The Master of Death was off to the side, a few feet away from the individuals gathered around.

And Orodan and Talasgan were on opposing heads of the giant table.

The Warrior looked at Orodan.

Orodan stared right back.

Vaguely, he could sense that the others in the room were unnaturally quiet. And this staredown between the two of them might’ve been why. But here and now, Orodan tuned all of that out as his senses were fully occupied with the Administrator across the table from him.

Over fifteen feet of height with skin darker than volcanic obsidian. He was at a reach disadvantage then. Nothing which couldn’t be surmounted and then turned to his advantage in a grapple should the fight get much closer. Greatsword too… Orodan had fought those many a time, though this would be no Balus Mogram.

Talasgan’s eyes were scanning Orodan up and down too. And as the instants passed the severity and wariness in those orbs only intensified. Whatever the Administrator saw… he did not dismiss arrogantly.

Had the blood coursing through his form always rushed so quickly? And since when had he been smiling?

Orodan’s finger briefly twitched.

Talasgan’s arm briefly moved.

And the door to the war room swung open from the other end.

“Oy! Mister Orodan! Rather spooky lookin’ hollow you’ve brought us to eh? Plainer than a headsman’s shack!” Fenton loudly exclaimed while walking in, then paused and frowned. “It’s not even that hot in here… why’s the lot of you sweating?”

That snapped Orodan out of it.

He looked around to take in the rest of the room.

The Prophet, the Mage, Azkar and Kharadun… they were all guarded. And as his student had pointed out, the orc and the dwarf were indeed sweating.

The Warrior met Orodan’s gaze one more time.

That burning question between them remained yet unanswered.

This wasn’t over.

Almyra was under the same multi-spelled guise which Orodan had seen her in when they’d first met. One which gave absolutely nothing away about the owner’s identity.

Yes, Kalmiron had once stripped her of all illusory, concealing and misleading magics during their first battle many loops ago, but that she had them on meant his fellow time looper did not trust the inhabitants of Glyphward Fortress at all.

Perhaps she and the Master of Death saw more to the situation than Orodan himself did.

“Rein yourself in,” Zaessythra calmly spoke, looking at him. “We have numerous people here who are below the Embodiment-level. Such potent desire to do battle between you two won’t be pleasant for your students or Gregory.”

And speaking of Gregory…

“Rather sorry looking place you’ve brought me to Orodan. A lot of things here need some work before I’m satisfied with calling it presentable.”

Orodan pinched the bridge of his nose and shook his head.

“I was under the assumption you were re-arming or restocking on supplies before returning to Glyphward. Why’re Fenton and Old Man Hannegan here?”

“Part of our agreement to help the Administrators combat the Invader threat,” Almyra spoke up, the Reject’s Mantle draped over her form yet perfectly molded to an aesthetic of her choosing. “You did not think we would simply go chasing after you into battle like wolves following the pack leader? The enemies outside are dangerous, your information on them proves as much. To that end, certain key personnel from the alliance have come to provide logistical support.”

“Who asked you to do that? I was in fact hoping to charge out by myself again-”

“Denied.”

“Absolutely not.”

“No.”

Spoke Talasgan, Almyra and Zaessythra simultaneously.

“The enemy Boundless is involved,” Zaessythra cautioned. “We’ve been over this Orodan. Any battles of an extreme nature where you’re forced to use it… and Incipience of Infinity may just reach the peak of Embodiment. From there what shall happen, we do not know, but given all the trouble the concept of Infinity has caused you thus far… it cannot be anything good.”

A fair reminder and why he had waited in this war room at all. He couldn’t risk either Incipience of Infinity or Domain of Perfect Cleaning from reaching level 200 before Eidolon of Violence got stronger. It was no more than an instinctual hunch deep in his gut, but something in him knew that if that occurred… disaster awaited.

And a fight against that evil Boundless beyond System space meant his highest level Celestial skill would doubtlessly be involved. Both Infinity and Cleanliness reaching the peak of Embodiment while Eidolon of Violence yet remained at Transcendence would be a calamity scenario. Orodan did not know how, but in this he trusted his instincts.

“Well then, I suppose we have some assistance in our preparations. Glad to see you haven’t brought the rest of my disciples here though. Strong as Zukelmux is, he isn’t going to fare very well against the threats outside,” Orodan spoke. And of course, Aliya and Wainroach weren’t yet anywhere near that level of combat either. “But no Edrosic? A good opportunity for him to gain some experience in drawing is it not?”

“Edrosic is quite exhausted. We felt it best he remain behind,” Almyra replied, monotone.

Odd. Parthus wasn’t fond of fighting, but the chance to experience new things and see some novel sights for drawing wasn’t something his fellow militia man would turn down even if tired.

Hells, only time he recalled the lazy artist being tired after drawing was when sketching something to help reform the Prophet. And the man had only gotten better at the skill since.

Just what had he drawn that had him so exhausted?

“Enough of this farce. Talasgan, never before have we allowed those bereft of Embodiment into this sanctum. Not since the System’s formation has this occurred! You defy all known norm and tradition in doing this! What’s more… to have an agent of the enemy within these walls… it is outrageous!” the Mage interjected with force as his finger pointed right at Zaessythra.

“Agent of the enemy?” she repeated back. “We come in peace offering to aid in your battle against the invading foe and you declare me one of them? A poor lackey of theirs I must be.”

Even the Prophet seemed quite uncomfortable at the prospect of it when looking at her.

“Duty bids we unite in our charge to safeguard the sanctuary given unto us by our creator. Long as our aims align, I do not see any harm in allowing those who have not achieved Embodiment into the sacred walls of Glyphward. But this creature… I have felt her wicked power when she did battle with me. It is not of the System, it is distinctly foreign,” it spoke and then maintained a wary gaze towards Orodan and her. “Time looper. Your soul is a blank canvas. In some aspect, it unnerves me more than any other’s, but at the very least the question of enemy influence can be ruled out. But hers… it bears the mark of our most hated foe.”

The sadistic Boundless One. One half of the power used in the reforging of her very being, and likely the source of these strange new abilities of hers which he still hadn’t questioned her on.

“Save you, Orodan Wainwright, the souls of us all are touched and intrinsically marked It who resides at the very center of System space. Our Eldritch shepherd who created and empowers System space,” the Master of Death spoke, his chill voice cutting through the argument. “Hers bears the mark of the enemy invading us. Do you understand why we may have concerns? As we speak she could well be an agent of theirs, sent to infiltrate us. If you wish to assist us in battle, we would have you. But not with her in accompaniment.”

Orodan frowned. His heart was taken by her, but that did not blind him to the fact that the words of Glyphward’s inhabitants held logic in them. Yet, there was one fact they were neglecting to mention.

“If the enemy Boundless’s influence over her soul concerns you… then the influence of the Eldritch Boundless too should assuage you, no?”

“Explain,” Talasgan demanded.

“Zaessythra is originally of the System,” Orodan revealed. “She is not some foreign thing I have dragged inside and made part of the time loops. She is of my galaxy, from the world which is sister to my own. One she ruled over as World Conqueror. Her soul was destroyed a long time ago, by the very enemy you claim she is under the influence of.”

