“Arrogant,” Almyra icily hissed. “Your pride in refusing to utilize that skill of yours to its fullest will spell your most-certain defeat today.”

In response, Kharadun Voidfortress simply grunted; an offended and dismissive noise.

“Warriors don’t use mage tricks. Either I prevail with my axe, or falter with it.”

Zaessythra not too far off, rolled her eyes.

She was more the pragmatist than he was. She wouldn’t understand. Not like Talasgan beside him did. The two of them were smiling in response to that declaration.

It was warrior pride, pure and simple. Orodan could not fault the dwarf for it when he himself insisted on such things. Almyra would call it inefficient. Zaessythra would tell him to focus on victory first… but Orodan would not have gotten to where he was today without it.

His eyes returned to the battle as it progressed.

Kharadun was fast, ruthless, brutal and violent. An ideal warrior. Against most other mages, seeing through their clone trick and identifying their real body would be the end of the matter.

Two years of training was nowhere near enough to allow a spellcaster to bridge the gap against a warrior who’d been training all their life. The speed gap was just too much… without magical tricks.

And the dwarf was facing no ordinary mage.

Kharadun was facing a mage who had spent the past two years’ worth of loops intensively training and sparring with Orodan Wainwright.

At the start of each loop before he delved into his training, Orodan bullied Almyra.

Before setting off for his fights against Kalmiron, Orodan bullied Almyra.

And sometimes, the very moment they met at the beginning of the next loop, Orodan bullied Almyra.

All that bullying had the upside of giving the previous looper access to one of the strongest warriors in System space. It was something she’d never bothered to properly delve into before, nor had good access to in the Blackworth Collective.

A mage who was good at casting spells was one thing. But a mage capable of that and then also familiar with how warriors moved on top of it? A deadly combination. And Orodan’s quality of martial instruction was, at a conservative estimate, quite good. After all, sparring with a warrior better than Kharadun Voidfortress for eight-hundred loops counted for a lot.

A nearby clone glimmered, and suddenly Almyra’s main body had switched places with it. Kharadun’s greataxe swings connected with substanceless void instead of their target.

“A wily little mage you are. You don’t move like most of your spindly sort,” the dwarf spoke as his opponent evaded and barely stayed ahead of each strike before the next came in.

Orodan hummed approvingly as his eyes picked up on exactly what the mechanism of her movement really was. All her clones were tethered to one another, and she was spatially hopping between them at rapid speed via these connections. A move which would’ve presented some serious vulnerabilities against a peer spellcaster such as the Mage or this Swarm-Lord he kept hearing about, but against a warrior whose primary toolset was close-quarters violence? A different matter.

Still, Kharadun was no stagnant bull to be led around a corral in a planned dance. The King of Kings was a warrior, and any good warrior worth their salt knew the basics of feints, cutting off angles and closing distance in strategic ways. At the Embodiment-level, these skills were honed by millions of years of training and life experience.

And yet…

…the dwarf warrior’s eyes narrowed in frustration and suspicion as his feints were not bitten down upon and his attempts to cut off his foe’s avenues of egress were ineffective.

Orodan had a smile on his face.

[Teaching 109 → Teaching 110]

He’d become a Teaching Transcendent quite some loops ago.

What was teaching? Anyone could sit down and expound upon a topic for an hour. Certainly it was not difficult to arrange for a gathering of desperate folk in search of wisdom and waste their time.

But what separated the jabbering of a useless lecturer’s jaw from the sagely words of a true master?

A technically proficient master might not be the best suited to teach. Nor might a good teacher be worth much in the actual practice they gave instruction on. The ideal then… was someone who had both.

It explained why Orodan had never seen any Transcendents of Teaching in the places he’d been to. They were either good at their field of study, or good at expounding upon it. Nobody with real mastery had the time, patience or inclination to bother with students and also getting good at the craft of Teaching itself.

But more importantly… so many teachers, even the good ones, insisted on one way of teaching. Even if they were masters at their craft, they had a way of doing things and accepted no deviation.

This, Orodan had the fortune of overcoming by virtue of having a gentle and slightly lazy sort like Edrosic as a student. Alongside zealous nutcases like Wainroach, Orodan had a diverse range of students for whom he had to individually tailor his teaching methods.

Brutalizing Edrosic the way he did Zukelmux during their spars would be counterproductive and harmful for the man’s development. Going soft on Wainroach the way he did Edrosic would’ve been fruitless.

But most importantly of all… a good teacher knew their limits and was themselves an eternal student.

Orodan could no longer teach Fenton anything about Enchanting, nor had he ever bothered to try giving Edrosic any advice on the technical aspects of his artistry. Aliya continually surprised him with unique facets of her spearwork, Zukelmux with his mastery of defensive fundamentals which was so unlike his own aggressive style and Wainroach with her pyromantic ability.

Each and every one of his students had, in some way of their own, surpassed him. And in turn, each of them taught him something too.

This was the true essence of teaching. The master becoming the student, and in turn striving to become the master again. Mastery of teaching paired with mastery of subject matter. The end goal being the student coming into their own by viewing the subject mastery of the teacher.

Which was what his most powerful student was doing currently.

Orodan did not need to teach Almyra everything. He had only needed to teach her how warriors fought.

A lesson she had internalized over the past eight-hundred loops through constant grueling practice. A lesson now being painfully made apparent to Kharadun Voidfortress whose attacks, charges and attempts to corral her into a kill zone were proving ineffective.

The dwarf thought multiple steps ahead with each charge, hoping to lure her into prime path for the next one, or towards a cluster of clones which would lead to a dead end and no ways out in the web. However each time, Almyra thought a few steps beyond her foe and refused to fall into the trap.

Orodan had heard of the strategic board games played by tacticians and commanders upon his world. He was no enthusiast of such things, but his mind was naturally attuned to combat and reading multiple moves ahead like any half-decent warrior’s was. But this? This was calculation on a monstrous level.

Even if it would take more time to wear the dwarf down… it was apparent which side of this fight was remaining consistently ahead.

On the adjacent balcony, Zaessythra was smiling, not at all concerned about the outcome just like Orodan. Azkar the War-Father was frowning but had a look of respect in his eyes which Orodan could recognize among warriors. The Identifier simply stared, unblinking. And the Master of Death’s hands were clenched.

Perhaps the pale Embodier wanted a go himself?

“This battle has been decided,” Talasgan predicted, finality in his voice.

The Warrior’s pronouncement summed up Orodan’s thoughts as well.

Kharadun was simply taking too much damage. Each futile attempt to corral Almyra forced the dwarf to receive large amounts of spellfire as she cleverly led him down pre-arranged, intersecting zones of spellfire from her clones. And while the King of Kings was durable, over dozens of such failed advances the damage began to add up.

From behind their position on the inward-facing balcony of Glyphward, the two other Administrators entered.

“Clone magic… a powerful thing. It shall be a most useful counter to the Swarm-Lord’s hordes,” the Prophet spoke. “Backed by an Administrator’s Mantle…”

“Assuming this aspirant can prevail over the Voidfortress,” Kalmiron spoke, unenthusiastically. “The concept of mirroring… that is what is being touched upon, is it not?”

“They did mention that as we trained,” Orodan answered, recalling what his compatriot had told him throughout their time spent sparring. “Mirrors have always been important to them. Rather… vexatious to deal with at times.”

“Then know that the Swarm-Lord vies for that concept as well, time looper. While we may use the System and the Invaders do not, at a profound enough level of skill, we all touch upon concepts,” the Mage explained. “Your and my Celestial skills are no better than the powers the strongest of our foes will bring to bear. And that ally of yours shall face contestation most fierce should they try to use that skill in the upcoming battle.”

That was a legitimate concern. Almyra’s battles in the concept space at the beginning of each loop had been advancing steadily, but still needed work.

“Your ally holds back,” Talasgan noted.

Astute eyes. As expected of the Warrior himself. Orodan remained silent, neither confirming nor denying that statement for it was not his place to let slip details about Almyra. Not even her gender.

Orodan’s silence went unaddressed as the battle continued on. As the minutes passed, Kharadun Voidfortress grew more and more frustrated while Almyra only grew more calculated and assured in her counter spells which hammered him every time he advanced.

Worst of all, the dwarf’s pride had been cast aside a bit too late. Only too far into the duel had Kharadun realized the impending death by ten-thousand spells which was on the horizon. His eyes were frantic and searching for a strategy, but he was too wounded, exhausted from shielding against all the spellfire and no nearer to cornering Almyra.

Still, as honor demanded, the dwarf pressed on.

“Stubborn,” Orodan remarked approvingly.

“Not so different from what I have heard of you, Orodan Wainwright,” the Warrior spoke. “But let not your stubbornness lead you astray when it comes to the order of battle. At some point, Xia will make himself known on the field. When that time comes… I shall face him.”

The tone was equally as stubborn as Orodan’s own. As though Talasgan was staking his claim over territory. Furthermore, from the sound of it, that potential fight meant a lot to the Administrator.

Of course, Orodan had but one answer to that.

“No.”

The Warrior’s eyes narrowed.

“He is strong. Especially beyond the boundaries of System space. He is powerful in a way you have likely not seen in any of your loops prior. A strength he allowed me to glimpse only once. I sense you are… strong, but you are not at that level of might. Not yet.”

Orodan’s eyes had never once left Talasgan’s.

The Warrior stared back, unblinking.

“How about we put that to the test?”

Even if Kharadun was on his last legs, the duel between him and Almyra was still ongoing. But for Orodan and Talasgan, the fact that a duel was going on was irrelevant.

This was a confrontation that had been written since their eyes had met during the war council. When two real warriors met and decided there needed to be a fight, nothing else could stop it.

They were on one of the viewing balconies of Glyphward Fortress.

And Kalmiron and the Prophet had but a singular moment to widen their eyes before war erupted.

“Not here! You’ll-”

[Eidolon of Violence 137 → Eidolon of Violence 138]

Everything else around him faded.

Everyone in the vicinity was an Embodier, and the arena had a shield of sorts, which was the only thing keeping him from caring about using Internal Counterforce to manage the collateral damage.

This was all that mattered. This was a fight he’d been eagerly waiting for since that one time they’d dueled after the creation of his own System.

Who was the greatest warrior in System space? It was a question whose answer could only arise from the clash between Orodan Wainwright and Talasgan the Warrior.

Blades were not what met first, skulls were.

The Prophet and Kalmiron flew away like leaves in a hurricane as the shockwave from Orodan headbutting Talasgan caused the entirety of Glyphward Fortress to jump and the System’s boundary it was embedded in to briefly tremble.

There was no reprieve from either side.

With foreheads locked, fists, elbows, knees, feet and more flew for one another. More than those even, as each punch transitioned into a gouge where each finger and little joint was used to deliver attacks of their own. He even snapped his own joints to make them double-jointed and struck twice and sometimes even thrice in the same motion and return, like a perpetual whirlwind of pure aggression.

And his opponent matched him every instant of the way.

[Eidolon of Violence 138 → Eidolon of Violence 140]

He wasn’t sure when he’d started laughing like a maniacal madman, or whether it was Talasgan’s elated chuckle… but those were the only sounds audible besides the cataclysmic booms of their attacks colliding.

