“It is impossible for her to be standing here then. Boundless are the only beings we know of which can destroy souls completely. And when that occurs… there is no hope of recovery,” the Master of Death argued. “What you have could well be some imitator, an imposter forged by the foe which assails us.”

“That would be a reasonable concern… if it was not my own hand which reforged her.”

“…true soul genesis?” the Prophet asked, eyes wide. “It is… possible?”

“An outrageous claim! To perform genuine genesis of a soul would require the power of-”

“A Boundless One,” Orodan interjected and finished for Kalmiron. “Two Boundless Ones in fact. The sadist beyond the boundary… and the Eldritch Boundless One residing at the center of System space. At the end of the last long loop, when the two of them clashed… the conditions were sufficient for true soul genesis with me at the center stabilizing the environment. You claim she is of the enemy… but what of the mark she bears from your Eldritch patron? The picture is not as clear-cut as you assume.”

Silence greeted his revelation.

The Administrators all seemed to be grappling with his words, uncertainty across their faces. Talasgan looked as though veering towards pragmatism. The Prophet, conflicted. Kalmiron still looked hostile and unfriendly, but it was good to know where you stood with someone.

Azkar and Kharadun were not exactly trusting, but seemed willing to accept the matter. And the Master of Death held an expressionless face.

“We argue over receiving aid from an additional Embodiment-level fighter while the true travesty occurs right before us,” Kharadun suddenly spoke up, his eyes full of barely restrained anger as the dwarf glared at Almyra. “The Administrator’s Mantle belonging to the Reject. Hand it over. It does not belong to you.”

“No.”

The tension in the room thickened, hands looked just a bit more ready to whip for weapons or spells, and Orodan smiled as he realized Almyra was beginning to take after his school of diplomacy.

“Hold your ire, Kharadun Voidfortress,” Talasgan spoke up. “Kalmiron and I yet retain our memories granted by that orb device. We did reach an agreement to allow her to retain possession of that Mantle. Something we would not have at all without her deciding to bring it to us. Now, whether that means she will step forth to claim the position of fifth Administrator… that is a different matter.”

The dwarf did not look willing to accept it however.

“An Administrator’s Mantle, a combat-specialized one, given away through some closed door trade? Pathetic. I question the legitimacy of you Administrators if this age of weakness and politics if what you’ve stooped to. I reject your backroom schemes and petty deals,” Kharadun spat with hostility and then pointed his axe at Almyra. “In the hands of a weakling mage who I could break in moments , that Mantle would be wasted. You; fight me.”

Talasgan looked ready to step in, but Orodan made eye contact with the Warrior and shook his head.

If Almyra was going to negotiate a deal which ended with her having an Administrator’s Mantle, then she needed to be strong enough to handle any dissenters to the agreement. This was her matter to handle. And by the looks of it… she was no longer as averse to head-on conflict as she was eight-hundred loops ago.

Time spent training with Orodan had caused her to see the value in his mindset.

“I accept. I shall even divest myself of my Mantle for it. But me taking on such a risk will not come so cheaply,” she replied sternly, “If I prevail, you shall grant me access to that void fortress of yours. Its inner secrets intrigue me.”

The King of Kings was not a fool when it came to making deals. One did not build wealth and strength enough to survive the full wrath of the Administrators by being hasty in making decisions. The dwarf’s eyes narrowed in calculation as a range of assessments went through his eyes. But the allure of getting an Administrator’s Mantle won out in the end.

“Agreed, and let it be witnessed by all,” the dwarf assented, though looking far more cautious now. Perhaps Almyra’s easy acceptance of the challenge had him reconsidering how strong she truly was? “After this war council, we shall have our duel.”

Right, a war council. Something Orodan had quite glaringly not bothered waiting for the first time he’d made it inside Glyphward. But with the threat of Domain of Perfect Cleaning or Incipience of Infinity reaching the peak of Embodiment… he couldn’t afford to rashly charge out into enemy ranks any longer.

Talasgan shook his head.

“Then… our affairs are agreed upon with no further objection,” the Warrior spoke, scanning the room. “I believe we are waiting on just one more. Our keenest eye.”

They didn’t have to wait overlong.

The last entrant to the room did not enter through any set of doors, but instead through a hole in the ceiling.

A gigantic floating eyeball, with numerous tentacle appendages floating off the rear. Orodan remembered this odd individual well.

“Identifier apologizes for rudely keeping audience waiting. Identifier notices that Administrators are present, and time looper who created this whole mess is present. Good, time looper may take responsibility for current state of disastrous affairs. Rude time looper, causing unprecedented invasion.”

What else could Orodan even do but take that accusation? The giant floating eyeball was not wrong.

“Identifier, come, we await your report. What has your eye seen beyond the boundary? Has our enemy moved since?” Kalmiron asked, setting aside his obvious objections to Zaessythra, Fenton and Old Man Hannegan’s presence.

Orodan heard a cough and saw Fenton drop to a knee, clutching his head.

“Gah! Don’t look into the eye ser!”

The Mage simply sneered with contempt.

“For the less stern of mind present, be warned here and now that staring at a Beholder is an ill-conceived act. Doubly so for a rare variant of the species as the Identifier is,” Kalmiron elaborated once, not seeming at all like he wanted to do it again.

Orodan wasn’t sure what a ‘Beholder’ was. The closest thing he could think of was one of the gate guardians of his homeworld, a giant floating creature with a singular eye and many tentacular appendages. Though it had a mouth, while this giant eye did not.

“If enchanter child is done gawking at Identifier, and Mage is done berating enchanter child, perhaps Identifier can give report of findings, yes?” it asked and then wiggled its tentacle appendages around the table, moving certain pieces into place and in a move which caused brows to furrow… adding new ones. “New developments spotted since the arrival of the rude time looper. Additional Void Archon swarms moved into place, black hole moving closer, seven tyrants’ activity increased, moon devourer numbers increased. Rude time looper brings even more trouble.”

“That is… a lot of enemies,” Orodan remarked, looking at the map upon the table depicting System space and its boundaries. “They seem rather concentrated near where Glyphward Fortress is too.”

“In ages past, this fortress had the advantage of being invisible if submerged within the boundary itself. Predators coveting the System possessed no means of telling where along the boundary we would emerge for a sally or offensive strike of our own,” Talasgan explained. “But now… ever since Xia’s fall, the enemy has found a critical tell, exploited ruthlessly by one among the tyrant seven who is capable of seeing these things. Furthermore, they force us to remain here and defend with that black hole of theirs.”

Zaessythra’s finger tapped the large obsidian piece symbolizing the black hole on the map.

“The centerpiece of the Invaders’ offense. Their anchor, their battering ram which threatens to knock down the gates,” she identified. “We cannot even move the fortress and strike with deception from elsewhere lest they simply press harder upon the boundary in our absence. The breaches in the boundary caused by the time loop’s irreversible changes do not help matters…”

A black hole, harnessed, controlled and slowly advancing towards them, with a hostile army guarding it. Worst of all, even if the black hole was ignored, the numerous breaches in the System’s boundary caused by Orodan’s tampering with the time loop didn’t help either.

He recalled the words of Alovardo Balmento on the matter.

“The numbers speak clear. They say there have been quite a few… external breaches.”

A warning given in that madman’s typical fashion not long after Orodan had irrevocably changed the nature of the time loops forever. And even before that, back when he had taken control over the loops himself and empowered them so much that they encompassed the greater cosmos too… that Eldritch-infected lunatic had warned of internal breaches then as well.

It was evident then, that the System was not normally like this. The price paid for tampering with the time loops was clear. Severe holes and gaps in the boundary between the Eldritch Boundless One and the inhabitants of System space, and openings in the boundary between the sadistic Boundless One and System space. In both cases, the innocent residents of Orodan’s home suffered. Like meat caught between two carvings of bread.

Without Orodan interfering with the loops there would never have been internal breaches keeping the Custodian as occupied as he was. And without him adding ten-thousand loopers to the time loop there never would have been all these external tears in the boundary through which predators and Invaders could come through.

It had been less than a day since the loop started. From the Administrators’ perspective, the boundary suddenly suffered dozens of internal and external breaches. Anyone in that situation would be desperate to prevent enemies from slipping through. Little wonder Anomaly #3 had gotten through and wreaked the havoc it had in that loop where he’d attempted to bring W78’s creators back.

“A true apocalypse,” the Prophet spoke. “If we are to stand any chance of victory… it shall be by working together. With my mind restored, Xia’s Mantle recovered and the time looper and his allies on our side perhaps we may yet attain victory. Orodan Wainwright, we have had our… differences, in these past loops of yours. To make excuses would be to dishonor my lord who has given me freedom from the hive, thus I will not. I was misguided then, and you bear all the right to resent me for it. But I ask now… will you work with us to defend our shared home?”

Orodan’s answer…

…was to draw his sword and drive it right through the black hole at the center of the map.

The Prophet and he shared a look of understanding.

“Then let us begin,” Talasgan spoke, sharply whipping his arm at map, causing certain pieces to glow and the entire thing to shimmer like a lake, shining with depth despite looking like mere paper. It allowed for a three-dimensional view of the war situation. “Listen well, all of you. Our sanctuary, our home, is under siege by the forces of the Great Horror. It is a Boundless One, just as that which empowers the System we all use is also a Boundless One. It has orchestrated the advance of a bound black hole towards our defenses, which if allowed to reach… would shatter the boundary entirely and allow it to directly enter System space. Time looper or no… if that occurs and the Great Horror successfully reaches the System’s interior… no loops will save you if the mechanism within is destroyed.”

That lined up with what Orodan had seen too. Even during his more recent grand change to the loops, the sadistic Boundless One, known as the Great Horror, had gleefully pounced upon the opportunity to hop along the connection created by the ancient machine to enter the bowels of System space.

He remembered its words to the Eldritch Boundless One too.

“Brother of mine… willingly imprisoned all to be rid of me… return and embrace our union.”

With or without Orodan and the shifts he’d caused, the Great Horror had some twisted reason to pursue the Eldritch Boundless One. And unfortunately for everyone else, System space and its inhabitants were in the way as collateral. A collision which swift approached now that the boundary was so riddled with holes.

Certain pieces on the map began glowing.

“Moon devourers. The enemy stole the System’s designs on how to make world cores. Without the guidance and safeguards that world cores within System space have these monstrous things are the result. Worlds more interested in devouring life and keeping mere carrion filth upon their surfaces than growing anything. The enemy’s forward screen, littered throughout the deep void before we can even reach their black hole.”

“Is stealth not an option?” Zaessythra asked.

“Remaining hidden in the deep void with nothing else around is difficult. The hunger in those aberrations necessitates they become adept at sensing any beings of flesh and blood for thousands of miles,” the Prophet answered.

But if that was the case… would beings who possessed not a whit of flesh and blood not work? Orodan knew several who would qualify, though developing their stealth abilities would take time.

“The moon devourers are irksome, but ultimately non-consequential. It is the main bulk of the enemy force which has harried our attempts to strike at them,” Talasgan spoke, gesturing and causing the largest number of pieces to begin glowing. “The Void Archon swarm. If a race of natural spellcasters with multiple arms was not deadly enough, they also function as a hive-mind and can be directed to lethal effectiveness when the Swarm-Lord descends to assume direct control.”

