It dodged. His physical body dodged. Veins born of divine mana were contaminated, consumed by Shiv's Vitae, and an entire stretch of the world flashed bright red—the color of life force unchained—as that entire attack was rendered a Continuity Error.

A flood of vitality gushed into Shiv. He felt like an ocean of heat once more. The Backstage wasn't so cold anymore. He hesitated for a heartbeat, worried about what might happen when he dropped his Legion of Self skill, but there was nothing left to do. He had survived and stolen enough divine mana to last him a good few hours at least. If nothing else, he wouldn't vanish from reality if he went dormant for five hours.

Before that, however, a chain of notifications appeared before his eyes:

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: 195 > 197

Inertial Overdrive: 311 > 318

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides: 535 > 538

This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul: 227 > 234

Continuity Error: 209 > 214

Tactics: 9 > 13

Legion of Self: 106 > 109

Eldritch Physiology: 95 > 101 [Skill Evolution Reached]

Something inside Shiv hatched.

A part deep inside him changed. Something inverse to his flesh, connected to his biology, yet ever so aberrant and distant.

Far, far away, apart from both this place on the other side of the curtain and Integration itself, in the distant reaches of the Outside, something stirred.

And Shiv felt it bleed into him as he bled into it.

An Outsider has been born to you!

You have become a Progenitor to a nascent Eldritch Entity!

Shiv’s mind reeled in horrified disbelief. Huh? What? No. No, no, no, no, no, System. Don't give me that shit. I don't want to become a father to one of those Outsider fucks!

The [Garden of Wounds and Broken Things] has manifested.

The Garden of Wounds and Broken Things has been bound to you.

The Garden of Wounds and Broken Things has manifested as a dimension unto you.

Skill Evolution: Eldritch Physiology (Master) > Garden of Wounds and Broken Things (Unique)

Garden of Wounds and Broken Things (Unique) 101

Shit, shit, shit, what the fuck does that even mean?

If Shiv didn’t want to drop Legion of Self before, he definitely didn't want to now. But he couldn't undo a Skill Evolution, even if it was potentially one he didn't want. It was also a Unique Skill now, so Evanescia turning the pages back likely wouldn't revert it either.

Outsider bullshit always gave Shiv a migraine. He definitely didn't want to be connected to that. He didn't want to become a progenitor to one of those abominations. His apprehension was bad enough that he found himself considering extreme measures—namely, crossing back into reality and calling out to Evanescia to see if she could somehow reverse the evolution after all.

He didn’t, but the fact he considered it at all illustrated the heights of his desperation.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Drop Legion of Self. Let time resume. Deal with this. There’s nothing else you can do.

"I can try to perform surgery on myself," Shiv muttered. "See if I can cut it out of me."

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: It’s a Unique skill. It is a part of you now. Blended into your Vitae itself. There is nothing to remove. There is no soul-surgery to perform. It’s done. Deal with it.

Sage’s voice overlapped with itself again.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Face what happened. Let your worries pass through you, but don’t let them decide what you do.

Shiv really, really wanted to throw a tantrum. But the System wouldn’t give a shit, and there were other things he needed to resolve—a god he needed to grind down. Oh, godsdammit. Alright. Let’s see how nasty this skill is… and if I go into a five-hour waking coma.

Shiv allowed the pace of time to resume. Legion of Self deactivated. His mind filled with static. It was like a bubble burst at the core of his head, but aside from a second or two of confusion, he shook off the cobwebs clinging to his thoughts with little difficulty. At least, that was how it felt. His five hours of thoughtlessness didn't feel that long, either.

“How long was I gone?” Shiv asked, shaking his head. “Girl?”

She was there beside him, but she wasn't looking at him. Nor was she looking across the curtain into Integration. Instead, she was staring blankly at the vast canvas of nothingness all around them—or at least, what used to be a vast canvas of nothingness.

Shiv frowned as he turned. “Girl, what are you even looking—BROKEN MOON, WHAT THE F—”
