Master Pacore the Deathless’ Point of View:

“Jason! Which of these blasted papers has the city’s food figures?” I snap at my young aide.

“The one on your left, sir.” He points out a piece of parchment covered from top to bottom with numbers.

“And the schedule for the patrols?”

"That's this one," Jason pulls a piece of paper from a stack that was partially leaning off my desk.

I grit my teeth in frustration, trying to decipher the many figures I’m reading.

"Wow, you're terrible at this." My hands tighten slightly at Jason's remark, crumpling the parchment in my hands. I scowl at the young man, but he continues to smirk at my distress. "I thought someone of your standing would be used to the paperwork."

“I am Master Pacore the Deathless, not Pacore the Accountant. I have reliable servants like yourself to take care of these matters for me!”

“Aww, you think I’m reliable? That makes me feel all fuzzy inside.” Young Jason pretends to swoon like a maiden in love.

I admit I underestimated the young man, his ability to read people and change his personality depending on who he's talking to is top-notch. I'm not even sure if he was truly afraid of me a week ago when we negotiated the surrender of Drey or if that was merely a front he put on to deal with me.

It only took him seeing me interact with General Pitz once to determine I respect and prefer dealing with confident people rather than sniveling cowards and adjusted himself as such. I can only guess that his talents were squandered by the previous city lord, seeing how apt he is at organizing everything.

"According to reports, the city has enough food to function for another two weeks before you'll need to start implementing rationing," young Jason informs me.

“And the fields?” I ask him. “How are they going?”

"Many of the citizens have noticed the food situation. People have started to volunteer their services in fixing the surrounding fields. As of now, 7% of the damaged fields have been tilled, while 3.5% of that has already been sown with new seed. Many of our high-level farmers were evacuated from the city, so the crops only benefit from low-tier skills. Crop production should speed up once the refugee farmers arrive."

“Any news on them?” I ask, trying to compare what Jason is telling me with the physical reports. Just because I like his new attitude doesn’t mean I take everything Jason says at face value, I’m not that trusting. Though I do admit I apricate his help more and more as the days pass. Jason and a few of my commanders with relevant skills are the ones running most of the city. I have to oversee Jason's every move, but he's yet to do anything suspicious.

I'm sure whoever is being sent to run Drey will be quite pleased when they find out they have such a capable aide waiting for them.

Just getting to this point was extremely difficult. When the previous city lord fled, he took or destroyed any and all documents related to Drey and its surrounding lands. It was only thanks to young Jason and his knowledge of the city's laws that we were able to take control of everything without ruffling any feathers. He's helped me reestablish a tax system and many other day-to-day facilities that are the lifeblood of any thriving city.

Of course, not everyone was happy with us taking over the city. A handful of people tried to sow discord amongst the masses, but Jason proposed a solution that quickly won over the people. Whenever a person or group of people would try to lead a revolt, one of my commanders would show up. Instead of arresting everyone, my commanders took note of everyone's grievances and promised to deliver them to me. The commanders would then leave without punishing anyone as long as they stay peaceful in their demonstrations. It's hard for someone to claim we're violent and exploiting everyone after that kind of response.

We took note of everyone trying to stir up trouble, and we’ll continue to monitor their movements. As long as they don’t do anything to really destabilize what we’re trying to accomplish here, we’ll leave them be. For now.

“The last report had them two days out. If your farmers are as good as you say they are, then hopefully we’ll get some crops in before people start to revolt out of hunger.” Jason sends me a challenging look.

“Scholl farmers are used to working with barren soil. You’ll be eating your words in no time at all,” I confidently reassure him.

“I look forward to it,” Jason boldly grins at me.

At least I have someone I can have a decent conversation with, like General Pitz. I wonder how she's doing? "Jason."

“Yes, sir?”

“How has Lady Pitz been faring?”

Jason's happy expression cracks, revealing deeper emotions underneath. Jason told me how she's been pulling him aside to ask him questions about the city and the local lord who ran away. "General Pitz has been quite furious lately. Every time I see her, she is cursing the local nobility and how they're responding to your invasion. It's nice knowing the city wasn't sacrificed on the general's orders but that only helps so much.”

I can see Jason respects General Pitz as I do, but that doesn't make up for the nobility that left him here to die. Usually, when a city is taken during a war, the leaders are either captured or executed to make an example for the people. They chose to leave young Jason in charge as a sacrifice, something he's sure not to forget.

It will take time before I can fully trust young Jason, but I'll make use of the gem the nobles decided to throw away.

"As she should be. It's the job of us nobles to rule over the weak. The coward who fled his city has no right to use that title. He should've been leading the defense of his city, a leader like General Pitz knows this. I'm sure she sees the actions of the local nobility as a stain on Olebert's name,” I explain what I believe General Pitz is thinking.

“Then they’ll be punished?” Young Jason asks in a cold tone.

“They will be,” I tell him. “The only question is will it be through my hand or Olebert’s.”

“I understand,” Jason bows his head in appreciation. Young Jason has a last name, meaning he’s from a well-off family, but he's not a noble. People given noble titles, even city lords, are usually seen as untouchable by the masses. It's rare for them to be punished for their actions, and those of lesser standing can only bear with their demands.

“But of course, that is all in the future,” I remind young Jason. “Has everyone arrived?”

"They should be waiting for you in the conference room," he informs me.

"Good," I stand up and walk out of the office, leaving behind my parchment-covered desk.

Briskly walking down the city lord’s mansion hallways, followed by young Jason, I pass by barren walls where paintings and other artwork were once hung. It's funny to see the lesser pieces of artwork the previous lord deemed unfit to bring with him during his escape. Back in Scholl, nobles decorate their halls with magic beast materials, symbols of their strength and success, though I can apricate a good painting as much as the next person.

Sadly, most of the remaining artwork will need to be sold or traded away in the coming weeks for as much capital as possible. The previous lord didn't just take off with his favorite artwork; he also emptied the city's coffers. A city can only function for so long without any coin in its vault. We've managed to restore the city's basic functions, but certain things need to line up with certain people before it can get back to normal. And my guests should be a few of the people who can help make that happen.

Entering the sparse conference room, I take the measure of my five guests. First is Eriel Vellen; she was the second in command of the city's courier guild until her boss who fled the city, leaving her in charge much like Jason. She's a tall thin woman who looks to be the most nervous of my guests.

Next, is the gentleman standing in the corner who's wearing a guard uniform minus the gear. Jason informed me his name was Maz, the other guards elected him to represent their interests when we called to meet with their leader. Even without a weapon, he sizes me up with his eyes.

The third person is a woman who looks to be in her forties. Bellera Mantals stocky figure is hidden behind her mage robes. She was elected to represent the few remaining mages in Drey, much like Maz was.

My last and the most important guest is the head of the local Silver Herd branch, Lennard Grey, and his bodyguard, who's standing behind him. Grey is the second most experienced person in the room besides myself, and he's the only one who looks excited to meet with me. Unlike most of the affluential people of Drey, Grey stayed behind to manage Silver Herd's remaining assets in the city.

"Master Pacore the Deathless, it is an honor to meet you in person." The experienced merchant wastes no time in trying to flatter me with a polite bow.

I hate dealing with experienced merchants; they have the knowledge and skills to turn most situations to their advantage. His bodyguard looks to be a decent level as well. Not enough to beat me even without my weapon and armor, but still quite decent.

“I should imagine so,” I coldly reply to Grey’s greeting. If I give this man an inch, he’ll take a mile. I’m better off using my status to suppress him. “I’m a busy man, so I’ll jump right to the point. I want the four of you to cooperate with me.”

The three younger representatives are surprised by my bluntness while Grey smiles only grows as if he saw this coming.

“What do you mean?” Maz is the first to ask me a question. “Your men took all our gear.”

"And I'm allowing you to earn it back. I can't have my men patrolling the city all day. My men will replace your superiors who fled, and we'll still be in charge of the walls and gates, but I want the previous guards patrolling the city keeping people safe," I explain.

“You would give us back our weapons?” Maz asks in disbelief.

“Should I not? We both want Drey to remain safe. I’m sure the four of you have heard rumors of why we are here. We are not invading for riches or glory; our people need food. I’m confident the people will soon see Scholl will do a much better job managing this land than Olebert ever has.” Maz remains silent, contemplating what I said.

“You ask us to forgo our country,” Bellera Mantals asks in an accusing tone of voice.

"If you wish to leave, you can do so in a year once the fighting has calmed down.” I don’t mention our plans to continue our campaign. “But consider who you give your allegiance to. I don’t see a star on your chest, so why were you chosen to represent the mages?”

Bellera Mantals holds her tongue, but I can see her balling her fists in anger.

"It's because your betters fled the city when they had the chance." I make eye contact with each of the younger representatives.

“I didn’t,” Lennard Grey confidently replies.

“I wonder why that is?” I send the calculating merchant a look that says I’m not falling for his bivol shit. Directing my attention back to my other guests, I continue to pull them over to our side of things. “I want guards protecting the people, I need mages to help repair the city, and I need to have open lines of communication,” I focus on Eriel Vellen.

She flinches back and quietly squeaks out, “most of our prized birds were taken by the manager.”

"I am aware. You do still have a few, don't you?" I ask in a softer tone, trying to get her to respond properly.

“We do, but none of them are trained to fly to Scholl,” Eriel Vellen confirms. “The only birds we have left are the ones trained to fly to the nearby villages.”

"That's fine," I tell her. "When we captured Teeburn, their courier branch didn't have as much time to release their birds. I'll send a message for them to send a few to your branch. Also, one of our tamers is already training a flock of rock vultures to deliver messages to Scholl. They’re more aggressive than your falcons but much more hardy beasts. Can you handle different types of birds?”

Eriel Vellen nods her head. “As long as they’re trained properly, we can work with anything that has wings.” She sounds much more confident when she’s talking about her work.

“That’s good,” I smile confidently at Maz, Eriel, and Bellera. “If the three of you are up to it, Jason here will help you get your respective operations going again with the three of you as their new leaders.”

“What!?” Eriel squeaks.

“You want me to supervise every mage in Drey?” Bellera skeptically asks.

Maz's eyes widen for a second, but he's the calmest of the three.

"I do," I assure them. "The three of you were already chosen to represent your people. My men will still oversee your actions, but I'll trust you to get things moving again."

"If the three of you will follow me, we'll discuss individually what each of you needs," young Jason follows the plan I discussed with him earlier and leads most of my guests out of the room.

“We’re all alone,” Grey remarks as soon as the conference room door closes behind them. “Shall we discuss business?”

His smile makes me want to punch him. I’m going to need a drink after this.

**********

“How did everything go on your end?” I ask young Jason when he walks back into my temporary office with a new stack of documents meant for the ever growing piles on my desk.

