“Good,” he smiles when he sees me frowning over more papers. “The hardest part will be overseeing the guard’s reinstatement, but it should still free up most of your men. I was able to renegotiate down the rates for both the courier guild and the mages considering most of their high leveled people left the city. I'm curious, though, what happens if their supervisors try to come back?" Jason doesn't outright say he knows of our plans to take Blaiton, but that's what he's referring to.

"Isn't it obvious?" I scoff at my young aide. "If they choose to seek employment, it's up to the heads of the local branches to decide whether or not to take them back." Jason and I share a knowing grin. "Scholl values strength and commitment, and we certainly remember who flees." I remind young Jason.

Jason nods in understanding before asking me curiously, "and how was your discussion with Mr. Grey?"

I lean back in my chair and sigh, stroking my feathered beard.

“It was that bad!?” Jason asks, surprised by my reaction.

“Dealing with experienced merchants is always difficult,” I explain to him.

"But how can he match you? You're Pacore the Deathless." Jason leans forward, probably wondering why I didn’t just kill the merchant.

"He already knew I needed his help," I frown deeply and explain my reasoning to the young aid. "Silver Herd is a growing merchant company. Grey didn't flee when he had the chance because Silver Herd is making plans to do business with us in the future."

"He told you that?!" Jason asks wide-eyed.

"Not out loud. Silver Herd won't openly support us, but they won't miss out on the chance to do business with us either. Besides, Grey knows that someone has to move goods back and forth between Teeburn and Drey."

"Don't you have supply trains bringing in your goods from Scholl? Use those," Jason offers up a quick solution.

I shake my head. "It is already hard enough organizing a supply chain, and it will only become more arduous once we start needing to ship food back to Scholl. There needs to be trading between cities, and an established merchant company is the best to do it.”

“What did he ask for in return?”

“He wants documentation guaranteeing his people safety and preferential treatment when it comes to city contracts.”

"That's it?" Young Jason asks, confused. "There were rumors about the previous city lord and Mr. Grey making secret deals with each other. I can't imagine that's all he asked for."

"I was surprised by his generosity and willingness to work together as well, but I've met plenty of merchants like him in my day. I can already guess what he's after." I open my special waterskin and take a large swig of alcohol. "He has ambitious eyes. He's probably trying to get in my good graces before his company regains oversight over him."

“So, there will be problems in the future,” young Jason quickly understands what I’m alluding to.

I drink another mouthful from my waterskin and smile.

“You don’t seem too worried,” Jason notices that I’m starting to relax in my chair.

“I’m not. It will be a problem for whoever takes over the city, not mine." I grin at my young aide, "but it will most likely be yours."

"Great, I'll look forward to it," he says sarcastically, handing me a piece of paper. "Sign that, and I'll have it taken to the couriers guild."

"Is this the message I wanted to be sent to all the nearby villages?" I ask while I quickly scan the document.

"It is, and now that the courier's guild is reopening, we can send them out," Jason confirms.

This is good. We passed by a few villages when we marched on Drey. We spread the word that we were their new rulers. A few villages were even expecting us because the prisoners we released made it back home before we did. I mentioned this to young Jason, and he told me there were many more villages in the vicinity, some of which would take days to reach.

Without any formal documents, it will be challenging to know exactly how many villages are now under my control.

Thankfully once the old guards are reinstated, I can organize squads of my men to visit each of the villages and explain what is happening. The villages need to know who's in charge and the slight changes we've made. I'm not sure how all the villages will react to us changing the terms of their taxes, but most should be happy when they hear how much credit we're offering for food.

In a few days, my replacement should show up, and I'll be free to inspect the surrounding lands myself. Maybe I should take General Pitz with me? She should know a little bit about the area and the fresh air will do her some good.

And maybe, I’ll find out where she got that special arrow from?

I sit back in my chair and drain the alcohol from my waterskin, smiling to myself.

**********

Aaliyah’s Point of View:

"Tell me, why again are you making me cover up like this?" Sandra complains next to me. Sandra is mad that I made her wear thick clothing and had her tie a rag over her mouth and nose.

"Because we're heating an unknown alchemical mixture, and you're pregnant," I remind her for the third time.

"But it's so hot," She whines. "At least let me take off the mask." Along with the spring sun, the heat from the forge is making Sandra sweat up a storm. It's a good thing I have her drinking a lot of water.

“No,” I promptly shoot down her suggestion. Even though devil's poke and eathrosse aren't poisons in any way, I'm not taking any chances something could happen to my future niece or nephew.

"Then what about you? Why aren't you bundled up like I am?" Sandra gives me an accessing look with her exposed eyes.

"I'm a physical build meaning my body is much stronger than yours. Plus, I have my barrier skill, which helps block out some of the more dangerous things I can breathe in. It works wonders when I'm mining with master, and the air is filled with dust," I explain to Sandra while we're waiting for our third mixture of the day to heat up.

“Can’t the two of you be quieter? This is supposed to be one of my days off," master grumbles from his bench.

“Ignore him,” I tell Sandra.

“But we’re using his equipment,” Sandra looks around master’s clearing, clearly impressed with the setup we have.

"I've been using the forge to heat up my mixtures from the start. Master just likes to complain, that's all." I sneak a quick glance over my shoulder and see that master is secretly watching us work just like he does when I'm forging.

“If you say so,” Sandra hesitantly agrees. “Do you think this new wood will help?”

I don't answer her and instead, stare at the glass beaker sitting on a metal stand above the coals. "The internal mana structure is mixing near the bottom, but the top is remaining clumped together." It looks like this will be another dud; I sigh in disappointment.

"I still can't believe you can sense specific mana signatures like that," Sandra says, moving to prep a new solution for our next attempt.

“What do you see in the mixture?” I ask Sandra.

"I can see the mana moving faster because of the heat; along with that, the mixture is mostly earth and water mana, like most plants are, but that’s it.”

"That's pretty good," I offer her some encouragement. Sandra just pouts, knowing I'm saying that because I'm her friend. "Trust me; if you keep practicing with Mana Manipulation, Sense Mana will level up with it and vice versa."

“I know,” Sandra responds half heartily.

I should change the subject. “Did you see your brother off this morning?”

“Of course, I said goodbye to him on my way here.”

"I can't believe Nicolas volunteered to escort the crops to Drey. I could imagine Braddon going but not Nicolas." Markus and Ezekiel finally finished harvesting all the wortel two days ago. Nicolas, along with Ronald, and two other hunters, set off this morning to deliver our supplies to Drey.

“Braddon did offer to go, but Nicolas argued he would be a better fit should something go wrong,” Sandra tells me.

"They're just going for appearance's sake. As soon as they see Scholl's flag flying in the distance, they'll turn around and come back home," I remind her.

"You're right; I think Nicolas just wanted to get out of the village for a little bit. Father has been running brother ragged lately, having him organizing everything in the entire village."

“What about you?” I ask Sandra. “Is Camden still hounding you about your magic?”

“Not as much as he was,” she tells me. "Though he was impressed yesterday when I used earth magic to turn over the fields. What about you; what have you been up to? I'm guessing those spears and swords are new." Sandra motions over to the rack of weapons I've made over the last few days.

"Yeah, I'm starting to get the hang of this new metal I'm working with. I've made six spears and eight swords; it hasn't rained lately, so master and I agreed it was easier to build a rack to hold them for now."

"They look beautiful," Sandra remarks at the tannish-silver weapons. "Are you donating any of them to the village?"

I snort, trying to hold back my laughter. "No way, those are magic weapons; each one of those can be enchanted. You're the only other person in the village besides me who can use magic; weapons like that would be wasted here."

“You forgot about Anastasia,” Sandra reminds me.

“She doesn’t leave her hut unless it’s a real emergency. What would Anastasia need a magic sword for?”

"Good point," Sandra agrees. "Are you planning to enchant all of them yourself, then?"

“If we ever figure this recipe out,” I reach into the fire with a pair of tongs and remove the failed mixture. “For some reason, the mixture isn’t circulating heat properly. Parts of the solution heat up quicker than others and float near the top while others rise and fall like a normal liquid.”

"Do you think we need more heat?" Sandra asks for my opinion.

"No, I've already tried hotter coals. The mixture burns too easily. The wood we're using now provides just enough heat, but the mixture isn't reacting like it's supposed to."

“Do you think it would work better if we spread out the heat rather than turn it up?”

"What?" I ask, confused.

“We have the solution sitting above the fire. What if we build up the coals around it and heat the solution from each of the sides as well as the bottom? Maybe that would help even out the heat in the solution.”

"That's brilliant," I exclaim. I should've thought of that sooner! The same principle applies to my blacksmithing. You need to heat up the entire section you're working with, or you'll cause microfractures. "I'll fix the fire!"

“I’ll get the solution ready!”

The two of us scramble to get everything ready.

We both anxiously watch the alchemical solution as soon as I move it into the forge and cross our fingers praying for just a single success. The two of us don't say a word to one another while the solution is heating up.

I keep count in my head, measuring the exact time the solution is in the fire for my notes later.

After seven and a half minutes, the alchemical solution starts to change. The eathrosse and devil's poke absorb a part of the fire mana and start blending together.

“It’s working!” Sandra and I echo each other’s excitement.

“Wait! What do we do next?” Sandra asks me. We haven’t discussed the next step, but luckily, I already have some supplies readied on my desk.

“You see that brown pot on my desk?”

“Yeah.”

“Bring it over here with my smallest measuring spoon,” I instruct Sandra as I prepare to remove the mixture as soon as the ingredients finish fusing.

When the mixture is completed, it has turned a brighter shade of purple.

“What is this stuff?” Sandra asks me when she looks inside the pot she brought over.

"Crushed magicite," I tell her as I remove the glass container from the fire. "Step three said to add magicite to the mixture. You add the magicite one scoop at a time, and I'll keep an eye on its internal mana."

"Ok," Sandra carefully starts adding small amounts of magicite to our mixture. After she adds the second scoop, I see that the mixture isn't blending again. But this time, I'm prepared. I grab a glass stirring rod and slowly mix the mixture.

I'm already aware the instructions I was given leave 99% of the information out, so I have to guess the proper solutions to the problems I encounter.

When I tried stirring the previous mixture when it was in the fire, the extra motion actually caused it to burn for some reason; luckily, this time, stirring the mixture appears to be the right choice, and the magicite starts blending into the mixture.

The magicite Sandra is adding is charging the mana in the mixture, keeping the fire mana active. At this rate, we might make it to step four.

No sooner than that thought crosses my mind, everything falls apart.

“Stop,” I shout.

Sandra freezes, and we both watch our hard work burn itself up. I don't know if we added too much magicite or mixed it in too quickly, but the magicite caused the fire mana that fused with the previous mixture to go out of control. The solution burns and turns into black sludge at the bottom of the container.

I can’t help but let out a long sigh. The failures hurt much more after you’ve had a breakthrough.

“We were so close!” Sandra says, disappointed.

"At least we made it to step three," I console my friend by patting her on the shoulder and move to write down step 2 in my notes.

Step 2: The mixture must be heated from the bottom and sides evenly, using a fire around 600°F. The mixture starts binding after seven minutes and finishes after eleven.

I’m not sure if removing the mixture from the fire was the right choice, but that’s just one more thing we need to test later.

“I’ll get the next mixture ready,” excited, Sandra moves over to my workbench.

