I pulled out my obelisk, going through some of the streams and videos Torix made of me. After a few minutes, I found what I was looking for. I pointed at the moment I used my dimensional storage as a shield.

"See that?"

"I, in fact, do. What of it?"

"I have that portion of the tail still in my storage."

Torix stood up with a jerk, his chair falling back, "You retained the tail?"

"Well, yeah."

Torix pressed his hands against his temples, "Is this perhaps a joke of some sort? Why haven't you mentioned this earlier?"

"We needed to get your body sorted out. After that, the Emperor called me. It's been a damn busy last few days, so cut me some slack."

Torix contemplated aloud once more,

"Hmmm, perhaps I judged rashly. Regardless of the timing, this is a tremendous boon. Given the nature of the tail's composition, we should be able to study Lehesion's composition with it. We may discover his weaknesses, or better still, a method of ripping him from their psionic control."

I pointed at Torix, "Yeah, that would be pretty damn nice. I was wondering if it was safe to pull it out of storage yet, though."

Torix pulled his chair back up with a flick of his wrist, all while sitting down. A telekinetic impulse knocked the chair right in place, and he crossed his legs once sitting. Torix stared down, deep in thought,

"That is a pressing conundrum."

"That's what I've been thinking too. If Lehesion knows where his tail is, he'll find Elderfire or Mt. Verner. I think we should test it somewhere remote. That should make it easier to figure out."

"Perhaps. It would also give us a means of escape should he follow us. We merely need Spear there with us."

"Exactly. After we've inspected it and made sure it's safe, I say we can inspect it before putting it back in storage. We can learn a lot of stuff from this given a chance, but I don't want to push our luck."

Torix's eyes shifted to a purplish color, "You're frightened by this mere fragment of Lehesion? You've fought his entirety. Surely this should pose no threat towards someone such as yourself."

I scowled, "It's less fear and more so respect. I know what Lehesion can do, and I don't want him unleashing that havoc anywhere near me. We may discover his weakness from inspecting the tail. At the same time, we could also end up with the Adair Family knowing where we are or worse."

My eyes turned grim, "I don't want our home destroyed just because we wanted to poke and prod a chunk of meat."

The atmosphere in the room turned heavy. Torix crossed his arms,

"The issue exists due to safety, correct? In this instance, we're balancing the pros and cons of inspecting the tail further. On the one hand, we could discover the weaknesses of our greatest foe. On the other, we may undo ourselves in the process."

Torix shrugged, "I say we risk this endeavor as the benefits are too great to ignore."

I raised a hand, "I mean, yeah, I agree. The thing is, I'm saying we should keep the research short and contained. Otherwise, we'll end up exposing ourselves to whatever it is that's controlling Lehesion. If it can control him, then it may be able to control us."

Torix lifted his hands, his curiosity spurring him like hunger does a starving child,

"But there is so much to uncover here. We could expand our base of knowledge ten times over with only a few discoveries. Imagine the informational currencies we'd have to exchange with the Emperor. The elemental furnace, the obelisks, all that and more would be within our reach."

I bit my lip, tempted by his offer. I stared at a wall of the lair, a map of Giess laid out. As if starring at the battlefield, I remembered the gurgling Hybrids. I murmured,

"Did we ever figure out what the orange soup is?"

Torix pulled his hands back, recoiling from the sound of my voice,

"Ah...we did."

"What is it?"

"Ahem...Well, we discovered that it is a non-newtonian fluid composed of various nutrients, liquids, and, most importantly, nanomachines."

I met Torix's eyes, "Was there anything else odd about it?"

"It carried viral qualities, explaining why our soldiers struggled with fighting off 'infections,' so to speak. It also held some sort of psionic fluid as a base for the Adair's Family's control. It's similar to a one-way network that enables commands to be sent towards the messengers."

Torix raised his palms,

"However, the nanomachines weren't able to carry tracking systems due to their size, so our location is still a secret. The blue core surrounding Elderfire also utilizes several security measures in order to stop any transmissions as well. Schema's foolproof in that regard, the blue cores being a relatively higher tier item."

I raised an eyebrow, "How does a blue even do that?"

Torix crossed his arms, metal clanging on metal, "It's an interesting concept that Schema has never truly exposed and rightfully so. Explaining your stealth often undermines it entirely. Now, while on the one hand, many theorize Schema is utilizing a different kind of mana source, I think it's something else altogether. I'm of the opinion that Schema uses spatial magic to isolate spaces within blue cores."

I glanced around, thinking of how the invisible forcefield protected us,

"Mysterious...Schema has a lot of conspiracies around him, doesn't he?"

"He does. As for the nanomachine soup, we've tried out several methods of destroying the machines without relying on your cleansing. It would allow healers to work without your required clearing of the Gialgathens."

I tapped my chin, thinking of movies I'd seen forever ago. About a minute later, an idea sparked in my mind,

"What about an emp of some kind? It wouldn't hurt the gialgathens, but it would kill the machines inside, wouldn't it?"

"Hmmm...It would be a rather deft way of handling the issue. A localized emp isn't precisely difficult to create, and nanomachines are tiny, easily neutralized things. This wouldn't work on fully hybridized creatures, but perhaps it may on the nanomachine fluid. It isn't designed with an intention for battle after all."

Torix shrugged, "Eh, why not try it? We'll see if it works. This would be a practical method of solving the issue at the least, that much is certain."

"Let's hope. Would that work on Lehesion's tail, maybe?"

"I doubt it, given the antimagic properties of his aura. We may find some manner of freeing Lehesion given further research with our sample, however."

I stared off, remembering Lehesion's sadness when he last fought me,

"That would be the best-case scenario. How do you think they're controlling Lehesion anyways?"

Torix took a deep breath, "If my inferences are correct, it revolves around their method for mind magic."

I raised my eyebrows, "I know they can link up. Does it have to do with that?"

"Absolutely. Remember that psionic base I mentioned earlier? The Adair Family seems to have discovered how to relay communications rapidly using it. This allows them to control Lehesion and the Hybrids over vast distances, a utility most other mind mages lack. After all, there is a limit to transmission speeds. They seem to ignore it entirely."

"So it's like a fiber optic cable or something?"

"Indeed it is, though I ascertain its origin as the result of using techniques from Schema. The remnants were a species that formed him. It is safe to assume that not all of that technology was forgotten. They are likely using fragmented pieces of those technologies to enable their rebellion."

I frowned, "Damn. What if they made another Schema?"

Torix scoffed, "I'll answer your question with another. What if the Adair Family mind controlled an Old One?"

I shook my head with a bit of exasperation, "We'd be fucked."

"Most certainly so, and I would assume the same if either of those premonitions came true. In a manner of speaking, that is far above my pay grade."

I laughed a bit before looking around. The charts and calculations splayed out reminded me of the battles we fought. I stood up, rolling my shoulders, "Alright then, enough talk about what-ifs. Let's organize the research on Lehesion."

Torix stood up right after, "It shall be done."

I cracked my neck, "Alright then, once that's finished, how about we do some mind magic training? You game?"

Torix's eyes tinted red as he cackled,

"Oh, it would bring me the utmost joy, disciple."
