It was the ragged Goblin from earlier. It stared at Erin, and she stared back. She could tell it wanted to cut her, to attack. But it didn’t.
A horn blew from the other side of the hill. Erin looked up. The Goblin Chieftain. He was the one who was orchestrating it all.
So. She stared back at the Goblin. It stared back, hatred and death in its eyes. Crimson eyes. They were unnatural, monstrous.
But still, they were too much like a Human’s.
“I didn’t kill them.”
Erin said it out loud. She didn’t expect it to understand, but the Goblin jerked in surprise. It looked at her, searching for the meaning in Erin’s words. The young woman looked into those sad, crimson eyes and saw the pupils lost and staring. She spoke, her voice rasping.
“I didn’t kill them, but it doesn’t matter.”
It looked into her eyes. Erin looked right back. Then she got up and ran.
——
They didn’t scream as they followed her. That was the scariest part. The Goblin tribe followed Erin swiftly, running as fast as they could to keep up, but they didn’t move to cut her off. They just followed.
Maybe they would have stopped her if she’d run for the city. But Erin ran for her inn and so they let her go. They weren’t here to kill her. Just to watch.
Without being told, Erin knew this was different. If it were just a fight or them trying to kill her, they would have swarmed her and ripped her to shreds in an instant. But this was a hunt.
And the Chieftain was the one hunting her.
Maybe he thought she was easy prey. He was right. And he probably could have guessed Erin wasn’t the one who killed the Goblins. It didn’t matter. It was blood for blood. The oldest of vengeances.
Erin thought all this as she hurtled through the door of her inn and blocked it with as many tables and chairs as she could. She knew it as she scrambled to find a kitchen knife, a frying pan—anything to defend herself. And she knew it when she sat in a chair and tasted death in the air.
She gave up on looking for a weapon. She sat and stared at the door. She heard the Chieftain’s horn call far away and then again as he drew closer slowly.
There was nowhere to run. And she couldn’t fight.
It had dawned on her as she was holding the sharp kitchen knife. She’d been trying to imagine her facing the armored Goblin, dodging blows, countering with a slash and then cutting—
No. It was impossible.
She was no warrior.
Erin sat in the wooden chair and felt it rub against her t-shirt. She felt her hands, slick with sweat. She tasted blood from running too hard and felt each breath tear a hole in her lungs. She was alive. She knew she wasn’t dreaming.
And she knew she was going to die.
“Checkmate.”
She sat at the table in the inn and stared at the door. It occurred to her, suddenly, that this was the first time she’d sat around and really had a chance to think. Because this was, in a sense, the first time she’d ever had when she wasn’t reacting blindly to events.
Maybe if she’d taken more time earlier, she would never have come to this point. If she’d thought ahead, maybe she’d have asked Klbkch and Relc how much food was worth. If she’d thought for a second, she would have known what Relc meant by taking care of the Goblins yesterday. Maybe then she’d have stopped Relc from killing the Goblins.
But she hadn’t. So she was here. But it was a terrible thing, waiting. So Erin sat and thought.
“I’ll think. I’ll think for once about it.”
Erin closed her eyes and tried to ignore the horn as it blew from far away. The Goblin Chieftain wasn’t moving fast. He was probably walking, saving his energy for when he got here. He was in no hurry.
She thought about Goblins. She thought about how they had leaders, and how it was the leader’s job to defend his people. Maybe he didn’t care about them. And maybe he wouldn’t take revenge if it were an adventurer or guardsman that killed them and then went back into a city with stone walls. But what about a stupid Human living by herself out in the middle of nowhere?
She thought about the small Goblin who’d attacked her. She thought about families, and thought about her parents. She thought about the Goblin Chieftain and his axes and armor.
She thought about what would happen to her when he caught her.
“Checkmate.”
Erin whispered it again. It sounded wrong, for some reason.
Checkmate. She’d heard that word too many times. But those had been games. This was real life. And she—she didn’t want to die.
But she was about to. That was why she was sitting in the inn. Erin heard the horn blaring again in the distance and knew that death was coming. So. Checkmate.
Was it? She had to ask. Erin whispered to herself a single question.
“Is it checkmate or just check?”
Erin stared at her hands. She hadn’t washed them. And she could still feel the clammy, lifeless head in her palms. She sat in the inn and stared down into the lifeless eyes of the two Goblin heads.
Horn call. She looked up at the door. The big Goblin was moving slowly. He wanted her to be afraid. To despair. To panic. There was nowhere to run. And if the only options were to fight and kill or run and die—
“If only it were dying.”
Erin whispered those words. She didn’t want to die. But better than anything else. So. Fight. And kill.
“I can’t do it.”
But she had to. Erin started shaking. There was no option. It was as clear a choice as she’d known. She could run or hide, and maybe, maybe she’d succeed. But if he caught her, she’d have to fight and win. And to win, she’d have to kill him. It was kill him or give up.
“Checkmate.”
Did she have a fever? Erin’s body flashed between burning heat and empty cold. She was shaking, but something inside of her was calm. So terribly calm.
Erin closed her eyes. She knew. But she didn’t want to. Her mouth was dry, but she forced herself to speak.
“Oh Father who art in Heaven…”
Her voice trailed off. She’d forgotten the rest long ago. And there was no God to listen to her. No merciful god would condone what she was about to do.
Erin opened her eyes. She stared at her hands and thought. Who was her enemy?
A Goblin. Not just any Goblin, but a Chieftain. A leader among their kind. Strong? Yes. Stronger than the others by far. But maybe not that much stronger than a normal Human man. If she were better at fighting…
But he had two axes. And a bow and arrow. And he had levels, whatever that meant. He was a better fighter. And what did Erin have?
She looked around. She had an inn. She had a kitchen, the few supplies she’d bought from the city. She had a common room full of tables and chairs, an upstairs with no way out save through the windows. She had kitchen knives, pots, pans, and an empty fireplace.
Erin closed her eyes and thought. She opened them a minute later and knew.
A horn blew somewhere in the distance. Erin listened to it and heard her heartbeat drowning out her thoughts. She knew what she had to do.
Erin got up. Her ears were ringing, but the world was silent. She felt like a dreamer, walking through a sleeping world. Even the blaring horn call sounded faint. In this moment, she felt like she had all the time in the world.
Slowly, Erin walked into the kitchen. She bent and fished around in the bag of food she’d bought. There it was. Was it enough? It would be enough.
Erin looked around and picked up the cast iron cooking pot. It was small, but it would do.
All the embers in the kitchen’s fireplace had long since turned to ash. Erin tossed in a few pieces of wood and slowly bent to strike sparks. It was slow. The horn kept calling, louder and louder. But her hands never wavered. She was still dreaming.
At last, the fire caught. Erin fed the small blaze, and it grew slowly. She added enough wood and set the pot above the fire. It would be hot soon enough. The fire was growing.
That was it. Erin filled the pot to the brim with the item she’d taken from the shopping bag. Then she put the lid on the pot. Slowly, she walked back into the main room of the inn. And sat down.
The horn blew. It was from right outside the inn. Erin heard the Goblin’s heavy footsteps now, the rattle of his metal armor. He paused before the door.
Thud.
The door rattled. The chairs and tables blocking it moved from the force of the impact. Erin stared at the door.
“It’s all just a game.”
She whispered to herself. She didn’t believe it.
Thud.
Another impact. This time, Erin heard cracking. The door wouldn’t last. She had seconds left.
Thud.
The fire was starting in the kitchen. It would take time to heat the pot. Was it enough? It would have to be enough.
Thud.
The entire door shook. Erin saw the wood splinter around the hinges. She waited. Death was in her bones. But whether it was hers, she didn’t know.
“Knight to D4. Pawn to E3.”
She didn’t want to die. But it might be better than what came next. Erin closed her eyes.
“I truly hate this world.”
The door crashed inwards, and the Goblin Chieftain stepped into the inn.
