The floor of the arena keeps cracking, letting more and more oozing black corruption seep up and out from below it.

The coiling tendrils of energy that look like living oil all connect to the demonic energy manifestation's feet, making it grow larger and making the dome colder and colder as its aura grows in strength.

The cracks that push outward on the top of the dome multiply to the point where it just appears to be crushed white ether-glass. There are hundreds of millions of fractures, creating interlocking spiderwebs that stack until the barriers turn to dust.

The only thing holding the dome together are the stacked layers of ether commands that are continuously activating and pressing down on us.

Above this dome, the seatings where over 250 million Lords now watch continue to fly upward and outward, far away from the dome, and even further over the large skyscrapers and towers of the inner city.

They are headed toward the outer walls of this Grand Citadel's inner city, where the edge of the wilderness lies.

At the same time, I feel large amounts of seemingly random shifting ether commands below and above us shifting and activating too.

All of the holding cells and pathways below the citadel begin shifting, moving further away from the arena, the dome below us, and away from the center of the inner city entirely.

It is exactly where I feel Ava's geotracker moving as well.

Her spectate feed is live in the back of my mind. I see a green blur of her crushing the restraints on hers and Ren's wrists, and many of the other tournament fighters' as well.

The sharp eyes of the griffon I fought in the final round of the fight lurk in the back of the room, watching Ava work with the white-haired Elf to plan an escape.

The words of the Demon this griffon lost to echo in his mind, wondering if these were the friends Drako was talking about... Even more strange, the griffon cannot wrap his head around why the demon saved him from himself, instead of letting him self-destruct.

With the powerful release of Vibrations being shown here now, clearly, his attack would not have killed him...

–

I feel the full 20% of stats, 4% from all 5 generals being pulled, and even see blurred spectate feeds of all their current actions scattered across the green zone in the back of my mind.

Yet, I do not focus on that.

I trust they are strong enough to follow out what needs to be done.

They trust me to do what I must too, so I begin activating my divine foresight, and divine swordsmanship skills and true core abilities.

The black demonic form I'm fighting gets larger, faster, and stronger with every passing millisecond.

It gets to the point where I have no time or excess energy available to even think about making counterattacks. I have to dodge, block, and retreat only.

In fact, I can't get any proper scans on this energy manifestation. It's not like there is a core or weak point I can attack.

It is all made of a formless black liquid. If I were to attack it, no damage would be done in the first place.

I endure, watching the 1-minute timer tick down above me. I keep half my mind completely focused on zipping around the dome in flashes of white, red, and purple light, while the other half gets ready to release my 3rd seal.

At this rate, I'm going to need all my power before the timer runs out.

–

Outside the enormous Grand Citadel's outer walls, that usually appear to be a jet-black dome, waves of white light pulse through it.

So many ether commands are activating at its core at once that spare resources are being siphoned out from the wilderness.

Six large pulses of teleportation magic around the dome dissipate after their recent activation as well, as a private force of Morvale Family Noble Demons begin activating personal large-scale ether scans to understand what exactly is going on.

They have been asleep for over 18 thousand years, and now have been woken up with a single order: to kill all that oppose the Demons—largest threats take priority.

In the same instance, Zashen does as Ember says and releases the suppression technique that has been keeping his mind and body stable since their training ended.

His eyes start to glow hotter and hotter red, and it floods outward to soak through his entire avatar and bursts in a pulse of red vibrations that instantly shatters a massive 500-kilometer-wide hole in the side of the Citadel entry point.

The 1st Class Admin that was greeting them does not even sense it—he just instantly passes out and is caught up in the blast.

A gaping, cracked hole in the side of the black dome reveals billions of ether commands all strung together. Behind it, the hundreds of thousands of biomes of wilderness can be seen as well, but instantly, the thick wall starts activating self-healing commands and mending the gaping hole.

The cracks seal, and the hole starts to shrink.

Seeing this, Ember calmly nods and looks to his right and left side again, sensing the Noble Demons all around the dome instantly take note of this blast and come rocketing this way with streaks of white and purple light behind them.

"Well—You wanted to fight a Noble Demon, right? Here comes six. —And they're from the last era too. I take it you can hold them off while I finish my job?"

Zashen's body is growing, and he reaches into his ether storage to pull out two shimmering white Relic Class Soul Weapons while activating his greater form.

All that comes back is a ravenous, hungry, and excited roar.

"I'll take that as a yes... Have fun. Make the Scarlet Clan proud. This is what you were born to do, after all," Ember remarks, smirking, and kicking off the air to move forward in a burst of white light.

He blasts off forward into the Grand Citadel, flying over the endless wilderness filled with biomes and hundreds of millions of captive Lower Class Lords. The black dome fully heals behind him, and his gaze stays sharp, glowing silver.

Though, for some reason, it is not pointed straight forward where the pulses of ether white commands burst from, that start to make the entire wilderness heat up a few degrees every second that passes.

Instead, his attention looks straight down, deep below the wilderness and inner city of the Grand Citadel.

It even looks down further than the upside-down blacked-out city where Miriel stays.

His last silver scan revealed this Royal Family Head in all his glory, simply using a single finger to wave around and entertain the Rising Emperor still masquerading as a dead Demon.

This is not what makes him reflexively mutate into his hybrid dragon form while flying through the sky and show his horns and sharp teeth. It's what is resting at the bottom of the Realm, below the Grand Citadel.

"This time... I'll have enough time to kill you..." he whispers to himself, sending shockwaves of white fire behind his footsteps through the air.

–

Far below the Citadel, further than any of the ether scans could travel, mapping and probing the Citadel before the Arena event, there is another structure.

One that rests on a compacted pile of dead worlds, just like the exile zones back in Ellipsia.

Yet, this structure is connected to the core of the Grand Citadel.

In fact, at its core, it is a key that holds this Citadel centered in the green zone of the Upper Realm.

It shimmers with silver and white light on its surface—a combination of dense ether and energy from the Overseer that created it millions of years ago.

It resembles the reactor at the core of Ellipsia, as it can be used to process old worlds and drain their ether and resources in the same way. Though, this reactor is special, as it links the five great families together through the zones, and uses a large amount of the farmed ether to allow them to communicate and share resources.

It is heavily protected by dense layers of black walls, and far more ether commands that can withstand the barrage of attacks being exchanged in the arena right now with ease. There most likely wouldn't even be a single crack on its defenses.

Yet, that is still not the reason it has been so safely secured ever since the Wyverns lost this zone of the Upper Realm.

The enormous Demonic Dragon that is soul-bonded to a Royal Demon sleeps peacefully, with its entire enormous body curled up and around the reactor.

It too smells of soul corruption, and all of its deep purple scales ripple with oily black energy, making the air around this beast cold like death itself.

The creature's eyes slowly open, as it senses strong Noble Vibrations that it does not recognize rippling through the Realm. It slowly lifts its head, activating ether commands with a simple thought to open up the ceiling of its chamber, to see for itself what is disturbing its peaceful sleep.
