With another shrug, I stick to the truth. “We don’t have one, not really. He showed up a few days before the Conference began and told me he was here to act as my Dharmapala, along with everything else I just shared. I don’t know why and if I’m being honest, didn’t entirely buy into it either, but he died trying to bring my poisoner to justice, so passing on a message is the least I could do.” Sensing it’s now or never, I ask, “Who’s the Confessor and why is he trying to kill me?”

Ignoring my question, Chief Beardie and the Legate exchange yet another glance, but the Seneschal is kind enough to provide an answer. “You met his Disciple in Sanshu, Han BoLao. As for why he wants you dead, I imagine it has something to do with her death.”

“... Oh. I see.” Please don’t piss your pants in front of the Legate. Or while leaning on Taduk. He won’t hold it against you, but it’s still embarrassing.

After a short and silent discussion, the Legate closes his fan and tucks it into his belt. “I will not command you to reveal the contents of your message, nor will I forbid you from delivering it. However, I will urge you to think twice before committing yourself to this path. The Empire needs its heroes now more than ever, and Falling Rain of the Bekhai stands high among them.”

Having said his piece, the Legate turns around and leaves with his Chief Beardie, but the Seneschal remains behind. Waiting until they’re both out of sight, the Seneschal leans in close to look me in the eye and say what the Legate will not. “Boy, feel honoured, for my young master has great plans in store for you. Think. Why would he award you with such a great honour, one never before bestowed upon an outsider? Surely you’re not foolish enough to believe your strength warrants it?”

It takes longer than I’d like to admit to figure out what honour he’s talking about, so unused to seeing Luo-Luo’s presence as a good thing. “Well if I had to guess? It’s because he knows the Bekhai and Akanai in particular have no interest in politics, which means improving my social standing and future prospects comes at little to no cost since I’ll be unlikely to use it.”

Smiling at my blunt reply, the Seneschal shrugs and replies, “I won’t lie and tell you you’re wrong, but you’re not entirely correct. My young master expects great things from you, even after seeing your reduced state. You must understand, Sinuji was meant to be our command post in the war against the Defiled, and once word of its destruction spreads, the people’s faith in the Empire will waver. We need heroes young and old to bolster their confidence and keep them from succumbing to despair, for every citizen who turns Defiled is one more threat brought to bear against us.”

With a wary glance at Taduk, Guan Suo, and Gang Shu, the Seneschal gingerly places a hand on my shoulder and smiles. “My young master believes none better suited for this than you, but it cannot happen if you leave now during this most critical of junctures. Remain in Nan Ping and my young master will raise you and the Bekhai to heights unheard of. You think yourself strong? There are young talents in the East who will put your skills to shame, but should you learn our secrets under the Imperial Protector’s tutelage, which we can freely offer now that you are an Imperial Scion, you will rise up to surpass all others and truly become the number one talent in the Empire. More than that, your meteoric rise will leave the Empire in awe as you surpass your Mentor in two decades, and your Grand Mentor in three. Given time, you might even grow to become a Divinity yourself, a supreme warrior standing at the peak of the Martial Path, but only if you choose to stay. Leave, and we must offer this chance to another, but think twice before you do. The quickest way to raise a young warrior’s reputation is by treading upon yours. This is no threat, only the cold, hard truth, for such is life, my young friend, and though you are our first choice for this honour, never for a moment think you are our only choice.”

...Wow. The Seneschal’s sales pitch is convincing, but I’m not the wide-eyed youth I appear to be. He offers secrets and strength but makes no mention of cost or sacrifice. I don’t see them offering Imperial secrets for free, not all of them at least. They’ll give me a small taste and my strength will rise by leaps and bounds, but then I’ll plateau or reach a bottleneck and the Imperial Protector will have a solution, but not one he can share without consequence. An Oath of fealty, he’ll suggest, and I’ll resist, but then he'll offer me another choice, a lesser Oath perhaps, or something else to prove myself. Slowly, but surely, they’ll drag me deeper into their clutches until I’m a warrior bound to obey the Legate’s will as surely as any slave, and I’ll thank them every step of the way.

Raise me to Divinity? Maybe they will, but only if it serves their purpose.

Even knowing how things will likely turn out, I still find myself wanting to accept their offer. Not because I necessarily want the Legate as my backer, but mostly because I don’t want him as my enemy. I don’t trust him, but I don’t mind working with him, so long as our goals are aligned. Offering them one more out, I swallow my trepidation and say, “It is not my intention to refuse the Legate’s goodwill. I am grateful for all he has done, and were circumstances different, I would gladly do as you suggest. However,” I stress, hoping he understands that the ball is in the Legate’s court, “Failing this, I must stay true to my word and fulfill the Dharmapala’s dying wish. I will travel with the utmost haste and endeavour to return as soon as possible, but if the Legate does as you’ve said and chooses a new partner to work with, then know that I will help in whatever way possible to smooth things along. I will bear no grudge for I know he acts with the Empire’s best interest in mind.” Or at least I hope he does.

“Disappointing.” Shaking his head, the Seneschal says, “I urge you to consult with your Mentor and Grand-Mentor before committing yourself to this path, for those who do not stand with us...”

Like the Ancestral Bull, the Seneschal leaves the rest unsaid, but I complete it for him. “Stand against us? Not always true. Some people only want to be left alone.”

With a sad smile, the Seneschal turns away and leaves. “Even if you mean it,” he Sends, “My young master’s enemies might think to use you against us, and we cannot afford to let this happen. Blame your own talent, Falling Rain, for it makes you too dangerous to leave unchecked.”

Burying my face in Taduk’s robes, I close my eyes and sigh.

Politics are the worst.

“Well Teacher,” I say, feigning a smile. “Let’s go tell Grand-Mentor the good news and see what she has to say.”

Seriously though, I would really love it if someone older and wiser made this decision for me.

Chapter Meme
