He waited. About ten seconds later, a whisper carried toward him by a spell, said, “I will watch over you in my own way. Live as though I do not.”

Alden searched for her everywhere. No deadly-looking Artonans were in sight.

“I…will try to do that,” he said finally.

******

******

On the walkway outside the MPE building, a group of first-year hero program students were dawdling and taking advantage of the last minute before the assembly began to share gossip and disaster stories.

“You guys!” Rebecca called, spotting them from a distance and joining them in two big bounds that landed her right beside Astrid, who was using a compact mirror to watch her eyebrows as she tried to morph them into matching arches. “Guess what I saw on my way over!? I’ll give you a hint. It was big and green and up in the air—”

“The top of a cedar tree,” said Jupiter, making a kudzu leaf float between one hand and the other. “A dirigible. A gokoratch.”

“A grasshopper that got upgraded like Big Snake’s wolves,” said Astrid.

“A cloud of smoke from Boom Town,” said Everly.

There was a pause as Rebecca looked expectantly at the others who were present. Mehdi, Kon, and Febri were all moving their fingers through the air while they discussed the videos they were sharing through their interfaces.

“Are they ever going to tell us who did it? They’ve had all weekend,” Febri was saying.

“They’ve only had a weekend,” Astrid countered. “I’m surprised I managed to get back to Apex. Everything’s so crazy.”

“It was members of Superhumans at Large,” said Everly. “That’s what everyone seems to think.”

“They were probably trying to make the island uninhabitable so we’d have to be at large, too,” said Jupiter. “I’m mad at them. My uncle’s house is gone. And the Nilama building. Konstantin, I’m so upset about the Nilama building.”

Mehdi frowned at her. “Him, too, since he lived there.”

“It’s not gone. We could still live there,” Kon said. Then he made a face as the word “there” came out sounding wrong. “There. Dere.”

“That’s getting worse every time you try it,” Mehdi told him.

“It’s cute!” Everly said. “He has his first superhero injury.”

Kon grinned to show off the gap in his teeth. “Like I was saying, we could still live there. The building is standing. It just got really wet. Dey don’t need to condemn it. They won’t. They shouldn’t.”

“I can’t believe Paragon is gone,” said Everly. “I saw my old desk from fifth grade on the news. It was upside down in a cafe.”

“How did you recognize your fifth grade desk?” Mehdi asked.

“She and Kon went to rich people school,” said Astrid. “They probably had special desks.”

Everly rolled her eyes. “Yes. I recognized it because it was covered in rubies. Not because I drew a snowflake on the bottom with a paint pen.”

“YOU GUYS!” Rebecca’s voice was exasperated.

“Sorry!” Astrid exclaimed. “Becca saw something. What was it?”

“One of the wizard generals! I was running past Celena Circle, and I saw them landing.”

“Really?! Which one?” Mehdi took an eager step toward her.

“The green flying thing belongs to the male one.” Jupiter tucked a strand of brown hair behind her ear and tried to position the kudzu leaf to go with it. “The real general. Not the bald one. Esh-erdi.”

“Why do you know that off the top of your head?” Febri asked.

“If I see an important Artonan and they’re friendly, I want to ask them what kinds of extraterrestrial plants are good for battling demons,” said Jupiter. “And if I can have some.”

“Just put yourself out there like that then!” Febri replied in a shocked voice.

“You can’t do that, Jupiter,” said Everly. “If they’re generals and they help with Matadero, then they’re the ones who probably summon Avowed for the most dangerous missions. What if they think you’re volunteering or something?”

Jupiter shrugged.

“Rebecca, are you sure?” Astrid asked. “What was one of those people doing on campus? Was he going to cast some spells on the domes?”

“Maybe he’s hunting for the terrorists who did this,” Mehdi suggested. “One of them could be hiding in the dome village!”

“Why do you sound so excited about that?” asked Astrid.

“I’m not.”

“You sound like you are.”

“I’m not.”

“I thought the people responsible were supposed to have died when they tried to attack the cube?” said Rebecca.

“There could be accomplices,” Mehdi said.

Their conversation broke off as a blond speedster in sunglasses shot by them, running for the double doors that led into the building. A fraction of a second later, another figure blazed past the first and stopped with pinpoint precision in front of the doors just in time to open them before the other boy arrived.

Finlay gave Winston a sarcastic bow.

“That seems to have escalated,” Everly muttered.

They all watched Winston bristle then take off, heading around the building for the back entrance instead.

“Now that whatever that was is over…” said Rebecca, once the speedsters were gone. “I don’t think the general would be looking for terrorists. He had a student with him! In our uniform.”

“Maybe they assigned somebody to show him around?” Astrid suggested.

“Maybe he summoned a Celena North student to be his personal Avowed helper,” said Mehdi. “Whoever it is will probably get so much argold. Even more than Jeffy.”

Everly shook her head. “What kind of help do you think a wizard that powerful needs from a student?”

“A translator in case he doesn’t like the ones the System gives? Or maybe it’s someone really gifted and he’s taking an interest and giving them some extra stuff,” Mehdi said, his enthusiasm growing.

“Like special instruction?” asked Febri.

“Or special plants,” said Jupiter.

“Or a spell impression nobody else has access to,” said Mehdi. “Or—”

“Or maybe the student is Alden Thorn.” Kon swiped his System windows away and fixed his eyes over Rebecca’s shoulder. “And we can just ask him.”

Mehdi snorted. “Good one! Even generals probably need Rabbits for…oh…you meant…”

Febri stood on his tiptoes, his eyebrows lifting.

Kon glanced at Mehdi. “I don’t know what you were about to say, but I think it’s lucky you stopped.”

“It wasn’t anything bad,” Mehdi grumbled.

The girls all turned to see where the boys were looking. A green flying platform was heading toward them. Alden Thorn rode on the front of it, one hand extended as if to direct it, the other rummaging through his messenger bag.

“Rebecca, you didn’t recognize Alden?” Everly gasped. “Was he really far away when you saw him?”

“No!” Rebecca face turned embarrassed. “But…that’s…he doesn’t ever wear the school uniform! He looks different!”

Astrid was laughing.

“I associate him with brown hoodies, green plaid, and radishes,” murmured Jupiter. “Keep this safe for me. I’m going to ask him about the general.”

She thrust her leaf in Everly’s face.

******

******

Thanks to this bunch I’m now late, Alden thought, watching his classmates poke, stroke, and take pictures with the nonagon.

Fortunately, a lot of other people seemed to be late, too. Students were still dashing toward the gym, and with everything being so out of the ordinary, he thought there was a good chance the school had planned for a delayed start.

But he would have hurried inside if this group hadn’t surrounded him and lost their minds.

Alden had gotten hit with the obvious question right off the bat, from Jupiter: “Why do you have General Esh-erdi’s flying platform?”

Before the whole sentence had escaped from her mouth, the others had raced over to join them.

“Because I’ve been with a healer friend of his.” Alden had pointed at his boot for proof of injury. “He didn’t want me to miss school. I guess he didn’t want me walking around on the hurt foot, and he was being kind. So…”

He’d braced for follow-up questions that would have dramatic answers: How did you get hurt? Where exactly were you staying all weekend? Why was a general involved at all?

But he should have realized that his broken bones and living arrangements weren’t the most interesting thing he had going on.

“How fast does it go?” Febri asked.

“Is it hard to fly?” asked Everly.

“I want to touch it,” said Astrid. “Can I touch it?”

Mehdi was already tapping on the edge of it with the tip of a single pinkie, jerking his hand back as soon as he made contact as if he was afraid it might burn him.

“That would be fine,” Alden said. “Don’t try to hit it or anything. Maybe after the assembly, you can—”

As soon as he said “fine,” they were all over it, and all the questions turned into: “How fast? How high? How long do we get to keep it?”

“What do you mean we? And I’m probably just going to have it for today,” said Alden.

He was relieved he’d misjudged their priorities. If the flying nonagon itself was going to be more exciting than the details of how he came to be in a situation where he needed and could obtain a magical vehicle, then that would make navigating conversations easier.

“And we’ve got a meeting to go to,” he added.

Kon slid off the platform and stepped over to stand beside Alden while he sent the nonagon toward a place he thought seemed relatively safe—up high and as flat against the wall of the building as he could get it. It’s so much harder to direct from the ground.

“What if it turns off?” Kon asked, gazing up at it. “Will it fall and break?”

His voice sounded different thanks to the missing teeth. He also had a giant gap. It looked so much bigger now, in daylight, when they weren’t all scared of dying.

Sorry, man.

“I think its default state does is floating a few feet in the air.”

“You don’t know?” Mehdi said.

“Do I look like I fly one of these every day? I just used it for the first time half an hour ago.”

“I bet I could fly—” Mehdi started.

“Hn’tyon Esh-erdi doesn’t want me to loan the ring to anyone else,” Alden said quickly.

He didn’t know if that was true or not, but he was going to operate as if it was a hard rule. The last thing he needed was some adrenaline-hungry idiot trying to levitate themselves into the stratosphere on it.

They headed for the doors in a loose pack. Astrid was so busy staring at the nonagon that she almost tripped.

“What happened to your leg?” Kon asked Alden. “Will it be okay?”

“Yeah. It will. Some of the Sinker Sender stuff grabbed onto my shoe and yanked my foot out from under me. Tore up my ankle.”

Plus the broken toes I got from kicking a guy.

“Ow,” said Kon.

“You didn’t look hurt on the bridge.” Mehdi had spun to walk backwards as he talked. “It makes sense you got teleported out earlier than the rest of us if you were.”

Oh…what a great excuse that would have been. Why didn’t I think of that myself?

He was sure that during his texting spree yesterday he’d already given too much information to too many people, implying or saying outright that he’d been injured after evac, to rely on that misconception.

“It was after the bridge,” Alden said as they entered the building. Before any of them could ask anything else, he dug a tiny blue paper envelope out of his bag and handed it to Konstantin.

Kon opened it and laughed as he dumped his two front teeth into his palm. “Aw…you shouldn’t have!”

“I am sorry.”

“It’s fine. Lexi forced you to take my incisors like they ought to be your top priority in a disaster. When we couldn’t find you the next day, I assumed you had your own problems to deal with and they were goners.” He stuck his tongue through the gap. “Even if you’d kept them somehow, healers are so busy they’re not handling minor stuff yet.”

He held up the envelope. “Did you make this yourself?”

“I’m learning origami.”

Kon dropped his teeth back into it. “Maybe the right healer can still do something with them. Thanks for bringing them back.”

“You don’t happen to know what tree was the first to cast its shade over your face when you were a baby, do you?” Alden asked.

Kon blinked several times then tilted his head. “Noooo. But there’s a good chance it got destroyed by the floods…why would you ask that?”

******

The gym was filled with students from all three high school programs, and people were still wandering the bleachers in search of friends. Despite projection screens hovering over the floor with the words, “Please find your seats quickly,” on them, Alden passed by empty spaces and headed up toward the top of the stands.

Haoyu was there, beaming and having an animated video call judging by the gestures he was making. And Lexi was beside him, looking like he hadn’t slept or bathed in three days and punching the air with his fingers in what Alden could only assume was a rage-typing session.

I hope he’s writing an email to his most hated enemy and not a teacher or someone he actually likes, Alden thought as he shuffled by a couple of arts students wearing bracelets that said ANESIDORAN FOREVER on them. What’s that about?

Haoyu slid closer to Lexi to make room for Alden. Haoyu’s hair was damp, and he was wearing a dark blue long-sleeved shirt with the Scorpius constellation on the front. As Alden sat, Haoyu said, <<I have to go, Dad. I have to. They’re about to start speaking. Bye. You’re really coming later, aren’t you? Okay! Bye.>>

He switched to English. “Alden, you’re alive!”

“It’s true. It was not a ghost texting you for the past day.”

“Lexi, look. Alden’s alive.”

Lexi didn’t look. He only grunted a sound that might have been a greeting.

