Haoyu shook his head. “He’s trying to force his way down to F so that he can go see his parents and Irina. He can’t find a ride that doesn’t cost a fortune.”

“We should all be together right now,” Lexi said. “Irina is having nightmares. Our apartment is gone. All of our belongings are probably destroyed. If Kon would just help me—!”

“What do you expect him to do, though?” Haoyu asked.

“I expect him to help.” He suddenly turned to Alden. “You’re here! Where were you? Where were both of you? You’ve both been so vague in your messages. Never mind. Where are Kon’s teeth?”

“I gave them back to Kon.”

“Why!?”

“Because…they’re his? It would have been really weird to give them to you.”

Lexi huffed. “Are they all right?”

Alden fired off a mental text to Haoyu. [Is he all right? He seems stressed.]

Haoyu’s smile was placid. [Big protective for family. Crazy now. He is danger badger.]

“I put them in an envelope for Kon,” Alden said slowly. “So that he wouldn’t lose them. I’m also sure that if they aren’t all right—”

Which they totally aren’t.

“—they can grow him some new ones. He will still be handsome and able to eat corn on the cob and pronounce fricatives when it’s all over.”

Lexi looked so disappointed in him.

“Don’t glare at people in casts,” Haoyu said. “How did you get hurt, Alden? I thought you were…somewhere very safe. And then you didn’t send messages for an entire day. And now—”

He bent over to get a better view of the squishboot.

Haoyu already knew Alden had been with the ambassador’s assistant during the disaster, thanks to Alden texting him with the info Zeridee had shared about the situation on Matadero. Of course he would wonder how that had ended up like this.

I think this might be as good a time as any to tell them the basics. I’d rather let them know the important stuff before anyone else in the class starts putting things together.

They weren’t sitting near any of their classmates, maybe because Lexi was a danger badger. The students around them were from the other programs, and they were all involved in their own conversations.

Alden didn’t need real privacy to tell a secret that wasn’t a real secret. But it was nice that they had the illusion of it that came with being in a large, loud crowd of people who weren’t paying you any attention.

“I got teleported to Punta de la Luna,” said Alden. “A flyer was there waiting for me, but there was some trouble when I tried to board it.”

Possibly that made it sound like a mechanical problem, but it was the best he could do.

“I had to evacuate on foot with an Artonan. She got hurt, and I was carrying her. So I was slow. And the ocean caught up to us.”

Haoyu’s eyes widened. Lexi’s narrowed.

“Punta de la Luna is gone,” said Haoyu.

“Yep.”

“It’s very gone. There’s basically nothing left.”

“I made it out of there before it was wiped. We were almost to safety when this enormous water mountain stopped us. Hn’tyon Esh-erdi and Hn’tyon Lind-otta arrived to deal with it. He pulled me out of the water.”

“You were in the water?” said Haoyu.

Alden rubbed his cheek. The freshly healed skin was a little sensitive. “I was about to drown.”

Lexi’s eyes were slits now.

“So Esh-erdi’s timing was great.” Alden gave them both a thumbs up. “And he sent us to a healer. I slept for all of Saturday. And now I am so ready for school to start back.”

“That’s good…” Haoyu gave him a hesitant thumbs up in return. “I think most people are hoping we get the week off, though.”

“Why did you get teleported before everyone else?” asked Lexi. “To a plane.”

“I’m sure that’s none of our business,” said Haoyu.

“It’s fine if it is none of my business,” said Lexi. “I’m not going to whine about someone else’s teleport priority being different than mine. Plenty of people are being so obnoxious about that, even though almost nobody died from being left until last.”

“Don’t let Lute hear you say that,” Haoyu warned. “His parents are fine, but it sounds like Cyril belted himself to the railing of a pedestrian bridge so that he didn’t get swept away. Lute’s like, ‘He’s a drunken moron. It’s okay. I just went and got him.’ But I’m sure he’s got feelings about it.”

“I won’t say anything about it to Lute. But to Alden, I’m just saying that telling people you got teleported directly to some kind of Artonan salvation plane before everyone else, including Haoyu—”

Haoyu’s face transformed into the picture of innocence.

“Don’t think none of us noticed how fast you disappeared,” Lexi said to him. “But at least it makes sense in your case. For Alden, I’m telling him that this sounds noteworthy and confusing. He says he wants to know when things he does are noteworthy and confusing. Now he knows, so he won’t call more attention to this one. I’m helping him.”

“Thank you, Lexi,” said Alden. “But I already rode to school on Esh-erdi’s magic flying platform.”

“I think I saw that thing on the news!” Haoyu exclaimed. “Is it the green one?”

“It’s called Nine-edged Son Whose Own Mother Forsakes Him,” said Alden.

“No,” said Lexi.

They both looked at him.

“Why would you ride to school on an Artonan General’s flying thing?” Lexi whispered.

“There’s no point in whispering,” said Alden. “People all over Apex saw us on the way here. We slowed down to look at some of their dogs.”

“Are you serious right now?”

“He let me keep it for the day. It’s parked outside.” Alden held up his hand. “I drive it with this cool ring.”

Haoyu leaned closer to see the green band.

Lexi’s face was doing things so expressive they almost had sound effects: Ugh. No. Stupid globie. What is he? Why is he? Why did I let him be my roommate? He told me he had a cat like that might be a dealbreaker, but he never mentioned all the wizards.

“I really like being roommates with you, Lexi.”

Lexi drew back from him. “Why are you randomly saying that? Do you think it’s going to distract me from everything else you said?”

“It just felt necessary.” Alden cleared his throat. He lowered his own voice. “Um…to answer your question, the Artonans gave me a higher teleportation priority because I have a commendation.”

Lexi froze.

Haoyu had been trying to study the logograms on the ring. He went still, too, but his brown eyes flicked up. They met Alden’s through the gap in his splayed fingers.

“Do you really?” he said quietly.

Alden nodded.

“Oh. I thought whatever you went through was probably worse than you said.” He glanced down again. “It must have been.”

Lexi slowly thawed and started shifting in his seat. “What was it for? If you don’t mind me—”

He was interrupted by a sizzling sound. They all looked just in time to see a firework exploding over the floor, orange and blue sparks flying outward toward them. A huge BOOM rocked the gym.

A few people shouted. Everyone else went instantly silent.

Instructor Foxbolt was sitting on the bottom bleachers across the gym from Alden, Haoyu, and Lexi. She crossed her legs and leaned back, blowing dramatically on her finger as if she’d shot the firework out of it instead of casting a spell.

“Thank you, Foxbolt.” Principal Saleh stood in the middle of the floor, her face displayed on the projections for all to see.

“Good morning, everyone,” she said. “I’m so glad to see you all safe and, mostly, unharmed. It’s been a long, hard weekend for all of us. And many of us have more long, hard days ahead. Let’s talk about what’s happened, and what happens next, and what we expect from you all as students here at Celena North High.”

******
