Just as Letters predicted, the bite wounds on Sherly’s leg started to close. It was slow, although not exactly imperceptivity so. By the time they stopped travelling, as the sun was setting down, she was finally done completely healing. Even the scratches from when she fell over were gone. Even the pain in her joints from staying in a confined position was gone.

“They’re all gone!” Sherly celebrated. She would’ve jumped for joy, if she could. She realized they had stopped, but she was too focused on healing to even notice that Ishuin had left her. “Ishuin?”

Instead, a different woman showed up and opened her cage.

A human woman. Wavy orange hair, blue eyes. Sherly recognized her as one of the three people who had captured her.

“Kasta?” Her moo, however, didn’t translate as it did with Ishuin.

“Out you go, demon-cow. Ishuin said you’re not actually a demon-cow, but you can’t really convince everyone that you’re a good egg just because you healed up. I still think you’re a demon-cow, but probably a good one.”

You’re confusing. Sherly didn’t bother mooing this time.

“Anyhow, Ishuin said you should meet her at the front of the caravan in five minutes, or we’re free to roast you.”

Without a second more, Sherly sprinted like a free cow. But she headed straight to the front of the caravan. Trying to escape now wouldn’t be the smartest thing in the world, given how some of the members of this crew were bird-people. She wouldn’t get that far before something ended her life. She wouldn’t even know where to go in the first place.

For now, she needed to stay with Ishuin and learn more about their world.

Sherly started hearing other cows the closer she got to the front. Nobody bothered to stop her; they were all looking ahead. The moment she reached Ishuin, the sight she saw horrified her.

“What…?”

“Well, then, Sherly,” the elf started, dismounting her giant crab. “Do you understand now why cow-demons and bull-demons have to die?”

In front of Sherly was carnage.

An entire village filled with nothing but cows and bulls, some eating humanoid flesh.

They were much larger than her. Angrier than her. More powerful than her.

But despite it all, Sherly felt nothing but rage. There was nothing about survival in the eyes of those demons. There was no reason. Some people were left on the ground like leftovers. Some were still whole, save for the two holes where the horns had rammed into them.

These cows, these bulls, they were all about destruction and nothing else. Food was just a by-product for them.

“You’re right, Ishuin,” Sherly began, walking straight into the village. “They all deserve to die.”
