Our pursuers are still coming, but in their attempts to avoid Alsantset's deadly shots, they've fallen behind. Within minutes we reach the treeline and the quins slow their speed, zigging around trees and zagging around rocks, heading ever forward at Li Song's directions. The forest grows darker and thicker, and Alsantset speaks softly, but the words reach my ears as if she's whispering directly into them. “We need to kill these pursuers, and then escape into the mountains to rest. Huushal, Adujan, Sumila, and Rain, come with me, the rest slow your pace and head deeper into the mountains. Do not get too far, or the girl will die.” A handy trick. I should learn that. I watch her toss Song to Charok, and she breaks away while I follow her with the other cadets. Circling around, I pull out my long spear, settling it into the crook of my arm. “We hit them hard then disengage. Then we come at them from a different angle.” We line up, single file, myself at the rear, and Alsantset leading the charge, the quins breaking into a forward sprint.

Our enemies come into sight almost immediately, moving at a canter through the forest, their eyes widening in panic as we charge into them. The quins leap forward several meters in unison, each of them targeting a different rider. My spear rams into the chest of the leading rider, snapping as I sail past atop Zabu, my stomach flopping around. Just as quickly, the quins all make a hard turn away, bringing us back and disappearing into the trees. Screams of surprise and death echo behind us, as we move through the forest, circling our prey. I'm not even directing Zabu, the quin taking his cues from Suret, and all I have to do is aim my weapon. A short minute later, we make a second charge, appearing from the other side of our pursuers, surprising them once again. This time my short spear is lost in the fray, embedded in the shoulder of another opponent. The amount of power Zabu puts into his pounce is enormous, tearing the weapon out of my hand, driving it deep into the flesh and bone of my enemy. Our attack done, we slip away to the cover of the forest, untouched by retaliation.

“Spread out this time, charge on my command, then we stay and end it this time. Eight left, simple enough.” Simple my ass, we took them by surprise, but they should be ready now, right?

Splitting from the group, I bring Zabu around, positioning myself at what should be their path of retreat. My hands sweat as I grip peace, listening to them talking among themselves in the dense forest, arguing about their next move, as Zabu quietly makes his way closer towards them.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Zhong Lang sat nervously on his horse as his fellow disciples shouted at one another, unable to decide on their course of action. All the senior disciples were dead, either shot by that bitch of a woman, or impaled by the lightning fast-charges of those furred beasts ridden by those barbarians. He was just a normal disciple, only 25 years old. His wife was at home, their daughter just born. Why had he volunteered for this mission? It was supposed to be an easy task according to his uncle, hunt down some bumpkins who didn't know their place. How had this happened? These fucking barbarians were too savage, too strong.

Jun was urgently shouting, “We need to run before they return!” Lang agreed with him, but he would never voice it aloud, the man was a disgrace and a coward. His mouth dry, eyes frantically looking around him, trying to spot from where the barbarians would come from. Jun's nerve finally broke, turning his horse to return the way they had come, dashing off into the forest. Almost as soon as he was out of sight, his scream was heard, cut short in an instant. The enemy was upon them, charging out of the trees once more, a young man, his sword dripping with blood, yellow eyes glowing in the forest gloom, his blade piercing into another disciple with yet another impossible lunge of his beast.

His saber in hand, Lang slashed at his opponent, glancing off the barbarians armor. It shone like black obsidian, and he barely left a mark upon it, his panic causing him to fail at grasping Balance. The beast tore into his horse which reared in panic, throwing him from his seat, his weapon lost in his tumbling. Scrambling on the ground he flailed frantically, trying to find his saber amidst the dirt and plants.

The sounds of fighting ended around him, the dying gurgles of his brothers filling his ears. Looking around, he saw five barbarians, covered in the blood of his brothers, staring at him, cold eyes without mercy. His body shook as he sat on the floor, weaponless and afraid, tears streaming from his eyes. The yellow eyed youngster dismounted, grabbing something from the ground before tossing it to Lang. His saber. “Stand up, state your name, and fight.” Taking a stance, he waited for Lang.

The feel of the cold steel of his weapon calmed him enough to stand, his body still shivering uncontrollably. A proper duel, a fitting death. Something to be thankful for. “I am Zhong Lang.” A name was a small enough courtesy.

The young man spoke quietly, “I am Rain, Khishig of the Bekai, Disciple of Baatar. Whenever you are ready.”

Lang widened his eyes at the name, often spoken and lauded these past days, a new rising dragon, a true hero of the Empire. No wonder these children were so fierce, to be connected to one such as Baatar. The Sect had chosen poor enemies. Taking a deep breath, he calmed himself, remembering his training. They were still children, the eldest among them only slightly older than himself. Even if he died here, he could not shame the Sect or his child. He would kill this savage child in single combat, because if he did not, it would be akin to returning a tiger cub to the mountains, to grow older and stronger, perhaps even strong enough to threaten all the people that he loved.

The boy would charge judging by his stance, a thrust. Foolish and inexperienced, despite what talent he may have. Lang took his stance, raising his sword in two hands, readying himself to trade his life for the life of this child, to cut the boy down even as he died. It was all he could do. “I am prepared.”

The boys sword pierced his throat a mere second after he uttered the words, his arms still held above him. His strength faded, his sword dropping from his grasp as he joined his brother disciples, to meet the warm embrace of the Mother.
