The staff made no noise at all. It didn’t even make any light; just a bare ripple of Force, and a spurt of black.

Half a kilometer away, a spreading shrapnel Bolt ripped right through the mage’s bubble and tore through their red-tabarded body, disintegrating the man’s upper half in a claw-like swipe of black gore.

Erick took aim at the next mage in the sky, and fired.

Half an hour and ten repositions later, Erick raised his Lightning Rod out of the caved-in head of the last assassin. At least twenty of the black-clad bastards had boiled out of the compound, aiming for Erick’s life. They had actually managed to find him in the dark, too. But Erick had ended them all. All the assassins had managed to do was distract Erick from the ‘real’ threat lurking in the Plains encampment.

The leader of Riam’s attack force was a forty-meter long centipede of an abomination, with tens of lower human torsos all strung together, forming the base of a centaur-like creature, while his ‘upper torso’ was made of seven torsos, each more gruesome and out of proportion than the last. Tens of arms held wands and staffs and shields of all kinds, while the creature’s main chest was a mouth large enough to swallow a man whole, with massive fangs to ensure no one escaped that stomach.

Rippling magics shielded the entire creature.

Erick took aim, and fired.

So far, the centaur had been the only creature who required multiple shots to kill. It took five shots.

Erick’s magic struck the centaur-pede’s back end and spread fast. Black veins crawled across the entire creature, and then the darkness detonated. Erick shot the creature a few more times to be sure. Immediately, arms and legs and bones and heads spilled out into the air in every direction, sent along their arcing paths by dark explosions. The monsterized leader of the Riamite forces fell apart, and did not rise again.

SPECIAL ACTION! PLAINS RECLAIMED!

MP up! +5000 mana production per day!

Erick sighed, relieved.

That was that.

And then Erick centered himself, and turned his gaze to the past...

- - - -

Ashes only had to get into melee three times during the assault, for Scout had taken care of most of the people trying to assassinate him in the night. As Ashes clipped his rod back on his belt, he wondered if his new weapon would make him soft. If this absolute destruction from afar would be bad for him, in the long run.

“… Probably not,” Ashes concluded.

Scout appeared in the wind, one knee on the ground. “Sir. It’s a complete rout. All stragglers are ended and buried in the ground which they sought to steal from us. Prisoners are being evacuated now. What are your orders?”

- - - -

Erick came back to himself, to see Scout kneeling before him. “Alert Marii and the soldiery. Cleanup the Plains. If you find anything good, then bring it back to Marii’s base and save it for me, otherwise I’m sure a lot of you would like to reclaim your homes. So let’s do that.” Erick added, “I’ll catch up soon enough.”

Scout rose to her feet, tears of joy falling as she saluted again. “Sir!”

And then she turned and took off, vanishing into the night.

Erick turned and took in the sight of the doorway leading to the next floor. The pathway beyond was white and glowing, spilling day into the night all around. That doorway had followed him for a while now, though it had closed when Erick actually assaulted the base.

Erick said, “I’m staying here for a while. I’m going to play around with mana crystals.”

The light in the hallway dimmed a fraction, as though the dungeon was contemplating something.

And then Kinder stepped out from behind the wall of empty air, to stand in the center of the gateway to floor three. He looked physically the same as he did when Erick left him behind at Marii’s —too skinny to be healthy— but he was wearing normal clothes now, and he had no visible injuries.

Erick was not surprised.

“Hello, Ashes Woodfield. You are making a mess of my dungeon.”

Erick grinned a little. “Hello, Kinder. Finally dropping the act, then?”

“We do what we must.” Kinder said, “I cannot allow you to live on this second floor for however long you wish. If I do, then the people start turning real. In a month, Scout and Marii and others would be so close to being real that it would be cruel to do anything other than bring them fully into reality. Which we would do, but it is not something we enjoy doing. Do you know that most people fail to progress past floor 2? Do you know how many copies of Marii we have already? Too many, and they all hate each other for ‘stealing’ each others’ inventions. It’s especially horrible when delvers make the Riamites real, for those people come along with so many destructive tendencies that we almost always end up executing them anyway.”

“Sounds like you have some issues with how your dungeon is set up.”

“We do not, actually, have any problems at all.” Kinder said, “If you were forced by circumstance to hole-up inside Marii’s and if you failed to progress, or if you had simply chosen to do your mana crystal experiments without killing the Riamite forces before all that, then I would have broken hiding protocol in ten days, and either spurred you on, or increased the difficulty so much you would have been forced to reset the entire floor and try again.” He added, “But you killed the Riamite forces, and you still want to stick around, and so, here we are.”

Erick nodded along. All of that sounded rather normal and good, and made Erick rapidly reevaluate his theory of Kinder’s origins, and everything else he thought he knew. “You’re not from Greensoil, are you, Kinder?”

“No. I am from the ‘Old Cosmology’, as you Veirdians call it. Some people would choose to be pedantic and say I am from Atunir’s memory of the Old Cosmology, but I don’t care for those people.” Kinder said, “You, Ashes Woodfield, are also partially from the Old Cosmology.”

“Possibly. I’m trying to figure that out.”

Kinder nodded. “I invite you directly to the sixth floor, where delver housing is free, and almost all basic needs are met, and so you can play around with mana crystals in a better setting. I ask you to accept this offer, so that you don’t take up so much of my dungeon’s resources, and so you don’t go around accidentally creating people.” He added, “We’ve had dragons here, too, but not a Benevolence Dragon yet. If you desire, I have [Renew]-based artifacts that will allow you to keep your core as full as you desire, without physical discomfort, but only if you accept my offer now.”

Erick raised an eyebrow. Then he said, “I’ll agree to that, on three conditions. First: Who are you, exactly?”

“One of the repro dungeon masters for the Glittering Depths. I was born a few years ago when the former master, who was a Kinder from this second floor, touched a dungeon master slime and made me. That Kinder soon went on to Candlepoint and got himself in the [Reincarnation] pool. I have no idea where he is now, or what he looks like. I am three years old by Veird sensibilities, but I have at least three decades of memories.”

Erick tried not to let his surprise show on his face, because he suddenly remembered Kinder. No wonder he thought the man was from Greensoil! Because the original man was from Greensoil. Or at least that’s what his application had said. Ah. Shit. Well. Erick’s Intelligence was failing him, obviously. The [Blessed Memory] in his Belt of Many functions was doing work, but it lagged behind the Script’s Intelligence.

Erick moved on. “The second condition is that you tell me why you’re doing this; why you’re trying to get me to move on faster.” Erick said, “The real reason.”

“… That is complicated, and I will not tell you anything in that direction until I can trust you.” He put his hand over his chest, and pledged, “On my honor and under the eyes of the Dark, and Atunir, I mean you no harm with this deal. The majority of my wish in offering this deal is to get you out of the second floor, so that you do not make any more people here real, and to help you accomplish whatever it is you want to accomplish, while mitigating all the disaster that a dragon like yourself can cause inside these Glittering Depths.”

Shadows moved underfoot, and all around.

Neither Kinder nor Erick acknowledged them more than a simple glance to the ground.

“That works for me.” Erick nodded, then said, “One last thing: Where was the Artillery Archmage on this floor?”

“You killed him already. He was at the fourth camp.” With pointed sarcasm, Kinder said, “People aren’t usually capable of turning a bolter into some sort of grand artillery spell.”

Erick smirked at that.

“Yeah yeah. Keep smirking.” Kinder said, “If your purpose in coming in here was to be incognito, you failed that miserably. You’re at the top of the Decoration board, now. 4200 Decoration! Clarice is only at 3450, and she’s been there for a year. So congratulations on that.”

“Your words are appreciated.”

Kinder sighed. “Will you accept my proposal? Will you come to the sixth floor directly, and leave my poor dungeon alone?”

“Can I come back to these other floors later?”

“As long as you promise not to spend any more than a day or two on any floor except the sixth. The sixth floor is the City Restored, and all the people there have become fully cognizant, so there’s no danger of people staying too long down there.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. “You have a False Society here?!”

And if Erick was understanding the man correctly, it was a False Society that wasn’t really ‘false’ anymore.

“We’d prefer not to use that term, since we’re as real of a society as any other.” Kinder smirked this time. “But, yes. The City Restored is a bit of the Old Cosmology, restored to life and prospering the way Atunir intended, and kept as secret as we can. I’ll give you a small tour when we get there, if only to ensure that you won’t bring the problems of Veird and Greensoil down into our little Utopia.” He lost his smirk. “If you prove problematic, then you will be exiled from the dungeon, Ashes Woodfield.”

“… Sure. I can agree to that.” Erick gestured forward. “Lead the way.”

Kinder led the way down into the white tunnel.

Erick followed, tracking dirt and black blood onto white stone.

He didn’t know that there was a False Society down here. He did know there had been a place for delvers to congregate and live, but an actual False Society was a big deal. That was what Quilatalap was charged with creating in Storm’s Edge, and the Freelands had a False Society in their Grand Dungeon, too. There were no real laws against them, but False Societies could very easily be abused and controlled by the people who created them, like what had happened in the Freelands.

Gods, that had been a mess and a half.

The door to the second floor closed behind Erick, and far down the hallway, the white walls opened up into another portal. The sun shone in that space beyond that opening…

Erick asked, “Is it Iben restored? The City Restored, I mean. Not any part of Riam, I hope.”

Kinder paused, then looked at Erick. And then he relaxed. “Ah.” He turned and faced forward, and kept walking down the hall. “You know the true name of our Utopia. Either you overheard it from someone who should not have shared that name, you spied rather well, or you have truly had some [Witness]-able experiences. I am even more sure that it’s the third option.”

“I have seen some memories of the goddess, yes,” Erick admitted, as he followed at Kinder’s side.

“… And you say it so easily, too. And your staff is the wrong shape...” Kinder sighed. “You dragons always screw up my dungeon. Always getting into places you shouldn’t go and triggering things you shouldn’t trigger. It’s that mana you keep in your core, you know? You let it out into this space, and it touched off chain reactions everywhere. If you had come into this dungeon without your core then you could have proceeded normally, and I wouldn’t have had to interrupt your journey of discovery of The Goddess.” He said to the air, “Apologies, Atunir.”

Erick got the conversation back on track. “So? Riamites?”

Kinder debated with himself exactly how he wanted to answer that question. “… There are very few Riamites still living in the City, and you will treat them as well as you would treat anyone else, or else you will be removed from Utopia.”

“… And they didn’t try to blow up the place?”

Kinder waved away that concern. “You will be also removed from Utopia if I find you interacting badly with the orcols, or dragonkin, or incani, or otherwise. Utopia is a home for everyone, no matter where they are from. This is a place of peace, and is as close to Atunir’s Heaven as we mortals can get. You will respect that.”

“… It’s not just a human dungeon?” Erick suddenly asked, “Greensoil cannot be happy about that.”

“We deal with them just as we deal with you; peacefully, and hopefully in only positive ways. But we will kick you out if we don’t like you, so please get along with everyone else, as best you can.”

Kinder was still nervous about being around Erick, which showed that he had known about Erick this whole time.

… Or at least he had known about ‘Ashes’ being a dragon. He probably didn’t know about ‘Ashes’ being Erick. If he did, this conversation would have gone a lot differently. The threats, even as light and as understandable as they were, would not have happened.

Erick had gone with the flow and ignored the small threats to keep the peace, and since he didn’t see any reason to stop doing that, he said, “Completely understandable. I don’t foresee myself doing anything untoward to anyone. I do foresee myself working with mana crystals, though.”

Kinder nodded. “We have more than enough space for you to have your own little nook of land, for all your mana crystal experimental needs. You’ll have to do that outside the city limits, though, for the safety of everyone else. One final thing: The name of the city is Utopia, if you didn’t already pick that up. Not ‘Iben’. Keep that name to yourself… Though there are places in the city that you can visit to speak freely with others there. I’m sure those experiences might be enlightening.”

Erick smiled a little as he nodded. “Sounds good to me.”

They reached the end of the hallway.

Kinder led the way through the portal, onto a white cliff, in the sunshine. Erick followed—

Right into dense, normal-levels of mana.

