Erick’s All Stat rings had been a revolution in enchanting when he had worked out how to make those work, and these things could be another revolution in enchanting when he figured out how to get mana crystals like these on Veird… If that would even work!

Anticipation and excitement trilled through Erick’s chest. He was excited for a lot of reasons.

“And I have claimed the number one spot on the Most Decorated rankings!”

That should get Clarice Icewind’s attention. No need to go chasing her down to ask her about her experiences [Witness]ing this dungeon if she came to him.

But for now! It was time to test his new loadout, and then go clean up some corruption in this garden. Maybe he’d get the quest completion for making a ‘weapon to end the war’ once he actually ended the war in this location…

“Or maybe this new staff is shit!” Erick laughed.

No way to know without testing!

- - - -

Erick stood behind the parapets at the top of the wall that surrounded all of Marii’s castle. He had thought he might have been alone, but even up here the place was crowded. Probably because it allowed a certain amount of individual space, as long as one watched out and called out problems before they could threaten the castle. That had happened a few times since Erick and his refugees had arrived here earlier in the day, and Marii had been quick to action each time, doing whatever it was she had to do to ensure the castle remained impregnable. Or at least that’s what Erick had gathered after the fact. Erick had never felt the movement of the castle to a different hill, or illusion magics activating, or even heard any of those battles at all.

Whatever spellwork Marii had in this place was either very, very good, or the dungeon was cheating with those attacks and making this a ‘safe zone’. Erick was going to look into all of that later. It’d be a lot easier to defend certain places if those places moved around at the drop of a hat!

Anyway.

Erick felt the wind brush through his hair as he gazed out across the land. Marii’s castle was at the top of a hill —one of six— that overlooked… Nothing, really. For maybe ten or fifteen kilometers around, as far as Erick could see, all there were were low hills, and a lot of corpses.

Far to the west lay a lot of burning places, with black smoke drifting into the dim blue sky. To the north lay mountains, though Erick could only guess at how far away those were. Erick guessed that he could ‘complete’ floor 2 by spending a month escaping this place and going to those mountains, to meet up with the real resistance, but Erick wasn’t going to do that.

He was going to fight.

Erick placed the jeweled end of his cane-sized staff against his right shoulder, then he put his hands upon the engraved length of the weapon and looked down the top of the weapon, down the sight. He lined up the front sight of the weapon, just above the very end of the staff, and turned his gaze to a target on the… hill down below…

No targets down there at all. The hillside was clean of all obstructions, which of course it was. No one wanted obstructions around a defensive location. People could hide behind those obstructions, and that was the opposite of being safe.

Eventually, Erick set down his staff and walked around the rim of the castle, looking for—

Ah.

A boulder. It was completely buried and served more as a flat expanse of the hillside than any sort of real target. But it would do. One end of the boulder was wider than the other, and the whole thing sat maybe 120 meters away, down on the side of the hill.

Erick set his staff against his shoulder, took aim, and said, “Fire.”

An imperceptible spot of Force and darker magics spat from the end of the staff and instantly struck the boulder on the skinny end. The staff made no sound at all, but the impact on the boulder sent a rapid grouping of ‘spack-crack-tap-tap-spack’ into the air. It was the sound of a handful of pellets from a pellet gun all hitting stone at almost the same moment.

There was no visible damage upon the stone. Maybe a few dark spots, but nothing else truly visible.

That was by design, though. The spell that came out of this artifact was not meant to injure non living things.

Erick shot quite a few more targets, getting a feel for his range and his accuracy and testing out how the staff fired through a simple tap of his aura, instead of a verbal command; it worked as well as all his other items.

A head-sized, distant rock got several marks, while the grass around it remained fine. The flat boulder got even more dots. It was only when Erick shot a particularly large lump of grass, that the true capabilities of the weapon appeared, causing a minor explosion and leaving a divot in the hillside.

That was just the effect on grass, though. The weapon wasn’t meant to kill grass. It was meant for much bloodier targets.

Erick kept firing.

The staff’s accuracy was rather phenomenal for up to 250 meters, with a rather steady decline after that. Targeting was impossible if Erick did not have a clear target in mind when shooting, and if his aim wasn’t rather close to where he was trying to hit. The staff had a minor amount of course correction —Bolt was the basis for this staff, after all— but the speed of the strike was so much that Erick’s aim needed to be rather close, or else the shot wouldn’t be able to curve fast enough to hit the target. The sights were not just for show.

Erick would have preferred some more practice with the weapon before he took it into an actual fight, but there was no time for that, apparently.

For Kinder had been poking his head out from the door at a tower near the wall for about half an hour now. He had pulled back every time Erick almost looked his way, too. The man was not plotting something, as far as Erick could tell; he was nervous about something, and he had no idea how to approach.

Erick felt he had gotten good enough with the staff to stop, and he had finally had enough of Kinder’s whatever-he-was-doing, so Erick called out to the man, “Kinder!”

There was no movement in the doorway.

“Kinder,” Erick repeated. “Get out here.”

… Kinder slowly stepped out, into the light. He stood tall and nervous, as he said, “Uh. Don’t mean to interrupt your time, but we could all use more food?”

Erick blinked a bit, and then he looked out across the land. The sunstone was getting kinda close to the horizon, wasn’t it? Ah. Well. Quilatalap wasn’t the only one who could get lost in his work.

And so, Erick took the Wand of [Drinking Food] out of his fanny pack on his lower back. “I guess it has been a few hours, hasn’t it.” He walked over and handed the wand to Kinder, asking, “Can you use it yourself? I unattuned it earlier.”

Kinder’s eyes went wide. “I could not take that from you, sir—”

Erick set his staff down and rummaged around for the Wand of [Rejuvenation], and then he tried to hand that over, too, saying, “I unattuned both of them.” Kinder wasn’t taking them, and he kept trying to say that he couldn’t possibly have that honor, so Erick grabbed the man’s right hand and slapped both wands into his hand, saying, “You get to feed and heal the people here, Kinder.” Erick pulled away, too fast for Kinder to refuse. “I’ve got other things to do.”

Kinder looked at the wands in his hand and great big tears began to fall. His voice cracked, as he said, “I can do this, sir! Leave it to me!”

Erick chuckled a little. “Good. Now where is Scout?” He picked his staff back up. “Unless you know of a better way to find the enemies out there?”

“Scout will want to work with you, but I think Architect Marii has some mapping magic, too.”

“Good man. Take me to it.”

- - - -

The sunstar dipped down toward the horizon, casting the hilly grasslands into deep shadows. Erick waited down in those deep shadows, at the bottom of a hill, crouched near stinking bodies and slippery gore. The shadows around him were thick, his bracelet of [Hidden Wind] keeping them that way, obscuring most of his body, while his eyes and sight lines remained unaffected.

Scout seemed completely unaffected by Erick’s hiding magics, too. She dropped out of the air three meters off to the side from Erick, bent low to the ground, already whispering, “Enemy spotted.” She pointed. “450 meters, that way.”

“Good. Stay out of the fight. If I fall, then return back to Marii’s, otherwise rejoin with me after the threat is gone.”

Scout wordlessly vanished back into the wind, her feet barely making a sound or a sight as she hopped away, and then paused near the bodies. As she stilled, she went completely invisible.

Erick broke his own near-invisibility by getting to his feet and stepping forward, up the hill. It was not a single step; it was ten, all at once, and effortlessly, all for the cost of one mana. Erick had almost fallen down several times when he first started using this ‘windstepping’, but he had gotten used to it fast enough. It was almost like using [Silent Movement], that Health-costing skill of the Script, but different, because [Silent Movement] cost 1 Health per meter moved; not one mana per step.

One mana was a pretty low price, Erick thought, as he sailed through the air, stepping lively, rushing up the side of the grassy lowlands. He stuck in the shadows, keeping away from the absolute tops of the hills as he made his way forward, toward the enemy.

In most situations, Erick would try to talk to these NPCs, to change the narrative in this dungeon, but the enemy here was way too strong and dedicated to ever give up the fight. Not when they were winning, anyway.

Maybe if Erick killed enough of them the remaining ones would surrender. That might be nice.

Erick barely crested the hill and saw the enemy camp. He fell into a crouch, letting the shadows crawl around him as he began to move much slower. If this [Hidden Steps] bracelet had some sort of ongoing cost for when Erick wasn’t actively using its stepping function, then that cost was too small to be noticed.

The camp had three stone towers at the top of a hill, along with a stone wall all the way around. It had been Shaped, for sure. The whole thing was maybe a hundred meters in diameter, and well defended. Several red-tabarded soldiers stood behind parapets on the walls, but only two of those wall-patrolling soldiers actually had eyes on the darkened land around the camp. Most of the people on the walls had eyes pointed inward, watching whatever was happening in the courtyard, roaring approval and making snide remarks at whatever was happening just beyond Erick’s sight—

A cheer broke the night, as some metal clashed with something wooden—

Someone screamed out for mercy, their voice echoing in the twilight, and then came silence and a grand roar of approval from the butchers of the camp. Even the people looking out into the dark had to turn their heads to the interior of the camp, to see what was happening.

Erick hoisted his ‘gun’ and set the gem pommel and silver handle against his shoulder. Once again, he tried to visualize what would happen if he went up to these NPCs and asked them to surrender peacefully. Would they be willing to end this war here and now? To go away, and never return?

That probably wouldn’t work out so well.

And worse, it would give away Erick’s moment of surprise.

Erick took aim at a guy on the wall; the one who was calling for the next prisoner to be brought forth.

There was no need to ask his weapon to ‘Fire!’. All it took was a tap of intent to trigger the weapon.

The business end of the staff sent out a trailing ripple of a mirage; the Bolt moving too fast and too quietly to be known before it hit.

And the man’s head exploded, followed fast by his chest, and then his upper arms. The detonation ended there. The crowd was still cheering as the caller for more blood turned into little more than a popped balloon of blackened blood himself.

Erick popped another three red-tabarded soldiers before the camp really understood what was happening, and even then, many people made the fatal mistake of staying on the walls, to try and see what was killing them. It wasn’t a very good response.

Ten kills and less than 5 seconds later, Erick repositioned; he pulled back, going backward, further out of sight, before he circled around and came up the other side of the encampment. By the time he was in position again, the hornet’s nest was thoroughly kicked. Red tabarded people hovered in the air, surrounded by thin shields that seemed to hold them aloft, as they swept spotlights all over the lands outside of their encampment.

Erick took aim at the nearest hovering woman. He fired. The translucent bubble popped as several pellets of magic cracked the Forceful surface. A lot of the attack was thwarted, but one of the scattering Bolts touched the mage inside, on her arm. That arm exploded in black blood as blackening Decay rapidly spread through the rest of the mage. The soldier dropped like a dead bird, right out of the sky.

Three minutes later, Erick had killed enough floating mages to force the camp to change tactics. They knew where he was now, though. The front gates opened, and soldiers rushed out of the encampment, surrounded by shields, aiming toward Erick, swords raised and magic empowering them with speed.

There was no Script Second inside the Glittering Depths, though, which was pretty interesting, from a resource perspective. Erick could theoretically have burned through his entire 2000 mana staff in a matter of moments, if he wanted. But since they only sent seven people rushing down at Erick, there in the shadows, it only cost Erick 450 mana and a few seconds to aim properly, at arms holding up swords, at legs below shields, at anything fleshy at all, to take down the entire grouping.

None of them had any Health at all, and even then, Erick was pretty sure that his staff would cut through that rather well. The only real defense against these supercharged Blood, Decay, Angry Benevolence, multipronged burrowing Bolts, was a thick layer of metal, or stone.

… And that seemed to be the majority of the camp?

Erick wasn’t sure, but he had time to kill and lots of enemies elsewhere, so he waited for [Meditation] to refill his weapon.

And then he [Hidden Step]ed toward the encampment, fast as he could, before circling around it again and stepping up off the hillside, easily leaping several vertical meters to land on the wall. Just like he suspected, there was one major enemy remaining. Erick’s reaction was fast enough for him to send a quick salvo at the enemy down below, before it could do anything worse than it had already done.

