Half an hour after he began the wax sculpture, that part of the process was done. After setting the wax with spurs and vents, to allow metal to flow in while letting air escape, Erick plunged the staff and all of its little parts into a slurry of quick-set plaster. He set the thing to dry inside a hooded drying station, where all Erick had to do was flick a switch on the wall and air rushed through the chamber, pulling out all moisture with it. Five minutes later, Erick pulled the cast back out of the drying hood, plunged it back into the plaster slurry, and then poured dry sand from a large tub over the wet mold. When it was good and sandy, Erick put it back in the dryer. He repeated this process three times, growing the shell of plaster around the mold deeper and deeper, until the original sniper staff’s shape was lost to the layers of sand and plaster surrounding it.

While it dried one more time, and did not crack, Erick smiled a little, enjoying the act of creation, as he grabbed a crucible from the furnace supplies. That crucible went into the open-top furnace, and Erick shut the lid before he flicked another switch. Fire burned brightly all around the crucible, casting red light into the room. Another flick of another switch turned on the heat vents, and some of the heat of the furnace shunted outside.

Three minutes later, the crucible was red hot, and Erick stuck the broken Staff of the Anti-Magus into the container. That would sit for a while before it started to melt.

Erick had time to go put the dried wax mold into the mold furnace, which is what he did next, turning it upside down and setting it inside. The mold furnace had a window in the front, so as Erick flicked the switch on that machinery, he watched the wax melt out of the container, into a bucket below the furnace, clearing out the mold. The mold would have to fully burn out, to remove all the wax inside, so Erick kept an eye on it while he went back to the metal furnace.

The staff was just beginning to melt down, into the crucible.

Erick grabbed some tongs and ensured that the melt went into the container without spilling.

Not too long now, and he’d have the base weapon.

Everything went off without a hitch. The staff melted down perfectly, making a molten puddle of silver metal inside the hot crucible. The mold burned out properly, leaving behind an empty space for Erick to fill with the silver metal. With some large tongs and some careful maneuvering, Erick grabbed the hot mold, and set the mold into a pouring space recessed into the ground to prevent catastrophic spills. If the mold should break, then it would break down there, and not spill out over the workshop floor.

It had taken Erick two hours of rather slow, manual work to get to this point, but everything went quickly in the last minute.

Erick grabbed some heavy tongs that were suspended from the ceiling, to help offset the weight of metal projects, then he popped open the furnace, secured the crucible in the tongs, and he levered the molten metal out. Burning heat filled the air, but Erick had on a facemask and some workshop pants and armguards. He wasn’t used to needing to use tools to survive heat like this, but it was what it was.

He looked down into the crucible. There appeared to be no contaminants in the metal to skim off the top, so Erick went right to pouring that metal into the heated mold. As liquid metal flowed into the mold it burbled and spat, but it settled down into the cavity, and held.

And the mold did not break.

Erick smiled as he began putting everything away and cleaning up all the messes he had made, as the sniper staff cooled in its container.

You couldn’t make magical metals like this on Veird; magical metals needed to be carefully handled there, without allowing them to turn molten at any point in the process, for if a magical metal turned molten, then they lost all magical power. Celesteel became normal platinum. Prismasteel became normal platinum. A lot of magical metals became normal platinum when they turned molten.

So you had to work magical metals carefully; cold forging as much as you could.

If there was anything specifically different that Glittering Depths was doing in order to be called a ‘Second Script’, it was this ability for metal to retain its magical, conductive properties, after being heated to a molten state. In fact, the only way to truly change the function of a bit of meta-iron was to do what Erick was doing right now, and burn out all that had come before.

At least that’s what Erick figured would happen, based on clues here and there.

Otherwise, as with Erick’s Rod of the Lightning Guardian, if he applied any sort of mana to the staff at all, then it would just revert to its broken shape. Which would be bad, when he wanted to make a whole weapon.

Erick was probably too eager to bust open the mold, but it was cool enough after twenty minutes of resting. So he used the hanging tongs to grab the filled mold and toss it into the water bath. Steam burst out of the bath as sand and plaster boiled away from the metal inside. Five more minutes after that, Erick used the hanging tongs to grab the metal out of the water and shake off the bits of plaster and sand, stuck here and there along the sniper staff’s length. Then he threw the ‘staff’ back into water, to cool it off enough to work with.

Several minutes later, Erick pulled the metal out of the water and got to work with some heavy brushing from a cow-hair bristle comb. That removed most of the rest of the surface shit. Over the next half hour, Erick used some heavy duty clippers to break away the spurs and vents from the staff, and some grinding wheels to knock off other non-staff objects from the surface of the creation. Some more grinding refined the look of the whole thing.

It was still kinda warm when Erick was 90% finished with it.

The ‘staff’ was 110 centimeters in overall length, and shaped mostly like a very large wand. It had a 2 centimeter wide pointed end, followed by a gentle increase to a 3 centimeter wide top end, capped off with a faceted silver-ball top. A curved handle extended from the side of the staff, just before the faceted top, making it look quite a lot like a cane… So maybe Erick should have been calling it a cane in his head this whole time.

Some decorative runes started around halfway up the length of the weapon and continued upward, to adorn the handle with the words: ‘REPENT ALL SINNERS AND BE SPARED’.

The whole working wasn’t too fancy, and maybe Erick had gone too far in with that lettering, but it felt correct, and so he had done it. There was no achievement notification from the dungeon, though. Which was fine. It wasn’t even a real weapon yet.

Erick tapped his Ring of [Identify] across the nascent artifact.

Primed Staff of Power (depleted), unattuned artifact, ~/500

Erick hefted the cane in his hands, spun it around a little to feel the balance, gripped the handle and then pointed it at the wall, and played around with it a bit more.

It would serve.

Erick divested himself of every metiron he had except for his [Meditation] necklace and his new staff, and then he grabbed a bunch of stuff including the metamonds he had made earlier, and went to the mana chamber.

- - - -

Erick stood off-center of the mana chamber, holding his staff outward, channeling perfectly clear Force mana into the length of runed silver.

The mana that the dungeon assigned to him was Benevolence-flavored, so it wouldn’t work for all sorts of magic. But that was fine. Erick had been Mana Altering manually for a while, for the Script did almost this exact same thing with ‘assigning mana’, so all it took was a hum of a Forceful nature and a bit of normal aura control, and the staff in his hands had begun pumping Force into the chamber.

It looked like mirage ripples filling the air, and felt like being in a stuffy room.

Rather quickly after Erick started, focusing circles lit on every interior wall and began collecting that Forceful mana into the center of the room. That act of collection reminded Erick of a reverse-ripple in a pond.

When the mana in the chamber reached saturation, Erick was finally able to extend his aura past his body, to reach into that collection space in the center. He already had a fair number of meta-diamonds that would serve as the basis of his sniper staff, but he still needed to prime the staff.

His first act of creation was to tickle the mana in the center into forming a mana crystal that he had already made once.

A little hum of Force, a Forceful touch of aura, and Erick created a sculpture of mana shaping, and distant intent. It was simple gridwork spellwork that took but a moment to stabilize inside his controlling aura. When it finally looked correct, Erick slowly pulled his aura back, allowing the ripples of mana in the air to actually coalesce.

A dollop of a gem held in the air, floating on ripples of Force.

Erick plucked it out of the air with a tap of his aura and the gem fell into his waiting hand. He activated his Ring of [Identify].

Long Bolt, instant, long range, 5 mana

A bolt unerringly strikes a distant target.

Erick grinned. Yes. This was correct.

His staff was already filled with power, so Erick put the gem he had created back into the floating center of the chamber. And then he poked it with his staff.

The gem slipped into the shooting tip of the staff, and then barreled all the way down the length of it, before coming to rest inside the faceted top, near the handle. It surfaced atop one of those facets, but mostly remained under the silver metiron, like a white gem floating in a pool of mercury.

Erick [Identify]ed the staff.

Staff of the [Long Bolt], attuned artifact, 250/250

Shoot an unerring bolt at a distant target, dealing minimal damage. 5 mana per bolt.

Erick smiled.

It wasn’t much to look at now, and the maximum capacity of the staff had gone down, but that would change soon enough.

Erick created a second [Long Bolt] gem and joined that one to his staff, to join the [Long Bolt] already inside the artifact.

Staff of the [Improved Long Bolt], attuned artifact, 275/275

Shoot an unerring bolt at a distant target, dealing minimal damage. 7 mana per bolt.

Ahh…

That was good.

This was probably going to work.

But first, Erick broke the gems he had created inside the staff. Force mana filled the air, some of it going back into the staff itself, and some trying to recollect in the center of the mana chamber. Erick held that Force back, preventing it from reforming, as he [Identify]ed the staff.

Staff of Controlled Power (depleted), attuned artifact, 500/500

“Mana crystals are kinda odd!” Erick said, chuckling.

Erick wasn’t exactly sure how mana crystals worked like they did, or why the capacitance of the staff jumped around like that, but he could certainly do some experiments to find out! He’d probably have to do more experiments with [Identify], too, since that spell was always an odd one. Under the Script, an [Identify] usually produced mental feedback, informing the caster of the target’s nature based on one’s own understanding of the [Identify]ed target. But this [Identify] was producing results in the air, for all to see…

Sure, you could do that with [Identify], too, but the Glittering Depths seemed to only have this visual option. Erick wondered what would happen if he did that Book Magic sort of [Identify]-on-dungeon-cores magic that Quilatalap had taught him the other week.

He’d have to do that, sometime.

But for now, Erick turned his focus to one problem at a time, and aura controlled the rippling Force in the center of the room, turning it back into a [Long Bolt]. The [Long Bolt] went into the staff, forming the base for what was to come…

- - - -

An hour later, Erick exited the mana chamber with his new weapon in his hands.

With this weapon, he was far above the 10/10 metiron cap of the Glittering Depths, so he had some reorganizing to do. He was keeping the staff, of course. This thing had turned out better than Erick could have hoped.

Staff of Absolution, attuned artifact, 2000/2000

Trim the garden, so that all may grow stronger in the absence of corruption. 50 mana per activation.

Strong spells in the Script usually resulted in blue boxes that were more evocative than truly descriptive. Apparently, [Identify] in the Glittering Depths suffered from the same sort of nebulousness.

The overall shape of the staff was the same as it had been pre-imbuing, but now the faceted-metal head of the ‘cane’ had turned into an iridescent rainbow gem, covered in wrapping metal that almost formed a butt of a hunting rifle. It had no trigger, but it did have a sight. That sight was little more than a protrusion at the firing end, and another protrusion part of the way down from the handle.

As for the rest of his gear…

Erick moved some stuff around on the tables outside the mana chambers, and began narrowing down what he truly wanted to wear, and have. All the excess junk went into a chest in the room beside the mana chamber room. He did keep the two utility wands he had made, but they went into his fanny pack; unattuned. If needed, he could switch out those items later.

And this was his loadout, now.

“Status,” Erick said.

- -

Ashes Woodfield (9 saves remaining)

Health: 1000/1000

MP per day: 8500

Meta-Irons: 3700, 0 in storage

Meta-Diamonds: 10/10, 0 in storage

Rod of the Lightning Guardian, 1000/1000

Staff of Absolution, 2000/2000

Breastplate of [Regenerating Health], 250/250

Bracelet of [Hidden Wind], 100/100

Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation], 100/100

Necklace of [Meditation], 50/50

Ring of [Identify] 50/50

Belt of Many Functions, [Blessed Memory], [Eternal Benediction], [Benediction of the Unseen], 50/50, 50/50, 50/50

Unused Meta-Irons: Wand of [Drinking Food] ~/200, Wand of [Regeneration] ~/100

Unused Meta-Diamonds: [Murky], [Flaming Ooze]

- -

He wanted to keep the Shield of [Reflection], but he was tight for room, so his Ring of [Identify] won out in the end, and mostly because all this stuff was so much different than what Erick was used to seeing out on Veird.

Like the Breastplate of [Regenerating Health]! That just wasn’t possible on Veird under normal circumstances... Or maybe it was! Erick didn’t know. Magic items on Veird constantly degraded, especially if they got used regularly and moved around all the time. Even Erick’s Gates needed replacing occasionally, when some odd magics happened around them, disrupting the flow of power inside them and causing a catastrophic rusting.

The spells in his belt were another anomaly. They were like permanent self-auras, and they didn’t break from constant use, like all other highly-mobile enchantments usually broke.

