Erick’s mind caught up to his action a fraction of a second later, as he watched his spellwork impact a monster. For a moment, the thing in the center of the camp was a towering man, with the lower half of a spider and two sets of arms, with each hand filled with a different weapon; a sword, a mace, a shield, and a wand. It was an ugly fucker, with bony growths poking out of every hard edge of its body. All of that was bad enough, but the existence of a clearly-intelligent monster was an odd enough thing to see that Erick might have tried to talk to it, if it hadn’t already tried to attack him.

And it had a red tabard on, and it was in the middle of committing horrors, so the results of that talk were already a foregone conclusion. Plus, it was already attacking him, too. It had pointed that wand in its hand at Erick.

A stream of bright red fire lanced from that wand, threatening to take off Erick’s head, or slice him into halves.

Erick shot off another tap of his own weapon, from the hip.

As Erick dodged the fire, the abomination in the center of camp exploded into blackened gore.

Black gore rained down all around the decaying body of the monster humanoid, and Erick strained his actual senses, trying to hear or see if there were other people in the camp. He still had some mana sense, but that personal skill wasn’t that great down here, when his range was only 10 meters and the truly dangerous enemies had ways of making themselves invisible to his senses.

… Nothing else attacked him, though.

Erick took another step, and another, checking out the areas nearby. A quick walk around the walls of the camp was enough to show that he had killed everyone that needed killing.

“… I think that’s the last of them,” Erick said, daring the dungeon to throw a surprise monster at him.

… No surprise monster came forth.

So that was one camp mostly done! Wasn’t too bad.

There was only one fly in this ointment: Erick had felt, when he saw those soldiers cheering for the deaths of people inside the camp, where Erick could not see, that there were people down here, suffering, just out of sight. And he had been right.

Three bodies in blue tabards lay in the center of the camp. They were burned and bloody, and very dead. Erick suspected that they had been executed in a gladiatorial sort of way; set against the abomination for the pleasure of the Riam soldiers, though he had no real way to confirm or deny that happening right now; he would be [Witness]ing later, but he doubted he would get any temporally local answers in that [Witness]. At least these blue tabarded people had died fighting, unencumbered by manacles.

Two more people in blue tabards, with their arms and legs locked together in irons, sat in cages to the side of the courtyard.

Erick went and grabbed the keys hanging beside the cages and began freeing the blues. Aside from dirt and small wounds suffered from being captured, both of them looked healthy enough to make it to Architect Marii’s on their own—

As soon as the first of the blue tabards was free and outside the cage, the man suddenly stood straight, and stated, “Thank you for the rescue, sir. I am a healer. Where should I go?”

Before Erick could formulate a response to the pure oddity of the man’s sudden change in demeanor—

The woman did almost the exact same thing, clearly stating, “Thank you for the rescue, sir. I am a cook. Where should I go?”

“… Can you two make it to Architect Marii’s without me?”

The two of them saluted, bowed, and then began jogging out of the courtyard—

“Wait!” The two people paused, and Erick rapidly added, “Take what you want from this camp before you go back to Marii’s. Loot, treasure. Whatever. Use it to keep both of yourselves safe on the trip.”

The man and the woman instantly changed course. The man went to what was left of the abomination, and then he tracked down the wand that was hiding in the dirt under some blackened gore. The woman went to a chest beside a tent near a tower to retrieve a necklace and a dagger.

And that was all the blue tabards cared to take from the camp. The man and woman jogged to the entrance to the camp and threw open the doors.

Erick watched them go for a moment—

Camp Cleared!

Push back Riam’s abominable forces. 1/4

MP up! +1000 mana production per day!

Create a devastating spell to change the course of war. 1/1

MP up! +5000 mana production per day!

“… Okay then. That works.” Erick looked at his staff. “You worked out rather well… Still kinda a prototype, though.” The meter-ish long length of inscripted metal seemed to almost glow gold in the light of campfires and twilight sky. The gem in the hilt radiated prismatic light, seeming to swirl with an inner promise of more to come. “… I could do better, though. Larger magazine. Stronger against Force shields. Stronger overall? Maybe include some Tricking Magic to simply erase shields, but that would increase the cost per shot—”

Scout appeared from the shadows. “Sir. I have located the next camp.” She pointed off to the side. “That way. 25 minutes of Stepping. Shall we proceed?”

Erick looked at Scout. All of those words of hers were rather well put together, compared to how she had been earlier in the floor.

… Even compared to an hour ago, when Erick first started this hunting project.

Hmm.

“Leave me and come back in five minutes.”

Scout bowed and then vanished backward, into the air and shadow, her feet barely touching the ground as she hopped away fast as she normally moved.

Erick turned his attentions to the thin manasphere, to see if he could [Witness]—

- - - -

Ashes stood amidst the gore of a well-made hilltop camp.

He had cleared out the entire place by himself. All five towers, the inner keep, the ambushes waiting in the double-curtain wall. All of it, cleared by his hand, and the weapon he had been tinkering with for the last decade, but which only really evolved into what it was in the last five years. It was a great success.

Over 250 soldiers dead at his hand, in less than half an hour. The abominations took little more time than that, and only really required better positioning. Those newest monsters of Riam lay splattered across the stone ground of the camp, their multiple arms and legs and heads scattered everywhere, giving the impression that Ashes had killed well over 20 half-giants. But no, they were just abominations; people turned monstrous and in a controlled way, by Riam.

The abominations had been Riam’s response to Insten’s Resistance, and to all dissenters of Riam, but they had only really seen war in the last twenty years. They weren’t invincible, but they were battlefield juggernauts. And now they were last century’s trash, for Ashes had created the solution to them, and to the common soldiery.

The solution to all of Insten’s problems.

Ashes flexed his grip on his staff and the giant mana crystal at the top brightened with his will to power, sending iridescent glows down the entire length of the staff, illuminating well-laid pleas to the good divines of the universe, or whoever might be listening out there. The entire weapon was as tall as he was, but the shadow it cast upon history would be a lot larger. With this, they would throw off the enemy and restore Insten to self-governance.

The pleas to the gods were probably a bit much, in Ashes’s opinion, but some gods liked that sort of thing. Sumtir, the god of war, was probably watching right now. Ashes had no idea if that guy was good for Insten or not, so Ashes hadn’t inscribed Sumtir’s specific prayers on the staff at all. Just general stuff, really. But deep stuff, too. Ashes had written down all his hopes for Insten onto this weapon, in the hopes that by killing with it, someone would notice, and help Insten throw off Riam.

Ashes had never been much of a religious man, for Insten had never truly had a patron god, but he had gained some appreciation for that stuff in recent years, and especially with the advent of Riam’s abominations.

For the abominations were some sort of evil god’s plan, for sure.

Ashes sighed into the stench of death and decay all around, muttering, “Gods, I hope Riam hasn’t actually fallen to the evil deities. That’d be a nightmare.”

Scout appeared out of the light and shadow, saying, “Sir.”

“Report, Scout.”

Scout nodded. “Since the prototype works, I must repeat the orders—” She corrected herself. “The suggestions of Command. Please return to the Mountain, and do not let the weapon fall into Riam’s hands.”

Ashes ignored that suggestion. “It’s a simple Bolter, Scout,” —a partial lie, but Ashes was fine with that sort of lie— “And it’ll break the second anyone else tries to use it. Built-in security.”

Scout withheld the rest of her words.

Ashes commanded, “Lead the way to the next base. We’re taking back the Plains.”

Scout saluted, and then pointed. “That way. 25 minutes of stepping. Shall we proceed?”

- - - -

Erick came back to himself.

Scout stood in front of him, awaiting orders.

Erick almost gave those orders, but he realized that instead of holding onto a cane, he was holding onto a gleaming silver staff. It was the one from the [Witness]; two meters tall, with a radiant, iridescent crystal nestled into a cage of silver at the top. Layers upon layers of writing adorned three-quarters of the length of the whole staff. Erick didn’t actually recognize most of that writing, which was kinda scary. The weapon still had a rifle-butt-like flange at the top, near the crystal, and a series of sights on the opposite side of that flange, but other than that...

Ah.

So.

Wizardry. Right.

Erick was pretty sure he had changed the staff into what it was. Somehow, someway, he had done that. With a twitch of intent, Erick had his Ring of [Identify] work its magic.

Staff of Divine Absolution, attuned greater artifact, 2500/2500

Trim the garden so that all may grow stronger in the absence of corruption. 75 mana per activation.

Erick nodded at those words.

And then he said to Scout, “Lead the way to the next camp.”

Scout saluted, then did as commanded.

Erick followed.

- - - -

Three hours later, Erick had killed three more camps, completed 11 more Rescue and Revenge quests in random patrols, and freed 12 more blue tabards along with 138 more normal people. He had completed the floor, and a portal had appeared at the completion of the fourth base, along with the words,

FLOOR TWO COMPLETE!

But Erick wasn’t done.

There was one place that Erick hadn’t visited yet, because nothing had pointed him that way. But now, he went that way on his own. He went to the Plains base.

The original base of the Resistance had been the size of a small city. It was now a wasteland that had been destroyed in artillery fire and quakes. Farmland burned in the night. Buildings toppled as mages prowled. Red-tabarded people excavated houses and stone fortresses, and killed whoever they found inside holes in the ground.

If this had been the real world, perhaps Erick would have arrived here, fresh off his execution of most of Riam’s forces in the field, to find these people holed up in whatever sorts of defenses they could erect out of the wreckage. They would have known that something was prowling in the dark and killing them all.

There was a bit of that, of course. One of the larger buildings, which looked like a slightly sloped cube with some towers on top, had red tabards draped down all four sides of the structure. That was the new base of Riam’s forces, and mages floated around that place, like guards watching the land around them.

But in all the rest of the Plains, the red tabards continued on their courses, slowly excavating the depths of the former Resistance base under spotlights from floating, bubbled mages, finding mana chambers and meta-resources, and capturing prisoners, if they felt like it. Mostly they just killed. They weren’t marshaling defenses against a rapidly approaching, unknown enemy. They were just working.

… Or maybe the Old Cosmology didn’t have [Telepathy], and grand organizational magics?

… No. They had to have had something equivalent to [Telepathy].

This was dungeon shenanigans keeping the enemy from organizing as a true army would organize.

Erick moved on. He estimated what he was seeing. Maybe a thousand people on the ground. A good 50 in the air, in bubbles and providing air support. Kinder had mentioned assassins at the beginning of the day, maybe 16 hours ago, so there were probably assassins hiding in the shadows, like him and Scout. And then there was the Artillery Archmage. Erick had not seen the Artillery Archmage at all… Probably. It was possible that Erick had utterly obliterated that caster in one of those previous camps out there, but… Maybe that mage was still alive, and here?

Somewhere in here.

Erick had technically already completed the floor. All of this here was extra. He suspected that a normal delver team would not assault this sort of location, because for a normal team to assault a place like this was to get killed. Erick was not a normal delver team, and his improved bolter was, quite frankly, completely overpowered for this world, or any world; even those worlds with Health.

Veird didn’t have bows or guns, because they had Bolts of all kinds, because it was easy to string together Bolt spell after Bolt spell to make something truly powerful, though mana costs ballooned a lot under the Script when one tried to do that sort of thing. Some people on Veird did go into ‘Bolt Magic’, but it was a rare sort of thing, because it took a lot to make Bolts into a truly damaging spell. But Erick had managed it.

Perhaps Ashes had managed it too, in the Old Cosmology.

… People shouldn’t have this much personal power, in his opinion. An auto-targeting explosion, decay, obliterating spell? Shouldn’t exist. But then again, perhaps the only reason Erick was holding onto this weapon right now was because he was a Wizard.

Wizards would always be an issue, in this world or any other. Which was fine. In those cases, it was up to people like Erick to ensure the safety of everyone else, and to ensure that no Wizard was able to ruin this world, or any other...

Erick sighed. He was delaying. He didn’t like killing, and so he was delaying.

He hurried up.

Erick lined his staff’s sights upon a mage in a bubble, hovering above the main base of Riamites. He didn’t have any zooming capability in his staff, but he didn’t need it, for he had plenty of ‘zoom’ on his [Eternal Benediction], inside his Belt of Many Functions. A flick of specific intent at his belt, and Erick’s eyes saw for kilometers, while his hands became as steady as the ground underfoot.

He lined up the shot.

He fired.

