He didn't exactly want to just hope the spell would evolve the way he wanted, though. Cale frowned, thinking. Akkau had talked about this once, he was pretty sure, the first time they'd spoken in his office.

"Damien, Leo," Cale said after a moment, getting their attention. "What do either of you know about the Gift's ability to combine spells?"

Flia's spell would help, but he needed one more addition. Cale grimaced a little. He hadn't liked [Auric Dominion] at all, the last time he'd cast that spell, and evolving a tenth-tier spell wasn't something he'd tried before.

Hopefully the Gift would be able to handle it.

Flia was once more lounging at the Brightscale Academy's menagerie.

Sort of. Lounging wasn't really the right word. She was hiding, because students weren't supposed to be here without any of the keepers around, and a first year student especially was not supposed to be here without supervision. Some part of her had considered asking for permission, but then she thought about the possibility that someone would say no, and she was tired of waiting.

She'd been waiting to understand her magic for too long already. Now that understanding stood just outside her grasp, right at the edges of her mind. Just a few more minutes here, among the magical creatures of Utelia, and she was certain she'd make the connection she needed—

—Flia yanked Sabri back a second before her shadeling could butt its head and try to eat one of the creatures in here again. Apparently something about nighttime and being in the cover of darkness made it significantly hungrier. She fed it yet another strip of raw, salted meat before it could make another attempt at one of the birds; Flia did not want to see what would happen if a shadeling tried to eat a firebird.

"No," she scolded quietly. "Nothing in here is for eating, understand?"

Sabri tilted its head adorably, and Flia groaned.

"Don't eat the birds," she said.

Sabri purred and butted its head against her hand.

"No. Not even if you're being cute. They're being kept here for a reason!" Flia whispered. "These are—they're all almost the last of their kind, you understand? Headmaster Akkau keeps them here because the mana needed to keep them alive isn't available anywhere else. It's the last preserve for a lot of them. If you eat them, there won't be any left, and that's..."

Flia trailed off. How could she even describe what that meant? Sabri looked at her, innocent and confused, and all Flia could think of to articulate her thoughts was that it was sad.

It didn't seem nearly enough.

It also didn't seem fair.

If Cale was any indication, the Great Realms were full of wonders and infinite possibility, so why did that infinite possibility include so many creatures that were the last of their kinds? How much had been lost already, in a world that should have been filled with wonder?

She stared up at the cages, thinking about where all these creatures must have once thrived.

Firebirds, she knew, once belonged within a magically active caldera, filled with blazing vines and strange, crystalline trees formed from volcanic rock. The beasts within spewed molten liquid that the firebirds consumed, giving them their glittering pelt.

There was a tiny ashquire sleeping in another cage. It was a tiny, ordinary-looking bat that apparently originated from the now-ruined moon that still hung above Utelia. When it was startled, it let out a little squeak, and turned into a streak of solid moonlight that strung itself across the sky.

Once, a whole flock of them would migrate between Utelia's moons each season, weaving patterns of silver light between them. Flia had read about it once, and mourned that she would never see it.

Every one of these cages held a similar story. None of them deserved this fate. Even with Akkau doing his best, they were trapped here—nowhere else on Utelia could support them.

Flia sighed, feeling suddenly powerless.

"...Let's go, Sabri," she murmured quietly. "Maybe this isn't happening tonight."

Sabri chirped and leapt up into her arms. Flia watched her familiar for a moment, a small smile making its way onto her face. She could make a difference sometimes, at least. Perhaps not for all of them, but she would act where it counted. That was what mattered.

Something within her stirred, and with almost too little fanfare for how long she'd been trying to make this work, the Gift's words flitted across her eyes.

You have awakened a fragment of the Law of What Lies Between and granted it a piece of your being.

You have learned [Spark of Those Left Behind]!

[Spark of Those Left Behind, Level MAX] [Personal (Unique), Auric Passive]

A fragment of a Monolith's Law can become many things. Yours has evolved into a Spark—the beginnings of a Law of your own—

Before she could finish reading it, the Gift's messages guttered out. Flia frowned and tried to call it up again, only for nothing to happen.

Outside, a storm began to howl. Flia stared at the lightning crackling over Utelia's seas.

Then she sighed. "Dammit, Cale," she muttered. "Now? There better be a good reason for this."
