“It was nice to meet you,” she said.

“Yes, you as well,” said Quel’Khulan. “And Elise, the Spy may contact you again in the future for assistance undoing the other seals.”

“Any time,” said Elise. “Good luck with whatever it is that you’re doing.”

“Thank you. And thank you again for freeing me. I won’t forget my promise.”

Elise smiled and nodded, and then Oberon put a hand on her shoulder, and together, the two fey walked away, leaving the enormous armored man alone in the clearing.

Quel’Khulan watched the two fey leave, smiling, but as soon as they left the range of his senses, his smile vanished and he drew his sword.

“Are you going to keep watching like a coward, or are you–?”

Before he could even finish his question, a woman appeared in front of him, floating in the air just high enough that she could look down on him. She was tall, with long black hair and yellow, slitted eyes. Her clothes were simple, and covered in crumbs and stained with grease, but her disheveled appearance could not hide her malevolent aura.

“You are quite bold to challenge a dragon,” she said.

“I have slain dozens of your kind.”

“Oh?” she asked. “And that makes you think you stand a chance against me?”

With that question, she flared her aether, and as it washed over him, Quel’Khulan’s face paled and his hands trembled.

“Wh– what?” he said. “How? How are you still in the mortal realm?”

“Why should I tell you? Unless you still want to challenge me. If you win, I’ll answer whatever questions you wish.”

Quel’Khulan rarely backed down from a fight, especially when his opponent was a dragon, but in this case, he knew he was outmatched. Even if all six of his comrades were present, he was not sure they could guarantee victory. It would be like trying to fight a god. Literally. The dragon before him was practically a demigod, somehow stopping her divine ascension midway. Still trembling, he sheathed his sword and raised his hands.

“And you called me a coward,” scoffed the dragon.

That made Quel’Khulan’s anger flare for a moment, but he did not change his stance. He would not allow such a petty provocation get the best of him. Especially not when it was his own petty provocation thrown back at him.

“My apologies,” he said. “I should not have said that.”

“Hmph.”

“Might I ask… why you are here? And why you were watching me?”

“I was not watching you. I was watching Elise. She is my… Hmmm… I don’t know how to describe it. She is under my protection.”

“I see.”

“But you are quite interesting,” she said. “You asked me how I am still in the mortal realm, but I could ask the same of you. I might, if I hadn’t heard your conversation earlier. But now, I know exactly why you haven’t ascended. It’s the same reason as mine.”

Quel’Khulan’s eyes widened.

“Tell me, celestial,” said the dragon. “Which god are you trying to kill? I believe we may be able to help each other.”
