“Are you sure you can handle it?” Val’korr said, staring at her with doubt she felt in the pit of her stomach. “You’re pretty badly drained yourself.”

“I can regenerate,” Malika said instantly. “Faster than anything you can take.”

“Ok,” Val’korr said, nodding his head.

The blue beam flickered out, prickling as it danced along her skin. But it felt little more than a tickle. “Nothing is happening?”

“Your defenses are too powerful,” Val’korr answered.

Immediately, Malika removed her reservations for Soul Armor and Enlightened Evasion – she wouldn’t need them now – spending the free capacity to boost Perfect Body instead, and the blue beam began to burn as it tore her life energy and mana away to feed the troll. She had to force herself to allow it; several times she almost balked. It was like the instinct to breathe.

“This is good,” he said, the potent magic of his Ritual Infusion blossoming within him, and Ali’s fluttering life steadied, brightening a touch.

The hope within Malika’s heart roared into a raging fire as she assumed her meditation posture and began to feed stamina to her Mantra of the Ancients in a continuous wave that rippled out from her to cover everyone.

“This is stable,” Val’korr said.

“Yes, but we are stuck,” Lirasia said. “She isn’t dying now, but she’s not getting better either.”

“I just need time,” Malika said. “I’ll get stronger, and my healing can fix her.”

“I’m not sure you’ll last long enough,” Lira said. Malika felt the truth of it as she uttered the words. Although Val’korr was draining her, she could feel Abiding Perseverance beginning to fade now that she was no longer fighting.

“Lirasia,” Val’korr said, his voice sounding heavy and creaky, like the weight of every single one of his countless years was bearing down on him. “I’m worried about this.” He gestured toward Ali’s left arm, conspicuously not quite touching it.

It seemed to be pulsing in the dim light of the ruined forest, a twisted energy leaking from it and spilling into the domain, coloring everything with hues of dark crimson and black. Acrid brimstone and the metallic stench of blood filled the air, and everywhere the miasma seeped, plants warped, growing larger, with darker, twisted leaves, and beginning to pulse in time with Ali’s arm.

She nodded slowly. “That’s the root of it, yes.”

“What can we do?” Malika prompted.

“We must take her to the Dragon God,” Lira said, her voice low and somber, filled with worry.

“Help Ali-friend?”

Malika’s eyes sprang open as a rock beside them warped, becoming a small blue blob. “Naia?” she said.

“Take Ali-friend through the flicker-place,” Naia said, wobbling toward them. “It’s the fastest way to reach the grumpy dragon. Use the twins.”

“Right,” Val’korr said, rising quickly to his feet without any apparent pain from his supposedly arthritic knees.

“I’ve got her,” Malika said, stooping.

“Carefully,” the troll admonished.

A short jaunt through the Spirit Realm with Cael’s assistance brought their little group to the Abyssal Realm in short order. Then it was Lira’s Tree Stride that took them to the edge of Azryet’s domain.

Through it all, Malika held Ali’s body on her lap while she sat in her cross-legged meditation pose, hovering above the ground as they went. To her immense relief, Val’korr’s Spirit Drain kept her Abiding Perseverance limping along, and a few minutes later, they found themselves in the presence of the Dragon God himself.

“Oh, my fires. What has she done?” Azryet said, his great eyes whirling with conflicting energies.

“Something desperate,” Lira answered. “Can you help us?”

“Of course,” Azryet said, his voice quieting.

The great dragon inhaled, drawing mana and air into his lungs with such a rush of force that the books of the library fluttered, some falling from their shelves until Tiraza caught them with telekinesis.

Then he exhaled with curious gentleness.

As if an inferno had somehow been tamed and harnessed, a controlled stream of holy fire roared out from his maw, enveloping Malika – but, to her shock, this inferno failed to burn. Instead, she felt the rush of healing coursing through her like a raging river.

You have received Azryet’s True Healing.Your Decrepify affliction has been removed.

Wow, that’s – something! For all that it felt like facing down The Calamity himself, this healing reminded her of the gentle touch of Havok’s consecration. Raised to a godly power. Malika reeled as her body blazed with sudden power. The rush of restored attributes and the need to push herself so hard for so long caused her amplified Mantra of the Ancestors to rip through the room like a detonating sun.

Azryet’s breath faded, and he regarded her for a moment. “You may rest now, Malika. It seems you needed my healing nearly as much as young Aliandra.”

“Is she… will she be ok?” Malika dared to ask. Ali still lay unmoving on her lap, but she was no longer transparent. She was not the only curious one; a tiny, blue pseudopod reached out and prodded Ali’s body gently.

“Ali-friend?” Naia asked querulously.

“I have removed the life drain. She will not die immediately. But my magic cannot undo the curse she has inscribed onto her soul with that abomination on her arm,” Azryet said. The Dragon God, for all his majesty and power, looked miserable as he regarded Ali lying there. “That demonic corruption will continue to infiltrate her until it kills her. Or turns her into a demon.”

Malika put her arms around Ali as if to ward off the dragon god’s proclamation of doom. “No, I refuse to believe it,” she said. “To come so far, just to lose her now? That is not fair. There must be a way!”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
