Just touching Mato for healing is enough to trigger the retaliation? She hadn’t expected to be hit like that, and so she hadn’t been watching attentively enough to dodge a strike. Malika healed herself, gritting her teeth against the pain as her magic purged the wound of decayed and ossified flesh. As terrifying as the life drain was, she couldn’t afford to slow down without putting her friends at considerable risk. She had already lost sixteen percent to the explosions of Volatile Wraiths, and if she lost too much more, she would struggle to take a hit safely. She just hoped there was some way to undo the loss.

The bone spines pinning her in place shattered as Mato’s claws ripped through the cage, freeing her with just enough time to dodge sideways, but her drawing an attack was sufficient to trigger Mato’s retaliation, as evidenced by the powerful smashing Swipe and the roots that sprung up from the ground. Malika was quickly losing track of the complex interplay of retaliation between Mato and the Wight, but she could appreciate the skill and precision of each of the strikes. The Wight seemed to be uncannily accurate with its bone swords, while Mato was leading with raw strength and power, even though his attacks were also delivered with skillful poise.

A bone prison snapped shut right beside her, catching one of the glowing slimes, but it simply flowed out of the prison as if it wasn’t even an inconvenience, continuing to strike with extrusions of its body.

Malika ignored it; her attention was instead suddenly caught by the bolts of black energy flying out from the Wight.

“It’s raising more skeletons!” Ali’s voice confirmed what she had already guessed, and she sprinted off to catch the newly summoned undead while dodging the parting strike from the Wight.

She punched the first skeleton she found, racing to collect the rest. Scanning the battlefield, she counted six this time, two of them near Ali and the healers. She would need to be quick. She poured stamina into Divine Step, accelerating her sprint and rounding up the next two skeletons before she charged across to the two closing in on Ali. With a round kick, she collected both of them before they could cause any trouble and began sprinting back to Mato to deliver her payload.

Wait. Suddenly Malika wasn’t sure anymore. She had felt the death aura over by the empowered Wight, and if Ali was right, that aura was what had been healing the undead at the beginning of the fight.

“Ali, is that the same aura?” she called out, dodging two strikes and blocking a third. She focused on the attacks, her arms striking out counterattacks and blocking wherever she could.

“What?” Ali called out in surprise. “Oh… yes.”

“Kill the skeletons here, then,” Malika decided. Bringing them to Mato would be worse than useless if they couldn’t be killed in the aura. She would just have to tank them herself.

“Can you handle the lightning?” Ali asked, sounding rather concerned.

“Yes, and one or two fireballs,” she said with way more confidence than she felt. It wasn’t like she had much of a choice, she simply had to. Without the extra damage from the Fire Mages, she was unlikely to be able to kill them fast enough to round up the next set of summons when they came.

“Ok.”

The sharp ringing of steel hitting stone pierced the cacophony of battle as two totems dropped right beside her. Malika’s muscles spasmed the instant the Lightning Nova tore through her body, but it affected the skeletons busy trying to stab her with mismatched weapons just as much. Holy magic trickled through her body as Ali’s Acolytes began to heal her. The lightning pulsed again, and then again. Malika pulsed some of her healing and blocked a sword by knocking the flat of the blade with the palm of her hand.

“Fireball.”

The warning gave her just one second before the concussion of heat blasted her off her feet. Her skin bubbled and blackened and her hair vaporized. Malika sprang back to her feet, healing magic flowing without holding back. No sooner was she up than she heard the same warning.

“Fireball.”

In spite of herself she flinched, but this time she kept her feet against the powerful explosion of flame. At the same time the fire rocked her body, the soft soothing magic of a holy healing spell filtered through her, repairing the burns faster than she sustained them.

Looking around quickly in the aftermath, she found two skeletons still standing, so she unleashed her Soul Strike empowered kicks, knocking them back into the lightning novas and they didn’t get back up.

“It’s raising more skeletons,” Calen called out, and sure enough bolts of black energy flashed out into the giant piles of bones. Malika sprinted off, quickly memorizing where each of them had landed.
