“Yes.” Kiri laughed at herself, saying, “After the failure, I tried to remake the exact spell I wanted as Particle magic. Molecules moving faster is heat. Molecules moving slower is cold. That information is already out there— Anyway. Failed to make it out of Particle Magic, too.” She said, “Error message yesterday, laid me out for hours.”

“You can use the rod of [Treat Wounds], you know?” Erick looked to the kitchen table. One of the rods still sat in the bowl at the center of the table, alongside two smaller grand-rads; the rod wouldn’t lose charges while it was ‘stored’ like that. “That’s what that rod is there for.”

Kiri’s greenscaled face darkened a shade. “I did. Still had to take a nap.”

Erick asked, “Then crush the spell and buy it from the Script for a point?”

Kiri shook her head. “Even if I wanted to, I can’t. Once you fail a tier creation, you must destroy the spell and wait for them to be available for combination, before you’re even able to spend a point on the higher tier spell. I’ve already destroyed the spell...” She added, “And all of the bad ones before that. I gotta wait 27 years to try again.”

“Ouch, Kiri.” Erick said, “That’s not great.”

“… I know. I think I might have been too hasty.” She added, “The Script version of [Death Spiral Fire] is horrible, like all the rest. Once you get up past tier 4, every Script version of every spell is, like: 10 damage, lasts one second, sort of bad.” Kiri smiled, small and sad, saying, “If you can’t make it yourself, you’re fucked!”

“Live and learn. You’re still young.” Erick realized he had a question about life on Veird, that he never thought to ask before. “Right? You are still young, right? How long do people live on Veird? Eighty was old back on Earth. Pretty routine age, though. Barring accidents and disease, of course.”

Kiri paused. She stared at Erick, and said, “Oh my gods? Eighty? That’s…”

Erick sighed. Of course people didn’t live long on Veird. Monsters and everything else. No real medicine. Healing magic, sure, but parasites probably killed a lot of people, too.

“That’s horrible!” Kiri said, “That would mean Great Aunt Risal would be dead twice over.”

Erick guffawed, then said, “Twice over!”

Kiri said, “Granted, if you lead any sort of dangerous life at all, you’re lucky to make 25. But 120 is a good, old age. You’re still moving around like you were at 40, at 120. People start to deteriorate fast around 150. Great Aunt Risal is still going strong, though.”

Erick laughed. A weight fell from his shoulders. He could enjoy life here for a long time. He smiled, and a happy tear fell. He laughed again, saying, “You’ve got lots of time!” He felt a sudden chill, as another thought entered his mind. He quickly asked, “Are humans the same?”

Kiri waved him off, saying, “Everything except Wrought and Dragons has about the same life span. If you pick up some dragon essence you can live a lot longer.” She kept making pancakes, as she said, “Those types are immortal. But they also eat each other. So. There’s a trade off.” She added, “27 years is still a kick in the head.”

“Well yeah.” Erick offered, “You know? I gave a talk about atoms to the world, after I made [Call Lightning]. The information is already out there, but if you want that lesson from the source, I can give it to you, too.”

Kiri smiled, saying, “Yes. I would like that.”

Poi walked into the room, saying, “Good morning. Sir. Kiri.”

“Good morning,” Kiri said, a smile.

This time, Kiri sounded actually happy, and not just faking for the sake of propriety. She was still, obviously, dead tired, though.

- - - -

After a quick nap, Kiri was up and ready for that lecture.

Back up on the third floor, with the windows covered in [Distortion Ward]s, Erick conjured three chalkboards. Kiri sat at her table in the center of the room with a blank journal sitting on the table in front of her and several ink pens. The journal was real, too; not some [Conjure Item] journal, but something Kiri could keep lasting notes within. Poi stood in the room to the side, lines of telepathy coming off of his head, but with his eyes focused on the chalkboard.

Erick picked up his chalk, and started drawing water molecules: hydrogen and oxygen, protons and neutrons, electrons and electrical charge.

He turned to Kiri, and indicated what he had drawn, saying, “So this is an atom...”

Kiri asked questions, and this time, Erick clarified. He wasn’t able to answer all her questions, and he didn’t answer when she asked about proton and neutron count being intrinsic qualities of what made an element an element. But he didn’t need to answer, anyway. His silence on certain subjects told her more than enough.

Erick still gave her the lecture.

This was Erick’s first real test of anyone’s character. He gave this lecture about atoms and water to Zago and all those other people because inertia demanded it of him; he had no doubt, weeks and weeks after the fact, that if he had not given that information away, he would have been torn apart by dozens of factions. From the incani to the humans to Oceanside and the Headmaster. Everyone would have wanted a piece of him. By giving it all away to everyone, all at once, they were able to work on their own particle magic and focus on each other, instead of on him.

That’s what he told himself, anyway.

It was probably true.

Kiri, though… For Kiri, who had been vetted by Spur’s Army and Jane, this would be a test for all of her future as his secretary-slash-apprentice-slash-student. From Kiri’s look, all focused and attentive, and from her precise questions, Kiri was fully aware that all of this molecular information was a lesson, and also a test.

- - - -

After the lecture and the questions, Kiri smiled wide, saying, “Thank you, sir.”

Erick sat down in a conjured chair, saying, “Probably best not to mention that you got the extended, answered version of this lesson.”

“I wasn’t planning on it.”

“I wasn’t planning on any of this, either. But it happened.” Erick added, “But in addition to not giving out potentially damaging information about how this universe works, I would like it if you could make something useful for civilization with this knowledge. Everyone seems to be working on stuff that hurts other people in some way.” Erick said, “From [Gold Grab] to the daydropper. Maia made some harmful fire spells, while I made the mistake of making [Wintry Sea] for Eduard. I hope Rozeta nerfs that one; it’s way too chaotic. Everyone is making something harmful. I can only hope that people start making something useful, instead. Or at least in addition to what is needed to kill the monsters out there.”

Kiri was silent for a moment, before asking, “What sort of positive things did this sort of knowledge create on your planet?”

Erick smiled, then said, “Everything. From medicine that inoculated us against disease, to putting people on the moon, to sending probes past the Solar System and into the rest of the universe, and having those probes return to us images of other planets.” Erick glanced up at the chalkboards, filled with the barest fraction of high school physics homework, and said, “This is nothing compared to what it took to make all of that happen, but it’s a start.” He looked to Kiri. “I don’t think you guys have the luxury of living in peace long enough to make some of these discoveries, nor the need. Magic does almost everything you need in life, does it not?” He added, “I’m not complaining; I love it. But it does negate a lot of the need to improve or die, I think.”

“… Did you all not have wars?”

Erick scoffed, then backtracked, “Sorry. I gave you the wrong impression. Yes. Wars. Too many of them, concocted over too little resources or a bit of land or differing ideologies… or a myriad of other reasons.”

“… How did you know the age of your universe?”

Erick paused. Then he thought. He said, “I have no idea. Some people took some measurements, somehow. Pointed some tools at the sky and did some math, I’m sure.” He asked, “How old was Veird’s universe?”

“Millions of years.” Kiri added, “Measured through the spells of an esoteric field of magic called ‘Manasphere Archaeology’. Through some specialized [Scry] spells and hundred upon hundreds of ambient mana measurements, some mages have found that the oldest age of some parts of the manasphere measure between four and seven million years old.” She said, “The hardest part of those sorts of measurements is keeping those numbers in mind. Some people are capable of grasping ‘a million’, but most people are not.”

Erick smiled. “That’s a lot more precise than my answer.”

“Veird itself is a created world about 250,000 years old. We know that number because the same mana tests have been done near the Core of Veird, with samples taken from that core proving to be only 250,000 years old.”

Now it was Erick’s turn to be impressed. “Only 250,000?”

Kiri added, “Parts of it are much older, but the age of the planet is determined by the age of the Core.”

“… Older than the rest?”

Kiri smiled, saying, “Dead gods and forgotten lands gathered in the Mana Ocean, creating a core and a surface, 250,000 years ago, birthing the first remnants of life onto Veird, shaping the very stone into most of what it would eventually become. The Sundering magnified the size of Veird, many, many times over, as the deities and people who survived that cataclysm struggled to gather and save what they could.” She added, “That’s just the most accepted theory, anyway. Ask a different immortal, get a different answer, though most are just variations on a theme.”

Erick hummed in thought.

Kiri glanced over her notes.

Erick asked, “Ever combined an HP skill?”

Kiri looked up, and said, “No, sir. I bought them.”

“… Were you using [Hunter’s Instincts] on me when we sparred?”

Kiri smirked, saying, “No. You’re just bad at fighting.” She quickly added, “Uh. Sir.”

Erick laughed.

Kiri said, “I bought [Evasive Stance], but only after I got into Ar’Kendrithyst and discovered a lack of ability in myself. [Swift Movement] and [Perfect Hearing]. The monsters or the maniacs in this world usually always alert through sound, first.” She added, “But if you’re going for [Hunter’s Instincts], that’s far better than [Evasive Stance]. I just don’t have the points to spend.”

Erick scoffed again, “Are you low on points? Didn’t making your tier 6 give you five?”

“I have plans, and they demand what I have. There is no room for...” Kiri frowned at him, asking, “You’re not spending points without a plan, are you?”

“Of course not!” Erick lied. He deflected with, “I’ve just gotten, like, twenty extra points from particle magic?”

“… Leveling past 50 is incredibly difficult, sir.” Kiri added, “Though Ar’Kendrithyst is stronger now than it was before. A lot of monsters killed each other; feasting on the unprotected realms of those Shades killed in Yetta’s passing.”

Erick stood up and dismissed the conjured blackboards, as well as the [Distortion Ward]s across the windows, saying, “Levels don’t mean much, anyway. They’re just points. You should be getting some of those extra points, soon, after you start making Particle magic.” He looked to Poi, still standing silent in the corner of the room, and said, “Thank you, Poi, for providing the security for this.”

Poi relaxed, tendrils of thought pulling back into his head. He spoke to Kiri, “That notebook is a bomb. You need to protect it.”

Kiri touched the notebook, saying, “I am aware, sir.”

Poi just looked at her.

Erick said, “I hope you were able to learn something, too, Poi. If you wanted, anyway?”

Poi smirked, saying, “I know my magic, sir, and it is not this. But thank you, anyway.”

Erick smiled, then walked away. It was time to make some magic of his own. There was a problem with that, though. One he had never encountered before.

- - - -

Erick reclined on a plush conjured chair on the rarely used second story of his mage tower, thinking, with a cup of coftea next to him and the stone planets of the Solar System hanging above and to the right, over the central empty space of the tower. It wasn’t a large space up here, on the second floor. It was basically just a jut from the wall, attached to the side of the tower, just enough for a chair and a small table. This area was only accessible with a flight spell, anyway. Erick had made this small space, thinking he would like a somewhat hidden space in his tower.

He looked up and to the right, at the hanging stone spheres of the Solar System, and at the bright sunward he had cast into the center of that diorama.

He had a problem. It was not a new problem —he had realized his failing the same day he had thought to go for [Hunter’s Instincts]— but he just didn’t want to think about it too much. Now, faced with all of the necessary skills at level ten, the problem stared him in the face, demanding an answer.

Erick looked at his hand, and tried channeling Health through [Perfect Hearing]—

