Erick made himself as ready as he could be, layering a white [Conjure Armor] over his clothes. It looked terrible, like a skinny hazmat suit; but today was not the day for dressup. Hopefully all stray liquids would slide off of him. Everyone else did the same, with their own variation of whatever armor they thought was best. Jane glanced at Erick's armor and made a face behind her faceplate, but said nothing; it was time to work. Erick made Ophiel touch each member of the group.

Erick asked, ‘Ready?’

‘Ready,’ came the group reply.

In a blip of white, all of them moved two hundred kilometers south, south east. The Ophiel instantly transformed to their small bodies, and moved to Erick’s side, like a flock of inquisitive cats; each of them looking past the other to get a better view of what was happening in front of them.

The wyrm tore up the land in the distance, undulating across the afternoon sands; a grey sidewinder snake 70 meters long, its body barely touching the sand, its head moving to a point of stability until its body caught up, and then the head moved again.

The grey wyrm stopped. It whipped around, its milky white eyes latching onto Teressa; the largest morsel on the sands. It had seen them arrive.

Teressa raced forward, Jane at her side. The wyrm, silent as their kind always were, mimicked the silence of Teressa and Jane’s pounding footsteps. Teressa lifted into the air, a foot, then two and three. Not much, but enough to make a flying target. The wyrm’s grey eyes went wide, crazy, as the beast raced to meet Teressa, a kilometer distance still yet to cross.

Jane’s footfalls turned silent. She dipped low to the ground, her long sword trailing behind her. She darted right, preparing to strike from the side. Teressa hung there in the air, two meters off the ground, her mace pulled back behind her legs, a similar-sized shield appearing on the wrist of her other arm.

The wyrm came on, slamming across the sand, silent. Its body was a corpse in different states of decay. Clawed arms popped out of the body here and there, desiccated and dry, or wet and rancid. Its hide was half scaleless. Gore dripped from open wounds. Bones jutted out here and there, while its grey eyes glittered green—

That was a change.

Brilliant green mucus poured from the corners of its mouth, from the gaps in its skin. It was salivating. It was destroying itself from the inside out. It was hungry.

‘[Ward]s,’ Poi sent. ‘Like we planned.’

Erick [Blink]ed beside Teressa, then threw out a 2050 point [Crystalline Air] around her, like they planned. Yet another aspect of coming out here and hunting wyrms was to test abilities, and [Crystalline Air] had a very interesting one.

Crystalline Air, instant, short range, 24 hours, Solid Ward, 50 MP + Variable

...

You may increase or decrease the size of your Crystalline Air for an increase or decrease in Variable cost.

...

Decreased cost, meant 100 mana produced a 50 point [Solid Ward], but that 50 was then multiplied by four, because a Large spell had been transformed into Small. Meaning that Erick’s 2050 mana spent, after Clarity yet again doubled the effectiveness of his mana spent, materialized a 16,000 point sphere of sized-small, solid air around Teressa’s hovering form, briefly hiding her behind a storm of fractured light, as the very air turned hard. Teressa could still move through the space, though. She smiled, as the edge of her mace trailed a disturbance of fractal air through the [Solid Ward].

Erick [Blinked] back to his Ophiel, to Rats. Poi stood ten yards away, with Kiri. Jane hid in the shadows of the sand beside the path the grey wyrm would take to get to Teressa. As the spell turned clear, revealing Teressa still hovering, still taunting the wyrm, the wyrm had gotten much closer. Erick’s heart beat hard. His mind raced. He hoped the plan worked.

The wyrm reached the party. Its head was the size of the [Crystalline Air]. Teressa blinked backward, to her secondary position, as the grey wyrm chomped—

It tried to chomp.

Its head broke as it swallowed the four meter wide pearl of solid air, down its gullet, distending the body, breaking something inside of itself in order to swallow the magic. The crystal [Ward] did not break, but the wyrm did. It crashed around the sphere like a garden hose thrown against a tree. Somewhere in all that, the side of the wyrm’s body broke, releasing the locked-in-space [Crystalline Air]. The [Solid Ward] came out of the wyrm, intact; dripping with green slime. That didn’t stop the wyrm, but it did rob the monster of all momentum.

Which was enough for Jane to descend upon the beast like it was a lamb and she was a butcher. Her long sword flashed as the monster whipped around to strike the suddenly airborne target near it. Jane carved off three decayed limbs, then [Blink]ed away. The wyrm caught nothing but air. Jane had already [Blink]ed twice more; she was thirty meters away, and striking at another part of the monster’s body.

It couldn’t catch her, and there were other, larger threats right in front of it. Teressa launched at the monster, her mace swinging to catch the wyrm upside the head. Teressa connected. The wyrm did not. Its head went flying backward, splashing green goo from every wound along its body as the entire beast shook with the power of Teressa’s strike.

Teressa laughed loud.

Kiri launched a speck of fire at the body of the wyrm, not aiming, just trying to hit something. The speck struck an arm and ignited the body. Fire crawled across the beast. It didn’t get far, maybe only seven meters in every direction, but it burned the beast, and it kept burning.

The stench of carrion wafted over Erick like a passing dumpster. A dumpster that was on fire. Rancid, burning barbecue, was all Erick could think about. It was a horrible smell, but there was also something otherworldly and delicious about the stench. Erick almost puked.

Rats fired off healing spells. Erick saw him glow a faint white, almost pink, in rapid fire, like a strobe; five spells at once. Teressa, or Jane, or both of them, repeated Rats’ light, but much dimmer.

Erick, for his part, first dismissed the [Crystalline Air], then—

Jane leapt into the monster’s side, carving a great chunk from its body—

Carving through the monster. A third of the grey wyrm stopped moving and crashed to the ground, inert. The grey wyrm whipped around, eager to start devouring the largest thing in the area: itself. Jane moved again, faster this time, then cut off another ten meter length, while it tore into its own rancid flesh.

Teressa just watched the carnage, and Jane carved off yet another ten meter section, this time just behind the neck. The body flopped, and Jane cut again.

And that was almost the whole fight, done in a few cuts from a ten-foot sword by an accomplished warrior.

The wyrm stopped moving completely; the front half had been carved from the monster’s grand rad core. Jane leapt at the still wiggling section of the body, cutting deeper, severing meter sections from the body at a time, while the wiggling mass tried to recreate a head, to eat all of itself that had been scattered across the bloody, melting ground. But Jane got to the cores —three of them— and pried them out of the monster, one after the other, out of the flesh that enabled the cores to keep growing, severing the dragon’s corpse from its grand rad masters, who had driven the beast to an all-consuming insanity.

Jane [Cleanse]ed herself, spilling thick air into the sky, erasing green goo from her full-body coverage. She telekinetically picked up the three grand rads, [Cleans]ing them too, as she walked away from the carnage, throwing her sword back into the ambient mana.

Erick was the first to speak. He exclaimed, “Wow! Jane! That was amazing!”

Teressa dismissed the helmet of her armor, grinning as she said, “That’s why they made you a team leader so fast.”

Jane dismissed her helmet, too, smiling as she said, “Those things have a lot of HP, don’t they?”

“Regeneration and defense, is more like it.” Teressa said, “Getting through that defense is tough— and you move way too fast!”

Jane asked her, “Do you have [Polymorph]? It’s helped me get in touch with my physical existence in a way that I never thought possible...”

Rats was the first to ignore Jane and Teressa’s conversation. He moved to the corpse; the rest of the party soon followed.

An hour later, the corpse had been dissected and combed over with [Telekinesis] and [Metalshape] for any telltale signs that it had killed and consumed people. There were no badges inside of this one, nor chest plates, or coins, or enchanted gear; there was no sign that the beast had consumed any unlucky adventurers at all. After a while, Teressa commented that this was how a hunt was supposed to go.

Erick asked, from upwind of the carrion pile, “Did the [Crystalline Air] help?”

Teressa stared at the wyrm corpse, saying, “It was very good for stopping a charge and starting the fight."

Rats said, “Much less terrifying than what you did last time.”

Teressa smiled at Rats, saying, “I like it; if you want to keep fighting this way, I would not object.”

“Yes, please.” Rats said, “The [Solid Ward] makes a better blocking target than a person who could get bitten in half.” He shivered. “That’s never nice to see.”

“I have [Greater Treat Wounds],” Jane said. “Don’t get yourself killed and we’ll be fine.”

Kiri, Poi, Rats and Teressa, all stared at Jane for a moment.

Rats yelled, “How! I’ve been working on my quest for three years!”

“And the rich get richer,” Kiri droned.

Poi said, “Here for three months? And already with [Greater Treat Wounds]? Hard to believe.”

Teressa laughed, saying, “We shall hunt wyrms without worry!” She sang a line of her hunting song, and Ophiel instantly joined her. She said, “This is great!”

Jane glanced down from Ophiel, to Rats, asking, “What’s your quest like?”

“900 more terribly injured people!” Rats demanded, “What the fuck!”

Jane scoffed, “Oh my gods, Rats. What version of the quest did you get?”

Rats emphasized, “Uhh!” Then went, “The normal one!”

“The normal one sucks,” Jane concluded.

Rats said, “Yes. It does.”

“Do you want time to go volunteer at the church, Rats?” Erick asked.

“No.” Rats said, “It’ll take a while, that’s all. Don’t worry about it.”

Kiri glanced at the sky; twilight was near. Soon, the sun would set in the west, turning the heavens to pink and red. She said, “We’re about an hour from sunset. Another hunt? Or dig in for the night? And are you ready for me to burn the body away?”

Teressa said, “This was a good start. We can hunt more tomorrow. Don’t burn the body.”

Kiri said, “I have [Cleaning Flame]. It won’t cause a Feeding Frenzy.”

“Oh?” Erick asked, “[Cleanse] and altering to fire?”

“Yes,” Kiri said.

Teressa hummed, then said, “I was thinking a [Scent Ward] over the flesh instead, and then to burn it with actual fire, tomorrow, to attract more wyrms—”

Kiri asked, disbelieving, “Do you want to start a feeding frenzy?”

Teressa smirked, saying, “Yes.”

“Oh.” Kiri paused, then said, “Well. Okay. We can do that? Uh.” She narrowed her eyes at Teressa, asking, “You sure?”

Teressa smiled wide, saying, “Yes.” She added, “Look at us! Archmage, Jane, Poi and us! We can do a Feeding Frenzy. Easily.”

“You’re talking about attracting wyrms, right?” Erick asked.

Teressa answered, “Many wyrms.”

“I think we can handle it.” Erick said, “Then I’ll do the [Scent Ward]. Or—” He imbued [Scent Ward] into Ophiel, and sent several of them to layer the spell across the body. “They can do that.”

Five Ophiel flew across the land, to the piled body, layering [Scent Ward]s across the decaying corpse of the grey wyrm.

Kiri asked, “Are you sure we can handle a Feeding Frenzy?”

Teressa said, “Jane and Erick can both kill one of them on their own. That leaves the four of us to take care of the rest. It’s the middle of the season, so we should get about four.”

Kiri turned to Erick. “Are we really doing this?”

All eyes turned to him.

Erick decided, emphatically, “Yes. We are. Worst case scenario, we all [Teleport] away, and I set Ophiel at them.” Erick patted the Ophiel on his shoulder, saying to the group, “Camp a ways away? Come back in the morning?”

Poi said, “Yes, sir.”

Erick had Ophiel turn tiny and move, one to a person, to rest on their shoulders. “Please keep your arms and legs inside the vehicle at all times.”

Kiri stared at her Ophiel, and Ophiel stared at her. “What is that supposed to—”

The group vanished in blips of white.
