Kiri elaborated, “Pretty much across the board, the Script versions of HP skills are vastly superior to mana based spells. They’re very well made; near perfect in most cases. The Script was invented to prevent the abuses of the Old Wizards, after all.” Kiri said, “Warriors got a leg up on everything, including skills to buy. But they cap out at tier 4 for good skills. Everything past that is a waste, according to every warrior I ever talked to. They always go for more Stats after they get the skills they want.”

“No worries.” Erick destroyed the abilities, and felt the corresponding skills go slightly numb and distant from each other. At least that disconnected feeling was the same. He said to Kiri, “I’ll work on these and then [Hunter’s Instincts] after I understand the process better.”

“It’s time to hunt wyrms, anyway!” Jane dismissed the equipment she had summoned, saying, “I saw three of them while I was hunting fire essence in the Firemaw Mountains. Three wyrms, all over the course of a single day. But all three of them dove directly into the lava. They didn’t come back up.”

Kiri said, “If only they would all do that.”

Erick clawed [Stoneshape] through the stones of the arena, tearing it back down to sand, saying, “Teressa and Rats should be awake soon enough.”

- - - -

The sun was a blazing ball of fire, beating down from the western sky, as the group traveled south, across the sands of the Crystal Forest. The Wyrmridge Mountains loomed to the north, a grey white-capped wall of jagged stone, and deep green valleys. Practically impassible to all foot traffic, and too cold for Crystal Mimics to tear into. But that didn’t matter to wyrms. They came down from those mountains, insane with hunger, eager to eat the mimics that lived in the Crystal Forest.

Teressa pointed to the barren land all around them, leading the way, as she continued her narration of the normal wyrm lifecycle, “And once they get down here, the insanity really takes hold. They eat so many rads inside so many mimics that they truly become monsters. The ones you see north of the Greensoil Republic are level 30 to 50, with a few Cannibal Wyrms growing to 60—” She added, “They’re all cannibals, of course. So the moniker is redundant. But the Cannibal Wyrms will only eat other wyrms, and they usually stay in the forests and the mountains. That is, until they grow so large that everything looks delicious. At that point they venture out into inhabited lands. Anyway. The wyrms you get in the Crystal Forest are level 50, at least.” She swept her arm across the land, saying, “Up here, they’re level 50. If they last long enough to get to Spur, which almost never happens, they can get to level 70. Those things are true monsters.”

Rats trundled alongside Jane, his feet sinking slightly into the sand, adding, “Mog usually goes out and kills ‘em if they get that close. Or Killzone, if he’s available. Opal has killed a few, too, when Mog or Killzone couldn’t go for whatever reason. No one ever sees Opal’s fights, though. We just hear about them after the fact.”

Poi walked beside Erick, looking to him to say, “You might get called to provide such a service, occasionally.”

Erick hummed, and nodded, as he strode across the cool sands of the Crystal Forest, his feet gently sinking into the sand.

Jane gripped the straps of her backpack, adjusting the load, as she asked, “Why not let the adventurers do it? Surely someone would want to kill a level 70 anything. That’s a major boost.”

Poi said, “Because by that time, the wyrms have usually killed dozens, or a hundred people.” He added, “And besides: There’s a limit to allowing a monster near Spur. As soon as anything above a five star threat gets within twenty kilometers, a decision is made between Silverite, Mog, Killzone, and Merit. That decision sends the Army or the Guard out to kill the threat.”

Rats deflected, “Level 70 wyrms are super rare, anyway. Maybe once every four years?”

“About that often, yes,” Poi agreed.

Rats said, “It’s 3000 kilometers to Spur from here. Vindin kills almost every wyrm that manages to come through these parts.”

Teressa laughed, staring forward, saying, “But we are at the headwaters! They will come through here, and we will fight!”

Kiri strode across the sand beside Erick saying, “Isn’t everyone here over level 50, though? We get no benefit from this. Others would. We are denying easy kills to young warriors and mages.” She quickly added, “I see the benefit in killing monsters, of course. But… Well. You get what I’m saying, right?”

Teressa said, “A valid criticism. But here is where the breaker wyrms begin. We might find easy targets. We might find rookies in danger. We might find an easy target killing rookies, which then becomes a difficult target. Wyrms still gain levels. They are insane, monstrously hungry dragons, but they are still dragons.”

“I get that. I really do.” Kiri said, “Wyrms are pouring down from the forests north of the Greensoil Republic, right now. Some of them are evading towns and wyrming through the empty spaces, hitting central lands.” She paused. She said, “I guess what I’m saying is that shouldn’t we have some rookies with us, or something, and power level them? One percent Participation is still a lot of experience at level 20.”

Poi shook his head, saying, “No unknowns. Not at this time. Maybe not ever.”

Teressa glanced back as she walked forward, but quickly turned to face the path ahead, saying, “Poi is right. Wyrms are dangerous the world over, but the ones that make it through the Wyrmridge mountains are a tougher breed. Vindin is the major wyrm hunting town, and they do not allow anyone in to adventure there who is not already level 40.”

Erick trudged across the sand…

And so did everyone else.

Except for Ophiel. Tiny Ophiel flew just above Erick, with his eyes wide open, gazing across the Crystal Forest, looking for threats. Erick sniffed the air with [Scent Tracker], smelling greenery and cold, and not much more.

Erick looked around at his team. Jane wore her midnight blue [Conjure Armor], looking like a woman on a mission. Kiri and Rats trundled along under the weight of their backpacks. Poi stood strong at the rear, eyes alert, nostrils flaring occasionally, tendrils of thought coming off of his head, fading into the manasphere, like invisible strands of air.

And Teressa took point, leading the way, walking with a spring in her step and an obvious joy in her heart.

Erick looked to the west; the sun was hours away from setting. “So… How about ten Ophiel to speed this along?”

Teressa laughed. “As long as you don’t fight the wyrms all yourself!”

Jane said, “Go for it, Dad.”

The other three gave non-committal answers, but Rats suddenly looked more nervous than before.

Erick summoned three Ophiel, creating a flock above. Ophiel instantly moved to fly in formation with himself, as Erick asked Rats, “Want one to stay with you to [Teleport] you out of danger, if needed?”

Rats said, “Yes. Thank you.”

One of the Ophiel landed on his backpack, an extra tiny weight for Rats to carry. Ophiel trilled out a violin song as he settled into position.

Rats walked a bit taller, saying, “That’s a lot better.”

After several minutes of walking, Erick summoned another. And then another. Teressa occasionally glanced up with anticipation in her eyes as she gripped the straps of her backpack, causing the leather to squeak under her fists. After half an hour, Erick was up to the full ten. Eight flew in the sky, while one each rested on Erick’s and Rats' shoulders.

The Ophiels puffed up to full, three meter height, as they fanned out, flashing brilliant white wings and eyes in the afternoon sun, singing a song of violins and flutes. Erick told them they were hunting wyrms, and they seemed to understand. Maybe they actually did? All of the last few days training with Ophiel seemed to have stuck some knowledge into the [Familiar]. Hopefully it was the right kind of knowledge.

Erick asked anyone who could answer, but mainly Teressa, “Anyone know a wyrm hunting song?”

Poi said, “Please no singing.”

“Not on your life, Poi!” Teressa said, smiling wide, flashing her fangs as she looked up at the Ophiels. “I know one! It goes like this—”

Teressa sang, a deep, resonant song in some other language. Her words carried across the land, carried with the wind. Like a woman praying for fortune, and then going out to make her fortune. At least that’s the impression Erick got. Looking around the group, Rats and Jane walked almost the same as before. But Kiri and Poi strode across the sand, listening; Kiri hearing something primal, for sure, while Poi seemed to just enjoy the song. A slight smile alighted upon Poi’s lips. He was enjoying the song, now that it was actually in the air. Erick enjoyed the song, too, though he had no idea what it really meant.

Ophiel, though... Ophiel took up the song, the second Teressa had finished, booming out a semblance of her words, but without language, out across the Crystal Forest. Words turned to vibrations, and those vibrations harmonized into feeling.

Teressa laughed, saying, “They cannot say the words, but they understand the song.”

Erick sent them out, each in a different southern direction, along with a greyscale image of the yellow wyrm Erick had killed the last time he was out here. Their song changed, as a goal materialized across the chorus. Teressa laughed louder, saying something in another language, waving at the scattering Ophiel.

The song receded as Ophiel flew into the sky, south, hunting for wyrms.

Teressa said, “They’re going to find at least one. And it’s going to happen soon.”

Erick imbued them all with [Scent Tracker] and [Ultrasight], along with his recollection of the smell of carrion. The instructions were set; Ophiel was on the job.

After ten minutes, with no false positives, Erick felt that Ophiel might have actually understood what Erick wanted.

- - - -

Ophiel hummed Teressa’s song on Erick’s shoulder, as they walked across the sand—

“One of them vanished.” Erick stopped. The group stopped. Erick checked with a [Scry]. “Yup. Wyrm sighted.”

“Yes!” Teressa called out. “Where?”

Erick had the remaining seven Ophiel [Teleport] back to the group. They appeared by the group in ten foot tall blips of white. Kiri inhaled, readying herself. She dropped her bag. The others quickly followed, depositing their bags in the pile Kiri started.

Rats asked, “We’re really [Teleport]ing to the wyrm?”

“Yes.” Erick said, “But a kilometer away, like Teressa decided.”

Jane flashed out a long sword. Erick looked at the sword. It was three meters long, slightly curved, and dark blue. Jane tilted the sword so the edge pointed away from Erick, and the sword almost disappeared. It was thin. Super thin, actually.

Erick asked, “Is that strong enough?”

“If I use it right,” Jane said.

Teressa scowled, looking at the sword. “This is not being a proper defender. You must deflect the monsters from your group. Cutting them does not help with this task.”

Jane looked down at her sword, saying, “I’m usually on my own… Want me to play the proper warrior?”

“… No.” Teressa summoned a two meter long club. It was Erick’s height, but on Teressa's three meter frame, it looked appropriate. “This is fine. Do what you must.” She asked Erick, “Seen a special ability yet?”

Erick checked back with [Scry]. The wyrm had moved on, but it was still within sight. It was grey, and racing south, directly at an agave. The agave moved, it was a mimic, it tried to get away but the grey wyrm snapped it up. The wyrm’s head had been the same size as the mimic, so the whole monster was roughly the size of the yellow wyrm, if a bit smaller.

Erick watched as the grey wyrm tried to snatch up another mimic, but the mimic dodged. Jaws snapped shut across half of the mimic’s crystal spines, cutting the mimic in half, leaving the mimic with smoking wound—

No. Not smoking. Melting.

The wyrm ate the rest of the mimic, spilling green fluids across the sand as it moved, leaving melting, noxious puddles in its wake. Erick understood at least one part of the grey wyrm.

Erick came back to himself, and said, “A Decay wyrm, I think.”

Tendrils of thought connected from Teressa to everyone in the group. She sent, ‘Show us.’

[Telepathy] passed around, connecting every person to everyone else, and then to Poi, who took the tangled mess and made it something solid.

Erick sent to her, and then to everyone else, an image of what he had seen. ‘I did not see any spells, but it left a mimic melting before it ate the whole thing. Puddles of melted green sand left behind, too. It’s grey, and slightly smaller than the yellow.’

Poi sent, ‘I agree with this statement. The Decay ability means it likely has nothing else, besides the usual [Blink] and otherwise.’

Teressa smiled. ‘Full armor. Complete coverage. Don’t get splashed unless you’re me or Jane.’ Teressa flashed with grey magic, fully covering her body in thick grey armor, with a slit left open for sight. ‘I agree with Erick and Poi, but I disagree that the wyrm only has one trick. Decay is a lesser alteration. It might have more.’

