The [Mages] around him nodded as they readied their spells. Ceria watched the undead approach. Cervial loosed crossbow bolt after crossbow bolt with the other three adventurers in his group, felling zombies and skeletons, but the Crypt Lords and the rest of the horde ran on.
Yvlon raised her voice as the undead drew closer. They were around thirty meters away and closing ever faster. She unsheathed her sword and pointed.
“Mages!”
The magic casters needed no further invitation. Ceria and Sostrom pointed their wands and loosed their spells along with the other casters, filling the hallway with magic as the warriors kept their heads down.
The first row of undead met a wave of magic and simply…vanished. Lightning crackled through gouts of flame, and spiraling bolts of energy blew limbs apart. Not all the magic had gone into the attack though; pools of slippery liquid appeared on the ground, slowing the undead, and a second wall of flames turned a group of zombies into screaming torches.
Half of the mages loosed another spell before the undead were too close. Calruz stood upright, and Gregor shouted.
“Now, warriors, follow me! Charge!”
The armed rose to their feet and roared, drowning out the howling of the undead as they ran straight at the undead. Ceria saw the first zombie raise its hand to strike Gerial before Calruz’s massive fist punched straight through the zombie’s hand.
The adventurers and undead collided in a crash of sound that nearly rendered Ceria deaf again. But she was already running with the other mages, firing shards of ice at one of the Crypt Lords as she did.
 
——
 
All was motion. Gerial spun and cleaved the head off of one zombie effortlessly. He felt like his body was on fire. He felt like his heart was on fire. He was fighting at his best thanks to Olesm’s Skill. And not just him. Around him, the Captains were cutting through the undead now that they didn’t have to worry about hitting allies in front of them.
“[Whirlwind Cleave]!”
Gregor’s axe scythed through the stomachs of three zombies and a Ghoul, dropping them to the ground where the big man crushed their heads with an armored boot. He turned and barely dodged a Crypt Lord’s massive hand, but Cervial raised his crossbow and loosed a bolt right into the monster’s face.
“[Point-Blank Shot]!”
The flesh around the bolt tore, and the big monster lurched back. Gregor and two other warriors attacked it from below as it tried to recover, and Gerial caught a skeleton that was trying to attack them from behind. He bashed it repeatedly with the pommel of his sword and watched it collapse as he broke a hole in its skull.
Yvlon’s sword tip exited the neck of one zombie as she struck a skeleton in the head with her shield. The blow shattered the undead’s skull, and it collapsed, the crimson light fading from its eyes.
She whirled, and her shield came up to block a Ghoul’s slash. She pushed the monster away, and it staggered. Gerial saw Yvlon pull her sword out of the dead man’s stomach, and the Ghoul folded up. He hadn’t even seen her strike.
Gerial turned and found another Crypt Lord about to spit at him and Yvlon. He tackled her to the floor, and the black rain covered another adventurer, who fell to the ground, screaming.
“Back, back!”
Someone yanked Gerial to his feet. He looked up and saw Sostrom as the mage struck the Crypt Lord in the head with several fiery bolts of magic. It roared and seized him in one huge fist.
“Sostrom!”
The mage screamed in agony as the Crypt Lord squeezed. Gerial stabbed it in the stomach desperately, but it was too big and wouldn’t let his friend go.
“Move!”
He felt something shove him aside and then Calruz was there. The Minotaur swung his battleaxe, and Sostrom fell to the ground, the severed hand still holding him.
The Crypt Lord howled and grabbed at Calruz, but the Minotaur dropped his axe and gripped the undead’s head with both of his hands. He roared in fury as he ripped the Crypt Lord’s head off. The black blood spurted from the stump and covered the Minotaurs’ fur as he hurled the head and bit of spine away.
“Gerial! Back me up!”
Gerial nodded and fended off a Ghoul while Calruz reclaimed his axe. The Minotaur’s skin was fizzing where the black blood had landed, and he unceremoniously dumped two potions over his fur and then downed an antidote.
Several feet away, Ceria was in trouble. She’d been separated by Sostrom when the monster grabbed him, and a Ghoul was trying to catch her as she dodged backwards.
Gerial sliced a huge hole in the Ghoul’s side, giving Ceria an opening. She hit the Ghoul with three ice spikes, sending it spinning away.
A zombie struck Gerial from behind, hitting him in the back and knocking him to the floor. It fell on Gerial, biting and tearing as he shouted for help.
Ceria didn’t hesitate. She pointed her wand at the zombie’s back.
“[Flashfire]!”
Instantly, the zombie burst into flames. It stopped clawing at Gerial and started writhing, trying to put out the flames. Gerial shoved the corpse off him and got to his feet. The zombie tried to crawl after him, but Calruz ran forward and bashed its skull in with a single kick.
“How many Crypt Lords are down?”
“Two—no, three!”
Gregor had just cleaved the head off of the Crypt Lord he’d been fighting. The last monstrous undead hesitated as its minions surrounded it.
“I will take care of it if you get me close.”
“Done!”
Ceria nodded, and she and Sostrom ran towards Menes. The mage turned, and then all three began blasting at the undead, sending charred and broken bodies spinning to the ground.
Calruz looked at Gerial as the other man panted for air.
“With me?”
“Of course!”
They charged into the ranks of the undead. Gerial body-rushed a skeleton and planted his sword in a zombie’s chest as Calruz swung his axe and sent body parts flying. The Crypt Lord raised its head and stared at the Minotaur, possibly seeing a threat in the only creature larger than it was.
It raised its clawed hands at the same time Calruz raised his blade. Gerial knew what he was going to do and ran backwards as Calruz roared.
The Minotaur brought down his axe, cutting through the Crypt Lord’s twisted arms as it tried to block. He cleaved downwards, not stopping for bone or sinew as he vertically bisected the front part of the Crypt Lord’s body and struck the ground in an impact that smashed the stone floor.
Even from several feet away, Ceria felt the impact in her bones. The Crypt Lord lay on the ground, bones and skin twisted and torn.
The undead faltered and then began to attack again. But suddenly, they were without their controlling intelligence. Calruz roared, and the adventurers formed up around him. They pressed the undead back, back, until they hit a wall and were ground into paste upon it.
In the silence after the battle, Olesm shakily walked around the few twitching corpses and stared at the Crypt Lord Calruz had killed with his [Hammer Blow] skill. He stared at Calruz as the Minotaur leaned on his battleaxe, panting.
“I—I didn’t hear you say anything.”
Calmly, Calruz raised his axe and shook the bits of gore from it.
“Not every Skill or spell must be shouted.”
The Drake nodded slowly and looked around. The battle was over. He looked at his own sword. He’d hung back and fought with the mages, but he’d still killed several zombies and skeletons. He felt shaky, sick, exhausted as the adrenaline left him. He looked at Ceria as the half-Elf downed another mana potion and wiped at her mouth.
“We’re alive. Now what?”
The half-Elf grinned at Olesm, threw up a bit as the mana potion ran through her system, and grinned even harder. Blood and entrails had painted her face, but she didn’t seem to mind.
“Now? Now we get the treasure.”
