The dead charged out of the darkness in an unending tide of desiccated corpses. Their ruined flesh and glowing eyes in hollow sockets flickered in the torch and magelight. Zombies ran, crawled, or shuffled in a wave of discolored skin, but they weren’t alone.
More undead had appeared: skeletons that sprang at the nearest adventurers with inhuman grace and Ghouls—the advanced form of a zombie, which moved and fought with supernatural speed and strength. And far worse, in between the lesser varieties of the dead, larger shapes and pale figures could be spotted.
“Crypt Lord!”
“Not just one! Four of them!”
“We’re surrounded! Retreat!”
“Hold your ground!”
Calruz’s massive voice rose above the others. He cleaved a running zombie in two as he shouted at the adventurers.
“Hold, damn you! Fall back in order! Warriors, hold, and mages retreat to the chamber!”
It was impossible to tell if anyone had heard. The undead were coming from all sides, not just the two passageways but from behind the adventurers as well.
Yvlon and Ceria stood side by side, eyes darting left and right. The undead were everywhere. They were already attacking the adventurers around Ceria and Yvlon, and only their position in the middle of the group had given them a chance to react.
Ceria raised her wand, but there were too many bodies in the way from where she was. Yvlon was in the same situation. The blonde adventurer looked behind her. The adventurers were trying to move back, but a group of the dead had appeared behind them, holding them in place.
“Where are they coming from?”
Ceria pointed.
“There! Secret passages!”
Parts of the stone wall had opened up to let the undead come pouring out. They were only small alcoves, barely large enough for a small group to stand comfortably. But the dead had been packed inside, waiting until someone stepped in their trap.
And now the trap was sprung, and death was all around.
The warriors in front of Ceria were grappling with the undead, but they were hemmed in and had trouble lifting their weapons. Yvlon stepped backwards and slashed at a skeleton that was stabbing a mage. The woman collapsed, bleeding, but disappeared under the press of legs before Ceria could grab her.
Desperately, Ceria shifted to line up a spell, but she was trapped. They were too close together. She looked at the back of a warrior in chainmail and raised her wand. She could help him with a spell—
A huge, clawed hand seized the warrior around the waist and dragged him screaming up into the air. Ceria froze as the undead monster who had seized the armored man hurled him into the press of the dead where he was instantly swarmed and torn apart.
The other adventurers around Ceria fell back rather than get into range of the thing’s claws. She tried to retreat, but now the press worked against her. She was suddenly at the front, and a monster was in front of her. It was no zombie. She knew she was staring at a Crypt Lord, one of the thinking undead.
A Crypt Lord was a dead creature animated by powerful magic that had grown even more terrible over the years since its reanimation. Whatever shape they originally had, it had been twisted by rot and decay. They stood taller than every adventurer save for Calruz, their hunched backs and huge, bloated faces grinning with more sharp teeth than a Human could have.
They weren’t teeth, but bones. Yellowed bones that had been shifted and broken to create the illusion of a mouth in their bloated hollows of skin. They had no real organs or need to imitate the living’s biology. This was just—mockery. A paradoxical grin of rotten flesh and tangled bones.
The Crypt Lords ate the dead to recover their bodies. That was why their powerful arms and legs had a terrible patchwork appearance as the flesh and bone had fused to become whole.
The Crypt Lord grinned at Ceria, and black liquid ran from between its teeth. They had blood, of a kind. Poisonous black blood that carried disease and death.
It spat, and Ceria dove at once. The black poison struck her, but most of it landed on her robes, and the magic shrugged the liquid off. She rolled to a safe patch and saw two glowing blue eyes peering at her from above.
For a second, Ceria relaxed. It was just Toren. But—this skeleton wasn’t the same. It was covered with red blood and held a jagged, broken sword in its hands. And Toren was miles away and above ground.
The bloody skeleton raised the blade and brought it down on Ceria as she tried to roll again. It struck her in the back.
Ceria shouted in agony, but again, her enchanted robes caught the blade and took most of the blow. She still felt like something was trying to crush her spine, but she was alive. Not for long, though. The skeleton raised its sword again.
Ceria pointed her wand up. A shard of ice blasted the skeleton’s head off, and the rest of the body crumpled to the floor.
Shaking, she leapt to her feet. She was exposed. The Crypt Lord spat again, but this time at another adventurer. It was too dangerous. She raised her wand and aimed.
The monster had an amalgamation of eyes it had stolen from corpses. They clustered together in huge, fleshy sockets, around fifteen individual eyeballs in each ‘eye’. They spun towards her, and she spoke.
“[Ice Spike]!”
The thick shard of ice buried itself in the Crypt Lord’s head, and a gout of black blood spurted outwards with the ruined eyeballs. The Crypt Lord roared soundlessly and ran towards Ceria.
“Duck!”
Ceria didn’t know where the voice came from, but she instantly crouched. She felt her hair catch on something, and several strands were yanked out as Cervial loosed a crossbow bolt straight into the Crypt Lord’s other eye.
This time, it did scream out loud, a wailing cry that came from multiple voices within it. Ceria staggered back as it began to flail around, striking the other undead around it as it searched for something to kill.
Ceria turned, but suddenly, five zombies appeared out of the melee and ran at her and the archer-Captain. He cursed and pulled out a shortsword rather than reload. Ceria took one down with another [Ice Spike] before two of them lunged at her.
Ceria knew over fifty spells she could use, but her wand had contained the [Ice Spike] spell and thus she could cast it faster than anything else. And she had trained with the spell until she had a [Marksman]’s precision. She hammered a shard of ice into the chest of one zombie, making it sit down hard, and then fled from the other one’s hands.
The undead Drake lurched after her, but a woman with a mace bashed it to the ground. She was one of Yvlon’s Silver Spears, although her silvery armor was covered in gore.
Ceria didn’t bother to even shout thanks. In the next moment, both she and the warrior were fighting again. She fired over the head of an archer and caught a Ghoul as it leapt down on the man. He looked up, backed away, and then shot the creature three times in the face.
More movement. Ceria spun and saw a downed figure she recognized.
A Ghoul was crouching on top of Gerial, slashing at him with its claws. Ceria didn’t hesitate. She ran forwards, drawing her belt dagger from its sheath. She planted it in the back of the Ghouls’ head, ramming it through the softened skull and into the exposed brain.
To her horror, the Ghoul didn’t die from her attack. It turned its head; glowing crimson eyes flashed with hatred at her. It raised a claw, and Gerial kicked up. The Ghoul tumbled off him, and he sat up and ran his sword through its shoulder.
Ceria raised her wand and blasted the creature’s face apart. It went down for good, and she helped Gerial to his feet. His face was a bloody mask, but he grabbed a potion from his belt and emptied it over his injuries. They began healing even as Ceria watched.
He gasped and shuddered as Ceria covered them with her wand.
“Dead gods, this is a mess. Where are the others?”
“I don’t know.”
Most of the torches had been dropped on the ground, and only a few [Light] spells were illuminating the darkness. It made everything twice as hard as adventurers mistook each other for enemies.
“Gerial. We can’t regroup like this. I need to cast [Illumination], but I’ll need defending.”
He nodded.
“Do it.”
Ceria raised her wand and began focusing on the spell. It was so difficult as adventurers fought and monsters screamed around her, but she had to. Her mind was focused on a single point, and then that single point became many. She held the image of what she wanted in her head and willed it to be certainty.
“Form on me! Horns of Hammerad, to me!”
Gerial shouted as he struck and kicked undead around them, trying to keep them from reaching Ceria. The magic in her surged. She was in a half-place, half in this world, watching, fearing, trying desperately to cast a little faster to save her friends, half in the world of magic, riding the eddies and currents and seeking the truth.
Motion. She saw a Drake—the only one that wasn’t dead in this place—running away. A break in the dead coming from behind had created an opening, and he ran through it, fleeing the battle.
Part of her wanted to shout, but the magic was nearly ready. Olesm was running in the other direction faster than Ceria thought he could move. Eight other adventurers fled with him, all of them mages to judge by their clothing.
A group of skeletons was in hot pursuit. They disappeared into the darkness, and Ceria prayed she wouldn’t be too late. The magic reached a tipping point, and she opened her mouth.
“[Illumination]!”
Light suddenly filled the long corridor. Adventurers cried out, shielding their faces as orbs of light flew up from the ground, bright, shining, white beacons spaced ten feet apart. They turned the darkness of the crypt into day.
For a second, the undead faltered with the living. They hesitated, perhaps as the Crypt Lords sensed their advantage was gone. The adventurers shook the temporary blindness from their eyes. Now they could see the enemy. They roared and attacked.
Gerial crashed into two skeletons, scattering their bones. Ceria raised her wand and used another spell.
A small wave of water struck Gerial behind the knees. He staggered, but his heavy armor kept him upright. The skeletons weren’t so lucky. They fell to the ground and immediately began pushing themselves upright.
That wasn’t her main goal, though. Ceria aimed her wand at the spreading pool of water, and it froze. Gerial cursed as the water turned to ice; he was suddenly surrounded by a huge area of iced ground. Adventurers jumped out of the way rather than fight on the unstable footing, but the dead were less intelligent. They slipped and fell as they came after them, easy targets.
More zombies rushed at Ceria, and she ran back. The adventurers had formed a rough circle, and she found another mage throwing bolts of fire off of his staff. He whirled and smiled at her.
“Ceria!”
“Sostrom!”
“You take that side, I’ll take this.”
They stood back-to-back, blasting corpses back with their magic. Ceria spotted Calruz and several other warriors fighting the Crypt Lords, keeping the four massive creatures at bay while the lesser undead tried to break through the ranks of adventurers.
“We need more space!”
Sostrom yelled it in Ceria’s ears. She nodded.
“There! Get to Menes!”
The two mages ran back, letting other warriors close the gap. The mage-Captain was hurling lightning with his staff at a Crypt Lord. Ceria grabbed him by the shoulder, and he spun.
“We need to cut them off! Can you cast a spell?”
Menes shouted back.
“I can! But I need an opening! And the dead are behind us as well!”
“No!”
Sostrom pointed as Ceria and Menes jerked around to look at him.
“Look!”
Another hole had opened up behind the embattled adventurers. Flashes of light and spells blasted apart zombies and skeletons. More adventurers, fighting in the burial room they’d passed. Ceria grabbed Menes’ arm and screamed in his ear.
“There’s our opening! If you can buy us time—”
“Give me a minute. Can you clear the area first?”
Ceria nodded.
“Sostrom—”
“On it.”
He covered both mages as they began to concentrate again. Ceria raised her wand and felt the heat building in it. She aimed and shouted at the adventurers in front of her.
“I’m going to cast a big one. Everyone get back!”
They looked around, saw the fiery glow coming from her wand, and scattered to the left and right. Ceria saw Gerial ram into Calruz to get the Minotaur to move aside. She aimed at one of the Crypt Lords as it swiped at the retreating adventurers.
“[Fireball]!”
A glowing orange orb of fire three feet in diameter burst from her wand. It shot down the corridor and struck the Crypt Lord in the chest.
Ceria felt the blast kick her backwards and heard only ringing. Sostrom caught her, and for a few seconds, all was smoke and confusion. Then Ceria saw the Crypt Lord howling, caught ablaze, and the dead around it scattered, literally in fiery pieces or thrown to the ground.
She shouted at the mage next to her.
“Now, Menes!”
His face was covered in sweat. Menes raised his staff and pointed at the open space as the undead tried to gather for another charge.
“[Wall of Flames].”
Fire burst from his staff and shot past the adventurers, some of whom were unlucky enough to be scorched by the magical flames. A curtain of fire blocked off the corridor, each flame reaching nearly to the ceiling. The adventurers in front fell back as the undead entered the flames and retreated, burning and screaming.
“Now—everyone, to the rear!”
Yvlon’s voice rose, and the adventurers turned. Some of the undead had been caught past the fire. They were hacked to pieces, and the group ran back to the large room. Calruz’s voice followed hers.
“The spell is about to run out! Mages, buy us some time.”
Menes nodded. He raised his staff, and two more mages joined him. They pointed at the single entrance to the room, and walls of light and magical runes appeared on the floor, blocking entry.
“[Ward of Safety].”
“[Lesser Barrier].”
“[Sanctuary of Light].”
None of them were particularly high-level spells, all being Tier 1 and Tier 2, but together they did what an individual spell would not.
Ceria saw the wall of flames spell Menes had cast die out, and then the undead ran at the barrier. They crashed against the spells, and though they struck and hit the magical walls, they were unable to break through.
The adventurers watched, tense, until the undead began to pull back. The four Crypt Lords stared silently at the magic and then began walking back into the darkness. The undead followed silently. In a matter of minutes, they were gone.
