hen they went looking for bugs or homework subjects, Amanster could always sense them so easily. It was actually how they became friends!Amanster said he found Deo ‘blocked out the light’ by being a light of his own! Deo had always taken that as a compliment.“If you burn the spiders down, a boss emerges and it has puppet like powers over everything,” Kemy said to them. Amanster nodded slowly.“Sounds close to what I felt. You fought against that boss?” The boy asked, looking at Kemy impressed. The girl went pink as she fiddled with her earmuffs.“Not exactly… we got punished and moved on,” she answered finally.Grim approached the hall and a blue box appeared. Deo smiled at it, it was so cool to see Delta’s Dungeon doing awesome things.It listed the ‘no touching the web challenge’ was available but if they wished for a legitimate challenge as requested then to ignore the web challenge try to conquer the room as ‘adventurers with a sword sized too big and a brain sized too small would do’.“We’ll cut the web in front of the door, take down or deflect the threats, but don’t rush in. Spiders are masters of their own domain,” Grim said. Deo nodded while Kemy gave him an odd look.“You know I am an adventurer… right?” She reminded.Grim actually did wince a little but he swung his short sword down into the first layer of webs. Some snapped, some frayed, some clung to the sword, but the entire room vibrated like a fantastical piece of music. A room sized harp.They waited and Amanster peered in.“I don’t see any response-” he began but a little spider wearing a long flowing cloak of web latched on to his face, the cape had red thread sewn in to spell something.The Crimson Tearstealer!Deo stared in glee, his eyes glittering at the sight of a ninja spider!It scuttled around as Poppy aimed her book, which actually talked in a warning not to use it as a weapon, and smashed it at the spider.The thing was quick and all Amanster saw was a heavy tome flying towards him.There was a loud crack as Amanster’s nose went crooked.The spider fled back into the room, carrying one of Amanster’s eyelashes. Their death user stared up, eyes narrowed as he flicked his hands over his face. Deo knew noses didn’t have bone, but he watched as it corrected itself with another sharp crack.“I suggest we smoke them out. It isn’t fire,” Amanster said ever so calmly, still laying on the floor.“You know priest spells?” Kemy asked curiously. Poppy was holding the furious book at arms length as it went on about ‘powerful spells’ and ‘souls sold to him for a moment of his time’ as Amanster stood up.“My Dad is a Saint. I was born sneezing blessings and causing my toys to ward off evil,” he explained and Grim stared.“Why aren’t you in massive pain?” He demanded. Amanster looked right at him.“The pain in my black soul is beyond measure, mere mortal wounds are lost to me,” he said gravely.Deo thought about that then smiled. Gravely… he had to tell Delta that one later!“He also knows how to use necromancy to deaden nerves for a small time… he’s just cheating,” Poppy told them bluntly.“Poppy, stop ruining my goth.”“Nyeh.”---“We’d be there already if it wasn’t for your creepy kid,” Zane complained. Perhal merely chewed on a dark root, her eyes glazing over as she walked, eyeing another village in the distance. So unaware of the dangerous knights passing so close by.“We can’t all be born monsters, he’s gotten much faster,” the woman disagreed. They looked behind them at the boy trailing a limp bloody leg which was mending before their eyes.“Even healing faster! I told you leaving that monster alive for him to fight was good practice!” Perhal giggled. Al’s face was blank as always but his eyes blazed at them.You have gained regen skill level 10!You have absorbed monster essence into System Core.You have 10,459-He ignored the rest. It didn’t matter.It was getting so damn hard to get stronger. Why was the only decent quest to some backwater hick village? He glared at the lush green and monsters. Too strong for him to grind fast. He almost threw his glinting sword at a bouncing orange slime to feel stronger than something else, but refrained since it would make him seem…Childish.It eyed him for the longest moment and the System that judged vague danger threats gave him a simple message.Death.Alpha moved on as fast as his sprint would allow, even overtaking the two Royal guards.“Now that’s what I’m talking about!” Zane roared and began to run too.“Oh bother… It was such a nice day,” Perhal sighed.---Mule bounced happily along. He had thought he felt Delta but the cold red aura of the weakling was lacking. It had no warmth or kindness. It was a human operating with a gutted Dungeon system. Sad.Ah well, he’d find Delta eventually after he went to see Yal the Dungeon.The quest for the fluffy things must be done! Delta’s good mood depended on it!
