Aoife wasn’t nearly so sanguine about the reveal before Virgil could. “Are you a Republic watchdog now, Hornet? Jumping at Janet’s beck and call? How… pathetic.”

Allister spoke as he and Emmanuel arrived right before Tobias and JR completed their octet.

“I think you can blame me for his stunt, but I can’t say I’m sorry.”

The metal balls that spun around Allister’s head widened their path in an unmistakable act of aggression aimed at the Sect’s leader.

“I caught someone using that technique a few months ago and he knew I was going to shop the information around. I said I’d give you that fight you wanted Hornet, so why are you running so much?”

Winter Hornet grinned as he waggled his awl once more. “It is as I told you, I am refining my technique. And as I am presently having quite the moment of inspiration, making tremendous progress with my understanding, I am disinclined to interrupt with a mere spar… but if the opportunity arose for a true battle, I would hardly decline such a matter.”

Janet was more than happy to let the pissing match continue, but Emmanuel interrupted it by stepping forward and inspecting the world node.

Janet matched his movements as did everyone else. Though their individual intentions were unknown and she was prepared to fight all of them should any of them make a hostile move.

Emmanuel made a production of putting his hands behind his back as he leaned forward, his eyes glowing golden. Seeing that, Janet lowered most of her guard against him as everyone else fell back as the moment passed.

Just as Virgil was about to speak, Emmanuel did so, dropping Janet's heart into her shoes. “Do you want the good news or the bad news?”

“Don’t toy with me. What did you see?”

The side eye her fellow Tier 50 gave her spoke volumes, but she didn’t care to psychoanalyze him in the moment. All of her worry was on the anomaly.

Was she wrong? Was this not her Gladiator's moment of return?

“This is, as I’m sure everyone suspects, Tick and Tock’s work. However, they are… how best to phrase this. Attempting to cheat death. They have not succeeded yet. They are not present for much of the time loop they have created, only appearing in the final moments of the loop and of their lives. I don’t know why they’re only appearing then, but I suspect it’s not intentional, nor do I know what or even if they have a goal in mind. Time is so muddled it’s hard to make much out if I’m being honest.”

Janet’s mind raced as she tried to figure out how to salvage the situation, even as all the others relaxed at the news.

That was exactly what they wanted to hear.

“What can I do?” Janet hated the words even as they came out of her mouth, but she forced herself to ask them. Her pride and personal feelings were small costs to save a Gladiator's life.

Emmanuel, the smug bastard, shrugged. “I have no reason to betray my ally and help an uninvolved third party recover an asset that might be used against me in a future war.”

Aoife finally couldn’t hold her silence any longer and spat out, “Oh you remember your obligations now of all times? How convenient.”

“If that’s permission to tell her I—”

Aoife’s glower could have melted steel as she growled, “No I do not.”

The final word caused a ripple to pass through chaotic space as the extra emphasis resonated a little too well.

All of them, even Virgil, blocked the wave from affecting the Clans reinforcements that had been rushing towards the world formerly known as Yannkin’s Cradle ready to reinforce their beleaguered defenders.

Janet shot them a glare knowing that if they tried to enter the world they’d ruin any chance she had of saving her people.

Instead of crushing them out of existence, she sent Aoife a private message asking her to keep her people away.

Janet could recognize she was extraordinarily touchy about Yannkin’s Cradle at the moment, and didn’t want to ruin their larger plans.

The dwarf took a moment to visibly collect herself before she spoke in a calm and neutral tone Janet didn’t like hearing. “I don’t see how this has anything to do with any of us. It's a war action resulting in the possible resurgence of a Legend. None of us should interfere.”

The words combined with Emmanuel’s hints sent a cold wave down Janet’s spine as she prepared to fight. Was Aoife changing sides over one Gladiator? That seemed… unlikely but she didn’t discount it. She knew none of her peers would be happy about today's events, that was hardly a surprise, but she hadn’t expected it.

However her assistance came from an unexpected source.

Virgil took a step closer to her. “You can join the war on my side and I’ll immediately transfer the occupation of Victory’s Fall to you. From the earlier reports, we nearly had control of it. Without outside interference it is rightly under Federation control, and as such, mine to do with as I will.”

Janet was tempted and didn’t bother to hide it.

Aoife immediately picked up on that and transferred her glower to Virgil, though Emmanuel caught his fair share. “We already settled on who was fighting who. I’d put forth that any such late entry over five years into the war would constitute a breach of terms by the Federation and Republic. Besides, I never said I would interfere. I simply meant we as Tier 50s have no need to be involved at all. Let the children do as they will. That’s part of the point of this war after all.”

Emmanuel looked up with a slight glare to them all. “Yes, because waiting for my Ascenders to reach Tier 35 before immediately declaring the war so you can hope to kill them is letting everyone do as they wish. Call that what you will but this could be constructed as punching down. That might break the point of the war. Unintended or not, they are Tier 35’s and that's now a Tier 15 battlefield.”

JR waved a wing at the world as he picked up the thread Janet hadn’t wanted to face yet. “Emmanuel has a point, they are Tier 35 and actively interfering with a Tier 15 battle. Even if we all know they won’t be killed for such an offence, we could ban them from this war. There is precedence for non intentional interference being handled in such a way.”

Janet was about to launch into an argument about how the duo weren't in this war yet and were still legally a part of their last war where Yannkin’s Cradle was still called that. She’d use that fact to reclassify it as a Tier 35 battlefield, when Emmanuel did it for her.

“And let them escape this war when you all conspired to strike at my Ascenders? No, I’m a proponent of equal treatment. I won’t push for punishment so long as they rejoin this war as soon as they are healed and mentally stable. If I’m risking my best assets at their weakest moment, I want Ascenders Tick and Tock to be in equal danger. The timing of their return put them right at the beginning of the war and it's perfect for them to officially rejoin. Even if they are seriously injured. Besides, they have more than enough time to heal and return before we’ve finished. The realm is a more dangerous place than it was a hundred thousand years ago and as such I’d prefer them not to have time to readjust in safety.”

Janet wanted to say he was wrong but he wasn’t. They were still Gladiators and would be able to handle themselves, at least once they’d healed, but they’d be weaker than their peers. Closer to strong pinnacle elites than true Ascenders. Much of that difference could be covered by equipment, but it would still take time - such very risky time - for them to grow accustomed to the last hundred thousand years of advancements and refinements.

Having been part of the spearhead to ensure the timing had worked out the way it had, Janet was suddenly a lot less happy to be on the same side of the equation as Emmanuel. It was never likely, but statistically that initial foray into Tier 35 was one of the only periods where Gladiators ended up ‘going missing’ or getting injured in some way that permanently removed them from the battlefields with any shape of regularity. Before the war most of the Tier 50s had been more than willing to delay around that opportunity and now she was in the same place.

Though as she thought about it further she realized she was actually in a better spot. She still had Maya who was in the active Tiers.

Even as her mood turned around she didn’t let that show keeping her expression matching the others. Emmanuel’s conclusion made far too much sense and from the gaze of the other Tier 50’s they’d agreed with him.

Whether he intended to or not, Emmanuel had shifted the tone of the meeting from punishing the returning duo to getting them back onto the battlefield as fast as possible.

Aoife at least was smart enough to use the pretence Emmanuel had given them and said. “In that case I’ll even authorize the usage of Maya inside our borders. So long as she doesn’t try to interfere with anything else in the war. As for the Tier 15’s, I doubt either myself or Virgil is particularly bothered if they are lost in Tick and Tock's return. It's a population war after all and they have to go. I see no need to make a fuss about the how.”

Janet heard and accepted the unspoken ‘and you’ll pay me for the privilege’ tacked on at the end

Virgil must have as well, because she tossed her hat into the ring as if she’d been waiting for it. “As do I.”

The woman even had the gall to nod at Janet as if they’d collaborated on the deal to force Aoife into this position.

Gritting her teeth, Janet accepted this as part of the price to get her Gladiators back.

That commitment was put to the test as Emmanuel added his own agreement, but Janet held her tongue. He had helped enough that it was foolish to argue instead of just paying his pound of flesh. She could already see JR, Tobias, Winter Hornet, and Allister all scheming on how to get into her vaults as well, but she’d be flayed before she let them do so without having helped her at all.

They couldn’t let her win without cutting her down but she understood.

No matter the monetary costs, so long as this succeeded it would all be worth it. Especially if they could immediately rejoin the war effort and escape any potential punishment when doing so.

It was as close to Janet’s best case scenario as possible and would be a coup for her presidency.

Maya had many faults, but her competency wasn’t one of them. Janet was incredibly grateful she’d continued to pay the increasingly ridiculous costs to keep the woman's services in the war Tiers. She’d caught a lot of flack about the ballooning Gladiator budget, but this was why such moves were always the smart ones.

Janet didn’t hesitate and sent the message even as she felt Aoife doing the same. However, the dwarf’s message didn’t need to go nearly as far as hers did, with it ordering the reinforcements to keep away from the world node as she’d asked earlier.

It immediately became obvious that none of them were going to miss the show as they each separated slightly as they waited for Gladiator Maya to arrive.

They had a unique show at their finger tips, and that was nearly impossible for beings of their caliber, so none of them would miss it. All eight of them watched as time progressed out of synch for one world in the Realm.

Janet couldn’t claim to fully understand what was going on, but by watching she understood enough to comprehend some of it. Time was progressing, but from her count less than an actual second had passed since the loop must have initialized. Then half an hour after that all important second played out, the overlapping visible timeline rewound back to that initial moment.

Or not exactly. Not even a Gladiator could actually turn back time, which meant a fraction of a second progressed before another loop began. Then time played itself out like usual until the end where the explosion happened. There the process repeated itself. Over and over again.

Janet desperately wished she could see inside properly, but she didn’t have future sight. If she looked too hard she was liable to penetrate the veil, and that would undoubtedly kill any chances the duo had to make it out of this alive.

Tobias, however, must have gleaned something out of the repeated cycles as they waited for Maya to be rapidly relocated. Janet almost wished they hadn’t bought Gladiator Shadow out of the war, but that was a step too far, even for her. She was very glad that menace was prevented from joining in these wars, especially with a potential new Gladiator on her side.

“I’m fairly sure they are feeling at least a part of that explosion as it rips them apart.”

Janet had no idea what he was talking about, but Winter Hornet seemed to. Not that his words put her at ease. “Birth was hard the first time. Why should rebirth be any different? Besides, isn't it more fun this way? What better chance to see the worth of forgotten legends than by watching them gnaw their way out of death's embrace.”

Tobias snorted at the words, but didn’t argue with Winter Hornet. Instead his gaze turned to JR.

“Speaking of rebirths, was it really necessary for you to make such an excellent armor for an Empire Alpha? I’m sure I’m not the only one who noticed the anomalies present in that armor. Do you have something you’d like to say?”

JR ruffled a few feathers, mimicking a human rubbing their fingers together. “I always welcome reviews from those who have experience with my work. Do I have permission to utilize your feedback for marketing purposes?”

Emmanuel let out a bark of laughter as Tobias smothered his frustrations with a snort.

“In any case,” JR continued, “The design was predominantly Titan’s. I merely lent my expertise to its creation.”

