Chapter 515

Diana was mid report when the anomaly showed itself.

It almost looked like a glitch. Her first instinct was to write it off as such, but deeper training that hadn’t been relevant since her very first war kicked her into autopilot.

Her right hand clenched into a fist as she slammed it through one of the few physical buttons in her office. The instant she did, her door snapped shut, locking itself thoroughly with several audible thunks. A second later, it was followed by the rest of the floor being pulled into lockdown with her as protocols tripped.

Every one of her screens froze. Knowing her and everyone else's connection to the outside world was cut off was actually a relief, but not one she got to savor.

Less than an instant later, a short man she couldn’t properly sense stepped through the locked and barred door as if it didn’t exist. He didn’t phase through it or bypass it, it was as if the door couldn’t bar his entry despite it cutting off all of Diana’s senses.

As he stepped inside, his eyes fell onto her with a silent question, but she’d already prepared the information and sent it over with a flick.

She vaguely recognized seeing the man in front of her. It had always been from a distance at ceremonies with the highest echelons of military and civilian leadership, but none of that told her who he was.

Not that it really mattered.

He was the first person to respond, and from the darting of his eyes, he had been able to access the file she’d sent with the best Republic encryption she had access to. He may not have introduced himself, but she still knew what she needed to do.

“Reports from Yannkin’s Cradle were normal until all of a sudden, they became identical to earlier reports. Matching reports currently amount to seven independent sources and three automated backups accounting for one hundred percent of information sources. All outside information is progressing as usual. Odds of a malfunction on the receiving end are negligible. Probable causes are covert high-Tier interference seeking to mask their presence… or a time anomaly. Estimated duration of twenty-eight minutes and eleven seconds.”

At that last bit of information, the man nodded and stepped back outside the room.

Diana was left in a world of frozen screens for an agonizingly long few minutes before the man silently rentered again with his same trick.

“The rest of your cases have been shifted. Now your only assignment is watching Yannkin’s Cradle.”

As the feeds came back online, she instinctively processed the backlog of information. She highlighted any and all differences between reports, trying to stay analytical and neutral. Hope, and every other emotion obscured and obfuscated information, they didn’t change it. That didn’t stop her fluttering heart from hoping.

High-Tier interference with battlefields was exciting. Interesting. Rare enough to be noteworthy, common enough to still be somewhat routine. But time anomalies? Ones potent enough to be picked up from a remote monitoring position? Those hadn’t been properly relevant since she’d first joined the war, since the Gladiators Tick and Tock had been killed… in Yannkin’s Cradle.

The saying that ‘Gladiators were never dead, only missing’ was a both crushing weight and comforting refrain. One she was wholly unable to suppress as more and more information came in.

The very idea was too tempting for her. She wanted to believe. And that was dangerous, which kept her on edge and scared that one of her mistakes would be the failure point that returned them to their coffins.

Before the half hour mark that might have restarted the cycle, new information came in that wiped out most of her remaining doubts.

High Tier observers had identified a strange membrane, which had appeared cloaking Yannkin's Cradle. It prevented easy entry into the world’s real space, which all but confirmed it for Diana.

When she shared that news, the man behind her vanished as if he’d teleported away. Or that's what she would have thought, except there were no spatial fluctuations at all. Not that teleporting inside one of the Republic's most secure information sites should have been possible at all, but today had suddenly become a lot more interesting, and she didn’t question it.

At the twenty eight minute eleven seconds mark, the reported information restarted once again sending a thrill through Diana.

***

Janet’s pen moved in sharp and speedy gestures as she added critiques to the bill in front of her. It was one she’d never accept, but one she saw at least once a decade from groups who wanted to restrict the amount of active cultivators being awakened every year.

The senators framed it as a positive to ensure resources were allocated to the most likely to succeed, but it was a crock of shit and they both knew it. Nowhere in the bill did they move to lower costs except where they lowered the amount of government sponsored awakenings.

According to them, less new cultivators would allow their overtaxed human resources such as crafters a moment to breathe. They had similar arguments for almost every facet of a cultivator's life from weapons to boarding. What was equally clear was that they wanted to pocket the freed up resources while conveniently ignoring the fact that fewer people paying into those systems would see to their inevitable collapse.

Janet wished she could say it was a new argument, but it was one she knew she’d be hearing until she escaped this prison and finally ascended.

The only proposition she was more tired of hearing was the duo that always seemed to come at the same time. Motions to increase the number of veil worlds and motions to mandate awakenings. The latter requests had become slightly rarer with the advent of Tier 0 skills, but the former's frequency had increased by an equal amount, making it a wash in total work.

Those days made her wish she’d turned her pocket space into a prison so she had a place to throw idiots where she wouldn’t have to deal with them.

It was a nice thought at least.

One that gave her the strength to make it through the last pages of the bill and dump it into the storage ring filled with similar proposals.

She still needed to go through the economic data today to prepare for when the war reached its middle stage, where the pinch would be felt. Each place her people identified and she fortified was one less problem they’d need to overcome after the war.

Her mind was already on her next tasks as she finished up the last bill, when her door opened and Hermand walked through.

She didn’t bother to lower her perception to Tier 35 levels as would have been polite. Instead, she raised it to her maximum as she scanned the information packet he’d sent her the moment his foot had been through the door.

Janet was midway through the first report before the severity of the information dawned upon her.

Reaching out, she tore her way into chaotic space, already sprinting towards Yannkin’s Cradle, not bothering with the Between. It couldn’t handle the speed she needed to move at, which would have made its use a net loss.

She felt the other Tier 50s notice her movement and mirror her to investigate, but she didn’t let that slow her down. Instead, she used it as motivation to move faster, knowing that every moment mattered.

Aofie was the closest, as befit her role as the defender, and she was also one of the two that Janet was most worried about.

While her personal and professional relations with the dwarf were cordial enough, no amount of feelings or sentiment would stop the other Tier 50 from strangling a threat in the cradle. At least if she thought she could get away with it.

In that same vein was Virgil, except worse. Janet did not have the same positive relationship with the woman. It had never been positive, and after the war with the Empire, their relations had deteriorated further as Virgil slipped even deeper into depravity.

Janet was confident Virgil would sabotage the moment if she could, even if it caused backlash.

Realizing where that line of logic led, Janet sent out high priority alerts to her Tier 48’s, Khristian and Sly, commanding them to rush at the Federation and Clan borders respectively. She didn’t want them to enter or break any treaties, but she hoped their own moving presences would cause the other Tier 50s to hesitate.

All she needed was to arrive first.

Through it all, Janet kept most of her attention on the only cultivator she truly feared at this moment.

Emmanuel. He out of all of them had the possibility of arriving before her via Gladiator Shadow’s stolen Talent.

It was one thing to deliberately kill another Tier 50’s Gladiator, but investigating an anomaly and that just so happening to prevent her wayward Gladiator returning home couldn’t be called killing.

Which meant if any of them arrived before her, Tick and Tock might just stay dead.

After all, it had been over a hundred thousand years. If they did manage to buck the odds, they’d have crushed the record for longest time between presumed death and resurrection. Who could say that it had been the investigation that spelled their doom and not simple fate.

Whatever it may be, she wasn’t about to look a gift horse in the mouth or risk someone else harming it by doing the same. She desperately needed a new Gladiator as Maya had both feet out the door.

Janet felt the wave, though she couldn’t identify what it was or which of her myriad of senses noticed it, but that didn’t make it any less real or accurate. Emmanuel had tried to forcefully divine her future, and that knowledge made her brace for the worst case scenario.

She was prepared to activate contingencies she’d hoped to save for a battle when he started to move. Thankfully, his presence didn’t instantly relocate somewhere else, it moved through chaotic space like everyone else.

Her stress levels finally started to return to normal when she felt that. With that worry off the table, she used the remaining few moments of her travel to compose herself. She was simply thankful the Emperor wasn’t willing to reveal any of the waypoints Gladiator Shadow had littered through their lands.

Everyone knew the teleporter had spread her net far and wide, reaching into the other Great Powers, but that was exactly why they’d bought her out at Tier 25 instead of Tier 35. When used at the right moment, such movement potential was far, far too powerful. Knowing when to use such powers was half of the game, and his lack made it clear Emmanuel didn’t know the significance of her sudden rush.

When Janet arrived at Yannkin’s Cradle she probed the node, excruciatingly careful not to penetrate the oil like film that had grown to encase the world. While she couldn’t see much, she could see enough. There was undeniably someone playing with time on a massive scale. A scale that encased the entire star system. A scale that she’d never thought possible.

There had only ever been two time mages of such power and renown who’d been capable of such a feat before their deaths.

Or their not deaths.

The thought almost made Janet giddy.

Upon a first inspection, the world in question seemed almost normal through the miasma, with the war proceeding nearly identical to the previous reports. Though, there were minor and growing deviations as she watched. However, at the depths of what she dared sense she thought she saw the truth of the matter. Or something close to it, though she couldn’t comprehend what was actually going on.

Yannkin’s Cradle and everything inside of it was frozen in the first moment of the time loop. The unnatural silence of the temporally frozen world sent a shiver down her spine, but not for herself. As a Tier 50, she had a connection to the Realm itself, and that couldn’t be so easily isolated. That was how she was sensing the anomaly in the first place, but she had enough empathy for the civilians caught up in the situation to know she didn’t ever want to be in such a position.

Much of her remaining joy vanished as Aoife arrived. Not because of the Dwarven woman, rather that a moment later Virgil followed suit. Both women were wearing dour expressions, but neither said anything as they made their own scans.

They weren’t nearly as gentle as she’d been, but neither did they try to puncture the film.

A click of a tongue made all three of them flinch as Winter Hornet appeared in a soft burst of ice as he tapped his awl into his off hand. Each tap made the hornet’s stinger gleam with unseen menace that was perfectly matched by the smile on the bearded face.

“Pity. I’d hoped someone wanted to punch down and strangle them.”

Janet felt the others scan Winter Hornet as she did the same. To her shock and dawning horror, she realized this wasn’t some clone or projection when the presence she’d been tracking as it moved through Sect’s territory faded like a particularly fluffy snowbank showcasing its hollow nature.

A few moments later, her connection to the Realm started to pick up on the man’s presence next to them.

It seemed that while she hadn’t been willing to reveal one of her trump cards, he had been. She was suddenly very grateful for the gift she’d given him. For as insane as the man was, he was consistent to a fault, and today she loved that. She probably wouldn’t tomorrow, but that didn’t matter in the moment, even as she knew she’d need to account for the man being able to temporarily bypass their Tier 50 senses.

That was problematic to say the least.

That he’d revealed it for the hope of having a justified reason to kill another Tier 50 would keep her up at night the next time she considered sleeping, but such was the way the Realm worked.

Today's allies could be tomorrow's enemies.

