Janet wanted to call out the obvious deception, but Tobias did so for her, creating a new storm in chaotic space with the exhale.

“I’ve seen what that armor can do, and as such, I find that assertion hard to believe.”

Emmanuel finally spoke up as interest peaked. “Ninety six percent original. Did all of you forget that Titan is hardly some fool who can only hit things? Speaking of which, don't think just because neither of us have made a fuss of it that we didn’t notice all of the aura escape talismans being used throughout your Great Powers. A quarter of your people not paying for the runes might be hideable but it's nearing half and that is much less so. I can take the time to identify them if you need a list. I wouldn’t mind, but if I have to go through that much effort I would go the extra step and send it to Titan as well. Just to be thorough you understand.”

Janet kept her mouth firmly clamped shut rather than bring anyone's attention back to her. The armor was impressive, but clearly made with the war restrictions in mind, which made any attempts at leverage over Emmanuel or JR weak at best. But then again, she was fairly sure Tobias was just making his displeasure at JR working so closely with the Empire known and he wasn’t angling to be paid.

She was okay with that. As such she let the bickering play out as she tracked Maya’s movements one spent teleporter at a time.

As Winter Hornet joined the argument she was once more reminded why the Tier 50’s never gathered unless they had good reason and typically separated the moment they could.

***

Milton Barrett didn’t know where things had gone wrong. Or rather he did, but he still couldn’t understand how the events had led to him joining the Tier 15 battlefields where he was going to die.

He’d been screwed over by fate and destiny in equal measures. It hardly seemed fair, but for all of his internal complaining, there was nothing he could do to change the situation beyond giving it his all and hoping that combined with everyone else's was enough. A nagging part of himself knew it wouldn’t be but he refused to give up.

That would be accepting death, and he didn’t want to die.

Death would be the end, and he didn’t want this to be the end.

Milton caressed his trigger once, twice, then a third time, following a rhythm only he could hear.

One shot, two shots, three shots. The cannon behind him started to glow as the mana pulled from deep in the fortified planet's crust wasn’t able to disperse properly between shots but he didn’t let that stop him or even slow him down.

The orbital platforms the Federation had established to pepper them and their all protective shielding fell one by one. Not solely through his efforts, though he took out more than his fair share, but from the dying struggles of the defending army.

Milton hardly heard the screams. They’d become so familiar as to be expected at this point. Death was all he knew.

After what felt like an eternity they did stop, but not before he nearly joined the corpses piled everywhere. Federation regulars and enhanced bone soldiers were more numerous, but far from alone. However, the shield reengaging at the last moment saved him from a fiery end.

As Milton realized he was the highest ranking dwarf left, he almost wished it hadn’t.

General Ickthor looked haggard as he spoke to the survivors before the meeting. Milton didn’t need his worried expression to know things were bad. It was plenty obvious when half of the section heads were humans who’d been forced to take up the mantle of leadership as he had.

He couldn't help but silently wonder which of the humans still alive under his command would be left to take over for him. He realized it was a moot point if they didn’t survive the next wave.

He didn’t know from where, but he had an inkling that he wouldn’t be a part of any such meetings after this one.

That thought almost made him laugh as General Ickthor tried to keep the troops from falling apart. “We’ve done our best to hold and we’ve succeeded as best as anyone can ask or expect. However the battle isn't over, the enemies are still at our shields! Therefore we still need to do more, and I think I know how. We need to take a gamble.”

Any mirth Milton found in the words faded when the general looked to him and a sinking feeling landed in his gut.

“And that gamble relies on you Lieutenant Barrett.” Milton was too shocked to speak, which the general took as acceptance as he continued. “Those cannons have the same flaw as ours; they are prone to exploding upon being hit. We need you to hit them at just the right moment and cause a cascade that can take out their ship. That’s our best shot with what we have. We will be defending your position and will make that our last stand. Worst comes to worse, we overload the battery ourselves, taking out every Feddie we can!”

Milton wanted to give a reason why the idea wouldn’t work, but held his tongue, pledging his support.

He was targeted almost immediately, but soon the rhythm of battle faded and he let his cannon fall silent as the Federation ship was forced to bring its own cannons to bear.

There was a silent tempo in the move that commanded him to wait. Just a moment longer.

General Ickthor screamed at him, but when Miltion ignored him he reached over to try and force his fingers to squeeze the trigger, but he held firm.

They needed to wait.

One more moment.

Even without his Talent Milton was fairly sure he could have picked the moment to fire. The Federation ship loomed over him and the fortress world as it brought its main cannon in line to fire.

If they’d kept their distance they’d have been in less danger, but the commander seemed to be in a rush. Milton didn’t know why they were risking so much to finish off an already fallen foe but he knew that it opened up an opportunity.

He just needed to wait.

The ship’s hull had fully obscured the stars when Milton fired.

His shot was perfect.

Colliding just outside the bunker, the explosion was so large it defiled reality rather than simply destroying it.

In fact it It—

In the brief instant before he died, Milton caught the briefest glimpse of someone in the middle of the explosion. Two someones, their bodies falling apart just slightly slower than the reality around them.

If he’d lived slightly longer, he would have seen one of the figures standing there even as he dissolved from the bottom up staring at him. The man's hands continued to swipe through the air until the figure behind him was an instant away from death.

In the moment before that happened, he shoved his hand into the nothingness.

***

Maya had wanted to bend a few laws to arrive at Yannkin’s Cradle, but part of the orders she’d been given had come with transportation already lined up. She was pretty certain all of her teleporters had damaged anchors in the Between’s as she slipped through the endless liminal space in record time, but even so, she still didn’t believe the report until she saw the proof herself.

Yannkin’s Cradle was a sea of calm amongst the war, with small ripples of chaotic space indicating battles over other world nodes. But out of them all, this single world remained still.

She was smart enough to know that indicated at least her Tier 50 was there, but she’d gotten a good enough impression to suspect all of them had probably sent at least a clone.

That made her happy.

She had an audience, which was the best present she could ask for. She wouldn’t have so many opportunities to show off once she Tiered up and left the war Tiers. What better send off could she have than to pull a fellow Gladiator out of a desperate situation?

Even if it didn’t beat Aiden’s feat, it was close enough she’d have a rebuttal when he next tried to brag.

After she’d completed her first inspection, a message directly from Janet arrived letting her know she had another six minutes before the loop cycled.

Maya took that in and closed her eyes as she formulated a plan.

She’d never interacted with time magic on this scale before, and everything she knew was theoretical at best. Time mages were stupendously rare, and she’d never fought a truly competent one. Not that such distinctions mattered at this moment.

She’d only get one shot. She’d either succeed or fail.

It was that simple when it came down to it.

Maya tapped into her Domain as she commanded Reality itself. “I’m a Tier 15.”

It wasn’t easy, but after her stunt with leveraging herself and everyone else down Tiers during her fight with Aiden, she’d taken steps to add that rule to her arsenal. It wasn’t something she could always do, and she’d never been able to go as low as Tier 5 without Aiden’s particular blend of assistance, but she was getting better at it. She’d managed Tier 15 exactly once but she could be Tier 15 again.

She had to be.

Maya wasn’t messing with time, though she’d be tapping her newest best friends for lessons when they’d put their lives back together, that was beyond her. No, she was simply pulling a blanket over the Realm’s eyes for a moment. A quilt of the pattern she’d preselected to say exactly what she wanted.

Things weren’t simple, such grand and complex workings never were, but the first pivot was enough to let her make a second one. To go deeper. To change more. It wasn’t a second law simply an addendum to the first.

“I belong in Yannkin’s Cradle right now. I’m a Tier 15 soldier and that’s my battlefield. A soldier must be on her battlefield.”

That one was harder. She was stretching. She wasn’t a part of either active side.

Which wasn’t true. Maya pushed harder. Tick and Tock were there and they were Republic Gladiators just like her. That meant they were on the same side making anywhere they were her battlefield. That was the leverage she needed and she felt herself ready like a taught bow.

Maya held herself in that suspended state for the remaining minutes, not willing to leave anything to chance. It cost her willpower by the bucketload, but she had enough to see this mission through and that was all that mattered in the moment.

She needed that mindset.

She needed to be ready.

When time started to flow backwards, Maya nearly jumped in too early but held herself back. She only let go of her power in that single moment between loops.

If she’d come in as a Tier 35, her spiritual weight would have taken the membrane of time magic crashing down with her, ruining what trick Tick and Tock were using to keep themselves alive. However it was a Tier 15 battlefield and she was Tier 15.

Where else would she belong?
