He didn’t consider being able to come to that conclusion a positive, but he didn’t let it rattle him. He’d hoped, but hadn’t counted on the breakdowns being so detailed.

There was no chance he voluntarily used any of his core aperology or unique enchanting methods to win, as his opponent would be able to glean far too much out of such information.

The same way he understood someone on her team was a very tricky fighter, anyone else could learn about his secrets. The small hook on the back of the blade she submitted wasn’t typical on a weapon of that size but it told him the wielder was strong enough to treat the weapon like a willow switch.

Not particularly wanting to know such private information, Matt didn’t delve in too far, instead skimming the rest of the weapon’s specifications. Even that perusal let him get a good understanding of his opponent’s capabilities.

She was good but not good enough.

A question arose in his mind. ‘Can you defeat that?’

It wasn’t asked in words but an unmistakable feeling that his mind automatically translated into words.

The barrier of light shining down on him turned into a solid wall, making it feel like he was stuck in a single person elevator.

Before even the most claustrophobic person could become startled, his world expanded into a warehouse with a pillar of granite in the center where it couldn’t be missed or overlooked.

Without having to calculate the decay rate, Matt knew he had slightly more than six days to make the best item he could.

When he was done, if he had made something with a higher total rating than his opponent, she would be given an additional opportunity to best him.

The back and forth could only go on for three rounds before the strange realm considered it a draw and separated the opponents, with no one losing or gaining anything.

Matt had no intention to match the woman. Not because he was mad at her taunting, but because no one could guarantee creating an equally-valued item that wasn’t the top or bottom of a Tier.

Anything else had too much room for variation, and the strange realm was a strict judge, valuing every possible metric.

Inside the room, Matt felt his cultivation and powers returned. He suspected this was his actual body but couldn’t prove anything, given what strange realms could do.

Considering how he wished to respond to the Tier 33 greatsword, he gave it some serious thought. He had several options but ultimately decided to respond in kind: enchanting and crafting mixed together.

Thinking about an enchanting station, one appeared before him, filled with everything he’d thought of, and more he hadn’t.

Sitting down, Matt set several reminders on his [AI] and got to work.

Having played around with the grading metrics he’d seen when inspecting his opponent’s weapon, he started by conjuring a Tier 33 Silver Granite slab five feet to a side.

It appeared on a polarizing cloth that he activated before he quickly chopped the corners off, making the block a distorted octagon.

With the cloth, he was able to collect every single atom of the granite block, and he carefully stored every loose piece in a sealed vial.

As he did so, he kept strict control over his mind, not allowing himself to will his way through any of the steps.

Part of the unspoken challenge was using the ability to conjure items into existence.

Anything crafting related he could think of could be created with a single thought.

Tedious tasks could be completed with a thought.

The problem lay in the grading. The how wasn’t only equally important as the final product, it was far and away the most important metric by a mile. The items' final Tier simply set the grading bounds, while the materials were the how.

Which meant skipping through tedious bits of work would only negatively impact his final score.

The least impactful way to use such powers was accelerating an automatic or purely time-gated process. It wasn’t without its penalties but the penalties could be easily offset by a competent final item, so long as less than an additional week was used.

With his mental prowess, it would be all too easy to accidentally imagine the finished item into existence, which would ruin all of his previous efforts.

Moving onto the second step after putting the corners off to the side, Matt pulled a bar of Enriched Platinum out of nowhere and carefully inlaid strands of the metal into specific regions of the stone.

Very few of them connected, but a select number did, and he took his time making sure every atom was in the right place.

Two hours later, a dozen bars of rare and exotic metals lay scattered on his bench, but he’d completed his first major section of his project.

Standing up, Matt flipped the block of granite over and put his hands on the back of the stone. Gripping the metals he had weaved through half of the stone, he pulled the tendrils into the fourth dimension.

Using a four dimensional formation base would have made things much easier, but the upgrading itself was part of what Matt was trying to show off.

He was taking an otherwise common variant of granite and elevating it into something grand, in two distinct and complementary ways. Normally, he’d have pulled each thread into the fourth dimension one at a time while he placed them, because that ensured everything went smoothly, but he didn’t have the time he’d need to do things that way.

The end result wasn’t perfect but after he fixed what he could, he knew it would work and that was genuinely good enough when using such a technique.

Most Tier 33 items took decades to make. Six days was simply not enough, but that was part of the challenge and he had no intention of skipping steps and lowering his eventual score.

Three days in, Matt activated his formation for the first time and smiled as it did absolutely nothing.

He’d had to rush through so many delicate runes, testing processes, he was afraid his protections wouldn’t work.

After ensuing mana flowed through the pathways he’d carved through the stone, he started activating functions one at a time.

From a rough octagon, the Silver Granite now looked more like an oblong bowl, or a half-carved canoe. Thankfully, he was more than halfway done, and his preliminary testing had no issues he wasn’t able to solve with a few corrections.

Grabbing the corners from earlier, Matt created four legs and delicately melded them into the object, but carefully keeping them separate from the central object, magically speaking.

Instead, he merged the legs together through a sympathetic link and then placed a stabilizer on the new singular item.

Existing in four dimensions, the logic chains were complex but they passed every test he threw at them, ensuring his invention would protect its contents even if they were dropped from any height, large or small.

It was stupidly difficult to blend the legs' spirits together in the proper way in such a short amount of time, but he managed. It was fast at the cost of exhausting a lot of his mental energy.

As his last step, he collected the block of granite’s dust and crumbs.

After sweeping his workshop twice, he ensured he had every particle of the original slab.

Carefully, he broke the larger chunks into single atom units.

Once they were perfectly uniform, he embedded half of the dust on the fourth dimensional tendrils. He used their spiritual unity with all of the other various pieces of granite as a link, tying everything together.

The other half was spread carefully inside the inner lip of the canoe, in a key that looked like a formation, ensuring it looked aesthetically pleasing when not in use.

When he was done, Matt conjured a bottle of wine out of nowhere and gently placed it inside the antigravity field created by the dust particles as they gently held the bottle. Almost immediately, the field recognized the type of wine and started chilling it to the preferred drinking temperature.

Pulling another bottle out of nowhere, Matt frowned as the enchantment didn’t start warming the bottle.

Checking his work, he found a single atom out of place, cutting the heating portion of the rune out of the operation.

The moment he fixed that, the bottle exploded as the enchantment activated at full force for a brief moment.

Placing a replica into the field, Matt smiled as the temperature slowly rose at the exact rate he intended. He’d love to fix that issue but a quick glance showed it would take a fundamental rewrite. Given that it shouldn’t occur unless the fire rune wasn’t able to activate the first time, he was fine with leaving it alone.

Pulling out a wine he knew wasn’t on the list he preloaded, he continued to debug his new centerpiece.

He’d been wanting to make a wine-centric counter piece for a while after Liz mentioned wanting a way to show off when they had guests over and they brought something to drink. With this, he could give them a show while they partook.

And this strange realm seemed like a good enough opportunity to debug his ideas.

His last step was to abuse the fact he’d used every single piece of the original stone. With that rarely considered step, he was able to elevate the efficacy of the entire item by linking the item back to its former state as a solid unified block of material.

The resulting effect didn’t make the wine holder indestructible but it was far more robust for its Tier than it should have been.

Finally, right before his central pillar had almost faded away to nothing, Matt presented his creation to be judged by the strange realm.

It wasn’t his first time doing so, but after ensuring his total rating was higher than his opponent for the dozenth time, he mentally pushed his item at the strange realm, happy with his current efforts.

It vanished and he found himself standing in front of the woman again with zero transition.

He saw her eyes go wide as she registered what he had created. A highly rated Tier 33 object, his new centerpiece solidly defeating her first effort.

Gritting her teeth, the orange light descended once more.

There was a pause and Matt contemplated the chances of the woman succeeding in her challenge.

He wasn’t too hopeful, remembering her original submission, but he didn’t rule her out.

She might surprise him.

She didn’t.

When she reappeared, Matt could tell she failed even before the emptiness above her head became apparent.

She glared at him as if he was personally responsible for what was about to happen but he wasn’t bothered in the slightest.

The moment the orange light reached the floor and vanished entirely, she started to scream as her left arm started to dissolve from the fingers up.

Everyone had exactly six attempts in this game. Once the limbs and torso were gone, the head would be next, and any idiot who didn’t withdraw when they were reduced to only their head deserved what happened to them.

Their reports didn’t mention any confirmed deaths, but there were several mentions of groups leaving with without any floating heads accompanying them. They also described the experience as excruciatingly painful.

Surrendering before the first round would allow them to choose which limb they lost but there was no way to avoid losing a limb beyond tying three times in a row.

The woman's panting gasps for air faded as she vanished, and Matt closed his eyes as he felt his hands pulse slightly.

The first portion wasn’t too noticeable but he knew with each victory, his hands would become more steady and sensitive to energies.

While primarily a crafting reward, there was no reported limit on when the increased senses worked.

The top three points earners would additionally be given a modicum of knowledge for their displayed skills. Sadly even a single tie would exclude them from those lofty rankings, and as such they’d already effectively bowed out of that competition by entering as a group.

It would have been nice but they simply weren't as old as many of their competitors and hadn’t had the same amount of time to hone their crafting abilities.

Finding himself standing before his next opponent, Matt smiled as he saw a familiar face.

Lura smiled and nodded at Matt, and he was more than happy to chat with her for the few seconds they had before they were forced to begin.

He won the coin toss that time but he only created a perfect Tier 1 alchemy potion.

While not an alchemist himself, Matt was Tier 29 and had dabbled in everything at least once since finishing the war. Making any Tier 1 item to a perfect standard was child's play and having used less than ten minutes of his allotted time, Matt submitted his item.

Lura, to neither of their surprise, also created a perfect Tier 1 item, though she’d chosen to showcase her talisman ability.

The swiftness talisman she’d created would never have been viable in the outside world, but in their test it simply matched his earlier efforts.

Forcefully dragged back inside, Matt once more created a simple item, but this time it was Tier 2.

To not fail himself, he needed to increase the score of his second submission. The pattern was well established and he had no intention to betray his teammate.

After their third tie, they were separated with neither a reward nor a lost limb.

Matt’s second opponent was a Monster Collective human who didn’t try to taunt him, instead simply waiting silently.

Feeling they were Tier 31, Matt prepared himself for a difficult contest.

They both had all of their limbs, which meant they’d both won or drawn their previous bouts, and he wouldn’t underestimate someone like that.

If they hadn’t gotten a tie like him, they’d already defeated two opponents to his one.

The man lost the coin toss, but Matt didn’t go easy and immediately started creating a much more practical Tier 34 talisman.

