Chapter 464

After two weeks of ‘relaxation’ in the rift instance they were hiding in, everyone packed up their various workstations and prepared to blend in with the exploration groups outside.

Matt felt he’d made significant progress with his mana tests.

Taking inspiration from the same original strange realm mana storage gems that caught his eye, the researchers who discovered that a particular mana weave barrier could increase mana throughput had never been able to develop it further, nor had anyone else.

Their goals, however, had been entirely external. They wanted faster transfer rates, better conduits, and lower material enchanting costs; they got none of them but Matt didn’t care about those things.

He also had a massive advantage their teams wouldn’t have found acceptable: a Talent.

They needed a commercially viable product, Matt was building for one.

He didn’t care about replicating anything beyond himself, and as such, the mana weave solution was looking promising, though he’d refrained from doing the most obvious and critical tests until he had time to sit down and iterate.

The largest issue the original researchers had was controlling the mana. The weave they discovered was far from a naturally stable configuration and holding it together took dedicated equipment. Equipment that was so expensive it obliterated any potential cost savings the throughput might have created.

They'd never even considered manually holding the weave, but Matt had spent the last few months of exploration idly picking at the problem.

Having kept Rah’s advice in mind, he only did so when they were traveling until the rift, but he had still figured out quite a bit of fundamental information. He already had a possible solution for holding incredibly complicated mana weaves in complex shapes without equipment.

His Tier 25 Talent.

To his relief, he was correct in his baseline assumption: solidifying his mana was an answer. One that made his most lofty dreams seem moderately possible. Not easy, but achievable.

Sadly, it also meant starting practically from scratch. While crystallizing the mana had no effect on the mana weaves, any effort to translate the current weaves into a complicated structure like a skill had proved impossible.

No matter what Matt, Zack or Rah tried, the weave they knew couldn’t handle branches or hard angles at all, making it entirely unsuitable. He’d need to figure out another configuration for the outer mana barrier that also enabled the increase in flow if he wanted to make any progress.

While he knew anyone else would call solving such a longstanding issue ‘possibly’ wildly outlandish, Matt needed to solve his mana throughput issues and felt this idea had a glimmer of hope.

Solidifying his skills in his spirit was the theoretically easy part. In fact, it was also practically easy. That was if he was willing to shred his spirit in his testing.

The spirit was analogous to the physical, a change in one was reflected in the other given enough time. It was why Tier 15 with its ability to consciously control the spirit was the breakpoint where someone was able to modify their body.

Matt could solidify a skill in his spirit with a single thought, but he hadn’t figured out how to deal with the chunk of mana that would appear in his chest as a result.

If it was only a matter of physical damage to his organs, he’d have already started testing, but a single failure with a skill brought into reality would destroy not only the skill but the surrounding spirit.

When he had a working mana weave model that could properly contain his mana, he might be willing to test it with a few noncombat skills, but that was still far out.

No matter what he was doing, Matt couldn't shake the feeling like he was missing something.

He hadn’t been able to put his finger on what quite yet but he felt like he completed a puzzle only to find no fourth side and that he’d only done half of the work.

Worst of all, without the other half, he’d never be sure his original work was correct.

Still, he’d made significant progress because, for all its disadvantages, his Talent offered him something a lab could never replicate without machinery.

Stability.

Using the original weave, he’d needed to manually hold the complicated outer barrier weave together. And while that was entirely within his capabilities, he knew that wasn’t a scalable solution. However, with his Tier 25 Talent, he only needed to create the weave and solidify it.

After that, he didn’t need to concentrate on the barrier at all.

It simply worked.

More mana could be passed through than should have been possible because of whatever process they were inadvertently tapping into.

Not that it was easy to ensure the crystallization was perfect, but that only turned the problem into another mana control exercise for him and he was well versed in solving those.

Two weeks weren’t nearly enough to do more than dabble in finding alternative weaves, but Matt was happy with his progress and intended to continue tinkering with his simulations as they had downtime.

The moment they stepped onto the surface world with defenses raised, several spiritual perceptions locked onto them.

Almost all of the spiritual perceptions lost interest just as quickly as they’d gained it upon seeing their repaired armor and robust spirits.

Being attacked and fleeing into a rift wasn’t shameful when it worked.

The three other groups on the Tier 9 world were clearly only passing through and not looking for a fight, letting them slip through the most critical time of establishing their new identities.

While the others left, one spiritual perception lingered. It was from a hidden presence none of the teams present seemed to have been able to sense.

Having already traced the sense back to its source, Aster shared what she found. A lone Tier 31 Dwarf cultivator wearing non-descript but well-made Tier 33 armor.

Without needing to plan things, they ignored the sense, moving at a relaxed pace to a central location.

While Aster had been probing their secret observer, Allie had hacked the external items on the passing groups, gathering as much information as she could.

The Corporations team made the mistake of outsourcing their cartography efforts to a purpose-built device. To their credit, the device made fantastic maps, being able to estimate chaotic space trajectories and build map models.

The group they encountered carried several such devices, giving them a half decent understanding of their surroundings. As the Corporations’ teams worked to scout locations, their devices organically meshed and separated, creating growing and updated maps together.

Matt was sure in a few months, when they had reached a critical mass in a region, the corporation behind the efforts would start selling their maps to foreign exploration teams as they started backtracking through explored space looking for strange realms to enter.

Allie signed up for an early alpha version of the map.

They weren't deliberately provoking an attack by the hidden Tier 31 as they flew, but they did start chatting about where they wanted to go in case they were lucky.

“I like the location seven worlds to our right with the crafting strange realm. It’s competitive and the tags indicate death is possible but not mandatory. I’m not sure how that is possible but I’m interested in finding out. The reward isn’t mentioned, so it's probably a bit lackluster, but it's close enough to try something unique.”

Liz’s words pulled Matt’s attention away from the listing he was looking at and he immediately agreed with her, seeing the strange realm in question.

The map Allie had stolen didn’t come with any more details beyond a few tags, but they were more than willing to spend a few days traveling there to find out.

When they arrived on the Tier 34 world, they found dozens of teams already there, word having inevitably spread organically about such a unique strange realm.

Upon their arrival, they were scanned by the various teams but their anonymity kept them safer than any armor. There was a noticeable difference between their real identities and their masks, and that was what they were counting out.

Seeing another group from the Empire, they started to fly over to say hello and swap information. Except before they had moved more than a few feet a message arrived, sent in a general pulse to ensure they got the message.

“Go bother someone else.”

Allie’s shoulders shook as she repressed a giggle at the Tier 32’s audacity.

Liz halted before shrugging. “Okay then. Let’s go say hi to the Guilds group.”

The group in question were freshly advanced Tier 31s and as such, much less arrogant than the Tier 32s, but their condescension was clear.

Seeing their expressions, Matt wasn’t too surprised when the leader cut right to the chase. “One at-Tier Natural Treasure, and we'll share everything we know about the strange realm.”

Liz didn’t hesitate and nodded. Seeing that, Katya threw a small, shoddily-made spatial bag to the Guild's exploration leader.

Matt had to deliberately freeze his expression when he saw the woman do the same. They’d never understand he wasn’t laughing at them, but the Empire team who had passed up the gift they prepared.

The Guilds team leader recovered fast enough that most of her own team didn’t even notice, but they had always intended to be generous.

They had only been expected to give a Tier 30 Natural Treasure as befit their outward Tier, but they had given a rarer variant of a Burrowing Fang, a parasitic root plant that moved around higher-Tier lifeforms until it was completely removed from the ground where it went into hibernation.

A skilled Tier 35 alchemist would be able to turn the root into a potent, if more common, body strengthening elixir.

It wasn’t the most valuable Tier 30 Natural Treasure they had but it was far more than most teams would give for information on a strange realm.

The Guilds team returned like in kind and sent them a fairly complete packet of information. It wasn’t perfect but the Guilds team had clearly annotated between what they knew and what they suspected, which was better than what Matt expected.

After moving a comfortable distance away they sat down and went over the information as they waited. The strange realm could only be used once every third day, and they were one of many teams loitering around either waiting for people to exit when the cycle ended or to enter at the same time.

The Unsparing’s crew being part of Lila’s guild, which demanded excellence of its members, meant they were confident in holding their own when it came to crafting up Tiers where they weren't in a fight.

That left Allie, Aster, Susanne, and Magnus to stay outside but they didn’t mind and the four of them intended to see what information they could gather while waiting with the other teams.

Having the answers laid out before them, the rest of them happily joined nearly sixty other people in putting their hands on the amorphous statue half-sunken off the shore of a lake.

A moment later, Matt felt himself pulled into the strange realm.

Finding himself standing on a circle of light in an endless sea of emptiness, he wasn’t too surprised. There was a reason he conjured the same imagery in the mental strange realm, it was a go-to for them.

A moment later, the space in front of Matt shimmered and an unknown bloodline cultivator stood before him in a cone of light. The horns weren’t enough for him to identify her exact lineage but he doubted it would be relevant in this competition.

Seeing his outward Tier 30 cultivation, she sneered in Clans standard at him. “Make it easy for yourself, kid, and surrender. The lost limb will be easier to deal with if you get to choose which one you lose.”

Matt raised an eyebrow in response, taunting her right back. They were only a single apparent Tier apart. Yes, the woman should feel confident but they weren’t necessarily fighting.

While few cultivators could fight up Tiers in the later twenties, far more could craft up a Tier or two.

Anyone inside the breach shouldn’t be underestimated because of Tier.

Smiling, Matt nodded pleasantly at his opponent, suspecting it would get under her skin more than anything else. “Good luck.”

A black and white coin appeared between them, spinning slowly. Already knowing what they needed to do, he reached out and flicked it, sending it spinning.

When it settled down a few seconds later, the black face was facing Matt.

Flying into the air, the coin spun end over end, bouncing on the invisible ground between them.

When the white side was facing up, Matt looked up, wanting to see if the reports were exaggerating.

They weren’t.

A bar of neon orange fell from the top of the woman's cone of light. When it reached the floor, it slowly made its way back up, filling the light with an orange glow. As the light finished back at the top, the woman's position had subtly changed.

Her earlier relaxed manner was replaced by one of exhaustion.

Above the woman, a miniature greatsword glowed with the presence of several enchantments.

When he concentrated on it, he whistled.

The strange realm gave him a thorough and quantified understanding of what his opponent created.

The greatsword was a medium efficacy Tier 33 enchanted weapon. According to the strange realm, that rating indicated it lived up to roughly half of the potential of its base materials and techniques used.

She had both forged and enchanted the final project, boosting its values as she had shown abilities in two crafting skills. Her final score wasn’t double, but it was quite a bit higher than making two separate, but similar, items.

Matt was impressed, and suspected the woman across from him was her team's blacksmith.

