It stretched his abilities to carve the relatively simple attack enchantment, but he managed.

Thankfully, being a single-use item meant the lacking durability, resulting from some of the corners he’d had to cut, wasn't counted against him too badly.

Using his own solidified mana as a base, he’d have created something better, but he wasn’t going to give away such information so easily. He also wasn’t even sure the strange realm could quantify his mana, or how it would begin to try.

When he was done and reappeared out of his room, Matt saw his opponent's resigned look, but he was still surprised when the man surrendered and accepted his fate.

His right arm disintegrated slowly but he simply nodded, having accepted his loss.

Matt’s next opponent wasn’t nearly so scary.

The Tier 30 bowed to Matt the moment they fully appeared. “I’m more than willing to tie if you are. I can compensate you well once we are outside the strange realm. My mother is a legate in the Republic and trifles such as rare resources, even one from the breach itself, can be acquired for the favored.”

Matt internally rolled his eyes, but as the man won the coin toss, he was willing to wait.

To the man's credit, he appeared having a peak Tier 1 item hovering above his head.

Willing to play along, Matt wasn’t at all surprised when on the second attempt the man created a Tier 31 helm.

It was impeccably done but Matt responded in kind.

His Tier 33 shield left zero room for disagreement and the man lost his first limb, unlucky enough to lose his dominant arm.

He’d need to continue on with the tests experiencing the lingering pain while being down an arm. While not a crippling loss, it would negatively impact most crafters, and only the dedicated and highly skilled would be able to persevere.

Matt’s third serious opponent was a slim young woman who ruthlessly started by creating a Tier 32 scanning device from scratch.

The strange realm could identify that she used a Talent to create a far more polished item than normal, with it seeming to shift and adjust her runic structures.

It was very impressive but he was able to top it.

She then beat him out with a Tier 33 shielding formation, which thankfully told Matt she was running out of steam.

Another victory secured with another talisman, Matt wasn’t too surprised when he ran into another one of his group.

Rah appeared before him with all four limbs still intact. “Seems like we are in this portion of the selection. I battled Stenson last round. Arden apparently lost a leg but is otherwise fine.”

They’d all prepared for the possibility of losing a limb but there was nothing they could do until they left the strange realm. Even once they’d left, there wasn’t much they could do beyond regrow the flesh and take potions to help recover the missing portions of their spirits.

After tying three times, Matt found himself alone.

If his friends remained undefeated, he expected to be matched up against one of them but he was proven wrong when a Tier 33 appeared before him.

Hoping the man wasn’t too exceptional, Matt waited as the orange light descended.

When the man reappeared, he stood below a perfect Tier 38 arrow.

Checking with the report, he found that while the man had used his Talent liberally, it had only assisted the man, not doing the work for him.

Seeing how custom and well-iterated the design was, Matt was sure the man was an archer and this was his crowning creation.

Knowing he had zero chance to beat such a person, he surrendered instead of bothering to waste six days.

He watched on calmly as his left leg dissolved, the pain bypassing every barrier he’d tried to set up. Once his flesh finished melting, things continued swiftly as his next opponent appeared.

Liz winced, seeing his missing leg, but she wasn’t doing any better, having lost her left arm. “Was it the Tier 33 with the arrow?”

“Yeah, chance got my leg but I can’t argue with the results.”

It was unfortunate they’d both run into the man but they shouldn’t encounter him again, though his obvious skills shone through.

Tying her, Matt felt better as he defeated his next three opponents. Having finally lost, whatever internal ranking system the strange realm was using to match opponents started pairing him with people who’d lost before, instead of his friends.

The strange realm’s time dilations, combined with the effort needed to craft while wounded and tired, made for good training. So much so, that he was slightly upset when he found himself ejected three days later.

Exiting the strange realm’s influence, Matt patiently waited for Liz to heal his leg, the strange realm not being so kind as to let him keep [Regeneration] running while inside. Feeling his spirit finally start to recover from the trauma left behind from his earlier amputation he sighed.

Before they even started to inventory their gains, everyone grabbed a prepared spiritual recovery potion from Liz and sat down to prevent their injuries from growing worse.

Having relatively light injuries, Matt was one of the first to finish but instead of bothering everyone, he concentrated on his Concept and topping off his group’s mana. Everyone except Zack lost at least one limb, and as such needed to heal, but that only took their full concentration in the initial moments.

Debating on their next target as they healed, they decided to try and find the scouting corporation and buy more updated maps to fill in the gaps of their knowledge.

It was a good thing they did too, because it settled their debate with a near unanimous decision by highlighting a strange realm none of them wanted to pass up.

A team-based competitive strange realm, it gave the victors a cost reduction in a single aspect's spells.

The details were spotty but everyone was interested.

Needing to cover a lot of ground, they started moving. But while they were passing through an unremarkable, already looted Tier 6 world, they were finally accosted.

“What do we have here? Little lost Tier 30s? Why don’t you guys come with me for protection? If you help us with a strange realm, our group can ensure that you make it out of here alive. Otherwise, who knows what might happen to you guys.”

The freshly advanced Tier 32 smiled cruelly at them, confident in his overwhelming advantage.
