"Yes, though getting a pair of gloves like mine will cost you five large silver coins. And I charge five large bronze coins a day for lessons."

I'm rendered speechless by how shameless Anastasia is. Even if the gloves were that expensive, charging five large bronze coins daily for lessons was highway robbery.

When Mom taught me math, she explained how money worked. Everything was denoted through coins, starting with iron, and when as follows:

10 Iron Coins = 1 Large Iron Coin

10 Large Iron Coins = 1 Bronze coin

10 Bronze coins = 1 Large Bronze Coin

10 Large Bronze Coins = 1 Silver coin

And it kept going for silver and gold. A few iron coins could get you a loaf of bread and were primarily what villagers used to buy essential goods. A single bronze coin could get you a lot, so asking for fifty of them a day to teach me how to use magic items was absurd!

It's clear she never had any real intention of teaching me, and now that I know the extent of her skills, I no longer particularly want to learn from her, but I suppose I should at least ask what she could teach me.

"So if I can sense mana and get my parents to pay you, what will I learn?" It isn't easy to blatantly act like a child. I know my family can't afford her prices, and she knows I can't, but I need to act like I'm ignorant of both to continue the conversation.

"If you become my student," she puts a lot of emphasis on the if. "Then I can guarantee you will acquire four skills," she says proudly.

"Really!?" I acted excited but felt I already knew which skills she was talking about. "Which four skills?"

"The first, you'll need to unlock on your own, but I can help you level it up quickly. The skill is called Sense Mana, and every mage needs it to control mana. I've gotten mine to level 37, so I can help anyone talented enough to at least get it to level 20," she openly brags, and I have to bite my tongue to keep myself from laughing.

I had already gotten Sense Mana to level 42; were my other skills already higher than hers? "Wow," I pretend to be impressed.

"I don't like to brag," Anastasia brings her hand up to her chest and poses as if she were a noble, confirming the opposite of what she said. "But I can also guarantee each student would learn Expel Mana, Meditation, and Chanting," she proclaims.

I already had three of those four skills, and based on the name, it was easy to guess what Chanting did.

"Cool; does that mean you can chant spells too?" I gently prod, hoping for any piece of information.

"I know a few," Anastasia proudly grins down at me. "But they're secret spells, and I'll only teach them to my apprentices."

Even if she knew some spells, part of me wanted to call her out on her ridiculous pricing, but I would be stupid to antagonize the only person in the village who knew even a semblance of healing magic. So, I grit my teeth and stand up.

With a forced smile, I bow and thank Anastasia for her time, even though she didn't deserve it. I told her I'd talk to my parents about the money and try to sense mana, but anyone could see she wasn't expecting me to return.

"Well, that sucked," I grumble once I'm sure the door to the clinic is fully closed behind me. Getting some information about magic was nice, but Anastasia completely ruined it for me with her greed.

I'll acknowledge she had the information I needed, but I would need to explain why my skills were already so high even if I somehow got the money. I still hadn't even told my parents about my magic talent, let alone somebody else.

Being able to use magic was a big deal in this world. If I could already sense mana better than a woman in her thirties like Anatasia, I could only imagine what forces I would bring down on myself and my family if that information got out.

The only thing I could do was continue practicing by myself. Maybe when I was a bit older, I could fake discovering mana and talk to Anastasia again and work out a deal, but for now, I wasn't going to ask her to teach me.

Due to my disappointing first meeting, I take my time walking to my next destination.

Moving north through the village, I eventually come upon the fields at the back of the village. There were roughly fifteen acres of tilled land. I knew little about farming, but I'm guessing they recently planted whatever crop they hoped to harvest in the springtime.

I was curious what that is, though. We had almost a month of rain ahead of us, followed by four months of snow. Can anything survive that much punishment?

"Look out for the crops, Markus; a rabbit appeared," a voice says behind me.

"Don't worry, Ezekiel, she doesn't look hungry," a second person replies to the first.

I wonder if I can gain skills from murdering a couple of farmers, I darkly think as I turn around with yet another forced smile. I would skip talking to the two if Mother hadn't threatened that she'd ask around if I did so.

"Afternoon Markus. Hello Ezekiel," I greet the two men. I didn't know the names of many of the villagers, but I knew these two. Both were the highest leveled farmers in the village and were in charge of overseeing the fields.

They loved heckling me while I ran and were two of the first to start calling me 'little rabbit.' They never said anything overtly mean, but they were quite rude whenever we interacted.

"Finally making your rounds now that you turned ten? Markus smirkingly asks me.

"I'm surprised she even came to see us," Ezikial nudges his partner.

"Just looking," I flatly tell the two. "What did you guys plant?" I turned to look at the fields as I didn't want to look at the two men.

"Hear that, Markus? Finally, someone in their family has some appreciation for what we do," Ezikial preens.

What the hell does he mean by that? "Just curious about the crops, I assure you." I try not to roll my eyes.

"We're planting wortel," Markus finally answers my question.

That makes sense; wortel are the long green carrots Mother always puts in our stews. They grow underground, but I wasn't aware they could survive under the snow.

"Yep, we planted them yesterday," Ezikial adds.

He meant they supervised the planting. I understood the importance of having somebody in charge, especially when I was sure some skills benefited a group. However, that didn't give Markus and Ezikial the right to look down on everybody else. And what was that about my family?

"Want to learn a few skills?" Markus chortles. "You can pick up some fast levels if you come work under us, unlike your mother or brother."

"Yeah, and we won't even chase you out of the fields as we do the other rabbits," Ezikial jokes, and both men barrel over in laughter.

"What do you have against my family?" Finally, I can no longer hide my feelings and snap at the laughing duo.

"What, do we have something against her family?" Markus exaggeratedly asks Ezikial.

"No, who can have a problem with the perfect couple?" Ezikial spits venomously.

"What has my family ever done to you two?" I ball my hands into a fist angrily.

The two men look at each other and scoff in unison. Markus then turns to me with a sneer. "Your entire family thinks it's too good for farming," he wildly proclaims.

"That's right," Ezikial mirrors Markus. "When your mother and father moved here, who did you think offered them jobs? It was one thing for your father to turn us down, being a woodsman and all, but your mom was a spoiled merchant's daughter and couldn't do anything. She should've begged us to teach her the ropes, but instead, she took up tailoring because she was too good for us."

"Your brother did the same thing," Markus adds. "We took the time to explain how important we are to the village, and what does he do?"

"He ditches us halfway through the season for another apprenticeship," Ezikial finishes for Markus.

"And now you, with all your running around," Markus spits near my feet. "It's been days, and you're only coming to see us now. You have the same amount of respect the rest of your family has. The two of us are the most important people in the village; thanks to us, you and your family have food to eat every night. You should be so lucky to work under us."

"I'll consider it," I turn around and walk away before I break and strike the cackling duo with my fists.

"You'll be back," I hear Ezikial shout after me. "And when you do, we'll let you shovel the manure," he cackles.

Screw those guys, I fume. Why was everyone I met today a greedy charlatan or a couple of annoying ass farmers?

Even if I can't convince a single other person to let me be their apprentice, I'll never work under Markus or Ezikial.

But where did I go next? I don't think Mom will count dumb and dumber as two people, so I still need to hit up at least one other person today. But after my last two stops, I don't think I could take another lousy encounter. It was only my first day looking for an apprenticeship, and I was already over it.

Without any other ideas, I aimlessly wander around the village. I considered reaching out to Granny Gellar, but I wasn't that interested in baking either. What do I do?

"Hey, Aaliyah," Brother's voice pulls me out of my thoughts.

I don't know what drew me to this part of the village, but I was next to the stables at the moment, and Brother was here with his mentor Salus.

Richard called out to me from an exposed beam on the village's only barn. It was the only place the village had to store its livestock during winter, and it looked like Richard and Salus were in the middle of patching it up.

"Hey," I lazily wave back. Usually, I'd be happier to see Brother, but I couldn't muster the energy.

Brother gives me a concerned look, but he was in the middle of swapping out some planks and couldn't get down until he finished. He'd get angry at me if I left without telling him what was wrong, so I wait nearby for him to finish what he was doing.

In the meantime, I watch the various domesticated animals in their pens.

The biggest animals were the bivol. They were shorter, stockier bison-like creatures with coats of black fur. They were the village's beasts of burden. The farmers used them to plow the fields and push the carts, and on rare occasions, they were led around the village to tamper the ground. Most considered them the all-around most helpful animal to have. Although they did have one drawback, bivols were notoriously slow. They could pull a full cart all day and still not get that far.

Running around the feet of the bivol were tiny velociraptors called kips. Not the kind portrayed in movies, mind you, but the ones actually discovered by paleontologists. The key difference is that they weren't the size of people, with the biggest being turkey-sized. They were scavengers in the wild, had feathers like chickens, and lay decently sized eggs. It took them longer than chickens back on Earth, but they produced a decent amount of eggs, to the point it was worth raising them.

The pens were built primarily to house the bivol and kips, but a third animal was present. There were two horse-like creatures with horns. It would've been funny if they were called unicorns, but they weren't. Instead, they were called jelens, and their horns were a mix between rams horns and a deer's. Both were the village headman's property and weren't used for labor.

"Rough day?" Richard asks me after walking over to me.

"You can say that," I sigh. "Hello, Mr. Sallus," I greet Brother's mentor, who walks up and joins us. "I don't suppose you're looking for another apprentice?" I jokingly ask.

"Sorry, but I have my hands full with your brother," Salus politely turns me down.

"Well, I tried. If my mom asks you, can you tell her I talked to you?" I half-heartedly smile at Salus.

"That bad, huh?" Brother gives me a sympathetic smile.

"Yeah, it hasn't been fun," I tell him. "But with Salus, that makes three people I've visited. So I think I'll call it early and go back home. Maybe I'll help Mom with dinner."

"What happened?" Brother urges me to tell him, but I shake my head.

"I'll tell you at dinner; see you when you stop by." To Brother's displeasure, I don't answer any of his questions before walking off.

The rest of my day has me feeling like I'm underwater. And I don't start feeling better again until dinnertime with the family.

"What has you down, Sweetie?" Dad asks, concerned, seeing me play with my soup.

"She had a bad day," Richard answers for me.

"That explains why she was so quiet while helping me with dinner," Mom frows. "You came home earlier than I thought you would; what happened?"

The problem with a loving family is that they won't let you brood in silence. I know none of them will leave me alone until I tell them, so I take my time and explain my run-in with Ansitasia, Markus, and Ezikial to the three of them.

"I really hate that lady. Where does she get off saying her time is that valuable? Everyone knows she spends most of her day doing nothing!" Mom lightly slams her hands against the table.

"I had no idea Markus and Ezikial thought that way about us," Dad growls in annoyance. "If either of them ever touches you or speaks to you like that again, let me know, and I'll bury them in the woods."

"Thanks for the offer, but I wouldn't want you poisoning the forest," I joke, trying to lighten the mood around the table. "Besides, they're jerks, but they've never done anything warranting that. I just never want to work for them."

"And you don't have to," Mother reaches over and pats my arm. "I'm sorry you had such a bad day, but you can't let this stop you."

"I know, I'm just moping," I admit. "I don't want to go back out tomorrow."

It's then Dad gets a huge smile on his face. 'If that's the case, why don't you go out with me tomorrow? I can show you the forest; you've never been outside the village after all."

