"Let me sleep in," I groan, pulling my blanket over my head.

"Oh no, you don't," Mom's annoyed voice pierces my fabric shield. Through Sense Mana, I watch the outline of my mother, reach down and grab my blanket. I could try stopping her, but it would mean the destruction of my blanket. "It's time you get up," Mother forcefully rips the covering off me.

On reflex, I curl up, bracing myself for the cold air of fall to wash over me, but it never comes. My room is chilly, but for some reason, it's not to the point that I can't bear it. Why aren't I cold?

For a moment, I'm confused, but I quickly realize what's going on. It was my Endurance; it was no longer a measly 17 but a robust 50. Only two days ago, I gained access to my status page and distributed most of my status points, and I was still getting used to the perks that came with that.

My Endurance had almost tripled, so it stands I'd be more resistant to the cold. Too bad it didn't help me resist Mother's frosty glare.

Mom stood over me, her arms crossed in front of her chest, glowering down at me. "You should've been out of the house hours ago," she scolds. "What will people think if you sleep in all the time? Who would want an apprentice like that?"

"A vampire," I sassily whisper.

"A what?" Mother leans in, eyes narrowing menacingly. She didn't hear what I said but somehow knew I was talking back to her. "Honestly, Aaliyah," she shakes her head disappointingly. "You're ten now; you'll be an adult in a few years. I can't keep coming in here every morning to ensure you're awake."

"But you're so good at it," I pout and use Charm to make a cute face.

Mom smiles lovingly at me, and for a brief second, I think my skill worked, only to have Mother flick me in the forehead. "That won't work," she shakes her hand as if it's injured. "I see you put some of your points into Endurance," she notes with a sour face.

"Sorry," I apologize, and it's sincere. I would've tried to dodge if I knew Mother would hurt her finger flicking me.

"It's fine," Mother blows on her hurt digit. "It's up to you how you distribute your points; I just hope you didn't distribute them all simultaneously as we warned you not to."

"Don't worry, Mom, I didn't," I reassure her. I still had 86 points saved up; that's almost nine levels worth of status points—plenty left to distribute once I find an apprenticeship. Speaking of which, why did I have to go looking so soon? Can't I get at least a week off to get used to my new stats?

"Can't I have one more day to relax; I mean, get used to my stats?" I hurridly correct myself. But judging by the look Mom gives me, she isn't buying what I'm selling. "Come on; I bet hardly anyone in the village even knows I turned ten two days ago," I whine.

That actually gets a chuckle out of Mom. "Sweety, most of the village saw you running for three hours straight the other day. The whole village knows our 'little rabbit unlocked her status page."

"Must you use that silly nickname?" I frown. "After all, you say I'm an adult now."

"I said you're almost an adult," Mother takes great joy in correcting me. "And if you want me to treat you like an adult, act like it and get up on your own," she pats my leg, urging me up.

Damn, Mom's good. She easily flipped my words back on me.

"Why do you want me to get a job so bad?" I ask Mom as I swing my legs over the side of my bed.

Mother sighs like she does when she thinks I'm asking her the wrong question. "I don't want you to find a job; I want you to find something you're interested in. Not a job somebody picked out for you like my parents tried to do with me, but something that makes you happy."

"Your father was lucky because he loved doing what his dad did. And I'm thrilled Richard found something to be passionate about as well. Of course, I want the same for you, but unless you want to become a seamstress like me, you must go out and experience the world."

"I wouldn't call Spotted Creek Village the world," I deadpan, earning another small chuckle from Mother.

She reaches up and brushes my hair out of my face. "Start with our village first. Then, if you can't find something that interests you here, we'll discuss other options. Is that okay with you?"

"I suppose that's fair," I stand up and shake out my limbs. "Though I'm still going to do my morning workout routine."

"That's fine, as long as you talk to at least three people by the end of the day," Mom holds up three fingers. "I'll ask around and find out if you don't," she threatens.

"Deal," I hold out my hand as if we're making a business agreement, but Mom just pulls me into a hug.

Our embrace doesn't last long, and soon Mom excuses herself from my room so I can get ready.

I do my routine that has me brushing out my hair and tying it up. Then I brush my teeth with a medieval toothbrush made of a wooden handle and thick hair for bristles. There's no toothpaste, but I make up for it by brushing longer and twice a day. I've heard of few adults who have ever had teeth problems, meaning stats must help fill in the gap left behind by toothpaste.

I quickly wipe my body down using a rag and the small pail of water I keep in my room. If there's one thing I absolutely hate about this world, it is its lack of plumbing, specifically a shower. I rarely get to take a bath, so I'm stuck wiping myself down multiple times a day.

After cleaning myself, I throw on one of my pairs of trousers. Then I bind my budding chest with the garment Mother made for me and throw on a comfortable shirt. Lastly, I grab my raincoat. It could start raining any day now, and even with my new tolerance for the cold, I didn't want to risk getting caught up in the rain.

Leaving my room, I say goodbye to Mom, sitting in her chair sewing, and walk out the front door.

I don't go too far from our house before I start stretching. My routine consists of a lot of simple stretching techniques I remember from P.E. class back on Earth. But I've added a few new exercises to my list since yesterday.

Leaning over and placing my hands on the ground, I kick off with my feet, so I'm standing on my hands. I couldn't do this before distributing my status points, but now I could act like an anime protagonist with my increased physical stats. Counting off, I do five sets of ten upside-down pushups before hopping back onto my feet.

Next, I do a standing backflip just because I can. After that, I fool around for a few more minutes, enjoying my supercharged abilities, but all good things must end. I still need to do my laps and talk to people in the village.

So, I quit clowning around and got to running.

Running was my favorite pastime. It was invigorating, gave me time to think, and with it having its own skill related to it, I know if I'm improving. Like now, while doing laps around the village, I think of who I want to visit first.

Roughly 70% of the village worked in the fields, so it was a given I would need to visit them, but there were still quite a few people who had other jobs.

And though it was probably useless, I knew the first person I needed to visit.

Finishing my morning laps, I stop in front of Anastasia's house, our village's clinic. As far as I know, she's the only other person in the village with any magical skills, and there were some questions I was hoping she could answer.

I've been waiting for the right time to talk to her about magic. If I visited her any other time, it would raise questions, but practically every child went to meet with her once they unlocked their status page, so I was in the clear.

Standing in front of her house, I notice how nice it is. It's easily three times the size of ours, and to my knowledge, Anastasia lives alone. Unlike every other house, Anastasia's had brick walls and slate roofing instead of thatch like the rest of us. It just went to show how much the village valued her.

I've heard Mom complain about Anastasia and how arrogant she is for her skill level multiple times over the years, especially the few times Dad injured himself working and had to see her. But a weak healer was still a healer. Most villages our size only had a few emergency tonics, but our village is much safer with Anastasia here.

Mom said she could only cure relatively minor injuries, but that didn't matter to me so long as she could tell me about magic. Her personality mattered even less to me. I had to work retail in my past life, so I knew how to deal with unreasonable people. I'll just have to turn up my Charm.

Smirking, I open the door to Anastasia's house, as it was the village's clinic and always open during the day in case of an emergency.

Much like our house, I walk into a large room, only this one isn't a kitchen and is lined with chairs. There were two doors leading to the rest of Anastasia's house. One had a sign that said 'private' on it, which probably led to the part of the building she lived in, while the other door had a sign that said 'in use.' That must be the room she sees patients in.

Since the sign said 'in use,' she must be seeing somebody now, so I sit and wait. Luckily for me, I don't have to wait long before the door is opened, and one of the elderly members of the village, who I didn't know the name of, walks through the door.

"Thank you, Lady Anastasia," the old man tries to bow to her but can't do much more than lower his head. "My back always acts up before the first rain."

"It was nothing," Anastasia waves off the old man before holding her hand out. "My payment?"

"Of course," the old man fishes three bronze coins out of his pocket and places them in Anastasia's outstretched hand.

As soon as the coins are in her hand, Anastasia loses all interest in her patient and turns her attention to me. "Are you sick?" She looks me up and down with a scowl, leaving the old man to exit alone.

Confronted with blatant hostility, I put on my best customer service smile and lie my ass off. "Sorry for taking up your time; I'm not injured. I recently turned ten and came to talk to big sister about magic, as you're the best (only) mage in the village." I keep Charm activated while I butter Anastasia up with a starry-eyed look as if I were meeting my hero.

Slowly, Anastasia's look of disdain starts to slip, and she smirks at me. "Only the most talented, like myself, can use magic. In fact, only one in five hundred has the potential to sense mana. Do you think you are one of them?"

If she raises her nose any higher, it will pierce her roof. But, of course, I don't say that; instead, I nod and continue to lay on useless platitudes. "Wow! No wonder you're the most important person in the village. My parents even told me you saved my life as a baby!"

"I am blessed with great talent, but no matter how blessed I am, I can't teach you if you have no skill in sensing mana," she warns me.

"That's okay; I just want to be able to throw fireballs at goblins," I tell her in an overly childish voice.

Anastasia scoffs, "Children and their fire spells. There's more to magic than simple destruction spells."

Great, I got her talking. Now let's see if I can extract any hints from her. "Okay, like what? How do people cast magic?"

"I suppose I can give a respectful child like yourself some information for free. If only every child that comes to bug me is the same in the future. Listen carefully," she gestures for me to sit still in my seat, which was hard because I was practically shaking with excitement.

"There are multiple ways a person who can sense mana can use magic, but the most common you are no doubt familiar with is chanting, using an incantation. Words hold power, and reciting an incantation correctly with the right pitch, can bend mana to your whim."

"Next," Anastasia smiles at me and holds up her hands, where I see she's wearing a fancy pair of leather gloves. "A person can channel their mana into a magic item made with runic magic. The effects they produce are always the same but usually cost less mana than reciting a similar spell and are much easier to use. Like my gloves that convert my mana into healing energy."

Anastasia sounds proud of herself, but it takes much of my willpower not to frown. By her admission, she isn't even casting any magic; she's just the battery! Hell, I could probably do that! No wonder Mom says she charges too much for what she does.

"Sister, can I see your magic gloves?" I innocently smile, but it doesn't work.

"Are you crazy?" She pulls her hands back as if I was going to try tearing them off her hands. "Did you think I would hand over something so valuable to a complete amateur?"

"I'm so sorry," I quickly apologize and hang my head, but mostly I do it to avoid Anastasia seeing my annoyed expression. I mean, come on, lady, what would I do with them? Throw them in a fire? Run off with them? We live in the same small village.

"I suppose you didn't know what you were asking," she says after hearing my fake apology.

Damn, I was losing her; I could tell she was moments away from asking me to leave. If that were the case, I might as well try to ask her at least one more question. "So you need a spell or an item to cast magic? What about conjuring stuff from your mind; is that possible?"

Thankfully, my question turned Anastasia's focus away from her gloves, but her answer wasn't what I wanted to hear. "You're talking about casting spells with nothing but Mana Manipulation. It is possible, but the techniques have been lost to time. Some talented mages can do simple things with it, but the skill is primarily used to boost the casting of the other two forms of magic and empower skill-based magic effects."

Okay, so no help there.

Anastasia once again grins at me. "You're quite studious, aren't you? If you find you can sense mana, come back, and I'll teach you."

"Really?" I'm honestly surprised by her offer.

