Ren smiled and opened the plans. Yes, the stone bricks needed to be stacked this way and that way to keep the heat concentrated... but if the edge of this brick and this brick were trimmed just a little and then if this one and this one was enchanted with wind, and the side ones were enchanted with fire...

When Ren was finished, he got another popup.

Notice!

You have learned the plans for an enchanted forge.

Stat Change!

Intelligence +2

Ren drank another Mana potion and another fifth of his mana was restored. Ren took the smelting apparatus off the top of the forge with thick gloves and put it aside. Ren opened up the end of the forge and used a small shovel to clean out the coals into a bucket.

Donan heard the clinking of the coals and turned to see Ren emptying the forge. Donan's eyes bulged as Ren undid an hour's hard work of prepping the forge, and then stared as Ren moved the bellows away. Donan forgot to continue working and shook his head in disbelief as Ren used a thick cloth doused in oil to cool off the stone bricks.

He's lucky that cloth didn't catch on fire. Donan thought as Ren finished wiping off the coal residue from the bricks.

Ren needed it to be clean for his idea to work. Ren took the top row of stone bricks to the stone grinding wheel in the corner and ground off the edge just enough so that when placed back on top of the forge, it would point slightly downwards. The stone bricks were designed to withstand really high heat so Ren enchanted quadruple fire rune glyphs on each of the side bricks, and then quadruple wind rune glyphs on the end bricks. Ren placed the sanded down bricks on the top, angled inwards, to keep the heat concentrated and to stop the wind glyphs from blowing the fire everywhere. Ren wasn't sure if it was really necessary to do that, but it was better to be safe than sorry. Ren really hoped that this worked and leaned over the forge to speak.

“Activate.”

A blast of heat hit Ren and he recoiled in shock. Ren had lost about 10% of his health. I... probably shouldn't have leaned over so closely to see if it would work. Ren thought.

Stat Change!

Wisdom -2

Luck +1

Ren reached up and touched his face. “Ow.” Ren said and looked over at Donan who started to laugh.

“That... that might take a while to grow back.” Donan said between laughs and pointed to his own eyebrows.

Ren reached up and felt his face. Dammit. Yep, they're all gone.

Teepo chittered in laughter when Ren turned to look at him.

“Hey... it's not that funny.” Ren said, but both Donan and Teepo kept laughing.

Of course, once others were laughing it was hard to not join in. Ren had to laugh with them and they stopped a few moments later.

“Okay, okay... that was stupid of me.” Ren said. “But I wanted to make sure it worked.”

“Just use a piece of wood or a set of tongs next time.” Donan said and smiled.

Ren nodded and put the smelting apparatus back on top of the modified forge. After only a minute it was hot enough for Ren to start smelting. Ren grinned as the blanks he added to the crucible melted slightly quicker than they did with the normal forge and Ren skimmed off miniscule bits of impurities and poured it into the short sword mold. While Ren waited for it to cool slightly, 2 more blanks were put into the smelter. Ren took the short sword with tongs and did the same trick with the oil barrel that Donan did, wiped the blade off and tossed it into the pile. Ren turned around and took the crucible with the same tongs, saw no impurities and poured it into the mold. Donan was still staring at Ren and how fast he was working.

“We'll never finish if you just keep staring at me.” Ren said as he dipped another sword into the oil.

Donan shook his fist at Ren and made Ren laugh. Soon after that, there was silence, except for the clanking of the swords after being made and Ren activated Serene State of Mind. Ren and Donan worked continuously throughout the night. Teepo had jumped off Ren at some point and had explored the whole shop. When Teepo crawled back onto Ren's shoulder, Ren heard a shout.

“Breakfast!” Donan said unexpectedly.

Ren was shaken out of Serene State of Mind and took the sandwich that Donan passed him. “Isn't this your lunch?” Ren asked as he bit into the sandwich. Ren hadn't eaten since the morning before, but didn't get a Rationing popup. It'll take a lot longer now that it's Intermediate, I guess. Ren thought and kept chewing.

“Ha! You catch on quick.” Donan said and ate a similar sandwich. “We'll have to stop and eat a proper meal by then, anyways.” Donan said. “I'm not as young as I used to be.”

Ren laughed and almost choked on the sandwich. Donan smacked Ren on the back and Ren swallowed. “Geez, don't make me laugh when I'm eating.” Ren said and Donan laughed.

Donan stopped laughing when he got a good look at Ren's face. “I'll be right back.” Donan said and left the building.

Ren was puzzled at Donan's abrupt departure. I wonder what's gotten into him?

“Maybe he's getting the food for lunch?” Teepo offered.

Ren finished the sandwich and he gained another 40 points. Ha. Almost as good as a weak healing potion. Ren thought as Donan came back into the blacksmith's shop with someone right behind him.

“There. Look.” Donan said and the person stepped out from behind him.

The man wore a bright white tunic that had a big red cross on it. “Yes, I see. You were right to come and get me as soon as you did.”

Ren stared at the man as he raised hands to Ren's face. They glowed and Ren felt that familiar tingle cover his face and some of his neck. Ren watched as his Health bar filled fairly quickly and when it was done, Ren's Mana Pool started to fill as well. The healer's eyes widened as Ren absorbed more and more of his mana. After a few more minutes, Ren's Mana Pool was full and the healer's hands stopped glowing.

“You must have been hurt a lot more than I could see.” The healer said.

“I told you that it was bad. When it first happened, it was funny and looked okay... but once I saw it in the daylight...”

“How much?” Donan said and reached into his money pouch.

“Let's say 2 gold... but only because it took nearly half of my mana to heal him.”

Ren stared at the healer as Donan passed over the 2 gold coins. Boy, was Lucy right or what! Ren thought as the healer took the money, nodded to Donan and left. I really, really overpaid that healer, Camilla. Ren thought and smiled. “Thanks, Donan.” Ren said and tried to hand over 2 gold.

Donan shook his head. “Keep your money. You were hurt in my shop.”

Ren chuckled. “I was acting stupid in your shop.”

“Well, you can just act stupid again.” Donan said.

Ren looked at Donan in confusion. “What do you mean?”

“I want you to change my forge, too.” Donan said and grinned.
