300

******

“Moshk, you bank stalker, I’ll have half your thoughts and all your voice for the small news!” The speaker was dressed in an open-backed shirt that was gradually shifting colors to match the sky’s march toward night. She dropped a cylinder as long as her forearm on the table next to Moshk’s but went to sit at his, turning a chair so that her feet in their silver and gold sandals could stick out toward the pavilion’s edge. “They were just telling us Esh-erdi passed earlier, playing with that terackerin he got for his nieces.”

She pointed a ring-adorned finger behind her toward the group she’d arrived with. One man and three women were standing at the back of the pavilion talking to the people preparing the night’s food and drink. The flyer they’d arrived in was being loaded with a delivery for someone else.

“He’s here,” Moshk confirmed.

“And Lind-otta?”

“City.”

“And the human?”

“What do you need a bank stalker’s gossip for, Dazm, if you’ve already heard it all from others?”

“So he has brought a human! The betting was on some surprise coming back with them as a souvenir from Earth. I was hoping for a date palm, or something musical for this place. Maybe an elephant, just for a day. I’d like to see one in person, but I wouldn’t want the creature to be much inconvenienced.”

“You should just go to Earth yourself with a list like that. And what are you all doing here at our pitcherhouse dressed for a reveler’s night? You’ll make your neighbors feel dull.”

“The plan was to have a reveler’s night in Wathe for Kayda. She’s home from working the line on Tympeh. One week in the house with her loving mother worrying over her was too much. I’m taking her out to prove I can be fun instead of fussy.” She looked back at one of the women she’d come with. “But as we were dressing, she started reminiscing about this old place like it was the fondest part of her childhood instead of somewhere she complained about if we brought her twice in ten days. So here we are instead to start our night, and you’re welcome to compliment us all more.”

“I’ll compliment everything about Hn’tyon Kayda, especially her patience with someone as difficult as you,” Moshk joked. “But what is there to compliment you on?”

“Are Esh-erdi and Lind-otta home for a while now?” Dazm asked, only huffing at the gibe. “The last I heard was about that issue with Anesidora. I don’t keep up as well as I should.”

“They’re still assigned to Earth. Half duty, half pleasure at this point. They’re back here for quick business and a family visit. And for the human, I think. Esh wants to give the boy a treat. A pleasant trip to soothe his nerves after all he’s been through is the sense I have of it.”

“What’s this?” Dazm asked. “The human’s not an Avowed helping with something?”

“Oh no.” Moshk shook his head. “Not that at all.”

At the table beside them, Dazm’s group was pulling out chairs and setting down drinks. They each carried cylinders like the one she had brought, all decorated differently. The man opened his and tipped it over, allowing brightly colored game pieces to spill out.

“It’s that human boy you might have heard about,” said Moshk. “The one the Quaternary found on Moon Thegund. Only thirteen or fourteen. An Avowed for mere days before he was trapped there with an even younger child. Nearly pulverized by Hn’tyon Alis-art’h’s power since she didn’t know he was there.”

Dazm gasped. “I had heard the story, naturally, but not that part.”

“From what I understand, if the Quaternary’s first meal that day hadn’t been a leisurely one, both children would’ve been buried alive as they ran to her for help. It’s luck that they weren’t, but I don’t think good luck finds that human as often as bad considering what happened to him when he made it back home. You might not have heard that part at all? It’s to do with the und’hs, but it’s hard to run across an und’h who wants to talk about another und’h’s personal issues. One of their most promising young people couldn’t bring herself to choose the highest path and couldn’t trust herself to live as a votary, and she skipped over the other options to join the ordinary class and work on Anesidora.”

He looked down at an arriving boat.

“I know who you’re talking about,” Dazm said, lowering her voice. “Very talented. Very. And Zeridee-und’h was such a sweet girl. I’d feel better about her eschewing wizardry if she hadn’t gone to be a pretend votary in a pretend Rapport like that. It’s too close to what she could’ve been to be the right step down.”

Moshk turned a flabbergasted face back toward her. “Are you calling Anesidora a Rapport? They’re nothing alike!”

“Of course they aren’t! But serving a country of Avowed, serving a community of knights…it’s as votarylike a position as a girl who gave up on being a part of our world could find, don’t you think?”

“I don’t,” said Moshk.

“Well, I do, and it’s sad. What’s the news about her?”

“She almost died somehow in that Anesidora disaster. The details are unclear to me for now, but she was with the Quaternary’s human. Esh and Lind-otta saved both of them!”

“Not the same human!”

“The same.” Moshk reached for his cup and cradled it in both hands. “So Esh took an interest in the boy, and now he’s here for a day of healing rest. He was learning to direct the terackerin earlier, and he went to see the rocks with my daughter’s little class. They’re coming back this way now…ay, actually that’s them in the distance! Looks like they’re dropping one of the poythe family’s children off at their dock.”

Dazm and Moshk both stood and leaned to see better down the river toward the group of figures on top of the terackerin. A couple of the people who’d arrived with Dazm stepped over to look, too.

“Poor Ryeh-b’t,” one of them said. “What a fear-filled introduction he’s had to magic and our kind!”

“That’s truth. But he couldn’t have met better than Esh. He seems all fun, but he’s dearly kind. I once saw him try to modify a potion to save a lacefin that had been struck by an oar.”

“Does a lacefin that’s been struck by an oar need saving?” Dazm asked. “Don’t they tend to wake up and swim off after a bit?”

“We shall say that one needed it because it didn’t survive the potion,” said Moshk. “And when the terackerin stops here to deliver my daughter, we shall treat the human Esh has brought with soft voices and no alarming spells. In one of his messages to me earlier, he said he’d invited the human on this soothing trip to prepare him for a minor secrecy tattoo, so even something like that fills the boy with such trepidation that Esh goes to these lengths.”

“The child is traumatized,” said a wizard sitting two tables over, who had been pretending not to listen in until now.

“Is he seeing a mind healer?”

“That Porti-loth went with Esh-erdi and Lind-otta, but does he know humans well enough?”

“His name is Alden.”

“I’m sure it was Porti-loth.”

“I mean the human’s name!”

“He may not even speak to us. I wouldn’t be surprised.”

A third of the people under the pavilion were now watching for Esh-erdi’s terackerin and its alien passenger, either outright or through a subtle eye.

Porti-loth’s name had caught Moshk’s attention, and he turned to Dazm again. “A date palm is some Earth tree according to the translation. If you were hoping for one of those, you should really see what Esh has had planted recently. When that healer was curing the boy of his physical injuries, he—”

Shushing hisses came from three different directions.

“They’re close now! Don’t let them hear you, Moshk.”

“You said ‘soft voices’ yourself.”

The watchers were overeager. The terackerin Ploomp was in no hurry. Everyone had to wait through an awkward, self-commanded silence while Esh-erdi, Alden Ryeh-b’t, and the three children came toward them.

Finally, the human was giving the animal docking instructions in a cautiously enunciated voice. The watchers all smiled gently down on him.

Esh-erdi was listening to something his nieces were telling him about their day as Moshk’s daughter climbed the ladder up from the water to her father. And then the nieces were climbing up as well. There was a barely noticeable stir through the crowd. Esh-erdi must be stopping here for longer than they’d expected. Would the human brave the ladder, too?

He did! Though it looked not much at all like bravery. More like a tall, not-quite-Artonan youth in a rush to get up to where they stood. When he was among them, he looked around.

A couple of people started to welcome him, but Dazm’s daughter Kayda swooped ahead of them.

“Hello,” she said softly. “Welcome to the pitcherhouse on Wathe’s Ribbon. We’re glad you’re here. If there’s anything you need or anything causing you discomfort, please say so.”

The human boy nodded at her. “Thanks. I’m here to eat and drink one of everything that won’t hurt me, as long as it isn’t made of animals. Do I order from you, or do I go over to the counter back there?”

The knight, dressed for her revelry instead of in her uniform, shot both eyes in different directions, looking for advice, before saying. “Most…most people would ask at the counter. But I did say I’d help. So, I could get you…”

“No sweat,” the human said mysteriously. “Except the literal kind from me. Sorry. I mean thank you for telling me. I’m here to do the pitcherhouse, so I’ll order the way most people would.”

He marched a few steps toward the counter, then stopped and turned back around. “The erdis are planning to have my leftovers, but should I get anything for anyone else? I can carry a lot.”

“Why…do you think the erdis will only consume what you’ve left?” Kayda asked

“Because they said they were just going to eat and drink everything I don’t like or can’t have much of. So that I don’t feel bad about wasting it.”

“I see. My sausage bread should be ready,” Kayda said.

“I’ll bring it for you. What’s your name?”

“H…Kayda.”

Everyone who’d been paying attention to the interaction was now staring at her.

“Hello, Hakayda. I’m Alden,” he said brightly.

“It’s just Kayda! I misspoke.”

“All right. Kayda.”

“Kayda-lin, I mean!”

“Kayda-lin,” Alden repeated. “Got it.”

He waited a moment more, perhaps for her to change her name again, then nodded and strode off to the counter.

The knight looked around. “I couldn’t figure out what to do with my title in the middle of all that. I think perhaps someone gave us a wrong impression of Alden Ryeh-b’t.”

“Who might that have been?” Esh-erdi asked, beaming at them. “And what was the impression to make you all quietly watch my fellow knight impersonate a waiter?”

Everyone looked at Moshk.

******

******

Alden was going to do the pitcherhouse.

He hadn’t intended to before meeting Zakithee-und’h. He did intend to after. He’d told Esh-erdi, and kept telling himself, that it was for his notes. But he watched the riverside pavilion growing larger as Ploomp swam toward it, and what he felt was something like an urge to burst through a wall into the real Rapport III. Not exactly the calm social analysis that was his stated goal.

I’m just going to do the local pitcherhouse. I’ll challenge my own comfort zone, not other peoples’. I’m still Esh-erdi’s guest.

He turned to his host. “It’s really okay that I want to stop here, isn’t it? This doesn’t interfere with your plans for the morning…the night?”

“I brought you here because I hoped you’d enjoy it. Take whatever you like from our beautiful home,” Esh-erdi said grandly.

“Not Ploomp!” said Droon.

“Ploomp is ours!” Brim shouted at the same time, throwing herself forward to sprawl across the terackerin’s blue back like a possessive starfish.

“Don’t worry. I know who Ploomp belongs to,” Alden assured the twins, his eyes going to the pitcherhouse again.

I’ll take everything I can from there. Someone who wants to build home shouldn’t be too shy around the pre-existing walls and the neighbors.

While he was parking Ploomp, he decided that a person challenging his comfort zone by doing the pitcherhouse right also shouldn’t be intimidated by wizards watching him from above with weird smiles on their faces. It was strange to have an audience while he climbed a ladder, but maybe they’d all consumed something from the more intoxicating section of this place’s menu.

I’m here to get to know you, not judge you. I hope you’re all cool. Some Rapport residents might not like to hang out with Avowed. Eventually, I’ll have to find the ones who do and make the rest learn to put up with me.

He thought Stuart would approve of this attitude and his efforts.

I’ll send him pictures to show him I’m working on it.

******

******

Stu knelt amid the students who filled LeafSong’s largest insight chamber, listening to an instructor he’d never met before today explain the principles that had led her to create a method for intensifying emotions through a fan-cast spell.

This was one of the university’s coveted Innovations in Magic lectures. The students in attendance were mostly above fourth year, with only a few individuals from each lower cohort chosen to benefit from direct instruction in this chamber where the instructor’s own conversance with her new spell would transfer to them more easily.

