Holly snorted. “Can a fish swim?”

I suppose that’s a yes…

But Holly had already returned her attention to Tala’s hands. “Despite the… flaws, it’s genius how he got around the difficulties of…”

Tala stopped listening. She knew how her magic worked and that it had been a pain to learn how to use the unusual style of spell-craft, but she had never regretted the choice. Her magic was precise and efficient. She was a scalpel next to the headsman’s axe of most gravity manipulators, and she sipped metals.

Tala’s mind returned to Holly when the woman snapped her fingers in front of Tala’s nose. “You aren’t listening at all, are you?”

Tala cleared her throat. “Well, I do know what my scriptings do.” She sat back down at the table, as Holly didn’t seem to need to inspect her directly anymore.

Holly sighed. “We have a lot to discuss, and there is much we can improve. Your designer only thought of your inscriptions as multilayered, without truly embracing the potential of three-dimensional workings. I see other layers for muscle and bone spell-lines, and that shows a depth of thinking.” Holly smiled briefly at her own pun. “But they could, and should, be intertwined, unified.”

“I’ve… I’ve never actually been able to test out those other layers.” She glanced to Lyn, who was staring at her with shocked fascination. Deeper inscriptions weren’t rare, per se, but they were unpopular because they could be very painful, and if they weren’t done perfectly, they led to magic poisoning at a much faster pace than even the most frivolous Material Creator would experience. “I hadn’t decided to commit to using them, yet.”

Holly waved the objection aside. “Don’t be foolish, of course you’d never get these as they are. You’d be dead in a week.”

Tala hesitated. They aren’t that crude… Are they?

“No, no. I’ll get this worked up for you in just a day or so.” There was a strange light in Holly’s eyes.

Tala leaned back, suddenly wary. “Ummm… What will this cost me?”

“Hmm?” Holly was already moving her fingers through the air as if manipulating something Tala couldn’t see. “Oh, my alterations to your pattern won’t be cheap, but they will be worth it. The spell-lines themselves should only cost four or five ounces gold, but with the modifications, I wouldn’t be surprised if you only need refreshing for your passive scripts every year or so, but I’ll know more after I finish the changes.” She glanced to Tala’s hands. “Though, of course, your own use of the active abilities will force more regular inscription of the lines around the functions for your hands.”

Tala blanched. Five ounces gold. Just for the inscriptions? How much would this crazy person charge for the schematic? “I only have five-and-a-half ounces of gold for inscriptions and to outfit myself for my first job.” She glanced at the empty wooden platter. “Well, five-and-a-half ounces, less fifty ounces copper.”

Holly paused, glancing to Lyn. “What rate will she get?”

Lyn cleared her throat. “That is confidential.”

Holly waved a frustrated hand. “Fine, fine.” She turned back to Tala. “I’ll get you the basics for your first two jobs if you swear to come straight back here and not let another inscriber muck up my work. I’ll take a day to finalize the schema, and then three days to do the actual inking…” She began muttering to herself again, but Tala had, once again, hit a mental block.

Three days of inscription work? She supposed if it were really only required every year or so, that would total less than she had been expecting. It was the same with the cost of the work, itself, but it was front-loaded, and she did not have enough money as it was. She cleared her throat, drawing Holly’s attention back. “I will need at least half an ounce of gold for another necessity.”

Holly’s eyes narrowed. “More secrets, eh?” She drummed her fingers on the table as she finally sat down once more. “Or, perhaps, the same secret.” She looked into Tala’s eyes, but Tala glanced away. “Fine. Five ounces gold, with a promise of prompt return, and”—she glanced to Lyn, then back to Tala—“eight ounces gold upon your return. Fair? I’ll finalize your inscriptions, then.”

After two trips, Tala should have an additional eleven ounces gold, before any expenses, so she should be able to afford it, but… She looked to Lyn.

The other woman sighed and shrugged. “She’s the best, honestly. Most of our Mages won’t let anyone else work on them if they can help it.” After a moment’s hesitation, she added, “Well, in truth, most are satisfied with her apprentices.”

Holly scoffed. “Of course they are. Most just want to throw fireballs or some other simple nonsense.” She gestured to Tala. “This creature wishes to do true magic.” She grinned. “You will play a golden harp beside their hide drums!”

A harp is easily drowned by the sound of drums… Tala opened her mouth to reply, but Holly cut her off.

“A long bow beside a wooden club, then, if instruments aren’t well known to you.”

Tala tried to object again, as the instruments in question were so basic the assumed lack of knowledge on her part could only be insulting, but Holly overrode her, again.

“But as I was saying, you will need at least three days to adjust to even the first stage of enhanced signal speed, both in your own head and in your nervous system as a whole.” She scratched an itch behind her left ear. “I bet you’ll have at least three cardiac arrests before your brain and heart work out a new rhythm. Expect lots of hiccups, too.”

Tala’s face hardened. “Excuse me.”

“What did you expect? I’d leave your involuntary mental functions alone? That would be dangerous! Imagine enhancing only a portion of your mind. You’d be lucky not to fry within your own skull.”

“That is not what I—”

“And moving! I can’t wait to see you try to walk.”—She patted Tala’s arm. — “You’re young, though, that part should acclimate in a matter of minutes.”

“Hold on a mo—”

“Yes, this will be a work of art, my next masterpiece will reside on the canvas of your power. Lesser Mages will not be able to comprehend your majesty when I’m done.” She stood, in a rush, turning and striding away.

“Wait a minute!”

Holly ignored her but called over her shoulder. “Mistress Lyn, you’re her handler, right? Book her two jobs, leaving in a week, and returning as soon thereafter as possible. Make them safe, or I’ll never get my money. Bring her by the shop tomorrow evening.”

Lyn called a vague sound of affirmation.

Tala spun on the woman. “What do you mean, okay? I didn’t agree to anything!”

Lyn shrugged. “You won’t get a better deal, and honestly, I’d be surprised if any other inscriber would take you now that Holly is interested.”

Tala glowered. “You’ve tricked me.”

“Into the best inscriptions this side of heaven? Yes, yes, I did.” The clerk looked almost smug.

“She’s going to kill me! You heard her.”

“She won’t leave you dead. It’s not hard to restart a heart if it actually goes that far.”

Tala growled. “I don’t like being backed into things.”

“This is for your own good.”

“You didn’t understand any more of what she said than I did.”

“I didn’t need to. She has never failed to improve the magic of the Mages she works on. And I figured that she would be fascinated by your… unusualness.”

Tala’s eyes narrowed. “You said she was better than average.” A dawning sense of understanding was growing within her. “You knew that she’d be like this.”

Lyn quirked a smile. “And you knew that a fresh graduate shouldn’t really be getting a Mage’s rates.” She winked. “I’ve got to ensure we get your true worth from you, or I’ll look bad.”

Tala’s mouth dropped open. “You… knew?”

“Suspected. You know, one of the reasons a mageling is paid less is that their inscriptions, and their use of them, aren’t fully worked out yet.” She shrugged. “Mistress Holly will take care of that.” Lyn smiled, again, patting Tala on the shoulder. “I’ve just helped you become who you wanted me to believe you were.”

Tala groaned and put her head into her hands. “I suppose I deserved that.”

Lyn’s voice had just a hint of sympathy in it. “It won’t be so bad, Mistress Tala. Come on. Let me buy dessert. You can stay at my place tonight.”

Tala looked up hopefully. “Are you sure?”

“Absolutely. You’ve a busy week ahead.”

Reluctantly, Tala followed the other woman to a nearby food cart to select a consolation.
