For a moment, she teetered on the brink of oblivion. But she felt so many minds clinging to consciousness, still fighting, still warring against the Stranger's offspring, that she knew she couldn't. Even now, at the brink of agony, she couldn't. She had too many people to guard, too many responsibilities under her charge.

And if she fell, she wouldn't be able to face Adam. Worse yet, she wouldn't be able to face herself. She was a Cherished Sister of Weave. And even if these weren't her people, they were still her duty. She was still devoted to the Composer's ways. And whatever flaws her goddess might have, mercy and nobility were not among them.

When the pain finally faded and she regained control of her own body, she could hear the Starhawk speaking. "I had to break apart part of your skill, Sister Uva." The god sounded apologetic, but ultimately resolute. "They are still there. They are still deep within your Psychomancy, within a number of other skills. But they remain dormant for now."

Uva found herself staring up at the ceiling. The roof above her was cracked and veined with damage. She could see the dense nest of translucent and incandescent mana that was threaded over the top of Starhawk's Perch.

The rest of her mind continued working. Only this portion of her endured the brunt of the pain, suffered the consequences of mere unconsciousness. It was quite a considerable Heroic-Tier Skill to have.

"It's also not enough." Another hallucination manifested beside her. It was a clone of herself, shaped to seem exactly like Uva, except in one specific way. The left side of her body was fracturing, shattering like fractals of ice. Chronomancy was infused within it. It was power that left everything in stasis, that froze more than just temperature.

"Get out of me," Uva hissed. She bordered on the verge of delirium, but the anger inside her had hardened, like ice, hardened, and found itself utterly impotent.

"The Eldest is speaking to you right now?" Valor asked. Uva didn't have time to reply to the Legendary Pathbearer. The Starhawk's power flowed through her once more, but this time it didn't banish the Eldest. This time, the hallucination stayed, and now Uva questioned if this delusion was born of her own mind, of her own mental state being driven to the very limit, or if it was truly the eldritch being making its final play for her soul.

"It matters little. I am metastasizing. You have drawn on my power too much. Too much of you is bound to me. I will save you. I will see you reborn. To fight will see us destroyed. There is no other choice. There's no other way. I have to be. I have to be. I have to be."

As the Eldest recited their words like a mantra, Uva realized that they might not be any freer than she. They had to spread. They were only conscious when they were within her. They were only real when they were bound to her skills. She considered that the Eldest might effectively be a primordial plague, traveling through the other Eldritch Gods.

And now, they experienced a brief moment of the truth as they spread through her. There was an existential terror here, a coldness she'd never experienced before. To only be real in instances, in flickers, and then afterward to be merged with something else, what kind of life was that? And what would remain of her if she truly became one with it? What would remain of them? Would either of them still be at all?
