After that, the lawyer looked defeated, and ultimately decided to leave before his own son could say or do anything else that would get them in more trouble. Particularly with the fact that people with Eidetic Memory unlocked and verified by the system, were allowed to testify on the stand as if they were human lie detectors. There were of course humans who had the ability to detect lies, many of which were those with high Perception attributes, and every courtroom had at least one on the stand. That was also part of why Mr. Courtland had been so successful as a trial lawyer, he could hear the lies others spoke. While he hadn’t unlocked the true Lie Detector ability, his Perception was not high enough for that, he had gotten close. That along with a few perks made it so he was as close to being a human lie detector as possible without the system unlock. This was why he had taken everything Alexa said and did to heart. She was not lying, at least all his instincts swore that she was not lying. Not about the events nor her interpretation of events. And if rumors were to be believed, her academic record spoke to her easily having achieved more than enough attribute crystals to increase her Intelligence well past the twenty-point threshold needed for Eidetic Memory. This was why Mr. Courtland left in such a hurry. There was nothing he could do to save this event that quickly spiraled out of his control. What looked to at first be an assault charge and a lawsuit against the school, quickly escalated to a point beyond his control

Only once the two Courtlands left, did a strange hush cover the room.

Finally, after a moment of silence, Luke broke the silence. “Mr. Vickers, why exactly are you here?”

At that, Mr. Vickers smiled. “Well, I am now down one quarterback. I came here to see if I could fix that problem.”

At that Luke, raised his hands. “I’m sorry, I can’t. I already told you; I have commitments.”

“Yeah, yeah. Your dating life, blah, blah, blah. Besides. Not everything is about you, kid.” Mr. Vickers began, as he turned his attention from Luke to his twin. “I came to offer that starting position to you.”
