The Colt and the Will called for Morgan to lower his gun, reminded him that the Culturist was nearby. The orc hadn't struck yet, and the old Ranger knew his enemy well. This was a moment of absolute advantage. The Culturist was the kind to play with his prey only after the actual fighting was done. Right now, if he hadn't struck, that meant he was kept on a leash or held at bay for some reason. Something about the Deathless proved unnaturally magnetic. It might have been a Social Skill, but if it was, it was a hell of a subtle and influential one. Almost unwillingly bewitched by the Deathless' confidence and the menace that he radiated, Morgan acknowledged his presence and holstered his gun.

"Boss?" Gunhead said, confused but also relieved on some level.

"Lower your weapons," Morgan declared. "Deathless here wants to talk.”

“And I do,” the chef said with a smile on his face. “And this is going to be more than just a chat, because by the time I'm done, there will be an opportunity on the table that you won’t get from anyone else.”

Master-Scout Janeway, one of Morgan's newer Rangers, scoffed derisively. "Like I haven't heard that shit before."

“I'm sure you haven't.” The Deathless turned his gaze on her. “Because I'm going to offer you a chance to attack the Challenger in his own dimension. I got an exclusive entrance straight into the Tutorial itself.”

All of a sudden, the other Rangers grew hushed. Morgan leaned in. “I might believe that, but I might have also heard a few more things about you, son. Things that might not sit right with me and mine. They say you're a Vaketh-Insul.”

“I am,” the Deathless said without shame or hesitation. “I made that bargain to see my home saved. I did it because out of all the shitty choices I had at the time, it was the only one to make. I paid for that. My friend paid for that. People I loved paid for that. The Challenger is no friend of mine. And that's half the reason I'm here. He's going to invade this Gate. If you've been wondering why the Summer Invasion never took shape over at Lone Star, that's because they were with me, and now that that's basically fallen through, they're still gone because they're preparing to invade someone other than you. They're coming for me. They're coming for the Gate Lord. They're coming for Gate Piety.”

“So, your deal went bad, and you're thinking about having us bail you out?” Morgan sneered. “Guess you really are a northern boy.”

Rather than being shamed, the Deathless glowered back at him. "I'm not asking you for anything, asshole. I'm giving you a chance. You want in on this fight? Well, here it is. You want to strike your enemy directly in the heart? Well, here's your chance. Or you want to sit around and wait for the next wave to come, and the next wave, and the next wave after that, until they finally sweep through your defenses and butcher everyone you love? Until you're just a memory and everything your people ever did is ash? Well, be my guest. I can't force Lone Star to do anything. But me? I intend to win. And this time, I intend to do more than just take an arm from the Challenger.”

For the third time, it felt like someone struck Morgan. Before he could ask what the hells the Deathless was even talking about, something emerged through the darkness. It was a hand, burning a vivid red, and painted in the icons of war. It was ash cast up into the sky from falling artillery. It was smog born of burning bodies and melted buildings. It was blood staining the air. And all of it leaked from the Red Rider's Hand and choked the atmosphere in a festering, foul taste.

Everyone felt it then, that it moved to the Deathless’ whims. Everyone, including the Colt and the Will. Morgan's holstered gun screamed—it sensed the presence of the Arch-Enemy. It declared that this severed limb was of the Challenger, that there was no denial.

Someone in the back broke into prayer, while Morgan himself looked on in disbelief. First, his eyes were locked on the boy sitting across from him, the boy that smiled at him. Gunhead’s mechanisms rattled with nervousness, and Sooth—well, she began to pray too, though not to some god or the System. To her iron.

She only did that when she thought she was about to die.

Morgan himself had no words to offer. His entire existence narrowed into this moment. It was only the now. There was only him, the Deathless, and the hand beside him.

How?

How?

Though he could feel, though he couldn't deny his eyes, though he saw the hand for what it was, he just couldn't imagine someone… mutilating the God of Strife himself.

How? his mind asked again.

As if sensing his question, the Deathless leaned in close, and for the first time, Morgan had to fight the urge to stay, for his every instinct screamed in terror and begged him to flee.

“Death is upon us!” The Colt and the Will hissed from the gun on his hip. “Death is upon us! Death is upon us!”

“The Challenger decided to get his pleasure from me and mine,” the Deathless began, his voice dark with memory, and Morgan knew that look, knew that growl in the boy's voice. He understood they were kindred spirits in this moment. But then that moment broke as the Deathless continued speaking. “He reached too deep, though. He went digging too far for pleasure, and when he did, I sliced his arm off. I took this from him. It wasn't given. It wasn't granted. I took it. And I intend to take the rest from him as well: all of his orcs, all of his worlds, every limb and bit of his flesh, until there is nothing left of him. Until the work is done.” The Deathless shrugged. He grabbed the Red Rider’s Hand out of the air and waved it around in a vague gesture. “And aside from this, we already got started on the orc part as well.”

“What the hells do you mean by that?” Gunhead asked.

The Deathless didn't answer using words. Instead, he lifted his open hand, and the darkness parted. On the other end, the Culturist stood waiting. The Rangers nearly burst into action, but the Deathless held up his hand in a placating gesture. To Morgan's disbelief, but also his continued astonishment, he found himself willing to listen. It was by now that he was sure there was a Social Skill at play, and the fact that they'd listened at all was what had caused them to all be entrapped.

Worse yet, it seemed like the boy's charisma had infested the Colt and the Will itself. For the gun was more than fearful of the Deathless; it was in part enchanted by him.

Stepping through the tunnel with so much as a rustle from his cloak, the Culturist sat down beside the Deathless. There was no chair for him, and so he simply sat cross-legged on the floor, but he still loomed over all the Rangers on the other side of the table.

Morgan couldn't hear anything now, couldn't focus on anything else. The thundering of his heart, the blood that rushed through his ears, it drowned everything. Even with his hated foe so close, Morgan felt like he was falling away from himself. The presence of the Deathless was more than a distraction; he was more like a wedge, pushing his people toward an unwilling horizon, bit by bit…

“Hello, Hero-Ranger,” the Culturist said—more gently than he'd ever sounded before, without even the slightest hint of sadistic teasing. “I would say that I am glad to see you again, but in honesty, I hoped we would never encounter one another, especially after what I last inflicted upon you all those years ago.”

Morgan’s flesh was in the Sky-Swallowing Carp, facing the Culturist, but in the Ranger’s mind, they were both elsewhere, decades past. They were in the Tutorial, him, the Culturist, and Helen…

Morgan’s daughter.

His little girl.

Left far less after the Culturist was done.

“I know where you are,” the Culturist said, breaching even Morgan’s inner peace. “And I know what I have done. If you draw your weapon—”

“Don’t you fucking do that,” the Hero-Ranger snarled, his breath rattling under his voice like a snake. “Don’t you even try. I know what you are. I know what you are. I don’t care what color your eye is or what this fucking child says happened to you. I know what you are, and I know how you end. There’s only one way for the both of us. Only one way.”

“So you say,” the Culturist answered without contention.

And that made Morgan hate the orc more than anything else in existence anew. Here he was, playing at tranquility, pretending that he understood what he'd done, that he sympathized. But there was no sympathy to be had—there was no making right everything his kind had done to him and to his comrades and his people and everyone on all the worlds they'd ever butchered in the name of their mongrel father!

Even if the itch was burned out of them, that didn’t change the history between the orcs and Lone Star. Curing the monsters didn’t mend history none, and the Colt and the Will yearned to see things settled as much as ever before.

“Nothing’s ever gonna be forgiven between us,” Morgan said, ice in his voice. “Not between you and me, and not between your kind and mine. If you had any hopes of that, then you let that fire die in you, because there’s only one way this goes. Only one way. The choice was made when the first of you shits let his blood seep into our soil. The only way this ends is when we finish dying on yours.”

“Most reasonable,” the Culturist replied. And the monster had the audacity to smile. “And that is what we are offering indeed: You say I am unforgiven. I will not deny you that. But will you be satisfied with slaying me alone, or will it content the ire inside you and the rest of your people if you can visit your retribution on the fullness of mine?”

“No more desperate defenses,” the Deathless said. “We’re going to be pushing an offensive war and dictating terms now. Because we all share grievances with the Challenger—”

“Who is we?” Gunhead cut in, keeping his face pointed at the Culturist.

“We is we?” the boy repeated. “All of us here. Including the Culturist, because, well… You want to tell them, or should I?”

“Best that you do it,” the Culturist answered. “My presence is best kept to silence and trauma.”

His presence, then, was promptly overshadowed as he let go of the Red Rider’s Hand. It approached, a crimson fist of war, and all the Rangers looked upon it as if an icon of deepest hell descending upon the world. And yet, for as much as there was no denying its nature, there was no denying its severance. It truly moved to the whims of the Deathless, and at that, questions percolated inside Morgan Munny's head. Questions he wanted to ignore in order to address that festering grievance. Beyond his own wants and desires, his own retribution, there was something deeper and higher. There was a higher debt to be paid, not between him and the Culturist, but between his people and every grayskinned monster that ever stained their lands.

The Deathless was right, in a sense.

Of course, this could still be a scheme, some twisted game the Challenger was playing to torment Morgan, but it didn't seem that way. No, the Challenger reveled in cruelty and strength, and only the Culturist was the kind of orc to endure a prolonged fast, to indulge in higher pleasures. If there was any other grayskin involved, they would have breached the peace and tried to take from the available flesh.

That led to a tantalizing but unbelievable explanation: someone had cleaved the Challenger's right arm free, and that someone was right in front of them, offering them an opportunity to join his campaign against the orcs directly. Harder to believe yet was how he'd managed to turn some of the orcs away from their maker.

But again, the Hand was right above them.

“I got more than this to show you,” the Deathless said. “A lot more than this. You guys have grievances with orcs? Well, I'm going to tell you something that you might not like to hear. Might shake you too. Got more than just a straight shot over to the Tutorial. We have two million new orc turncoats in the Gate, and we have the one that—”

Morgan had heard enough. He turned suddenly on his heel, and for the first time he caught the Deathless obviously off-guard. Instead of drawing his pistol, however, he looked to his true gun, John Gunhead, and commanded his fellow Ranger to rise. “John, you're with me. Sooth, you're in charge while I'm gone. If I'm not back in twelve hours, me and John are dead, and Gate Piety is compromised.”

Sooth wanted to argue, but she heard the command in his voice and accepted. Sooth was a good sort, a smart sort, the obedient sort. She'd make a good Ranger someday. She'd make maybe a better person after—friend, a lover, a mother, something. Anything. Anything beyond being a gun. She still had a chance at that.

Those like Morgan and Gunhead, though, were to be spent like the bullets they carried.

It was the way things ended for them.

That way and not some other way.

Morgan scowled at the Deathless, who just leaned back and smiled. “Alright then, kid. You show me them orcs. You show me two million orcs inside this Gate, keeping to their own, not hurting any people, not hurting each other, not hurting nobody. You show me that, 'cause I can't believe it—but I can barely believe that hand either, even if I can feel what it is.”

And there was that look of triumph and anticipation behind the Deathless' eyes. Like a lil’ kid who'd scored himself a lifetime supply of candy. “Well, Ranger, life under the System may have made you a man of little faith, but if you stick with me and mine, I'll have you believing in miracles again in no time.”

