John Gunhead rattled his cylinder. “Sure you will. But let me make something clear, Deathless: if you’re trying to piss down our legs and wanna tell us it’s rain after, you’re going to find yourself living under a shower of steel.”

“I hope so!” The boy laughed. “It’s the main reason I came to you guys first. Now. Let me show you the Peacehold.”

“Peacehold?” Gunhead spat. “The fuck kind of bullshit name is—”

***

Harbinger of the Tripartite Ruin 370 > 374

These Words of Truth and Adoration 95 > 98

“Holy fucking shit,” Gunhead whimpered. “How? Fucking how?” The automaton's disbelief was approaching hysterical levels. Shiv couldn't blame him. After all, he'd spent an entire lifetime fighting orcs, watching them indulge in depravity and cruelty without penalty. Then suddenly, as you approached a settlement stuffed full of two million orcs and found them doing little more than just sitting around when there were so many tasty victims around for them to abuse, things got more than a little incredulous.

Uva notified the orcs of their impending guests, and in short order, they prepared massive welcoming banners that cascaded down the pristine sloped walls of the Peacehold.

John Gunhead and Morgan Munny came to a startled halt as they saw representations of themselves stitched into said colossal banners, depicting them in heroic guises and vivid detail. Munny was given his wide-brimmed hat, ridged with steel plating along the top, and he had his pistol drawn. With a series of magical spell-shapes spiraling around the barrel, Gunhead was depicted in gleaming chrome, and the weapon that defined his namesake and skull was pointed high, firing a plume of Pyromantic flame.

Overhead, a flaming sigil spat streams of trailing light, and a series of words were imprinted upon the clouds above, overlapping with the crystalline veins that spilled forth from the mana core: “Welcome to the Peacehold, Rangers! Sorry about all the people we butchered! Here's to the beginning of a beautiful new friendship!”

As John Gunhead veered dangerously close to a nervous breakdown, Munny seemed like he wanted to take his revolver out of its holster and shove it down his throat. “What the… fuck?”

“I know, I know,” Shiv said with a chuckle, patting the Ranger on the back. “So, the thing is, when I promised you miracles, I should have mentioned that not all of them are of the perfectly happy kind. Welcome to Gate Piety, Ranger. Welcome to the Coalition Against the End.”
