She tried to twist and roll with him to send him to the bottom, but with his skill active, he had suddenly become the strongest fledgling in the canyon.

Kaia finally squeaked out her defeat. “Get off of me, you brute!”

Still with a mouthful of her neck Daftar growled. “Not until you surrender.”

Bucking her hips and flaring her wings, Kaia tried to knock him free, but with his skill-backed strength, he held onto the older fledgling.

“I SAID GET OFF MEEEEEEE!”

Realizing that, with her being older than him, she might be able to outlast his mana pool, Daftar lowered the mana he sent into [Physical Empowerment] to a level where he could flare it if she struggled.

After a full minute of trying to get free, Kaia sagged. “I give up.”

Letting go, Daftar hopped off the older dragon. “That makes me the boss today, then!”

Sulking she growled. “Yeah, for today. We’ll see about tomorrow.”

Daftar snorted out a jet of steam. “As if a slacker like you could finish your skill in just a day. You never pay attention to the lessons.”

“I do, too!” Kaia looked up as if expecting Yajar to be standing over them. “It's just really hard. The lessons don’t really make sense. It's not fair that you figured it out so quick. I think you are just hiding something.”

Daftar shrugged his wings. The skill lessons were really easy to him, which is why he had been able to make his skill in just over two years, where everyone else was further behind.

Which was why he was now the boss of their flock.

Slapping Kaia with his tail in a way he knew she hated, he stretched his neck up and slightly flared his wings to look bigger. “Well I’m the boss today, so you need to listen to me.”

Growling, she let out a puff of golden metal that clung to the stone in front of her and made it brittle enough to crumble when she stomped on it. “Enjoy it while it lasts, little Dufus. The moment I become the boss again, I’m going to make you suffer for everything you make me do!”

Daftar had to fight the reaction to slink into himself. Kaia was really scary when she was so motivated. But she was already a tyrant, so there was no reason to give into her threats so easily.

“I’m just going to have you do what you make everyone else do for you.”

As the two of them walked through the canyon, they reached the center area with the twin lakes. One boiling hot and the other with blocks of ice floating in it.

Giving Kaia a smug look, he flared [Physical Empowerment] and launched himself at the sprawled out form of Yajar, who was in charge of the younglings for this year.

Daftar was just about to land on the older fire dragon when his tail, larger than Daftar a dozen times over, lifted up and caught him by the belly and tossed him into the middle of the two pools where the water was the steamiest.

His much deeper voice was amused as he reminded, “Don’t get too full of yourself, little Daftar. Pride cometh before the fall.”

As Daftar crawled out of the pool and shook himself off, he ran right back at Yajar. “Do it again, that was fun!”

After getting tossed half a dozen more times for trying to climb on the older dragon, Daftar and everyone else found themselves blocked by an invisible wall.

Turning to everyone else, including the other flocks, Daftar stretched to his best height and let out a long stream of steam.

“I have defeated Kaia and am the leader of my roost. Fear me for—”

His words were cut off as everyone else started pestering Kaia for information.

“Hey! I'm the boss now, ask me the questions.”

When the other dragons didn’t listen, he growled and jumped onto the nearest one, starting a brawl.

By the time it was over he was nearly out of mana, but he had cowed everyone else with his magnificence.

The other fledgling leaders even let him into their circle, which made Kaia roaringly mad, and that made everything worth it.

Best of all, Daftar was a minor celebrity for making his skill so quickly, and everyone wanted tips, which was different from usual, where he was one of the youngest and smallest of their flight.

The moment he crawled off Yajar’s back as he was dropped back off to his parents, he ran to the living room.

“Mom! Dad! You won’t believe it! Guess what, guess guess!”

His father, in his human form, reached out and rubbed Daftar’s head even as he kept chopping the alchemical ingredients.

“What happened, buddy?”

Seeing his mom slink out of his parents’ room in dragon form, Daftar launched into a retelling of his day's adventure as being the boss of his flight.

Hearing his parents' praise made steam leak out of his nose, but Daftar didn’t mind until his father said something that brought him up short.

“Maybe ease up on Kaia tomorrow, ey buddy?”

Falling onto his butt, Daftar reared back. “Dad! What?!?!? No way. She deserves it for bullying me for so long. She always makes me wash her scales and bring her water. It's not fair that I need to be nice now that I’m the boss.”

His parents shared a look Daftar didn’t really get, but his mother was the one to lower her head down to the ground so she could look at him in the eyes.

“Okay, she was a little mean, but how about you just ignore her tomorrow and see if she brings you water and stuff. I’ll bet you a roasted summer goat that she does it if you just aren't mean to her tomorrow.”

Daftar was torn, as he really liked summer goat, but his parents rarely made it, saying it was too expensive. But on the other hand, his vengeance was at risk.

In the end, his stomach won out, and he got to watch as his parents started preparing the goat.

He watched, salivating the whole time, but his father, now in his dragon form, reminded him that if he broke his promise, they would be the only ones eating it.

Sadly, he knew that Yajar would be watching them and would report any infraction of his bet. His parents always knew when he got caught by Yajar, which just felt unfair. The older dragon should know better than to tell on everything they did.

As it turned out, his parents were right, and by ignoring Kaia the following day, she was super attentive as a minion.

Just six months later, the next dragonling made a skill, though in their case, it was Marco who created [Lesser Fire Weapon], which was entirely unfair. As a fire dragon, the flames could lick his hands and muzzle without issue. It also empowered his breath attack, which made everyone super jealous that there weren't other more complicated elements available, because only a few of them were fire bloodlines.

It also looked super cool, and Daftar along with everyone else burned with envy as Marco strutted around with his front limbs entirely engulfed in flames, leaving little burn claw marks in the grass.

It took another few years, but eventually everyone had a skill. Most went with [Physical Empowerment], but not everyone. Kaia had gone with [Fury of the Blade], which enhanced her gold breath attack, and they finally got to start advancing.

Kaia, having a skill, was easily able to reclaim her spot as the flight leader, but Daftar didn’t mind too much, as she was far more reasonable and way nicer now. He would even go so far as to say they were becoming friends, if it was possible to be friends with someone as bossy as her.

Daftar turned his free time to trying to make a steam version of [Lesser Fire Weapon]. The water version had come out, and while most didn’t think it was too useful in comparison to fire, he was willing to put in the work on trying to merge the two.

It took until he was Tier 5, but he eventually, finally, created his own [Lesser Steam Weapon], letting his teeth and claws become imbued with the best element.

It was amazing at first, until everyone else demanded he figure out how to make variants of their elements.

Truly, being the best was a curse.
