Chapter 404

Viviana wanted to go practice outside, but her parents told her she needed to come inside and watch Ascender Indomitable Titan’s news broadcast live. But she wanted to be a delver, and she needed to get better if she was going to make it, and wasting possibly hours wasn’t how she was going to do that.

The five local guilds who had been recruiting through her prep-school hadn’t seemed impressed with her abilities, despite being better than quite a few of her classmates at the advance delvers’ preparatory school. Instead, they seemed to focus on the exceptional few.

Or rather, the rich few who had Tier 10 or higher parents, who could afford to have their kids go to specialized schools since they were twelve. Brad, Kayla, and Samantha weren’t bad people, but apparently having skills as Tier 1s just made them better prospects.

And if Viviana wanted to compete with them for the best delving contracts, she wanted to— needed to— practice more. Wasting possibly hours just a month before the end of the year tests, where every hour mattered, grated on her, even if it was for Ascender Titan.

That was why she wanted to go outside and practice. Her Talent wasn’t great, but it gave her staying power.

Her complaints vanished as Ascender Titan got on stage and her parents teased her relentlessly, which was entirely unfair. She would have been content to listen to a broadcast or a cut down version, so why were they teasing her for watching him when they made her?

Sure, she had a poster or five of him in her room, but basically every straight girl at the delvers’ prep school had at least one poster of him, Light, or Duke Waters. Or they were liars. At least three girls got busted for having the very same posters they made fun of others for just in their class, which she didn’t understand. They were mega celebrities and super attractive. It wasn’t anything to be embarrassed about.

None of that changed her parents wanting her to watch it in person. It just seemed like a waste of perfectly good hours of sunlight when he was probably going to talk about things for higher Tiers again.

But as Ascender Titan began to speak, her attention, as well as her parents’, was locked to the screen.

[Solar Flare] seemed a tad weak for what it was, but she was sure Samantha was already begging her parents to buy it for her, being the fire maniac she was, even with her already having [Fireball].

[Fury of the Blade], however, seemed amazing, and she wondered just how expensive these new skills would be. That skill seemed super useful for a frontline fighter like her.

Viviana swore that half of the melee classes at their prep school were them getting swarmed by numerous smaller opponents. She spent a precious few seconds as Ascender Titan walked around the stage to congratulate the two lucky kids in question, letting her mind imagine herself there.

It seemed unfair they got to interact with an Ascender themselves.

She wanted to be them, damn it. How amazing would that be?

Her attention was ripped back to the screen as she saw two new kids run an obstacle course.

[Physical Empowerment] was everything she had ever wanted in a skill.

Maybe if she wrote to Ascender Titan, and he saw it, he might give her the skill for free? It couldn’t hurt, and maybe it would get him to read her other letters. Actually, maybe not all of them. Some of them were too embarrassing to think about. She had started sending them when she was six.

Thoughts of her ill-sent letters vanished as she heard him say, “Skills that any freshly awakened Tier 1 can make in their spirit in two to four years, with a little training and about two or three hours of work every day.”

Skills anyone could make in their spirits.

Anyone meant people like her.

“We have free training programs already available for download that have proven effective. Half of the children were taught using only that and a Tier 5 specialist, acting as a more experienced sounding board, while the remaining five used the same training program but paired with someone experienced with making several of the skills already. But I’ll bet most of you can’t actually tell who is who just from their demonstrations.”

Holding the moment, Ascender Titan smiled a smile that told her he knew he had everyone's full attention. It was so confident. So attractive. “Now, I will take questions.”

She wished she could shout through the screen, but instead her attention went to the broadcasted webpage that appeared, directing her to a page on her own planet’s LocalNet where all the information was readily available.

Scrambling to her feet, she raced to get her pad from her room, despite her parents' calls.

Tapping at the pad, she ignored them as they both came into her room.

The loading bar chugged for a long few seconds, as she was sure everyone else was trying to load the page, but after a couple more seconds, the icon showing what she was connected to switched to the CityNet, and it sped up a lot.

Her father put a hand over the pad and spoke loud enough to get her attention. “Vivi, why don’t you come to the table and we can look at this together.”

She wanted to say no, but she knew it wasn’t an unreasonable request. “Okay!”

Darting between her parents, she ran down the hall and right past the dining room table to turn up the news reporters who were talking about the announcement. She wanted to be able to hear if Ascender Titan started talking again.

Her mother rolled her eyes at her antics but sat down while her father stood there, dramatically tapping a foot waiting for Viviana to take her seat.

“Sorry, dad.”

After she sat down, he ruffled her hair and took his place. “Okay, now let’s carefully go over this. I know I heard Ascender Titan mention at least twice that this could be dangerous.”

“Everything could be dangerous, Dad, but this is something I'm sure I can do! Look at all this information! It's spelled out. I can definitely do this myself!”

Her mother grabbed her free hand and squeezed it. “Honey, you’ve complained so much about the others being able to afford proper skills, we are just worried you’ll rush into this. Remember, we had dreams of being delvers when we were your age, so we do understand, even if we didn’t become delvers. Rushing into things like this is just rushing towards an early grave.”

Viviana rolled her eyes so hard it hurt. “Mom, you know me. I'm not going to rush into something and get myself killed in a rift, and I won’t do the same with this.”

Her parents shared a look she didn’t understand, but she barreled through. “Mom, Dad, look at those skills.”

She hooked a thumb over her shoulder at the screen, which was replaying the showcases in parallel. “Those are perfect for me. Or, at least two of them are. Ascender Titan said two years of work with only five hours or so of time a day. I’m not going to rush into them, but I’m sure I can do it faster with my Talent. It's all about going longer than anyone else can.”

Her father took a deep breath and grabbed her other hand. “Then let’s take the time to research and get you what you need to succeed. A week or two delay won’t kill you, but messing up will. We want you safe, honey, and it doesn’t matter how long it takes. Promise us you won’t dive into this right now.”

“Da—”

He squeezed harder and Viviana saw that her mother’s eyes started to look watery.

Not wanting to see her mother cry, Viviana slumped in her chair. “I promise.”

That seemed to lift a weight off her parents’ shoulders, and the mood slowly lightened until it was even better than it had been during the announcement.

The information provided was extensive.

Each skill had its own video series explaining how to create the skills in a step-by-step manner, along with training exercises that complemented the skill in question. It was more complicated than she initially suspected, with advanced logic making sure that variations in different people’s spirits were properly accounted for. It seemed super complicated with dozens of parts that needed to be done in a specific order, but from the descriptions it seemed… Not easy, certainly, but entirely doable.

Viviana wanted to skip to the [Physical Empowerment] skill, but her parents made them go through from the top, which made that the last skill they got to see.

Having seen on the showcase what [Physical Empowerment] could do, Viviana was already sold, but what she saw on the CityNet only reinforced that goal.

The largest downside of [Physical Empowerment] was that it drained the caster’s stamina for the extra power.

It was as if Ascender Titan had made the skill for her personally with her Tier 1 Talent.

Tier 1 Talent: Earth mana present in your body is beneficial.

It was a bit of an awkward Talent, in her opinion. The fact it had given her earth-aspected mana was quite nice, but beyond that… she wasn’t lucky enough to get an innate skill, it wasn’t really a unique ability, and it wasn’t really a passive. If she wanted to get anything out of it without wasting huge amounts of mana, she needed to cycle mana out of her mana pool and back in. And doing it for an extended period of time was tiring in a weird way that she didn’t have the words for.

It would have been worthwhile if it gave her super strength or made her skin as hard as rock or something, but mostly it just boosted her energy, making it feel like she was fresh off a perfect nap. Cycling her mana in different ways had slightly different effects, but none of them were really worth the weird aches she got from messing with her mana so much.

But a skill? One which flooded the body with mana? And could just be kept active? That would basically turn her Talent into a passive that gave her endless amounts of energy, and made [Physical Empowerment] absolutely perfect for her. Even her parents could see that, but they made her promise that she wouldn’t do anything until things settled down a bit. To keep them from worrying too much, she reluctantly agreed.

Seeing that she had given in, they didn’t even try to make her come inside when the sun went down, which they usually insisted on. That ended up biting her in the butt, as she was so excited that she ended up staying up well past midnight, when her imagination had finally squeezed out the very last possibility of cool things she might be able to do with a spell she could make herself.

Still, the leftover adrenaline hit her when she woke up, and she blew half her mana fueling her Talent to wake her up as she raced to her delving preparatory school. It was times like this that she was grateful she lived only three miles away, which made it just close enough to run to class every day. If she needed to sit on a bus this morning, she might have exploded.

She was so full of energy, she ended up arriving at the auditorium almost half an hour before classes started, but she was hardly the only one.

More than half of the students were there, and they and all of the teachers were gathered in the largest workout hall.

Mr. Baker, one of the teachers she was working with, nodded to her as she came towards him and tapped at his pad. When she made to ask him about the skills, he held up a hand.

“Yes, we are going to talk about the skills. Sit down and wait for everyone else to arrive, and we'll go over it then. None of us are going to explain it to every person individually.”

The following twenty minutes felt like years, but finally, when everyone arrived, the head teacher took to the stage and addressed the news.

“As a delving preparatory school, we here at Landrest are dedicated to making you as prepared as possible for your lives as guilders or independent delvers. To that end, we will be offering follow-up classes for anyone wishing to learn how to create the five new skills. We are passing out forms to everyone for signup now. Normal classes will be suspended for the next month as we deal with this new development.”

Viviana was surprised they weren’t just rolling this into the existing classes, but when she saw the price, she nearly choked. They wanted to charge twice the typical rate of a year of classes for the ‘advanced skills course’. The normal classes had already wiped out Viviana’s parents’ savings, and she knew there was no way they could afford these new classes, even if she was willing to go.

Which she wasn’t.

She wasn’t stupid. None of the teachers would have any more experience with the methods than she or anyone else would. They should be offering the classes for free in exchange for having willing people to learn the ins and outs of this new practice.

As someone closer to the front asked to clarify and the head teacher confirmed, Viviana stood up and walked out along with a few others. There was zero reason to waste her time, or the money from her parents, listening to the spiel any further.

She would just need to figure out how she was going to explain this to her parents.

As she predicted, they weren't happy, and tried to push her into agreeing, saying they could take out a loan for the necessary money, but Viviana flatly refused.

She had gone over all of the information, and at the cost of a slightly newer pad, she could download the trainer, which could explain to her what she needed to do and answer most questions she had.

Her refusal nearly caused a fight, but savings in hand, she went to the nearest store and bought the best pad she could and downloaded the trainer, as well as grabbing a scanner recommended by the trainer after she saw they were nearly sold out.

Thankfully, the trainer was free, which made her appreciate Ascender Titan even more. A single local delving preparatory school was charging a decade’s worth of her parents’ savings, while he had just given everything away for free.

