Through near daily use and careful nudges, Viviana’s skills had grown and shifted. Her [Physical Empowerment] now gave more strength at the cost of higher mana and stamina usage, which was nicely counteracted by her Tier 3 Talent, which allowed her to draw mana directly from the ground to fuel her skills. It wasn’t perfect, as it strained her spirit to do so, but it let her act as an even better frontliner for her team.

She had directed her [Fury of the Blade] into making its area of effect much smaller, but more concentrated, so that when she swung her blade, she was encased with a small but deadly ring of wind.

Jake went in the opposite direction, and made it so when his [Fury of the Blade] activated, it did so in a pulse that radiated outward like an explosion.

Abby, on the other hand, focused her efforts on making her [Solar Flare] as powerful as possible.

From the little dart of fire it had started as, her spell was now a small but raging inferno that had the habit of over penetrating the weaker monsters they encountered, or punching through shields for those that were more well-defended. She had the ‘bad habit’ of one shotting bosses that didn’t properly protect their heads, not that Viviana or Jake actually minded. Except for that one that had a really pretty tiara. Abby always got mad if they broke it in their battles, even if it wasn’t valuable.

Still, their experience was indicative of seemingly everyone’s experience with the new skills. Having spent so much time and effort making them, combined with their relative simplicity, people were fairly comfortable in modifying the skills, which then led to a rise in sales of end points.

End points were the name for distinct skill structures based on the basic five Tier 0 skills. Stuff like Abby’s damage penetration was a fairly common end point, but it was hardly the only one.

Viviana chose not to sell her modifications, but many, many others did, and some of the best were making their makers rich.

In fact, schools like the one she helped set up started offering advanced classes to those who wanted to push their skills forward past Tier 5 or so.

[Physical Empowerment]’s main weakness was that it was dependent entirely on the physical body instead of essence, which meant that, even with modifications, it fell off as one Tiered up, with Tier 10’s getting nearly zero relative effect for it, but Viviana hardly minded. As a Tier 3, reaching Tier 10 was a long way away, and it didn’t do her any good to start worrying about something that was at least a century in the future.

[Solar Flare], on the other hand, only grew more and more popular, with many people saying it was just better than [Fireball]. Its lower mana cost made it more effective for the first few Tiers, where [Fireball] was overkill, which was better for a mage’s longevity. It also was so simple that it was easy for anyone to make stronger.

Within the first decade, there were dozens of upgrade paths for [Solar Flare] depending on how one wanted to use the spell. One of the most popular for melee fighters, that Viviana also chose to create, transformed the spell into a shotgun effect that made the spell create half a dozen projectiles at the cost of range and damage. Bad for a traditional mage, but for a frontliner like her, it was a perfect way to deal with lots of small enemies before they got on top of her.

Abby disparaged that direction, championing that more damage applied effectively was always better, but she still helped Viviana with every modification.

Jake, on the other hand, took his [Solar Flare] in a less popular direction, with a modification that made it add a damage-over-time effect, by turning the spell partially liquid. The problem with the skill was that this liquid spread to anything it touched, making fighting the enemies a giant pain in the ass, as Viviana didn’t appreciate being cooked in her armor any more than she already was.

Still, it was a good problem to have.

Before their generation, few, if any, delvers would have a skill at Tier 3. Things were so different now, though.

All because Ascender Titan had decided to share the method with everyone.

It had most certainly changed Viviana’s life; and for that, she would be forever grateful.

***

Gabriel Sutula paced across his tiny living room as Ascender Titan’s message played on repeat, as it had been doing every day for the last two months.

It was almost two and a half years after the announcement, but he still hadn’t decided if he wanted to go through with his plan.

His plan was insane.

It was genuinely a bad idea.

It was foolishness of the highest order.

It was dumb to do it.

But the words of inspiration which had started this madness played on repeat.

He had never intended to delve, let alone advance, but with the announcement of skills anyone could make, he was tempted. Tempted out of his boring but stable life.

Once, when he was a kid, he had wanted to delve and to be a great big hero, but when he awakened such a bad Talent, he had given all of that up.

Allegedly, it was Exceptional. The ‘experts’ said it was phenomenal, that he was lucky to have it, that it was ‘a pseudoelemental Talent’ and he could be rich and famous if he just ‘listened to them’ and ‘worked for them’ and ‘would stop being so damned paranoid.’

But they didn’t know, and they couldn’t know the true depths of what his Awakening had tapped into, what it had exposed him to, what it threatened to turn him into.

Tier 1 Talent: You may allow the Eldritch pseudoelement to taint your skills.

‘Pseudoelement’ was such a hollow word. They claimed that it was simply a false element, something created and sustained by his Talent alone. That nothing existed beyond the magical properties his spirit granted unto it.

But Gabriel could feel the thing lurking in his spirit, just beyond the veil. He could sense its malice, the way it was trying to get a foothold into true reality, how it would hollow him out and unmake him were he to give it an opportunity. No, unmake far more than just him. He was the gate, a crack in the prison for something unfathomable and maddening and terrible, and if he let it loose, it would annihilate him as it was unleashed upon the Realm.

Gabriel didn’t want to be a doorway for anyone.

But, when his wand repair job at the enchantment repair facility was made redundant by the new skills, he was left with an opportunity to become a delver. To Tier up and gain mastery over his Talent instead of letting it rule him.

The thing beyond the veil, it was mighty and it was powerful and it was oh so terrible. He wouldn’t let it get its claws in him, but the moments when he listened to the whispers always provided him with relief. But the faint touch of mana releasing from his fingers was too much. The chill of the Beyond racked him every time it caressed him, horrifying and euphoric. If he was to seek relief from the Eldritch, he needed to give it a target, and a skill which carried it away from him was the only way he could see.

Using his savings, Gabriel started making one of the skills that had cost him his job.

His world being a Tier 5 world had more Tier 1 rifts than they knew what to do with, so getting a delving slot would be easy, but he had a choice to make.

Which skill?

There were five for him to choose from and all seemed equally viable and equally awful.

And yet, there was only a single true option for him to prevent the Eldritch from touching him. [Solar Flare] was the simplest option, and it was also the one which would pull the Thing furthest from him.

That, and one of his workmates had created a delving team and said they could use a mage.

Gabriel didn’t ask what had happened to the mage he was replacing, and they didn’t offer any hints.

He threw himself into his work, the furious whispers from Beyond driving him to many a sleepless night as he assembled the skill, perhaps a widening of the crack to the Thing, perhaps a way to reduce its influence. He didn’t know. But he managed to create the skill in just shy of three years. The [Solar Flare] brought a hunger to him that he’d never known before, but seeing it was so… pure. So untainted. It was painful to see something so beautiful, yet wonderful to see something unadulterated.

But widening the crack in his spirit ever so slightly to turn it into an [Eldritch Flare] was wholly different. For a moment, Gabriel was in absolute bliss at seeing what he had let loose into the world, and then he realized what he had been thinking and stared at it with horror.

He could not allow the Thing to corrupt him!

But it was oh so mighty, and he felt such sweet relief from the whispers afterwards, he couldn’t help but want to use it again. To preserve the sanctity of his mind and spirit, though, he would only ever utilize it on a rift monster, never once in practice.

His new teammates thought he was crazy, but when they saw the corruption inherent to the spell, the way its flames folded in on one another and vanished from sight, only to reappear inside the dodging goblin’s guard and slam into its head with a burst of purple flames glowing with shadows, they understood.

When the goblin started to scream and clutch his head, his teammates looked at him strangely.

When his former coworker slew the beast and they saw that its skull had turned inside out, and the inside of its burned mouth sported a trio of dead eyes along the tongue, no one would get within arm’s reach of him.

Gabriel couldn’t blame them.

He wished he could get away from himself at that moment.

Thankfully, nothing else of note happened in the rift, and even the extraordinary could be gotten used to with enough time, though there was a noticeable distance between his team and himself. Still, there weren't any other mages who had homing attacks at Tier 1 for them to recruit.

In the year and a half that they delved together, Gabriel made [Physical Empowerment] but with his experience of his Talent, didn’t allow its influence into the skill. The entity that hung over him had several suggestions that made the entire process almost too easy.

Still, he didn’t allow even a touch of taint into the skill, despite the whispers.

He didn’t want to grow more eyes or tentacles like what happened to monsters which were hit by his [Eldritch Flare] were wont to do.

With the distance, he wasn’t at all surprised when at the peak of Tier 1 and when the three of them advanced to Tier 2, the team tried to turn on him.

It felt like retribution for his temerity of trying to delve with such a Talent.

But their mistake was attacking someone who was as afraid of death as he was.

Gabriel was willing to do anything to avoid the reaching tendrils that his Talent said were waiting for him when he died, now that he tasted of its power.

Against his better judgement, he flooded his right arm, his non-dominant hand, with a tainted [Physical Empowerment].

His arm turned into agony as his arm just under his shoulder bubbled and split into five whipping, purple tentacles.

He managed to keep the taint of [Physical Empowerment] out of the rest of his body, but he knew his arm was physically, permanently altered by his acceptance of the Eldritch inside of him.

As his former teammates tried to attack him, his tentacles acted as if they had a mind of their own. Two shielded him from the blades, while a third stretched impossibly far to grab the archer who was trying to get an arrow off.

Gabriel could feel as his neck snapped, even through the stretched appendage. It tasted like honeyed wine, and he felt the entity behind him shiver.

The other two didn’t last much longer than that, as their offense turned to defense and was then overwhelmed by massively strong tentacles that didn’t mind being hacked at.

They repaired themselves with his former teammate’s blood.

Surrounded by corpses and caressed by reassuring tentacles, Gabriel wondered just how much he was going to sacrifice in his quest to not lose everything.

It didn’t seem like it was worth it, but he refused to go into the embrace of the Eldritch entity riding his shoulder.

Instead, he reported his crime to the delving guards hoping they would kill him and take the choice away, but instead, they and the investigators believed his story despite his mangled arm. And so, he was left with no other choice than to hope his Tier 3 or Tier 25 fixed his Talent and let him block out the voices.

It felt wrong to swim deeper into the murky uncertainty of Tiering up, but he saw no other way out.

And he needed to find a way out.

***

Daftar slithered forward, letting his belly scales silently slip over the rocks of the canyon. He couldn’t see them, but he could feel Yajar’s spiritual sense weighing over himself and all of the other fledglings.

He was the best, and this moment was going to prove it.

Taking in a deep but agonizingly slow breath, he let the air run over his tongue and analyzed the smells, looking for a single scent in particular.

It took forever, almost five minutes, but he finally scented his prey, and set his feet as he readied his pounce.

Yesterday, the jump would have been impossible, but today was a new day. A new him.

Springing forward, he flared his wings and flapped them as hard as he could, but, still being a fledgling, they were undersized for actual flight. Not that that mattered, his strength came from his new skill and his raw physical body. The flapping was just to guide his jump.

And it looked cool.

Being honest with himself. It was mostly because it looked cool when the adults flared their wings as they dropped onto something.

With the silence of a predator, he landed on the golden scaled form of his neighbor, and bit her in the base of the neck.

