Going to the nearest park that allowed martial training, Viviana found herself a shady spot below a tree and started going over the skill lessons.

It… wasn’t really what she had expected?

She didn’t know what she had expected, actually. Some kind of impenetrable, arcane text that she needed to puzzle through and meditate on, like some kind of ancient hidden text from a movie where the hero was trying to unlock a hidden cultivation technique.

Instead, she found step-by-step instructions, masterfully illustrated and with easy-to-understand terminology, explaining exactly what to do. It didn’t go into heady technical details, though there was an extensive series of footnotes describing what each process was meant to do and why.

Instead, it just had her doing basic things.

Like pushups. And breathing exercises. And dieting advice? It built up over time, but the starting instructions made complete sense and were simple enough she felt anyone could follow them, even if they didn’t understand the why of what they were doing.

Her eyes skimmed over the sections, and her eyes lit up at one of the later steps. It had a portion regarding special mana cycling techniques and what they did. That by itself would be well worth the cost of the pad for her, even if nothing else worked.

She puzzled over the overall program for a bit, then jumped back to the introduction to actually start, and realized it explained exactly the point of the overall program three paragraphs down.

Oops.

But it was so interesting! Apparently, the entire guide was meant to give her a personalized guide on how to build up the skill, piece by piece, in easy-to-do chunks, and finally save those pieces in her spirit. On their own, none of the fragments would do anything, but the last few sections were dedicated to combining those pieces together, until she had a skill made in her spirit, just like that. It made it sound like anyone could do it, and well… she agreed.

Oh, it was absurdly complicated, to be sure. It had been broken into tiny pieces because some of the sections required her to do things like flawlessly perform a thirty-minute stretching exercise of both her spirit and body, and the buildup to that was learning just how to perform the ritual. But it was all laid out so clearly, and with notes on potential problems she might run into at basically every level. She’d literally made food using recipes more confusing than this.

The footnotes were also incredibly interesting, though it went far more in-depth than she could really understand. According to them, certain steps were meant as a sort of test that brought her down different paths on what she realized was an extremely complicated flowchart. It took into consideration things like how many skills she had: zero, which seemed to be the easiest possibility; her mana type: Earth, which wasn’t; and things she didn’t recognize, like ‘spiritual resonance class,’ ‘NAI-type compatibility,’ ‘iezarchirical fluxian density,’ and more, to ensure she wasn’t doing anything that would seriously injure herself. Though, there were still warnings on symptoms that indicated a major problem in some steps, which instructed her to immediately stop and go to a hospital if she experienced any of the symptoms.

And then… hope they had a spiritual expert available or something, Viviana guessed? She had a hard time imagining her family doctor trying to figure out what it would mean if her ‘iezarchiric flux’ was ‘globulating periodically’ out of tune with her ‘animusial rhythm’ and what kind of potion she’d need to drink to fix it.

Viviana just made a note to be careful and not to mess up so she’d never experience those things.

She threw herself wholly into the lessons, spending four hours a day following them. She would have liked to spend more, but the lessons were truly exhausting, and the mild discomfort she’d felt with her mana cycling was nothing in comparison to how she felt after forging some of the earlier skill fragments.

Thankfully, as she didn’t have a job and was still supported by her parents, she could devote that much energy to it alone. Her brain felt cramped from trying to learn everything, her spirit was wrung absolutely raw from the stretches it was doing, and her body was left exhausted from the physical exercises involved. Early on she relocated to a park to ‘sprint in a straight line until your heart rate is twice your resting rate,’ and stayed there afterwards for the other activities required.

Though, just two weeks into her self-imposed work, she found herself joined by one of the boys who had been in the same classes as her, Jake.

According to him, the lessons taught at the prep school were little more than what she was doing, with the teachers having little to add to the trainers, if anything at all. As he told it, half of the students had left and demanded refunds, which the school was refusing. And according to him, there were legal threats being thrown around, which was when he figured it was time to leave.

It was really just a long-winded way of asking if he could join her, since he didn’t really have the money to buy himself a pad good enough to run the trainer.

They weren’t really friends, but she was probably spending about as much time not using the pad as actually using it, so she couldn't really come up with an excuse to reject him.

A good thing, as it turned out that having someone else to bounce ideas off of was useful.

Together, they spent most days at the park, or when it rained, at a gym that they could rent by the hour.

Those days kind of sucked, but between the two of them, they could cover the costs without too much hassle, though they both agreed they would need to do something else once the rainy season came.

Their answer came just a few weeks later, when another three kids their own age approached them while they were training and asked to join.

They hadn’t been training to be delvers at a prep school, but were instead friends who wanted to form a delving team, and Viviana saw no reason why they couldn’t join.

As it turned out, one of the girls, Abigail, worked at a rec center part time and got them access to a training room when it rained during the day, whilst most people were at work.

It wasn’t perfect, but split five ways and with Abigail’s discount, the price was manageable.

Over the next few months, a few more newly awakened joined them, and by listening to the trainer provided, none of them hurt themselves more than what a few days of rest could heal. Which was more than Viviana’s old preparatory school could claim, as two students ended up in the hospital when they followed bad advice.

Viviana even got a part time job, wanting to repay her parents since she hadn’t ended up joining a guild or started delving when she intended to, despite their assurance she should dedicate all of her time to preparing herself. Once she was done with the initial phases, the physical aspects of the learning greatly diminished, and it turned into a more meditative endeavor.

Waiting tables wasn’t flashy or fun, but it earned decent credits, which let her start saving up for armor, and was a better use of her time now that she was nearing the end of the course.

Four and a half years, not quite to the day, after she first started the lessons, Viviana finally completed the very last cut, fusing the final two skill fragments together in her spirit. The moment she did so she felt raw, unbridled strength flood her body.

She could feel her Talent filling her with energy, but beyond that was the way she literally glowed with power, colorful bands of light appearing around her heart with every beat and then moving outwards, rushing down her skin and invigorating her muscles.

She felt like she could rip a tree out of the ground with just a tug, but refrained from trying. Deliberately damaging a tree would be a good way to get fined out of her small accumulation of wealth.

As it turned out, Ascender Titan’s two year prediction was a lower bound, with most people taking an average of five years unless they had a skilled teacher. The thought of somehow going through those exercises faster than she had was rather harrowing to Viviana, but if someone could manage it, good on them.

Instead of immediately throwing herself into a rift like she wanted to, she waited for Jake and Abigail to finish up their first skills. Over the years of practice and joint learning, they had all become good friends, so the three of them together bought a delving slot, not wanting to change what worked for them in practice. In what felt like just a few clicks and an hour's paperwork they were suddenly an official delving team.

It was an even more magical moment for Abigail, who had never thought she could be a delver, thanks to the associated costs and inherent dangers of not having training or gear. Except now, as a mage with [Solar Flare], she was possibly the best prepared out of them all. She was even able to get by with second-hand armor that cost a whole lot less than new stuff.

Viviana had almost bought the same set, but her parents had bought her a new suit of full plate armor with the money they had gotten out of the preparatory school’s settlement for canceling classes.

Jake, on the other hand, went with [Lesser Fire Weapon] and rounded out their complement.

Annoyingly, the cost of a rift slot had jumped up, but, between the three of them, they managed to snag a one delve a fortnight slot. They needed to take a two hour bus ride to reach its location, but it was a rift, and it was theirs.

Their first delve was nerve wracking and scary, but they succeeded and came out six mana stones richer, along with a few pounds of metal in the form of the gnolls’ weapons, which they were able to sell to the local recycling plant.

It wasn't much, but it more than covered the cost of the delve and the few item repairs they would need.

It was euphoric.

Something all of them had dreamed of since they knew what delving was, and they had done it. And not just done it, but done it with a measure of safety and efficiency that few could match.

It was everything she had dreamed of and more.

They also may or may not have let their emotions get the better of them, but they all agreed to never talk about that again.

Not that any of them stopped learning the new spells. Once they each finished their first, they immediately threw themselves into a second. The carving wasn’t any easier the second time, but with practice and experience, as well as not having to go through the manipulation exercises, they were more efficient, which reduced the time from an average of five years to three or so.

In Viviana’s case, she chose to learn [Fury of the Blade]. As a frontliner in heavy armor and empowered by her Talent, she took hits and was more often than not surrounded by two or more enemies, while Abby peppered the enemies with [Solar Flare] and Jake took care of anything that tried to get around her, or attacked the monsters from the flank.

Even in their city, there was already a trend of those who wanted to be delvers working part time like she had. During their off time, they worked on their fighting abilities while carving one of the five Tier 0 skills into their spirit, as they were coming to be called.

In an amusing turn of events, the preparatory school she had once gone to had gone out of business, as they were undercut by new business which used more advanced trainers for less money.

Or, she thought it was funny, until the city mayor approached her group and offered to lease the building to them, if they would open their own unofficial training academy as a non-profit.

At almost twenty one, she was nearing the peak of Tier 2 and had nearly finished her second skill, but she felt she was still unprepared for such responsibilities. However, with the encouragement of her parents, Abby, and Jake, the three of them and the other original group members spent their free time there in exchange for a reduction of their delving taxes, as well as preferential rift slot access.

They agreed to keep prices at or as near at cost as they could, but even with that, they had so many people signing up that they ended up with a surplus, which they used to expand their facilities and to teach melee fighting courses in between delves.

By the time Viviana reached the peak of Tier 3, and was considering moving to a new world, their little academy had become a cornerstone in their city, and taught thousands of kids every year. The rich still bought skills or went to one of the better academies, which could teach the skills in less time, but Viviana was genuinely proud of what they had accomplished.

Interestingly enough, some of the skills, namely [Lesser Fire Weapon], [Fury of the Blade], and her favorite, [Physical Empowerment], were starting to appear in rifts, while the most popular skills, [Hand Shield] and [Solar Flare], had not yet appeared in a rift. The debates as to why were endless, but none of that really mattered to her, as it simply meant those who could afford to buy the new skills couldn’t buy them all.

Despite people trying to give her credit, she didn’t feel like she earned any of it. She just did what was best for herself with what Ascender Titan had given them. In comparison to that, creating a school was easy.

It might not have changed her life like it had for others who didn’t have parents willing to go quite so far for them as her own had, but even just fifteen years after the information had spread, she could see that things were starting to truly change.

Then, people started to create their own higher-Tier versions of the skills.

