Both of those places were in front of her. One was crushed against the dried-blood bottom of Lake Brightwater; the core of the soul ooze. It was a black and radiant white at the same time; a tumor of a grand rad twenty-five meters across at its narrowest section, but with raised domes of crystalline growth all over the thing, and with a smattering of sharp spikes of black/white crystal as well. It was perhaps the second most dangerous thing Jane had ever felt and seen. The only reason Jane wasn’t more concerned with the soul ooze was because it was completely cleaned of black ooze, its Domain was broken and could not be repaired, and it was currently cowering from much larger power overhead.

For Melemizargo, like a black mountain of wings and scales and power, had one clawed hand resting atop the core of the crystal ooze. He was a thousand meters tall, or even larger. Jane had no idea. She had never seen him this big. He was using that size and his power to gently crush the soul ooze’s core into the bloody ground. He probably could have done it shaped as a three meter large snake, too, but he chose this big form because he could, no doubt.

Jane had no idea why she said it, but the words came out before she had time to think better, “You’re bigger than before.”

“Much smaller than I used to be.” Melemizargo leaned forward, like he was inspecting a very pretty bug, and said, “You’ve grown, too, and yet you’re still getting into deeper trouble than you know how to handle. Tackling this thing without a Domain. Tsk tsk. Reckless. I respect recklessness. All the best growth is done through adversity.” He eyed Jane with an eye brighter than the sun rifts all around. “But you’ll run out of mana if you keep doing that, so you can stop now. I’ve got everything under control.”

Jane’s power vanished in a flashing instant.

Suddenly, she was just a tiny blue spider facing off against a massive dragon and a world-threatening enemy that that dragon treated as one would treat a very small stepping stool. And yet, something was different. Something unrelated to the dragon or the ooze. Jane felt different.

Some eternalness clung to her body like an elemental miscellany, a fog, or a glow. She glanced at her blue spider legs and saw a prismatic sheen that was new. She had no idea what it was, but she could feel the world almost the same as before, but on a much, much smaller scale.

Aura control? Perhaps.

She would deal with that later.

Jane asked, “What are you going to do with the soul ooze?”

“Make you kill it, of course.” Melemizargo moved one of his talons around the soul ooze, pointing to a cleft that separated the left half of the grand rad from the right. Jane hadn’t even noticed the weak spot until Melemizargo pointed it out. “[Strike] right there. You don’t even need your black sword to do the deed.”

Jane suddenly realized her sword was gone.

And that she was talking to Melemizargo.

And she was standing about thirty meters away from the soul ooze’s core.

She was halfway dissociating due to the danger, but she was still cognizant enough to say, “This seems like a trap.”

Melemizargo’s entire face filled Jane’s view as he grinned, showing off some very, very large glowing white fangs. “They tried everything to kill this little guy, and still they could not break its power. I had to step in, you see, and only because you managed to get this far with your understanding of [Greater Prismatic Body]. You deserve a reward, Jane. This is that reward.” Melemizargo inclined his head toward the west. “Or… You could let that happen.”

Jane glanced to the west.

The blood crystals that had held the flood back were broken. The flood had been released. And yet, time was frozen, and like time, the ooze had frozen, too. Not wholly. Not completely. Jane watched as a blood crystal slowly spun away from the hole it had been covering and as the wave of black ooze flowed out of the hole like that Pitch Drop experiment she had read that one time. She had no idea why she thought of the Pitch Drop experiment, but there it was.

Jane fully turned back toward the ooze’s core. She conjured a [Flying Striker] in the shape of a very large ice pick…

It hovered above her, ready to [Strike]...

And yet, she had to repeat, “This feels like a trap.”

Melemizargo nodded sagely. “It is not, but I understand the trepidation. This whole scenario of me granting you a kill on a demonstrably greater power than yourself goes against everything I usually stand for. This little slime was pretty strong, and it was getting stronger, and if it were capable of overrunning this whole world I usually would have let it.

“But I’ve learned a few things recently, and… Hmm.” Melemizargo hummed, then pianoed his talons atop the ooze’s core, creating a series of terrible taps upon the crystalline surface. The ooze’s core vibrated in fear, though that could have been Jane’s imagination. “Tell you what. I’ll make this simple for you: I saved your life, and so you owe me one, and I’m calling in the favor. Kill the slime. In fact! I require you to kill this creature in my name. You need to say ‘I dedicate this hunt to Melemizargo, God of Magic’, before you strike the blow, or else I will depart and let things happen as they will. And to be sure you understand what will likely happen: The sun is fifteen minutes from setting. That boy of Rozeta’s is lining up his spellwork right now. You can’t tell, but this entire place is in shadow, and the soul slime still has a good connection to its body, all the way out there. That’s why Farix’s spellwork has finally failed, and why Kiri’s blasting of the ooze beyond here has also failed.

“This place will become a crater in five minutes unless you kill this thing here, and now, and with my name upon your spidery lips— Actually! We’re going to do this properly. Transform back to a human. Now.” Melemizargo added, “And put everything you can into the [Strike].”

Jane…

Transformed back into her human form.

Feeling a lot less strong, and a lot smaller, Jane Flatt stood before the God of Magic, naked as the day she was born save for the rings her father had made upon her fingers. At least she hadn’t lost those. She did not flinch at the Dark Dragon’s grin. She did not waver as she readied her flying weapon.

Jane simply walked forward and enveloped her conjured weapon with the power she had learned. The dried blood all around her held a little power, and so she used that power along with stone and air and light and shadow, swirling them all together, transforming her [Flying Striker] into lightning and abyss and brilliant blue fire. The modifier for using all of these elements in a proper [Strike] should have been in the tens of thousands of mana costs, but it was a lot less than that. Easier, now that Jane had found her Truth.

She was everything she needed to be, and this [Strike] reflected that part of her Truth. Instinctively, she knew that it would shift to become the Element it needed to be to inflict the most damage possible. She felt rather good about that part of herself.

It felt… Very correct.

With a directed thought she hovered the weapon ten meters away from the weak point in the core—

“Speak the words, Jane Flatt.” Melemizargo said, “And thank me for saving your life back in Songli.”

“… Thank you, Melemizargo, for saving my life. I do this for Veird, and for your eventual sanity.” Jane said, “I dedicate this kill to Melemizargo.”

She struck.

Melemizargo could have prevented the strike with a casual tilt of his claw, for his claw held right beside the weak spot in the ooze’s core, but he did not. He merely grinned.

He had not stopped grinning this whole time.

Jane was honestly surprised as her conjured spike, which shouldn’t have been able to do anything, pierced the soul slime. As the length of elemental power drove deep into the core the black-white grand rad cracked in all directions. Radiating fractures spread out everywhere, and then deepened. Parts of the whole shattered without preamble. A tumorous growth of crystal broke away from the top. Another outcropping of sharp crystal shattered away from the left side. The entire right side cracked fully in half, the whole thing slipping apart—

Melemizargo lifted his claw and the entire grand rad fractured and broke like a disintegrating pile of magic, slowly at first, and then rapidly.

And then Melemizargo pulled his trick.

He slammed his claws into the center of the disintegrating soul slime and pulled out a pearl of white light. It was beautiful. It was pure. And then it was gone. It had vanished sideways, disappearing from sight in some way that Jane couldn’t tell. What had he done?

“What was that?” Jane found herself asking.

Melemizargo smirked, and then told her, “The soul slime was a unique existence, only possible because of a hundred small factors that normally never would have happened. A broken artifact here. A consumed artifact there. A feast of dead souls and a magical impetus allowed to run amok. A hundred small failures that I can only attribute to Fate, but there’s only one current Walker of the Path right now, so, by all rights this should have been his burden to bear. His monster to kill. It was, after all, a horrible amalgamation of every bad thing to ever come before. The perfect monster to foil Erick.

“But apparently Erick’s Fate is not a normal Fate.

“He guided you this far, and he guided me to be here, too. He gave spellwork to his apprentice in the form of [Luminous Beam] and powerful weapons to his daughter and his guards. He helped that one archmage from Songli with that inspired Undertow effect. He helped from afar, which was exactly as it was meant to be. Apparently. Not how I expected it to happen, but the mana is always a bit mysterious in its workings.

“But that wasn’t really your question, was it? Your question was about the thing I took from the broken core.

“The answer to that is simple to explain and hard to grasp due to the scope involved. That glowing fragment is the Truth of the soul slime. A fragment of power left over from the twisted life which birthed it, which I shall change into something nicer. Something to go along with this new world your father is forging.” Melemizargo eyed the world around him, then turned back to Jane. There was a newfound joy in his supernova-bright eyes. “Technically, I also saved your life today, Jane, but I won’t be calling in that favor. We’re even, if you wish for us to be even.”

Jane had no idea what to say to any of that.

She blinked.

Melemizargo vanished.

Time resumed.

The ocean of ooze flowing in from the west hit the sunlight-filled bowl of the Brightwater, and broke, evaporating away in great swells of wind and steam and air, becoming nothing but a hot breeze. It reminded Jane of how it was every night out there on the walls, fighting under the very same lights. She wasn’t worried about drowning, though.

Jane suspected that if the soul slime was still alive, then it would be producing more slime itself, since the sun was already setting beyond the Dead City’s walls.

All these lights in this land wouldn’t have mattered at all if the slime was still alive.

But it wasn’t.

Jane had killed it.

At Melemizargo’s behest, but still. The soul slime was dead. Jane was alive. Spur was alive.

At that thought Jane’s emotions came crashing down. She was a naked woman alone in the center of the red lake bed of the Brightwater with a hundred false suns hovering overhead and a tropical heat hurricane flowing at her from the west. If she wasn’t mostly immune to environmental effects thanks to the Class Ability that granted her that immunity, she likely would have been cooked alive, like the blood under her feet. That blood was dry and dead, and flaking under the sun and the sudden hurricane-force breeze.

She held up her hand to look at herself and a shimmer of thick air drifted off of her body, but more than that, she could see the world around her, through that shimmer, and a bit beyond. It was different from Surround Sight…

So both mana sense, and aura control, eh?

Not a bad haul—

“Jane?”

Killzone stepped down onto the land ten meters away. He looked ready for war, with his thin black plate armor that was just his body but shaped differently, and a helmet over his head. He had no eye slits and he didn’t really need them, either; they were just weak points anyway; places for goo to accumulate. He padded forward, his feet barely touching the dried blood underneath him. He was still flying but he wasn’t trying to be obvious about it. He was obviously stressed out, though. He twisted his head and body this way and that. And then he focused on Jane.

“… So hey!” Killzone’s helmet dissolved into a hood that he pulled back, revealing his face. His smile was pure joy lit by the light of a hundred suns, and his stupid southern-ish accent came back in full force, as he said, “Looks like ya’ killed it! We tried everythin. Lightnin. Fi-er. Heck a lotta light.” He held up his fists. “Adamantine battering ram!” With a chuckle, he said, “But then you up and steal all the glory! I ain’t complaining, though… But… Where’d you go? You freaked out Poi good and deep for a long while.”

He was trying to be non-threatening, as one did around Shades and other possibly-horrible things inside the Dead City.

Jane breathed out, then looked at herself again. And she realized she could actually look at herself from outside her body. And she could move around mana outside her body. This was strange. Aura control and mana sense were weird.

Killzone was acting weird.

This whole thing was odd.

And Jane admitted to herself that she was likely compromised in some way.

Jane said, “I’m going to conjure some clothes.”

Killzone gave no objection.

Jane conjured some clothes and felt a lot better about standing around in the open, but a lot worse in an entirely unexpected way. Her clothes were pastel blue, but also dark blue, and with splashes of rainbow in them. It wasn’t anything organized like a proper tie-dye outfit, either. It was a bunch of random colors splashed onto her body in the shape of clothes.

But…

So her conjuring was bad! So what. She would deal with that later.

