Jane said, “I went on a journey. I don’t know why, but… Got [Greater Prismatic Body].” Which she decided to Favor right then and there. 50 mana per second was way too much, but 12-13 mana per second was easy enough to deal with— She ignored the math for the moment. She focused on the problem now facing her. “Found Melemizargo. Or he found me. He saved my life in Songli, and he guided me or dragged me or directed me… Not sure. I went on a journey and then came back here and he asked me to dedicate the kill of the soul slime—”

A notification appeared.

You have slain Soul Amalgamator Slime!

15% Participation!

+1.9 e25 experience

She shot straight up to level 99, and theoretically, she should have hit level 100.

The Fibonacci sequence, upon which the whole leveling system mirrored to a certain degree, dictated that level 100 should require 3.4 e22 experience, but according to what Jane was now seeing in her Status the required experience to reach level 100 was 1e100. A one followed by a hundred zeroes.

Literally no one was ever going to reach that number. The soul slime had only reached something like 12.6 e26, if her math was right.

Jane’s own Status now showed her as 1.8 e25 out of 1 e100 to the next level. The barest bit of what she gained was all that was needed to put her well past this soft ‘cap’.

From his expression, Killzone was reading the same sort of notification. Jane wondered how much experience he had gotten. Less than her? She had dealt the killing blow, after all.

But that was a topic for some other time.

Jane defended herself, “Melemizargo asked me to dedicate the soul slime kill to him, or else he was going to release it back into the world, and I don’t think whatever the Headmaster had planned would have worked. So, I agreed. And then I killed it in Melemizargo’s name. And then he took some Truth from the soul slime’s core and spoke about changing it into something nicer. Something to go along with the new world…” Her voice trailed away. “He thought that my father should have been the one to kill the Soul Slime, but then… We were here. And then this happened.”

For a long while, Jane just stood there, putting on a brave face.

For a long while, Killzone also just stood there, thinking.

With a voice almost devoid of his usual accent, Killzone said, “I don’t know what sorta fuckery went down here, but the current result is good and I’m pretty sure you were forced to choose between the sword or the fire, and Spur protects its own, of which you are still a part. So this whole thing is not a big deal, and especially so if this was us succeeding on foiling the Worldly Path.” He pulled back a bit, as though realizing something. With a softer voice, he said, “This is likely the best possible result we could have asked for. Good job, Jane. Report for decontamination and some debriefing, then you can go home and rest.” He turned half away, looking to where the breaking soul slime core had left a black and white scorch-like mark upon the ground. “Dismissed.”

“… Okay!” Jane saluted, then walked to the left two steps before realizing that walking wasn’t the best way to leave this place. And also she was missing something. She stopped, turned back, and asked, “Say, uh? Sir? Have you seen my sword?”

Killzone remained focused on the scorch mark, frowning a bit. “Ah. You didn’t use it here, eh? … I have no idea where it could be. You can search for it tomorrow, but if one of our guys finds it then it will be returned to you.”

Jane gave a small nod then decided that she could check at least one place before she reported back to town. She turned to prismatic radiance and went searching in the most obvious spot; the stone behind that one plateau, where she started her elemental journey.

The sword wasn’t there.

The ruined land was swirled like someone had taken a [Greater Stonewalk] to it and then dove inside, leaving a splash of half-smoothed rock behind. As Jane hovered there in her prismatic light the stone seemed to soften under her brilliance. Parts of the land burbled, releasing air trapped in the stone, and Jane could feel the start of a deep and twisted tunnel of transformation that led off far below.

… Now was not the time to investigate all that.

Jane dropped her [Greater Prismatic Body] and turned on her [Greater Lightwalk]. The land stopped burbling. It was going to take her some time to understand exactly what her [Greater Prismatic Body] did, but that time was not now.

For now, Jane zipped up through the Sun-Rift-filled sky of the Brightwater, to hover high above the place and gaze out at the bowl of land below her. She watched as Sunnys deposited even more Rifts here and there, but primarily at the holes in the Brightwater’s defending wall, to evaporate more spewing ooze before it could get too far. That tactic worked phenomenally well. Perhaps even better than it had before. Kiri would likely need to deposit these Rifts all across the whole of the Dead City, though, to clean up the deeper dregs of the soul slime.

Silverite would probably order her to do that, actually—

Poi’s rough voice came through, ‘You made me worry almost as much as your father does.’

Jane laughed loud.

With a more relaxed tone, Poi sent, ‘There’s a debrief and you’re either going to have to take it here or at the Courthouse. From what we already saw through [Witness] there’s nothing for you to worry about.’

Jane breathed out a ragged breath, then sent, ‘I’ll take it at the Courthouse.’

‘I’ll let them know… Report to conference room 3.’ Poi added, ‘The main celebration of the kill will likely commence tomorrow night. Everyone is tired.’

Jane smiled brightly at that. Yes, she wanted to sleep, but she was also looking forward to another grand celebration. The one after Champion Yetta’s journey through Ar’Kendrithyst and the one after Last Shadow’s Feast had been fun.

For a brief moment, Jane was a shining beacon of temporary joy in the middle of a red and gold sunset sky.

And then she got back to Spur.

- - - -

In conference room three, Jane sat before Quartermaster Liquid and Silverite, while Poi and Kiri waited outside. Silverite’s questions were normal enough. ‘What was the full and complete nature of your meeting with Melemizargo?’ ‘What do you think happened there, at the end?’ ‘Are you aware you were manipulated?’ ‘Why did you allow yourself to be manipulated by the Dark?’ ‘What was the feeling you got when the Dark spoke of your father’s Worldly Path?’

The interview took an hour, but it was an easy hour. Jane answered succinctly and clearly, for though the questions themselves were barbed, the manner in which they were given was not. Silverite was just doing her job to keep her city safe, and she had been dealing with the Dark for over 550 years. There were no surprise handcuffs or surprise killing spells. There was no hostility at all. There was just a mayor wondering what new shit had landed on her doorstep, and if it was worse than what came before.

Toward the end, after everything had wrapped up, Silverite leaned back in her chair, and eyed Jane.

And Jane realized she was suffering from stress fatigue, or maybe she was having a War Response, or something along those lines, because this had been a true judgment all this while. Suddenly, she wondered if she had fucked up.

And then Silverite saw Jane tensing, and she relaxed herself. “Jane. You’re not in trouble.” With a soft voice, Silverite said, “The guidelines we have in place to define what constitutes a betrayal to the Dark includes killing in his name, but I am not one to condemn someone for breaking those guidelines in this particular manner. We are more than rules. We are a city of people working against the Dark, and the Dark likes to toy with us, to see how far we will break. Well I’m not breaking over this, and you shouldn’t either.” She added, “But you should go home and get some rest and stay away from adventuring for a while. Try to get a softer hobby. Something that is as far away from killing as possible, because you have taken on a lot of burden recently and I don’t want to see you pop. Okay?”

Silverite’s sudden and real compassion caught Jane off guard.

Jane wiped away an unruly tear and chuckled, saying, “Ah. I must need a break if— Ah. How about low level quests?”

Silverite frowned.

Liquid frowned even deeper, though. She was deeply unhappy. “When you came to me with that completed application and I warned you away from this life for the second time, and then you told me that I’ve never seen a kid like you? You remember? I responded with 90% of kids like you die their first year.” Liquid said, “You don’t see it, but you should have died at least 3 times over. Once with the Moon Reachers, once with being anywhere near your father’s Worldly Path, and then again, tonight, and for any hundred of small incidents— Oh! And there was also Champion Yetta’s shit! You have been remarkably lucky.” Liquid softened a bit, though her voice still had an edge. “You are also remarkably skilled and I am very glad to have you in Spur, but please take less risks.” She suddenly spat, “And get a damned Domain! That soul slime should have killed you ten times over!” And then she wiped away her own annoying tear, huffing and breathing hard.

Jane sat firm, taking it all in, and said, “I think I unlocked my aura and a mana sense. I’ll work on that, and also a Domain. Thank you for your care.”

Liquid nodded quickly, then she turned toward the closed door to speak loudly, “And Kiri needs a Domain, too! She’s the second damnedest fool of the evening. You two kids walking around with all this power and no ability to actually step into the deepest Dark! And you continue to step into the Dark! Foolish beyond words.”

Liquid’s words hung in the room for a moment.

And then the moment broke.

Silverite leaned forward, saying, “Good work out there, Jane. Very good work. Now. Do you have any questions for Spur?”

Jane did have one, actually. One that possibly only Silverite or Liquid might know. “Why is level 100 impossible to reach? Why the shift in required experience?”

Liquid gave a shrug. “Limitation to power under the Script.”

Silverite said, “Liquid’s answer is the accepted answer, but no one really knows. Monsters normally never reach anywhere past level 90. The ones that get higher than that get there through killing many, many other such monsters who also kill other high level monsters. The soul slime was an extreme example of this, while also being a Soul Summoner, or some other such variation. Necromancer. Flesh Crafter.” Silverite shook her head. “Fucking necromancers.”

“… What is experience?” Jane asked.

“A measure of soul strength,” Liquid said.

“A measure of overall strength,” Silverite added. “Not just soul strength.”

The two of them had a slight disagreement over that answer. Jane didn’t want to get into that disagreement, so she moved on to the big question, “Any idea what Melemizargo is going to make?”

Liquid frowned at nothing in particular.

Silverite shrugged. “Some horror similar to what the soul slime was in life, no doubt. But it’s out of our hands. Now, the gods get involved.”

Now, Liquid was angry again. “Four ‘Holy Paladin’s from four different churches tried to break that damned soul slime! They all failed.”

Jane was suddenly wide awake. “A lot happened when I was indisposed?”

“Quite a lot.” Silverite said, “Which is why it is likely a good thing that you did what you did. I’d have given the Headmaster’s attack a 95% chance it would have worked, but since Melemizargo was in attendance and working on his own ends, and this was supposedly part of Erick’s Worldly Path all along, that 95% is more like 5%.” Silverite said, “So thank you for that, Jane. You probably did save Spur and this whole area a lot more heartache and devastation.” She stood, saying, “You can get the whole story from your people. I have work to do, as do all the rest of the support staff. You’re done for a while, though.”

Jane and Liquid stood.

Liquid said, “Good work, Team Leader. Smaller celebration parties will likely begin around midnight, but the main party will be tomorrow.”

Silverite said, “I expect you to be the guest of honor tomorrow at the official celebration, too, so be prepared for that."

Jane bowed. “Thank you, Mayor. Quartermaster.”

And then Jane left.

Kiri and Poi and Jane blipped directly home—

To where Teressa and Nirzir had set out a feast worthy of several heroes, where Sunny played several musical instruments in the background. The little couatl played the flutes and the chimes and the drums, and though she played them poorly, she was trying, and Kiri was super excited.

“No one is going to die tonight!” Kiri shouted as she hugged Jane tight. “Or tomorrow, either!”

Jane laughed as she hugged Kiri back. There was a lot of sudden joy and relief from the battle, and Jane felt both overwhelmed and supremely grateful. And she wasn’t the only one. Everyone was happy in their own way.

The feast was delicious. Fries. Pizza. Fried chicken. Spicy sauces set aside just for Jane that no one else wanted to touch. Soda berry water that Kiri had managed to make through Particle Magic and Elemental Illusion two weeks ago, after Jane had told her how to make the stuff. And then came dessert. More chocolate cake. Cinnamon bread. And beer! And harder stuff, too.

Poi spoke of how every single one of them had gotten at least a single percentage of the soul slime kill, and how they were all level 99. He wasn’t sure what to do with all of his extra points, but he was likely going to save them for some spellwork he had been eyeing for a while.

“I’m going to take a look at Soul Magic,” Poi said, to the suddenly silent room.

A moment passed in contemplation. Cheese slid off of Teressa’s slice of pizza.

Jane said, “There’s no one I trust more with that sort of magic than you, Poi.”

Poi practically blushed, though his blue scales just turned a bit darker.

Nirzir rapidly said, “I agree with Jane’s assessment. If you wish for access to Songli’s resources, I will make them available to you.”

Poi was suddenly a bit more reluctant than he had been. “Ahhh. I’ll… I’ll figure it out. I finally decided to go after it tonight. But. Maybe I’ll take you up on that offer later.”

“I think it’s a fine idea.” Kiri said, “Soul Magic is terrifying, but it can do a lot of good in the right hands.”

Teressa was less sure, but she just shrugged a little, then she picked up the spilled cheese, put it back on the pizza, and ate it.

