Nirzir spoke of how her [Undertow Stars] needed something more, for the spell didn’t fully stop the Hand Caster from partially blipping. It did lock down Healing, though, both because of the Void she had put into the spell and some Elemental Decay mixed into the working.

“So that’s why the thing didn’t heal itself!” Jane exclaimed, then started laughing.

“It’s not a perfect solution,” Nirzir said, “After all, with the target having more Health that means I can absorb more resources from it. But this is likely a foolish line to walk. I might keep the Decay in my next iteration, or I might remove it entirely. The whole Undertow branch of spellwork is completely new to me, so there is a lot of experimenting to be done.”

Jane almost spoke of how Melemizargo had mentioned Nirzir’s success with Undertow spellwork, but she decided against it, for now.

Over a third round of beers, after dinner was done and the leftovers had been put away, Teressa spoke of how she saw the choice Jane had needed to make, and she congratulated Jane for making the right one. The outcomes of Melemizargo taking the soul slime’s soul were unknown, but if Jane hadn't done that…

“The Headmaster’s spell would have failed. Only a 15% chance of it working.” Teressa said, “Prognostication is never a sure thing, but I’m pretty sure you made the only choice that had a good outcome.”

Jane smiled softly. “I hope it works out— Oh!” She asked, “Have you seen my sword?”

Teressa laughed. “Nope! I already looked, too. It’s probably a thousand kilometers deep in the Underworld. Do you remember all the places you went?”

“Fuck! … No.” Jane said, “I can probably track my path. But… Not tonight.”

Kiri had gone out of the room for something, but she came back wearing a nice green dress. With bright, joyful eyes, she said, “Let’s go out to a dancing room!”

Jane hopped off her chair. “Okay!”

Poi decided to be a wet blanket, though. “How about tomorrow? Let’s go tomorrow. Please?”

Kiri rushed to the man and grabbed his hands, pulling him off his chair. “No! Tonight! I can already hear the music outside! It’s calling to me, Poi!”

“How about just a music bar, then?” Jane tried to compromise.

Poi said, “Yes! I’ll do that. Compromise, Kiri.”

Nirzir said, “My people have a party going on at the Upper Bough for the night. All the Fonts who touched Jane hit level 99, and they’re all there.” With a happy little smile, she asked, “We could go there?”

Teressa smirked. “I’ll grab my coat.”
