It wasn’t worth worrying about. With his duty discharged, Badud transported himself to one of his designated travel points. With barely a flicker he appeared in a large and well-appointed study, lit by a bluish light spilling through the window that dominated one wall. He spent a minute looking out over the underground city of Sangrad. Buildings spread out over every surface of the massive cave, the tallest structures clustered around the pillars of massive crystal that glowed with purple light. His vantage point was high above every other building, the Seal Fortress stretching upwards towards the opening in the roof of the cavern high above.

He sat in the chair delicately, though his aches weren’t physical in any sense. Eventually, he reached for an enchanted bell sitting near his elbow. It rang without sound, and seconds later the door slid open to admit a formally-dressed woman who bowed deeply.

“Archlord Badud. What is your will?”

“The annual reports of the triumvirate for the last decade, as well as the records of the artifice guild auctions.” The woman nodded her understanding and turned to leave, but Badud raised a hand. “Wait. And the list of state assets with deep ocean capabilities. Mercenaries preferred. I don’t need that list immediately. Make it thorough.”

The woman left with her amended instructions, and Badud laced his fingers together as he awaited the papers that would let him catch up on what had happened in Sangrad since his last visit.

If Nathan slips through Sussu’s trap, then he’ll be vulnerable at sea. I’m never going to get within a hundred miles of that boy again, but if we destroy his ship, then he won’t be able to survive the deep ocean.

It was only a few minutes before the woman returned with several folders of reports, and Badud licked a finger before diving in. There were more efficient methods of organization and data storage than paper, but he loved the feeling of control that came from manipulating an empire through such basic physical means.

It was one of the reasons that Davrar was worth it.
