Tears shimmered in the corner of Elaine's eyes as she awaited her verdict.

"I will go and help Douglas," Diana said resolutely. "I want to wipe out the Celestial Empire scum, and then make my way to the Celestial Empire if the battle is still ongoing."

The relief in Elaine's eyes was infectious. She lunged forward and embraced Diana in the tightest hug she had ever endured, making her almost fall back onto the couch. "Thank you, Diana, thank you," she repeated over and over.

Diana patted her back, not knowing what else to do.

"Yush! Let's save Daddy!" Hazel declared, standing on the sofa and raising her tiny fist mightily in the air. "I fight!"

Elaine laughed and pulled away, freeing Diana from the embrace.

"No, my adorable Hazel," she said, scooping Hazel into her arms. "Grand Elder Diana here is going to save him."

Diana felt a tap on her leg and looked down. It was Talon. He said nothing, simply giving her an approving nod. What a weird kid.

"If you leave now, you might reach Argentum by sunrise and in the nick of time to save all of Argentum from being smothered in flames," Elaine said.

"No need," Diana shook her head. "There's a faster method."

Elaine was clearly curious.

"I'm the inheritor of an Archdemon now," Diana explained with a grin, "which means I can be summoned like one. All Douglas has to do is utter my true name, and I can answer his call."

Elaine quickly picked up the communication jade she had dropped earlier with her free hand and called Douglas. He picked up after a long pause.

"What?" he said hurriedly, his voice crackling as if there were interference. "Geb is under assault by two Monarchs, and one of the Silverspire Elders just went supernova to disrupt one of their domains for a few minutes. How are you and the kids? Any success getting a hold of the Boss?"

"No, but I've found you reinforcements."

"Really?" Douglas sounded desperate. "Who?"

"An Archdemon," Elaine smiled, passing Diana the communication jade.

Diana accepted it. "Hello, Douglas."

There was a pause, then Douglas's voice roared through the jade.

"Diana?! You're back?"

"I am, and I want to say hello to you and Zephyrine," Diana said, pausing. "Have you ever summoned a demon before?"

Douglas chuckled. "Can't say that I have, but I'd sell my soul to a demon if it means I could get through this."

"Hey!" Elaine shouted. "No selling your soul to any demons."

Diana rolled her eyes. "I don't need your soul, Douglas, but I do need you to summon me. Now, inviting an Archdemon to your side isn't exactly a heaven-sanctioned thing, so this will get messy. Are you ready?"

"Ready as I'll ever be," Douglas replied.

"Good. Then listen closely..."
