This atrium here, in the center, would serve as a dining room like the cafeteria at Archmage’s Rest, or the eatery at Stratagold’s embassy, or the gathering space in the center of the Grand Wizard’s Tower in the Core. It would bring everyone together who wanted to come together.

All around this atrium, on this floor and on the other floors above, arching hallways branched out, leading to every other cylindrical tower in the House. The main offices of many different people would be in those main towers, adjacent to this central space, but even beyond those other cylindrical towers there was room to expand in all the other hallways of the first two floors, since those first two floors (and the maintenance floors below there) served as generalized office space that Erick would open up as needed.

Right now, though, there was no need to open up those other parts of the House.

House Benevolence was completely empty, and somewhat dark.

Sound whistled through the to-be-placed windows all around the top of the atrium, letting in the afternoon sun at a slant; an arc of light carving through the white gloom. It was, perhaps, foreboding, but Erick saw the future here in this House.

And especially here, in the atrium, where dozens of smaller businesses would be invited to open up in one of the locations Erick had carved out of these many floors.

Erick imagined a branch restaurant of ‘Meat! Bread! Cheese!’ over there in that location. A fine dining establishment in that bigger, more private location on floor three. A few places from Nelboor, selling rice and fish and various dishes with lots of sauces. People from every part of his House would come through here to eat, and to mingle.

That hallway over there led to the Benevolence Research tower. That other hallway over there led to the offices where Erick would put House Fae, House Death, and House Carnage. The wrought of Stratagold (and eventually others) could have that tower past that hallway on the very opposite side of the atrium.

“It’s beautiful,” O’Lark said, as he gripped the railing in front of him, steadying himself. “It’s magnificent.”

Erick smiled. “And it’s still alive, too, since it’s eternal stonewood. Fully capable of illusions! So let’s glimpse the future, shall we?”

Eternal Stonetreeshape, instant, super long range, 5500 mana

Warp an eternal stonetree into your desired shape or warp the illusions around a living eternal stonetree into your desired shape. Unreal control. Spell lasts 5 minutes.

Without waiting for confirmation, and as peoples’ eyes started to widen in anticipation, Erick cast a grand [Eternal Stonetreeshape], targeting nothing physical. Instead, he targeted the manasphere itself.

The entire House lit up like it was fully operational. Stained glass windows replaced the holes encircling the atrium. And then people began to appear, like silent apparitions. They walked this way and that, off to a meeting or to meet a friend or otherwise for lunch, down in the central space. Signage appeared in the air before the restaurants, and people started cooking at grills behind glass while servers handed out food to paying guys in suits.

The barest sound of susurrus filled the House, like the whispering of wind, but more personable.

For a little while, no one spoke. They just watched, and imagined.

And then O’Lark broke the gentle noises of the atrium, saying, “Thank you, Wizard. You can take it from here.” He pulled back from the railing, looking completely satisfied. “The House is big right now, but I’m sure you’ll grow into it.”

Erick asked, “Will you be joining me for the Shaping of the church?”

The wiry man’s assistants tensed, but O’Lark himself simply shook his head. “You’re doing good work here, Wizard… Erick. But I’ve faced the Dark too many times to go poking my nose into those shadows. I couldn’t stop myself here, but… You’ve got the plans. You can make adjustments as needed. You can make it work. But…” He looked outward. “I want to see this House without illusions, please. Once more before I leave.”

Erick Shaped away the illusions, dropping the room into shadows and the simple light of the sun shining through the windows, once again.

O’Lark nodded outward, saying, “It’s a stable construction. You’ll fix it up here and there as needed, too. Eternal stonewood is a great material. You could have made that crystal roof an illusion, yes? The design would have remained essentially the same.”

Erick smiled, saying, “No illusions in my Benevolence, if I can help it.”

“A good tactic.” O’Lark waved his hand at the atrium. “I’m done! Send me home, Wizard!”

Erick gladly did so, opening a [Gate] to the side that led directly to the cavern down at Stratagold, right beside all the other Gates. Soldiers on the other side stood at attention, but then they realized nothing was happening besides O’Lark’s return, and so they stood down. “Farewell, Architect O’Lark. It was good talking with you, and working with you.”

“Same! Same.” O’Lark walked through, followed by his assistants. The man and woman incani wrought both bowed to Erick as they reached the other side. O’Lark turned, and said, “You’ve given me a lot to think about! If you ever need another structure, or if you want a proper model filled with magic, let me know.”

Erick nodded, and said, “I will.”

And then he closed the [Gate].

Sitnakov said, “Queen Strelkova has some resumes she wishes to hand off to you, for your staff.”

Ah.

Back to work already.

Erick said, “I am thrilled to receive them, but I’m rather sure Kirginatharp has some to look through, too, and I think Ar’Cosmos has some, as well. That’s going to be a mess which I will be happy to untangle, but first I need to get the church out of the way. That will likely be an even bigger mess.” He opened a [Gate] to Candlepoint, saying, “Time to meet some gods!”

He seemed to be the only one not struck by a dozen odd emotions, like fear and reverence and fearful reverence.

Erick tried to assuage them with the truth, “This is likely going to end up in some massive problem, so be ready.”

To varying degrees, his family, and the hanger-on that was Sitnakov, steeled themselves.

Erick did the same.
