Certain things had been omitted on purpose. Erick’s own magic workshop would remain on Yggdrasil, and he would live offsite. There were rooms for a castellan, and for other permanent employees of the House, but like most people, Erick would be living elsewhere. He did have rooms for himself in all three mockups, but they were decoys. He’d probably put guests there, or something.

But the exteriors of the models, and how they were all put together, were all very different.

The first model centered around a grand central cylindrical-cone-shaped tower, in a land of smaller towers that all shared walls, like some sort of very tall bubble land, and which rapidly decreased in height and size the further one got from the center. Each tower widened out at the bottom, forming a stable base, while the roofs were all domed. Four smokestack-like towers held to the edges of that space, marking the absolute boundary of Erick’s House. It looked like a vision of Oceanside, but different. More mashed together, like a bunch of jello molds sitting right beside each other. There were even balconies here and there. Poi instantly approved, though he did not say as much. Teressa was similarly silently happy with it, though Erick could tell she was much more enamored with choice number 2.

The second mockup was an off-center rectangular-ish main tower of thirty or so floors, rising up from a naturalistic mountain. Several smaller towers of similar design to the large one rose here and there from the mountain, with skyways connecting those towers to each other. Most of the main, public structures were inside that mountain, with the towers themselves reserved for office work, while garden-like spaces on the ‘roof’, far below the skyways, were open for walking, or reading under trees, or whatever. The whole thing was a mash of naturalistic land and solid, manufactured lines, with the roofs of each tower beveled inward, forming glass walls that formed open-air restaurants for the people who worked in those towers (or whatever sort of thing Erick decided should go there; O’Lark explained, while Erick kept looking over everything).

The third option was a spire of white crystal reminiscent of a crystal mimic, or rather, a crystal agave, with a sunburst jumble of crystal at top, serving as the throne room. But instead of having a cascade of leaves around a central point, like an agave, the main spire had vertically-aligned ‘towers’ of crystal stuck to the sides of it, spaced all around the central spire in a pattern that spiraled down and extended outward to the main structure below. That main structure was essentially a dome of crystal spikes, set into a 500x1000 meter wide base of an Art Deco-Nouveau metal holder, like someone had taken the partial geode and wrapped it in sometimes-curving, and sometimes-straight metal. Under that roof lay all the workings of a very, very large House, while the House itself looked more like a gem set into a metal base, than a functional building. It was a work of art.

It was also mostly eternal stonewood, but all the crystalline parts were made of glass. O’Lark had included a lot of glass in all three of his mockups, but this third one had an entire roof of glass.

And Erick loved it.

The third option was fantastic...

But. No. Too easy to destroy, with the base of that tower being way too thin for its own good. Sure, eternal stonewood could handle that, and Erick could actually go thinner if he wanted, but… Well. He could replace all the glass with permanent Force, held intact and in shape through Undertow effects—

No.

… And yet, Erick liked the smaller ‘towers’ joined to the main spire—

But they were too separate from everything else. The main complex down below was like ten malls put together with a lot of flow between those malls, so that was good, but the main tower was even more separated from everything else. Erick didn’t want to have a throne room so high above everyone, either; that seemed to send the wrong message.

Erick turned back to the other two…

And he came back to the third.

O’Lark stared at Erick, saying, “I see you like the third one but something is wrong. What is wrong?”

“Initially, I liked everything about it. The style, the size, the organization down below, but the more I look at it… I can’t abide all that glass.” Erick turned to the first model, the one with the cylindrical towers. “I like this one a whole lot, actually, but it’s plain.” He looked to the second one. “And I like the square towers’ exterior spaces… But the crystal keep has the same sorts of spaces, yet inside, under glass. The cylinder-dome castle has everything I want and it even has those four towers on the corners, but it has no natural spaces, though I can just put a garden on the front side and the back side of the towers… And yet, I really like the straight and curly metal accents on the crystal keep, like it’s a giant gem set into a holder.”

O’Lark’s eyes lit up as he smiled wide, asking, “Are you sure? That those are the parts you like?”

Erick glanced at the man, and then stared at him. He was up to something. “… Yes.”

“Step back! And witness the power of my modeling magic!” O’Lark held up his hands toward the three models, bright copper flickers rushing up and down his deeply patinated arms, as he said, “I can do this twice more, but I usually get it right the first time!”

Erick stepped away from the models.

He could have glanced into the future to see some of what was coming, but he felt that would ruin the surprise. Instead, he waited, and a smile came unbidden. This seemed like it would be good.

O’Lark advanced on his models, commanding, “Watch this, Wizard! Watch what truly knowledgeable Book Magic can do!”

Glowing copper words poured out of O’Lark’s hands, like Ancient Script given form and function, turning into ribbons of light that smashed into the three different models, soaking in like water, turning grey stone into something more ephemeral. The spellwork did not affect all three models evenly. Most of O’Lark’s spells went to the first model; the one of conical cylinders and domes. A smaller fraction touched upon the crystal keep, while an even smaller portion traced along the natural spaces of the second model.

In a flash of copper, grey stone dissolved away from the second and third model, while the first became temporarily ephemeral.

And then a great shift happened. Copper light from model 2 and 3 turned back into words, tracing back to model 1. Erick caught sight of all those words as they turned into sentences, like clouds gathering, and then they passed in front of him like sideways rain, falling in graceful arcs toward their destination, the first model. Those words weren’t just Ancient Script anymore. There were snippets of conversations Erick had had about Art Deco, written in Ecks. There was talk of metal filigree, and water fountains, and words of stone and glass.

Like snipping bits of text from one story and plugging them in another, O’Lark placed intrinsic parts of models 2 and 3, into model 1.

When the magic faded what was left was a masterpiece, and two duds.

O’Lark breathed hard, but he was already grinning, because he saw the look on Erick’s face, and he knew he had done well. He laughed out loud, saying, “Normally I tell clients they got five minutes before I either gotta revert it or leave it like it is! But I told you I usually get it on the first try! AND MY RECORD REMAINS INTACT! YOU LOVE IT!”

And Erick did, but he was still trying to understand what had happened just now.

Models 2 and 3 had become… lesser. Less unique. Less polished. Like someone had rushed them to completion, trying to do in 5 days what they usually got 10 days to do. But model 1 had become a work of art. Something that a sculptor back on Earth would have spent years upon years putting together.

The original shape of model one remained the same; wide-base conical cylinder towers rising up into the sky, with the largest tower in the center almost as wide as a stadium, and smaller ones spreading outward from there. But now it had a square base, and that base expanded out to a scale-size 750 meters on two sides, and a scale height of fifteen meters, forming the first two floors of the building. That base sloped on the edges, and was riven with straight-line and small-curve designs, like an Art Deco bas relief of metallic angles and support. The original towers still only took up their original 500x500 meter space, rising to a height of 450 meters. This left a great lot of open roof space in the gulf between the edge, and the original buildings, and all that space became a land for gardens and water fountains.

There were even carved divots in that base which formed courtyards and side entrances around the original building’s entrances, allowing people to enter the buildings from well-protected ‘gatehouse’-type areas.

All of the central towers and the four corner towers gained bottom rings of even more Art Deco angles, and that theme continued inside, running along the base of all the walls in the main hallways. Those shapes seemed to resemble roots the more one got closer to the center of the building. Those roots came together in the assembly hall, forming an abstract design of Yggdrasil on the back wall—

“Oh! It’s Benevolent Lightning surrounding the entire base of the building.” Erick said, “Not just Yggdrasil’s roots. It’s both.”

O’Lark smiled wide. And then he sighed, as though relieved. “Yes. It is both.”

“I love it.”

“If you find something you want to move around afterward, you can.” O’Lark waved a hand, as though most of his energy had vanished, saying, “But that’s the basic structure, ready to be turned into House Benevolence.”

Erick said, “I love every part of it.”

O’Lark went to weakly slap the arm of an assistant, but he didn’t get very far at all before the assistant instantly conjured a chair. O’Lark summarily ignored the assistant as he sat down, taking a great weight off of his feet as he set his sight on the mountain of white eternal stonewood ahead. With a content voice, he said, “I'm ready for a show, Wizard.”

Erick smiled, and then he began Shaping.

Like a waking leviathan, the white mountain began to move.

- - - -

Erick walked down the main thoroughfare of his new House and was in awe.

It needed lighting, and Erick added some preliminary lights. It needed windows, and Erick Shaped them out of desert sand. It needed minor Shapings here and there to better come into tune with the vision presented by O’Lark, who was ten meters ahead of Erick and having a great big moment of his own. Kiri, Jane, Teressa, Sitnakov, and Poi followed in their wake, while O’Lark’s own assistants hurriedly tried to keep up with the old man. There were lots of sights to see.

Teressa saw the most of any of them, with perhaps the exception of Sitnakov; Erick still wasn’t sure how far the adamantium man’s senses extended, but they were at least the 110 meter range. Teressa was currently at 150 to 175 meters.

Erick was only at 75. But he had ten Ophiel! That helped a lot.

And as he saw his new House, from several different angles and from seven different sites, Erick was briefly struck with a happy thought that sent giggles rising up from his stomach.

He giggled. And then O’Lark giggled.

“I need some staff!” Erick happily announced.

“50 to 150 full time staff! A daily throughput of five thousand guests! A thousand other people! A fraction of a fraction of the embassy of Stratagold.” They reached the front foyer, and O’Lark’s voice rose to fill the room, “But still a monument to the ages!”

The room ended in a massive T intersection, with left and right hallways even larger than the front thoroughfare, reaching up into vaulted ceilings large enough to make a dragon comfortable. There wouldn’t be any dragons here, but Erick was not going to have any cramped spaces in his House. He was all about being open. At the center of this first intersection lay a large arc of a table, as you would see in the front of any large organization. To the left and the right were other such reception areas, though most of the actual receptions would take place in private offices in the various buildings all around the main structure.

Above that central, first table, was a massive rune for [Renew]; a nearly closed circle, but with two angles at the top, like an arrow turned in on itself. Or an—

Jane joked, “You could make that [Renew] look like an actual ouroboros. A dragon eating its own tail.”

“Nope!” Erick said, still smiling. “That would offend either the dragons, or Melemizargo, or Rozeta since this is all white wood, and I’m not doing that.”

“But isn’t this ‘ouroboros’ idea similar to your [Reincarnation] magics?” Kiri asked, her voice a small thing in the grand halls of the House. “Takes a person and turns them into something else that they already are… And you’re going to be using it on dragons anyway?”

Erick mocked a frown at both Jane and Kiri, saying, “You’ve already named me ‘Apparent King’. No need to go dragging this topic up for the fifth time in order to mess with the historical significance of [Renew].”

Jane smirked, shrugging.

Kiri, however, had a different reaction. “I think this ‘ouroboros’ idea is quite beautiful.”

“I honestly didn’t even consider an ouroboros when I was making [Renew].” Erick turned his attentions back to the room, and decided to head left, since O’Lark was already running down that way. Erick smiled and started to walk faster to keep up, saying, “The Assembly Hall is going to be wonderful.”

Sitnakov spoke up, “It’ll be nice if it actually gets used how you intend it to be used.”

Jane tried to return to the previous topic, saying, “This eternal stonewood has built-in illusions, right? Just make it look like an ouroboros to people who stand in a specific spot!”

“Nope!”

Erick rounded the bend and found O’Lark staring out at the central atrium. Erick joined the man at the balcony.

The central area of House Benevolence was a massive open space of eight different floors, situated in the center of the main cylindrical building. The atrium extended from the ground floor (though there were two more maintenance floors down below that) to an arched dome. Above that dome was five meters of solid eternal stonewood separating that ceiling from the direct offices of House Benevolence, and the meeting spaces of many of the main forces which Erick wished to invite to this land. Right above that, lay the assembly room, which encompassed most of an entire floor. Above that, at the very top of the central tower, under the dome above, lay the throne room and Erick’s personal offices.

