No magic research into a wide scale [Scry Deny], even if all that would take was a normal Denial tuned to [Scry], as he had done for his Privacy magics. The only reason Erick did not do that was because he was missing something crucial: how to exempt Ophiel and Yggdrasil from the effect. There was no experimentation with [Identify], or any other possible boosting magic that could apply to [Cascade Imaging], either. But also, there were no explosions anywhere. No murders. No unexpected intrusions into the surrounding lands. Meetings and paperwork took up all his time.

It was, all in all, rather boring to all onlookers, but Erick was in love with boring.

When asked, he would even say that he was having the time of his life. Fixing problems. Shifting priorities as needed to fix more problems. Helping people to help themselves. Laying the foundation for something great.

Laying the foundations for the Mage Guild District, and the Church District in Candlepoint, and Gate Road and even the foundation for his House, which would probably be in the center of Gate Road, and overlapping to both the north and south sides, so he could stand at the top of a tower and look down the row of Gates leading off east and west. Or maybe just west.

It was great! It was wonderful.

It wouldn’t last.

Either some sort of war would happen, and require him to respond with violence, or, best case, he would get through this current scramble for organization and finally hire some other people to do this organization for him. And then he would be adrift again! Or, in better terms: free to work on magic and more fun social problems.

… Or maybe not? He honestly did love this hands-on approach to building a kingdom.

But some free time would be nice. Eventually, perhaps.

As soon as he actually built his House, maybe? And people saw that he was truly open for business? Erick was fine with that, too. Whatever the case, the House was still in the planning stages, for O’Lark’s designs suffered from Erick’s talk of Earth sensibilities, like he was taking too many ideas and trying to work them all into the design.

O’Lark was rather more vehemently unhappy with his own work, having smashed a few models when Erick showed the slightest displeasure at them. Somewhere around day five, Erick was absolutely sure that O’Lark was making his designs purposefully bad, just so he could extend his talks with Erick, to learn all he could about architecture from Earth.

And, after Erick had a think about all that, he felt this was okay. Delays were fine, when the results would need to stand against a massive test of time. And so, Erick continued to talk with O’Lark.

They spoke of the movement of people, of planes, and trains, and automobiles, but also sidewalks and subway stations. Erick postulated how Gates could solve most of those transportation problems, but also how he still wanted people to walk around as much as they could.

Mostly, though, they spoke of important buildings from Earth. The United Nations building, with its large assembly hall which mirrored that of the inquiry boardroom back at Stratagold’s embassy. Erick brought up Frank Lloyd Wright and his unique architecture, which was surprisingly the only architect that Erick could remember in any good detail. Since he couldn’t give any more architects, he stuck to buildings, like the Chrysler Building with its arches and artistic lighting and metalwork, and the Taj Mahal, with its four surrounding towers and unique domes, all done in white, while the inside was filled with extensive mosaics. The Hagia Sophia with its bubble-dome exterior and ancient looks, and the Sydney Opera House, which was a successful experiment in large forms that more resembled nested open clam shells, than anything normal. Saint Basil’s Cathedral in Moscow, with the onion dome tower caps, and the ancient city of Angkor Wat in Cambodia, with its extensive bas-reliefs of different deities for each possible human action.

Erick gave examples of Brutalism, which he didn’t like; too solid and imposing. Art Deco, which was sharp lines and geometric styles, and Art Nouveau, which was for curves and nature-like stuff. Gothic and Federal, which were the usual styles of churches and governmental buildings, respectively.

The more they spoke, the more Erick liked the kooky Architect and his very enthusiastic ways. Erick didn’t rush those conversations, for he found that the more he spoke of what he wanted, the more he realized he was putting off the House creation, too.

He did, however, conjure a bunch of eternal stonewood and plopped it down in the general location where his House would go (and also where the Interfaith Church would go over at Candlepoint). Erick had even Shaped it a few times into some full-size mockups to have better conversations with O’Lark, but each time those conversations ended the same way.

O’Lark gazed up at the exterior of a boxy-type House, made of several towers and a nice central dome. Erick was almost happy with it. O’Lark’s casual observation began rapidly degrading into that of a man coming to realize that he was looking at shit.

“No No No!” O’Lark shouted, as he waved his hands. “No no no! This will not do. Tear it down and we’ll try again tomorrow.” He turned his attention to several of the small grey models he had brought with him, and with a casual swipe, sent the small stone structures to the ground, breaking them with the fall. “Break it all and try again tomorrow! I will have something fit for the ages tomorrow! Mark my words, Wizard: I will have this done RIGHT! AND! BEAUTIFUL!!”

Erick gave a casual swish of his own hands, the over 200 meter cubic building lost all cohesion, turning back into a piled-up mound of stone-like wood. He said, “We’ll try again tomorrow.”

“TOMORROW! AGAIN! Tomorrow!” O’Lark went over and stomped on a broken model. “Needs more windows! … And maybe fountains— YES! Fountains!”

“I do like mosaic glass and water features.” Erick added, “Still haven’t decided on my heraldry, though. Maybe just a lightning ring of [Renew]? Not sure.”

O’Lark didn’t care about Erick's smaller comments. He just ranted about windows and water. His assistants, though, took notes.

And Kiri was still stuck upon watching the mound of stonewood settle back into a minor mountain. With a whisper, she said, “I’ve seen you tear it down three times now. Watching that much stuff move at your command still gets me, every time.”

Sitnakov laughed. “Eternal stonewood isn’t that bad to break out of.”

“I’m going to put an anti-Shaping magic inside that building once it’s made. Probably repeat that same anti-Shaping magic in a lot of places, too.” Erick said to O’Lark, “I’ve got other meetings. See you later.”

O’Lark wasn’t listening, though. He was still back to making tiny models out of stone, whispering about how this one would be better than all the rest! Just you wait!

His assistants, though, took notice of Erick and bowed. Erick took his leave.

Without explosions of any kind, there came and went day 7. It had been an Earth-standard week since Erick had reappeared at Candlepoint, and the city emptied of everyone who was scared of Wizardly declaration. It hadn’t been a Veird-standard week; that was 10 days.

And yet, before Erick knew it, ten days had passed.

And then, there went day eleven and twelve.

Far from his expected outcome of having to fight a war, he was instead learning how cities worked, and trying to build up Candlepoint and the Gate District to something resembling purposeful and cohesive whole. He had also met with some worldly powers, but almost all those meetings had been of the paperwork and messenger variety. No actual powers would come to Candlepoint, or the Gate District, except for the wrought from Stratagold. Everyone else was waiting and seeing. No one was moving or doing.

The minotaurs had turned especially insular in these past 12 days, with many of them moving into collective housing that was all near each other. They didn’t seem especially scared of the outside world, as they took a forward role in many of the neighborhoods next to theirs. They helped shadelings and otherwise with [Cleanse]ing or construction. Mostly though, they gave food assistance, for the minotaurs always cooked for ten or more people at a time, and they always had extra. It was odd, however, to see every single scattered group of minotaurs condense back into —and Erick hesitated to call it what it looked like, but he did anyway— a single herd.

Erick wasn’t sure how he felt about that instinct presenting itself among those Shade transformed people, but he suspected it was alright. If he were in their shoes, he would probably wish to live among his own kind, too. And besides, they seemed to be perfectly fine with their new forms, now that they had lived in those bodies for the last eight months. They were almost like shorter, bronzed orcols in that they healed through general Healing Magic, and without any lingering problems, like scars or wrongly-healed bones.

Still taller than every other non-orcol race, though.

None of them sought Melemizargo out for Reincarnation service, and Erick was absolutely sure that Valok had spilled the beans about Erick’s offer of that same magic, but none of the minotaurs asked him for that service, either. No one asked Erick for that service.

[Reincarnation] seemed to work quite well, though.

A handful of days after the dobers’ [Reincarnation]s, they seemed to be doing great, playing and hunting along the waters of the lake like a proper pack. In that time they had moved far to the east and south, and had encountered the northern part of Candlepoint. They didn’t retreat from that land of people, as Erick halfway suspected they would. Instead, they stuck around, got noticed by the farmers, and were reported to the guard. Slip went to investigate.

All the while, Erick told no one anything about the dobers; he let it play out as it would.

Two days and a lot of treats later, Slip had some happy dogs riding on his boat with him, barking at the fish under the waves, traveling down the coast to Candlepoint’s center, where they hopped off the boat and followed Slip to the guardhouse.

The Guard gained some new very smart watchdogs, though there wasn’t much for them to watch out for. They ended up getting a lot of treats, which seemed to suit them fine. They were healing, and doing well.

All of Candlepoint was healing, and it all looked to be healing well.

Even Princess Weilux, from the Wasteland Kingdoms, was trying to recreate what she had lost during Erick’s announcement of Wizardry. But she filed no paperwork at Erick’s temporary offices to seek his help, even after Erick had had Ophiel deliver some paperwork to her guards. Luckily, Weilux’s interests in securing power in Candlepoint went through Zaraanka.

Within a day of meeting with Weilux, Zaraanka was also trying to rebuild her empire as best she could.

But Zaraanka didn’t bring up anything for Erick to fix, either, at any of the few meetings she forced herself to go to. She didn’t even speak of her reconnection with Weilux. Zaraanka had a deep fear of Erick, and even talk of Mage Bank finally coming to Candlepoint didn’t assuage that fear, or cause more than a temporary lifting of spirits.

But when she was out of Erick’s direct sight, she was working a lot harder than most others. She saw to her fisheries, to bring them back into line, to cast [Husbandry] magics into the waters, and to haul in ever larger catches. She ensured that her ‘adventurer’s huts’ out in the desert were bringing in rads, and that her people had direction and goals. Zaraanka was recovering all that she could recover.

She even managed to reopen three different buildings on Market Street which had been shut down due to evacuation. A general store, a bar, and a fabric store; all three created through reorganizations of trading from the Wasteland Kingdoms, and through Valok’s adjustments of the Farms, and of the spidery.

Erick smiled as he heard her speak of those things in a meeting. “I’m glad to see the spidery is back up and being cared for. I was wondering if I would need to do some culling.” Erick gladly said, “But you’ve got it all under control. Thank you, Valok. Thank you, Zaraanka, for your hard work.”

Valok grunted and nodded. It was his usual response to not needing to actually speak.

Zaraanka’s cheeks flushed pink at Erick’s honest praise, which was a change. Usually she went utterly still when Erick spoke directly to her, but she knew darn well how much good she had done lately, both for the city and for herself, and this time she was glad that Erick had noticed her good works.

Zaraanka muttered, “I aim to please, Apparent King.”

Ah.

He still didn’t like that form of address.

Erick’s face was a stone mask, though, his grin plastered on and able to fool most people into thinking he was feeling what he was showing. He had gotten good about that in the past week, because the first time Justine had called him ‘Apparent King’ he had been visibly displeased, and that had not been good for the atmosphere of that meeting (even if Poi and Teressa were both smiling like madmen behind Erick at the time.) Erick had no idea which person finally spilled the guts about that particular form of address that Teressa had been pushing. It had to have been Jane, but it was highly possible that Teressa had put her up to it.

He could live with being called that. It was fine.

All in all, building a city was stressful, but it was not the sort of stress that Erick had been worried about. So far there were no assassins. No massive problems that he couldn’t solve with a small declaration to the right person, or with a bit of extra time spent talking. Nothing intractable. And while there was bureaucracy to go through regarding the rest of the world, everything Erick said in Candlepoint became law, and that was kinda nice.

Mage Bank was getting built in the Gate District, and those people were warming up to Erick. Tonide seemed to have gained a promotion to become that bank manager, which he was still very nervous about, but he was getting better about that, too. He was only repeating words twice in the course of a conversation, in order to make sure he was understanding Erick’s desires, and Erick was understanding his desires in turn.

