The sun set, the sun rose, and Erick had meetings when he could.

Talk to this person over here, look over this paperwork there, approve or deny these various actions happening in these and those general vicinities. Etcetera, etcetera. Shadelings were active in the morning and the evening, though, and much of the city ran on those time tables, so Erick’s initial plan of ‘working on the city in the morning, and then working on his own stuff in the evening’, rapidly became ‘working on the city in the morning and the evening’, with very little time to pursue his non-city related goals. Like the pursuit of magic.

Erick had, after a talk with Poi, imagined that he would have a great deal of free time, and that most of the city would be run through Mephistopheles, Justine, Ava, Valok, Slip, and Zaraanka. And that was exactly how everyone else expected it to work out, too.

And it did, somewhat.

During the three hours in the middle of the day when the shadelings were usually asleep and everyone else was on break, or having lunch, Erick was able to work on his ideas of a [Cascade Imaging]. That particular magic was nowhere near being ready for creation, though, for Erick needed a lot more experimenting with [Identify] in order to understand how to best use that sort of spell, and time was not something he had in abundance, at all.

There were meetings with O’Lark, who was a delight, but he took up time.

Mephistopheles presented Erick with paperwork for the Guilds, of which the Mage Guild was the only one willing to actually come to Candlepoint, and then only if they got their own space outside of Candlepoint itself. That paperwork took time.

The Wayfarer’s Guild was currently stonewalling Erick, but it still took him five hours of careful, calm talk with various representatives in other cities of the Crystal Forest for him to understand that. Those people mostly ran from him the second they saw Ophiel approach, which was (somewhat) understandable, but even the people willing to sit at their tables, shaking in their seats as they spoke with him, were only willing to hand him paperwork and ask him to fill it out. Now if that paperwork ever got read? Erick had no idea.

Erick would have gone to Spur’s Wayfarer’s offices and talked to a (formerly) friendly face, but after ten minutes of trying to talk to someone there, Silverite had asked him to not show himself in any way, and he respected that request. (Kiri was still casting [Control Weather] over there, though, also as requested. It was a bit of hypocrisy, but it was also a degree of separation between him and his apprentice. That apparently counted for a lot.)

He still tried tracking down Apogee, the previous guildmaster of the Wayfarer’s Guild of Spur, and a planar himself, but Apogee was very good about never being anywhere Erick looked. Erick still left Apogee a note at his farm by Spur’s lake. Maybe he would get a response? Probably not for a long time, though, if at all.

And then there were even more talks of the building of House Benevolence, as asked for by Erick, and dreamed up by O’Lark. Those needed a few revisions. No, Erick was not going to have his House be a giant, kilometer-tall tower; a monument to power with room for thousands of guests and three times as many servants. No, it would not be a cozy castle, either, or a collection of castles. Jane kinda liked the idea of several castles, each connected by [Gate]s, and so did O’Lark, but Erick nixed that idea as overly complicated, and he didn’t want people to think that he could trap them somewhere they could not leave. If there were [Gate]s in his eventual House, then they would be kept to a minimum.

In talking with O’Lark about a House, Erick fell back on the idea of a clan mountain, but something smaller. Maybe a hundred meters tall and twice that wide, with several buildings separated by the various alliances Erick had gained so far. A place for the dragons, a place for the wrought, a place for himself in the middle, perhaps. A large area for gatherings and maybe a food court to support those gatherings. Erick also spoke of the Rotunda, which was like stadium seating at an arena, but going up and down with no regard for the actual arena floor, and where dragons of all kinds spoke to each other from across the way. Erick wasn’t going to have any full-size dragon areas, though, but he would very much want to make everything comfortable for orcols to walk around in, at least. O’Lark had some great ideas after that, but he also had questions, and so Erick started making some lightsculptures of various designs.

O’Lark was instantly thrilled that Erick could conjure such great models, and so quickly, too. This changed the dynamic of their meetings, and they became longer, and more detailed.

For O’Lark asked after the architecture of Earth.

One conversation turned to two, and then to three, with Erick having to end the third one prematurely, because someone from Treehome had just delivered some paperwork at his temporary offices, and they were waiting to have a word. The deliverer was Bayth, Archmage Syllea’s lifelong friend. O’Lark managed to extract a promise of more talk of Earth’s architecture, which Erick was glad to give him.

The conversation with Bayth went fast, for she was just there to deliver a message. Treehome and Syllea were in a ‘wait and see’ situation. As soon as Erick got proper offices up and running, they would want to talk to him in a more dignified manner, with diplomats and receptions.

Time passed, and workloads increased.

And then seemingly suddenly, Poi informed Erick that the wrought lands had finally been completed to O’Lark’s and King Alfonin’s specifications, except for the addition of three more Gates. Erick happily granted that request, and soon, there were four Gates, lined up in a row from east to west, spaced out about a hundred meters from each other, directly south of the wrought lands.

Those Gates formed an Abyssal, ethereal wall at their backsides, with 8 meter wide square holes in that wall. Each Gate led to a corresponding space in Yggdrasil’s cavern on the other side of the world, and a few thousand kilometers below the Surface. That space down below had been transformed, as well, from a mere coast, to a whole little ‘town’ made of white stone and transfer stations. The tunnel which led to the embassy had been widened to a hundred meter arch, with the road paved white and allowances made at the embassy courtyard for people to come in with wide loads on floating stone barges. Transferring massive loads was easy in the Underworld, for when stone barges got large enough, they naturally floated. Actually transferring those barges to the Surface would have been a logistical nightmare, if not for the fact that [Gravity Ward] was an easy solution to the return of ‘proper’ gravity.

There was even talk of opening another tunnel into Yggdrasil’s cavern, to more easily transfer goods. Erick was asked not to venture into that land, though, because people were still scared of him.

He was welcome in Gate Town, though, which is what they were calling the direct other side of the Gates at the Gate District, but no one actually lived in that Gate ‘Town’, because it was a place meant for work and security. Not actual living. The whole thing reminded Erick of an airport terminal, but with the destination being one of four holes in the world which connected to the Surface on the other side of Veird.

After the Gates were laid, and King Alfonin declared it good, there was a small social gathering at the Wrought District of the Gate District to commemorate the completion. Erick was invited, and he attended.

It was a decent gathering, but mostly because Tasar and Riivo had shown up alongside King Alfonin and they wanted to talk magic instead of paperwork and propriety. For the first time in days, Erick was finally able to spend some time relaxing, talking of magic with people who knew more on the subject than himself. But, seeing as how this was a political party, there was a bit of politics happening too; mostly in the form of which runic defenses they were going to put up in both Gate Town and the Wrought District, now that they were physically complete. Erick enjoyed that conversation too, though, for he was planning on doing some of the same defenses that they were, and he wanted to know how they were going about doing it on their lands.

Riivo said, “Anti-[Stoneshape] magics, mostly. While some of our assets have similar spellwork to your [Aura of Unmoving Stone], we found that requiring that level of magical skill over a large array of differing soldiery is asking too much. It is a rare type of person who can cast a kilometers-wide suppression aura.”

“But what if you just use [Renew] alongside the runic inscriptions for your own [Aura of Unmoving Stone]?” Erick said, “That’s what I plan on doing. Maybe a two or three layer process, where I put the [Aura of Unmoving Stone] on a centralized anchor that is hidden behind illusions, while I set up a [Renew] icon in the walls of a house. This way, the occupants can just use the [Renew] framework and they don’t have to interact with the emplaced magic at all.”

Sitnakov interrupted the conversation as he handed Erick a beer, smiling as said, “Your daughter gives a mean double left hook.”

“Oh yeah?” Erick grinned, taking the beer and thanking Sitnakov, then saying, “I saw your fight today. You both went too easy on each other.” He glanced over to his daughter, saying, “You didn’t even use your big tarantula form.”

Jane shrugged. “There’s time enough for all that eventually.”

“Couldn’t get too worked up.” Sitnakov said, “Never know who might be dropping in for visits.”

Tasar brought the conversation back to magic. “Yes. You never know, which is why I think this idea of a runic renew tablet is a bad idea. Someone could just steal it and use it for whatever nefarious means they desire.”

Erick did not sigh, or call out Tasar’s paranoia, for she was probably right. “You’re probably right. But [Renew] is coming out eventually. Someone is going to put that into an item— Actually. Let’s have this larger talk about security through obscurity. I’ve been meaning to discuss the subject with you, for I don’t believe that—” Ophiel pinged him with a problem. Erick glanced away, saying, “One second… Okay.” He came back. “It appears that I have to go back to work. Nothing big; no actual worries. I would love to have this conversation at another time, though.”

Sitnakov frowned. “But the party just started! Gods, you’re as bad as my father.”

Alfonin laughed loudly.

Sitnakov morphed his clothes from party attire to guard attire, while Poi and Teressa got up from the table set aside for them and some other guards. Jane and Kiri were between the banquet and their seats, and both of them looked at the food on their plates and had a moment of ‘ah, dammit. I wanted to relax and eat’.

“I’ll try to make it quick,” Erick said, as he rose from his own seat. “Jane. Kiri. You two can stay if you wish. It’s just some paperwork delivered by Mage Bank’s representatives. With any luck, we should have a bank in town soon.”

Alfonin smiled, saying, “You could have had Geode Bank already.”

“I’ll be expecting paperwork for them too, and soon,” Erick said, and then he left the party.

Three representatives waited for him at his temporary offices. It was Mage Bank, or rather, the Mage Guild, and they wanted a plot of land in the Gate District. The speakers for the guild were polite, professional, and completely terrified. They spoke in short sentences and repeated information to ensure that everyone understood what was happening. They also spoke how not a single one of them was high up on the chain of command, but that the Headmaster was getting angry at them for delaying their response this long, and would Erick please excuse the delay in response.

Erick excused the delay, of course, trying to be as accommodating as he could.

After an hour of talking of small and large items of importance, the three representatives finally began to thaw a little. And since the party was still going on at the Wrought District, Erick invited them to join.

“No. No thank you. Archmage.” The lead representative, a human man by the name of Tonide, said, “Your hospitality is appreciated, but we have covered everything we wished to cover, and we simply must be returning to our offices on Oceanside. But just so we’re on the same Platform… You agree to a plot of land for us. You agree to possibly help us with [Gate] connections to our Underworld offices, with payments for that service to be decided upon by larger forces than we three underlings. You agree to all the normal operation protocols of Mage Guild, and Mage Guild affiliates. You agree to provide sanctuary from common exterior and interior forces that a guard would normally protect against, as stated under Common International Incorporation Protocols and Purposes, which include, but are not limited to…”

Erick nodded along, listening to the man repeat what he had already said several times before. When it was over, Erick said, “As long as the Mage Guild and Exchange you set up in my lands is as commonplace as what I have seen from your organization in all other parts of the world, I see no problems arising from any sort of normal arrangement. I agree.”

The three representatives did not relax, but they did deflate in relief.

Erick offered, “And since you’re in a hurry, would you like a [Gate] home?” It wouldn’t take but thirty seconds to get an Ophiel close enough to cast a [Gate] near Oceanside.

“We are not going directly to Oceanside, but we appreciate the offer, and your hospitality. We should have a preliminary office up in a week.”

Erick frowned a little, almost speaking about how a week was unreasonable.

But Tonide instantly started sweating again, adding, “Or three days.” Softer, “Or three days.”

“Three days is acceptable.”

The Mage Guild people went wherever it was they were going, and Erick went back to the party. He didn’t get to have that talk about security through obscurity, though, or any real talk of any magic at all, for everyone else was busy, too, and they only stayed long enough to say farewell to Erick before they returned to Stratagold.

Time passed quickly, filled up with the minutiae of life and organization.

It was great, but Erick had absolutely no free time.

