Erick did not get much of a chance to talk with Songli, though. While Yggdrasil had been refilling the [Delirium Charm] box for the wandering soul kids, that box also served as a way to get a specific message to Erick, which he had read a while ago and decided to honor; “Please do not come here right now, Wizard Flatt. We are still discussing our response to your declarations. Proof of your own stability and sanity would go a long way to making those discussions fall in prosperous directions.”

It was what it was; whatever.

Nirzir was doing okay, though, according to Poi, though Erick got the distinct impression that she was staying away from Erick, too. Which was fine. Erick was going to honor the wrought request to not open another land to Gates for at least a month, and he hadn’t even gotten halfway through that timeline. Which was probably for the best. His days were too full to do much more than everything he was already doing.

Erick did do some investigating in those lands across the world, though.

The water spiders under Holorulo’s Yggdrasil turned out to be… something like people. They were very smart spiders who were not monsters. Erick was pretty sure they were all polymages who let themselves go a long time ago, or maybe they were tenth generation spider-born people, or something like that. They spoke Ecks, and they liked that Erick was a Wizard a great deal, and they were chased out from everywhere else, so could they please stay there?

Erick left them be. Yggdrasil appreciated that he could keep his small spiders. They were actually three-meter wide spiders, so not very small at all, but everything was small to Yggdrasil, Erick supposed.

All in all, the first 15 days since declaring his Wizardry were chaotic. Messy. Back and forth and complicated, and yet so very boring at times. Most people moved as fast as they could to get out of Erick’s way or to do his bidding as fast as possible, which was uncomfortable, but it was fine. Some people eventually learned to speak their minds, though, like Mephistopheles, and Justine, and Ava. Their contributions were invaluable.

Valok and Zaraanka spoke their minds to Mephistopheles and Justine and Ava, and so they got their say as well, while Slip was nonchalant about everything. The Guard Captain had no reason to be worried, or overly active about anything, after all. Candlepoint was doing fine.

And yet, Erick was absolutely sure that if he wasn’t doing his best to stay on top of absolutely everything, something would have exploded somewhere. Someone would have attacked, or seen a vulnerability and exploited it, or done something else to fuck over something, or someone. But, luckily, Erick was a man who could be at least 10 places at once, and he was still getting at least 8 hours to himself a day, of which 6 were for sleep. A full 6 hours a night, just for sleeping! A miracle unto itself, for sure.

Erick could keep this up for months.

Poi, Teressa, Kiri, and even Jane a few times, began switching off guard duty after the first five days. Sitnakov was there all the time, though. The big guy could easily keep up with Erick’s hours, and it was kinda nice to have people be both terrified, and relieved, to know that one of Stratagold’s own was right there at the Wizard’s side. Sitnakov was almost as scary as Erick was to some people.

… Erick did not like being scary to others, but it was what it was.

Though it was a lot of work, it was good. It was busy. Mainly, it was bloodless and constructive. What more could anyone ask for? Erick was good with this. He was working way more than everyone else, and he was doing way more than everyone else, and because of that, Poi had asked him to slow down twice. Erick wanted to, but he had no delegation right now. Those resumes from Kirginatharp and the others were going to show up any day now, though, so maybe he could get some delegation soon.

Erick certainly wasn’t going to ask for anyone else to hurry up, though. All this work was good for him, for the more stable he made his base, the better it would be when the bombs started dropping.

For there was no way that it would stay this calm.

Sooner or later, something would change…

- - - -

Sitnakov was not happy.

As he lay in bed in his temporary home at the top of the barracks of the ‘Wrought District’, as Erick had been calling it, he finally came to accept that this assignment was boring. Boring was, objectively, a good thing. For the fate of the entire world, boring and Wizards went together like platinum and magic; a combination that made everyone happy.

Except for him, as he had expected to thwart at least one assassination attempt by now, or maybe even fight off a small incursion of belligerent incani or humans, or even a Shade or two. He was absolutely sure that Goldie was around here somewhere, but he had not managed to catch sight of her at all, and neither had anyone else. Now fighting a Shade might be interesting. Sitnakov had killed hundreds of their kind over the many years, but actually causing Melemizargo’s Clergy to band together was a recipe for a bad time.

And yet now, that Clergy was a fraction of what it had been before.

It was probably a good time to find and kill them all, but neither Sitnakov’s father nor the other kings or queens of the Geodes wished to actually push that agenda. Perhaps a ‘live and let live’ could actually work? Sitnakov doubted it, but he could do as he was asked; he could fall in line with politically prudent decisions.

He needed to do something different, though, and so, he decided to call up his mother. Usually, this was an impossible thing while on assignment, but mom liked to be informed of her children, directly, when she could, and the Gate was right there, making direct communication a non-issue. So Sitnakov opened up his mind to the Crossroads.

Getting through the usual channels was easy enough, and soon, mom was on the other end of the line.

Queen Strelkova, mom, eventually answered with a voice full of good cheer, ‘Hello, Sitnakov! I was just thinking about you.’

Sitnakov got right down to it, sending, ‘He’s so damned boring, mom.’ He rapidly added, ‘This is good; I understand this. But he’s in meetings all day and night. He’s as bad as dad, or brother.’

Mom chuckled, showing rare, yet truly honest emotions that one could only show in a [Telepathy]. ‘You’ve gotten to fight that daughter of his, haven’t you?’

‘Yes. Jane is a fun fight. About twice as strong as Erick’s orcol guard, Teressa, but only because I’ve fought hundreds of prognosticators before and Teressa has slotted herself into an early-warning role. Less capable of actual violence.’ Sitnakov sent, ‘Though Teressa is probably among the top ten percent of prognosticators. She’ll become a powerhouse when she gets twenty more years under her Status.’

‘Odd. I imagined that you would have tried to be more in tune with Jane, but I sense that you’re more in tune with this Teressa.’ Mom asked, ‘Why is that?’

‘… Well. Jane will likely be around in five hundred years. Teressa… I’m not so sure.’ Sitnakov sent, ‘I don’t want to fuck up that relationship with Jane by coming on too hard.’

‘Erick has created [Reincarnation], though, has he not? Mana sense will likely stick around through that process, but [Polymorph] will not. Teressa’s return to power will likely be measured in hours, as opposed to months, or even longer, if [Polymorph] is no longer widely available, if Erick’s plan to transform the Crystal Forest actually works. Just something to think about.’ She asked, ‘Has he done much on that Crystal Forest front, yet?’

‘No plans for the Crystal Forest right now. He’s not even building up an army, or anything resembling one.’

‘That is a relief to hear. You know, I also heard about this business about these rebels from those Sovereign Cities. I was also delighted to hear that he has simply told them to go away.’

‘They didn’t manage to convince him to help them, but they were close. Erick was very close to getting an army, for the low price of supporting a war that he could win in the space of an afternoon.’

‘Ah. That is a bit more worrying, then.’

Sitnakov sent, ‘He’ll have an army of his own yet, though. Still have no idea what’s going on with Ar’Cosmos, either, but there’s surely some soldiery waiting to pop out of that shitty land as soon as… Well. I’m not sure what they’re waiting for. Haven’t seen Erick contact Fairy Moon or any of them, either, but he might be doing that at his home, out of my sight.’

With a concerned tone, mom asked, ‘But does he want an army?’

‘Not at all. I’ve asked him as much and he saw right through me, telling me that I didn’t need to worry about that right now. He said he doesn’t actually want a standing army, and that the guard is enough.’

Relieved, mom sent, ‘Ah. I still don’t know how to deal with everything I hear about that man, but on the whole, I think these are all good things. It’s good to hear from you, too.’ She chuckled. ‘And you can be bored for a while, darling. It’s much better than the alternative.’

‘I expected to kill at least one Shade or dragon by now. At the least.’

‘Probably best if you decide not to do that, if it should come to that. This is a growing enterprise, and we mustn’t despoil the field which grows the crops.’

‘I hear ya.’ Sitnakov said, ‘For all the boringness, Erick is growing on me. He seems to be doing everything he can to better the lives of these people who’ve crowned him and that’s respectable. He needs some delegation, though. Do you have any people willing to actually work for him? Paper shapers, mainly.’

‘I’ve got paperwork ready to hand over as soon as he gets a permanent House, and I know Riivo has the same. Do you think he could take that paperwork now?’

‘Probably a lot of people think the same. He should have his House up in a few days, as soon as he can settle on a design. O’Lark has been dragging out his good designs to make Erick tell him more about Earth, but that routine seems to be circling to a close.’

‘In that case I’ll send the paperwork for some paper shapers along with the next shipment of supplies to Ar’Kendrithyst, which is going about… As expected…’ Her voice trailed off as she neared a difficult topic.

Sitnakov didn’t want to talk about ‘Killzone’, either, but sooner or later mom was going to bring up the subject, and there would be no avoiding it. Sitnakov dreaded that day. She dreaded that day, too. It was good, then, that that day was not today.

Mom moved the conversation to a much nicer topic, ‘Read any good books lately?’

‘I have!’ Sitnakov said, ‘Teressa introduced me to a whole line of books from an independent seller in Spur. Apparently Erick wants to improve upon the printing press well enough to be able to keep up with Oceanside’s [Duplicate], which seems like a lost cause, but it is what it is. Those books are about…’

They spoke for a few hours, until the sun rose, and a message came through that Erick was coming back to the Gate District soon. Sitnakov wished his mom goodbye, and then he went to work.

- - - -

“I’VE GOT IT NOW, WIZARD!” O’Lark shouted into the cold morning air.

Erick had just stepped through a portal from his front yard on Yggdrasil’s bough, to the flat land of the Gate District. The sky was barely pink, still in the process of chasing away the soft blue twilight. Cold winds blew from the north as it always did.

O’Lark stood like a beacon of wiry green hope, radiant in emotion but not in light, with the mountain of white eternal stonewood resting beyond. Three rather large models made of grey stone hovered on platforms beside the copper wrought, while O’Lark’s two assistants stood resolute beside the old man.

“Do you SEE?!” O’Lark asked, “Do you see the splendor I have created?! One of these! One of these will surely be the best possible shape of your House! You will welcome the world in these lands which I have drawn for you, and through that welcoming, light the way to a better future!”

The man’s enthusiasm acted almost as a booster for the coffee Erick had already had. Sitnakov stepped out of the air to the side, simply nodding as he walked forward to take his place beside Poi and Teressa. Jane and Kiri were sleeping in right now, but they’d probably show around noon.

“Good morning, O’Lark,” Erick said, “Now let me see what you’ve done…”

Erick turned most of his attentions to the mockups, peering inside to see the interiors and the designs of them all...

And he was impressed.

O’Lark grinned wide as he saw Erick take in the magnificence of his creations. “I knew you would approve!” He slapped his own chest with both his hands, demanding, “Please! Please! Tell me which one is good!”

Erick grinned, saying, “I’m getting there.”

Erick gazed upon O’Lark’s work, and knew he was finally seeing some of the wiry copper man’s best work. He must have been working on these models since long before he ever met Erick, though there were clearly some additions here and there that fell in line with their various conversations these past dozen days.

Perhaps he should wake Jane and Kiri, and get their opinions? Or perhaps not. Both of them had already said that they did not want to choose what the House looked like. And yet, in private, Jane had said that she was partial to Art Deco’s hard lines, and making a solid statement. Erick recalled Kiri’s similarly private words that she loved the idea of a simple castle, but writ large. Also in private, but only because Erick practically had to demand her answer, Teressa had spoken of how much she liked the contrast of modern edges and nature, like how they had seen back at Arbor O’kabil’s hotel and central district. Poi only took a little bit of prodding to get his suggestions out into the open; he liked Oceanside’s cylindrical towers with their balconies everywhere.

None of them wanted to actually influence Erick’s decision, though.

Whatever Erick finally decided upon, he was sure that any of these options before him would serve him well.

All of the mockups had all the basics in common. They all had multiple floors, multiple wings, and interior spaces dedicated to obvious functions. A grand central meeting room, a throne room somewhere nearby, offices for Erick to gift or assign to others so they could fill them with their own work spaces, and many extra rooms for guests. Kitchens, ballrooms, and banquet halls. Hookups for an eventual sewer system, and contained waterworks for fountains and the like.

