Over all too soon, he stood in a puddle of blood surrounded by the dead, chest heaving as he searched for another opponent, still eager to test his newfound skills. Laughing Dragon was nowhere to be found, retreating in the free-for-all along with the majority of his Defiled their presence fading away into the distance. Huddled together in the rain, the uninjured villagers stared in undisguised awe and fear. Reining in his temper, he swallowed a scathing criticism and pointed north. “Deng is in the forests, find him and follow him away. The path is clear, I'll sweep for survivors and follow shortly.” The idiots didn't even think to run from danger even after their guards abandoned their posts.

Leaving them to themselves, Baledagh stepped into the closest shack and found nothing but the dead. Leaning against the wall, his body shivered uncontrollably as the fight left him, the aftereffects of his injuries rushing up to meet him. Pain and fatigue struck him like a hammer, his head spinning from his injuries as he dry-heaved in the confines of the shack, the raindrops drumming on the roof while nausea overpowered him. It wasn't the death, he'd seen far worse than a simple flaying, this was something else, but what? He'd been invincible only minutes ago, aside from a misstep after his first kill. Why was this happening? Was that brother helping him?

The nausea passed in minutes and he put aside the mystery to resume his search, finding no other survivors. Stopping only to pick up another sword, he quickly caught up to the fleeing villagers, foolishly burdened by their dead and injured. The dead were food for the crows, and with no medical supplies or shelter, the injured would soon join them. Better a quick death than slow agony, but he'd done his part. It was time to leave them to their fate.

Slipping into the shadows, he ran deeper into the forests, avoiding the villagers. Favouring his half-healed injuries, he walked back to camp, humming beneath his breath.

Qing-Qing would be worried; it was almost time for lunch.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Absently poking the fire, Gen stared around the dismal hut in wonder. How did Qing-Qing stand living in this shit hole for so long? A cramped, musty interior with no windows, the patter of rain was deafening. Stupid bitch, he'd offered her the world and she scorned him for a worthless bandit. She would regret that decision once he found her, he'd make sure of it. Returning his attention to the flames, he watched them dance and flicker in the fireplace, endless hunger personified, devouring all within its path. Waving his hand close, the flames seemed drawn to him, swaying with the motion in hypnotic fashion. So beautiful.

A pained sob interrupted his musings and he glanced over his handiwork, the fear in Bei's eyes delicious and arousing. “Foolish little Bei, always lusting after me. Well how lucky for you, I've accepted you now. Aren't you happy?” Chuckling, he removed the red-hot iron from the flames and returned to her side, her miserable mewls of terror amusing him to no end. He'd removed her tongue first, which was regretful. Listening to her plead and beg was enjoyable, but the stupid bitch kept trying to remind him of the weakling he used to be, angering him to no end.

Grabbing her chin, he turned her face left and right, enjoying his handiwork. The right side was beautiful and untouched, if a little messy from all the crying, but lovely nonetheless, while the left was a masterpiece of patterned burns, the skin melted in hideous deformation. A shame he didn't have a mirror to show her his work, Bei always loved to compliment his efforts.

The pleading intensified in pitch as she struggled in his grasp, the hot iron closing in on her jaw to continue the pattern downwards. Hovering over her skin, he relished the moment before the pain, Bei straining with all her might to escape, helpless and exposed before him. His intent was to pepper the entire left side of her body, leaving half her beauty so it was more pronounced each time she glimpsed her reflection. She was a vain girl, thinking herself beautiful, her arrogance earning her his scorn in the past, but now, he used it to his advantage. Seeing the ugliness would throw her into despair, soon ready to accept the truth of the world.

Besides, the oozing, bleeding skin beneath the burns wasn't so hideous, almost enticing the more he gazed upon it.

The door burst open and he snarled at the intruder, throwing aside the iron to cover Bei with a blanket. She belonged to him and only him, no one else was fit to see her. Laughing Dragon stood in the doorway, shivering from the cold as he bled, a sword embedded in his shoulder. “Time to run, yer fucking Baledagh is a damned monster.”

“Forget it, you aren't his match. He damn near killed me back there, there's something wrong with him, I don't understand it. We need to leave, the villagers know we're Defiled and they've escaped. Should have given the order to slaughter them before leaving, but I fucked up. We'll go north, cross the road and head towards Shen Mu, try to join up with our comrades from beyond the Bridge.”

Laughing Dragon rambled on as Gen stared in amazement, the formerly powerful bandit leader nothing more than a pup, soaked and scared, ready to run for the hills. Reaching out, he grabbed the sword hilt and ripped it out in one smooth motion, laughing as the thrum of power surged through his body. Soaked in the deaths of the bandits, the weapon had absorbed their natural energies and now, those energies were Gen's to wield. Grabbing Bei, he pushed Laughing Dragon aside, ignoring the wounded bandit's accusations and insults to circle around the village, holding her close while patiently waiting.

He felt the bandits leave, running away with their tails between their legs, and still he continued to wait, his chin resting on Bei's shoulder, enjoying her pained spasms as he rubbed cheeks with her. The rough, unhealed skin comfortable against his and he hummed quietly, resisting the urge to continue his play. There was work to be done now, and Laughing Dragon could no longer be relied upon. Pa always used to say, a job was best done with your own two hands.

Soon, he spotted his quarry running north into the woods and he giggled in delight. Baledagh had the energy within him, vindicating Gen's discovery of the truth. Even better, he carried a bandit weapon on him, the energy marking him firmly in Gen's mind. Following him back to Qing-Qing was now as simple as turning his hand, and with a few minutes to spare, he kissed Bei on the cheek, lapping up the blood and pus oozing out. “Oh how wonderful. Maybe I can't defeat him in single combat, but I can kill him while he sleeps. Then it will be me, you, and Qing-Qing, all reunited together again.” After giving Baledagh a few minutes head start, he carefully followed Baledagh with Bei in tow, giddy from imagining the scene of his vengeance over and over again.

What a wonderful day, freed from his conscience and a chance to right all the wrong in his life.

Chapter Meme
