A rain of spears began to fall upon Marina and the escapees.

Hecate hovered above the group, trying her best to provide aerial support while picking off the ants who rushed closer. Even with her immense speed and agility, the overwhelming army of ant soldiers still outnumbered her a thousandfold. As she lunged into the nearest brigade of ants, a wild spear dropped from the sky. Hecate swiftly deflected the sharp point with the joints of her wing, but it was still not fast enough. A bloody gap slitted open from her right cheek, and her expression froze like a bud of lily encased in ice.

Now back in the air, Hecate wiped the drop of blood from her face with her fingers. The dark tide of insects bellowed from the ground, ready to swallow the two dozen helpless escapees, including Marina.

“Abyssal Technique…” A ball of flame ignited within Hecate’s palm. “Eruption.”

At first, there was a brief moment of silence. Then came a beam of light that pierced through the eternal darkness, like the first daybreak. Finally, there was the shockwave that shook the earth, disintegrating the filth that dared to blaspheme the white-haired goddess.

Amidst the ant army’s setback, she landed next to Marina, who was still sprinting toward the exit.

“That should buy us enough time,” Hecate said, summoning a crimson shield for the falling boulders caused by the explosion.

“Mm.” Marina nodded as she caught her breath.

The luminosity provided by Eruption dimmed at last, but the light from the entrance was within reach.

“The exit is right ahead, everyone! We’re almost there!” Marina said. Her vision was filled with nothing but blinding darkness, and only a tiny, growing spark at the end of the tunnel.

Alongside the group of Bee-ple, Marina raced into the light like the finish line of a marathon, only to see the figure next to her slow to a full stop. She turned around, and there the vampire stood, at the furthest point the twilight could reach, with her blade in hand, silently, by herself.

“Hecate!” Marina called out before rushing back in again. “What are you doing–”

“My dear.” She glanced back. “I’m sure both of us understand the consequences of releasing these creatures in their current state.” A shockwave swung from the blade of her sword, destabilizing the cavern even more.

“No… Hecate, there has to be another way!” As Marina stepped closer towards the cave, large stones began piling atop the entrance. “Hecate!” She clawed through the debris, blood dripping from her fingertips.

“Forgive me, my dear. Your kindness will kill you one day, and I promised to protect you.” Hecate walked deeper into the darkness.

“Hecate!” Marina screamed, “Why won’t you just fucking listen to me!”

*****

Lowering her head, Hecate giggled. “How rude. I pray for whichever lord that might take her as consort.” The sound of the ant swarm quickly overpowered Marina’s cry. “With that settled, I must now settle what is in front of me.” She pointed her blade at the approaching swarm.

In the snap of a finger, Hecate launched herself into battle. Her crimson pupils shimmered in a powerful glow, extracting every ounce of energy from her Soul.

“Authority of Blood…” She whispered. “Insanity.”

Hecate’s bones cracked violently, her fangs doubling in length. The graceful lady was gone, chased away by a pale yet ferocious monster. This was her trump card, her last resort. She blocked Marina from her plan, not because of her lack of ability, but rather because she didn’t want Marina to see this side of her, a creature made with no purpose but to kill. She wanted to be remembered as beautiful and perfect, especially for her last moments.

Thousands of ant soldiers quickly surrounded her, but Hecate stood unfazed. All her senses of fear was washed away by the urge to drive her sword into the skulls of each and every one of them. And that was what she did. Regardless of how many soldiers charged for her, be it one, two, or a dozen, she struck them all down. The bodies around her began to pile on top of one another, and the scent of iron seeped into the air—hundreds of deaths for one wound upon her body. But even then, the number of fatal gaps filled her torso. Soon, she found herself slowing down.

The effect of her Authority’s power slowly wore off, and Hecate fell onto her knees at the excruciating pain that registered immediately as her consciousness took over her body. Ants continued to charge toward her, leaving her no choice but to stand back up. Through her blurry vision, she evaded the attacks before countering with her own, lobbing off their heads with ease. Her white dress is now drenched in red, tattered alongside her body.

She continued the slaughter for as long as her knees could bear the weight of her weakening body. And for every time she was brought to her knees by the impact of the ant’s coordinated strikes or at the puncture wound of their ragged spears, she picked herself up, again and again until the enemy in front of her was all felled.

Blood dripped from her fingertips as she balanced herself with the tip of her blade, gasping for air. Had it been minutes? Or Hours? She did not know and did not care. Looking up from the ground, the swarm of thousands of soldiers had now been thinned to mere hundreds. The pain of her wounds fatigued Hecate beyond imagination; using any techniques in her current state would be a death wish, let alone her Authority. She could only finish the rest at the cost of her own flesh. Slashing, stabbing, and swinging at everything that was in her way, with little care for how she handled her blade. It was disrespectful, but she just wanted to survive or lie down for a long rest.

But she knew she couldn’t choose the latter; there was someone important waiting for her. Someone she found to be naive, weird, and special. At first she did not see her as more than just a vessel of nutrients, but soon, she realized there was more. That stranger’s kindness and passion confused her. She never believed in those things, especially in a place like the Underworld; those were traits that got people killed. And even then, she grew curious and wanted to know more about this stranger; she wanted to know everything.

Curiosity grew into obsession, and obsession grew into something entirely unfamiliar to her. She believed some called it love, but others called it manipulation.

Hecate clenched her teeth as she readied her blade once more. After another mindless rampage, only three ants remained standing, and all three trembled in fear before they scrambled to find an escape, except that the nearest exit was now sealed. For the last time, Hecate dashed forward, dispatching two of the ants while dragging her body to the last, who dropped its weapon before dropping to the ground to plead for forgiveness. But Hecate was not in her right mind to listen or understand. She drove her blade right through its abdomen, straight into the ground below.

This was the end, and silence crowned Hecate as the winner.

“Finally…” She fell to the ground. “It’s over… My dear…”

Hecate closed her eyes; within her mind was a snowy scene, and a white figure who stood in the distance. The figure had white hair just like hers, but only wore a simple white cloak, lacking any sort of style. Upon the figure’s face was a wooden mask with demonic patterns, yet too bold to be anything produced in the Underworld. The figure turned to her, revealing their sapphire colored eyes, which were colder than even the frozen world around them.

“Is this who I think of in my last moments?” She whispered to herself. “How pathetic of me… They call you the one-man army because you took down ten million of our men by yourself. They call you the white ghost because every time we struck you down, you miraculously return…” She flipped herself to face the ceiling. “They say you ascend to the top of the world after the end of the war, unlike me, who is now playing dead in a cave.” Her breathing slowed. “Only two thousand tiny insects were enough to bring me to my knees, and yet you, you still stood at your tallest. I hate you, but I must applaud you… Celestara…”

“...”