“That got me thinking... You like to understand things logically, right? To be able to make formulas, algorithms, models, and whatnot. How does that work when dealing with the nomological?” Jake questioned.

Arnold looked at Jake for a few moments before he spoke. “Nothing is nomological; it’s just that one’s framework is too narrow to fully comprehend something. Everything can be understood and solved given enough time. I cannot guarantee my methods are always fully correct, and the end result may be a methodological approach only my mind has evolved and developed to understand, but as long as it’s logical to me, that’s enough.”

Jake felt that Arnold often surprised him by giving pretty damn good answers, and this time was no different. He wasn’t sure if Arnold’s approach was a good one or made any sense, but he did believe that for Arnold, it was probably the best way forward. As for Jake, he was totally fine, not really understanding stuff, as long as he instinctively “got” things.

“Now, please stop delaying; it’s fully charged, and the longer it stays in this state, the higher the chance of a mishap,” Arnold said, motioning for Jake to step into the opened metal sphere.

“Alright, alright,” Jake stopped talking and entered the sketchy-looking contraption. Once inside, he felt the dense space mana all around him, and the next moment, it intensified significantly. Then, he felt a pull that he knew he could easily resist, but he gave in and allowed the space energy to wrap him up, and then he was gone.

Jake’s vision became a flood wave of colors as he felt himself being torn in all directions at once. It was as if the space energy was trying to atomize him, though he was pretty sure atoms weren’t really a thing anymore. In either case, a B-grade was simply too naturally durable to find itself torn apart by what Jake was going through, and he even found time to ponder what was happening.

He truly felt how he moved through space, embraced the emotion, and sought comprehension. Unfortunately, before he could get into a proper mindset and mood, everything stabilized once more, and Jake found himself floating in the middle of space.

“Damn,” Jake muttered with disappointment. Looking around, he oriented himself and quickly spotted his target far in the distance. He also still saw Earth the other way... and Mars. Jupiter and Saturn, too. Honestly, with a bit of effort and his insane Perception, as long as nothing else was in the way, Jake was confident he could see every major celestial object in the solar system.

For now, he only had one planet he cared about as he quickly turned towards his target and, with improved boots on his feet, stepped down. He teleported forward using One Step, truly taking in how he compressed and warped through space. With the second footfall, he immersed himself even more, and as he continued to walk towards his destination, Jake truly took in every sensation.

He was almost in a half-meditative state, and as he moved, he started moving faster. Some steps were a bit shorter, some longer, but overall, the distance traveled per footfall increased steadily. Jake knew that at this point, an upgrade was only a matter of time. Even without one, he’d gotten better at using the skill.

Alas, that upgrade would not come that day, because as Jake stepped down one more time, he stopped moving as he gazed at the planet now just beneath him... and immediately he understood why Arnold’s drones had faced difficulties.

That’s one toxic atmosphere if I’ve ever seen one.
