“But I will be away for a longer period than normal. The typical toilet is ill-configured to dispose of my waste. I must find a proper receptacle.”
He wandered off. Yvlon heard Walt choking and laughing, but then the other adventurers leaned in. Kam looked at Yvlon and Ceria.
“Alright, since we can ask now—tell me honestly, you two. Is he really okay to have on your team? I couldn’t believe you had an Antinium on your team. I thought they were these mindless killing machines.”
The others nodded. Yvlon looked at Ceria, and spoke up first.
“Ksmvr’s odd. But he’s one of the most loyal teammates I’ve ever had. The Antinium are strange, but some of them are just like us. Just a bit different.”
“Different how?”
“Well, he doesn’t understand a lot of things. He lived in the Hive all his life. He’s actually three years old.”
“Dead gods. Seriously?”
“Yes, but listen, Kam, everyone. He’s the kind of teammate you want. Ksmvr’s the most trustworthy friend I know. If anything, we have to take care of him because he’ll put his life on the line before ours. He thinks he’s expendable compared to us; he’d lay his life down in a heartbeat.”
Pelico bit his lip.
“Damn. That’s some loyalty. I’ve had companions like that. They don’t last long.”
“Don’t worry about him. That fellow’s a demon in combat. Did we tell you about the [Bandit] story? He took out an entire group of them. By himself!”
“What? I didn’t hear about this!”
Everyone looked at Stan. He was nodding, looking at Yvlon and Ceria for confirmation.
“I didn’t see it all, but—well, it was after the fight. Yvlon and Ceria here had just been hauled off to the jail—”
“Because they’d brawled with us. That other one too. Pisces?”
Alais muttered, flushing. Yvlon nodded. Kam glanced up sharply.
“The [Necromancer]. Tell us about him. You’re actually working with one? After Liscor?”
“He saved Ceria’s life. Went into the crypt, Kam.”
“Talk about him later! What’s this about the [Bandits]?”
Walt interrupted impatiently. Stan was nodding, and Yvlon was leaning over to whisper with Kam when the [Mages] walked into the tavern. Five of them. At first, no one noticed, but Ceria glanced up muzzily, sensing the magical energy. So did another team captain.
Ulinde, the Selphid, glanced around, and then spotted Ceria at the bar. She pointed the half-Elf out.
“That her, Montressa?”
“Yes.”
The Centaur named Palt was lighting a new roll. He sucked on it and blew out more smoke.
“She’s got companions. Want to wait?”
“Adventurers. They look like Silver-ranks. We can handle them. Let’s not waste time.”
Beza snorted. She still looked at Montressa first. The [Mage] nodded and they all walked forwards.
“Ceria Springwalker.”
Isceil interrupted Stan’s story at the bar. The adventurers turned, most blinking as they saw the five [Mages]. Ceria looked up. She focused on the Drake’s face first.
“Huh? That’s me. Do I know you?”
“No. But you know her.”
The Drake jerked his head over to the young woman. Ceria turned. Yvlon saw her pause uncertainly. And then Ceria dropped her mug.
“Mons? Montressa?”
She jerked out of her seat, standing up unsteadily. Montressa gave Ceria a flat, long stare.
“That’s me. Hello, Ceria. Is your team here?”
“I—Montressa? How did you get here? Tree rot! Is that you?”
Ceria stared unsteadily at Montressa and then went to pinch herself. Yvlon stared. She’d heard Ceria’s tale of her days in Wistram and she vaguely recalled the name. Alais blinked around. She could sense the [Mages] too. She sat up a bit and her tone was respectful.
“Who’s this Ceria? An old friend?”
“I—yes?”
The half-Elf blinked uncertainly at Mons. Worriedly, Yvlon thought. But she smiled and gestured around to Yvlon.
“Everyone, this is Montressa. Montressa, it’s good to see you. Yvlon—meet Montressa. You remember me telling you about her? This is Yvlon, one of my teammates. I—”
She paused. Montressa was just staring at Ceria. Looking the half-Elf up and down. And—Yvlon was rapidly sobering—there was absolutely no warmth in her eyes. Much the opposite. The other [Mages] looked equally…
Slowly, the adventurers put down their cups and all turned. They could all feel it in the air. Ceria’s smile faltered.
“Mons? I have a team. The Horns of Hammerad. And…you know who’s on my team?”
“An old friend. I know. Pisces. I just met him. But I never thought you’d be working with him. Looks like you really haven’t changed.”
Montressa spoke quietly. She stared at Ceria. Yvlon felt her skin crawling. Beside her, Kam gave Yvlon a slow nudge.
“What? You met Pisces?”
“I did. My team and I are all [Mages] from Wistram. We’re here on a mission. We just apprehended Pisces for his crimes. He’ll stand trial in Wistram.”
The room froze over. Ceria stared at Montressa, blinking, not quite comprehending. Her smile vanished. She looked at Montressa, then the other four [Mages].
“What? But—hold on, we were kicked out. The Council exiled us. You can’t—wait, where’s Pisces?”
“What did you do with him?”
Yvlon slowly got up. She was still wearing her armor. She stared at the Minotauress. She was big. Taller than Calruz, even. Although Calruz had been burlier. This Minotaur was wearing robes. A Minotaur [Mage]? She still looked stronger than Walt.
“We put him in a Silent Box. He resisted. You’re on his team, Ceria. Wistram’s decided you owe the academy an explanation for why you’re consorting with him. So you’re coming as well. You won’t be a prisoner if you come quietly. Surrender if you know what’s good for you.”
The half-Elf just stared at Montressa. She looked disbelieving for a moment. But the Drake was shifting his weight. The seated adventurers were surreptitiously shifting their weight. Stan called out, his voice friendly, but wary. The [Bartender] had already ducked backwards, away from the bar.
“Hold on here. I don’t know what this is about, but let’s all be reasonable here. You’re all [Mages]? Why don’t we sit down, discuss this—”
“Shut up, Human. All of you adventurers, stay out of this. This is Wistram’s business. Wistram Academy. If we need to, we’ll deal with all of you as well.”
The Drake snapped at him. That was the wrong thing to say. Walt got up.
“Listen, you pissant Drake. I’ve had it up to here with—”
He froze as Isceil drew his wand. Ulinde’s appeared in her hands as well, aiming at the bar of adventurers. Everyone froze.
“Hold on! You can’t start a fight in the middle of the city! The Watch will—”
Kam croaked nervously. Montressa ignored her. She was still staring at Ceria, but now her gaze flicked to Yvlon.
“Is this your teammate? Does she know what you and Pisces did?”
“Mons?”
“Don’t call me that. Does she know what Pisces is? What’s he done? How could you work with him?”
Yvlon stepped forwards. The attention of all the [Mages] shifted on her. She settled herself. Her nerves were fizzing. She checked one arm unconsciously as she looked at Montressa.
“I know who Pisces is. He’s a friend. Where is he? Did you hurt him?”
“This doesn’t concern you. Your Captain and the [Necromancer] are criminals. Walk away.”
The Minotauress informed Yvlon, glaring. Yvlon looked at her.
“Where is Pisces? Answer me.”
“Right here.”
Montressa shifted her robes and let go of her staff. It stayed upright as she pointed to a little black cube. Yvlon stared at it as Ceria inhaled.
“You didn’t—”
“Let him go. Now.”
Yvlon reached for her sword. Alais said something, but Yvlon’s eyes were locked on Montressa. The Selphid raised her wand warningly.
“Don’t. You’re all out leveled. Let Ceria Springwalker go, and she’ll come back with us.”
“This isn’t happening. Montressa, let me explain. Did you talk to Pisces? What happened?”
Ceria was laughing, her eyes wide with disbelief. She looked at Montressa, but the young Human woman never blinked. She stared back at Ceria, and Yvlon’s hand found the hilt of her sword.
“What did you do?”
“We don’t want a fight. Let’s talk this over. Yvlon, this isn’t the Adventurer’s Guild. Ceria.”
Stan’s voice was uncertain. Yvlon hesitated. But Ceria just stared at Montressa. She gulped.
“I know that, Stan. But—Mons? Why is my [Dangersense] going off? What did you do with Pisces?”
The young woman paused. Then she turned her head and nodded at the Drake and Minotaur on her left.
“Last chance.”
Yvlon drew her sword. Behind his companions, the Centaur grabbed at something.
“[Intangible Snatch].”
Yvlon felt her sword hilt vanish. She gaped and saw him holding the blade, half unsheathed. The Drake pointed his wand.
“[Stone Fist]!”
Yvlon dove as a block of stone blasted past her and smashed into the bar. The room exploded into violence. The adventurers surged up from their chairs. Half of them already had weapons in their hands, but the Selphid was faster. Ulinde leapt forwards, pointing both her wands at the adventurers.
“[Sticky Webs]!”
Spider webbing, nets of it, shot out and hit most of the adventurers where they sat. They cried out, struggling, but the Centaur was pointing calmly from face to face.
“[Black Shroud]. [Sleep]. [Sticky Webs]—”
He and the Selphid struck the adventurers in their seats, immobilizing some of them. Walt slumped, his eyes fluttering. Ceria was on her feet.
“Montressa!”
She raised her wand, pointing with her skeletal hand. Frost shimmering around both, but Isceil pointed his wand at her.
“You’re outmatched, half-Elf. Don’t even try it.”
Ceria hesitated. Yvlon surged to her feet, looking for a weapon. Anything! She turned—and Beza charged her. The Minotauress knocked Yvlon off her feet. The [Wounded Warrior] tumbled backwards, crashing onto the ground. Beza raised a fist.
“Give up.”
“No fighting! No fighting! Someone call the W—”
The [Bartender] was halfway towards the door, but there was a shimmering barrier there. The Centaur pointed and the Drake collapsed, eyes rolling up in his head. Ceria looked at Yvlon. From the ground, Yvlon looked up. Montressa looked at Ceria.
“Well?”
Ceria shouted.
“[Ice—]”
A barrier of ice exploded from the ground as she shot a spray of snow into the Drake’s face. He cursed and pointed at the expanding barrier of frozen water.
The wall of ice exploded. Ceria gaped and saw him pointing his wand. She dodged, but too late. The bolt of magic hit her in the chest and slammed her against the bar. She flailed there, breathless. The Drake hit her with a second spell before she could move. Ceria felt the world disappear for a moment. Her ears were ringing. She stared upwards, mouthing wordlessly. She couldn’t breathe.
Montressa stood over her. Yvlon was on her feet, but she’d been caught. Beza had her arm. The Minotauress was twisting it up ruthlessly. Ceria was downed—Isceil was stabbing his wand into her chest and it was draining her of energy. Yvlon cursed as she fought to get free, but Beza had leverage on her. She growled as the other [Mages] looked at Ceria.
“Walk away, Miss Human. Both of your teammates are under arrest. You’re free to go; don’t make us incapacitate you.”
“Let go of Ceria!”
Yvlon wrenched, but her right arm was caught. Beza sighed as she adjusted her grip and looked at Montressa.
“I’ve got this. You can’t get free, Human.”
Yvlon twisted. She was bent over, held at an awkward angle, but she could still hit at Beza. She swung a fist into the Minotaur’s stomach, but it was weak. Beza didn’t even move. She looked embarrassed as she twisted Yvlon’s arm up further.
“Just give up. Even Minotaur [Mages] can outfight your average [Warrior]. And I’m specialized in hand-to-hand combat.”
“Yvlon.”
Ceria croaked weakly. Yvlon saw her friend’s hand jerking as she weakly grasped at the wand. The obsidian was sparking where it touched her chest. Montressa was lifting the black cube, advancing on her. Yvlon Byres saw crimson. She howled in fury and wrenched.
Her arm moved. Yvlon turned and slammed her head into Beza’s chin. The Minotaur stumbled back she looked stunned. Yvlon spun. She kicked, catching the Minotaur in the stomach. It felt like she was hitting a rock! She caught herself, lashed out. Her right arm didn’t move, but her left struck Beza across the face. Her armored fist drew blood this time. Yvlon punched. Her right arm wasn’t moving!
“Beza!”
Her friends were raising their wands. Yvlon turned, one of her arms raised. Beza stumbled backwards, but caught herself. She held up a hand. Then she stared at Yvlon. The [Wounded Warrior] turned to her. The Minotauress stared.
“You—you just dislocated your arm.”
Yvlon blinked. She stared down at her left arm. She saw her arm was twisted, the elbow bent in into it poked at her side. She stared at it. She hadn’t felt a thing. Then she looked up.
“So?”
The Human woman charged the Minotaur. Beza blocked the first punch; Yvlon kneed her in the chest and heard the Minotaur grunt. She swung, catching Beza across the ribs. The Minotaur punched back and hit Yvlon across the face. Yvlon reeled back and hit Beza with all her weight on the left side. The Minotaur reeled back.
“Use [Steel Body]! Don’t just duke it out, you idiot!”
Isceil was shouting at Beza, but she refused to retreat. Yvlon swung again—this time the Minotaur blocked and lashed out. She hit Yvlon on the chest this time; the armor took the impact and Yvlon slid back.
She tried to move her other arm and felt her muscles tearing. But she didn’t feel pain. She charged and rammed into the Minotaur. She reached down and yanked at the leg she found. Beza stumbled, cursing, and Yvlon lifted.
The Minotaur went down and Yvlon leapt on her. Beza tried to utter a spell as she raised her hands. Too late. Yvlon was on top of her. One handed, she pounded at the Minotaur’s face. Beza roared.
“Get—”
“[Binding Cords]!”
Behind Yvlon, Montressa pointed her staff. Yvlon jerked as the spell hit her. Ropes appeared and swirled around the [Warrior] as she tried to fight. But then she was struggling, cursing on the ground. Beza rose, eyes red with fury and rounded on Montressa.
“That was my fight!”
“Oh yeah? You did about as well as Isceil. You should have enchanted yourself, Beza. We don’t have time for this.”
The Selphid shook her head. Beza was furious, but she calmed as Montressa glared at her. She turned back to Yvlon.
“I’m sorry about that.”
“You coward. You—”
“[Soporific Dust].”
The Centaur trotted over and waved a hand over Yvlon. She cursed, but her movements grew slower. She resisted the spell for nearly a minute, swearing at Beza, but the Centaur just kept the spores of yellow-green powder drifting down on her and eventually Yvlon slowed.
