He whispered. Selys saw his hand reaching for his side. Towards his rapier—she heard a curse.
It was missing. He hadn’t come with her prepared for a fight. And—Selys realized as her own claws drifted towards her belt—her bag of holding was with Farri. She backed up, staring at the Centaur and Selphid behind them.
The street was empty but for Pisces, Selys, and the strangers. There were five of them. Now, they abandoned all pretense. The Drake reached for his side. A bag of holding. He drew a wand, the tip already aflame, the wand made of obsidian. In his other hand he equipped a buckler.
“Oh, Ancestors—”
“Do you have any magical items? Anything?”
“I have a belt-knife!”
Another curse. Now Pisces and Selys stared around. And Selys realized something else.
They were all [Mages].
Here they came. A pale-faced Selphid, lifting two wands with both hands. A Minotaur, cracking her neck and knuckles. The Centaur, still smoking whatever was in his mouth. The speaker, a Drake, sneering as he pointed a translucent crystal wand and held up a glimmering buckler. And a hooded—Selys blinked. Where had that one gone?
“Pisces—”
It wasn’t a mugging. They were all focused on Pisces, not her. Selys’ tail was trying to curl into knots. She saw the Drake approaching with the Minotauress on his left; from the other side, the Centaur and Selphid were doing likewise. They had a confident walk; they knew what they were doing. Her voice squeaked as she tried to shout.
“Hey! This is Liscor! You can’t just—stop right there or I’ll call the Watch! Who are you? What do you want?”
“He knows. Let the Drake go, Pisces Jealnet. Step aside, Miss Drake. You don’t know who you’re standing next to.”
The Minotauress pointed. Selys found a spark of outrage. This wasn’t happening! This couldn’t be happening! Not in Liscor! Not here! Where was everyone? The Watch? Defiantly, she stepped forwards. Pisces hissed at her.
“Selys—”
“Who are you people? Answer me! Stop right there! Hey! Hey, I need the Watch—”
Selys began to shout, cupping her claws to her mouth, trying to raise someone’s attention. Anyone! She turned and saw the Centaur flick his joint. He pointed it at her and spoke.
“[Mind Blank].”
She recoiled, saw Pisces curse, reach for her. And Selys…
 
——
 
Stopped. The female Drake stopped in the street, mid-recoil as Pisces grabbed her arm.
“Selys!”
But it was too late. The Drake looked around vacantly. The light, the spark in her eyes, it had all faded. She stood there, swaying, and then looked at Pisces. After a moment she frowned vaguely.
“Me?”
He stared at her, and then whirled as the Centaur spoke again.
“[Mind—]”
Pisces threw up his mental shields, drawing on his magic and circulating it through his body as he bit his lip hard enough to draw blood. He tasted iron and felt a push at his mind. But [Mages] were better able to resist mind spells and Pisces had practice. He turned, hand grasping again for the rapier he did not have. Selys was behind him; she hadn’t reacted; she was just staring ahead blankly.
“Let her go. The Drake’s not part of this.”
The Minotauress called out again. They were surrounding him, two on each side. Pisces looked up. He stared at Selys’ face and then turned. His voice snapped in the silence.
“Who are you? What do you want with me?”
“You know who we are.”
The Drake was watching him. Pisces glanced behind him. Selphid and Centaur. They hadn’t said a word, but the magic hung heavy in the air. The Drake made an impatient gesture.
“Hands behind your head. Kneel down and put your face on the ground. No magic.”
Pisces licked his lips. He took a step back, half-pivoting.
“I am a Silver-rank adventurer—”
“Don’t play games. We know who you are. Wistram wants you.”
The Drake aimed his wand, raising his buckler. The tip of his wand sparked. The Minotauress just shook her head.
“And here I thought he’d be harder to find. More like a rat. No moves, [Necromancer]. We know all your spells.”
“I can assure you—”
The Drake’s eyes narrowed. His wand sparked and a ray of fire shot forwards. Pisces jerked—but the fiery beam went past his left shoulder and struck the cobblestones. The ground turned red, and stone cracked.
“Enough talk! The next one goes through your leg. Surrender or we’ll do this the easy way.”
“I have done nothing—”
Pisces flinched from the second ray as it shot past his right leg. The Minotauress glanced at her companion and he nodded. They advanced.
“Last chance.”
The Drake warned. He was tracking Pisces as the young man moved back. They were closing in. Pisces tensed. Selys was walking to his left. She absently stared around, and then wandered down the street.
“Do I have work? I thought I was…”
Closer and closer. The Selphid and Centaur moved forwards a step, but the Drake and Minotauress were still advancing. Pisces froze. And all of the [Mages] on the street paused. They were eight feet apart. Then six—
And then Pisces turned and leapt for a side alley. The Drake cursed, and his wand shot webs. But a bit off-target. Pisces dashed forwards—and the Minotauress caught him. She was quick! She raised one huge hand, swinging. Pisces turned—
“Don’t hurt me!”
He threw up both hands, shrinking down. The Minotauress stopped the blow, and the Drake raised his wand, aborting a second spell. He blinked down as Pisces cowered, trembling before the second blow.
“I surrender! No violence! Please! I can assure you, I’ve done nothing wrong—”
“Shut up! Drop your wand.”
“He doesn’t have any, Isceil.”
The Minotauress stared at Pisces. She was still holding him, but now she let go. Pisces fell to his knees. He raised both hands, putting them behind his head. There were tears in his eyes.
“I—I’ve done nothing wrong against Wistram. If there’s some issue, I have gold! Let’s talk this over! Whatever you might have been told, I’m completely reformed. Good magi, a bit of kindness—”
“Shut. Up.”
Pisces’ babbling stopped. His eyes were wide as he trembled. The Drake, Isceil, lowered his wand, looking disgusted. He glanced at the Minotauress. She had the same expression on her face. The Selphid and Centaur [Mage] hesitated, but both trotted closer.
“I can’t believe this. Are you sure this is the right one?”
He turned. The Selphid nodded, glancing about. She stared at Pisces as he turned, a terrified expression on his face.
“Wow. He really gave up instantly. I thought he had some spine, based on all the reports.”
“Consider this. If it’s gold you want—”
“Shut up. Ancestors damn it. Well, we got him. Let’s capture this idiot already.”
The Drake folded his arms. Pisces threw himself forwards.
“Wait—wait!”
“Hands behind your head!”
The Minotauress snapped. She stepped back and reached for her belt. Pisces immediately got up and put his hands back up. He stared as she pulled something from her belt.
“Whatever Wistram Academy might think of me, I’ve reformed! Truly! If you intend to capture me, my record is clean in Liscor, I swear!”
“Hah. Can you believe this?”
The Selphid looked amused. The Drake just spat. He nodded towards his companion.
“Don’t try to weasel out of this, [Necromancer]. Now, put your hands up and get in the box.”
He looked towards the Minotauress. Pisces froze as she withdrew a black cube from her belt. It was perfectly black, without detail save for a single, etched door drawn in pale silver on one side. His eyes went wide and he leaned back as she aimed it at him.
“What is—”
“It’s a Silent Box. We’re not idiots. Get in.”
The Minotauress leaned forwards. Pisces backed up.
“No! I’m innocent! Please, can’t we negotiate?”
He threw himself to the side, avoiding the front of the cube. The Drake cursed, kicking at him as Pisces scrambled towards him, clutching at his legs.
“Get off! Don’t make me hex you, you little—Beza, just capture this piece of waste already!”
He lifted a leg to kick at Pisces. The Minotauress growled, reaching for Pisces with one hand. And then her eyes widened.
“Watch out!”
Pisces sprang upwards. He slashed at the Drake’s throat with one hand, snarling, and the Oldblood Drake made a sound. His head jerked backwards. But for Beza’s warning, the bone blade would have cut his throat. As it was, Pisces slashed the edge and turned. He vanished, fleeing with long steps that blinked him across the ground.
[Bone Shiv]. [Flash Step]. The [Mages] shouted as Pisces dashed down the street. He got five steps, leapt, and vanished in midair. The Drake turned, cursing.
“That bastard! Where’d he—”
The Centaur took the rollup from his mouth and blew a cloud of smoke. Casually, he exhaled it and the smoke turned bright, pink, glittering particles sweeping forwards in a rush of air.
“He’s still here. [Glitterdust Storm].”
The pink shimmering cloud blew forwards and settled across the street. It caught Selys and she blinked, staring at the bright particles that stuck to her.
“Shiny.”
She muttered. Behind her, the particles stuck to a shape in the air. Pisces reappeared, coughing, as the Centaur pointed at him.
“Got him.”
The [Necromancer] looked around wildly. His [Invisibility] spell had been purged! And—he turned, stumbling, and [Flash Stepped] backwards. But somehow, he couldn’t flee down the street. He found himself stumbling backwards, towards the [Mages].
They were aiming at him now. The Drake raised his wand and roared. He blasted a ray of fire and Pisces ducked out of the way. The Drake’s wand ignited, and the Minotauress grabbed his arm.
“You idiot, that Drake’s still in the way!”
“I’ve got her.”
The Selphid dashed forwards and tugged at Selys. Pisces froze. Something was wrong. He turned around. The street swam behind him. He whirled as another ray of magic shot at him and dodged left. The Drake was clutching at his throat. The Minotauress clenched a fist, pulling out a scroll.
“Isceil, do you need a potion? I’ve got him—”
“I’m fine. Don’t you dare, Beza! The rest of you, back off!”
Isceil hissed. His companions looked at him as he advanced, his wand aimed at Pisces’ heart. The Drake’s tail lashed furiously. His throat was still bleeding, but no more than superficially. He narrowed his eyes at Pisces.
“Not bad. If I were twice as slow, you’d have got me. Everyone, stay back. I’ll take him. Alone.”
“Really?”
“Shut up, Beza. You. [Necromancer]. You’re not getting away.”
The Drake aimed his wand at Pisces. The young man paused. His head felt thick. But he still sneered. He raised his hand and a rapier of bone appeared, the bones flowing from his bag of holding.
“Is this a challenge? For a group of Wistram’s cowards, I didn’t expect any honor among them.”
The comment made the female Minotaur’s eyes begin to turn red. She opened her mouth, but the Drake laughed.
“That’s better! I was hoping you’d fight back. Beza, he’s mine.”
He sneered as Pisces flicked his bone rapier. The [Necromancer] walked to one side, rapier raised in a [Fencer]’s position. Isceil had no weapon save for his wand, but he didn’t look concerned. He flicked his wand as he kept his buckler high.
“I heard you were a good duelist back in your day. I’m one of Fissival’s best. If I’d have transferred to Wistram, people wouldn’t remember you at all.”
Pisces’ eyes narrowed.
“So you are from Wistram?”
The Drake looked at him.
“Of course we are. We’re—”
He swore and raised his shield, twisting. Pisces’ lunge carried him across the street. He missed, his rapier deflecting off the Drake’s buckler. Isceil pointed.
“[Flame Scythe]!”
He swung the wand fast, an arc of blue flame cutting. Pisces was already gone. He reappeared, panting. The heat of the flames cutting through the air was intense. The Drake spat curses.
“You cowardly—”
He jerked as Pisces dove left. The [Necromancer] blasted fire at his face, spun, [Flash Stepped] around the Drake, and fired a [Stone Dart] at his side. The Drake twisted. The flames he dispelled, but the stone dart shot at him from his wand-side. He twisted—
And the stone dart exploded in midair. Pisces paused. The Drake lifted his wand. The returning spell exploded outwards, a shower of purple missiles that homed in on Pisces. The [Necromancer] leapt backwards, but the missiles pursued him. He vanished, threw up a [Barrier of Air]—the explosion sent him stumbling back a step.
Pisces pointed a finger and lightning, volts of electricity crackled forwards. Again, they vanished before touching the Drake. This time Isceil just sneered. Pisces saw an amulet on his chest flashing. It was absorbing the Tier 2 spells!
“That’s it? You could take on fourth-year students, but not—”
He slashed with his wand. A sword of light cut at the air, but Pisces’ reach was longer. The [Necromancer] leapt forwards, slashing with his rapier, stabbing, vanishing backwards. This time he raised his hand and a bloom of light flashed in the Drake’s eyes. Isceil cursed, spoke a word. Pisces saw the barrier appear and [Flash Stepped] left. He lunged in, saw the Drake pointing his wand behind him, right at Pisces.
“[Flame Spray].”
This time the fire caught Pisces. He shouted in pain, leaping backwards, his robes and hair burning. Pisces shot frozen air, blasting his skin, ignoring the blisters forming. The Drake crowed, but cursed as he felt at one arm. Pisces had cut him above the arm in the clash on his buckler arm.
Isceil’s companions watched the magical duel calmly. The Minotauress was shouting, clenching her hands, watching Pisces warily—the Selphid and Centaur were more casual. The smoking Centaur called out as he watched the Drake raise his buckler.
“Having trouble, Isceil? He’s not bad!”
“Shut your damn mouth, Palt!”
The Drake roared back. He shot a flurry of spells at Pisces, curving them and aiming where Pisces would be. The [Necromancer] disappeared backwards, throwing his own spells, but defensively. The Selphid watched with interest. The Drake’s body the Selphid was wearing held two wands and she was flicking them as she analyzed the duel.
“This Human really is as good as Beatrice said. I never saw him duel, but he’s quick! [Fencer]?”
“Maybe. But Isceil will win.”
The Centaur nodded knowingly. He watched as Pisces retreated backwards. The [Mage] had conjured his [Barrier of Air] again. But the Drake shattered it with a single spell. Pisces fell back, panting. He stared at the Drake, poised, ready to dodge. Isceil aimed at him, eyes narrowed, and the two froze for a second.
