The [Mages] stood in silence. Ceria was limp, unconscious, as Isceil stepped back. He looked at the adventurers, most of whom were out and then at Beza. She was wiping blood from one nostril.
“Alright, we got the half-Elf. Are we taking the other one too?”
“We have to. But where’s the fourth? Did anyone see the Antinium?”
The [Mages] all shook their heads. Montressa glanced around warily. Ulinde was frowning.
“Well, we don’t have to get anyone besides Pisces and Ceria, right? Maybe we—”
Thunk. Ulinde stopped talking and rocked backwards. A crossbow bolt had appeared in the side of her head, just above her ear. She stumbled backwards. Beza’s eyes went wide. She spun—a crossbow bolt struck her in the chest. She stared at it.
“Dead gods!”
Isceil raised his wand. The third crossbow bolt shattered, cracking the magical barrier that appeared around him. The fourth broke it, but the bolt snapped and only the fragments hit him. He raised his wand and Ksmvr fired the fifth crossbow. It snapped through the Drake’s arm, sending the wand flying. He aimed the sixth one.
He had Crossbow Stan’s bag of holding. Ksmvr stood behind the bar where he’d been hidden and pointed it at Montressa. Straight at her stomach. She was still stunned. He pulled the trigger and the crossbow fired. The bolt sped at Montressa and lodged in the air.
Ksmvr paused. That was a good barrier spell. Montressa jerked, looked at him, and pointed her staff.
“[Binding Rop—]”
The Antinium leapt sideways. He moved unnaturally fast, hopping from his hiding place and bouncing off a wall. He leapt again, landing, and now he had his weapons in hand. He darted at Beza first. His Flamecoat Dagger set her alight and she howled.
“Beza! [Dispel Magic]!”
The flames went out as fast as they’d appeared. Ksmvr saw Montressa pointing her staff and dodged around her. He lunged. Shortsword, Forceshield in his other two hands. He collided with the shield and his enchanted shortsword struck—something. But it didn’t break.
“Damn, the Antinium—”
The Drake pointed his wand. Ksmvr raised his Forceshield and the spell burst. He felt the impact, but smoothly dodged backwards. The Minotaur swung at him and he stabbed her in the side. Yvlon was asleep, the adventurers were incapacitated. The Centaur was rearing back, alarmed. Not used to combat for all his abilities. Hamstring. Ksmvr, darted forwards—
Ulinde caught him. The Selphid stared at Ksmvr, the crossbow bolt still buried to the shaft in her head. Ksmvr stared at her. His mandibles opened.
“How?”
“Selphid.”
Oh. He swung his dagger and shortsword. She uttered a word.
“[Shock Veil].”
The electricity coursed through Ksmvr. He still completed the swing, but he just hacked into dead flesh. The Selphid kept her grip and Ksmvr spasmed. He tried to move, to step back, but then he collapsed. Ulinde put a hand on his chest as Ksmvr fell to the floor of the tavern. He curled up as the electricity kept running through him. The adventurers saw him trying to move. Shaking. Stopping.
“Ulinde! That’s an Antinium! If we kill one—”
“I know! I know.”
The electricity stopped. Ulinde stepped back. She felt at the crossbow bolt and grimaced, then turned to Beza.
“I know. I just hate being shot and that scared me. Are you alright?”
The Minotauress drank a healing potion and growled.
“I’m fine. Where did it come from?”
“It must have been in the back. He nearly got me. That filthy—”
Isceil glared at Ksmvr, his hand twitching as he drank his own potion. He nearly lifted his wand, but Montressa stopped him.
“You should have put up a barrier. You too, Beza. It was your own carelessness and both of you nearly died because of it. Be careful. This isn’t Wistram and we’re supposed to be professional! Now, let’s finish what we came here to do.”
She looked around as Isceil fell silent, flushing and lashing his tail. The bar was silent, but some adventurers were still awake. Immobilized. Alais was breathing hard as she fought against the webs. She was afraid to use her lightning magic.
“You can’t do this. They’re adventurers!”
“They’re criminals. Shut up. Montressa, capture the Antinium. It’s making me uneasy.”
Isceil snapped at her. He pointed at the other four [Mages].
“Didn’t you hear where we’re from? Wistram Academy. Don’t worry; we’ll release the Antinium and [Warrior] later. But the two [Mages] are both criminals. They’ve committed a number of crimes, including impersonating real Wistram [Mages].”
“Real…? You still can’t—don’t touch Ceria!”
Alais struggled, but she was held captive. Montressa was lifting the black box and before Alais’ horrified eyes, the half-Elf vanished, turning into motes of black light that flowed into the box and the silver doorway. Ulinde yanked the bolt out of her head, grimacing.
“Barbed? Damn it. Listen, they’ll be fine. It’s just a prison. Look, this is all legal.”
“Legal? You attacked an adventuring team in Liscor! You—”
Ulinde ignored Alais. She looked around impatiently.
“Oh, forget it. Palt?”
The Centaur nodded. He blew some smoke out and raised his hands, pointing at the conscious adventurers.
“[Wave of Vacan—]”
When Alais awoke next, she was lying on the floor. The [Sticky Webs] binding her were gone, and it was nightfall. The [Mages] were all long gone. And so were Ceria, Yvlon, and Ksmvr.
 
——
 
The [Mages] left the bar quietly. The street was still full of pedestrians, but no one had noticed the fight. Indeed, no one even glanced at the tavern; Palt’s spell was still active, distracting attention away from it. The Centaur was first to exit; he waited for the rest of his companions.
Isceil was rubbing his arm, swearing.
“It hurts. Damn it, it got my bone. The healing potion got some, but—”
“Tough it out. That was embarrassing.”
Beza was unsympathetic. Her fur was still singed, but she was looking embarrassed.
“We could have had perfect takedowns. But you nearly got stabbed and you lost your shield. I didn’t expect that Human woman to dislocate her shoulder.”
“He broke it! What was that spell?”
“[Shatterbolt]. That’s a dangerous artifact. Think we can pull it off him?”
Ulinde looked excitedly at Montressa. The young woman was leaning on her staff. She didn’t look happy. Instead, she touched the black cube and looked around.
Palt, Ulinde, Beza, and Isceil. They were all young [Mages] from Wistram, but full [Mages]. Top of their years. And she was their leader. She shook her head and adjusted her hood.
“Later. Palt, where’s the Drake you used [Mind Blank] on?”
“I left her over there. She’s got a veil on her; no one’s bothering her.”
Palt nodded to a Drake standing vacantly to the side. Selys Shivertail was still unfocused. The Centaur eyed her, and then turned to Montressa.
“It’ll wear off in an hour. I hit her with a good one.”
“Any side effects?”
“Besides amnesia? No. You want me to dispel it? And what about the bar? They’ll all wake up in there after an hour or two as well. Want me to hold the concealing enchantments on it?”
Montressa nodded absently. Ulinde looked nervously at her.
“We’re breaking a lot of rules here, Mons. I know this is personal, but—”
She broke off as Montressa’s head snapped up. The young woman glared at Ulinde. Her arm was shaking as it clutched the staff around which the copper orb was slowly rotating.
“It’s Montressa, Ulinde. Not Mons. Remember that. And we’re within our rights to hunt fugitives from Wistram. Isn’t that what you said, Isceil?”
The Drake grimaced, still rubbing at his wrist.
“We should probably have talked to the Watch Captain of the city. But you insisted we go after the [Necromancer] when we saw him.”
“He was about to notice us. He’s not an idiot. We shouldn’t have approached. But we got him. We got him and it’s done. We can make apologies later and pay for damages. If this was a city up north or in Terandria, we’d be fine, probably. How much different is Liscor, Isceil?”
He shrugged, looking annoyed.
“I don’t know! I grew up in Fissival, far from here. And frankly, Liscor’s always been isolated. It’s a border city; it was out of touch before the Antinium settled a damn Hive here.”
“Well, someone needs to go see the Watch Captain and explain matters. And pay for the bar we trashed.”
Beza, or Bezale, the Minotaur, folded her arms. She was fishing around in her bag of holding and now she produced a few scrolls. She eyed them.
“And I need to scribe another [Steel Body] and [Haste] scroll.”
“Being a [Spellscribe] must suck.”
“Not as much as being an [Oldblood Magus] who lost to a third-year student who was expelled, Isceil. So much for the dueling master.”
“I—shut up.”
The Drake clenched both claws, too furious for a reply. Montressa shook her head.
“I told you he was dangerous. He’s avoided capture from all the other teams who found him for a reason. Enough. We still have work. But someone has to talk to the Watch Captain.”
“Not me.”
Beza looked up instantly. Ulinde echoed her. Everyone turned to look at Isceil. He glared.
“What?”
Palt exhaled; he was still smoking. It was almost perpetual if you knew him.
“You’re a Drake, Isceil.”
“So? Why do I have to talk to some petty Watch Captain? You do it Palt.”
“What? I don’t want to.”
“You didn’t help during the capture.”
“Not my job.”
The Centaur looked affronted, but he sensed Isceil’s mood. He looked at Montressa, and she paused.
“You are the best at negotiations, Palt.”
The Centaur sighed loudly. Ulinde patted him on the flank.
“Just slap on [Arlell’s Articulation] and [Charming Visage]. If she’s got magic detection spells, do something non-magical and charming. You’re the [Illusionist]. I’m a Selphid, there’s that thing with the Minotaur, Isceil’s mad and Mons is the boss. There’s only you.”
“I don’t know why I agreed to come with you all. Fine. Where’s this Watch Captain? Oh, and give me the gold bag, Mons. I might have to pay a lot.”
Palt sighed. Mons handed him a pouch and he took it. Isceil looked around.
“I don’t know where the Watch barracks is. Go ask a [Guardsman] and they’ll point it to you.”
“Thanks.”
The Centaur snorted and trotted off in a huff. Isceil shouted after his back.
“And put out that stupid roll-up! It’s illegal to have cloudleaf in most Drake cities! Let alone whatever you put in that thing.”
He saw Palt turn his head and glare before marching back. Montressa looked at Beza and the Minotauress shook her head hopelessly. Palt spat the smoking roll from his lips and caught it magically in the air. He glared at Isceil.
“First of all, it’s not a ‘roll-up’. And neither is it a ‘joint’. This is a spliff, hence the tobacco leaves I’ve added to the cloudleaves. It’s quite good.”
“Really? Then I’ll have one.”
Isceil moderated his tone and reached for it. Palt made it vanish, and the Drake glared at him.
“No. You want one? Pay up. These aren’t cheap, and I can’t buy more ingredients easily in Drake cities. [Alchemists] charge far too much around here.”
“Just get out of here.”
The Drake rudely turned his back. Palt trotted off huffily. His companions watched him go. After a second, Beza snorted.
“Spliff? What is that? Some new concoction?”
“He probably learned it from the guests.”
Ulinde nodded knowingly at the others. Beza paused.
“Oh, right. Them.”
There was a thoughtful pause. Everyone knew something, but the only person who knew a lot was…they all glanced at the young woman. Montressa was still looking at the black cube that now held the Horns of Hammerad. She glanced up as Beza addressed her casually.
“The Ea—I mean, uh, Aaron helped you make your attack orb, right, Montressa?”
Montressa looked up and frowned.
“Yes. But he didn’t say what’s in it and I’m not letting you open it up. It’s experimental. Are you all finished? Let’s go, then.”
She looked around, shoulders hunched. Ulinde exchanged a glance with Isceil, and the Drake forgot his ire for a second. Beza looked at her friend, concerned. She paused, and her tone grew softer.
“Montressa, I know you’ve been on edge. But relax. You got him.”
She gestured at the black cube, the Silent Box that she’d passed to Montressa.
“It’s over, Montressa. If you want, I’ll take the box—”
“No. I’ve got it.”
Montressa replied quickly. Her face was taut as she touched the cube and then her hand flew away. Ulinde saw Beza look at her and shrugged helplessly. Isceil grinned.
“Maybe you’ll stop having those nightmares, eh?”
Montressa glared at him along with the other two female [Mages]. Isceil’s smile vanished.
“What? Why are you biting my tail off? We did it! Fine, it was messy, but we got the murderer. And his team. Why’s she still mad?”
He pointed accusingly at Montressa. The young woman paused. She took a deep breath. Then she nodded. She tried to smile.
“Yes. Yes. I did. Thank you. All of you. But we’re not done here. We do have more tasks, remember?”
“Finding ‘L’, investigating the [Emperor]—and getting the magic door from Liscor as well as investigating that report of a…guest. We had to skip the [Emperor] and ‘L’ because of that Oldblood raid. Thank goodness for Wistram’s intelligence.”
Beza nodded briskly. Isceil was nodding too.
“Alright, so the door and this Human. Where is it? I’ll be glad to use the thing; we had to march all the way to Liscor so we didn’t run into—”
He nodded at the cube on Montressa’s belt. She nodded absently and pulled out a folded bit of paper. She studied it.
“Erin Solstice, [Innkeeper]. We’re investigating her and we want the magic door in her inn.”
“Ooh, two for one. Hey, is that the inn people were talking about? The one the [Guards] warned us did weird stuff? And in Celum? And Esthelm?”
Ulinde brightened up. Montressa nodded, smiling a bit. The brooding, anxious mood that had engulfed her the closer they’d come to the source of her fears was lightening, and all her friends were glad to see it. They began walking through the streets, talking.
“I think it’s the eastern gate. That’s what they said, right?”
“Yup. Inn on a hill. I can’t wait to see the magic door. Think the Archmages can disenchant it and copy the spell?”
“Maybe? Archmage Naili thinks she can. Although why we don’t have a teleportation spell like this—”
“Upper floors, probably. She was experimenting with the ones we know, and she’s coming close, but she wants a perfect copy. Imagine having a bunch of them in Wistram?”
“What if the [Innkeeper] really is like…Aaron? I hear she’s crazy. She can spit blood, she kills Shield Spiders with her bare hands, and she took down a gang in Celum all by herself!”
