Mother save me from your fanatic devotees. I don’t deserve their fealty, I’m just trying to stay alive in this crap-sack world I’ve stumbled into. Besides, I’m pretty sure BoShui's uncle isn’t thrilled with his infatuation with me. We haven’t told 'Uncle' BoHai about the whole Tainted business mostly because BoShui admits his uncle won’t take it well. Han BoHai already lost his daughter to one religious extremist and I can see how it looks like I’m doing the same with BoShui.

Which means these assassins still could have been sent by the Situ or Han Clan, merely a different faction within them. Or maybe Elder Ming has backers looking to avenge him, or Sang Ryong didn’t like something I said out of hand and wants to make me pay, who knows. The Society isn’t as united as they’d like people to think, especially when it comes to matters of succession. Zian stands unchallenged among his generation and seized the position of heir apparent through sheer strength and talent, but his mom and uncle are at odds with the current Patriarch which means he has no backing from the ruling faction. While there are older, more accomplished warriors in line for the metaphorical throne, with how long Martial Warriors live for, succession usually skips a generation as grandchildren inheriting titles from grandparents.

Assuming no one dies in a bloody coup or something. Happens more often than I’d care to think.

BoShui is a different story. Despite being the son of the current Patriarch and one of the leading talents of his generation, he describes his relationship with his father as ‘estranged’. Han BoDing, BoShui’s father, is using BoShui as a sacrificial lamb, naming the prodigal son his heir to bait his enemies into exposing themselves and allowing them to act against BoShui while BoDing shelters his true heir. Who that might be is a mystery even to BoShui, which makes what happened to the Shrike – or rather BoLao, someone who treated him like family should, all the more tragic.

Ugh. Politics. Look at any other clan, sect, school, or faction in the Empire and you’ll find an endless stream of stories just like BoShui’s or Zian’s. I don’t know how Yuzhen keeps up with everything. I’m so glad the People are easy to get along with, lacking any backroom dealings or internal schisms, with everyone getting along in perfect solidarity.

Wait...

Maybe they do have internal politics and I’m merely unaware of the conflicts. Is that why no one wants to join my retinue? Am I an outcast? But why? Is it because I admitted to Gerel about being Tainted? If so, is Gerel an outcast with me? Did I make a mess of things for Baatar and Akanai by admitting I was on the brink of becoming Defiled?

...

Bah. Politics are the worst.

Chapter Meme
