“Lyonette the Munificent? No—something that more eloquently flows from the tongue. A reversal of her character thus far. She was Lyonette the Fiery before—dead gods, was that really the best we could come up with?”
“One had to explain her address to the common folk somehow. Peons.”
Ser Lormel muttered. Dalimont winced. Thronebearers had to do their best with what they were given. Now, though…
A thoughtful silence descended on the table. After a moment, Lormel snapped his fingers.
“The Princess of the Hearth. Hearth and home. She would never let a child be alone.”
The others turned on him. Sir Sest’s jaw dropped and then he stood up to clasp the other Thronebearer on the shoulder.
“That’s fair brilliant, Ser Lormel! I knew we could do it! Princess of the Hearth! What do you think?”
He looked around. Ushar and Dalimont considered it, one with more fervor than the other.
It said something about the Thronebearers, that the first thing they did after discovering Mrsha was claimed by Lyonette was think on how they could spin this back home.
Dalimont thought they were missing the forest for the trees. No—the Treant for the twigs on the ground. He sighed and pushed his chair back.
“If we can finish how we’ll re-label Princess Lyonette later…? We still have to find her, and she’s in Oteslia of all places.”
The Gnoll [Server] had been quite helpful. The little girl, Mrsha, less so. Adopted by a [Princess]? Dalimont rubbed at his face. Their job just got harder and harder.
Seraphel had sent him to add some kind of competency into their mission. Dalimont knew each Thronebearer, one from his Majesty, Sir Lormel, Princess Shardele’s champion, Sir Sest, and Dame Ushar of the 5th Princess, Vernoue, were all good [Thronebearers]. Just…typical of their order.
The Thronebearers looked at Dalimont.
“You mean, what to do with the child? We must retrieve the [Princess], so Oteslia is our next call. We might as well sail from Zeres if we retrieve the [Princess]—although the north might be safer. Either way, we must hurry.”
Ser Lormel grimaced. Dalimont nodded.
“Do we bring the child?”
Another silence fell on the Thronebearers. Well now, that was the question, wasn’t it? This? This was a Tier 5 explosive spell in Calanfer’s courts waiting to go off.
Dame Ushar grimaced.
“The Princess of the Hearth brings a poor, abandoned child with her in Calanfer’s dark hour…it can work. The marriage however—”
That was a problem. Children were generally not as attractive in arranged marriages. The others nodded, frowning. Sir Sest was the next to speak up, a crease burrowing deeper on his forehead.
“Perhaps we assume too much, friends. Consider it another way.”
Everyone looked at him. Sir Sest leaned back, looking a bit wary, but none of them represented Lyonette herself; just other [Princesses] and the throne, and they knew all the politics of court.
“To my understanding, Princess Lyonette arrived in Liscor. She apparently stole for a living, but in the end ended up at said inn. At some point, she discovered a child whose tribe and family had been lost in a tragic accident, and with the aid of the sadly deceased [Innkeeper], raised her as a child as best she could while working to provide for them. That would be Miss Mrsha.”
“All correct.”
The other Thronebearers nodded. Dalimont felt a prickle of…Sir Sest gave voice to it with a deeper frown.
“With all due respect, friends, the story is touching. It is a noble thing to care for a child. A generous, heartfelt act…does that sound like the 6th Princess to you?”
Dalimont inhaled with Ushar. Lormel just bit his lip. If anyone had heard that back home…but it was true.
“Perhaps her care for Miss Mrsha is…emblematic of the current situation? It might have been a passing fancy. Hence Miss Mrsha not being with the Princess?”
Ushar spoke tactfully. Dalimont felt his heart sink. If that were so…he shook his head.
“I want to believe it is not. Miss Mrsha wrote as if the [Princess] had taught her, personally. I peeked upstairs and they share a room. I saw the nameplate. I believe there was genuine care there, Dame Ushar. A [Princess] can change. Believe me.”
All three Thronebearers looked at Dalimont. They had all heard rumors of Noelictus. None said it, but he had changed too.
At last, Ser Sest sat back with a pained sigh.
“The fact remains you are right, Ser Dalimont. We can return the story, but the individual? The child cannot return to glorious Calanfer, surely. Even if she cannot speak, she can write. If the slightest hint were to emerge that Princess Lyonette had been anything but chaste…”
“She is far too old for that, Ser Lormel! To even be considered the fruits of a co-mingling—I would challenge you to a duel were I to hear that from your lips in Calanfer!”
Ushar half rose, a thunderous look on her face. Sest raised his hands.
“I would never impugn her Highness’ honor, Ushar! Yet tongues wag in defiance of fact. In another time, friends, perhaps we could take the child but—dare we risk Calanfer’s fate today?”
“She cannot be left alone.”
Ser Lormel put in, as concerned for Mrsha’s wellbeing as for what would happen next. He looked around. Ushar bit her lip.
“She has friends here. It may be cruel, but Calanfer could prepare an adequate sum to care for her all her days. The Princess could well visit—in time—after marriage. Reveal the story and reunite the two. If she were married ere our return, three years?”
Lormel was shaking his head already.
“That is cruel to do to a child, Dame Ushar. It clashes with every notion I have of wellbeing for children.”
He would know. He wasn’t assigned to any one [Princess], but Lormel was in service to the throne, and thus he had helped raise the 7th Princess. The other Thronebearers deferred to him and Dalimont sighed. What a mess.
He closed his eyes and thought. At last, when he opened them, he looked around directly.
“Let us find the Princess first and see just how much she cares for the girl. We need not separate the two, after all. A Gnoll may grow up in Calanfer…quietly. And visit the palace or be visited quite often.”
“Like the illegitimate…ahem. Yes, of course! Plenty of time to deliberate further on the journey back.”
Sir Sest’s eyes lit up, and even Lormel nodded after a moment. The Thronebearers relaxed. Then, they focused on the other task and Ushar groaned.
“Oteslia! We have ridden a continent across already!”
“At least we know the door will help. That’s an eight-hundred mile round trip saved.”
Glumly, Ushar nodded. Lormel frowned.
“But Miss Mrsha should be cared for, especially if Princess Lyonette has declared her a ward of any sort. That inn is not safe. I find those men in hats somewhat…disreputable to my senses. Were I in Calanfer, I would inquire after them. Nor does she have a proper caretaker.”
“We should ensure it ere we leave. Perhaps take it into our own hands.”
Sest nodded. Ushar blinked at him and snapped back.
“Take her with us? Are you mad, Ser Sest?”
He glowered at her. She’d misinterpreted his words.
“Not at all! I would hardly subject a child to riding through Drake lands, even if we can skip the Bloodfields. Perhaps, though, we should arrange something! One of us staying behind is…too perilous for our mission, yet surely there are ways to arrange actual guardianship! The Terandrian Embassy?”
There was a joint embassy which multiple nations could house representatives at—a kind of neutral ground. [Knights], [Diplomats]…there was surely a way, although keeping Mrsha’s status quiet would be the hard part. The Thronebearers looked at each other, thinking it over.
At this point, Mage Montressa du Valeross stopped listening in on their conversation. She sighed, rubbing her forehead.
“Well?”
Bezale, Palt, Kevin, and Joseph all hovered behind her. Imani was furiously cooking downstairs for the crowd who’d returned to find they had a [Knight]-problem. Montressa just shrugged and reached for a drink. She took a deep, fiery draft of the Drakes’ famed whiskey and coughed.
“They’re harmless. If they try to grab Mrsha, I’ll [Chain Lightning] them. Okay? Leave me alone.”
She was drunk. In fact, Montressa had been upstairs and had only learned about the Thronebearers when Bezale had come to get her.
Another time, she would have been considering the implications, trying to help or score some credit with a Terandrian nation—but that would have been Mage Montressa of Wistram.
She was just…Monstressa now. Montressa du Valeross. Montressa the outcast.
She pointed and the door shut on Palt’s hoof. He shouted obscenities, although he’d come to her. Palt couldn’t break through the Tailless Thief’s scrying defenses easily, although he might have been able to. The inn was warded—but happily, they’d paid a certain [Aegiscaster] to do it and you could always slip through your own work.
Montressa ignored the discussion outside. She didn’t care. She raised a finger to her forehead as Bezale looked at her, mildly concerned.
“Montressa, you should stop drinking. We can still build our business in Invrisil. I’ve been doing it myself, but you need t—”
Montressa ignored her friend. She’d been kicked out of Wistram! She had nothing left, besides scraps. The ‘business’ network. This inn. A few secrets.
It all felt so hollow. She had given her life to Wistram and she’d been kicked out in a second. It had been her everything. Now? All she had left was…
“Hello, this is Mage Montressa.”
She interrupted Bezale brightly, using a [Communication] spell and speaking to the air. Bezale gave up and stomped out. Montressa continued.
“I’m a—graduate of Wistram. I’m sorry for calling unannounced, but I’ve been doing inquiries into a Chandrarian settlement. A village? Nerhs. N-e-r-h-s. Yes, well, I don’t know where it is…and no map I can find has it listed. Would you happen to know if your regional map has all the current villages? And could you check for—yes of course, I can wait—”
She took another long drink. Ceria. Ceria had told her they were in Chandrar. She’d already found Ksmvr. Yvlon? She didn’t know. Pisces either. But Ceria—Montressa waited. She hadn’t gotten a [Message] spell back, but she was helping.
She began to cry as she waited—until the [Mage] came back. It was probably the drink.
 
—-
 
Three days the half-Elf had slept. She’d woken to use the toilet, eat, drink, and ask a few vague questions before passing out.
Luaar, the [Village Head]’s son, had stayed by her, helping to feed the strange adventurer who’d come to them. She was…disappointing.
The first time she’d woken up, he’d been hauling a bucket of ice out. The villagers had put lots of water around her to chill. She’d been sitting up when he noticed the motion and pointed a wand at him.
“Where am I again?”
“Nerhs! I’m Luaar! You’ve asked three times!”
He froze. Ceria blinked at him.
“Right. Ceria to M—wait, I did that. Damn.”
She blinked at him. Then checked herself. She was still wearing her robe; albeit washed. The women had tended to her injuries, though most had been healed.
“Did you take off my clothes?”
“No! It was the women! We didn’t touch you!”
Ceria felt at her belt, blinking at the bag of holding, her wand…
“You’re not robbing me. Or keeping me under guard? Am I in trouble?”
She glanced at the door, as if Luaar’s father was about to come in and attack her. Luaar shook his head. Ceria’s eyes twitched. She nodded slowly.
“Okay. Good. I’m going to rest. I’m—tired—”
She fainted forwards, losing the tension in her body.
 
—-
 
The next time she woke up, Ceria was more awake. She still ate everything he gave her. Luaar stared as Ceria tried to explain.
“Sorry. Mgghf. I’m—mana-burnt.”
“What’s that?”
She spoke and some food nearly came out her nose. Luaar had heard half-Elves were beautiful. She was certainly half-immortal, but the rest? Ceria swallowed hard.
“[Mage]-thing. I was controlling a powerful creation and fighting. I’m an adventurer. I pushed past my limits; I need to rest. One more day and I’ll be fine. I need…did you find anyone else?”
She had asked, and the people of Nerhs had checked, but they had found no one else nearby, and some had gone for miles out. Luaar said that and Ceria grimaced.
“I need to find Pisces. He’ll be in trouble.”
“Is he your friend? Another adventurer?”
“Yes. Gold-rank. Give me—give me that, please. What is it?”
“Mustard.”
A mustard seed, along with yellats, were among the few things Nerhs made. Ceria lathered a yellat with it and ate it. She chewed furiously.
“I need to contact my friend. She sent me a [Message]—where is Nerhs exactly?”
“It’s not part of any nation. We used to be, but we were abandoned.”
The half-Elf interrupted Luaar, not unkindly, but impatiently.
“Location. North Chandrar, south, east? Give me one and I’ll ask for details later.”
“South.”
“Thanks.”
Luaar wanted to ask who Montressa was, how Ceria had gotten here, and more, but she was already flagging off. Exasperated, he rose to find his father.
“The adventurer is awake! Her name is Ceria Springwalker, father, and she wants to talk to you!”
Novethur, or Nove as he was known, turned. He had been sitting with the other oldest [Villagers] since Ceria had woken up on the third day. They had been in conference; someone had even ridden hard to a neighboring village to pick something up.
They were consulting it now. Nove nodded heavily.
“It is time, then.”
He closed the book and the other villagers murmured.
“Do you think it will all go well, Nove?”
“I think so. She seems reasonable. But remember: follow the guide. Here. If I don’t return—execute the following.”
Nove turned and handed the village’s [Healer], old Mereth, the book. Luaar stared at it, a bit incredulously.
When Nove and the others had realized an actual adventurer had appeared in their village, they had sent for the book. Apparently they hadn’t ever thought they’d have to use it, but it was actually a staple the world over in some settlements. Both as entertainment and…a guide.
Adventurers and You: what to do if you find an adventurer on your doorstep. By Krsysl Wordsmith.
“Father, is that book real?”
“Very real.”
Nove looked at his son. He had consulted with the book long and hard. Of course, he’d laughed about it the first time the copy had been passed around. Now?
 
Pg. 42.
‘Section 8: Adventurers Appearing Out of Nowhere. 
If you are subject to the ‘randomly appearing adventurer’ be it an emergency-teleport, a visitor falling from the sky, or, rarely, one tunneling up out of the ground or so on, remain calm.
