Worse, Desais, the [Chancellor], had done a quick check and no relic-class artifacts had been found in Magistrate Ducaz’s possession. Nor had Yvlon expected them to find anything; he had been holding onto two of her pieces of gear, but now all of it was confiscated, far from her.
She was stuck, in more ways than one. Yvlon thought in the privacy of her mind as they were herded into the latrines; she declined to use the stinking privies, except to pass water, out, and then to the gladiator’s life. If Magistrate Ducaz had been an honorable man and read the book on adventuring…well, some people thought they were the exception.
It would have made everything so much easier that way. Yvlon Byres was miserable on her first day in her new life. She was sunburnt from Nerrhavia’s sun on her fair skin, weak from her battling in the Village of the Dead, and…
Distinctly unwell. Some of the other new [Gladiators] eyed her as she sat, fidgeting, awkwardly eating with her left hand since her right was gone. She was a Gold-rank adventurer—but she’d been through hell and back and it showed.
“So this is the beast who killed over a hundred [Guards]? Looks like someone poisoned her and took off an arm.”
One of the [Gladiators] in the Arena of Rust grinned as some of the veterans eyed the newcomers. They got to eat private meals, alone or in groups; they had value. Some had even joined of their own volition. One of the others, mingling with the new prisoners, shrugged.
“Apparently she chopped them all up one-armed. Gold-rank. There’s one to watch.”
“Any other newcomers?”
The [Gladiators] were an interesting bunch. Mostly String Folk; other species did feature, but more rarely, they were in a decent arena. Far from the largest or most hotly-contended, but tens of thousands would watch a match.
And there was a match on any given day. Now, the [Prisoners] might have to fight giant crocodiles with spears, or fight unbalanced matches against each other, because that was sport.
[Gladiators], though, got more leeway. They might get to attack a group of weaker [Prisoners] in a ‘blood match’, or they’d fight each other in battles where you could lose a limb at worse—but it wasn’t to the death and there was an unspoken rule not to do too much damage to each other.
Of course, if it was a blood match, all bets were off, and the presiding dignitary would decide life or death for the losers—if the battle didn’t finish them off. Otherwise, a [Gladiator] could ‘yield’. His opponents could refuse, of course, but in the better arenas, there were even [Lesser Teleport] scrolls that could be triggered so a [Gladiator] could fight another day.
Not so in the Arena of Rust. The arena got its name because blood was spilled every day, unlike some arenas where displays of pure skill were enough.
Nor was it entirely fair. The [Gladiators] watching the prisoners warily were mid-to-low rankers. More valuable than expendables, but not like the reigning champion—or the crowd-favorites. They had no Patrons or poor ones.
Even so, if they wanted, they could ‘nudge’ the [Arena Master] or [Guards] into helping them out. Gold, favors, anything went. So a [Gladiator] might be paired against some Firebreathing Lions, but just maaaaybe they weren’t fed for a few days by accident. Or—if they had to go up against a [Prisoner] they didn’t like, maybe the prisoner didn’t get a good weapon.
Or the reverse. Yvlon narrowed her eyes as Rexes delivered this all in a whisper. She had been alone at first, picking at her meal and not very hungry but knowing she had to eat, but then Leprel, the [Storm Bandit] who’d first met her, had come over.
The [Gladiators] were eying her and Yvlon eyed them right back. She turned to face the two who’d given her the low-down.
“Why are you telling me all this? Aren’t you worried we’ll be enemies?”
Rexel licked her lips. It was Leprel who grinned lopsidedly.
“Think on it, Silver-arm. If that’s the score, all us prisoners are in trouble until we survive for a bit and stop being the fresh meat afore the hyenas. If she were here, we’d all be behind Merr. But since she got taken to be a [Slave]—if I get with you, you might watch my back in a fight. Not like there’re better options, eh?”
Silver-arm? Yvlon’s face was blank, but she bit into the yellat at last and swallowed some water grimly.
“Maybe. No promises. What’s next?”
“Training.”
Leprel laughed at Yvlon’s incredulous expression.
“What, you thought they’d just toss us to death? We’ll get at least a day or two of lessons. They also see how good we are with the blade to make the most interesting matches.”
“Aren’t they worried we’ll use the weapons on them? Even a practice sword can kill.”
Yvlon looked at the casual guards, but Rexel reminded her by tapping the rune they’d drawn in magic on her neck.
“No need. You kill one of them, your head blows off. So—just keep calm, eh, Silver-killer?”
The [Silversteel Armsmistress] glowered at her two companions.
“What is with these nicknames?”
The two, [Bandit] and [Thief], exchanged silent looks. Neither one said it, but Leprel quietly traded places with one of the other prisoners to the relief of Yvlon’s cellmate. It was a risk with a wild, raging monster like her, but—she had a sense about Yvlon.
If you wanted to be a legend in the Arena of Rust, you needed a nickname and the Skills to back it up. She and Rexel were putting their hopes on the beast from Izril, one-armed or not.
Yvlon Byres grumbled as she stomped off after breakfast, following the others to sword practice. She still felt unwell and occasionally felt at her stomach. But she was acclimating, understanding she might have to fight. She was just glad…no one had noticed the most important things.
Two things. One, they’d tested everyone for magic when putting them in jail and noticed Yvlon’s arms obviously. They couldn’t remove them, so all was well. Well, that was one thing.
The second was that they had no idea what her Skills could do. Yvlon hadn’t used her new Skills yet since she was always with her cellmates, but even without…she glanced casually at the jagged metal on her right arm. She couldn’t tell, but it looked—
A bit longer. Was her arm growing back?
 
—-
 
He did not know where Yvlon was. Or Ceria. Or Pisces. Ksmvr did understand a few things, and compartmentalized the facts in his neat mind like a good Prognugator would. Or adventurer.
 
-He was in the Illivere Federation, a group of states all specializing in Golem-manufacture in the south of Chandrar.
-They had not arrived in Khelt and been separated mid-trip, possibly by magical disturbance or the haste of the spellcasting. Possibly Pisces had simply miscast the [Greater Teleport] spell.
-Whereabouts of all the other Horns were unknown, even to the Magus-Crafter of Illivere.
-Ksmvr was a pseudo-prisoner, exact status unconfirmed, but his ‘murder’ of Domehead and Hammera and the other Golems had engendered Illivere’s wrath.
-He was in the Magus-Crafter’s personal abode under watch, sharing the space with the Empress of Beasts, Nsiia of Tiqr, who had saved him for reasons unknown.
-All his items had been confiscated. That they knew about.
 
These were the facts. Ksmvr nodded to himself as he tried to figure out the best plan of action.
Of all the Horns of Hammerad…Ksmvr had not read the book about adventuring by Krsysl Wordsmith. Ceria had kept insisting, but Ksmvr had been told by the Free Queen that ‘that Drake [Writer] was a fool’, and thus, questioned the validity of the writing. One of the few times he had ever actually disobeyed his Captain in any way.
Besides, he was no ordinary adventurer. For better or worse, and it seemed all worse as of this point, Ksmvr was Antinium, and his reputation on Chandrar and everywhere was being one of the bloodthirsty monsters of Rhir, herald of the swarm that would overrun all if given the chance.
Rather than lean out of that as they’d tried to do so many times in the north of Izril, defusing tense situations, Ksmvr leaned into it. The first time Femithain and Armsmaster Dellic and two bodyguard-Golems—and a few [Golem Artificers]—all came to talk with the Antinium adventurer, they found Ksmvr standing at the enchanted window.
“Adventurer Ksmvr of the Horns of Hammerad?”
Femithain was still troubled by Domehead’s loss. By the events that had occurred—he could see and even heard the angry shouting from outside. Days still and they wanted Nsiia punished. Well—that was for later. He waited, but the Antinium did not turn around.
Ksmvr did speak.
“I am Ksmvr. Of the Free Antinium. How may I help you, Magus-Crafter? Or should I say: is it war?”
His head rotated slowly on his shoulders. The Humans flinched as the mandibles opened wide, and the two broken antennae stumps wiggled independent of one another.
Femithain halted, suppressing a moment’s unease at Ksmvr’s foreign appearance. Of all the species in the world—the insect-based Antinium were the most unnatural, even over Lizardfolk, or Drowned Folk.
“I would hope not, Adventurer Ksmvr. I—have come to you to express my deepest apologies for the events at the Testing Grounds.”
“Indeed. I regret slaying so many Golems. In self-defense, you understand. But then, I am a Prognugator. We are trained to defeat any foe. You do realize that keeping a Prognugator of the Antinium prisoner is an unacceptable act to the Hives?”
The escort murmured and Armsmaster Dellic’s hand on his sword tightened. Femithain hesitated. Ksmvr met his gaze, not blinking—although he didn’t blink.
He was bluffing with exactly zero cards in his hand. His Hive didn’t care for him. Nor would anyone go to war for him. However, the other Humans looked worried.
Femithain though…regarded Ksmvr and nodded slowly.
“We are not keeping you prisoner, Adventurer Ksmvr.”
“Then, I am free to go? Please, stand aside. I will collect my belongings and depart Illivere at once, then. Perhaps with a single stop to the Mage’s Guild.”
Ksmvr made as if to move and saw the man with the sword half-draw it. Femithain held a hand out.
“Armsmaster Dellic, please step back. Your conduct is unbecoming towards a guest. I would ask Adventurer Ksmvr to stay as a guest—given the circumstances. For a few days.”
He met Ksmvr’s gaze. The Antinium hesitated. Femithain wasn’t impressed by the threats? Had dominance failed to assert itself?
Then again, he had already asserted it far too much in the Testing Grounds. Ksmvr nodded slowly.
“Then I take it you do not wish me explicit harm? Why am I to be a prisoner, Magus-Crafter Femithain?”
The man hesitated before replying.
“Circumstances of national outrage, Adventurer Ksmvr. You did act in self-defense, but I cannot guarantee your safety given the ‘death’ of Hammera and Domehead among other Golems. It is also imperative that Illivere does not seem to aid a communal enemy of Chandrar.”
“As in, the Antinium threat which I represent?”
“Correct. There are rumors you are but a harbinger of many. Groundless, I take it?”
“Of course.”
The others’ heads swung back and forth between Femithain and Ksmvr. The two never looked away, and their replies only became quicker. Ksmvr barely paused before nodding.
“I understand the circumstances. However, I must warn you that I am a Gold-rank adventure and my rights are guaranteed by the Adventurer’s Guild. Moreover, as a Free Antinium of Liscor…”
He reached down. He’d been saving one of the foodstuffs on his plate. They’d given him all meat; perhaps thinking an insect as a carnivore from his mandibles.
A dried bone hovered in his hand and Ksmvr crunched it. The other Humans flinched. Femithain blinked as Ksmvr chewed it down, giving them all a good look at his incisors.
“…My patience is not unlimited. My Hive’s? Even less so. The Free Queen and her Revalantor, Klbkch the Slayer, can be—unpredictable.”
The Magus-Crafter nodded slowly.
“Understood, Adventurer Ksmvr. For now, we simply ask that you stay in this suite. Golems will not allow you to escape, but any amenity will be provided. Have you need of anything?”
“Hm. Maps would be acceptable. And a [Message] scroll? I would like to communicate my wellbeing to the Adventurer’s Guild and my fellow adventurers. And perhaps locate my friends?”
Femithain adjusted his glasses.
“All these things are underway. I shall have maps prepared and a [Message] scroll sent directly.”
“I see. Thank you.”
 
—-
 
That was the first encounter. Ksmvr thought he hadn’t established sufficient intimidation. Femithain had been helpfully precise, however.
To up the intimidation-factor, when the [Servant] came to deliver the scroll, they found Ksmvr, standing an inch in front of the door as it swung open.
They screamed. Ksmvr collected the scroll and maps after they’d run away shrieking. He spoke to himself as he unrolled them, corroborating his location with his internal knowledge and scribing a [Message] to Halrac, then Lyonette.
“Hm. Intimidation. How would Comrade Pisces or Captain Ceria do it?”
Pisces would no doubt cast a handy illusion, but lacking that, Ksmvr had to improvise. Maybe he should hit himself on the head until he bled green. Provoke suspicions of insanity—or was that too much? He wanted Femithain to take him seriously, after all.
Ksmvr paced around the rooms. They were quite nice; a guest room for Femithain’s guests, not actually a cell. He had to convince the Magus-Crafter that keeping Ksmvr prisoner—or attempting to punish or hold him—was deadly. He tried to come up with Ceria-isms, or Erin-isms. Erin had a way of getting what she wanted. What would either say?
“Don’t mess with me. I’m crazy. I’ve eaten more [Bandits] than peas on this plate. I could kill you all with a fork. You shouldn’t have given it to me. Now I’m armed. Ice magic. I eat bugs.”
Ksmvr paused, staring at his lamentably-whole hand. Not the bone one Ceria scared kids with. She had demonstrated intimidation one time very well on children by concealing it. Perhaps his missing stump? Ksmvr waggled it and sighed.
He had no talent for this. What would Yvlon do? She was so sensible. If she had to intimidate someone, she’d use her rank, in a very acceptably diplomatic way. And then if there were no recourse, grab them and put their head through a wall.
“Hm. What if I ate this plate? Or—demonstrated the might of the Antinium by…”
Ksmvr was so busy thinking up ways to increase his dominance-factor that he didn’t realize the room had been infiltrated until his assailant leapt on him. He whirled, fists raised. His new Skill was ready to pulverize—
“Meow.”
Yinah the half-Golem cat landed on Ksmvr’s shoulder. She stared at him. He stared back.
“You are the cat.”
