Refer back to the ‘adventurer alignment test’ at the start of the book to ascertain how dangerous this adventurer is. Under no circumstances should you attempt to rob or deprive the adventurer of their possessions.
Many settlements and individuals have made this mistake. While it may be tempting to earn a fortune off their artifacts, theft is still theft and selling a Gold-ranked object is harder than you might think! Moreover, the adventurer’s enemies or allies often enact vengeance even if the individual is deceased. Kidnapping is also rarely profitable for that reason.
With the random-appearing adventurer, you have to first make a risk-reward assessment. Ask yourself the ‘adventurer’s question checklists’, entries #1-14. 
Will this adventurer be dangerous when they wake up? Are they infected? More importantly, are they being followed? Are they putting you or your loved ones in danger?
If the answers are ‘no’, and they seem to be on the neutral to good scale of alignments, it is often profitable to help them. Adventurers can be generous for help rendered. Just remember: an adventurer makes life exciting. And exciting isn’t good for the health.
 
Section 9: Romancing an Adventurer.
Unwanted children from the roaming, licentious and lascivious adventurer are, sadly, a common occurrence that…’
 
Well, that last part didn’t seem applicable. However, this was one of Krsysl Wordsmith’s most popular works, along with the Antinium Wars, Guide to the Walled Cities, and so on.
So, it was with some actual foresight and apprehension that Nove entered his home where Ceria was resting. Luaar was, to his great disappointment, hurried away.
The village was prepared to run if the half-Elf turned out to be an ‘evil’ adventurer. ‘Neutral evil’, ‘lawfully evil’, and ‘chaotically evil’ were terms Krsysl had apparently come up with to describe the worst sorts, that were closer to [Bandit] than adventurer.
And there were bandits about. Nove was worried about rumors that Sandkempt, a village to the northeast, had…gone silent. No one wanted to check in case something had attacked, but another village had apparently been extorted by [Bandits].
They were coming again. Nove thought of all of this as he entered the hut.
Ceria Springwalker was staring at the frozen buckets of ice and other basins of water about her, slightly bemused. She glanced up as Nove froze.
“Are you Luaar’s father? The [Headman]?”
“I am.”
His heart began to beat uneasily as he saw the ice they’d put around her. Ceria pointed to a frozen bucket by her food; the air around her was cold.
“Did you use my aura as I slept to freeze all this ice?”
Nove ducked his head.
“We—we did, Miss Adventurer. I must tell you, we used it since ice is not something we can normally afford, not without paying for a temporary charm. We even sold it.”
“Sold it?”
The [Village Head] nodded. They’d bundled huge amounts of ice together so it stayed frozen, ran it to other villages nearby, and sold it. Ice was valuable! The village had been having headaches for the last three days; they’d been flavoring shaved ice with bits of sugar and such and eating it. Ceria looked at Nove and he held his breath.
The half-Elf’s lips twitched. She chuckled, and then laughed.
“That’s amazing! Fine by me. Thank you for rescuing me. And not robbing me in my sleep. I owe you something. I’m…”
She tried to struggle up and Nove exhaled the breath he’d been holding. ‘Neutral’. Or even good! Ceria fumbled for her belt pouch, but nearly fell over as she tried to get up.
Nove caught her, helping her sit. Ceria blinked.
“Wow. I’m still drained.”
“You may rest as long as you wish, Miss Springwalker. We already consider your ice to have given us more than caring for you. But I hope we may talk before you go?”
She was nodding. Perhaps she’d read the guidebook too.
“Of course. I owe your village so much, Novethur. I need to find my friends, though.”
“The ones separated? Miss Ceria, is anything following you? Am I putting my village in danger by hosting you? We can arrange a safe place, but I must know.”
For a moment her features froze, and Novethur worried, but Ceria just shook her head carefully.
“I don’t think so. We teleported a long ways away. Just…”
She hesitated.
“I could have sworn someone called me ‘murderer’. But maybe it’s what I’m…well. No, I think not.”
That wasn’t what he wanted to hear, but at least she was being honest. Nove helped Ceria sit up and the half-Elf gestured.
“I need—to tell my friend where I am, but your son keeps telling me we’re not in a ‘nation’.”
“We pay no taxes and we were abandoned. However, I do know where we are. I can fetch a map.”
“Thank you.”
Ceria smiled, relieved to be speaking to an adult rather than a boy who kept asking inane questions like if she’d apprentice him. She knew they weren’t in Khelt. They’d hit something in the air, but she gasped when Nove showed her how far south they were.
“I nearly hit the sea! Damn it! Is that Nerrhavia?”
He nodded. Ceria groaned. They’d bounced—or she had—all the way south! She bit her lip, hard.
“I have to find Pisces. But he’s not responding and he’s out of range. I’ll have to scry…Montressa left a [Message] saying she can’t spot him, but she knows where Ksmvr is. Where’s…sorry, where’s ‘Illivere’? The Illivere Federation? Makes Golems?”
“Right here.”
Nove pointed and Ceria brightened up. That was close! Well, not within walking distance, but give her a horse…she relaxed.
“Thank you so much. Here, Headman Nove. I want you to have…”
The [Village Head] had been expecting this. Or rather, hoping. Ceria counted out fat, gold coins into her lap, as many as she thought she could spare. And she had over two hundred in her bag of holding! The rest was at the Merchant’s Guild.
A small fortune glittered in her lap. She tried to push them into an empty bucket and offer it to him. Her arms shook with the effort.
“Please. I have to keep some, but—”
Novethur stared at more money than his village might earn in a year. He bit off the instinctual desire to protest and just nodded, taking the bucket with shaking hands. Gold was like water for adventurers. That was what the book said. Don’t argue, don’t bargain—take the money if it was good.
Oh, and don’t tell anyone you’d been paid. Ceria Springwalker smiled at Novethar, and the competent [Village Head] smiled at the decent adventurer.
She tried to remember what was next in Krsysl’s book. Not Adventurers and You, but his companion book.
Adventuring for Beginners: a thousand tricks and tips, including how to speak to quest-givers and royalty. By Krsysl Wordsmith.
That damned Drake might have had a lot of stupid ideas, but at least if both sides read the book, they were on the same page.
 
—-
 
The Djinni would not reach Reim overnight. Nerrhavia was vast and fast as at least one of them could travel, timing also mattered.
Timing. Somewhere, her friends might be dying. Ceria slept, but she did not rest easy. Her exhaustion from keeping the Frostmarrow Behemoth intact after battling over twenty giants was one thing. Her desire to find her friends…of all of them, she might have taxed herself hardest. Muscle could knit in seconds with a healing potion, but the half-Elf had drawn deep.
She had to find them. Ceria tossed and turned and mustered her strength, for she knew, without a doubt in her heart that if they were able—
Her team was thinking the exact same thing.
By the end of the fourth day, Ceria was walking, albeit with Luaar there to help her. The mana-burnout was fading by the end of the fifth, which was just as well. The [Bandits] rode in around that time and she heard the voice again.
“Murderer!”
However, she had time to prepare for all this. Ceria Springwalker was stranded, but not helpless. She only had to ask herself one question as she assessed, learned where she was and what might be in front of her or finding and rescuing her friends. And that was—
 
—-
 
“—how am I going to get out of this?”
Yvlon Byres sat, her one arm folded, staring at the wall. She hmmed to herself, biting her lip. She wore no manacles on her legs or arm anymore.
However, there was an unpleasant marking on her neck. A glowing rune that would blow her head off—and the rest of her body—if she left this place, or angered her captors.
She was in the colloseum, in one of the gladiator’s cells. It was and wasn’t like prison.
Yvlon was familiar with incarceration in the north. Not personally, but she knew what a [Lady] might—it could be municipal, or administered by the ruling lord. Swift—it often was—or longer-term prisoners did exist. More rarely though; Calruz was an exception.
It cost money to feed and house them, and that was a luxury most didn’t have. A [Bandit] normally got the noose. However, Chandrar put their prisoners to work. They made slaves out of them or—as Yvlon now knew intimately—made them [Gladiators].
She had not gained the class yet. She had not fought yet. But she would.
To Yvlon’s surprise, once she’d arrived in the cells, she and the other [Storm Bandits] had been divided up. Their shackles had been removed, and they had been fed, even given fresh clothing, albeit already used. The [Guards] watched them, but didn’t offer to beat them and gave them privacy, even small luxuries.
Even the [Storm Bandits] seemed to think they’d struck out. Because a prisoner or worse, [Slave], would be worked until they dropped. But a [Gladiator]?
“Let’s see. Either I break out—and I’m in a large city in…where in Nerrhavia? Point.”
Yvlon turned her head. A terrified woman pressed up against the edge of the cell shivered and pointed.
“T-there, Miss Byres.”
“Hm.”
Yvlon raised her metal arm. She poked a finger straight through the old stone of her cell and carefully marked the crude map of Chandrar. The [Thief] that had been in her cart and two of the other prisoners who were now gladiators stared at Yvlon in horror. Every time she looked at them, they flinched. They were clearly worried she’d beat them or kill them—the story about her mad rampage had been all over the cells.
The other gladiators watched Yvlon from their cells. Not the barren, straw-and-lice cells with urine on the floor and an unsanitary odor she had expected at all. Rather, there were blankets, pillows, the [Guards] made sure there weren’t rats, and someone had even lit incense.
“No good. I’m way too far within the borders. Damn. You said I was about…here?”
Yvlon indicated the western edge of Nerrhavia. One of the prisoners nodded.
“If it was where they said—yes, Adventurer Byres!”
She gave the woman a look; the cells were obviously split between genders.
“You can call me Yvlon. I’m not going to hurt you.”
“Absolutely, Yvlon! Whatever you say!”
The Human woman sighed. She was alone among mostly String Folk, although the gladiator-prisoners hued to all sorts. She turned to face the three companions in her four-person cell.
“Okay. What’s my other option. Let’s assume I’m not freed after an investigation and I don’t break out of these cells.”
They nodded rapidly. Yvlon frowned.
“What did you say? When you said I could ‘earn my freedom’? As a [Gladiator]?”
The female [Thief] shivered. Her name was Rexes, and she was a Cotton-caste [Thief]. Her strings were frayed, but she had old, silk arms, which made them fast—too bad her legs hadn’t been as fast, or she wouldn’t have been caught.
“We’re [Gladiators], Miss Yvlon. We’ve been sentenced for our crimes—”
“I did nothing wrong! I was defending myself! I killed no one!”
Yvlon glowered. Rexes nodded rapidly.
“Of course not! B-but we are [Gladiators], which is for the best.”
“Why?”
All the String Folk looked astonished she didn’t know, but [Gladiators] were a story of a different continent. As much a fairy tale, as well, jungles in Baleros. Yvlon had dreamed of going to such places, but she hadn’t studied.
“Well…a good [Gladiator] that wins—or puts on a good show—can earn a patron. They can get better cells. If they do well enough for long enough, you can win your freedom! Freedom as someone’s [Bodyguard], or the champion of a city! There’s more than one criminal who ended up living fat for the rest of their days after winning an arena, or the championship.”
“Wonderful.”
Yvlon growled. However, it was a thought. She eyed her jagged stump of a right arm and grimaced.
“From what I recall from the stories—gladiators don’t fight just each other, do they?”
The prisoner’s enthusiasm faded markedly. One of the [Prisoners]—a [Gambler] with too many debts—pursed her lips. She didn’t have the confidence of the [Thief], or for that matter, Yvlon.
“The expendable ones fight beasts, monsters, and sometimes even damned Golems or other things for sport. If you’re worth more, you’re safer. Us? We’ll get rusted weapons and fight the real gladiators. Some might take it easy on us. That’s why we should make friends.”
“When?”
Yvlon frowned, looking across the other cells; all the ones around her were the [Prisoners]. The nicer, private rooms were elsewhere.
Rexel gave Yvlon a blank look.
“Why, when we eat or are trained, of course. The veteran [Gladiators] sometimes check the newcomers. To recruit to their team or size up. I’m sure they’ll come to see you.”
Yvlon looked at Rexel. Then the [Armsmistress] made a disgusted noise in her throat.
Size up? Win your freedom by killing others? New gladiators fighting monsters for fun? It was all…
“Blood sports. I heard Chandrar had some barbarities, but this is insane.”
The String Folk looked at Yvlon. She was surprised that rather than agreeing, as they were all in this predicament, they glowered at her.
“What?”
“Nerrhavia’s arenas are not barbaric, Human. We can show our battle prowess and courage, win freedom! Where else could you do that? In Izril? Don’t they have [Executioners] and [Headsmen] in Izril?”
“Yes. So what?”
The other three shook their heads.
“That’s the real barbarity.”
“Oh, really?”
Yvlon glowered. She was willing to debate the point, but she shifted one arm, and Rexel took a look at the shining metal—and the drawing Yvlon had made out of solid stone—and shushed her companions.
 
—-
 
Nevertheless, Yvlon Byres was stuck here. The Magistrate who’d lied about her had covered his tracks well. Yvlon had lodged a complaint, but how long would it stay in the system? He had all the time in the world to make up cover stories, find actual dead people she’d ‘killed’.
