The cat again? He glanced up, and then heard merry laughter.
Yinah had come into the room where Ksmvr was a ‘guest’ through some enchanted air vents, just large enough for a cat to crawl through. They provided cool air in Chandrar’s heat.
Ksmvr stared at the opening, but that wasn’t where the sound was coming from. He glanced out and saw someone on the balcony.
Nsiia, the Empress of Beasts, had leapt from her balcony, off a wall, and landed on his like the very cat clinging to her shoulders. She grinned, crouching, as Yinah waved a tail at Ksmvr.
The [Skirmisher] stared, recalling Nsiia distinctly. Why was she here? She waved—pointed at the door.
“Does it open?”
Her voice was muffled. Ksmvr shook his head.
He was sealed in, and someone had enchanted the sliding door. Nsiia shrugged. She walked over and then appeared by a window.
Normally, you could latch and unlatch it, but Femithain had clearly sealed it shut with more magic. Nsiia tried it, grunted, and then punched the window.
The enchanted glass and frame popped out of the wall. The Empress of Beasts swung herself through the gap. Yinah landed on the bed, and Ksmvr stared at Nsiia.
“I believe vandalism is frowned upon in every nation in the world. Am I being attacked?”
The Empress of Beasts eyed Ksmvr, and then laughed. She straightened, hopped off the bed, and faced him.
“Not by me! Greetings, Adventurer Ksmvr of the Free Antinium. I am Nsiia of Tiqr. Formerly the Empress of Beasts, now prisoner, like you. I greet you and offer you the bounty of the oasis—or I would, if I had any left to me.”
She made a curious gesture with one hand, two fingers and a thumb splayed out as she touched her shoulder and bowed slightly. Ksmvr hesitated, and copied the gesture.
“I greet you, Empress of Beasts. I also possess no oasis, but I would offer you the bounty of my personal tree. If we were close to it. I also thank you for saving my life.”
Nsiia eyed Ksmvr and then burst out laughing.
“An Antinium owns a tree?”
“Two trees, in the lands of House Byres.”
Ksmvr had been given them by Yvlon and it had been ratified by Lord Byres, after all. Nsiia threw her head back and laughed.
“Such a strange thing! I never dreamed I might meet an Antinium save if the King of Destruction took his conquest to Izril once more! Or they invaded. Now I see: an Antinium owns trees, and pets cats quite cutely!”
Ksmvr felt the same unfamiliar rush of embarrassment. He looked at Nsiia.
“Ah. You observed me?”
She smiled, eyes flashing with mischief.
“Yinah, my friend here, is a companion. I can see through her eyes for a while. You like animals, Antinium? Stories would say your people eat everything they see, and slaughter all life like a man culling animals.”
She stalked around the room, so much like an animal herself that Ksmvr was fascinated. Still, he was also thinking of why she was here; her illegal entry certainly indicated this was not with the Magus-Crafter’s approval.
“Rumors about the Antinium have as much validity as other species. I have observed that Humans cannot spit blood unless stabbed in the mouth, Drakes are not always greedy—although some can be, and so on. I would hope you would regard me as a Gold-rank adventurer first, Antinium second, Empress Nsiia of Tiqr.”
The [Empress] stopped, smiling, and inclined her head. She gestured to some chairs.
“Well spoken, adventurer. I apologize, then. But not all of Chandrar will see it the same way. In fact, that is why I am here. We have greeted each other; now, shall we sit and talk over food? This is the agreeable way to do such things.”
“That is acceptable.”
So they ended up sitting and eating over some of the snacks Ksmvr had been given. He plucked little dates from a bowl as Yinah leapt into Nsiia’s lap. She refused to feed the cat the fruit, though Yinah was clearly curious; she found some meat and crumbled it up instead.
“Do you know where you are, Ksmvr?”
“Illivere. I am in the Magus-Crafter’s residence, and you are the Empress of Beasts, deposed after the war in Tiqr. Currently, the King of Destruction rampages to the north, although he is under attack from multiple sides and Khelt has moved once again in the war between Jecrass and Medain.”
Nsiia blinked.
“You know more than I thought.”
“I must keep abreast of larger events. A good adventurer is aware of political currents.”
Ksmvr didn’t know more than that, but Nsiia nodded.
“Then you understand my position. Do you recall the Testing Grounds?”
“The Golems. Yes. You saved me, for which you have my gratitude. Though it seems to have earned you the wrath of Illivere itself.”
The open window let in outraged shouting, albeit from a great distance. Nsiia rolled her eyes, sighing.
“Yes. I have outraged the puppet-lovers so. I take it as a worthy sacrifice; had you died, opportunity might have been lost. I witnessed your battle, Ksmvr. The Horns of Hammerad fought well.”
Ksmvr’s broken antennae waved for a second. He had forgotten that the Village of the Dead’s raid had been broadcast. Nsiia was regarding him intently, even familiarly. They had all seen them fight. Ksmvr felt…proud of that. Then worried for his team.
“Why have you come, Nsiia? I am honored to meet an [Empress], but I must soon leave to locate my friends. I regret the incident with the Golems; that was self-defense, albeit with a display of too much dominance. I owe you a debt, but my team comes first.”
Nsiia nodded, smiling, but then shook her head. She sighed as Yinah purred in her lap. Ksmvr kept staring at that. Nsiia saw, and offered him the cat, wordlessly. Ksmvr began to gently pat Yinah in his lap.
“I know you hunt for your team, Ksmvr. But you will not leave Illivere so easily. Femithain is an honorable, straightforward man. But he is a ruler. And you are Antinium. I come here because we may share the same fate—and I would like to talk first. Before you do something rash. We could be allies.”
Ksmvr thought about this. Unlike Yvlon, his first instinct was to nod, which he did. Mathematically, two people were better than one. Trust was an issue of course, but Nsiia had saved his life and she was an [Empress]. Her desires were predictable, meaning trust could be achieved based on shared need—until needs collided.
Also, she had a cat. Yinah yawned, then tried to squirm out of Ksmvr’s lap again. Distressed, he stared down at her.
“I do not understand. Why does Yinah the cat not prefer me? Is it because she is speciesist? Racism in animals is a terrible thing.”
Nsiia snorted as Yinah leapt into the woman’s lap. She shook her head, bending over Yinah.
“That’s not it at all. Nor is it your ‘skin’; Yinah wouldn’t mind either, would you?”
The cat shook its head, amiably. Ksmvr hesitated.
“What then? I am functionally able to pat fifty percent more than…”
He stopped. Nsiia scratched behind Yinah’s ears, giving him an amused look. She offered Yinah back.
“You pat Yinah, and she will enjoy that for a while. But—do you not know to scratch behind her ears? Tickle her? Kiss—well, I suppose not. Have you never held an animal?”
“I have patted horses. I would not wish to hurt an animal.”
Ksmvr slowly accepted Yinah. Nsiia pointed, smiling.
“You cannot hurt her so easily. Be gentle. She will tell you if you make a mistake. There.”
Ksmvr scratched Yinah by the ears and felt her purr. The world changed. Ksmvr gently held Yinah and unlocked a new technique in the world of patting—no, cuddling animals. He looked at Nsiia, and decided this would be a relationship of mutual benefit already.
Not even Captain Ceria had a way with animals as much as Nsiia. Ksmvr had learned the art of beaver-speaking, and horse-speaking, and many other animals-speaking, which seemed to involve shouting at them, but Nsiia was the [Empress of Beasts]! He listened as she leaned forwards and told him what his future held.
 
—-
 
Femithain had to break the news to Ksmvr, and he was apprehensive about the Antinum’s reaction. He did not beat around the bush, of course.
“Illivere is searching for your team, Adventurer Ksmvr. They will be found if they are here at all. I am willing to expand the search, and you are a guest. Once again, I apologize for the incident at Elbe; punishment will be administered. However, your…stay may need to be extended.”
“I cannot leave?”
Ksmvr stood in his room, the window secured again, the Empress gone, although Yinah was in his arms. The Magus-Crafter tried to explain.
The problem was that Ksmvr was Antinium. Nsiia had said it, and told Ksmvr exactly why the Magus-Crafter would keep him as a ‘guest’, even one with more liberty than she.
Even with the affidavit, the other nations of Chandrar had heard an Antinium was in their midst. An adventurer, true, one who had been on the news, sure.
However, one was here, for the first time…ever. Memories of the Antinium of Rhir and the Antinium wars surfaced. Izril had been distant, and the threat of the Antinium, however grave, had been far off. Now? They were facing it anew and feeling uneasy.
Did they want to let Ksmvr walk off? Absolutely not! Izril was one thing, but let the only known agent of the Antinium wander about, scouting out their lands and forces and seeing who looked the most edible? No thank you! Why didn’t they just cover themselves with gullible sauce while they were at it?
“A number of [Sages] and other representatives of many local nations would like to speak with you, Ksmvr. As a representative of the Antinium. I would offer you the run of the city, albeit with escort at all times. Many would like to speak with you, but a number of individuals, from Roshal to one of the Shield Kingdoms, have put a bounty on your head.”
Ksmvr had not believed Nsiia when she told him that would happen. He tilted his head.
“Most rude. However, I would still take my chances to find my team, bounty or not. I cannot simply leave? If you return my gear, I will not make this your responsibility.”
Femithain sighed.
“Your gear will be returned, Adventurer Ksmvr. All of it, naturally. However, for the good of Illivere, I must ask you stay. You see—the Hives of the Antinium have contacted me. The…Grand Queen of the Antinium and Free Queen both sent me [Messages].”
His skin chilled a bit. That alone had been astounding, and all six Walled Cities and a number of Drakes had contacted him at once, asking to see the contents of the [Messages], talk strategy. Femithain went on.
“The contents of both…warnings…were simple. If you should perish, the Hives of the Antinium will turn their wrath on Illivere.”
Ksmvr stared at Femithain, lost for words for once. The Magus-Crafter saw the Antinium [Skirmisher] open and close his mandibles.
“I claimed that the Hives would go to war for me, but I must tell you, Magus-Crafter, that I exaggerated the truth. I do not believe—did not believe—I was of any worth to my Hive. Or the Antinium.”
His voice trembled a bit. Femithain smiled slightly, if tiredly.
“It would appear you did not lie after all, Adventurer Ksmvr. I regret, then, that for Illivere’s safety, you should not go about unprotected. The Queens did not specify conditions for their wrath; moreover, the Walled Cities have their own…demands. Illivere itself can search better than one lone adventurer in any case. Will you accept a temporary stay?”
He was worried Ksmvr would refuse. However, the Antinium only hesitated a second before nodding.
“I am unhappy, Magus-Crafter, but I would prefer to remain amenable and work in cooperation with you.”
“Thank you, Adventurer Ksmvr.”
“You may call me Ksmvr, Magus-Crafter.”
The Antinium saw the man smile. It was just like Nsiia had said. Ksmvr became a guest of Illivere. It was not ideal, but he had to find his friends and Femithain would help with that.
Meanwhile, while he waited, Ksmvr talked with Nsiia. He learned how to scratch dogs on the stomach.
He quite liked animals. Also, Nsiia had an interesting proposal. Ksmvr listened.
 
[Animal Friend Class Obtained!]
[Animal Friend Level 2!]
[Skill – Comforting Petting obtained!]
 
Was it a combat-viable class? Absolutely not. However, Ksmvr hadn’t the heart to refuse it. He calculated that if he maintained a 6:1 ratio of combat-levels to non-combat levels, he could keep the class with no one objecting strenuously.
Sometimes, you had to have a class just for you.
 
—-
 
Ceria Springwalker sat in Nerhs, slowly bouncing [Message] spells back and forth with Montressa. It took a lot of effort and she needed to conserve her magic. A [Message] spell at this range was taxing, but now she knew.
Ksmvr, located. Yvlon? Unknown, unscriable. Pisces, likewise.
Well. At least one of them was found. Ceria bit her lip, trying to breathe in and out. She tried to form an [Ice Spike]…but it wasn’t any good.
She couldn’t call enough moisture out of the air to form the spell like normal. From the existing water? Sure! She eyed the javelin of ice she’d crafted out of a bucket of water.
Luaar stared wide-eyed at Ceria as she took stock of her magical abilities. The half-Elf cursed.
“Looks like I’m going to have to improvise with non-ice spells. Damn. Okay…at least I have my wand and gear. I can probably take on any Silver-rank threat, even alone. Even some Gold-rank threats. Hey, Luaar…”
She turned and he hurried forwards. The ice javelin reverted back to water, much to his disappointment. Ceria dipped a cup into it and sipped. The aura of ice wasn’t as pervasive around her; she could control it when she was awake.
“How can I help you, Adventurer Ceria?”
“It’s just Ceria. What kind of threats might I run into if I was heading to Illivere?”
She was already planning on going? Luaar gulped.
“Father hopes you can stay in case of [Bandits] and…”
“Yes, yes. I’ll see if I can do anything. I can’t stay, though, and I can’t summon…I hate not having water. But what about dangers on the roads? If I bought a horse—what’s the worst random monster I’d run into?”
Ceria sighed. She couldn’t try to summon an [Ice Elemental] for the same reasons her ice-spells weren’t working. Nerhs had only the water in their wells, and it was finite and dearly needed. When it rained, the wells were replenished, but that could be few and far between.
Once, Nerhs had had lots of water, apparently. It was close enough to the coast…but the weather had changed since Luaar’s father had taken his position. Now?
Ceria listened as Luaar described the worst of Chandrar’s most common predators. Manticores, giant sand worms, bandits of course, Sand Golems…
“Crelers?”
The boy shivered at the familiar name.
“They are everywhere, Adventurer Ceria. Some live in the sands, but they are always hunted down. When found.”
Ceria sighed.
