The cat licked her paw and stared at him curiously. Ksmvr remembered her! From the arena! Then she’d been on his chest…
The [Skirmisher] hesitated. Then he glanced around. No one was bothering him, so Ksmvr lifted Yinah up.
“Are you a prisoner of the Magus-Crafter too? Wait, that would make you a ‘pet’. You are half-Golem. I commend your upgrade.”
Yinah gave him a narrow-eyed look. But then Ksmvr began to pat her on the head.
“Pat, pat. You are a cat. Also known as a kitty, or kitten, or feline. I am Ksmvr. Pat, pat.”
All three hands came down and patted Yinah very gently. Ksmvr wasn’t sure if he was doing it right, but he had once been told animals liked such things. She was softer than the horses he had ridden, but she seemed to enjoy the patting just as much.
Travails forgotten, Ksmvr began to pat the cat. He was still a prisoner, even if not a dire one, and his team was lost. But here was a cat.
He liked cats, and didn’t realize he liked them until now. They made a strange, purring sound.
Pat, pat.
 
—-
 
Femithain’s problem was that Ksmvr was Antinium—the issue with the public demanding he be damaged in kind for the Testing was not the issue.
The issue was Antinium in Chandrar, a fact that had caused no less than Yisame to write to him expressing concern. Femithain didn’t…know what to say.
He was still trying to fix Domehead, reprimand all those at the Testings, address Nsiia, and locate other Horns of Hammerad—all while reassuring worried nations from the Shield Kingdoms to the largest nations that Antinium were not going to appear out of the sky.
Or from the ground. It was a ludicrous thought. Ksmvr was an adventurer, but panic…the Magus-Crafter sighed as he hurried back towards the guest suite.
Less than an hour since his first talk, and he had an idea. He held an affidavit for Ksmvr to sign, a magical seal confirmed by truth spell that Ksmvr was not part of an invasion force. Femithain had no idea how else to reassure the many concerned people; it was a ludicrous thing to need to prove, but maybe this would work.
“Magus-Crafter, will this really work? And that you should deliver it?”
“It may at least reassure most. What is the issue with my presence?”
Femithain turned to one of the [Golem Artificers]. The man was pale. He lowered his voice as Armsmaster Dellic warily eyed the door.
“You saw that—that thing. Magus-Crafter! Perhaps we should take more precautions! That thing—”
“Adventurer Ksmvr.”
“—it threatened war! Implicitly!”
“Mm. Yes. Although given what he has been through, that is an understandable precaution.”
The other man spluttered, but the Magus-Crafter looked unnaturally calm. He glanced at Dellic.
“Your impressions, Armsmaster?”
Dellic licked his lips.
“I don’t know how you’re so calm, Magus-Crafter. The Antinium didn’t sound understandable to me. That trick with the bone—it wants to fight.”
Femithain tilted his head. he realized that everyone else was of the same mind. Curious, the Magus-Crafter tapped at his lips.
When he knocked, there was a muffled sound. Femithain frowned—pushed open the door. He stopped with the others as Ksmvr stood in the room.
“Ah, Magus-Crafter. I assumed this was your pet?”
Yinah was held up in one of Ksmvr’s arms, and his mandibles snapped below her. The Humans froze. Femithain just blinked.
“ Yinah?”
“A pet. Then I will not consume her. We Antinium eat…everything.”
Ksmvr met the Magus-Crafter’s gaze. Femithain blinked at him. His lips quirked. He chuckled as everyone else stared at him, horrified.
 
—-
 
Dominance had failed once more! Ksmvr sat, horrified, after he’d signed the affidavit guaranteeing a lack of an Antinium invasion to his knowledge. He’d threatened to eat the cute cat and the Magus-Crafter had laughed!
He was clearly deranged. Ksmvr was up against a madman, and he could not employ the same aggression-tactics. He sat on the ground.
“Pat, pat. Little cat, you are not a good enough victim. Yinah? Can you look more scared? What is wrong?”
The cat squirmed in his lap as he gently patted it. Ksmvr saw her meow, then struggle with her golem-legs, which were a bit slow to react, to escape his lap.
“Are these pats not enough? I shall intensify. Pat, pat.”
Ksmvr was perplexed. He could give 50% more pats than any other non-Antinium in the world, but somehow it wasn’t enough! To his dismay, Yinah began to squirm out of his lap.
“No, do not do that. Here. I shall offer you—multi-sided pats. Like so. Pat, pat—”
Ksmvr began to pat her from the left and right sides, kneeling on the floor, as Yinah flounced away, tail raised dismissively. He followed her, attempting to regain her affection until he realized something.
The door was slightly ajar. Ksmvr froze, looked up—and saw Femithain, Armsmaster Dellic, the [Golem Artificers], and two incurious Golems all standing there. Peeking in on him.
The [Skirmisher] froze. Then slowly sat back.
“…It appears my attempt to…lull the cat into a sense of security for more ease of edibility has failed.”
That was the best he could do. But it was pointless. No amount of dominance would save him from the sight of him patting the cat. Armsmaster Dellic was staring, but the other Humans looked amused or even seemed to regard him as…adorable.
Oh no.
Ksmvr met Femithain’s gaze. The Magus-Crafter just smiled and adjusted his glasses.
“Adventurer Ksmvr, I am sure we all take your status with all seriousness. However, I would like to reiterate: Illivere has no designs on hostility with you, your team, or the Hives of the Antinium at all. This has all been an unfortunate misunderstanding.”
Ksmvr regarded him. The Magus-Crafter was smiling as Yinah huffed between his legs, bored of Ksmvr. He was—a refreshingly logical and direct Human, Ksmvr had to give him that. Practically Antinium in his mode of communication. But it seemed Ksmvr had been defeated from the start.
“You did not appear to take my intimidation seriously, Magus-Crafter. May I ask why?”
The [Brave Skirmisher] got to his feet. Magus-Crafter Femithain blinked. Then chuckled and covered his mouth politely.
“Ah, so that was the miscommunication Armsmaster Dellic and the others suffered. I regret to inform you, Adventurer Ksmvr, that I am a [Diplomat]. [Sense Intentions] is considered a basic Skill.”
Ksmvr’s mandibles opened and closed.
“How…regrettable.”
“Fortunate, in this case. Otherwise, misunderstandings might arise. I find harmony to be more acceptable than acrimony. I apologize, but would you sign this addendum claiming no knowledge of other Antinium on or about Chandrar?”
The Antinium gazed at the Magus-Crafter. He hesitated. Scribbled on the contract as the magic bound him, and looked at the Magus-Crafter. Quite impressed, Ksmvr nodded.
“I tend to agree with your statements, Magus-Crafter. I merely wish you had been there at the Testing Grounds earlier.”
Femithain nodded gravely.
“As do I. I hope we will not keep you long.”
The door closed. Ksmvr stared at it for a few minutes and then sat down. He thought about the Humans staring at him as his dominance-assertion failed. Slowly, without really understanding why, Ksmvr went over to the bed, sat on it, and then put a blanket over his head so as not to be observed by anyone else.
“I am very much embarrassed.”
 
—-
 
Yvlon Byres flushed for three reasons. The first was she was distinctly not feeling well, despite food and comparative rest.
The second was how she was handling the weapon she was holding. They’d given her a longsword when she asked for one; a practice weapon in the ‘training’ the [Gladiators] were given.
It wasn’t…bad. In fact, it was actually a cut above what a [Militia] or [Guardsman] might get. They had actual instructors who taught the new prisoners and gladiators how to fight. Showily, some of them, but most had simple advice they delivered in bored monotones.
“Don’t go for flashy kills unless you’ve won and no one’s around. No big cuts. You want to make a name and get a style? Figure it out after your fourth match.”
“You don’t have to win; just bleed and stay alive. Mind you, if you just run, the audience’ll throw things or you get hunted down. So. Pick. Your. Fights.”
They had the kind of…off-handed care that Yvlon hated. Like veteran adventurers talking to newbies who might survive, so they were investing just enough effort for a favor later on.
They didn’t beat the prisoners; nor were they gentle in sparring. Most of the non-combat classes like the [Gambler] got knocked about, but even after an hour, they probably knew enough to stab someone in a melee.
That was them. The [Storm Bandits] and Yvlon were a cut above the rest. The other gladiators training or observing could tell the new crop of gladiators had some actual fighters.
Yvlon though…she dodged sideways, swung her sword, and knocked Leprel’s blade down. She tried a riposte, but it was awkward.
Left hand. Yvlon hadn’t realized how much she relied on her dominant arm. She’d trained enough to use her sword left-handed, but the difference in finesse was night and day.
Even so, Leprel swore and jumped back. Left-handed or not, Yvlon was stronger, faster, and more experienced.
“It’s like trying to parry an axe! Take it easy, Silver-Killer, please?”
“Stop calling me that!”
Yvlon growled. She hated the easy ‘friendship’ of Rexel and Leprel. How quickly everyone seemed willing to die for sport. She certainly resented the corruption of government that had landed her here—or the idle self-preservation of the other officials.
She was angry, blushing—for the third reason, which was that the ‘armor’ they’d given her showed off more skin than regular clothing.
“This isn’t armor! This is metal underwear!”
One of the prisoners complained. The [Guards] and veteran gladiators chortled.
“You want armor? Win!”
That was how it went. An uphill battle until you won. Yvlon glowered about. She saw the [Gladiators] grin at her—then someone detached themselves from the mob. The others drew back and she saw a huge, gleaming figure.
When the writers or ill-informed poets wrote about ‘glistening muscle’ and ‘paragonic bodies’, they were generally exaggerating. Most people who glistened were sweaty, and some notions of the ideal physical form looked like exaggerated blocks of muscle to Yvlon—well, Grimalkin was an example of that.
Nevertheless, the champion of the Arena of Rust looked like that. His body was silk—or some kind of equivalent. Tough and lustrous, such that he looked like a [Lady] who applied the finest tonics to her skin as well as a mini-Grimalkin.
“So this is the One-Armed Slaughterer, the woman who went on a rampage in a city. Arms of silver! Eyes like a rabid Manticore! Fair of skin and beautiful enough for a Human—hah! I see it’s almost true, although the sunburn takes away from it all.”
He boomed as the new prisoners and even the guards fell silent. Yvlon stared up at the champion, who was six and a half feet tall, a giant of a man.
“That’s the Champion of Rust!”
Rexel immediately hid behind Yvlon, squeaking. She stared up at the Stitch-Man in awe.
“He’s won over two hundred bouts! Sixteen years in the arenas total! Five as champion here!”
“What’s your name? What do you want with me?”
Yvlon lowered her practice blade, staring grimly up at the Stitch-man. He smiled, showing perfect teeth.
“Merely to make the acquaintance of a promising [Gladiator]. You look like one who might last more than your first ten matches—I have an eye for such things. Come; you needn’t practice with the fodder. Why don’t we sit, talk? One can live well in the Arena of Rust—if you have the right friends.”
He held out a huge hand. Yvlon stared at him. She lowered her longsword—and then stuck it in the ground and crossed her one arm over her chest. It didn’t really work since you couldn’t cross your arms if you only had one.
“No thank you. I’m not a [Gladiator]. I’m an adventurer. Wrongfully imprisoned. I don’t care to make a deal with bullies who prey on the weak.”
A gasp ran around the arena. The Champion of Rust’s eyes narrowed slightly.
“Humans are as rude as any species I’ve met. Come now, Silverarm. I came here in friendship. You would not like me as an enemy.”
His smile was warning, now. Yvlon looked at him. Rexel, Leprel, were all trying to signal her to say yes! Don’t be a fool!
Unfortunately, they didn’t know Yvlon Byres. If her team was here, they might have calmed her down. Yvlon Byres right now?
She was alone, hot, half-nude, and ill. She stared at the Champion of Rust.
“I have enemies I’d rather not face. You’re not even on that list. I don’t want to have to kill you all—leave me alone or we’ll see who ends up dead. That goes for all of you!”
She looked around. The Champion of Rust sighed. He shook his head as he turned and walked away.
“Foolish woman.”
That was echoed by the others as Rexel, Leprel and a few prisoners dared to come over to the madwoman. Yvlon just picked up her longsword and kept practicing.
“You—you just made an enemy of the Champion of Rust! You could have worked with him, risen safely!”
Leprel was pulling at her hair, although it occurred to her that if Yvlon had taken the Champion’s hand, she and Rexel would have been left behind. Yvlon Byres just snorted.
“A man like that doesn’t have equals. If he thought I was more than an asset, I’d end up poisoned or dead. I’m not stupid.”
The [Bandit] bit her tongue on the obvious reply. Yvlon went on, glancing up. The Champion was jesting with some of the other veterans, who were wary, but still equals, even if he was first among them. After all—a Champion could be defeated.
“That Champion. He’s…over Level 30, isn’t he? Maybe Level 40?”
Rexel looked at Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] was feeling at the stump of her other arm. The [Thief] nodded.
“An Arena Champion is usually that good. Some have even been known to be over Level 50! Rarely, though; the Colosseum of Monarchs has one and no other, I think. They say Mars the Illusionist won her freedom when she was only Level 40 or so at the time.”
“Huh.”
Yvlon nodded to herself. The Champion of Rust glanced back and Yvlon Byres decided against making a rude gesture. She wasn’t Ceria. Nor was she Pisces, who would probably be reclining and eating grapes right about now if he was in her place.
She knew her enemy, and Yvlon Byres liked facing them head on. She went back to practicing, grimly trying to adjust to the sword. The other [Gladiators] watched, now sure that the first match of ‘Silverarm’ was going to be something indeed.
 
—-
 
Ksmvr received a visitor shortly after he crawled out of bed. He still felt embarrassed, but then he heard a meow.
