She would have risen to get him a plate, but the Garuda leapt up. He strode towards the cooking campfire like a blur.
Not even Couriers could match his speed. Garuda flying couldn’t go as fast as Takhatres, and even ‘walking’ he blurred along with multiple movement Skills.
He came back just as fast, sans plate. Takhatres stared accusingly at Flos as the King of Destruction looked up.
“What?”
“…Are you eating eggs for breakfast?”
Flos checked his plate.
“…Yes? Oh, come now. Don’t make that face!”
The Garuda folded his wing-arms and glowered.
“You knew I was coming. You’re really eating eggs? My entire tribe is here!”
“Come now, Takhatres, they’re chicken eggs! I didn’t think to tell the [Cooks] and we have a surplus that we don’t want to go to waste.”
“You’re still running poultry farms? Gah. I’ll have them make their own food. This is why…”
Takhatres sped off and came back, finishing his sentence.
“…thoughtless. We fought for five months against the Empire of Sands and you try to feed me eggs on a holiday.”
“I apologize. They’re not Garuda eggs!”
Flos rolled his eyes. Takhatres looked at him.
“Do you eat unborn Human…whatever they are? Or humanoids? Why don’t I host you at my camp and feed you half-Elf? Or monkeys?”
“Fetuses.”
Teres interjected helpfully. Takhatres nodded at her. Flos rubbed at his face.
“Do I need to have a second breakfast prepared so we all spare your sensibilities?”
“That would be a good start.”
Not Mars, Orthenon, or Gazi would have taken that tone with Flos. Teres saw the King of Destruction look up, a bite of omelette on one fork. He and Takhatres locked gazes. Flos exhaled, lowered his fork, and then took his plate, snatched the sausage off, and flipped the rest of it over his head.
“Fine!”
 
—-
 
It turned out that Takhatres and Flos were always like this.
“The Lord of the Skies will argue with his Majesty more than the other Seven—well, those living. Drevish used to do the same, and Amerys would often dispute certain issues. Queravia as well.”
Venith confided in Teres as a second breakfast of porridge was assembled. Unfortunately, it was travel-rations, so no honey and only a few dried dates. Takhatres ate with every sign of satisfaction—although that might be because he’d added Garuda rations to his; dried cicada. He offered it to Flos, but was clearly happy to eat the blander food since it was spiced with the King of Destruction’s glare.
“Do they ever really argue? I mean, really fight? I’ve never known Flos to uh, take being contradicted well.”
The [Lord] glanced at Teres, clearly reminded that she was one of the few people who used Flos’ name informally. She ducked her head, but Venith sighed.
“You, Takhatres, and few others would be those his Majesty suffers to—irk him—from time to time. The Lord of the Skies is a subordinate, but a proud one. He offered to join the King of Destruction; he never surrendered, even when he was beaten in those battles. Thus, there are times when he and his Majesty come to a head and neither one will relent.”
“And?”
Teres looked at Venith. It was Maresar who grinned and whispered.
“It becomes anything from a year-long grudge to a fight. The last time it happened was when they joined a banquet and Takhatres took the seat his Majesty had been offered because he got there two hours ahead. They nearly came to blows—until the King of Destruction demanded a second table be set up outside and the entire banquet moved around him. Takhatres refused to move, you see. He ended up eating alone in the banquet hall.”
It was so petty that Teres laughed. She looked at Takhatres admiringly. The Lord of the Skies returned her glance.
“So, are we going to greet the other army or are we sitting about?”
He leapt to his feet, already done eating.
“I will rise in my own time, Takhatres.”
Flos ate deliberately slowly to spite the Garuda. By the time he rose for his horse, Takhatres had already checked on his people, summoned an escort, and paced around their campfire twice before stopping to ask about Trey.
“No word. Not from him, Gazi or Calac. We must simply assume they are working hard.”
“Hm. They need to hurry up too. This stalemate is wasting time we need to be expanding in. But if the King of Slow Destruction doesn’t think we’re having a problem—”
“Gah! I’m sorry about the eggs! Dead gods and sands of Chandrar, you don’t but hold a grudge!”
Flos exploded. He seized his bowl, and stomped towards his horse. Teres looked at Takhatres, mouth open. She could make Flos that angry, but Takhatres had beaten her record. To her amazement and delight—she saw him wink at her.
 
—-
 
Flos calmed down by the time they were riding to parlay with the other army, and Takhatres had relented enough for the two to be gossiping.
“Yes, it was all Trey. He somehow set in motion Fetohep—I’d wager a Grand Elephant’s worth of gold on it.”
“Not the Arbiter Queen? I need to speak with him again.”
Flos waved a hand in largesse, acknowledging her contribution. The holiday had clearly raised his spirits, and Teres felt it herself. A break was just what they needed.
“I’ll grant you Queen Jecaina might have been part of it. However, what drew Fetohep out of his shell was the power of selfies.”
“…Of what? Are you making up words again?”
“Not at all! It’s the device Teres and Trey got working. You left before they figured it out—Teres, show Takhatres your iPhone! Take a picture; in fact, take one of his tribe! Takhatres, they’re memories. Mage-photos, as many as you want!”
Flos turned, beaming. Then a cunning look appeared in his eyes.
“Yes. Show him all your apps. Like the…Flappy Bird one.”
Venith, Maresar, and Teres all looked apprehensive. The memory of the last time Flos had played a game on her iPhone was fresh in Teres’ mind, but Takhatres was interested.
“Please be careful. It’s not meant for claws…”
Teres hesitated before handing it over. Takhatres inspected the iPhone from every angle, blinking.
“Little dots make up a picture? It’s not magical. And—oh!”
He blinked and flipped out of the saddle of his horse. Teres’ jaw dropped. She looked at her iPhone. He’d actually dodged the flash! She had a image of two blurry talons; his feet.
“What was that?”
Takhatres zoomed over to her, angry. Flos laughed so hard he nearly fell out of the saddle. Teres raised the iPhone.
“A picture! I’m sorry! Look, it’s just taking an image of you.”
“Does it steal your soul? Why the light?”
Takhatres was clearly suspicious, but he let her photograph him; it was still blurry because he kept fidgeting. He stared at the photo.
“Clean. Detailed. I can take as many as I want?”
“Yes. I could lend it to you.”
“I’d like to take pictures of the nestlings. We wouldn’t be able to pay for mage-photos and illustrations are a waste…”
Takhatres looked wistful. Teres blinked, them beamed.
“Oh, that’s a splendid idea. They’re quite cute! Are there many in your tribe right now?”
“A group just hatched. From eggs.”
Flos scowled, but Takhatres was deeply impressed by the iPhone. He listened to her abbreviated spiel about how it worked. Teres had told all of Flos’ trusted people.
It was always interesting hearing what they took away from it. Teres laid out all the iPhone’s functions, but each one of his vassals had latched onto a different function.
For instance, Mars had made Teres take a number of videos and pictures of her ‘best looks’, and that was multiple illusions…and angles…Teres had felt like a modeling photographer by the end of it and covertly deleted most of it. Especially when Trey had asked for copies. Then—over two dozen other [Soldiers] in Reim. The worst part was that Mars had offered to pose without clothing. Teres had dark suspicions on whether Trey had ever taken her up on the offer.
Anyways, that was Mars. Orthenon and Maresar had been most fascinated by the option the iPhone didn’t have working; communication.
“A free [Communication] spell, even visuals would be great if I had a dozen of them and was still raiding.”
Maresar sighed longingly. Venith gave her a disapproving look—he’d actually really liked the calculator. The fact that it could do logarithmic math was not lost on the [Lord] and he’d tried to get Teres to reverse-engineer the mathematical formulas…which she couldn’t do.
Takhatres liked the camera. He just breezed past the phone functionality.
“There aren’t as many communication problems with my tribe. We can fly fast enough. But what’s this…Flappy Bird? Is this another one of his pranks?”
“It’s a game. You see…”
Teres had a terrible feeling about what was going to happen. She remembered Gazi effortlessly beating the game—and Flos failing and raging. She expected Takhatres to ‘win’ the entire thing, actually, given his insane hand-speed.
However…Flos Reimarch just smirked as Takhatres tapped, awkwardly pressing his claws together since the iPhone’s touchscreen didn’t like his claws. Takhatres tapped, watched the little bird fly—and die.
“What? This screen isn’t meant for me. This game is…wait. Let me try again. This is—this is ridiculous!”
He died eight times within seconds. Teres stared at him and realized the bird kept jumping at the wrong time. Takhatres made it ‘jump’ at the last second, and grew increasingly frustrated.
“This thing doesn’t move at all! It’s as slow as an albatross!”
“My record is eighty three. But I suppose we cannot all do well at all games.”
Flos remarked innocently. Takhatres’ head slowly rose. Teres tried to snatch the iPhone back, but it was too late.
 
—-
 
The problem wasn’t Takhatres’ dexterity or his eyes, but his speed. It was that he was too fast. He had to adjust to the game which was, frankly, calibrated to Human reflexes. Interestingly, even when he adjusted, he was only Flos-level. The Garuda got impatient playing the repetitive game, and Teres suspected having to perfectly time his presses meant he was just…staring at the slow-moving screen for way too long.
“This is a stupid device!”
After his twenty sixth death and failing to reach even a score of thirty, Takhatres snapped. Flos was laughing his butt off, but the Garuda raised the iPhone and threw it as far as he could.
“No! My phone!”
Teres cried out. However, Takhatres just leapt out his saddle, sprinted after it, and caught it before it hit the ground. Teres stared at him, open-mouthed.
“You had your fun. It’s a fascinating device. If we end the war, I’d like to relax for at least a week.”
The Garuda glowered at Flos as he handed the iPhone back. Flos sobered, nodding.
“If Amerys returns to us, you, Orthenon, Mars, and I might storm Nerrhavia alone. Just like the old days. We could reach the capital with your movement Skills, burst through, kidnap Yisame—I’m working on the plan.”
“What about Gazi and Amerys in that scenario?”
Teres asked. Flos shrugged.
“They’ll guard the capital. Gazi wouldn’t let me have any fun if we broke into Yisame’s palace—come to that, we’ll leave Orthenon behind. Maresar, would you be interested?”
“Hmm. If I can loot their treasury.”
Maresar grinned. Teres looked at Takhatres, who was smiling and Venith, who looked concerned.
“Wait. Is that an actual plan?”
“We did do it a number of times. It works, depending on if they’re expecting us. Narrow hallways, no armies? Gazi, Mars and Orthenon could hold off tens of thousands if they didn’t have magic. They did that one time.”
“Because someone had to reveal themselves when they heard they were being badmouthed.”
Takhatres grumbled. Flos hummed innocently.
Stories of old. Every time they talked, Teres was reminded that this was Flos’ return. All their history? It was the stuff of stories. They were so casual about it here that she forgot.
 
—-
 
She saw more of the King of Destruction’s legend in the wary eyes of the Stitchfolk [General]. It was a she this time, and she bowed. Her clothing, like her skin, was silk, perhaps armored silk, or just decoration given the truce.
Nevertheless, both sides had taken only a small retinue each…frankly, even though they were in bowshot of the enemy camp, it was Nerrhavia who was in danger if Flos broke the truce; Takhatres, Flos, Venith, and Maresar were all probably higher-level than the [General] herself.
“King of Destruction. I greet you on this day of Cinaelu. Will you drink with us?”
“Of course, General.”
The King of Destruction smiled, and that was how Teres found herself sitting on a carpet under a canopy spread over the sand, sipping a slightly tart wine, talking awkwardly with some of the String Folk, who were clearly aware of this temporary truce.
However, it was also clear that this was the holiday of holidays for String Folk. The [Soldiers] were exchanging small gifts, all of string, Teres realized, and relaxing. Staring at the King of Destruction too.
It was going to make the next battle harder. However, Flos Reimarch just smiled as he spoke to the [General].
“My companion, General Freivisha, is not of Chandrar.”
“Ah. Then she is new to this day?”
“Exceedingly. Hm. Here you are.”
Flos made to hand it over, but a servant hurriedly bowed, took the small slate, and then transferred it to General Freivisha. The servant, Teres noted, was Cotton. The [General] and all those relaxing were Silk.
Castes and hierarchies. For all that, Teres was tickled pink by the interaction. The [General] blushed slightly as her smooth silk skin turned even darker. She tucked the slate with the King of Destruction’s signature into her bag of holding.
“It would not be seemly to ask otherwise, but on this day of days…I thank you, Lord of the Skies.”
“Perhaps you should consider retreating before nightfall. I don’t believe his Majesty or I would enjoy battling you tomorrow. Nor after exchanging pleasantries.”
Takhatres handed over his autograph as well. Flos nodded. Somehow, autographs had become a common idea in this world—but Teres had no idea who had started it! Maybe that Joseph guy.
“I could never gainsay her Majesty’s orders.”
The [General] replied after a moment’s pause in which all her subordinates glanced slightly her way. Flos nodded, sighing.
“Then let us simply enjoy Cinaelu! A toast!”
“What’s Cinaelu celebrating?”
Teres asked Maresar as she raised her cup. The [Bandit Lord] whispered back.
“The day when the String Folk of Chandrar won their freedom.”
The [General] had overheard. She paused the toast to smile at Teres.
“You see, Lady Atwood, the name comes from our great hero, the first liberator of our kind. This day we won our freedom, and it is named after her.”
“Cinaelu?”
