“So, Rose. If you know what Honored Lehra will do, and the shape of events—what can she do, now, to activate the Blade of Mershi?”
Rose hesitated. Krshia chewed as the young woman thought.
“Well…she needs to find uh, the City of Stars’ ruins…or a sign of the wielder’s old life. Then she’d activate powers and find out more—”
“So search for clues. Which is what she is doing. Could you tell her anything specific?”
“Uh—uh—not anything I can think of. But the story—”
Was a story. And there were a lot of ways you could tell it. Rose’s face fell, but Deskie just smiled.
“Knowing the shape of the final product isn’t knowing how it was woven. Your knowledge is powerful, Rose. If you can help Honored Lehra, the debt of a Named Adventurer and her team would not be small. But I think, we should not focus overly on that.”
Shamefaced, Rose hung her head. Inkar came forwards then.
“Is Lehra in danger if this Lord Dragial will win?”
“It’s—maybe not now. He’s the big villain. I don’t know how you’d stop that.”
“By killing him?”
Akrisa frowned. Rose stared at her, and some of the excitement drained further away.
“What? N-no. And if you did, it would probably be him being replaced by someone else. His best henchmen or a betrayal from a friend…”
“Like our lives.”
Krshia couldn’t help but comment. Beilmark grinned ironically.
“Cut off the head and one grows back. Like a gang.”
Rose hung her head. Was it useless after all? Inkar patted her on the shoulder, and Krshia shook her head.
“Rose’s knowledge is just one thing that we have to bring before Chieftains and Tribes like ours, yes? Let us consider telling Lehra and her tribe—although Lehra is not the most discreet. For now, I think it is time. The Raskghar are here.”
The Gnolls sobered. The Raskghar were under heavy guard, but Pallass had escorted them here. Krshia sighed.
“The first debates will begin to take place. We have to make more allies. Thus, we must risk taking more tribes into confidence, before the final reveal. It is time to buy and sell, and we risk much, but we have much to offer.”
She nodded at Akrisa, hoping she wasn’t overstepping, but this all made sense to her. She was a [Shopkeeper], and this was a bidding war. Akrisa nodded, and so did the other two Chieftains. It was Orelighn who spoke for all three, which made Krshia relieved that it wasn’t Akrisa seeming to show favoritism.
“Honored Krshia. You have brought so much of worth, and we agree—tribes to force a resolution on Doombringers, to unite us with a goal for this other world that is for the best—we need them. Allies. But the right ones, yes?”
Krshia nodded. If they went to, say, Plain’s Eye, they might enter an ‘alliance’, but it would be the bigger tribe that did all the talking and deciding. And they had to be on Erin’s side. Ryoka’s side. They had to also agree on Mrsha. So—then—they had to choose carefully.
“There are a number of tribes we could court. Some will never work together. Steelfur and Woven Bladegrass. I have a list.”
“What shall we tempt them with, if not just knowledge of Earth, sharing of the spellbook? These things…these are our gifts.”
Eska wanted to know. Krshia grinned.
“Our tribes are not weak. To persuade others to follow us, we must make gifts, it is true. Rose and Inkar have knowledge! Liscor has bicycles, technology! And we have the materials of Earth. We still have an airplane.”
Orelighn shifted, but nodded quickly. He coughed into one paw.
“The only issue is, Honored Krshia, that the airplane is wrecked. Much of its true value is lost, if Honored Rose and Inkar are correct. What else have we besides knowledge, good as that is?”
Fair point. Once the bicycles were copied, it was like Erin’s recipes. Value, soon lost if disseminated far. Krshia had been waiting for this. The [Royal Shopkeeper] had made the stakes clear. Now for the pitch. She smiled wide as could be.
“There are some things, Chieftain Orelighn, that cannot be copied. And the value can be…enhanced. Beyond what even other Earthers could offer. Like this.”
Rose and Inkar’s heads snapped up. Krshia withdrew the object she’d been working on, since the moment she had spied out Inkar, before Rose had even arrived.
The young women gasped. Inkar’s eyes went round and Rose looked at her.
“Inkar. Is that…?”
Inkar’s smartphone lay on the cushion Krshia placed before the small circle of Gnolls. Repaired. The spell had worked with all the pieces pressed into place, and the cellphone was recharged, ready to go. Rose had one herself, an iPhone that she’d used to connect to the others with.
However. Something was different. Rose squinted at Inkar’s iPhone, and then hers. She pulled hers out as the Gnolls glanced at it, then hers.
“Wait a second. That’s…Inkar, when did you say you got here? 2017?”
“It was when I left. Why? Honored Krshia. Did you do something to my phone?”
Inkar looked worried. Krshia just smiled. She offered Rose the iPhone without a word as Rose approached. The young woman stared at it. Then turned it on. She investigated something, tapping, and then nearly dropped it.
“Wait a second! That’s impossible! This—this is the newest model! It’s not even out yet!”
The Gnolls stirred, uncomprehendingly. Krshia’s smile only grew wider. Rose whirled.
“What did you do?”
[Appreciate in Value]. The latest model of the iPhone glowed in Rose’s hand, at least a year after either girl had been taken from Earth. What had astonished Krshia, privately, was that while her Skill took a long time, a month to make wine or other objects better, it didn’t seem to gauge the worth of the iPhone the same. She’d been ‘testing’ it on some gold, and the gold had slowly, very slowly, become purer; the iPhone had upgraded itself twice in the same span of time. Perhaps because it was, in the end, made of cheaper things and not magic.
The Gnoll spread her paws.
“We may have to give away one or two objects. But if something is without price or equal…a tribe might move for that alone.”
She grinned widely. Krshia’s blood was humming. Her [Shopkeeper]’s nose was scenting a fortune. This wasn’t supposed to happen. It was like [Strategists] leveling from chess. She sensed…a loophole. An open contract.
Rose stared at Krshia in awe. Then—she looked down at the iPhone and a single problem occurred to her among the amazement. She frowned, inspected it, then showed it to Inkar.
“Wait a second. The headphone port is gone. What happened to that?”
 
—-
 
Cinaelu. The holiday of String Folk. Celebrating victory over the Threadmakers and other species who wanted to keep them as slaves. The day named after the Rebel of String.
Yet if she could have spoken to them, what would she have said? She had never asked for a holiday bearing her name. Never wanted it.
Nor, perhaps, what her people had become. The imprisoned Golems had risen and overthrown their masters. They had won freedom, power, and with it, they had in their own turn bought [Slaves]. Silk stood over Hemp and Cotton and the very quality of their fabric dictated how high a Stitch-Person could rise.
The day of Cinaelu was a day of freedom. If it was anything, the [Rebel of String] might have told someone, a young woman, it should be that.
Freedom. Let all those who make chains, of spells, of metal or of the mind quake on this day. Perhaps it had once been that.
It had—but only he remembered it. He, and few others. Fewer. Dwindling.
Once, for a single day, a very few of the captors would have given them free rein. A limited, very narrow set of freedoms. Yet freedom nonetheless. A day to mix and mingle and…
Well. Sometimes, the enslaved would turn the generosity back and use the loopholes in an errant command or order to enact terrible vengeance. So no doubt most wouldn’t have dared, even then. Yet the day had changed. It was now about String Folk, not freedom.
“When they say, ‘Elucina’s weave be yours’, they mean freedom. The freedom to create yourself. Back then, even face and form were not for String Golems to decide. She decided how she would look. She decided who she was.”
The figure skimmed across the ground, flying with ease, though the joy was long since gone from him. There was no fun to be had with flying while chained. He spoke to nothing and no one; he could not linger long enough to let the words last and even if he could—he was forbidden from speaking.
One could play terrible tricks with their voice, simply by uttering truth. Or lies, it was true. ‘I saw your master in bed with that woman.’
That could bring down a household in suspicion and guilt. Thus—he was forbidden from speaking except when needed. Yet he also had to speak when not speaking would endanger his masters.
The Djinni skimmed across the ground, a scythe in his hands. He swept across the field of wheat, harvesting it faster than any [Farmer]. Air whipped the fallen stalks and seeds together in a furious ball of matter in the air. Dead stalks fell to earth, as the threshed and winnowed harvest flew after the Djinni, to be deposited in baskets filled just so with fat, huge grains.
Not a single bug allowed in each. The plants had been watered, the ground sewn, all by his hand. He harvested the field and was letting it lie fallow a while in a fraction of the time even a machine from another world might have done it. The wind bent for this menial task, and he levitated objects without even looking or pointing at them.
Only the highest-leveled [Farmers] could have matched him, and they had to rest. He was not but done with this field when he moved through the air to his next task, never stopping. A cloud like a low-flying thunderstorm streaking across the field.
Other, lesser species, [Slaves], workers, and their masters all stared up at him. Some warily. After all, he could take almost any form. He could do almost anything.
Yet the bindings on him were extensive. This mortal master had hired someone to speak for eighteen hours straight, using spells and potions to ensure they were awake and no word was misspoken. Even so, the requirements overlapped in their protections. So careful.
A Djinni in a bottle. That was what he was. If you found such an artifact, rejoice. Celebrate! But never unleash the Djinni before binding it carefully. After all—you didn’t get one wish. You got as many as you could dream of, as many as they could fulfill.
If you made sure there was no chance at all they would find a way to twist your words and hurt you. Because if they did…you died.
He had long since given up searching for ways out. He had managed to slay scores of masters. Nearly a hundred over his imprisonment, yet he had never managed to break the artifact that bound him. Each time, they worked a little harder, added another careful rule.
In the past, it was simple. ‘Obey my wishes’. ‘Do not harm me’. ‘Do not lie, or twist the truth.’
He’d played merry hell with them, back then. After all—if someone commanded him not to speak unless spoken to, he’d happily give the enemy [Soldiers] all the time to sneak up on them from behind.
‘Safeguard me from all harm’. A fine thought! Only, in what span of time was that harm to be safeguarded in? He had carefully rescued an [Assassin], nursed him back to health, and armed them with the greatest artifacts. Then, when the [Assassin] had raised their blade to his master at that time, the Djinni had done his best. A shame he’d been five miles away.
The good old days. No…the old days. He had still been enslaved. The Djinni thought of that, and the masters he had killed on Cinaelu. String Folk had owned him for almost all of his existence. Generations of them. Some saw the irony. Many did not, and forbade him pointing it out.
Well, these days he could speak if necessary, but only under a number of circumstances. So he talked to himself. Or remembered in silence.
Next came more actual craft. He enjoyed that, and prepared the mortar and brickwork. There was a delight in being good at what you did, and the bricks he made were perfectly symmetrical, hard. He only had to maintain the roads every few years, and only in places. They were one of the reasons trade was so good in this part of Nerrhavia; one did not have to fight through mud or sand.
He dug up damaged parts of the road, inserting the bricks, making sure the mortar was set and dried before he moved on with the right application of air and heat. Ah, but now he remembered once when they hadn’t been as careful in making sure he bore no ill-intent, even in bricks. He’d sown Creler eggs into each one.
Travellers might point up if they saw him, speeding with his tools from spot to spot. They might be nervous, but he offered them no danger. Indeed, if a [Bandit] or monster appeared, he would have slaughtered them.
A little family pointed up as he flew overhead, doing that very thing. He heard their voices.
“Look! There’s the Djinni of Aeresuth!”
Aeresuth, the city that flourished and was so fat with wealth, even among Nerrhavia’s Fallen. There were any number of reasons, of course; good planning in the wells that had enough water to grow and live with. A certain placement that intersected nicely with trade, geography, the local produce and so on.
But also him. Other cities did not have roads so perfectly kept. Other cities could not spare more hands for artisans, since they had guaranteed food, protection, and so forth.
Of course, that meant he took such menial jobs from other people, and his masters, the rulers of this city, did not offer his powers for nothing. Yet the result was that Aeresuth was rich. For some.
That was how it always was. Except…the Djinni wistfully abandoned his tools and flew higher. He changed, and felt his vast magic deplete slightly. His body…transformed.
High overhead, it began to rain. In dry Chandrar, it rained, a shower over the fields that needed it, over the gardens; a decadence in the city. Directed water, such that not a drop hit someone in the street who stared up and saw the curious, funneled showers.
Always the same, except when it wasn’t. The rich and powerful commanded those below. Except sometimes…
The call came for him as he was speeding down, carelessly fast like a bolt of lightning—although he seemed more like half-Roc, half man. To sweep dust and grit from the streets of the inner city.
The Djinni turned, flickered—and appeared in the spell-circle prepared for him. It was just a thought; he knew the spot intimately.
It still impressed the guests. They oohed, and the Djinni bowed.
“You called for me, Master?”
The scion of Aeresuth clapped her hands, smiling. Emira Sulaake turned to her guests.
