The other Stitch Folk laughed and the [General] shook her head.
“An anagram. Apparently, the person it was based on objected to a day named after them—so the legend goes that the people just rearranged her name. Thus, while we call it Cinaelu, we say—”
She turned and Flos lifted his small cup.
“Elucina’s weave be yours.”
“And yours, King of Destruction.”
They drank. Teres did likewise, copying the words. The wine was tart, but good, and obviously not poisoned or Esiela would have pointed it out. The [Grand Mage] was still subdued, but she had joined Parasol Stroll; albeit as the only member present in the south.
“Are there any more holidays I’m not aware of?”
Silly though it was, Teres had never given a thought to the fact that Christmas and so on were not here, and there were obviously different special days. Flos hadn’t helped; he’d happily instituted Christmas at once and dyed his beard white. He’d also smashed three chimneys before giving up on playing Santa.
Maresar and Venith exchanged glances. Venith counted them out on his fingers.
“Derrás Me, the Solstices, Yellat Day—although that one is simply for fun. The Clear Skies Celebrations…not many.”
“I know the Clear Skies Celebrations—that’s the end of the Dragons on Chandrar, right? Derrás Me is the one with the parades across Chandrar? …What’s Yellat Day?”
The King of Destruction glanced at Takhatres, who glanced at the [General]. Everyone in the tent thoughtfully paused to try to explain. Flos eventually shrugged.
“You eat a lot of Yellats.”
Teres supposed she had that one coming. Flos held out his cup for another drink.
“And occasionally you find one that gets up and walks around. That’s lucky.”
The young woman began to choke on her wine.
 
—-
 
Cinaelu was a holiday for String People. Such that while Octavia might have hung up a little decoration on her shop door and taken a day off to get together with some String Folk in Invrisil, and Revi likewise celebrated it, it went unnoticed the world over.
It was not news, much to the indignation of an entire species. Wistram News Network was, in that sense, ruder than the King of Destruction, who had put aside war for this day.
Although not everyone appreciated the gesture. More than one person did not see Flos Reimarch’s gesture as at all hospitable. Why should a Human know peace on a day for us?
Ironically, his holiday was the tipping point; a bit of ire on already-bubbling cauldrons of vengeance directed towards him. The unforeseen consequences of that would soon appear—but there was one more interesting non-Stitchfolk person who celebrated the day. Albeit in her way.
 
—-
 
They called her…the Gnoll of Stars. Captain of Stargazer’s Promise, the youngest Named Adventurer in living memory!
Lehra Ruinstrider scratched under one armpit. She was not exceptionally heroic at this particular point in time, but hero-ing was a hard job. The Meeting of Tribes was a break for her team, especially since Lord Dragial was still chasing them over the continent.
Actually, she’d been hoping to find someone who could help her here, but none of the [Shamans] she’d talked to knew anything about the artifact on her wrist. The vambrace of beautiful metal, an alloy no one had ever identified, with the huge jewel set in it, that could turn into a weapon, a shield…
The Blade of Mershi. A relic-class artifact, and the last-known treasure of the fabled Walled City of Stars.
Before the Meeting of Tribes ended, Lehra wanted to talk to all the old [Shamans] and see if something could help her. Dragial could not get his claws on the Blade of Mershi or he’d use it against the Tribes to further his ends by finding the lost City of Stars and its treasury of artifacts. To make Fissival the most powerful Walled City. Maybe even to conquer all of Izril. Thus—she had to find it. The Ruinstrider Tribe would benefit. All Gnolls would.
That was Lehra’s great quest. She yawned, and picked at her teeth. Again, heroism took a backseat sometimes.
The thing was…she hadn’t told anyone but her team, but the thing was, the Blade of Mershi was more than just a powerful artifact that could transform, and gave her snazzy Drake-armor when she activated it. It had a secret only Dragial knew about; one of the reasons he was so obsessed. The artifact had chosen her.
It spoke to her. When Lehra Ruinstrider had first picked it up, after Dragial had betrayed her scavenging team who wanted a fair price for it—maybe even to auction it—it had activated. Choosing her over the Wall Lord because she was worthy.
Lehra didn’t know why. Nor could she always ‘talk’ to the Blade of Mershi, but it was a huge secret. Her quest to evade Dragial and find the lost city, her friends she’d made across Izril and her team…
“It’s so magic-girl. I’m telling you. Look at her!”
Inkar stared dubiously at Lehra. The Gnoll burped and glanced around to see if anyone was watching. She didn’t notice Rose and Inkar, which was sort of amazing on its own because Rose was practically dancing with delight.
“She’s a magical-girl! No, a [Magical Warrior]! She even has a transformation sequence? That’s so—so—corny! Hilarous! Amazing!”
“Are you…sure?”
Inkar looked at Rose. Her delight over meeting another Human from Earth had not diminished since she’d met Rose. However, she couldn’t track the young Californian woman’s train of thought. They had clearly not watched the same shows growing up.
“I am telling you, Inkar! It’s all stories. Ryoka told me that one; Erin too! Sometimes they’re just stories played straight. Like, I’m sure one of Ryoka’s friends is a V—well, no one else noticed. I do. I love stories like this! Can you introduce me? Are you close? Have you seen her transform?”
“I slept with her.”
“What?”
Inkar blushed. Rose gave her a quizzical look and decided she’d misheard Inkar.
Rose just beamed. It was worth it. It was worth the entire trip here. She’d been feeling worried about Inkar, worried she’d be like Imani and Rose wouldn’t be able to help. Well, Rose had been feeling depressed ever since she realized what ‘Turnscale’ meant and the culture of Drakes in Izril—maybe people the world over.
She couldn’t be like Galina or Leon and just run off, and she didn’t have a place like Joseph, Imani or even Kevin yet. Rose ignored Troy in her envy of her fellow Earthers.
She couldn’t run around like Ryoka and Erin…well. Rose’s only fantasy up till they heard of Inkar had been taking Fierre aside and asking the exact benefits and disadvantages of Vampirism. Rose liked sunlight, but if you were going to be stuck in a fantasy world…she had still realized that crossbow bolts in the chest would probably kill her, Vampire or not.
This though, this was magic. A gentler story, at least in Rose’s mind. She beamed at Lehra. The Gnoll was just scratching her butt, having decided that some kind of bug was crawling around her fur when it happened.
“Cinaelu.”
Lehra sat up. Rose was following Inkar, trying to play it cool. Lehra looked around.
“What? Cinaelu? Who said that?”
Inkar and Rose stopped as she got to her feet. Inkar hesitated.
“I didn’t say that. Honored Lehra, this is my friend from Liscor. Rose—”
“It’s so nice to meet you, Honored—”
Rose didn’t get a chance to practice her Gnoll-greetings. Lehra looked around.
“Today is Cinaelu day.”
The voice sounded like it was right in her ears. Lehra rubbed at one.
“Cinaelu day? Hey…what’s Cinaelu day?”
She looked at Rose and Inkar. The two didn’t know, but Rose had made an ‘O’ expression with her mouth and was gesturing to Lehra. Inkar backed up. If Rose hadn’t explained that Lehra was probably wearing a magical artifact of destiny, she’d have thought Lehra was just slightly insane.
Well, she still thought that. Lehra frowned.
“Cinaelu. Isn’t that what Emper is celebrating? Something about String Folk winning their freedom? Who’s…?”
Then she realized it. She stared down at the Blade of Mershi. The gem was glowing slightly. Lehra’s eyes widened.
“It’s you.”
The spirit within the Blade of Mershi whispered. Lehra couldn’t make out a form, but she thought she had the first time. The last owner—Lehra thought she felt the voice grow clearer as she mentioned the holiday.
“Cinaelu. It’s Cinaelu day. It’s a holiday. It’s a holiday. I should…”
Rose and Inkar gasped as Lehra’s eyes rolled up in her head. She jerked as the Blade of Mershi glowed. Then—the Armor of Stars covered her body. Lehra lowered her head and looked around. Rose, Inkar, the Gnolls who stopped to turn saw the Star Gnoll begin to walk away.
But something was—off. Lehra was mumbling in a different voice, even walking different.
“Cinaelu. It’s Cinaelu day. I should…”
 
—-
 
“…celebrate.”
The last connection with the spirit faded. Lehra felt the wistfulness, the recollection of better times, the innocent holiday, fade. For a second, she felt the other owner’s presence. Lehra tried to call out.
“Who are you? Why did you choose me? Where is the City…?”
Then she opened her eyes and felt pain. Lehra groaned. She looked up.
“It hurts! It hurts! What happened?”
She was lying on her back. Her team was gathered around her. So were Inkar, that other Human, and a bunch of Gnolls. A lot of them looked aghast, or disgusted, or…amused?
Suxhel, the Gazer [Wizard] bent over Lehra with a vexed look on her face. Her eyes focused on Lehra, all of them, and her pointed hat nearly fell off her head. She replied, somewhat annoyed.
“What do you mean ‘what happened’? You walked into the festivities, and ate everything in three food stalls. I saw you stuff yourself at dinner too. What has gotten into you?”
It was only then that Lehra realized she was lying under a small coating of half-eaten pastries, pie tins, and other delectables. She groaned—then her cheeks bulged. Rose knew what was coming and ran with Inkar.
“Oh, gross!”
The television always cut before they actually threw up. That was gross.
And awesome.
 
—-
 
“So, let me understand this fully.”
A little while later, Emper, the [Monk] Stitch-man, Suxhel the Gazer, and Elgrinna the Dwarf [Warrior] were processing what had happened. Elgrinna tossed more soap at Lehra, who was washing her fur.
“You realized it was Cinaelu, a Stitchfolk holiday, and then you blacked out, decided to eat fourteen panini-things, three pies, and—”
“Don’t say it. I’m going to throw up again!”
Lehra covered her mouth. Her team backed up. Possibly only Lehra’s level and the possession had stopped her stomach from exploding, and it had still all come out. The Gnoll had already apologized—and paid for her carnage, but now they had a mystery on their hands.
“Why would the spirit react to that?”
The [Monk] was crossing his legs, thinking deeply.
“It’s reacted to some things before. Usually in Drake cities, remember? That’s why we’ve been touring. But a Stitchfolk holiday? Lehra, you are certain that the ghost is a Drake, aren’t you?”
Lehra spat and tossed more water on herself. The little raincloud Suxhel was conjuring obligingly poured harder.
“Almost certain! I don’t get it.”
“Perhaps the association is the holiday. A Drake would celebrate String Folk holidays just as a time to eat and have fun.”
Suxhel reasoned with impeccable logic. Emper nodded.
“But Drakes do not normally celebrate other species’ holidays, do they? I think this is a bigger clue.”
“Whaddya mean, Emper?”
Lehra turned, happy to ask the [Monk] who’d taken up her cause after fate had thrown them together. Emper nodded to himself.
“It must mean that whomever owned the Blade of Mershi before you, Lehra, knew many String Folk. Or at least, one. Perhaps that is what we should look into.”
The rest of Stargazer’s Promise murmured. Lehra’s eyes lit up. A clue! She pumped her fist—then covered her mouth again.
“I just wish the spirit didn’t eat so much!”
“I imagine it was the only food she had in millennia. Lehra, maybe we should write to a Stitchfolk nation or…Lehra? Don’t throw up again. Lehra—”
 
—-
 
“—And then they’ll find Mershi! I just know it! At the end of the season, they find Mershi, only, Dragial gets there first and maybe he gets access to a second Blade of Mershi. No, wait. That’s season one, probably. Or is this season three? Look, after that, there’ll be a point where Dragial seems to be winning, or they unearth something terrible in Mershi, and that’s when Lehra has to discover the true power of the artifact and connect with the spirit and—”
Krshia Silverfang stared at Rose, a bowl of Gnollish meatballs and dipping sauce forgotten in front of her. She had no idea what Rose was talking about.
“Wait. Hrr. I do not understand. This is…a story you know? But based on a childhood story you were told that isn’t this one, but is alike in every way?”
Chieftain Akrisa of the Silverfang Tribe was just as lost. So were all the Gnolls sitting in the tent. All those who knew the secret of Earth. They had expected much from Rose—but not this.
“No, not exactly. Okay, let me explain. In my world, there are television shows. Like the ones here—the ones Wistram News Network is based off of, but they tell fictional stories, right? Well, a lot of those stories are…real life over here! Because you have actual Dragons and whatnot. I’m not saying it’s one-for-one, but if I’m right, I can predict what Lehra’s going to do…”
It was times like this that Krshia missed Erin. Everything had been simpler when Erin was just a strange Human from another world on her own. Now, Earthers were as common as copper, and they were all as insane as Erin was. They didn’t look like it at first, but they all were.
Rose hadn’t been a known quantity to Krshia. She’d been…one of the Earthers. The most responsible of them, perhaps, but that was all. Interested in plays?
Rose loved stories. This was a fairytale to her, the story she had wanted to find when she had first met Magnolia Reinhart. Her eyes were shining, but the Gnolls were confused.
All but one. Honored Deskie began to laugh and the other three Chieftains and [Shamans] turned to her. The [Magical Weaver] laughed and the old Gnoll took another bite of her snack. Reminded, Krshia did likewise.
“Well, now. This is simple enough. Chieftain Eska, Akrisa, Orelighn. Let me make it simpler. This young woman says she knows the future! That this is a story like Gorah and the Ogre King. She says she can predict what Honored Lehra will go through because it is a story like that!”
“Oh.”
The other Gnolls accepted the explanation at once. Rose nodded. But Honored Deskie fixed her with a kindly, if knowing eye.
