For Erin Solstice might not kneel. Ryoka Griffin weakly grinned.
“Didn’t I hear she stole the sword in the stone?”
Erin flushed mildly.
“Oh yeah. I was going to ask whether I actually stole that thing.”
 
“Psh. Memories. As if it would be owned by the likes of you. It was a nice trick. But you claimed it. Ghostspeaker. Fae thief. What a marvelous [Innkeeper], to fear not and bow to naught. A witch indeed.”
 
The Fae smiled as she spiraled down around Erin Solstice. The [Innkeeper] flushed mildly—but there was also a great deal of sarcasm in Shaestrel’s tone. Erin’s chin rose.
“I don’t like bowing to people. Sorry. Besides, it’s not that I think I’m that great. It’s just—that I’ve met the greatest people in the world. Gnomes and [Kings] and [Queens]. Dragons.”
Her eyes blazed with memory. The Spring Fae left it at that. She winked at Ryoka, and the Wind Runner slowly sighed as someone handed her a towel to wipe the water off.
Some dinner conversations were harder than most.
 
——
 
Ysara. Taletevirion. Erin.
Of all the meetings she had had—Ryoka had not expected to fight with Erin again. But also, of the four Dinner Dates that week—the one she dreaded most was easiest.
“So I, uh. Thank you for coming.”
“I owe you. I was not kind. What is this?”
“Sushi. Hey, Erin. You don’t have to serve me Japanese food each time I ask for dinner.”
Erin poked her head into the private dining room and scowled.
“It’s not just you! Do you know how hard it is to find the dried seaweed stuff? Besides, sushi is fun. You guys should come outside for a bit. Relc and Mrsha are making a seventeen-foot-long sushi roll.”
Ryoka felt like this was an affront to all things good and proper, and she sort of wanted to see it. But the sound of Nerry trying to spit out a mouthful of wasabi made her look over. Shaestrel was chewing on the raw salmon in a bite of sushi as she eyed Ryoka’s fourth guest with a lot of unspoken sadness.
Rags, Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe, was on her eighth piece of sushi. She had a huge taste for seafood.
“I didn’t know Goblins liked seafood.”
“Many Goblins do. Fish taste good. Why is it rolled in seaweed?”
“Presentation, I think. A good way to hold it together. Uh. I don’t know. Probably just the ingredients that were around Japan at the time. Good flavor and texture composition.”
Rags chewed down on the platter between them.
“Makes sense. What about the mayonnaise-bacon one?”
“Don’t touch that. Erin’s from America, and they bastardized sushi. I heard her bullying Imani and Calescent into making it. They know crimes against cooking when they see them.”
The conversation between the two was light, at first. But Ryoka was fidgeting, and Rags was silent.
“So. Do you have the same grudge as Erin about me associating with Tyrion Veltras?”
Rags stopped chewing and glanced up at Ryoka. Her crimson gaze was steady.
“No. I don’t have the luxury of choosing allies.”
Ryoka sucked in her cheeks. Rags kept chewing.
“I was not kind to you. I tried to rob you—I stole your potion.”
“Yeah, but I…I guess I never got to know Goblins as well as Erin. The Redfangs at her inn—I just didn’t meet any. So I’m saying I—want to understand.”
Rags patted at her lips with a napkin.
“You wouldn’t want to meet Tremborag’s Goblins.”
“No, of course not.”
Ryoka shuddered. She knew what Rags meant, and the Goblin Chieftain gave her a long look.
“Do you want me to explain my people are a people?”
“No…but I don’t know how else to learn.”
The [Great Chieftain] of her tribe frowned, and her eyes were sharp.
“Then explain to me what you asked to talk to me about. Are you…learning Goblins are not monsters?”
“No.”
“Then are you seeking forgiveness? Are you trying to understand our culture? Do you want to know my history? My opinion?”
“Not—exactly? It’s just that I don’t know much.”
Rags sat back, patting her stomach.
“Right. So you asked me to explain what it is to be me. Couldn’t you guess? Pretend you’re a Goblin. That’s most of it. I am not Numbtongue. I am not Ulvama. Goblins are very different. Like Humans.”
She was being slightly facetious, but she was challenging Ryoka. The Wind Runner turned red.
“I just—I am trying to both help and be Lord Tyrion and House Veltras’ ally. I don’t think Tyrion Veltras is beyond a kind of redemption. I don’t even think he’s evil. But he has done terrible things.”
“Mm. But he’s attractive so it doesn’t matter?”
“Absolutely not!”
Ryoka stood up fast, and Rags grinned at her. It was not a nice smile. But nor was it completely mean.
“I see Goblins. Goblins like each other. Sometimes Goblins overlook other’s bad sides because they like each other. Snapjaw eats everything. She nibbles on Badarrow in her sleep. He likes her. Poisonbite is bossy, rude, gets jealous—but Goblins fall in love with her. Until they don’t.”
“It’s not about being attracted to him. I hope not. I know what he did. But I wasn’t there. I just—I am not guilty enough.”
Ryoka spread her hands, and it was honest. Then she saw Rags smile at her. And the Goblin Chieftain leaned forwards.
“I will tell you a secret, Ryoka. Something I don’t tell Erin. Okay?”
“Sure.”
Rags glanced at the door and whispered.
“I know everything Velan the Kind did. I know he killed countless people. I don’t feel bad about that. I like Velan. I think he was wrong—but I don’t hate him. Because I was not there.”
She sat back and picked at her teeth with a claw. Ryoka Griffin sat there. Rags eyed her.
“Reiss killed Zel Shivertail. And many Humans. My tribe did not. Tremborag earned his hatred. It is hard to see one tribe when the Goblin Lord went marching. It was not a good thing. But you weren’t there. If Tyrion Veltras tries again—I will fight him. If, next time, you help him or stand aside—I will be angry. But if next time can be stopped, I say you should be his ally. That is where I am not Erin Solstice.”
She was pragmatic. Ryoka felt like she was exhaling a breath she hadn’t known she was taking in. Then—Rags smiled faintly.
“I did not come here to talk about Tyrion Veltras, anyways.”
“Oh? Then—how can I help? I would like to talk to you.”
Ryoka smiled, and the shorter Goblin smiled back. It felt like they were trying to kindle a friendship they had never quite had. Both had known Erin Solstice, but, oddly, it was like two friends of a friend trying to feel each other out and become friends themselves.
Ryoka didn’t even know Rags’ personality that well. The fact that the Great Chieftain could talk so eloquently now was a shock. But she got a good feel for Rags from her exchange about Tyrion. A pragmatic, highly intelligent Goblin. Rags picked up another sushi bite, this one eel.
“…Tell me about trebuchets. I hear you gave the blind [Emperor] the trick to making them. How do you make a fighter jet?”
Ryoka’s face fell. She stuttered.
“I don’t know—how responsible it would be to share—even if I had a working plan, which I don’t, Rags—”
The Chieftain slowly drank from her cup of blue fruit juice.
“Tyrion Veltras killed my tribe. I am suddenly feeling very sad about it. There is an Archmage making flying Humans in armor. He got that from Earth. Give me fighter jets.”
She looked at Ryoka.
“It’s only fair. Plus, I know how they’re made. I watched a movie in the theatre. They spin a blade around very fast. I know the shape, the wings, just not the engine. But I could probably figure it out.”
Ryoka stared at her. Damn the overabundance of World War 2 movies.
“Bullshit. There’s no way you could guess how to make one.”
“I made ballistae and trebuchets. I have a plan for a giant falling rock trap. My Goblins just can’t find enough rocks big enough to haul over. I am going to make an elevator. I just need enough gears from Kevin’s workshop. I have blueprints. Want to see?”
Rags dipped into her bag of holding, and Ryoka walked around the table in disbelief. Nerry trotted over, and both stared at Rags’ designs.
“No way. Did you design all this yourself? Aha. You’re wrong about how engines work, by the by. That’s a steam engine. Real engines use gasoline.”
Rags rolled her eyes.
“Yes. And I have so much gasoline lying around. It’s so easy to get. All your stupid vehicles are made out of steel. Do you know how hard it is for Goblins in the mountains to get steel? I make my Thunderbows and ballistae out of Wyvern bone.”
Ryoka was trying to see a flaw in Rags’ plans, and the Great Chieftain took another sip of blue juice, looking smug.
“…You don’t know how to make a fighter plane, do you? You hint you do. But I am going to tell Erin you are a…what word does she use? A poser.”
Ryoka’s head snapped up.
“I—I just haven’t laid it out in my head yet. Do you know about the capstone-bridge design? Where all the rocks are held in place by pressure?”
“Yeah. They’re called bridges. Humans and Drakes make them.”
“…Grain silos?”
“Yes.”
“Combine threshers?”
“Kevin told me about them. You can’t make them either. There is nothing you know that Kevin doesn’t know, is there? He made bicycles. He knows more about how a combustion engine works than you do.”
Ryoka Griffin found herself sitting and facing Rags. She spoke quickly.
“Aha, but I know how a battery works.”
“Acid, copper wire, magnet. Things go round and round. Useless unless I use electricity. Next.”
“Gunpowder?”
“Bat poo, sulfur, saltpeter, charcoal.”
“Dead gods damn it, Kevin!”
Ryoka slammed the door open and shouted down the hall. Kevin jumped as he made up an egg sushi.
“What did I do?”
Ryoka went back to Rags.
“I…crop rotation.”
“Even Wailant knew that.”
“Pythagorean theorem? No—no. Euler’s equation. I bet you Kevin doesn’t know that, even if he knows calculus. Did he mention the cartesian system of graphing? There’s an entire system behind mathematics that’s useful. Double-entry bookkeeping? Stop me if any of these things are new. I—I know how Greek fire was made. Or at least, how we guessed they made it. Roman concrete?”
Ryoka and Rags were going back and forth, and the Goblin was having fun now as she asked questions. Slowly, the door to their private room cracked open, and a pair of sunglasses gleamed as Yelroan peaked in. He had been promised math, after all.
Ryoka had a single thought as she caught her breath and she realized Rags was manipulating her. But when she thought of Eldavin or all the knowledge of Earth…she had already told Hedault to experiment on her energy sword from the future. So she grinned and tried to actually think how you’d make an airplane. She hoped Kevin had explained aerodynamics to Rags. The worst part was that even if the materials were inferior—magic might bridge the gap.
“I did have an idea I’ve saved for a rainy day. But it might literally change the world.”
“If it’s new, I’ll make a statue of you.”
Rags leaned forwards as Ryoka began to outline a plan she had come up with but had no interest in pursuing, because it wouldn’t help her. And she didn’t trust Laken. But before she began, she whispered to Rags.
“Say. Of all the people—why don’t you give Bird a ballista?”
Rags was the one person who could do it, aside from Chaldion, and she was arguably just as close and even more friendly to the inn. Rags smirked.
“He can’t pay me enough for one. They are not cheap. Now, what was your special project?”
 
——
 
Forty days and forty nights. That was a lot of time to talk to people. But step one was talking. Reconnecting with some.
Getting to know others properly the first time. For instance, Ryoka had a formal Terandrian dinner with Lyonette and Mrsha with the Thronebearers dancing attendance. It was the most awkward thing in the world—until they established who was Mrsha’s mother.
Ice cream cones with Nanette while they sat in Riverfarm, by the graves. Sometimes, Ryoka cried—other times, her companions were very gracious to her. Often, Nerry and Shaestrel were there.
The lamb would be chomping down on an ice cream cone as Shaestrel listened, and the Spring Fae, as promised, told Ryoka if she was wasting time.
She said not a word. But she began smiling on the sixth day.
 
——
 
“It’s called ‘mac and cheese’. And Erin made it. There’s a lot lower-quality stuff. This has sausage and breading, and it’s healthy if you eat the salad.”
Sammial and Hethon looked delighted by the food in the Haven’s private dining rooms. Tyrion eyed the noodle-based cheese dish with dubiousness, and Jericha eyed Nerry and Shaestrel, who were waiting in front of a bowl to be served by Ullim.
But the most interesting part of the table was not Ryoka Griffin for once. Hethon kept glancing sideways as the guest to this conversation smiled faintly.
“It looks better than the ship slop you get. And that’s with respect to Miss Solstice. I love her, and she is a fine host—but I nearly broke a tooth on her scones.”
Ysara Byres could be pithy if she felt relaxed, and she was leading with her nautical experience and frankness. Ryoka had said it would play well with the Veltras family.
“Lady Byres.”
“Ysara, if I may, Lord Tyrion.”
She smiled briefly, and Tyrion ducked his head after a moment’s pause.
“Then let us be informal. I must say your appearance has changed notably since last I saw you. I regretted not having the chance to test your skill with the blade. I was told House Byres’ prodigy was one in a thousand years.”
Ryoka winced a bit, but Ysara was equal to Tyrion’s indecorousness. And he was not being deliberately impolite.
“I have a fondness for dyed hair, Tyrion. And I received my tattoo at sea. Do you find either objectionable?”
Hethon and Sammial’s heads swung from Ysara to Tyrion. The [Lord] gave Ysara a blank look as Ryoka held her breath. And true to her expectations…
“House Wellfar dresses much in the same attire as you. I was merely observing the facts. I do not follow fashion trends.”
Jericha and Ullim exchanged a glance behind Lord Tyrion. Ryoka almost burst out laughing—and wondered if she had to explain to Tyrion about ‘Turnscales’. Somehow, she thought he knew more than he let on when it came to same-sex relationships.
[Soldiers] often did. But that was her big trick, you see? Ysara Byres and her indigo hair were seated next to Sammial and Hethon, and she gave Ryoka an amused look.
What if I told you that you could influence the Lord of House Veltras’ way of thinking? Ryoka cleared her throat gently. Ysara had asked her to bring up the topic. She was still wary of her identity and the dangers to her people. Ryoka? Ryoka was crazy. So she smiled across the table at Tyrion and spoke.
