“I am an [Enchanter], and if I had made the same mistake with any of the dangerous artifacts I have ever handled over the years—this is the second mistake in my career. This is the first, and I deserve a scar for the second.”
He held up his missing ring finger on his left hand for emphasis. Ryoka winced.
“Hedault, if I’ve learned anything, it’s that I bring trouble wherever I go. Please—I’m sorry, you’re sorry, and you gave me the wand. Let’s eat. Do you…like the food?”
He stared down at his sausage-in-a-bun. Or rather, in his case, a seasoned Yellat. Erin had put out ketchup, mayonnaise, relish, cheese, chili…Hedault rather seemed to like the art of creating a six-layer condiment topping before he took a bite.
Ryoka just put some sour cream and chives on hers, then added some ketchup. Erin gave Ryoka a deeply disturbed look.
“What are you doing, Ryoka?”
“Sour cream and hot dogs?”
“…No. Mayonnaise if you’ve gotta.”
“Who eats mayonnaise on hot dogs? That’s disgusting, Erin.”
“Sour cream?”
“Why’d you put it out for me if you didn’t think I was going to use it?”
Erin shook her head.
“That’s just so you feel like you have options! You’re never supposed to use it! It’s like having all those popcorn options at the movie theatre. Caramel, chocolate, and the weird flavors no one tries like raspberry-white chocolate popcorn.”
“I love that stuff.”
“I’m not friends with you. I don’t associate with this person!”
Erin wheeled out the door to shout at no one in particular. Hedault, meanwhile, looked pleased by his creation. But he was eating it with a knife and fork rather than messily holding it up.
“I…will not make that mistake again. It is a lesson I will not forget when handling Earth’s technology. The next time I perform any enchantment on your Faeblade, Miss Ryoka, I will do it using the appropriate Skills. [Reduce Mana Flow] will allow me to funnel a hundredth of the mana into any enchantment, and I will have every protective spell activated. Nor will I allow the device to damage itself.”
Ryoka paused in her second bite of her meal.
“…You want to keep enchanting it?”
Hedault stared at her messy face until she used a napkin. Then he replied.
“Of course. Give me time to experiment. But I can, at the very least, put an enchantment on it that allows you to call it back to your hand. Depending on the quality of the materials…I may be able to make a far more powerful effect.”
His eyes glittered with the challenge. Then he peered at Ryoka.
“Your clothing as well. I have seen you use your ‘Wind Suit’, and the glider.”
“I’m getting the glider repaired actually.”
“I can enchant that.”
Ryoka sat up. Shaestrel was trying to eat her half of the hot dog while Nerry demonstrated that Sariant Lambs were happy carnivores—she had put only ketchup on her bun and seemed to like the feeling of carnivorism. Hedault was inspecting something on the table in front of him.
“I will accept these ‘obol’ as payment. You can afford my services, I think.”
Ryoka was a Courier, and she had Valeterisa’s money. She gulped at the thought of hiring Hedault full-time—but then she leaned over.
“You’d do that for me, Hedault? Really?”
He looked up blankly at her.
“Miss Ryoka. Aside from the fact that you are offering me magic I cannot get anywhere else. Aside from the wand, which I consider morally imperative to turn over—”
His eyes flashed.
“Enchanters level by enchanting what is new and novel. I will trade that wand in expectation of the levels and drive to allow me to attain Level 50. Assuming you have…a month, I will begin a very careful series of tests on the Faeblade and return you a series of possible enchantments for your clothing and flying devices in three day’s time. Is that acceptable?”
Ryoka smiled. She held out a hand, and Hedault refused to take it.
“I will send you a contract this evening via Street Runner. I do not shake hands.”
“Are you a germaphobe, Hedault?”
The vegetarian [Enchanter] didn’t appreciate physical contact. Or messes. He sighed.
“No. I simply dislike people touching me. I dislike messes. In my line of work, dirt can ruin an enchantment. Or kill me.”
“Huh. That’s fair.”
Hedault treated Ryoka to a rare smile. He lifted his fork as a cup of water came out for him and blue juice for Ryoka.
“Very good. Then I will see you in three days. When you arrive, I will have some temporary slippers for you to wear.”
Ryoka’s face went blank, and Hedault nodded in satisfaction. Temporary slippers for everyone. No more adventurers with muddy boots. No more barefoot runners.
He had his own kind of priorities.
 
——
 
If that was all that had occurred over the last forty days, it would be something. But it would have let down Ivolethe, really.
Ryoka Griffin was pacing the night after Hedault promised to upgrade her Faeblade and her gear with time.
Because she hadn’t given him the okay. She’d told him she’d sleep on it. An astounding comment that had Mrsha trying to steal the Faeblade to give to Hedault so he could turn it into a blade that could cut the High Passes.
But Ryoka was worried.
“Am I going to stay here for another month, Shaestrel? Even if I’m flying about—am I wasting time?”
The Spring Faerie was enjoying life in the inn. Unlike Ivolethe, who had taken her sweet time until she was Ryoka’s pocket-buddy nibbling on snacks, Shaestrel had come here for a purpose.
So…she was currently sitting on a heating rune Hedault had drawn on a piece of paper. That heating rune was warming a cup of tea.
She was having a hot tub bath. In tea. Jasmine, Ryoka thought it was. The Spring Fae seemed to be enjoying the novelty.
Nerry was busy writing her nightly essay trying to explain her people’s woes to Ryoka. She had a little fluffy bed that she refused to sleep in because it was cute and cuddly. She slept under Ryoka’s bed with a wand aimed at the door.
 
“Ah. This would be the part where ye panic and breathe too hard and pass out from yer weak spine and liver.”
 
That struck home. Ryoka hadn’t actually been in panic-mode, but it was familiar.
“I’m not going to hyperventilate and pass out. My liver’s fine.”
 
“Pshaw. I haven’t seen ye take a drink of anything stronger than blue juice for the last four days. A real warrior maiden of old would be squeezing men’s heads between her thighs while pishing ale!”
 
“Who did you meet who does that? Vikings?”
Shaestrel laughed as she kicked her legs in her tea bath. She gave Ryoka a sardonic look over the lip of the cup.
 
“You want me to say what your path is. But the truth, as I told you, is that I don’t know, Ryoka. My perspective is limited here—”
 
She meant this world.
 
“—And it is not perfect regardless. Remember when I told you that [Enchanter] was fated to have that wand? I was not lying. One fate had him carrying it until he died in battle. Thence—with his dying breath, he broke it. And a great tree grew from where he fell. Perhaps a world’s tree. But that was how he was meant to die until we meddled.”
 
“Die in battle? Hedault? How?”
Ryoka stopped pacing and turned. Shaestrel’s eyes were deep and sunken. She smiled like some prophetess speaking dire fates.
 
“Never ye mind. If I told you, you’d avoid that fate so hard you’d run into another. You’ve changed his destiny. So. If I tell you to not stay, I might well steer you into another stupid problem. If you stay, you might do well. Certainly, your stupid sword wouldn’t shatter if a cantrip sneezed on it.”
 
Shaestrel’s role seemed to be to tell Ryoka nothing was certain and everything was unpredictable. And that…helped.
Ryoka had to think. Every morning, she would see Tyrion Veltras. And Hethon and Sammial would follow her around, and she—
Well, Tyrion aside, she had done some good here. Valeterisa hadn’t flown off in part thanks to Ryoka. Rhisveri, for all his posturing, was watching her.
And there was a Unicorn. But…Ryoka paced back and forth.
“I see your point. It’s just—I know there are people I can help influence or talk to. Influence is the wrong word. I’m…friends with them. Tyrion, Teriarch, even Magnolia to some extent. That matters. Ysara. I can’t leave without seeing her. I just don’t know how to—talk to them or change their opinions. The only way I’ve done it is by flying across Izril with an antidote or dodging magical traps in Valeterisa’s mansion.”
 
“Ah, ye have the problem of heroes. So busy rescuing damsels and slaying Dragons ye can’t hand someone a handkerchief to blow their noses without saving their lives first. She’s got the ego of one.”
 
Nerry nodded as she dragged her first essay out. She scribbled a note at the top.
 
The [Emperor] and you are both arrogant. Equally. Is it an Earther-Human thing or just you two?
 
Royally stung, Ryoka Griffin sat back down. She put her head between her legs and stared at the ground. Things had gone well. Erin Solstice hated Tyrion’s guts, but she was tolerating his presence.
Though, for how long? She had been about to throw him out, but Ryoka’s talk in the gardens had helped. She had feared Hedault would call the Watch, refuse to give the wand, and she’d cause a disaster.
Burning down his apartment didn’t fully count. That was only half Ryoka’s fault, which was an improvement.
The truth was—Hedault had been eminently reasonable, nay, principled when she talked to him. Talking to people seemed to avoid the entire drama she was used to.
“Hm. Nerry, I’ll read your essay in a second.”
The lamb was kicking her ankle, and it hurt like shit. The truth was…Ryoka thought of yesterday.
“Is Erin telling more stories about how she got to the inn?”
Despite Erin’s claims, she had barely gotten through Skinner in a single night of storytelling. Everyone had so many tales, like Pawn giving his perspective of how he and Bird had first been ordered to unearth the crypt in secret, that they hadn’t gotten far.
Ryoka hadn’t known how Erin had met the Goblins. Or that Relc had actually killed Rags’…parents. She should go down. She didn’t know much about Goblins, she realized. Tyrion Veltras had killed a lot of them, but Erin’s outrage was only a fact for Ryoka.
Yet Ryoka knew for a fact that a certain Goblin Chieftain had literally flown in to join the storytelling. She had a thought as she stood and picked up Nerry’s essay. The lamb still had ketchup on her face.
“Do you like eating sausage, Nerry? Are Sariants actually omnivores?”
The lamb nodded. Ryoka was perplexed.
Sariants were omnivores.
Huh.
That entire fact became the foundation for an idea. Slowly, Ryoka Griffin thought of something novel. She fished out Hedault’s contract and gingerly signed it. Then she turned to Shaestrel.
“Just tell me if I’m being stupid in the next few days or really wasting my time.”
The faerie opened one eye and fanned a wing as Ryoka picked up the teacup and went down to listen to the stories.
 
“Since when have I stopped? You’re not always incompetent, mortal.”
 
——
 
Tyrion Veltras was busy training. Every morning, before dawn, a younger man woke up, eyed his mirror, shaved everything but a budding goatee off his face, and dressed himself.
He disliked his face. He quite recalled hating the way it aged—now, he disliked how the goatee just looked terrible on his younger face.
The vigor of his body was a welcome tradeoff. The lack of levels—not. He would check his [Messages], then leave the Haven and practice his swordsmanship.
Sometimes against the fake image of himself, sometimes with a partner. Jericha or even Ulim or his guards. But mostly, Tyrion was trying to rebuild decades of muscle memory and push himself.
He should have gone back to his keep to practice tilting and to work more thoroughly in secret—but Ryoka Griffin was here, and his sons would have refused to go regardless.
Anyways, a [Lord] levelled differently from a [Lancer], and Tyrion needed to marry the classes. So he spent a good deal of time tending to the affairs of House Veltras.
It had already earned him a single level. He recalled he’d never taken his lordly duties seriously until his father had passed away.
In between his training, Tyrion would have breakfast or lunch with Ryoka, though his sons usually pestered her with questions and activities. He would go out to see a play or ride with her and discuss topics.
Like her world. He listened to her description of another world’s woes and strengths. To Ryoka’s surprise, Tyrion, like Hedault, wasn’t blown away by everything he heard.
If anything…he quite recalled her face when he said he would like to visit if the chance ever occurred.
“You? Visit? I would have thought you’d hate a place without horses and…well, so modern.”
“Are not these ‘cars’ and other vehicles capable of great speed? I should greatly like to ‘drive’ one. Or race one.”
The thought of Tyrion Veltras behind a racecar’s wheel somehow fit—and yet disconcerted Ryoka Griffin greatly. But a speed freak loved fast things regardless of the setting.
This was very enjoyable, incidentally, and Tyrion had reported to Lord Pellmia that things were going well. The [Lord of Love and Wine] was quite the popular figure in the north. Pellmia’s only complaint was his son, Gilam, who was temperamental. Tyrion could relate to Pellmia, despite the age-difference between their sons. Sammial could be troublesome too.
His fear was that Ryoka Griffin would soon run away. His frustration was that he could not visit The Wandering Inn. Erin Solstice held a great grudge.
She also charged him two gold coins per transit. Not his people. Just him. He could afford it, but felt she was doing her best to make his life inconvenient.
They had gone to the Season’s Theatre to watch a play yesterday. Tyrion Veltras was training in the winter cold while eying the Bloodfields.
He had heard an Adult Creler had been spotted. While the Haven could doubtless fight one, he had seldom seen the Bloodfields in the winter. The yearly battle…
Well, his armies led with fireballs and blasted the Bloodfields until they had enough clear space to fight in. But he had never liked this place, and there were parts that had been growing for millennia.
Few people were brave enough to stretch their legs as the Haven went south, even the nobles with retinues. Which was why it was such a surprise to see two women walking into the Bloodfields.
Not far in. One had a horse, and the other…Tyrion stopped his morning sword training as he saw a familiar young woman with black hair talking to a woman with…indigo hair?
He had no idea who she was until he realized.
