Ivolethe graced him with an answer to the question at last. Ryoka looked up, and the faerie waited for her to run. The Winter Fae pointed at Ryoka.
“Don’t look at it so simply, Melidore. Look at how she plays, Ryoka Griffin.”
His wrath at being lectured like a neophyte to the game made a group of visiting guests to the Faerie Court flinch. One of them drew a blade—and burning plasma winked out in the face of Melidore’s fury.
They quailed, but Ivolethe laughed at him. The Summer Fae looked down—and then he saw.
There was some analogy to chess—but Ryoka was neither a bishop nor a rook nor a queen piece. People were more than one thing. He looked down—then traced Ryoka’s route across the board. Ivolethe’s smile widened.
“‘Twas not about her. If our king wanted a sword, he would call you, Melidore. Why does Shaestrel go? Perhaps it is because Ryoka’s ability is…to make a mess of things. So grandly no one can play around her.”
Every single time, the board dissolved into chaos around the Wind Runner. One of the Winter Fae would end up fighting Melidore’s own pieces, the Wyrm sisters, or a melee would ensue that caught even him off-guard.
Now, he saw it. Melidore’s eyes rose, and he traced the path Ryoka Griffin had taken. He looked at the guests of the Faerie Court, who regarded him in great alarm with their little tools that beeped and chirped numbers that made no sense of them. His burnished gaze stared through them—
 
——
 
And through space. At a spaceship still hurtling through their realm, leading an armada now. Every ship that they could pull together.
Commander Paethex had left over a thousand warships venting into space. There had never been a craft as deadly as hers. Solar-battlestations hadn’t done as much.
—However, the tide of the war was turning upon her. Planet-cracking weapons were being trained on her position, and the fleet was in rapid reconstruction, even in transit. Engineer crews were feverishly working on prototype shield arrays meant to make use of a nigh-unlimited power source.
Solar-battlestations. Entire worlds remodeled to harness the power of a star, or the similar equivalent, with fusion generation. At least two were vectoring towards her. Her superiors had informed her that if she could destroy them, she would liberate multiple sectors.
If she could kill a battle system with the firepower of a star. And she had…a stick. But it was a lovely stick, and at this point, she was willing to see what would happen if she—
“…It’s the only maneuver that will work. Tether as many generators and containment batteries as you can. I need twenty units of time or we’ll be shredded before we can launch within my optimal range.”
She was giving orders to the other Victory Company commanders—even a Sector Admiral. None of them were happy.
“If they capture your weapon—”
“This isn’t a matter for debate. We reach optimal range. Accelerate to maximum velocity—”
Her projections of the battle were very simple. Their harnessed AIs were calculating tens of thousands of attacks would come from the first Solar-battlestation. Too many to count. They would overload any shields they had, but the entire fleet would be bunkering behind the prototype shields.
Even in the simulated battle, it was clear they wouldn’t last. Twenty units—less—and some weapons would punch through, shredding ships. After the shields went down, nothing would remain.
So the fleet would already be backing off. They just had to accelerate into range, dangerously close to the enemy station and escort—then they would flee backwards in their twenty units of time.
The AIs were not happy. The commanders were not happy. Paethex’s entire plan revolved around a single object that left the combined fleet—and her ship. It flew towards the enemy station, which would launch every interceptor it could…and then…?
Throw the stick. Of course, the rest of the fleet called it Providence Garethex after the sector they’d found it in and her. Paethex was highly embarrassed by it.
Only her track record and miraculous offensive kept the other Victory Commanders from stripping her of her position on the spot. She saw them looking at each other silently.
They were going to toss the greatest asset in this sector at a Solar-battlestation that had more gravitational tractoring and shielding than their entire fleet combined. It would just catch Providence Garethex, and then they would all be dead.
The Koorvigas member of the Collective that had sent the Solar-battlestation would just love to use that weapon to exact vengeance. Paethex, though, was gambling that the ‘stick’ wouldn’t be caught.
“—How can we retrieve the Providence, Commander Paethex? Even without the ability to match a Solar-battlestation outright, we have not utilized its full potential. Is this—gamble—worth the risks of losing the Providence outright, even if it destroys the station?”
The Sector Admiral had one question that indicated both a suicidal amount of trust and a lot of doubt. And to that, Paethex just smiled. That wild, crazy smile that had put her on every news cycle across this galaxy.
“It is the gamble that will change whether we can win this war in our lifetimes or not, Sector Admiral. Because if we fall back, we will cede ground to those battlestations until an equivalent can warp in. How many units of time will that take? Thousands? Millions? Our fleet and the Providence can destroy any number of battleships, but we will flee every battlestation—so the Collective will pull back around them. But if this works, every battlestation between here and their homeworlds is now a target.”
And if it worked, suddenly that other Solar-class battlestation would be turning around and running as fast as it could. Then—she had a route straight through their lines. Turn their impenetrable forces into weak targets. Force the other members of the Collective to either sue for a ceasefire or pull out of their warfront entirely.
If it worked. Paethex stared at the projection. The…child or gigantic scaled creature that she had met and made the deal with had been very precise about how to use the Stick. There was no situation where he had said ‘power your entire warfleet off the ambient energy coming from it’.
She was taking a risk on what he said it was meant to do, so Paethex spoke as they began counting time down to their entry into realspace.
“…As to your other point, Sector Admiral, the ‘Providence’ was never meant to be used as a mobile power source. Just as you observed in our combat—it was designed to be used in close-quarters combat. Thrown, in fact.”
The commanders muttered louder, in disbelief. Paethex turned to them, and then her eyes lit up.
“It may not happen. The Solar-battlestation might seize it. Or the explosion may throw it out of our reach. But I was told—it comes back.”
Everyone turned to the viewports. And they stared out the window. Paethex still saw a stick, if she looked, but behind the arrays absorbing the energy, floating in space off the bow of her vessel…
Some of the Victory Commanders had already identified the Providence as looking similar to objects used in ceremonies from their homeworlds. Floating in space, bathed by the energy it was giving off—the spear was eight feet long, and the tip was edged.
It wasn’t even a monomolecular blade. But it was a very pointy stick. The ‘Dragon’ claimed it had belonged to a legendary hero, well, multiple legends. For some reason, he’d decided that he was willing to part with it for enough printed gold, platinum, and other metals to cover him eighty times over and five of the Victory Company’s ships. He had seemed very interested by the way they could print metals like gold. Enough to give up the stick in return.
Paethex was going to throw it. She had been told it would hit whatever she threw it at, and it would always come back to her. Paethex was still unsure why he’d taken her offer, but she had remembered what he’d claimed. She was going to take that very, very literally.
The point that Ivolethe was making to Melidore was simple. Visitors to the Faerie King’s courts. The fate of at least one galaxy. And—Sariant Lambs, a Wyrm, the last Unicorn?
Ryoka had a way of making strange connections. And in a game about fate? She was a good card to play.
 
——
 
Hedault the [Enchanter] had known Kevin’s bicycles were not normal. But like Grimalkin, like most people who tried to wrap their heads around another world, he had assumed Kevin was from either a nation that had invented the bicycles—or that Kevin was in possession of ancient knowledge.
Not the knowledge of another world.
“I thought you came from another dimension.”
Ryoka nearly spat out her drink.
“You what?”
“It was the most reasonable idea. I thought Erin Solstice had appeared from a dimension separate from this one. One created by an Archmage.”
“—Is that a thing?”
Hedault shrugged.
“My studies indicated it was possible. Even modern [Mages] can create partially tangential dimensions. Wistram is functionally a compressed city within the academy. Another world without magic seems ludicrous.”
“…Huh. But we’re from different worlds. Just so it’s clear. Everything runs on—”
“Electricity. Lightning magic harnessed. Not fire, wind, or water?”
Hedault was sitting in his apartment, and Ryoka had a laptop. Kevin had made a Powerpoint slide-based presentation when he realized that he’d have to explain Earth to people like Selys. She was flipping through slides and glad Hedault was no longer hyperventilating.
Rather—she was disconcerted by the way the [Enchanter] thought.
“Uh—those are actually power sources. We still burn coal for fuel in some places, but we have wind farms—that harness wind power. Dams harness water, and we’re working to take advantage of volcanoes and other power sources.”
“I see. That is logical. Without magic, you would turn to natural sources of energy. Blood sacrifices?”
“That doesn’t produce power. We definitely tried that—for other reasons.”
Hedault was rubbing at his head. He had to have the most killer headache—Selys had been forced to lie down for over a week, according to Erin. Yet the [Enchanter] just sat there, staring at the Faeblade.
“This is a piece of technology from…”
“Another world. Another another world. So far in the future compared to mine that it’s like us—comparing a laptop to a piece of paper.”
Ryoka waved the laptop and a piece of paper for emphasis. Hedault nodded.
“And that is why I mistook it for magic. The competence of its creation is on par with magic—or even exceeds it.”
He was way too calm about this. Ryoka paused.
“Are you sure you understand, Hedault?”
He glanced up at her, and the Master Enchanter of Invrisil raised his brows.
“I do not understand anything of Earth. I will ask Kevin to explain it more thoroughly. And review these—pictures later.”
“Keep it secret.”
“Yes, yes. But I do understand the concept of the ‘Faeblade’. It is a piece of superior technology incomprehensible in the modern age. That is the very definition of Relic-class items recovered by adventurers and treasure seekers.”
“Oh.”
When he put it like that, it was familiar to him. It was a different kind of technology, but the effect was similar.
Here was where things got weird. Ryoka was nervous about telling Hedault about Earth and aliens. However—she thought it was the right call.
Trust. She needed friends, or at least, a lack of enemies, and Hedault’s giving up of the wand was exceptionally…noble of him. But it got weird about fifteen seconds after she explained all of Earth to Hedault’s basic understanding and told him where the Faeblade had come from. Because the first thing Hedault did was stare at the hilt of the weapon.
“Have you tried enchanting it?”
“Have I what now?”
Ryoka paused, and Nerry looked up from her nap. Shaestrel had been gobbling snacks out of a bowl, and the Spring Fae looked up as well.
 
“Hah? What did he say?”
 
Hedault gave all of his guests a blank look.
“It is a non-magical item. Have you tried enchanting it? Anything in this world can be enchanted that does not have magical properties, and this has not a dram.”
“You…can’t enchant alien tech.”
“Why not?”
Ryoka looked at Nerry and Shaestrel. She hefted the object in her hands.
“Well, you couldn’t enchant this laptop.”
Hedault’s frown now looked insulted.
“You have never shown me that laptop before. I can enchant it.”
“N-no, you can’t…I mean, if you could—”
Ryoka suddenly remembered something. Hadn’t Inkar claimed that Krshia had upgraded her iPhone? Ryoka had inspected it, and it was a model beyond the latest ones she knew about in 2016. But Rose had claimed she’d heard this new phone was coming out—it just hadn’t been in stores.
Was it possible to enchant electronics? No. Surely not. But [Repair] worked on a laptop to charge it up, and she had seen Teriarch…
“You can’t clone a laptop, can you, Hedault? With magic?”
He gave her a dubious look.
“You mean with [Foundational Recreation of Mundanity]? The Tier 7 spell that can recreate any non-magical item? That would be lost magic.”
“Ah. Just checking. But you think you can enchant a laptop? I’ve shown this to Palt, Ceria, um…Pisces, Montressa, and Bezale all know about it, and [Mages] of Wistram are all aware of Earth. Heck, Grimalkin knows about Earther tech, even if we don’t show a lot of it to him. No one’s tried enchanting it.”
Hedault sat back in his seat, and he tapped his forefingers together. Twice.
“None of those [Mages] are [Enchanters]. I am an [Enchanter]. The difference is our competencies and specializations, Miss Ryoka.”
“I get it—”
Hedault kept going, face straight, but he sounded peeved.
“I am sure you regard your Gold-rank friends as capable [Mages]. Their ‘enchantments’ are, by and large, temporary, inefficient, and ineffective. Even Mage Montressa and Mage Palt are not equivalent to my spellcasting. Mage Montressa is capable of laying down a temporary ward or runecrafting. Mage Bezale can runecraft, write spell scrolls, and lay out a semi-permanent ward. None of that is equivalent to what I can do. I am an [Enchanter]. I can create an artifact that does not lose its magic after a year. My magic is specialized and permanent. Please draw a distinction between a [Mage] and myself. And underline it.”
Ryoka ducked her head at his furious glare, and yet he still didn’t raise his voice.
“I’m sorry. So you think you can enchant a laptop.”
