“They have a lot of fun customs at sea, you know. And on campaign, I’m told. It’s not a topic most Drakes bring up. But—I’ve heard [Sailors] have relationships with each other, men in a relationship with other men. Does it happen in armies too that you know, Tyrion, or is it not spoken of? It’s completely normal to me, but I don’t know Izril’s customs.”
Jericha’s head snapped around.
“Miss Ryoka, Lord Hethon and Sammial are here.”
“So? It’s not an inappropriate conversation.”
Tyrion Veltras blinked at Ryoka Griffin. He often seemed surprised by the line a dinner conversation took, and he visibly hesitated. Sammial and Hethon were staring from Ryoka to Ysara to Tyrion to Jericha. Sammial had a vague look of disgust on his face, and Hethon looked uncomprehending, but neither was shouting in outrage. That was good.
“I—am familiar with some rumors. But it is not mentioned. What occurs on the campaign, and at sea, is often dropped. Such gossip is often used to cast aspersions on the character of members of the nobility. I do not partake in that kind of gossip.”
“Right. But it’s not wrong, is it? Or do you think otherwise? By the by, Drakes call that being a ‘Turnscale’, but I have a bunch of different definitions from home. Let me know if Izrilians have a different term. Pass the bread, would you, Hethon?”
“Ryoka. This is not a fit subject for the dinner table.”
Jericha hissed at Ryoka. She looked nervous, or perhaps uncomfortable. Ryoka gave her a flat look.
“Why?”
Ysara nodded.
“I’d be happy to share what I’ve seen. And it does exist, regardless of thoughts on it. I would like to hear what Lord Veltras has to say.”
“But it’s—not appropriate!”
Jericha tried again. This time, Sammial raised his voice.
“Why? I want to hear about this.”
“Yes, tell us why it’s inappropriate.”
The final guest spoke up, and if Ysara had vivid indigo hair—she was not the most dramatic person at the table for hair color.
Taletevirion looked very interested as he sat up at the table. He had not been especially moved by Ryoka inviting him to dinner with Lord Tyrion. Or mac and cheese. But this conversation…he began picking baby tomatoes out of the salad bowl and shoveling them into his mouth as Jericha floundered. His silver eyes glittered at Ryoka.
I know exactly what you’re doing. But I’m playing along.
That’s what they said. He glanced at Ysara Byres, and Tyrion Veltras eyed Taletevirion.
“I understand you are an accomplished swordsman, sir. I am reinventing my own skillset. Would you care for a duel after this meal?”
“I could spank you both for a while. Why not? It sounds funny to see what ‘once in a thousand years’ looks like for House Byres’ prodigy. And beating on a Veltras [Lord] used to be a tradition in my family.”
Ysara and Tyrion’s faces both turned slack as the Unicorn laughed like a braying donkey. Jericha turned her wrath on him, and Ryoka sat back. Hethon passed her the bread, and she tucked into the meal with a good humor.
Yes, this. This was what Shaestrel was smiling at. This was the Ryoka Griffin trademark.
Chaos. No, wait, that was Erin’s job. Ryoka was more like weird meetings. Suddenly, Ryoka wondered if she could get a certain sock puppet to agree to a meal at Erin’s inn. Maybe he’d run into a Goblin. Maybe he’d run into Erin Solstice or Demsleth.
Either way, only good things could occur. Ryoka Griffin lifted a cup and smiled.
“Here’s to awkward dinner parties.”
Everyone stared at her, but Ryoka Griffin had done this so much that the embarrassment was like second nature to her. She drained the cup, laughed, and then began to launch into a discussion of Turnscales with a Unicorn, a Silver [Merchant], and the [Lord] of House Veltras.
It was going to be a fun month.
The Unicorn sat, awkwardly, with Ysara Byres and Tyrion Veltras, as Shaestrel floated out the window, burping, having eaten half a normal person’s plate of macaroni at a speed not even Sammial could match.
He told himself he’d seen something like this before. If not all in the same place…you didn’t get credit for rearranging the same thing into a novel order. A sword was a sword. A girl was a girl. To a Dragon—or a Unicorn—it was still the same thing.
It didn’t matter if it was a sword in the stone or an alien’s weapon from the far future. The last Harpy of empire or a young woman with an aversion to socks. It wasn’t…new.
—Even he knew he was lying at this point. So the Unicorn broke into a discussion of what sailors did and whether that was normal—quietly.
“The Vale Forest is dead. Every Great Tree was felled. You, boy, and your family did not raze the entire forest for lumber. There are deep roots—but your legacy is just that. A legacy. If you want to grow a seed faster than a decade for the first shoot to break soil—you had better find magic. But the Drakes stole the magic of Oteslia’s tree. There are no great green havens left. A Treant might nurture that seed. But it would be the death of an ancient. And they’d do it too, the soft bastards.”
He took a long drink of Rxlvn as Tyrion Veltras stopped abruptly. Ryoka turned, eyes widening. Ysara paused, then waved a fork.
“Excuse me. Is this—innuendo I’m missing? About ships docking together?”
Ysara thought Taletevirion was joking or making a reference to Turnscales. She smiled—until the Unicorn blew air out of his mouth.
“No, not your stupid issues of Humans kissing each other regardless of gender, girl. Which I have entire sympathy for—fools are fools. But you haven’t even gotten into the weird stuff yet. Ever had a relationship with an Elemental but their form keeps changing? Or a spirit of the snow who melts and forgets their lover every year and falls in love all over again? That’s hard to make work.”
Jericha’s mouth opened, and she looked between Taletevirion and Ryoka. The Wind Runner opened her mouth nervously.
“Taletevirion—”
“What seed are you referring to, sir? And how do you know about the death of the forest?”
Tyrion Veltras eyed Taletevirion, and the Unicorn was drunk. Or getting there with Rxlvn. He took another swig.
“I’m talking about the Dryad seed in the wand Ryoka has. The one she’s trying to grow.”
He gave her a smile like a horse as everyone’s gaze suddenly locked on Ryoka Griffon. Hethon began choking on his food, and Tyrion sat bolt upright. Ryoka was open-mouthed. She realized—
The Unicorn was doing this on purpose. Taletevirion exhaled happily.
“I love making smart-assed people’s lives harder. You want to talk secrets? Let’s talk about that, too. Trust goes every direction. And around a corner. That’s when you stab it.”
Ysara Byres sat there as Ryoka Griffin looked for a way out—and Jericha closed the window and bolted it with a look of great satisfaction. Nowhere to run. All the time to talk. As Nerry nearly laughed herself off the table, Sammial Veltras rubbed his hands together with glee. Ryoka never let him down.
 
——
 
A fun month indeed.
The Spring Fae was laughing so hard she slammed into one of the walls of the inn. Then she flew through the window.
“What the—hey! Shaestrel, what’s up. Aw. Is Ryoka in trouble? Is it the Bloodfields? Let me get Relc!”
Erin Solstice was in her room, writing a letter to her penpals. Which included Earl Altestiel, the King of Avel…
She had just played a game of chess with Niers, and he’d said that he knew at least a few Earthers. He’d wanted to talk about her world, and she’d countered with ‘if you beat me we’ll talk’.
(She’d won.)
The Titan seemed to enjoy having someone who could actually throw him mentally off his game. They had a winter, though, and Erin was trying not to think about the Winter Solstice.
She was going to do some baking in a moment—once more, she would call upon the profane, the ignored, and the humble warrior of the kitchens. Though he was small and probably inedible…
The Shadow Loaf would rise again.
Erin was also making preparations in her way. Time was a valuable thing, and neither she nor Ryoka were wasting it. If they were warriors with swords, they should have been out training or slaying monsters.
But since neither one was—Shaestrel alighted on Erin’s desk.
 
“Nae trouble. Not yet, or if it is, let her wallow in it like a pig, eh? She enjoys it.”
 
“That’s so rude and so Ryoka. Did you want more food or something? Or another teacup bath?”
Erin Solstice was being as nice to the Spring Fae as she could be, and she really did like her guest. Although she was quite aware of the fae’s penchant for trouble and pranks. However, Shaestrel hadn’t even done much pranking aside from an incident where she convinced Palt to cast a miniature [Forcewall] spell right under the lip of one of the outhouse seats.
Which—gross. She peered at Erin Solstice.
 
“Your flowers are looking well. Perhaps some will bloom soon. That was another thing my kin told me about. A girl who tricks the fae’s oldest prank. The [Innkeeper] who makes Gnomes laugh, mocks the gods, and claims a Dragon’s title.”
 
Erin flushed mildly.
“You mean the Grandmaster of Scales thing? I think Xarkouth wouldn’t have minded. I played a bunch of people in chess…”
 
“Aye, aye. I’m not holding you to task. But what a wondrous young woman. High ‘level’ in this world, great friend of Goblins.”
 
“You’re talking me up.”
She was getting embarrassed, but Shaestrel wasn’t saying it as pure praise. The Spring Faerie was…smiling. Erin Solstice saw her eying the chess board. The [Innkeeper] waited for the prank. And…here it came…
 
“The greatest chess player that the warlord of another continent plays. I say these things and they’re true. You spoke well to Ryoka Griffin of who you are and what you have done. I see it. I do not deny it, Witch. I would be a fool to try. But…”
 
Shaestrel paused, and a light came into her eyes. Then she grinned, and Erin saw the member of the Summer Courts. Small, compressed into this world, a visitor from far off.
Smiling, without contempt or dismissal of who Erin was. But even still.
The arrogance of the fae upon her. And Shaestrel’s voice was sweet like honey and buzzed like a storm of flies in the midst of an overwarm forest.
 
“…What a fat head ye might get. Luckily for you, I am here. You play chess well, [Innkeeper] Erin Solstice?”
 
Erin blinked. She looked down at the chessboard, then up at Shaestrel sharply.
“Wait. Do you play chess?”
The Spring Fae’s smile grew wider.
 
“I play it. And a game beyond even that. If you beat me at chess—I might teach you the other.”
 
Erin’s hand crept towards the chess board as if it were possessed. And suddenly—her heart was beating fast. Her eyes lit up.
“Are you any good?”
Shaestrel shrugged overly modestly.
 
“We shall have to see. But I hear tell you have lost to Gnomes.”
 
“One game. And he bong clouded me.”
 
“Gnomes bong about everywhere and everywhen. ‘Tis not surprising. But just so you know—I beat Gnomes at games of chess and fate. Let’s play a game.”
 
Just like that. Erin Solstice was not ready. The window was open, blowing the cold winds of winter in, and she had Ishkr close it after a second.
She had to go pee, and she was tired from a long dance routine in the mornings. Winter had just begun—but here was Shaestrel.
And the Grandmaster of Scales had no great thunderous temporary Skill appear over her head. There was no quest. A fell wind did not blow, nor did an ethereal battleground representing their chess pieces appear and shake the foundations of the inn.
But her heart was pounding. And she swore—she could hear laughter.
The [Innkeeper] faced her greatest opponent yet, who fluttered down and stood there, eyes alight with an even greater challenge.
Erin Solstice laughed in delight. Then she began to play and fight for the chance to step onto an even greater playing field. A deeper game still.
