She felt bad as she walked back towards the portal door to Liscor. Now she was trying to figure out what to give him. The obol, obviously, but—could she give him anything else? She didn’t have a surplus of magic.
Shaestrel was not helping. She kept floating after Ryoka, adding to the Wind Runner’s guilt.
 
“Ye know, but for our meddling and the Faerie King’s tricks, he was fated to have that wand till he died. You ruined the man’s fate. Perhaps his levels. Fame would have poured onto him, and gold aplenty. No telling where his destiny lies now. Tis true. I swear it by the Dryads, living and dead.”
 
“Shaestrel, stop. Are you trying to make me cry?”
 
“Yes.”
 
Ryoka wished she were surprised. She…well, she was going to make it up to Hedault. He was right. Now that he knew the truth, he didn’t want the wand. He wasn’t going to have to lose his apartment just because she’d taken the most profitable…source of his income away.
The image of Hedault selling his apartment was not to be focused on. She headed to Esthlem, and Kevin didn’t help when Ryoka asked about Hedault.
“Hedault? He’s a stand-up guy. He doesn’t charge us much on Solar Cycles. He’s a partner in the business, but he makes all his money from the weird chairs. I think Solar Cycles is his passion. He loves skateboarding, and he can afford to work with us because of his Lifewood stuff. Actually, we were going to make a bike out of it. Pure wood. Green.”
“Oh, fuck me!”
Ryoka left without elaborating. She stomped through Esthelm, trying to tell herself that the obol of Oberon was worth far more than the wand in the long-term. And…as if someone had been watching her the entire time, someone spoke to her as she was headed to the portal door.
“Psst. Hey. You. Windy Girl.”
Ryoka Griffin slowed in front of a conspicuously empty alleyway no one seemed to be paying attention to. A hooded figure with a huge nose…or mouth…was standing there. She stepped into the alleyway, and no one but Nerry and Shaestrel noticed.
“Uh. Excuse me?”
The figure tilted his head up—and Ryoka recoiled in horror. Right before she saw the deformed mouth and hideous, vacant—
Button eyes?
A gigantic sock puppet wearing a black hood made a show of looking right and left before bending over to her.
“I’m a friend.”
“Dead gods damn it, Rhisveri—”
Ryoka raised her voice and turned to the passersby, but not a person heard or saw them in the alleyway. The puppet instantly shook his ‘head’.
“Rhisveri? Who’s that, the handsome Duke of Ailendamus? I’m Rhissy—”
“Fuck you. What do you want? I thought I was excommunicated!”
“Hey, the nations you destroy and innocent people you kill are none of my business. I’m just a friend. Met with any people carrying ironwood wands lately?”
Ryoka covered her face. Shaestrel was laughing so hard she was about to puke nuts. ‘Rhissy’ didn’t seem to be able to see nor hear her with his magical projection.
But it was amazing how smug a sock puppet could look. So this was how he was getting around his injunction that no one from Ailendamus talk to her? Why couldn’t any immortals she knew be cool? Only Oberon was 100% style all the time.
“How do you know that’s who has the—seed?”
Rhissy shrugged.
“You’re the one who mentioned a wand. Wand. Only production of Lifewood in centuries. It’s not arch magic. But I’m sorry, I forgot I was talking to the Windy Girl herself. I suppose it was a genius realization on your part. Incidentally, you’re a hit in Ailendamus. Very popular.”
Ryoka didn’t want to engage with him. She shook her head.
“I’m handling it.”
“Sure you are. That [Enchanter] totally just gave away the most powerful wand he could dream of.”
“Yep.”
Rhissy’s tone grew more sarcastic.
“Definitely. One look at your face coming out and I knew you needed help. Well, just say the word and I’ll take over. Rhisveri won’t accept just the wand—it needs a way to germinate the seed. But I might have some ideas on that. Just beg me for help and I’ll help, Windy Girl.”
Something about his tone…Ryoka’s head rose. She realized—Rhisveri didn’t have the power to break through Hedault’s anti-scrying spells.
He didn’t know Hedault had just given her the wand. Ryoka hesitated.
“No, I’ve got it under control.”
“Oh, of course. Tell you what. I’ll check back in a week, and when you need help—just let me know.”
The sock-puppet laughed at her. Then he slowly sank down into the brickwork of Esthelm, hood and all. Ryoka stared as his head vanished. When she looked down, Nerry gave her a long look.
Even without words—Ryoka nodded.
“Yeah. You think your life is weird? That’s mine.”
 
“That stupid Wyrm. Did ye see that? I’ve never—I’m going tae puke. They’ll laugh at him nine realms across when I tell them about that! And his face when he thought ye needed his help!”
 
Shaestrel had to lean on a wall to keep from falling over. Ryoka just shook her head.
 
——
 
The next day, before she visited Hedault again, Ryoka Griffin was walking through Invrisil when someone pulled her into an alleyway.
“Rhissy, I swear I’ll kill—oh.”
A man with silver hair was holding onto a bandaged stomach and grimacing. Taletevirion spoke as he glanced at Shaestrel.
“Who’s Rhissy? Nevermind that. The seed was dead, right? There’s no way it was a real one. Good? Too bad. What a failed dream. Back to rest for me.”
He slapped Ryoka on the shoulder with a false look of sympathy on his face. Ryoka Griffin stared at him. The Unicorn gave her a bright smile…then his eyes jerked down.
“…What’s that in your pants?”
“What would you like to see, exactly?”
Shaestrel laughed so hard this time she threw up the morning sausage she ate. Ryoka slowly pulled the ironwood wand out of her bag of holding. Taletevirion’s eyes locked on it. The Unicorn, holding his wounded stomach, slowly slid down the brick wall.
“Oh. Neuter me with a spoon.”
He saw the wand, and his face went even paler. Ryoka Griffin gently patted him on the shoulder as she put the wand away.
“Know any good planting pots?”
She waited—and he sat there, staring ahead with a kind of pained horror and resignation as she went to see Hedault.
 
——
 
“Eighteen obols. And I’ve got tons of gold. And—I could get Archmage Valeterisa to teach you some magic?”
She tried to cheer up the silent [Enchanter]. Hedault just poked at the obols on the table.
“Whatever you believe is fair. But no Archmage. She is objectionable, dangerous, and a thief.”
“Okay, no Valeterisa. Come on, Hedault. I feel like I’m kicking dogs here.”
“…Do you do that often? Nalthaliarstrelous may want a word.”
His head slowly rose. Ryoka backpedaled at once.
“No! Never! Only if they’re off the leash and literally about to tear a leg off! Listen, Hedault. Ask for something, please. Need a delivery? A favor? Want Erin to stop bothering you? Please demand something. I can ask House Veltras for a favor. Even House El or Terland!”
It would salve her conscience if he had anything to make up for the wand. Hedault looked at her, and his eyes did light up slightly.
“There is…one thing. But I doubt you would part ways with it.”
“Name it. If it’s something of mine…”
Aw, shit. Ryoka hesitated, and Hedault saw it. He was going to ask for the footwraps. She closed her eyes and wondered what Nama would think.
But if it made up for things…fuck. That felt fair. Ryoka hated turnabout when it was fair. Hedault nodded.
“If you ask me what I want, I will be honest. Few people are inclined to actually be truthful, I’ve found.”
“…I could at least let you study whatever you want. Say it, Hedault?”
He inclined his head with a bit more respect.
“Then—the one suitable repayment I would take would be if you gave me your unique Kaalblade and let me disenchant or study it. Including how it is made. That would be appropriate along with the obol.”
“My…what?”
Ryoka gave Hedault a blank look. He frowned at her, vexed.
“Your Kaalblade. The one that Deilan El or the late Maviola El gave you. The one significantly more powerful than the rest? Some have called it the ‘Windsword’, but I doubt it’s made up of wind. It is—pink?”
Ryoka blinked at Hedault. Then she realized what he meant and almost laughed. But his annoyed expression and how bad she was feeling—
“Oh, Hedault. You must never have seen it up close. It’s—I hate to tell you this, but it’s not enchanted.”
It was a completely logical mistake for him to make. What object could do what the Faeblade did without magic? Ryoka was rewarded with a look of complete incredulity and then skepticism on Hedault’s face.
“Impossible. If you are lying—hm?”
He stared as she pulled the hilt of the Faeblade out of her belt loop. Then…he stared at it. He bent over the Faeblade, and after asking permission and Ryoka telling him not to squeeze the handle—although he wasn’t registered, so the danger was minimal—he touched the Faeblade.
He held it up. He peered at it. Hedault found a magnifying glass. He murmured a spell.
“[Detect Magic]. [Analysis: Mana Trace]. [Identify Magic: Elements].”
Three spells, each of a more complex nature than the last. Hedault stared at the Faeblade—then looked at Ryoka.
“That’s—impossible. It must be camouflaged magic. So powerful it’s above me. I’ve heard some enchantments do that. Or else—it’s spring-metal. Yes, a forged contraption on the level of Master Pelt. Thinner than paper and sharper than mithril!”
Nothing would do but for Ryoka to create the thin light blade. Hedault stared at it—and then his eyes popped.
“What is this?”
The Wind Runner gave him a sheepish look as the actual sheep stared at Ryoka, Hedault, and then at the sword with avariciousness. Nerry and Hedault listened as Ryoka spoke.
“Master Hedault. It might not make up for your wand but—let me explain something to you from the start. Oh. And we might need to borrow Kevin’s laptop.”
That was how she ended up telling Enchanter Hedault all about Earth. And aliens. And that was when the [Enchanter] nearly lost his mind.
 
——
 
“Why her?”
The question was asked in not so succinct a manner over a hundred times to a hundred individuals over the course of a span of time that felt like an aeon.
Time was different in the courts of the Faerie King. The closer you got to the heart, the less it mattered in small ways.
The more it mattered in others. Laws were like that. Some laws in the realms of the fae you could bend around until they made a circle. And others grew so strong that they could break reality.
In this place—well, Melidore still spoke like summer. His very nature, let alone his attire, was a harsh ray of sunlight. Even when the Winter Court held sway, he was that bright beam of sunlight. A warm day in winter.
Technically, he was in dissent, and the Faerie King’s wrath might fall upon him—but only technically. After all, there were realms where it was ever-summer, or places out of sync where spring had slain winter. So Melidore was, in a large sense, fitting and representative of the Spring Court even if every being around him was frozen and somber, like crystals glittering upon the surface of a lake.
In another sense, he was a stubborn prat. But then, that was a matter of perspective.
He was sitting, moving pieces across a board, when he asked the question to the right person at last. And that was Ivolethe. They were playing a game similar to chess, only on a board that would have made Erin Solstice sit up and salivate.
The rules were incomprehensible to the rare guests who made it this far. It was the kind of game that made visiting deities sweat, and some visitors got up after a mind-boggling defeat to realize they had spent fifty-two years losing.
The Faerie Court could be cruel. At any rate, the pieces were moving. Ivolethe would place one and watch it, a suspiciously barefoot young woman, run in a diagonal line across the board. But she vanished as she ran into a glowing portal, and Melidore’s figure that looked like a frozen member of the Wild Hunt—missed.
The game, incidentally, was the game of Fate. And the fae played it very well. But of course, any good player knew that you weren’t just playing against one opponent. Melidore and Ivolethe were just passing time with a smaller reflection in a limited scope.
The real game was played against the board, a thousand opponents, luck herself, and overturning the table was a valid tactic.
Melidore scowled as Ivolethe pulled her entire board apart to protect the annoying Runner, sacrificing pieces to throw them in his path. Against all odds, it was working. A mini-Nama tossed the Wild Hunt piece off the board, and it vanished.
“Why her?”
“It was a prophecy, twit. Are ye not familiar with how it works? Swords in stone. Some things are inescapable.”
“If you let them. You have not tried to escape your role in this in any way, Ivolethe. But—why her? Why does our King give her a gift?”
Ivolethe was choosing her next move carefully. Ryoka was still running. She hadn’t been moved the entire game; both were playing around her. She was currently turning in a circle, and no one could guess which way she’d go. But when Ivolethe looked down at her, she smiled with fond exasperation.
When she looked up, her gaze was sharp, like falling icicles, and dared Melidore to keep playing. He did, of course. He was burnished arrogance, and his armor would have made the sun look like a pale reflection.
“He has given children gifts in hopes they will shatter foes. He sees a thousand paths, and if there were a blade out of a piece of grass—wouldn’t you hurl it at that lot?”
Winter and summer stared each other down, and Melidore nodded grudgingly.
“I would. In a heartbeat. But I see more faith placed in her than that. What power does she have? Friendship with the wind? She is no master of any weapon. Why. Her?”
Ivolethe laughed. She had lost the game. Ryoka went tumbling off the edge of the board and vanished—it was a bitter loss. But the two fae reset the board, and Ivolethe kept playing.
Younger, lesser. Members of the court watched. Some thought Ivolethe mad. She had been playing this game, this side for countless turns.
And she had been losing. There was one road to victory amongst a million, and the Winter Fae was searching for it. Some would have thought it was Ivolethe’s madness, championing a mortal.
—But those ones did not see the weary figure slumbering upon the throne. One of two—and the other was eternally empty.
He looked like he was sleeping, a great head of antlers resting upon a fist. But betimes, Melidore thought he saw a green flicker.
As if the Faerie King were watching Ivolethe’s board.
