“—I was in Ailendamus, recently. That’s part of why I’m here, Hedault. I have a very important obligation as, well, a Courier and more. Shaestrel is here in Ivolethe’s place, and she is an important representative. Nerry is—a companion.”
The lamb was sitting with her hooves folded, not eating, just watching the conversation with too-sharp eyes. Hedault glanced at her, then at Ryoka.
“Very well. Are you representing Ailendamus? House Veltras? The Runner’s Guild or…The Wandering Inn?”
He pronounced that last part with some hesitation. Ryoka smiled faintly.
“Let’s call it myself in service to Ailendamus. None of the Five Families, not the Runner’s Guild or anyone else. I’m only friends with Erin. Have you enjoyed working with her?”
The [Enchanter]’s eyes narrowed, and he tapped his fingers together twice. Ryoka remembered that was his tic. He also was missing a ring finger on his left hand—the product of a magical mishap, she suspected.
“Her inn has never failed to upset my stomach. Whether or not my experience is a net positive or negative, Erin Solstice is not a woman I care to associate with without preparation for a disorganized day.”
Did that mean he liked her or not? The [Enchanter] reached for a cup of tea, and Ryoka did the same.
“Small talk seems inevitable regardless of my comments.”
“I’m sorry for wasting your time. I think it’s a Human—a personal thing to lead with that.”
He gazed at her. He was balding with orange hair, and his eyes were a sharp, luminescent beige-grey color, like wild cotton, perhaps, but magical.
“Ksmvr of the Horns of Hammerad was refreshingly direct. Master Pelt, likewise. Efficient men who I was pleased to work with. Kevin can be likewise direct and concise in his communications.”
“No efficient women?”
She couldn’t help but needle him slightly. Hedault narrowed his eyes.
“Maid Ressa in service to Magnolia Reinhart. Maviola El at work. Would you like me to write up a list of both genders?”
Ryoka winced.
“No…just asking. Alright, Hedault. I can see this isn’t going to be easy. Er…this isn’t small talk. How’s the, um, Lifewood business going?”
Hedault’s pinched glare shifted. He sat back and gave Ryoka a wary expression. Then…he closed his eyes, snapped them open, and spoke quickly.
“It is, as you can surmise, the most profitable endeavor I have undertaken even including Solar Cycles. Although I personally find my partnership in that project more rewarding. The Lifewood enchanting within my capacity is mostly for furniture; few have asked for functional objects, and I am not prepared as of yet to make a Lifewood Carriage per Lady Reinhart’s request, nor was she able to produce the raw materials immediately. But it has contributed to four levels and my class consolidation and capstone. I am now a Level 42 [Lifewood Artifact Analysis Enchanter]”
Ryoka’s mouth fell open. That name was so—pedantic it fit Hedault. But he’d hit Level 40 thanks to the wand? Hedault wasn’t done yet.
“In recognition of this success, I have already allocated a substantial sum to my debt, which I articulated to the Horns of Hammerad and yourself. If you are collecting upon that, I will set aside all but my most obligatory projects.”
He sat forward, gazing at her. Ryoka sucked in her cheeks. He thought she wanted to renegotiate their debt. He was…partly right. But the real reason she was here was going to really make him upset.
“I, uh—appreciate that, Hedault. And that is partly why I’m here.”
He gave her a pinched nod and waited. She slid something over the table. He gazed down—and his eyes opened wide a moment.
“What is—”
“What do you make of these?”
A stone with a hole in it, marked in red lines, threatened to set fire to the table it sat upon. Hedault had a big slab of slate that floated over an enchanted dais—he had probably made it himself. The obol of the Faerie King, marked ‘flame’, or rather, a word that encapsulated a lot of meanings of fire, was threatening to set the stone on fire.
“It’s drawing the magic of my enchantment in on itself. It is—inherently magical. Is this an enchantment? It’s fire magic. No. It’s…this isn’t a spell. Wh—this isn’t an enchantment. What is it?”
He saw more in the obol than most. Ryoka almost wished she’d shown this to lesser [Mages]. Jericha had been unable to guess at the obol when Ryoka had flashed one at her, and Ryoka didn’t have enough to give out, even to her allies.
“It’s something you couldn’t get anywhere in the world. It’s called an ‘obol’, and it’s more like a—”
“Word. This is magical language. A magical word so powerful it reacts with ambient mana.”
Hedault’s eyes glittered as he lifted it up. Then he stared at Ryoka and then at Shaestrel.
“It’s the same magic as Shaestrel and Ivolethe. Entirely foreign. Wild, for lack of better description. It reminds me of my studies that claimed Unicorns and other immortal beings had magical systems that defied modern [Mage] spells and Skills.”
He did know his stuff! His hand closed around the obol as if he wanted to snatch it away—but he placed it down with effort.
“If you would like me to decipher this and enchant something with it—I will put all my projects aside. Where did you get it?”
His eyes were alight with desire and interest, and Ryoka had his full attention. The Wind Runner smiled faintly.
“It was payment for services rendered, Hedault. Extremely weird services. I am prepared to give you a number of these—and they might make your enchanting magic far more powerful. But I…I need to have something in exchange. Do you remember what Ivolethe said when I showed you the wand we traded you for your help?”
Hedault’s avaricious gaze turned into inquisitiveness—then alarm. He looked at Ryoka, then touched the grey, ironwood wand at his side. His mind ran ahead of the conversation and then he sat back in his chair—and stood up, pushing himself back.
“—You want the wand. No. We have made an agreement, and I cannot trade it. It is the most powerful object I possess.”
Ryoka exhaled hard. So much for an easy entry.
“I need it, Hedault. Let me explain—”
He was backing up fast. And Ryoka saw the floor glowing and barrier spells activating.
“No. I do not suffer reneged contracts. Not from a Courier, not from one of the Five Families. I will involve the Watch and Magnolia Reinhart herself, if I must. The law applies to everyone fairly, and I will not be persuaded by you, a Gold-rank team, or Erin Solstice herself.”
“Hedault, let me explain—”
She feared that this reaction wasn’t due to her—but probably Hedault’s experience with other individuals. Ryoka could just bet that pre-Circle of Thorns nobles would use [Assassins]—and Gold-rank adventurers would use force if they thought they were overpaying for something.
“I’m not stealing the wand! I swear on a truth spell! I am negotiating, Hedault!”
He stopped behind six magical barriers, each ensconced in runes. And unlike Valeterisa—Ryoka didn’t see an easy way to get at the enclosed magical circuit. Hedault’s face was hostile.
“That remains to be seen. I have heard that claim before—and I am taking sufficient precautions this time. State your offer.”
Ryoka was about to snap back when someone kicked her in the knee. She winced—and looked down and saw Nerry’s warning stare. Someone pinched her ear with a tiny hand made of spring and buzzed a whispered voice.
 
“Careful. Yon man might have brownie blood after all. Going back on a deal is the hardest thing of all to do without a grudge. Don’t think of it as that, aye? Think of it as a new deal. One wrong move and he’ll stop listening.”
 
Stop. Ryoka froze—and her mind cleared. She bit back the harsh words and looked at Hedault.
He was clutching the wand to his chest. She realized, suddenly, that he was throwing off the same vibe as Madain. Or Lupp.
He had probably been attacked more than once, and she was threatening the most valuable thing to him. He wasn’t even thinking of the obol. Ryoka…knew how to do this, didn’t she? She took a deep breath.
“Hedault, are you casting [Detect Truth]?”
“Yes. But I am not a fool to think that Archmage Eldavin’s acquaintance cannot defeat it.”
The man called out, glaring at her. Ryoka nodded.
“Then—read me carefully. And trust me—please, Hedault. On Erin Solstice’s inn and Shaestrel and Ivolethe’s hospitality—which is not easily breached—I am not going to take that wand from you by force. I need it. But I want to offer you a fair deal for it, and there is a great reason I need it. Will you let me explain why?”
She looked at him—and his sudden alarm and anger faded bit by bit as he stared at her, then Shaestrel and licked his lips. Hedault’s death-grip on the wand loosened. He closed his eyes.
“…I have never been attacked nor forced against my will to do something at The Wandering Inn. Though Erin Solstice has been pushy beyond politeness. Nor have you ever betrayed trust—aside from the moment when you tried to kill Archmage Eldavin.”
Ryoka’s smile turned lopsided. Hedault stared at her, clear-eyed. But then the barriers deactivated, and he slowly sat back down.
“Explain the context to me. Then I shall make a decision.”
 
——
 
How much did Ryoka tell Hedault? Fithea and the nature of Ailendamus was out. Earth…she suspected his contact with Kevin had told him a lot.
Earth was a secret Ryoka had tried and failed to keep hidden. The Faerie King was hard to explain and touched on the dead gods.
So…because this was critical, she told him everything but the Faerie King’s and Ailendamus’ natures.
“A Dryad seed?”
Hedault stared at the wand lying on the table in front of them. Ryoka had placed a bunch of the Faerie King’s obols on the other side, and both she and Hedault were inspecting the other’s items.
Ryoka couldn’t sense any signs of life from within the wand. But she touched it and felt—
Alive.
Had she ever touched it before? Maybe once, but either Hedault or the usage had—activated the power of this wand. The green felt like nature, but all of nature, not just your image of green spring. It felt like an echo.
It felt like the gigantic forest in the lands of the Fae. Very, very faintly compared to that place, but the potential was there. Ryoka’s skin prickled, and she saw Shaestrel staring sadly at the seed.
“I—think so. Shaestrel. Is it really a Dryad’s seed? Would casting magic have…”
Harmed the seed? Killed it? The faerie’s voice was soft.
 
“Aye, that’s it. I knew it the moment I saw it. If you’re asking if it’s the seed of a Dryad unborn or if it were harmed—no to either. Not exactly. You can’t burn a seed up like this. Ye might have drawn from some of it, but it was a seed of a great tree and has power to spare. As to whether it’d make a Dryad…that’s not one thing you hold. It’s potential. A Dryad comes from a tree. Wherever it were planted—that matters.”
 
The last member of a species. Or the revival of a great forest. Ryoka held the wand and had the sudden urge to break it open. To make up in a small way for her carried guilt.
She knew the moment Shaestrel said that—she couldn’t ever agree to letting Hedault have the wand. Not knowing what it contained.
The problem was—it seemed Hedault knew her will too, because he stared at the wand as she slowly put it on the table and forced her hands back. He was playing with an obol.
“It is the foundation of my fortunes, Ryoka Griffin. I counted on this wand. It was given to me fairly—and I do not like being forced to do things. Not at all.”
He hesitated, and Ryoka caught herself—again—before she could say something hasty. Hedault fiddled with his hands, tapping them on the table.
“…But nor do I like the idea of using a living being for my magic. That makes me uncomfortable. And if what that wand contains were to be known—every [Druid] in the world would come after it. Countless individuals.”
A curious thing happened there as Ryoka watched the [Enchanter] sitting across from her. The man in his thirties stared down at the wand, and a host of emotions overtook him.
A sudden silence that made him go still. A pensive closing of his eyes—then a look of pain and frustration that shifted to loss—such that his eyes glimmered. He looked up at her, and she felt like a monster.
He did it so fast. The balding [Enchanter] gazed up at her.
“—I cannot see a future in which you, or I, become comfortable with the notion that I keep the wand. That you take it in exchange for something is inevitable. I—must reconsider my business. But I cannot imagine the results any other way.”
He stood up again, but slowly. Ryoka’s mouth fell open, and even Nerry blinked. Hedault—moved at a different mental speed to her. He had transitioned from his decision at the speed of light, and now he was looking around his apartment, as if counting the cost of running it without his Lifewood furniture.
Suddenly—Ryoka stood up, hands raised, and began speaking quickly.
“Hold on, Hedault. I have more than the obol. And—and if you need anything, let’s put a price on—”
Suddenly, the conversation changed from ‘persuade Hedault to give me the wand’, to ‘give him a fair deal’. He looked so genuinely pained as he listened absently to Ryoka’s reassurances that she would make up the cost—and he was not really listening.
“Take the wand. Take the wand…I didn’t budget more than thirty minutes to you, Miss Griffin, and Miss Selys is outside the apartment. I will—see you tomorrow. Clear my schedule. I will announce to the Merchant’s Guild a cessation of my Lifewood sales and—”
Ryoka Griffin passed by Selys Shivertail on her way out the door. The Drake smiled at Ryoka—but the Wind Runner barely noticed.
“Rude. Hello, Hedault. I’m just going over Kevin’s projects. How are you doing? I know, five minutes for small talk—”
Ryoka Griffin found herself standing outside. And she was holding…a wand. The feel was rough, and it was heavy. Made of wood literally as heavy as iron and even tougher.
He hadn’t even taken her obol. The [Enchanter]…Ryoka turned back to the apartment as Nerry trotted outside. The door closed, and Shaestrel floated down solemnly next to Ryoka. She looked the Wind Runner in the eye.
 
“Ye are a heartless monster for hurting that man. And he has a heart as gentle as any brownie. What a terrible person ye art.”
 
Nerry nodded with a huge smile on her face.
 
——
 
Did you know Hedault was a vegetarian? Ryoka had no idea. No wonder he didn’t like the idea of owning a wand with a literal Dryad in it.
