In fact, she’d been doing more prep work and more talking and discussing the problem than she had—ever. Before she ran off, she talked with Erin. She talked with Nerry and Shaestrel, and Ryoka had a good approximation of some of the problems in front of her.
Firstly, Shaestrel was pretty certain that the ironwood wand that Ryoka had sold to Hedault for the Horns way back when was a Dryad seed, or rather, a Great Tree’s seed as the core. A nigh-unlimited green magic wand that was probably Relic-class or close enough.
 
“Ye didn’t do wrong by selling it.”
 
“Really? You think it was good to sell the one Relic-class item the Horns recovered? For all the help Hedault gave and the appraisals?”
Ryoka was relieved to hear that. Shaestrel snorted.
 
“What? That? Nae, you haggled as well as a [Sailor] ten years at sea staring at a bare chested Siren singing on the rocks. ‘Twasn’t worth it, though the favor still remains. But yer friends wouldn’t’ve used the wand well. A boney duelist necromancer or a frozen daughter of whores?”
 
“Pisces and Ceria. Can you not insult Ceria’s ancestry? I get the part about Sprigaena—”
Shaestrel drop-kicked Ryoka on the forehead.
 
“Don’t talk of that name to me! Those traitors—as I was saying, neither one’s got a green bone in their body. That [Enchanter] though…getting the wand from him may be difficult.”
 
“I’ve got the Faerie King’s obol. Wouldn’t that be magic beyond even the wand?”
Shaestrel hesitated.
 
“Oh, aye. But something tells me that one’s not the kind to like reneged promises. Reminds me of brownies or crafter sprites, he does. Very picky. Hates broken promises.”
 
That…was so accurate to Hedault that Ryoka winced and smiled at the same time. She didn’t know him as well as Kevin or Selys did, but she knew quite well that he was a fastidious man who did not like unexpected things.
And that was pretty much Ryoka’s modus operandi. Ryoka jogged down Invrisil’s streets as she spoke. People turned because they noticed the Wind Runner—but many smiled because they saw the grumpy, bouncing Sariant Lamb in a sling across Ryoka’s chest. Nerry looked mildly seasick, but the carrying sling, rather like one you used for a baby, gave her a way to keep up with Ryoka and see.
She couldn’t speak, and formulating words was hard, so Ryoka didn’t expect her to join in, but the Sariant Lamb’s sour glare at everything said much.
“Maybe Hedault hasn’t done much with his wand. We could be offering him way more with new magic, and I can sweeten the deal with…well, I can try.”
Ryoka’s hopeful note lasted right up until she reached Hedault’s apartment. Then she realized that even if she, personally, hadn’t heard of things changing, it didn’t mean they hadn’t changed. The enchanting world was not a loud one unless you were invested in it—and while Ryoka had been flying around the world, Hedault had been moving up in the world.
 
——
 
Literally. Ryoka Griffin found his new apartment and stared at the sign out front. Instead of his home in the rich street, he now had a four-story apartment. And according to the sign…he owned the entire thing.
 
Enchanter Hedault, no solicitation. No meeting without prior booking. Specializations: artifact identification, Tier 4 general enchantments, bicycle and skateboard tuning.
Affiliated with Solar Cycles. Please inquire with Selys Shivertail of Liscor for any orders pertaining to vehicles.
No bribery. No [Merchants]. No individuals affiliated with or including Archmage Valeterisa, Erin Solstice, Gilam Quellae, Ulva Terland, Mihaela Godfrey, and Saliss of Lights allowed except by prior, written consent. No [Assassins]. No copying or other theft of enchanting designs. No deferred or delayed payment accepted. No dogs. No cats. No avian or any other pets. 
Commissions on Lifewood Furniture closed. Please see Merchant’s Guild for any available products.
 
The sign was typically Hedault, and Ryoka craned her neck back to see each window had been closed—but the [Enchanter] was clearly doing well if he could afford this entire apartment. She really wanted to know what some of the people here had done to get that ban—and they must have all done something to get their names written out.
Good on Kevin and Selys if their business was so profitable it was the second thing listed under Hedault’s services. But Ryoka really, really didn’t like the Lifewood Furniture mention.
“What the fuck is Lifewood Furniture?”
Shaestrel made a face.
 
“…Is it…is it the souls of family members bound to your seats or couches so you can hear them scream and watch ye enjoy yourself for the rest of their mortal lives? No? That’s what I think of. Don’t ask me. Magic here is stupid betimes.”
 
Ryoka was hopeful that wasn’t the case, but then a sharp hoof jabbed her through her sling. She heard a rustling—and a very annoyed Sariant Lamb scribbled with one hoof.
One of the things that had taken Ryoka a while was—equipping Nerry with things she needed to just communicate and get around.
The sling was one thing. And Ryoka was also trying to fix her damaged glider and assemble gear befitting a Courier. She had some artifacts, but she wanted to be ready for a fight. Her new Faeblade with its paralysis and flame settings was quite powerful, but Ryoka felt unprepared to take on Valeterisa or anyone of her caliber.
Nerry, similarly, needed a way to write that didn’t involve her dipping her hoof in ink or using a quill with her mouth. Ryoka had heard you could buy quills that wrote whatever you said—and they were completely damn useless for a Sariant Lamb.
Instead, she had helped fashion a very crude ‘pen’ that was a metal nib attached to some straps so Nerry could write with a hoof.
It was still painful and slow because her hoof didn’t have the same dexterity as a hand, but the Sariant was pleased by it. It seemed a lot of the things impeding her people’s ability to do things were their quadrupedal nature and tiny limbs. Wands, writing implements—everything was so hard.
Poor Sariants. To make up for this, Nerry was a ball of vengeance and contempt towards everything else. Which Shaestrel and Ryoka rather respected. She also had as much information as Fierre, albeit sometimes only in things rich owners of Sariants possessed.
 
Lifewood. Very expensive. Very rich. Rumored to give long life. Conforms. Even grows. Very lucrative. Probably paid for apartment.
 
“Ah, fuck.”
Ryoka groaned. She looked up—and coincidentally, just before her meeting with Hedault, the doors to his apartment opened, and two [Porters] came out carrying a chair. Their leader, who looked like someone from the Merchant’s Guild by the crest on his clothing, was bowing.
“Another fine work, Master Hedault. We will have the auction’s proceeds to you on time by the end of the week, sir. No need to involve any other Merchant’s Guild or a private association! If there is anything I can d—”
The door shut without any physical help and locked itself magically. At least Hedault still had his giant scrying orb embedded in the doorframe.
The Merchant’s Guild representative was smart enough not to say anything until he was down the steps and a ways down the street. Ryoka had debated going up to the door, but it was 11:47 and she was therefore far too early for Hedault.
“Excuse me.”
“No, we are not accepting—oh, the Wind Runner. Excuse me, Miss. We have to get this to the Merchant’s Guild now.”
The representative looked askance before he recognized her, and no less than sixteen bruisers, men and women, were waiting for the two [Porters] with the chair. They set off towards the Merchant’s Guild, and Ryoka eyed the chair.
It looked…vibrant. Beautiful wood, rosewood maybe, gleaming with a fresh varnish and probably cut from a single log or something. This chair wasn’t upholstered, though, and didn’t look ‘done’.
Yet the wood seemed to be subtly shifting in the two men’s hands, and Ryoka had the oddest feeling as she stared at it.
The…difference between a desk or a chair made of dead wood was the feeling that this chair was still, somehow, living. Hence the name. It was unsettling. Beautiful, and Shaestrel muttered as she saw it.
 
“Ah. So that’s what it is.”
 
“What’s that chair? Lifewood?”
“Yes, Miss Griffin.”
The man was friendlier to Ryoka, as a Courier, than most. He spoke quickly, pointing to Hedault’s apartment.
“Master Hedault—a prickly man, genius, but hard to work with—has been making them all year. His first creations were a bit wild—overgrown, needing water, but these latest ones are going to all the nobility. In fact, this might go overseas at a huge auction. Lifewood, and if we give him the right chair, he can enchant one to modern styles. No thousand-year-old chairs in old fashion. Of course, it requires so much finicky precision…no glue, no metal. The same tree, and a naturally-made varnish. We have to work with dedicated [Woodcarvers], but as you can see—”
“What makes Lifewood special?”
The representative gave Ryoka a blank look.
“Oh, it’s got all kinds of properties. Many say it’s got natural power in it, and it does generate green magic, but between you and me, I’d rather buy a chair and pocket the rest. We have to sew a cushion to match, and the cushion’s just basic. But the chair is many times stronger than a regular one, and it will conform to how you sit. Some you can water and put in light and they’ll grow leaves and branches and repair cracks. But most owners just buy them for the value.”
“Ah. So it’s useless crap for rich people.”
Half the porters and guards laughed, and the representative gave Ryoka a grin.
“Miss Wind Runner, you shouldn’t say such things of our clients. It’s rich enough for the Guild. No less than Lady Ulva bought the first few sets, and Terandria wants as many as we can buy. Master Hedault’s the first to rediscover how to make Lifewood in centuries.”
So this had made Hedault rich. Ryoka had half suspected it was Solar Cycles…she groaned as she thanked them and jogged back to the apartment to pace back and forth. This was going to be harder than she thought.
At 11:59, according to the magical timepiece Ryoka had bought to avoid being late, the door to Hedault’s apartment swung open.
Doubtless, he had seen her, and she jogged up the steps—and saw a magical note hovering in the air.
A scroll was floating next to the door, listing instructions for visitors. Money had given Hedault all the things he wanted—including a way to interact with people even less.
 
Ryoka Griffin — 12:00. Wipe feet thoroughly before entry. Proceed to second floor. Follow the arrows. No pets.
 
She stopped, stared down at the glossy, transparent gel doormat, and shivered as she stuck a foot in it. It was made of water, and the cleansing mat removed the dirt from her feet. Then she glanced at Nerry.
“Aw, come on.”
Had she already messed up by bringing Nerry? Ryoka did not want to put the Sariant Lamb outside even for a moment. The scroll flashed with handwriting, brisk and impatient.
 
The rules are very clear. Place the lamb outside or find a caretaker. Our meeting is now 29 minutes.
 
She just—could not win with him. And she couldn’t run back to the inn and—Ryoka was about to dash outside or beg Nerry to stay put when Shaestrel hovered up.
 
“Listen, ye fastidious blowhard! My kin, Ivolethe, has been your guest! Do you grant me the same entry? If so, the lamb stays. If not, we both shall leave and ye shall be poorer all of your days for it! A brownie has rules even the Faerie King must acknowledge, but no law has ever been set that does not bend or break!”
 
The writing stopped dead—and Ryoka held her breath. Shaestrel had not gone through the doorway but hovered outside of it, arms folded like a…
Well, like a Vampire who couldn’t enter without permission. And at the same time, like an imperious member of the Faerie Court, small as a Fraerling and ten times as arrogant.
After an eight second pause, the writing did not resume—but a voice spoke from the scrying orb.
“Enter. The lamb and your…guest are both welcome. Next time, please indicate any company in writing.”
“Thank you, Hedault. We’re on our way.”
Ryoka exhaled in relief. She saw the way up the first staircase was clearly marked by glowing arrows and stepped quickly upstairs with Shaestrel.
That was the easy part.
 
——
 
Hedault was not an idiot. Ryoka suspected, with all due respect to him, that he was definitely high-functioning. A literal savant.
But an idiot? Oh, no. By the time Shaestrel appeared, he had a bowl of assorted nuts and some rye bread and butter that Ryoka suspected came from his pantry. And he definitely remembered Ivolethe.
“Ryoka Griffin. You are on-time, and your lamb may sit there. Hopefully it will not move or shed. I did not expect to see a…green Sprite. Is she important?”
“Her name is Shaestrel, and—yes. I’m not sure of her rank, but she is very important.”
The Faerie was grabbing nuts and biting them down. She was a messy eater, but she paused as Hedault nodded to her.
“Greetings, Shaestrel.”
 
“Ah, there’s politeness. Greetings, Magus of Humanity. You are smarter than most. You have the honor of seeing me, and that is hospitality for hospitality. Trust for trust. I think ye will understand the nature of our visit and weigh what is offered wisely.”
 
He blinked at her, then turned to Ryoka. Hedault sat back, steepled his fingers, and eyed her up and down.
She was no longer the City Runner pestering him on behalf of the Horns, and he had moved up quite a bit. Hedault spoke crisply.
“So…this is not a mere consultation as you indicated on your form?”
Ryoka sighed and winced as she fumbled at her belt pouch.
“What should I have written? I assumed that was general. I—have a big request to make of you, Hedault. How are you?”
“Inclined to skip small talk. I am sure your events and mine are a matter of public record unless it is germane to our talks?”
“…Fair enough.”
She sort of liked him. He was unapologetically straightforward, and she remembered that he had somewhat taken to her when Reynold had finally gotten her a meeting with him. How had it gone last time?
She didn’t recall exactly, but she knew he had gotten invested in talking about enchantments. Ryoka switched tacks and was surprised to realize she was actually accommodating and understanding. When had she figured out how to talk to people?
Maybe a year of dealing with people as troublesome as me helped out a lot. All I had to do was meet a bunch of people like Madain. Or Alber.
