“Perhaps, but I know stories. He’s not immune, either. Mention the ‘Wuvren incident’ around him or Magnolia. I dare you. And that’s nothing compared to what he got up to in his youth. But I warn you, I’m a being of dignity and taste. You can’t seduce me into helping you. Even if you have a seed.”
Ryoka Griffin stared at him open-mouthed over her bowl of soup. Nanette was peeking at the two of them from the side—she had brought her bowl over to eavesdrop. She was far too interested in the conversation. Without a word, Taletevirion put his foot out and pushed her chair.
With a squeak, Nanette went sliding across the bar until she bumped into the far wall. Ryoka was recovered enough to shoot back.
“On the list of long-lived people I know—you’re on the bottom. Under Rhisveri.”
“Ooh, I’m so impressed. The Wind Runner has bad taste. Everyone goes for the scaly ones first. You think you have good taste? Wait till one of them spits fire over you. That little lightshow in the [Enchanter]’s apartment is mild compared to that.”
Ryoka Griffin hesitated. Fire back. Fire back…she had a good retort after only two bites of food.
“—How’s Lady Bethal’s horse stock doing? I hear it’s a good time to be a horse breeder. Know anything about that?”
He froze with a mouthful of soup in his mouth. Then he looked sideways at her.
“I’ll have you know I flirt like a champion. I’ve seen how you flirt. Crashing into the ground in a glider and getting shot with crossbow bolts—it’s a unique one, but I bet at least one subspecies of swan was impressed. And Lord Tyrion Veltras, of course.”
Ryoka glowered.
“I fly well. I survived a magical hurricane in my first hour of flying. I’ve outflown the Wild Hunt in you-know-where. Mihaela herself certified me as a Courier. I’d like to say I’m decent.”
Taletevirion pulled a face.
“Eh. I’ve seen better ducks flying, and they spend half their time face-first in lakes.”
Shaestrel stopped fishing noodles out of her bowl as Nerry stuck her face into her bowl of ramen.
 
“Eh. They were taking it easy on ye.”
 
A woman slowed down as she carried a bowl of ramen over to a table with Valeterisa.
“Eh. You’re average at best. Even if you can fly, most Couriers are still better than you. Don’t get a big head.”
Mihaela Godfrey delivered the final blow as Ryoka Griffin slumped over in her seat. She put her head down, and Taletevirion laughed.
“I like this place. I’m glad I accepted your dinner off—whoa! What was that for?”
Even his enjoyment of Ryoka Griffin’s misery was cut short by surprise. Erin Solstice had just rolled past Ryoka, and she slapped the Wind Runner on the back. Fairly hard.
“What? Ryoka asked me to.”
“Dead gods damnit, Erin! I meant that for—not the moment!”
“Sure. Sure.”
Erin rolled on as Ryoka glanced at Taletevirion. He was laughing. Then he grew quiet.
“I don’t want to risk my life. Don’t say it.”
“I’m not saying anything. I’m just having ramen.”
“Sure you are.”
He grumpily took another bite of soup, but Ryoka held up her hands.
“It’s just soup. I promise, I won’t say a thing.”
“You say that, but the next thing I know, I’ll be waking up in a wagon in Chandrar, and someone will be telling me I’m on my way to be executed. Or we’ll be rescuing an Earthspirit Djinni. Or…I can’t do it, you get it? I can barely protect myself in retirement. See?”
The Unicorn indicated his stomach. Ryoka glanced at him.
“Retirement doesn’t sound that safe if you’re getting stabbed. What if you were a consultant?”
Taletevirion kept a straight face.
“Nice try. Every consultant gets pulled into the fray eventually.”
“Well, even assuming that’s so, isn’t it better to have someone who can take the burden from you if you do have to do something?”
He snorted.
“And you think I’ll teach you swordplay? With your cute glowing sword? You’re not talented.”
“I didn’t mean me. Plus, I think I’m decent. What’s—Erin, stop hitting me!”
“You want me to stop? Fine, fine. Hey, are you the guy who drinks Rxlvn? Have another cup. Hey, Lyonette, look! He’s not dead!”
Taletevirion chuckled weakly as he took a sip from the black liquid. And truthfully, Ryoka didn’t press him that hard. They just—talked.
“Do you know, um…turn…skins?”
Ryoka muttered after a sip of ale. The Unicorn paused, his mug to his lips.
“Yep.”
“Are you against them?”
He thought about that.
“Your people burned the Vale Forest until no magic was left. The Treants fled the land. The Dryads and forest spirits lie dead, and the last Elementals are either the noblest sort who laid every grudge aside or insane with grief like the river your [Innkeeper] friend poked. I am the last of the last. Yes, absolutely I care who porks who. That’s what I go to sleep thinking about. It preys on me. Not the Great Trees burning, no. I am haunted by the image of two men rolling around in the hay.”
“Just checking. Not everyone’s on board, and I’m curious.”
Ryoka got sad just hearing that. And to her surprise, Taletevirion patted her on the shoulder.
“Hey. It’s a good question. Your spicy salamander is too good-hearted, but there have been sorts who would give you the opposite answer. Ever heard of the Silver Knight of Dragons?”
“Oh. Him? That explains a lot.”
Taletevirion gave Ysara Byres a meaningful look as she, Saliss, and Mirn all had a bowl of soup in their own private meeting.
“Yes, it d—yeow! What are you doing?”
Erin Solstice lowered her hand. She had just delivered a slap to the Unicorn’s back as hard as she could.
“Okay. That one was just because I thought it was funny. It doesn’t hurt that bad, does it?”
Taletevirion and Ryoka turned. Ryoka whistled.
“Gothica? Get her.”
 
——
 
They called them Ryoka’s Dinner Dates. Or rather, that was Lyonette and Erin’s term for them. Ryoka opined they were not dates. She just wanted a private room or to have a conversation with a guest.
“I dunno, Ryoka. You looked pretty chummy with that Unicorn last night. And Palt kept calling Taletevirion the only handsome man in the inn besides himself. Imani said you two were a good match.”
Ryoka rolled her eyes. Erin was being mean—for her—but she had no teeth when it came to the world of innuendo-sniping. So the Wind Runner leaned over and smiled at Erin as the [Innkeeper] teased her over lunch.
“Then may I have a date with you this evening, Miss?”
Erin gave her a wide-eyed look, and the teasing stopped immediately. But she and Ryoka didn’t really have dinner so much as popcorn over one of Erin’s memory-movies in the [World’s Eye Theatre].
And a fight.
 
——
 
“I don’t have to ever forgive him. And I think you’re hanging out with a monster. The only reason I let him go through my inn is because you won’t give up on him and I need your help. If I wasn’t trying to kill those six, I’d ban you both!”
Ryoka tipped Erin out of her wheelchair. It was like cow-tipping, but the [Innkeeper] was an angry cow. And Ryoka was only mad enough to do that because Erin had aura-kicked her out of her seat.
“Maybe he can change, Erin. Maybe he can be redeemed. Do you want allies or not?”
“I want allies. But I don’t have to like any of it! [Killer Fishies Attack]!”
“Oh, f—”
Ryoka dove for cover as a glowing piranha dive-bombed her. She raised her head.
“I don’t see you quibbling with Lyonette.”
“She didn’t murder thousands of Goblins.”
Erin shouted back. She raised a finger—and Ryoka threw a pepper spray potion into the air.
“Gaaah!”
It didn’t even hit Erin directly. The [Innkeeper] couldn’t right her chair, so she opened the [Garden of Sanctuary] door under her. Ryoka cut the fishes in half with a belt dagger—and Erin landed on top of her with a flying elbow as she was looking around. Then the wind flipped Erin off Ryoka.
Shaestrel and Nerry were eating from a bucket of popcorn, and both were enjoying the fight. It ended with Ishkr tossing a bucket of water on the two of them—and Ryoka got up.
“Zel Shivertail killed thousands of Antinium. Relc killed Rags’ parents. Tyrion Veltras’ wife was murdered by Drakes, and he fought Velan the Kind. Many members of House Veltras died in the Second Antinium Wars. I don’t need you to forgive him. It’s just—keep letting him use the door. Please.”
Erin lay on her back, arms folded as she stared up at the ceiling.
“I will never let him in the inn proper.”
“Okay. Okay. But—will you at least let Hethon and Sammial in? They’re kids. And you can change their minds.”
“Sammial’s a little brat.”
“He’s okay. He just doesn’t have a mother.”
Erin eyed Ryoka as she raised her head with effort, then flopped onto the ground.
“I don’t get you, Ryoka. You are the nicest person to terrible people.”
Ryoka smiled weakly.
“I guess I see something familiar. Thanks, Erin. Can we agree to disagree?”
The [Innkeeper] was flopped on her back, water running down her brown hair onto her face. She looked up at Ryoka, and her hazel eyes flashed.
The inn had not been trembling with the force of their fight. But now, Ryoka felt the full force of Erin Solstice’s true anger.
For a second. Then her face turned baffled. She searched Ryoka’s face up and down, and she closed her eyes.
“…What am I missing? Nanette?”
The witch had been watching the fight and perhaps taking notes. She peered at Ryoka and then called out.
“Maybe it’s what I don’t understand, Miss Erin?”
The [Witch] took over for the [Innkeeper], and she gave Ryoka a different look. Searching. Then—she seemed to understand.
“That’s it. Ryoka, it’s not about me forgiving Tyrion Veltras. It never was about me ‘agreeing to disagree.’ You…you talk as if I wasn’t there, too.”
“Me? No, I know you were at the siege.”
Erin Solstice sighed. As if it suddenly made sense. She looked at Ryoka and then past her as more guests of the inn popped in to see the end of the fight.
“—Did you ever see an image of…? No, there was no public television back then. You don’t get it. She doesn’t get it, Numbtongue. Don’t drop-kick her.”
“Aw.”
Ryoka twisted around, and the Hob stopped sneaking up from behind one of the rows of seats. He clearly believed in tag-team brawls. He stood up and gave Ryoka a smile. She hesitated.
It was harder to argue with Numbtongue than it was with Erin for multiple reasons. He had lost his brothers.
But there was something Ryoka didn’t really know. And Erin Solstice slowly pulled herself up into a sitting posture.
“Ryoka. I wasn’t ‘at’ the battle. I didn’t watch it from the walls or my inn. When I tell you I saw Tyrion—there was a girl with a flag. A really stupid white flag that was actually just a bedsheet. Before his army attacked Liscor, Goblins fought Goblins. They did it because they didn’t agree with the Goblin Lord, Reiss. They did it because they had nowhere to run. And some—did it for me. They followed a girl with a flag, and I saw Tyrion ride right past me.”
Ryoka Griffin froze. And Nanette sighed and made an ‘oh’, faintly, in the background. Numbtongue looked at Ryoka’s face, and he realized—she really hadn’t seen that part.
She had been in Reizmelt, and it was a battle she had followed, but not watched. Niers Astoragon and the Walled Cities had seen it. Nobles of the north like Magnolia Reinhart had seen the battle and that girl waving a flag and trying to stop everything crashing down.
But not Ryoka Griffin. She had never well and truly seen Goblins die. If she had—maybe she would never have been able to look Tyrion Veltras in the eye and smile.
She hadn’t seen it. Hadn’t really gotten what had happened. Ryoka had heard Goblins fighting Goblins and no one had mentioned that Erin Solstice had been there.
Of course she had. And now—Ryoka Griffin saw it.
The World’s Eye Theatre flickered as Erin Solstice spoke. The glass dome didn’t blink. But it shifted.
And there was a girl waving a flag. She looked younger, her face was dirty, and she was holding a stupid flag made out of a bedsheet. Tears ran down her face as she waved it, and an army of Goblins poured forwards in front of Tyrion Veltras.
Flicker.
Antinium, a hundred led by Pawn, charging into battle. A Goblin with black eyes pointing and killing them, casting [Deathbolt].
Az’kerash’s apprentice. And then Ryoka saw House Veltras and the Humans of the north charging…
She looked away. Then peeked. The images flickered so fast as Erin Solstice got up. But they were there.
If Ryoka had the nerve to watch it. If she dared…Erin Solstice slowly got up. She twisted her head and realized what was happening—and raised her hand. The dome went blank again, and Erin Solstice took mercy on her friend. She inhaled, exhaled, and then looked at Ryoka. Peaceably, speaking softly.
“I will never forgive him. Just remember that. You can advocate for Tyrion Veltras. And I can avoid taking a rook to checkmate the king or avoid losing a piece or position on the board.”
She exhaled as Mrsha brought a towel over to her. Erin took it and ruffled her hair as her face vanished from view. But when she lowered the towel, her eyes were somewhere else. In the past and long ago.
“—Tyrion Veltras and I will never see eye-to-eye. He’s not here. He’s still riding past me on that battlefield, and I am still holding Headscratcher in my arms. If you can aim him away, do it. But if we ever meet like that again. That time—I will kill him.”
She met the Wind Runner’s gaze and smiled faintly. Then she sat back down in her wheelchair as Numbtongue and Mrsha helped her up. Ryoka Griffin finally got it. Erin Solstice turned away.
“I wish I got to level from fighting. I shoulda been a [Bard] like you, Numbtongue.”
“You’re not worldly enough. Not enough sex.”
“Gross.”
The two bantered as Nerry trotted over and inspected Ryoka. She had a smirk on her face, as of a lamb seeing someone who had fought someone else in a wheelchair and lost.
But Shaestrel just floated on by.
 
“Good on ye two for having a proper fight like friends. Soft friends. Ye didn’t even bite each other’s fingers off.”
 
Ryoka rallied a bit at that.
“Again. What kind of friends are you used to, Shaestrel?”
The Spring Fae laughed merrily.
 
“Legendary friends. The kind who rolled around in the first kingdoms at the dawn of time brawling, then fucking, then fought the gods side-by-side! Does anyone know my story? No. Peh. You ignorant children.”
 
She spat to the side. Then looked fondly down at Erin Solstice.
 
“Ah, but you don’t bow before legends nor anyone, eh? And here I thought Ryoka Griffin was arrogant. If you met my king, Melidore might explode before he beheaded you.”
 
