That was one of Ulvama’s cruel suggestions she didn’t really mean. Erin was pretty sure she didn’t mean it. But then the [Shaman] was poking Erin.
“Up, up. I want hot chocolate.”
“Give me ten minutes. Stop poking me, Ulvama. I’m gonna get mad—tell Lyonette to get it ready, alright?”
 
——
 
No respect. But that was somewhat refreshing from Ulvama. It reminded Erin of the good old days. Goblins, for all their peculiarities, were consistent like that.
Some people gave her all the respect. Too much respect. Ever since the day when Erin had begun telling her story of getting to this world and becoming an [Innkeeper], people had been talking about a book or writing down the tale.
Lyonette was taken with the idea, and she kept trying to find a [Writer] or [Historian] who was interested. Satar Silverfang claimed she wasn’t a good-enough writer yet, and she was trying to document her people’s entire history, but Erin was embarrassed.
Especially because she did have people who never said her first name and bowed and such.
“Miss Solstice. We will have your bath ready momentarily. Did I hear you wished to have Princess Marquin begin serving the hot chocolate and ‘marshed mellows’ now?”
“I’ll be down in ten minutes, Dame Ushar. Yeah, give everyone a cup. And it’s marshmallows.”
The formal Thronebearer bowed and strode down the hall. She had on her gold armor like always, and—Erin felt guilty as she saw three Antinium trudging out of the bathing room.
It was on the ground floor of the inn, and Palt had enchanted it so the moisture wouldn’t mold the wood. Even so, they cranked a window open so there was a cold breeze—and a hot copper tub filled with water.
The water came from the Antinium Workers who hauled it from the well. They could do it fast, and three of them could fill the tub in less than five minutes. Then a simple heating rune warmed the water until it was steaming.
“We really should do, like, a permanent bath house with plumbing. Sorry, guys. I mean…girls?”
Erin squinted at the Workers. Rosencrantz wasn’t here, and she wondered if Ushar had deliberately selected the Antinium who weren’t distinctly male like Bird or Pawn.
Silverboots had never indicated which way they cared to be addressed, at any rate. One of Silveran’s [Cleaners] had been part of the new inn staff—much to Silveran’s jealousy. They waved one hand as Erin wheeled into the bathroom and the door shut.
Silveran. Silverboots. Silverarm. Who else had popped up among the Workers because of his cleaning service? There was Silvermop, Silverstache…and those were just the Antinium who had taken after his name.
“How many people is Silveran employing these days? It used to be two dozen Workers. Now…did he really say over a hundred?”
That couldn’t be right. Then again—Silveran’s Cleaners were very good at their jobs, cheap, and he had told Erin he had employed his first Human because there was no Cleaner’s Guild, he paid better, and you could get reliable work through him. He was already employing a Drake and two Gnolls.
The times, they were a-changing. Erin could now soak in a bathtub—and notice Ushar had sprinkled in some dried petals, which gave the water a scent.
“Rosewater? And it’s got oils. Aw. Come on.”
This was too much fancy respect. Erin did like having a Goblin [Chef] doing the food, though. She remembered waking up on the floor of her inn, cleaning all the tables from last night, and cooking all before dawn.
These days, she danced with Ulvama, had a bath, and breakfast was waiting for her without doing work once.
“…Am I getting spoiled? If I am, I’d better drag down everyone with me.”
The staff and inn were nice. It was nice having Relc here in the mornings because he had a room here. It was great that Mrsha had school and a routine, that Nanette would sit in the tower with Bird and sing some mornings, and that Erin could call up a friend in her new theatre at a moment’s notice.
“Ah, right. Goodbye present to Tkrn and Inkar. I think it’s gotta be chipping in for that new saddle Krshia found, but I also can give her a bunch of snacks to bring to the Gnolls. Mana candies, Unbreakable Scones, Spider Succulents—no, wait, those will never survive the journey without breaking. Um…”
Her menu had a lot more items on it, many of actual quality. Erin had found she liked making new dishes—if she didn’t have to replicate them. With Calescent’s help, only the magical ones that required [Wondrous Fare] needed her direct involvement.
Plus, the [Chef] had developed a handy new Skill—[Copy Recipe]. With it, he could choose a single dish per day to steal from Erin, even the ones he shouldn’t be allowed to make.
Unbreakable Scones, incidentally, were Erin’s latest creation. She saw Relc gnawing on one and dipping it in the hot cocoa that morning. He had snow on his boots. He must have been helping shovel.
“Relc, are you still eating that scone? Give it up.”
“I wonsh lesh ish beash me.”
He growled, and his sharp teeth ground against the Unbreakable Scone. It was, uh…hard to eat.
In theory, it was a dense, highly calorific piece of bread that had a huge amount of butter, Sage’s Grass, a teeny bit of cement mix…and other hard edibles in it.
In practice, Erin had yet to find anyone who could take a chunk out of the scone in a single bite except Snapjaw—and even she had been afraid she might break her teeth on the stuff. But the effect was that if you managed to get a bite, you developed [Stoneskin]!
Your skin would literally turn as hard as a rock. A full ‘bite’ of half a scone gave you a [Stoneskin] effect for thirty minutes. Powerful.
The issue was, uh…Relc had been gnawing on this scone for four days now, and he had it halfway down. Until Erin figured out how to make them more edible, they were a joke food. She’d heard one of her guests had taken a scone and hammered it into the street until it broke the cobblestones.
Snapping it into swallowable pieces was also not a good idea. Menolit had gamely had Lehra saw off a chunk with her Blade of Mershi and—painfully—swallowed a huge chunk.
…He still told stories about passing it out of his system, mostly in the same piece. But the point was that Erin was working on her magic in her spare time.
In fact…she levitated a mug of hot chocolate off Ishkr’s tray with her hands.
“Whoooo~ I have the power of ghosts. Who could be doing this?”
Her levitation abilities thanks to her [Witch] magic were a lot less impressive when she added sound effects. But Erin still beamed every time she did it. Correspondingly, every single [Mage] grew embarrassed or pretended Erin didn’t exist.
Erin sipped from the hot cocoa and reflected it should not taste this good for a new product. Didn’t chocolate factories on Earth have a formula they’d refined for ages?
Then again…they also had labels that said quite explicitly there wasn’t much chocolate in their ‘chocolate’. Whereas Erin was getting hers from a garden filled with literal magic.
“What’s the sweet stuff in here, Lyonette? Sugar?”
“Nope. Nali-sticks. One one-hundredth per cup.”
“Huh. That doesn’t seem like much.”
Even for the famously sweet nali—maybe it was just the quality chocolate being fresh. Erin smiled as she sipped from her cup, then she looked out the window.
“…Is that graffiti on Liscor’s walls?”
Everyone stared out the window. Lyonette groaned. Erin stared at the giant image of an Antinium pushing a wheelbarrow, which some citizens were admiring.
“I wonder who could have done that.”
“I hear there’s been street art in Invrisil, Celum, Esthelm, Liscor—but not Pallass.”
Ishkr carefully glanced out the window. Erin eyed the Antinium, but it didn’t seem like a critique of anything. Just a pent-up artist unable to go anywhere. She decided not to comment.
“If Zevara comes by, I’m not here. [Invisibility]!”
She flicked her fingers. Erin did not vanish. She was smiling as Mrsha and Nanette stared the other way, trying not to give her any attention. And that was the inn. Erin called out to Lyonette.
“I’m going to Liscor soon to see about Inkar’s gift. Where’s Numbtongue?”
“Out.”
“Octavia’s shop?”
“No.”
“Strongheart farm?”
“Nope. Riding with Salkis.”
“…Hmm. Okay. Let me know if you spot Ryoka or that guy.”
Erin glowered a moment, then exhaled slowly. At least Lulv and the Manus crowd hadn’t come by for a while. She wheeled over to the door as a [Knight] came striding over to escort her into the city. Normen, Jewel, and Ser Dalimont formed up in a practiced manner as Erin smiled.
The inn was peaceful, for a given value of peace.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin’s list of injuries she had accumulated over the past year might exceed any other Earthers’ record. She had been slapped by a Wyrm’s tail, had her arms dislocated, lost fingers, broken bones, been shot by crossbows, and more.
She had also reached Courier, was entangled—yes, that was the best word—with Tyrion Veltras, and had made powerful enemies on multiple continents.
Over the forty days of winter, she thought that no one had come closer to killing her than one man. Where Wyrms had failed, where myths from the lands of the fae and dead gods and Persua had all fallen behind—
Hedault versus Ryoka had nearly done her in for good.
 
——
 
Thirty-eight days ago.
 
Ryoka Griffin was still a bit shocked Valeterisa could like anyone. But the Archmage of Izril seemed to have upgraded Montressa from ‘apprentice’ to…cat.
She kept patting Montressa on the head and telling everyone how exceptional she was. Which, to Ryoka, felt more like having a favorite cat.
Then again—given how Valeterisa treated most people, a pet was an upgrade. She certainly seemed more present after being stopped by the Unmarked Coach and Fierre. Then again, a lot had changed.
Two days after her arms got dislocated and Valeterisa was saved from herself, Ryoka Griffin was breakfasting with Fierre.
“So you’re working for Lady Ieka? Seriously?”
The Vampire girl gave her a toothy grin.
“Yep.”
Ryoka raised her brows over breakfast at The Wandering Inn. She had a room and so did Fierre, and she was antsy today. A light green faerie was currently devouring a muffin larger than she was, and a Sariant Lamb was chewing on another at their table. But even Fierre seemed to treat Nerry and Shaestrel as familiars at best. Not as real people.
The irony of a Vampire being out-subterfuged by a Sariant Lamb was not lost on Ryoka. Yet Fierre was distracted. She looked, well, happy. Excited.
“It’s the kind of job I never thought I’d have, Ryoka. I never considered working for the nobility—too much danger of inquisitiveness. But Lady Ieka…she has contacts. She’s magical. Clever.”
“She, uh, likes women.”
Fierre’s smile widened as Ryoka coughed into her fist.
“That’s a perk! I think. I don’t mind it, and if she wants me to wear a maid’s outfit or something—well, the employee can flirt with their employer, can’t they?”
“I think that breaks about every labor law I can think of. But since I don’t know if Ieka obeys any…good luck?”
Ryoka had some misgivings on how professional Ieka was, but Fierre just rolled her eyes.
“I’m open to tons of stuff, Ryoka, but I think she just wants an expert helping her. Which is too bad.”
“Yeah, yeah. You thirsty Vampire. As long as you’re happy.”
The Wind Runner sighed and glanced towards Shaestrel again. The Spring Fae was giving her a meaningful look, and Fierre switched tacks.
“Ieka would love to have you on retainer—but something tells me you’re busy. Can I write ‘relationship’ with Tyrion Veltras on my notes? I’ll cut you in 50% if I can sell that as fact.”
“None of your business. But you can put me down for any healing potions on the black market. I might need them soon enough.”
Not just for herself…she was speaking of an upcoming event she was dreading. Ryoka had put it off, and Fierre raised her brows calmly.
“You can pay an exorbitant fee if I get any—though Ieka has me snapping any up too. The fact is that there aren’t healing potions on the black market, Ryoka. No one’s selling. Even the hoarders are nervous.”
Healing potions were vanishing. Now it was how many you had—and Ryoka Griffin had heard Jericha talking about House Veltras’ supply with Tyrion. The Vampire girl, for all she loved blood, lowered her voice.
“It’s going to be a bloody war, the next one that breaks out. The King of Destruction, Ailendamus, and the Forgotten Wing companies are the hot battlegrounds right now, and they all have surpluses. But a city? Not so many healing potions. When there are none to be had…”
No more fast healing. No more curing a massive wound in a moment. Valeterisa had her magic, but she was one person. Ryoka swallowed hard.
“Yeah. Well, on the subject of magic, I have a meeting at twelve I cannot be late for. Wish me luck, Fierre. Because I’m about to either be hexed to Rhir and back or…well, I can’t imagine a fun outcome.”
She got up, pushing her chair back, and the Vampire girl raised her brows. Erin waved at Ryoka as she wheeled herself towards the [Garden of Sanctuary] with Ulvama.
“Hey, Ryoka. Off to meet with the jerk?”
“Not Tyrion, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] was still mad at Ryoka for even associating with Tyrion…but Ryoka still took breakfast at The Wandering Inn and hung out here as often as she could.
No…she visited Sammial and Hethon and sometimes watched Tyrion trying to practice and regain his levels or went with House Veltras on their extended vacation, but the winter was reminding Ryoka of a time limit.
Her time limit. Erin needed rest, and she had her own goals. But Ryoka…Ryoka knew the Winter Solstice was coming. She had a great task—everyone did.
Ryoka knew how she could make a first start in gaining a powerful ally in Ailendamus. The only problem was…she gulped.
It was going to require something she had given away on behalf of the Horns of Hammerad. And somehow, even if she showed up at 12 o’clock precisely, she didn’t think Hedault was going to like her taking back the wand she had sold him.
Not one bit.
 
——
 
Shaestrel’s goals were a mystery. She might have been along for the ride. But in order of importance, Ryoka regarded her tasks as follows:
Find weapons or follow the Faerie King’s hints to stick it to the dead gods, be it finding dungeons, mastering the wind, or so on.
Gain the full support of Ailendamus and Rhisveri by fulfilling his task of reviving the Dryads or in some other manner.
Help Nerry to realize her people’s goals of fulfilling their own quest.
Something about Tyrion Veltras.
Goblins.
It was vague, but the truth was that it was more direction than Ryoka Griffin had had at a lot of times in her life.
