Hedault’s left eyelid twitched. He got up, walked over to a drawer, and pulled something out. He came back with a glossy piece of magical paper that Ryoka knew had to come from actually magical trees. He also had a brush and a bottle of what turned out to be one of the liquid gemstones that [Mages] melted to use in their spell runes.
Magicore was apparently lower ‘grade’, and Hedault wrote furiously, inscribing a beautiful rune that looked like a feather—but incredibly stylized.
“Wait, Hedault, I get it. Don’t just enchant—”
The entire process took him less than a minute. Then he placed the still-wet runes face-down on the laptop’s front—and murmured.
“[Transfer Rune].”
He flicked the paper up—and the glowing rune was dead center on the laptop’s front. Ryoka stared at it. Hedault picked the laptop up—and threw it over his shoulder.
“No!”
Even with [Repair], it wouldn’t survive a full-break! Not without Demsleth! Ryoka leapt—and nearly crashed into Hedault’s sofa as she saw the laptop slowly floating downwards.
“[Featherfall]. That would be a temporary rune that will last a month at peak efficiency. Pure material fee discounting tools is likely only two gold coins’ worth of gemstone. I would charge you sixty-four gold coins and fourteen silver for the labor.”
Hedault’s smile was smug as Ryoka caught the laptop and felt how light it was. She tossed it up, and it floated down.
“Did—can you remove—?”
“I can remove it very simply. You could remove it with a simple blade, but I am capable of pulling the rune off the laptop. Give it back to me.”
Ryoka did, and Hedault made a show of running his hand over the rune. He murmured.
“[Artisan’s Dissolution].”
Then he levitated the gemstone up—and it was liquid once more. It floated back into the jar, and he stoppered it. Fastidious, Hedault put his paintbrush away, stored the jar and the piece of paper—and sat back down.
“A demonstration at no personal cost for materials. [Artisan’s Dissolution] is a Skill that allows a crafter to undo parts of their work. I have seen [Carpenters] create temporary shims or other wooden structures and strategically destroy their creations once no longer needed.”
Ryoka sat there, trading glances with Nerry. Even the Sariant looked impressed.
No wonder he was the best [Enchanter] in Invrisil! Ryoka’s heart began pounding.
“Okay, you can enchant the laptops to be tougher. But—c-could you enchant them to be better?”
Now she was confused, and Hedault put his head in his hands.
“It is a question for myself as well. When I used my Skill—[Analyze Object]—I detected the—laptop—was hollow. There are a number of strange things inside.”
“That’s the motherboard and memory and…”
“What do they do?”
“What does a motherboard do? Uh, it directs the laptop. Makes decisions.”
“How does it work? It was made of copper, gold in small parts, and…many materials I am not familiar with.”
“How does it work work? You mean, how does it operate?”
Hedault gave Ryoka a too-patient look.
“I must know in order to enchant this device. The rune I showed you is…a trick of sorts. I can enchant an entire object without knowing the functionality of what lies inside. But to enchant an object perfectly—you have seen Kevin’s bicycles, haven’t you?”
Ryoka had. Just that morning, she’d seen Kevin riding around Liscor. His bicycles were lighter, faster, and tougher than Earth’s most expensive bikes, and she really wanted one.
The only thing that didn’t work perfectly were the brakes. She’d seen him run over Watch Captain Zevara’s tail. For the second time, apparently.
Ryoka did know how a computer worked—but the principle of how the binary-level decisions it made, literally a ‘1’ or a ‘0’ built up to the level of computing a screen or running a video game, was hard to articulate.
As it so happened, Hedault understood the issue.
“I do not need to know how it functions perfectly, Ryoka Griffin. I need to know how it operates. Heat? Electricity? Lightning? Friction? Kevin’s bicycles are hand-enchanted by myself. I enchant each part to a purpose. The wheels have a spell to increase their grip on the road. [Gecko’s Pads]. The chain we had meant to make as lightweight or frictionless as possible, but even Master Pelt’s steel would break under too much stress, so I enchanted it with [Protection]. In theory, I would apply as many enchantments to each component of the laptop as I could.”
“I…don’t think you can draw on them with gemstone. You’d destroy every component. Plus, I don’t know how to put a laptop back together.”
“The same for the Faeblade?”
Hedault began taking notes. Ryoka hesitated.
“Er—I’ve never found out how to open it, and I wouldn’t if I could.”
“So, an all-encompassing enchantment. There are ways to ‘attach’ an enchantment to component parts, but—aha, you are a potential client, so I shall explain.”
Hedault got up and pulled over an easel. He flipped the cover off it, and Ryoka realized he was giving her a lecture he often gave new clients.
“Each item I enchant has a set amount of mana it can contain. The right materials hold more magic; inferior or impure items contain less. Thus, a perfectly carved piece of wood all from the same tree would be far more receptive to magic than a bag of gravel glued together.”
He had a diagram of each object for reference. Hedault turned the page, and Ryoka saw the breakdown of a sword.
“In theory, I could enchant each ‘part’ of a sword. From the grip to the guard to the blade. In practice, most enchantments encompass an entire object. Because each object can contain only so much mana, it is a question of choosing the most efficient enchantment. The most skilled [Enchanters] can divide up enchantments without creating magical interference. In practice, most items are enchanted as a whole with the most powerful effect.”
He came back to the laptop and regarded it critically.
“For this kind of object…I do not believe [Protection] would matter. But how would I enhance it?”
“Could you increase how fast it runs? But you’d be enchanting the thing to just go faster with [Haste] or something. Wait. That might work. But then…I bet if you played a game, it’d run at twice the speed. Numbtongue would kill me if you did that.”
Ryoka was confused, and Hedault was very interested. Nothing would do but for Ryoka to boot up the game of games that Numbtongue loved so much.
Hedault stared at the brightly pixelated figures moving around and peered forwards until his eye was nearly touching the screen.
“This picture is made up of tiny images.”
“Pixels.”
“Fascinating. Why are you killing those people?”
“Um. It’s a game. Want to play?”
Hedault stared at the image of a dead person—well, an alien—with blood splattered all over the screen. The look he gave Ryoka was so judgemental she closed the program.
“For a woman so concerned about Dryads, you do not seem concerned about this ‘fun’. I do not enjoy games about killing people any more than I enjoy watching it. But I can see a [Speed] enchantment would throw off this entire contraption. Tell me more about it.”
Ryoka explained the power supply and let Hedault feel the laptop. He frowned.
“Feeding it electricity seems like a very dangerous game to play.”
“Yep. You’d make the battery explode.”
“Hm. I wonder if Wistram tried? It would be like them. But half my classmates I studied with had no nuance. Control in the level of an enchantment is another skill most [Mages] lack. The ability to regulate mana intake….why is this warm?”
Ryoka blinked. Kevin’s laptop wasn’t great. It wasn’t. It could run an old game and play movies by his standards, but…
“Computers heat up when they’re in use. Ideally, you keep them cold. See the fan running there? The best computers are in frozen rooms.”
“Ah. Then if I enchanted this to be cold, would that improve it?”
Ryoka’s mouth fell open. He already had a good idea! She had owned laptops before, and she had literally melted the graphics card in one.
“That could work! Wait—that’s genius! Or you could enchant it to be heat-resistant, maybe, to save the parts from melting?”
Couldn’t you overclock the computer? If Hedault could freeze it cold, you could probably get a lot more power out of Kevin’s laptop!
That was exciting for the future of Numbtongue gaming. But then Hedault turned to Ryoka’s Faeblade.
“And this…you claimed this was the product of light. Or—heat or even the ability to paralyze someone? How does it work?”
Ryoka had to shrug.
“I have no idea, Hedault. If I had to guess, it’s projecting something out the hilt there. Don’t worry, it won’t turn on unless I add you as a user—and it doesn’t hurt me. See?”
She showed him with the lightblade, and he winced as she let it pass ‘through’ her skin, though it was really the light just morphing around her body as not to touch it. It was scary—but safe.
“If you don’t know how to improve it…I could simply enchant it for [Protection].”
Nerry yawned as Shaestrel floated over. The lamb looked around and decided she needed to use the bathroom. She trotted off in search of one as Ryoka muttered a reply.
“Well, I suppose that works. Actually—! Hedault, I have a problem where the regular blade shatters every time it meets magic. The paralysis blade is more like…well, it works really well, and the fire setting is horrific. Could you make the blade not shatter?”
“If it is a projection, similar to a Kaalblade, I doubt that my enchantment would work. It would only affect the hilt.”
Nerry found a bathroom and nearly drowned in the toilet before she situated herself. She listened, wondering if she could get Ryoka to make her some armor or Hedault could be trusted to give her tools.
Sariant Lambs had long coveted a powerful [Enchanter]’s aid. The issues of holding wands, or just the ability to do things with their hooves…well, she was more concerned about surviving in Ryoka’s company.
The Wind Runner had yet to know the full scope of Sariant trials. Would she even be helpful?
Nerry was worried about the Wind Runner’s cooperation. But as it happened…
 
“Ye fools. If the blade is made of light, make it brighter. Duh.”
 
“There’s not a spell for that.”
“There is. [Luminosity]. Try that.”
“Okay. That’s—bright—”
The door was mostly closed. But Nerry knew the moment Ryoka Griffin activated the Faeblade. The searing beam of light scarred the lamb’s retinas. She recoiled, nearly fell into the toilet—and then felt the heat in Hedault’s apartment suddenly go up. The lamb recoiled—then heard a shout.
 
“Turn it off! Turn it off, you f—it burns!”
 
Shaestrel was shouting, but Hedault and Ryoka were dead quiet. Nerry was frozen there a second—then she smelled smoke. She leapt to the door, nudged it open, and went blind.
Pink light was blazing from the sword. So bright that even not looking at it, it was blinding. The Sariant Lamb felt heat too. She dashed for the stairs, and by the time she was halfway down—
Her wool was sizzling. Ten seconds had nearly caught her on fire, and the heat was growing. Hedault and Ryoka were up there! Nerry looked around, and Shaestrel, swearing, dove.
 
“Outside! Outside—”
 
What about Ryoka? Nerry looked back—then ran on a hunch.
 
——
 
Hedault’s apartment was blazing with light through one of the windows. As a frantic Sariant Lamb and the Spring Fae dashed outside, Shaestrel pointed.
 
“There! Get him!”
 
Nerry ran into an alley beside the apartment, and a Silver-haired man drinking Rxlvn and lying on his side stirred as she leapt on him.
“Stupid undead. They never die. Damn seeds. It’s not new. It’s not n—get off me, you pest.”
Taletevirion nearly tossed Nerry off him…then he sat up as he saw the lamb’s frantic face and smelled the foul, burnt wool.
“What the—?”
He noticed the piercing light a second later and looked up.
 
“Upstairs! Turn the thing off! ‘Tis burning them both alive!”
 
The Unicorn swore as he leapt to his feet. He blurred up into the apartment so fast Nerry was still climbing the steps.
“Damn [Enchanters]! Dispel!”
The flash of light stopped—and the Unicorn lowered a horn to the charred skin of Hedault and Ryoka. He looked around, wincing as he took in the blackened room, which had begun to catch fire from the heat of the sword alone.
“Well. That’s…”
He eyed the Faeblade and chose his words carefully.
“…Novel.”
 
——
 
The ongoing tales of Ryoko Griffin, the Windy Girl, were a hit in Ailendamus. Each week, a new story came out. It was making the hither-to unknown Duke Rhisveri something of a hit, and he was accepting new storylines from [Bards] and Ailendamus’ [Writers].
Sock puppet sales were becoming an entire industry.
This week’s tale was about the Windy Girl, that rapscallion who always ‘meant well’, who was trying to recover a seed for Fithee, the great protector of the forests.
She went to an [Enchanter]’s house to get a wand. She ended up stealing the [Enchanter]’s livelihood, for the greater good, kidnapping his Sariant Lamb, and burning down his home.
Rhisveri liked to draw from the real world. He was also highly amused by the reports he was getting from his agents in Invrisil. Of course he took some creative liberties, but he liked to think he captured the spirit of everything.
 
——
 
In truth, it was Hedault who blamed himself. The [Enchanter] was inconsolable.
Not about the apartment. Or his damaged workspace, materials, and his near immolation. If not for Taletevirion, who Ryoka excused as a ‘friend’, she thought she would have been burned for life if she survived—and blinded as well.
The light-enhancing spell on the Faeblade hadn’t even been that strong. But…what if you held up a magnifying glass to the sun? The intersection between technology and magic was far, far more powerful than Ryoka thought.
And yet—Hedault just pressed his head to the table at dinner in The Wandering Inn, much to her horror.
“This is entirely my fault.”
“No, nononono—”
“Yeah, it’s not your fault! Ryoka, what did you do?”
Erin slapped Ryoka on the shoulder in the private dining room. She was serving them sausages in a bun, loaded with condiments—or rather, Ishkr was serving with Erin supervising. But Hedault was adamant.
“I should have weighed the risks. I was excited—I did not test my enchantment. The fault is mine alone.”
“No, it’s not. I was stupid—we were both stupid.”
Hedault was pale with fury—at himself.
