It was Ysara Byres. Tyrion glanced at the Haven. Hadn’t Ryoka said she wouldn’t make breakfast? Then he saw the two were eating.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice made a toasted baguette wrapped in wax paper, piping hot. Horseradish sauce over beef was Ryoka’s principle condiment. Again, to Erin’s horror.
Ysara Byres had a ‘philly cheesesteak’, which she kept picking apart.
“I just don’t understand why ‘cheesesteak’. It’s a beef sandwich. With some melted cheese.”
“It, uh—it’s colloquial to where we come from.”
Ysara looked up, and of all the things they could have opened with, that was the first thing they talked about.
Breakfast. But it was a good opener, and when Ysara Byres had ridden in with the Silver Swords—well, Ylawes and the expanded team were being hosted by Erin.
The Silver Merchant and Wind Runner were having a chat.
“I think it was here. Right here.”
“Hm. No, we were closer to the hill leading to Liscor. The Haven’s passed that.”
“Oh. Well, it’s similar. Persua was right over there behind some rocks with a crossbow—no, Claudeil had the crossbow, and he shot me. Then I was in the Bloodfields, and you saved me.”
“You saved yourself. I just distracted a Watchertree. Yvlon could have probably charged in and killed half the Bloodfields. Ylawes, the same.”
Ryoka shook her head, flushing red.
“No, you saved me. I was about to run straight through the Bloodfields. I was self-destructing, and you pulled me out of it. I didn’t know who you were—and I ruined your caravan. What happened to the [Merchants]? Um…was the leader…Goelax?”
“Tellgre. They were fine. We recovered the cargo, and yes, we had our trade routes disrupted, but after hearing about Skinner attacking Liscor…my one regret was not being able to see Yvlon. I heard she was recovering. I have you to thank for helping her.”
“Thank Erin. I was mostly a mess afterwards. It took me a while to get on my feet. Thank you. I don’t know what to say.”
The woman hadn’t changed much over a year. Her tattoo was both of a silver ship and of gold vines encasing it. She had indigo hair, a silver earring—but Ryoka had changed, and she took in a lot more of Ysara.
If she had the knowledge back then, she would have realized how odd it was for a respectable, traditional member of the nobles of Izril to be in the south—let alone be so dramatically different.
Ysara was definitely gay. Even apart from the similarities in style—she didn’t fit with her family.
“How—was visiting House Byres?”
“Unpleasant.”
Ysara’s face was careful, but she added after a second.
“I hear from Qwera that you and Erin are trustworthy. To Turnscales.”
She glanced around, and only Tyrion Veltras was in sight. Ryoka lowered her voice.
“It’s a fight. But yeah. I sorta picked up on it before…do people try to target you? If they notice, I mean?”
Ysara frowned faintly.
“…It’s easier in the south. Drakes put down any oddities to me being a Human. In the north? Most wouldn’t put the name to me instantly. How much they ‘know’ varies, as do their reactions. But I haven’t attended a gathering of nobility in…well, since I was fourteen. There are exceptions. Lady Ieka would be one. Some are entirely gracious or do not care. Lady Zanthia, a kind of mentor to many of Izril’s noblewomen, never said a word about my hair, and she has bullied Magnolia Reinhart for filching sweets as a girl, or so the rumors go.”
“But it’s hostile.”
The Silver Merchant’s smile was even more pained.
“Your world is different from mine, Ryoka Griffin. Hostile? Hostility implies they know we exist. The Drakes are hostile. The north insists there is nothing wrong. Behind closed doors, they put the daggers out, but they don’t stab us to death. Just poke us until we fit in.”
“—Fuck. That sounds terrible. Are your parents? Is Ylawes, Yvlon…?”
Ysara Byres turned her gaze north as Ryoka fumbled a bit. She didn’t know if she wanted the answer. The Silver Merchant blinked down at her cheesesteak as if she hadn’t remembered she was holding it and ate. The hot food was good in the cold snow.
“Oh, Ylawes has no idea I’m a Turnscale. I suspect Yvlon knew something, but she was a girl when I left. My parents…my mother is a kind, generous woman and hospitable even to strangers. If you ever meet her, I hope you will treat her kindly, and I am sure she will be welcoming to a friend of the family.”
Her smile twisted as she took a bite of her sandwich.
“I think I am her great disappointment. And perhaps the only person in Izril she’ll war with. A proper, bloody war that would make the Creler Wars seem light and ethical. All behind closed doors. My father is more baffled than anything.”
Ryoka swallowed. She didn’t feel like prying more.
“I’m sorry to hear that. My parents…well, I hated my father more for letting me down. I feel silly about it now. But I wonder—if I could go back—if I’d be even more disappointed or if I’d change my mind. I wasn’t a good kid.”
Ysara turned with a laugh to Ryoka.
“Neither was I. I can’t say I made it easy for my parents. But that was just fair turnabout. I tried. I tried to become an adventurer. Then a respected [Merchant] in the north. The distance helped—but then one day I snapped, found myself dying my hair indigo with some of my merchandise in my bedroom in an inn, and then I shipped out to sea for three months with a [Storm Sailor] I’d met the previous week.”
“Whoa. A trading voyage? Was it…?”
“It was an interesting three months. After that, I decided I’d better go somewhere that kept me from being able to visit. The south was where I met Qwera. So when I saw a young woman running away from something—”
So that was why she had known what Ryoka needed. The Wind Runner thought of what Shaestrel had said. They were walking north, and she stopped and bent down. Something was glinting in the snow.
“I wonder what would have happened if I went with you. Like you offered. Just—joined your caravan as a helper or Runner or something instead of going back. Do you think I would have been—healthier? This can’t be what I think it is.”
Ysara eyed Ryoka. The Wind Runner had found something next to a withered stump of a tree. She lifted half of a silver blade out of the snow. Ysara’s broken blade. The Silver Merchant inspected it ruefully.
“The enchantment on it must have been old for it to snap. But the silver’s barely tarnished.”
She tossed it back into the snow. Then touched the sword at her side.
“Plain steel works for me. I’m not better than Ylawes or Yvlon anymore. If you went with me—maybe you would be the ‘Silver Runner’, hair dyed, kissing strangers in pubs. Or you and I would have killed each other. I bet I would have gone to Qwera for help, and you would have ended up as one of her projects. Vetn, Tesy, both owe a lot to her.”
Qwera. Another Turnscale in a position of power, hiding. And she was also a Doombearer. Ryoka exhaled.
“Um. I know a few more…”
“We know each other. You mean the [Alchemist]. I would be very careful how you speak. Even with wards. Even in privacy.”
Ryoka ducked her head at the warning note in Ysara’s voice. But she raised her head.
“Can anything be done? No. I’m sorry, I meant—is there anything being done that we can help with? The [Alchemist] has a way Erin can help. But can I do anything?”
“‘Do anything?’”
Ysara savored the words like a strange drink she had never had before. She looked at Ryoka, then laughed.
“You make it sound like there’s a path forwards other than just continuing to be. You…Qwera tells me she found interesting things in the Earther tents. But you said that like Magnolia Reinhart once spoke before the Five Families. Like a [Bannerlady]. As if there’s a war to be fought. Rose was an interesting girl. She spoke as if it was time for the Turnscales to come into the open.”
“Is it? I’m not so sure. Rose is—”
Ryoka hesitated. Ysara supplied a word.
“Naive? If we tell the cities we exist, and the north, then they will come after us. North will copy south, and I have seen how the Walled Cities deal with Turnscales.”
“Yeah. So maybe not. It’s a fight on Earth, and sometimes it feels like people who just don’t like gay people—let alone transgender or…anyone win. Hell, we barely get along as Humans. Forget species like Drakes vs Gnolls. We’re down to skin color.”
Ysara grimaced.
“That should surprise me—but it doesn’t. If we had no more foes on Izril to fight, the flowers of Izril would prune each other based on pedigree and whether we’re noble-blooded or could trace our heredity back to the Hundred Families of Terandria. I think you are right. It would endanger us all.”
She paused, and her earring sparkled as she turned her head north.
“…It would be dangerous and deadly, and there would be no going back. But the idea makes my heart leap.”
Ryoka turned to Ysara as she crumpled the wax paper into her belt pouch. Ysara touched the sword at her side.
“I never felt much joy in victory over monsters or people with the blade. But if you want a warrior, I’d raise a blade and fight for that. Drawing a sword and telling my mother, telling Izril, ‘here I am, come silence me. Try to make me vanish.’ That? I would fight for that.”
Her eyes flashed just like they had when she walked into the Bloodfields with sword in hand. Ryoka Griffin swallowed hard. Then she looked around. At the man standing there, pretending not to watch her. Then at the High Passes, where the road to Liscor lay. The Haven—and then Ysara.
She held out a hand.
“Maybe there are some slow steps forwards, Ysara. Or fast ones. If I can do it—if you need me to do anything, I’ll always do a delivery for you. Would you…well, are you sticking around Liscor? Would you be free to talk again sometime? Over food?”
Ysara gauged Ryoka’s face and noted her missing fingers on her hand. She removed her riding gloves, took Ryoka’s hand gently, and squeezed.
“I think I could stay in Invrisil and see where the wind is blowing before I set forth again. Qwera is busy with her enterprise, but I am one woman—and I can make coin for House Byres sitting for a month. Especially with Erin Solstice’s door. Did you just need a friend to talk to?”
Ryoka Griffin took a breath. She glanced over her shoulder, and Tyrion Veltras trotted off. He really was the most unsubtle spy in the entire world.
“Maybe. But I might be here a while. And I have an idea about the best thing I could do.”
Ysara Byres nodded reasonably.
“Ah. I heard Lord Tyrion had a flag raised for you. But if you’re going to be here a month—I haven’t been part of a meeting of three ships at sea for a while, but if you find another lovely lady, I’ll think about it. Not Lord Veltras. Thirty-two days in a month…you could have at least sixty encounters, each with a different person. Especially if your ship docks on both port and starboard sides.”
Ryoka’s mouth opened. Wait, was she talking about—she definitely was. Ysara’s smile was cool as could be—and Ryoka realized she really wasn’t like Ylawes and Yvlon.
“What, you’re trying to level up, aren’t you? Ah—I forgot, you don’t have levels. But there’s no faster way to level up sometimes. Everyone could use another level.”
“What? No, I—”
Ysara was laughing at Ryoka Griffin, and it turned out she had the humor to match Wailant at his worst. It was a good start.
 
——
 
You know, the power of food really could bring people together. Ryoka Griffin was not a foodie. In fact, she had eaten a lot of bad food on the road.
Mad Madain’s bowel-scourging bowls of meat were an example of what Ryoka could eat and be fine with. But she had to own—there was something nice about food.
It relaxed people. It was a way to connect. In fact…it was the only time she had ever gotten Taletevirion to sit down.
He had a bandage over his midriff and winced every time he moved, but he did sit down. He stared at the bowl of noodles.
“What is this?”
“Ramen. I think it’s ramen. Um. Erin?”
The [Innkeeper] was rolling back and forth on the floor as bowls of the noodles were sent out the kitchen. She was shouting.
“Hey, Bird, you put the egg into the bowl! You don’t eat it with the shell on! That’s right, Ryoka! Ramen is on the house! We’ve got pork in the ramen. We’ve got spicy ramen! We’ve got, um…basic ramen!”
“No, but what is it? Noodles in broth? You can’t do that and call it a fancy name. This is literally just long noodle soup. Wait a second—no, this is Drathian. How do you know how to use chopsticks?”
Taletevirion protested as he picked up two chopsticks. Ryoka paused.
“I’m from Drath.”
The Unicorn snorted.
“And I’m from the moon. The green one.”
“No, my ancestry is partly Drathian. As you understand it.”
The Unicorn gave her a long look. He spoke in a language Ryoka didn’t know. Korean? It wasn’t any dialect of Chinese she could place nor did it sound Japanese.
“What did I just say?”
“I don’t speak the language.”
“Right. So I believe you. You’re so Drathian. You know, ‘Drath’ is an archipelago of survivors of countless nations. Even if you have a similarity with your Earth-thing—that’s like saying I’m from Izril. What part?”
He was in a persnickety mood. Ryoka threw up her hands.
“Fine, I know more about the culture—probably—than the average person living in Izril!”
“You don’t know more than me. Let me try another language. Let’s see—”
This time, she thought he definitely spoke in something that sounded analogous to Cantonese, maybe, but she wasn’t sure. There were differences in how each language spoke.
Pekona, who was sipping from the definitely-authentic-to-her-homeland soup, had been quietly eating at her table with Vuliel Drae. When she heard what Taletevirion said, she sprayed her entire mouthful of soup into Dasha’s face.
Ryoka twisted around in her seat. Pekona stared at Taletevirion, and the Unicorn looked worried.
“Er—that was a joke.”
“What did he say?”
Pekona didn’t want to repeat it. She eventually whispered as Ryoka came over, and the two women gave the Unicorn a look of such disgust that he turned red.
“I appreciated it. It’s polite to remark on aesthetics. In Stitch-folk Culture.”
Ryoka sat back down at the bar and slid her bowl slightly away from the Unicorn.
“Teriarch said you were randy.”
“That bastard has no room to talk. Did he say ‘randy’? That—”
The Unicorn pounded the table with a fist. Ryoka laughed.
“He’s not that bad. He’s old now. He was old when he met you, right?”
The Unicorn folded his arms.
