“Have you heard of The Wandering Inn?”
It was a question that had grown louder over the past year. At first, it was a whisper amongst the guards on Liscor’s walls. Then it stole into the city, amongst the Antinium. It went to Celum—and spread further. Growing faster and louder, jumping to Invrisil, Pallass. And then across the world.
They didn’t talk of it the same way. The Antinium only knew it as the idea of chess stealing into their Hive. Someone feeding them new food.
Most of Liscor only thought of the ‘crazy Human’ rather than her inn. At some point, it became a contentious haven for the Goblins. A young woman who could make the inconceivable reality. Then—even a point of pride.
Even now, though, so many people took it lightly. The Wandering Inn was connected to Pallass and Invrisil. It was in the news. People knew Erin Solstice’s name better than, say, the Bannermare’s. Oh, they knew the title, but what was her name?
Erin Solstice was famous, and even now—people took her lightly. The world was filled with Jewels, who knew the inn existed and was even within their ability to reach. But they thought it wouldn’t ever affect them, personally.
It was like seeing a mountain rising in the distance over a year’s time and still getting surprised when it walked over and picked on you. In that sense, Jewel had done nothing wrong.
The smart people, though, the ones with cunning or a head for stories—or who had met Erin Solstice—those who had a dream gathered. Because they realized she could help them. Or they could help her.
As winter deepened across the world, The Wandering Inn faded from the news a bit. People were more interested in other things if Erin Solstice did not visibly cause a worldwide incident.
Four months made up the season of winter. The turning from winter to spring marked the end of the year, which was paradoxical to Earther minds. Nevermind that this calendar system made more sense.
Halfway into winter, fourteen out of the sixteen months in the year, would come the Winter Solstice.
That would be a significant day. However, there were sixty-four days—thirty-two days in a month—until that point. The dramatic opening of winter turned into quieter days, at least, at the inn. Erin Solstice caused no explosions. The Haven passed into the Bloodfields, and all the news turned to ongoing wars, like Flos Reimarch continuing his war against Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
The Forgotten Wing Company pushing into the Dyed Lands with the other Great Companies. And the surge to the new lands of Izril.
Forty days into the season of winter and a glum little Gnoll girl was shoveling snow off the front step of the inn. She shook a paw up at the sky.
Damn you for snowing! Somehow, despite having a [Princess] for a mother, she still got the job of shoveling snow that was almost identical to Earth’s custom of child labor. Mrsha’s rage at the sky didn’t last long. Someone gently kicked her with a boot.
“Mrsha, stop complaining and shovel. It’s breakfast hot chocolate. Miss Lyonette got the nibs that finished fermenting in, and she’s got some marshmallows that Miss Imani made. I saw them. The faster we finish, the sooner we get to try it!”
Nanette stopped Mrsha’s rage, and the Gnoll girl looked around open-mouthed. How did the witch girl know that?
“You might hear far better than me, but I listen, Mrsha. Come on, this isn’t hard.”
Nanette had a thick, blue overcoat on and mittens, unlike Mrsha, who just had lighter clothing over her fur. Mrsha’s poofy hat did look cute, though, especially with Apista napping on top. Mrsha rolled her eyes, but they set to work clearing a small path through the paved walkway across the top of the hill.
All they had to do was get to the outhouses; two Thronebearers, Alcaz, and a number of Antinium and Goblins were doing the rest of the walk, so Mrsha’s complaints were even less valid.
Why do I get the <Basic Quest – Shovel Snow, Mrsha!> if this is so easy, Nanette?
The outraged little Gnoll held up a card. Nanette poked her playfully.
“Because you won’t do it otherwise. Besides, I think Miss Erin likes bullying you.”
Mrsha poked her back until they were tromping back into the inn, little shovels put aside, giggling and having a poking-war. As they entered, a vexed voice called out.
“Lehra Ruinstrider, are you going to laze around here forever?”
Mrsha and Nanette stopped as they saw another familiar sight. Which was the slightly chubby Gnoll Named-rank adventurer being berated by no less than Suxhel. The Gazer was yanking on Lehra’s ear.
“We’re late. Half the caravans to the new lands have set out—”
“Aw, but we can use Erin’s door. Come on, Suxhel, it’s hot chocolate today.”
“Everyone is using the door. Erin Solstice told you to find the Crossroads. We’ve wasted our time here—and all the gold! All you do is eat and watch the plays and—drink!”
“Sh-she might give us another clue if we keep waiting. It’s not that expensive here! Come on, Suxhel. Didn’t we say we were going to work with the Halfseekers?”
Lehra wheedled as Suxhel looked to her team for support. But Emper the Stitch-man and Elgrinna hadn’t managed to get Lehra moving for an age, and both had given up.
“We had a nice rest, Lehra. After that war—everyone needed a break. Now is the time to move.”
Emper opined, and Lehra grumbled that he might be right. Elgrinna stopped reading a book and glanced up.
“Getting the Halfseekers was an idea—but it wasn’t going to pan out. I think the team might dissolve. Mage Moore’s fairly content, and it’s not like a Gold-ranker hurts for coin. Rogue Seborn is planning on going to sea, and Jelaqua Ivirith is probably bound to announce her engagement any day now.”
Nanette and Mrsha skidded to a stop as they headed to the breakfast table. Lehra’s own ears perked up.
“She’s getting engaged?”
“She’s been seeing Master Maughin for months. Why do you think she only accepts local contracts?”
“…I thought she was lazy like me.”
Suxhel rolled all her eyes. Lehra rubbed at her face as she sat up a bit.
“What about Moore and, uh—their new Selphid, Ulinde? Can we hire them?”
“Maybe. But I think Moore might retire too. If not—you know he’s seeing Ulinde? He’s not exactly in the adventuring mood either.”
“What?”
Lehra waved her paws in alarm, and her teammates shook their heads at her. The slightly-disheveled Stargnoll looked around.
“But I thought—well, if we’re not waiting on the Halfseekers, why are we here?”
“Miss Mrsha, punch Lehra, would you?”
Suxhel called out. Lehra yelped at the punch to her leg. Then she rubbed it.
“Okay. Okay…we can think about leaving. It was a nice break. We’ll get back to doing Named-rank things again. All I have to do to level is—fight a Dragon. Naked. Throw myself into danger. I can do that. That’s what Named-ranks do.”
She shuddered faintly, and her team looked at her in concern. Lehra’s confidence seemed shaken since seeing her rival, Dragial, die and the carnage at the Meeting of Tribes. She slapped her cheeks slightly with her paws and tried to focus.
 
——
 
Lehra was an example of someone who had wasted around two months. Or perhaps she hadn’t wasted it, but needed it to simply not be in the middle of fighting.
Not everyone had been so idle, though. A month.
A month was enough time for Ceria to send a single [Message] back saying the Horns of Hammerad were enjoying their time amongst the Great Plains. And that she really enjoyed parfaits with karaoke, and that Erin had to come over so they could play a dancing game at the arcade.
One letter from the half-Elf alluding to the fact that she had made use of the Earther Tent in the Gnoll gathering was equivalent to twenty-three missives from Ksmvr reporting on the state of things. After eleven days of trading amongst the Gnolls, the Gaarh Marsh tribe had finally sold him forty-five trees in exchange for a bale of slightly damaged silks salvaged from the sea and brought to the Meeting of Tribes by a Drowned [Trader].
Erin wanted to know the full story as, somehow, Ksmvr had neglected to write anything other than the final trade. He was far more invested in talking about his teammates than himself, and he had observed Pisces’ feverish studies along with Yvlon’s flying lessons—which Erin had realized were actually somewhat literal about eight reports in.
She was reading the last of his messages, sitting cross-legged, sweating into a light workout shirt this morning. Before she washed and changed herself into her day clothes, she had found lighter clothing was preferable.
But she couldn’t bring herself to do the morning dancing with just her underclothes on like a certain green Hobgoblin sipping juice out of a cup.
“I think Tkrn and Inkar are heading back with the Silverfangs today. I need to get Inkar a gift. I thought she might stay.”
“Eh. She has a tribe. She’s not a city-girl like you.”
Ulvama shot back. Erin glanced up at the Hobgoblin, who was now a regular face in the mornings.
Ulvama, the dancing [Shaman], had ironically been one of the greatest contributors to Erin not going the way of Lehra. Unlike Grimalkin or anyone else, she would relentlessly practice her hobby and have Erin exercise her weak body.
Which—to be fair, everyone tried to get Erin to do. The difference was—Ulvama didn’t bother Erin to come join her. If Erin forgot or made excuses, Ulvama would dance by herself. And her pointed stare of contempt for Erin’s laziness got the [Innkeeper] to rarely miss the morning and nightly practices.
A month of practice still couldn’t get Erin on her feet all day—and in fact, she found herself bound to her wheelchair so much that she could navigate very smoothly with it.
“I feel like your dancing isn’t getting me on my feet, Ulvama.”
“Why’s that?”
The Hobgoblin gave Erin a challenging look, and Erin complained as she pushed herself into a squat from her sitting posture.
“—Because every time I get stronger, you want me to dance harder! How many side-hops did we do today? A thousand? You keep upping the difficulty until I’m so tired I have to sit in the chair!”
“Yah. Because you’re weak. You need legs like this. Hrgh!”
Ulvama tensed and flexed a calf. Erin stared at the bare skin and had to grudgingly admit she had muscle there. She poked Ulvama’s leg.
“But you eat almost as much as Lehra.”
“And I can stand up. I am better than you. Now, time to do cat-stretches.”
That was what she called the yoga-like routine where they stretched into complex postures. Erin groaned, but the [Shaman]’s exercises were effective. At least, she thought they were.
An audience of koi fish watched the two at their morning routine. Erin grumbled to Ulvama.
“I just found out yesterday that you steal up to twenty gold pieces worth of food each week. Yelroan did an inventory with Calescent. Can you stop that?”
“No.”
“…I’m the [Innkeeper].”
Ulvama turned her head and treated Erin to a beaming smile.
“And I am a guest. Make me.”
Erin bit her lip. She hadn’t had it out with the selfish Goblin [Shaman]—mostly because she was grateful for Ulvama’s help. And Yelroan had assured a horrified Lyonette that they could make up for Ulvama’s stomach if they needed to. He had inventoried their door income, and that alone was such a high amount of gold per week that Lyonette had decided to give Mrsha and Nanette an allowance that very day.
But Ulvama? Erin wasn’t quite sure she knew the Hobgoblin yet. She definitely had a feel for Ulvama’s character, though, and it was spicy, bullyish, and you had to catch her caring for people. Erin dropped it and muttered.
“Well, I’ve had enough fighting with Goblins after Gothica. She keeps visiting from Rags’ tribe, you know. And she’s getting worse.”
“Because you fight her.”
“Because she aura-clashes with me! She literally stopped my wheelchair until I made her back off!”
“Hmm. So? Sounds like a good [Goth].”
Gothica would annoy Erin until she lost a literal confrontation, and Erin was sick of having to toss her aura at the Goblin. Gothica seemed to believe it was making her level up—and the worst part was that she might be right.
Badarrow was a far better visitor. He would come every week or two, and he and Numbtongue and sometimes Bird would disappear to watch movies, play games, or shoot arrows at things.
Aside from the Gothica issue, Erin rather liked having a new routine and a quieter inn. She was trying to hold a pose where she bent forwards and touched one foot—when Ulvama began poking her in the side.
“Stop it. Stopitstopit—”
“Hm. Good stomach. You’re getting better. But your arms need more strength. Dancing only takes you so far. Maybe we need to get Mrsha to beat you up each night. That’s good practice, wrestling.”
Erin swatted Ulvama away.
“What, wrestling now? I thought I was just getting enough muscle to walk!”
Ulvama scoffed at her.
“Enough muscle to walk? You mean the same muscle as the One Eye Cyclops? Pssh.”
That was her name for Chaldion, and Erin tried not to smile. That would be a pretty weak—
“Hey, what are you doing?”
The [Shaman] tried to put Erin in a headlock. Erin twisted away, but Ulvama pointed.
“Knee’s frozen up.”
Erin’s knee went numb, and she wobbled. Then Ulvama had her head under one arm, and she was messing Erin’s hair like they were boys fighting.
“Stop that! I’m gonna get mad! Stop—”
“See? No muscle. You want to swing a pan? Even a [Shaman] can beat you up. Let’s practice that. Or you can swing a pan while dancing.”
She let go of Erin before the [Witch] could either activate her flames or use her aura. Erin glared at Ulvama and flopped onto her back.
“Most [Shamans]…aren’t Hobs, Ulvama. I’m tired, and you don’t play fair!”
Ulvama flapped a claw at her.
“You’re stupid. You think Shaman Theikha of Gaarh Marsh can’t beat you up with her paws? She’s eighty years old. I’d watch. She’d punch you out faster than that [Boxer]. It would be very funny.”
“She couldn’t do that. I mean—if I was back to normal, she couldn’t do that.”
Erin hadn’t met Shaman Theikha in person, but she knew the eldest [Shaman] was old. Even if she was a Gnoll and they were taller and bigger than most Humans…Ulvama smirked at her.
“[Shamans] aren’t wimpy [Mages]. She has the heart of the earth. She’d beat two of you with her paws. Four.”
The [Innkeeper] groaned. She didn’t like to hear that, but Ulvama didn’t actually tend to lie much when she was explaining things. Other times? All the lies.
“Great. So do I have to practice fighting now?”
“Mm. Just some exercises. I will think of fun ones. Throwing rocks builds muscle too. We could get little witch and Gnoll and throw rocks at them.”
