“You're all clear for at least two miles.” Ren said, after he and Teepo had used their respective Spot abilities to confirm it. “I can cast Haste spells on the horses if you want.”

“Yes!” The driver said, and then looked at Jen. “Sorry, Ma'am.”

Jen laughed. “Ask the other drivers first; but I'm sure they'll agree, especially if this one is all for the idea.”

Ren nodded and let the caravan pass and he asked each of the drivers. They readily agreed and he ran back to the front of the line.

“It's a go.” Ren said.

“All right!” The driver said. “Neyney! We're gonna have fun!”

The horse pulling the cart neighed at him, and Ren chuckled and ran forward a good distance, then stopped and took out the Haste wand. He cast it on each horse as they passed, and after he did the last one, cast it on himself and ran after them.

When the Haste spell wore off, it was time to feed and water the horses. Ren went along and poured Health potion into the feed bags, and answered the questions people asked him.

“How can you run so fast?” One worker asked.

“Practice.” Ren smiled and went to the next cart.

“Are you sore after running like that?”

“Not a bit.” Ren said. “I'm used to it.”

“Can I kiss you?”

Ren looked up and saw that it was a woman he'd never met before. She must be one of the new workers. He thought. “I'm sorry, Ma'am.” He said and gave her a slight bow. “I'm currently involved with someone at the moment.”

“Yeah, me!” Jhulune said from the next cart, and everyone looked at her. Her face flushed a deep red and it almost matched her hair color.

“Is that true?” The woman asked Ren.

“I have a date with Jhulune tonight.” Ren said. “I had planned for us to eat dinner at Nathalia's Nourishment, but I kind of had a fight with the owner.” He explained. “I haven't come up with an alternative yet.”

“Just spending time with you is fine!” Jhulune said as her embarrassment and blush slowly faded.

“Hey, that's my line!” Ren said back to her, and a few people laughed.

“Well, can you... pick something up for me?” The woman asked. “I want to see how strong you are.”

“Yeah!” Someone said. “Show us!”

“I see a big tree there!” A guy said and pointed to a ridiculously large tree. “Knock it down and pick it up!”

“Do it!”

“You got this!”

“That thing is massive, he can't do that.”

“Ren, be careful.” Jhulune said.

Ren smiled at her then walked off the road and into the sparse trees, and pointed to the large tree.

“Yeah, that one!” The guy yelled, then turned to his friends. “Watch this. He's going to embarrass himself in front of us.”

“I can't wait.” One of his friends said.

Ren could hear them all clearly, and looked at the tree.

Large Tree

This is a large tree.

Ren smiled at the popup, then braced himself. He'd never done anything like this before, and he wasn't sure if it would work. The tree was firmly planted into the ground, and he used Enchanted Eyes to see if it was magical in any way. It wasn't, so he put his hands against the tree trunk and pushed a little. It didn't move.

Ren heard several low laughs, and he knew that he was going to be judged on this, even though it was just a stupid stunt. He wanted them to see what he could do, so he stomped the ground several times to loosen up the large roots that held the tree in place. He could hear a few comments that said he was throwing a tantrum, and he looked right at them. Their words and laughter cut off as he stared at them, and he kept his gaze on them as he reached out and touched the tree.

Ren put his weight behind the effort and pushed with all he had. The large tree shuddered as an unequalled force was applied to it, and it's footing had been compromised. The roots pulled out from the ground and several of them snapped as the tree toppled over and it's momentum dragged the remaining roots from the ground.

Complete silence filled the area around the caravan as Ren walked over to the end of the tree, grabbed it by the tip, and then dragged it out to the road and laid it by the caravan with no effort whatsoever.

“This was the tree, right?” Ren asked the guy, who nodded wordlessly. Ren grinned at him, walked around to the other side of the tree, and dug his hands into the bark and meat of the tree, then used Iron Grip. He bent his knees and dead-lifted the tree up to his waist, then hopped a little to shift the weight of it up and onto his shoulders, then pushed it up and over his head.

“Good god.” Someone whispered.

Ren couldn't tell who it was, but it didn't matter. He let his Iron Grip go and stepped forward as he let the tree fall to the ground behind him with a loud crash.

“I probably shouldn't leave that there.” Ren said and stored it. “It would be a road hazard otherwise.”

No one spoke as he went to the next cart and helped feed the horse and gave it some Health potion, too. The cart shifted a little and he looked at the back. Jhulune had climbed down and looked at him with wide eyes. She chewed on her bottom lip as Ren walked towards her, and she threw caution to the wind and jumped into his arms. He caught her easily, and she wrapped her arms around his neck and kissed him. There were a few comments made then, and one whistle.

“I am so turned on right now.” Jhulune whispered to Ren. “What are you going to do with the tree?”

“I'm going to strip it, cut it up into pieces, and build something with it.” Ren whispered back to her.

“So manly.” Jhulune whispered and nuzzled his neck.

“I have to feed the rest of the horses.” Ren said to her, and she sighed as he helped her stand up. “At this pace, we'll be at the county in only another hour or so.”

“I'll be too busy working after we get there.” Jhulune said.

“Exactly.” Ren smiled, gave her a quick kiss, and walked to the next cart. Jhulune climbed back into her cart and Ren fed all the horses. After a short break so that all the horses had some rest, he ran to the head of the line again and had the Haste wand ready.

“Let's go!” Jen said as all the drivers flicked their reins and the caravan started up again. Ren cast Haste on them as they passed, then on himself, and ran after them. It only took 4 more breaks for them to reach Walin County and the caravan came to a stop in front of the Main House to take the next break.
