“A wandering monster is not at all common for the first 10 floors, let alone the first, but so far, its only powers seem to be ambush and powerful physical attacks when provoked,” she announced, and then in a quieter voice, “and pot making that makes you cry. Further studies needed,” she muttered to her recorder orb.

“Now, we move on to the first actual room of this Dungeon,” she trailed her finger across the paper until it came to stop in a square marking with a spider model in it.

This room got a fair amount of gulps and fearful looks.

“Shorthand, I’ve heard the nickname for this room is ‘Wicked Webs.’ Dramatic, but given what can occur here…” the researcher trailed off with a troubled frown.

“We’ve even gotten some rewards for beating the room in two different ways, correct?” she asked aloud.

“I got some very nice socks for my trouble,” a giant of a man raised his hand, then showed off his web-silk embroidered socks with flowers on it.

Yattina did feel a bit envious of them. They looked fantastic and comfortable.

“Some groups persist in setting off the very obvious room guardian event by burning the webs. Signs warn you of this, the villagers warned you of this… I’m warning you of this. Stop upsetting the room, grab the berries, and just walk out the other side,” Yattina said loudly, sounding beyond tired as she put down a bunch of documents of journeys into the Dungeon that stopped in the first room.

---Fairplay expedition number 9:

“Please, I don’t want to do the little teapot dance anymore!” the man wailed as high above, the ghostly spider made the four Blades twirl in a synchronized pattern.

“It burns, but in a good way! I never knew all those days I put into dodging Dungeon traps and boss mechanics would transfer to dancing!” exclaimed another as he spun.

Nearby, a court of spiders danced in various postures. The common theme was the ‘these two-legged buffoons dance like alcohol-drenched buffalo, and I laugh at them openly’ dance.

---“We’ve lost at least three to the calling of dance, while more just developed a phobia of spiders,” Yattina said brightly as she read the reports.

“Results on the berries are… very promising. I am told they make a lovely pie, jello, lip balm, and lubrication,” she listed. She paused as people snickered.

“For the more complex machines we employ, you adolescent children,” she said waspishly.

Yattina did not want to think about those… things. The idea of the act alone made her queasy. So many things touch, and the fluids like sweat and body odor.

No. Yattina could feel her stomach heaving.

Yattina had been in love, but it had never resulted in any urge like that. Perhaps she was broken in some way?

But if she was broken? Yattina would celebrate that quirk and paint it up with colors.

Besides, if she didn’t have a partner in life, that just gave her more room for books.

Hm, books never demanded anything of her. Judged her… or accused her of being unable to love. They accepted Yattina when she was done with them for the day, happy to welcome her back once work allowed it.

Few people in her life could match that sort of companionship.

“The next room is the Lake-” she said, and someone actually screamed a little. Yattina looked up in surprise as someone tried to hide a duck feather they took from a pillow or some such. They had brushed it against a twitchy scout’s neck.

In the pause, someone stood up.

“Time for my patrol,” he said and Yattina raised her hand to stop him, but others stood up, excusing themselves from the meeting due to ‘bathroom break,’ ‘taxes,’ ‘a chronic illness called legmah,’ and one just said ‘I left the oven on.’

That left Yattina, the boy with the wonky nose, an embarrassed boy who looked familiar, and a handful of scouts in the meeting room.

“How did you break your nose?” Yattina finally asked, needing something to latch on to so as to hide her shame at the lack of respect she was shown.

“I tripped down the Dungeon stairs at the entrance!” he answered honestly.

…Yattina was going to need more books at this rate. She noticed how one of the scouts looked odd now that he was isolated, sort of sitting hunched in the corner, and Yattina wasn’t sure if he was a Blade or a Scout.

From under his big cap, she could see something odd. Poor man, he must have been force-fed Gutrots too, his only visible piece of flesh was his long bulging nose that was a deep green. His top half sloped to the left as if injured, and he adjusted it from the hip.

What fantastic motor skills. The Scouts (or Blades) were a hardy lot!

“I can sort that for you later,” Yattina said to the boy, then inhaled.

“Should I continue?” she asked and winced internally. She ‘should’ continue, not ask for permission. How on this world did she ever get promoted?

She smiled as everyone nodded excitedly.

She gestured to a large stack of papers nearly half her height with a duck figure on top.

“These are incident reports from one creature alone. Without a proper sensor to get a reading, we have named it ‘Danger’ she said, and the pile of reports wobbled dangerously.

“So far, we have lost close to twenty standard-issue daggers, three uncommon enchanted knives, and one rare dagger that we attempted to retrieve as the Dungeon did not absorb it. Perhaps as bait, or perhaps as a reward to its duck,” Yattina said excitedly. Such undocumented behaviour!

Oh, she could spend years going over this Dungeon!

“It likes knives?” one of the scouts asked, frowning.

“I think it likes chaos,” Yattina admitted.

“Is there any way to get past it? Sometimes the storeroom is locked, and the only key is by that duck,” the wonky-nose boy asked.

Yattina stared at the waiting group with a long look.

“Have you tried… giving it bread?” she offered.

“We could poison the bread!” one the remaining Blades perked up.

“No! Just give the damn duck some bread, and see if it lets you have the key! It’s simple bartering!” she said loudly.

“What about the giant catfish in the lake? What if it eats us?” the wonky-nose kid continued. Yattina turned, opened her mouth, and then closed it just as quickly.

“Come again?” she asked serenely.

“The giant fish in the lake. It’s bigger than a troll and then some,” the boy said earnestly. Yattina’s eyes slowly opened so wide that her glass eye fell out of the socket with a clatter, rolling across the ground, still looking shocked.

“W-Where… is the report?” she asked, voice trembling.

All the scouts and Blade pointed to the pile about Danger. Even the hip and cool one in the corner pointed, being mysterious by pointing last.

“The reports are room by room so we just tossed them in there,” someone said.

“The reports are incident… by incident,” Yattina wheezed.

“Oh… that’s going to make the Mushroom Grove pile really awkward,” someone muttered, and Yattina numbly walked after her eye, the enchanted thing rolling away cheerfully to explore the base.

“We were supposed to write reports?” the wonky nose kid asked the other boy.

Yattina was going to need the hard stuff tonight.

The hardback copy of ‘A Thousand Uses of Mermaid Oils.’

---

“You are sure you want this?” Delta asked slowly as Waddles eyed the construction of his new nest. The nest was now a large tent in the alcove, with knives sticking out of the wall around it, which made the lovely illuminated interior feel a little misleading.

There were short knives, long knives, curved knives, blunt knives, cracked knives, and more.

“Quack.”

“I don’t think I can agree to have them all on fire or dripping with acid,” Delta said slowly.

“Quack.”

“I mean, that isn’t too bad, but I think an electrical storm moving between the knives might upset the fish. It might hurt them,” she pointed out.

“Quack… quack.”

Delta brightened and clapped her hands.

“I can do that!”

Moments later, the knives began to shine as the fake moon on the ceiling came out from behind a cloud. The reflection caused a dazzling show to reflect across the lake, sparkling like diamonds. The sight was beautiful until you saw the light came from dozens of knives on the wall.

Waddles flapped his wings once, which was basically excitement for the duck. He went into his tent and fell asleep.

Delta smiled.

“So easy to please. Just a little chaos,” she said with a joke. She looked up at the wall of glinting knives and pondered if someone might misunderstand her intent.

It was very likely.

Still, Delta couldn’t regret her choices. She had… exploits to fix.

Lots of tiny little… exploits.

Step 1? A damn welcome mat for people to wipe their feet on. No one had any manners, and Delta could taste everything.

---

At the bottom of the steps, a large fuzzy brown doormat could be found.

On it in black letters was the phrase, ‘Wipe your feet, keep the smile.’
