A slight excitement tinged the air inside the large gray building and loose cloth, which contained around forty people. The portable construction was only allowed when Fairplay could prove that it was a ‘camping’ facility and not a permanent fixture of the land. A little loophole that allowed the company to actually set up beds, infirmaries and places to relax in the most unkind of frontiers. It went a long way to ease the burdens on their body and mind.

The only downside was they had to build it on the other side of the village; either side of Durence seemed to give rise to treacherous hills covered in trees, and beyond the Dungeon was an even bigger mountain that fresh water bubbled down from. The walk to the Dungeon could either be a few minutes or an hour depending on the mood of the villagers.

The number of ‘surprise’ markets that sprung up or streets appearing and disappearing on known paths was becoming a bit alarming.

The meeting had been called as a matter of protocol. Many scout leaders, warriors, and others weren’t happy to be here, but they knew better than to argue with the person arriving through the portal soon…

The only one who had no issues with the portal.

In the middle of the room, two tables stood side by side. On the left was a mostly filled-in map with flags and markers pointing to different symbols on it. The second table had a mostly empty piece with only stairs and trees visible.

All noise ceased when someone walked into the room, chewing on a pen and looking perky. In one hand, she carried a glowing orb that could be mistaken for a Dungeon Core. The newcomer was speaking into it as she walked.

“This begins the first weekly meeting of the Durence Dungeon expedition. For official records, this is the 44th Dungeon the company has tackled,” said a lead figure who stepped between the two maps. Her white uniform denoted three fingers on her badge, but unlike most others of her rank, she remained a healthy color and seemed upbeat. She was still speaking into the orb.

“For recording purposes to be sent back to HQ, this is Yattina Halenuo Congord Flimina of Research Squad 5! For ease of listening, I will be responding to Doc Yat for short. This is either an endearing name the fieldworkers have given me, or perhaps an insult; I am not too sure yet!” she said into a glowing sphere that seemed to be buzzing each time she spoke.

She paced around the table as a few men met her gaze and a few of them avoided it, perhaps because of how intense her gaze was, unashamed as her curiosity burned.

Yattina didn’t mind, she was used to people avoiding her. It did make her unsure of how to eat around others, since she never had people to have lunch with.

“For posterity and to answer why everyone is here, I shall give a short reminder of what the Research Department does in Fairplay,” she began, and there were more than a few groans, which she heartily ignored.

A good dose of education should always be welcomed!

“Each of the five departments of Fairplay perform a unique function for the overall performance of the company. Scouts are our first heroes into the unknown and the most at risk; through their efforts, the Blades can encroach into a Dungeon with more knowledge,” Yattina went on as more than a few people nodded at the few scouts in attendance.

“Once the Blades have gained a hold of the Dungeon’s behaviors and routines, the Research team steps in to assess what the Dungeon does and produces in order to help the local economy survive and adapt to the new environment. This leads into what the Dungeon might become and how best to manage it,” she said before looking around with an encouraging smile. She got a few grimaces back. They’d appreciate this one day… soon.

Hopefully.

“The fourth department, the Mentors, won’t be present until we have a hand on the Dungeon as they are established to make Dungeon adventuring as smooth as possible for those seeking a yet higher challenge to improve their cores. They also handle the business ventures that keep us all afloat and with fresh bread in our bellies,” Yattina brushed her blond hair back and adjusted her glass eye for a moment.

“The last department is the Seasons. I shan’t need to describe them much. These are our heroes, our elite. If any other department struggles, they will step in to provide aid. They are powerful, resourceful, frighteningly smart or savvy-” Yattina admitted as someone cleared their throat.

“And hot as hell,” they shouted, getting a few laughs.

“Yes, yes… the Maidens of Seasons have been known to be pleasing to the eye as well. Their knights are no slouches either,” Yattina sighed to the various jostling and jeering. She had met one or two of the Seasons before.

The term ‘in a different world’ seemed to aptly describe them. They weren’t rude or cruel… but they didn’t seem to move in the same way as people did. No hesitation, no doubt. No thoughts of could be or might be.

They were quite rightly named forces of nature.

“This Dungeon is not normal.” Yattina said flatly, pushing past more comments on the Seasons’ appearances. Her tone contained a reprimand, and all joking stopped abruptly.

“Dungeon biology and methodology are education courses unto themselves, and I won’t go into them other than to outline where this Dungeon deviates,” Yattina said as she brushed a hand along the wooden table which the maps rested upon.

“Dungeons consume Mana and matter outside their domain to increase their own. This would make them parasitic in nature if not for the fact that they strengthen the world around them with infused Dungeon Mana. Allowing life to form more easily, the land to become more stable, and even smaller positive benefits I could list,” Yattina said, and she was a little annoyed that more than a few of the attendees at this little progress meeting seemed unaware of that factoid.

When would they stop enlisting outside help without a mandatory education introductory course?

“Like the rings of a tree, a Dungeon can be measured by how many floors it has obtained. Each floor costs the Dungeon more and more resources to produce. It’s not uncommon for new Dungeons to struggle to break through 5 floors if they are formed in a remote area. The highest recorded floors produced by a Dungeon in the world used to be, according to records, a massive subterranean cavern in the world which abruptly collapsed itself. This hole was later the perfect place for the World Tree to grow,” Yattina hummed and blinked as a gangly teen with an unfortunate nose that squinted one way raised their hands to ask a question.

Yattina could offer to re-break and set it? Would that endear her to the boy?

“Yes?” she asked the uncertain lad.

“How many floors did it have? What was its name?” he asked, finding his voice towards the end. Yattina liked inquisitive minds. Not many were found in the Scouts or the Blades due to their incessant need to mangle their own souls for cheap power.

After all, books had more power than all the weapons in the world! They cured Yattina’s desire to throw herself off the nearest cliff in her younger years.

“A thousand floors, if you could imagine it,” she said wistfully, getting a sharp intake of breath from the gathered people.

“If we’ve translated it right, and you must understand that our older languages were still massively divided, unlike today in which we have East, Common, and West tongues, then the name of the Dungeon could be read one way as ‘The King of the World,’” Yattina said slowly, trying to dredge up old memories of studying.

It had been some of the best years of her life.

“However, due to mistranslations and a missing use of grammar, another translation could be closer to ‘The Brother’s Path,’” she said patiently.

There was silence at this.

She looked around, surprised.

“What, did no one know that one of the two creators of our world was the original Dungeon Core before all others?” she asked exasperated. How did they think monsters came to roam the world?

Happy little accidents?

“…Are we Dungeon mobs?” asked one of the Blades, in existential dread.

Yattina pursed her lips.

“If only some of you could be so interesting,” she finally said before looking down at the map with a pleased expression.

“If only…” she repeated.

She put her finger on the room marked ‘Entrance.’

“We shall start with the first obvious deviation,” she announced to the group.

“It has 50 floors or something?” someone asked, sounding bored. Yattina felt a spike of doubt rise up in her. Was she boring?

Was she doing a disservice to how amazing this Dungeon was? She shook her head, trying not to look nervous.

“Not at all. It’s smarter than it should be… the Mana readings back up what the town’s people say,” Yattina said with a frown. “It only has four floors, but it doesn’t act like it,” she concluded.

“Yeah, I’ve seen Dungeons with 20 floors that don’t measure up to the madness that’s on the first floor,” a man stood up, looking mildly… greenish due to the ‘duck’ shoving a Gutrot mushroom into his mouth.

Yattina felt bad for the man. No one should have to endure the taste of Turtog’s lasting legacy.

“This could be a piece of evidence to the theory of evolution,” Yattina interrupted more objections. The general response was snickering and rolls of eyes.

The theory was not popular due to the fact that humanity had roughly decent logs back to the beginning of the world’s making. They were made in their human form and remained human.

However, other things have not remained so static. Monsters, animals, and even Dungeons have been showing signs of a shift.

“Fine!” Yattina held her hand up to stall the arguments. There was always a debater in every group, and she wanted this meeting to make progress before she died of old age.

“The entrance is code locked, but only in such a way that once the code is known, there’s nothing stopping it being shared. Honestly, I think it was just to keep random monsters out once it settled on a theme,” Yattina said as she put a stone tablet down to represent the entrance.

---

“It went A… B… triangle, upside down L?” one of them spoke up, sounding unsure. The other snorted.

“Triangle, Upside down L, B, A,” she corrected, and the door didn’t budge.

Nearby, Ruli and Quiss held their breaths as they tried another code. A bottle of expensive booze was on the line, and the longer they took, the more likely Ruli would win.

---

“The Dungeon entrance has two offering tables, which is perhaps the most modest I’ve seen Dungeon’s go once they start thinking. The golden fires of the capital Dungeon, the twin demands of the Twin Dungeons, the Ruby Dungeon that only accepts ‘beautiful’ things, and so on,” she hummed as she tapped the two table models with a smile.

Her eyes shifted over to the side room.

“This… however, is new,” she stated firmly.

“A kill room? Dungeons have them. That Ruby Dungeon you mentioned has a massive hourglass at the entrance. Each grain is someone it has killed,” someone spoke up dismissively. Yattina shot him a long look.

This is why the Research Department was needed.

“Then you are either blind, or as insensitive as a spoon. The feel, the design… the sorrow. It names people, it offers them not out of spite but in a peaceful place people can opt in to visit. It’s not shoved into our faces, forcing us to see it everytime we walk past,” she countered, and the man crossed his arms, unimpressed.

“It feels sorrow for who it devours as much as I felt sorrow for the sausage I had last night,” he glared.

“No one wants to hear about your conquests. Please apologize to the farmer whose pig you forced your company upon, and take an hour to do laps,” Yattina said without emotion, trying not to bristle like a cat. The man stalked off, but didn’t dare act out. Yattina was a third ranked member.

What she lacked in physical martial combat, she compensated for by grabbing his paycheck and waving it over a fire.

Some people wanted to die having the last word, truly… Yattina couldn’t imagine being so set in one’s way as to ignore evidence.

“There’s also the fact that while most Entrances should be safe, this one has… proxies,” Yattina said slowly, and more than a few people winced at her words.

----Fairplay Expedition number 6:

“Mocking me, eh?” the sword-wielding woman sneered as she slashed at the accursed statue, looking down at them with that pitiful gaze. How dare it pretend to have emotions!

Dungeons only felt hunger and hatred. No different than a monster! She slashed at it. Daring to show names in, of all things, a ‘memorial.’ If this Dungeon were near her old village, would her sister’s name be on this thing?

“Go to hell!” she yelled, chipping her sword more than the statue until she felt… not alone. She turned slowly to see a giant mushroom with a frowning mustache.

“S-Stay back! I won’t hold back!” she warned as the creature eyed the nicks on the statue’s face and neck, then at her sword.

It slowly put down a pot with a price tag on it, a very odd-looking vase that was molded in such a way to look like a sagging wind instrument. It was also bright yellow.

“Your sister… tell me about her. I have a brother and sister too. I had more, but they did not make it,” it rumbled. She took a step back, sword shaking.

“We shall make a pot to remember her by, yes?”

The sword fell to the ground.

---

“Yes, well, she’ll recover once she stops crying over that pot. I’ve read that crying is good for the soul,” Yattina muttered as she drummed her fingers on the table.

