Locked in this desperate struggle, Hongji counted the seconds that’d passed since receiving the Sending, and discovered the time was finally upon him. Thirty seconds had passed, so he looked away from his foe in hopes of seeing salvation at hand. Not for him, but for Castle JiangHu, which fared so poorly under his command, and he hoped things would be different with Lieutenant General Akanai in charge.

A blur of motion was all he saw before the Dark Child was wrenched out of his death grip, and without this one last purpose left to him, his entire body went slack. Someone caught him before he hit the floor and he felt warm, restorative energies seeping through him, but he felt no relief, only shame. The Healer was a plain, unimpressive man, a Khishig judging by his armour, and Hongji tried to tell him to save his Chi for someone else, but all his efforts earned him was a frown. “Stop trying to talk and stay still,” the Healer said, his nasally voice grating to the extreme. “Takes less Chi to Heal you slowly, but not if you keep ruining my work.” Seeing him fall silent, the Healer nodded in approval. “Good. You must be Hongji then. I am Tokta, second in command of the Khishigs.” A Healer as her second? Akanai and the Bekhai did things very differently from the Empire, but what else was new. “The Lieutenant General was impressed by your preparations. Seemed a shame to ruin them since we could have made short work of the Defiled forces in the field, but we needed the freedom to sneak into the castle ahead of the reinforcements since she figured the Enemy would try something like this and take the castle just before we arrived.” Gesturing with his chin, he said, “We rode fast as we could and still almost did not make it in time, but as young Rain often says, better late than never.”

Following the Healer’s gesture, Hongji’s eyes widened in alarm as he watched the leader of the Bekhai in action. There she danced atop the parapets, her twin-crescent halberd coming alive in her hands as it battered the Dark Child about with impunity. Forward, ever forward she moved, striking and killing with almost careless ease at every Demons and Defiled she passed by, like a beautiful and unstoppable force of nature upon the battlefield. Overhead, the scream of a thousand arrows arced through the air as the first wave landed unerringly upon the outer wall, and almost immediately, a second wave hit, then the third, and forth, and fifth. A torrential rainstorm of arrows drenched the Enemy in blood, killing common tribesmen, Champions, and Chieftains without differentiation, while their elites and Spiritual Roosequins slaughted Demons and Peak Experts with ruthless ferocity.

This was the work of the Herald of Storms, a title meant to mock her abilities yet somehow perfectly encapsulated Akanai’s prowess to perfection. Hongji was wrong. Falling Rain’s crossbows wouldn’t change the landscape of war, for the Bekhai had changed it long before, only the Empire had yet to take notice.

Woe betide the enemies of the Bekhai, for Hongji had barely scratched the surface of their true strength, and already he thought them unparalleled. What hidden daggers might they reveal if push ever came to shove? For the Empire’s sake, Hongji hoped those daggers would never be aimed towards them, for if so, the Bekhai might prove as dangerous as the Defiled.

Chapter Meme
