Tortured screams echoed over the walls of Castle JiangHu in a ghastly concert of bloodcurdling torment and inhuman misery, and for three whole nights, Hongji was helpless to stop it.

Perched atop his command tower on the innermost wall, he steeled his nerves and took in the horrific tableau arranged on the fields before him, so close, yet too far for him to do anything about. In front of the Enemy camp less than two kilometers away, hundreds of Imperial prisoners were suspended or splayed across the fields, well out of bow shot and too spread out for catapults to accurately target. Even without Scrying, he could make out the jerky, spastic movements of the abused victims as they struggled to escape their restrictive bonds and avoid a slow, painful death, while some heinous Defiled working of Chi magnified the sounds of their screams for all to hear. For those doomed prisoners, there would be no respite from this hardship, no release from this anguish, not until sweet death came to claim them, and he wished with all his heart that he could do anything to hasten it.

It took a sick mind to devise a torture such as this, a Defiled mind which delighted in spreading misery and suffering to others. First, the intended victim was bound naked and spread-eagle to a flat stone bed, which was then angled forwards to offer everyone on the castle walls an unobstructed view of the process. Then, a second prisoner was brought in, escorted by two armored Defiled, pretenders who dared call themselves Chosen. There, they gave their prisoner one of two choices: take up the hammer propped next to the bound figure, or become the next unfortunate soul to be bound to the stone plank. A good number of prisoners chose the plank, and at first, Hongji applauded their bravery, but soon enough, he couldn’t help but wonder if he himself had the courage to choose the same, knowing what awaited them next.

For those prisoners who chose the hammer, they were directed to use it in a very specific way. Starting at the victim’s feet, the accomplices wielded their hammers and worked their way up to ankles, shins, knees, and thighs, stopping in between each swing so that the supervising Defiled can inspect and see if the bone was properly broken. This slow, methodical torture was designed to give the victims time to savor each new injury, and the accomplices time to reflect on the results of their actions. The arms came next, starting at the hands and moving up to the shoulders in the same measured cadence until the unfortunate victims limbs were all broken and useless. Most screamed from the first hit and never stopped until they ran out of breath or passed out, but some did their best to endure. Perhaps a handful of stalwart heroes resisted more than two or three strikes, but even from across this distance, Hongji flinched every time he saw a hammer blow land with a resounding, Chi-magnified crack.

For many of those accomplices, their anguish was almost a match for their victims, with so many breaking down mid-torture and unable to continue on. Those tormented souls joined the line of waiting victims, while a new prisoner was brought in to continue the torture. Worst of all, the suffering did not end with merely four broken limbs. Once the hammering was done with, the Defiled then removed their victims from the plank and strung them up on posts for all to see, eliciting a fresh wave of screams as the prisoners were suspended from a low column with their mangled arms and legs bent back. Then, the Defiled forced their accomplice to prepare a bed of coals to light beneath their victim’s belly. Every five minutes, a new coal was added and the flames fanned anew, while a nearby Defiled checked the victim’s condition to ensure they still lived. If the victim was still alive, but too weak to scream, they were force fed a bowl of unpalatable stew which brought them back from the brink of death to endure even more suffering.

And when they finally expired, a new victim was bound to the stone bed, but not before offering the victim a chance to be the accomplice instead. Some took that offer, but others refused, and Hongji was not sure which of the two were wiser.

All told, there were hundreds of prisoners being tortured by hundreds of accomplices at any given time, arranged in a long, neat row to afford everyone on the castle walls a view of the proceedings. Worse than watching the torture was seeing the impact on the accomplice, all of whom started off hesitant and fearful, but despite the forced nature of their complicity, many grew more vicious and depraved as the torture went on. Those accomplices who did poorly were beaten before returning to the pool of potential victims, while those who exhibited bloodlust and initiative were rewarded in some way. Hongji could only assume they were given a choice, for he saw some receive food and alcohol, while others were given a bedroll and another prisoner, and a few were even given freedom to return to Castle JiangHu, at which point Hongji had no choice but to execute them. After the first day and several dozen deaths outside the castle gates, none of the accomplices chose that option anymore, and more took up the most heinous reward of all, to turn coat and take up arms against the Empire. There, in full view of the castle, those most faithless of accomplices were given scavenged Imperial gear, which they then proceeded to deface in some unholy manner using the corpse of their victim.

This was an initiation, and it was disheartening to see how many turncoats enthusiastically embraced this depraved ritual, mutilating and cannibalizing the remains of their former comrades, countrymen, and victims with the unhinged glee of a child given a new toy. To make matters worse, everyone could see that these gathered prisoners and victims were not Imperial commoners, people too weak and helpless to defend themselves, but captured Imperial Warriors one and all, mighty men and women who once defended the front lines against the Enemy now driven mad enough to take up arms beside them.

At this moment in time, every living soul inside Castle JiangHu was wondering if this was to be their inevitable fate, to choose between victim and accomplice, death and Defilement, and Hongji feared what this mindset was doing to his soldiers. Morale was at an all-time low within the castle, and courage could only sustain them for so long, especially with the screams continuing non-stop while wave after wave of Defiled attacks probed their defenses. The last few taxing battles proved that the Enemy General was not the same foe he faced in Sinuji, for this commander was a formidable adversary, a battle-scarred veteran well-versed in Imperial tactics and well-practiced at executing and countering them. This was no uneducated Defiled Chieftain at the helm of the Enemy army, testing theories they’d only read about and learning everything for the first time. No, here at Castle JiangHu, they faced a true Imperial General, a former Western hero who embraced the Father’s lies and now sought to raze and overthrow the Empire he or she once served, much like those traitorous accomplices down below who were gleefully mutilating their former comrades.

Hongji once feared this very scenario, to face off against the greatest military minds of the West and be found wanting. Surely it wasn’t Siege Breaker Gao Changgong on the field across from them, else Castle JiangHu’s gates would have been battered and beaten down by the aggressive Major General on the first day of battle. It could still be YuChun of the Ten Thousand Spears, whom Hongji suspected of leading the first concentrated Defiled assault on Sinuji, but once again, a cohort of spear-wielding Defiled was not enough to conclude that the Western Lieutenant General had turned traitor. There was a time when Hongji hoped the Western Great Heroes had remained true to the Empire and only ruffians and malcontents had joined the Enemy, but those hopes died after seeing so many of his countrymen succumb to the Father’s lies. Besides, it was hard to believe a self-professed bandit leader like half-badger Huanhuzi would be so well-versed in Imperial tactics, especially since his claim to fame came from leading a pirate fleet that roamed the Azure Sea in search of plunder only to hide within an extensive network of underground tunnels when the Imperial Army turned its attention towards him.

No, it was clear at least one Imperial General had turned traitor, and Hongji would give his left arm to know who. Not just to satisfy his burning curiosity, but also because Huang Shaotian’s Three Hunting Strategies stated that in order to effectively defeat your enemy, you must first know your enemy. During his time away from the front lines due to political pressure, Hongji studied the records of every living Great Hero of the West, and aside from the two named above, there were only a handful of suspects who this Enemy General could be, with each one a worse prospect than the last. There was Brigadier Zhao Xiangru, but he was famed for his personal battlefield exploits rather than his prowess in command. It could also be Major General Lian DaoXiang, the Desert Menace, but thus far, the Enemy cavalry had been utilized in orthodox fashion, with none of the high risk, high reward gambits the Western General was famed for. There were others who it might be, but unless they were hidden talents far more able than their records showed, Hongji suspected only one Great Hero of the West could adapt so quickly and command the Enemy forces so efficiently, and he feared for the future.

The sandy deserts of the Western Province were rich in valuable commodities, but lacking in arable land, making food a precious resource and potable water even more precious inland. The common idiom went ‘birds and beasts die for food just as men die for wealth’, but this was not true in the West, for its unique circumstances meant food was oftentimes more precious than coin, since one could not fill an empty belly or parch one’s thirst with cold, hard metal. Thus, for centuries, the West was plagued by an endless streak of rebellions and uprisings whose cause could be traced back to drought or famine, as even a starving rat will fight back when left with no other option. In recent memory however, the Western province had undergone a time of peace and prosperity, with two decades free of rebellion and upheaval, all thanks to Gongsun Qi, the only serving Colonel General of the West.

Born as a peasant by the name of Bai Qi, he rose to prominence during the rebellion of Yique, wherein a Magistrate declared independence from the Empire after unlawfully seizing multiple shipments of rice and meat to withstand the inevitable seige. Young Bai Qi, then a twenty-two year old Captain, was credited with breaking the backbone of what would have been a hard-fought rebellion by infiltrating the Magistrate’s palace and assassinating the man in the dead of night, before escaping with proof that the Magistrate and other rebellion leaders were Defiled. This eventually led to a wholesale purge of the entire city in which over a million peasants were put to death, and rumors whispered that Bai Qi’s parents were among the civilians slain. Some even claimed he led his parents to the slaughter himself, ignoring their pleas as they screamed for mercy, but Hongji found this hard to believe. Regardless of whether this was true or not, the previously unknown Captain proved to be a force to be reckoned with as he set out on a long and bloody career putting down rebellions similar to the one which may or may not have rendered him an orphan.

Though all accounts described him as a polite, no-nonsense man, Bai Qi’s record showed him to be ruthless and without mercy, slaughtering anyone and everyone who dared rise up against the Empire. When swords and spears killed too slowly, he collapsed walls, set cities ablaze, ruined storehouses of food, spilled stockpiles of water, doing whatever was necessary to secure victory and killing indiscriminately in the name of duty. When his heavy handed tactics came to light, he was accused of being Defiled, but over the years, this same accusation came up multiple times, and each time, Bai Qi was cleared of any and all crimes by multiple independent investigations and continued his career unimpeded. By the time he turned forty, he’d risen through the ranks to become a Brigadier and Peak Expert, a dragon soaring high above his peers and destined for greatness. Many a rebellion was quelled by the mere news that he had been dispatched, with rebels scrambling to surrender to anyone who would treat them better than the merciless Bai Qi, all of which earned him the ironic title, ‘Lord of Martial Peace’.

