Over the years, Bai Qi clashed with Huanhuzi to no effect, put down more rebellions, and slaughtered Defiled in droves. Upon rising to the rank of Colonel General, he renamed himself Gongsun Qi, doing away with pretensions to embrace his ‘Lordly’ title instead. The man deserved it though, as he earned his final promotion due to his part in dealing with a massive Defiled tribe which made it into the province undetected via underground tunnels. The then Lieutenant General had fortuitously been close by, at which point he sallied out with five-thousand soldiers to delay these marauding foes. With the odds sorely stacked against him, Gongsun Qi lured the Defiled into a scorching hot desert and harassed the Enemy while allowing the elements do the lion’s share of the killing for him. When Imperial reinforcements arrived three days later, the entire hundred-thousand force of Defiled was dead and gone, while less than two-hundred of Gongsun Qi’s soldiers still drew breath, but it was a stunning victory for this Great General of the West, one which secured him the highest military rank in the Empire and a place in the annals of history.

And now, Hongji feared the formidable Lord of Martial Peace stood on the field across from him, leading the so-called Chosen into battle against the Empire after finally succumbing to the Enemy’s lies. Who else would so quickly adapt his tactics to counter the catapults and crossbows festooning the castle walls? Who else would dare sacrifice ten-thousand of their own troops just to probe Hongji’s response time, and use this information against him in another battle? Who else would think to use this slow, methodical torture as a psychological attack to grind away at Imperial morale? The Three Hunting Strategies said to know your enemy, but what good was it to know you were outmatched in every way possible?

Take their current circumstances. The prisoners were being tortured out of bow-range, but within catapult range, tempting Hongji to waste precious ammunition in a futile attempt to end their suffering. The Enemy commander was astute enough to guess that Falling Rain’s hollow, spherical, concrete shells were manufactured and therefore limited in number, and by not using them to fire upon the poor victims, Hongji confirmed as much. What the Enemy commander didn’t know however was that the ammunition wasn’t the catapults’ limiting factor, but the central beam itself, which ran the risk of cracking or splintering every time it fired. If word of this were to get out, Hongji suspected Gongsun Qi, or whoever the canny Enemy commander might be, would not go to so much effort to silence those engines of war, but they’d already paid a costly price since Hongji set his Peak Experts to guarding them.

So that was one point in his favor, but alas, the Enemy scored many more. Castle JiangHu was faltering beneath the weight of sustained Enemy attacks, with patrols being ambushed and taken prisoner, messengers intercepted and made an example of, and supply convoys raided and slaughtered to the last. Unlike at Sinuji, the Enemy forces were not content to attack from a single angle, and were working hard to encircle the entire fortification which would spell Hongji’s doom. Only the threat of Northern heavy cavalry and chariots roaming the plains kept the castle from being overrun, but even this wouldn’t keep them safe for much longer. Central and Bekhai outriders were doing a fantastic job harassing the Enemy flanks, and the infantry was holding the walls admirably, but Hongji didn’t have enough of either to turn the tides of battle. Now, squads of roving Demons were running amok and attacking supply caravans East of him, while the other castles along the center of the second line were similarly being pressured without respite, with Defiled forces pushing through at multiple lines of egress in hopes of swinging around to attack a castle, any castle, from the rear. The Enemy meant to break through here, of this, there was no doubt in Hongji’s mind, but thankfully, the sons and daughters of Central understood the stakes they were fighting for and were desperate to hold for as long as possible.

How long that might be, Hongji couldn’t say. Last night, they suffered the heaviest attack to date and his forces lost sections of the outer wall to the Defiled attackers several times, only to retake them later at great cost. As a general rule of thumb, Defiled tribesmen were fierce, but inferior to Imperial soldiers in single combat, especially when fighting at a disadvantage. These Chosen however were all former soldiers themselves, or close to it, and were far more effective than their tribal counterparts. If not for the irregulars firing crossbows and catapults non-stop all throughout the night, the Enemy might have already taken the castle, but those weapons couldn’t be counted on for much longer. After several days of near non-stop fighting, the common people who made up Falling Rain’s irregulars were beginning to come apart at the seams, much like their catapults were in danger of shattering. These were no Martial Warriors here to serve their holy duty, but criminal commoners serving sentences for their crimes, and thus were not doing well faced with the prospect of death and dismemberment. Already, Hongji had to order over a hundred irregulars put to death, for reasons which ran the gamut from cowardice to desertion, and even two on suspicion of turning Defiled, though they did little more than rant and rave about their impending doom. Even the best Martial Warriors were feeling the pressure here in Castle JiangHu, so how could these condemned civilians not? Truth be told, he was surprised only a hundred or so irregulars had cracked thus far, and his respect for the common man went up a few notches.

Such was the price of hubris. Despite Hongji’s humble origins, somewhere along the way, he’d forgotten how hardy the common people of the Empire were by sheer necessity. They too faced the trials and tribulations of Heaven, only without the benefit of Martial strength, and they were that much more capable for it.

Thankfully, today would be the last day Hongji had to hold out alone, for Legate Falling Rain was scheduled to arrive before nightfall with an army to reinforce Castle JiangHu and a plan to deliver a crushing blow to the Enemy forces. The slave turned Legate, what an inspiring story, and Hongji’s admiration for the boy went up a few notches more. Not because of his shocking past, which was easily overlooked thanks to his recent successes, but rather how Rain took pride in having overcome his slave status and considered it a tribulation passed. It made so much sense, Hongji had to wonder why he never thought the same, because so many of his accomplishments could be traced back to lessons learned at his father’s side on the farm back home, lessons like moving forward with indefatigable purpose or the value of forethought and preparation. Now, those lessons and good fortune had catapulted him to the lofty rank of Brigadier, so why should Hongji not take pride in his common-born background?

Putting the Legate’s peculiar circumstances aside, Hongji himself was not privy to the details young Rain’s plan, but from the reports of troop movements all across the second lines, he assumed it would be something in the form of a coordinated counterattack. The problem was, if Hongji could deduce this, so too could the Enemy commander, but it was for wiser minds than his to deal with these matters, so he focused on what preparations he could make. He sent out scouting patrols to find the roving Demons, maneuvered his cavalry in place to respond to enemy aggression, and even drilled his soldiers waiting at the rear gates to ensure they knew exactly what to do if the reinforcements were to come under attack while making their way into the castle. Just in case, he also rearranged the schedules so that there were always soldiers from three separate factions holding each gate at any one time. This way, if one group were to turn traitor, they would not stand unopposed within the heavily fortified gatehouse if they should seek to hold the gates open for the Enemy forces or keep them closed to Imperial allies.

A tad paranoid? Perhaps, but considering what his troops had been through, from the harrowing retreat to this horrific demonstration taking place before his very eyes, Hongji would not leaving anything up to chance.

Curiously enough, the enemy commander was gracious enough to stand idle while Hongji used this time to prepare, time his soldiers and irregulars sorely needed to rest and relax after days of hard fighting. Many of his commendations had been approved and the officers under his command promoted, but it was hardly enough, especially with news of possible unrest and near rebellion stemming from the Northern Province. If the rumors were to be believed, the Imperial Clan had been a hair’s breadth away from executing Falling Rain and the Bekhai as rebels, and only the appearance of an Enemy Divinity had kept the Northern Citadel from devolving into chaos. While Hongji knew there was no chance Falling Rain could ever be Defiled, falsehoods fly upon wings of deceit while the truth crawls on broken limbs through the mud. Even now, as he rode at the head of an army meant to save Castle JiangHu from the Enemy, there were whispers of how the ‘false Son of the Mother’ would bring about their deaths. Hongji did what he could to quash them, but where one lie was stomped flat, ten more sprouted to take its place, and he soon found himself at wits’ end. There was nothing he could do to raise his soldiers’ morale, and he only prayed it wouldn’t crumble before nightfall, but as the hours passed in agonizing sluggishness, he felt the hairs on his head grow whiter as he aged ten years in a day.

By some miracle of the Mother, the Enemy left Castle Jianghu alone for the better part of ten hours before finally launching another attack, sending hordes of screaming Defiled tribesmen to assault the walls with no regard for self-preservation. This coincided with the news that the Legate’s reinforcements were only two hours away, and all of a sudden, matters were moving too quickly as Hongji oversaw the defense while simultaneously scrambling to keep up with developments in the field. The Enemy commander revealed his troops laying in wait all around the castle, who then predictably moved to intercept the reinforcing army. At the same time, the reinforcing commander took control of Hongji’s forces in the field and issued a slew of orders which made a mess of all his preparations, orders he only knew about because his Officers were smart enough to see the problem and send word of their movements back to him. He had expected the Enemy to attack the reinforcements while they were still marching across the open fields, and arranged his troops to support allies and harass the Enemy, but now this fool of an Imperial General was throwing it all away by gathering all Imperial forces around the reinforcing army. A fatal mistake, but unfortunately, whoever it was outranked Hongji, so all he could do was watch in bitter futility while preparing for the worst. There was strength in numbers, yes, but it also made the reinforcing army overly large and unwieldy, with no room to maneuver against the hordes of Enemy light cavalry riding in to harass them. The outriders were in for a night of bloody work, with victory or defeat riding on the shoulders of Bekhai roosequins and Imperial light cavalry.

Were it up to Hongji, he’d send small, elite units to scout and investigate the Enemy movements, but from what he could tell, the reinforcing commander did nothing of the sort, still blindly consolidating all forces in the field while marching at standard speed towards the castle. Now was not the time to conserve stamina, not with a quarter-million Defiled troops already in the field and utterly unhindered now that the fool of an Imperial General had ruined all of Hongji’s preparations. Hurriedly putting together a relief force from his reserve soldiers, Hongji gathered them by the rear gates and readied to ride out to the rescue, even though he suspected that doing so might ultimately result in Castle JiangHu’s downfall. It was a necessary sacrifice though, because as Legate, Falling Rain was too valuable to die here, so it was no coincidence that Hongji’s relief force contained not just the strongest soldiers under his command, but also the most promising younger talents, men and women like Lu Jia Zian, Tam Taewoong, and of course, Du Min Yan. Hongji gathered everyone he could salvage and made the hard choices of who to leave behind, because at the end of the day, some lives mattered more than others, while others were of more use dead than alive. The second line was still struggling to sort itself out after the former Legate suffered grievous injury and left the outer-provinces without a unified leader. Things were further complicated by the Bekhai’s near rebellion, but even without it, the damage had already been done, and Central could ill-afford a second lapse in leadership, especially since there was no one left to take Falling Rain’s place that all three provinces would find acceptable.

Even if it cost them the lives of a million Imperial soldiers and the entire second line, Hongji believed this trade was well worth it for the life of one Legate Falling Rain. It had to be, because to believe otherwise was to accept inevitable defeat, and that was something Hongji could not do.

