Amidst all the chaos, a single report bearing good news arrived, informing him of a minor victory in the field. Some two thousand garo riders slain with minimal cost almost twenty-five kilometers east-northeast. Any victory was a cause for celebration, but considering the tribal Defiled were threatening to overrun the outer wall in no less than three places, Hongji understandably had more important matters to attend to. Then a second report arrived, this time informing him that another three-thousand garo riders had been wiped out twenty kilometers to the south-west, which made him take note. One near flawless victory was lucky, but a second was almost too good to believe. Then reports began pouring in from the field from his most loyal officers, dispatched with utmost haste using a daisy chain of Sending messengers which gave Hongji an almost up to the minute perspective of the battle raging outside the castle walls.

And contrary to Hongji’s expectations, the Imperial reinforcements were winning.

Mentally mapping out the reports, he immediately discovered four key units responsible for the Imperial victories, each one numbering around fifteen-thousand strong and comprised solely of light cavalry as he expected. One of these units was even led by Sun Qiang himself, as Hongji discovered when his capable subordinate sent word of a resounding victory in the field. As verbose as usual, Sun Qiang informed him that his unit had been joined by three thousand Bekhai roosequin riders who claimed there were four other such groups, meaning the Bekhai were riding out in full force to escort their young Legate to war. It was incredible to know such an influential man like Falling Rain hailed from a force that could only provide fifteen-thousand Warriors, but from what Hongji had seen, a single roosequin rider was worth at least ten Imperial soldiers, if not more, which meant the Bekhai were a fearsome force to be reckoned with.

It would be no exaggeration to state that the Imperial victories in the field could largely be attributed to these fearsome Bekhai, for their longbows and flawless coordination made for devastating weapons on the battlefield. In Sun Qiang’s first report, he stated, “Bekhai Scout reported of Defiled riders ahead, and Bekhai forces moved to engage at range. Loosed eight volleys of arrows while retreating from Defiled charge, while I led the Imperial cavalry to counter charge. Approximately two-thousand Defiled killed in initial clash, and perhaps half as many again in the ensuing rout, for a total of five-thousand casualties inflicted. No losses, twenty-two effective injured, twelve horses put down.”

The rest was Sun Qiang detailing their next movements, but despite having already seen the Bekhai in action, Hongji could scarcely believe the reports. Time and time again, a similar scene played out with different Imperial units, and each time, the Defiled were sent running with their tails between their legs. The Bekhai longbows forced the Enemy to close in fast, but quins were only marginally slower than horses over a long distance, and noticeably faster in short bursts. This meant that each time the Defiled charged, the Bekhai would retreat and continue firing upon their foes, drawing them out into a thin line that crumbled to pieces before Imperial lances.

All of this took place on the periphery, while the bulk of the reinforcements marched steadily towards castle JiangHu, but they too saw their fair share of action. The first report detailing their clash with the Defiled was brief and to the point. “Defiled cavalry formed up to charge at the flanks. Mobile catapults deployed, hundreds of Defiled killed before beating a hasty retreat. No Imperial casualties.”

Mobile catapults? The monstrous machines situated in Castle JiangHu had each been delivered by a team of six oxen, massive, ponderous contraptions that towered over even Southern elephants, so how in the Heavens could a catapult ever be considered mobile? Then again, perhaps that was the answer, that Falling Rain had purchased a herd of elephants to ferry his catapults to war. Now wouldn’t that be a sight?

As the minutes ticked by and the battle continued, Hongji multi-tasked between defending Castle JiangHu and piecing together what was happening two hours east of his position, and when he finally figured it out, his jaw dropped in admiration. Earlier, he cursed the reinforcing commander for a fool, but now he saw the brilliance in his superior’s actions. By gathering all the slower moving infantry, heavy cavalry, and chariots in one place and leaving the light cavalry to their own devices, this left the Enemy only one viable target to pursue, the bulk of the reinforcements themselves. Sure, the Enemy commander could waste his time and effort chasing the light cavalry and wiping them out one by one, but there was no guarantee of success and the reinforcing army would arrive at Castle JiangHu unscathed.

However, while the Enemy forces in the field were technically strong enough to overrun the reinforcements, they were also scattered piecemeal about the plains rather than advancing altogether. To make matters worse, the four roving bands of light cavalry were hunting down the Enemy forces as they tried to regroup, and while the slower moving reinforcements had no Bekhai longbows left to protect them, any and all Defiled forces that came within a kilometer of them were promptly bombarded by the mobile catapults, with tens of thousands of crossbows still waiting to be unleashed. Slowly and steadily, the reinforcements were forcing their way towards Castle JiangHu, like a titanic armored tortoise surrounded by a pack of wolves, while a friendly pride of lions nipped at their flanks.

Wait…

There were fifteen-thousand Bekhai Khishigs in total, but only four groups of roving cavalry on the plains with three-thousand Khishigs each. That left three thousand Khishigs unaccounted for, so where did they disappear to?

The answer came soon enough, as the enemy commander revealed yet another of his tricks, not out in the field which held most of Hongji’s interest, but right here in the castle itself. Intent on taking the walls before the reinforcements arrived, the Defiled tribesmen redoubled their efforts as they were joined by dozens of Demons and Defiled Peak Experts. In the blink of an eye, the tides of battle turned as a wave of enemy Elites spearheaded the assault and cleared the outer walls of resistance all too quickly. Hongji reacted a beat too late, exactly as the Enemy commander expected, and now, if he were to order his Peak Experts into action, they would be at a gross disadvantage since the enemy held the high ground. Unsure whether to attack or give up the outer walls for lost, Hongji froze in place for what felt like an eternity before hefting his scepter in hand. “Peak Experts and Demon Slayers,” he began, while simultaneously dismissing the relief force gathered at the rear gate. “With me! Let us retake the outer walls and drive the Enemy back!”

“Belay that order.” An unfamiliar voice rang out across the castle, a stilted, wooden tone which lacked urgency and emotion as it sounded from a great distance. “This is Lieutenant General Akanai of the Imperial Defense Forces, here to take command. Crossbows, target the Defiled on the outer walls and fire at will. Peak Experts and Demon Slayers, defend the irregulars with your lives.”

The irregulars did as ordered, but while they were surprisingly effective at killing ordinary Defiled situated on the lower, outer wall, there were less than a thousand crossbows in total which meant the Peak Experts were more or less able to bat away the projectiles aimed in their general direction. With the bulk of the irregulars manning the catapults, there weren’t enough left over to clear the outer wall with crossbows alone, and considering only a mere two-hundred meters separated them, it wouldn’t be long before the inner walls were overrun with Demons and Peak Experts as well, killing every irregular in sight and laying waste to the precious catapults. Even if half of them died here, the Enemy had far more Demons than the Empire had catapults, and it took weeks to train a team of civilians to use them optimally. However, just as he was about to Send his advice, he received a Sending of his own, from the Lieutenant General herself. “Hold fast for thirty seconds. We are coming up from behind.”

Thirty seconds? Though tempted to gawk about to see how many Peak Experts she brought with her, Hongji simply prayed it would be enough as he set out to guard the irregulars. The order would not sit well with the Peak Experts under his command, for they were the mightiest heroes of the Empire being set to guard the lowliest criminals. Even Hongji had his reservations, because if these criminals were to panic and fire their crossbows into the backs of his elites, it would spell disaster for the Empire moving forward. Falling Rain thought crossbows a marvelous thing, but Hongji shuddered to think how deadly future rebellions would become if their use became more widely accepted. He could see it now, a fortified city defended by millions of peasants wielding a crossbow each, with a corrupt Magistrate to lead them and Aura-Capable City Guards to keep them safe. It would be bloody work taking those walls, bloody, thankless work, and Hongji feared Falling Rain might well have changed the landscape of war forever.

This was a problem for another time however, as the Demons and Enemy Peak Experts realized Hongji’s elites were not coming down to retake the walls, so they went on the offensive instead. Leaping onto the crenelated parapets to deny them the high ground, Hongji prayed no one would shoot him in the back and met the Enemy in battle. Opening the fight with an Ethereal Palm, he smacked the foremost Defiled Chieftain down in mid-air before launching himself at a Demon, a stone-studded bestial creature that seemed like a mix between a bull and a chicken. Smashing his scepter into the creature's horns, he distracted it while the irregulars continued loosing bolts at the Defiled down below, their weapons aimed at the gaps between the parapets as they stood as far back as they could. Despite the best efforts of Hongji’s people, some Enemy combatants fought past and the inner walls were painted in the blood of irregulars. Many broke and ran, with some even throwing themselves to their deaths off the walls, but to their credit, most of the irregulars held firm, their eyes fixed on the enemy down below while ignoring the chaos around them.

Criminals? No, these people were heroes of the Empire, same as every soldier here in Castle JiangHu, for they continued to persevere even in the face of overwhelming odds. Could Hongji do the same if he were in their position? Difficult to say, but the closest analogue he could think of was fighting on whilst Divinities traded blows overhead, and he wasn’t sure if he could manage it. Falling Rain most certainly could, but the new Legate was made of sterner stuff than most people alive, so it was hardly a fair comparison.

Bolstered by the courage of his countrymen, Hongji redoubled his efforts and swept the bull-chicken Demon off the inner wall. As he turned to face his next foe, he hesitated for a fraction of a second, for there before him was none other than the Dark Child, the diminutive Demon which harried him from Sinuji to Castle JiangHu. Hongji’s left arm twinged in phantom pain at the memory of his severed limb, one he lost to the Dark Child itself, but was thankfully recovered by Du Min Kyung and reattached less than a half-hour later. The Dark Child’s reach was deceptively long, its attacks extending far beyond the reach of its taloned fingers, which was how it gutted two Exarches with a single swipe.

And now, this powerful Demon was here for Hongji’s head, and there was no one nearby to save him.

The Demon’s first attack severed three of Hongji’s fingers as he instinctively tried to block the invisible blades with his trusted scepter. Switching the weapon to his left hand, he charged in to close the distance, but stopped short and fell to his stomach just in time as a second attack passed over his head. Channeling Chi through his Spiritual Weapon, he unleashed an attack much like his Ethereal Palm, except this Chi construct was in the shape of his scepter. His Domain billowed out and smashed into the Dark Child, its expressionless face twisting in surprise as it was driven back by the force of his attack, and he was not yet done. Acting more on instinct than thought, he Resonated the blow and felt his weapon quiver in hand, eliciting an inhuman shriek from the creature before him. Driven mad from the pain, it brushed his Ethereal Scepter aside and blinked forward faster than Hongji’s eyes could follow, its unblinking eyes seething with rage as it plunged its fingers into his chest.

The pain flared, then faded away as Hongji pushed it aside and shoved his mangled right hand into the Demon’s face. Again, he drove his Chi and formed an enlarged palm around it, but this time, rather than pushing out, he directed his Ethereal Palm to close its fingers and crush the Demon’s head. Squeezing with all his might, he felt the Dark Child’s dense skull crack beneath his grip, but even though he poured every last bit of his strength into this one attack, it was still not enough to kill it. Flailing about in a frenzied panic, it stabbed Hongji over and over again, but he wrapped his left arm around the Dark Child’s tiny body and clung as tight as he could, all the while striving to pop its head like a pustule.

