Arakag, Barir, and the girls left through the Teleport Square first.

And then it was Erick and Poi’s turn, but they went somewhere else.

- - - -

The main city was almost entirely in celebration with people drinking and singing in the streets, while restaurants and vendors sold food from windows and from carts. It would be at least an hour before people really got into the party spirit, but some happy fools were already bare chested and deep into their cups, and looking to get deeper.

Most of those people stayed off of Steel Street, itself, since this was a particularly ritzy part of town and these people preferred parties inside their multi-level homes. But Steel Street had a Teleport Square at one end of it, and there were people out tonight.

Erick mostly avoided the crowds.

Mostly.

“AYYYY! It’s the Archmage!” Yelled a particularly happy woman from the second floor balcony of her mansion, as she looked over the railing, directly down at Erick. Her chest was barely covered, and she sported two mugs of ale, one in each hand, that seemed small in comparison to her massive breasts. “Ey! Everyone! It’s Erick down—”

Poi calmly said, “This is not the Erick you are looking for.”

The woman, right as other people up there with her were beginning to clamber forward, announced, “False alarm! Just an Ophiel.”

Erick smiled wide.

Some man further up there yelled out, “You’re drunk!”

“And looking to get drunker!” said the boisterous woman, turning back to her party. “Tell that band to play louder! Louder, I say! Ha ha!”

Someone cast a spell near the band up there, and their music suddenly pounded out into the bright night. They weren’t the only band playing loud. Ophiel twittered on Erick’s shoulder, joining his own quiet song to the music that poured out of high class beer halls and private parties here and there.

And so passed the third non-event in the last three minutes since stepping off of the Teleport Square, or at least the third one that Poi directly prevented from happening.

Erick chuckled a bit as he walked on, toward his destination.

The road itself was narrow, at only three meters wide. Compared to most roads in most other parts of the world, Steel Street was more of an alleyway, since the buildings on both sides towered above and there were no lawns to be had. Each bordering structure was at least three or four stories tall, but there had been a pair of towers seven stories tall back there. Despite the cramped quarters, there were no shadows down here. Light was everywhere inside Enduring Forge, after all. Walking here didn’t feel nearly as claustrophobic as Erick had feared.

There were some nice sights down here. One of them was ahead and to the left.

The Church of the Forgotten Light. It was a remarkable building of spiraling columns with firelights contained inside those columns, and walls made of opaque, white stone. In some places the opaqueness of the stone had been drawn back, like mist, allowing the wall to become clear crystal, forming windows. From afar and at first glance the building appeared plain, but the entire thing, inside and out, with multiple stories and multiple alcoves of importance, was carved up like an altar to Atunir with hundreds of thousands of small dioramas playing out all across the opaque stone and even in some of the crystal-clear spots. A normal person could probably spend a full day studying the sculptures and maybe get through half of them.

Erick wanted to go in there and spend an hour looking at it all. It might take him that long to understand the full story on display. Erick had never heard of the Church of Forgotten Light until he came here, so this was all very new to him, but there were no people inside the building, and no one seemed to be interested in the place. It seemed… Forgotten; but that seemed too on-the-nose. And yet it wasn’t forgotten at all; the place was clearly kept together and clean and presentable by someone.

A brief check through the manasphere of the past revealed what appeared to be normal people going into the place to pay their respects to the sculptures in the alcoves. A bit more looking revealed an old man in white robes who cast various spells as he walked around the place for maybe an hour in the last 12. Erick got the impression that the church was dedicated to the Old Cosmology. There were definite sculptures of broken worlds in there.

But that mystery would have to wait for later.

Because on the right side of the street was a mansion like most of the others, where Darabella sat on a small chair in a room in the front, reading a book by a window. She looked wonderful. Erick had only taken a few minutes to distract himself with the mystery of the Church of the Forgotten Light, but now, it was on to better things!

He walked over to the front door, which was set back from the road, and triggered a few [Alarm Ward]s as he knocked upon the door. A pleasant chime echoed inside the well-appointed abode. Erick tried not to pry too much, though he did have his mana sense open as a matter of course.

Darabella heard the doorbell and promptly flipped her shit, throwing her book across the room where it slammed into the wall and tumbled down. She ignored the crumpled reading material as she rushed to the front door, touching her reddish-brown hair as she went by a mirror, making sure her flyaways were less airborne. Then she rapidly moved to the door and then calmed herself, before opening it, and saying, “Hello, Erick.”

Yellow dress, sunny overcoat, a bright smile, and kind eyes to match the cute dimples in her cheeks.

Erick honestly said, “You’re beautiful. Hello, Darabella.”

Darabella’s slightly red-brown cheeks tinted even redder as she giggled, saying, “You’re pretty nice, too.”

A nice, calm moment passed.

And then Darabella stepped out of her house and closed the door behind her— “Shall we—” but the door didn’t latch. It swung back open. Darabella stared at the offending, misbehaving door for a second, then she rapidly grabbed the handle and yanked it hard, slamming the door shut with a click. She breathed out, then casually touched a set of runes in the doorframe. An [Alarm Ward] spread throughout the entire structure; it wasn’t a Solid Ward at all, but at least it would alert her if someone entered the place without her permission. And then she turned to Erick, asking, “Shall we take the shortcut?”

“Yes.” Erick let his light touch Poi, while he held out his hand to Darabella. She slipped her hand into his and gave a gentle squeeze, sending Erick’s heart to flutter right alongside her own. Erick smiled, and said, “We’ll take the shortcut.”

“I’m ready,” Darabella said, with a happy lilt.

White light flashed, and then they were elsewhere.

- - - -

The noble district of Enduring Forge, upon the third platform of the uppermost tier of the city, and with a good view of the crack in the cavern above, looked exactly as it should have looked, considering that not many nobles actually lived here full time. It was a place of unchanging stability, of mansions built for looks and for storage, rather than for individuals and assorted populations. The walls were ornate and runed all throughout, with some holding way too much power to be easily taken down and reapplied as they would have to be, if the people here moved freely. So they did not move freely at all. Knowing what he now knew about this place, Erick could tell that the noble district was more of a storage yard pretending at being a living space, than a living space with storage options.

Some of the more solid constructions here and there were completely opaque to Erick’s mana sense, with windows that were little more than ornate fakery upon solid walls that were solid steel, meant to keep everyone out. From the air, which was heavily crisscrossed with [Alarm Ward]s and all sorts of detective and preventive magics, and from far away, because there was no way Erick was letting Ophiel get close to some of those defensive spells, Erick guessed that the whole noble district was about 85% fake.

But that was the function of the noble district.

What it actually looked like, though, was opulence in comfortable wood and creamy stone, with carved magic emplaced behind very delineated property lines, with short walls between properties that even the un-Matriculated could hop over, if they wanted. Inside those property lines, in what had to be some sort of showing-off contest, it seemed every house tried to outdo their neighbors with style and beauty. Soaring towers. Sky bridges. Artistic lighting illuminating countless balconies and courtyards all over the place.

Only about 30% of what was out there was habitable, with at least 70% of the more solid-looking ‘houses’ here and there being secured facilities that were hardly ever meant to be opened. The entire place was filled with Anti-Magic runes of all kinds, too. Erick didn’t see any hostile runes in any of the workings, here or there, so anyone probably could fly in here, or whatever, and try to get around, but good luck to them actually getting inside any of these places. You probably couldn’t blip, or [Stoneshape], anywhere within a hundred meters of this place.

Erick was almost tempted to try, to see if he could. He refrained, obviously, but the small voice telling him to try, to test the magic, and see how it worked, was never far away.

They weren’t headed to any of those well protected places, though.

Erick, Darabella, and Poi appeared upon a hexagon of white stone, off center of the platform. Six roads led off in six directions, but the largest road, the one to the north, split into two roads further down the way, heading left and right. The entire platform had been divided into seven somewhat equal-sized areas. Their destination laid down the largest path, to the north.

Guards and escorts stood apart from the Teleport Hexagon, and it was easy to tell which was which. The guards were in black armor. The escorts were nobles themselves, for sure, for they called out new arrivals onto the square by name, and were dressed in finery that matched those of the people blipping into the space. Most people were here for their friends.

But Erick had an escort, too.

Not two seconds after appearing on the hexagon, Jalrock called out, “Archmage!” The young patriarch of house Slate waved as he came forward, happily saying, “Welcome to the noble district!” He bowed, then raised, saying, “Thank you for your service.”

Some of the nearby nobles also bowed, giving small thanks. Darabella involuntarily squeezed his left hand, obviously nervous that many eyes lingered upon her. Erick returned the gesture, hoping to calm her, but really, she was the one who knew everyone here; Erick was the one who was out of place. And speaking of being out of place, Erick decided to move their little gathering off of the Teleport Hexagon, for other people were coming and going from this location rather rapidly.

Once he had relocated to the side, Erick said, “Thank you for the invite.” He gestured with his free hand, asking, “The party is that way?”

Jalrock nodded, saying, “A short walk down a small road, to the House of Adama. Your daughter and other people went that way, not fifteen minutes ago. The party is already underway.” He asked, “As far as order of events is concerned, we would like you to take your seat at the high table for a few talks while the banquet is served, but after the meals are over there are any hundred of options for magical learning stationed all across the noble district. Everyone wants to talk to you, and to show you what they have, in case they might tempt your interest.” He smiled gently, adding, “We’re glad you came out tonight, too, Darabella. It’s been a while.”

Darabella smiled; a strained expression. “It has been a long while, Jalrock. Sorry I didn’t come to your ascension feast. You’re taking well to your position as the Face of Enduring Forge.”

Erick raised an eyebrow.

Jalrock noticed, and said, “It’s my duty to ensure that guests of honor are well received. I was to be your guide for tonight, but if you wish, Darabella knows everyone here, too.”

Darabella instantly, but quietly, refuted, “No no. I can’t do that—” She paused. She glanced to Erick with hope in her eyes, and then told Jalrock, “I heard you managed to repair the Sliding System.” She said to Erick, “You really should see that one. It always breaks down after every use, but when it’s in motion it’s a miracle of runic engineering.”

Jalrock gave a small grin as he said, “They fixed it up two days ago in preparation to show the archmage.”

Darabella gave a small, “Eee!” Then she looked up to Erick with a sudden flush of worry in her eyes and calmly said, “Uh. If you want to see runic systems I suggest that one above all others.”

Erick smirked, saying, “I want to see this ‘Sliding System’, too.” Arakag had already mentioned that one, specifically, so Erick was happy to see that it was mentioned multiple times. Erick added, “After the festivities.”

“Then since I seem to retain my job for now—” Jalrock gestured down the road. “Please follow me, Archmage Flatt, to a night of cheer and cuisine of the finest order.”

Jalrock took the lead. Erick followed with Darabella holding onto his left hand, and Poi taking position in the rear.

Jalrock Slate gestured to a few of the houses on the way down the road, explaining who lived here or there, and what they primarily did for Enduring Forge. The brief tour didn’t cover much of the noble district, as the road wasn’t more than a few hundred meters long and most of the houses were elsewhere, but Erick did learn a bit about House Slate, which was their tourism and public relations house (though Jalrock did not call it that), and about House Silver, which was primarily responsible for the mining of mundane materials in the city. House Platinum had a beautiful home of steel and silver, and they were responsible for much of the magical metal trade that flowed through Enduring Forge.

At the end of the street, where the road split left and right, there was an open gate. Beyond that gate lay their destination; House Adama, the home of those personally responsible for the defense of the land. Originally, there had been only one ‘House’, of Clan Adamantium, but that mansion was the city hall, and everyone had moved their storage houses over here hundreds and hundreds of years ago.

