His thoughts derailed, and then several ideas reorganized themselves. He eyed Arakag, and then Grosgrena, and then Darabella, and then the massive containment song scrawled inside the entire Tear room. Erick couldn’t read those runes, though, for the song was written in some unknown language, but it had to be a song. There were repeated runes here and there, and a general organization that had to be that of music. The whole thing reminded Erick of the adamantium crusher back at the Smithy, with its spiraling runes, but… More.

There was something otherworldly about this particular space, of which the Tear was only a half of that feeling. The room itself was different from normal runework. Erick got the feeling that he looked upon hieroglyphics instead of Ancient Script as he studied the flowing scrawls across the black metal.

Suddenly, Erick connected a few widely distant dots, along with an offhand comment Jane had made about Enduring Forge days ago.

Erick asked, “Does Enduring Forge have ties to the extinct dwarves of the Old Cosmology?”

Arakag resigned herself to something that she had been dreading.

Darabella glanced at Erick, then turned to face the Tear room, saying, “That’s a leap of logic, but I guess you’re good with those.” She asked the others, “That’s supposed to be a secret too, right?”

“Yes, Darabella,” Arakag said. “Supposed to be.”

Grosgrena smiled wide, explaining, “Our ancestors were a group of humans that the dwarves rescued from the Sundering as they fled from the Primal Lightning that killed the Old Cosmology. I won’t bore you with details, but yes, our ancestors knew the dwarves, personally. For a short time there at the beginning, they were even living together. And then Melemizargo attacked every Underworld city at once and wiped out 95% of every single settlement under the Surface. The dwarves and our people both survived, but there were only three remaining dwarves and four remaining humans. Our ancestors could rebuild with humans and eventually a few incani from the Surface, but the dwarves were never able to recover.” She said, “Each dwarf was able to live for centuries past that troubled time, but eventually, time makes a mockery of all mortal life. The only thing they could do to ensure their legacy was to ensure that runework was understood by all, and not held in secret by the wrought, and that their human friends could survive the Dark. They managed this much.”

Erick gazed upon the runes in the room, and as Grosgrena spoke of legacy, he felt something stir inside the power inside those runes. Something very soul-like lined those runes. In a flash, Erick understood. The creator of this place had not simply carved meaning into the world when they made those lyrical scratches. They had used their own soul to carve this power into this room, entombing bits of themselves and their Domain inside the space.

Erick’s own [Lodestar] remained nestled at his back, along with an active [Greater Lightwalk], so he could have tested the walls if he wanted to, but that seemed like a very bad idea. This place was old, though Erick doubted the room itself had been here in this location since the dawn of Veird, but even if it had been moved around a few times, this place was locked to this location now, and that afforded it a certain amount of home field power that only a fool would test.

Grosgrena turned back to the Tear, saying, “Knowledge of runes was granted to us by the legacy of the dwarves, but for actual defense, we had this Tear; a captured tool of the enemy elves, twisted to provide all the power a runic web could ever need. We don’t use it anymore, but the runes in this room and the Tear itself are a safeguard against ultimate disaster.” She smiled. “I didn’t agree with the decision to let you see this room, but now that we’re here, I can tell it was the right decision. One look is all it took you to understand everything about this place.” She looked up at him, asking, “Am I right, Savior of Light?”

Erick said, “I think you are. The dwarves were right to leave you their legacy. You’ve done well by it.”

“Good. Then this vulnerability was worth it.” Grosgrena rapidly said, “Now let’s not tempt Fate. We’re closing her back up and she can stay down here forever, Good Gods willing.”

Arakag gave a small prayer, “May the Bloody Witch remain forever bound, and this world never know the tyranny of elves.”

It wasn’t just a small prayer, though. At her utterance, the walls of the tunnel came alive with faint, white glows that flowed into the doorway, ticking off a set of runes that began to seal up the room, once again. The black door slowly swung back into place. Within moments, the Tear was once again locked behind dense spellwork, hidden from view, and then hidden from mana sense.

Grosgrena placed a hand to her mouth, indicating that sounds were back to being a bad idea. The five of them exited the tunnel, and as they did, more and more runes began to light up in their passing, further closing off the passageway to the Tear of Aloeth, like curtains closing.

There was little discussion on the object once they were out of its reach, for Grosgrena said that they shouldn’t speak of it outside of that space, anyway. Enduring Forge had gone through many different diplomatic disasters over the centuries because of that item, so while most of the powers out there had been driven off, some new idiots were always getting ideas in their heads about what they could and should steal.

Before they met back up with Teressa, Jane, and Nirzir, Erick did ask one important question, though.

“What about the orcols?” Erick asked, “Do they know of this?”

Arakag answered, “The Arbors do, and some of their people do, too. The people themselves tend to be split in their demeanor. The priests tend to want it, but the average person wants to destroy it. Neither choice is an option we’re willing to entertain, so we’d prefer if today’s revelation did not lead to any of them getting ideas that they could ever possibly take our history from us.”

Erick simply nodded.

After a moment of seeing that Erick had accepted her words, Arakag asked, “Next location, then? Next set of magical runework?”

“I would love to see the generalized mana conversion systems.” Erick asked, “I imagine they’re based on what we saw back there in the tunnel?”

“Which is why we chose to show you that one first.” Grosgrena said, “But this is where I leave you. I’m old and it’s late. Good night, Archmage Flatt.” She gave a small bow; as much as her body would allow.

Erick returned her bow, saying, “Thank you, Grosgrena. I’ll see you again before I leave, for sure?”

Grosgrena gave a small, almost sad smile. “With any luck we’ll meet many more times after today, archmage, but perhaps I shouldn’t tempt Fate like that.” She steeled herself, and stated, “You seem pretty decent with what we’ve taught you, and you seem willing to spread this knowledge. I approve. Enduring Forge approves. We look forward to watching runes and true metalwork spread across the world, in ways it has never been allowed to do before. Good luck with the Headmaster, and with the wrought. We can’t go against them, but maybe you can.”

Erick understood a great many things in that moment.

He met Grosgrena’s fervor with his own solidity, saying, “The world is changing. Maybe we’ll have more than one world soon enough. Live to see it happen, Grosgrena; you’re not that old.”

Grosgrena’s minor sadness vanished under an overwhelming wave of anticipation. The old woman’s face seemed younger as laugh lines deepened, and then she gave a boisterous guffaw. She continued to laugh, first a little, and then a lot, and then a little again. She waved even as she was still laughing, and then chuckling out of sight.

Arakag seemed more certain of something than ever before, as she asked, “Will you continue to the next location?”

“We shall.” Erick asked Darabella, “Are you okay to continue?”

Darabella quietly said, “I am ready to continue.”

Arakag said to Erick, “It was a pleasure meeting you, Archmage. Take care. I leave you in Darabella’s capable hands.”

Erick told her, “Thanks for the invitation.”

And then Arakag walked away, too.

Darabella seemed to be having some emotions about being put on the spot, but she kept them mostly hidden, so Erick did not pry.

Soon, they met back up with Jane, Teressa, and Nirzir, and then it was off to the next location. Erick debated with himself about whether to talk to Teressa about her thoughts on the Tear of Aloeth, but it wouldn’t happen tonight, anyway. Maybe some other day.
