Darabella and Yarlinnia never said those words, but Erick saw through enough of the obfuscation of polite society to see at least some of the truth. But! None of that really mattered, and no one said anything truly inappropriate. They were probably both saving their words for later, for when Erick (And Darabella, too!) met with Yarlinnia at House Whitesteel to see the Arcane Attuner, which was capable of transforming channeled mana into a Solid Ward effect.

More than a few people simply wanted to meet with Erick to try and woo him to remain in Enduring Forge, either indefinitely, or to actually move here.

Soon enough, Erick had gotten through many of the meetings, and most of the party had moved on, up the grand staircase, through a massive church-like door, to stand on a balcony out back of the house. It was time to eat, and the good smells had been taunting Erick for a while. He was hungry.

- - - -

A balcony of white stone stretched alongside the windows of the main house, going both left and right while extending outward a good ten meters from the mansion. More grand staircases dropped down from ends of that balcony toward a lower level, where a small orchard of specialty-product fruit trees grew alongside carefully maintained berry bushes. The orchard was only four trees in total, but two of them instantly caught Erick’s eyes. One of them was a myriad citrus, the other was a cocoa tree, while the others were varieties that he did not recognize. One of the bushes was of Erick’s make, as well, but it was not a berry, but a bean; they were Erick Beans, the product of [Exalted Rain] when left running for 24 hours.

A few people were moseying around the orchard and the berry bushes, looking up at the trees or down at the bushes, engaging in small conversations while sampling from food stations that were preparing dishes from those various plants, as requested. It reminded Erick of sampling treats at a supermarket, when the sellers were trying to get you to buy their stuff. Erick would likely go down there and request something from the myriad citrus table, but for now—

The main party was on the balconies, with tables set up everywhere and many people already talking. Small finger foods were set up at the side, but the main course was waiting to be served. Erick could see the teams of servers gathering beyond the door in the center of the gathering, rushing about in last second preparations. On the other side of the balcony space, a band played stringed instruments, which Ophiel seemed to enjoy, as evident by his tiny bouncing upon Erick’s shoulder. Yggdrasil’s eye also bounced in time to Ophiel’s movements. Erick smiled at that.

Jane, Teressa, and Nirzir, were already seated up by the high table; they were not directly at the high table. The high table wasn’t that high, though, which Erick was glad to see. Erick’s designated seat was on a short, decimeter high platform. This was obviously to facilitate ease of movement and discussions, which some people were already doing, and would probably continue to do throughout the actual meal. Jane was currently talking to a Rune Smith who Erick had seen working underneath Darabella, while Nirzir was talking to Rial.

Erick’s own table was set for two, though; Darabella was expected to sit with him.

Erick smiled as he said to Darabella, “It’s always weird meeting new people. Thanks for accompanying me.”

Darabella’s eyes had been momentarily locked to the high table for two, but at Erick’s words, she calmed. “Thank you for the invite. I hardly ever make it out to these things anymore. Not since my husband passed away. Been ten years, now.”

Erick sent her, ‘Are you comfortable? I want you to be comfortable. I also want you to know that you’ve been a great help with knowing what runic artifacts are actually worth seeing.’

Darabella smiled small. ‘I’m better than okay. Everyone is being really nice tonight. Usually the claws come out more than they ha— Ah. I forget myself. If you could pretend that I never said that some of these people make wolves look civilized, then that would be great.’

Erick managed to keep his own grin small, as he sent, ‘But you never said that.’

‘Thank you.’

As Erick moved to the head table, people all around began to clap for him, for what he had done either by accident or by design. Many of them were surely clapping for many different reasons.

The next few hours passed in a blur of small speeches and really, really good food. Grosgrena showed up eventually and spoke a bit about how Erick’s Particle Magic was already revolutionizing metallurgy itself, but that real breakthroughs always took time, and they had not had nearly enough of that to discover everything about particles that they could. The next decades would be amazing to see, for sure! Her small speech ended with perhaps the loudest round of clapping yet.

Eventually, Erick managed to get down to the garden and try out some of the citrus items, which included orange icies and lemon cake. Both dishes were just shy of divine.

And then eventually, the food was all eaten, or put away, and no one else wanted to give anymore speeches, while the band played rather loud enough to allow people to have somewhat private conversations here and there. Erick probably spent too long talking to Darabella about various runic designs, and not enough making connections with everyone else, but he really liked the woman.

He did not like the occasional glares Jane leveled at Darabella, though.

Those introductions could have gone better, for sure.

Erick mostly ignored that incident, which was probably for the best. Darabella was certainly never talking to Jane again unless she absolutely had to, and Erick didn’t feel like smoothing any of that over at all; not yet, anyway. This was just a small date, and there were many more factors involved in a relationship these days than simply liking each other. But at least Darabella did seem to honestly like him!

He liked her, too.

Too bad a relationship probably wasn’t on the table, because, for the fifth time that night —Erick started counting after the third incident— Darabella mentioned her late husband and how much she missed him. Erick hadn’t collected many clues about the man, though, aside from the fact that he had been a noble, and then he had died.

It didn’t seem like Darabella was ready to let him go, though. Erick had noticed the various paintings of Darabella and her husband in her house, too. Those paintings were still on the walls like the guy could show up at any minute, though he never would ever again.

… Or maybe Erick was reading too much into the situation. He probably was.

The party ended after only three hours of mingling and meals and theorizing about different runic designs. Erick participated in a few metallurgy discussions, but mostly to ask questions; though these Smiths didn’t know the exact components of the metals they worked with, they had been working with them for decades upon decades, so they knew their shit.

As people began leaving, Grosgrena pulled Erick aside, saying, “We’ve got a treat for you, before you go to all the other houses out there. You too, Darabella. Even you haven’t seen this one, yet.”

Darabella paused. “I haven’t?”

- - - -

Through the more defended parts of House Adama they went; down, down, then into a short tunnel into the depths of the platform of the noble district. Arakag and Grosgrena led the way, tapping off various runic defenses on four different doors and in the walls of thick, oppressive hallways. Erick’s mana sense dwindled down twenty meters, then down to nothing as they came upon a main vault door made of adamantium and runic power. Beyond that black separation was an emptiness in the manasphere, or perhaps the mana inside was simply trapped.

Erick’s paranoia was yelling at him to escape, to not continue, but he had to keep going. Besides, Poi was with him, though the girls had been left behind, while Darabella, Grosgrena, and Arakag were all displaying perfectly normal behaviors… Theoretically. Grosgrena and Arakag were obviously excited to show Erick whatever it was they couldn’t talk about, while Darabella was practically vibrating with excitement.

As Erick spied the main vault door, most of his paranoia vanished. The black expanse was inscribed with an old runic inscription, done in a style that was listed in Darabella’s notes and which Erick found fascinating, but which no one practiced anymore. The door was guarded by a poem.

Erick would have asked after it, but they were under strict orders not to talk or [Telepathy] while down here; the runic defenses were strong and would not appreciate any overt attempts at communication while they were still active. So he saved his questions for later. Poi seemed able to get away with using his normal [Telepathy], though, so that was odd.

And then Grosgrena ignored her own warnings and spoke the poem aloud; the words lighting up as she said them.

“From ages past there comes a time

“Of dripping blood and endless crime

“Of bones set down, unhallowed ground

“Of life reduced, of futures bound.”

The poem ended there, but Grosgrena continued to speak, triggering some hidden mechanisms in the runework that unwound locks inside the vault door. But Erick couldn’t hear those words. Grosgrena spoke in unknowable, invisible vibrations, as something within the runework all around them pulled her words out of the air, out of the manasphere, and from her throat, simultaneously hiding everything about her in those brief moments. In that time, Erick could only tell that Grosgrena was a short woman, shrunken with age.

And then Grosgrena was done. Her features returned like someone had removed smudges from the screen. The door flickered. The rims flashed. There was a loud CLICK.

The black door slowly swung open, and power flowed outward, bending the very air before runic power captured that air and succeeded in holding back the expansive force inside. Now, Erick could mana sense inside the chamber beyond. He instantly knew what he was looking at, even though he had never seen one before, and no one had yet mentioned it by name.

The room was adamantium and cubic, three meters to a side, with a pair of pillars that protruded from the top and bottom of the space to meet in the middle, around the object. Runes stretched across the entire interior of the room, even spiraling up and down the protrusions. Where the runes met the object, they bathed in the light of bloody, divine fire, soaking in the power, strengthening the magic inside the runes. Erick would not be surprised if this room was completely self-sufficient, never needing to be charged with magic from the main runic web in the house.

For it was divine, for sure.

It was a red sphere, and for some reason, staring at it was like staring at a scale model of a planet made of solid silver metal, with a fully-covering ocean of red waters upon that planet, and with an atmosphere of divine, gold fire. If Erick reached out and grabbed it, the sphere would fit in his palm. It would probably fit well, too.

The red ocean. The divine fire.

It was a Tear of Aloeth, for sure.

It all fit.

Quilatalap had mentioned these artifacts once. They (for there were many of these things, not only one) were supposed to be able to protect an entire city from attack. In retrospect, it made sense for Enduring Forge to have one. They obviously didn’t use it, otherwise it would be out there, somewhere, and not contained to this bright, dark room. Or maybe they did have a second Tear out there, somewhere, hooked into the runic web.

Supposedly, the Tears of Aloeth were the precursor to City Shields. They were obviously the precursor to the runic webs of Enduring Forge, too. Probably a lot more than that, too, for the Tear looked like a power source. But if you could replace the power source, which Enduring Forge obviously had, then you could stick this thing in storage and forget about it until it was absolutely needed.

While Erick thought of all that, the door finally finished opening.

Red light bathed the hallway all around Erick, and the others. Darabella gasped as she laid eyes upon the artifact, making a small, happy sound. Arakag measured Darabella’s response and found it adequate, but when she tried to measure Erick’s, she got a bit worried. Would he try to snatch the Tear? She saw that he clearly knew what it was. But then Arakag turned professional again, and seemed to banish those easily readable thoughts from her body language.

Grosgrena spoke, “We can talk now; the defenses are mostly down. Still can’t go into the chamber itself.”

“It’s a Tear of Aloeth,” Erick said. “It makes so much sense that you have one.”

Grosgrena laughed. Arakag went on edge again.

Darabella demanded with her cute voice, “Now how do you know that! These things are super secret! I’ve never even seen one, and I’m the Master Rune Smith!” She glanced at the Tear, saying, “But I guess those rumors were true, huh?”

Grosgrena said, “If they got one of these in Ar’Kendrithyst then Enduring Forge would pay a handsome price to acquire it.”

Erick said, “If Ar’Kendrithyst has one then I don’t know about it. But if that place ever did have one, it probably got stolen in the raids after Last Shadow’s Feast. Everyone and their whole extended family tried their luck, ransacking that place for all it was worth—” Erick rapidly asked, “This didn’t come from Ar’Kendrithyst, did it?”

“No.” Grosgrena said, “This one has been here in our care for a very long time. The history of Enduring Forge and our caretaker of the Tear predates most historical events, but you never know what sort of shit they gathered inside that Dead City.”

Erick briefly debated whether or not to use Quilatalap’s name, or his moniker of ‘Caretaker’ that he used while he was pretending to be a Shade inside the Dead City. It was not by accident that Grosgrena used the word ‘caretaker’ in her response.

Erick avoided that bit of intrigue for now, asking, “Does Aloethag care that you have one?”

“Yes, but also no,” Arakag said, opting to speak now that she had decided that Erick wasn’t going to simply steal the treasure. “This is a tear of Aloeth, not Aloethag, and that makes all the difference. Besides; if that corpse of an elven goddess ever tried to take it, we’d destroy it sooner than let her have it.”

Erick paused.

