The rift in the roof of Enduring Forge’s cavern showed stars and the hint of a sunset far away, while down below, where Erick stood, the city remained lit with diffuse light. The shadows were relegated to the deepest corners of unused housing, but there was not much of that to be had, for the city was rather packed. Upon this land of several square kilometers, between 130,000 to 140,000 people lived, though precise counts failed due to the transient population that moved in and out as they desired.

Erick was rather concerned with those transient populations, but only for one reason. He shared his concern with the people standing next to him, “I don’t want to be responsible for an accidental death that is easily avoided. Someone could come into the city with an underlying problem and not know that there is a danger. But if you’re sure…” He let his voice trail off, not sure what his own implication was in doing so, only that it felt right to let these people fill in the blanks on their own, with whatever they wished to think.

Erick stood on the steps of city hall, looking across at the platforms for the noble district, and the Smithy, while down below lay the main land of Enduring Forge. He was not the only one standing on those steps. Arakag Adama, the current Mayor of Enduring Forge, along with Grosgrena Adama, the Old Smith, and Barir Adama, the General of the Armies, stood nearby. More people besides those stood further away, near guards or on their own to witness the spectacle of the night. All of everyone present was dressed in finery, fit for a party, for the banquet was scheduled to start right after Erick had finished with the [Withering]. All of the people here except for Erick were all quite sure that whatever monsters Erick happened to kill would be small things, while the idea of a person dying was ridiculous.

Erick was wary, though.

Arakag explained, “Our methods for detecting core formation are rather more expansive than you might be used to on the Surface. Not only have we actively Scanned for all cores in the last few days, but we’ve also hung up a few discreet detectors in the doorways of many well-trod areas across the city; at the entrance to the churches, and the beer halls, across a few roads here and there, and even in the entrance of city hall.” She gestured behind them all, toward the large double doors. A thin metal frame addition had been stuck inside the main door frame. Runes upon that addition were lit with detection magics. She added, “We even retrofitted much of the runic web to include these additions, while in some places, we merely replaced and recharged old systems, for much of this has been overkill; or normal systems catch all possible cannibals, anyway.”

“I noticed all of those, and I thank you for taking the time... Even if they are redundant to your usual methods.” In a moment of vulnerability, and since there was almost no one else around since this was the time between daylight and night hours, Erick sighed, and said, “It seems that my recent problems with a war in another part of the world has caused me to be spell-shy when it comes to using a few of my magics how they were meant to be used.” He added, “At least this one is still prevented by a basic [Weather Ward].”

Barir said, “Our Beastmasters are prepared; we expect no casualties there.”

Grosgrena said, “And the Smithy has a special allowance to let this spell flow into there; this day only.”

“It took a while, but we got it done.” Arakag said, “We have ensured that no one is hurt that doesn’t need to be hurt. We’re ready whenever you are, Archmage Flatt.

Grosgrena smiled small, while Barir stood tall and Arakag gave a small nod. None of them said it, but they would wait here with Erick, for as long as it took.

Erick decided to get on with it.

Ophiels flew out into the city, each one casting [Domain of the Withering Slime], each one supporting a three-meter wide sphere of ghostly white light, summoning a tsunami of thick air out of the manasphere. Their intangible spells crashed, silently, effortlessly, into the main platform down below, and up across the platforms above, some spilling outward, some lifting up. Three Ophiels started the show, but more came soon enough. Soon, seven orbs of light had spread throughout the entire cavern of Enduring Forge, easily covering the entire city and some of the lands beyond, but Erick kept the spellwork mostly inside the cavern. While [Weather Ward]s had been laid down some of the larger tunnels to protect the Reset, there was no need to go pressing against those spells.

Instantly, notifications started pouring in.

Erick warily listed them off, “Rockmite larva, Rockmite queen, cloakers, slimes of all sorts—” Erick paused. He asked, “Steel ooze?” He was struck with several simultaneous problems with that latest notification. “But it’s steel? Not water-based?”

Arakag went stock still—

Grosgrena laughed. “Ha! I knew we had one of them! Fuckers are smart.”

“Where was it?” Barir asked.

“No idea. I could scan for it later?” Erick counted up the zeros in the notification, then said, “I think it was level 82.” Didn’t budge his own exp numbers, though.

“It was at the Smithy.” Grosgrena said, “And it’s technically a platinum ooze, but naming conventions are what they are. Been around for a long time, too, if the stories of platinum slimes could be counted as true. Every so often someone reports a platinum slime, but then the little critter vanishes. An ooze had to be hunting the slimes, for sure, but no one could ever catch sight of the beast. And now it’s gone! Ha— Oh. This means we might get a platinum slime spawn, soon.” She added, “I’ll have my people search for the body. Bet there’s a good deal of odd treasures wherever it laired.”

“But it’s metal,” Erick came back to. “And oozes don’t have cores?”

Grosgrena shrugged. “What can I say; before today it was more myth than known fact. Maybe it was just a really big slime with a proper core and named funny by the Script?”

“Well. Sure. I’ve seen stranger shit.” Erick was not sure if he had ever seen a misnamed Kill Notification, though, but he let it go. He read off another strange listing, “Rune slimes?”

Grosgrena smirked. “Unique variety, but rather standard around here in the main platform’s sewers. They like to eat at the exposed runic web, sucking down magic that is not theirs to suck.”

Erick nodded, then he saw the next notification and prepared himself for a bad time. “What’s an ‘adamantium sucker’?”

No one seemed to care, though.

Barir was the first to answer, “It’s a bug-like monster about the size of an adult’s torso that eats the magic out of the adamantium chains, like the runic slimes. It’s mostly harmless unless we get a massive, massive outbreak of them and they manage to drain the defenses, though that almost never happens.”

“It’s happened twice before,” Grosgrena said, unworried.

They let the topic drop…

Which meant that adamantium suckers weren’t a problem.

After a bit of searching, Erick found one of the non-problematic monsters. In the cavernous, broken land below the city —Down Below, as it was known— there were black-body dried monster corpses laying here and there, like they had fallen off of the adamantium chains directly above. Which is probably exactly what happened. They looked like shriveled spider corpses, but stockier, blacker, and thinner, with mouths that looked like a lamprey’s. If they were alive, Erick suspected that they could easily hide among the house-sized black chains of Enduring Forge.

After the initial burst of notifications the rate of new kills slowed down considerably, and then, after a little more than a minute since the last notification, stopped altogether. Through Ophiel’s eyes, Erick watched thick air play through towers and caress the adamantium chain links that held the city in the center of the cavern. The whole city had been notified previously that this was going to take place, and so some people were out on the roads, running their hands through the thick air that rushed down their streets, like they were at the bottom of a fast river. Some kids played in the streams. Some of the very young tried to swim, but you couldn’t swim on thick air.

After another full minute without another notification, and feeling like he had tested Fate enough, Erick said, “That’s all, it seems.” He ended the spellwork. Thick air retreated back into the fully-surrounding light, vanishing like mirages into the middle distance. Erick said, “Done.”

Grosgrena giggled like a woman a tenth her age, saying, “Amazing! Thank you, archmage.”

Arakag bowed a little, saying, “You do us a great service, but I am glad to see our own methods have already mostly secured our lands.”

Barir asked, “How many adamantium sucker notifications did you get?”

Erick checked. “Looks like 1500.”

Arakag breathed deep, looking supremely happy.

Grosgrena had a much more practical response. She said to Barir, “Even if he got all of them, don’t you slack off. They’ll come back stronger than ever if we don’t keep up normal patrols; they always do.”

“I’m aware.” Barir said, “I’ll divert sucker patrol to seeker squad. See if we can disrupt the egg cycle.”

Erick took a small joy in the naming of Barir’s squads; they were most certainly the jokes of various soldiers—

Arakag asked, “So? No people, correct?”

“Ah! Yeah. No people.” Erick happily said, “No people. Good prep work, you all.”

Grosgrena smirked. Barir relaxed a fraction.

Arakag announced, “Then, it is with great pleasure, that I announce that the Reset of the Cavern and of Enduring Forge is complete, and without incident.” She spoke to everyone present, “Thank you all, for your hard work in achieving this working.” She said to Erick, “And thank you, most of all, Archmage Erick Flatt.”

Grosgrena bowed to Erick, alongside Barir, and Arakag. The nearby black-armored soldiers stationed to the sides of the wide staircase bowed, and all the other nobles on the stairs followed suit.

Arakag rose. Her voice took on a deeper, distant flow, as she spoke to the whole city, but also just to them, there on the staircase of city hall. “Let the celebrations commence!”

Erick’s train of thought derailed as a bright, sparkling light launched from the top of a tower near the middle of the city. That light shot up into the sky, and suspended, briefly, before it exploded into a shower of red and white glints that spread like a blossoming flower.

Erick’s heart was in his throat the whole time as he watched the [Fireball], but everyone else seemed perfectly calm.

Then the next exploding ball of light showered the air with blue and green glints, followed rapidly by many more fireworks launched from many different towers, here and there across the city. People down below were already breaking out into celebrations, with people opening kegs and starting up bands and clapping hands with their neighbors. Some people got into the mood quickly, to start dancing to the music with others who were similarly happy.

It was then that Erick realized he was having a minor War Response, instead of being happy that everything had gone well. The feeling remained, but Erick successfully pretended to not be spooked by the loud noises and bright lights.

Arakag spoke proudly, “If we could all please reconvene at the noble district, the primary celebration will begin in half an hour and last about three hours.” She said to Erick, “I have been informed that many of the houses have various runic artifacts in their various possessions that they wish to display for your perusal. Should I inform them that you are interested?”

Erick’s PTSD was temporarily fully forced back into the background, as he smiled, laughed a little, then said, “Yes! I’m very interested in that. How did you kn— Ah. Well. I never made any attempts to hide what I wanted, did I? What sort of runic artifacts?”

With a pleasant smile of her own, Arakag gestured to some of the people present, explaining, “House Whitesteel, with Scion Yarlinnia, has an Arcane Attuner which allows for plain, channeled mana to produce a Solid Ward of decent size. House Slate, with Patriarch Jalrock, has a Sliding System which you will surely enjoy. House Platinum, with Patriarch Rial Plat has a Slime Spawner which allows various spellwork to produce metal slimes on command.” She gestured to herself, saying, “And House Adama has a secret about runic webs that we wish to share, in the hopes that you may bring this magic to the rest of the world, but we do not speak of this particular secret out loud.”

Erick’s eyes went wide as he looked upon the gathered people, and smiled at the opportunity presented to him. This was going to be great!

Before he could respond—

Grosgrena blurted out, “They’re taking that one out of storage?” She stared at Barir, demanding, “Really?”

Barir nodded, saying, “It’s the least we can do for the Archmage.” He said to Erick, “House Adama has many secrets, but this might aid you more than others. Our sincerest hope is that if you discover something interesting that you share this knowledge with us.”

Even though he had no idea what they were talking about, it seemed important, so Erick had absolutely no problem saying, “Of course!”

“I’d like you to figure out how to take adamantium apart, too, Archmage.” Grosgrena said, “Because you need it too, right! I bet that [Grand Fireball] staff you made is already rusted to shit.”

Erick laughed easily, saying, “It is, and you’re right, too. I’d love to know how to work adamantium, too.”

Grosgrena said, “Good! Long as we all have our priorities straight.” She waved a hand, signing off, “See you all at the party. I’m taking the shortcut.” And then she blipped away in a flicker of black and thick air.

Many of the other nobles bowed, before they, too, blipped away.

Arakag glanced backward.

Teressa, Nirzir, and Jane, stood back beyond the congregation. Poi was the only one of Erick’s people who remained a mere two meters from him. All of them wore their best set of clothes that they had brought with them on this trip.

Arakag asked, “Does everyone know how to get to the party? I could take your people if you have somewhere else to be at this particular moment.”

Erick took the offer, saying, “They’d love to follow you. Poi and I will meet you there shortly.”

Jane frowned a little, probably more because she had wanted to be there when Erick met with Darabella to intimidate the woman. Honestly, Erick was thankful for Arakag’s offer, even if the making of such an offer indicated a high degree of spying.

