The new home of House Adama, the main House, was a brilliant white land of squarish towers and peaked roofs and at least three wings all joined together at a dome in the center. The whole place reminded Erick of a layered cake, or the Taj Mahal, or the Kremlin, but done with four-sided architecture in mind. It had plenty of balcony space on the backside, though, and that was where the party was, but they had to go through the house to get there.

Erick and his party passed a few guards in black plate as they approached the main doors, which were wide open. Small groups of people stood beyond, discussing various topics while they sipped beer from mugs and ate finger foods off of small plates.

The room itself was a massive atrium with a grand staircase beyond that led to the second floor where anyone could wander down any of a dozen different hallways. Everything was white stone, including the underside of the central pyramid-dome of the house, which was just overhead. A blazing white light hung in that space up there, giving off warmth and light like the sun, but less oppressive. Some plants were even growing in the corners of the rooms, soaking up the light.

It was a nice space.

People were already looking his way, many of them eager to speak with him, but Erick got the distinct impression that an order of meetings had been set up ahead of time, due to the way certain people stood here and there in the foyer. Erick would likely meet with them all soon enough.

Jalrock decided to get away from that actual process, though, saying, “I’ll hover around you if you need anything, archmage, but otherwise I will remain unobtrusive.”

“Before you go.” Erick asked, “Does Enduring Forge have other archmages?”

“No.” Jalrock seemed to hide all of his emotions, as he said, “Enduring Forge has no other archmages. If you chose to stay, you would be our only one. This would afford you a certain level of prestige all your own.” And then he bowed, taking his leave.

Poi did not stop himself from leveling a brief, withering glare at the man, but he cut the glare short. Poi’s look was not nearly as hate-filled as it could have been. In response, Erick shoved thoughts at the man about how Spur was still his home, and that he would not leave without good reason.

To which Poi just rolled his eyes—

And there was no more time to dissect any personal interactions, because Arakag Adama stepped away from her people to meet with Erick, saying, “Welcome to House Adama, Archmage Flatt.” She gave a small wave to a nearby caterer who popped right over with three drinks on a white stone platter, as Arakag began, “House Adama thanks you for your service, and hopes you enjoy the vintage. Perhaps you’d like to meet some of our clansmen?”

Erick took his drink while Darabella took hers, and Poi grabbed one, too, but likely only to hold in his hands, to keep up appearances. Erick sipped his wine, and it was good.

Erick said, “Lovely wine. I would love to meet new people.”

And so he did.

The first meeting was most telling of what the rest of the evening would bring.

Rial Plat, the patriarch of House Platinum, was a severe man of thinning hair and thinner proportions. He got right down to it, saying, “House Platinum wishes to extend to you the offer of amicable trade deals with Spur for various magical metals and assistance with runic web creation and maintenance, if you bring a Gate to this land. We are even willing to work with Candlepoint, though we would prefer not to work with unknowns, you understand. Not until we are sure they aren’t a trick.”

Erick said, “As soon as I figure [Gate] out, I would be very willing to supply Enduring Forge with a Gate. I’m pretty sure that there are still many secrets to that magic hidden away in this place, anyway, so you’ll have to help me find them before any real plans can be made.”

Rial, and more than a few observers outside of Erick’s current little group, perked up at that. Rial asked, “You think we have the secrets of [Gate] here? In our city?”

“Of course you do.” Erick said, “You’re the only runic society I’ve ever heard of and it already makes a lot of sense for runes to be useful in the creation of [Gate]. This method of enchanting is beyond wonderful. Why, just yesterday I set a glacier on fire with a staff of [Fireball]s! I even handed off the staff to one of my people and they fired off the same [Fireball]s that I put into the thing, using a novel method of triggering that I read about in the books Darabella here loaned to me.” He smiled at her, and said to them both, “I managed to make a [Prestidigitation] trigger.”

Darabella gasped, saying, “You did! How! I’ve been working on that for a year!”

Erick chuckled, saying, “It was difficult, and the trigger only works for a specific application of [Prestidigitation] and that specific staff, but what you do is point with [Prestidigitation], and the five [Fireball]s fire off in that pointed direction. [Force Bolt] is fine for precise ‘touching’ of a nearby target, but this is [Fireball] we’re talking about here; ‘precise’ isn’t exactly needed.”

There were a few polite laughs.

Erick said, “Any other application of [Prestidigitation] simply launches the spell out of the Escape clause, so in that case you have to point the actual staff in the desired direction. Still works, though.”

Darabella stared at Erick for a good while, uncomprehending, and interested, but mostly uncomprehending about how he could have figured out what she had left incomplete in her own notes.

Erick left that alone for now, though, and returned to the secrets of [Gate], explaining, “But as I was saying: the answers to [Gate] might be here, inside Enduring Forge. Or maybe more appropriately, there are good hints. That is more realistic. I might have already met one of those hint-holders, too.” He asked Darabella, “You were working on a way to extend [Teleport]’s range with runic Teleport Squares, yes? They weren’t in your notes, but you spoke of them earlier.”

Darabella snapped to the moment, saying, “I haven’t had much time to devote to theoretical workings, but I had planned on sharing those notes with you sometime soon. I would love to discuss this topic in a research setting.” She hesitantly added, “I haven’t touched that project in a long time.”

Rial, and a few outside observers, had a hesitation among them as they heard Darabella’s words.

—Arakag spoke up, “If you feel you could do well with theoretical runework then I could speak to the Old Smith on your behalf. We might need to train up a few more Rune Smiths anyway, if Archmage Flatt’s enthusiasm for runework carries with him back to Spur.” She asked him, “Do you think we will be getting orders for runic web installations in the future?”

“My enthusiasm is stoked, for sure. Runework is amazing.” Erick said, “So unless there are some incredibly easy ways to break the system, I cannot believe that more places don’t use them.” He did not specifically answer her question.

Arakag understood the implications. She said, “It’s no more or less easy to break than any other city defense.” Arakag looked to Darabella, saying, “Would you agree, Rune Master?”

Darabella said, “I don’t know enough about the intricacies of other systems to say, for sure, but I would say the ease and capabilities of runes are well documented. It’s great for defense, but you have to watch out for certain problems that only runework brings, and only when malcontents know how to corrupt the runic system.”

Rial Plat said, “I would say that runework is a few steps below the usefulness of a truly gifted archmage, but we’re about equal with the Singers of Songli and an average archmage. Runework is vastly superior to the usual cadres of archwarriors some places employ to defend themselves, for sure. The high-end formations for runic defense can get a bit too much, though. If you create too many walls, you might find yourself locked in a very small room.”

Arakag and Darabella lightly laughed at that; it must have been an inside jo—

Ah. All of the noble district was covered in defensive layers, locking a lot of people behind those self-imposed walls.

Gallows humor, then.

“The walls seem well-made.” Erick asked, “You can even stuff anti-magic runes into the webs, too, though I gather that you only do that up here, in the noble district? I didn’t see many of these anti-magic runes down in the main city, or really anywhere else. Is this because too many anti-magic runes lock you in place?”

“Exactly right.” Arakag nodded, as she said, “The protections in this area are much tighter than those inside the main city, for it is oppressive to live under these defensive layers, and also sometimes dangerous. In times of trouble, most people in the main city quickly retreat into the bunkers, with [Teleport] getting them close and then they proceed inward on foot. But here? The caretakers have to hunker down and hope that their walls are enough, for it is a chore to take down the runes that secure some of these places.” She added, “It took us an hour to open up this house for this party, but some of the tighter areas would require full weeks of magic bleed to let the doors open a crack.”

“I see Solid Wards all over the place, but am I to understand that they don’t have permissions?” Erick wasn’t quite sure what the problem was with making walls that the user could walk through, but as soon as he had that thought, he had another. There was probably even Tricking Magic that allowed people to walk through walls. Hadn’t one of the Shades back at Last Shadow’s Feast displayed an amulet that let them walk through all magic, unimpeded? Yes, there had been; but it also cut the user off from all of their own magic. Therefore, a mundane wall would stop that sort of intruder. Erick said, “I suppose the mundane walls could be on timers, too.”

“Solid Wards are not as safe as some believe. Anything that allows permissions is suspect,” Arakag said.

“Ah. I suppose that is true.”

Arakag nodded. “But even those Solid Wards are merely the surface protections. Individual defensive matrices vary, but we do have violent magics in some of these locations, and yes, there are timers and doors connected to them, too. We try not to kill people who brush up against walls, but there are only so many reasons to be in certain locations around here, so some levels of violent defenses are kept active at all times.”

“Do you get many simple interlopers around here?” Erick asked.

The patriarch of House Platinum said, “Three or four simple interlopers every month. Maybe one or two capable interlopers. We sometimes find bodies, but most of those criminals get a shock or a burn and limp away to heal their wounds. The first layer of defense is simple physical deterrent, while subsequent levels of deterrence increase rapidly depending on the items that need protecting.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. “That’s honestly a lot more burglars than I expected. I imagine there’s actual violence occasionally, too.”

“Yet another reason we don’t like to live up here.” Rial said, “No one wants to get caught up in the crossfire. We should be safe tonight, though. You’re here, after all.”

Erick almost laughed, but that would have been the wrong move.

Ah…

Worldly Path, don’t fuck up now!

“We have opened many of our vaults to you tonight, Erick, and people find these things out, as they always do,” Arakag said, “We’re confident that tonight will proceed without incident because we have many soldiers on the ground, physically defending the more important locations.” She added, “However, most of the biggest secrets are still under runic lock. Some of the deeper secrets can only be shared with trust and cooperation.”

Erick smiled, saying, “I’m happy to get whatever I can, for now. Trust can only be developed with time, so I thank you for humoring my curiosities.”

“Almost anything for the Savior of Light.” Arakag smirked a bit, and said, “We do things a little less formal down here, so whenever you’re ready, the banquet is ready, too. Right up there.” She gestured up the grand staircase, then said, “I believe your people are already there. After the main event, House Adama has a special treat to show you; Grosgrena is getting it ready as we speak.” She took a step toward the grand staircase, saying, “A pleasure to have you here, Archmage. I’ll leave you in Darabella’s capable hands.” She gave a small nod toward the suddenly flustered-yet-keeping-it-together Rune Smith, then Arakag was off, companionably slipping her arm around Rial, the both of them headed off toward the banquet together.

Suddenly on the spot, Darabella gestured toward the next nearest person, who was someone she knew, saying, “Ah! Erick. This is…”

After a fashion, the first rounds of introductions went well, with Darabella sliding into her apparently-appointed role as both guide and date. The second, third, and subsequent introductions went much better. After a half an hour of small meetings, Erick had solidified his planned route of artifact visiting, and gotten a good appreciation for Darabella’s expertise in the matter of runes; she wasn’t the Master Rune Smith of Enduring Forge without good reason. She spoke up when she knew Erick would want to see something, and was as polite as she could be regarding what she knew to be… less than great.

A few of the meetings were strained because the other people thought they had something very interesting, but Darabella’s strained-yet-pleasant smile indicated what they had was worthless. Or at least what they had was something that Darabella found less than fantastic.

One of those meetings in particular stood out from the rest. Though Darabella and the woman on the other side kept everything very, very polite, it was easy enough to tell that Darabella seemed to either hate House Whitesteel, or perhaps she only hated the scion of that house. Yarlinnia Whitesteel seemed like a nice enough woman, but she was the same age as Darabella, and they were both Rune Smiths, with Darabella being elevated from commoner stock, and Yarlinnia being a part of a noble house. Erick suspected that the noble/commoner thing was just a nuance to the actual problem, for Erick had already been introduced to several commoners, and Yarlinnia was standing next to a friend who had also once been a commoner, according to what Erick was seeing.

