No matter how he tried to explain away his actions or how heartfelt the apology, he still couldn’t find the solace he so desperately needed. When his throat grew hoarse and body fatigued, he laid back down in his cot while Eri-Hime laid down beside him, her smile sweet as ever as she nuzzled him close. So real he could almost feel her breath on his skin and nonexistent arms around his shoulders, he trembled as she whispered, “It’s okay Big Brother Hideo, everything will be okay. Even if Uncle Hiroshi hates you now, Eri-Hime will love you forever and always. We’re together now, united as man and wife.”

He wished the first part of her statement was true, but there was no proof things would ever be okay again, and as much as he wished to deny the latter half of her statement, the truth would not change just because he desired it. They became one in body when he devoured her flesh, and now it seemed like they would be of one mind as well.

“Poor, sweet hubby. You already let Eri-Hime into your body, now let her into your mind. Stop resisting, and she will give you the strength and fame you so desire. Let her take away your pain and guide you along the Martial Path, for she has become one with the Heavens, and thus can lead you to greatness.”

On some base level, he knew what he was doing was wrong, knew that he didn’t deserve her forgiveness, knew that it wasn’t even Eri-Hime herself offering it, but he also desperately longed for an end to the guilt and suffering. Half-sobbing and half-sighing, he nodded his head and forced the words past the lump in his throat. “Yes. Help me. Please, Mother in Heaven, help me.”

For a moment, he worried he saw a malevolent gleam in Eri-Hime’s eyes, a mixture of pleasure and dissatisfaction that existed for only a fraction of a moment, and then it was gone, replaced by his sweet Eri-Hime’s smile, as pure and innocent as ever. “Come,” she said, as she pulled him into the depths of his consciousness to traverse through the void. A second stretched into eternity as time and space became meaningless concepts, but then they arrived at the familiar landscape of his Natal Palace, the lofty peaks of Wutai Mountain, a famous landmark where many a Martial Warrior came to visit. Its highest point stood just over three-thousand metres tall, not the highest mountain by any means, but this was not always so. According to legends, Wutai Mountain had once stood more than twice it’s current height, but a visiting Divinity felt that the towering peaks obscured his view of the beautiful surroundings, so he soared high into the Heavens, brought his foot crashing down upon the mountain, and flattened it to it’s current height with but a single stomp.

Whether true or not, Hideo had visited the flat, spacious peak almost daily during his training, for his familial home lay at the base of the mountain. Not only that, but it was here where Mentor Juichi found Insight and completed his Mountain Collapsing Stomp and here where Du Min Gyu Awakened to the Blessing of Divine Wind. Wutai Mountain was featured in countless success stories, including Hideo’s own, for while others chose to use a plain and straightforward framework for their Natal Palace, he memorized the various paths and trails up, down, and around the mountain before modelling his Natal Palace after it, a monumental undertaking which set him back by an entire year, but yielded significant returns in strength, for few could claim to have a Natal Palace as large and complex as an entire mountain.

One fact which lent credence to the legend was how the peak was not only flat as a plain, but also almost perfectly circular and still wide enough to house hundreds of visitors every day. At the centre of the peak was a small stone dais, often used by visiting Martial Warriors while they gave lectures or pointers to the masses, either in a bid to raise their fame or perhaps garner goodwill. Hideo had recreated it in his Natal Palace and claimed it as his throne, so he took a seat and surveyed his inner realm with a careful eye, tracing every familiar shadow, crack, and crevice to ease his troubled mind.

How long since he last visited? Weeks? Months? It felt so good to be back...

When he came to his senses, he found Eri-Hime nestled in his lap, whole and healthy as she had been in life. Beaming from ear to ear, she rested her dainty head on his shoulder and snuggled into his embrace with a soft sigh, and Hideo’s guilt and troubles melted away at the sight of her contented expression. The past didn’t matter anymore, for they were together now, just like she’d always wanted.

His mind unburdened and guilt resolved, Hideo shut away his doubts and resumed his journey along the Martial Path, only this time he had Eri-Hime to guide him along. Together, they uncovered hidden gems he’d overlooked on his way to the Peak and fixed the flaws in his fundamental skills, for Heaven’s secrets were no barrier to sweet Eri-Hime’s inquisitive mind. A simple, innocuous question could lead Hideo down a path of Insight and observation, and with her help, he unravelled the mysteries which seemed so far out of reach only a year before, yet now were as simple as reaching out his hand to take them.

The first thing he learned was how to Listen, to slip his Domain past the Sound Barrier erected by his jailers and use it like a cup pressed against a wall to eavesdrop on the soldiers around him. Eri-Hime had a knack for uncovering information, but Hideo had always liked to see and hear things for himself. The Defiled attacks were lessening in both strength and frequency, and Falling Rain’s traitors all still breathed, though from what he could gather, the Healers were unanimously recommending the unit be taken off active duty and given time to rest and recuperate, lest these elite slave soldiers die needlessly before their time. Uncle Watanabe would not allow it of course, and luckily, Colonel Hongji had indefinitely delayed his return to Sinuji and all but abandoned Falling Rain to his fate.

No, Falling Rain asked Hongji to stay away? Nonsense. Only a fool would keep his allies away in this desperate time of need.

The next skill Hideo learned was Scrying, though Father and everyone else called it Watching instead. Regardless of what he called it, this was far more complicated than Listening, for it involved not only stretching his Domain out into the world, but actually severing a portion away to leave there and reflect what was happening outside. Time and meditation would eventually bring his Domain back to full strength, but a single use of Scrying would degrade over time, and if used too often, could leave him diminished and vulnerable. Worse, he couldn’t Listen and Scry at the same time, for it required more skill than he possessed, but even then, he used these two skills as often as he dared to spy on Falling Rain. He watched the scrawny runt have tea with Nian Zu, chat amicably with Taiyi ZhuShen, greet the rank and file with a fawning grin, smirk hatefully while being bathed by the beautiful Zheng Luo, and worst of all, pleasuring himself whenever the mood struck him at all hours of the day.

Hideo quickly learned to avoid Scrying Rain in his tent and turned his attention to others in the runt’s camp. It soon became apparent that Zheng Luo wasn’t favoured by Rain, for not only did she bathe him while fully clothed and standing at arms length, they also slept separately and spoke sparingly at best. A beautiful flower planted in dogshit aptly described their relationship, for he cared more about his lurid novels and the honey-skinned, half-hare mongrel by his side instead of the divine beauty, Zheng Luo. Then again, it quickly became apparent why this was so, for the half-hare possessed the same delightful charm as Eri-Hime, a vibrant, joyful spirit who took great delight in life and never let a moment pass without appreciation.

Mei Lin, he learned her name was, a captivating young lady who charmed Hideo from start to finish. How... unfair! What right did Falling Rain have to monopolize them both?

Then Hideo stumbled across the copper-skinned cat-girl during her morning spars, whom he noticed only because he saw Dastan Zhandos, Tam Taewoong, and a half-dozen other notable Officers greeting her cordially as she arrived and patiently queuing for their chance to face her. Cold and aloof, this Li Song dispatched each and every one of her challengers with graceful ease, her blade reminiscent of a calligrapher’s brush dancing across the canvass. Yet another top-notch beauty always at Falling Rain’s side, Sinuji was rife with rumours which claimed she was Akanai’s daughter and therefore Falling Rain’s betrothed, which made little sense since Hideo had heard the Lieutenant General’s daughter was supposedly a fetching, red-haired beauty with a blazing temper to match, not a frigid brunette with consummate saber skills and an uncrackable stony facade.

Strength. Hideo needed more strength, then he would stride into Falling Rain’s camp and force the scrawny savage to watch while he defiled his women. He would conquer them and make them his, become one with each of them as he had with Eri-Hime and bring them with him on his journey towards the Peak of the Martial Path.

How many days had passed since he arrived in Sinuji, he could not say, but when the time came, he demanded his jailers send for his father. Arriving with more white hairs and wrinkles than Hideo remembered him having, his father looked down at him with an impassive glare, a stern mask meant to hide the fear and hope lurking deep within his heart. “What do you want?” Father asked, his tone wary and posture stiff.

“I want us to be Father and Son once more.” Coming to his feet, Hideo stood tall and channelled the Energy of the Heavens into his body, churning the Chi within his Core as fast as it would move. Demonstrating Purity, the Empire called it, but it was utter nonsense, Hideo saw this now, yet Father, no, Mitsue Hiroshi did not.

The man who Hideo once called father visibly sagged with relief before his arms shot out to embrace him. “Good,” Hiroshi said, clutching Hideo close and stroking his hair. “Good. After so many weeks, so many months, my son has returned, and all is well.”

On Eri-Hime’s suggestion, Hideo squeezed out a tear before burying his face in Hiroshi’s chest. “Yes father,” he lied, “All is well.”

And just in time too, for it would not be long before the Imperial scouts discovered the massive Defiled Army headed their way. Even without this act, Hideo would soon be freed from this prison, but that would not do, for Falling Rain and Dastan Zhandos were marked to die by his hands.

Chapter Meme
