It was a Corporations ship that, upon seeing them, left after informing them more people were behind them aiming for this world.

Their message proved true. And the next ship decided to stay after seeing them.

It was, like the Unsparing, a Tier 30 ship registered to a small, one-ship adventuring crew from the Clans with a fairly notable reputation, according to Lila’s guildmates.

Merdrakes Marauders was suspected of taking out several Tier 30 ships as both the defenders and the aggressors in the last few centuries. With the Tier gap, they could possibly beat them, but it would take time, if they could win at all. It was more likely the two groups ended up fighting to a draw, unable to easily win but not in danger of losing themselves.

Exchanging spiritual perception fluctuations, Liz offered up sixty percent of the yet un-looted areas. That only amounted to thirty percent of the total loot, but it was generous for people who had arrived after them.

The Clans ship hesitated before they responded with a counteroffer that saw them taking ninety percent of the world's remaining Natural Treasure, but nothing else.

Merdrakes Marauders were challenging them. They had three options: push back by standing firm, reduce their starting offer and continue negotiating, or back down and accept the counteroffer. That might or might not lead to further exploitation from the other exploration team, but it might not.

Liz didn’t hesitate, fluctuating her spiritual sense directly at the Clans ship invading their space. “Unacceptable. Why don’t you move along or wait until we are done? You can have the delves and share the scrap.”

The Clans ship’s reply was swift. “Do you think this is the Empire, or that we will play nice according to war rules, pups? We won’t let you play the lower Tier card here.”

When the bluster didn’t end there, and it was clear neither side was going to be able to come to an agreement, Matt stopped what he was doing and compressed space, stepping next to Liz. The other five of their inner circle joined them moments later, not letting the ship or its crew descend and start gathering resources before an agreement came to a head.

Thanks to the early warning, they were all ready for the fight.

One of the rival adventuring party’s ship hatches opened and nine dwarves along with seven humans, all in well-made Tier 32 gear, exited. They were all peak Tier 30s with powerful spirits which they used to try and overawe them as they formed a battle line. Their ship, on the other hand, flew back, not trying to engage with their ship at all.

That usually meant a fight to surrender, as the Clans group wasn’t trying to destroy the other’s escape route.

That didn’t mean a death couldn’t happen. They were still going to fight, and that wasn’t fake.

Matt would have preferred not to fight with a wealthy and well-equipped Clans adventuring team, but it was that or roll over and possibly have to flee again.

One of the larger humans shouted back with an aggressive spiritual fluctuation, “Are you sure about that? I—”

His words were cut off by Allie's dagger appearing next to his throat and causing a defensive shield to spring into existence, preventing his decapitation.

He didn’t get off uninjured, but a slit throat meant little for any combat-capable Tier 30 and the team's healer immediately started fixing it.

Matt felt Liz pull a chunk of mana from their teleportation ring and quickly diverted a stream of mana into it. In rapid succession, she flashed forward, covering the distance, pushing through the teleportation wards their mage had cast through sheer mana expenditure.

When she was close enough, she split into three, with all copies of her darting towards her attackers, her weapons obviously aimed at their weak points well in advance, with skills building power.

Just before she arrived in melee range, Matt swapped places with one of the Lizzes. That Liz then swapped with one of the other Lizzes who then swapped for a third time, changing which Liz was attacking the adventuring party members, causing their blocks to fail.

Able to prepare, Matt had [Barrage]d [Tribulation Strike], stacking [Mana Charge] and [Mana Slash] atop it, with his latest and most powerful iteration of his sword yet.

It was now slightly larger to help simulate the additional weight his weapon would be once he integrated the neutronium ingot into the sword, but to also help stand in for the metal's higher durability.

He had wanted to [Barrage] [Sword Twin] and reinforce his sword with all of the clones to ensure he didn’t fundamentally damage his weapon by sending that much mana through it, but even with a regular cast and merger it should be fine, even if not ideal.

The mana stone glowed with empowerment runes carved through its structure in graceful and flowing lines, using runes to create greater formations. It was a technique Rah learnt during his education catch-up that he willingly taught Matt, guiding him through the complicated process.

Matt’s combined attack took serious preparation, only possible thanks to the standoff and large distance between the teams. Combined with Liz and their ring letting him arrive at the perfect moment, the seven of them had been confident Matt and his alpha strike could remove one of the Clans members in a single attack.

During their few moments of deliberation prior to the confrontation, they chose to aim for the most dangerous of the frontliners, the team's main tank.

Kieran O'Donnell, the team's second-in-command and main tank, had been recorded fending off several Tier 31 opponents during an ambush just outside settled space. If they were to defeat the marauders quickly, they needed to remove him first and foremost.

Matt’s blade crackled and popped with lightning and two streams of mana, while the phantasmal copies struggled to remain overlaid on top of each other. The sword kept there only through Matt’s Domain.

Ready for the swap, he was already swinging at Kieran. Not from the best angle possible from Liz’s lunge, it was an overhead blow to remove the tank’s head via bypassing his shield.

Instead, Matt took the second best target and slammed his blade into the point near the bottom of the shield, aiming to dodge the most reinforced center of the shield.

His empowered blade was intercepted by an illusionary shield that activated the moment before he made contact, forming a protective projection, adding a critical final layer of defense.

It didn’t help.

The projection vanished as quickly as it had appeared, as did the lower half of the shield along with Kieran’s legs.

Kieran immediately flew back, understanding he had been spared what would have otherwise been a lethal blow. The rest of his team didn’t hesitate and turned on Matt, trying to punish his all-out attack.

Most attacks were easily blocked by [Cracked Phantom Armor], but some got through.

Thankfully, it was less than it would have otherwise been, due to Liz’s unflinching, obvious attack paths changing at the last moment. That change allowed each of her attacks to land with perfect accuracy, causing serious injuries in two additional frontliners, while engaging with a third. The last Liz, who remained in Matt’s original position, moved to protect Aster and Zack in the rear from the stealth crossbow wielder, who had been taking pot shots at the two mages while trying to not get caught by either.

Matt’s sword glowed from the last attack, still trying to dump the residual heat anywhere it could, the repair runes drinking millions of mana a second to fix the structural damage. Making his sword stronger, merging the skills, or ideally both, would have let him put even more power into the spells. But then again, throwing that much mana around had caused mana leakage all on its own, and that was something he noted as another possible problem as his mana continued to increase.

Even as he was retreating back into their own offensive line, he took an anti-armor dagger to his chest. Thanks to its higher-Tier enchantments, it was able to punch through both layers of [Cracked Phantom Armor] and carve a deep gouge through his physical armor that just barely breached the skin.

Not that Matt minded, which was why he hadn’t blocked it.

The wound simply allowed Liz to grab a stream of blood and sent it rushing up the weapon to follow back to its owner's hand.

Matt didn’t have another convenient Liz to attack the rapier-wielding dwarven man who thrust his own copper-covered blade into Matt’s bicep, the glowing effect letting it bypass [Cracked Phantom Armor] entirely.

The moment the blade was in his magical armor, Matt felt a magical force tighten around his biceps like a wire garrote.

The resistance of his armor bought him enough time to flare Millennium Willow Lifespan, along with all of his body strengthening spells.

The spell caught on his reinforced flesh for a moment, which was all Matt had been looking for.

Dropping his inner defenses to his normal level, Matt let the magical garrote slice through his arm, the wire trying and failing to curse the wound to prevent healing. He took that opportunity to send a pulse of [Mana Beam] at the man's throat in return.

One of the backup tanks arrived in time to intercept the blow, having to extend their shield at an awful angle but managing to block the deadly bar of mana.

Matt’s sword finally stopped diverting mana to repair itself. Its length once more cool and perfectly formed, three [Sword Twin] blades formed next to it and immediately slammed into the physical blade mid-swing, when he used to deflect another empowered thrust from one of his attacker.

As two additional people rushed at him from the side and rear, one with a glowing net, Matt twisted his already seamlessly re-attached right arm to the attacker’s clear surprise, firing off a pulse of [Mana Beam] to halt their charge.

Matt didn’t directly follow that attack up and rather cast [Cracked Air Slide], using it to escape the encirclement. He arrived next to the woman with the energy net, blade already falling to take her head off in a single swing.

Twisting, the dwarven adventure put her net between them and Matt felt his blade scream as it tried to suddenly slow down to nearly nothing. The harder he pushed, the stronger the resistance.

Annoyingly enough, the net was like taffy and clung to his blade, not letting him retrieve it easily.

In the moment the net wielder expected him to drop his blade or retreat in another manner, Matt did the opposite and leaned into the lunge, giving it everything he had.

Flaring his physical boosts, Matt pushed Willpower into his Power, trying to focus on growing physically stronger.

It took all of his concentration, but his strength increased by twenty percent.

The net was made from Tier 32 materials and enchanted to the gills, but thanks to a well-timed dispel from Aster, Matt punched through the restrictions with sheer brute force, frying the item's enchantments.

Matt’s blade continued and cut deep into her helm.

The wound would have only been damaging, as it didn’t fully pierce the helmet’s final enchantments, but Matt overpowered her Domain’s shielding effect and cut deep into her scalp in a blow that could have easily been lethal.

He accepted her surrender, but had to twist as two others attacked him from the rear.

In front of him, Rah fought two of the dwarves, clearly feeling out fighting the unfamiliar-to-him Great Power’s people, adjusting to their better-than-average gear and unique skills.

He was on the back foot but in a stable defensive stance, hardly flaring his cultivation core, making him seem like an exceptionally weak Tier 28. That deceptive nature unfolded like a snake striking as mid-swing, Rah surged his cultivation, amplifying his power.

His white marble blade glowed with golden runes as the weapon was flash-enchanted in real time with Rah’s upgraded Talents.

Thanks to the Tier gap, his blade didn’t manage to pierce far into his enemy’s armor, but he did mangle their shield arm, forcing one of the others to stop their three versus one assault on Susanne to assist.

A blast of wind washed over the battlefield for a moment before being shattered by a silent thunderclap from one of the support mages on the adventuring team.

The two support mages on the other side had been trying to keep Aster from debuffing their side, but even with the two of them, they struggled to keep the battlefield from icing over every few moments, giving Matt and team’s side brief but distinct advantages.

Matt blocked two incoming attacks, one wielding a viciously-barbed spear and the other a rare glowing energy gun like weapon whose bullets seemed to do no damage or massive damage - never anywhere in-between.

Being pushed back, Matt circled around Susanne’s fight, trying to regroup with a Liz, but saw an opportunity for them to help each other.

Susanne, having long adjusted to her Two Stone Pupil, was fighting two dwarven mage hybrids and holding her own now that she was only outnumbered two to one, before creating her own clones with her Domain and evening the field.

Slashing out with a tiny but precise [Mana Slash], Matt caused the flame-engulfed man to stutter step as he debated if he could trust that Ascender Titan’s attack was really as simple as it seemed.

That delay allowed Susanne to dart forward and bisect the man just above the waist, a copy of herself similarly equipped with her manifestation great sword creating a massive pair of scissors, using the insane shear force generation to cut through his higher-Tier armor and force out a surrender.

Susanne immediately took the opening and darted forward toward the gunman just as Matt hoped she would.

