Unlike him, who needed to treat every bullet as if it could be one of the strong ones, Susanne relied on her future sight's depiction of her blade, allowing her to know if she needed to dodge or not.

Not that she needed to dodge. She could have just as easily used her floating shield manifestation to block the projectiles, but she was using it to protect her flank.

The result was the same. She ran forward, blocking or dodging the dangerous attacks in a deceptively casual way, only belied by the blood that trickled out of the corners of her eyes and flaked off in the cold of space.

Matt halted his own retreat, darting forward on the man who had been fighting Susanne and was closest to him with the other man who had flown out of the way. They instinctively turned to try and protect the gunman from Susanne, but that left their backs exposed to Matt.

He didn’t hesitate.

[Cracked Air Slide] brought him in range and he slammed his left palm into the man's back, digging into the metal with his near-invulnerable hand.

Once he had a good grip, Matt cast [Mana Beam], punching a hole right through the man's chest, forcing the halberd-wielder to choose between taking Matt’s attack and helping block Susanne, who was nearly on top of the gunner.

The halberd-wielding human made the right call of ignoring Matt, trying to save the stronger adventurer, but they failed to account for just how strong his [Mana Beam] was. Even with a four Tier gap, the armor only lasted a moment before it started to melt under the foot-wide bar of mana.

They tried to dodge and spread the heat and damage out, but Matt had far too much practice at countering that, and only used their movements to target even more vulnerable spots.

Matt was just in time to see two Lizzes fighting four Clans fighters, using the flames they produced to fuel her Ichor. With that small advantage, the Lizzes managed to hold on, but they were slowly losing their momentum and the fight was turning into a slug fest.

A fact which was slowly becoming true for all of their fights. They were still outnumbered and that hurt them.

Looking for where he was needed, Matt saw that Allie was assisting Zack and Aster, harassing the mages and supports and forcing the other side to dedicate two melee fighters to their defense, further helping the front line.

Seeing they had that handled well enough, Matt moved to attack the rear of one of the enemies fighting a lone Liz.

Matt took a surprising face full of mana when his [Tribulation Strike] reflected back at him, but he managed to distract the man enough with his self-attack that Liz was able to drive a spear into his chest and force their healer to stop healing the man Susanne was tearing into, doing their best to keep their team going.

An explosion of mana signaled the end of the mages’ duel with Zack, which made it clear there was no saving the fight, and Kieran called for a full retreat rather than an outright surrender.

Letting them go, Matt focused on quickly regaining control of his body’s various functions, all the while ensuring his Concept kept topping the others up. That made each moment of recovery far more valuable for them than for their opponents, and he wasn’t afraid to show it, knowing it would deter any further acts of aggression.

It had been a hard-won fight, and everyone except himself and Liz still had visible wounds that were only slowly closing now that they weren’t mid-battle.

Finally, after a moment, a fluctuation arrived and the Merdrakes Marauders adventuring team retreated deeper into the real space outer system, giving them uncontested access to the remaining resources but asking not to be pushed out entirely until they had recovered.

Liz easily accepted. Once the Clans people were healed up and combat-capable again, they might choose to remain and try to claim the world. They would only be able to delve the rifts now that the overworld loot would be fully taken by the Unsparing, but Matt doubted they would stay.

For all that the fight had been bloody, neither side had been going for lethal blows, which meant most wounds were relatively easily healable and the armor and equipment only needed to be repaired rather than replaced outright.

If their logistics were as robust as their fighting contingent, the Merdrakes Marauders would be back in chaotic space in less than a week.

The Unsparing would be long gone before that, though, racing ever forward trying to keep as much of their lead as possible.
