The creatures—hyenas, if she recalled descriptions of similar creatures correctly—weren’t standard.

They gave off a paragon level of power, but it was both unified and somehow mottled.

They were a hive creature, somehow, but rather than it being a ‘top-down’ hive, where they were a single entity divided among many bodies as many hive-mind creatures were, they were more closely similar to the leshkin, where the individuals combined to be something more powerful. In the hyenas' case, they seemed to combine their magics, rather than their bodies, in a ‘bottom-up’ hive existence.

If she was perceiving things correctly, each hyena would only be a Fused level threat, but they were so interconnected and supportive that the pack as a whole was registering as Paragon equivalent to her senses.

These are oddly reminiscent of the Shambling Ivy…

-Indeed… though that was a ‘top-down’ hivemind, and even so, two isn't a pattern.-

…Fair.

The realization of their structure of power immediately made Tala wary, because the eighteen she immediately found were not sufficient to account for an end result of Paragon-level magic.

Terry was already flickering among those stalking him, but their magic seemed to feel shadow-aligned in nature, as well as something else that Tala couldn’t quite pin down in the eyeblink of time she’d had.

The result was that Terry didn’t seem to harm the beasts in any noticeable way. Oh, he cut through them easily enough, showering the forest with black blood, but that blood vanished into the shadows and the hyenas healed more quickly than Tala, herself, would have.

In fact, if Tala had been forced to guess, she’d have said that they weren’t actually being harmed at all, and it was only the incredibly violent intent and will wielded by Terry which was causing the wounds to manifest even briefly.

Terry’s magical weight, will, and authority was bending existence to impose the presence of wounds on his foes when none should have existed, and it was at least causing some pain, if the growing hesitancy in their actions were any indication.

Still, Tala felt like the actual effect was similar to cutting at a shadow. It wasn’t a question of the sharpness of the blade, there simply wasn’t actually anything to cut.

And yet, if the bite that one of the Talons had already sustained was any indication, they could harm Tala’s people well enough.

Tala was about to come to the aid of her soulbound, daughter, and Talons, but she couldn’t bring herself to. Something deep within her screamed that it would be a mistake. She also almost pulled Lea away, but she had promised to let the girl face beasts alongside the Talons.

She would still keep a close eye on her, though.

Less than a minute later, she was proven right as twenty more shadow-hyenas melted into being on the far side of the caravan, two already lunging at Rane, eight more closing on the primary Talons to that side. The remaining ten were spreading out to engage the other two Claws.

Basic pack tactics. More than finally seeing the trap she’d somehow sensed, she also felt echoes of something more, and it was almost instantly obvious to her what was going on, even if she didn’t understand how or why.

These creatures were somehow coming from or through the Doman-Imithe.

With that in mind, their bodies on the superficial might actually be shadows of the true creatures there. If that was the case, then very few magics indeed would be able to harm them on this side.

It had been decades, maybe longer, since such a Doman-Imithe-connected creature had been recorded around the Cycling Cities, but apparently, Tala’s overlarge caravan—and maybe other things that Tala didn’t know about—were enough to bring them forth.

Tell them to hold the line. Terry should use void, and everyone else should focus on defense. I’m going to cut them off at the source.

-Hurrah! The Doman-Imithe is never more than we can handle.-

Your confidence is inspiring…

Alat sighed. -Fine, I know we’re a lot more powerful, and there’s no reason to assume a Fallen, or whatever that was, is waiting on the far side. Still, shouldn’t we use our existence shield or at least armor up?-

Last time, even an existence shield didn’t help, and it slowed us by stressing our mentality and connections. We need to keep connected to our authority and aura, and I want mobility over defense.

-If you’re sure…-

I am. Regardless of Alat’s reservations, Tala didn’t hesitate, coating her hands in void magic and reaching for the metaphysical gaps between reality nodes and threads.

It had never been easier to tear open a doorway to the backside of reality, and without taking the time to let fear or bad memories cause hesitation, she jumped through, into the predator’s den.

Truthfully, she’d rarely done that quite so literally.
