“Will that be all, detective?” The mayor said, with a touch of anger in his voice.

“Actually, no.” Detective Ramirez said. “Does this look at all familiar to you?” He said, and pulled out a polaroid picture of Ren. The mayor's eyes widened when he saw the photo. Officer Stonewall kept her mouth shut about removing evidence from a crime scene, because she had heard the mayor sigh.

“So, you found it.”

“Found what?” Detective Ramirez asked.

“Please.” The mayor said, turned around, and walked to the kitchen. “Don't insult me.”

Detective Ramirez and Officer Stonewall followed the mayor to the kitchen, and watched as he opened a beer and sat at the table.

“That poor boy.” Mayor Danicot said. “He's been through so much, and now he's going through even more.”

“You've met him?”

The mayor smiled. “Not that he remembers.”

Oh my god. Officer Stonewall thought as the mayor kept talking. He described some of the experiments that he had witnessed, and that a lot of his campaign funds had come from contributors that directly benefited from the results.

“You have got to be kidding me.” Detective Ramirez said. “How could you do that to him?”

The mayor laughed. “I didn't do anything to him.” He said. “I saw it, and made more money than I'd ever seen in my life from it; but, I never touched him.”

Officer Stonewall snorted a laugh. “Are you serious?” She asked the mayor. “You stood by and watched it happen!”

The mayor shrugged. “It was happening anyways.” He said. “It's not like I could have stopped it at the time.”

“What? Why not?” She asked.

Mayor Danicot shook his head. “I was a nobody then.” He said. “Look at me now.” He smiled. “I run this city.”

“Not anymore.” Detective Ramirez said. “You're finished.”

The mayor shook his head. “I don't think so.”

“This has all been recorded.”

“So?”

“Everyone will know what you did.” Officer Stonewall said.

“Like I said, I didn't do anything.” The mayor replied. “I can even give you proof.”

“You what?!?” Detective Ramirez exclaimed.

“Nothing I ever did or said came near that boy.” The mayor said. “Until I turned the parents in.”

“IT WAS YOU?!?” Officer Stonewall shouted.

“Calm down, please.” Mayor Danicot said. “I was the one in the best position to do it.”

“Then how did your fingerprints get on the photos in that surveillance room?”

“That's easily explained.” He said. “I was given several stacks of them to look through, to show that the results of the tests were genuine.”

Goddammit. Officer Stonewall thought. John was right! He can explain it away easily.

“And what about the little blonde floozy you have stashed under the desk in your office?” Detective Ramirez asked, and Officer Stonewall held in her gasp of surprise.

“That's my secretary.” Mayor Danicot said. “We were working late, and rather than try to explain it was perfectly innocent, which you wouldn't believe anyways; I told her to hide if someone opened the door.”

No one said anything, as it was all easily explained.

“I'll send over the appropriate paperwork to the police station in the morning.” The mayor said. “Now, if you will excuse me, I have some more work to finish.”

The mayor escorted Detective Ramirez and Officer Stonewall to the front door.

“Thank you for visiting, and making sure I'm perfectly safe in my own residence, detective.” Mayor Danicot said. “Officer.” He nodded to Officer Stonewall, and shut the door in their faces. Detective Ramirez and his partner walked back to the car that was parked in the street.

“Goddammit!” Detective Ramirez said as he opened his door.

“My thoughts exactly.” Officer Stonewall said, and climbed into the passenger seat. The detective drove away at a sedate pace, because he was too angry to enjoy peeling the tires on the pavement.

*

“Did they buy it?” The woman that had hidden under the desk in his office asked, when the mayor came into the room.

“Lock, stock, and barrel.” The mayor said, and she squealed in delight as she hopped into his arms and kissed him.

“The arrogant fools.” The woman said. “Such a simple tale, and they didn't even question it!”

“It was a brilliant move, darling.” Mayor Danicot said. “That was a stroke of genius on your part.”

“Yes it was.” The woman said. “How are you going to reward me?”

The mayor pulled out a small baggie with a red colored pill inside.

“The only way you want me to thank you.” The mayor said, and the woman grinned as she popped the pill into her mouth.

“Oh... oh god...” She said as the drug took hold, and she laid back on the desk. “Mmmm... hurry! Before I hit stage two!”

Mayor Danicot opened his pants and lifted her skirt. Neither of them had been wearing underwear, and he was already prepped and ready. He started in on her, and she moaned appreciatively for several minutes; then her eyes glazed over and a look of pure euphoria appeared on her face.

“Now we can have some real fun.” The mayor said, and the woman giggled uncontrollably. There was a beep sound from under the desk; but the mayor ignored it, and the woman didn't care by this point. It had been her cell phone that made the noise. She'd received another text from her contact at the FBI. He asked, again, if he could get another one of the pills.
