It would have been nice to say that what followed next was some epic battle where he bravely strode forth to finish the monster once and for all, but in truth, he simply evaded the creature’s notice and waited as it rampaged throughout the forest for a while, looking for more targets. The loss of its vision seemed to really hurt it, and it never even came close to detecting his location. At some point it simply stopped and keeled over, finally dead after having succumbed to its many wounds.

Still - a victory was a victory, wasn’t it?

His “guards” had fled from their posts at some point in the battle, so Zorian slowly made his way towards the Yellow Cavern Guardians’ temporary camp to give them the good news.

- break -

The two Yellow Cavern Guardians that came to check up if he was telling the truth stared silently at the charred corpse of the frog-thing that had nearly ruined them. Zorian tried to be respectful and wait for them come to terms with the fact that he had actually succeeded in killing it, but after five minutes he was really starting to get impatient. And annoyed – it wasn’t that unbelievable that he’d succeeded at this, surely?

He cleared his throat, finally getting their attention.

“About my payment…” he began.

- break -

Zorian’s eyes abruptly shot open as a sharp pain erupted from his stomach. His whole body convulsed, buckling against the object that fell on him, and suddenly he was wide awake, not a trace of drowsiness in his mind.

“Good morning, brother!” an annoyingly cheerful voice sounded right on top of him. “Morning, morning, MORNING!!!”

Zorian sighed. He really wished that not all of his restarts began this way.

“Good morning to you too, Kiri,” he said politely. “Mind getting off me?”

“Hmm…” she pretended to think about it. “Nope! I think I’ll stay like this for a while.”

“That’s unfortunate,” he said blandly.

“You know you’re going back to academy today, right?” she asked him.

“How could I forget?” he responded. “The real question is, do you want to come with me?”

Kirielle’s eyes expanded comically, like those of a particularly startled cat. “Really!?”

“I wouldn’t have asked if I wasn’t certain,” Zorian said.

Five minutes later, Zorian managed to distract an ecstatic Kirielle with an illusionary bird and get her to stop babbling and start packing her luggage.

He, on the other hand, was ready. He had learned the basics of deep mental scanning from the Yellow Cavern Guardians last restart, he was certain that simply being in Cyoria wasn’t dangerous in itself, and he had a rough plan of where to go from now on.

It was time to visit his old Academy again.
