Astora lightly nodded in confirmation. “The more they absorbed, the stronger they grew, seemingly without limit. Their degenerated nature is also an exceedingly effective weapon against ancient races. Those born from a broken Dao have irredeemable imperfections engraved in their very existence. The Belial Tribe can target those gaps and fill them with their madness.”

“Then the Centigrade Elemental’s elder…” Zac inquired.

“The Belial Tribe has contributed greatly to the empire by hunting Primordial and ancient races. It is a fair assumption that these Centigrade Elementals were brought in by them,” Astora nodded.

“What a powerful race,” Zac muttered.

“Their strength comes at a price; the Belial Devils aren’t immune to the madness they’re nurturing. Most drove themselves insane before accomplishing anything of note,” Astora explained. “I don’t know if it was the Emperor or one of the tribe’s founders who figured out the solution. Overnight, they all became scholars. They sealed the devils inside their hearts. By balancing order and chaos, rules and anarchy, they could reach greater heights than before.

“They are both refined scholars and bloodthirsty hunters, depending on which side they let out. They have sixteen different methods of forming outer Avatars, including the Lucent Scholar Avatar you fought. Naturally, they’re not supposed to be as durable as you described. The Grand Preceptor must have pushed the scales in their tribe’s favor.”

Zac nodded in thought. It wasn’t hard to understand why the Belial Tribe went so far to seize new opportunities. In some ways, their tribe would be the biggest losers when the System woke up. The continents under Imperial rule were already scrubbing the taint from major cities, and the Belial Tribe’s holy grounds filled with Earthly Taint would be swept away by the System’s purification. To continue their cultivation, they would have to leave the empire’s borders, taking them away from its seats of power.

Ultimately, the reason behind their actions didn’t interest Zac much. The odds of running into them again should be quite low. Even if more tribesmen had traveled to the Left Imperial Expanse, they wouldn’t be able to enter the Mercurial Courts. Furthermore, Zac didn’t plan on using Everit Draom’s persona after stealing the [Second Singularity] in case the heist marked Everit as a wanted criminal.

What was more interesting to Zac was how the Belial Tribe’s path mirrored Yselio Tobrial’s. Or perhaps, the other way around. The Seven Heavens were once unremarkable clans that rose to the top by raiding the ruins of their former masters. Had the Tobrial Dynasty managed to abscond with part of the Belial Tribe’s inheritance when they defected? They lacked the bloodline, but the Tobrials could still cultivate the Belial path of duality.

“Is it really okay for you to tell me all this?” Zac asked.

“It’s as you said. Descartes Belial’s death has helped the Theomore Dynasty and me personally. You deserve to understand the situation and who you’ve inadvertently offended.”

“Not me, not me,” Zac quickly said. “As I said, I was barely involved. More of a bystander, really.”

“I have a feeling that happens to you a lot. That you just so happen to find yourself in the middle of the storm.”

“A mix of coincidences and bad luck,” Zac said.

“I’m sure.”

Zac gave up and changed the subject again. “I have to seclude myself before returning. It may last a year or more.”

Astora nodded, not the least surprised by the news. If anything, she would probably have found it odd if a Hegemon did not plan on secluding themselves after an experience like this. Normal cultivation sessions could span years for a Late Hegemon, so seclusions after life-and-death battles were a given. Whether it was to recover from hidden wounds or digest new insights, one needed to close themselves off from the world.

“Then I’ll be on my way, unless there’s nothing else?” Zac said as he stood up to leave.

“Perhaps,” Astora said. “Ultom. Do you wish to know more?”
