She traced the silver embossed runes on the cover of the book with her fingertips, savoring the way the mesmerizing wisps and swirls of purple mana it emitted softly tickled as they brushed against her skin. Her heart pounded with excitement as she considered all the knowledge and magic separated from her by nothing more than a book cover. Much as fighting was a necessity these days, she would never love it like she loved the knowledge she was about to absorb, no, swim in!

She took a deep breath and closed her eyes, shutting out everything in the world around her, except for the faint wispy tendrils of mana surrounding her book, and the powerful backdrop of her arcane and nature mana, still visible to her Arcane Insight.

She took a deep calming breath, following the meditation exercises Malika had taught her, and within a few moments, the pounding of her heart and frenetic excitement in her mind faded to an alert and focused curiosity.

She opened her eyes and carefully opened the cover to reveal the first chapter. It was an introductory arcane spell called ‘Cleanse’, but in her calmer state of mind, she didn’t mind one bit. Ali planned to learn everything in this book, of course, so starting with the easiest magic was the most logical approach. She began to read the author’s explanation of the spell, keeping her breathing calm and even, and the world around her faded into unawareness as her focus sharpened. Sage of Learning responded almost immediately, providing the familiar sensation of a slow drain on her mana, and a bizarre reshuffling of information within her mind as her skill searched her memories and experiences for even the most obscure connections that might be relevant.

She turned the page, and her magical sight exploded with delicate traceries of magic as she viewed the completed inscription of the spell revealed on the pages. The circle of runic magic and the delicate connections that the author had been explaining were laid bare on the page, complete, and beautiful. Runic Script immediately interpreted the meaning and layout of what she saw, augmented by the active structure of the mana flowing within the magically inscribed runes. This was a complete spell, much like the spells inscribed in her Grimoire – only this one had vastly fewer runes and connections. It was a technique that magical scholars often employed – the inscription was an unpowered magical construct, and the mana flowing through the runes was simply an echo of what would be needed to power it – ambient mana that collected in the inscribed runic channels. It was enough to show how the magic should work, but it would require an infusion of arcane mana to actually function.

Ali channeled a small trickle of her own arcane mana into the spell construct and the runes flared into brilliant golden light as she studied the flows within its structure. For all that this was introductory magic, the active structure was remarkably complex. But with her mana flowing through the runes, she felt the distinct prickle of magic on her skin as her hand passed through the circle and it tried to cleanse her.

She had no idea how long she spent studying the runes, but she remained focused, and filled with a sense of joy and excitement. Finally, an opportunity to take a little time off from fighting to learn something fascinating. After she had fixed the entire structure within her mind, Ali carefully set the book aside on the mossy ground and began to trace the structure with her mana using Runic Script.

Her skill helped her channel her mana into the shapes of the desired runes, each sinking into the mossy ground as she completed them. She strung the connections together, copying the structure that hovered, glowing within her mind. Her first attempt failed, of course, but she didn’t mind in the slightest, simply returning to the reference in her book and comparing the structure until she found the subtle mistake she had made. The second attempt failed with a substantially more obscure error – a spot in the tricky runic connections that she hadn’t fully understood. Smiling happily, she dug into the snarled and tangled connection she had inscribed, referring to the smooth flow in the book until she felt she had fully understood what she had missed, before starting again.

The mana flowed out into the ground, tracing the elegant flow of the runes, and each connected with the whole smoothly, extending and enhancing the construct and the structure of the magical energy. As she placed the final rune, she concentrated on the connection to the beginning of the circle – the spot that had broken her last attempt. It was a tricky connection – she had to bind it to the beginning of the circle, while simultaneously connecting it to the previous rune – and it pushed her focus and concentration to the limits.

The pure and gentle sound of her chime rang within her mind.

Your reserved mana has increased by +14.Arcane Insight has reached level 11.Sage of Learning has reached level 10.Reading has reached level 8.

Did it work?

Ali held her breath and used Identify on the circle of glowing magical runes that lay before her.

Cleanse – level 3 (Arcane)Removes dirt and grime.Runic Circle

Yes! Her heart leapt with excitement at the sight of the completed runic circle, glowing softly with her golden arcane mana, a perfect match to the smaller copy inscribed upon the pages of her new book.

Ali immediately stepped into the center of the runic circle and sat down. A cool prickling sensation rippled across her skin, and small particles of dirt and grime floated up off her body and clothing, sparkling into tiny motes of golden mana before evaporating into the ambient mana in the air around her.

This is awesome! I’ll never have to wash my clothes again, she giggled inwardly. Or my undies.

As she sat enjoying the sensation of her magic circle cleansing her from dirt, her notification chime sounded again. What now?

Requirements met for skill advancement. Able to perceive magic.Able to read magical runes.Sage of Learning has reached at least level 10.Memorized a new magical construct while in a state of meditative focus.Created a new magical construct while in a state of meditative focus.Sage of Learning gains Study Trance.Sage of Learning gains Channeled trait.Sage of Learning – level 10Your ability to learn languages, magical systems, history, and similar academic knowledge is significantly enhanced. You have enhanced memory for the content you have studied.Mana: Channel mana and uninterrupted focus to enhance Sage of Learning while studying. Cognitive function, memory, and reading are enhanced in speed and clarity. Arcane, Knowledge, Channeled, Perception, IntelligenceAccept this advancement?

Ali sat and stared dumbfounded at the notifications. Well, of course, I’d be foolish not to, right?

She had only been excited about studying her new book, and a simple magical construct at that. Other than convenience, the magic construct for Cleanse would not be particularly useful – certainly not for combat, unless she planned to threaten the Goblins with unwanted cleaning? In her desire to focus, she had intuitively used Malika’s breathing exercises to calm herself down, and instead of unlocking the expected Meditation general skill, she had unlocked something substantially more useful to her.

Accepting the advancement would set the direction for future growth of her class and skill, but an intentional study trance was ideal for her. Even though she didn’t have access to many books for studying yet, it could only be a matter of time and earning enough money before she had many more. With this skill, she would be able to accelerate and enhance her learning. Maybe she might even begin to make sense of the impossibly complex runic magic in her Grimoire.

Ali accepted the advance, committing herself and her class growth to the path of her passion for magical study.
