When they reached the platforms, they once more took different approaches. The boy just powered through and skipped the back-and-forth portion, using his enhanced physical abilities to just run down one side. The girl took the intended route but made it look effortless, lightly jumping from spot to spot, hardly touching down on the platform before springing to the next, preserving her momentum for the follow-up jump.

When they reached the weights, they each blew their previous lifts out of the water.

Matt clapped as they finished and was joined by a few in the crowd that spread to nearly everyone.

“Everyone please stand and take a bow. Thank you for your efforts in showing Titan’s Torch’s new products.”

Dropping the sound dampening, Matt let the applause wash over the children. They had earned this moment and he wanted to let them soak it in.

When it naturally started to die down, he signaled the kids to sit down, and using the stage controls, darkened the area around them, letting them have some privacy so they could finally react.

Their shared exuberance of jumping up and down and hugging each other was a private moment he wanted them to have to themselves.

“I'm sure most of you have figured it out by now, but Titan’s Torch’s new innovation is skills. Skills that any freshly awakened Tier 1 can make in their spirit in two to four years, with a little training and about four hours of work every day.”

That caused the fervor to spill over and people started shouting, so Matt activated the damping formations again, cutting down on most of the sound. Not that it worked all that well; even the ballrooms' Tier 40 enchantments weren't enough to fully stop the dedicated higher Tiers, and Matt knew he only had a moment before chaos erupted.

With a gesture, oversized skill shard representations rose from the floor. Each was about a foot tall and had the skill showcased inside highlighted. Smaller copies rose next, showing the steps to reach the final result for each skill. The size was more for the cameras, as anyone here had the spiritual perception to feel out of skill structures from across the planet, let alone at these small distances.

“We have training programs already available for download that have proven effective. Half of the children were taught using only that and a Tier 5 crafter acting as a more experienced sounding board, while the remaining five used the same training program but paired with someone experienced with making several of the skills already. But I’ll bet most of you can’t actually tell who is who just from their demonstrations.”

Holding the moment, Matt smiled. “Now, I will take questions.”

With that, he lowered the sound dampers to get hit with a veritable wall of sound.
