One time was for a meal where he and Liz just chatted, and the second was when he helped the kids practice the things they would need if they were going to become delvers. Liz did the same at a different time, but their goals were aligned.

They wanted the kids to become successful delvers, not dead statistics. And in pursuit of that, they might have pushed them a little harder than they intended. But none of the kids complained around them, so he and Liz pretended they didn’t hear their moans and groans after either of them left. It was hard, but he would rather hear that than learn they had overestimated themselves because of their association with him and died. To that end, he beat into them ‘slow and steady won the race’ with repeated failures versus training dummies any time they tried to do something movie worthy.

After they settled into that pattern, the travel to the Capital passed without too much fanfare.

Seeing the mortals' reaction to the Capital was endlessly amusing as they struggled to take in the size of the ecumenopolis and its many many layers.

Not that they had much time to gawk.

Just two days after they arrived, Titan’s Torch kicked off their press conference.

The guild had invited every news outlet, every guild that either had a presence on the Capital or was nearby and had lower-Tier members, every noble family who was close enough to arrive in time, and every corporation that was even tangentially related to delving.

That meant millions of applicants, even in a catered event that took up one of the larger ballrooms available to rent.

He had to be on at all times, which he could do, but it wasn’t something he enjoyed. At least he saw a few people who he both knew and wanted to see, which helped a little.

Namely some of the nobles of this next generation who he knew, like Dominus Maniake and Sciath Ní hEachaidh, scions of the two most notable dragon families. He also met with Kiri Winiata of one of the strongest ducal families, and one which had taken to his aperology developments with a fervor, and even Silvia Dobrescu who he had just formed a trade deal with.

He wouldn’t call them friends, but they were notable movers and shakers thanks to their ducal ties, and that was more than he could say against most of the others arriving.

All except Shadi, the CEO of TrueMind, the AI company his own original AI pseudo-skill had come from.

She was something of an actually friendly face. Matt wouldn’t go so far as to call her a friend, but the two of them had kept in sporadic contact as she reacclimated to running TrueMind.

The introductions and filtering in of people took almost two full days, but Matt managed to push on, seeing his prize so close at hand.

On a massive stage surrounded by raised and spatially-compacted floors, so everyone could see without too much crowding, Matt stood alongside his guild leadership and lead scientist.

“I would like to start by thanking everyone for arriving. This is a big moment for Titan’s Torch. We teased this project during the blank skill shard reveal, but while that was a remarkable discovery, it is mainly limited to academics and those who wanted a skill not currently available out of a rift. Which is rare, all things considered. However, this is tangentially related, but in ways most of you probably wouldn’t guess.”

Matt let his eyes scan over the crowds, letting the moment build.

“I would ask you all to think back for a moment. What was one of the first things you did when you awakened? For the wealthy, I’m almost positive it was to start absorbing skills.”

Seeing the nods, Matt paused letting the crowd murmur to each other.

“As for everyone else, those of us unlucky enough to be too poor to afford Tier 8 skills, it was working for years to afford an item that can replicate a skill. It all comes back down to skills though. Skills are so very important to delving, though they are something we take for granted. Sure, many people do delve without skills, but they only do so until they can afford them. Skills are so important that the Empire gives them out as rewards for reaching Tier 5 on the Path. Compare that with the other Great Powers. The Clans pass out full sets of enchanted armor for reaching Tier 5. The Republic gives out access to rare rifts. The Guilds give out personal time with a Tier 15 trainer. But the Empire gives out a simple Tier 8 spell. Does that mean the Empire isn’t giving as much?”

Matt let out a barked laugh, which was mirrored by a few in the crowd. “For those who had done a deep dive of the Path and its rules and regulations, you know that's not true. The Empire pushes the limit of what is appropriate to give by giving out those skills. That comes back to the point I’m trying to make. Skills are important. They are force multipliers. They enable a cultivator to wield power beyond the physical and the mundane. They also statistically lower the death rate for young delvers substantially.”

Matt paused and just watched.

He looked the spectators who either hung on his word or seemed bored at his talking. He looked at his people arrayed behind him, who barely contained their excitement. He looked at the news broadcasters who were quietly chattering to their audiences. He looked out to the Capital around him and its teeming masses.

“So why has no one done anything to change that?”

Matt let the question linger before answering it. “You may say, ‘But they have, Ascender Titan’. And I’d reply, sure, there are cheap enchanted items. Wands, armors, swords, and gloves. I could list things for hours and not cover them all, but are they really answers? I still use enchanted items to this day, it’s obvious they’re useful. But they serve a vastly different role, now that my most important abilities are skills. Skills that through decades of use, have molded themselves to my needs. Skills that have grown with me through battle and upgrade orbs. But once again, these skills are expensive and rare, especially when starting out, as they are only guaranteed to come from Tier 8 rifts.”

With a snap, Matt cast [Portal]. “And so let me introduce you to the answer Titan’s Torch has come up with.”

The ten kids walked through the hole in space, though their identities were disguised by the masks Matt had gotten for them.

There was no reason for sixteen year olds' identities to be blasted all over the Realm. While that might be a positive in some ways, it would forever alter their lives, and so Matt had made the choice to mask them up. Once they were twenty, they could come forward and reveal their identities if they wanted. By that time, they would be old enough to deal with the consequences of that act.

Moving to the side to give the kids the floor, Matt continued, “Ten otherwise ordinary and newly awakened fresh adults. Except with one addition. A skill.”

Matt could see the confusion pass in waves of the crowd as most failed to understand why he would give a skill to kids right after complaining about how expensive skills were, but he could also see others who started to understand where he was going. Or where they thought he was going. He doubted many of them were right.

“You are welcome to scan them, but you will find none of the children are wearing any enchanted item beyond the masks which protect their identities.”

On cue, the two children out of the group who had learned [Solar Flare] stepped forward. The leftmost one, the one from his capital, threw their hand forward like they were throwing a ball, and right at the end of their throw a small ember ignited and was sent hurtling forward.

It was weak. Weaker than any [Fireball] and without the skill’s distinctive spherical shape, but a fire projectile all the same.

The second person who had learned [Solar Flare] didn’t bother to throw or move their hand at all. Instead, the spell appeared next to their head, hanging there for a moment like a tiny flame, before launching itself forward.

They were so different in how they had manifested the skill, which was why Matt had chosen them to start the presentation. They were obviously using the same skill, but the variation couldn’t be explained by freshly absorbed skills.

“Once more for those who didn’t believe it.”

Matt smiled as the kids emptied their basic Tier 1 mana pools with just over a dozen casts. “Thanks, you two. For those keeping track, we call that one [Solar Flare].”

As the first two kids went to take the prepared seats, he gestured to the next two while inspecting the crowd.

There were three major reactions. Shock and awe, complete disbelief, or confusion for those who hadn’t put things together yet.

Well, that was why he had five skills to show off.

The noise started to rise, but Matt activated the sound dampers slightly to keep it from boiling over before the show finished, and to keep the audio from the stage clean for the recordings and broadcasts.

Two training dummies rose out of the stage and the kids who had created [Fury of the Blade] started attacking them with a spear and sword respectively. Just as Matt had asked them, their first few attacks were without the skill, but that just built the anticipation as everyone watched to see what would happen.

When blades of wind shot out of their bodies and struck the stage around them, the tone of the audience shifted subtly, but Matt wasn’t able to quite put his finger on how exactly. He just knew it was a positive development and something he needed to capitalize on.

“While mages are great— who doesn’t want to control the elements?— it's harder to get started. Picking up a melee weapon is cheaper and easier to train in schools. But as anyone who rose up going that route knows, without a mage or some other way to deal with multiple enemies, a single mistake could lead to your downfall as you are surrounded and pulled down through sheer weight of numbers.”

Letting the blades of air speak for him, Matt paused until the kids ran out of mana. “I won’t say that's changed forever, but this is a damn good first step. This one has a bit more of a dramatic name, but let me introduce [Fury of the Blade]. I will note it works for any bladed weapon, thrusting or slashing alike.”

Up next were the [Lesser Fire Weapon] kids. The girl on the left raised her glove-covered fists which blossomed into flame, while the girl on the right brandished a mace which similarly ignited.

He had wanted to bring one of each elemental type, but the [Lesser Air Weapon] just wasn't too popular, and they hadn’t gotten any other elements working yet. Though water was close.

“We call this [Lesser Fire Weapon], although we did get an air variant working and have nearly finalized a water version. Sadly, an earth variant remains out of our grasp for the time being.”

Wanting to end on a strong note, Matt gestured to two of the four kids with the ‘failure’ of a skill to step forward, leaving his favorite skill for last.

Small bucklers of mana appeared in the kids’ hands and they batted away small bursts of fire, raw mana, and small darts the training dummies sent at them.

The skill wasn’t actually useless, but its use cases were more limited than the other skills, making it the weakest of the bunch. Despite that, it had proven a fairly popular choice among the kids, surprising everyone at the guild. “We call this one [Hand Shield]. A magical protection skill with a decent cost ratio. In all of our testing, it's shown it has fantastic magical resistances and better-than-average physical resilience.”

When the kids were low on mana, Matt thanked them and sent them to sit down, leaving the final two young adults standing there for all to see.

“And our last skill to show off today. We are calling it [Physical Empowerment] and it speaks for itself better than I ever could.”

As he finished, an obstacle course rose out of the stage as a small spatial expansion stretched the area it appeared in, ensuring no one was near it.

The kids, a boy and a girl, started by climbing the first obstacle, a twenty foot rope, mainly relying on technique, trapping the rope in the crook of their foot and using that to step higher. Once they reached the top, they swung over the monkey bars before jumping from platform to platform where they landed back on the ground. There, they went through a series of weight lifting tests to show their raw physical prowess, which were fairly average for their age, size, sexes, and body types.

Matt clapped as the kids circled back around. “A good showing from two dedicated to their physical abilities and who truly absorbed what their physical education teachers taught them. Above average in all marks, even if not truly exceptional. Now let's see them do it again.”

Without hesitating or waiting to recover, the kids threw themselves at the obstacle course a second time, but the difference was night and day.

Instead of using technique to climb the rope, both kids simply muscled their way up, climbing hand over hand at more than twice the speed they had done so before. When they reached the monkey bars, the kids diverged in technique. The boy skipped rungs using his longer arm span to hook a single finger onto the bar two away, which was enough to hold his weight, before swinging further. The girl, however, simply threw herself from rung to rung in rapid fire bursts showing her exquisite bodily control as her lower body hardly moved from its balled up position.

