The skies, as if enraged as the world was, opened up. Rain began to fall. First in showers, then, with the suddenness of weather, vast downpours.
To Mrsha, it looked as if the world were drowning once more, just like during the spring. She stood on her tiptoes, solemnly peering out a window. Then she gave the little purple-berry flowers a bit of water. She patted one on its head and looked around.
Apista buzzed over, clearly nervous, and clung to Mrsha’s head. The two stared out the window again.
“Wow. That’s one big storm.”
Erin whistled as she wiped the sleep out of her eyes. She looked at the downpour, and then at Mrsha. Patiently, the [Innkeeper] waited for Mrsha to hand her a card.
Uh huh.
Erin turned it over blankly. Mrsha waved an impatient paw to have it back. Then she went over to stare out at the rain again.
“Lotsa rain.”
Erin Solstice felt moved to continue the conversation. Apista and Mrsha stared up at her. The water was running down the grass and floodplains, trickling into the valleys and buffeting the walls of Liscor. Mrsha saw the wind blow so hard that the [Guards] on the wall had to brace against the sudden wall of air and water.
It was that sort of day. It had not been a terrible one when Mrsha woke up. Nor was it a ‘bad’ day now. Just…solemn. It was not a day to wake up with by leaping on Numbtongue’s stomach and having him chase you downstairs.
Rainy days were important. Mrsha felt it in the air. She looked up and thought—
This was a big storm.
 
—-
 
At the same time that morning, Octavia Cotton was returning home from Pallass. She’d been hard at work under her master, Saliss of Lights. He’d actually called her in, like an actual apprentice to help him.
“You. Hands. Make this.”
That was essentially what the sleep-deprived Drake had said, but it had been more garbled. She’d figured out what he wanted; much like the master-alchemists of Nerrhavia, the Drake had forgotten actual words and impatiently pointed and screamed until she helped him.
In this case—she’d been managing nearly two dozen burners, each with a distilled liquid. Saliss had been mass-isolating one of his ingredients, preparing dozens of base liquids for experimentation. He was on to something; the feverish way he was working told Octavia that.
And he’d been using little, yellow flowers. Octavia had been given a specialized mask as well; Saliss had created a heavy helmet with glass lenses instead of a visor. It had another unusual feature at the mouth. A jar had been attached, or rather, soldered into place.
It was an old adventuring reliable; the Jar of Air which was really a compressed spell like a Bag of Holding. They used it to explore areas with noxious gases.
She’d helped for six hours before Saliss had waved her off. Octavia was now stumbling out of Pallass when the Drake found her.
“Octavia Cotton?”
“That’s me.”
She was yawning. The Drake was one of Pallass’ bureaucracy. One of those nice-smiling [Negotiators], or [Administrators]…he had a suit. Octavia saw him striding over as he hurriedly shuffled his documents.
“Miss Cotton, I’m relieved I caught you. My name is Wispel. I’m here on behalf of the Assembly of Crafts. I’m quite pleased to tell you: your workshop is ready.”
“My what?”
The Stitchgirl [Alchemist] blinked at the Drake. He smiled.
“Your personal laboratory, Miss Cotton. It was just fast-tracked through our application queue. We have a four-year contract here. As our records show…you applied six years ago.”
“I did? I did.”
Octavia’s eyes widened. She thought she’d been turned down, or ignored. Wispel nodded.
“At the time, you were rejected, Miss Cotton. But pending our yearly evaluation of talented young [Alchemists]—you have been selected for our honorary Alchemium Scholaris place. That’s a fully-stocked laboratory and home in the City of Inventions. Rent free on both. You will also receive a monthly stipend, discounts on all alchemical supplies, and a grant budget of—let me see—3,200 gold pieces per year.”
Octavia’s jaw dropped. She wanted to pull off her ears and clean them, and she would have if she wasn’t outside.
“I? Me? But that’s—”
It was huge. The Drake was smiling; he might have been expecting her to burst into tears. When she did not, he coughed.
“I have the entire contract here. Just sign, Miss Octavia, and we’ll go through the formalization process. There’s a few steps; magical contracts and all, but—”
“Wait. This is a huge honor, really.”
Octavia had to hold up a hand. Her head was spinning. But this wasn’t her first day on the job. Saliss had told her about stuff like this. And she was from Nerrhavia.
“Is that a mage-contract?”
“Yes…just to ensure you’ll be a registered Alchemist of Pallass.”
Alchemist of—oh. Now, Octavia blinked. She remembered a similar discussion among other junior [Alchemists]; she had never been offered one, but she knew exactly what this was.
“You want me to move to Pallass? And sell everything through the city?”
Wispel’s smile didn’t change.
“Your achievements have won you a place, Miss Cotton. Our highest prize for young [Alchemists].”
It was, too. Octavia knew all the awards Pallass gave. Not their highest—Saliss had a far larger budget and so on. But for someone her age? Her level?
She would have jumped for joy, or stuffed her legs and spine so she could do a backflip a year ago. Today? Octavia was still tempted. She looked over her shoulder and bit her lip.
“This is a huge honor. But—it might not be right for me?”
“W-what?”
Wispel was still smiling. But it had taken on that waxy sheen of someone who had run into an unexpected issue. Like someone who found an invisible brick right where they liked to put their head every morning.
“I’m hugely honored. But I actually just moved to a new shop in Liscor. The Wandering Inn, actually. And the benefits…”
The young [Alchemist] spread her arms. Wispel stuttered.
“But Miss—Miss Octavia, this is a Pallassian grant. The City of Inventions is the dream of countless [Alchemists]! The Alchemium—”
He saw Octavia step forwards. She clasped his hands, giving her best sales-smile.
“Huge. Honor. But I’ve had so many breakthroughs in Celum and…Liscor. Tell you what. Let me think about it. The offer is really generous. A lab and a home? But I already have a room and a shop in The Wandering Inn. And three thousand gold per year—”
“With a stipend!”
“—still sort of low. Thank you so much—”
The skies opened up over Pallass, drowning out the rest of Octavia’s words. Wispel shielded the valuable papers.
“But—wait! Miss Octavia!”
“Thank you! I’ll consider any counteroffers! Must go! Don’t slip!”
The [Alchemist] hurried off as everyone in the streets shot under awnings. She was beaming as she ran and Wispel was left standing in the downpour. Just—beaming. Part of her wanted to go back and accept it. But—look at her now. In a position to turn down the City of Inventions?
Why now, though? That was interesting. Octavia got her answer as soon as she returned to the inn and found a [Message] waiting for her. No—half a dozen. She stumbled into the inn.
“Hot milk! Since we’re out of chocolate! Hot milk with—regular honey. Wow. We’ve lost so much good stuff.”
Erin sighed and shook her head as she welcomed her guests with mugs of free milk, warmed by the fire. Octavia gulped at hers.
“Thanks, Erin.”
“Have a towel.”
The [Innkeeper] smiled. Octavia wiped at her hair and shoulders. More guests were coming through, all wet and soaked. They smiled as hot towels were offered and the merry fires in the fireplaces offered drying heat.
“How was Pallass? You didn’t come back for dinner. Did you starve again? What about Saliss? Do I have to throw something at his door?”
Erin had a vaguely accusing look on her face. Octavia bit her lip.
“I’m fine, Erin! I ate! And I’m sure Master Saliss…I think…he might actually need food. But I ate l—dinner!”
“Uh huh. Numbtongue! Octavia’s dying!”
The Hobgoblin looked up from the fire. He’d been outside, training, when the skies had been unkind enough to dump on him. He waved at Octavia and jerked a thumb at the kitchen.
“Breakfast. Something hot?”
“Oh—Numbtongue. Sure? I mean—I guess I could eat.”
The Hobgoblin nodded. He got up, walked into the kitchen, and came out a minute later. Imani had chased him out from his regular purloining of whatever he found in the cupboards.
“Imani will make food. Something hot. Spicy.”
“Sounds really good. Hey—the funniest thing happened in Pallass just now.”
“Imani! Can I get something for Saliss? I’m going to kick his door until he takes it! Thanks!”
Erin shouted into the kitchen. She was distracted, and found Octavia telling Numbtongue about the encounter.
“Wait, you aren’t going, are you? You’ll die. Seriously. Without us to feed you.”
The [Bard] half-grinned, but he was watching Octavia. The [Alchemist] wiped water out of her eyes as she shook her head.
“I’m not that shallow, Erin—I mean, it’s tempting. But I wouldn’t just up and leave. Not after all you’ve done for me.”
“Aw. Thank you, Octavia.”
Numbtongue smiled and nodded. Octavia was a bit embarrassed; it hadn’t always been like this. She went on as Ishkr put a pair of bowls in front of her and Numbtongue.
“From Imani. She calls it…b—b—I have to ask again. Apologies, Miss Erin. Would you like one?”
“No problem, Ishkr. What is it?”
Erin peered at the bowl of…it looked at first like porridge, but it was clearly at least a bit oily. It looked to her like a giant bowl of dip. Imani and Palt had both taken over the kitchens from her.
“It’s beans. Very finely mixed. Lots of spices. Imani made it for me last shift. She says it’s good for cold weather.”
“Huh. Well, whatdya know? I’m good, Ishkr. I ate with Mrsha and Lyonette.”
Numbtongue dipped a spoon into the bowl and began to eat. He chewed, swallowed, and smiled. True, his palate was a Goblin’s, but he had grown a bit pickier of late. Octavia followed him with goodwill. The hot food warmed her up.
“You know, I bet those jerks are gonna copy this. Well, good luck because I didn’t make it!”
Erin looked around triumphantly; sure enough, a number of the bowls of bessara were going around to each table. Although that might have just been people ordering Chef’s Choice or the Meal of the Hour.
“Huh. They never ordered Chef’s Choice when I was around.”
The [Innkeeper] grumped off as Imani shouted that the Saliss-order was ready. She vanished through the door to the hallway as Octavia ate.
“Why did Pallass want you today?”
Numbtongue asked after both had eaten enough to stave off their initial famine. Octavia looked around for a napkin, then showed him the [Messages].
“Look at this. Remember my fungus?”
“Mhm.”
“Well—it’s finally gotten to Zeres and they tested it and its working.”
He raised his brows, smiling. It was huge—distant news. Yellow Rivers had never hit Liscor. But it was one of the issues Drassi’s new segment talked about; the growing epidemic affecting coastal nations, mainly.
“What about the medicine to…Baleros?”
Octavia sorted through the messages.
“No word yet—oh! They want more of it! This—I can’t even fulfill it! Oh wow. Oh wow. This—this is from their [Admiral of Supply]. That’s—that’s the biggest official in Zeres!”
“Mhm. Congratulations. Is there hot pepper?”
Numbtongue looked around for the bowl of dried hot flakes. He didn’t get it. Octavia saw the order and the prices Zeres was willing to pay per pound…her head spun. She got up.
“I have to—”
“Eat.”
Numbtongue caught her arm. The [Alchemist] protested.
“But Numbtongue!”
“Eat first. Fight later.”
The sage advice calmed Octavia down. She sat, mind racing. She was going to level from this! She was going to be rich! And famous! And she owed it to…
“Erin?”
The Stitchgirl looked around for Erin, but the [Innkeeper] was gone. Octavia sat there—and then read the other [Messages].
“Grower’s License for Oteslia—stuff me with satin! I—oh. Oh. That’s not good.”
The Hobgoblin looked up. He was trying to figure out if he should say ‘effusive’ in congratulating Octavia. He wasn’t quite sure how to use it after reading it in a book.
‘You did effusively well?’ Just…wasn’t quite right. He’d have to ask Kevin what it meant.
“What’s wrong?”
“The…shipment to Baleros? To this Geneva?”
“Mhm? Something happen to the Courier?”
Octavia read slowly.
“Not to him…but this is…”
She looked out the window. Mrsha was outside. People were staring out the windows. The little Gnoll was standing just outside the inn, arms stretched high into the sky as the rain pelted her. She was laughing, silently, ignoring Lyonette calling her in.
To her, it was a wondrous sight. Neither good nor evil, but impressive. The rain fell harder and Numbtongue waited.
“What?”
“It’s run into trouble. I need to tell Erin—or Lyonette. And—it says a copy of this was sent to Geneva.”
“What’s wrong?”
The Hobgoblin stood. Octavia distractedly pointed.
“Trouble at sea. Everyone wants the medicine. But Tritel’s writing—it’s the weather.”
She pointed to the window. Numbtongue looked up. It was raining here and in Pallass. But so what? He glanced at the windows as Bird joined Mrsha, praying for water birds. And the rain fell harder.
 
—-
 
The first shipment of Octavia’s Occillium product had reached Zeres. The name had stuck, despite efforts to change it. The fungus, an equivalent to Penicillin, possibly even broader than its Earth-equivalent, was a cure.
To what extent was unknown. But it was a broad-spectrum antibacterial cure.
It was what people suffering from Yellow Rivers needed. It could be grown; Zeres and Oteslia were already cultivating as much as they could. On pumpkins…other legumes, which was what the mold took to.
All good news. And thanks to The Wandering Inn and Erin Solstice—or ‘Joseph’—the medicine had been carried at top-speed by Tritel and Ci, the Moonlight Rider to the nearest port. There, surely, it would reach Talenqual so the Last Light of Baleros could fully develop guidelines for its use with [Healers] across the world, right? Surely it was that easy?
What an insult to the sea. The land-voyage might have been plagued by monsters, [Bandits], and other hazards for the Moonlight Rider. But the sea…[Pirates] and monsters aside, the greatest threat of the sea could be just…
The weather.
The winds were picking up outside The Wandering Inn as Erin asked for Palt to charm the second mirror she’d bought in the common room for some temporary news.
