Maviola stared at him. So did Erin, Mrsha, even Nalthaliarstrelous, eyebrows raised. Some of Pallass’ [Guard] had even come after Saliss, they were so worried. A first-level alarm had been sounded in the Walled City and for once, it wasn’t Erin’s fault.
Saliss was wearing pants.
To be more accurate—workpants. Clearly enchanted, stained pants, the kind the [Alchemist] used when even his natural Skills weren’t enough.
“What? What?”
Saliss picked himself back up. He swayed. His eyes were beyond bloodshot. There was more bloodshot than eyeball.
“Master Saliss! Master Saliss—”
Someone was hurrying around him, trying to get his attention. Saliss swiped at the Drake—one of the sales-experts he actually worked with and who helped manage his finances.
“What? Go away! I told you—its work pants! Even I have them! Stop freaking—hey, you.”
He fell down again. The Drake tried to pick him up.
“Master Saliss, you need rest. And also—consider the antidote, please! It would raise your reputation—”
The Drake tried to shove the other Drake and managed to push himself off his feet. He growled at the ceiling.
“Don’t bother me with stuff like that. Xif can make antidotes! I’m—working on something.”
“The client is offering—”
The broker-Drake looked around and whispered into Saliss’ earhole. The Named Adventurer had been taking a quick nap; he cracked one eye open.
“Huh. That’s not bad, actually. Blowfish poison? Drowned Folk? What Selphid? Oh, those children?”
He sat up, rubbing at his face. Then flopped over and went to sleep again. Maviola just stared at him.
It was not the moment. Not her story at this moment, anyways. It belonged to the sea. The storm. And perhaps Saliss himself knew that. Because all he did was pat her on the shoulder.
“…Hi. Okay. Where’s a bed?”
“You can uh—use one upstairs.”
“Heck, I’d sleep in the [Garden]. Ooh! Let me sleep in the garden! In the sun!”
“It’s raining.”
“Whatever. I won’t drown.”
Erin stared at the Drake’s trousers. Saliss’ head lolled. He let Erin help him into the garden; she paused to boot the sycophant-Drake when he tried to follow.
When he was gone, Nalthaliarstrelous turned to Mrsha.
“Little land friend. I came to check on the Shield Spiders. Soon—this place will be fit for wildlife again. A terrible deed I did. But one that gives life and takes it. Are you well?”
Mrsha handed him a card. The [Druid] read it.
Hi.
The cards were…shorter than her sign language. But he didn’t need to read her paws or the card. They were [Druids]. The old man’s face crinkled into a smile. Then he frowned.
“You are worried. Why? Sea?”
He glanced dismissively at the scrying orb.
“Oh, the cure.”
The [Druid] paused.
“The cure. So petty nations are squabbling over it, eh? And the brave go against a storm any [Druid] would run from? That is typical. But our kind will grow more in Oteslia.”
Mrsha nodded sadly. But the poor people in Baleros! Nalthaliarstrelous’ brow wrinkled. It was wrong to say he cared only about animals; he just weighed them the same as people. Higher—in cases where people had the power to be good or mean and they were mean.
“I see, I see. Well, perhaps there is something I can do. There are [Druids] everywhere, you know. If you need a sample…come with me, little one. We’ll look at nests. Then I shall see what may be done.”
She looked up hopefully. He nodded to her. Lyonette tackled Mrsha before she managed to get out the door and slammed it in Nalthaliarstrelous’ face.
When she was sure, sure everyone was looking elsewhere, like at the [Princess] facing off against the [Druid] for custody of her child, Maviola El took a step back. She put a hand over her rapidly-beating heart. She had been convinced it would stop. For the first time since she’d taken the Potion of Youth—she feared her body would betray her again.
She went to one of the unused private dining rooms and slipped a hand into her pocket. Then she pulled out the thing Saliss had put there.
The glow was not yellow or gold. Certainly not viridian. It just looked like—
Liquid sunshine. The [Lady] stared at it. The Drake had written one thing on the label, in a sloppy scrawl.
 
Drink me.
 
—-
 
In the Garden of Sanctuary, Saliss straightened. He was no less tired. No less bloodshot. But he looked at Erin and stood up.
“I need every flower you can give me, Erin. And I need to grow more.”
“What? What about the—”
He kicked past her.
“Damn the pants! Where are the flowers?”
The [Alchemist] was shaking with energy. He hadn’t slept since before the typhoon had begun. Stamina potions and energy tonics were his blood. He turned to Erin.
“Don’t give Xif another one. You want a friend? Give me those flowers. And I’ll help Maviola and you.”
He took a few frantic breaths.
“They’re…where did you get them?”
She looked at him. It was just…Erin’s mind ran over what she was about to think. Just flowers that could look like gold coins? Or put to sleep an entire hive of Ashfire Bees? That made you see things when you drank them?
“Where are they from? Erin? This is important. Where? They’re not even fully-grown.”
She looked at Saliss.
“Avalon?”
The [Innkeeper] felt her heart racing. The little flowers waved as the storm battered them. A field of gold. From…Saliss stared at her.
“What do they do?”
Maviola raised the potion to her lips. She hesitated—and drank.
That was one story. In the Garden, the rain fell in a torrent unending.
The storm was getting worse.
 
—-
 
Sea Couriers outbound.
They called him the Hundredfriends Courier. As if he only had a hundred. His tiny craft crested the first wave and he felt the impact as it broke. But he was braced. His hands were on the wheel, but the waves were already growing larger than the last one.
The man called out. His skin shone for a second. Then a form broke through the waters ahead. An intelligent eye, a massive shape. He raised a scroll and the giant figure glowed for a moment.
“[Haste]. Go, Arveil!”
The glowing Nelgaunt surged through the waves. It seized the tethers and pulled the Courier’s ship along. The great beast—friend of ships—was named Arveil. It had come from the Courier’s arm, where he had been resting.
His name was Seve-Alrelious. His skin was dark, from the suns on his homeland of Chandrar. But he had left the sands long ago. Now—shining from the magical ink drawn on his body were—tattoos. Some were glowing ink, stationary, showing the places he had been, people he had met.
But some moved. They changed position on his skin, animals, six dolphins swimming across his leg. A staring monkey. Living beings.
Each one a friend, a companion met at sea. Given life by magic. They moved on his skin, protected from the predators and lashing rains that even they feared.
The Nelgaunt took the ship forwards, guiding it more surely than Seve could. Through the waves. It was what had given him his name, and power. Each friend had been made ink, that they might not die, in the Empire of Drath.
He was the Courier they spoke of, who was never alone. [Worldtraveller Inkfriend], a class of his own.
He had three crates of the cure. The last samples had been entrusted to them. Now, Seve looked ahead. The Nelgaunt did not fear the waves which were already thirty feet tall. Nor did Seve. But his journey would lead him straight through the magical typhoon. He was moving across the ocean fast, fighting to travel by memory; there were no stars yet and the sun was invisible in the rain-lashed clouds.
He was heading for Igawiz’s Jet—or the Idiot’s Jet as it was known. The Hundredfriends Courier had to reach Baleros quickest and this was the only way.
Igawiz’ Jet was infamous to anyone who travelled the sea. The vast ocean that lay between continents meant that unenchanted ships could take months to cross the ocean. Enchanted ships with canny [Captains] and Skills could do it in under a week, but trade was never easy. Monsters, [Pirates]…the fastest routes were invaluable.
So, in antiquity, the Archmage Igawiz had been longsighted enough to actually permanently alter the ocean’s geography such that an incredibly powerful current shot boats across the current. In places they would travel at over a hundred miles per hour with the water alone.
However. That meant the wind would crack your sails if it was moving slower than the boat. At that speed, even the flying surf was like arrows.
Igawiz had learned that in the first attempted crossing. Now—only the extremely confident used that current.
Or Couriers. With it even a non-Skill, unenchanted—ship could cross the Baleros-Izril route in a fraction of the time it took. If the sheer speed of their travel and monsters didn’t kill them.
Baleros to Izril this way wouldn’t take long. But it was perilous even without storms or enemies. Seve’s record in the crossing was two days by the jet. With his enchanted sailboat, wind spells, and his companions pulling him under the effects of spells, he would outdistance almost all land-Couriers over the course of a day.
And as luck might have it, he was moving even faster thanks to the weather. Typhoon Erannda was moving in a vortex and the Courier had plotted a path that dragged him with the storm. He just had to move away from the edge and he’d slingshot.
The storm would only intensify the closer he got to the jungle-continent. Yet, Seve was going through it, rather than around. Speed was of the essence. He would make the delivery or perish in the crossing.
They had sworn it. The Waterbear had come with Seve; and two more Courier-ships as well. She had not done it for glory; neither had Seve.
The great Bearkin Courier of Baleros had sworn to deliver the cure for those of the Beastkin tribes who had fallen sick or die trying. And nothing had killed her in this world yet. Not even an Adult Creler at sea.
Seve had not faced Creler nests at sea more than once. Between the storm and those nests…well, he’d prefer the nests.
Crelers could not drag you down into a whirlpool to the very depths of the sea and hold you there. Seve feared that, or waterspouts, the tornados that could snatch up his craft. He might survive falling from the sky—but not the lightning bolts that would cook him in the boiling water.
He was going around the center of the storm where those horrors lay. Even so—the waves were picking up.
“Arveil! Take us on the edge of the jet! The waves will crack the ship at top speed!”
The Nelgaunt heard and adjusted his course. Seve fought the wheel. Then—he saw a valley suddenly appear ahead of them.
Seve-Alrelious looked up. The next wave looked like one of the Walled Cities, appearing out of the darkness.
“By the c—”
He reached for a gem at his side as Arveil made a deep sound of alarm. The wave was crashing down on the tiny vessel. The World’s Pact disappeared under a shadow. The Courier raised the glowing, green gem and shouted.
“[Forceshield]!”
The bound spell burst from the gemstone a second before the wave hit the World’s Pact. The tiny vessel rocked and Seve-Alrelious felt the barrier-stone explode and the shards pepper his enchanted skin.
Water cascaded down the ship. One wave down. The Nelgaunt strove to take the ship up with the waves, to prevent another such impact.
“Don’t worry about us, Arveil! I’ll protect the ship! Just take us forwards! We cannot falter here. We promised them the cure!”
Seve called out to the Nelgaunt and felt the creature accelerate, churning through the waves under the [Haste] spell. Once more, they plunged forwards. The Courier gritted his teeth. Then—from afar he heard and felt the first roar in the waters.
His blood ran cold. The Nelgaunt froze and turned its head towards him. Without a word—the Hundredfriends Courier raised his arm. The Nelgaunt vanished and a glowing tattoo of Arveil appeared on his arm.
The Courier was suddenly fighting alone. Just in time; he saw a huge form break the surface a moment before he heard a second roar. A vast, sinuous body, many times longer than a warship, if not as wide—a huge head, razor teeth—
Sea Serpents were hunting amid the storm. They might be feasting on whales or other creatures. Seve swore; it was an entire nest of them! Then—he heard another cry. A shriek in the waters. And he realized something that made him go still.
The Sea Serpents weren’t hunting. They were fleeing—
It broke the waves in half. Seve saw it—something impossibly vast. It shot across the waters, changing the ocean as it caught one of the fleeing serpents. The tendril dragged the screaming monster down. The thing was so huge—Seve didn’t know how far away the main body was. How deep.
“Guardians of the Sea, shield us.”
The Sea Serpents scattered, evading the one predator which they didn’t dare even fight. The glowing animals were silent, even their glow fading on the Hundredfriends Courier.
The waves bobbed his ship, tossing it. But Seve dared use no magic. No Skills. He looked down and felt something moving in the storm. He whispered.
“Stay quiet, the Deeps. Lower the sail. So Krakens come—beware.”
His fingers reached for a [Message] scroll. The Courier sent a single burst through the storm, burning through a dozen scrolls to get the words through.
 
Hundredfriends Courier to Talenqual—Krakens have awakened. The delivery is in jeopardy. Proceeding by sail alone. All craft: beware. Krakens at sea.
 
The other Couriers received the [Message]. Krakens at sea. Still, they continued. They carried a cargo worth its weight in lives. Beyond value.
Their journey was being watched. Others picked up the [Message], its destination and recipients.
They traced the [Message] spell and began to close in as well.
 
—-
 
Another day of rain. Mrsha solemnly clasped her paws in front of her and prayed for rain to stop.
Pawn had taught her how. He said sometimes it didn’t work, sometimes it might. But he said it mattered either way. It made Mrsha feel better.
Krakens at sea. The Couriers had all entered the storm with the last of the cure. Tritel had done his job; gone above and beyond, really. He was leaving.
Moore was arguing with Jelaqua about going to a stupid ball. Mrsha had heard Lyonette trying to get an invitation, but Pawn wouldn’t have ever been invited so she’d given up. It was for Dullahans, anyways.
The little Gnoll hoped the Couriers would do well. She had written a letter to Ryoka telling her about everything. They could have used Ryoka’s magic. But Krakens were huge. Palt had scared her, telling her how big they were. Like…the High Passes.
Mrsha hadn’t slept until she’d crawled into Erin’s bed. The [Innkeeper] had hugged her to sleep, then thrown a pillow at Palt the next day.
