They were gales outside of the United Nations headquarters as Geneva Scala stared into the mirror one of the Selphids had produced. The same weather—only more wind and less rain here.
Everyone was taking cover. There was a real danger of the more poorly-built wooden structures of Talenqual—not exactly the stone city of Drakes—blowing away. And flying debris traveling at that speed? Well, no one wanted their cause of death to be ‘roof shingles’.
The cure. Geneva was—distraught. Despite Idis’ best attempts to soothe her. She’d been tracking their progress. And the latest [Message] from the Moonlight Rider was devastating.
 
From Tritel and Ci:
Regarding delivery of Yellow Rivers Cure to Talenqual, Baleros from Liscor, Izril.
No Couriers at port-city of Altvil willing to take delivery/present.
Entrusted three samples to three [Captains].
Two vessels impounded, one traveling past Pheislant, the other towards Chandrar to avoid storms at sea.
One vessel currently still at sea after passing Wistram. The Waverider’s Wake making for nearest Balerosian harbor.
Worsening weather putting delivery in jeopardy. Storm at sea. [Harbormaster] fears possibility of magical storm.
Attempting to send more samples securely. Possibly by magic.
 
It was a choppy [Message]. Geneva didn’t understand why until the Selphid [Mage] explained.
“It had to be resent nearly two dozen times, Doctor Scala.”
“The spell? Why?”
“The—spells were lost. Parts arrived fragmented. There is some interference at sea; other magical events have been known to cause this.”
Lost? Geneva hadn’t heard the [Message] spell could be lost. And indeed—she saw the scrying orb was flickering.
“Oh come on. Bad reception in this world? That was the one thing we didn’t have to deal with!”
Dawson shouted over the comments of the rest of the company. Everyone was indoors; work was cancelled due to the storm.
“Er…Geneva.”
The [Doctor] turned. Daly was standing there. They both hesitated, but the Bushranger’s Captain nodded at the transcribed [Message].
“What news?”
“Two of the ships didn’t make it. Or they’re—impounded.”
“What?”
“Here.”
Geneva handed Daly the letter. He read it and looked up sharply.
“Impounded? Why’s it written like that?”
It wasn’t clear to Geneva at first. But she had a sinking suspicion. And her answer came as the scrying orb flickered to life. Because today’s topic—even more than the war progressing against Reim was overshadowed. When the patchy image finally appeared, a familiar newscaster was sitting at the desk with Noass.
“—errors, we apologize. Our broadc—ference. We are attempting to stabilize—unavoidable.”
The image cleared up a bit and Drassi swam into view. Geneva watched her, anxiously. Somehow that Drake was connected to ‘Joseph’. She looked into the camera as she read down the day’s top stories.
“I’m Drassi from Liscor. With me is Noass from Pallass. War in Chandrar is mounting as dozens, yes, dozens of armies are marching on Reim. Important news regarding a cure for the Yellow Rivers disease coming from trials in Zeres!”
“Geneva! That’s the mold!”
The [Doctor] felt a leap in her chest. It was working? She clenched her hands. But that was Zeres. There was no cure in…Drassi continued.
“…Ailendamus’ formal announcement of war and reports of attacks on neutral ships at sea. We’ll get to all this soon. But first? The weather.”
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin stood outside, staring up at the sky as Mrsha had done. But unlike the little Gnoll, she was…listening. Or rather, staring at something.
Fierre’s family was in the process of…cleansing. Their well was being dismantled. They were checking everything, trying to source new groundwater. Thinking about where they might go.
But like good [Farmers] and [Herders], they had stopped immediately once the winds and rains began to make sure their animals were safe. Fierre was grabbing Fluffles the Sixth when she saw Ryoka standing in the open field.
“Ryoka! Get inside! The wind’s picking up!”
Reizmelt, Talenqual, and Liscor. No—it was weakest in Reizmelt, far inland. But because it was Ryoka, it mattered. She was staring far to the west. And she sensed it.
It was an angry wind. Ryoka felt it—like the edges of some vast, terrifying being on the edge of consciousness.
“What’s…? Why are you so…?”
She was murmuring to the wind, trying to understand. Ryoka felt powerful winds high above; it was merely ‘really windy’ at ground level. And the wind—sensed her. Ryoka was standing in the field, and she had forgotten Ivolethe’s warning.
The wind was not always her friend.
Fierre felt the wind howl. She whirled—and heard a shout. Ryoka was snatched off the ground as if the hand of an invisible giant had come down.
“Ryoka!”
“Holy—”
Ryoka flailed. But the wind had suddenly focused on her. It blew her off the ground like—like a leaf. She was snatched up into the air with terrifying speed.
She might have gone soaring into the skies, but Fierre and Rivel were already leaping with the reactions only a Vampire could have. They seized her, dragging her down at the legs. As it was—they only slowed a bit before the winds pulled.
“Fierre! Rivel!”
Himilt saw them. He looked around for a rope, and saw the wind change. One second it was trying to snatch Ryoka up—then it swung them down.
The wind cracked all three into the ground like the end of a whip. Himilt raced towards the impact. He heard a cry of pain—Ryoka was lying with his son and daughter.
“My arm—”
Rivel’s face was a grimace. His arm had gone first, twisting and snapping. He wrenched it around and it began to knit. Fierre had a gash on her arm from landing on a stone.
“Miss Ryoka?”
The Vampire father stopped. Ryoka was gasping.
“I think—my ribs—”
She was wheezing. Ryoka listened for the telltale whistle—there wasn’t any. But something felt damaged. She lay there—until Himilt grabbed her.
“You can’t stay out here. That was either a freak gale or this is a storm to be remembered. Inside the keep, all of you!”
They carried her in. When Ryoka had her breath, she shook her head at last.
“The storm’s not here. It’s far away. It was just me. I tried to talk to the wind. It—it’s pissed.”
“What is?”
Fierre looked at Ryoka. Her friend’s face was practically white. Ryoka looked up at the storm through an open window before Colfa closed the shutters.
She had never felt the wind so angry. Once—it had been raging in Riverfarm, fed by the blazes. She had dared it to chase her in a fiery vortex. But this time—it was all-consuming.
“I don’t know. Something…someone pissed off the wind. Can you do that?”
Fierre traded looks with her family. From anyone but Ryoka, she would have suspected a head-injury. But then—their neighbor, another [Farmer], made it to the keep with his entire family of eleven. Ryoka was stunned and wary—until she realized that Himilt had invited them.
“There’s nowhere safe! The winds’ll pick up even stronger. Everything’s lashed down, but this is better than the root cellar. My thanks, Himilt.”
The [Farmer] slapped the Vampire on the shoulder. Himilt just nodded. Colfa helped lift some of the crying children off the wagon, soothing them with their mother and the older children.
“Get your family in, Menam. Anyone hurt? We nearly lost Miss Ryoka to the winds.”
“Dead gods! That must have been some gale! Nothing as bad—damn magic. Here—you know that broadcast from Pallass? I have a scrying mirror. Tiny—but it works. Take a look!”
The man showed Himilt, Ryoka, and the others the very same thing that was playing out on scrying mirrors worldwide.
 
—-
 
Drassi spoke slowly into the camera. The Drake [Reporter] was unusually somber.
“This storm is High Magic, as well as a Sympathetic storm. Everyone near a coast—any coast—is advised to seek shelter. I’m sorry—it’s not even a storm. It’s a—what’s the word, Noass?”
“Typhoon, Drassi. This is a Magical Typhoon. Wistram has named it Typhoon Erannda. All indications are that it originated from deep waters just off the shores of Terandria. Unfortunately, as they tend to do, it’s centered on Wistram. We’re projecting its path; it’s going to cut right down the trade-routes connecting each continent.”
The Drakes were tracing the swirling vortex down the map with magical illusions. The typhoon was passing towards the center of all the continents—deep water, where only one notable structure existed.
Wistram Academy. Also—the fastest way from Izril to Baleros or Chandrar to Terandria.
“A magical typhoon? I’ve never heard the word, Noass. Can we explain to the viewers what this is?”
The older Drake nodded.
“To put it simply, Miss Drassi, a typhoon is an…enhanced storm. Think of it as this giant spiral of weather. It’s most common around Baleros; its extreme winds and water and the continent of Baleros’ humidity helps create the conditions where they occur. Well—it is the hottest time of year. Warm waters, strong winds—this is what happens.”
Drassi nodded.
“But magical typhoon? Sympathetic storm?”
The [Commentator] cast one eye towards the side.
“It means this storm has picked up magic, Drassi. To the viewers at home—it is raining in Pallass at the moment despite the Walled City being inland almost as far as you can get. That’s because the magical resonance is triggering downpours around the world. You’ve heard of a storm that comes once a century? That’s a sympathetic storm with high magic. When mana enters the storm, we can see everything a normal typhoon has…intensify.”
“That…doesn’t sound great, Noass.”
“It isn’t, Drassi. Fortunately, those inland won’t see more than sympathetic rains—then clear skies. But at sea? [Sailors] beware. Come to that—I don’t think anyone will be putting out to sea.”
The former-[Gossip] nodded.
“Let’s talk about how big this storm is and how it happened. According to my information here…”
She shuffled her notes.
“The monsoon season in Baleros has only added to the storm’s fury. It’s picking up now…and growing at alarming speed. Experts are saying that [Clear Skies] spells employed by ships during their exodus from Baleros have added to the typhoon’s fury by suppressing localized rains and winds. This entire month and early spring—ships use the spell to ensure they travel easily. We saw a few big, mundane storms, but the mana in the air apparently led to the conditions for a magical typhoon. Noass, is that irresponsible on the part of the ship’s [Captains] and [Weather Mages]?”
 
—-
 
In The Wandering Inn, both Wailant Strongheart and Seborn Sailwinds grimaced.
“Idiots.”
The Drowned Man nodded to the [Pirate]-[Farmer]’s comment. Erin looked at them; a soaked Mrsha was lying in front of the fire. Half-drowned on land.
“What does that mean, Wailant?”
“Too many idiots cast [Clear Skies]—that just delays the storm. Makes it worse when it does hit. Your Antinium could tell you that. Too many idiots called the rain and now their entire area’s dry as a beached whale.”
The [Farmer] growled. Seborn agreed. The Halfseekers had stopped in the inn. On business, apparently.
“They should have known better. It’s the same for landfolk. It’s like stopping fires in forests. Deadwood builds up and then the next big fire wipes out everything.”
“Uh…”
Erin knew about that. She turned back to the oceanic equivalent. Jelaqua was wiping water out of her hair.
“Of all the days! Right when we were visiting the [Seamstress] in Invrisil! Think she’ll be able to book us?”
“I think so, Jelaqua. It’ll be fine. [Seamstresses] work indoors. Usually.”
Ulinde soothed her captain and fellow Selphid. Erin blinked. Jelaqua seemed…unusually high-strung today for the laid-back adventurer.
“Hey, Jelaqua, what’s the matter? I thought an [Iron Tempest] would like rain, right?”
“It’s [Steel Tempest], thanks. I upgraded my class.”
“Oh! Congrats—”
Moore let Mrsha climb onto his shoulder and drip. She gave him a kiss on the cheek and the half-Giant smiled.
“Hello Mrsha. I’m sorry we haven’t visited. We’ve been busy. Jelaqua is upset because we need suits and a dress adjusted for the ball two days from now.”
“Ball? What ball? I haven’t heard of a ball!”
Lyonette looked around. Seborn rolled his eyes. Ulinde explained.
“It’s a Pallassian thing. I’m not surprised you haven’t heard, Lyonette. It’s a Dullahan’s ball. Or rather…gathering?”
“Ball. And Maughin’s going to be there. And so am I, if I have to swim! We’re going! Erin, I need your door!”
Jelaqua hauled herself upright. Seborn sighed.
“I’ll catch up after a few dr—”
The Selphid dragged him out of his chair.
“Oh no you don’t! We’re not missing our appointment! Come on!”
Erin watched them go. Moore put Mrsha down and tapped her on the forehead with a finger; all the water fell off her fur and she smiled up at him. Then he left with his team.
It was just a reminder that not everyone cared about…this kind of thing. And Jelaqua had leveled? Erin made a note to bake her a cake. Or rather, get Imani to bake a cake. She was a [Cook] already; Erin was just…lazy.
Back to the news, Noass was giving a defense of the practice of weather spells.
“…no formalized body, you see, Drassi. Wistram has had its guidelines, but since each ship claims a different nation, not all of whom recognize the Weatherspell Pact—”
He coughed into a fist as someone off-screen directed him to get back to the point. The Drake pointed at the map.
“Magical Typhoon Erannda is now…affecting a thousand miles of sea, and is expected to keep growing. It’s bearing down directly on Wistram Academy, homing in on the magic. The—the academy’s shielding spells should weather the storm, but we have no idea where it’ll bounce next. Magical storms are feeding both off wind and so on, as well as magic.”
Drassi nodded.
“We’ll keep you updated as we go to other stories. Remember—if you’re in a coastal region, stay in shelter! Speaking of which—the coastal kingdom of Medain, run by that rat-king—”
“Drassi.”
“Oh, fine. Medain’s lost three cities. Apparently—they’ve been sacked by the Illusionist and the Steward, Orthenon. Even as the King of Destruction’s armies are falling back…”
The topic turned away from the typhoon. But it concerned Erin. Especially because…she looked at the message she’d gotten from Tritel and Ci.
“That explains why he’s so worried about the delivery. But it doesn’t explain ‘impounded ships’. What’s this about?”
“I think I know, Erin.”
