“That’s an old tradition, Jelaqua. No one observes it in Pallass. Who told you that?”
“I…just wanted to be traditional. Look, Maughin. I think we’re done. We can go mingle now. I’ll go to the other adventurers.”
The Dullahan’s head-platforms were, by design or unhappy coincidence, below the average head-level. It was…physically awkward to stand there and chat with the heads as a non-Dullahan. Jelaqua looked at the Halfseekers, standing by the food tables. She turned to leave the waltz.
Maughin stopped her. The [Smith] saw Jelaqua look back up at him. Her inner body was still faintly orange, running in lines through the pale body she wore.
“Jelaqua. There is no need for you to excuse yourself.”
“But your head should be…”
Maughin was conspicuously absent from the socialization. Kept, by his Selphid partner. The disapproving looks were obvious to both. The [Smith] looked around and shook his head.
He took her hands, gently.
“This event is for couples, Jelaqua. I never intended to socialize alone. They may wait until we are done.”
He lead her into another circuit of the dance. The Dullahans stirred, seeing Maughin keeping his head in place. Jelaqua could have danced with his torso, but he ignored the carrier who offered him a pillow to remove his head to be borne to the others.
“Wait? For how long?”
“As long as we take. Metal does not hurry, and neither shall we.”
Maughin ignored the stares. He remained there, with Jelaqua. For one movement around the room, and then the slow drift the other way as the music changed.
Twice, the carrier came to suggest Maughin join the social circles. Twice he refused. After ten minutes—it became obvious the [Smith] wasn’t going to leave Jelaqua. She stared up at him and he smiled.
Palt whistled. The Centaur saw the other Dullahans hesitating. It could have gone either way for the [Smith].
Could have—until another Dullahan [Smith]’s body walked over to the circle and excused himself. He placed his head on his shoulders and joined the dance as a whole. Someone else copied him.
Lorent, the [Sharpener]. He moved over to speak with Jelaqua and Maughin with his partner as they circulated the room. That precipitated a rush. Well—a slow movement. Soon, the Dullahans were dancing like…
Humans. Or any other species. Jelaqua looked up at Maughin with wondering eyes. He winked at her. She quietly laughed. And then—took his hand.
“I think our legs are tired. Come on.”
Fearlessly now, she took his hand and led him forwards to another group who had been standing apart.
Bevussa and the other adventurers. Maughin was reserved as the adventurers immediately bowed to the famed smith. But Jelaqua elbowed Bevussa and Keldrass with a laugh before she caught herself.
“Enough bowing! You all know Maughin. We’re here to have a grand time. Let us in. Don’t act all stiff—Maughin’s a Dullahan. He won’t tell your embarrassing secrets. Who’s shedding scales? Feathers, Bevussa?”
The Dullahan, standing among three Gold-rank teams, was at first quiet. Jelaqua was the one who drew him out of his armor. He smiled, even removed his head to chuckle and speak at head-height for the others.
Soon, she and the teams were laughing and talking before they rejoined the dance floor, Dullahans and non-Dullahans. When they stood together thereafter, it was relaxed. Jelaqua smiling, Maughin nodding to friends, introducing her, talking.
The solemn confidence of Dullahans, the goodwill of Selphids. They made a wonderful pair.
Moore turned away. It hurt to see, as happy as he was for Jelaqua. He was envious of…he looked at Maughin. And then down at the others in the room.
“I guess we’ve got no excuse not to dance.”
Seborn growled. He was standing with the adventurers, but more and more were entering the fray, so to speak. Palt and Imani were already on the very edge, trying to make his four legs work to limited success.
Normally, a Dullahan’s head would go to another and ask for the dance and their bodies would link up. Since both were attached in this moment—Seborn saw several pairs sharing a circuit of the room.
Two female Dullahans and an adventurer asked Seborn. With ill-grace but a certain elegance of footwork, he accepted. He came back to see Moore miserably standing like a statue.
“Moore. Ask someone to dance with you.”
The [Rogue] whispered to Moore. The half-Giant shook his head.
“I can’t, Seborn. I’ll stand out.”
“Don’t be an idiot. Maughin is right there. And he’s wearing damn armor. Tell you what. I’ll ask the next person who bothers me to—”
“Absolutely not!”
Moore nearly raised his voice. He looked mortified by the idea. Seborn snapped his claw quietly in irritation. This was the brothel-conversation all over again.
“I’ll dance with you, Moore.”
Ulinde offered. The Selphid had danced with six partners already. Seborn and Moore looked at Ulinde. The Selphid was in a male Drake’s body, wearing a suit. Moore’s face said it all.
“Thank you, but I’m not good at dancing, anyways. You should have fun, Ulinde. I’ll just…”
“Magus Moore? Would you care to walk the floor with this Dullahan?”
The adventurers turned. A female Dullahan wearing one of the ceramic armors that were all-decoration had approached with a friend. The other one invited Ulinde. Moore turned white.
“I uh—”
He looked at Seborn. The [Rogue] nodded with a smile to the Dullahan and whispered out of the corner of his mouth.
“Go. Or I’ll have to dance with you.”
The half-Giant [Green Mage] hesitated. But he bowed, hesitantly. And followed the Dullahan onto the floor.
“It’s not hard. Don’t trip, Moore. You’ve danced over trap runes. Don’t trip…”
Seborn muttered under his breath as he watched Moore with considerably more anxiety than Jelaqua. Moore looked as though he’d forgotten how his legs worked. But it was not hard. The Dullahan girl was very graceful in her own way. They entered the floor and Jelaqua turned, seeing her friend.
Moore began stumbling along. He regained his footing—walked slowly. But his face, first white, had started turning red as the fires of an undersea volcano. The [Rogue] saw the half-Giant turning his head, seeing the smaller dancers…then snapping back to his partner.
He was distracted. Increasingly more distraught. Seborn watched, internally and externally cursing as the half-Giant radiated uncertainly.
Moore got halfway across the circuit when he bumped into another partner. Just the tiniest of nudges. He immediately whirled and began apologizing. Which not only slowed the dancers behind but—
“Kraken shit.”
Seborn saw Moore moving back from the confused Dullahan he was dancing with. He stepped away, shaking his head, face flushed.
“Moore! You didn’t do anything wrong. It’s fine—”
Jelaqua and Maughin followed Moore off the floor. The half-Giant looked like he was trying to cast [Invisibility].
“I shouldn’t dance, Jelaqua! I’m far too large. I’ll just stand here. Please—tell Miss Xerca I’m sorry and—”
He saw the Dullahan coming and froze up. Seborn stepped forwards—to kick Moore or help him apologize, he wasn’t sure. His friend looked miserable. About to burst into tears.
It was Maughin who turned to Moore and placed an armored hand on his shoulder. Moore started as the [Smith], the only person his size, looked Moore in the eye.
“Friend Moore, you are too self-conscious. Jelaqua and I dance together. Why should you stand alone?”
“I’m—”
The Dullahan shook his head. He gestured towards the floor. The dancers were spreading out. Some were even waving at Moore. The half-Giant saw a Centaur moving around the room, murmuring to them.
“This dance was meant for War Walkers to spend time with the smallest of their kindred. We grow into our armor. You are not overtall here, friend. It would be an honor to dance with Jelaqua’s team. Join us.”
Maughin solemnly placed a hand on Moore’s shoulder. Jelaqua took Maughin’s arm. Ulinde had his partner—Seborn saw Bevussa flutter over. She winked at him as Palt and Imani joined.
“Adventurer Moore? Would you care to continue our walk?”
The female Dullahan walked over. Moore looked around.
“But—”
“We’ll be around you. If you trip, you’ll fall on one of us. I’ve got your back, Moore.”
Bevussa nodded. Seborn saw the half-Giant take a deep breath. He bowed, shakily to the Dullahan.
“I…will, Miss Xerca.”
The four pairs entered the slow waltz. Moore was shaking, but Palt was waiting. The [Illusionist] had a merry look in his eyes. He and Imani were standing together—the spaced-out dancers calmed Moore down. But he was still a giant with Maughin and that bothered him most.
He looked around—and his friends stood around him. The [Green Mage] hesitated, and then he took a slow, steadying breath. He raised his arm and gently took the Dullahan’s.
Seborn exhaled softly. And he saw Palt smile. The Centaur [Illusionist] raised his wand and flicked it.
“A spell for courage, half-Giant.”
The [Rogue] saw—Bevussa staring at him. And he suddenly felt larger. He looked around, blinking. Suddenly—the dancers were all as tall as Maughin and Moore. The half-Giant looked around. There was laughing, brief applause. Palt took a bow and held out an arm to Imani.
“Well? You’re looking normal to us.”
Moore didn’t reply. He just blinked misty eyes and turned. The half-Giant danced, average among his peers.
The Walking-Waltz of Pallass’ Dullahans lasted for hours. Moore danced sixteen more times. It was, all things considered, a success that left most attending in good spirits.
It had nothing to do with the Couriers at sea except that it happened around the same time.
 
—-
 
Seve-Alrelious watched his enchanted spear go down with the serpent. His palms were torn by the struggle.
The magic of his tattoos was fading. Four of his comrades lay dark against his skin. Not dead, but resting.
When he died, they would be freed. They might perish in this storm. Or to the hunters.
The clutch of Sea Serpents brought down Arveil. The Nelgaunt, a cross between a catfish and a whale in appearance, fought the lashing shapes as the serpents wrapped around the smaller creature, biting, constricting him. But the tearing jaws and snapping teeth found only air as Arveil vanished.
It made the Sea Serpents even angrier. They were hungry, having been chased from their hunting by the Kraken. They tore at the Armershed Dolphins. The pod fought, diving and leaping until they were defeated.
Sixteen. The Hundredfriends Courier fired a single spell into the storm, heedless of the danger it might attract. Half the serpents pursued the illusion he conjured, finding purchase in the fake ship’s hull. The Tier 5 spell distracted them, even scratched their scaly hides. But it vanished all too soon.
“The cure must reach Talenqual. We have sworn it, Erek.”
The ape stared at Seve, and nodded solemnly. The Courier looked at the lashing shapes pursuing the World’s Pact. Soon—the [Gale Winds] spell would run out. They’d been forced off Igawiz’s Jet after two days of encounters with the increasingly vicious nest.
They were so close. Seve looked at the glowing primate, who had steered the ship as he fought. Then he slowly removed the cure from the bag of holding.
“…If it comes to it, Erek, cling to Arveil’s back. He might flee.”
The ape made a sound as he watched Seve working. The Courier was taking the watertight crates filled with the precious mold. Tying them to…
An anchor. It would sink. And the second object he added to the tight nets was a beacon—a mana stone enchanted to be as obvious as possible to anyone who sensed mana.
It might attract a monster. But they would hopefully sense nothing edible. Seve made it ready. He looked behind him.
The wind spell ran out. The World’s Pact slowed. Seve drew the enchanted dagger he carried as a backup. Erek made a hooting sound and slapped his chest as the serpents roared.
“Tombhome guide me back one day.”
Seve-Alrelious thought of his city. He waited, as the waves grew taller. The last of his companions—some not suited for combat in water at all, leapt from his skin. A lion with glowing fangs. A trio of birds, each with feathers like jewels.
An angry ape, a Human from A’ctelios Salash armed with a dagger. The sea serpents closed in.
Seve heard a howl running through the waters. He braced—and a huge head emerged from the waters. Huge jaws of ivory snapped. Massive, ancient teeth tearing, biting.
The Hundredfriends Courier saw the—fish?—burst out of the water. A Sea Serpent’s neck in its jaws. The serpent was writhing, screaming as its purple-red blood stained the waters.
“Dead gods!”
The Courier raised an arm as the two shapes landed and the water created another wave that swept his ship. Erek twisted the wheel; Seve felt them cresting a wave. He saw the serpent fighting—and then a second bone-fish emerge from the waves. It rammed into another serpent.
“What manner of monster is that?”
The first thought Seve had was that it was some kind of shark-whale with bone armor. Then he had a darker thought.
A giant undead mega-shark? He saw the thing surface again—and now, glimpsed a glowing light in the eyes.
“Undead! It’s—”
Seve’s despair was a second behind a realization. That wasn’t a burning flame of the undead. It was a gentler light. The thing was—
The giant bone-ship snapped again and the serpent it was biting screamed and writhed out of its jaws at last. The ship turned, moving like a fish, the bones and…ancient hide of the ship moving like it had in life. Its eyes glowed—but not with death magic. Seve saw the flicker of magic.
The water boiled around the other serpents, forcing them back. There were two ships, attacking with the jaws of a long-dead giant predator. And from inside the vessels came more spells. The water boiled—one of the serpents was blasted back by a geyser. And then came lightning, forking down from the skies. It struck the serpents, driving them back.
The Hundredfriends Courier saw the serpents fleeing. Neither ship pursued; they cut towards him. But of course—he was laughing now—they wouldn’t have killed the serpents.
They were [Druids].
The first ship of the [Sea Druids] rose out of the water, like a Drowned Ship. The jaws opened and he saw a figure standing in the entrance. The Drowned Man had a trident instead of a staff. He was a huge figure and he bellowed at Seve.
“Courier. We have heard of your mission. The Sea’s Shepherds will escort you to land.”
Who had called them? The Courier didn’t know. But he and his companions were celebrating. Erek actually jumped ship to swing himself up onto the [Druid]’s bone-ship, with his endless curiosity. The two ships flanked the World’s Pact as they conjured a current to speed them forwards.
