The Typhoon had yet to unleash its full fury. Even if it did—Wistram would be safe. The [Weather Mages] who had created the spell had designed it to withstand anything in the world, even a hundred tsunamis.
However. There was a problem. The [Archmage] glanced to the south. There—somewhere out there—was a ship.
“How soon until the Emerald Signet reaches the isle?”
“Eighteen minutes, the [Captain] claims.”
“They’re moving too slowly.”
Three Archmages stood on one of the highest balconies [Mages] could still walk on. Above them, the academy’s heights lay shrouded in mists. Feor looked south. A single ship had continued on as the others, full of potential applicants, turned back. He could even see and hear the ship as it fought forwards thanks to the scrying spell.
 
—-
 
Trey and Flynn were below, braced as the ship rocked, threatening to throw anyone not bolted down. The young man heard Flynn praying; he just held onto his staff.
“You’re not shitting yourself in this storm, mate?”
“Not yet!”
Trey shouted back. Flynn’s eyes were wide and he was holding the whimpering Pointy, his dog, to his chest, despite her occasionally stabbing him with her quills.
But Trey was—calmer. Not calm. But he kept fingering a scar on his throat. Remembering a backpack. He still had the camera.
“I won’t die here. Not until I burn their city to the ground.”
“You said it!”
Flynn shouted back. Trey nodded. It wasn’t his moment. Above—the [Storm Sailors] were fighting a battle against the enemy they feared most.
“Cap’n! We’re going to be destroyed! I just saw a wave ten times the size of our ship! We’ll be flying if we continue on!”
Inky was screaming at Captain Lasc. It was not hyperbole, for once. The winds were picking up. Ahead of them—she saw a distant waterspout. But between the vast waves was a shining bubble, daylight.
The Isle of Mages.
“We have to turn back, Captain!”
The [Storm Captain] finally roared a response. He had tied himself to the wheel and was fighting. Fighting to keep his ship moving forwards.
“We’ll either get there or the storm’ll tear us to bits before we’re halfway to land! We never had a choice, Second Mate! Full ahead! Until Krakens fly! Each one of you will be a [Storm Sailor] come dawn!”
The crew of the Emerald Signet roared as they fought for every second, keeping the ship upright. A wave slammed them down and the entire ship groaned. Inky stared ahead at the glowing bubble in the sea.
 
—-
 
They weren’t going to make it. So the academy’s Archmages determined. The distant ship was already in danger of capsizing with every second.
“There’s more mana swirling around in that vortex than every [Mage] in Wistram could produce.”
Archmage Viltach stared at the distant storm, opposite the Emerald Signet. Feor nodded. Nature humbled. He felt the mana in the air—streaming away from him even as he conjured some around him. The storm was eating it all up.
And using it. Magical lightning—not the natural kind, but bolts of every color—struck. There was a waterspout reaching to the sky flashing with internal lightning, electrocuting any hapless creature sucked into it.
“Amerys would fly into the center of it to harness the power.”
Nailihuaile commented as she stared at the storm. Feor glared at her. The Lamia shrugged.
“Well, she would. Are we doing this or not?”
“With me.”
Feor curtly extended a wand. The Star Lamia lowered her staff and touched the tip of her relic, the Serkonian Lance, to it. Viltach lowered his wand.
The typhoon was moving so fast. It was going to hit the academy and then ‘bounce’. A crude word for saying that it would be deflected by the spell protecting Wistram and go spinning into an unknown direction. It was something…Wistram’s [Mages] didn’t like talking about and the news coverage had been short on explaining.
But the ship had two children from another world. So Feor closed his eyes. Below—more [Mages] were joining hands or catalysts, adding their magic to the flow in the citadel.
“Link! Reinforce the Weatherward! Extend it!”
The Archmage drew upon the spell. He might not have the class—but he was still Archmage of Wistram.
The bubble twisted in the air as the magical typhoon’s full fury hit Wistram. And the bubble—collapsed. In front of Feor, the protection spell retreated until the storm and lashing waves were a hundred feet in front of the isle. Fifty.
“We’re pulling the Weatherward in too close! Stop, you fool!”
Viltach howled. But Feor was extending the bubble of calm southwards, trying to catch the Emerald Signet.
Lightning struck at the bubble of peace. Now—the furthest edge of the typhoon struck the edge of Wistram’s isle. Feor saw the very edge of the isle vanish. He strained.
The ship was nearly in the bubble. Nearly—Feor saw the veil in front of him thinning.
“Uh…do we back up?”
Nailihuaile tried to step back. But they were linked. The Weatherward was stretched to its maximum, creating a corridor of safety nearly three miles southwards. The Emerald Signet sailed forwards, their crew cheering.
But the first edge of the typhoon was hitting Wistram. And the lightning—the magical lightning was threatening to pierce the Weatherward in its thinnest place. Feor saw the lightning striking, once, twice—hundreds of times at him, as if the storm knew he was the focus point of the magic! It was going to—
He was about to pull the Weatherward back and risk the Emerald Signet when he saw the figure striding along an empty balcony that extended into the storm. A giant. No—a woman.
Cognita. Her body was first that plain white marble. Flawless ivory. Then—Feor saw her change.
The Truestone Golem walked into the edge of the storm, just past the Weatherward’s boundaries. But she did not go flying. She anchored herself. And her body turned into a brilliant, golden crystal.
He had seen that crystal once before. During the incident with the undead—Feor saw the lightning sparking from the material that was now Cognita. Then—
For a moment the magic pulsed. And the magical lightning struck one point with a blinding flash.
Cognita’s body flashed. For a moment, the Truestone absorbed the entirety of the magical lightning. Feor saw it travelling inside of her, condensing into a spark like the sun. Cognita pointed her finger. The Archmages were silent, watching. Spellbound. What was Cognita pointing at?
There. In the heart of the magical typhoon. Something—moved. Feor and Viltach recoiled. Nailihuaile braced.
Something…flew past Wistram, through the rain and winds. It could have been a fish, swept up by the gales that could pick up ships and trees and hurl them around. But—
Feor saw wings.
Cognita aimed her finger at whatever it was. He heard her voice, even through the howling.
“Begone from this place.”
She discharged the bound energies she had just absorbed. The flash and thunder was deafening. The bolt of raw electricity-mana cut a hole through the storm.
The shape vanished. Whether Cognita had even hit it or scared it off or killed it—Feor couldn’t have said. He turned his head.
The Emerald Signet sailed slowly into Wistram’s harbor. With it, the Weatherward reverted to its usual shape. The typhoon roared around the isle. But then—it was moving away. Rebounding off the Weatherward. It moved out into sea—towards…
“Baleros. Moving slower. But that’s ill-luck.”
Viltach calmly checked his sextant and shook his head. Feor was breathing hard; the spell had taken its toll. He watched Cognita turn. She met his eyes once—then strode down the balcony.
To greet the new students.
 
—-
 
The Moonlight Rider to the Last Light of Baleros:
Wistram cannot send samples via magic. No flying carpets are available from Chandrar.
All ships sent with samples so far have been intercepted. Running out of cure.
No conventional ship has a chance of passing Typhoon Erannda.
Seeking Couriers to brave the journey.
 
They had expressed their sympathies. But Wistram could barely send a [Message] or scrying spell through the storm, much less teleport a package. The odds of interference were too great.
Similarly, other magical means were doomed. A Djinni, for instance, immune to almost all conventional attacks, would risk true death in the storm and no owner would risk their servant thusly.
Geneva Scala despaired. The other nations had snatched the cure. They promised to send it to Baleros—when they were done with their samples and had more to send or sell. Either way.
Magical Typhoon Erannda was closing on Baleros. Slowly—but it was grounding even the Iron Vanguard’s best ships, which might have tried to escort more samples to Baleros or make the trip themselves.
Their only hope was Couriers. Not one had volunteered to take the delivery. They were Couriers who crossed the sea—but Sea Couriers were rarer than land-couriers, given how many ships could perform the same task. And it was either brave interception by navies of other nations, a suicide run, or go through the storm.
Death either way. Some still tried because of the need. Geneva’s heart had leapt at this morning’s message.
 
[Storm Captain] Oresta has agreed to deliver cure. Braving magical typhoon. Watch for Izril’s Splendid Stars.
 
And then:
 
Izril’s Splendid Stars has gone down at sea. All hands but two lost.
 
No ordinary ship could brave that storm. The [Storm Captain] had done her best; the wind had seized her ship, even with the sails furled and stowed, and thrown it like a toy.
“Could a Drowned Ship make it?”
“The sea has to be as dangerous below as above. The currents are impossibly strong. The magical typhoon is creating whirlpools, waterspouts—even an underwater ship would be destroyed if it ran into either one.”
The others’ quiet discussions filled her with nothing but despair. And it wasn’t for her that Geneva grieved.
The Drake’s commentary was frank.
“This storm is going to last at least a week. Possibly weeks, or as long as a month! The longest typhoon on record was a magical giant—the storm which marked the end of the Faertrade Era—which landed on Chandrar and changed the climate and landscape for six months! All our experts claim this one isn’t nearly as powerful, but if there is any high-level [Mage] or unsecured artifact or mana spot, we are asking everyone to avoid leaking mana into the storm! Meanwhile, there is no immediate cure bound for Baleros…we are making an appeal for all you other nations to stop stealing the damn cure. Couriers! If there is anyone—let go of me!”
Drassi was pulled off-camera.
Only one person seemed…hopeful. That was Seql himself. Geneva gave him the news. The boy was lying in bed; she had slept the night and stayed as close as she could to the extremely sick, but her aura could only go so far. But he had time…just not enough time to wait out the storm.
But he refused to give up hope like some of the others. Despite the news filtering in. He lay in his bed as Geneva delivered the bad news.
“I know someone who can take the cure, Doctor Geneva.”
“Who?”
“My friend. He’s the best Runner in the world. And my friend. He’s probably coming to deliver the cure and hasn’t gotten here yet. I will wait for him.”
The Last Light of Baleros looked at Seql. Two parts of her warred; the part that wanted to give him hope, and the part of her that did not want to lie to her patients.
“I’m sure he’ll try, Seql.”
That was what she came out with at the end. The Dullahan boy looked at her, calmly. He began coughing.
“He will. He is my friend. He—”
He had to pause as the coughing rendered him unable to breathe. Geneva had a Jar of Air—there were no inhalers. But Seql stopped and after he’d caught his breath, he gasped.
“He made me a promise when I was first sick to find a medicine and cure me. He’ll come.”
Geneva said nothing. She didn’t want to lie. She left Seql there, and had to step outside. Just for a moment. It all seemed so…bleak. After two days of the storm—no, all the pettiness. It should have been here already. But nations and rulers had done what the storm had not.
The [Doctor] was sitting there, unable to do anything but go in and halt the spread of the disease when she heard a shout.
It was Daly. He ran down the street, waving something.
“Geneva! We got a [Message] through the storm! Look! Look!”
It was in his voice. Geneva looked up. She saw the hastily-scribbled lines as she grabbed at the [Message] from Tritel. They burned across her vision. She read with shaky hands.
 
From Tritel:
The Hundredfriends Courier has accepted delivery of the cure to Baleros.
The Waterbear of Cerun has pledged to deliver medicine.
Shellbazaar and The Four Winds of Teral will brave the storm.
Sea Couriers outbound.
 
Geneva looked up. She shouted up at the closed window, loud enough for him to hear, and she heard, faintly, Seql’s laughter.
She should have believed. It was true—there were petty people. Selfish people. But there were also—brave people. Friends and heroes.
They were coming. Not around the storm, risking interception or delays, but straight through it.
Couriers.
 
—-
 
It was raining in Liscor. Hard. Mrsha saw the Floodplains beginning to fill again, after the second day.
She stared solemnly upwards, hoping it would stop. Because—because—the storm was wonderful here. But it was doing bad things at sea.
Very bad things. Erin was worried. But Couriers were making the delivery.
“Who are they?”
“Two are ships. Shellbazaar and The Four Winds of Teral are. But I don’t know the rest. Where’s Wailant? He or Seborn would know. Where’s Seborn?”
“Preparing for that fancy ball. They’re learning how to dance.”
“Oh. Cool.”
The little Gnoll stared upwards. Then she went to go watch the scrying orb. But the Wistram broadcast had refused to cover even the fact that four Couriers were outbound. News might have leaked—but they could all be scried—if they escaped the storm, that was.
Not even a [Scrying] spell could penetrate the magical typhoon.
Two guests came to The Wandering Inn that day to remember. Three if you counted Maviola. But she was a friend.
And her time was over halfway up. The [Lady] stared out at the rain. She stood there, wondering. Now? Today? She—her hands shook and she clasped them to make them calm.
She had to go. The [Lady Firestarter] turned. The rains had made the world dark. One last spark. It was a madness within her. She could count the sand falling…
She could delay as long as she wanted, lulled by this beautiful place and moment. But time was not so kind. She turned—
And Saliss booped her on the nose. The Named Adventurer swayed as Maviola did; only he nearly fell down.
“Saliss?”
