Lyonette came over with an unhappy expression. Drassi and Noass had yet to get to that segment. But the [Princess] explained as Geneva Scala was informed of the same.
 
—-
News coverage was a funny thing. Drassi’s takedown of Noass and Sir Relz on the Yellow Rivers was news in itself. Journalism fighting journalism.
Yet now, there was a cure. Occillium—Octavia nearly fainted into Numbtongue’s arms when she saw her mold featured by [Healers] in Zeres who had cured patients using it.
However—they had overdosed. Wasted their supply. They weren’t [Doctors]; there were no standardized measurements or application procedure. Half had just fed the mold to their patients before trying the topical application as Geneva recommended.
They had mismanaged a limited supply. So they were desperate for more, even as it was being grown with the Walled City’s resources. And to be fair—they proved that the Occillium worked.
It still gave Geneva ulcers, or it would have if Idis wasn’t on stomach-patrol. And the worst part was that the triumphant news about the ‘cure’…missed some important facts.
Firstly, that only Zeres and Drake cities and a few Human ones had access to the mold. And that the disease had not originated in Izril. It was getting worse in Terandria, Chandrar…and especially Baleros. They were far, far more desperate for the mold.
Hence the impounded ships. Two [Captains] had taken their cargo across the safer routes north and south of Izril, moving along the coast and passing by Terandria and Rhir, or across Chandrar and up to Baleros.
Neither ship had made it. They had not been sunk—but their cargos had been searched and the mold seized.
By Ailendamus and Medain, respectively. Both nations’ rulers had seized it. Medain’s out of desperation; Yellow Rivers ran in its ports. Ailendamus to deny it to Pheislant and other coastal nations.
Drassi reported on the segment. There was ‘worldwide outrage’. But the long and short of it was that every nation wanted that medicine. Worse—the coverage announced that fact.
Occillium was now worth many times its weight in gold. Since…it was a mold. And didn’t weigh a lot.
An inevitable response followed. Geneva wrote back desperately to both Joseph and the Moonlight Rider. The [Message] was choppy; the [Mage] had to resend it over thirty times. The magical storm could, apparently, destroy spells that tried to go through it, or twist them.
 
From Talenqual:
We are in desperate need of Occillium mold samples. Even a single case that can be cultivated. 
It must reach Baleros. We are waiting on The Waverider’s Wake. Please arrange more transport.
Urgent. The Yellow Rivers disease is mutating and patients are dying as symptoms intensify.
 
She saw it in her clinics now, more than ever. There were now two in Talenqual. One, a mass-treatment and isolation facility, a burgeoning two-story building staffed by Selphid [Nurses] and volunteers like the helpful Lizardgirl who’d become one of the managers.
The second…was intensive care, for the most seriously ill or those showing secondary symptoms. Geneva’s work was being picked up by other [Healers] on the front; they wrote in every day now, and unlike Zeres’ [Healers], they followed her guidelines to the letter.
They were all desperate for the mold. In the meantime—Geneva tried to steal as many seconds as she could.
“Doctor. One of our serious patients is a Dullahan.”
“Where’s the information?”
“Here.”
It was something Umina saw that impressed her. She had not come up with the system of writing down each patient’s information, everything from gender to weight to symptoms—it was organization and most [Healers] did not employ it.
That Geneva Scala had insisted on it, implemented it with perfect understanding spoke to Umina of someone who treated countless patients. It was so…polished. She didn’t even need to be here as Geneva read from the clipboard. But she stayed. This was important.
The [Doctor] passed a hand across her face.
“This…this is a child. He didn’t contract the disease via intercourse or even contact?”
“Not what his family claims.”
“What if they lied? Did you subject them to a truth crystal—oh.”
Geneva saw the checked box. She looked at Umina.
“Thank you. Urrexa?”
“Uh…yes.”
Umina forgot which fake-name she was using. She kept switching them and Geneva was so tired she didn’t seem to notice. The Dullahan family had sworn by truth crystal that the boy—and he was very young, barely more than seven—had contracted the disease without touching or being more intimate with anyone who was sick.
Given how widespread knowledge of the epidemic was and how sudden and severe the symptoms—Umina had believed them without the crystal.
Geneva read the details—twice. She began to feel sick again. No other family members showing symptoms. That might rule out water supply…she would have to ask for more details. She looked up at Umina.
“Alright. I want protective gear on everyone who treats this Dullahan. This—this could be airborne.”
The Lizardgirl gulped. That was the worst-case possibility for Geneva. The Yellow Rivers disease was already highly contagious by liquid, hence the gear that each [Nurse] needed. And they were still falling sick. But if it got worse?
The Dullahan boy was armored in steel. Beautiful steel, worked by a master.
“Hello, [Doctor].”
He looked solemnly up at her as his head rested on a stand. He was coughing and—Geneva read from the clipboard—he had pus-filled sores on his body. It wasn’t visible because he was still wearing his armor—but the armor had to come off and he needed treatment.
Over 70% of Dullahans were dying because they refused to have their armor removed and the infection dressed.
The disease was mutating. His family had all wanted to be there, but only the two parents were allowed to wait in a room separate from this quarantined one. Geneva had asked them repeated questions. Like their son, they were armored in fine, decorative steel. Rich, in short.
Geneva hadn’t wanted to know any of that from them. She’d just quizzed them to make sure the young Dullahan had not directly interacted with anyone other than possible airborne contamination or some water source she hadn’t uncovered yet.
With the boy she was kinder.
“Hello. Seql, isn’t it? I am Geneva Scala. A [Doctor].”
“I know, Doctor Scala. They call you the Last Light of Baleros.”
He looked solemnly up towards her. So much unlike Human children—and like some of them as well. A child. He knew how sick he was.
Slowly, Geneva sat down.
“Some people call me that, Seql. But I can’t work miracles. I wish…I could. Do you know why you’re here?”
“I have Yellow Rivers.”
She nodded.
“Seql. I know this might be hard—but I’m going to have to ask you to take off your armor. And I might have to ask you some personal questions. It’s very important you answer me truthfully, do you understand?”
She had a little truth-stone. Seql nodded.
“I know. I didn’t touch anyone, [Doctor]. I promise.”
The stone glowed white. That was ‘truth’ for this stone.
“You can’t think of anything, Seql?”
Her visor was in the way. She must have looked like some huge, helmeted monster with only part of her face showing. But perhaps that was more reassuring to a Dullahan boy. He lay still; his parents had told Geneva he was in a great deal of pain. She’d already asked Umina to bring painkillers and anesthesia.
“I…I can’t. I went for a walk. Someone was coughing and our [Bodyguards] told me we had to return. That was…”
That was it. That was what the boy believed. Geneva nodded. She’d press him later for more clues. But if it was…
“Let’s take off that armor, Seql. I can help you. Let me know if I’m hurting you…”
She made no sound as the armor came away. But inside of her, Idis did.
The Yellow Rivers disease was moving faster. The boy had pus-filled sores in clumps. He was coughing—at least his head was separate from his body. It was very bad.
The first patients Geneva had treated were just weakened from the disease, which could kill without proper rest, water, attention to the infected areas. This? This would kill a healthy adult, let alone a child.
The [Doctor] had experience, though. More experience than anyone else in this world. So she worked. Seql made very little sounds as she gave him a painkilling tonic and got to work. He was being brave.
“Doctor. Am I going to die?”
She knew he would ask. And she had been bracing for it. Geneva took a deep breath.
“I’m going to do everything in my power to make sure that doesn’t happen, Seql. I, and everyone working here. Your parents as well.”
His brow creased.
“Is that a ‘yes’?”
Geneva sat there for a moment, the antiseptic liquids drying on her gloves. She had cleaned his injuries. She could slow the disease by sitting with him, sleeping in this place. But some patients died because even with the bacteria halted, their systems were simply so compromised.
“I am going to do my best, Seql. But the odds of you surviving are low. I want you to understand there is a cure.”
“I know.”
There was hope in his eyes. Geneva nodded slowly.
“…But it’s taking time in getting here. I’m going to make you as well as I can until it arrives. But I need it.”
“My…parents said they’ll help. They brought me here because everyone said you were the best.”
The boy informed her. Geneva nodded slowly.
“I’m going to turn your body over. We need to get at your back, Seql. Where are you from?”
He made a slight sound.
“Radlrn.”
“Oh? I don’t know that city. What do your parents do, Seql?”
“They own the city.”
The [Doctor]’s hands stopped moving for a moment.
“Excuse me?”
Seql watched his own treatment and closed his eyes.
“They own the city. They’re part of the Iron Vanguard. We came from up north. Very far, Doctor Geneva. What should I tell them?”
The [Doctor] paused, then gently applied more of the poultice to his injuries.
“I’ll talk to them. Just know, Seql—that you should say anything you want to say to them. I will do my best.”
He nodded. His eyes were full of tears. Geneva gently turned his head away so he could cry in peace. When she stepped out of the room, and cleaned herself, and removed the armor, the two parents were there.
“I cannot do anything other than slow the Yellow Rivers disease in Seql. I will be in this unit day and night. But we need the cure.”
The father and mother were very reserved. Not uncaring—they stood together, in their armor that had failed to protect them against the smallest foe. The mother looked at Geneva.
“I am told, Doctor Geneva, that there is a complication in procuring this…medicine..”
“Yes, Miss Rederr. I do not have it. It is being sent from Izril—but the ships have encountered delays.”
“Ships? If you need ships—we are of the Iron Vanguard. Please, tell us what we can do.”
Geneva looked up at the desperate parents. For their son—they listened as she gave them the port-city and Tritel’s name.
The next message, sent within an hour from Tritel, was reported on by Drassi twenty minutes later. Because she had been in The Wandering Inn during her break and she’d heard Erin reading it.
 
From Tritel and Ci:
Regarding delivery of Yellow Rivers Cure to Talenqual, Baleros.
Iron Vanguard, Forgotten Wing, Maelstrom’s Howling, have all posted bounty on delivery of cure.
Samples being sent by way of Terandria and Chandrar while news awaited of Waverider’s progress.
Counter-bounties raised by Khelt, Pheislant, and five other nations for medicine as well. Samples sent to other nations already may be at risk.
Attempting to secure other means of transport.
 
So Geneva slept, waiting for more news. Not because she wanted to, but because Idis flooded her mind with impulses lulling her to sleep as she had for the last few days. She rested, as above her, the sick patients, including Seql, waited.
 
—-
 
“Geneva?”
It was Idis who woke her. The Selphid quietly waited for Geneva; she had been piloting Geneva’s body as the [Doctor] slept.
When Geneva’s mind took over, she saw a single [Message] waiting for her.
 
From Tritel:
Report. The Waverider’s Wake has gone down with all hands at sea. Wistram reports scrying ship’s demise.
Unable to send medicine by magic or air.
Sending more samples around typhoon. 
Requesting Sea Couriers.
 
—-
 
The cure reached Terandria and Chandrar. Or rather—ships already in-progress were intercepted at sea, their cargos seized.
Tritel had been canny. He had deliberately given each [Captain] a single crate, promising payment only when the delivery had been made—and a generous sum. Each delivery was noted by the Seafarer’s Guild, the arm of the [Storm Captain] fleets and alliances of navies and nations.
However. Some [Captains] still sold their valuable cargo. Others were loyal and true, for all the good it did.
“…ships known to frequent Savere’s ports have seized the third shipment. The Siren denies involvement, but samples are already appearing on the black markets…Roshal…cultivating their own…Khelt…Ailendamus’ blockade continues as…”
The other nations had their hands on the cure. Some paid [Pirates] or Undersea Crews or even [Storm Captains] willing to be privateers to acquire the medicine.
For instance, Fetohep of Khelt had obtained a sample of the cure. Former citizens of Khelt—one family—had begged to return home. He had granted their plea and obtained the valuable medicine for their single family.
And because of his love of his subjects, Balerosians were dying. Not one sample had made it along either coast; Baleros was directly opposite Izril and the only way aside from a coastal route was through the eye of Typhoon Erannda.
What a name. Wistram had begun a practice of naming the typhoons, a new practice they had picked up from…somewhere. Now—they braced as the typhoon came at them, drawn to the magic of the academy.
Already, the winds had battered the bubble of calm around Wistram. Inside was a placid harbor, the sun shining, clear air for hundreds of feet around the citadel of [Mages]. Beyond the bubble?
Archmage Feor saw a wave crashing down, hundreds of feet high. The water was blown far, far above the still waters around the Academy, protected by the magical bubble. The wind was blowing so fiercely waterspouts and even shoals of fish were moving around the edges of the field.
That was all from afar, nearly a hundred miles away. His [Raven Eyes] spell showed him that, along with a scrying mirror for another viewing angle. The waves around the academy were storm-lashed—but survivable. For now.
