Magic. Things were happening in the inn too. Big stories, small ones. But Mrsha was hoping the Couriers got through.
Behind her, something interrupted her from her staring at the rain. Mrsha turned her head and blinked.
A baby crawled across the inn’s floor. Mrsha stared at it. The baby was Human, tiny, and had red…hair…
“Whose baby is that?”
Maviola El stared at the crawling infant. Mrsha looked up. Oh. The [Lady] looked around as the baby crawled past her.
She looked—different. Mrsha stared at Maviola, then the baby. She narrowed her eyes at Maviola. Was she…? Mrsha sniffed a few times and Maviola winked at her.
“There you are! How did you get so fast?”
The mother hurried after the baby and Mrsha hopped off the windowsill to scold her. A baby? In her inn? Didn’t this mother know what happened around here?
 
—-
 
That evening, Mrsha watched the coverage of the delivery with everyone else. It was news.
But there was no word from any of the ships at sea save for a single scrying spell that managed to get through the storm. Wistram had an image of one of the Couriers; the Waterbear, for all of eleven seconds.
The viewers saw a huge figure, a Bearkin, larger than even a Raskghar, fighting at the helm of her vessel. Her fur was drenched and they saw a flash of light as a spell activated. The ship shot forwards—then stopped.
It began to rise out of the water. The Waterbear looked back. She looked around, but no turning of the wheel or trick of sails could stop what was happening next.
Her ship was moving up into the sky as the waterspout bore down on her. The image saw her ship rising higher, disappearing into a whirlwind of water. Then—nothing.
 
—-
 
They were encountering danger at sea. 
The Hundredfriends Courier hadn’t slept for an entire day. He looked over his shoulder. Six dolphins were dragging his ship ahead; larger than the rest of their kind, even armored with a lightweight scaling.
His head swiveled as he heard a roar from underwater. It was echoed; Seve-Alrelious swore. He looked ahead. But he had lost his way in the pursuit. There was only the clouded skies, the tossing sea. Another wave nearly knocked him off his feet as he raised his arm.
One of the magical tattoos glowed. The Courier screamed as the image of a little, waving suit of armor and face moved.
“[Steelfriend’s Pact]! Take us there!”
The light moved. Seve pointed.
“There!”
The Dolphins surged forwards, pulling the World’s Pact ahead. The Courier heard another roar from behind. His pursuer had seen the light. He turned as more of his friends swam to guard their rear. The pact with Seql was still shining bright. The Courier took a deep breath.
“Tombhome, take me back one day.”
He saw a long form cutting through the water. The Courier raised the arm and the Steelfriend’s tattoo unleashed its magic.
“Skin like steel!”
The first Sea Serpent broke through the wave, maw opened wide. The dolphins dragged the ship onwards as a Nelgaunt and smaller serpent turned to fight. Seve lifted a hunting spear, the rope fastened around his waist and leapt into the waves as the glowing monkey, Erek—took the wheel. The World’s Pact fled even as the Hundredfriends fought, returning to the ship as blood colored the waters. Theirs and the serpent’s.
A dire thing. Seve hauled himself back in the boat as the first serpent writhed, too injured to dare attacking again. But it was one of many. He called for speed.
More were coming. 
 
—-
 
Another day passed. Silence from all four Couriers—no—three. Geneva had to oversee the cremation of two in the intensive-care facility. Seql refused to give up hope. He had a scrying orb in his room and he watched it all hours.
“He will come. I just have to wait, so I don’t let him down.”
He was growing weaker. Geneva had placed him in one of the two healing crystal beds, and it was the only thing keeping his strength up.
Three days since the Couriers had passed ended in silence. Just—Geneva listening to the coughing from her patients. The Iron Vanguard was patrolling along the coast, but they could not go to sea as the magical typhoon was still oncoming. And they had reported other ships in the waters.
[Pirates]. Drowned Ships? Geneva Scala performed her rounds.
 
—-
 
On the fourth day—a ball took place in Pallass. The Halfseekers attended.
It was a Dullahan’s formality; a ball on one of their holidays—not a universally-recognized one, and not a Pallassian vacation. Nevertheless—Dullahans across the city took a break on that day. And many attended this ball.
“It’s not a ball. Stop calling it that, Seborn.”
“We dance, eat, and mingle. It’s a damned ball.”
“Stop swearing! We’re guests of honor!”
Jelaqua would have punched Seborn, but for the fact that she was wearing a dress, long arm-length gloves that had come straight from the best [Seamstress] in Invrisil, and she didn’t want to disturb one part of her costly outfit. Plus, Seborn would have dodged.
Yes, the Couriers were now four days at sea and there was no word of them. Yes, the magical typhoon was still ongoing. Yes, Yellow Rivers was still plaguing many cities.
But the event was still taking place. Was it as important as life-saving medicine being transported through the worst storm in decades?
No…but both things still occurred.
“If it’s not a ball, what is it, Jelaqua?”
Seborn irritably adjusted the suit, tailored specifically for his human and crab-half. He looked sharp, and Moore and Ulinde were both outfitted in suits of their own. Ulinde had taken the body of a male Drake. Jelaqua…had been more calculating.
“A Walking-Waltz of Baleros. It is a Dullahan tradition, Seborn. You should be respectful.”
Moore kept his voice low as they entered the vast room booked for the occasion. Hundreds of Dullahans were present, all armored in their best attire. Most gleamed in steel suits with decoration; some had more expensive alloys, or, rarely, cloth armor or some other material instead.
“Remember, speak to the most expensive Dullahan first. Don’t make any rude comments—don’t slap them on the back!”
Jelaqua was fretful. Seborn rolled his eyes. Only she did that. He didn’t want to be here.
The Halfseekers were guests for two reasons: firstly, Jelaqua was from Baleros. They might have actually been invited just for that and their status as adventurers. Other Gold-rank teams were present too. But the second was simpler.
“Oh! Look at that. There’s Maughin.”
Jelaqua jumped. She stared ahead. The giant [Blacksmith] stood with a group of important Dullahans, his self-forged armor gleaming. He stood taller than anyone else in the room but Moore; a few of the Dullahans were taller than average, but no War Walkers were present.
“Maughin.”
The Selphid gulped. She had prepared for this event for over a week, fretted over it. That was why their attendance mattered.
Heads turned as the Halfseekers were quietly announced; unlike some Human events, there was no shouting here.
There was, however, music. It was very much like a ball. With some…changes.
“Ah.”
Seborn saw Moore start and elbowed him. The half-Giant’s surprise was understandable. The Dullahan bodies were dancing, or getting food. Meanwhile, their heads rested in social circles, talking to each other on padded cushions.
It was the kind of thing only Dullahans could do.
“I’m—I’m going to Maughin. You all behave. Alright?”
Jelaqua walked forwards slowly as her team watched her go. This wasn’t their big event. But it was for her. Dullahans were turning their heads across the floor to look at her.
A Selphid. And Maughin politely took his head from the social circle he was in. Both body and head went to meet Jelaqua and they smiled at each other.
They were still together, after all this time. That was the…cause of the attention. Seborn glowered about. It had not been easy for Jelaqua or Maughin. Many Dullahans had assumed the fling would be that. And today, well, the relationship was on trial in this public event.
“This was a mistake. Jelaqua looks like she’s going to vomit.”
“Well, it’s fine. We don’t throw up much.”
Ulinde missed the point. She looked around, more relaxed than Seborn. Certainly more than Moore.
“Should we—find something to eat? We’re just standing here. Or do we join one of the…”
He eyed the Dullahan’s heads. They would definitely be outsiders there. Ulinde shrugged.
“We can’t socialize the same as Dullahans. I could remove my head, but it won’t talk—”
“Shut up, both of you. Let’s find a drink.”
Seborn led them away, towards one of the tables set up with food. He was watching Jelaqua as she greeted Maughin. Here—she was playing by the Dullahan’s rules. No kissing. No overt displays of affection—certainly not her hugging the Dullahan or chattering as she used to. It had annoyed Seborn on other days. Today, he was hoping she impressed the Dullahans.
“I wish I were back at sea. Then we could just sink the bastards.”
He muttered. Seborn thought he’d been so quiet only his team would hear, but Moore made a sound and looked past him.
“I wouldn’t say that around other Dullahans if I were you, Seborn.”
The [Rogue] whirled. He saw a four-legged [Mage] standing there, sipping from a cocktail. Palt winked at Seborn.
“Palt? You’re here?”
Ulinde was astonished. The Centaur [Illusionist] nodded.
“Ulinde—I’m from Baleros. Of course I got the invitation. I decided to attend. I er—brought a guest too. Not sure we’ll do much dancing, but she asked to come with when Erin—”
He coughed. The Halfseekers looked past him at Imani. The girl was staring around, and shuffling towards Palt. It surprised them to see her there, but the two were in the foreigner’s group, on the outside of the actual socialization.
“Hello, Imani.”
Moore gave her a smile as he looked around. Imani looked relieved as she nodded to him, very Dullahan-like. The Halfseekers were on display as well. Palt was most at home here—he had lived among Dullahans before.
“Well, now that we’re here. We should dance a few times. I’ve got four left hooves—but that’s never stopped me.”
“Is it complex, Palt? Jelaqua had us memorizing dances…”
The Centaur laughed quietly and waved it away.
“Ulinde, this is a walking-waltz, not a Terandrian thing. Dullahans made it so you can dance in armor. It’s not hard. See?”
He nodded across the room. There was Jelaqua and Maughin. After a moment, they’d gone onto the floor to share the first dance, as couples should. Her team watched.
Jelaqua and Maughin. The [Blacksmith] looked used to the attention. Indeed, he was one of the more important Dullahans in Pallass. He could do little wrong among his people. Jelaqua?
The opposite. If silent hostility was a spell—it was about Tier 5 and directed on the Selphid. Palt watched Jelaqua sympathetically. This was her test.
“Jelaqua Ivirith. It is good to see you. Your attire is lovely.”
“It’s hardly armor. Thanks, Maughin.”
Her lips moved very little as she smiled up at him. The giant Dullahan and Selphid walked along the slow-moving pairs; the music was indeed meant for a very slow kind of dance. A harpsichord was playing along with the stringed instruments Balerosian and Dullahan music was known for. The cellist who had played for Tails and Scales was among the Dullahan performers.
Eyes were on Jelaqua, judging her for her performance here. That was why the Selphid had worked so hard on the last few days. She had even had to choose which body to wear.
It would have been a travesty to wear a Dullahan’s body, especially since it could no longer magically separate. The same went for a Raskghar, for all that made her tall and almost comparable to Maughin. In the end, Jelaqua had mulled it over and taken a female Human’s body, one of the few she had kept.
From the Siege of Liscor. It was an outsider’s form. That she acknowledged it openly won her some slow nods from Dullahans for the honestly of it. She’d chosen the tallest Human she could, but she was still mismatched with Maughin. He carried his head lower so they could talk, but it was still…
Jelaqua was afraid. Fear gripped her, a mortal terror, in the Gold-rank adventurer. It was so easy to kill monsters or risk her life. This was far scarier to her. Far harder. After all—she was a Selphid, unwanted among other species, especially as a partner.
She kept her chin raised, but she couldn’t suppress the faint orange blush in her skin. It glowed beneath the magical makeup that gave her skin a living flush.
Maughin made no comment on that. But, like Jelaqua, he was aware his words and actions were being watched.
“You look full of life, Jelaqua.”
She blushed deeper at the compliment.
“It’s just the makeup. S-shall we?”
The [Smith] nodded. He put his head on his shoulders, fastening it tight. Jelaqua saw he was the only Dullahan who was actually fully on the ballroom floor. The others were all able to socialize.
“Sorry. Let’s make it a quick dance.”
“These things shouldn’t be rushed, Jelaqua.”
He was right. That would just make them look bad if they didn’t take their time. Jelaqua flushed deeper. All eyes on her, she stepped out with Maughin, following the slow flow on the floor.
This was how the walking waltz took place between partners. They took each other’s arms gently, walking in a slow circle first, and then joined the slow procession. There was eloquence to it, but it was hardly the swift rotation, the complex pivots of Terandrian, Human waltzes. No one was about to try lifting each other into the air when both sides wore metal armor.
It was indeed something that didn’t take practice. Once you were in it, the pattern of the slow dance was obvious.
“So—so, is there anyone in particular I should meet? I’ve talked with your friends—maybe the [Diplomat] from the Iron Vanguard?”
“There’s no obligation, Jelaqua. You’re…trembling.”
“Am I? I’m just excited. Panicked? I never said that.”
The Selphid tried not to chatter. Their voices were low, as the headless bodies moved around them. They completed a circuit of the room; the inner pairs moved counterclockwise to the outside flow.
“You have nothing to worry about, Jelaqua Ivirith. Have you not attended the walking waltzes in Baleros? At least once or twice, surely.”
“Once or twice. But never as…a partner. Only a guest of honor. I don’t want to make a mistake, Maughin. I could ruin your reputation.”
The Selphid whispered. The Dullahan calmly looked around the room. Other Dullahans pretended to be engrossed in conversation, or eating.
“I see. Is that why you haven’t come to the forge the last four days?”
“We shouldn’t see each other before the walking-waltz.”
