“Jimjam. No.” Stepping between them, Rain walked up to the cat and bopped it softly on the nose, unconcerned about its razor-sharp teeth. “Get out of here, they're not gonna hurt Mafu. Go on, get back to cuddling.” As if understanding his words, the animal backed away to lay beside a heavily bandaged roosequin. The feline's brown eyes never left Yuzhen, staring murderously and ready to pounce at a moments notice. “Major Yuzhen, thank you for coming. Please stop staring at Jimjam, he's feeling very protective at the moment.”

As the roosequin resumed snoring, the tension eased from the wildcat's body and she resisted the urge to sigh in relief. Nerves drawn, she followed him to a table inside a stone gazebo, where Huushal and Fung waited. Rain poured tea for them all, filling her cup first, a good start. Perhaps the situation could still be salvaged, Rain was on his best behaviour, displaying contrition. Finishing her cup, she tilted her head and said, “It seems you've made an enemy.” He likely wanted safe passage out of the city, and she would accept. Once he was gone, then she could treat with the Magistrate and work something out.

“One of my many talents.” There was something different about Rain, no smiles or stares, only sarcasm and anger. Sharp and acerbic, he seemed like a bow drawn taut and ready to fire. “Jorani there grew up in Sanshu and filled me in on the local politics.”

A pinched faced half-beast bobbed his head, hand clutching his elbow. “Aye ser, born an' raised. Mum was a washer-woman, alwa-”

“Jorani, we don't need your life's story..”

“Aye ser magnificent one. This one understands. Silence. Whatever you say. Yer the boss. Speak and I listen, command, and I ob-”

“Just... quiet. Anyway, apparently some of the bandits we apprehended have backers in Sanshu who are none too pleased. Last night they sent a few dozen thugs to sort me out while I was out for a stroll with Lin. We survived, but Mafu over there took a beating and I had to use my clothes to bandage him.” Rain's eyes hardened as he broke into a false smile. “I am owed a debt and I intend to collect it, one way or another.”

A shiver of fear and excitement coursed through her. “Matters are complicated, Officer Rain. The three merchant factions in Sanshu hold considerable power.”

“If I understand things correctly, the merchants are selling supplies to the Empire and having bandits steal them, leading to more sales. In a time of war, most people would call that treason.”

Sighing, Yuzhen rubbed her eyes. Why were all the cute ones so stupid? Men always liked to believe they knew everything, that matters were black and white. “True, but we have no proof of collusion. Even an accusation must contain some facts in order for the Justicar to allow challenge, and the wealth of the merchants means they have some of the greatest duelists ready to defend them in trial by combat.”

“We don't need to prove collusion, we just need to make it unprofitable for them to use bandits. It's simple: offer to renegotiate their contracts and start paying them substantially more to deliver the supplies to Shen Yun with steep financial penalties for late or missing shipments. To them, it will sound like free, easy money, since they know they won't be robbed.” Leaning back with a satisfied smile, he acted as if everything were already solved.

“That is why I brought 5,000 soldiers, to ensure safe delivery. I can't outsource my job and how would I even pay for it?”

“By hunting down the bandits of course.” Winking roguishly, he feigned injury. “They were bold enough to grievously injure one of your Warrant Officers inside Sanshu, an insult that cannot stand. Declare open warfare on the bandits and begin seizing their spoils for the Empire, to 'offset the costs of delivery', all legal and above-board. I've turned in recovered goods for 10% of their value, but I'm sure someone in Shen Yun would be willing to pay 30% value for silk or timbers, or whatever we find. A profit is a profit.”

“And your assassins?”

“I'll leave the city, camp out for a few weeks. We all should, you would become a target too.”

Pausing, she went over the plan in her mind. “It's not a terrible idea. This solves the problem of supplies, although it lacks sustainability. The bandits will go into hiding, some might even be used as guards themselves. Then what will we do? The merchants will insist on a year-long contract for deliveries, citing the need to recoup the costs of hiring guards or some nonsense, and we will be unable to pay.”

“That's the beauty of it.” Fung chimed in with a vicious smile. “You underestimate my brother, he is far more devious than he appears.”

“Devious sounds so evil. Besides it's only taking a lesson from the merchants.” Leaning in close, Rain motioned for her to approach him and she took in his manly musk, passion igniting within her. “Once they start delivering, we're going to pose as bandits and rob the caravans. Then, we send our ill-gotten gains to Shen Yun under the guise of goods recovered from bandits, using Zian's connections to make sure no one is the wiser. We have a few hundred bandits in the jails to use as camouflage, it's perfect. The merchants pay a penalty and supplies to the Bridge aren't interrupted, win win. Turnabout is fair play, after all.”

Staring at the young man before her, she once again reevaluated her opinion of him. The citizens called him a savage, believing he was naive and ignorant, but she knew better. Although they lived in the wilds, the Bekhai were far from the uneducated barbarians most took them for. An accomplished warrior, a gifted physician with all the markings of a future healer, and a ...flexible mind, Rain was an intriguing young man. His plan would need some tweaking, but it could work. Glancing down at her teacup, she tossed the contents aside. “I can see why you didn't want the Magistrate here. You have any liquor? This calls for a toast.”

The thought of spending weeks in the brush with him thrilled her. Perhaps she could get him drunk and entice him away from those little girls always hanging around him. There was something to be said for laying in the dirt, her hands held down as he ravaged her...

Dammit girl, focus.

...She should have agreed when Gerel asked to come along, she could have used the company... and the protection.

Chapter Meme
