“Hers is that she doesn't feel ready, and is worried she will mess up. My problem is that she won’t take over. Elliot is… not someone I want to continue working with. He’s not a bad person, just someone I can’t see myself trusting long term with the guild. It feels like every angle he’s coming at things isn’t the way I want them done, even if they are more efficient and technically better from a high level perspective a lot of the time. Yes, selling bespoke rifts has proven to be the right call, but I—. I don’t love it and I know that’s not entirely fair either. I just can’t help it.”

Aunt Helen’s expression didn’t change in the slightest as she replied, “Then move on. You can’t delay for her sake forever. Even if Aster asks you to help her friend, you can’t hamper your goals for someone else.”

Matt rubbed his eyes before pinching his nose hard enough to hurt.

Letting his many convoluted and jumbled emotions shine through, he met her gaze. “Not yet. And I will mention that Aster was the first one to suggest I find a different replacement. Maybe it's purely a sunk cost fallacy but I’m giving her another chance.”

He could see Aunt Helen opening her mouth to try and persuade him, but he knew she out of everyone he knew had a very real chance of doing exactly that. Instead of letting her work her magic he blurted out his reasoning.

“This is as much about her as it is about me, which is to say I know this isn’t logical, but I… I need to do it this way. At least a little more. Cameron’s issue is that she’s worried that she’d going to fuck something up, ruin the guild in some way. And in her defence she has made mistakes in basically all of her training and test beds, because yes, she is young and inexperienced and only getting this position because of our connection. But I don’t care about those flaws. I’d rather have someone I trust at the helm who makes mistakes I can help clean up than have someone there who I don’t fully trust. And besides, they have all been honest mistakes or traps set for the purpose of teaching her first hand about weird situations. I understand she’s going to fuck up. Kees did, Elliot has, she will.”

After he took a moment to work through and affirm his thoughts, he let his thoughts flow without as much planning. “I’ve decided to give her until the royal birth, then I’ll start looking for a different replacement or some other method. But for my own sake, I need to fulfill my promise to have her back. I said I would at the start of this and I will fulfill that. I know it may seem like she’s not living up to her end of the agreement, but I also empathize that the reason she isn't stepping into the position is because she’s worried about ruining everything that’s been established. She’s afraid to do a bad job, she’s not trying to avoid it. That difference matters. At least to me. I want to, need to, fulfill my promise about having her back. I can’t be the one to pull the rug out from under her like that while she’s still trying so hard. I just… won’t.”

Aunt Helen didn't reply instantly, instead letting their soup conversation consist of idle chatter about the food. It wasn’t until they were swapping courses that she circled back around.

“I get it and you are a good friend, but stick firm to that deadline. Being tough is its own form of support, just like having someone to back you up. It's also okay to reevaluate a former plan and chart a new flight plan when the winds change.” Clapping, she forcefully changed the subject. “So, you mentioned children. Have you and Liz finally settled on whether or not you will be joining the others?”

Matt winced, causing Aunt Helen to sit up straighter. She slumped back down when she registered his smirk and accompanying words.

“Nope! We are still undecided. We’ll make a choice when the upcoming war is over. That means two to three hundred years to think it over at the very least. Plenty of time to change our minds.”

In reality, they were firmly on the birth side, but they’d been aiming for a more natural conception, and so hadn’t used any of the numerous fertility aids or replacements sent by Mara and Leon to all of the siblings. He and Liz had been more than a bit worried Mara and Leon had caught onto their plans, but no, the duo were simply doing what they did during every noble generation and paving the way for potential grandchildren.

However, until then they’d agreed to keep their cards close to their chests, so he had to lie to Aunt Helen along with everyone else.

Aunt Helen either didn’t believe him or saw through him as her grin turned wicked, and she patted him on the arm just as she walked around him to go into the kitchen to pull out the glazed ham leg. “Sure thing, dear. Do remember to take the classes for first time immortal parents. I’ve heard excellent things.”

Her tone was smug enough that Allie would have run into it like a wall, but his attention was exactly what she wanted as she entered the kitchen as she added, “I did help get that particular program started, after all.”

Matt returned her grin with one of his own. If she wanted to tease, he was more than willing to join her.

“Maybe you should be joining us? A pendant and premodified skill from JR? Hmmm? Is there something there you want to share?”

Aunt Helen didn’t even try to deflect. “JR is… well, I don’t quite expect you to get it, but he's a bird. I appreciate that. I may wear a human shape most of the time, for most of my life at this point, but at my heart, I'm still a phoenix flying around with my flock, my family. Human shape is simply easier to be in with my newer, larger, family, but it's not exactly how I see my true self. JR is similar in that respect, we are both birds in a human world.”

“So, are you actually interested in him? Romantically speaking?” That question earned him a side eye he didn’t even try to parse, so he continued without undue delay. “You always deflected using your Concept as a very justifiable reason. But now that it's fixed, I’m excited for you.”

“And your personal opinion of JR isn’t fueling that question, young man?”

Matt snorted, “Oh, it definitely is. I think you can do a lot better than JR. He's a big, dumb, feathery irritant who frankly sucks at aftermarket service. But if he makes you happy, I will be happy for you.”

It was clear she didn’t believe a word he said, though her grin threatened to slip and give away the game. “Or are you just hoping that if I Tier up fast enough that you’ll take me gallivanting around the upper Realms and show me all of the nice new birds I can find there? Hmmm?”

Matt leaned over and pressed a kiss to the top of her feathered head, careful not to shift his center of gravity too far, lest he flip the chair and ruin the moment. “Bullseye in one and I won’t even pretend to deny it. I know you said he’d be able to hop between Realms and that was a tentative plan, but that’s why I want you to advance faster! Think of all the adventures we could go on in the higher Realms together? It would be a ton of fun! Before I get too distracted, let’s gossip about the armor though. I was very impressed. [Hardlight Armor] is notoriously difficult to make elemental variations of, let alone ones that are combat stable like that. Unless you were manually holding it together that whole time. But in that case, kudos! Because that’s hard enough that I won’t even bother. It's considered a support spell for a reason.” Grinning to show he was joking, he leaned in, “I know because Rah screwed all of us after Luna figured out how good of a training aid it can be. Mara and Leon still have it out for him, but I can’t say I blame them. They did make great distractions though. Should I apologize for that? Ehh they enjoyed her personal tutelage, I’m sure.”

As Aunt Helen chortled, Matt tapped into the [Hardlight Armor] he’d made and practiced with under Luna’s claws. The light around them condensed and formed detailed gauntlets before exploding into motes of light that flowed into vambraces. “What longevity mods did he use? Or did he use some other method to bypass the need to manually hold the spell projection together?”

“Matthew I don’t know. Why don’t you ask JR?”

“He blocked me and you know it!”
