Chapter 504

Matt could hardly contain his excitement as he followed Aunt Helen through the halls of her suite to the training room. On the way, he tapped into the room’s automated systems, discovering what it had to offer and how much punishment it could take.

Given the nine Tier gap between them it wasn’t like he was going to be going all out, but he wanted to know exactly how careful he needed to be with the room. Most of his worries were put to rest as he both saw and felt the training room.

It was rated for Tier 35’s, which was enough to let him not stress about any attacks he’d be willing to use against the older Phoenix.

Unable to hold back his curiosity, he asked, “So what made you change your mind about sparring?”

Aunt Helen gave him a side eye, as if she’d already expected him to have figured things out. “You eager chicks are now at the peak of war Tiers and can’t pester an old woman like me to delve faster. That means sparring can be fun. Also, I may have worked out a new technique and you make an excellent test subject.” After a grin to show she was teasing, she added, “I also had to get back in the groove a bit before I was willing to spar with you chicks. All of you are too good, and even an old woman like me has an ego she doesn't want bruised too badly too often.”

Instead of spoiling her surprise, Matt asked what he felt was a perfectly normal follow up. “Is there anything you do or don’t want me to do in the spar?”

Aunt Helen nodded solemnly before breaking out in a devilish grin. “Yes, but I’m not telling you. You’ll have to figure it out yourself during the fight.”

Matt chuckled as he finished getting the training room ready for them.

Aunt Helen’s steps only paused for a moment but she waved him to the far side of the room. “Fine, if you are so impatient, you can walk to the far end. I was going to be nice and do that myself.”

“I would never make you do that,” Matt said from his new location at the far end of the now flaming room.

With a devious smile, Aunt Helen shouted, "Prepare to lose!”

Accompanying her words, the room's flames surged at him in three torrents. The wooden spoon in her hands had seen more use to assist with controlling the flames in the kitchen while cooking than it had in a rift, but that had only given her more practice with the unconventionally shaped wand.

Matt stepped forward then backwards, diagonally dodging the first and third streams of fire while letting loose with two [Gravitic Bolt]s in return. He only cast them slightly stronger than a typical Tier 26 mage should be able to manage, matching Helen.

The second stream of fire had never intended to hit him, but it was also the only one he was worried about. He started to duck, lowering his upper body and center of gravity, which correctly baited the stream of flames to sink lower.

Instead of following through with the expected action, he jumped over the flames as the [Fire Vines] hidden inside the room’s general flames reached out to grab his feet.

Landing off to the side, he laughed even as he paid her a compliment. “You weren’t lying when you said you have no problem delving at-Tier. That was a very good trap. You have good power in your spells and the reaction speed to use it.”

The flames didn’t stop moving but they didn’t charge after him recklessly.

The [Fire Vines] did, but that spell had already been exposed and it was the right call.

Matt contemplated his next steps as the spell tried to entangle him, but he made his choice as the mass of living flames loomed above him, ready to crash down. He aborted a lunge backwards before throwing himself forward, directly into the now hesitating mass of vines.

Even acting as a Tier 26 rather than a Tier 35, he could have fought his way out of the vines, but that wasn’t his goal. His left hand closed around one of the vines that didn’t look any different than the rest, even as his right severed two others with two quick pinches.

The moment he did, the rest of the spell froze. He felt the spell start to buck and loosened his grip slightly, but not enough to let it break free.

Turning, he stuck his tongue out towards the shocked Helen as he took the chance to share something he’d found fascinating. “Zack got a bit fixed on a trick he saw Sien pull off against a [Abyssal Vine] user. He then reverse engineered what she did and then we put our heads together and figured out how to apply it to most other low Tier vine spells. Shame to say it doesn’t work for any of the Tier 26 and higher versions as far as we can tell. But to make something complicated simple, all of the lower Tier vine spells are cheating in how they create so much mass without overwhelming their casters' mental faculties. They create three or so taproot vine first, and then base all the others off of them. They’re not exactly copies, but let’s call them that for simplicity's sake.”

Wiggling the vine he had in his hand, Matt winked at the still stunned Helen. “And if you know what you’re doing, it’s pretty straightforward to hijack that mechanism, especially the motion pieces, and immobilize all of the copies. It has to do with how mov—”

Matt’s words were cut off as the spell dissolved out from his control.

He didn’t mind letting the impromptu lesson on skill movement mechanics end as she cast a spell he wasn’t familiar with and let his concentration go with it.

The flames that were being conjured from the edges of the room started to dissolve, as did every fire in the room. The fire turned into a mist-like substance that obscured a great many of his senses in a way he wasn’t immediately familiar enough with to have a ready counter.

Thoroughly intrigued, he flicked his left hand and created a small shower of sparks, wanting to see how much the spell could affect. Even before the flames left his control, he felt the spell start to eat away at his fire, surprising him.

His initial expectation had leaned towards the spell being a unique variation of the more typical area control spells, like [Denial Of Flame], [Earth Exclusion Zone], [Wispy Whispers], and one of Aiden's favorites to run into: [Drought Zone]. More often than not, such strong but low Tier spells had glaring holes that made them easy to counter by an expert who knew what to target.

[Drought Zone] had been pretty popular for a little while after Aiden completed the path, being a water mage’s bane. But these days, its usage was close to an all-time low, thanks to Aiden’s own copy of the skill… which he’d modified to have some particularly nasty abilities when pair-cast. The fact his enemies didn’t want to pair-cast with him had never stopped him of course, or really hindered him in any way from draining all the water out of both their body and everyone else’s around them.

Matt hadn’t seen this new spell and started to get excited, wondering what base spell had been made or modified to reach this result.

He was very wrong, but realized why as he felt the spell finish gaining control.

It wasn’t a new spell at all.

That seemed obvious in retrospect, given who he was dealing with, but most new skills he ran into these days were exactly that, new. Aunt Helen’s age meant it was old and probably rare, if not cracked and therefore unique.

He wished anyone luck trying to tie his [Cracked Phantom Armor], even before he’d started merging it with [Archmage’s Presence], to the original [Phantom Armor], and suspected he might have the same situation on his hands. As the room reached a diffuse orange, with wisps of deeper red flitting around the edges of his vision, he felt the spell shudder as if a heavy switch had been triggered.

Once more, his initial expectations proved incorrect. The fire mist didn’t remanifest in a new stronger form, it blurred as it started to smother any flames it didn’t consider its own.

Wanting to test that impression, he waved a finger, using a flick to cast [Fire Bolt] at Helen. The spell hit the orange and red mist like an arrow striking water. It penetrated and moved forward, but every inch it crawled forward it grew weaker and slower until it was frozen mid-air, a thin remnant of its once majestic form.

“Is this your solution to other fire mages?”

Helen smiled, even as spells started to form around him. “Thats a pretty fair assumption. It's got flaws, but it works well enough to delve and I need it for what I’m about to do next.”

Wanting to do his part, he darted forward, aiming to put a little pressure on Helen, but his charge ended almost as fast as it began as he felt her marshal her Concept. Having never fought her before, he was eager to match her Concept for Concept.

Despite Helen’s dedication to rebuilding her Concept piece by piece, her most important Domain stage wasn’t overly powerful, and that surprised him. Oh, it was strong, Matt would never imply otherwise. In fact it hit harder than what most lower elite Tier 26’s could muster, but it wasn’t on the level that he’d initially expected, given her age.

He understood that her Concept had been broken, and so it hadn’t been growing, but he’d expected the weight of her experience to have manifested, and that would have been the most obvious way.

As they clashed, Matt found his initial impression was both right and wrong. Aunt Helen hadn’t gotten nothing from the arduous task of rebuilding her Concept.

It was one of the rare few times in his life Matt found himself on the losing end of a clash of Domains. His Concept was large, weighty, and powerful, all adjectives that dwarfed the ones he’d normally use to describe Aunt Helen’s Concept the few times he’d seen her use it.

Those were more often than not words such as gentle, comforting, and homely. While he understood that her Image of family had transformed into a representation of the Empire and those in it that she considered family, he always imagined her Concept like velvet gloves that a mother might wear in the winter. Best of all, it was the velvet down of a baby phoenix chick and the perfect warmth.

It was Aunt Helen, plain and simple.

Currently, the only word Matt could use to describe Helen’s Concept was velvet covered steel. Even his Concept bent and twisted when it came into contact with hers, losing out in their raw metaphysical battle.

Jumping back to dodge the first onslaught of spells, Matt laughed as he changed tactics and came at her obliquely, using his Concept’s size to try and pressure her that way. However, once again, it felt like trying to compress steel with his bare hands. Or how that would have gone when he was a low Tier. His pressure landed and weighed down on Helen, but it couldn’t slow her down, let alone paralyze her, like it could those who refused to retract their Concept in the face of his.

When she struck out in retaliation, he gained a better understanding as he easily shrugged off the attack.

“You have perfect control over your Concept, don't you?”

Helen didn’t let up on the offense, even as she smiled, as flames started to gather around a pendant of a bird's claw she hadn’t been wearing earlier.

Armor composed of the strange living flames started to form around her, but he could feel she was using the pendant to replace the fire that should normally be taken to form the armor. She spoke through her split concentration, but he could tell she was reaching her limits and didn’t press. “I didn’t expect you to catch on so quickly, most people take a little longer to land on the truth an— Ugh! Have a few false starts. But yes, I know every single fragment of my Concept. It doesn’t make my Concept stronger or more powerful, but it gives me control. Or it did after some practice.”

The last was added after she nearly fumbled the flow of flames going into the armor.

Matt stepped forward, getting right next to Helen to inspect the flows of strange dispersed flames that were forming a familiar solidified armor.

Helen redirected the spells to target his new location but he used that as a reason to inspect other portions of the armor as it formed.

“Ah, it’s [Hardlight Armor], very nice.”

That startled Helen and she nearly fumbled the spell, so he poked her in the ribs to remind her that they were still in a fight. If he was correct, that was seriously impressive, but he didn’t press her for more information during the fight. That Tier 0 skill was… finicky at the best of times.

Rah would be endlessly smug when he found out someone else had found another use for the loathsome spell.

His question only earned him a new wave of spells, but no physical reaction, telling him even more. Backing off, he caught a modified [Fire Dart] with his indestructible left hand to get a better sense for this new kind of fire.

It wasn’t exactly hotter than a normal Tier 26 spell cast from a dedicated fire mage, but the flame had its own unique properties that he took his time feeling out. It burned mana about half as well as it did normal material, which was an interesting alteration, but its true advantage was that it refused to go out.

He’d encountered enough fire mages that he wasn’t too shocked by either development, but he was impressed. Both were fairly standard goals fire mages strove for, but he could learn a lot by seeing how she compared to people like the Republic Pinnacle elite Lilian Sinclar. Her fire aspect let her bypass the physical and burn the spirit directly, but she was far from alone in branching out. Even Mara could directly attack a person's healing cooldown if she needed to bypass more traditional defences.

The four most popular level 1 mana aspects — earth, wind, water, and fire— may have been common, but that meant there was a lot more collective wisdom to pull and extrapolate from.

