Matt’s first [Dispelling Edge], intended to cut the spell forms holding the fire together, did nothing. The spell-enchanted edge of his finger only made the flame warble, as if he’d run his finger through any normal flame. Even his mana draining Folded Reflection power struggled to get a firm enough hold on the spell to dispel it outright, which raised his appreciation of the move up several notches.

A handful of water made through [Create Water] and held in place through a bit of a gravity nudge also had no appreciable effect, ratcheting his expectations of the spell once more. For most people and creatures, the special flame spells would burn until they ran out of mana, where it would happily burn their flesh. Helen hadn’t seemed to figure out how to make the spells feed on the mana they burned, but the dual avenue of attack was exactly what he’d been hoping to see.

It both prevented her from getting into a disadvantageous situation against another fire mage, and gave her a decent amount of protection against water mages.

Freezing the water, he checked the flame’s capabilities against ice and found the spell started to weaken dramatically. A thought dispelled the ice, letting the flame return to burning his hand.

A weakness to ice wasn’t ideal, but he assumed she had that taken care of in some other way. Ice was at least a lot rarer than water. Though, most dedicated water mages kept a few ice spells on hand at a minimum, even if they weren't particularly skilled in their use. That problem would rarely exist in relation to rift monsters.

Ice monsters were both rare, to Aster’s irritation, and obvious.

Wanting to test another hunch, Matt grabbed the flame with his Domain and squeezed. He felt a large portion of the dispersed flames start to quiver and more pieces of the puzzle started to fall into place.

That narrowed the possible sources of the spell down to two.

Helen’s armor finished forming and she called out, “Thanks for waiting!”, making Matt facepalm as he ducked the attack that came at him from behind.

He both understood she’d wanted to catch him off guard and that she was genuinely grateful, but that only made it worse. Still, he couldn’t be rude.

“You’re welcome, but normally such thanks are exchanged after the fight.”

Helen huffed at him, the expression coming through clear as day despite the full suit of armor that obscured her from sight. His spiritual perception was more than strong enough to see through it, but even if he hadn’t, her tone said it all. “Your concentration isn’t the one being taxed here. I’m trying to show off!”

“It's very impressive. Both your Concept and the fire, which I have a lot of questions about when we are done. If we were at the same Tier, you would wipe the floor with me.” Assuming he was holding back a similar degree, anyway. But he kept that to himself.

“You were laying it on a bit thick there at the end, but I do appreciate the sentiment. However, the armor isn’t the last thing I want to show you. This is!”

Matt felt Helen bring her Intent to bear, but he didn’t move to interfere. He’d long known that her newest Domain stage was no different from any other Tier 25’s, having seen her use it intermittently. One wrong move and he was afraid that he’d hurt her Intent. From her concentration, he could tell that she was doing something that she’d only just begun to master, and so held himself back.

His quiet chants turned into a whoop of joy as he saw the results of her success.

The flame he’d accepted from her quavered in his chest in a sympathetic response, even as the strange fire spread through the room finally started to recondense. At first, he thought they were forming into another layer of armor, but he realized his mistake as he saw his own visage standing across from him.

He didn’t recognize the other three, but that was because they were all identical copies of her already identical bodyguards.

With the power of her Intent, and if he wasn’t wrong, a little help from the pendant, the flames had been given physical form and were able to engage him in melee while Helen blasted him from afar.

It was interesting to fight a fire version of himself, but the copy was limited in the skill it could express, indicating it was pulling from what Aunt Helen understood, rather than having access to all of his own swordsmanship. In fact, all three newly formed fighters were on a similar ability level regarding melee combat, though they didn’t seem to have any access to spells.

After he’d understood that, the moment his copy went in for a strike, he punched it hard enough to disperse it. That caused all of the other fire constructs to quiver as their shared material came under immense force, but he’d calculated his power well, and the other two bodies fell apart as they went in for an attack.

Matt stepped forward, explaining as he did so. “Linking elements has a lot of advantages in terms of resilience and redundancy. But like a weapon with only a durability enchantment, after a point, breaking one thing brings everything linked to it down alongside it. ”

He could clearly see the mirth in her eyes, but Aunt Helen had started smacking her spoon on her hand like she was going to smack him as he continued to talk.

“So, what are those flames? It's either cracked or Talent-made, and from the pendant I’m guessing the latter, or you wouldn’t need assistance to have gotten the fire to work with [Hardlight Armour].” When he finally got within twacking range, he got popped on the arm, but he continued all the same. “A pendant that a particular raven might have put together?”

Those final words earned him an eye roll, but her stance shifted to neutral as she let out a small but dramatic sigh. “You win, child. Do you think this might be why I didn’t want to spar, or ascension forbid, train with you all? I felt helpless the entire fight.”

Matt jerked back theatrically, as if he didn’t understand that she was both speaking the truth and had wanted him to do exactly what he’d done during their fight.

He proffered an elbow even as he cast [Cleanse] on both of them. That done, he turned them to the door while he set the room’s automated systems to clean and prepare itself for the next time it was used.

“I’m very impressed with your Concept and Intent. Is that last ability about reflecting the family you already see around you from your Concept back into reality?”

“I would probably describe it a touch differently but yes, that is the general idea. As for the flames, ah, you are also right there. An old phoenix friend, long since ascended, made the skill for me with her Talent. It was similar to Liz’s in some ways, but hers was a Tier 25. I’ll never forget the look on Trisha’s face when she pushed the first copy of the skill into a skill shard and the whole thing fell apart in front of everyone. She was so embarrassed and I felt bad about that, but it was funny. I think she learned an important lesson about planning surprises that have a chance to fail.”

Despite her harsh words, Aunt Helen’s wide smile split her face. “She made a new copy after that, but she ejected that one privately. It’s fairly simple as skills go, being a modified then Talent altered [Area Fire Subjugation]. I don’t think any of them drop any more unless there is a really old rift I don’t know about, but the spell itself tries to gain control over the fire around the caster. Elemental mages used to use such spells when delving same aspect rifts, but I’m sure I don’t have to tell you why these spells fell out of favor.”

She didn’t, but he only nodded not wanting to interrupt. “Thanks to Trisha’s unique flames eating other flames, and having few elemental weaknesses themselves, I can avoid other mages gaining control over the flames and therefore my own spells. It was, as you no doubt guessed, JR who sent the pendant and premodified skill when I learned about the elemental variations of [Hardlight Armor] and what they could do, and started looking into it. As for the final trick of summoning my family? I got the idea from you, which is why I wanted to show it off. I truly am never alone any more. Thank you for that.”

Matt stopped and turned, stopping Aunt Helen in her tracks as he put a hand over his heart.

“That’s too kind. I truly am a ray of sunshine.” His words, or possibly the light he emitted, earned him another light slap on the arm by the hand he was escorting her with, but he returned the soft squeeze she snuck in as she continued.

“Don’t be churlish. But your assumption is correct. It's not a Meld, but I took your advice and tried to draw my family in closer. By bringing them in close enough, so close it felt like we all merged, I found I could send them out into any fire I have a connection with. As you say, I’m not exactly summoning the true people, but I like to think it's a very useful trick. Doubly so when made out of Phantom Fire. Trisha may have been an airhead even for a bird, but her flames were impressive, as you saw.”

Matt didn’t let himself get distracted on the new information, instead letting Aunt Helen have her moment and chance to show off.

They were back in the kitchen by the time she talked about one of her old friends.

When she got back around to her Concept, Matt couldn’t help but interject. “Now that you aren’t hiding what you can do, can we play? I mean do serious and good Domain testing?”

The lilt at the end of his sentence turned the statement into question, but the response was Aunt Helen bringing her Concept to bear. Once more, Matt was struck by the solidity of her Concept. His mind instinctively wanted to add a qualifier to that statement such as strongest at Tier, but the only one that he felt was fitting were more descriptive adjectives like ‘formidable’.

He wasn’t sure if anyone he knew could match her Concept for Concept. He wasn’t even sure how Aiden would fare in a straight clash between Concepts.

What shocked him the most was that the second they were no longer in combat, Aunt Helen’s Concept felt perfectly normal to him. It was family and home, because that was what she’d made and remade it into.

Rebuilt piece by piece after her family's deaths, Aunt Helen’s Concept was solid.

With a little hindsight, Matt felt her exceptional level of control made sense. What he found interesting was how that solidity manifested. He couldn’t identify any of that control while they putzed around the kitchen, which only added to his awe.

Neither of them exactly needed their Domains to cook, not for an informal family dinner, which left their Concepts free to clash as they worked.

Matt found himself losing a surprising amount of the time, which was novel and fun in its own right. Aunt Helen had what he’d call ultimate control. What she didn’t have was strength. If he wanted to win, he simply had to do the Domain equivalent of lifting Aunt Helen off the ground to disable her.

All of her control didn’t matter without any place to leverage it.

Cutting off another’s Domain wasn’t as easy as lifting a fighter’s feet off the ground in reality, but that was where Aunt Helen’s second shortcoming bit her. Her Concept wasn’t stronger than most, which limited what she could do. In fact, it wasn’t even stronger than Matt’s had been at the same Tier, though he understood he was comparing his strength to her weaknesses, which wasn’t exactly fair. That meant that while he couldn’t simply crush her with the weight, strength, and size of his Domain, she found it hard to struggle free if he did manage to envelope her.

Not that doing so was easy. Her control let her use what she had with perfect precision, which gave her advantages anywhere he gave her an inch of wiggle room. She attacked with exactly the amount of power she wanted, and never a drop more or less. That gave her an unexpected longevity, but most of her opponents would never make it that far in a fight if she was serious. She only needed one good surprise hit to gain an advantage, and in most fights, that was all she’d need to finish it.

Aunt Helen’s perfect control also made it really hard to actually block her attacks. Like a steel fist in a world of tissue paper, weaker defences simply couldn’t stop Aunt Helen once she got going. The only resource most people would have was to fully block her attack from the outset or dodge the blow.

As they leaned on the counter and snacked on the pepper and cucumber salads he’d made, she finally waved a hand, ending their current testing. “Enough. I’m tired of talking about me. Let's move on to you. What about your guild stuff?”

She waited for his response as she speared a rogue tomato that had been hiding in the oil at the bottom of the shared bowl, but clarified when he shrugged in a silent request for more elaboration. “Not the scandal. I saw enough of that I have a good understanding of what happened. No, I thought Cameron was supposed to take over more than a few years ago?”

Matt sighed hard enough he felt the floor rattle slightly. “A few years ago isn’t exactly taking a firm stance, nor was it only a few years ago, more like three thousand. But yes, yes she was. She’s nervous and I understand that, which is why I’ve been working with her and sending her to all the training things she can ask for.”

“So what’s the problem? From both perspectives?”

