"—and take the measures and precautions necessary, if I turn out to be a threat?" Cale grinned slightly, to the professor's evident surprise. This was the sort of direct conversation he appreciated from other mages. All the better that he was doing it out of concern for his students! Sternkessel was trying to hide it, but Cale could tell; he was worried for them.

"...That is correct." The rings of the professor's head clicked and rotated cautiously. "Though it is not the only reason."

"It's good to know you actually care about your students." Cale nodded approvingly, mostly to himself. "To answer your questions: mostly column A, a little bit of column B, and a non-specified amount of column C."

Sternkessel paused. "There will always exist more problems to be solved," he said eventually. "If it needs to be said, you need not throw yourself into every one of them headfirst."

"I've been around for a long, long time, Professor." Cale's smile faded slightly. Others had tried talking to him about this before, but he'd always blown them off. Sternkessel's genuine concern made it much harder to throw out some snarky, dismissive remark and then pretend the conversation never happened. "I know what you're worried about. Trust me, I've been there and back. I know my limits better than anyone."

"That is... good to hear." Sternkessel's shoulders relaxed, clearly relieved, but there was something distant in his expression.

Cale watched him for a moment. "You were worried about me because I reminded you of someone else," he noted casually.

Sternkessel twitched, then sighed. "I suppose I should have expected you to notice," he muttered. "Yes, though that is a rather personal tale. You exhibit many of the signs that Akkau once did. I simply wished to be sure that you would not tread his path."

Well, he had some questions to ask about that, but it was probably best he save those questions for Akkau himself. "Sounds like you were close," he said instead. "You do realize you're the one that decided to send me straight into the Inverted Spires? If you wanted me to slow down, you could have just opted not to test me."

Sternkessel coughed awkwardly. "A genuine miscalculation," he said, a note of apology in his voice. "I am sorry."

"Don't worry, all mages are allowed a hypocrisy budget. Frankly, you could stand to be a little more hypocritical." Cale grinned. "I mean, look at me! I'm terrible at admitting to my mistakes. Because I haven't made any."

That made Sternkessel snort with genuine laughter, some of the rings on his head spinning rapidly. "Is that meant to reassure me?"

"Not even slightly," Cale said cheerfully. "This is, though: I'm pretty sure I know why the Thread of Fate was so active today. If I'm right, things should slow down for a little while now. Or at least for the next few classes." He paused. "Mostly."

"I fear that, too, was less reassuring than you intended," Sternkessel said dryly, but at this point he had taken his seat and was regarding Cale with a warmth he hadn't held before. "It is appreciated, however. Perhaps the academy will have at least a day without the Red Hunters or any reality-warping entities?"

"Aside from yourself?" Cale snarked right back. Sternkessel nearly fell out of his chair.

"I had forgotten that you were able to identify me," he muttered after regaining his balance. He watched Cale carefully for a long moment. "My instinct is to ask you why you are not afraid, but I suppose we both know the answer to that question."

"I know how to kill Indictments, even Greater ones," Cale agreed casually.

Sternkessel didn't so much as flinch—he simply nodded slowly. "But you have no plans on doing so?"

Cale shot the professor a withering look. "You haven't monologued or threatened to destroy the world yet," he said. "Why would I go around killing every Greater Indictment in sight?"

"Most of my kind are blithering idiots bent on world destruction," Sternkessel said wryly.

Cale waved a hand, dismissive. "Bah," he said. "If there's anything I've learned it's not to make assumptions about people. Except for eighth realm demons. Those guys were the worst. Ontologically evil my ass; if there was something more ontologically evil than ontological evil they're probably that."

Sternkessel's rings rotated once, a single click. "...Do I want to know?"

"You don't."

"I will take your word for it, then." The professor paused for a moment, then offered a slight smile. "You do not have any questions about my nature?"

"Oh, plenty." Cale grinned. "I was just waiting for you to ask. How does a Greater Indictment end up like you? You're supposed to be... I mean, you know."

He gestured vaguely. An Indictment was something like a living mana echo created by the very essence of a realm; the conditions under which they formed tended to vary, but more often than not, they emerged as a response to a mage that had performed some truly cruel and terrible magic, almost like the realm itself wanted to punish the mage.

Each time they appeared, they were murderous, destructive beings, tearing through everything in their path until they ran out of whatever strange power source they used. Greater Indictments were even worse, in that regard—they didn't seem to run out, and would simply continue their rampage until a mage of sufficient power figured out how to stop them.

Thankfully, they were a lot more rare. They formed only in response to a sufficient quantity of karmic backlash or when the perpetrators were entire groups of sufficiently powerful mages. The Loomweavers, it seemed, qualified.

Indictments as a whole were still a bit of a mystery to Cale, in large part because he'd never actually met one that was willing to talk. Some scholars theorized they were a realm's means of self-defense, to prevent dark magic from proliferating to the extent that it wiped out the realm entirely. Others thought it was simply how magic balanced itself out, in the same way that powerful light and healing magic would occasionally create an Absolution.

Sternkessel being a Greater Indictment was a delightful surprise, though. To think one of them had taken up teaching, and seemed protective of his students! Bonus points for the fashion sense, too; most of the Greater Indictments he'd met before hadn't really bothered with clothes.

This changed everything.

Sort of.

It changed everything he knew about Greater Indictments, anyway.

"How I ended up as I am..." Sternkessel mused out loud, interlacing gloved fingers together and regarding Cale contemplatively. "I will confess I did have a rather destructive phase in my youth. Changing required a great deal of introspection and growth on my part, I assure you. Contrary to popular belief, we are quite capable of that. It simply requires a sufficient amount of, ah... persuasion."

Cale cocked his head at the way Sternkessel had hesitated, then grinned. "Persuasion related to a certain dragon, perhaps? I'm sensing some kind of history there."

"It is not what you are thinking."

"Sure it isn't." Cale gave Sternkessel his wisest, most understanding nod, to which the professor simply grunted.

"That is all in the past," he muttered in a way that made Cale think it very much was not. "The point is that I diverged rather quickly from the usual path of a Greater Indictment, and it is likely that others of my kind can do the same. One of these days, I hope to..."

His head rings flicked and rotated briefly, and he shook his head. "It is irrelevant. My personal goals are likely centuries, if not more, from making any sort of progress, and I am... satisfied with the life that I have built here."

There was a long pause in which the only sound that could be heard was Sternkessel's rings quietly clicking away. Then Cale offered the professor a small, tired smile. "It's lonely," he said. "Being the last of your kind. Or the only one, I suppose, but the effect is the same."

"You speak as though you understand," Sternkessel murmured. He looked up at Cale, and then his gaze sharpened, several rings clicking into place all at once. "You... do understand."

Cale froze. "I do," he said, almost not daring to breathe.

"There are no other humans." Sternkessel said this as though he was realizing it for the first time, because he was; Cale had never seen anyone capable of recognizing that fact, but then he'd never before spoken to something like a Greater Indictment. "I have not encountered any others. Why have I not questioned this? Why do I know what you are?"

Cale exhaled slowly. "If I knew the answer to those questions," he said, "I probably wouldn't be here."

He could feel Sternkessel's gaze on him, studying him. For the first time in a long time, Cale found himself at a loss for words. He'd dreamed of this sort of recognition for a long time, but had long ago stopped hoping it would happen; now that it had, he had no idea what to say.

"I'm kind of glad someone finally knows," he said eventually. The words felt grossly insufficient. "I've never been able to tell anyone."

Sternkessel's rings clicked briefly, and when he spoke again, something in his voice had softened. "I suppose this means you understand my position more than almost anyone else," he said. "Is this why you reacted so strongly when you learned of the Abyssal?"

"And a thousand other reasons." Cale smiled wryly. "Yes."

Sternkessel seemed to ruminate on something, then slowly nodded to himself. He stood up and walked toward Cale. "If we are both isolated within the Great Realms," he said, "then perhaps we could help one another. I would not mind lending you my strength in uncovering what happened to your people."

Cale blinked. He wasn't sure what he'd been expecting, but it wasn't this. He thought it through for a moment, feeling an odd warmth at the idea that after all this time, there might be someone else to join him on the greater journey.

"Maybe," he said. "I—Thank you. No one's offered to help with this before. There's a lot I still need to do on Utelia, but sometime far in the future, I think I'd like to take you up on that offer." He offered a small smile. "And I'll help you with your people in return, of course."

To think he'd find someone able to understand. Utelia was full of surprises. Cale was looking forward to seeing what it might show him next.

For now, though... well, he wanted to see how that mana-suppressed little girl and the lizardfolk whose neck had been broken were doing. Plus he'd promised to tell Damien and the others how to deal with their magic, and it was past time for him to make good on that promise.

There was only a week left until the Red Hunters were here in force, after all.

And Cale had so many plans.
