It was fairly well known among higher-tier mages that one did not simply throw themselves into the Abyss. Among immortals, it was more generally known that one did not throw themselves into the Abyss unless they went by the name of Cale Cadwell Cobbs.

He was, after all, one of the few mages known to have done so and survived.

To be fair, he'd cheated slightly, and all his connections didn't necessarily mean that it was wise for him to do so again. He was relatively certain he'd be able to make his way back, though, and the fact that he could breathe in the so-called water of the Abyss was a good sign. It meant his presence wasn't unwelcome. If the Leviathan had wanted him gone, the Abyss would have crushed and suffocated him in short order.

She'd always been a very decisive woman.

Still, it seemed she was fine with his presence, and Cale was certain he'd be able to make his way back without too much trouble. He had a thick barrier wrapped around his waist that led out of the Abyss and was anchored in the ground of the Inverted Spires. Pretty much the same trick he'd used earlier to disrupt the spatial rule that kept them from finding out what the Loomweavers had really done. That would be enough for Sternkessel to find him, and even if it wasn't, he had his ways of getting back.

Not pleasant ones, but he did have them.

For now, though, he was here for a reason.

Cale had been thinking about it on and off ever since Flia mentioned her Leviathan's Curse. He'd thought it at the time but had opted to say nothing, if only because he hadn't yet had enough information to come to a clear conclusion.

Now...

Well.

The first clue was that a deep-sea aspect didn't manifest the way Flia's magic did. It increased the volume of water that spells with that aspect could handle, and it specialized in pressure; there were universes he'd been to where deep-sea divine mages were known and feared, for they could cast fifteenth-tier spells that overwhelmed entire continents.

Flia's magic was nowhere near that threatening. Yet her assumption that she had an abyssal aspect core wasn't exactly right, either; abyssal mana wasn't strictly a thing. Her people were probably not wrong to call it the Leviathan's Curse, but Cale was pretty sure the Leviathan would be offended if she knew that was what they'd named it.

The second clue had been Flia's affinity for magical creatures. It would have been one thing if she was simply good with them, but she'd ignored the shadelings' defensive psychic field like it wasn't even there.

Cale grinned wryly. The Leviathan had probably been ecstatic when she found Flia.

The Leviathan acted as guardian and gatekeeper of the Abyss, but those words didn't quite suffice in explaining her multiversal role. Better to say instead that she was the Abyss.

The entire thing was her domain, after all. It was the expression of her power that kept the Great Realms apart, preventing the occurrence of another Planar Collapse. She swam between them on a regular patrol, consuming anything that overstayed its welcome or grew too large, and her presence was a constant through all of time and space.

She was the First Monolith, known also as the Law of What Lies Between, and she was currently swimming lazily toward him.

Cale lifted a hand in a slightly awkward wave. "Hey."

The Leviathan didn't immediately respond. Instead, her enormous, serpentine body flicked gracefully through the endless ocean. She was its singular source of light, though perhaps "singular" wasn't quite the right term—she had eyes along her body that were miles apart, and each one illuminated a section of the depths. Sometimes, Cale saw brief glimpses of other realms as they drifted close.

He tore his eyes away. Staring at other realms through the Abyss generally wasn't a good idea.

Then the Leviathan was close enough to speak, and she did.

"Cale Cadwell Cobbs," she said. She swam closer to him, and Cale didn't move, even as she grew larger and larger; soon, she was so close that he was a tiny speck next to a single one of her glowing eyes.

Cale nodded. "Yup! That's me," he said cheerfully.

The Leviathan laughed a long, slow laugh. "It has been too long," she said. "I see you have not changed. How have you ended up on Utelia?"

"Summoning spell gone wrong," Cale said with a lazy shrug. "Surprised you didn't notice. It dragged me through without any protective magic, even, so now I have voidcytes and probably other visitors to deal with."

"This may be my domain, but I cannot see all within it." Before his eyes, the Leviathan began to shrink, her power and volume condensing until she was something closer to the size of a horse. She swam closer to him, nudging a snout beneath his fingers, and he sighed and scratched her scales obligingly.

The Leviathan purred. One of the nearby realms trembled.

"Why do you come here?" she asked. "You do not visit the Abyss often. You should."

"You know as well as I do why I can't," Cale said, shaking his head. He sounded just a touch regretful. "Two reasons. First is that I wanted to make sure you're aware of the Abyssal we're returning to your care."

"Ah. Yes." The Leviathan blinked slowly, languidly; thousands of her eyes shut one by one, then opened again, creating a soft wave of light. She gave him a pleased nod. "Thank you for that. It is much appreciated."

"The second reason is that you need to learn to talk to your heralds when you appoint them," Cale said. "Flia thinks your blessing is a curse, you know."

"What?" The Leviathan looked puzzled. She cocked her head, then continued to spin with it until she had rotated a full 360 degrees. "Why would my blessing be a curse?"

"Utelians have issues with non-standard magic," Cale said dryly. "She can't cast any of the magic she wants."

"But... she is chosen," the Leviathan protested. "She loves all creatures as I do. I simply gave her the strength to send them back to me. I have lost so many..."

"Are there a lot of Abyssals on Utelia?" Cale asked, frowning slightly, and the Leviathan sighed a long sigh.

"Many and none," she said sadly. "I cannot track them all. I know only that the realm needed someone with my blessing, and so I gave it freely, and I felt one heart respond. Have I caused harm?"

"Nothing you can't correct." Cale patted her on the head gently. "You can reach out through dreams, can't you? Just let her know what's going on. I'm sure she'll understand."

He paused slightly, then frowned. "But... what do you mean, many and none? You aren't normally one for being cryptic."

"I do not know." The Leviathan's body shuddered slightly; she closed her eyes, one after the other, until all sets of them were closed. Then they began opening again in a glowing, hypnotic wave. "It is as though they are there, but they are... lost. Held in a boundary, perhaps. Or trapped in a binding, as this child was."

The Leviathan lifted two hands she didn't have before, and for a moment, she was so stunningly beautiful and human that Cale's breath caught in his throat. From those hands, a tiny golden butterfly fluttered out, then flew back and forth, as if confused and frightened. The Leviathan leaned forward, touching her forehead against it, and at that touch the butterfly calmed.

Soon, it began to weave a happy dance around the length of the Leviathan, who had once more assumed her more serpentine form. Cale watched this for a moment, a small smile forming on his lips, before that smile faded.

"If someone's making use of Abyssals, it could explain some of what's apparently been happening on Utelia," Cale murmured softly, talking mostly to himself. "I haven't been able to make sense of some of the memories I got from Sneaks-In-Darkness, but this could explain some of it."

He shook his head. "I guess most of this doesn't matter to you," he said wryly. He leaned down slightly and smiled. "I'll figure it out. But can you promise me to reach out to Flia? Maybe help her cast some of the spells she wants to cast? She could use a mentor that isn't... well, you know."

He gestured to himself with a laugh, and the Leviathan's eyes crinkled as if amused. "You do not give yourself enough credit, Cale Cadwell Cobbs," she said. She swam forward to bump her snout against his chest. "And you ask much of me, as usual. But I suppose I could, if only for old times' sake."

"You and I both know you'd never let one of your heralds suffer if you knew about it," Cale said with a small laugh. "Thank you, Lev."

"Hmm." The Leviathan hummed noncomittally. "You should visit more often, as I said."

"I'll do my best," Cale said, though they both knew it was a lie. The Leviathan gave him a regal nod nevertheless, then turned to swim away, flicking her tail as she did; the force of it sent him barreling back toward the opening into Utelia.

Probably several times too fast, actually. Cale winced. She'd never been good at controlling her power. This was going to hurt—

Reality blipped.

When Cale opened his eyes again, he was back in the classroom for Magical Geography. He blinked a few times, checking over himself for any injuries. For a moment, he thought he'd passed out, but... no. Sternkessel had somehow known the exact moment he needed to be pulled out and then brought him straight back to class.

He was even still dripping wet. Which was strange, because Cale was pretty sure the water of the Abyss wasn't really water.

Ah well. Sternkessel was staring at him with his arms folded across his chest, and that was probably a more pressing issue. Especially since Cale couldn't actually tell what he was thinking or feeling for once.

First things first, though. "I don't suppose you have some sort of drying spell?" Cale asked hopefully.

That made Sternkessel crack a smile, or at least do whatever the equivalent meant for someone like him. The rings of his head spun around a few times in amusement before he shook his head.

"I'm afraid not," he said. "And while I would normally allow you to head back to change, I believe we should have a few words first."

Cale nodded absently, looking around the classroom. "Makes sense. Where's everyone else?"

"There are many discoveries still to be made in the Inverted Spires, and without the Abyssal to enforce its rules, the place is rendered much safer," Sternkessel answered. He reached into his pocket and delicately unfolded a handkerchief before offering it to Cale, who blinked at it for a moment, then accepted it and began drying his face off with it.

It didn't do much. It was just a handkerchief. But it seemed pretty expensive, and he appreciated the gesture. "So, I take it you're letting them earn extra points?"

Sternkessel nodded. "I suspect they could use them, though I am less certain those credits will get them what they want. Still... It is their choice, after what they have seen today."

"I'm not sure I understand what makes them want the credits so badly, to be honest." Cale handed back the handkerchief and tried not to flinch when Sternkessel just folded it and put it back into his pocket. It was wet! It was going to stain that beautiful suit!

Except it did nothing, so now Cale had questions to ask about Sternkessel's pockets.

"Orstrahl's artifact vault is rumored to contain many potential cures to their various afflictions," Sternkessel answered mildly. He patted his vest pocket as if he knew exactly what Cale was thinking. "Among them include many artifacts that improve a mage's ability to attune, or otherwise alter a mana core."

That made Cale wince. Yeah, he could definitely see why they might want those credits. He could also see why some professors might not want them to get those credits. Artifacts like that rarely came without side effects; of all the ones he'd seen, that cloak Damien wore was perhaps the only one that didn't strike him as immediately dangerous.

"Guess that answers that," Cale muttered. "That's not why you brought me here, though. You brought me here because..."

He trailed off, then eyed the professor hopefully. "Because you wanted to hang out?"

Sternkessel snorted, faintly amused once more. "Hardly."

"Because I know what you are? For the record, I wasn't planning on telling anyone about it."

Sternkessel sighed. "I suppose it should not surprise me that you know, but I harbor no illusions as to being able to stop you should you wish to inform others. Believe it or not, that is not why I wish to speak with you."

Cale grumbled something under his breath. "What is it, then?"

Sternkessel leaned back against his desk and tapped a foot contemplatively. "Mages like you are few and far between, Cale Cadwell Cobbs. My test was meant to measure your ability to deal with the unknown, but you exceeded my expectations; I thought you would discover and free the Abyssal within three expeditions. Not one."

"If you wanted to praise me, you didn't have to get me alone to do it." Cale grinned, and he could practically feel Sternkessel rolling nonexistent eyes in response.

"You are a remarkable mage, even putting aside your raw power," Sternkessel said. "But I wonder if you know when to stop."

"What's that supposed to mean?" Cale raised an eyebrow.

"Many of my students are individuals that need to be pushed to their limits to grow as a mage," Sternkessel said. "You, I suspect, are the sort of mage that has never stopped pushing against your limits. Akkau has informed me of your many lives, and I have no doubt that plays a part, and yet... I fear I would be remiss in my duty if I did not speak to you on this.

"I have seen similar talents burn themselves out before. I have seen mages barrel into one problem after the next, in large part because—for all their talent, knowledge, and power—it is easier than confronting what they fear most. I have seen others grow arrogant and overconfident, until they become convinced their power grants them the right to govern others.

"And that brings us to you." Sternkessel's tone was even rather than accusatory, and Cale relaxed slightly. "I have met many mages through the centuries, but I cannot quite place you. In some things, you act faster and more decisively than even the most experienced mage, and yet in others you are callous. Thoughtless, even. Are you one of those mages always on the run, or do you simply do all this for your own amusement? Are you driven by some third, ineffable motive I have yet to discern?

"I have lived long enough to understand that that which is unknown is dangerous." The professor glanced away slightly, remembering some long-forgotten tragedy, and Cale felt a small pang of sympathy. He was very much familiar with that. "And you, Cale Cadwell Cobbs, are an unknown. So I feel it necessary to understand exactly what it is Akkau has invited into our realm—"

