I was swallowed by the all too familiar darkness, wondering how Gramps was going to react to all of this.

***

***

Well… That was less than I hoped for.

I had hoped that my conversation with Gramps would have given me some answers, but it was the direct opposite of the case. Worst of all, I couldn't even blame Gramps this time as it was actually my fault.

Our conversation had gone almost exactly the same as previously, with him lamenting the fact that I had needed help to defeat the wolf. It then moved on to him being intrigued by my choice of evolution as he was sure I would've picked Mimic based on all the weapons I had kept trying to shape my slime into. Strangely, he didn't seem disappointed by my choice, and if I wasn't mistaken, he actually appeared intrigued by it.

Then when the floor was briefly opened to me, I tried to tell Gramps what had happened, that I was from the future and somehow sent back in time. Only… I couldn't. It was as if some unknown force had prevented me from speaking or even thinking about it while in the presence of Gramps and I couldn't for the life of me figure out why.

I had tried my best, and nothing had come out. Gramps eventually grew tired of my silence and sent me on my way and I had woken from my torpor state.

Why couldn't I tell him…?

If that was strange enough, he also didn't call out my spree of abuse to the trait helper. Did he not notice? Did he not find my actions strange? Or did something hide it from him?

So many questions, so little answers. Well… Let's see what my new evolution has offered me!

<Race Slime (Blue) LV 10 evolved into Parasitic Slime (Blue) LV 1.>

<Trait [Parasitic Core] obtained.>

<Trait [Adaptive Host Bond LV 1] obtained.>

<[Parasitic Core] Your slime core has become parasitic in nature and once inside a host body, can siphon portions of their power depending on the degree of takeover and fully witness the world through them. Not only that, but you can communicate with the host if you wish, regardless of their species or even intelligence. Gain access to the hosts abilities, including but not limited to: traits, skills, Emblems and even classes. The host's natural affinities and attributes are treated as your own, but are lost when the body is discarded. Assuming the host remains alive, you are considered in a hidden permanent party with them, and are capable of influencing the degree of experience distribution directly. Finally, you can fully consume your host to gain a random assortment of abilities or to simply improve upon your parasitic nature. The host must be devoured entirely after achieving full parasitism for this to take affect.>

Oh wow, this sounds rather… Evil? Not only can I use them, but when I'm done I can simply consume them and move on. That's not even mentioning the ability to invoke the greatest sin: stealing experience points!

I examined my core a bit, considering it was now directly changed by a trait which other than [Core Collective] had never happened before. It seemed like my core now had the option to become somewhat squishy, perhaps allowing me to better infiltrate a body that a solid and hard core otherwise couldn't. Not only that but my core now had its own tiny little tendrils growing off it like hair and almost invisible to the naked eye.

I suppose this is how I connect up with a host? I guess I'll need to find a wolf, or something, to test it out first. Anyway, let's look at the final trait.

<[Adaptive Host Bond LV 1] A rare parasitic mutation that allows the user to determine the nature of its relationship with a host organism. Upon successful infiltration, the user may choose between Symbiotic Integration or Dominant Assimilation, altering the outcome of the bond according to circumstance, compatibility, or intent. When Symbiotic Integration is selected, a cooperative merger is established. The user weaves itself through the host's nervous and circulatory systems without immediately overwriting cognition, forming a shared biological network rather than a hostile invasion. Attributes are enhanced in proportion to compatibility, with the slime reinforcing musculature, stabilizing bone structure, and even regulating Mana flow as examples. Damaged organs may be repaired, strengthened, or entirely replaced with slime constructs that have the potential to outperform their biological equivalents at higher trait levels. When Dominant Assimilation is chosen, the process shifts from cooperation to control. The host's consciousness is gradually suppressed and ultimately replaced, granting the user primary command of the vessel. With enough trait levels internal anatomy may be fully restructured: organs dissolved and replicated, weaknesses corrected, inefficiencies removed, and critical systems substituted with optimized slime analogues. While this path grants superior control, structural reinforcement, and body modification, it may accelerate vessel degradation without consistent slime mass intake or if insufficiently suppressed. Regardless of the chosen approach, the user retains the ability to temporarily augment the body at the cost of internal reserves, and regenerate tissue through slime-nutrient conversion, all of which scales with trait level. The slime also retains all of its natural abilities and once fully connected, willingly or otherwise, can produce its slime through the host's pores or other substitutes. Compatible with other slime traits, which may or may not allow other bodily enhancements depending on the type or user proficiency.>

I think I need to borrow a Vee-ism for this. Holy crap! Did this just take the spot of the longest trait description ever? If I had known this was in store, I might genuinely have taken it the first time around. Oh boy, to think I had skipped over this.

I was genuinely shocked and my initial impression was that Parasitic Slime completely overwhelmed Mimic Slime. It almost seemed unfair to compare them, and I wondered if there was some bias involved, but then I really thought about it and I wondered if the difference actually wasn't that much?

Yes, initially Mimic Slime was far simpler, but it also had effectively infinite growth with each profile I collected and this only escalated once I evolved it further into [Chimeric Mimicry]. Of course, it looked like [Adaptive Host Bond] had its own path to growth and I could only imagine what it would unlock with additional slime traits or even another mutation on top of that.

I read through the traits again, trying to further my initial understanding of them while also tapping into the innate information the system had instilled for me. One thing was for sure, it seemed like I was now capable of keeping Sylthaeryn alive if I merged with her.

But it will probably cost me a lot of slime to do so. Also I'm not sure if I can remove the poison in her, I'd probably need [Poison Slime] or [Heal Slime] to do that. But, if we cooperated, perhaps we could get that purple slime core and then properly fix her?

At the moment I felt comfortable upgrading my initial wishful thinking into cautious optimism. I had the tools, now it was just about gathering resources and arriving at the right time.

But, first things first, I need to familiarize myself with my new abilities. If I need to replace her spleen, I don't think I can do that with only a first level trait!

I had a skill point and a trait point to spend. I couldn't think of any skills I wanted right now, although I recalled my previous self had bought [Evasion] from the wolf.

I could probably learn it by just parasiting a wolf now. Let's save the point now, maybe I can use it to buy some of my magic skills?

My trait point on the other hand was an easy choice to make. I immediately bought another [Sub-Core] and both traits became the familiar [Sub-Core Alpha] and [Sub-Core Beta]. Unfortunately Alpha was still recovering, as my evolution time wasn't long enough, nor did it count as rest.

Welcome back to the team, Beta! Hopefully I'll add your fellow cores soon enough.

With Beta's help I felt confident in being able to replicate my previous slime abilities without needing to purchase them. Going back to having [Slime Density] as its own individual trait was almost barbaric compared to my future self, as if I was armed with only sticks and stones.

I set off to find the first creature I could, eager to try out my new parasitic abilities. Unlike before, I moved around purely with slime and with far greater proficiency. The previous me had turned into a wolf to get around, but who needed that when you could whip around with slime?

I bounced around and swung from trees, and while at first it was a bit of a hindrance I soon fell into familiar rhythms. Beta seemed to catch on quickly and soon was aiding me in my rapid exploration of the forest. Along the way not only did I gain a level in [Shape Slime] but I also officially unlocked [Adhesive Slime] and [Elastic Slime].

It looks like I was sub-consciously using my old slime traits to get around. I don't have the trait, so the system wasn't helping me, but I remember using them like the back of my hand. Also it looks like [Prodigy] is already putting in the work!

I was delighted that I'd already found a great method of cost-saving so early on, and I owed all of this thanks to my slimy nature. While a human would have lost the muscles he or she developed by going back in time, that didn't exactly apply to me. My core was me, and manipulating slime was effectively purely based on brain power.

Unfortunately willpower alone wasn't enough to create sensory traits, so it had taken me more time than I wanted to admit to find a wolf for me to claim. Now that I found one though, I found myself pausing on how exactly to go about this.

Do I just jump down its mouth? Or should I kill it and try controlling a corpse first?

While I could probably achieve the first one with a little bit of risk, the second option sounded far more probable. I'd never used these abilities before and even if I had Beta to help me, I wasn't exactly sure. I played it safe and ambushed the wolf recreating my glorious jellyfish impression and dragging it up with tendrils of slime. From there, I drowned it in slime since I didn't want to excessively damage my very first host body.

When the wolf died I placed it carefully on the ground. Then, after taking a metaphorical deep breath, I dived inside with my slime and cores. At first I noticed hardly anything, but then I realized it was my core that was parasitic, not my slime, and so I retracted it and exposed myself to the innards of the monster.

From there my core seemed almost driven by an innate instinct, with both of my new traits starting to interact. My thousands of tiny little tendrils around my core began fusing with the flesh of the creature, in fact it stitched itself so well that it almost looked like an organ that was supposed to be there.

The process was clean and simple, probably owing to the fact that I didn't need to fight this dead body for control. In the blink of an eye I soon found that I had assumed control of the wolf, and made it stand up and look around.

Well… This is certainly an experience.

I genuinely felt like I was now the wolf, and all of its abilities were now mine. I had thought I'd need a learning experience to act and behave like it, but apparently that was baked into my trait. As for my slime, it had already started to incorporate itself into the creature's body and with it being dead, was slowly replacing its blood.

I can try improving the body a little bit. I'll need to do quite a bit of hunting to get more slime mass, so that I'll have enough to keep Sylthaeryn alive.

At my current level there weren't too many improvements I could give the wolf. I tried my best to augment its muscles and bones, but it was a slower process than I liked. Also I needed a way to expel my slime, but to my relief I found that my slime was already pooling beneath the layer of skin, ready and waiting.

I gave Beta an order to try improving our host body, hoping the vague order would work and then set out to begin hunting. Food and experience was required and now I could track using the wolf's abilities.

The way that worked was that I could effectively see the creature's current profile, including its traits and skills and their corresponding levels. The wolf had the [Enhanced Nose] trait and the [Tracking] skill, which meant that I could now use them. It didn't take me too long and soon I found some rabbits that I caught and devoured on the spot.

The first thing I noticed was that because the wolf was dead, I was gaining all the experience. While this was a good thing, it also pointed out something I hadn't considered: the dead body would never progress. Levels were one thing, but its traits and skills were another, as I couldn't upgrade them without the host.

It's definitely a trade off. Once I reach level two I'll try controlling a living monster, and hopefully with [Prodigy] I can get to level three or four before I need to save Sylthaeryn.

From memory I had spent a day wolfing around and tomorrow I would've encountered Sylthaeryn and Keaton. The day after that I went to eat some blue slimes and upon returning, I had accidentally encountered the dying elf.

So I have… Two and a half days? I wish it was a bit more, but I think I can manage it.

I continued hunting late into the night, gaining quite a significant amount of food to convert into slime, and even reached level two in my race. Unfortunately my trait was still level one, and I wasn't sure when it would level up.

Maybe it's because it's a dead body? So I'm gaining reduced experience?

