When I reached the farm, I realized a glaring issue with my plan as the damn boar wasn't subtle in the slightest. Even with me at the helm, it was far too oafish for such a sneaky infiltration. Thus, our time had ended, and once again I consumed my host. There was a bit of a struggle from the monster, but it was powerless before the all-consuming slime.

Once again I had the option to take something from the boar, but I opted to upgrade my parasitism again. I wanted literally nothing that stinky thing had to offer. Sadly I didn't gain a level in [Adaptive Host Bond] this time, but with a meal of blue slimes right in front of me, I wasn't going to complain.

I was in and out with none the wiser, and I'd scored quite a collection of slimes. [Mana Slime] was already maxed out, but I knew it was subtly adding to the accumulated experience for whenever I uncapped it.

As for my other gains, I regained a long forgotten trait that Gramps had previously removed: [Slime Conversion]. Thankfully I got it for free thanks to fully absorbing the core of the slime that owned it, which was a very lucky find.

This didn't happen originally, I discovered it from the profile and eventually bought it. To think I overlooked a slime that had actually spawned with a super rare trait, right off the bat.

My future self probably didn't care as the trait was ultimately deleted, but right now I couldn't have been happier. I instantly activated it to the daily maximum, as I needed to start grinding it away and I had no good use for my Mana right now, other than [Mana Reinforcement].

With my task completed and my spiritual belly full of fresh slime, I made haste to the site where my original slime life was turned upside down. I wasn't exactly sure how I was going to explain myself to her, as I wasn't going to let her do a [Companion Bond] like last time. Then again, she probably wouldn't even try as everyone thought slimes were mindless creatures incapable of accepting the prompt.

Well, things will be changing from now on!

I arrived on the scene, but somehow I felt something was different… My past self had caught the scent of blood and wondered here, but now I was seeing a literal trail of blood heading into the forest.

Shit, what the hell, I'm early.

It hadn't even crossed my mind that events could have changed and maybe I was even to blame for meddling with the previous routine. I rushed after the trail, and what I saw was not pretty. Once again, the black cat-like creature was completely dead, but rather than sorrowfully stroking it Sylthaeryn was entirely unconscious.

Ooooh boy, that's a lot of blood. I don't remember it being this bad at all! Sure she was stabbed, but it was the poison that was ultimately killing her. What the heck is happening!?

I had no time left to ponder and I rushed up to her. To my relief, she was still breathing although it was haggard. On the plus side, this took out me trying to get her to cooperate out of the equation, but on the negative side, she was quite literally fading away before me.

Well, here goes nothing!

While I didn't want to live inside her stomach I didn't have the luxury to be choosy right now. Once she was stabilized I could think about relocating my core to a better location, perhaps next to her heart.

I had no issue getting her to swallow Alpha and Beta, but my own core was an issue even with its squishy attribute. I still tried however, and actually found that it could squish down far more than I realized, perhaps due to the action of trying to actively parasitize something.

I quickly attached my exposed core to her tissue and began the process of merging. The more I connected with her, the more I realized that this was not a good situation.

Oh gods, that certainly shouldn't have a hole in it. What the hell did they do to you? This is way more than just a stab, it looks like they dropped a bolder on your organs!

Even though I was mentally complaining I was still proceeding with the work. I could have moved her body as in her unconscious state she offered no resistance, but I dared not risk aggravating her injuries. In fact, I made sure to lock her body down, just in case she stirred for whatever reason.

Where's a pink slime when you need it. I was practically giving away the stuff.

I was starting to panic as I tried my best to remove any foreign objects from her while also closing up the holes. I was spending slime mass left and right, trying to accelerate the healing process as much as possible. Thankfully I had gained extra from my earlier meal and conversion, otherwise I could have run out before making a difference.

Ugh, okay, sure a pink slime is probably asking for too much. If only I had some healing magic to work with… Where's Evan when you need him? Or, heck, my future-self. I had it, even though I barely touched it…

It genuinely wasn't looking good. I now needed to replace a lot of her lost blood with slime, which my core automatically calibrated to match her perfectly. But, this meant my previously robust slime supply was rapidly depleting which I also needed to patch her up or partially rejuvenate her.

This wasn't me just being a neurotic ball of slime, I knew this body and where everything was supposed to go, and simply too much of it was outright missing or damaged beyond my meager ability to repair. I blindly gave Alpha and Beta orders to save her, but even my usually infallible cores seemed confounded by this predicament. Alpha continued to assist me where it could, but Beta began to consume the body of the dead animal companion, trying to replenish some of our stock.

Llewel I don't know if you actually sent me back or not, but damn it you should have sent me with a pink slime, or a potion, or something!

Things were extremely touch-and-go, her life was teetering on a razor's edge. I felt the gaze of Alpha and Beta drilling into me, as if they were silently saying I was the only one capable of saving her. At first I thought they were abandoning me or perhaps throwing the blame entirely on me, but that sounded beyond reason.

Something only I can do…? Do you want me to buy more [Sub-Cores]? No, we would lose even more slime mass we can't afford… Me… What can only I do, that they can't…? Wait a second! My [Parasitic Core]!

I was the only one with this, not my [Sub-Cores]. Yes they could join with me and help, but evidently there were still restrictions. I read through the trait description and almost instantly realized what I'd overlooked.

I can use her abilities! Gods, Sylthaeryn I hope you have something for me to work with, or this is the end of the road I'm afraid. Please be like your mother…

I scrutinized her, no, our profile but saw nothing usable. She had some of the basic Mana skills like [Mana Manipulation] and had all of the traits that boosted Mana and spell proficiency, but there wasn't a single magical skill to be seen.

Oh gods, am I dealing with another Vee!? You have the talent but don't want to use it!?

I dove in even further. Now I was searching her body for answers, her very existence. I didn't think this was possible, but perhaps because of how close I was to the original body, it being a core component of my future-self, I had access to areas I probably shouldn't have, at least not at this low-amount of proficiency.

Or is this because of my previous research into pseudo-affinities?

Regardless I found what I was looking for. The magical affinities that belonged to Sylthaeryn Feirelle, daughter of Loreleia Feirelle, [Branch Head] of the Feirelle elves!

Goddammit girl, you have Water, Earth, Nature, Holy, Healing and Verdant. Why the hell are you an archer? I swear this must be exactly how Mother feels about Vee.

Even though I was raging up a storm, I continued working. I used her skills as my own and started manipulating Mana as fast as I could, and thankfully I had plenty to go around. Unfortunately for the dying elf, my previous-self had not invested a lot of time into [Healing Magic].

I mean, why would I? I only gained it after getting [Heal Slime]...

Still, even though I hadn't scrutinized it, [Vital Surge] was a very basic spell and I felt like I could piece it together. Even if I couldn't replicate the spell, I could just make a weave of healing-aligned Mana and apply it directly to her. Sure, it would be stupidly ineffective, but at this point I needed every tiny bit of help to tip the scales.

Thanks to [Parasitic Core], her affinity was treated like my own. The same for her magical skills, as neglected as they were. Perhaps because of the utter insanity of what I was doing, combined with my future-self's proficiency, [Prodigy] and [Elven Legacy] all thrown into the mix, but her neglected [Mana Manipulation LV 2] went straight to level four in no time at all.

Still, this wasn't time for celebration and I wasn't successfully creating [Vital Surge] from scratch. At this point I was hoping to unlock [Healing Magic] by throwing around raw healing-aligned Mana and officially get the spell.

Thankfully with each failed healing construct, things were slowly looking a little better. I could feel her vitals directly thanks to being hooked up and things were gradually turning into our favor. Moments before things looked like they were out of the woods, we unlocked [Healing Magic].

I swiftly began casting [Vital Surge], making sure to overload it with as much Mana as I could while also glaring at the pieces of the spell construct I was missing in my failed replications. The overburdened spell went off and enveloped her in the soothing glow, and I finally took a breath of relief.

I was not prepared for this… But somehow I've saved her, if you can even call it that. Shit, so many of her organs are held together by slime if I'm gone for even a second I think she would immediately perish.

Keaton and his goons had gone to much greater lengths this time, and yes, she was also poisoned. I had tried my best to remove it, but it was soaked into most of her few remaining good organs. Unless I devoured them entirely and replaced them with slime-replicas, there was nothing I could do right now.

Thankfully the poison wasn't something as crazy as Bloodrot, and while it was still trying to kill her, it was being kept at bay with my slime and [Vital Surge].

I'm not sure if [Detox] would be enough to get rid of it, but if we could get our hands on a purple slime, I could maybe just make her immune to it.

Now that I'd seized her from death's door, I could only wait and watch as she slowly recovered. Again, I dared not move her, and just continued to apply another healing spell whenever the previous one expired. And, since I had nothing better to do, I began poking around with her rather lackluster magical skills. I hoped to regain them for myself, but I wasn't against improving them for her as well.

You're certainly going to be in for a surprise when you wake up…

***

I lost track of time as I continued slowly nursing my patient while playing around with magic, as I always tended to do. I was too hesitant to attempt playing around with my slime, as it was vital for keeping her alive now, but Mana was still available in ample supply, especially after Sylthaeryn became my new host and I got access to all those glorious elven traits, and her legacy Emblem.

For the most part we were rather fortunate that nothing extreme came to investigate the stench of blood that the area no doubt still held, although there was a curious wolf or two that did breach the perimeter. Sylthaeryn still showed no sign of waking anytime soon so it was up for me to defend us.

Hello old friend.

As the wolves neared I unleashed what I had prepared: [Water Orb]! Yes, thanks to finally having access to proper magical skills I was able to recreate it and used it to scare off the wolves. Or at least, that was my intention, but the wolves were slain by the basic water spell, leaving me rather perplexed.

I was about to begin brainstorming why that was more effective, but we had received [Water Magic LV 1] and the official version of [Water Orb]. That gave me the answer and I could only sigh.

I was trying to create an upgraded [Water Orb] this entire time… No wonder I couldn't cast it without, at a minimum, [Mana Manipulation].

It turns out I was my own worst enemy, the memories I had of my spells were all enhanced versions, modified after I had begun exploring the world of magic. The worst part was I couldn't even blame my future-self, as how was I supposed to know I'd be returned to a basic slime in the forest and need such simple spells. Etching the upgraded versions into my core was clearly the right idea.

While I was both cursing and defending my future-self, Sylthaeryn finally began to stir. I went silent, not wanting to have her freak out the very moment she woke up. It was a painfully slow process, with her waking up groggy and somewhat in pain, although this seemed to confuse her.

"Am I dead…?" she whispered, her hand unconsciously going to where her entrails were previously leaking from.

Not feeling the wound shocked her and she seemed to regain a bit more clarity. She slowly shifted, as if she knew she was in a fragile state, and took a closer look at what had become of her injuries. The confusion on her face was evident as she studied her sealed stomach, as other than it being of a blueish tint, it was sealed up. She poked it, causing it to squish slightly.

"What the…"

Sylthaeryn poked it again, a bit harder. I panicked as I was very concerned she was going to rupture a hole straight into my hard work.

{Hey! Stop, stop, stop! Do you want your organs to leak out again!?}

Sylthaeryn froze, looking around frantically for the source of the voice, but there was nothing. "Who are you!? Where are you?"

{Sheesh… This is the thanks I get for saving you?}

"You… Saved me?" she stammered.

