Risk and difficulty would affect gains considerably, as I'd learnt in my past-future life, so there was a good chance I was hindering myself piloting this corpse around. Sighing I was too tired to continue, and after returning to my tree retired for the evening. It felt a little weird sleeping as a wolf, rather than a slime, but I was too tired to care and soon passed out.

Tomorrow, I needed to do a lot more hunting and training…

***

This is awful! What a crap body!

I was raging and fuming, this was a terrible way to start the day. The reason for my outrage? The host I was wearing had spent more than double my usual slime nightly slime mass as upkeep. I knew the act of "keeping it alive" would cost something, but I hadn't expected it to be this much more.

Screw it, eat it, I don't want anything to do with it anymore!

I regretted not eating it last night, but unless I went back in time again it was too late. I activated the final ability of my [Parasitic Core] and watched as the body was devoured from the inside out. When it was done, I was surprisingly given an option: one random minor ability or improving myself.

Is it only one because the wolf was a corpse? Would I get more if it was alive, or stronger?

I didn't want anything the wolf had to offer me, so I picked the later option and was immediately delighted.

<Proficiency gained. [Adaptive Host Bond LV 1] improved to [Adaptive Host Bond LV 2].>

Great! At least that's useful!

I only had a day and a half left before my deadline, and now I needed even more slime mass. Despite consuming my host, it hadn't actually refunded me all too much slime. My disappointment was immeasurable, but on the plus side I had also regained Alpha over night.

I'd even taken into account the cost of regrowing Alpha, but who knew the damn corpse would consume so much? Ugh! I should have taken the traits description more seriously…

I quickly set off to find a new host, and now armed with two [Sub-Cores] the power of controlling my slime was once again improved. It appeared that both Alpha and Beta were learning from me, and considering I had four evolutions of slime under my belt while traveling across the world, I had much to teach.

I found some small monsters, but nothing I wanted as a host so I just ate them to regain some slime and also level up my [Consuming Osmosis]. After some time, while I didn't manage to find a wolf, I did manage to find a boar.

Right… That makes sense. I had kind of destroyed the wolf eco-system by killing their alpha. Which only grew to such a state because I had been killing too many boars. I really caused quite a mess back here.

Ignoring all of that, I successfully captured the boar and after settling my mind, I jumped inside it. Part of me didn't want to expose my naked core to the insides of a live monster, but apparently this was what my kind was supposed to do as I took no damage at all and eventually settled in place to begin parasiting.

On the outside I still trapped the boar, as I didn't want it struggling and potentially damaging or even killing itself before I assumed control. My tiny core tendrils were extending endlessly and spreading out through the monster like microscopic roots, and eventually I had found my second host.

I could instantly tell it was different, with the boar trying its best to fight against the invasion of its mind and body, but to no avail. It was only a simpleminded monster, and I had two helpers to assist me.

That process was interesting, as I noted my [Sub-Cores] did not have the parasitic tentacles like I did. Instead, we would touch cores and my tendrils would wrap around them and once we were joined they could help me with both [Parasitic Core] and [Adaptive Host Bond].

[Core Collective] was what upgraded my [Sub-Cores] to prime core equivalents. If I got that again, then they too could find their own hosts, or at the very least they could find a different spot to set up shop inside the body.

Eventually we gained enough control over the boar for me to release the slime I had covered it with, returning all of it to hide within. Unlike the dead wolf, I could feel the boar trying to fight me, to resist me walking, but to no avail.

I found the boar a little lackluster compared to the wolf, it lacked [Tracking] and only made up for this with a tougher body. It's [Rage] ability also seemed like a double-edged sword and I had seen one of its kind kill itself as a result of improper use.

But… I'm the one in control. Can't I force it to use [Rage], and then keep it reined in?

As I explored for more monsters to fight and consume I began tinkering with my new host, who I noted was gradually fighting less and less. [Adaptive Host Bond] was only level two, so my options were sadly rather limited and replacing organs with superior ones was out of my reach. Instead, I focused on trying to reinforce where I could, injecting its muscles and coating its bones with slime mass.

My slime definitely behaves differently than normal, thanks to the mutation. Never could it integrate with organic tissue like this before…

When I found another boar I immediately attacked it, and forced my host to use [Rage]. Its muscles surged and its weakened mind went into a frenzy, but I was the one calling the shots and controlled it to fight in a more coordinated fashion. When the opposing boar also used [Rage], it was easy to exploit and we quickly claimed victory with minimal wounds.

Okay, let's try patching up the boar while we eat.

If anyone saw this they would probably be horrified, as a boar was leaning over one of its own while slime extruded from its skin and feasted. I paid little attention to the optics and instead commanded Alpha to assist me in trying to repair our host, while Beta and [Dissection] had their fun.

With a little bit of trial and error we quickly found it, and it seemed to involve the almost microscopic tentacles I could produce. We performed a stitching over the wounds, and it seemed to stimulate the process remarkably. We also discovered that I could "feed" my slime to the host which would accelerate it even further, but at the cost of precious slime. We didn't do that, not for a mere boar, but it would probably be something we needed to do to save Sylthaeryn.

I spent the entire day hunting whatever I could and learning more about my new form and how to interact with a host. Since the boar was disposable we took a lot of risks and I even attempted permanently replacing and enhancing some of its parts.

What was interesting was that the longer I stuck with this boar, the more I learnt about it. [Consuming Osmosis] was only level two now, but the incomplete profile was slowly filling in the blanks. This was great news as it meant I had more information to work with, and thus replacement or patching up my host would be easier the longer I stuck with it.

Although… Will I have that problem with Sylthaeryn? I think I might know more about her body than she does.

I wasn't just boasting; that was my primary form I had taken for so long that I would even revert to it subconsciously on occasion. I was also hoping that my previous memories would help me fix her, or at the very least keep her alive, as I wouldn't have the system provided elf profile to reference tomorrow.

The boar eventually leveled up thanks to my repeated hunting, and I got to experience what that was like. It was mildly interesting and my parasitic connection provided some information about how its body changed as a result. After that I allocated effectively all of the experience towards me; [Parasitic Core] allowed me to set the minimum for my host to a mere one percent, far beyond even what the scheming goblin chief could achieve.

It might have to do with the hosts remaining willpower. If it was still fighting back, I doubt I'd be able to redistribute so much.

I ended up leveling up again, reaching level three and now having a total of two unspent trait points. I was tempted to buy more [Sub-Cores] for immediate power, but I held off for now as I might need them to regain some of my slime traits.

On that end I was actually also making some progress. I could extrude slime mass from my host to cover it, or provide my own attacks. The best part was it effectively felt like my body, so I was a natural in incorporating slime into my offensives. A slightly stronger boar was good and all, but giving it a bunch of acidic tentacles that can whip around was a notable improvement.

I ended off my final day returning to my home. I had to lift the boar up into the tree, as it couldn't jump or climb like the wolf, but my tendrils were more than enough. I was genuinely surprised and rather impressed by how quickly I had adapted to piloting its body around, and then later incorporating more slimy shenanigans. I had hope for tomorrow.

Okay, now that we are resting, let's take stock of the situation.

Name: Syl [Apex Hunter] Race: Parasitic Slime (Blue) LV 3 Class: - Status: Healthy Mana: Overflowing

Emblems: [Experiment] [Apex Hunter] *

Traits: [Mana Slime LV MAX] [Acid Slime LV 4] [Pseudopod LV 4] [Slime Density LV 4] [Slime Shot LV 4] [Slime Burst LV 2] [Shape Slime LV 5] [Adhesive Slime] [Elastic Slime] [Consuming Osmosis LV 2] [Adaptive Host Bond LV 3] [Parasitic Core] [Core Refinement LV 4] [Core Storage LV 3] [Sub-Core Alpha LV 3] [Sub-Core Beta LV 3] [Mana Circulation LV 2] [Mana Reinforcement LV 2]

Trait Points remaining: 2

Skills: [Dissection LV 4] [Mapping LV 2] [Stealth LV 3] [Sneak Attack LV 2] [Improved Accuracy (Lesser) LV 2]

Skill Points remaining: 1

Looks like I've made some good progress. My slime traits especially are remarkably easy to level up, since I'm pushing them beyond what they should be able to do right now. Having experienced [Slime Mastery] firsthand, combined with my memories and [Prodigy] is a broken combination!

I'd also managed to get the important [Adaptive Host Bond] to three, which was above my expectations. Experimenting on my living boar host was far better than the wolf corpse, and the system was rewarding me for that.

Speaking of living… The wolf had no Mana when it was dead, but this boar does.

I began manipulating the body, or more specifically its Mana flow and watching as it responded to my will. This was also an ability my [Adaptive Host Bond] had, although I had to admit it seemed a bit out of the ordinary.

Is it because I'm a blue slime?

It wasn't a strange question to ask, as the trait itself had mentioned it was compatible with other slime traits and would bring about different effects for the host when applied. [Mana Slime] was arguably one of my strongest traits and why I could ultimately accomplish so many absurd feats when I finally stepped into the world of magic.

However, despite my plethora of experience and the power of two traits, there was no saving this boar. Its magical aptitude was non-existent, and the tiny bit of natural Mana it had was likely only so it could trigger its [Rage] skill. Unless it mutated, it would never cast a single spell, even with my help.

Well… Maybe that's not entirely true? If I spent days nurturing its Mana, accelerating its flow, and infusing it with [Mana Slime], perhaps that would change. But… Well, after tomorrow you will no longer have to worry about such things.

The boar could understand my words, or more accurately the intent behind them, however at this point it had given up on life. It was just a mindless spawned monster and it only knew how to kill and eat, so it didn't have much prospects for its life. I had tried communicating with it a few times, just to experience it for myself, but all I got from it was the beast asking for food or mates.

I shuddered and stopped trying to communicate with the monster. This thing was almost as bad as that alicorn prince and his broodmares.

Huh… I wonder if I can convince Sylthaeryn to go to the floating island to free Trixie and get my yellow slime core.

I wasn't exactly sure what was going to happen after I saved her, honestly it depended on the extent of the damage. If I had to permanently replace any of her vital organs, then she would literally be unable to live without me.

This was something I had realized when experimenting on the boar. Anything I replaced would be lost if I left it, as without a slime core, it would turn to goop. Arguably this was one way to force cooperation with a host if you couldn't mentally defeat them, but would cooperation under duress even be worth it?

I suppose I'll get some answers tomorrow…

***

Waking up the first thing I noticed was that the alive boar did not drain me dry of precious slime mass, much to my delight. At the same time I discovered that I had apparently been running the creature to the brink of total exhaustion by running around the forest endlessly. Yes, it was a living creature and thus had a finite supply of energy, unlike my glorious slimy self.

Since I was the one in charge, I could force it and it had no say in the matter. It might have tried to complain to me, but after it revealed its devious desires I had blocked all forms of communication between us. I wasn't going to let it pollute my mind with such forms of debauchery.

Still, this was a problem and probably something I could hopefully solve with more levels in [Adaptive Host Bond], or perhaps some new slime traits. In theory I should be able to supplement my host's stamina, if not outright remove the requirement entirely.

This unstoppable engine runs on slime mass and Mana!

With that I headed out, as I wanted to make a stop to the slime farm before I convened with the elf princess. Previously I had messed around quite a bit before stumbling into her but if I went there without distraction, I would have plenty of time, potentially even arriving before she stumbled into that small clearing.

