{Well duh, did you really think you survived being stabbed, bashed and poisoned all on your own? Elves don't have [Regeneration] last I checked, although maybe we can solve that later.}

Sylthaeryn frowned, still looking around. Since I was part of her I could tell she was using her perception skills and sensory traits to try to find me, but I was closer than she could imagine.

"Thank you… But why did you do it?"

{Would you believe me if I said Llewel sent me?}

"Llewel…?" she murmured as if trying to remember the name. "Did my mom send you?"

{Uh… Maybe? I'm not actually sure. I just thought it must be Llewel since he's the only Chronomancer I know of.}

"Chronomancer…" she whispered and then it seemed the puzzle clicked into pace. "Him? So my mom did send you…"

{Again, I'm not sure, it might have been Llewel following Paeris' orders for all I know.}

Sylthaeryn's body began to tremble a little. "Paeris…"

{Oh, not a fan?}

"I didn't say that."

{You certainly felt it.}

She went silent, glaring around at the forest. "Who are you?"

{Would you believe me if I said I was from the future?}

"No."

{Well, that's blunt.}

"Chronomancer's can't go back in time more than a few minutes at most," Sylthaeryn confidently declared.

Well… That would've been nice to know. Me and Vee kept fearing he was capable of far more than that. Anyway, better not leave her hanging.

{Regardless of whether you believe it or not, I came back and I saved you. How else could I know so much about you?}

"Paeris would have trained you on me."

{Damn, that's a good point, he does go overboard with his training. I still have dreams about the different elf families and their stupid fashion choices…}

"Why do you know all of that?"

{Well I was… Actually, nevermind, that's probably a bit too much information for a first meeting. We will have plenty of time to get to know each other.}

"I don't want to sound ungrateful for you saving me, but I'm not going back."

{Hm? Sure, I never said we had to go back.}

Sylthaeryn blinked in confusion. "You… Aren't you here to take me back?"

{No…? I just came to save you. If I'm totally honest with you I'm not even sure if that's why I'm here, but I do kind of owe Loreleia a favor. Technically I owe you one too, as you helped me a lot, even if it came with so much extra baggage.}

Sylthaeryn was now looking very confused. I couldn't blame her, I'd thrown around a lot of things I probably shouldn't have, but I was trying to keep her distracted before she ruined all my hard work.

"You shouldn't call her by name; Paeris will cut your tongue out."

{Jokes on him, he can try his best, but he won't get very far.}

"You…"

{You, yourself. Frankly you're nothing like I imagined. What happened to the noble elf beseeching a mere wolf to aid her as her final wish? Was that all fake?}

"What? No… What are you showing me?"

{Wait, what?}

Sylthaeryn was looking distressed as she was beginning to panic and look around. "Was that me? An illusion? What was that for?"

{Did I accidentally sneak you a peak into my memories? Wow, that's unexpected, I was just reminiscing.}

"You're lying!" she said and tried to get up.

{Hey! You're in no condition right now to get up. Do you know the amount of resources I spent to patch you up, you ungrateful brat!}

"I'm not a brat, I'm—"

{Oh yes you are definitely a brat. A royal snobby brat who snuck away from home to go on an adventure, only to get stabbed in the back by an even snobbier human!}

"I—"

{And Keaton of all people? How could you fall for that? He has 'bad guy' written all over his face. Not to mention his two goons, they were clearly hired thugs, did you really think they were adventurers?}

"He said they lost their gear in a fight with a dragon…"

{A dragon!? Oh gods, you really believed him when he said those wretched souls fought a dragon?}

"It was a lesser dragon…"

{The word lesser doesn't exist for dragons! They would be burnt to cinders, no survivors! Oh Gramps, save me, this girl really is ignorant of the world…}

"That's why I ran away… I was tired of being locked up. I wanted to explore the world, learn about it and experience life for once."

{Look… I get it, I wanted to gauge my eyes out when I was forced to endure the whole Princess treatment, but you chose literally the worst way to go about it along with the worst people.}

"I…" she sniffed.

{Oh gods, don't cry… I'm sorry…}

Ugh… Is this what dealing with a moody teenager is like? I didn't sign up for this.

After a brief bit of time she calmed down, and I gave her permission to get up and do some light movement. Things were looking pretty good from my perspective, although I was still worried all my slime stitching would come undone if she even breathed wrong.

"So… What now?"

{Well I'd like to get the poison removed from your body so I can attempt a better patch job.}

"I should have a potion in my bag…" she said and reached to her side, only to find nothing. "It's gone!?"

{Hm? That's different… Do you mean the golden oak bag?}

"Yes! Oh gods, please tell me you took it."

{No, that bag is far more trouble than its worth. If I ever see it again, it's too soon.}

"I have to get it back!" she cried.

{Unfortunately I agree with you… Knowing what they are plotting to do with it, we can't leave it in their hands. But, again, you're in no condition to do anything.}

"I have to try anyway! That bastard deserves to be gutted."

{Oh, I definitely agree with you there. I want nothing more than to kill him again, but we have to go about this smartly. I'm far too low-level right now, and you're still poisoned.}

"You'll help me?" she asked with relief.

{Haven't I been helping you this entire time? I swear, you're making me reconsider dumping you with the elves.}

"No, please don't. We can work together, we can kill that bastard and then go on an adventure!"

I wanted to roll my eyes. She really was nothing like the elf I had imagined. Was this why everyone was so surprised by me when I took her place? Princess Failure had come back and was now extraordinarily competent.

Maybe I'm being too harsh on her? Well, whatever, let's move on.

I instructed her to start moving, guiding her to the pond as I figured it was the safest place right now. The entire time I was watching her condition, making subtle improvements and fixes where I could with the slime mass that those two wolves had gratefully donated.

Conversation was light, since Sylthaeryn was being stealthy and I hadn't broken the news to her yet that we could converse telepathically. Honestly, I wasn't sure how she was going to take it, that she had a slime currently living inside her and keeping her organs together with glue.

When we arrived and she checked the surroundings were safe, she finally broke the silence.

"Are you really at a low level? I can't sense you at all…"

{I'm level thirteen if you add it together, I think.}

"That can't be right. Or do you mean you're level thirteen in an advanced class? Are you an assassin, or maybe a shadowblade?"

I'm actually classless… But let's not go there.

{No… I'm not.}

"Then where are you? How are we going to work together if you won't show yourself? I don't even know your name…"

{You're right, and I think you're in an okay enough condition to know the truth. Just… Be open-minded, okay? I did save your life.}

Sylthaeryn nodded.

{I'm a slime.}

"Please don't joke around."

{No. I'm really not joking. I'm a slime. I was a human, I think, and I was turned into a slime by one of the gods.}

"That's absurd… Do you think I'm a child?"

{Oh a bunch of ruffians surviving a dragon is fine, but me being turned into a slime is where you draw the line?}

"Well, slimes are… You know…"

Unfortunately I do know…

{Hold up your hand…}

"I don't see how that is supposed to help—" she said, stopping mid-sentence and letting out a scream.

Her hand was currently coated in blue slime that I had released from her pores. I gave it a bit of a friendly wiggle, but it didn't seem to ease her concern as she was trying desperately to remove it from her hand by shaking and gripping at it.

{See? I'm a slime.}

"Okay I believe you, but get off my hand!"

{Um… Unfortunately it's a lot more than your hand.}

"Wha—what do you mean?" she stammered.

There was no sugarcoating it now, and I felt like it was better to drop the truthbomb.

{Well. I'm currently inside you, healing you and keeping your body together.}

"No… You can't be serious," she pleaded.

{Sorry, I am… I'm a Parasitic Slime, and this was the only way I could save you.}

To my horror she appeared to faint, but I caught her body before she fell down and caused any damage. That recovered her and then she then realized that her body was not entirely under her own control. She instantly fought back for control, and I quickly gave it back, not wanting to hurt her.

{Sorry, sorry, I didn't want you to fall and hurt yourself.}

"Get out!"

{I can't!}

"Get out!"

{You'll literally die!}

"You're lying!"

{I'm not! Do you have any idea what I had to go through to try to hold you together? Did you not wonder why your stomach is blueish? That's slime turned into flesh tissue! I'm not very good at changing colors right now, but that's besides the point. Your left lung is collapsed and only being inflated by me, your healthy organs are swimming in poison, your pancreas is gone entirely, your spine has multiple fractures, and I could go on and on with countless other issues!}

Sylthaeryn opened her mouth to say something. I closed it.

{No! You listen to me. I'm not lying, I can swear an oath to the gods if you need it, but I went through far too much effort to keep you alive at this point. I'm literally trying my best here, I even learnt [Healing Magic] just to try save you. Go look at your profile! You now have the skill thanks to me!}

To my surprise she actually listened to me, and I watched her eyes go wide as saucers. Thankfully this seemed to be the final nail in the coffin and she finally realized that, yes, I was on her side. After calming myself down, because honestly I was about to snap myself after all the mental work I'd been doing, I released the control I had over her jaw.

She opened and closed her mouth a few times, as if testing that it worked. Then she went silent again. I didn't say anything, I just kept silently working in the background as I had been this entire time, trying to keep this ungrateful elf alive.

"Sorry…" she whispered.

I didn't reply.

"I'm sorry."

Nope.

"Please say something…"

Still nope.

"I didn't know… I'm sorry… And… Thank you for saving me."

Well at least she finally thanked me, I sighed.

{You're welcome. Now, are you finally ready to work together?}

She sniffled and then nodded.

This was off to a very rocky start, but at least now, things were starting to look up.

Now, where do we start…?

***

To be continued...?

(Please check the post-chapter author note)
