“You don't have to, but you can.” Ren said, then took a breath and let it out. “I was going to say that you don't know how happy I am that I can see you all again; but, you should know exactly how happy I am.”

“We do.” Andrela said. “We missed you so much!”

“I missed you, too.” Ren said. “I've been trying to get back to you this whole time, and just when I thought it was going to happen...”

“That was so awful!” Lusinia said. “It felt like my heart was ripped out!”

“Mine, too.” Ren said. “I'm glad you're all okay now.”

“We... we're not okay.” Verwynn said, and they all looked at her. “You've been away for so long, and now that you're back, you... you haven't even...”

“That's because once I start kissing you, I'm not going to be able to stop for a long, long time.” Ren said, and all 5 maids caught their breath at the truth in his words. “I need to run a quick errand, and I'll come right back.”

“We'll be waiting.” Frikara said.

Ren gave each of them a quick hug and walked over to Xuunah. “M'lady, may I speak to you privately?” He asked and held a hand out to her. She nodded and took the offered hand, then Ren cast the Portal spell and stepped through it with her.

“AHHaahh... huh?” Teepo started to holler and stopped. “Hey, I didn't die!”

Ren chuckled. “Do you really think I'd fix everything else and not fix you, too?”

“You fixed me?” Teepo asked. “But, I don't feel any different.”

“You didn't notice that you were summoned with a solid body?” Ren asked, and Teepo gasped.

“Hey, you're right!” Teepo said, then chittered in laughter. “I completely missed that you didn't have to cast the other spells to make me like this!”

“Ren.” Xuunah said in a severe tone of voice.

“Yes, My Angel?” Ren asked.

“Why are we in an underground chamber?” Xuunah asked.

“It's the most private space I know, without going into the Sanctuary.” Ren said. “Only someone who knows it's here could ever find it, and no one can get in without making a portal to do it.”

“So, it really is private.” Xuunah said.

“It is, and I have something very important to discuss with you.” Ren said.

“I can feel that, and I should already know what you are talking about.” Xuunah said. “You are shielding very well, even from yourself.” She stepped close and touched the side of his face. “It... it changed.” She touched the spot above her heart. “When you gave it back to me, it changed.”

Ren nodded. “You see, when I was repairing everything...”
