Moments later, Silvi reappeared as Derek got to his feet. A hand reached out and grabbed Silvi by her hind leg, and Derek rushed over. He channeled the void into his foot, then stomped down on the hand. An eroded bone was all that was left of Silvi's leg by that time, but she was an evolved beast, so it instantly began healing.

Nikolai's hand grasped the ground as he tried to pull himself out of the portal. His head cleared it, and Derek winced at the sight. Before, he had long, flowing hair… now… he had less hair than Marrick did before his evolution. His face was perfectly smooth in some places, but pure wrinkles in other places. The look in his eyes as he looked up at Derek was half-dead.

"Getting distracted sucks, huh?" Derek asked as the man coughed up blood. He looked into the portal and was disgusted by the sight. The whole bottom half of the man's body was shriveled up or missing from the chaos and space. "I could bring you out and have you make an oath…" he said. "But…"

"Kill me," Nikolai's words came out barely audible. "Can't… heal… this…" he muttered.

"I was afraid of that," Derek said. The last thing he wanted to do was win like this… mostly because if he was going to take the guy out, he wanted to get the essence, but also, it was a very shitty way to die. But since the man was able to crawl out of the portal a bit, that no longer mattered. I guess a win is a win… no matter how lucky… Derek muttered and held his freshly, but not completely regrown hand out.

Is it luck if I planned it, though? Derek wondered. There was a reason he stayed close to the Void Travel portal the entire fight after he opened it and made a big deal about Silvi escaping. It was a last resort—a trump card that would likely net him no essence and destroy most possible items in a storage ring. But it worked, and he and Silvi were still alive—that's all that really mattered.

Harbinger appeared, and Derek began channeling the void. Once full, Derek activated Multi-Strike, then swung the blade down on the man's head. Moments later, he received a notification. After that, he dragged the man's body the rest of the way out, closed the portal, and ended Void Eclipse. I'll check out the notification later, he thought as he turned and took off towards the others.
