It was a nightmare that woke him. An urgent dream. But it wasn’t one with pictures. He didn’t ever dream of something he had never had.
And yet, the dream had sound. The laughter of [Witches], high and cackling, borne out of imagination, movies. A skittering of a large spider. A baby’s wail.
Sensation. Cobwebs giving way to burning heat. Fire racing around him, crackling. Frightening, elusive. Smell—smoke. But where was it coming from? In his dream, the young man was reaching for it. But the fire was racing, growing, eluding him.
In the background, he could hear more laughter. Was it a woman’s voice? A man’s? He couldn’t tell anymore. And then the heat was everywhere. Consuming. Burning. Fire.
Then Laken Godart woke up. He sat up with a start and gasped and heard someone jerk. There was a pause as the world became real and solid, and Laken heard a voice.
“Your Majesty?”
“Gamel. I’m fine. I was just dozing.”
With an effort, Laken focused. He felt the rumble of movement in the carriage. Heard Gamel shifting. Laken shook his head. It was the same dream. But compounded with the news of yesterday. He turned his head restlessly, searching with his hearing rather than his eyes.
“Stop the carriage, Gamel. I’m going to ride in the supply wagon.”
Gamel paused. He knew what that meant. But he didn’t object.
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
Laken heard Gamel rap on the window leading to the driver’s seat. He murmured to the driver, and the carriage obligingly stopped. After a moment, Gamel opened the door.
“Sire…?”
Laken reached out, and Gamel helped him descend without tumbling from the seat of the carriage. Fresher air hit Laken. And wet. He grimaced as he realized he’d tuned out the sound of rainfall.
“Still raining? What is this, the eighth day in a row?”
“Yes, Your Majesty. I’ll bring the umbrella—”
“No need. The supply wagon has a covering. Let’s get there.”
Gamel hesitated. But it wasn’t pouring yet, and both knew the skies could open up any moment. Carefully, Laken walked across the soggy dirt ground. Hard-packed, but very muddy. He could smell the waterlogged soil in the air. It felt like it was still day. But he could only take Gamel’s word for it. Laken could feel no sunlight on his skin.
“Halt the caravan! Make way!”
Someone was shouting. Laken listened. The entire caravan was halting, wagons behind his carriage stopping so he could move from the carriage to the supply wagon—which had been suspiciously vacant of actual supplies the last three times he’d used it. Part of him could only grimace, but internally. This was what an [Emperor] was. A heavy weight. Ponderous. But capable of change.
Like hand-held umbrellas. It was amazing that aside from a few parasols, no one had really invented a basic umbrella. Then again, magic worked as well as an oiled rain cloak. People didn’t really need an umbrella; it was a pedestrian’s tool. But it had been a nice curio to develop, especially in light of all this rain.
Still, an umbrella didn’t really matter compared to covered wagons, did it? And the awning of what might be oiled cloth or some animal hide protected the next wagon. It was curved, but had an open back.
Laken let Gamel clamber up and then offer him a hand and pull him into the wagon and find a seat for two reasons. Firstly, because he wouldn’t doze off in the wagon as opposed to the carriage. And secondly, because the open back faced the back end of the caravan.
“Your Majesty? Shall I fetch you a blanket? Something to drink?”
“No, Gamel. I’ll just sit here. Take your ease, by all means. I will call if I need you.”
Laken was aware there was a blanket waiting for him in the corner of the wagon. And Gamel hesitated only for a moment before hopping out of the wagon. Probably to snack or talk with his fiancée, Tessia. Or just walk near the wagon.
It was fine. Laken sat, hearing the call go forwards.
“Move the wagons! Watch the road! Potholes ahead!”
Potholes and mud. But Laken said not a word. He shifted on the hard wood, feeling the back of the wagon, slightly damp from where water had inevitably leaked in. And he held still. They wouldn’t notice him at first.
He sat there a while. Listening. And from behind the wagon, at the end of the caravan, he heard a foreign language, the sound of movement. Murmurs, laughter. Conversation. Arguments. Crying.
None of it sounded like monsters. As the wagon rolled on, bumping, uncomfortably navigating the muddy roads west and north back to Riverfarm, Laken knew the other wagons were being pulled. Here at least was a convention of this world, although the wagons had had to be built. But the iron bars, the cage-like wagons—those were a [Slaver]’s legacy. It was darkly appropriate to the people they held.
How else would you keep them from escaping or trying to attack the guards that rode in number with them? And just as crucially, protect them? It was still an injustice, but a necessary one. Something Laken couldn’t apologize for.
There weren’t enough words in any language to apologize. And Laken had tried. Until he’d realized how worthless words were. So he listened. Soon, they knew he was there. Then…the noise stopped.
 
 
Day 60 – Laken
 
I know they’re there. But they’re so silent I could be alone but for the sound of the wagons, the horses. Because they know I can’t see. So they make no sound. Not a clue to give me a sign they’re alive.
They can probably see me. I’ve had Gamel describe what it’s like in this strange caravan more than once. The wagons don’t ride in a single line; that’s stupid, and the road’s large enough to carry them three or even four abreast. At least, if there’s no traffic flowing the other way.
We’re travelling down a regular highway. Made of dirt, true, but it beats trying to travel cross-country. Roads are very necessary for wheels not to break on rocks, or struggle going down sharp inclines or getting trapped in divots in the ground, etcetera. You learn something new every day.
So the prisoners’ carts, the wagons filled with Goblins, are rolling just behind my wagon. No—to the left and right occasionally. Following the riders in front and my carriage. The Goblins are at the back of the caravan, which is obviously not where you want to put anything valuable.
It’s the first spot to be abandoned or attacked. Which is why the Goblins are there. I didn’t choose it; the [Caravan Master] refused to have the Goblins’ carts in the lead. Which is also a dangerous spot, but there’s the symbology of having Goblins in the back. They can’t ‘lead’ or be seen to be ahead of good Humans. Plus, they throw their poop and stones at the riders.
And that’s fine. If there’s anything I’ve learned after, god, what is it, two months now? It’s that I can’t win every battle. I shouldn’t even try. What’s valuable is winning the battles that need to be won. And getting around three hundred Goblins back to Riverfarm alive is a trial in itself.
Having Riverfarm standing would be good too. But I have a choice, and I’m making it. We’re close to home. If it weren’t for these rains, we’d be closer. As it stands, I could lose the Goblins if I rode ahead. So here I sit.
Silence. They definitely know I’m here. It’s actually quite surreal. Because if I asked Gamel, he could tell me. Hundreds of Goblins. Crimson eyes, staring at me. I don’t understand what ‘crimson’ is, or really get the fact that their eyes glow in the dark. But it makes Gamel wary.
As for me—I listen. I can hear the animals pulling the wagons making sounds. Hear conversation from the drivers, but not much. They don’t like having to drive the wagons with the Goblins. There’s a rotation system so they can drive the other wagons or the carriage, and apparently they’ve even taken to gambling for who has to drive the Goblin wagons every day.
Good, I guess. It means they’re resigned to it. If the drivers do spit at the Goblins or hurl insults, they’re not doing it now. Because I’m there. And I’m…listening.
“Gamel.”
He jumps; he thinks I didn’t notice that he’d pretended to leave. I sigh. I’m blind. Not deaf. If he’d left, I wouldn’t still hear him splashing alongside. He wavers.
“Your Majesty?”
“Take my phone.”
So saying, I reach into my pocket and pull it out. I hear a breath, almost awed. Gamel accepts it. I nod to the wagon.
“There’s a bunch of Goblins riding in that wagon right behind us, isn’t there?”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
“Toss the phone. Try not to hit the driver.”
I hear a pause and an unvoiced objection. But again, we’ve done this dance before. How many days is it? I count.
Around fifty-four days since we really began moving. Forty since the Goblins were treated like animals and not like prisoners. Thirty-seven since I could sit anywhere near them without being in danger of being hit by something. Twenty-one since the wagon drivers learned the lesson about tormenting them. Eight since the rains began, slowing our progress to a halt. It’s so bad it reminds me of Liscor. I thought spring was ending.
Oh, and eighteen days since I gave Gamel the order the first time to throw the phone. After eighteen days, he doesn’t even try arguing. He just sighs.
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
“Thank you. Hey.”
I turn. I can hear silence, but I know they’re there. I nod towards where I think Gamel is and speak to the Goblins.
“Catch.”
Gamel throws the phone. I don’t know what he aims at. But I never hear it hit the ground. It doesn’t bounce off a wagon driver’s head—I’d hear the swearing. And it doesn’t hit the bars. I hear Gamel settle back, watching.
Well? But I don’t ask. If they think Gamel’s telling me what they’re doing, the Goblins will just stop doing it. In their way, they’re tenacious; they can sit in silence, motionless, for hours until I give up. Even the children. So I don’t ask. I wait. And I hear them shuffling around. Then I can’t help it. I turn my head.
“Gamel, a blanket. And tell me what they’re doing.”
“A Hob has it, Your Majesty. One of the…Redfangs.”
“Ah.”
I can picture him in my head. There’s only two Hobs in the caravan from the Redfang tribe, who are apparently famed for their skill in battle. It was a Redfang Goblin that killed the Goblin Lord. Garen Redfang, their Chieftain. And another slew a high-ranking [Knight], Sir Vumat. And of those Hobs, only one is male.
I’ve asked Gamel to describe him. So I imagine the Hob, young—they all look rather young. But older than the rest, in his late twenties perhaps appearance-wise. Squatting or sitting, his loincloth and belt worn. Bare-chested, covered in the faded war paint they wear.
The remaining Redfangs apparently have more stripes than exposed skin. I don’t know how they make anything like a dye, even with blood, but apparently that [Shaman] has something to do with it.
Gamel fusses over the blanket with me as he continues describing the Hobgoblin’s actions. And I listen. When we return to my lands, I want to see how close my image of these Goblins is to reality. I’ve learned about them. But only as an outsider. I know things, but I don’t know what they mean. And they refuse to talk to me. That’s fine.
“He’s using your phone, sire.”
“Of course he is.”
Here’s where my imagination really has to strain since I turned my screen reader app off. But there’s this…Goblin. Sitting, while the other Goblins cluster around him, peering at the glowing screen. And I’m told they can use it as adeptly as I can. Scrolling from screen to screen with a delicate flick, handling the iPhone with the utmost care, despite the fact that you can just [Repair] it and charge the battery and fix the screen in one go.
For a few minutes, the Hob does just that. Then he makes a decision, and it takes the Hobgoblin only a second to open the app he wants. Hah—it took the Goblin children less than ten minutes to start taking movies of each other, apparently.
It shouldn’t surprise me, honestly. I’m told there’s a video of a monkey of some kind figuring out how to use an app on a smartphone. And if a primate could do it, Goblins should understand it—better than Humans, actually. Gralton and Yitton both freaked out when I took a picture of them (off center), and they both treat it as if it’s made of diamonds.
Which it is, I suppose. But it’s worth something here. No—more than anywhere else. In that sense, my iPhone holds a treasure from another world. Which is what the Hob listens to now. He doesn’t use headphones; that would mean he’s the only one listening to it. There’s a start—a strain of music. Then even the wagon drivers stop grumbling. Because they know what’s coming.
A song.
I can hear it. It begins with a violin and an accordion, both instruments that few in this world could play. And a man’s voice begins to sing. By my side, Gamel sighs. Because he recognizes it too.
The music’s distant, but familiar; the Goblins make no sounds as the wagons carry them. They listen to a German singer. Irony of ironies, it’s a song I’ve played in this world.
Viertel vor Sieben.
There’s no way they can know what the song means. Yet, I think they do. It’s the Hob’s favorite song. He’s played it fifty-three times. And yes, I count. There’s little to do on this caravan besides talk and listen. Less for a blind man; I can’t ride or practice swordplay or hunt like Gralton or Yitton. So I think. Appropriate, for an [Emperor].
The German music plays, a gentle, sad song. Nostalgic. And I can’t even fathom what the Goblins must look like. But they all listen. The Humans riding, the Goblins in the wagon. Listening to a song from another world.
At least in this, I can say Earth is unmatched. The songs and music and stories written as our society progressed and technology allowed more people to become songwriters or experiment is something this world lacks. We may not be better people. I’m proof of that. But we have this.
Music. The song lasts for just over five minutes, and it makes the time go faster, it really does. The rain begins to pour again, and the people grumble. The wagons roll on, and the animals are unhappy. But the Goblins listen. The next song is quite unlike the first. The Hobgoblin starts six different songs before a short argument in Goblin occurs. I hear a smack, a whining sound. And then a second song.
“Oh. I know this one.”
The beat to this song makes Gamel stir. I can just imagine other riders ahead pulling back. Because you couldn’t copy this kind of music. At least, I haven’t heard anyone playing the guitar. And the song’s in English. It makes me smile a bit.
