Then the door blew open. The frost melted as a man dressed in gold blasted into the room. The Summer’s Champion, the Grandmaster of Talia’s Season, strode over to Calirn. His hair was as fiery as his temperament. He was the youngest of all four Grandmasters, ironically, and that meant he was in his late forties. He spoke curtly, ignoring Talia, his eyes locked on Calirn.
“Is it true? The Stitch Witch has been sighted?”
“Yes.”
That was all. The Summer’s Champion spoke an oath, and the temperature in the room shot up. Calirn stared at him, and the Summer’s Champion recalled himself. Both controlled their auras, and Talia stepped back.
“Grandmaster—”
“Dame Talia? You’ve returned?”
The Grandmaster of Summer turned to her, surprised. Then he glanced at Calirn.
“Congratulations will have to wait, Dame Talia. We must attend to this. The Stitch Witch—”
“Are you sure it’s her? I thought once she was driven from that village we wouldn’t see her for another thousand years. Should we contact Ailendamus? Noelictus?”
A woman walked into the room. She was the Spring’s Warden, and somehow she seemed younger than her fifty years of age. She still looked vibrant, a flower blooming. Calirn looked up as the Spring’s Warden responded.
“The other two are hurrying here, but they will be at least ten minutes each. The Winter’s Watcher is three miles distant.”
The Knight-Commander nodded.
“I see. Then we begin. Dame Talia—remain if you wish. But remain silent. No, I don’t believe it is time to alarm either nation yet…”
He didn’t send her away, which surprised only Talia. The two Grandmasters stepped forwards. They embodied their titles as some of the highest-level [Knights] of their classes. They listened as Calirn spoke.
“…This is what we know. A [Broker] contacted the Order of Seasons claiming to have credible knowledge of where the Stitch Witch was present. He swore under truth spell he could identify her location beyond reasonable doubt; he had sent someone to verify her description.”
The Summer’s Champion crossed his arms skeptically.
“And he was sure?”
“Beyond reasonable doubt. He could still try to cheat the truth spell.”
The Spring’s Warden frowned. Calirn waved their objections aside.
“The agent the [Broker] sent was sure. And if it was her—it would not be hard to tell.”
The two Grandmasters paused, then nodded. Talia looked from face to face. The Spring’s Warden was distant, troubled, but the Summer’s Champion burned. And Knight-Commander Calirn’s face—they had met her, it seemed. Talia remembered another tale of Belavierr. But they were tales. This was a frightening reality.
The Summer’s Champion turned, restlessly regarding the maps on the walls.
“Where is Ser Raim? He and the Hunter’s Guild have been searching. This is his battle, though we should have armies at his back again. He almost had her, and we thought her fled, in hiding. How is she in Izril so fast? What ship did she take?”
The Knight-Commander’s voice was soft.
“She wouldn’t need a ship.”
The Spring’s Warden nodded.
“An entire continent away. And yet, if it is true… damnation. Who could we call upon? House Veltras? All the Five Families? Would they even understand the urgency of the task?”
The [Servant] that Calirn had sent to send the [Messages] returned, breathless. He stopped still when he saw two of the Grandmasters in the room. Calirn looked at him.
“Send word to the Fall’s Sentinel to prepare his Season for a grand ritual spell. I do not know when or if it must be cast. Inform the Academy of Wistram that we may need their assistance. And tell Ser Raim to return to the Order in all haste. Request the Hunter’s Guild to send their highest-level experts with Ser Raim. We cannot muster an army if she is moving quickly. We must trust Raim to finish this with a small group. But I will give him that chance.”
“You’re serious about this?”
Calirn ignored the Summer’s Champion’s incredulous look. He kept giving orders as the [Servant]’s eyes flickered, memorizing each word.
“Have the [Informants] information on the Stitch Witch?”
“All the replies we have collected claim ignorance, Knight-Commander.”
Calirn nodded.
“In that case, get in contact with this [Fence]’s acquaintances. Anyone who might be able to verify the Stitch Witch’s whereabouts. Offer a bounty. A substantial one.”
The [Servant] nodded, waited, and then raced off. Talia looked around. And the two Grandmasters exchanged a glance. A grand ritual spell? Recalling the active hunters for Belavierr? It could only mean one thing.
He thought it was her. Greysten mused out loud, trying to second-guess a trick.
“It could be a ruse. She’s done the same before to throw us off.”
“Yes. But her curses kill those who attempt to betray her whereabouts. And Izril—it fits one other piece of information I was given by the [Broker]. There is a coven there. Seeking to bargain with an [Emperor].”
Greysten laughed incredulously.
“An [Emperor]? Why would one be in Izril—”
The Spring’s Warden impatiently spoke over him.
“If it is her, how can we confirm it? Using a grand ritual would be a waste of resources if we err—”
Calirn interrupted the two.
“We must hope that one of the [Informants] has the means to communicate her whereabouts or confirm her presence despite the curse. But every effort must be taken or else she will slip through the Order’s fingers again. We prepare but do not act unless we are certain.”
He looked pointedly at the Spring’s Warden. She nodded after a moment. Talia was almost spellbound. But she couldn’t help it. She burst out, and all three [Knights] turned to her.
“Ser Calirn, do you believe Ser Raim is up to the task if it is the Stitch Witch herself? Alone?”
She knew he was of her Season, but like many [Knights], she had never met him personally. And Calirn had refused to send a lance! The Summer’s Champion made an incredulous sound.
“Dame Talia, you’ve not met Ser Raim, have you?”
“I have not, Grandmaster.”
Talia bit her tongue. The Summer’s Champion looked at Calirn, and the Knight-Commander answered for him.
“Ser Raim has exceeded Level 50 and is thus one of the finest members of the order. You, Lady Talia, are over twenty levels below him. There is no comparison. Moreover, he has the Skill to put an end to the Stitch Witch himself. And the will. He injured her once this winter. She fled his flame.”
Level 50? Talia was awestruck. But she didn’t even know if the heads of each season had reached that level! Ser Greysten had been over Level 40 and therefore one of the best [Knights] in the Order of Seasons. This should have made Ser Raim a legend to all, a candidate for honorary positions like the Thousand Lances. Was this recent?
She wanted to ask, but Talia had embarrassed herself enough. The Spring’s Warden was nodding. There was no malice as she explained to Talia, as if the [Knight] were still in the Season of Spring.
“Dame Talia, the Stitch Witch is a foe our Order has faced before. Sporadically, yes, over the decades.”
“Centuries.”
She nodded.
“Even so. We have experience in dealing with her, and we know a few of her weaknesses and how she preys on others. One aspect we are certain of is that her command of fabric and thread is unmatched. If we sent a full lance against her, even were they all veterans over Level 30, she could choke many to death purely with the threads in their garb. She is unassailable by low-level [Knights]. The team hunting her, which includes Ser Raim as our representative, have all taken precautions against her.”
“The Hunter’s Guild seeks her as well. Their classes are specialized. In truth, our Order keeps only one member on her trail; she is elusive to the point that it bleeds resources attempting to find her.”
The Summer’s Champion explained. Talia nodded.
“Then what drives Ser Raim to follow the Stitch Witch?”
Both Grandmasters quieted. The Summer’s Champion folded his arms. And the Spring’s Warden replied.
“She slew his fiancée, Knight of the Autumn Dame Fale. Years ago. Almost a decade, in fact.”
It was all that needed to be said. Calirn turned. He had been plotting the distance from the Order’s headquarters to Filk on a map.
“So. She is no foe to be underestimated. And the distance is vast. The information uncertain. Perhaps this is one of her many games or illusions. But if it is not—the Stitch Witch has blighted Terandria. Aside from the Necromancer, she is one of the few ancient foes of our era. It is a debt older than you or I that our Order owes her. I would see it settled.”
All the [Knights] nodded at that. It was Talia who felt a stirring of apprehension. To say it like that put Belavierr on the same level as Az’kerash, the monster who had died during the Second Antinium War. And he had killed just as many of the Order’s [Knights]. The Season of Summer had lost nearly two hundred [Knights] to him. And they would send one if Belavierr was really there? She looked at Knight-Commander Calirn.
“Can it be done, then? If it’s her—”
His face was grave. Bitter. Focused. Then Calirn looked up. He saw Talia’s face. Suddenly—he smiled. Talia stopped, and Calirn straightened. The Knight-Commander nodded once.
“Yes, Dame Talia Kallinad. It can be done. Our Order has slain Dragons and brought low beasts of every ilk. We have ended worse monsters than Belavierr the Stitch Witch. But we are not all-powerful, or even foremost. We are one of many, which is why we temper our strength of arms with humility. Forge alliances with other Knight-Orders and noble houses and kingdoms. It is why we would dedicate multiple lances of [Knights] to a competition in Baleros.”
Talia saw the Spring’s Warden smile and heard the Summer’s Champion laugh. Calirn was calmer. Cooler, like frost. But not without passion. The [Servant] came rushing into the room, followed hot on his heels by two more, all calling out [Messages] from Ser Raim, the Hunter’s Guild, queries, replies—Ser Calirn ignored them as the other two Grandmasters snapped replies. He looked at Talia, speaking as one [Knight] to another.
“We are not all-powerful. So you rightly ask if one [Knight] can defeat her alone when many would fail. I say yes. Because it is this [Knight]. And his will would burn even a monster of aeons. He has the strength. He was a burnt coal of a man a year ago. I spoke to him after his victory this winter, and his fury was a tempest no winter could stand against.”
Talia could only bow her head in reply. Her earlier excitement was gone, put out by the [Winter Knight]. But she felt a colder resolve, the kind that came from his Season. For once, she thought it might be right to become a [Winter Knight] in time. She had thought she would burn forever, but there was an ageless certainty to Calirn’s face. A cold eternity of resolve.
Talia retreated as the Grandmasters and Knight-Commander turned to preparing for a battle that might not come. An if. A chance to slay a nightmare, a dark legend.
“Dame Talia.”
She turned at the doors. Knight-Commander Calirn regarded her gravely. He raised a finger and pointed to a map of the Order’s stronghold and the nearby area, tracing a long journey to the north and east.
“If you wish it, ride out to meet Ser Raim. Otherwise, you will wait in reserve. For make no mistake: if she is there, we will strike.
Calirn paused, and his face was heavy.
“The Witch of Webs, the Spider—our foe of many names seldom gives a chance to give her battle, let alone on equal grounds. If I could, I would prevail on the other foes who have a right to her. Noelictus’ armies, Ailendamus’ forces, the entire Hunter’s Guild, and [Knights] far and wide. But if we can only send one, it will be Ser Raim. If you doubt my judgment, look him in the eyes, then face me, and I will grant your request in fullness.”
The words chilled Talia and sent her running for the stables. She took the first horse she could find and headed for the roads.
The headquarters of all four seasons were coming to life with the news. But Talia rode past [Knights] coming back and asking what was going on.
Filled with Knight-Commander Calirn’s words, Talia urged her horse onwards, covering distance as fast as she could. Hours of riding to meet this man who could do what a company of [Knights] could not.
And still, she made little distance compared to the party that raced towards the Order of Seasons. They covered ground like lightning. No…
Talia paused as she neared the pass that led out of the Order of Seasons’ territory and down into the Kingdom of Pheislant. She had thought, impulsively, to ride out for days to meet this party, spend time in the company of Ser Raim and whatever Hunters of Noelictus he’d brought.
Then she realized Calirn had been warning her to take this chance for any time at all. For she saw the hunters of the Witch of Webs. From above, they looked like a shiver running through the forests, which produced another down her spine.
Below, she could see something moving, leaving tree branches swaying, so fast that birds were flying into the distance, miles upon miles away. Something raced through the very forests at a speed beyond comprehension.
“Summer fades.”
A group burst from the edges of the forest nearest the Order of Season’s keep. From above, Talia couldn’t count their number; they were tiny. She would have missed them but for that lightning-quick passage. And…even from above, her eyes strayed to a single mote of orange and yellow. Colors of the summer.
That man, the single bright figure among black-clad [Hunters], burned. His aura looked to set the forests aflame. Like a burning torch. Like wrath and the setting sun; Talia shaded her eyes and had to look away. Even when she turned back, wiping at streaming eyes, the brightness was only growing.
Heading her way. Slower now, Talia rode down the pass towards those swift-moving pursuers of a dark legend. She focused on the others; the strange Hunters of Noelictus with crossbows, leather armor, even one who carried swords like scissors, grim-faced and intent, riding hard.
It was easier to look at than the man who rode in their center, so bright that she was dumbstruck regular people couldn’t see his aura. He recognized her, of course, but did not slow as she called out to him and begged to ride in their company back to the keep until they were certain where their quarry was.
That was how she met Ser Raim. And she understood why he had been chosen. Because he alone could burn like the sun.
 
 
Day 63 – Fierre
 
