She didn’t hear from Ryoka. But something was happening. Of that, Fierre was certain. She’d reached out to an [Informant] in Filk, then one in the smaller town of Mafalt that had one [Mage] capable of slinging a [Message] spell. Both reported the same thing.
[Bandits]. Wagons going out, giving away free food? Flocks of crows. Not enough rainfall. Rumors of [Witches]. No—a confirmed coven. A missing [Emperor].
Rumors and gossip. Which was what Fierre was used to. But no one would confirm Belavierr’s presence. Word had spread. And yet—Fierre had that. From Ryoka of all people. It bothered the Vampire girl. She was sitting in her office, trying to figure out why Ryoka was spared.
“She didn’t really confirm it. She sent Charlay to ask for information. But in terms of intent, a curse might not hit her because she wasn’t trying to tell me or the Ratwhisperer. Does that make sense?”
She looked up at Gailt. The [Mage] was sitting in her office, hung over and annoyed. They were conducting the day’s business—that of selling the information Fierre received. He paused in sending his latest [Message] and shrugged.
“Sure. I don’t know curses well, but magic’s got limits. It’s about intent and wording—gah! Why’re you so hung up on it? Oh, right—”
He completed the sentence at the same time as Fierre.
“Because Ryoka’s there. Dead gods, it’s not like she’s the only City Runner. She must be some friend. You don’t hang out with your other clients. Or anyone else.”
“Well, Ryoka’s different.”
“Huh. I’ll say. She looks Drathian. But she said she’s fine. So?”
“So, she has a habit of putting herself into danger. Do you know she did a delivery to the High Passes?”
“What, the High Passes? She is crazy. But what can you do, Miss Fierre? Bribe the [Witches] to not turn her into stew?”
Fierre didn’t answer that. She was afraid that a Vampire wouldn’t be much use against a seriously high-level [Witch]. But she could do something, even if it was only dragging Ryoka back with her. Gailt shrugged as he scratched at his side.
“Shame you don’t have that magic door in Liscor, right? The one that got everyone all stirred up? I heard the Brotherhood and the Sisters both wanted to know how the heist failed. I pity the idiots who got on both their bad sides.”
Fierre rolled her eyes impatiently.
“There are ways of travelling a long distance besides that door, Gailt. Fissival can teleport. They do it all the time. So can Wistram. There are dozens of cities capable of it! And other ways besides.”
“So why’s the door so good?”
“It’s because the door’s cheap. And it doesn’t require a spell circle or [Mages] to operate. Any gang would love to get their hands on it because it’s cheaper than what exists. Not because it’s unique. Now, shut up. I want you to send the contents of this message to Yale in Invrisil.”
She slid a bit of parchment she’d been writing on over the desk. Gailt read the message.
“There’s going to be a raid on the [Merchant] caravan taking a bunch of clothes south past Invrisil? Ooh, I’d better go buy all the fancy silk up before the price skyrockets.”
“Gailt. I’m not in the mood.”
Fierre crossed her arms. The [Mage] sighed, but sent the [Message]. He was yawning as Fierre scribbled another [Message], and she could see him about to ask for a drinks break he wouldn’t get. Then he sat bolt upright.
“Message from Filk! It’s loud and confidential! Mage’s Guild!”
Fierre looked up in alarm. Someone was going through official channels? And paying a lot? She waited. Gailt looked around, opened his mouth, and then his lips compressed. He reached out and grabbed her quill and a bit of parchment and began to write. Fierre could see his eyes staring blankly ahead as his quill danced; even he wasn’t actively reading the message, just relaying it. He mechanically folded the parchment, then handed it to her. Only then did his eyes clear.
“Dead gods damnit, I hate doing that! That’s why I quit working at the Mage’s Guild! What does it say?”
Fierre ignored him. She was staring down at the message on the parchment. And her heart, which beat slower in her cold body, nevertheless skipped a beat.
 
The Stitch Witch has a daughter. Thirty gold to alert the Order of Seasons immediately.
 
“Another [Message].”
Fierre’s head snapped up. This time, Gailt’s eyes didn’t unfocus. He grimaced and rubbed at his head.
“It’s from Daufica. Someone just paid her to send a [Message] to you. They want to say that the [Message] you just got is verified by truth spell—Daufica’s saying she can see the confirmation. Stamped and signed and all. And he’s telling you that the Order of Seasons—”
“—is paying money to confirm the Stitch Witch is near Filk. They want her exact location. They’re offering gold too.”
Fierre completed the sentence. She’d heard the exact same thing. But like the other [Informants], she’d decided staying alive was more important than any number of gold coins. But who was sending the [Messages]?
“Gailt, who was—”
“That’s it. Sorry, fellow’s gone.”
What? Fierre snapped at Gailt as he lowered his hand.
“Who were they? Who sent that [Message]? Ask Daufica, now!”
“Fierre! I can’t do that. She’s a [Fixer]. That’s confidentiality—”
Fierre slammed one hand on the table. Gailt jumped.
“What did he look like? Tell Daufica this isn’t negotiable! Whoever it is wants me to take on the same curse that killed the Ratwhisperer! Who was it?”
The [Mage] hesitated, then put a hand to his brow. Fierre couldn’t hear the invisible argument that lasted for eight minutes, but eventually he lowered his hand, sweating. He looked up at her. Shrugged.
“Hat. Dark clothes. Big smile. That’s it. Human. Pale skin. He was also armed. But he was talking about [Witches].”
“That’s it? She didn’t get anything else?”
Fierre sagged in her chair. The Vampire girl stared at the ceiling, frustrated. Then Gailt spoke slowly.
“She thinks he was a [Witch Hunter].”
Fierre blinked. She sat up. And she looked at Gailt. He stared back at her. That changed a lot. She stared at the [Message] from the Order of Seasons asking for information. At the message from Filk.
How did you keep Ryoka safe? Make sure the [Witch] was dead. Especially one like this. Ryoka said she was fine. Was she? Fierre wanted to ask. But either way…
The Order of Seasons was a [Knight] Order. Terandria. Fierre consulted her notes on them. She had a dossier about most major organizations. They didn’t kill innocent people. And they had a reason to hate Belavierr. She could tell them and earn a very sizeable salary.
But there was a curse. Fierre didn’t want to cross that. If she asked Ryoka—or would Belavierr know? Would that trigger the curse? Because now Fierre was tempted. Gailt was watching her very nervously. The Vampire girl stared at the blank parchment she used.
Her fingers drummed restlessly on the table next to the quill and ink. Gailt nervously edged towards the door.
 
 
Day 65 – Fierre
 
She didn’t write a message to the Order of Seasons. Not when she was asked, and not for two days after. Fierre had a few good reasons why she should: they could chase off or defeat Belavierr; they were a decent Order who didn’t cast mass-destruction spells and they paid well. But she had a few other good reasons not to take the offer.
She didn’t trust the [Witch Hunter]. He could be aware of the curse and hoping she’d die trying or that she had the ability to survive it. Fierre could see buying some powerful magical protections—but she still didn’t trust the motive. Also, Ryoka had said Belavierr was fine. Maybe the Stitch Witch was helping Ryoka? Her daughter was in Riverfarm. She had a daughter?
But the main reason, the crucial one, was that Fierre really didn’t want to die. And she knew there was a curse. The lowliest [Informants] knew there was a curse. Twice now, the Order of Seasons had upped its bounty. They were offering four hundred gold coins for someone to verify Belavierr was there beyond reasonable doubt.
Fierre had that. Oh, yes she did. But she also knew three people had died trying to inform the Order of Seasons. One had been strangled by her collar. Another had been pulled in front of a wagon and run over despite having ample time to roll away. Their clothes had stitched themselves into the ground. The last—Fierre hadn’t even been able to get a good description.
The curse was alive and well. So Fierre refused to try even though her fingers itched to write the message. Part of her was simply vexed the Order of Seasons was hesitating. Four dead [Informants] didn’t paint you a picture? But then again—Belavierr had a reputation for doing stuff like this. Fierre had asked for more information on her, and it had been—cautiously—relayed.
Stuffed dolls that looked like her and turned violent. People with faces she’d stitched to look like hers. Blood debts and pacts signed, which made people turn on each other to protect her or let her get away. People swearing they saw her, only for it to be revealed that it was a mass-illusion. A delusion. Magic cast on a tapestry. Rumors.
That was the ability of a high-level [Witch]. Part of Fierre wanted to doubt Belavierr was even in Riverfarm. But Ryoka had asked by name and provided a brief description. Fierre shuddered. Orange ringed eyes. That was some kind of magical effect if you ever heard of one.
And she had a daughter. How much was that information worth? Fierre sat in her office near midmorning, absently playing with a quill. After a moment, she shook her head. She’d been doing this for nearly two days straight. Always coming to the same conclusion.
“No. Nope. It’s too risky. Ryoka says it’s fine. It’s too risky.”
She put down the quill. Stared at it. Pushed it to the edge of her desk. Then she flicked it off. With a sigh of relief, Fierre sat back. She put her feet up on the desk. Stared at them, sat back up and brushed the bits of dirt off. She sighed.
“I have to get back to work. Be safe, not greedy. Greedy gets you killed.”
She shook her head, sighing deeper. Fierre put her head down on her desk, then decided to do some paperwork. Absently, she began sorting her notes, adjusting them. She was creating a portfolio of the world, storing old details, information. Anything could be useful. She decided to add a note about Riverfarm to her files. She already had a substantial one on Ryoka. She also had a great filing system she’d come up with herself. It even made it easy to append notes. Absently, Fierre mumbled as she wrote.
“Riverfarm possess a force of [Riders]. Known as Darksky Riders. Cross-check with [Emperor] Skills? Current population est. 2,000+. Notable inhabitants: Lady Rie Valerund. [Steward] Prost. Former Farmer? Uh…”
She bit her lip.
“Visited—visiting Coven. Mavika, alias Mavika the Raven. Outstanding bounty. Eloise. Former [Lady] of Terandria. Wiskeria, Silver-rank Adventurer, the Celestial Trackers. Hedag the [Executioner] (also [Witch]), outstanding bounty. Alevica the Witch Runner. Outstanding bounty. Nanette, apprentice of Califor. Califor…no known alias or bounty. Uh—one, two, three…”
She paused. Yawned. Too many sleepless nights over the stupid Belavierr thing. Even a Vampire needed rest, and she was a night person. She counted. Seven? That wasn’t right. She frowned. Then slapped her forehead and rolled her eyes.
“Oh, right. Belavierr. The Stitch Witch. Mother of Wiskeria. Outstanding boun—”
The quill froze as Fierre reached for the inkpot. She stared down at the parchment where Riverfarm was listed. Her eyes fixed on Belavierr’s name.
“Oh no. No, no, nononono—that doesn’t count!”
She sat up. Looked around wildly. Every muscle in Fierre’s body tensed as her stomach lurched. Nothing in the small office moved. Fierre held still, then relaxed. She laughed shakily.
And then she heard the scream.
 
—–
 
This is the tale of a [Tailor]. He was sewing with a steel needle, carefully stitching a line in a dress he was adjusting. He lifted the needle, and it tore through his finger. The [Tailor] stared at the hole in his flesh. Blood began welling in the ragged wound.
Then he began to scream. His apprentices looked up and saw the needle flash past them. Then more needles tearing loose of the needle books and cases. They flashed out of the shop. One apprentice was too slow to jump out of the way. The needles went straight through her.
 
—–
 
Another shop was a [Shopkeeper]’s store. The needles on display shot out of the glass, flying in a swarm, tiny flashing shapes that shot down the street, curving, joining more that flew from a [Blacksmith]’s forge off the anvil, out of a home. Through a [Guardsman] and his armor. They flew towards a small back alley. An iron door.
Fierre heard the screams. She looked up and edged to the back of the room, staring at both doors leading into the small chamber.
The doors to her room were solid iron. Not enchanted, but a sturdy barrier against any usual threat or [Guardsman] if there were a raid. Fierre had a trap door that led to the basement where she could flee, or she could go through the shop entrance. She looked at the trap door, then the locked doors. She hesitated a moment too long.
The needles hit the door like sharp rain. Fierre jerked back in horror as a dozen glittering tips appeared in the door. They’d gone through the solid iron! But there they lodged. Outside, people were screaming, calling the alarm in the streets of Reizmelt. But the deadly rain had stopped.
Fierre stared at the glittering needles lodged halfway through the door vibrating. She laughed hysterically, seeing them straining. But the metal held them. Fierre edged towards the second iron door, fumbling for her key. The needles twisted to follow her. She froze. Then she heard a scream of tortured metal. The door began to bend. The needles began sliding towards her.
The Vampire girl’s breath caught. She stared at the needles. Then she screamed as the first one tore its way loose. She flung up her arms.
“No—”
 
—–
 
It took five minutes for the Watch to find the two dead bodies. [Guards] raced towards the scene, weapons raised, following the trail the needles had taken. They’d gone through everything. People followed against common instinct. They came to a spot familiar to a few in the crowd, [Guards] included. An Opener’s workspace.
The door was torn open. Everything was silent inside. The crowd halted, afraid to look closer. The [Guards] hesitated, then shouted for people to keep back. Inside, the room was silent.
