Shredded. The parchment on the desk, the desk—even the magically protected drawers were destroyed. The needles had ripped everything to incomprehensible shreds. The room was still. A body was lying on the floor, the needles still.
And then the body sat up. What looked like a very young woman moved. Her clothes were tattered. Needles covered her. But the holes were already closing.
Her pupils were red, her eyes bloodshot. Her fingers clawed, teeth biting. Fierre spat a needle and yanked three out of her throat. She stared at them, then began pulling out more sewing needles. They fell to the ground.
Some were wood. Others iron. Or steel. But there was no silver. There was a very angry Fierre. She stomped out of her ruined office, through the back door, ignoring the gathering crowd, pulling her hood to cover her features. She found Gailt in his usual watering hole. He took one look at the blood and her shredded clothes and dropped his drink.
“Fierre! What—”
She thrust a bit of parchment into his face.
“Send this to the Order of Seasons. And collect the bounty.”
Fierre’s voice rasped. Gailt read the [Message] and went pale. He began shaking his head, and Fierre grabbed him.
“Send. It.”
“No! Not on your life! I’ll die!”
“I just tripped the curse. Send it now or I’ll take this needle and show you what happened to me.”
The grip that held the [Mage] was terrifyingly strong. And there was a resonance to Fierre’s voice that terrified the man. He thought of the curse. Then he realized he couldn’t breathe. He choked. Fierre held him and stared at his face. The [Mage] looked at the parchment, at her face. He tried to breathe. And then slowly jerked. Nodded.
She let go of him. Gailt collapsed onto the table. Shakily, he put his finger towards his temple, cringing, eyes darting. Fierre stood over him, swaying. Both looked around. Waiting.
Nothing happened. No needles flew. The curse was burnt. Gailt collapsed on the table, trembling, as the force of the reply from Terandria rocked him back in his seat. He began muttering.
“Yes! Confirm! Yes! We’ll do a truth—yes!”
He shuddered, and his eyes crossed. Then he blinked. He looked up and nodded.
“It’s done.”
“It is?”
The girl stared at him. Gailt nodded, trembling. Fierre blinked. Then she sighed and let go of Gailt. He stared at her. He opened his mouth to scream at her. Then he saw Fierre reach up. She pulled at a needle in the side of her head, where it had been buried up to the point. She drew it out as he turned white and passed out. Then her eyes rolled up, and she collapsed on the ground.
Across the world, Knight-Commander Calirn shouted a word like an avalanche. And a [Knight] and a group of [Hunters] looked up.
 
 
Day 65 – Laken
 
We’re riding together, talking. The horse is moving under me, and I’m resting my hands on the saddle horn. Trying not to look like I’m clinging to the saddle.
I hate riding. I can’t control a horse, and I’m fairly certain they know I’m blind. To be frank, a blind man leading a horse is enshrined in the hall of bad ideas. But I put up with it because the horse I’m riding is content to follow Gralton and Yitton. And they’re good riders. And because we’re chatting.
About Riverfarm, of course. But their lands as well. Since Belavierr’s incident with Rehanna, I’ve gotten daily updates and nevermind the cost.
It’s not been that…bad. Troubling, yes. But nothing worse has happened with Belavierr, so I consider that a boon. There have been more incidents, of course. But Mavika was predictable and minor given what could have happened. And Hedag?
“No. It’s not an issue, Yitton.”
I patiently turn my head. The [Lord]’s been objecting to what went down for the last thirty minutes. I shake my head as Yitton replies in a strained voice.
“I don’t deny that the outcome was beneficial, Emperor Laken. But the question is one of law.”
“I’d do the same thing in her place. In fact, I will do it. There is nothing wrong with what this [Witch] Hedag did, Yitton. Unless you disagree, Gralton?”
Yitton bites his tongue and makes a sound. No one would disagree. And Gralton’s uncharacteristically silent. Sarcastically, fed up with the debate, I go on.
“What she did was undeniably good.”
“She violated the law.”
“I would never fault her for it.”
“Yes, Your Majesty. But it is the principle of the thing. The law must apply to all, or it is not law.”
“Well then, I’ll change the law to allow it.”
“Your Majesty! The people of your empire have rights!”
“Not to that, Yitton!”
I take a deep breath. I calm down a bit, hearing silence.
“I’m sorry. I know you’re making a reasoned point. But I don’t think it’s wrong. And if Lancrel’s people object or this Councilwoman Beatica or that [Mayor] I’ve heard so much about complain, I will deal with it. But I’m not ordering her punished. When I get back, I’ll sort it out. As far as I’m concerned, that’s proof of [Witches] being a good thing.”
“I’m afraid I must disagree, Your Majesty.”
There’s a tone in Yitton’s voice that makes me grind my teeth. He can be more stubborn than Gralton and I put together! Sixty…five days is more than enough time to find out what you don’t like in someone. But he has a point. I sigh.
“I’m sure there’s time for reasoned debate. In fact, I’d love to introduce you to Ryoka. She seems to have hit the issue on the same points as you. We’ll address it when we get there. Let’s change the subject. Gralton? What news of your lands? Is it raining there? I hope Riverfarm likes all this rain we’re bringing them.”
Sourly, I glance up. It’s raining on my oiled cloak. No umbrellas while riding, thanks. Gralton pauses.
“I do have news. My people are telling me there’s a bunch of sick bastards on my land. So I told ‘em to quarantine them like you said, Laken. That will help?”
I blink.
“You actually remembered our discussion about the Black Death? Wait—sickness?”
The man grunts.
“Shouldn’t I? You don’t forget something like that. And I have lots of dogs. And people. There’s always something. Doesn’t sound too bad. I’ll hire some [Healers]. Always helps. Not as bad as [Witches]. Byres?”
“Nothing from my lands, or so my wife claims.”
The [Lord]’s voice is a bit short. I haven’t heard the last from him. I sigh and rub my head. I’m out of sorts. I haven’t been sleeping well. And the rain’s falling on my head. Despite it, my cloak feels hot. I shrug at it irritably.
Then I hear pounding hoofbeats in the mud. I turn my head and hear a voice.
“Your Majesty! A [Message]! Urgent!”
“Gamel? What is it? Riverfarm?”
I twist, suddenly worried, and Gralton halts my horse. Gamel pulls up, panting. I hear a horse, his urgent tone, something rustling.
“No, sire! It’s from Terandria! The Order of Seasons is sending you a [Message]—”
“The Order of Seasons? What does it say?”
Gralton leans over. I hear Gamel exclaim. The [Dog Lord] frowns. The rain’s falling, but I’m shrugging off my cloak. It’s hot. I hear him muttering, reading out loud.
“They’re coming—no, they’re notifying you they’re sending—what in the name of—”
Impatiently, I turn my head.
“Yitton, can you read it out loud? Gralton, hand it to—”
And then I feel it. One second it’s gone, and then it’s blazing in my head. I shout, and the horse rears. I can’t grab at the reins. I can feel myself falling, hear a bellow from Gralton. And Yitton catches me halfway down. But that’s not what makes me shout. I can’t hear Gamel shouting at me, Yitton’s voice.
It’s in my head! No! My eyes! It’s so—I push at my eyes.
“What’s—god! What’s happening—”
“Laken! What is it?”
I flail wildly. It’s right there! What is—I’ve never—
And then I realize. It’s light.
Light. In my head. A beacon. Blazing. I can feel it. Coming north. And west. From Riverfarm. I sit up, shaking. It’s burning. I twist as the others swing from the saddles.
Yitton calls out.
“Your Majesty, what’s happening?”
“Are we under attack? Is it Riverfarm?”
Gralton draws a sword. Yitton’s supporting me. I shake my head. Croak.
“Gralton, ride.”
He pauses. Then gets what I mean. I hear an intake of breath. All I can do is feel the beacon in my head. They’re there. Intruders! A fiery blaze. And she’s there too. I can feel them. Gralton whistles. I hear a horse trotting.
“It’ll take me three days to get to my estates! I can bring an army to Riverfarm in two days!”
“Do it.”
He doesn’t wait for a reply, but takes off, roaring for the caravan and his guards. I stand up, shaking. Gamel’s chasing a horse. Yitton supports me.
“What is it?”
“The Order of Seasons sent someone. Belavierr’s there too. They’re—trouble, Yitton. Something is happening in Riverfarm. And I’m not there.”
Five days. I try to shut my eyes, but the light’s still there. I should have sent Gralton the instant the coven arrived.
“I can’t leave the Goblins. If I do—”
Can I? I leave, and what does Yitton do? The [Guards]—I hesitate. Yitton makes the decision for me. He snaps as people gallop towards us, shouting urgent questions.
“We push on. Fastest speed. Tell the [Mages] to prepare [Light] spells for night riding. We’re pushing on through the night! We will be at Riverfarm in exactly five days!”
He overrides the objections, snapping orders with uncharacteristic force. The people withdraw. I’m still standing. Yitton speaks urgently to me.
“Laken. If you ride now, there is no guarantee you’ll be able to stop whatever’s there. Wait for Gralton to bring an army to bear. He can muster thousands. More if need be. This could be targeted at you. A magic-user can easily attack you with a small escort. You cannot risk your life.”
I know. I know that. But I stand there. Listening to Yitton talk about five days. Riverfarm holding out. And I think of a [Witch] that could hang a village in a night, according to Ryoka. A blazing [Knight]. Fire and conspiracy and death.
Durene’s there. Prost, Rie. Ryoka, Frostwing, Bismarck. I turn my head north and west. And I climb in the carriage as it rolls forwards as the caravan doubles its pace and Gralton and his escort race ahead.
I know in my marrow, in the burning in my eyes, that we will be too late.
