“Either way, that’s why the coven’s there. So how does Ryoka—right. She delivered a package for this [Emperor] in Invrisil last winter. The pieces are there. But—she delivered a bunch of healing potions and stamina potions, all low-grade, to Lady Rie Valerund. With Charlay the Dustrider. At the same time the coven shows up.”
The Vampire girl was used to conspiracies and plots. But this was enough to make her head genuinely explode. It couldn’t be coincidence! Could it? But she couldn’t see through the pattern. All she knew, again, was that Ryoka had erred.
The Ratwhisperer had probably known the coven was in Riverfarm’s area, but Ryoka had inadvertently confirmed them being there. When he’d heard about Belavierr’s presence, he’d immediately seen the same thing Fierre had: an opportunity to earn a lot of gold.
“Where’s my bounty list?”
Fierre hunted around her desk. Gailt didn’t look up or open his eyes.
“Third drawer.”
Fierre checked it. It was the wrong drawer. She looked up, scowling. The [Mage] shrugged.
“Whoops.”
The right drawer held a list of bounties. Some alive, some dead. But also rewards for information. Fierre paged through it. Yup. There wasn’t a reward; there seldom was, but the Ratwhisperer could earn a tidy sum by telling any of the groups out for Belavierr that she was present in Riverfarm.
That was probably what he was doing right now. Reaching out and nudging, say, Wistram. He’d inquire if they were interested in Belavierr’s location, and if they said ‘yes’, they’d begin negotiations for coin. If the Ratwhisperer got what he wanted, he’d tell them. Or go to another name on the list.
Like Roshal. Roshal had a huge information network and gold to burn. If they didn’t pay, there was the Order of Seasons. Or he could just sell the information to other [Brokers] for cheap, waste the monetary value of the information that way.
“Either way, Ryoka gets hurt.”
Fierre stared down at Belavierr’s sheet with her lips compressed tightly. If word went out that someone with that kind of bounty was there, every [Bandit] and desperate [Mercenary] or adventurer in the region would go after Belavierr. Never mind that it was probably suicide to go up against someone with that kind of bounty. They’d try it.
Or if someone like Wistram or Roshal got ahold of the information and had anyone in the area—they practically defined the idea of collateral damage. And who knew what Belavierr would do if angered.
“She hung an entire village.”
“Who?”
Fierre stared at her report.
“The Stitch Witch. She hung them all. Men. Women. Children. In Terandria. Not recently. Not what went down in…but that’s one of her crimes. One.”
The [Mage] looked up. Even he and Fierre, jaded though they were from stories, had to pause.
“Why? Do you know?”
“No. No one does. But she’s a [Witch]. It was probably a deal someone made.”
Gailt shuddered and sat up.
“I don’t get paid to hear that kind of shit. I just send [Messages]. And I sent yours. That old hag in Filk says she’ll get it done. Tonight. You, uh, want confirmation?”
“Yes. Tell me the instant it happens.”
The [Mage] sighed, but he didn’t protest much. He made his way out of the room, and Fierre locked the door after him. Then she sat and put her head in her hands.
“Ryoka…”
If it was anyone but her, Fierre would be selling the information and trying to do it before the Ratwhisperer sold his. It was worth gold, and a lot of it. Fierre had money, but she wasn’t exactly the top player in the region. Thirty gold pieces, or even fifty, would be huge. Instead, she’d spent eight gold to earn her an enemy.
And Fierre couldn’t even feel that bad about it. Gloomily, she began to secure her desk, locking each drawer with a magical key that would keep the files safe. She left the small room, locking up.
She couldn’t work right now. She was too bothered. Frankly, not in the right headspace to be cautious in opening a letter or dealing in some underhanded information trade. She decided she needed to drink some blood and maybe consult with someone. But she really couldn’t do more for Ryoka. Even if she wanted to.
The Vampire girl pulled her hood up as soon as she stepped out of the alleyway. The sun was a painful brightness on her skin. If she stayed out in it exposed, her skin would quickly grow sunburnt or begin peeling. And even with layers on, Fierre hurried through the street and the morning light to get back to the Huntress’ Haven before she began suffering.
At least that was one thing. As Fierre slipped in through the doors—Madain hadn’t left on his daily hunting trip yet—she flitted up to her room and unlocked another chest with a second magical key. She pulled out a glass bottle and saw some of the blood had dried. Annoyed, Fierre uncorked it and drank. She had to scrape the bottle to get it all out, and the blood wasn’t the best.
“Sheep.”
Fierre glowered as she drank. It made her feel better, but she hated sheep. Pig tasted better, but she’d have to go back home to refill her stash. That, or eat a lot of bloody meat, and the [Butchers] got suspicious if you asked for that too often.
“In the old times, we drank the blood of Humans and Gnolls and Drakes. We ruled Izril in the shadows, just as our kin ruled Terandria and even parts of Baleros. Few of us ever went to Chandrar, but we walked in twilight and darkness, even in Wistram’s halls. We were aristocrats and mages, kings and queens. Heroes and legend.”
Bitterly, the Vampire girl quoted old Bamer’s stories. She made a face as she uncorked a water bottle and got the rest of the blood out by adding some water. That tasted horribly, well, watery, but every drop counted. It wasn’t as if Fierre could prey on a stray dog or harass some poor [Farmer] around Reizmelt. If one person saw her, she’d be dead.
She tossed the empty glass jar back into the chest and locked it. Then Fierre lay on her rough bed and stared up at the ceiling. She could hear Madain moving about below, smell him too. Unwashed, hung over—but the smell of his blood ran in Fierre’s nose as well. It smelled sweet.
“Ignore it. You’re full. You’re full.”
Fierre chanted to herself. She wasn’t a baby any longer. She had self-control. That was why her parents had let her move to Reizmelt. But all Vampires longed for that sweet flavor. Real people’s blood. It wouldn’t be hard, would it? If Fierre went downstairs when Madain was blackout drunk. He wouldn’t feel a thing.
“And if he did wake up, he’d squash your skull, Fierre, Vampire or not. He’s Gold-rank. And he could throw a javelin through the entire inn. You’d be dead.”
The girl scolded herself. It didn’t stop the longing. The worst part was that Fierre knew what real blood tasted like.
That was the dirty secret all Vampires probably shared. From Fierre to her older brother—she knew Rivel had done it—to Bamer. And Fierre knew her father had drank blood; it was how her mother had become a Vampire. Fierre shifted uncomfortably at that thought. Ew.
But also—yes. Blood! It was true Vampires of this modern day lived on animal blood. It was safe that way. But they’d all tried real blood. Oh yes, they’d tried it.
Sometimes, it was just a nip if they had a Human friend, like the few trusted communities that lived among Vampires. Or else it was blood obtained covertly, at night, or some other way. Fierre had bribed a girl to give her and Rivel blood; the girl had thought it was for an illicit alchemy potion. And Fierre and Rivel had drank it down, awash with guilty pleasure.
Fierre could still taste it and the two other times she’d had blood until her parents had found out. It was so much better. Not sweet, savory, or any one flavor. Blood differed after all. But it was so much more satisfying than animal blood. It was what Fierre wanted. What she craved.
And yet, it hadn’t changed things. It hadn’t given Fierre the powers of old Vampires or cured her cough. She coughed now, wetly, hearing it rattle in her lungs. She was sick. She was always sick. Her father was sick. Colfa had a rash that hadn’t gone away for two months. Bamer…Bamer was dying. Vampires were all sick. And the Human blood hadn’t helped.
“It never does, Ryoka.”
Fierre imagined Ryoka was sitting across from her, listening in one of their late-night chats. She hadn’t told Ryoka this. She’d seen Ryoka pausing, listening to her talking about being sick. And yes—Fierre had come to the same conclusion Ryoka hadn’t voiced. All Vampires did.
What if them being sick was because they drank animal blood? It was logical! Surely, it was just them having bad food that was weakening them, making them so ill. So over the centuries since they had begun succumbing to illness, there had been experiments. Vampires had tried living only on Human blood, or Drake, or a mix of Drake, Gnoll, Human—all kinds of blood.
They’d tried the purest blood, virginal, attempted to fix their diets. It didn’t stop the sickness. So they had concluded that it wasn’t just the quality of blood. They were just…sick. It wasn’t the type of blood that was throwing Vampires into decline. They were simply losing their powers, weakening for another reason.
“But I thought it would be me. So did Rivel. You should have seen us, Ryoka. The day after we drank blood, we were trying to fly and shape change. Just like Vampires. But the blood only tasted good. Maybe we had a bit more energy, but it doesn’t help. We’re just losing our powers. We have some. Mother can use her eyes. And Bamer can shape change, although he’s old. But no one knows why we’re like this. It’s not the blood.”
She closed her eyes. In her head, Ryoka said something indistinct. Fierre missed her. And she knew that she wanted her friend to live. Because she was Fierre’s friend. Her first, real Human friend.
 
—–
 
After a while, Fierre rolled over and got up. She had a few cards left to play. She hadn’t worked this job for nearly four years in Reizmelt and other cities before this for nothing. And now she had something to spend all those little favors and reputation on. She left the inn, hopping out the window into the alleyway since Madain had locked the front door and left.
This was how the underworld worked. At least, in Human cities. Fierre had no idea how Drake cities functioned; apparently, the law was a lot more dangerous. But in the north, the local Watch usually understood there was some space for a criminal element. Organized crime was better than no crime, and so if someone crossed a line, they were nabbed, but the Watch didn’t try to exterminate most gangs.
But it did depend on the gang. And it was gangs and the Rogue’s Law that dominated how the underworld worked from city to city. There was a jargon to it. Fierre knew it by heart. She headed into a pub despite the early morning, keeping to the shadows, in order to make contact with Reizmelt’s top gang.
Call them organizations, associations, loose alliances. But in the end, they were a gang. A group like the Sisters of Chell, who had control over a street, a city, or spanned multiple cities like the Sisters. Some were infamous, others dangerous to cross. Reizmelt’s was local. But dangerous. Still, Fierre regarded this gang as somewhat civilized and intellectual for a gang; they were mostly [Rogues] and [Thieves] as opposed to [Thugs] who’d run protection rackets. This gang just used thievery, eschewing regular conflicts with the law. And they had an actual system in place.
Fierre tapped into it as she went to the [Bartender] in charge of the day-and-night bar, The Blasted Pyromancer. It was a nice bar, and she’d been here often. The [Bartender] saw her coming, and Fierre sat down on the fourth-furthest seat and ordered an ale.
That was it. She’d requested a meeting. How had she done it? Was it the fourth seat? Ordering a light ale? No. It was her giving the [Barman] a look as she sat down. You didn’t need to be stupidly complex. He could read facial expressions. So he smiled and filled a mug from his keg.
“Rough day, Miss Fierre? You’re normally not one for day drinking.”
“Everyone has a bad day, William. And I’m not working as a [Laborer] today. Or helping Miss Kelysta with her alchemy stuff.”
William the [Bartender] raised his brows. Fierre had seen him signaling to the man in the back as he’d filled the keg; they had a false wall. This was the hideout of Reizmelt’s gang. They didn’t really have a name. They were just ‘Reizmelt’s Gang’.
If they started giving themselves names, Fierre would bet they were hoping to expand their territory. And that might mean some serious fighting in back alleys; there were smaller gangs in the city and neighboring cities who might object to a bigger power.
“Well, we’re all entitled to our days off, Miss Fierre. Enjoy the drink. Can I get you something to eat? We’ve got some nice snacking foods. Walnuts, harvested fresh.”
“No thanks.”
Fierre sipped her ale, ignoring it, really. It was hard for her to get drunk. She waited until she saw the man step out of the back and signal her. She followed him into the back as William calmly attended to his bar. Simple, effective.
“What do you want?”
The [Rogue] sitting in the back of the bar might have been the contact on duty, who was something like Fierre for his gang. Or he might have been the leader himself; Fierre hadn’t inquired into the gang’s inner workings. Knowing too much about them might make them paranoid of her if they found out. She sat down with her drink at the table in the back. She eyed the man’s closed book and bowl of cracked walnuts. Then she looked at him.
“I just called for a group to deal with a [Broker] in Filk. They’re going to get him and burn his office down. If he escalates, I’d like my place to be safe. Because I’ll escalate right back.”
The [Rogue] blinked. He looked at Fierre and then sat back. His fingers absently began to twiddle, and he stopped himself. Fierre could even sense his heartbeat this close; it was elevated, but only a bit. He was more curious than anything, but his face didn’t show it.
“Fierre, right? We know your reputation. What’s the big quarrel between you and someone in Filk?”
“He has a secret. And I have a secret. He’s not cooperating. That’s all you need to know.”
He let that go.
“So he gets a lesson. Say it doesn’t work—he has protection.”
Fierre snorted. The Ratwhisperer couldn’t afford that. She doubted he even had an iron door. The [Rogue] nodded.
“Say he does, though, or gets lucky. The Watch shows up, and he doesn’t get the hint. What’s your aim?”
“I’ll settle it. First time’s a warning. Second time he’s gone.”
This time, the man blinked. He looked Fierre up and down.
“How much trouble are we expecting?”
