“He’d make an offer. I doubt he can afford more than ten gold either way. Twenty if he’s desperate?”
The [Rogue] thought about this.
“We can handle that. No one’ll come knocking. But you owe us a tenth of what the bounty was.”
“Good. Thank you.”
Negotiations were done. Fierre stood up. If anyone accepted the bounty, the gold would be poorly spent. Reizmelt’s gang would make it clear those hired had to forfeit the gold—or they could settle things. Either way, Fierre was protected.
There were harsh, binding oaths that might obligate someone to fulfill their promise at the cost of their lives—blood promises or vows made by the Rogue’s Law. But the Ratwhisperer wouldn’t be able to get anyone to make that kind of agreement. Fierre would lean on him until he gave in. Or she’d stop him cold.
It was what she could do for Ryoka. As for Belavierr—Fierre hesitated. She looked at the [Rogue] sitting there. He glanced up at her.
“Anything else?”
What would the price be to take out Belavierr, the Stitch Witch? Fierre didn’t ask because the price would be more than she could afford if she sold every bit of information she owned. Yes, the criminals of the north had specialized groups. From the Assassin’s Guild to gangs or individuals who could take out people for a price.
But if Fierre had to come up with a list of gangs who’d take that kind of request, it was a short, short list. And none of them, from the Gentlemen Callers, who were part of the Brotherhood of Serendipitous Meetings, to the might of the Blackrock Collective in First Landing, or the Vanishers, were based around Filk. She couldn’t help Ryoka that way.
Unless someone who was hunting her went after the [Witch]. But if it was Roshal or Wistram—no. And who else could do that? Fierre shook her head, realizing the [Rogue] was waiting.
“Nothing. Thanks.”
She left the room, the bar, and then had to go back and return the mug to William. He gave her a concerned look, but Fierre was too preoccupied to notice. She spent the rest of the day in her office, listlessly opening two letters and exchanging a secret about a [Clerk] in Reizmelt planning on leaving the city with her employer’s gold to have a romantic getaway with her significant other.
She really shouldn’t have put that in writing—or at least, paid a City Runner for an urgent delivery. They tended to want to know why most of the time. Fierre sold that tidbit to the employer in question via the Merchant’s Guild, who was only too happy to protect their people and offer Fierre a nice little bounty.
But she was really waiting. Waiting for a response from Daufica. Impatiently—but Fierre knew better than to prod the woman. Still, Fierre was counting the hours. How long until the Ratwhisperer would conclude negotiations with Wistram or whoever he was trying to sell the information to? She could just imagine him trying to get the best deal; even if he was rushing, it would take him a while. It would for her.
But maybe he would leap at the first offer? She should have asked Daufica to check if he’d sold anything or contacted the Ratwhisperer’s [Mage]. But that would tip them off that there was something valuable he possessed—
It was night, and Fierre stomped back to the Huntress’ Haven without hearing from Gailt. Mad Madain and Alber took one look at Fierre’s face and didn’t say anything as she ate a bloody steak. She didn’t linger on it and went up to her bed. And lay there, restlessly, for two hours until she heard someone throw a rock at her shutters.
“Fierre. Psst. Fierre.”
Gailt took a step back as Fierre threw open the windows and then jumped down onto the street. He stared wide-eyed at her, but Fierre was too caught up to come up with an excuse. Ryoka could do it, why not her?
“What? Did Daufica do it? What took her so long?”
The [Mage] scrubbed at his hair unsteadily. He was still drunk. But his voice was uncharacteristically serious.
“She didn’t do it, Fierre. I mean…the Ratwhisperer’s, uh, dead.”
“What? How? Did they go too far?”
Fierre’s stomach lurched. Had Daufica’s people killed the [Fence]? She hadn’t wanted to do that. She’d been prepared to, but—no, maybe this was a good thing. The cold part of her, the part she thought of as really Vampire, told her that it was for the best. Yes, if he was dead, he couldn’t tell. But she stopped as she saw Gailt shake his head.
“It wasn’t her people. They never got a chance. The Watch was already there, and two of Daufica’s [Thugs] were caught. She’s not charging you. But you’re not getting your gold back—”
“I don’t care about that!”
Fierre did, but it was a lesser concern. She hissed at Gailt, looking down the alleyway.
“Who killed him, then?”
The [Mage] gulped.
“They think it was magic. A curse.”
The Vampire girl paused. Only now did she see Gailt fully in the moonlight. He was pale. Sweating. He smelled afraid, even through the alcohol. He went on, stumbling over the words.
“His tongue was sewn to the roof of his mouth. Blocked his throat. His nose was also sewn shut. He choked to death.”
Fierre felt a cold chill run through her body. And Vampires were already cold. She hesitated, her tongue touching her canines uneasily.
“Did they—did the Watch—maybe it was someone else?”
Gailt shook his head.
“He was in a locked room. And the [Mage] they brought in said there was serious magic. Serious. Fierre, that’s a curse. I’d know it anywhere. The kind the big gangs use. If it was Bela—”
He choked on the words. Changed them.
“The Stitch Witch, maybe she put a curse on…?”
On anyone trying to rat her out? Oh yes. Fierre felt another chill. She’d heard of curses like that. But that was serious magic. But this was a serious [Witch]. Gailt was licking his teeth.
“I’m—this is deep, Fierre. Daufica was telling me about it. You could see the Ratwhisperer’s face. Everyone in Filk is talking about it. Look, I’m not being paid to—”
“I want you to send a [Message].”
“To Daufica? I don’t know if she’ll pick up. She’s really upset—”
“To Ryoka. Tell her what happened. Send a spell to the [Mage] in Riverfarm and ask her for a reply.”
Fierre saw Gailt gulp.
“But that’s where she is. I—I don’t think—”
“Gailt. There’s no curse that would work on you telling her how the [Fence] died. Don’t even mention B—her name. There’s no way you’ll be affected. Magic isn’t that broad.”
Fierre said that, but she watched Gailt send the spell nervously. And he was so uneasy that she eventually had to offer to buy him a drink. They made their way to The Blasted Pyromancer, and he proceeded to drink himself nearly into oblivion. But he managed to receive the [Message] that came back.
He wrote it down; ironically, he could write it even when he slurred his words beyond comprehension. Fierre stared at the [Message] as Gailt passed out on the table. She stood up, reading it.
 
Everything’s fine. She’s dangerous, but I think it’s safe for us. I’ll be here a bit longer. Don’t cross her, Fierre. And don’t worry about me. I have to do this. Thanks for the help.
 
–Ryoka
 
Fierre pondered over the message several times in her room. Us. Ryoka thought it was safe after hearing that? Why did she have to do it? What did this [Emperor] want from her? It was maddening, and Fierre was close to biting a hole in her pillow over it. But she eventually passed off into an uneasy sleep because she’d done what she could. Ratwhisperer was dead. And the Stitch Witch’s spell had killed him.
Only one thought woke Fierre, as thoughts did, slamming into her with the weight of sudden realization. She sat up in the middle of the night.
“So who was Ratwhisperer talking to when he died?”
She stared into other darkness, as bright as day for her. And she wondered. But the Vampire girl could only lay back in bed, eyes wide open. She was too far away. She didn’t know what was happening in Riverfarm. And there were things that made even Vampires uneasy. If that was so, there was another truism.
Everyone had their enemies. And everything could die.
 
 
Day 62 – Talia
 
Her full name and title was Lady-Dame Talia Kallinad, Knight of the Summer. But in practice, she was Dame Talia or just Talia among friends. Before she’d left Baleros, she’d been pleasantly surprised to hear her younger brother, the [Strategist] and current pride of the Kallinad house, Wil, call her ‘Tal’, as if they were children.
But that was nearly a week and a half ago, and Talia had been stuck with ‘Dame Talia’ or ‘your Knightship’ by the mocking [Sailors]/[Pirates] on the long trip back to Terandria. She missed her brother already, but she was still aglow with pride. All of her family was; the household was still buzzing with talk of the Titan’s game at Daquin and the events therein.
No one was talking about Liscor’s election, or even Pallass’ upcoming election. Izril was totally off the map in terms of popular discourse among the social circles of Terandria. The talk of the day was still on Chandrar and the war between Tiqr and the alliance of nations that had declared war on the Empress of Beasts.
Day by day, more provinces were being seized, and the question was if the Empress would fight to the death or surrender, or if Flos, the King of Destruction, would make his move. Twice now, his forces had clashed on the border of Nerrhavia’s Fall in ‘accidental skirmishes’, but the gigantic kingdom had repulsed Flos both times, even if they’d gotten the worst of the skirmishes.
Some had argued that invalidated his claim to peace, but no one could say who’d started each skirmish. And the fact that he hadn’t declared war as Tiqr was slowly consumed was an argument that he was keeping his vow.
But that was global politics. You could also point to a very nasty incident between House Kallinad and another rival house, a minor war between two kingdoms in Terandria, or news of a Gold-rank team slaying a Manticore—the kind of thing Terandrians talked about. But the biggest event everyone was firm on was Daquin’s game. Talia smiled every time they talked about it because she had been there. And it had been a member of House Kallinad that had won!
Okay, not ‘won’. It was that scrawny Lizardgirl covered in sewer waste who’d technically won. But anyone with an eye had seen that it was Wil’s daring strategy, bringing four warships from another continent to challenge the Iron Vanguard, that had provided her with an opportunity to win!
Talia couldn’t help but brag about it to everyone she met. He had challenged Tulm the Mithril, legend of the Iron Vanguard, and held his own! For his deeds, the Titan of Baleros had acknowledged the feat and granted Wil the victor’s prize along with the Lizardgirl: the right to ask any one question he wanted.
That was worth the cost of sending so many [Soldiers] abroad. It was even worth the cost of prevailing on so many [Knights] to take part in the war game as well. House Kallinad stood to gain far more than they had spent, in fame and prestige alone, but also by a good question if Wil asked it.
Talia knew her father had high hopes for Wil. She did too. But as she strode through the bright courtyard that was her true home, not the ancestral Kallinad residence, Talia wondered if her Order saw things the same way.
The bright, vivid courtyard gave Talia the impression she was walking through fire, though she’d walked this spot hundreds of times. The courtyard of the Season of Summer was scrupulously maintained, and the color scheme designed to reflect yellows and reds and oranges, the color of fire, of summer.
It was beautiful walking on the colorful flagstones or stopping between the huge, everburning braziers that meant this part of the Order’s fortress-grounds would never be dark. Talia walked on into the center of the vast keep. She passed by frescos decorated with heroes of old, ceremonial armor, some pierced where their wearers had died or decorated in outdated fashions, passed a garden in full bloom, property of the Season of Spring, and then one of the general courtyards.
Talia stopped to watch the dozens of [Knights] and [Squires] training there, dueling with sword and shield or mace or two-handed weapons under the wary eye of instructors. She smiled.
“Home.”
Some of the [Knights] walking with Talia chuckled. They walked on, their armor glinting with various shades. Many wore identical colors, the bright green and yellow and blue of the [Spring Knights], or the reds and purples and silver of the Season of Autumn.
A few had Talia’s colors, although she had personalized her armor. Still, she wore the gold and orange and hints of white proudly. She was a [Summer Knight], twenty-eight, and a full member of her Order. She looked around as her fellow [Knights] walked on. It had been a long journey, and they had just arrived in their order’s stronghold after disembarking in Kallinad harbors.
They were no doubt eager to rest and return, but Talia lingered a while, taking it all in. The sprawling fortress-keep was made of four quarters, each to one season, and the center was neutral ground. And it was as iconic in its way as any of Terandria’s venerated treasures for its legacy and the history of the warriors who called it home.
This was the Order of Seasons. Of the many [Knight] orders of Terandria, famed for their ancient traditions and lineages, the Order of Seasons was still one of the most iconic. They were a [Knighthood] of four distinct factions, one to each season, and their ranks were vast and their deeds famous in history. They were long allies with a number of nations and noble houses. Enough so that over a hundred had answered House Kallinad’s call for aid. Well, there were practical reasons too.
“Admiring your return, Dame Talia? Just remember that our Knight-Commander will want to see you.”
An older man spoke behind Talia. She turned and saw Sir Kelm, helmetless but wearing his armor, nodding towards her. She smiled.
“Of course, Sir Kelm. I only hope he’ll judge our expedition worthy. We brought back no trophies, but I like to think we won acclaim for our Order!”
The older [Knight] smiled, but a touch ruefully.
“For House Kallinad, certainly. I only wish there weren’t so many of these…magical reproductions of our [Knights] toppling from their horses. The Iron Vanguard can certainly boast that its ranks can stand up against our Order.”
That stung Talia’s pride. She swept at her brown hair, vexed, before touching the sword at her side.
“Only because we weren’t using lances and we couldn’t charge as hard as if we were on the battlefield, Sir Kelm!”
Patiently, the older [Knight] shook his head.
