“And if we had? The Iron Vanguard didn’t employ its weapons either. I’m afraid we underestimated the games at Daquin. Certainly, we can claim a victory, but I imagine our Commander might object to the perceived failings of our order.”
Talia bit her lip. It was a fair point and calmly made. She looked at Sir Kelm and flushed, knowing he’d bear the brunt of that objection if it came. He’d backed her request when she made it, and he was the highest-level and most senior [Knight] who’d led the Order of Seasons in Daquin.
Sir Kelm was a Knight of the Autumn, or a Fall Knight. Or an [Autumn Knight] if you wanted to be precise, but ‘Fall Knight’ was a joke the younger members of the Order sometimes used to refer to the lower level of skill in combat the Knights of the Autumn possessed. They were scholars or [Knights] who pursued projects or simply took to magic more than most [Knights].
But there was nothing scholarly about Sir Kelm’s build. He was a fine member of his Season; it was only some of the junior members who tended to lose every competition based on physical strength. Still, more than half of the [Knights] in Daquin had been from his order, and he nodded, a chagrined smile on his face.
“I will make my report to Knight-Commander Calirn, of course, but he requested you first.”
Talia cleared her throat, embarrassed.
“Sir Kelm, had it not been for you volunteering your Season’s [Knights], we surely wouldn’t have been able to push the Iron Vanguard and allow Wil to claim his victory. If there was any fault, it was only that we underestimated Tulm the Mithril himself.”
She was relieved when the [Autumn Knight] laughed and shook his head. He was graying, but his class and levels made him spry as he walked with her further into the keep.
“It’s kindly said, Talia. But I won’t make excuses. I thought the daring of our arrival would be enough, but I should have asked for more of your Season rather than trusted to the Autumn Knights. It is a lesson we will take to heart. And hopefully watching our Season being unhorsed again and again by Dullahans will convince my Season to spend as much time in the practice courts or on the grounds as in the libraries.”
Talia nodded, smiling slightly. There was no real enmity between the four Seasons, but each one had their strengths and weaknesses. They were strongest united, but it was true that a force of [Autumn Knights] had been a mistake. Knights of the Summer or Spring would have been ideal, with a few Knights of the Winter mixed in, even.
“Once again, though, Sir Kelm, House Kallinad owes the Order and your Season a debt. We’ll surely repay it.”
Sir Kelm waved that away as he stopped at an intersection. The Season of Autumn’s grounds lay beyond, and Talia saw tinted glass, costly but beautiful, creating shadows and a quieter, fall ambiance in the corridor beyond. Sir Kelm smiled as he turned to her.
“Our alliance is an old one. Just ask a proper question of the Titan. And tell us what the answer was!”
“If possible, Sir Kelm.”
Talia bowed, wondering if she could. Wil had been told to ask something for House Kallinad. Talia had argued that the Order deserved part of the question’s benefit, but she’d been overruled by her father. Sir Kelm smiled and departed. That left Talia to find the Knight-Commander of the Order of Seasons.
You could write a book about the Order of Seasons. In fact, there were several in the libraries that the [Autumn Knights] liked to frequent. But in general, the Order of Seasons was comprised thusly: four Seasons operated from their headquarters in Terandria, east and south on the continent, near Kallinad lands, who occupied a small southeastern coastal area famed for its wealth in shipping.
Between the vast forests that were owned by the order, which stretched to the untamed cavernous hills that sometimes produced Goblins or other monsters, and the rockier terrain that led to the coastal cliffs, which provided parts of Terandria with natural defenses, the Order of Seasons had built its home in the heart of the forest where once a half-Elven empire had risen, countless ages ago. Noble houses and even sometimes royalty sent aspiring [Knights] or children to become members of the Order of Seasons, along with the gifted applicants from across the continent.
There were at least two thousand Seasonal [Knights] in the headquarters at any given time, and far more were abroad, fighting in armies, crusading, or fulfilling functions across Terandria and the world. It was a famous order, and each Season wielded considerable power. And each had their own Grandmaster. Talia answered to hers, the Summer’s Champion, but she could also be commanded by senior members of other Seasons at need. In the stronghold of the Order, another figure could command even the Grandmasters, as a first among equals.
He was Knight-Commander Calirn. Talia normally expected him to be fulfilling some duty of command, which was often pressing, such as speaking with a monarch or seeing to an argument between the Seasons. But as she strode into the center of the keep, she heard a clamor.
Talia saw an [Autumn Knight], dressed in robes rather than armor, sprinting past her. And Talia, born to action, took off, following. Because the other woman was running straight into the heart of the cathedral that was the domain of the Knight-Commander.
“Where is the Knight-Commander? I have a [Message] for him!”
“In the War Room!”
A [Servant] answered, wide-eyed as the [Autumn Knight] shouted at her. The young woman ran left, and Talia overtook her. She knew the location by heart and burst into one of the central war rooms at the same time as the [Autumn Knight]. She blinked as she threw open the grand double doors and felt the freezing around her. She exhaled and saw a cloud of vapor—and a man, standing in cold, grey and pale blue clothing next to a pair of shivering [Servants]. He turned and looked up.
“Dame Talia?”
The [Autumn Knight] instantly bowed.
“Knight-Commander Calirn!”
The [Autumn Knight] stopped and shivered. Calirn blinked and seemed to notice the cold in the room. He did nothing, but Talia felt the air warming. She was unaffected; her armor was still warm despite the cold, but the two [Servants] and [Autumn Knight] relaxed at once. Calirn nodded to Talia and then promptly ignored her.
“You have another report, Dame Wera?”
The Fall Knight nodded, breathless.
“I have, Knight-Commander. The [Message] came to our Order through our general receiver, not—”
She gestured to one of the [Servants], who was holding a magical scroll that could be used to facilitate communications more smoothly. Calirn frowned.
“Why? We were in communication with the [Broker] directly. What has changed?”
“[Broker]?”
Talia blinked. The Order of Season was speaking with a [Broker]? But she listened as the [Autumn Knight] shook her head and searched for words.
“Dead, Knight-Commander Calirn. He’s dead.”
The Knight-Commander’s pale grey eyes focused on the [Autumn Knight]. And the chill that emanated from him was biting. Intense. Talia had known Knight-Commander Calirn for years, if not personally. She had seldom seen him like this. He was a Knight of the Winter, of course. He spoke one word.
“How?”
“A curse, Knight-Commander. Apparently, the man was found with his tongue stitched—to the roof of his mouth. His nose was sewn shut, and he died—”
One of the [Servants] made a faint sound. Talia put her hand on her sword uneasily. What was this? Calirn’s expression darkened.
“Then it may well be her. Or one of her ruses to distract the hunters on her trail. Was there anything else?”
The [Autumn Knight] shook her head.
“No, Knight-Commander. Just a request for gold. It was one of his associates that sent the message—”
“Did they say where the Stitch Witch was? Did they confirm the rumor?”
“No. They didn’t.”
The woman shook her head again. Calirn said nothing, but his expression was thunderous. And Talia started.
The Stitch Witch? The name was familiar. Then Calirn spoke.
“Belavierr. This has her magic about it. But if no one can confirm it was actually her, then it could be another one of her thousand misdirections. We are chasing shadows, and I refuse to contact Ser Raim with so little evidence.”
Then it hit Talia. She looked at Calirn as wide-eyed as the [Autumn Knight]. The female [Knight] reached up for her spectacles that had fallen off her nose in her run here.
“The Stitch Witch herself. Belavierr. The witch of legends—the one they said was in Noelictus, Knight-Commander? Her?”
“Perhaps.”
That was all Calirn said. Talia couldn’t hold it in anymore. She burst out, looking from Calirn to the [Autumn Knight].
“Knight-Commander! Is it really Belavierr? The Spider? The enemy of our Order?”
If there were a list of infamous names of enemies of the Order of Seasons, only a few were names and not entire organizations. Of them—Belavierr. People didn’t even tell children’s stories about her in Terandria. They were too terrifying. The [Autumn Knight] nodded, excited rather than scared.
“The one who cursed the Griffin Prince, Ostevien? The murderess who destroyed the city of Halen overnight? The—”
“I see you recall her infamy, Dame Talia, Dame Wera. Yes. That is Belavierr.”
The censure in Calirn’s voice made Talia blush. She realized she was passing into rudeness and bowed.
“I apologize, Knight-Commander! I didn’t mean to intrude, but I saw Dame Wera running, and you had summoned me upon our return. I come from Daquin, where we struck a victory for our Order!”
She looked up hopefully. Calirn stared at her.
“Daquin?”
She paused. [Knight] Wera and the two [Servants] were giving her wide-eyed looks. They’d probably seen the broadcast, but Calirn just looked blank. Talia coughed lightly.
“The…game at Daquin, Knight-Commander? The one organized by the Titan?”
He paused and nodded.
“Of course. The game. Congratulations, Dame Talia. I understand the Summer’s Champion is quite pleased. The Fall’s Sentinel has reservations as to the outcome. As do I. I would speak with you about the expedition, but later. I must attend to this.”
He abruptly turned to one of the [Servants].
“If the [Broker] in Filk is dead, the information must be confirmed. Find me a list of [Informants] across Izril. Prepare a [Message] requesting confirmation of the Stitch Witch. One that can be verified by truth spell.”
The [Servant] nodded and rushed out of the room. Talia was taken aback, but not by much. The brusqueness and attitude were emblematic of Calirn’s order. He was a [Winter Knight], one of the few who stayed for any length in the Order’s headquarters.
Knights of the Winter were solitary, independent. Even if their talents led them to take command of armies, they were by nature alone. For in the cruelest colds, in the desolation of the deepest winters, these few moved alone. Accordingly, they were often the most senior, [Knights] who had passed through all four seasons or abandoned their old season as they aged.
True, some [Knights] were freshly inducted into that branch of the order due to personality or becoming squires or aides to senior members, but it was still the smallest of the four seasons. Some said they were the most powerful, and perhaps they were, individually. But no [Knight] was beyond any other full member, even the Knight-Commander, so Talia spoke up.
“By your leave, Knight-Commander, if it is Belavierr the Stitch Witch, give me leave to assemble a lance immediately! We can prepare a vessel and ride for Kallinad’s harbors at once! The [Captain] that brought us from Baleros is likely still in port. If we [Messaged] them, we could be landing on any part of Izril in—”
“Dame Talia. This is not a matter for junior members of the Order of Seasons. The Witch of Webs has already been pursued and put to flight. This is not your battle.”
Calirn’s voice was cold and flat. Talia paused. Calirn turned to Dame Wera.
“Summon the Grandmasters.”
The [Autumn Knight] had been dancing with the same eagerness as Talia, about to ask her own questions. At Calirn’s words, she went pale. She looked at the Knight-Commander, then turned and ran. Talia stared. It was one person! The four Grandmasters weren’t summoned like this except for emergencies! But the Stitch Witch had killed more [Knights] of the Order of Seasons than…Calirn was looking at her.
“Knight-Commander? Surely we should put a lance on alert if there is even a chance of this rumor being true? Or any active-duty members near this city of Filk?”
It occurred to Talia she didn’t know where that was. She tried to study the maps on the war room out of the corner of her eye. Where was it on Izril? Calirn’s voice was brisk.
“A ship would not catch the Stitch Witch, Dame Talia. No matter how fast the [Captain]. Reaching Izril, thousands of miles away, is simply untenable given the time frame. More importantly, I will not send an entire lance to their deaths, Summer Knight Talia. Or you.”
Crimson flared in her cheeks at the implication.
“Ser Calirn! You believe a lance of Spring and Summer Knights would fail to dispatch a single [Witch]?”
Knights of the Spring and Summer were rightly regarded as the true might of the Order of Seasons. The Knights of the Spring were most plentiful, being comprised of new [Knights]; those who fought en masse in wars or were simply green as their season.
Some were veterans, of course, but theirs was a youthful Season full of energy and drive. And it was a logical step for experienced Knights of the Spring who had gone through a few years of actual combat to become Knights of the Summer. They were the pinnacle of martial might. They brought battle to evil where it was found. The Summer Knights crusaded to other continents or slew terrible monsters in their lairs.
Knight-Commander Calirn surely knew all this. But was he calling for a small team of [Winter Knights]? He shook his head.
“I would not pit a full lance of my brethren of the winter against her. The Stitch Witch is no foe that can be defeated by sheer numbers. She would consume any number of Knights of the Spring. And the Autumnal Season has pitted their magic against her and lost in times past. Only one member of our order has ever wounded her in any way.”
That drew Talia up. And made her uneasy for the first time so far. The way Calirn talked about Belavierr was too familiar. She was just one of those legends for Talia. But—she suddenly realized there was frost on the walls. It was so cold that even she shivered.
