Seven Nation Army by White Stripes. It’s not my music. But when my parents helped me set up the iPhone, my father got a hold of it. He inflicted his music on me by putting his favorite songs on the iPhone. Make no mistake, I’m grateful for the variety now. But—I pause.
“Odd. I haven’t thought of my father in…”
A wailing guitar solo interrupts me. I hear an animal protest, then the Goblins. They’re stomping or striking the bars or floor of the wagon to the beat. I smile, turning my head so they don’t see.
That’s when I hear footsteps. I hear him jump into the wagon a second before he lands; he surprises the hell out of me. Gamel sees him and announces his name, as if I couldn’t tell from his scent.
“Lord Gralton.”
“Laken.”
The [Dog Lord] throws himself into a seat opposite me. He smells like his wet hounds and a lot of rain and mud. Gamel politely moves back to give us room. I nod at Gralton.
“Did you get anything on your hunt?”
He laughs. He sounds as rough as he apparently looks. But I’m not fooled; he’s intelligent. He just likes dogs.
“We got a doe. Regular, not Corus. I saved you a cut. We’ll eat it tonight.”
I incline my head.
“Well done.”
He grunts dismissively.
“Not much challenge in a dozen warhounds bringing down a deer. A herd now—or a bear, that’s different. I’ll treat you to bear once we get to this Riverfarm of yours.”
“Not my bear.”
“Hah! You have to show me that one. A Mossbear for a pet? And they call me a savage. You gave the Goblins your phone-thing again, didn’t you?”
He sounds…not disapproving. That would be Yitton. But there’s an edge, and I sense him shifting. To look at the Goblins? I pause. Interesting.
“Something bothering you? You don’t like the song?”
That would be odd. Gralton’s into music like this, or even more intense stuff. Gralton growls softly, like a dog.
“I like the music. Not as much as the other ones you’ve shown me. But this one makes me uneasy because those Goblins like it. What’s it called?”
“Seven Nation Army. Why?”
I hear Gralton pause. The wood creaks as he leans on it, perhaps grasping it with his huge hands.
“They seem to have adopted it as one of their favorite songs. Probably because of the words.”
“The lyrics? What about them?”
“I don’t know if they count. But in the last battle, Velan the Kind was brought down by about seven separate armies.”
“Oh.”
The song’s on replay. The Goblins echo the beat. And it gives the music a new meaning.
The Goblin King. Velan the Kind. This Goblin Lord. Thousands of years—tens of thousands even—of Goblins being monsters. Goblin Lords and Kings causing destruction while Goblin Chieftains lead tribes, surviving despite being labeled a threat by practically every nation in the world. Gralton’s words only remind me how much of an outsider I am.
“Well, it wasn’t written about Velan.”
Gralton snorts.
“Someone else beat a seven-nation army?”
“Oh, something like that.”
The [Lord] waits. But I don’t give him anything more. He has to have his suspicions. I don’t know if he or anyone would make the logical leap. But he has to suspect. If I wasn’t sure of him, I’d be worried. Yet sixty days is a lot of time. It’s enough time for Goblins to master an iPhone enough to make a playlist full of their favorite songs. And shuffle the location of all my damn apps. And it’s enough time for me to get to know two men.
The second approaches after Gralton. And he requests entry to the wagon before climbing up. He smells like rain and metal. Not much else; Yitton Byres keeps himself clean. And he’s far different from Gralton’s relaxed nature.
“You shouldn’t give it to them, Your Majesty.”
“It’s Laken, Yitton. We’ve been in each other’s company for a month.”
I can picture the man sitting with his back straight against the wagon. Gamel’s described him for me; unlike Gralton’s usual stubble, Yitton has a maintained beard. His dark brown hair is turning to grey, and he moves with the weight and gravitas of his class in his mind. As if being a [Lord] is something to be equal to, rather than Gralton, who wears it as he pleases.
“I—apologize, Laken. It’s a first for me to be on close terms with royalty of any kind.”
“Well, among friends, I’d insist on it. Otherwise, an [Emperor] is quite lonely. And unapproachable. That makes a tyrant, I imagine.”
Gralton grunts.
“Is this another lecture about dictators, Emperor Godart? Because if it is, I’d rather listen to the Goblins.”
He makes another sound then, and I’m pretty sure Yitton just elbowed him hard in the side. The two are surprisingly chummy for such different men. Enough so that Yitton will actually do that, or so I’m guessing. I’ll have to ask Gamel later. I just smile.
“No lectures, Gralton. I’m just listening. And if you two are so inclined…unless you have anything to talk about?”
“Not I.”
“Nope.”
Well then. I sit back, and all three of us—and Gamel—just listen as the Goblins play more songs. It’s funny, but the music from the iPhone probably attracted the two [Lords]. Because as entertainment goes, it’s still the most novel thing in the world for them. And really, there’s nothing else to do. We’ve talked, argued, debated, and taught each other. We’ve been on this road a long time.
It’s been a month and a half. Of delays, escape attempts. Death and guilt and grief. And somehow, still too little being done. I’ve left my empire. And I could have ridden ahead, using Skills and switching horses or hiring a carriage.
The consequence would have been the deaths of the Goblins here. Because from the moment I demanded their capture as prisoners instead of execution on that battlefield, they’ve been under threat of death. If I left them with the guards—even under Gralton’s command or Yitton’s—I have no doubt there would be an ‘escape attempt’ where all the Goblins died. The same as if I let them go.
They would be hunted, tracked down. So I stay. And I don’t try to force people to be nice to the Goblins. Not anymore. That’s a mistake. I just let them keep their distance. Slowly, time does what even an [Emperor] cannot.
A month and a half means the people, Lord Gralton and Yitton, Gamel—everyone—is used to the Goblins by now. It means that even if they hate the Goblins, I’ve argued them into acceptance. Unlike the very vocal groups who wanted to execute the Goblins, children and all, on the spot. That’s…progress. That’s the benefit of time.
I only have to accept that it’s an investment of time that I have to give. A gamble. If Riverfarm falls to dissent or the [Witches] or…anything while I’m gone, it’s not worth the cost. And if I get back with a bunch of Goblins? I’ll have more problems.
I’ve thought about what to do. I have just one plan. It might work. Or it might fail. But it’s surely better than doing what the logic of this world says is the only course.
An hour passes. Just like that. I know because I can count it in the songs that are played. And reluctant as I am, I know the battery’s getting low. And I need that phone; it’s useful. Not least because I can store notes on it or use it to record sounds. Because it’s mine. And the Goblins are surprisingly respectful of that fact.
They could have snapped it in two, and I’m pretty sure the [Mage] riding with us couldn’t repair that. They could have deleted my music or apps, and I wouldn’t get them back. But aside from recording some very unpleasant noises and messing with my configurations—like turning off the voice help so I can’t navigate with it—they haven’t done anything else. That is something. So I turn and raise my voice.
“Excuse me.”
The iPhone goes quiet instantly. The Goblins, who’d make some sounds while listening, go silent. I nod, smiling.
“May I have my phone back?”
A pause. I can hear some distant shuffling. And then—Gralton catches the iPhone in front of my face; I can feel the wind and hear the impact in his palm. I try not to jerk back in alarm, but it’s instinctual. I hear tittering Goblin laughter. But I like to think they wouldn’t throw it like that if they knew Gralton wouldn’t catch it. I don’t test that theory. I just nod.
“Thank you.”
I don’t hear a response. But I have my iPhone back. They had their music, for a moment. They still won’t talk to me.
We have an understanding. And they will never forget what role I played. But I want to believe I’ve shown them I’m trying. To… to do something.
“Lord Gralton, Yitton, will you join me for a walk?”
Yitton murmurs.
“Gladly.”
Gralton.
“Yes.”
We leave the covered wagon. The rain’s slowed again. But Gamel hops off and shields me with an umbrella as I walk with the two [Lords]. Gralton swears as he splashes in some mud.
“Rain. This is uncanny. Has someone been fucking with the weather? Because if this is Magnolia pulling rain towards her fields or some idiot—”
I interject.
“You think it’s unseasonable?”
“I don’t know. And I don’t care. I just want to be out of it.”
“I have to echo Gralton’s sentiments, Your M—Laken. So much rain is unusual, although not unheard of. Byres lands don’t get as much, but we’re based in the foothills. What about Radivaek lands, Gralton?”
“I have no idea, Byres. I don’t count how much rain I get. Is it this bad in Riverfarm, Laken? Because if it is, I’ll ride ahead to my lands until the summer.”
I frown, thoughtful.
“I don’t know. I haven’t asked. There was good rainfall, but Prost hasn’t mentioned that.”
“Ah. Because of the news about the…[Witches].”
“Yes.”
The two go silent. Gralton spits after a second. Which sounds disgusting.
“Witches. I ran one off my lands once.”
Intriguing. I keep my voice light.
“Really? You never said.”
“I didn’t remember.”
Yitton sighs loudly. Gralton scratches, grunting.
“I forgot, alright? It’s nothing like what’s happening in Riverfarm, anyways.”
Time to press him.
“For my sake, Gralton, what did happen?”
“Nothing. Some villagers started complaining to me and they wouldn’t shut up. Said a [Witch] was cursing their farms. Doing black magic. I sent some people over, and they said she probably hexed a farm. There was some business about debts the village owed her. I didn’t care. I told my people to make the villagers and [Witch] swear under truth spell what had happened was what happened. Turns out it was all true. They paid her to take care of some nasty illness, and they didn’t want to pay the entire thing. So she hexed their fields, and half their crop died, and they had an infestation of bugs.”
“And what did you do to restore order?”
The [Dog Lord]’s pause was telling.
“We ran off the [Witch].”
“You didn’t force the village to pay her what they owed?”
I imagine Gralton shrugged during the next pause.
“She hexed them. So I decided she could get lost.”
“And?”
“She cursed the village. Either that or they lost too much from the fields. Place was deserted in two years.”
Silence. Lord Yitton makes a sound, and I just think. Curses. Broken promises. And [Messages] from Riverfarm. Increasingly worrying messages. I was so relieved to hear Durene woke up. But after that?
The rain pours down, unceasing. I have to wonder if these [Witches] are like the ones in the stories from my home. Again, I don’t know, but I have to trust that Ryoka won’t make any deals with them. With that said, I won’t treat them like monsters. Like Goblins.
“Emperor Laken. You had a [Message] from Riverfarm last night. An urgent one. May I ask what it was about?”
Yitton breaks in quietly. Very politely too, because it’s his and Gralton’s—okay, mostly Gralton’s—money that’s paying for these [Messages], the escort, food, and so much else. I nod.
“I did. And I’ve been pondering my response. It’s still…early morning?”
“That’s right. As far as I can tell. What happened?”
I tell them.
A simple story. Rehanna, a woman twice bereaved. A changeling made of cloth. A bargain struck. Of course, they know about the coven. But this? Gralton makes a noise. Yitton’s just deathly silent.
“Your thoughts, gentlemen?”
I ask.
“Get rid of the [Witch].”
“You tried that, Gralton. And look what it brought you. Your Majesty, I have to counsel intervention, but of another kind. That…[Witch] is clearly a powerful one. At least Level 40 if she can create something like that. I have to imagine even higher. Belavierr. Why do I know that name? My household has lists of dangerous enemies we’ve fought against. Though I feel like my wife mentioned…no.”
Yitton’s voice is greatly troubled. I wish I had access to those records. Lady Rie, Gralton, Yitton…I need more information sources. Yitton goes on.
“I would request aid. We have been cut off from news and socialization too long, Emperor Godart. If she is a threat, prevail upon the Five Families for aid.”
“From Magnolia Reinhart or Tyrion Veltras.”
I frown. It’s the same advice both gave me when the coven appeared. But both ideas sound like bad ones, especially from what I know. Then again, accepting any deal…the [Witches] are waiting for me. And they’ve claimed one victim. But she made the choice.
Rehanna. Yitton is silent, waiting. Gralton’s clearly nervous. I shake my head.
“I’ve thought about both suggestions. But I’d rather be there and appraise these [Witches] myself, Gralton, Yitton. If you’ll stick with me, we could at least counter a coven.”
Or so I hope. Both men agree. We’re allies. Of convenience, yes; our lands are close enough that it’s practical. But fate’s made us friends. I only hope I’m not leading them into trouble. But I am grateful for their company. I pause as I stare north and west. I know that’s where Riverfarm is. I can sense it. And something else.
“I won’t deny, it bothers me. I wish I was there. I don’t feel like Riverfarm is safe. It feels…hot. Like something hot is coming. On the wind.”
“I could do with some sun. But you’re talking about your lands, aren’t you?”
Gralton’s voice is measured. When I nod, he speaks. For all he’s impetuous, thoughtless at times, he’s higher-level than Yitton or I. And he doesn’t scoff at my dreams or feelings.
“Premonition. I’ve had that too, vaguely. When a bunch of damn Crelers set up a huge nest in my lands. A feeling like something was creeping up on me from behind. I was walking around my estates, looking for rats or insects, for three weeks until it was nearly too late. I had to hire three Gold-rank teams and Baudin the Brass.”
I nod. Two stories from Gralton in a day. That’s how he tends to give advice, through the lens of his failures. Yitton is more contemplative.
