“In the past, the Byres house has clashed with [Witches] as well as other monsters. We were vampire slayers in another age, the first [Knights] who rode with the Five Families before that. They believed any threat could be defeated with silver and steel. But they armed themselves for each threat in turn. And many of the Byres line have perished in battle.”
So would silver be enough to defeat a [Witch]? That’s Yitton for you. Cautious advice rooted in history. I consider both points. In truth, my answer is simple. It’s…all I can give. We’re moving as fast as we can in the rain. And I am blind outside of my lands. Far still from home.
“Thank you for your advice, you two. I don’t know if we’ll make it. But in light of this—I’d like to adjust our course. Towards Radivaek lands. If we take a northern route, we’ll stick to the main roads.”
The two men confer, and Gralton pulls out a small map.
“It’s still two days’ fast ride to my lands from where we’d split to Riverfarm. And that’s if I left the caravan and rode as fast as I could. Call it seven to eight if I set out now. And I’d have to leave my dogs behind.”
There’s a note of expectancy in his voice. I nod.
“I’d prefer your company, Gralton. But if things get worse, I’d ask that you ride ahead towards your lands.”
In case he needs to bring back his army. Gralton agrees quietly. Yitton moves; I can hear the chainmail as he adjusts it and his belt.
“In that case, I will accompany you, Laken. Byres lands lie past Riverfarm.”
That’s him too. As if he’s not accompanying me and slowing his return for my sake. I smile.
“I’m lucky to have such companions. That’s the plan, then. Gamel?”
“Sire?”
I take a breath. [Witches]. Ryoka. I turn to Gamel. I can’t leave the Goblins. Yitton and Gralton couldn’t stop the guards from attacking the Goblins, or the other villages, cities, and towns we’ve passed. I can. We’re too far. But I can only hope. So I give my order.
“Send a [Message] back as follows: ‘Let no one strike a deal with Witch Belavierr. But do not try her yet. Collect evidence for a trial, which I will preside over. If this coven is to be trusted, see what they do when no bargains are struck. And give Rehanna every kindness. Do not take the…baby away. Leave her be.’ Tell them to wait. Wait for me.”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
Gamel hesitates, and then Yitton takes the umbrella. He hurries away, splashing, as the rain falls. And I listen. And I wait. And I curse the rain. We’re not moving fast enough.
Something is coming. Something is already there. [Witches]. And I smell smoke before I feel the fire.
 
 
Day 61 – Fierre
 
It was days like today that made Fierre the Vampire hate being…well, her. Just a bit. Hate the fact that she was Fierre the Vampire, not Fierre the [Broker] or Fierre the [Opener]. Sometimes, often, she was proud and knew she was one of the few of her kind. Other times, she wondered if she could have been something else.
Because a Vampire gained no levels. A Vampire was like an animal or one of the sub-races, like Ogres or the true Giants of old. But even Goblins leveled.
You could argue it was there to give balance. If a Vampire could level, surely they would be [Warriors] without peer or [Mages] with access to magics beyond normal spellcasters. Vampires had many powers, and old Bamer had told her stories of the Vampires of old and how they’d tapped into blood magic, shape shifting—even though her father forbade those stories most of the time.
Well, her mother liked to tell those stories as well. Grand castles and balls, elegant and deadly rulers of the night. Whereas in reality, Fierre’s father, Himilt, told her that it was better to be what they were. People in hiding. Because Vampires had once ruled part of Izril. And they had fallen. Died to [Knights] and silver and magic and fire.
So why couldn’t they give it up? Fierre’s family lived in a crumbling castle, herding sheep. Caught between the present and the past. If they could leave, perhaps they’d be happier. Ordinary people who just had to stay away from the sun.
And who were sick. Fierre coughed into one sleeve as she paced the small room she operated as one of Reizmelt’s few Openers. One of three, in fact. The class [Opener] was a specific, stylistic one; it was more common to have an [Informant], [Fence], [Broker], or some other class fulfill the same role. Fierre would have liked any class, though. Because she knew what Skills such people got.
“If I was an [Informant], I could use [Source Information] and find someone. Or even [Thousand Mile Conversation] if I was really high level.”
She bit her lip hard, feeling her pointed canines sinking into her flesh. It didn’t really hurt; Fierre was hard to hurt, and she healed fast. Another benefit of being a Vampire. But she’d been on the other end of [Thousand Mile Conversation] just once. Someone could talk to you a thousand miles away as if they were standing right next to you.
Fierre vividly recalled that, fumbling for information for the broker about a deal gone south, hearing them harangue her as she dashed out to verify what they wanted in person.
That was the power of a Skill. True, a Level 30 Skill or maybe even Level 40, but a Skill nonetheless. Fierre was willing to lay down twenty gold pieces that the [Informant] who had that Skill could probably use it once per day. Imagine that! How could a Vampire compete?
Well, with the ability to regenerate from being stabbed in the stomach, the ability to rip the iron door in Fierre’s room off its hinges, and so on. But still, Vampires had lost a great deal of their powers. If Fierre had been like Himilt’s great grandfather, she could have flown to Riverfarm like a bat. But she couldn’t shape shift. Or turn into mist.
So she paced. After three more laps of the tiny room, Fierre heard a knock at the door. She froze, listening. There was a certain pattern to the knock she was listening for. If the person on the other side got it wrong, she was gone.
She waited. The rapping was three raps, pause, a rap, and then someone kicked the door. Good enough. Fierre still checked through the metal slot. She recognized the person on the other end and opened the door immediately.
Which meant three locks. It made it all the harder for a [Thief] to get in. Ironically, Fierre was most concerned about [Thieves]. She had to be; an Opener’s office contained as many valuables as a Merchant’s Guild. Information, secrets, items of certain value. Her stock and trade.
“Took you long enough.”
It didn’t earn respect, though. The raggedy [Mage] who stumped into Fierre’s office looked sour. Fierre bit back a response or the urge to slap his perpetually flushed, drunk face off his head. He was a poor [Mage], not brave enough to be an adventurer, a drunk, in fact. But he made his living by casting and receiving the [Message] spell for the criminal underworld in Reizmelt. And unfortunately, Reizmelt didn’t have much of a shady underworld. It was more like a ten-foot-deep pit.
This [Mage], Gailt, was Fierre’s regular contact. She knew of two other [Mages] who might cast [Message], but there was such a thing as loyalty among associates. And Gailt was cheap and somewhat reliable. He knew the cost of betrayal, at least.
“What’ve you got, Gailt?”
Fierre yanked the one chair in the room out for him. The [Mage] stumbled into it, unsteady. Fierre’s sensitive nose told her he was already two drinks into his day. And it was basically dawn. But that was the beauty of Gailt’s job. He could be drunk all day, and so long as he received [Message] spells and passed them on quickly, he could earn a living. Again—Gailt was professional in his own way. So he didn’t waste time.
“Got a message back from Filk at last. That [Broker] you lit up two days ago with all those threats?”
“[Fence]. His primary class is [Fence]. What’d he say? Did you get the [Message] to Ryoka? Did she respond?”
“One thing at a time! Yeah! I got it to her. I confirmed it with that stuttering bastard in Riverfarm. Idiot can’t even receive well.”
Gailt grimaced as he rubbed one ear. He unsteadily sat upright, closing his eyes for a moment. Fierre waited, trying not to break the edge of the desk she was holding in frustration. The man opened his eyes at last.
“First things. Your Runner got the message. That’s what the [Mage] in Riverfarm says. ‘pparently, she didn’t know she could get ahold of you through me. So her [Message] is straight to you. It’s—‘Fierre, thanks about Belavierr. She’s as dangerous as you said. Please let me know if someone’s asking. She made a cloth baby. Not alive?’ There’s a question mark there, by the way. Uh—‘I have to stay. Not in danger. I think.’”
“She thinks? Did she not get my [Message]? Did she not hear that bounty? Or the rumors from Noelictus I copied to her?”
Fierre stared at Gailt in disbelief. It was rhetorical, but the [Mage], in the way of his kind, seemed to take it as a personal question only he could answer.
“Well, she’s not saying why she’s there. My guess is that it’s got something to do with that coven. Or that delivery for that [Emperor] bloke. Either way, your friend’s in it deep. Too bad she didn’t give you more details.”
“Yes.”
The Vampire girl closed her eyes, annoyed. She was trying to think. If—
“Aha! I bet she thinks you’re getting charged by the word, like what the [Mage]’s Guild does. She doesn’t know I’m being paid different. Not that I’d mind being paid by the word.”
“Gailt. I’m trying to think.”
Fierre growled at him. The [Mage] didn’t look impressed.
“I’m just trying to help. At least this Runner girl knows you’re on her side. She said ‘please’ and everything. Why’re you starting a fight with the [Fence] in Filk for, anyways?”
“That’s right! The [Fence]! What did he say?”
The girl turned to Gailt. He grinned lopsidedly at her.
“You want it word for word or the summary?”
Fierre frowned.
“You mean…?”
“I think he told you to go stuff your, uh—unmentionables into some other stuff. And do all kinds of things that I don’t think you’d like! Short of it is that he says piss off. He’ll sell information on that Stitch Witch and coven to anyone he likes.”
The Vampire girl stared at Gailt. Then she began cursing. He grinned, lolling back in his chair, as she tried not to overturn the desk and smash it in half. She eventually sat and yanked out a drawer. It was neatly filed with pieces of information on…well, everything.
Fierre was an Opener. Even if she didn’t have the class, she opened letters, paid Runners for their secrets, and negotiated the sale of information. That meant she’d dipped her toes into the part of the world that the official law of the cities wouldn’t tangle in. It also meant that Fierre’s worth was contained in what she knew.
And as stated, a [Thief] would love to get their hands on that information to sell to a Watch Captain, [Lord] or [Lady], another [Broker], or any number of organizations. Yet, it was a dangerous game to play. Information was money and power. But it could also be danger. Which was why Fierre trusted Gailt, for all he was a drunkard. If he sold the [Messages] that he handled, or if people thought he was filing away what he relayed, he’d be dead very, very quickly. It was Fierre who had the power in the relationship. In connections, coin, and, yes, information.
“That bastard wants to ignore me? Does he think because he’s the top [Fence] in Filk he’s anything like an [Opener] in a city like Reizmelt? Filk doesn’t even have a damn Thieves’ Guild! Fine! Gailt! Send a [Message] to—”
She consulted her parchment, breathing angrily. Gailt sighed as he put a finger to his head.
“—Daufica Longshel. Wait, is that right?”
“Nope! I know her. Beautiful lady, or so I want to believe. Beautiful mental voice.”
Fierre glanced up.
“She’s sixty years old.”
She was rewarded by Gailt’s look of distress and a single digit. He closed his eyes.
“Go to Rhir and die, Fierre. What do I say?”
“Tell her I want a message sent to Ratwhisperer. Make it painful and thorough. I’m also paying her eight big ones—light up his office.”
Gailt blinked.
“Send a message—oh. Eight gold for—are you sure?”
He looked a bit rattled and more sober than a moment ago. Just like two nights ago. Fierre’s eyes flashed dangerously, but she kept them from turning red.
“Do I look like I’m joking, Gailt?”
She saw his mouth pop open and then decide to close. The man closed his eyes, and Fierre sat back. She clenched her fists. This was unlike her. If you decoded what she’d just said, she’d just paid Daufica, a [Mage] who also doubled as a [Fixer]. Unlike Fierre, she dealt in very real things. And Fierre had hired her to send a few people to the [Fence]’s office and beat him. Perhaps with broken bones. And then burn it down.
Some might call that an extreme reaction. It was certainly nothing light. Fierre was pretty certain she could get away with it. The ‘Ratwhisperer’ as he called himself (his real name was Jenkil Thert), didn’t have the clout to fight back. If he tried, Fierre had a secure iron door, Reizmelt’s top gang thought she was useful, and she was a Vampire. Hiring a group of people to beat her up was a fatal mistake.
Even so, it was dangerous. Fierre didn’t know why she was doing it. Maybe because Ryoka was her friend. She was one of the few people who knew who Fierre was who wasn’t a Vampire. And she was…different.
Fierre’s mother, Colfa, hadn’t been able to control her. Himilt, Fierre’s father, had told Fierre to her face that Ryoka was someone to watch. Although, he’d meant that as a warning.
All of this was simply background, though. Fierre just wanted Ryoka to live. And unfortunately, Ryoka didn’t know enough about the way people like the Ratwhisperer worked. Or she’d have never sent—Fierre squinted at her notes.
“Charlay the Dustrider. Nicknamed Dusty Charlay, one of two Centaur City Runners in this region. As good as Ryoka—better for short trips. Why’s she following Ryoka about?”
“That a question I’m asking?”
“No. Shut up and send the [Message].”
Fierre sighed. She massaged her temples, trying to figure it out. What was Belavierr the Stitch Witch doing in the middle of nowhere? It had to be connected to the [Emperor]. Although that was something even the biggest names in the criminal underworld were marking as an unsubstantiated fact.
Part of that might be genuine embarrassment, though. An [Emperor] appearing out of nowhere that not even the best [Informants] and [Brokers] had heard of? It made them all look like fools. It couldn’t be true. And yet, Tyrion Veltras had summoned this [Emperor] himself. And he had trebuchets.
