The suffocating heat was no weaker than standing directly on top of a sun, yet Zac only felt a slight discomfort thanks to his pygmy skeletons. One of them had surrounded him in a black swirl that displaced the supercharged water vapor wherever he passed. The rapid consumption of energy didn’t matter. The combined effort of his four pygmies wouldn’t be able to protect him if he allowed that thing to emerge.

The obscured part of the beach had turned into a bed of lava, and a pitch-black spike had risen out of the middle. The draconic spinal ridge was the source of the terrifying aura, and it was only the tip of the iceberg. Zac had no desire to meet the thing lurking beneath the surface, and he turned his eyes to the three remaining enemies.

The Peak D-grade Unvai Drakes had taken up positions a few hundred meters apart. Their original runes had already been completely twisted by corruption, and they gazed at the spine with deranged fervor. Zac immediately crashed into the beast in the middle and launched a furious melee. Meanwhile, his six chains shot out to harass the other two leaders, forcing them out of their reverie.

The three captains only managed to resist their murderous impulses for a moment before the madness took over. They left their posts, rushing toward their companion without a care in the world. They no longer cared about welcoming their ancestor. They didn’t care about the ominous scroll unfurling behind Zac or its lines written in blood. The only thing on their minds was to tear into the interloper who’d caused them so much suffering.

The summoning didn’t stop just because the drakes went in for the kill. The ritual took place within their veins, and it would keep going as long as their hearts kept beating. Zac didn’t allow the looming threat to disrupt his tempo. His Inexorable Death represented suffocating pressure and absolute control over fate. He was a puppet master where every swipe had a purpose, where every lash from his chains moved his opponents closer to their inevitable end.

Through careful arrangement, the three Unvai Drakes suddenly slammed into each other in their desire to tear Zac to shreds. It was at that moment Zac simply disappeared. He’d stepped to the side using his Void-imbued technique, briefly escaping their senses. Before they could lock on, Zac activated [Abyssal Drive] with Void Energy to avoid giving any early warning. An enormous, pitch-black blade rose from the ground before the beasts could react, and three neatly lined-up heads were lopped off.

Their desperation had ended, as had their lives.

The magma lake roiled as its controllers departed, and the overbearing draconic aura leaked like a punctured balloon. Forcing an ancestral descent was already beyond the capabilities of the Unvai Drakes, who only carried traces of true dragon heritage. They had forcibly excavated the ability by relying on the corruption, and even then, they’d barely succeeded. Now that the leaders were dead, the descent was quickly failing.

The outcome was set, but the ancestral Lava Dragon refused to leave silently. Zac’s mind screamed with danger, and he quickly ran for his life. He didn’t get far before an overbearing aura locked down the whole area. There was no time to break free by relying on the Void. The spine shattered, unleashing a terrifying blade of magma.

The attack was upon Zac in the blink of an eye, barely giving him enough time to push [Profane Exponents] to its limits. The coffin-bearing pygmy was utterly incapable of blocking the swipe and shattered. Augmenting it with the fourth pygmy’s ability to boost its companions only bought it half a breath.

That gave Zac just enough time to activate an escape talisman. It faced the same suppression and quickly failed, though only after shifting Zac’s position fifty meters. Zac suppressed the pain from being lacerated by the spatial turbulence and activated another defensive talisman. The added distance and the D-grade talisman were just enough to avoid the vengeful blade of corrupted flame.

It passed by overhead, cleaving the air and leaving a fiery streak that continued toward the horizon. The attack had contained the ritual’s resentment and remaining energy. Without it, the lava quickly dissipated. Its retreat exposed the surprisingly well-maintained carcasses of twenty fallen drakes, each shimmering with an illusory glow.

Zac allowed himself to fall to the ground, where he blankly stared at the sky. It was as though the Heavens had been holding their breath, and they finally let go. Sevona’s rain fell on the beach, washing away the filth and sin. Zac was no different. A pool of grime soon formed around him as layers of soot and blood were stripped from his body. The heavy Killing Intent gradually retreated into Zac’s body, like a beast returning to its slumber.

He couldn’t wait to do this again.
