I had at least eight blisters by the time I ran through the gates of Celum, nearly two days later. I blame myself, really. Running in ill-fitting boots is about the stupidest thing you can do to your feet—aside from running barefoot in the snow, that is.
Yep. That’s me. Ryoka Griffin, not-so-barefoot Runner. You’d think it wouldn’t matter, given the winter, but it does.
“Hoi, running girl! Too cold for your feet, eh?”
One of the human guards on the rampart shouts down at me as I run onto the cobblestones and into the city. Briefly, I debate flipping him off or shouting something back. Instead, I run on.
Bad temper? Who, me? I don’t have a bad temper. It’s not like I’ve just run and slept in the cold for the last few days, all the while being pestered by evil incarnate.
Speaking of which, I hear the guards at the gates laughing, and then cursing and shouting as my traveling companions arrive.
 
“Hark! A human city! Full of nasty iron and wood fires! Let’s freeze the place, sisters!”
 
…And there goes the peace. The Frost Faeries I’ve brought with me rush through the air above my head, bringing Winter with them.
Winter, in a literal sense. Apparently, around here the seasons don’t just change with the weather. In this case, it’s literally a phenomenon that follows these fairies as they fly around. Where they go, the temperature drops, it starts snowing, and the damn things can seemingly conjure avalanches out of the air whenever they please.
I want nothing to do with them, which is unfortunate seeing as how they keep following me. But now they’re busy tormenting the human guardsmen, freezing metal to skin, pelting them with snow and so on, I’m in the clear for the moment.
I can even take my boots off and let my feet breathe. It’s cold around here, but the faeries haven’t turned this place icy yet. They don’t move around methodically, so I found entire sections of land that were still green and flourishing on my run back. Too bad the Frost Faeries froze everything they saw.
To the Runner’s Guild then, almost less pleasant than the place I’m headed to after that. But it’s got to be done.
I push open the door, wincing as my blisters hit the wood floorboards. I need to pop them soon, but it’s not going to stop the pain. A healing potion? Would it even be worth the cost?
“Ryoka!”
The instant I’m through the doorway, someone shouts my name. Someone male. Fals. I see him striding towards me across the room, followed by none other than Garia.
Well, well, coincidence is a strange thing. But then, both Runners live and work in this area. I guess I should have expected to see them.
Fals strides towards me, dirty blonde haired, handsome, athletic. Garia’s type, which is why the shorter and stockier girl is right behind him. He’s smiling at me. I think my lips twitch in reply, but I manage a small smile for Garia.
But for once, Fals seems genuinely glad to see me, and not about to offer me sage advice. And to my surprise, even some of the other Runners are smiling. That’s…odd.
Fals and Garia stop in front of me, smiling. Fals has straight teeth, nearly white despite the lack of special toothpastes and dentists in this world.
“Ryoka, where have you been? We haven’t seen you in nearly a week!”
His cheerfulness bothers me. So I nod at him.
“Hey, you.”
Boom. His smile fades a fraction.
“I’m well. How are you…Ryoka?”
“Fine, thanks. How’s it going?”
Now comes the pause of uncertainty.
“You do remember my name, don’t you?”
“Of course I do. Fall, right?”
Hah! That flummoxed him. But Garia frowns at me. And I realize—perhaps it’s not best to enter jerk-mode the instant I come back. Oops.
“She’s just having fun, right Ryoka?”
Garia elbows me in the stomach. Oof. I forgot she was that strong.
“I’m sure Ryoka remembers me.”
Fals pats Garia on the shoulder, and she blushes. I sigh.
“Of course. Fals. I’m surprised you lot are happy to see me, though.”
He shrugs.
“Why? That business with Magnolia was ages ago, and besides, you are our fastest Runner. One of the best, too! We could use you here, now more than ever.”
Okay, if he wants to be buddy-buddy, I won’t stop him. I give Fals one of those half-smiles with more teeth than smile.
“Really? Business is good?”
He made a face.
“Business—our business—is slow, thanks to winter coming so quickly. Right now all the roads are frozen over so carts and wagons are going slow rather than break their horse’s legs. Until they get sharp shod, no one’s getting anything delivered fast.”
Sharp shod? What the hell is that? Must be some way to travel on ice.
“Sounds like it’s good for Runners.”
“You’d think so, but us City Runners are having a hard time in the snow as well. We’re overloaded with requests and no one wants to be outside for too long.”
Garia nods and shivers. Her attire—and Fals’ is different. They’ve got wool and warm clothes on, which I envy. Me? I need to buy warmer gear asap.
“Sounds like I arrived just in time.”
“It’s good to have you back, Ryoka.”
I smile at Garia. And then I lose that smile when I realize she doesn’t know about the Horns of Hammerad. Fals notices that, and changes the subject. He’s…considerate. Huh.
“Well now that you’re back, how many requests would you like to take on?”
“How many do you have?”
Garia elbows me again. Ow! That was a joke. But maybe she thought I was being sarcastic. I eye Garia’s elbow and decide to stop joking around.
“I’m looking for the highest paying jobs. Fast deliveries, adventurers in the field—”
“Dangerous requests.”
“Pretty much.”
“Well, there’s never that many requests for us Runners. Adventurers don’t like us—”
They don’t like most Runners, and for good reason. Don’t say it out loud though, Ryoka.
“—But there are some long-distance contracts I think no one will fight you over. You’re best-suited for them, anyways. Plus, there’s always good coin to be made now that a Courier is heading this way.”
“A Courier?”
That is big news. I’ve heard of the special Runners who go long-distance. One of them was supposed to take the High Passes request. Fals nods at me and lowers his voice.
“Word is, there’s a special request that’s highest-priority. It’s coming all the way from First Landing and a Courier’s delivering it.”
“Whose word?”
He smiles at me and shrugs imperceptibly at the receptionist’s desk. Of course. Fals would know, since he gets along well with the staff. I suppose he’s sharing the information with me and Garia because…?
Well, a Courier, huh? But what was the place he mentioned?
“I’m not familiar with the place. Where’s First Landing?”
Now Fals and Garia both frown at me. Damn. I’ve made a mistake. He raises an eyebrow.
“The largest city on this side of the continent? The port city?”
“Right. First Landing. Of course.”
I should have read a book on local cities, but no one’s writing almanacs or travelers guides for this continent, or at least none that I’ve found. Play it off. I shrug casually as if I’ve forgotten.
“I wonder how much they’re getting paid.”
“More than we make in a month, I’ll bet.”
Fals makes a face and Garia looks dispirited. But that’s how it goes, right? The Gold-rank adventurers get rich and famous and everyone else below them gets screwed over in the adventuring world, according to Ceria. It’s like that everywhere, both here and in my world.  Erin’s and my world.
“If you’re looking for requests, I can show you a few high-priority ones.”
“Not really tempted at the moment. I need to rest. I’ve been running all day and I’ve got blisters.”
I show them both my poor feet. Garia looks appalled and Fals just looks interested. He’s seen worse feet, I’m sure.
“Painful. How’d you get those?”
“Boots.”
“You wear boots?”
Garia giggled at me. It sounds odd, coming from her. Girlish. Which makes sense. She is a girl, I just…didn’t expect it from her. I scowl at her.
“It was either that or frostbite. I wasn’t sure if healing potions could heal frostbite.”
“They can’t. Not well, anyways. But if you need better shoes…”
“I’ll go buy some afterwards. For now, I need some stuff from the guild.”
Fals spread his hands.
“I’m cooling down from a long delivery from Remendia. Need any help?”
“Thanks.”
He and I step to one side to let a snow-pelted Runner stagger in. She starts telling the other Runners about the Snow Sprites in the area as Garia follows us towards the receptionist’s desk.
“The first thing I need is a copy of the Guild’s rules. Do you have a book or something?”
Fals frowns.
“I think we do, but if you need to know something you can always ask the desk or me. Is something wrong?”
“I just need a copy of the rules. I’m not in trouble.”
But my tenuous plan hinges on something I remember one of the receptionists telling me when I first registered with the Guild. Fals shrugs and talks to the receptionist.
This one’s a young woman, perky, smiling at Fals and fake-smiling at me.
“Well, we do have a book, but it’s expensive. I’d have to charge you fifteen silver for it—”
She blinks as I slap down a gold piece on the counter.
“I’ll take it. Do you have enough to give me change?”
I actually have enough silver coins to pay for it, but I might as well exchange a few of the gold coins Teriarch gave me. Plus, she’s annoying.
As she fumbles for the coins Garia elbows me again. This time I glare at her, and she glares back. What? I’m being nice. Nice for me, that is.
“How are you doing, Garia?”
“I’m fine. The snow was sure something, wasn’t it? I saw the Frost Faeries on one of my runs. I nearly got covered in snow before I got to the city.”
“Mm. The faeries.”
Curse them. Those little monsters probably enjoyed harassing Garia. They’re like little bullies, only apparently practically invisible to everyone but Erin and me. I nod at Fals as he breaks away from the counter and tosses me a thin book.
“Thanks.”
“If you bring it back, we’ll reimburse you. But I hope it’s useful to you.”
I hope so too. But on to my next point of business. I move away from the counter with both Runners.
“Do you know where I can buy any artifacts?”
Artefacts? I’ve always thought the British way of spelling things was cooler. Fals shrugs and point back to the counter, where the receptionist is busy dealing with the half-frozen Runner.
“Artifacts? If you need magic, we do have some magical items on sale.”
“I’ve seen them.”
Crap they are, too. Runners around here don’t worry about monsters that much, so what the guild and shops mainly provide are healing potions, and one-time spells in the form of scrolls, bags*, and wands.
 
*Yes, bags. Don’t ask me why. I guess some things just store better in bag form. They’re some kind of tangling spell. You toss it at people and vines come out. A classic?
 
“I’m looking for more utility. Or something that can recharge itself so I don’t keep using up my supply.”
Fals frowns and strokes at his clean-shaven chin.
“That’s expensive.”
“But there is a market?”
“Not here—but with enough gold, you can get someone to deliver it. Pay a Runner.”
He grins and I have to as well. This social thing isn’t exactly easy, but at least it’s not as much of a chore as I thought it would be.
“Okay, let’s assume a proper artifact that renews itself is worth two hundred gold?”
I look at Fals. He shakes his head.
“Okay, four hundred. Six hundred? Eight hundred?”
“Probably around eight hundred gold for something cheap. But I can’t just give you a set number, Ryoka. The spell and object makes it an entire range of prices.”
Holy economics, Batman*. What’s up with that price range?
 
*Yeah, I thought that. I watched the old Batman show when I was a kid. Sue me.
 
Then again, given how much adventurers can make – I think Ceria told me once that an average contract can pay several gold coins per contract even without the bounty on monsters – it makes sense.
Healing potions? A gold coin or two. It goes up with potency. Spell books? Several hundred gold coins to thousands for the really strong stuff. Enchanted weapons fall in between, while ordinary armor is cheap by comparison.
One-time spells aren’t cheap, but you can buy some if you’re a seasoned adventurer with coin to throw around. Ceria’s robes cost her nearly a hundred and twenty gold coins – something she had to save up for years to buy. But they didn’t break or tear even after she nearly died in the Ruins. They’re about the only thing she did keep, but she told me her wand was half as expensive as that. It was just a focusing agent with some magic she had to constantly renew.
But self-sustaining magic? Let’s say…a ring of fireballs or something? One cast per day? That’s probably the kind of artifact they were hoping to find in Skinner’s lair. It would cost…one thousand two hundred gold pieces?
“How about a ring that shoots fireballs? Once a day?”
“I’d bet that would cost at least three thousand gold pieces. Probably four, and that’s if you don’t have to deal with some merchant from overseas.”
Garia’s jaw drops. She looks at Fals and me and shakes her head.
“Really? I had no idea they cost that much. I looked at a tripvine bag for protection, you know, but even that was out of my price range.”
She turns red and falls silent, as if she thinks Fals and I will judge her. It’s true, he and I could probably afford one or two, but I’m not that kind of person. And he’s not either, at least, I don’t think so. But Persua is, so I suppose in the past…
I’m glad she isn’t here. I still owe her a shattered leg bone, and she still has it out for me if I’m any judge. But magic.
“That’s an expensive ring.”
“Well, it’s more like adventuring gear. It would be nice for a Runner, but we don’t need that kind of weaponry, at least, not unless we’re doing Courier jobs. Why, are you hoping to become one?”
“It’s something to think about.”
Garia stares at me, as if I’ve announced I want to become a Gold-rank adventurer. Which is pretty much what a Courier is, right?
“So you’re saying anything worth having is at least a few thousand gold coins, right?”
“I’d have to imagine so. There’s a lot of limited-use magic for less, but if you want something you can rely on, you’d have to be rich.”
Okay, let’s see. That would make any kind of real magical artifact pretty much the equivalent of a supercar or…or a fighter jet from my world. The only difference here is that some people carry around the equivalent value of a nuke in their pockets. With probably the same effect.
