He notices me looking at it. “Allow me.” He pours me a cup of tea but doesn’t hand it to me. He reaches into a small bag sitting next to him on the log and pulls out a small brown cube.

Kervin places the cube in my tea and swills the mixture before handing it to me.

I take the cup and raise it to my nose, and a fruity smell overpowers my senses. I have to carefully adjust Mana Skin to allow the liquid to move through my protective barrier.

As soon as the mixture reaches my lips, I let out a small moan of pleasure. The taste resembles strawberries with hints of other fruits I can't place. The thing that makes my eyes go wide is the distinct flavor of chocolate that perfectly compliments the brew.

My eyes immediately fall on the little bag beside Kervin.

"I'm glad you enjoyed it." I realize my stoic facade is gone. Damn you, Kervin. You found the weakness I left back on Earth.

I try to confirm that it was chocolate he put in my tea. "What was that you put in it?"

"It's called Tarick Paste, and it's usually sold in these small cubes. It's a luxury good I was recently introduced to. I heard women enjoyed it, so naturally, I thought to bring you some. It slipped my mind yesterday; I hope you can forgive me?" He isn't subtle with the double meaning.

“How expensive is it?” I ask as I take another sip of my tea.

"Around 2 silver for the cube, I put in your tea." I almost do a spit take, but my mouth refuses to lose a single drop of the delicious beverage. "Would you care for another?" The devil offers me the bag.

It’s been 15 years since I had a piece of chocolate. I can’t pass up this opportunity.

I take the offered bag and fish out another cube of chocolate. I nibble on the side of the cube, tasting the rich flavor. It's comparable to the darkest chocolate I ever tasted back in my past life. I wonder if there are more sweets in Drey?

I put the rest of the cube in my mouth and savor the flavor as it melts, thinking about the sweets I had back on earth.

"You can eat it straight? That's way too sweet for me." Kervin's words pull me out of my chocolate covered daydreams. "You can have the rest of the bag if you want?"

“You think you can bribe me with, what did you call them again?” I ask.

"Tarick Paste, and it's not a bribe. We've been doing business for almost four years now, what're a few sweets between friends."

I set the bag of Tarick Paste next to me and look at Kervin with a severe expression. "We have known each other for a long time, but our relationship will never come between my family or master."

His confident smile fades away. “What did you decide?”

“I’ll keep using you for now.” He lets out a deep breath in relief. “I’ll need assurances for the future,” I interject before he can thank me.

“Of course, we can form a new contract right now.” He hastily agrees.

I lay out my terms. "From now, I want you to handle everything regarding Silver Herd and the army. I want you to do your best to keep them away from the village and my family. I know your superiors are going to ask you questions; I won't tell you to lie to them, but make sure they know I wish to remain anonymous right now."

“I can do that, anything else?”

“Just one more thing," I stand up and walk over to where he's sitting. I look down at him and stare into his eyes. "I want you to swear to me you will never betray my trust and always keep my interests in your heart." I don't include anything about our business relationship. If I force him to pay me more money for my goods, my merchant skills won't level. I need him to deal with the army's orders and supply me with the materials I need.

Kervin stretches out his hand towards me. I grasp it in a firm handshake, careful to apply the right amount of pressure without breaking his hand. "I, Kervin, agree to your terms. I will serve your interests and show you I deserve your trust."

I feel his Contract skill activate again; only this time, we both exchange wisps of experience. I watch a new skill form around my soul. Focusing on it, I can see that it is my own Contract skill.

“Congratulations on gaining the skill.” He rubs his chest. So, he can feel the difference too. “Our contract will be stronger with us both having the skill.”

I nod in agreement and move back over to my spot. Despite the one-sided terms, Kervin looks happier now that we have a new contract.

While I sip my tea, Kervin goes back into business mode. “Now that that is taken care of, you still need to tell me what you want me to do with your payment.”

Oh yeah, I almost forgot about the money he owes me. “We can continue with our previous arrangement. Use the coin to buy me the materials I need.”

“You want some of those herbs, right?”

“Devil’s Poke and Eathrosse, yes. I want ten bundles of each.”

“Are you aware of how expensive they are?” Kervin asks me.

"My mother warned me how expensive they are. Ten bundles of each should be around 22 gold. The other eight you can use to get me as much mithril as you can, preferably the same purity as last time." Hopefully, that will be enough for me to experiment with. I need to figure out how to combine everything to make engraving ink.

"Your mother knows how much they cost? I knew she had a few merchant skills, but I wasn't aware she was that knowledgeable."

“You shouldn’t underestimate my family.” I give him a cocky grin.

“You would think I know better by now.” He hangs his head and gives himself a pity chuckle before looking back up at me. “I’ll be back with everything as soon as possible.”

“What do you mean?” I ask.

"I told you yesterday; I was given a new assignment. My only two stops now are your village and Teeburn. I'm essentially your own personal merchant, now. First, I'll deliver your goods to the army, and then I just need to get my hands on everything you ordered. Depending on how hard it is to get everything, it might only take me two or three weeks to make it back here." That's good news for me and the village.

“Alright then,” I stand up and grab my chocolate bribe. “I better get back to work if you’ll be back that soon.” I move over to the cart I left here yesterday.

"I'm sure it won't be a problem for you," Kervin remarks as I start to push the cart towards Del's house.

I stop after a few feet and look back at Kervin, who's watching me leave. "This is your last chance, Kervin. Don't mess it up." His cheerful face turns to one of worry in a split second.

I turn back around and start pushing the cart forward again. "You won't regret it," He yells back at me.

It’s hard to keep myself from laughing out loud. Mother suggested that line to me this morning before I left. Maybe I should let mother deal with Kervin if he messes up again?

Pushing the cart back to Del's, I think about what I need to do next. Father is waiting for me back at home to take me logging for more Blacksmithing trees. Then tomorrow, I need to start the next batch of arrows.

Kervin never did ask me about my arrows design, I wonder if he noticed?

Oh well, I’m sure he’ll figure it out. I laugh to myself now that I’m out of sight.

Giovanni Turrini’s Point of view:

I finish going over the documents detailing this month's profits. The deliveries to Teeburn bring in a lot of coin, but our profit margin has only risen by 4%. The war has many people frightened and spending less. If we weren't delivering so many goods to the army, our profit margin would be down nearly 12%.

We’ll see if Kervin’s relationship with the general can help us in the future.

That reminds me. I look at Marshall, “Has there been any change recently?”

My bodyguard looks at his armguard that has seven magic gems embedded in its surface. Four of them are dark, signaling which of our operatives are out of range.

"It looks like he just made it back in range. Do you want to connect with him?" Marshall asks me.

I don't waste time answering him. I activate the ward runes on the side of my desk, sealing off the room. I lean to my side and push a panel that conceals a secret drawer that blocks magic from escaping it when closed.

I pull out the plate covered in intricate runes that lead to its center and a magic gem the size of a pomme.  My father bought this communication tool three years before he retired. It can connect to smaller communication magic tools attuned to its signature as long as they're within 200 miles.

Magic tools like this are supposed to be reported to the kingdom, but my father paid to acquire it quietly. It cost him 2,000 gold coins to buy and another 300 for the seven smaller communication tools connected to it.

I adjust the device and send a signal to our operative, who is supposed to be watching the girl. It's only been around 50 hours since I last talked to him. He was supposed to observe her for a week before moving back in range to reporting what he learned.

I watch the crystal flash, confirming the connection has been made. “Report in, Four. The sun is moving backwards.”

"This is Four. The seasons don't match." We confirm each other's codes to make sure our signal wasn’t faked by someone else.

Now that we’re both authenticated, I can ask him what he’s doing. “Why aren’t you watching the village?” I growl into the magic tool.

"Apologies, boss, but I couldn't stay near the village." I can hear the frustration in his voice.

“And why was that!?” I exclaim.

“I was spotted.” I freeze in my seat.

Marshall moves next to me. “Four, explain yourself,” He commands.

We both hear him grumble on the other line. “It’s that monster you wanted me to watch over. Every time I got close to her; she would immediately focus on the area I was hiding.”

I can’t believe what I’m hearing. Even Marshall looks dumbfounded by Four’s report. “How is that possible?” I ask him through the device.

"I don't know. I checked each of my magic tools, and everything should have been working perfectly. It was like every time she moved a certain distance from me; she noticed me immediately. After the third time, I decided to retreat." I slam my fist down on my desk.

Marshall puts his hand on my shoulder to calm me down before turning back to the communications tool. "Were you able to find anything else out before you retreated?"

"I'm not that incompetent. Luckily, she never inspected the areas I was hiding; I listened in on a few of her conversations before I left. Her name is Aaliyah, and she addresses her master as Del." Four reports to us.

“At least you were able to find out that much.” Every bit of information helps.

“That’s not all,” Four’s tone of voice becomes more serious. “Using my skills, I was able to observe her interaction with Kervin. She found out our interest in her and accused Kervin of betraying her. I don't know what skill she used, but she was able to intimidate all three of them in a matter of seconds. I estimate her level to be in the 60's already."

“And her age?” I hesitantly ask.

“Young, she has a lot of vitality for someone her age, so approximating her age is hard. My instincts tell me she’s not even 20 yet.”

Level 60, and she's not even 20 yet! Not even nobles can spur their child's growth to that degree.

“What do you want me to do?” Four asks.

I lean back in my chair, tilting my head towards Marshall. “What do you think about this?”

“I’m not the one your father left in charge,” He smirks at me.

“Let me rephrase that then, what do you think my father would do?”

Marshall raises his hand to his beard and runs his fingers through his hair. "He'd probably think of her as an investment. Whatever effort you put into her now, the more she'll payout in the future. Plus, it doesn't sound like you'd have to wait long before she turns a profit." I nod along with his assessment.

“You’re right. Four, I want you to go to Drey.”

“Ok, and do what?”

"I'll send you a letter for you to give to Kervin, naming you his third bodyguard. If you can't secretly get close to her, you'll have to do it out in the open. I also want you to protect Kervin; you should be able to handle the hidden threats he might run into."

"Understood, boss, I'll take care of it. Is that all?"

"Yes, you can go now," I tell him.

“Four, moving out.” The connection between our magical tools cuts out.

I carefully place the magical tool back in its hiding place.

I shift a few papers across my desk. “I want to be informed about everything Kervin asks Grey to gather for him.”

“It will be done,” Marshall responds to my left.

“And tell Grey to lower the prices he charges Kervin by 10%. We’ll keep this Aaliyah happy and make it easier for her to improve.”

“Sounds like a smart decision,” Marshall agrees.

"We'll get her to owe us a favor without her realizing it." I smile, leaning back in my chair.

This might just be what I need to compete with the big three.
