“They became parasites that indulge on the lives of others. That’s a torturous burden for a society to bear, but these leeches not only torture - they kill. They use pain for pleasure. Death is a mercy I give out of necessity, not based upon what I believe is right."

His flames turned bloody red.

"If I had my way, these beings would be trapped in an eternal mental torment. They would live out their crimes for eternity, but they would be the victim. And they deserve it. They enact death prematurely to force the grueling permanence of an end upon the unwilling.”

I frowned.

"We kill all the time. Do we deserve what we do to others?"

Torix raised a hand.

"We have chosen to live this way. We kill those who have chosen this path as well. Either that, or we slaughter mindless monsters. The people those criminals killed did no such thing. They were dragged into purgatory. Eternal torture is exactly what those murderers deserve."

A part of me agreed with him, but I was glad he killed them swiftly. I mouthed.

"We called that hell in some of our old religious texts. Old? Hm, maybe not. There has to be an active following even now."

Torix nodded.

"Oh, I'm well aware. In fact, I rather enjoyed Dante's Inferno. Quite a detailed recounting, and I relished the vivid explanations. They remind me of certain eldritch."

I peered at the revived corpses.

"Last thing I have to ask. Can we be certain that Schema's records are airtight?"

Torix sighed, tiring of the topic.

"Firstly, Schema maintains a lenient definition of self-defense. Even subtle claims of wrongdoing were enough to avoid a bounty, and most of the raiders held long lists of brutal crimes. They also revealed how corrupt this, hm, how did you say it, Marcella, correct? Yes, how corrupt this Marcella's guild was."

Torix shook his head.

"It still doesn't ring even the faintest of bells."

Seeing the Old One's power over my friend and mentor left me afraid in a way little else could. I frowned, and Torix continued.

"As it happened, we found a small portion of those psionic parasites in Rebecca. They augmented a few of the strongest raiders. Using their abilities, those raiders took portions of the loot that prospectors gained from dungeoneering."

I waved my hand.

"Is that how they understood it? They think Rebecca was the head honcho?"

Torix shrugged.

"It would seem that is what everyone, all our records, written data, videotapes, and, well, everything, is pointing to aside from you and Althea's testimony."

I frowned.

"Do you believe us?"

Torix met my eye.

"With absolute certainty."

I stood tall.

"Thanks, man."

Torix turned forward, raising his hands and walking.

"Now, these pillagers cut deals with the roaming guards around the Shattered Spires, sharing the stolen goods. A few psionic scans verified it. Normally, a leader wouldn't be held accountable for every person in their organization. After all, no one had eyes and ears everywhere."

Realization came over me.

"Everyone except Marcella."

Torix raised a hand.

"If your and Althea's detailed recounting is true, then with Marcella's access to her surveillance tree, she knew everything that happened in her domain. Marcella allowed these raiders to kill, pillage, and do far worse for her bottom line."

I stepped over hardened mud. The eldritch refused to move while we were near.

"Then why was she fighting so hard for income? Marcella shouldn't have been so desperate."

Torix leaned over one of the corpses. He etched a rune into their forehead, and their body strengthened as a plume of dominion mana waved over them.

"I believe she paid tribute, and perhaps it was to this strange Old One or one of their other avatars."

I frowned.

"Hm. Our planet couldn't support a high payment in galactic terms. That makes a hell of a lot more sense than plain greed."

Torix moved to another minion.

"It also explains her lack of gear, goods, or pooled resources. She owned some measure of wealth, indeed, but she never derived the billions of credits I've surmised she should have. To that end, she kept 40% of what people made in the dungeons. It was a steep price for mere passage, but her valuation officers employed tactics to slice that cut even higher."

Torix shook his head in disgust.

"They never followed a fair market value, instead incorporating some self-made valuation system. They then kept the lowballed merchandise in their portion before handing off over-valued goods to the dungeoneers. This practice ensured they ended up taking more than half of most hauls. Ugh. Grotesque."

Torix sighed.

"Many of the levelers hadn’t even recognized that fact, and the practice left them with a mere pittance of what they earned. I assumed you didn't care for the income, and so the surcharge is a tidy and neat 0%."

I smiled wide.

"Oh, that's perfect. What about anything cipheric or information regarding-"

Torix waved my concern away.

"I addressed such issues. They shall be rewarded heavily upon information leading to any and all cipheric runes. However, they're rarer than one may imagine."

I took a breath.

"That's great. Honestly, it sounds like you've got this wrapped up rather well."

Torix finished the last inscription on a corpse's head.

"These bolstered awards shall help spur the explorers and researchers as well. Combine that with the other reforms, and the Shattered Spires will become far more whole and less like a series of splinters with potential."

I cracked my knuckles.

"Then let me finish up the last details."

Torix turned to me, the new dragur oozing dominion mana.

"As shall I, disciple."

I walked off, a bit unsettled by Torix's nonchalance. On the one hand, he seemed to highly value the lives of normal people. On the other hand, he didn't care whether someone lived or died after they stepped into a truly systemized lifestyle. In some ways, I understood the honor code. It felt correct to me on a gut level as well.

On the other hand, I didn't know if following some honor code resulted in the best society. That being said, the certainty of the crimes eased my concerns. I had no time to build prisons when people were being eaten by monsters or Old Ones were destroying the fabric of reality. In the end, it might be an issue I couldn't devote enough time to truly solve.

Instead, I honed in on what I excelled at. I found an isolated dungeon within the Infinity Plaza. A creek babbled there, the water trickling over cracked rock and emerald moss. A few eldritch roamed these woods, but they steered clear of me. In this calming domain, I constructed two architects, two wardens, two vanguards, and an executive.

These dual dungeon-cored golems required two days to make, but they arrived with the same splendor and grandeur as my previous batch. Stepping outside, I let the architects grind away at the amassed project list Althea and Torix left behind. The architects would create walkways between the various islands, remake old buildings, and improve the living standards in the tunnels below.

Several engineers from Diesel's division celebrated when the architects arrived, most of them educated by Torix on magical engineering. They had already fixed the constant cave-ins, tunnel jams, and flooding that plagued the lower levels. Turning the honeycomb of tunnels into something decadent was the next step.

At the same time, my wardens flew off to guard the lands near the spires. They would prevent new raiders from establishing bases of operation, clear out roaming eldritch, and survey future threats. The added security would increase the flow of people heading into the spires by orders of magnitude, which presented a problem of space.

Althea solved that issue within the rifts themselves. She cooperated alongside many Speakers to create quests that awarded anyone who found great city locations inside dungeons. After all, Schema's perks allowed me to make cities anywhere. For that reason, I could settle these spaces without recourse. In fact, I spent a few days making coreless cities in these verdant, gentle dungeons.

The pioneers gave these safe dungeons and secured towns a name - gardens. Gardens allowed for an unbelievable amount of territory to open up within the Shattered Spires. By the time we finished expanding into the rifts, the spires would no longer be the actual majority of living space. The main metropolis would be a hub between many different regions and territories, akin to an airport with passengers roaming about.

It would rival the size of Texas. In other words, huuuge.

To secure more territory, my vanguard golems spread out over the seas. They wrestled and restrained the remaining monsters on the open ocean, making the waters traversable once more. The golems would also help keep the weather from turning back into a perpetual storm.

Within the heart of the Infinity Plaza, I used ten radiant blue cores to make an enormous barrier that encompassed all of the Shattered Spires. This gave everyone buffs, protection, and bolstered morale across the board. Knowing that nothing could simply arrive and destroy them gave people a security they hadn't known in a long time.

When I got ready to leave, people walked on the walkways my architects constructed, no longer hopping around between the floating islands. Our guild set up shop in the plaza, helping get people signed up for our revised recruitment process. We opened a hospital, an armory, waterworks, and a power station that supplied basic resources and needs to normal people.

In general, we left the spires in much better shape than when we arrived. It took a few weeks, but it was a necessary task. On Giess, I’d run around like a headless chicken, dismantling the people in power without knowing what would fill the void. That experience left me with memories I’d never forget, and a large part of me scorned my old approach.

I should’ve known better then, but at least I learned what I could since then. That’s why we fleshed out as much as we could in the city, but we had to leave. The growing eldritch on Blegara had become a pressing issue, and we all missed Springfield by now. Saying our goodbyes, we left the executive golem and a few of our guild’s trusted advisors to handle the city's future development.

As we headed back, we took a moment to survey the route from the spires to Springfield. While that was our reasoning, it was really a moment to relax between weeks of hard, laborious work.

Torix let out a long sigh.

"I wish to discuss what I believe to be a poor point of yours, disciple."

I flew beside him, all of us crossing over abandoned farms, ruined cities, and strange fauna.

"One of my poor points? Ah man, you have to get out the list then."

Torix let out a laugh.

"It's a well-kept ordering, believe me. This particular aspect revolves around your penchant for sudden shifts in prerogative and priority. Believe me when I tell you that your aggressive settlement program has been difficult to maintain while completely remaking the Shattered Spires. It stems from a larger issue, I believe.”

Torix adjusted the mana cloud he hovered on.

“At times, it seems as if you can't settle on any single thing."

I took a breath.

"You're not wrong. It's just...There's so much that needs to be done. It's difficult to arrange for any of it to be done right."

Althea flew beside us, her feathered, white wings resplendent. They sheened in the sun, the light reflecting with an iridescent gloss. She must've made the tint from some kind of oil over her feathers. She frowned.

"What makes you think everyone else will mess the projects up? I think we did pretty well. For the most part. Er, probably."

I shook my head, remembering the rings' impact on people in Springfield.

"At this point, I don’t think it’s about anyone else. It’s something I have to get over myself."

She flew near me before landing on my back and sitting down.

“You mean you wanting to do everything for everybody?”

I collected my thoughts.

“More like I want to make sure everything is handled as well as it can be.”

Torix scoffed.

"Ah yes, Daniel the half-asser. I’ve heard it many a time.”

I shook my head.

“I’m trying not to be, but it’s hard-”

Torix waved a hand.

“Have humans heard of sarcasm?”

Althea smiled.

“From what I can tell, yeah. Actually, I think lots of people use it all the time to hide what they actually think or feel. It's like a coping mechanism so that they don't have to deal with sincerity or direct communication.”

Torix rewrote a few runic inscriptions in his grimoire.

“In my specific case, I’m using it to imply what I don’t believe. If there is one thing that can be said about you, Daniel, it’s that you apply yourself.”

I shrugged.

"Yeah, well, I worked hard to help Giess. Look how that turned out."

A silence passed over us. Althea murmured just over the whistle of the wind.

"That wasn't your fault."

I took a deep breath.

"If I'm responsible for my successes, then I have to own my failures too."

Torix crossed his arms as he stood upright on his cloud of dark mana.

"Or take ownership over the failings of others? Perhaps you’re struggling with your limitations? It’s something I’ve often contemplated. Our limitations, in my mind, aren’t something we own. We can merely accept them. In a way, your incessant need to frame yourself as responsible for circumstances speaks to your arrogance."

I squeezed a hand into a fist.

“Hm. I never thought about it like that.”

Torix turned a hand to me.

