“Let us think of it for a moment. You’re assuming you could’ve controlled everything given the resources at your disposal at the time. That includes your limited knowledge and vast inexperience. It’s easy to forget, but you really are someone who’s fumbling around in the dark. We all are. You simply have your failings exposed with a microscope given the sheer scale of influence you’ve garnered so quickly.”

Torix went back to writing his runes.

“While it’s excellent to be self-critical in times of failure, it’s also essential to be accepting of tangible success. Leaving the spires in that kind of shape isn’t something a younger Daniel would’ve done. You wouldn’t have visited there in the first place.”

Althea winced.

“Me neither. I remember way back when. I was just trying to get my body under control.”

I smiled.

“You and me both. Those were crazy times.”

Torix wrote with an elegant enchanted feather. He implanted one of my rings into it, letting it scorch into the plates of steel in his hand.

“I sat on a moon, alone and untethered for several centuries. I can assure both of you of this: neither of you should feel as though you’ve wasted your time or efforts.”

Althea flipped over to him, one of her feet landing on his shoulder.

“Thanks. It’s easy to forget how old and wise you are sometimes.”

Torix leaned back.

“And why is that?”

She flipped back to me. She sat down cross-legged on my back.

“Well, your new body, for one. But yeah, if I think about it, you’ve been the same since we met.”

Torix leaned back and put a hand on his chest.

“I, for one, believe I’ve changed immensely.”

She nodded.

“Of course. I mean as a person, not in your skills or whatever else.”

Torix’s eyes flared white.

“Name a single aspect that’s the same as whenever I first arrived here on Earth.”

She pointed at Torix’s little travel cloud.

“That thing.”

I gazed at his mana blot.

"How do you even make that thing anyway?"

Torix looked down.

"Oh, you mean this mana vessel?"

I nodded. Torix flared a hand wide.

"This isn't actually mana. I collect water particles from nearby while injecting an ink familiar within. I actually stand atop a panel of ice hidden by the dark cloud, and that jettisons me atop it as if the cloud were solid."

Althea gawked.

"Why do you go through all that trouble to get around?"

Torix spread both hands wide.

"Ah, answer me first. Why did you learn and study iridescent oils for your wings?"

Althea hid behind her hair.

"Uhm...because Daniel likes gemstones."

She was right about that. Torix pointed at her.

"Perhaps, but that isn't the true root of either of our reasonings."

She rolled her eyes.

“Oh, wise sage, please tell me what I’m really thinking then.”

Torix flourished a hand.

“But of course. It’s for style."
