As my armor rippled over my skin, I stretched my arms. Over a hundred minds swirled in my head, their psionic might formidable and everlasting. The muscles in my body flexed like cables of orichalcum, and my wake spread forth, encompassing all of Springfield. Runes thrummed over my skin, their energy overwhelming and palpable.

I enveloped the city in The Rise of Eden, saturating its buffs onto my home. Unshackling self-imposed limits, I held the pocket dimensions inside my body with ease. I took a breath as if firing a bellows, and I breathed out a cloud of quintessant mana. Breathing it in and out, I hummed with power.

I was back, and hell would freeze over before someone stole this from me.

Chapter Begin

Pulling the energy back into myself, I stepped out of my suite. I opened the door as someone phased out of reality. Smiling, I peered up at my shoulder where Althea materialized. She leaned onto my head.

"I just got a break and came here to surprise you."

I reached up and grabbed her chin. We kissed before I smiled.

"Thanks. It's always welcome."

She flipped off my shoulder, her landing lighter than a feather and controlled as a surgeon.

"It didn't look like you were surprised. I noticed how you looked my way before I showed back up."

I shrugged.

"I think my sense for shifts in dimensions or whatever has improved."

She put her hands on her hips.

"I'll take your word for it. How's the stay here in the suite been?"

I gestured inside.

"Actually, I wasn't here all that much."

Her eyes widened.

"Ooh. Did you hit the town?"

She walked in, and I closed the door.

"More than you might expect."

She sat down on our couch and I prepared two teas I bought from one of the local shops. Generating water, I boiled it in a gravity well before I set a teabag in each of two mugs. One had a black bullseye marking over a caricature of me stencilled in. It read, 'You took my heart since we met.' The other mug held a stencilled and cartoonized version of Althea floating in a ball. A wave of gravity held her in place, and it read, 'I'll never let you go...Mwaha.'

Althea stood as I set the glasses down on our coffee table. She peered at them, her eyes elated.

"Dawww. How did you make these?"

I puffed my chest out.

"That's the thing. I didn't. I actually bought them. I know, I know, hold the applause."

Althea giggled before picking up her tea. She sipped it, her high level stopping the heated liquid from scalding her mouth. She nodded my way.

"Woah. This is delicious. Where'd you get it?"

"A friend showed me a recipe, and I altered it a bit for this."

She took another generous sip before letting out her breath.

"It reminds me of Castle Rock. The flavor, that is."

I sat beside her.

"I call the flavor evergreen. Now, how has the development of the Shattered Spires been?"

Althea peered up and put a finger on her chin.

"Hm...So it's been pretty good. I kind of want to leave most of that as a surprise, so if it's ok by you, can you tell me about what you did first?"

"Of course. So basically, I studied for the first three days."

I explained my covert mission and happenings with Althea. She smiled all the while, following my story and adding a few oohs and ahhs. After I finished, she reached up a hand and rolled a finger to her. I leaned in, and she hugged me close.

"I'm so proud of you."

I hugged her back.

"For what?"

She grabbed the sides of my face.

"For making friends."

I blinked.

"It was a mission to learn about the guild."

Althea rolled her eyes.

"Oh, come on. Sure, that's cool and all, but you do that kind of stuff all the time. Making friends? You've never really done that."

I blinked.

"What? Of course I have."

Althea leaned against the couch.

"Oh, who's your friends?"

I leaned beside her.

"Torix, you, Kessiah-"

Althea furrowed her brow as she smiled.

"They're friends, sure, but they're also work associates. You and I are dating, and you don't hang out with Kessiah really."

I raised a hand.

"She's a girl, so I figured you'd worry about it."

Althea laughed before crossing her legs.

"But Nissa and Jasmine aren't?"

I scratched my cheek.

"They're different."

"How so?"

I thought about it. My logic unraveled under any scrutiny whatsoever.

"You know what, you're right. I should hang out with Kessiah more."

Althea flipped her hair behind herself, the strands sheening like strands of silver in the ambient lighting.

"You should hang out with everyone way more. You always have your head so on the grind that you never get to breathe, talk, or enjoy life for what it's really all about."

She coughed into her hand.

"Ahem, uhm, in my opinion that is."

I raised my brow.

"You've been holding this in for a while, then?"

She flushed.

"A little, yeah. But it sounds like you did a great job helping them out. I was wondering if you could introduce us, and we could all hang out sometime?"

I imagined them meeting up.

"That would be...Pretty fun, probably. You'd have to mask your identity, but given your powers-"

She shifted her skin tone from her soft silver to a sun-kissed tan.

"It shouldn't be too difficult. See, I've already got you covered."

I leaned back.

"Thanks. You're the best."

Althea leaned closer to me.

"Just to be clear, you're not asking me to change my skintone out of shame, right?"

I fell into the sofa.

"I mean, I can't have Jamal trying to cheat with you. Besides that, you'd blow their minds with how you normally look...Honestly, you'll blow their minds regardless."

She turned to the side while keeping her eyes on me.

"Heh. Thanks."

I raised a hand.

"Hm. You know what? Let me show you something."

In a wanton gesture, I shifted to Perfection's Providence. I created a few mana constructs, starting with iridescent ivies and glowing lilacs of different colors along the corner of the room. I made two glowing bird constructs, one a cardinal and the other a mountain bluebird. They sang while flowing back and forth, leaving bright streaks behind them.

Althea marveled.

"Ok, so you never told me that your magic could be so beautiful. You've been practicing?"

"Definitely. I've put about forty minds to the task over the last few weeks. This ability set actually came from holding that tear closed."

Althea's levity lessened.

"Oh...Huh. It must've been tough to see your body change without your permission."

I gazed at my hands.

"Not at all. I got a break I didn't know I needed, and I got stronger without having to lift a finger. If anything, I feel ready and revved for damn near anything."

Althea's lips thinned.

"You have more than one aura, so uh, what happened to the others?"

I turned my palm to her.

"The Rise of Eden gained this ability to saturate a place long after I've left. From what I've gathered, the longer I stay somewhere, the stronger the effect becomes and the longer it lasts."

"That's good. What about the red aura?"

I winced.

"Well...I can eat people's souls, pretty much."

Althea's eyes narrowed.

"Ok. That sounds pretty evil."

I raised my hands in my defense.

"So does a necromancer lich from another world, but Torix is pretty cool, I'd say."

She held my gaze. She raised her brow before poking my chest.

"Don't go eating people. I can't date a cannibal."

My brow relaxed.

"You'd really still consider it cannibalism?"

She smiled.

"I would."

I smiled, the expression genuine.

"Ah. Thanks."

From the doorway, Torix walked into the room. The lich held two bottles and three wine glasses.

"I should've assumed your topics of conversation diverted into the inessential and crass. As is to be expected of my disciple."

Torix floated the glasses over before pouring them midair. I grabbed the glass while smiling.

"Oh, I learned how to get distracted from the best of them."

His fiery eyes flared.

"Is that an accusation?"

I swirled the wine.

"Didn't you spend several centuries studying on your home planet's moon?"

Torix's eyes flared pink.

"Hm. I could've dabbled on that rock for a short while."

I took a breath from the wine glass, holding it in, then letting it go. Althea peered at the maroon liquid.

"You can smell wine now?"

I raised my brow, my smile oozing confidence.

"Absolutely not. It all tastes like rotten fruit to me."

She laughed before Torix handed her one of the bottles. Torix nodded.

"This one isn't as amplified in its effects. For you, dear."

She raised her glass, and the bottle poured for her.

"Why, thank you. I feel like such a lady."

She sipped from her glass before blanching.

"Ugh. Being a lady sucks."

Torix sat upon a cloud of inky mana. It really was an impressive display of magical skill.

"Such is the price we pay for refinement."

Torix swirled his glass before smelling it. He sipped before letting out a satisfied sigh.

"It truly is the drink of the gods, isn't it?"

Althea set her glass down.

"Wait a minute. You can't even smell or taste. Why do you even go through all this to eat the poisons you mix in?"

Torix's eyes flared once more.

"This business I've created rakes in personal income as I've developed a wide range of flavors for different levels of individuals. It's also remade the bar and club industries of old-Earth. As your species no longer needs cars, it comes with far fewer issues as well."

Althea furrowed her brow.

"Doesn't that mean systemized individuals will be under the influence? That sounds pretty dangerous."

Torix steepled his hands, leaving his wine glass floating beside him.

"Oh, but Daniel's golems are more than enough of a deterrent for that. Aside from the physical concerns, giving joy to the people within our purview is essential."

Althea tilted her head.

"You know, I never thought you'd be so concerned for people's happiness. So, uhm, good for you."

Torix swirled his wine.

"But of course. It's as Juvenal said, 'Give them bread and circuses, and the people will never revolt.' To that end, we must be at least superficially kind to our minions."

I burst into laughter. Althea set her wine down.

"Since we're being honest, I'll say it - this tastes bad. Really bad."

Torix cackled.

"You're certain that's not your attitude, perchance?"

She crossed her arms.

"It could be the poison."

Torix stared at the bottle.

"Hm. I do lack taste buds, so there's truly no guarantee of the flavor."

I spread my hands.

"How in the hell are you selling so much product then?"

Torix leaned forward.

"It's the most fascinating oxymoron of your kind. From what I've gathered of humans, you may add anything to any kind of alcohol, and they will find a way to love it. I've heard of this substance; it was called an IPA. Apparently, they taste like the soapy water leftover after washing dishes, foodstuffs and all."

Althea grimaced.

"They must've hated it."

Torix put the wine away.

"The man I spoke with looked me straight in the face as he admitted that. And he still loved the flavor."

I laughed before we stood up.

"You guys should show me the Shattered Spires. I wanna see what you both were up to while I was recovering."

Torix stood taller.

"Hm. It's definitely something I'm excited for. Would you mind cutting the reunion short?"

I peered up.

"Honestly? I miss you guys, but fixing problems is kind of what we do."

Torix threw the wines into one of his personal storage rings, the starry portal rippling like liquid darkness.

"I do rather love solving a conundrum. Come. There's much to show."

He walked back before taking a moment. After a few minutes, Torix generated another portal above the Shattered Spires. The wind from the city whistled in, the crisp ocean air salty on my tongue. I stood alongside Althea, and we paced out into the air. Hovering in a gravity well, I grabbed Althea's hand while bowing.

"After you, milady."

She held up a pinky, trying to and failing at a British accent.

"Myes. Indeed."

Torix paced out onto his dark cloud.

"The two of you seem goofier than usual as of late. Did you both sign a mandate forcing you both to act odd?"

Althea frowned.

"Are you the fun police or something?"

Torix swirled his hand.

"At times, perhaps."

She shook a hand, a bit of frustration leaking through.

"We live in a world where death is out there to get us at any moment, and Daniel and I can't see each other for months sometimes. That's why I really try to enjoy our time together, whether other people think it's odd or not."

Torix leaned away, his eyes dimming.

"Oh...Ahem. Th-that follows a rather well-constructed avenue of logic, especially given your constraints. Do excuse me if I was being rather pedantic. I truly didn't mean anything by it."

She shrank herself down.

"No...You. You're totally fine."

She pulled a strand of hair behind her ear.

"I was just frustrated, that's all. Uhm, sorry."

She flew off towards the city. Torix and I peered at each other before the lich coughed into a hand.

"You really must spend more time with her."

I raised my hands.

"Dude, that's what I was trying to do before you jumped in."

Torix made a circle with his index finger and thumb.

"But I brought wine."

Althea shouted.

"I can still hear you both. Let's go already."

We bolted off, heading towards the peak of the Infinity Plaza. After pacing down through the remnants of the surveillance tree, we found the observation deck on the 86th floor. The older of the two observatories, this one had easy access to the inside of the building. As we landed with Althea, I grabbed her hand.

She peered up at me.

"What is it?"

I pulled her up into my arms. She grabbed my hands, surprise covering her face.

"What are you doing?"

I walked over to the edge of the building. An annoying set of steel grating blocked out the view, so I waved a hand and the steel melted. After clearing that chunk of the building, I solidified the magma and sat down. Althea rested on my shoulder, and we watched a sunset casting rays onto the spire-filled city.

