By now, the city enmeshed in the Earth's surface. The skyscrapers floated above, but a giant wall of gray didn't blot out the sun or sea. The salty wind poured in, and the storms settled in the distance. Calmer and no longer eldritch infested, the waters sheened light in orange crescents like strokes from an artist's paintbrush.

Althea leaned against my head. She sighed in contentment.

"Thank you."

I grabbed her hand.

"Being with you will never be a problem."

For quite some time, we left Torix waiting behind us. The lich used his sense of tact, deciding to handle the piled-up messages and other busy work in the meantime. As the sunset waned into the beginning of night, Althea squeezed my hand before pulling away. She landed as a panther would, her feet silent and her gaze sharp.

"I really needed that."

"Me too. Now show me what it is that you've both been working on."

We headed towards the lower floors of the Infinity Plaza. After passing the decadent marble and gilded granite, we entered the central atrium. Surrounded by the dungeons, my guild raced around in all directions. Up and down, in and out, several hundred people scurried about below.

They organized everything in sight, and around a hundred of my golems stood guard at different vantage points, securing the space. That's why guildmates left most dungeon doors open as if the worlds within weren't even hostile.

Fresh air and wind replaced the stony stagnation from before, while lights from each region beamed across the colossal room. Mana lamps filled the expanse alongside gravity-powered elevators. Enchanted stones lined the tops of the dungeons, many of shining colors that reminded me of metals like bronze or gold.

Practicality aside, these embellishments alleviated the empty echoes and eerie angles of the space. In a resounding echo, civilization had plowed its way into this rough, bruised place, and our engineering corps led that effort. They added a few features to the plaza within the past month. Their elevators siphoned up and down, over twelve of them available for use at all times.

They whirred by, wind rippling off them like a racing car. A few were left unused, but considering their ease of construction, it was better to have too many than too few. They let guildmates and dungeoneers cross and supply the rifts without difficulty. Furthering the eldritch clearing, our dungeoneering corps made signs for each dungeon using a difficulty system they devised. Those were the enchanted stones, and they were, in fact, signalling familiar metals.

They began with tin, representing a dungeon where everyday civilians could enter. We had stored Marcella and Rebecca within one of those rifts. The next rank, copper, meant monsters roamed around in a hospitable environment. It was the initial rank that most dungeoneers began leveling with.

Iron was a bit tougher, usually harboring serious danger to an unsystematized person. Those rifts had environmental difficulties and monsters that could tear people apart. BloodHollow would've fallen into the lower end of that designation, and groups usually entered to cover each other's weaknesses.

Bronze held the first leveled requirement: individuals needed to max out all their attributes to at least level 30. That benchmark gave them leveling perks, and they acted as a natural barrier to entry. That's why dungeoneers took bronze dungeons seriously and spent time researching the common eldritch types within them.

Fewer people died in bronze dungeons than in iron dungeons since people respected the rank, at least according to Torix. That transparent threat forced adjustments, preventing deaths caused by a lack of preparation. On the other hand, steel dungeons held a vast breadth in difficulty, being the widest rank available. The sea cucumber dungeons would've lined up into that camp.

These steel dungeons required levelers with specialized builds and powerful combat abilities. Oftentimes, entire groups disappeared in this rank, their fates unknown but heavily implied. Torix mentioned trying to reform this rank into multiple categories to prevent those disappearances. He figured they could separate them into steel, stainless steel, and carbon steel. It'd be in the next iteration of their system, apparently.

The next tier up were the titanium rifts. They required entire teams of capped levellers at the very least. Anyone venturing into a titanium dungeon prepared themselves for a high chance of death, and oftentimes, they carried my golems as guards to help if something went wrong. The environments could melt metal and often lack air entirely, making the terrain as dangerous as the monsters in many cases.

The second-to-last category was the tungsten dungeon, and they were meant for my followers or me to handle. There haven't been many of these dungeons found yet, especially on Earth. However, they left huge scars on the natural terrain and region, and their influence spread like a virulent infection. The Grand Canyon and Central Park would've fallen into that category, and they often contain sub-dungeons littering their main masses.

The final category, graphene, was something thrown around as a final edge case. The only place I'd seen at that level was L-7's ossuary. Every perceivable aspect carried the threat of death, and the primevals could've wiped the floor with large patches of a planet single-handedly. This category involved a celestial scale of destruction and beyond. Dungeons couldn't really exceed that rank without destroying the planet they existed upon.

Either way, we found no dungeons above titanium here, let alone something as mythic as graphene. This allowed us to explore, label, and coordinate the dungeons as needed. Instead of by resource and number, we stuck with names etched into colored stones. Each title signified the terrain and feel of the place.

Water #2 shifted into the Sinking Marsh, a swamp where living mud pulled you under the surface. This gave a much better idea of what awaited levelers, and that was the general idea. We wanted to make dungeons safer to navigate, easier to clear, and less heavily taxed. Furthering that aim, Torix and Althea remodeled how we handled each rift's loot.

They took full advantage of my Sovereign perks and planetary ownership. Instead of taking the excess credits, we reinvested my percentage of the region's earnings. Schema even incorporated automatic functions for that express purpose. Redistributing the wealth bolstered the rewards for the quests they posted, which had kept everything simple.

After all, no one wanted people going off on wild goose chases or suicide missions. My experiences alongside Nissa, Jamal, and Jasmine verified how vital that kind of information was, and I gave praise to Althea and Torix's reforms.

They didn't stop there, however.

From killing specific numbers of eldritch to claiming territories, Torix and Althea rewarded people for maintaining the region as a whole. This included pinning down mines, mana crystal deposits, or finding rare inscriptions. The variety of tasks allowed explorers to join the fray, their desire to roam a potent advantage.

After all, if they found an enormous mine full of rare minerals, our guild benefited even more than if they cleared out a few eldritch. Harvesting from the mines wasn't something we left to indentured servants either. Torix and Althea hired specialized employees, and they created a guild branch for that express purpose.

These people mastered using the gravitation and telekinesis of my rings to handle the brunt of the work. They managed the logistics involved with manufacturing and distributing the materials, and that freed the indentured servants to go about living their lives however they saw fit.

Some of them applied to join my guild, while others ventured back out to their families. The wanderers aimed to use their leveled status to forge a better living in the unsettled parts of the world. Althea had left them with caches from Marcella's supplies, ones the overlord had hoarded for a while. That helped them with getting started, and Torix distributed manuals detailing basic fighting forms and sorcery.

Just as well, Torix had handled the raiders outside of the Shattered Spires. He rounded up based on Schema's records of their crimes. If they killed anyone outside of self-defense, they were summarily executed. I gawked at Torix as he said those words. The lich peered back at me, his eyes piercing.

"Those who live by the sword, die by it. They chose to kill unimpeded, and anyone who believes another person's life is in their hands must understand that the concept applies equally to them."

I blinked. We lingered inside the Infinity Plaza's central dungeon hub. Elevators whirred back and forth like gargantuan pistons in an engine. Guildmates paid respects as they passed, and resources flowed from the dungeons as water flows in a river. I crossed my arms, gazing at Torix's large, metal form.

"But killing them all...It seems so brutal."

Torix's eyes flared red.

"It is. They ended another person's life brutally for nothing. Not even corpses."

I leaned back.

"Wait a minute. You aren't just bothered by the fact they didn't use the corpses for necromancy...Right?"

Torix's eyes shrank.

"There is a minuscule chance that may be the case, but my other points still stand. Leveled individuals are challenging to imprison, and upon most worlds and in most societies, murderers are executed by the law. It tides the otherwise endless streams of killing they enact."

Torix sighed.

"In a different world with more excess, perhaps we could have had more extensive trials requiring further evidence. I’d also have preferred putting many of them in jail. Their labor is valuable, though slower than I'd like. Despite those benefits, we lacked the resources to operate that kind of facility, and these were highly leveled individuals in most cases."

He gestured to me.

"Standard materials and methods aren't effective against them. A level 500 human can bend and tear steel bars. Other kinds of prisoners may live for weeks with no sleep or food. That potency allows for a different breed of mass murderer to evolve, one that can slaughter unsystemized people by the thousand."

I furrowed my brow.

"So the steeper dangers required steeper consequences to keep them in check?"

"Precisely. Schema maintains pristine records as well, which eliminates the need for prolonged trials and extensive juries in most cases. In fact, what we required was reviewing the crimes, not verifying their validity. Your rather odd and esoteric class and trees supplied us with extra information about criminals and their bounties as well."

Torix interlocked his hands behind himself.

"Those bonuses are normally hidden in most empires. In yours, they are not, and so we act upon them. Aside from that, the juries would be made up of hard-working individuals who fought for their lives since the culling. What do you think their opinion on the raiders happened to be?"

"I'd imagine anything but merciful."

"It would seem you've understood the situation. Farmers, statesmen, merchants, and dungeoneers had no tolerance for the raider's wanton evil. I follow their moral ethos, so neither shall I. In fact, one of those groups is about to be eliminated. Would you like to see how it's done?"

I frowned.

"Of course. My guild is enacting punishment. It's only right I know what that entails."

"It will ease your mind as we don't drag the process out or create painful deaths."

We walked into the Sinking Marsh, an iron dungeon on the lower levels. Torix and I oversaw the groups of convicts. The air stagnated here, the scent of earthy decay lingering like a tilled garden. The thick humidity coated the criminals in a sheening sweat, and their steps clomped into the mud. Many wept, trembled in fear, or held a deep anger. A few carried a sense of resignation for what they’d done, while others stayed fervent in their denial.

Torix gazed down at them with his hands interlocked behind himself. I stood beside our necromancer, my heart heavier than I expected, considering what needed to be done. Once near the tar pits, Torix gestured onto a line marked by glowing spheres of mana. Before the prisoners even understood what happened, Torix waved a hand, and it was done.

The bodies fell, and he gazed at his skeletal fingers.

“I’ve always wondered how criminals so easily take life yet how difficult they find it to resign their own.”

I gazed at the corpses.

“It's hypocrisy. It feels like we’re hypocritical, too.”

Torix cackled.

“Hardly.”

He raised a hand, the bodies rising from the dead. My stomach turned as I peered at him.

“Is it really necessary to use their bodies?”

Torix nodded.

“These individuals have robbed another soul of their body. It is fitting that they give theirs in death.”

I frowned.

“Having criminals executed amasses your armies. That creates a corrupted incentive for you, doesn’t it?”

Torix gestured to the corpses.

“And they had a perverse incentive to kill, maim, and murder. They allowed a simple desire to drive them wilder than animals of instinct. I choose to rise above such simpletons. We both have.”

I frowned at the shambling cadavers. Their bodies were still fresh, and each of them had nosebleeds from Torix's kinetic splattering of their brains. I let out a breath.

“It’s hard to feel that way.”

Torix sighed.

“You could easily slaughter millions if you so chose. At times, you have. When given better choices, you’ve made the difficult decisions to do what you know is right. To the opposing end, these animals have chosen their worst possible option.”

Torix’s eyes flared red.

