Three mountains over from their first of many destinations on this small part of their larger path, Erick gave a few final warnings to his daughter and his people.

Don’t piss off Tenebrae. Be as nice as possible. Follow Rocky’s lead when it comes to being polite, but do not ever be alone with Rocky, ever. Don’t be alone with Tenebrae, either. Erick had learned that the man responded almost disarmingly so when confronted with niceties, but don’t let him trample over you, of course—

“So Shade-interaction rules, then?” Jane said.

“Sounds like,” Teressa said, “Poi?”

“That’s the right of it,” Poi said.

Erick said, “We’ll do our best. I hope he won’t be as bad as he had been… We’ll do our best.”

A short lightstep later and the four of them stood upon illumination, not ten meters from the castle.

A Rocky stepped out from a protected part of the wall, saying, “Welcome back, Archmage Flatt and guests! Please follow me, and we can get you situated in the guest house.”

Erick kept his eyes open and his Ophiel alert, and while Poi knew what to do, Teressa and Jane were having much different reactions. Teressa was subdued, so that was fine. But Jane...

- - - -

Jane stepped down from the light and into a fairy tale land of enchantment. A flying castle! Stone people! A trip into the Forest, with archmages at her back, and the promise of high adventure awaiting! She could not keep the smile from her face. This! This was what she had wanted when she decided to become an adventurer! And yet, it was also so much more! Could she ever have imagined such an event, two years ago?

Well. When she dropped to Veird, and after finding her feet and knowing that there was a chance for survival, she had imagined scenarios exactly like this. Surely flying castles must exist! This was a land of magic, after all. And here was one!

She had lost some of that wonder in the following months. But...

Jane almost laughed for the sheer joy of it all, and sure, there might be death-defying acts of heroism waiting for her, alongside monsters that wanted to eat her still-beating heart, or whatever, but that was life for you! Monsters and magic, and everything else!

She was taking this seriously. Let no one say that she was not taking this seriously. Her father’s words had not washed in one ear and out the other. But so what? Life was dangerous, and life was awesome.

The ‘Rocky’ brought them past a tree that Jane was sure was absolutely not the lynch-pin of how this flying castle flew. Who would put such an obviously magical weakness out in the open? No, it probably had other functions. Hiding functions? General protection functions? Utility functions?

… Jane would have to find out!

“And these are your rooms,” Rocky said, gesturing toward an archway in a house.

Erick said, “Thank you,” as he sent an Ophiel in, probably to scout the place, seconds before he followed.

Her father was like that a lot, these days. Second guessing people. Checking before he moved. Keeping his defenses on high alert almost all the time— and yup. There was that familiar spell. The house filled with dense air; [Prismatic Ward]. Jane enjoyed the spell. It made her feel safer when she slept, especially since that time with the Moon Reachers reaching into her underground room all those months ago, back when she was going after [Fire Body].

But they had killed every Moon Reacher in the Forest!

And how awesome was that!

Jane followed her father into their room.

… It was not as nice as the Holy O’kabil’s hotel. It was just a stone box… With stairs. Two boxes, then; one on top of the other. A half box for the kitchen. A separate box for the bathroom. Multiple boxes, none of them stylish.

No furniture.

Tenebrae obviously didn’t want people spending too much time in his abode.

This was perfectly great, though. This is what [Conjure Item] was for! For beds on the go; exactly what any enterprising adventurer used in these sort of situations. The kitchen was as bare as anyone would expect, with just a stove and some pots and pans and a small water basin. Jane headed upstairs, while Rocky and the others spoke of whatever; standard ‘don’t do this’ stuff.

She listened! She just didn’t listen that closely.

The second floor was a bit nicer. It had some windows, at least. Jane conjured a bed in a corner of the room and plopped her stuff onto the stone floor beside it, then she went back downstairs.

Rocky had left.

Her father said, “The castle will begin moving in a few minutes. But first: some rules...”

He listed some rules. Jane paid attention; she did! But they were normal rules, and she had been through this sort of thing before. He was speaking as though she had never dealt with people way out of her weight class, that she knew she could not offend. It was grating to be treated like such a child, and though she knew that her father did what he did out of love and worry, it was still grating. And then he surprised her.

“And we’ll…” He paused. He said, “We’ll be going into a Twisted Vision. We will likely meet dragons. Tenebrae will say more, I’m sure.”

Jane’s excitement vibrated from 8, to 11, then down to 4, and then all the way back up to 10.

“Visions and dragons!” Jane gasped.

Teressa whispered, “Shit. Visions and dragons.”

Jane zeroed in on Teressa. “How do you deal with those?”

“You run away when you see the Forest turning odd around you, and if you ever meet a known dragon, you never, ever speak of it, ever.” Teressa turned to Erick. “I wish you wouldn’t have told us. It’s easier to look the other way and pretend you don’t see what you see when something like that happens.”

“Impossible.” Erick said, “Something would have happened with regard to the dragon-thing anyway, and I will not be some fool who doesn’t let you know crucial information.”

Jane added, “And running away is not an option, right, dad? So how do you deal with a Twisted Vision?”

Erick and Jane waited for Teressa.

Teressa said, “Uh… To kill a—”

“We’re not killing it.” Erick said, “Investigation only.”

Jane stared at her father. “We’re not killing it?”

“We’re not killing it?” Teressa asked, at almost the same time.

“I don’t know why, either, but that’s what I promised.”

“Then...” Teressa smirked, as though a problem vanished, and a path became clear. “Okay. That makes it easier. A lot more fun and a lot less dangerous. Still dangerous, though. But not Shade-dangerous. I think, when it comes to Visions, you just don’t do anything. Don’t kill monsters. Avoid all interesting phenomena, like glowing lights or stuff like that. Don’t investigate noises. But obviously… I think you’re saying that we have to actually explore the thing. So I think I recall— The elders used to say that if there was no way to avoid a Twisted Vision, say if you were walking and found yourself trapped between a closing valley of twisted Forest, then you just had to follow the mana. I was really bad at it, back then, but now? It’d be easy enough to escape one, or to go deeper. Following the flow of mana will drag you deeper into the Vision. Going against the current would lead you out. Simple.” She paused. “… Except when it’s not.”

“Stealth mission.” Jane said, “Sounds like fun!”

“Ah. Yeah. Stealth Mission.” Erick said, “I hear this particular Vision likes to suppress everyone with its Domain. So no [Lodestar] for me, with minimal ability to [Lightwalk], since it suppresses those, too. It also notices the casting of spells, so all spells need to be cast outside of the place, and then walked in.”

Teressa scrunched her face. “I’ve never heard of a Vision capable of that. But everyone I knew tried to stay away from them, and I have not been near the Forest in years. Maybe I would have heard of such things had I not stayed away for so long.”

Jane heard the sudden hurt in the woman’s voice, and pretended she did not; it’s what Jane would have wanted anyone to do for her.

Erick went right for that hurt, though, saying, “Don’t worry about it, Teressa. I’m sure Tenebrae will tell us more.”

Jane jumped in. “So I heard that we’re free to go anywhere we want, just to stay behind the black lines, right?”

“I wasn’t sure if you were paying attention—” Erick zeroed in on Jane, his eyes going hard. “Do not test this limit. Please.”

Ophiel squawked, echoing her father’s words.

Jane had to say something against that. “Dad. I hear you and understand. Don’t worry so much. I am not a child.”

“I… I know.” Erick softened. He spoke to all of them. “Let’s just be on our best behavior.”

“Is there any other type?” Jane teased, then, not waiting for an answer, she hopped around her father and went out the door. “I’ll just explore a little bit!”

Erick cursed, saying small words about ‘not wandering off on your own’.

Jane smiled as a tiny Ophiel sat down on her shoulder, glaring at her.

She ran almost into a pair of ‘Rockys’, coming down the stairs leading to the curtain wall. She twisted out of their way and stepped onto the shadows, off the side of the staircase, avoiding them.

“Whoops! Sorry! Hello there!”

Rocky One just nodded, and continued down the staircase.

Rocky Two said, “No problem, Miss Flatt. Do you require guidance anywhere?”

“I’m just exploring a bit, and not going beyond any black lines!” Jane asked, “I’m allowed to do that, right? The one guy said we could… But?”

Rocky Two nodded, saying, “That is correct. Do you wish for a guide?”

“I would not want to impose since you have places to be and I don’t want to take up your time— But. Maybe tomorrow. What’s up with the tree in the center of the courtyard?”

She might not have a proper mana sense, but her spider form had [Mana Sight], and with her Class Ability, Shifting Form, she had easily replaced her eyes with a spider’s for practically no mana at all. Almost no one could tell, either, unless they looked closely. If these Rockys could tell, then they hadn’t said. She hadn’t shown her father this Ability, yet, but she would, when they started talking tactics.

She looked to Ophiel on her shoulder. Ophiel’s eyes widened at her, as he scooched a tad away.

No need to tell her father, then!

Rocky Two said, “The Home Tree provides for minor defenses of the Estate, as well as plumbing and water functions. It was a gift from Arbor Home, and has been a part of the Estate for many, many years.”

Jane gazed at the small tree with a bit more reverence. “Ohhh!” And then she said, “That’s awesome! I love magic.”

Rocky Two smiled, then said, “It is my understanding that you and your father came from a world without mana. Do you prefer this world or your previous one?”

Jane’s temporary high came back down to a low joy.

Rocky One poked Two in the shoulder. “Impolite. You will never differentiate if you can only emulate Master.”

Rocky Two lost his smile. He looked lost. He turned to his companion. “How was that rude?”

Rocky One glanced to Jane, then turned to Two. “I will explain later. I do not wish to be further rude.”

Jane jumped in, saying, “It’s not a— I don’t feel wronged. My old world was a lot more technologically advanced, but you guys have magic, and that makes up for almost everything I miss from back home.”

She missed some of the shows she had been watching, but at least she had managed to see the Game of Thrones ending…

She could have done without that ending.

Rocky One’s eyebrows came together. “But… Surely you miss the people?”

“Eh. Well. That’s different. I try not to think about that. Besides. The only one I care about came with me. So it’s really not that big of a deal to lose everyone else.”

Rocky One looked unsure.

Rocky Two nodded, sagely, saying, “I can understand this sentiment.”

Rocky One chided his partner, “Still a rude question.”

Jane stepped across faint shadows, to stand on the stairs above the Rockys, saying, “I am not offended and we’re all learning about new people and how to get along all the time, aren’t we?”

Rocky One nodded, then said, “Thank you for your forgiveness.”

Rocky Two bowed to Jane, saying, “It was nice to meet you, Jane.”

“It was nice to meet you, too. Uh. Rocky? Right?”

“Correct. I have not differentiated. None of us Stone Men in the Estate have truly differentiated.” He added, “You might not want to be on the walls when we begin to move. People have fallen off before.”

Jane looked up, then turned back to Rocky Two, saying, “Thank you for your recommendation. I think I still want to go up there. But if you know: How would the Rockys or Archmage Tenebrae feel about me using my [Polymorph] forms around here? Shadow Spider and such? Not the Flame Ooze, of course.”

“You will have to ask him about that. We just grow up here and follow the rules.” Rocky Two turned and followed Rocky One down the stairs.

Jane watched for a moment. Then she continued upward, to the northern castle wall. As she crested the edge wind came on from all sides, whipping her hair back and forth, fluttering the Ophiel on her shoulder as she beheld a wonder that she had already seen. A green and pleasant valley stretched out below while blue skies held above, and the castle floated in the middle. The sight made her giddy. A giggle escaped her lips.

Ophiel twittered in happy violins.

And then…

Movement.

