Tilting his head in question, he replies, “As I said, I sought answers. Other creatures strive for prey while the bear simply takes what is naturally his. Thus, I set out to do the same, believing such was my purpose in life. I cannot survive on berries and roots, so I must take more.”

“... so, you became a bandit because bears are nature’s bandits?”

“Bandit is too loose a term for my tastes, but my gift lies not with words.” Frowning, Ulfsaar takes his time before speaking again. “A bandit steals yes, but a bandit also kills, rapes, and plunders. I only took what was needed to sustain myself and nothing more. Coin, goods, slaves, I took none of these things nor did any of my comrades, only food and drink. If I encountered no resistance, then there were no casualties, but if my foe sought to confront me, then I would teach them regret.”

Though said without anger or passion, his words are chilling indeed. Still, his nickname makes more sense now, since all he ever stole was food. The Voracious. Stupid bandit names, making me worry he might be a cannibal. “Is that still how you want to live your life? Taking what you need to survive and nothing more?”

“No.” His answer is immediate, studying me intently as he speaks. “I believe the Mother sent you to warn me of my folly. A bear takes what it needs, but I am no bear.” Turning back towards the City, he smiles, seemingly at utter peace. “I am a human and I give thanks for Her reminder.”

After hearing about Pran and Saluk’s childhood, I’m hesitant to ask about Ulfsaar’s, but I know it couldn’t have been easy. As for his whole ‘hurr durr I’m a bear’ shtick, there are worse bandits in my retinue, though at a bare minimum, none of them have tortured or raped. Cold-blooded murder isn’t much better, but my standards are shockingly low, even considering the world we live in.

A lot can be blamed on the Spectres, but not everything. Humanity is plenty dark all by itself.

It's a shame the Spectres haven’t made a reappearance, but it seems like Sanshu was a massive outlier. Yo Ling probably left people like Ulfsaar and Laughing Dragon alone because he knew they would spread the Taint at no risk to himself. If the Defiled don’t come back in the spring, I might have to go actively hunting for Tainted. I want that sweet Heavenly Energy but Blobby's lack of activity is also worrying. I’m thinking he needs that special Spectral juice to get going in the mornings, but the City has been picked clean.

I know Taduk wants to keep things quiet but I spent all my precious Heavenly Energy to save Nian Zu and I didn’t even get a ‘thank you’. I assume the old man paid Taduk but I can’t ask my Teacher for payment, that’s downright disrespectful. He’d pay me if it ever crossed his mind to but Taduk’s kind of an airhead regarding social niceties. Oh well. Maybe Shen Huo will have more Tainted, or maybe I can go sightseeing to random villages. Lin wanted to visit Ping Yao which is south of Sanshu, so maybe I can take a little pleasure trip with the wifey.

It’s definitely because I love Lin and want to make her happy. Having her guards close by while I travel the province is just a bonus.

Life’s not too bad here once people stop trying to kill you. Well, I assume it will be. Like Roc’s flock, this world has grown on me. My loving family is back and bigger than ever, my retinue is growing stronger with each passing day, and by feeding what feels like the entire City’s population for months on end, I made at least one person see the value of charitable acts with no strings attached.

Not too shabby.

“Okay.” Calling Aurie and Mafu back, I brush the snow off my kitten’s coat and turn to Vichear. “Let’s circle around and head home on a different route. If we come across a warren then we’ll check it, but nothing too far out-of-the-way.”

Gazing at the surroundings with eyes narrowed in thought, Vichear doesn’t respond until I wave a hand in front of him. Blinking in surprise, it takes a moment for his brain to catch up and he answers, “Sounds good boyo, but fair warning, there’s something off around us. Just a gut feeling I can’t place, but better safe than sorry.”

“Trust your instincts,” Ulfsaar interjects, “For the Mother gave them to you for a reason.”

Rolling his eyes, Vichear leaves to scout ahead while the rest of my people amble behind, keeping watch for danger. After checking three more warrens, we finally find an occupied rabbit-hole. Standing guard at the tunnel entrance, a bicorn rabbit puffs up and thumps the frozen ground, sending a puff of fresh snow into the air. As everyone else stands and watches, I urge Aurie to head over and kill the bunny but my sweet floof mistakes my intentions and crawls towards the giant bunny on his belly, gently stretching a paw to boop the bunny’s nose. His actions earn him a meaty headbutt to the face as the rabbit defends its home, startling my poor kitten who leaps high into the air and runs behind me, mewling pitifully at the scary offender as my retinue roars with laughter.

“Oh Aurie,” I say, patting his furry head. “You’re hopeless.”

“The Mother gave us all a purpose,” Ulfsaar says, barely even cracking a smile. “Your wildcat will find his, of this I have no doubt.”

“Thanks.” Staring at the angry bunny, I open my mouth to ask why it hasn’t run away when something clicks in my mind. “Oh, this is perfect!” Moving the rabbit aside as it headbutts my hand repeatedly, I peer into the warren to find at least a dozen furry baby bunnies, huddled together with eyes shut and bodies aquiver. Old enough to have fur but too young to brave the cold, they must have been born just this week, the perfect age to socialize and eventually train.

If all goes well, we’ll have a horde of bunnies to help us find all the rare and precious plants we’ll ever need. I watched Cham bleed to death before my eyes, but if I’d had the right medicine, I could have saved his life. I don’t want to go through that ever again, and lacking the means to grow what we need, I’m banking on these bunnies to solve our problem. While no one has ever managed to succeed in domesticating bicorn bunnies, my changing Aura is super useful for taming animals.

Plus, fluffy bunnies babies squeeeeeee!

Enough. Get it together. There’s work to be done.

Turning to the Momma or Papa bun still whacking away at my hand, I unleash my Aura soothe the ruffled rabbit. “Hey, it’s okay, I’m not gonna hur-”

Hurtling through the air at speeds I didn’t know were possible, the bicorn bunny headbutts me square in the face before returning to stand guard in front of the warren. Stemming my bleeding nose, I ignore the laughs and sympathize with Aurie, as this little asshole really packs a wallop.

No killing. I already have pangs of guilt from killing Aurie’s mom and she was actively trying to eat me. Besides, these baby bunnies aren’t weaned yet, so if this is mommy bunny then I need her alive. Ignore the delicious rabbit steak and think about the fluffy bunny cuddles in your future. Taking a hit or two is well worth it.

And the plants. Because that’s why you’re doing this. For the precious plants.

Chapter Meme

For those who don't get the meme reference
