Autumn passed, winter taking its vigil. The days grew shorter, the nights colder, the trees shed their crowns.

The adventurers retreated to Riverwall, as they always did at this time of the year. Except, this time, there was more space for them. A barrack-style building had been set aside, and some of the taverns in town had managed to expand by buying up vacant adjacent lots, their inhabitants having relocated to newer homes.

The evenings still got just as wild as usual. Maybe even a bit wilder in places, usually wherever Linzy had decided to go party at the time. No correlations, of course, only coincidences.

Leandro and Marshalla revealed to Niala and David the result of the investigation on whether weavers also had magivore abilities or not.

It turned out, they did, every single one of them. If someone could weave, they could also consume mana... to a certain degree. The strength of Niala's ability was far above any other observed among the Library's weavers. The weakest could only theoretically consume mana, tests revealing their mana had the right behaviour, but lacked any actual means to pull in anything. The ones who could only did so at a fraction of Niala's ability.

Interestingly, there also seemed to be a link between a weaver's natural talent and the strength of their magivoring. Niala, who was able to drain several normal people's mana reserves in seconds, could thus potentially be the strongest weaver the kingdom had ever seen.

Time would tell if this correlation held true in her case.

The couple also went back to the Fairlands during that time to complete David's duties at the CLAS Institute. The experiments were about as weird and interesting as the last time, and they were apparently still worth 200 grams of fairy dust.

In fact, Totori mentioned they were actually being underpaid, but to go along with it, because she was working that angle, wink wink.

While in the fairlands, they took the time to visit the Cute Bunnies Cooperative, which had grown to engulf all their neighbouring competitors, buying everything outright. At first glance, it seemed a bit excessive until you considered that they were going to be providing Old Woman herbs for both worlds. With the mundaneworld distribution network's expansion basically held back by how many herbs they could prepare, and the fairlands' industrial breweries finishing construction soon, the CBC was actually still too small.

But Totori reassured them that she was on the case, and aggressive takeovers of several large farming conglomerates were underway. In a few months, they would quadruple their owned lands.

David could rest easy; the Old Woman would flow.

Although here in the fairlands, it was being branded as Storm Juice, and the product's launch would coincide with the live movie adaptation of the Storm Born book.

The business fairy tried to get David to agree to a photo shoot. He refused, and she said it was ok; they could use mana-generated imagery anyway. The technology had come a long way in recent years.

Niala nearly fainted from over-stimulation when Totori brought the pair to watch a movie produced entirely with MGI.

They were also introduced to David's “mansion”, though he refused to call it anything other than a small town once they arrived.

The main habitat could house roughly five hundred people comfortably. He had seven guest “houses” that could hold a third of that each.

Almost all of it was vacant except for the small army of orderlies and maids that roamed the premises, not to mention the actual small army that provided security. Considering how much more advanced the fair's magitech was compared to the mundaneworld, he figured he could take over any major town if he somehow brought his “security” over.

The armoured vehicles, at the very least, would give anyone from his world pause.

Totori's last gift before they left was a mundaneworld-attuned copy of the Storm Born's book. It would keep its relative size when brought back, so mundaneworlders could read it.

The look his wife gave him when she was handed the book told him that he was going to hear all about it.

Well, she looked happy, so it was fine.

At about the same time, the railcar line between Bellharbour and Riverwall was completed and celebrated. Its primary use would be to transport mana crystals to the Bellharbour dock district, where the cargo would be loaded onto ships.

Soon after, the first cargocars of mana crystals mined in the Living Vault arrived in town. A few days later, the valuable crystals left with the first Riverwall railcar departure. The crystal mining industry was officially active. With it, David and Niala's first exploitation fees showed up in their finance report.

It was a lot.

One cargocar worth of crystal was valued at roughly two hundred princes. The fee they levied came up to 3%, or about 6 princes. The first mine alone was expecting to fill five such cargocars each day, and they had approved a total of seven operating permits. Once everything was up and running, they would be netting in about 420 princes daily, at a minimum. Yearly, this amounted to over 150,000 princes- 150 million bits.

Once the Riverwall-Daylight railcar line was completed, the transport bottleneck would disappear, and that amount was going to jump up.

Rinka told the couple in no uncertain terms that, between all of their business ventures, they were stupidly rich.

Which made Niala feel bad instantly.

After some discussion, Rinka was tasked with setting up funds for social programs and interest-free loans for small businesses and entrepreneurs. A week later, Riverwall's school was renamed the Allwarden Public School, with entirely free tuition, the orphanage was fully funded for life, multiple support programs sprang up, and a new, free university was commissioned.

David eventually had to step in and stop his wife, convincing her that giving away half of their money was more than generous enough.

Isaac put another one of Niala's mashed potato crisps into his mouth. He and Angeline had been invited over for dinner.

His wife was on the couch next to him, turned toward her sister and chattering away, while his brother was in the armchair nearby.

He and David had been discussing Annabelle's development, with the man still refusing to directly talk with their parents about her. Whether that was due to his resentment toward them or he still felt guilty about Annabelle, Isaac couldn't tell.

Well, if the man couldn't ask for himself, Niala could probably do it for him. Isaac turned his head toward the two sisters, brushing his fingers against his wife's thigh; their silent signal for wanting the other's attention.

Angeline glanced at him over her shoulder and smirked before returning her attention to Niala.

Right, of course. She had heard his discussion with David and was already planning to get her sister to insist they visit Annabelle. How could he have presumed his wife wasn't already overseeing this get-together?

The corner of his lips twitched upward despite himself.

David either didn't notice the silent exchange or decided it wasn't his business and used the short pause to change the topic. “Is Tobbie doing alright?”

Isaac nodded. “More than alright. He has been an exemplary worker and productive member of society. If it weren't for the need to have resources available locally, I would have shut down every other stockyard. As it is, we've simply scaled them down.”

David dipped his head once. “That's good. Cookie doesn't always know what's right or wrong. He means well, but he's having a hard time understanding that not every stranger is an unwanted guest. I was a bit worried that with Tobbie's size, there could have been some accidents.”

His brother shook his head. “It was a concern of mine as well, but it hasn't come up. Hodge theorized that the large number of workers who interacted with him during his gestation period gave him much more context about his surroundings and situation. Your Cookie was, for lack of a better term, sheltered, and is having to catch up.”

Humming, David scratched his temple. “I can't decide if being able to grow piles is a good or bad thing. They're incredibly useful and dedicated, but they could be taught wrong.”

“Likewise. I submitted a report to Father about it. The topic will be reviewed by the Crown under closed doors in the coming seasons. My recommendation was to make it a restricted and regulated process. For now, a temporary ban is in place.” He scrunched his mouth. “Not that I expect anyone to get their hands on pile seeds unless Hodge hands them out, and he agreed not to for now.”

“That's for the best. What about the construction project? Everything advancing to your liking?” David asked.

Isaac sighed. “Yes and no. What I consider the bare minimum has been completed or will soon be. The remaining critical infrastructure is underway and will continue no matter what, being fully funded and supplied. I am disappointed that my supplementary plans will progress without my oversight, however.”

David quirked a brow. “How so?”

Angeline's voice cut in, answering for Isaac. “Because we've been recalled. My dear husband has done such a good job that a two-year assignment was completed in half of one, and we haven't been able to extend our stay longer than a year.” She said, winking at her man.

Niala's ears perked up and then flattened. “Wait, that means you're leaving?”

Her sister turned toward her. “Yes, I'm sorry, big sister. We'll be staying over Renewal day, but we're leaving soon after that.”

David cocked his head. “Even with so many job sites underway?”

Isaac groaned. “Yes. Our respective fathers said that the people in place would be able to complete the work satisfactorily. As if the egotistical foreman and architects care about anything but getting their name stamped over a realization.” He crossed his arms and slumped back into the couch. “They're going to fight over who's right instead of what's correct, the timetables will slip, material will be misappropriated, and everything will go over budget.” He spat out.

Niala wiggled her ears, looking at her sister. “Is it really going to be that bad?”

Angeline chuckled into her hand. “Not at all. The team directly below us are all professionals who take pride in a job well done. It's simply that my dear husband's expectations are beyond their reach as mere mortals.”

Isaac narrowed his eyes at her. “We have been reaching my expectations for the past several seasons.”

She tapped her forearm. “Yes, yes, I know, you've told me many times, and every time I tell you the same thing; it is because you are above most men.” She purred.

The young man huffed and turned his head away, but he didn't quite manage to hide his slight blush.

David smiled at the exchange while Niala scratched her temple and spoke up. “What are you going to do? You said you were being recalled, but to do what?”

Angeline and Isaac shared a look. She turned to face her sister with a thin smile. “Just some spring cleaning.”

With neither of the newlyweds willing to elaborate, the rest of the dinner was spent discussing other topics, most of them related to their new married life. The topic quickly devolved into brothers vs. sisters battle lines, where both spouses on each side were compared, figuring out what was similar or different.

The contest ended when David let slip that Niala was both a biter and a screamer, and Isaac, his fighting instincts raring not to be outdone, blurted that Angeline most certainly screamed louder than her sister. The conversation stopped, Niala turned red, Angela teased her sister, Isaac went rigid, and David tried not to laugh.

With cooled spirits and over dessert, Angeline asked why Niala and David didn't visit Annabelle more often.

David grimaced. “It takes at least three weeks to get to Majestic by railcar and boat, and then up to Amberose.”

Niala tilted her head. “We could still do it a few times a year. Things have been quieter now, no?”

Isaac shook his head. “If anything, it will take even longer now. Even if your status as head of state is mostly an illusion, you still have to maintain a minimum of pretense. Travelling permits, informing the mayoral office and important individuals, and not to mention the security planning.” He looked at them in sequence. “You aren't just tourists anymore.”

Niala's ears flopped down. “I hadn't thought of that...”

Her sister took a sip of her drink. “Hmm, why don't you just buy an airship and have it registered as a diplomatic vessel?”

“But airships are expensive!” Niala countered, ears erect.

David coughed into his fist, catching his wife's attention. “What?” She asked.

He shook his head. “I know you've done your best to give it all away, kitten, but we're still rich, and we're only going to get richer. Maybe something less outrageous than your father, though.”

“But... Owning an airship feels like it would be snobby and elitist.”

Angeline chuckled. “Dear sister, please! If you had an airship, you could travel anywhere your potions were needed. You could use it to send aid packages without having to charter one.” She leaned in with a scheming smile. “You could bring the school children and orphans up on fun airship rides every week.”

Niala's ears twitched a few times, eventually turning her head, wide-eyed and pupils constricted, toward her husband. “David, how many airships can we afford?”

He blinked. “Huh... at least one? The hardest will be finding a competent and loyal crew, I think.”

Angeline tapped her lips with a finger. “Well, for the immediate future, that could be arranged. Captain Plerigass and her crew are just twiddling their thumbs while Father has a new airship built.” She turned to look at Niala. “They could crew whatever vessel you end up buying and train up their replacement at the same time.”

She leaned back. “What about recruiting from your new subjects? Most of them practically worship you; it would be hard to find more loyal than that.” She proposed, smiling.

Niala denied the worshipping part, though David agreed it was an excellent idea.

By the time Isaac and Angela left, the decision had been made; the Allwardens were going airborne.

Eventually.