Master Stormhalt:

Heed the contents of this letter and read them well, for the Auroral Council’s following orders concern not only the sanctity and security of the Republic, but also the reinstatement of your right to serve as Battle-Avatar for Halsur the Endbreaker.

First decree: Your exile from the capital has been lifted; you are to return and present yourself to Flamecrown Castle posthaste.

Second decree: You are to come alone and armed for war. The details of your coming Redemptive Quest will be delivered to you in person for reasons of secrecy and state security.

Third decree: No one is to know of your assignment or the details connected. If you are asked about the reason behind your absence, simply tell them it was ordered by the Auroral Council under the authority of Councilwoman Veronica Chandler.

Fourth decree: You are to keep this letter on your person at all times. If this letter is lost or misplaced at any point before its seal is lifted at Flamecrown Castle, a hidden fifth decree will activate with most deleterious effects on your wellness in health and status.

As such, do not give cause for the fifth decree to enter reality.

—Official summons from the Auroral Council to Master Havel Van Stormhalt

416Expendable

There were two letters inside Havel's pocket: the summons from the capital, and a second letter—more personal, and unfinished.

On it was simply one line:

Dearest Isabella,

That was as far as he got. He didn't know what to tell her. He didn't even know if she was alive. Barred from his usual channels of information and heavily monitored, Havel had no way of inquiring if the Inquisition or the Auroral Council itself had any information on his daughter's status.

Since the Blackedge debacle, everything had been slowly crumbling around him. First, Councilwoman Chandler had stripped him of his status as Battle-Avatar of Halsur the Endbreaker and forbidden him from even conversing with any of the Ascendants, but otherwise refrained from punishing him, instead letting him retain his noble title and return to his City to raise an army for the upcoming war against the Jotun up north.

If only that had been the end of his humiliation. Traveling back east from the capital, Havel and Legend-Advisor Mandering, placed at his side by the Councilwoman herself, had arrived at Fortress-City Vermind mere weeks ago.

In those few weeks, a cascading series of events had further seen Havel stripped indefinitely of his status as City Lord, lose control of his army, and be placed under what could only be described as a politely framed house arrest within his city.

The Legend-Advisor had made his dislike for Havel offensively plain the moment he was introduced to Mandering, but he had otherwise mostly refrained from directly instructing the City Lord, letting him and his existing advisors handle the formation of his army. With his worth in the eyes of the Councilwoman already more than precariously brittle, the need to regain his honor and prove his usefulness had naturally been at the forefront of Havel’s mind.

Thus he aimed to use this war to bolster his reputation, placing loyalists to his person in key positions within the army. If only he'd known the Legend-Advisor had been given to him to serve not as consultant, but as watchdog. His actions were reported to the capital, and punishment followed swiftly, with Havel being put in the position he was in now, while Mandering assumed temporary stewardship of Vermind and control of its army per Veronica Chandler’s direct orders.

Now, he was City Lord no more, spurned by all who once knew and respected him, and at the lowest point of his life.

But that was the smaller loss. The social status that he once enjoyed was always a means to an end. He'd been faithful. He'd been used, ultimately, by the Ascendancy, but he didn't care. He understood. He was no naive fool. There were games being played behind the scenes between gods, and he was merely a piece. Perhaps a larger piece than most, a more reliable piece, but ultimately just a piece, and pieces were expendable.

But he was fine with that, more than fine. If it meant bringing down Roland Arrow, avenging his family, avenging his wife—Isabella's mother—and seeing his daughter brought back from that festering, wretched household of blood and unceasing tragedy, then Havel would see himself expended. He would see himself used utterly.

But that wasn't how things turned out.

He had been a fool, trying to strike a bargain with the fiends of the Abyss. That exiled Necrotech presenting himself as a serpentine lich knew nothing of honor and was consumed by his own desire for revenge. He was no ally to Stormhalt, the Inquisition, or even his own people. This Havel knew. But what he failed to anticipate was just how far the Vicar would go to secure his own revenge, being willing to wager the fate of their entire world in his mania to strike Roland Arrow down.

Yet the lich proved to be the lesser surprise, for the true adversary that brought everything to ruin was a monster wearing the guise of a boy—that wretch of a child, spawned by Harlon and Vera Lowe, the murderers of Rose Van Erren and her daughter; Eclipsebreakers before that. But the Deathless was more than that. Havel was but a pawn, but even a pawn had their own cards to play. And he knew the blood that flowed down hidden lines. He knew the Councilwoman had her own moments of human weakness, and from that came seeds of human regret, fruits of life cast away to banish such weakness in turn.

The Deathless was related to her. That explained why he knew so much. It explained his prodigious growth, his horrific power, and it also explained why he possessed the Path he did. Doubtless, he was an experiment gone wrong. Perhaps one of Maiden's gone rogue, or maybe it was a greater scheme on Veronica's part: a game she played against one of her old enemies. Whatever the truth was, it stood beyond Havel's grasp, but the consequences of the Deathless's existence were still his to suffer.

The special Inquisitorial Expeditionary Force had been prepared for many things. An ambush conducted by an army of High-Tier orcs was not one of them. But again, the Deathless himself proved a monster greater than any of the grayskins. He just kept growing. Every time he was struck down, he returned stronger than before. By the time he was interned within the Rubix Well, he was a Legend where he'd only been a low Hero days before.

When Havel last fought the Deathless, he was imbued with the Endbreaker's might, shielded from all harm and granted strength beyond any Pathbearer out there, Legendary or otherwise. But even that wasn't enough. The Deathless endured, the Deathless defied, and somehow the Deathless struck a final blow of eternal shame on Stormhalt, as he and Roland Arrow’s spawn collapsed the prison at its roots despite the former City Lord's best attempts.

And in retrospect, that was when something inside Havel died. His humiliation and punishment at the hands of the Councilwoman simply made it official—he loathed her. He despised her. It was her sin, more than his, that everything unraveled, but that didn't matter. This was a world built on privilege and power, and he was less than nothing before her.

But despite that, he did fail. Havel lost. Even with a god making up for his deficiencies as a warrior and Pathbearer, he lost against children—not only the child of his enemy, but a child bearing brutish strength and nothing more.

Havel Van Stormhalt lost. And the loss broke him. He'd gone into seclusion, at first, to scheme how he would regain his position and redeem himself in the eyes of the Council. Even if Veronica Chandler wished to see him punished, there were others there, other presences he could invoke, connections in high society he could still tap into if they would only answer.

Yet, his political machinations melted away as nightmares took hold. During the first night that he allowed himself to sleep in the aftermath of those events, he was filled with horrific terrors. He dreamed of fighting the Deathless time and time again. He struck the boy down over and over, but he just laughed. He just grew stronger. He just returned, and that which slew him before proved impotent thereafter. With every blow he endured, he drank in strength, growing larger and more monstrous until there was nothing of his human guise left. He was a thing of claws and teeth and shell, no different from the Tarrasque that rampaged somewhere across Integrated Earth.

It was a disgusting fear to suffer. Havel despised himself for this moment of vulnerability, and when it didn't end, he hated himself more for allowing vulnerability to fester into phobia. Only one other individual had scarred him so deeply, and they couldn't be further apart. For all of Roland Arrow’s flaws and faults, for all the personal indignities and pains he'd inflicted upon Havel, he was still the platonic ideal of what it meant to be a Pathbearer, and that made it worse.

He should have known better. He should have been better. He should have had some level of measure, some form of dignity when it came to Havel, but he never provided it. He never thought about anyone else but himself. Even so, there was that flicker, that dimmest spark of respect, despite how much Havel wanted to extinguish that flame.

The same didn't exist with the Deathless. One couldn't respect a storm. One couldn't respect a plague or a calamity. One was terrified of it. One suffered it. One survived it.

But Havel didn't survive unscarred. The Deathless became a permanent fixture in the darkest recesses of his mind from that point on in all the months that followed.

Then, one day, for seemingly no reason at all, a summons came from the capital. A summons demanding his personal presence at Flamecrown Castle to present himself and to embark upon this redemptive journey.

Instead of joy, he only felt a terrible sense of foreboding. Perhaps in the first days after his house arrest, he could have imagined this. He would have yearned for this. But for it to come now? It was beyond reasonable. Something felt wrong, like he was taken out from the expendable pile of pieces and used again for another great game he couldn't see.

But he had no choice now. He had to heed the call. The summons was backed by both Veronica Chandler's personal power of rhetoric and her role as Councilwoman and Shadow Monarch of the Yellowstone Republic. Even if he didn't want to present himself, she would find a way to force him, and it would cost too much to discover what further depths of his own humiliation and suffering could still be delved.

Before leaving his household, he involved none of his staff. He told none of his extended family—for he had no desire to provide those jackals with any further bones to chew upon. Standing within his private teleportation anchor, he cast himself through a linked dimensional network and back to the capital from his secluded abode in the Rusted Midwest.

Yet even his attempts to be agile and subtle were thwarted. The moment he arrived, there was already a group of Inquisitors awaiting him—informed in advance about his movements. That told him he was being watched at all times from all angles. It told him that he might be walking to his own execution.

But he could only walk, for there was no road back.

He was already too deep into the game.

They brought him to Flamecrown Castle under the cover of night. Yet darkness did not define the sky, for dancing flames spilled up from the castle’s foremost spire, where a sculpted illusion of a trial took shape. A sculpted illusion presenting a battered, bleeding, chained Deathless facing the charges of sedition, heresy, murder, treachery, and more.

As the scenes played on and new sins were added to the Deathless' litany of transgressions, Havel felt his throat go dry as he glanced out his carriage and beheld a most troubling series of scenes. There were people on the street sprouting the strangest of feathers from their heads and limbs, the likes of which sported colors that assailed his sanity and made his mind reel. There were also other creatures snaking through the air. They were ethereal in nature, so thin they barely existed in reality, but still visible, still casting an unmistakable presence like they were oil upon water.

And as the sentencing went on, Havel felt his disbelief grow. He'd been secluded for too long, isolated and ignorant. How had the Deathless struck Longinus down? How had the Deathless done this to an immortal member of the Ascendancy?

It was impossible. As strong as he was, as inured to a final demise though he might be, he was still mortal in all other aspects. Merely a Pathbearer, a lone Legend. One untrained and raw. How could he best Longinus the Wanderer? How could he impose poison upon one most divine?

Havel tried to speak to his accompanying attendants, but they refused to respond, merely keeping their gazes low. It seemed they were instructed to tell him nothing, to keep him in the dark, and ensure his arrival at Flamecrown against all possible delays.

And so he arrived as the flame-sculpting came to an end, and the visage of the bloody Deathless faded into sparkling embers, but the boy presented a final expression before everything went dark. Instead of seeming furious, broken, or any kind of miserable, he had the audacity to smirk, and there was a gleam in his eye, a gleam of knowing, a gleam of cruel, sadistic intellect.

The worst part about noticing that gleam was how similar it looked to Kathereine’s.

