Jessica snorted. "I didn't say 'problem,' Havel, I said 'shitshow'—bigger shit show. Guess what? We do have a bigger shitshow. Multiple, actually. The good news is that one of them volunteered to help deal with the other as part of his atonement."

"Atonement," Havel croaked.

The Deathless adopted an exaggerated expression of regret and placed a hand over his heart. "I did a bad thing to Longinus and the Republic, and I'm ready to be a good boy now. Done with the naughtiness. And I thought to myself, 'Why should I be the only one who gets to redeem themselves? There are plenty more people than just I who got into this mess!' Since the Republic and the Councilwoman are being so kind with me, I decided that you deserve a little forgiveness of your own." The Deathless laughed. "After all, this whole shitshow, as Legend Hawgrave so aptly described it, is your mistake too."

"My mistake?" A growl of pure anger slipped out from Havel, and he didn't even care that he was less than an insect before the Deathless. He closed on the towering boy without fear now, scowling as he spat his rebuttal. "My only mistake was trusting mongrel abominations to deliver for me what could only be done by the hands of those righteous and faithful. My only mistake is striking bargains with those beneath me and thinking that I would be rewarded for my desperation rather than keeping to the course and taking righteous revenge with my own hands."

Though the heat of a just rage boiled inside Havel's chest, the faint measure of respect he'd earned from the Deathless was doused as the boy who called himself Shiv glared at Havel for the first time. "You made a hells of a lot more than one mistake, Havel. I know about your bargain with the Vicar. I know about the deals you struck with the Jealousy of Theborn. And then there’s the Animancy bomb and the Undying Tarrasque on the loose."

"Empowered by your nature," Havel shot back.

"Yeah, but here's the thing, Havel. I would've never become Deathless if your assassins didn't decide to attack Blackedge. If you didn't betray a town of the Republic to one of those mongrels you mentioned earlier. Now one of those mongrels has left us a posthumous problem. I'm using that word right, right, Jessica? Posthumous? After someone dies?"

"Yes," Veronica answered for him.

"Great," the Deathless grunted. "So it doesn't matter how you feel, City Lord. You've got a lot to atone for, a lot more than even me. The good news is you can take on your role as Avatar again. In fact, most of the Ascendants have an Avatar or a few taking a little trip up north. We're going to interrupt and handle this problem before it spirals any further out of control, and you and I are going to get real acquainted in the meantime as we hash a few things out."

Havel almost swallowed, but he halted the action to hide his returning fear. "And why should I acquiesce to this, since this is your request and not the Republic’s—"

"Oh, it is," Jessica interrupted. "Shiv here pulled a dick-move and got me volunteered into a leadership position again. So… As your now-superior, I welcome you back into the Inquisition’s Special Operations, Stormhalt."

Something fell out below Havel’s stomach. "Legend Hawgrave… surely you can’t be serious."

"I’m not wearing my clown makeup today, so I surely am," Jessica deadpanned. Then a frown appeared on her face as her thoughts seemed to drift. "Haven't worn that in a long time, actually… Anyway, look, Havel, it's not personal between you and me, but frankly the kid's got a point. Someone's gonna need to deal with a Tarrasque, and I view this as an opportunity for you to get back into the good graces of the Republic. Besides, the Endbreaker isn't open to taking just anyone as an Avatar, so you help us solve that problem too."

The patriarch of House Stormhalt was speechless. He had nothing to say. The levels of betrayal he felt right now were beyond description, beyond belief. Even Jessica Hawgrave was spending him like a token.

"And there's a reason why you're going to accept, Stormhalt,” the Deathless said. “There's a reason why you're going to say yes. You're going to do that because you want to punish yourself, because you have this coming." The Deathless stared him down. "Now, I want you to ask me why."

"Shiv, come on." Jessica scoffed. "You’re being a little too nasty right now."

"Most of Blackedge died, Jessica," the Deathless grunted. "All those lives spent. But Roland’s still here, and the Starhawk still has his bird nest. I'm not being nasty to Stormhalt at all. Frankly, I'm being nicer than he'll ever deserve. And I'm sure you'll agree, City Lord, because guess who got hit by the Vicar's plague? Guess what happened to Isabella—who your incompetent assassins were probably meant to kidnap and extract but ended up leaving behind to suffer along with the rest of Blackedge?"

The truth struck Havel dead and deep in his heart. The breath was driven out of him, and a burning horror tore into him. "Isabella… No, you’re…"

"I don’t need to lie, Havel. You know where she was. You know where you left her. Now, since you got unreasonably lucky in the sense that she happened to survive Sullain's plague, I want you to think about what you’re going to say to her in your own defense when she realizes you helped the Vicar to make this all happen, that you made her suffer and drove her close to the brink of death and thousands more over it because you hated Roland Arrow so much you were willing to betray everything to have your revenge.” The Deathless snorted and leaned back. "I got half an urge to bring her here so that you too can get reacquainted with her face-to-face with what you did. I'll watch the love bleed out from her eyes as you stop being anything of a father to her, as she gives up on you entirely, as you strip yourself of what family you got left while not even inconveniencing Roland."

"No," Havel whispered.

"No is right," the Deathless said. "So. What’s going to happen is that you’re going to play along with us. Your former position, influence, resources, and contacts in the Inquisition will be made available again, but this time, we’re going to do something we all agree is right. You, me, Jessica, the Republic. This time we're all gonna be the good guys, because none of us want the frost giants to flatten our homes, and we don't want the Tarrasque to come back around for a second go. Understand this isn’t blackmail; you can say no, and I’ll try to ask Veronica to give you some dignity. But I will destroy your life for that—because where Isabella lived, quite a few other people didn’t, and when you took a swing at Roland, you killed someone I cared for instead. Make no mistake, Havel, I’m not going to kill you. As I said, I got to atone in the eyes of the Republic, but I can see your heart and mind, and you’re not that far from the edge. With a little push, I think you’ll solve your own equation for me. And I think the heartbreak and disappointment on Isabella’s face will be that little push, wouldn’t you agree?"

That last sentence proved to be too much.

All the emotional anguish Stormhalt tried keeping inside him burst out as he doubled over and puked a stream of vile, black flame that coiled around him in choking bands. Havel hyperventilated and heaved, fighting to regain control over his body and mind as a true panic attack overtook him for the first time in years.

"Sloppy. Stupid. Unnecessary." Veronica rose from her chair, and while spots formed in Havel’s vision, he realized that the Councilwoman was criticizing the Deathless instead of chiding him. She and the boy shared a mutual glare, but she handed him the parchment she had been filling in earlier—and even in the dim ambience of the room, Stormhalt could see the title.

Writ of Punitive Absolution.

"Alright, Havel, you catch your breath," the Deathless said, looking over what Veronica had written. "But when you’re done, we’re going to need you to sign something. But you should be used to this now—striking bad deals to get what you want. Well. Here’s an easier one. No need to feed the poor and weak to a demon as brain fuel. Just a promise that you’re going to heed the commands of Legend Jessica Hawgrave for this expedition, that you cannot tell anyone about what we’re doing, that you cannot abandon the mission, and that you cannot make an attempt on one of our lives while the mission is still going. In exchange, you get to do the right thing for once. You get to save what’s left of Blackedge and your daughter before a second siege follows, and you get to put down the monster you accidentally made possible. Plus getting your privileges and pedigrees back and all that."

The monstrous boy took two steps forward, and his shadow fell over Havel—who was still bent over, spilling bursts of foul, torturous flame from his insides. It felt like he was breaking apart and turning to glass; a kind of torture Havel just couldn’t describe. Whatever this Skill afflicting him was, it fed on the inner tumult within the man and made him sicker and sicker.

"And, finally, you're going to say yes because you and I are going to settle our own problems as well." The Deathless bent down and whispered beside Stormhalt, "Because you’re just a bomb waiting to go off, and I’m not having it. By the end of our little expedition, you’re going to give up that grudge on Roland, one way or another. This isn’t a boast. It’s going to be a fact. So…" The Deathless dropped the writ down on the ground in front of Stormhalt and walked away. "Get your shit together and sign that. Once you do, you, me, and all the other expendable Avatars are going to get real acquainted."

Hell. Havel trembled as he struggled not to sob and heave. This is hell… I have condemned myself to hell…

For the first time in Master Havel Stormhalt’s life, Roland fell from the heights of his hatred as a terrifying new Pathbearer stole that place—and further filled him with stomach-turning fear.
