I must have been blind to deny his lineage at first. It's unmistakable. His every expression, his every reaction. He is her blood. And this isn't an execution. She's going to take him into her embrace. I can feel it. I know it. This is a farce. There is no dignity in this. There is no justice or honor. There is nothing. There is nothing.

Havel's despair grew a thousandfold as his carriage slipped beneath the darkness of Flamecrown's battlements. He resigned himself to whatever was to come. He had no hope for redemption, nor atonement, nor retribution. He felt more hollow than ever, and he wondered then what he was going to be forced to endure within the halls of this castle he once looked upon with pride and awe. The heart of this Republic, festering and diseased, his gods and his people betrayed from within.

There was no waiting when he was led through the halls of Flamecrown. They brought him to the Councilwoman's office immediately. And when those stone doors flung open and that clench of dimensional pressure washed over him, Havel hardened himself and mustered what little remained of his honor and spirit. If he was to be damned, and if he was to face this woman, then he would do so as a Pathbearer, even if his life was fated toward tragedy. He marched in, head held high, his shield slung over his back, his war mace fastened firmly to his hip. He carried a series of daggers within his bandolier—rondels to work between armor, charged with kinetic enchantments to cleave and bury bursts of energy. Smaller ones for survival and utility. There were his other weapons held within his dimensional satchel, an armory's worth if he simply reached in and invoked their name.

None among his arms or armor would see him spared if Veronica uttered a single word of derision in the end. Before her, his weapons, his adornments were all nothing but aesthetic; for that was the distance between a Master and a Truest Legend.

He found her seated behind her stone table, carved with runes and imbued with strange powers he lacked the knowledge to understand. The scene played out like the only other two times he was allowed into her office. She was writing something on a large piece of parchment, and her scroll was tinged with Dimensionality as she inscribed spells on the page.

The troop of seven Inquisitors, all High Heroes, all formidable Pathbearers from what Havel could tell, didn't accompany him and seemed to bear no fear for the Councilwoman's safety. They simply closed the gate behind them, as they must have been instructed prior, and left the former City Lord to his fate.

Suddenly, the Councilwoman's chamber seemed far more cavernous than before. The roaring flames built into the hearth toward his right roared hotter, bringing a sweltering heat that boiled Havel within his armor. A series of bookcases loomed, each of their tomes thick and bound together by pieces of gleaming metal or leather planed from the most grotesque of textures.

Havel felt small and pathetic—and the feeling was made even worse by the Councilwoman's obvious indifference. He scorned her all the more for it, but couldn't muster a true measure of hate. He didn't have enough left over after the exhausting emotional tortures he'd inflicted upon himself.

Short of Roland Arrow, there was no one that Havel Stormhalt despised more than Havel Stormhalt.

And with that self-inflicted suffering came a measure of freedom.

He marched up to the Councilwoman, his hands clasped behind his back. Unafraid of potential death at the hands of her Rhetoric, he was indifferent toward whatever fate might follow. "I have presented myself, Councilwoman. It is as you decreed, or perhaps as the Auroral Council has ordered. At least the member that matters."

Veronica Chandler didn't even lift an eyebrow at his veiled insult. She simply continued scribbling away as if he didn't matter at all, but it was maddening. It was ridiculous. She was the one who'd called him here. For her to demand his presence and then rebuff him with such ambivalence was ridiculous. More than insulting, it was downright confusing. There was a game being played here, but it wasn't a game between political rivals or masters and pawns. No, this was a game that children would perform to hurt each other's feelings, to make one think less of themselves.

Legend Councilwoman Veronica Chandler was many things, but she was never a child, and her cruelty was always calculated. Now there was something else at hand, and… and…

Havel saw him. Finally saw him. He'd been standing there the entire time. His back faced both Veronica and Havel as he flipped through the pages of a particularly large tome once sealed by mithril chains.

The Deathless had grown larger, not only in height but also in physical stature, as if he hadn't been an imposing sight before. He was more like a moving wall or a small building than a person. Waves of mana crashed across his body in vectored tides, some striped, others not, a representation of the Legendary Physicality he possessed. Said tides looked duller than Havel remembered, seeming grayed out somehow, as if deprived of a measure of magic. It made sense. No one would allow the Deathless to wander around without restrictions, but if there was a skill that allowed someone to bind and suppress mana to this extent, Havel didn't know of its existence.

Yet his mind couldn't move beyond the simple fact that the Deathless was right here, unchained, unshackled, dressed in dark blue silks like he was a Young Lord and not a prisoner.

The former City Lord and Avatar tried to muster a measure of outrage, but the noise that left him was less roar and more croak. "I… You…"

Havel's voice compelled the Deathless to turn. Veronica continued on, scratching away at her parchment, never once lifting her head to look between the two.

"Oh, hi, Master Stormhalt," the Deathless said. He snapped the tome he was reading shut with such force it sent a thunderclap through the room and caused dust to spiral through the air and fairies flitting about below the ceiling to scatter and whoop. This finally provoked an annoyed stare from Veronica, but now it was the Deathless' turn to ignore his grandmother in favor of Havel.

Sliding the book back where it belonged, the Deathless strolled across the room with leisure, taunting Havel with a bestial smile. The former City Lord couldn't help it. His insides screamed for him to flee or to fight. More the former than the latter, considering he could no longer call upon the Endbreaker’s might. This wasn't a battle he could win with his own skills, through his own abilities. The Deathless stood beyond him before, not by measure of expertise or martial superiority, but from endurance and strength alone, and that was the sourest thing about fighting him. It was knowing you were better than someone, but could never be their equal, for they were simply too naturally gifted, simply too overwhelming by birthright.

The way the Deathless towered over him made everything worse. Havel had long prided himself on his own robust physique, and his stature was nothing to be ashamed of. Beside the Deathless, he felt like a toddler with respect to both height and musculature. The brute was a half meter away from being three, and the bulge of his biceps looked a third as big as Havel's entire torso.

To make matters worse, the Deathless noticed, and he couldn't help but chuckle. "Shit, man, you alright? You look thinner and weaker than when we last met." He smacked his lips together playfully. "And that's a real thick stream of fear you got flowing out of you. You must have had nightmares of me. How much of your mind do I take up? You've been thinking about me since we last fought. I gotta admit, I'm flattered."

"Councilwoman," Havel hissed, fighting to keep his breath under control. If he needed to fight, then he needed to breathe, and his heart needed to pound at a steady pace for him to pace himself in battle. He would not see himself debased before death, even if an end was certain. He unslung both shield and mace, preparing to make his stand, but before that point, he wanted to know for what reason the Councilwoman had unchained this beast and if it was her will for a former City Lord of her own Republic to be butchered like a dog in a cage fight. "Councilwoman, I beseech you, answer me. I came here at your summons. I am here now. I've presented myself. So why is this thing present? Why is he here? Do you intend for me to be devoured by your grandson? Is this some measure of—"

"I didn't want you here," Veronica replied, her words cool and dismissive. "I was uninterested in issuing your recall and repealing the Writ of Exile I placed upon you. The only reason you stand here before me now is because the Deathless—and by extension, Legend Hawgrave—seems to believe you might still be of use."

"And I really, really do," the Deathless said with enthusiasm, both eyebrows lifted high. His irises, twin circles of blinding white in pools of inhuman black, gleamed with vicious mirth as his hair seemed to be a shade darker than before, and his skin held a hint of silvery essence.

The silver, however, was swallowed as the Deathless vanished in a sudden burst of gold—and reappeared beside Stormhalt in the next half second. A transparent membrane of momentum and inertial energies rattled around the Deathless, slipping beyond the threshold of his Chronomancy field. But instead of striking Stormhalt down with a casual blow from his warhammer-sized fist, he simply squeezed the smaller man's shoulder in a mocking, faux-affectionate gesture and then let Stormhalt go. It was a taunt above taunts. It was an expression that, if he wanted Stormhalt dead, he could have taken his life through Chronomancy as much as through raw speed and strength alone.

But he didn't.

The humiliation was almost enough to make Stormhalt vomit.

The Deathless held up his hand as he circled Stormhalt. "Relax, Havel. You're all tense for nothing. I'm not here to rip your head off, or rip your arms off, or rip your legs off, or rip you in half, or rip your meat off piece by piece and watch you bleed to death and lap the blood."

"Enough," Veronica said, her words pressing down on the Deathless. "Master Stormhalt deserves a measure of respect, slight though it is after all his failures. Stop playing with him."

And to Havel's continued disbelief, the Deathless heeded Veronica's commands, not in the way a dog might its owner, but as someone taking a suggestion. The glow of sadism behind the Deathless’ eyes flattened, or maybe it was never truly there to begin with—maybe Havel imagined the cruelty inherent within the boy he viewed as a beast. "Let's give it a second. I think Jessica will be here at—oh, here she is."

On cue, the doors opened once more. The stone grinding against the floor announced the arrival of a new Legend, a third entering the room, leaving Havel the only Master, outmatched and overshadowed by all others.

Legend-Inquisitor Jessica Hawgrave entered the room without her blade drawn or even her helmet on. She scanned Havel and narrowed her eyes at the Deathless, but the expression on her face was not one of judgment or fear, but mere annoyance.

"Hey, I didn't do anything to him," the Deathless said, holding his hands high defensively. "Tell her, Havel. I didn't hurt you. You gave all that fear to me willingly."

"Then why does he have his Mason's shield drawn?" Jessica asked, gesturing at the item in Havel’s hand with her chin.

"You've gotta ask him that. I can't give you the answer. Havel got a little scared, I guess. Decided to fill his hands with steel and find comfort pretending that might make a difference." The Deathless stared dead-on down into Havel's eyes and almost sneered. "If you want, I’ll let you take a few swings at me, just like old times. See if you feel better after that. See if you get a little bit less scared—I don't think so, but hey, I'm up to try if you are."

Havel's blood had been replaced by ice, and his muscles petrified into stone. For the first time in his life, every instinct inside screamed for him not to hit his enemy, to avoid this battle, that trying to use force against the Deathless was futile. Though Havel considered himself an above-average warrior, the one true talent he had above all else was his combat intuition.

And right now, his intuition told him that only further sorrow would flow from rising to the Deathless’ demands.

Thus the Endbreaker's most faithful servant held firm, choosing to do nothing, if only out of spite. He was rewarded for that choice in more ways than one. Slowly, the expression on the Deathless' face turned, going from a lackadaisical smile to a measured stare that held the slightest hint of respect. The Deathless lowered his chin in something almost approximating a nod, but said nothing more as he stepped back to give Havel his space.

He kept his shield and mace drawn, uncertain why the Deathless had retreated. He wondered if a psychological game was being played through Social or Intimidation Skill.

That question went forgotten as Jessica called out to Havel. "Hey, Master Stormhalt, you remember what I told you at the start of our little expedition a few weeks back?"

Havel turned and frowned at his former comrade. Why she seemed so calm, or for what reason she was playing along with a supposed enemy, he didn't know. He could only reply to her to see if that led to actual answers reciprocated. "When the expeditionary force departed? Yes, I remember. I remember you saying something about how this could all end in tragedy. That it could all be pointless. That we could just cause a bigger problem without resolving our original pain."

