I condensed the aura over the monster, collapsing it until it molded over the creature’s skin. I stepped towards the monster, cutting through the pulsing energy. The elk condensed its own stream of energy. The shining light pushed me back, like a stream of boiling water. Sidestepping would just send me tumbling backwards. I didn’t need to run. I needed to close the distance.

I took another step, my feet shaking against the elk’s wrath. With each stomp, I came closer towards the elk. It enhanced the intensity of the energy beam, raising the damage over time. My health dropped, but with the mountain of hit points I had, I tanked it without worry.

Over a minute, I stepped closer and closer towards the elk. Event Horizon melted the creature from the inside, blood pouring from the elk’s eyes. Its breaths grew ragged and its knees buckled. It shivered as if stuck in an arctic ice storm. The effects of mana exhaustion sunk their teeth in, ruining the mind of the creature.

I grinned as its struggled with the beam of energy, the power waning. As the last bit of the energy trickled out. I crashed into the monster, lifting the creature from the ground. With all my might, I slammed the creature against the crystalline plate. Cracks ebbed out in all directions as the spine of the monster broke.

The antlers on its head no longer glowed. It looked at me, fear creeping into its eyes. I lifted my fist into the air, a smile brandishing my armor. With my fist coming down like the blade of a guillotine, my punch sent out another ripple of cracks through the crystal. Blood exploded from the creature’s mouth, organs splashing out from rips in its skin.

The head of the monster looked around, the legs squirming in odds directions. It convulsed before the antlers clapped against the crystal below me. It died, and the white glow beneath us returned. With new sight of the scenery, I stabbed my arm into the monster, sapping its strength and lifting it up. I dashed towards Hod, my feet clapping against the crystal beneath me.

Hod looked up, blood trailing out of his mouth. He coughed up a the black gunk before breathing deep. He pushed himself off the crystal pillar. He raised a wing at me,

“Hod fine. Health going up faster than dropping. Hod just need time.”

The corpse of the elk hollowed out into a dry husk, so I tossed it aside. Hod shook off the shock of the impact before turning towards the crystalline lake’s center. Around us, streams of water flowed onto the ground, creating pools. All of the cracks from our fight with the elk streaked out around us.

With each passing second, the cracks expanded in all directions. As a fracture crawled over our head, Hod pointed deeper under the lake,

“Hod and Harbinger need core. Trip pointless without core.”

“Fuck...Can you run?”

Hod nodded before dashing towards the core. I followed behind him. As we sprinted, we kept up with the growing crack above us. Crystal pillars snapped around us, the crystal layer we were in caving. With each passing second, the sound of rushing water grew in our ears. Not looking back, I pounded my feet into crystal plate with abandon.

Hod did the same. He weaved around pillars, screaming, “Hod not want to die. Hod want to live. Hod want to live!”

I agreed with him. If the crystal plate collapsed above us, we would be trapped under an entire ocean of water. The plate would pin us down, drowning us. After we died, tiny crustaceans would crawl under our skin. Worms would crawl into our eyes and slugs would feast on our skin. Our flesh would soften until it was like molded cheese.

I shook the haunting thoughts from my head, doubling my sprinting efforts. I would use The Coming Tide, but the impacts would no doubt speed up the breaking down of the cavern. This race required good, old fashioned running.

With that single thought centering my thoughts, we reached the pulsing white radiance of the dungeon core. The energy of the core refracted off the light of a dozen pillars before reaching the staircase I drilled through. It wasn’t a wonder why I had no idea where the core was.

Hod did, however. We reached beside it before I stuck my hand into the stream of energy. I grabbed the core, yanking it out with my hand going numb. We didn’t even look at the core before dashing forward.

The sound of feet clapping against a glass floor filled my ears, along with the fracturing above. Waterfalls of liquid poured in from above as crystal pillars crushed under the weight. The crystal plate above us rumbled, the creatures from above looking down at the commotion. Giant creatures lit by phosphorescent eyed us with hunger.

As tiny jellyfish flew by them, they lit the massive monsters. Eyes covered them, looking at us as as mouths across the creatures snapped at us. Massive tendrils, feelers, and tongues struggled towards Hod and I as we ran.

Hod kept sidestepping around pillars, howling, “Hod hate pillars. Pillars get in Hod’s way. Hod want to fly, but pillars get in Hod’s way.” He sidestepped another pillar, “Hod hate pillars like Hod hate flying through thunderstorms.”

A tiny grin ran up my lips at Hod’s ridiculousness. The grin faltered the pillars cracking outpaced our running speed now. The angle of our running raised, like we were running up a steep hill. That meant the edge of the lake was nearby now.

It was just in time too. Like a bomb going off, the crystal shell holding the lake collapsed behind us. I turned around, and a tidal wave of murky water full of monsters flowed towards us. The panel above us fell downwards by a foot before desperation kicked in.

I reached out with Event Horizon, covering the area of curious creatures above us. Mana built into my runes, over charging in seconds before I discharged my mana through my feet. I shot through the air, my speed blistering before snatched Hod. His head dragged backwards, drool leaking from his mouth like a dog with its face out the window of a moving car.

Hod screamed, “Blagagagaga,” as we shot through the air. I leaned a shoulder in front of me, letting me tackle through the crystal pillars in front of us. I hit the ground again, discharging the energy once more dashing up through a waterfall. In the edge of my vision, the green glow of the world tree beamed in through a crevice. It was our way out.

As my feet landed onto the crystal beneath me, the roof over us caved in. Before it pinned us down, I jolted us forward with one last burst of energy. The green light grew in my vision. As if living in slow motion, the crystal plate fell at a steady pace as the green light expanded in my sight.

Right as the crystal fell on my legs, the green light shined onto my face. I threw Hod into the green light as the weight crushed my legs. Hod crashed into a the wall of dirt, embedded into the earth. With his voice muffled, Hod grumbled,

“Hod...Hod tank Arbinger.”

I kept my upper body up with my arms, looking at him. Hod pulled his face from the wall before spitting out a mouthful of dirt. He flopped himself off the wall before he face planted the ground. In typical Hod fashion, he hugged the dirt,

“Hod never think Hod want dirt so much, but Hod grateful for dirt being here and not water.”

I laid myself against the dirt beneath me. Behind me, two crystal plates pinned my feet in like toothless jaws. I laughed out loud, flopping against the soft ground beneath my face.

“Jesus Christ, we made it.”

Hod flipped over, staring at the world tree, “Dry Man should be here...Dry Man drink up water in lake. Hod and Harbinger not worry about drowning then."

I laughed before resting against the ground. After all that, I didn't need a rest, but I wanted one. So I closed my eyes and rested for a second, enjoying the peace.

It didn't last long.
