Trust came slowly. More often than not, that held true for Ranthia, no matter what she did, but…

Plainly, she had underestimated how difficult her sessions with the [Mind Healer] could be. Hitting the seemingly unflappable woman with shock and awe—arguably her greatest secrets—felt good. Sharing things that remained true sources of pain proved to be far more difficult. There were precious few people that Ranthia was comfortable being vulnerable with, yet for the [Mind Healer] to do her job, she needed to count the elf among them.

But what was new to Ranthia was business as usual to the elves. The [Mind Healer]—for Xaoc’s sake, her name was on the door, why was it still so hard to absorb?!—guided Ranthia through her past, permitting her to speak on matters that she wished to and gloss over those that she wasn’t yet ready to share. And by the time Ranthia was ready to admit that the sessions were useful and was ready to relax her guard (some), she was coaxed into revisiting some of what she glossed over.

Tatius and Pupius were the first people that Ranthia told the [Mind Healer] about, and their death—beyond her reach and without her knowledge—was the first vulnerability that Ranthia allowed herself to discuss with the woman. The pain was still there, but everything she had learned about her fathers—and what they had truly meant to her—had somewhat blunted the raw pain that she once carried. Supposedly, this was healthy and how grief was meant to be processed.

As trust slowly built on that foundation, Ranthia found herself led by the woman on a journey through her own thoughts and experiences. It wasn’t chronological—each “therapeutic discussion” was limited by Ranthia’s current willingness to explore details. Discussing her brushes with death came easier than some of her true regrets, like the vengeance she almost visited on an innocent girl—just because of her issues with her dead mother. But each journey had its own purpose, its own lesson.

In hindsight, with the experiences she had gone through with the [Mind Healer], Ranthia should have been warier. But the gradual build-up of trust was insidious—Ranthia never even realized that she had been relying so utterly on her unexpectedly robust trust, even as the charismatic elf led Ranthia on a journey through her interpersonal relationships.

Ranthia hadn’t expected a response. But after answering a few questions about her current, all-important relationship, the woman began to speak on Ranthia’s sterling romance. The tone was full of care and concern, but the words were as vile as anything a Poison classer could hope to conjure.

“Problematic.”

There were other words and phrases too, but they just kind of washed past Ranthia as she sat there in mute shock. Trust dissolved while the woman explained why Ranthia was the worst person on Pallos or whatever—she had no interest in any words past the accusation that Ranthia was somehow problematic in the most important relationship she had ever known!

Ranthia stood and—narrowly—chose the path of maturity. She wordlessly walked to the door, silently reminding herself that she was seeking to be a better person. No matter how hateful the woman’s words were, Ranthia shouldn’t put a knife or four through her.

Fortunately, elven-made buildings were far sturdier than any of the poorly made, fragile structures found within Remus’ borders. Ranthia wasn’t quite in full control over her strength, but the door never even creaked as she forcefully opened it and stepped through.

Only to be transfixed by Avyna’s unamused glare.

Silence lingered for what felt like a generous slice of an immortal eternity—but the closing door that slapped Ranthia’s rump proved that it had only been a few moments. The tiny startled sound Ranthia made when it happened seemed to remind the world that time needed to move forward.

“<My love. Our contract is a promise.>” Avyna’s words were measured and even, untouched by the displeasure that radiated from her gaze.

“I—” Oops. “<I won’t sit there and let her insult us!>”

The words felt petty—even as she stood there with her outrage fresh and coursing through the whole of her being—but Ranthia had nothing better. Her emotions were high, and words were hard, no matter what language she spoke. A guilty piece of her doubted that she could convince the love of her life that her choice was the prudent one—especially since she had recently confessed that she thought the sessions were helping.

But, even if it was an impossible task, she had to try. By Xaoc, there was no way that she could possibly sit there and endure that.

Avyna sighed and rose from the couch she was seated on. She wasn’t even supposed to be there—as far as Ranthia knew, Avyna planned to just return to their rooms or take care of business in Coalition City. Yet there she was, while the [Mind Healer]’s apprentice was absent. Avyna remained silent, until she reached Ranthia and took one of Ranthia’s hands between her own.

“<Ranthia, my love, I was the one that expressed concern and asked her to assess your mental health regarding our relationship. You have grown to be highly dependent on me for your well-being, and I cannot be by your side for all of eternity—you know this.>”

The words were gentle and full of love and affection. Which made them all the crueler—Ranthia had no possible defense against them.

The bitter reminder that they were better than ten percent of the way through their contracted time together hung over Ranthia like a blade, ensuring that her mood never improved as she went through multiple difficult sessions with the [Mind Healer]—occasionally joined by Avyna. The words were still difficult to endure, let alone accept, yet Ranthia tried to force herself to seriously consider them.

But how could her love ever be a bad thing? How could it be a flaw for her to use her love for Avyna to drive her will to survive and endure the horrors of war?

But one thing Avyna said truly stuck with Ranthia: “<My love, you spoke once of us being partners. Of being equals that support one another unflinchingly. And yet, you are the one who has fallen short of that promise. Since the beginning, you have treated me as someone you must protect, but even that has twisted in an uncomfortable way. My love, I am not yet a goddess. I have no interest in being worshipped as such prematurely. Not by you.>”

Coming from Avyna’s lips, the words were impossible to shrug off. Frustratingly, Ranthia found seeds of truth in them as she mulled them over. As blasphemous and terrible as it was, Avyna held a place in Ranthia’s heart and mind not entirely dissimilar to her devotion to Xaoc. Her worldly devotion had, at some point, begun to blur a line that should have been absolute.

It was a glaring enough failure that it forced Ranthia to not just endure, but to truly face the rest of what was said. If she could make such an unforgivable mistake, perhaps there was true merit in the concerns that the [Mind Healer] raised…

Avyna wasn’t the only one that knew people in Coalition City, Ranthia had a few friends to call upon as well. Sure, lunches with Paulla—her [Analyst] friend from the Unbreakable Image—often devolved to (allegedly, sorely needed) lessons in the shimagu language, but it was great to see the woman flourishing in her new role. She led an entire team of [Analysts] and was a scholar of the shimagu language and culture noteworthy enough that even the occasional elf sought to consult her.

Deflection even managed to find time to share drinks with her one evening—not that either of them could get too deep in their cups. She had another session with the [Mind Healer] the next morning and he was due to deploy that night back to Spearpoint. Not that either of them wanted to discuss work or the war, instead they whiled through their short time together with Ranthia trying to teach him a few High Elvish phrases that he could use to flirt with elven men. It was surprisingly fun, especially as the phrases he requested became bawdier and increasingly ridiculous.

It took many, many sessions with the [Mind Healer], but Ranthia finally came to accept the truth. She had placed Avyna on a pedestal. Avyna had, in many ways, become a prize that Ranthia earned by enduring suffering and misery. She truly had become dependent on the love of her life—which still didn’t, in and of itself, feel like a terrible thing to her. But there were major problems with how she had done so.

The first—and easiest to accept—was that it made her unduly possessive. Avyna was her prize, and she endured so much just often enough that she had come to unintentionally resent those who got her beloved’s attention with such ease. As the ‘merit’ of her suffering became intertwined with her love, she was increasingly unwilling to share. She had experienced the unwanted sensations more than once—the frustration when Avyna’s attention was focused away from her. It had long threatened to damage her friendships, but through the therapeutic discussions, she came to realize that there was a far darker possible outcome: she was likely to begin to resent Avyna if she continued.

Gods and goddesses, she truly was a mess.

Ranthia needed to change something she would never have dared to consider but for the sessions with the [Mind Healer]. But with time, she was confident that she could purify her feelings for the woman she loved. No, not just confident, she was determined to do so.

Each day felt as though no significant progress was made, yet the dearth of success added up in ways that Ranthia struggled to quantify. The vernal equinox drew near before Ranthia was finally ready to accept that she had made meaningful progress and released some of the darkness that had seeped into her heart.

“A letter for you, Grace.” The woman that brought them their morning tray of fruits and pastries announced. In addition to the usual tray, she also carried a second, smaller tray that bore a single Remus-style scroll.

Ranthia accepted it with a small laugh. It was a positively silly way to deliver a message.

Her laughs had started to come more easily, and that thrilled her. She had never even really noticed that she had stopped readily finding humor in the world. How could she have ever become so blind to the little absurdities of daily chaos?

Avyna was still lounging next to the artificial window (they had an interior suite of rooms, thus the windows were some sort of Mirage Skill or enchantment that showed scenery found throughout Pallos; not that Ranthia could properly appreciate the effect thanks to [Vision of the Void]). Her elf had been idly reading a book, though she looked up curiously while Ranthia opened the scroll.

“…It’s from Sentinel Night. He wants to meet with me, tonight.” Ranthia sighed.

It seemed her break from her duties and obligations was coming to an end. Which made sense. Logically, she knew that she was needed. And whatever Night had discovered regarding the plot was undoubtedly long since resolved. Part of her was still afraid of what the true face of the machinations that nearly killed her entailed, but… she supposed that she was capable of facing it.

The time had come to test her progress. It was inevitable, but she still wished that she had been able to put it off just a while longer.

“Ah, Sentinel Grace. Thank you for accepting my invitation. Would you be willing to join me on a walk beyond this city’s walls?”

Night was all smiles when she arrived in the Sentinel meeting room, which set her on edge. Progress or not, she wasn’t the sort to be happy when a predator smiled at her. Still, Ranthia swallowed her revulsion and smiled back politely before she nodded her consent. Night almost certainly had more in mind than a casual jaunt; more likely he wanted to discuss things that he wasn’t comfortable sharing in a space occupied by classers with levels that vastly eclipsed their own. It was impossible to imagine what an elf with a level greater than the sum of their classes’ levels was capable of overhearing.

Together and in companionable silence, they left the compound and made their way to the front gates. Despite the late hour, no one—Legion or otherwise—batted an eye at two fully kitted Sentinels exiting Coalition City, and they were soon underway. They journeyed east, along a path that kept them as far away from any mesas or rock formations as was possible, given the terrain. The walk continued for a time, until Night finally spoke.

“How has your recovery progressed?” His voice was quiet, yet conversational—a perfectly uninteresting tone meant to dissuade eavesdroppers from paying attention. Not that Coalition City was much more than a bright speck in the distance. It was a casual walk, but it was one made by two triple-classed combat classers.

Ranthia took a moment to consider his words, then decided that he was truly asking—which meant he had no interest in the falsification of her ‘recovery’ from the Poison that had ceased to affect her from the moment she shifted.

“I… think it’s progressing. Mind healing is still a field I don’t really understand much, but I’m starting to feel… I really don’t know how to phrase it, sorry.” Ranthia sheepishly admitted.

