“<It’s almost five hundred! I spent most of a century there just a couple of decades ago.>” Fyrelle helpfully interrupted.

“<Anyway, the point is that it is fairly new and its official designation, Ar-Suelle, is seldom used. It was a community of artists and grew into a proper town at some point. Fairly recently. It is a place where younger elves tend to gather to compete and hone their pursuit of the arts, but from everything I have heard, they seem to welcome anyone with artistic talent or aspiration.>” Avyna concluded.

“<It’s not just younger elves!>” Fyrelle seemed to have completely missed the open annoyance that Avyna had sent her way.

Ranthia and Avyna shared a look of mild regret. Fyrelle had been fun and was attractive, but that wasn’t the first time that the woman had come off as a somewhat abrasive know-it-all that needed to have the final word on seemingly any subject.

“<What do you mean compete? I mean, art isn’t usually a contest…>” Ranthia felt baffled enough to ask.

Avyna sighed and waved a hand to prompt Fyrelle to unleash the answer she was obviously working up.

“<Oh, everything in the City of Art is a competition! There’re rankings for any sort of activity you can imagine. The top ranks only change from a big spectacle, say a major tournament or heavily publicized direct contest between two people of adjacent rank, but trusted individuals can change the lower rankings almost on whim. But don’t worry, even if you’re just a human I’m sure you can find some narrow niche where you can find a good rank! They allow for very narrow compound rankings, like ‘best cook for pan-seared dishes utilizing only red ingredients.’ So even you could find a measure of success there!>” Fyrelle eagerly unleashed her explanation, with a dreamy, nostalgic smile plastered across her face.

Ranthia had to bite off the barb she wanted to hurl at their guest.

“<Well, I’ll bear it in mind. Thank you, Gemheart. And thanks, Farell.>” Ranthia forced herself to smile through the insults.

“<Fyrelle!>” The zealous correction came less than a heartbeat later.

Avyna made her case, and she never brought the topic up again. Instead, she seemed to entrust the decision to Ranthia and focused on helping them both enjoy the time they had left in Coalition City. Ranthia mulled over her options as she relished her diminishing free time.

As with most major decisions, Ranthia never quite noticed that she had already made up her mind until she realized what she was doing. On the morning of her birthday, Ranthia woke up and started sleepily scripting what she needed to say to whomever replaced the base commander—she had received confirmation that he had, indeed, stepped down—to ensure that there was greater cooperation and trust between them.

It seemed that she had, at some point, decided to return to Remera. The realization was blindingly obvious in hindsight—she had already made more than a few preparations without quite realizing that she had made up her mind.

Yet she was still surprised that returning to the war no longer filled her with dread or concern. Instead, she recalled that she had joined the war to protect others. The shimagu were still a dangerous form of order that even Xaoc seemed to find at least somewhat displeasing, considering the levels she had gained in her [Covenant]. And the parasites were still bent on treating every other species like a meaningless host.

And they would, once again, fall to her knives until the day finally came that the shimagu agreed to seek a path of true coexistence as equals.
