“I see. I admit, it is likely a failure of mine that I have never considered the art myself. Humans live such fast lives and those that were harmed in ways beyond those a [Healer]’s touch could remedy were rare and only briefly relevant. Had we possessed a greater understanding of this art, perhaps even some of my own kind that had to be eliminated might have been spared. This cooperation has provided Remus with more than a few unexpected benefits, and I will be sure to make mind healing a part of the lessons that we learn.” Night confessed in the same conversational tone, as though he spoke of nothing more dire than an overcooked meal.

Silence lingered in the wake of his words. They were far weightier than his tone suggested, but Ranthia really had no possible response she could make to them. Gods and goddesses, she had been like most in Remus. Those that… broke as she so nearly—or, as she was increasingly worried, was truly the case—had were targets of ridicule. Adventurers that were unable to pick up the blade and risk their lives after a tragedy were all too common. But they were seldom young, which made their rehabilitation feel irrelevant.

“I think I still need time.” Ranthia admitted at length, once the silence felt ponderous enough to weigh on her.

That much she had decided before they met up. She had improved, but she had only come far enough to see the path that she needed to walk to truly recover.

“I wish that I could say that you may take all of the time that you need. Unfortunately, I find that the realities of this war mean that Ranger Command is loath to leave one of our highest-level Sentinels on the sidelines indefinitely. The loss of the ability to field you has forced multiple difficult decisions already. …But perhaps, if you can provide a deadline for yourself, I can make that suffice. At least for now.” Night set aside the conversational tone long enough to add weight to his offer—to make it clear that he was offering her a boon and that she shouldn’t abuse the spirit of that boon.

She really was getting entirely too used to the meanings of Night’s careful intonation and the varied flavors of silences that he offered. But that wasn’t what was important at the moment.

Instead, Ranthia tried to consider the question while they walked through the desolate terrain. Both she and Night kept active vigilance for any other life, but Ranthia had yet to notice anything more than small birds, lizards, and insects that endured the chill. There was enough life that there was likely some source of water in the vicinity, but there was no sound of running water on the gentle breeze.

“…Give me until the summer solstice—the day of the Ranger Convocation. I… will either be back in Remera on that day, or I won’t be returning.” Ranthia finally decided.

It wasn’t exactly a promising offer and even then, there was a strong temptation to ask for more time, but she couldn’t be greedy. Over half a year spent in Coalition City was already significantly more time than she had expected to take when she left. But by the Ranger Convocation of 4828, she would make her decision.

She would either return to war, or she had to accept that she never would. What that meant… she had no idea—and was more than a little scared to find out—but somehow the deadline eased the subtle guilt she had carried.

“Very well. You are actively receiving treatment, from what I understand. I can make those in charge give you that much time.” Night acknowledged after a brief pause. They continued in silence for several paces before he, surprisingly, spoke again—in a warmer, more personal tone. “Please do your best to return to top form by then.”

“Sure.” Ranthia replied awkwardly.

The vampire chuckled and the two continued their brisk walk for a time in companionable silence. But there was another topic hanging over their heads, one that they both seemed to be somewhat hesitant to approach—though likely for different reasons.

“Are you prepared to address the ‘plot’ that you survived?” When he finally spoke, Night’s question felt… unexpectedly gentle.

Ranthia—somewhat stiffly—forced herself to offer a firm nod in response. The silent gesture was sufficient, and Night launched into his explanation.

Amusingly, none of her theories proved to have been quite accurate—the truth was even stupider than theory number two had dared to imagine. According to Night—and Ranthia was surprisingly inclined to believe the oft-terrifying man—the base commander’s role in the plot was that he had made a somewhat vitriolic and exaggerated rant about her to his inner circle. Though each culprit had attempted to blame the others, this resulted in two of the base commander’s advisors and the mousy-looking Sound [Mage] concocting a plot to deal with the ‘problem,’ under the (allegedly) mistaken belief that the base commander had wanted Ranthia dead but was unable to directly order it.

There was a legionary on the base that had—secretly (gods and goddesses, was everyone on Pallos a revenge-obsessed idiot?!)—taken a Poison-aspected third class that let him generate Poisons tailored to a specific individual once he touched them. With the assistance of the shimagu’s penchant for violence, he had used his abilities to quietly eliminate some of the members of his unit that annoyed him and, somehow, the Sound [Mage] learned about it. She arranged for him to be on wall duty near Ranthia, which allowed him to brush up against her. After that, he created a Poison intended to ensure that she would be killed when she next fought a shimagu twin.

None of those involved—except maybe the Poison guy—were quite stupid enough to kill her and leave themselves vulnerable to a shimagu twin’s rampage. The original plan had been to wait for another Sentinel to be in the area, but they got an unexpected boon: the powerful elves that Ranthia brought to Remera.

The trio of masterminds embezzled a large amount of funds from Remera—something Avyna would have certainly noticed had they stayed, which probably meant that she would have been the next target of the fuckers’ schemes!—to hire the two elves. Per the culprits, the blind elven archer was the one that fired the poisoned arrow that they provided to her. Under their agreement, had Ranthia failed to kill the twin, the two elves would have.

But Ranthia had survived. …And may Xaoc and every last god and goddess damn the elven duo, Ranthia finally had an explanation for the male elf’s comment about how profitable their journey had been. They got paid to make an attempt on her life, then she paid them to help her seek assistance over the same freaking plot!

“It is fortunate that they only found Sentinel Bulwark and not me. Next time, if it would not inconvenience you unduly, I would appreciate it if you avoided sending high-level outside threats directly to me.” Night requested, with a tone that sounded jovial, yet somehow his words seemed to carry more than a hint of malice.

“Er, sorry. I was kind of not at my best at that point?” Ranthia immediately inwardly cursed herself for the odd questioning lilt she put on her response. She wasn’t a child hunting for an excuse!

Night made a small sound of acknowledgement and fell silent again while she considered everything that she had learned. Gods and goddesses, she thought the mousy woman was something adjacent to a friend! The vision of the woman’s exuberant expression when she introduced the performative ‘duel’ Ranthia fought against ass-face, or whatever the elven [Bard]’s name was, was vividly engraved in Ranthia’s memory.

…Yet the woman had sought Ranthia’s death, over a few measly careless words from her uncle.

“What ended up happening?” Ranthia asked. She had mulled over Night’s explanation in silence, then was forced to muster her courage before she could ask such a simple thing—as if she needed more proof that she was still damaged.

“The three masterminds and the Poison-maker are all dead. Six others were arrested in connection with the plot and, to the extent of my knowledge, still await their tribunal. The ‘base commander,’ as you refer to him, is aware of what transpired due to his careless words, as are his superiors. I expect that he will choose to step down.” Night answered, in an almost dismissive tone.

Ranthia chewed at her tongue even before Night finished speaking. The words were polite enough, but Ranthia wasn’t an idiot—she knew what he meant was that Night personally executed four people. For her sake. Over a stupid grudge that they happened to take too literally. They had each been useful to the war in their own way. Each of them was their own person and they had their own lives, families, friends, and loved ones.

And yet, she didn’t feel a single mote of guilt or regret for unleashing Night, of all people, upon them.

…As expected, conversing with Night gave her new things to discuss with the [Mind Healer].

“<My love, I have been thinking.>” Avyna announced in a gentle tone.

Life had been busy ever since Ranthia’s meeting with Night. The day after, Avyna had visited her trading house to borrow a map—ostensibly to help Caelillia plan her trip back to Tympestshard Council territory, except Avyna never even sought her daughter out after acquiring the map. Instead, they returned to their rooms after Avyna stopped by a book-seller and acquired several tomes that she had poured over intermittently ever since. Ranthia hadn’t even seen Caelillia since shortly after they arrived in Coalition City! And it seemed that, sixteen days later, Avyna was finally ready to discuss what she had been up to.

“<You always are Gemheart, that’s part of what I love about you.>” Ranthia quietly replied after she carefully extracted herself from the bed and walked over to the table that Avyna had turned into her desk.

“<You are, as always, sweet. I have put a lot of thought and work into this, and I want you to keep an open mind. Please just consider this an option.>” Avyna requested.

“<Sure.>” Ranthia agreed readily enough. She embraced Avyna from behind as best she could with the back of the chair in the way and watched over her beloved’s shoulder.

“<Thank you, my love. So… instead of returning to the war, I propose that we could just leave. Please do not tell anyone that I showed you this map, but if we head along this path, we can dodge around the shimagu controlled territory. My trading house has used this route since the dawn of the war. We can cross through here, careful to avoid the northern territories where the three harpy clans continue to squabble. The giants and the treants that oversee the wetlands here are harmless and, more importantly, are friendly to travellers.

“<After that, we reach Tympestshard Council territory. There are many cities and groups that might welcome you, despite your outsider status. For example…>”

Avyna started listing a series of names, often complex ones, that Ranthia couldn’t possibly follow. Instead, Ranthia forced herself to just breathe and absorb the idea. She needed time to consider it, but in essence, Avyna had crystallized the vague “maybe I don’t have to return to war” sentiment that Ranthia had silently carried after her discussion with Night.

She really shouldn’t have been surprised.

Returning to Remus was so unappealing that it almost felt like an option that existed solely to convince her to return to fighting in the war. But Avyna was right, Remus wasn’t her only option. She could just… visit the elves. Ranger Command might not like it, but she suspected that Night would help smooth things over if that was the option she chose.

Running away from the war wasn’t a real option—or at least, not one that she was likely to survive choosing—but there had to be some form of legitimate ‘duty’ she could carry out as a Sentinel amongst the elves.

“<What about the City of Arts?>” Another voice called out sleepily from the bed.

Fyrelle was someone that they had seen and interacted with throughout their stay in Coalition City. She was an employee of the resort, and they had encountered her almost daily. She was undeniably attractive, with an athletic build, horns that resembled a stag’s antlers, and vibrant orange-red hair that was even longer than Avyna’s. Avyna had gently fanned the flames of attraction and, after more than a few traded bits of flirting, Ranthia finally decided to consent and they invited the elf to join them in their room after their massage. Unfortunately, that gorgeous hair had absolutely gotten in the way! Plainly, she lacked whatever Skill or expertise Avyna used to avoid struggles with her own hair. After everything, the poor young elf was positively tangled in her own flowing locks as she rolled over in their bed.

Ranthia was more than a bit proud that she had come far enough that she could share the woman she loved with another, with her only complaint resulting from their guest’s unruly hair.

“<Yes, it is on the list of the possible locations, I already mentioned it before you awoke. That said, it is one of the strongest options on my list. Elf or otherwise, all who pursue the arts are welcome there, and with your dances…>” Avyna smiled, though she made no attempt to even try to turn to face their ‘guest’ while Ranthia held her.

“<Oooh, you dance?!>” Fyrelle eagerly asked.

Ranthia ignored her, lest they end up off-topic. She could always show off later.

“<Every other city had some grand name, but this is just ‘The City of Arts’?>” Ranthia asked instead.

…It was more on-topic than Fyrelle’s question, at least.

“<The city is pretty new, I do not believe that it has been around for quite two hundred years—>” Avyna began.

