“Davrar does not possess consciousness,” Colborn answered distractedly. “It can interpolate novel decisions based on instruction and past decisions, but smart systems are not allowed to guess for new conditions. We need to provide it with an extensive plan, and building that plan to pass validation in time is likely beyond us.”

“What about drafting the plan at the conclave?” Nathan asked. “If you let more people have input, it would be a way to get them on board and make it more popular.”

Colborn scrunched up his nose in disgust. “That politicking happens before the conclave, not during it. The speeches and duels aren’t conducive to building out a plan.”

Nathan shook his head. “It wouldn’t be happening during the speeches. But don’t tell me there aren’t private meetings and dealings to swing the votes of Questors around. Draft the plan during those meetings. It'll be a good way to bring people on board.”

“If we don’t have a plan, then what can we speak about in the conclave itself?” Sarya asked. “We won’t be able to provide the details and reasoning behind our proposal, because we won’t have one!”

“We don’t need a plan. Not at the start,” Nathan replied. “We just need to convince them that Davrar needs to change. That it’s time for something new, and that they can help decide what that is.”

Colborn stroked his beard, the wind flicking the hair through his fingers. “You will stoke their sentiments in the open while we deal with the details behind closed doors.”

“Yes,” Nathan agreed, though not without some reservations. He hadn’t wanted to trust the Questors to manage the Conclave, and he’d been right to doubt them. They would have tried to use the Heirs to push a canned agenda that would make the Endings easier. At least they’d tried to persuade the Heirs that it was the right decision first, and been flexible when they pushed back. He'd been afraid that they wouldn't be able to budge from their plan, but was pleasantly surprised by the direction things had gone.

But now they’d agreed to follow the Heirs’ proposal somewhat more easily than Nathan had expected, and he wasn’t sure if he trusted it. The current setup was tailor-made for the Heirs to be the figureheads while Sarya, Colborn, and their friends made the backroom deals that determined what actually happened. He wasn’t sure that he trusted them not to go through all of that and end up with what they’d originally intended. But he also didn’t know if the Heirs had a choice - they certainly didn’t have the knowledge or connections necessary to do the backroom dealings.

“We just want the Endings to stop,” he said, turning to meet the Questor’s eyes and help them see how serious he was. “That’s all.”

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 6

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 9

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 5

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina: 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 897

Limitless Focus: 9070/9070

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Perfected Mind 2

Inspiration 10

Impulse 8

The Sense of Magic 5

Forewarning 10

The Truth of Magic 6

Evasion 5

Wizard’s Palace 5

Veracity 4

Whiplash 5

Visibility Control 8

Blending 1

High-tier Battle Cry 7

Aura Mastery 6
