Something Jake immediately took advantage of as he used this discovery to more easily avoid getting hit. At the same time, he focused on destroying one of the dragons by shooting arcane bolts and loosing arrows at it whenever possible, making some progress.

Jake also tried to shoot the real Yrelstromoz a few times, but three of the dragons retreated and focused only on protecting her, allowing the True Dragon to focus on making the other four burn Jake inside and out.

Her control wasn’t what Jake would call immaculate, allowing Jake to destroy the first dragon in only half a minute or so. This lessened the pressure a little, but not by much, as Jake had mostly been relying on the dragons being unable to get near one another.

He had a few close calls here and there, but overall, this light dragon summoning skill proved more mysterious than dangerous. When two more dragons were destroyed within another minute, the pressure was nearly entirely gone, and with all but one focused on attacking and not defending Yrelstromoz, Jake managed to get in several potshots on the real thing.

Some got through, and with her focus split, Yrelstromoz couldn’t summon any barriers to defend herself but just had to take them. When only three light dragons remained, the True Dragon seemed to realize this wasn’t working as she threw one last Hail Mary.

All three surviving light dragons flew towards him at once, no longer caring about destroying one another as they did so. In fact, Jake realized his assumption had been slightly off, as while two of the dragons were indeed destroyed, the last one absorbed them as it grew massively in size.

This change took Jake entirely by surprise, and even after using One Step, he found himself struck as the dragon had also gotten way faster, burning away the rest of its energy to speed up. It flew straight up and through him, passing with its entire body as Jake grit his teeth.

Searing pain burned through his being, but Jake quickly responded by flooding his own body with stable arcane mana to counteract the effect. It was still painful to say the least, but Jake endured as the light dragon fully passed through him before it started fading away.

Having been hit by this final attack, Jake wondered why Yrelstromoz hadn’t made more of them merge earlier… and that’s when he realized.

It was a distraction.

He had assumed Yrelstromoz had struggled to control the dragons and wanted to use them to take down Jake. It was clearly a misunderstanding on his part. Yrelstromoz hadn’t spent all her mental energy on the dragons, but only summoned them to buy time for her real attack, which was also why she hadn’t combined them before she was ready to unleash her real magic.

Right as this realization hit, he felt it. Yrelstromoz’s body was flooded with power as a shockwave of light passed him, leaving trails of crackling light sparks in its wake. The entire atmosphere shifted, and from below, he felt an intense aura of magic making him look down, only to see an utterly gigantic magic circle that seemed to span for well over a thousand kilometers in every direction.

Simultaneously, an identical magic circle filled the sky, giving off an equally intense aura.

Jake looked at Yrelstromoz, already in a defensive stance as he laid eyes on her. This display of magic had clearly taken a lot out of her, and despite her scales, Jake could see black veins spreading throughout her body. However, he was far more focused on her head as Yrelstromoz took a deep breath… giving Jake a very good idea of what was about to happen next.
