The Ascension of the two Transcendents succeeded in the blink of an eye, after which they rushed westward to intercept the Ancestral Hare and Rabbit pair before they caught up to this Sovereign. So long as they proceeded with all haste, they would arrive ahead of their quarry due to this Sovereign’s circuitous route, but he had little faith Gen and Goujian would hold out for long. Powerful though a Transcendent Divinity might be, their minds were too primitive and crude to pose much of a threat to an actual Divinity in combat, for the Transcendent Spirits were merely an amalgam of Imbalanced soul matter, the cast-off emotions of humanity made manifest by the Energy of the Heavens. The Cloud Divinity took less than ten seconds in total to dispatch of Vyakhya in his Transcendent Divinity form, and this Sovereign suspected Gen and Goujian would not last too much longer in direct combat against even one of his pursuers. They simply lacked the aged monk’s lifetimes of accumulation and their Transcendent Divinity forms were made lesser for it, meaning that if this Sovereign wanted them to serve as effective deterrents, he was forced to divide his attention to control them and ensure the Ancestral Hare and Rabbit were distracted.

An infuriating task, herding Transcended Divinities like sheep, for they were too wild and intractable to be easily controlled. It was a struggle to even draw them away from Shi Bei once their Ascension was complete, for the death and bloodshed proved almost too tempting a treat for their primitive needs. A minor delay, all things considered, for even as the Cloud Divinity and his Rabbit partner arrived within striking distance of this waiting Sovereign, the Transcendent Divinities arrived only two breaths later. Fire, blood, and cloud erupted in the distance, less than a handful of kilometres away, too close for comfort yet far enough for this Sovereign to feel confident enough in his plans. Just to be sure, this Sovereign threw caution to the wind and triggered his remaining Transcendents in Shi Bei to Ascend as well, thereby ensuring the gathered Divinities in Shi Bei would remain there for as long as possible.

A waste of resources, all things considered, for these newly raised Transcendent Divinities would lack the requisite Death Energy to fully refine their newfangled forms, given how the previous two Transcendents consumed everything present upon the battlefield. In order to succeed, this Sovereign was forced to supplement the remaining Transcendents with his own reserves of Death Energy, pass onto them through the shards of soul he kept within his Natal Palace. Even then, these Transcendent Divinities would be sorely lacking, but they were still formidable enough to draw upon the Wrath of the Heavens. That was the greatest threat, the reckless abandon with which the Transcendent Divinities fought without care or concern for the Treaty, pushing the Cloud Divinity and Old Wolf to dire straits as they struggled to contain the wild Energies of the Heavens and keep them from turning their respective surroundings into little more than a blackened, uninhabitable crater.

The Treaty was no longer of any use to this Sovereign, so he was free to disregard it as he pleased, and exerting this freedom filled him with a heady rush of elation unlike any other as he cackled in unmitigated glee.

“Hiten Mitsurugi Ryuu - Amakakeru Ryū no Hirameki (flashing lights warning!).”

Another string of nonsense spilled out from the boy’s lips as he delivered a second strike with his Void Sword Intent, a sheath-less quick-draw attack which this Sovereign avoided as easily as the first. It took Falling Rain a full two seconds and more to recite his meaningless gibberish, but the length of his statement was enough to enlighten this Sovereign as to why the boy felt the need to announce his attacks in advance. The Energy of the Heavens surged in tempo with the measured cadence of his chant, something this Sovereign missed during his first chant, which was too short to study. This marked two more Dharmic Chants Falling Rain prepared in advance, all of which were utterly nonsensical. How was it possible for him to have so many? And why two staggeringly different Chants for more or less the same attack? The arm motion and arc of the swing differed, but if that mattered so much, why not swing his sword the same way and speak the same phrase instead of going to all the work of devising a second, longer Dharmic Chant? Questions aside, it was clear that the boy used these verbal chants to gather his strength and focus his Will to create his Void Sword Intent, a skill he quite obviously had yet to wholly master. Their battle in the Void and his use of “Unlimited Blade Works” in particular had led this Sovereign to over-estimate the boy’s strength and experience as a whole, for though Falling Rain had Dharmic Icons and Chants aplenty, his foundation without them was sorely lacking indeed.

As they should be, for he was merely twenty years young, was he not? Something this Sovereign kept forgetting in light of the boy’s nigh impossible achievements…

Still unwilling to give up this prize and more determined than ever to secure it, this Sovereign swooped down and appeared before the boy could begin his third chant. A casual palm strike to the chest should have been enough to injure the boy gravely and render him unconscious, but his shield rose to block the attack with alarming speed while the boy’s surprisingly dense and complex Domain Plated defenses were enough to mitigate the remainder of the force which the shield failed to negate. Even then, the boy slid some twenty metres back through the sand, but this did nothing to stop him from screaming, “Ground-Shrinking Strike” to herald yet another burst of Void Sword Intent which this Sovereign side-stepped to dodge once more.

Only to recoil in alarm as the boy executed Balance on Windy Leaf and Pierce the Horizon in a near perfect replica of Akanai’s previously unmatched Movement, one which was delayed enough to target this Sovereign’s new location. It was one thing to pre-emptively side step an attack, but another to react and dodge a thrust from a Cloud-Stepping Warrior only twenty metres away, especially one delivered so masterfully. The sword passed through this Sovereign’s robes and Plated Domain both as if neither one existed. Cold steel plunged into pale flesh and pierced through rib and lung alike, but more devastating was the Sword Intent which wracked this Sovereign’s entire existence with boundless agony. Eternity compressed into a single moment as he suffered unlike he’d ever suffered before, his body, mind, and soul threatening to unravel as Sword Intent ran rampant throughout him and left countless invisible scars behind, scars so deep they were carved in the very essence of his existence itself.

And to add insult to injury? The boy was still cradling his damnable rabbit close, as if this Sovereign was not worth the effort of using both hands.

Awash in a haze of pain and humiliation, this Sovereign registered a resounding clang and an impact against his fist, only to realize after the fact that he’d lashed out in his anger. This was no measured strike meant to cripple and rehabilitate, but a killing blow with his full strength behind it, one which almost drew the Wrath of Heaven down upon him. A good thing this Sovereign knew enough to restrain himself even in his rage, but even though his blow had been met by the solid surface of the boy’s shield, there was no doubt in this Sovereign’s mind of the boy’s demise. His initial reaction was one of regret and contrition. To have come so far and sacrificed so much only to return with nothing in hand, he was not accustomed to failure so complete. Losing his army meant little in the long run, and while he’d benefitted by way of his Ascension to nascent immortal, without Falling Rain to study and exploit, this Sovereign was now in a race against time to unravel the full breadth of the boy’s secrets before anyone else. Though the odds were in his favour, this Sovereign stood alone while the Outer Provinces were more united than ever, or they would be once the survivors of Shi Bei returned to Central and deposed of the Imperial Clan’s chosen puppet, Shuai Jiao.

Then again, that might well be a source of chaos and conflict to come. The Sword Saint might continue to support the Imperial Clan, but whatever rewards they’d promised her likely paled in comparison to what Falling Rain had already freely given. What’s more, as one of the first human Divinities not beholden to the Imperial Clan, the Sword Saint was eminently poised to revise the power dynamic between the Emperor and the Outer Provinces, to say nothing of Akanai and Nian Zu who could very well lead the North to secede entirely from the Empire given how Shuai Jiao and the Imperial Clan abandoned them to their fate in Shi Bei. Should the survivors of Falling Rain’s faction raise their banners in rebellion, then even the Emperor himself would find it difficult to resolve this conflict in short order, and certainly not without a massive loss of life and infrastructure that would set the outer province back by hundreds of years and create a grievance in the populace that might linger for millennia more.

Yes, yes. How wonderful it would be if the outer provinces rebelled, and much more conducive towards this Sovereign’s goals. It was a mistake to unite the Defiled tribesman against the Empire, for in doing so, he’d given the outer provinces a common enemy to band together against. A better avenue forward would be to introduce economic strife and civil unrest, whispering secrets and lies to convince nobles of power and reputation to take up arms and overthrow the dog Emperor. This Sovereign could see it now, powerful factions laying siege to Imperial cities all across the province in a series of unaffiliated rebellions, leading to anarchy and disorder for decades if not centuries as the powers that be struggled to restore order only for a new rebellion to rise up. Throughout it all, this Sovereign would be free to research his Path and build up his forces anew, and in time, he might well have power enough to play both sides of the board as rebel and patriot both, much like he planned in Sanshu to secure the city for himself. Then, he could simply repeat his efforts elsewhere until he seized control of the entire province, with a Marshal and Colonel General both under his sway, and perhaps even a second or third province to boot. Oh how wonderful it would be to see the dog Emperor’s face when all the outer provinces rose up in coordinated rebellion against him, with this Sovereign pulling the strings as his puppets laid siege to the Forbidden City itself and razed the Imperial Palace to the ground…

A guttural growl interrupted this Sovereign’s musings, and he almost jumped in place to see Falling Rain sit up in the sand. Blood spilled from his lips as his body was wracked by coughs, his ribs broken but Healing with his customary yet still remarkable haste. The rabbit lay slack in his arms, unharmed by this Sovereign’s errant strike, as evidenced by how it continued to lick at the boy’s face in spite of the blood and sand smeared across it. Disgusting vermin, and the boy double so for allowing its tongue to touch his skin, a mark of his crude and barbaric upbringing, but this Sovereign was more concerned with how the boy survived his attack. Especially considering the fact that the attack might well have been powerful enough to call down Heaven’s Wrath, which was then mitigated by the boy’s Domain rather than avoided through this Sovereign’s restraint, a series of events he only recognized after the fact. A cursory study of the surroundings showed signs of Water Chi being used, but even adding a third layer to the boy’s admittedly respectable defenses should not have been enough to save him.

Yet save him it did, meaning Falling Rain had power enough to trade blow for blow against a nascent immortal of this Sovereign’s calibre.

Wholly unconcerned by this Sovereign’s looming presence, the boy pushed himself back to his feet before taking his stance once again. Bloodied but unbroken, he drew a shuddering breath which alluded to a punctured lung and winced as he raised his sword overhead, powering through the pain to make use of yet another Dharmic Chant. “For,” he articulated, drawing a deep, pained breath in order to shout, “DEMACIA!”

Rather than swing his sword, the boy dropped to one knee and drove it into the sands instead. For a brief, infinitesimal moment, this Sovereign almost thought the boy had collapsed from his injuries, but the coalescence of power overhead put an end to those wistful desires. An immense accumulation of Void Sword Energy plunged down towards him, so dense and substantial he could almost see it warping reality itself as it passed through the air. A giant, glowing sword of Materialized Domain and Sword Intent, one which tracked this Sovereign’s progress as he beat a hasty retreat across the sands. There was no time to think, barely enough time to even react, and this Sovereign gathered all the Death Energy left to him to form a ward against this unerring sword of certain demise.

