Doubled over in gut-wrenching agony, a silent groan slipped past this Sovereign’s lips as his lungs emptied of air, and he cursed himself for leaving so obvious a weakness unguarded.

A grave miscalculation made in the heat of the moment, as his decision to include his sexual organ was a last-second addition and a deviation from his original vision of the flawless human form. Initially, he envisioned himself as a being who’d moved beyond the base needs of biological proliferation, but then he had an epiphany and realized that one must indulge a temptation in order to truly be free of it. Thus, without the means to indulge in sexual gratification, he worried that he would never truly be free of temptation, and therefore unable to reach True Balance. The logic was sound, but the hasty, last-second addition left a vulnerability in his otherwise impervious defenses, one even his Runic Robes were unable to wholly mitigate. A grievous oversight, but one this Sovereign could hardly be held culpable for given how he’d spent the last three centuries with his lower half affixed to a Transcendent in order to stymie the ravages of time upon his borrowed body. Then again, even if this Sovereign had considered the matter beforehand, he might well have left the weakness exposed. The vulnerability and sensitivity of a man’s sexual organ was part and parcel of the carnal reproductive process, one which was meant to be both physically and emotionally stimulating. Any attempt to strengthen and toughen the organ would likely render it less effective with regards to its primary purpose, thereby negating the point of including it in the first place. No, better to secure an external cod-piece to protect his sensitive nether regions, Runic Armour of the highest quality to ensure he would never have to experience this bitter and humiliating pain ever again.

To think, despite being a man himself, Falling Rain did not hesitate to target this Sovereign in so brutal and despicable a manner, a thought which filled him with rage and rancour aplenty. The strike almost brought him to his knees as his momentum played out, allowing the boy to slip out of this Sovereign’s grasp once they came to a stop and plummet down to the sands below. Fighting to draw breath into his deflated lungs, he fixed the boy with a look of pure fury and hatred as he landed lightly on the sands below, so full of determination and defiance without a hint of weakness or distress. This should not have been possible, for this Sovereign had personally crafted an illusion of bitter loss and harrowing despair that should have laid him low for hours, if not days, yet less than a handful of minutes had passed since they escaped from Shi Bei, and the boy seemed none the worse for wear.

Falling Rain’s sword, shield, and glaive arrived without warning, piercing through the air like hawks swooping after their prey from on high. Little more than silver flashes of polished steel, they came to a stop just within arms reach of the boy, his shield poised to defend while sword and glaive waited patiently to be taken in hand. An impressive feat in more ways than one, for though it appeared as if these weapons moved with minds of their own and could shift in any direction they so pleased, this Sovereign was more fascinated by the boy’s ingenuity in getting around the strict limits of Guiding. Rather than deal with the staggering energy required to move an object without physical propulsion and the complex forces involved, the boy instead Manifested his Domain around each weapon, creating an area separate from reality which contained the boy’s own Laws to supersede those of the world around them. From there, he was free to manipulate his weapons using a complex combination of external forces originating from within his Domain, forces which acted not on the weapons themselves, nor on the air or environment around them, but rather on the Domain, which was present in reality and the Void both.

In short, the weapons weren’t so much flying as they were being carried about by the boy’s Domain as it moved through the Void. Each one of his Spiritual Weapons was capable of Deploying its own Manifested Domain, and this largely negated the forces of gravity, inertia, friction, and pressure upon the weapon itself. The weapons were present in the physical world, as solid and real as mundane steel, yet they moved as if they were creations of pure Spirit traversing through the Void. The technique was not without its flaws, as the weapons were largely rooted in the physical world and still limited by natural law, albeit at a reduced effectiveness. This led their maximum velocity to fall short in comparison to the speeds a Divinity or Peak Expert could Cloud-Step, hence why the weapons arrived only after this Sovereign was incapacitated by the boy’s low blow. That being said, the theoretical applications of this the discrete presence in reality and the Void both were far reaching indeed, for there was an argument to be made that the weapons had no need to actually move through reality itself, meaning not only could the boy presumably summon his weapons to hand from anywhere in the world, he might also possess the ability to strike at his foes in reality from within the Void itself.

A terrifying prospect if used in combination with his deadly Sword Intent, one which had this Sovereign trembling in fear and fury both as he pieced together the clues to arrive at an irrefutable conclusion. The Void was a separate plane of existence only loosely tied to reality, one in which distance was little more than a suggestion. Within the Void, one could move to any point adjacent to reality and deploy their Chi from there, a feature this Sovereign used to great effect in coordinating his forces and maintaining his spy network from thousands of kilometres away. Given the unique duality of the boy’s Spiritual Weapons to traverse through reality, this Sovereign now understood how Falling Rain cut down the First Blade Junta from three-hundred paces away. The attack began in reality, but travelled through the Void before emerging to strike the formidable half-beast down, and knowing this, this Sovereign saw no reason why the boy couldn’t utilize the Void to strike at targets across the full breadth of the Empire itself. There was no applicable difference between delivering a Sending and Manifesting one’s Sword Intent in reality from within the Void, as both were a case of deploying Chi through the Void itself, with the only caveat being that attacking from a further physical distance might require more energy to deploy. Should Falling Rain ever master this Void Sword Intent, he would then have the means to kill from afar with nigh impunity so long as he had energy enough.

Not just Chi or Heavenly Energy, but a significant cost of Life Energy and perhaps even Immortal Energy as well, for this Sovereign suspected the answer to all the boy’s unfathomable achievements lay in his ability to tap into this higher-order energy, an ability in all likelihood earned not through hard work or comprehension, but due to his bond with the Elemental Spirit.

This was only an inkling however, a conjecture which was far from proven, which was why this Sovereign valued the boy’s life so, but also why he could not be given time to grow. Time slowed to a crawl as they locked eyes across the way, one contorted in the skies and the other ramrod straight upon the sands, a curious juxtaposition which this Sovereign loathed with all his heart, for though he towered over the savage runt, it was the boy who stood with head held high and seized the initiative to attack. Still cradling his rabbit close, he reached out and took his sword in hand before drawing back with a flourish. A sublime and ineffable Movement executed without deviation from his Dao, one which set into motion a tempestuous storm of Heavenly Energy swirling about him as his body continued to billow with Life Energy unchecked. Even after separating from the young Ancestral Hare and leaving her far behind in Shi Bei, the boy’s vitality continued to surge in defiance of logic and fact, eroding the debilitating effects of this Sovereign’s Death Energy and infusing Falling Rain with strength and vigour unmatched. Inconceivable is what this was, impossible even, for this Sovereign had long since determined that the sheer volume of Heavenly Energy required to create pure Life Energy should be far beyond even what a mere Divinity could mobilize, much less control. It was one thing to harness Life Energy as a weapon like the Brotherhood’s Abbot, or transfer one’s own Life Energy to another as with the young Ancestral Hare, but once spent, there was no way to recover that Life Energy without plundering it from another.

And yet here, the boy proved this Sovereign wrong by creating Life Energy seemingly out of thin air, and thus theoretically now possessed the ability to create life itself, a power which belonged in the realm of Gods.

So many inexplicable and incomprehensible achievements all originating from one individual, each one a mystery more enticing than the last. This Sovereign was loathe to kill so promising a research subject, but the boy might well leave him no choice given the lacking luxury of time. No longer restricted by his limited reserves of Life Energy, Falling Rain uttered, “Ban Kai,” and lashed out with his Void Sword Intent in an attempt to end this battle in a single blow, but this Sovereign was not caught unawares. Formidable and imperceptible as his overhead swing might be, the boy restricted its potential by linking it to his physical movements and rendering his otherwise indistinguishable attack all too easy to discern, especially since he felt the need to mutter some incomprehensible nonsense before hand. It mattered not what the words meant, but it was the height of foolishness to announce his attack before making it. The boy’s Void Sword Intent even travelled along the same trajectory as his swing, so despite arriving before this Sovereign instantaneously without delay, by then, he had long since moved aside to avoid the deadly blow with ease. So long as his reflexes remained faster than the speed of the boy’s arm, then it mattered not how deadly Falling Rain’s Void Sword Intent might be since there was no chance of his attacks ever connecting.

With the threat well in hand, this Sovereign’s mind cleared of rage and enmity both, allowing logic to take control once more. The Razor’s Edge, this was his Path to victory, a truth he reminded himself of once more as he took stock of the situation and weighed his options once more. To his delight, neither the Old Wolf nor Akanai took up pursuit, and they dispatched the Cloud Divinity and Ancestral Rabbit instead. Not without reason of course, for this Sovereign had not been so foolish as to run in a straight line towards his ultimate destination, but rather a roundabout route that should have left his pursuers long behind, yet the Ancestral Hare and Rabbit pair were somehow tracing his exact footsteps despite his half-minute head start. Most aggravating, as it meant they possessed the means to track him and he would have to deal with them both before absconding to his hidden lair. Not an issue, merely a bother, because powerful though the Cloud Divinity might be, his Blessing of Air and Water merely afforded him a superior control and mastery over key components of Heavenly Energy, rather than the ability to create a higher-order Energy surpassing the power of Creation and Destruction both. Though still a formidable foe, so long as the Cloud Divinity lacked an Intent, then his ability to threaten this Sovereign was minimal now that he’d Ascended to become a nascent immortal, and the Ancestral Rabbit even less so. Aside from the dazzling and brilliant ultimate attack the Cloud Divinity used to kill the Transcendent Divinity in a single blow, none of the other Chi skills he’d used since were capable of causing any significant harm to this Sovereign, not even the powerful explosions which ripped through the armoured hides of Ascended Transcendents like paper.

Erring on the side of caution regardless, this Sovereign decided to sacrifice two Transcendents to slow his pursuers' advance. Young Gen and the Bloody Confessor were both still Concealed by Shi Bei, where there were corpses and Death Energy enough to fuel their advancement to Divinity. Yesterday, this Sovereign would have been ignorant of how to induce so heaven-defying a transformation, but Vyakhya’s disgraceful downfall had revealed the Path clear as day. It merely required a full merger between the Transcendent Spirit and the host’s soul itself, a consolidation of Will and Intent, and tricking Gen and Goujian both into acquiescing to their captor’s demands was as easy as turning a hand. A whisper here, a threat there, a bite of carrot and application of stick, and they were both ready to give up their eternal souls for the mere promise of escape. Such malleable fools were only useful due to their Blessings, so even if he lost them both, as long as this Sovereign had Falling Rain in hand, then he will have more than made up for the cost.

For the power of a Blessing was nothing in comparison to a higher-level Intent, and Falling Rain was the key to unlock them.

