The impact drove him off his feet and left his ears ringing in the deafening silence, and he knew not how long he laid buried in the sands, though it could not have been more than a single breath. The world heaved as he sat up all too quickly, but the pain and disorientation were nothing compared to the humiliation, for in his minds eye, he saw his perfect, Ascended form overlapping Falling Rain’s as the savage runt sat up in the same manner, a scene which played out mere seconds ago. The rage consumed this Sovereign until he knew nothing else, and he set upon the source of his shame and indignity with a howling fury unlike any other. The first blow hammered home into the boy’s shield once again and sent him hurtling away, but even in his rage, this Sovereign sensed the lacking impact of the blow, a tactile response which wasn’t quite right. Cloud-Stepping after his quarry, he delivered his knee into the runt’s stomach, and this time, the shield was unable to keep up as he struck cloth and hammered into flesh. Though the boy’s body doubled over, the attack still didn’t feel right, the collision too soft and the impact too gradual for a direct strike. Instead, it felt like punching water, with the vast majority of the force behind his attack dissipating before ever coming into contact with his target.

A superlative Domain Deflection imbued with the aspect of Water, a subtle and all too effective defense for even this Sovereign to weave, much less something he’d expect to see from a boy, even one as talented and miraculous as Falling Rain. This was a Chi working which required not just power and skill, but a comprehension of Water beyond anything this Sovereign had ever seen. Even if the boy infused his entire Domain with the Laws of Water, the end result should still be inferior to this unprecedented defense, for this Domain Deflection was as different from regular Domain Deflection as the boy’s Sword Intent differed from regular Honing. Seeing his efforts stymied once more served to further fuel this Sovereign’s frustration, raising his fury and ire to levels previously unknown, and he gave into emotion like a base maddened Defiled by unleashing blow after blow after blow. Fist, palm, elbow, kick, each attack pushed the boy further away as he flew dozens of metres at a time, but this Sovereign’s rage knew no bounds as he continued his brutal assault without a care for the consequences. The Heavens shook and promised all manner of bloody retribution, yet their Wrath was kept in check by the boy who still breathed yet, so this Sovereign struck again and again, aiming at head, neck, chest, groin, and anywhere else one might strike, yet still he failed to cause the boy any lasting harm.

How?! How was it possible for one boy, one mere mortal child, to possess so many attainments in the Dao? This was no long a matter of talent or even accumulation, for his abilities spanned too many subjects and reached too high an attainment for any three Divinities to match, much less one Falling Rain. It made no sense for this Sovereign’s lifetimes of study to be outshone in less than a single decade, to the point where even his full strength as an Ascended Divinity and nascent immortal was unable to take his dog life.

Gathering all his strength to deliver a two-handed overhead blow, he sent the boy crashing into the sands and watched as he bounced and slid off into the distance before coming to a sudden stop. A single step was enough to close the distance, and this Sovereign’s chest heaved with anger and exertion both as he loomed over the subject of all his hate and fury, fists clenched and body trembling as he watched Falling Rain push himself back up to his feet. Even the damn rabbit was unharmed and undaunted, though this Sovereign had not spared it any mercy, and despite still holding the overwhelming advantage, he felt the seeds of doubt taking root in his mind as he considered what to do next. Taking the boy prisoner no longer had the same appeal, for his potential was even higher than this Sovereign first suspected, because after collating everything Falling Rain had accomplished in the last twenty-four hours, one could only conclude that the boy might soon possess strength enough to stand unrivalled under Heaven. Even the Emperor himself might not possess so impenetrable a defense, nor did he have the ability to strike at anyone he pleased through the Void itself, leading this Sovereign to wonder once more just who or what Falling Rain might be, as the bloodied boy pushed himself back to his shaky feet while radiating a none-too-subtle air of menace warning this Sovereign away.

A second passed as they stared at each another, one a Sovereign with millennia of experience and accumulation behind him, the other a fresh-faced, tender-footed youth of twenty-one. The former untouched and unmarred, the latter beaten down and exhausted, yet it was the boy who smiled while this Sovereign grimaced in growing apprehension. “I didn’t hear no bell,” the boy uttered, taking his stance once more with sword in hand in what should have been a desperate and pathetic last act of defiance, yet instilled dread and dismay as he prepared to strike with Sword Intent. “Limit Break – Omnislash.”

The subsequent swing was so slow and feeble there was no need to even dodge it. Slapping the sword out of the boy’s hand before backhanding him across the face, this Sovereign drank in the satisfaction of disgracing his foe even as he studied the boy’s defenses yet again. Even in this controlled setting, he failed to see through the boy’s secrets, and he felt the air of intimidation grow stronger as if the Heavens themselves were warning him to cease his provocation. No, this was something even greater than Heaven’s Wrath, a promise of death and extermination without mercy or hesitation, which was odd to say the least. If the boy possessed the ability to harm this Sovereign, then why had he not used it yet?

Again, Falling Rain sat up and turned to push himself to his feet, but this Sovereign raised his foot and booted the boy back into the sands. Firmly pressing the heel of his foot against the boy’s face, he ground the hateful savage deeper into the sands before stomping him down flat. With no room to catapult away, the impact should have reduced him to a meat paste, yet Falling Rain endured the blow with little more than a grunt as the sand around him sprayed out in all directions. Frustrating, most frustrating, especially as the air of menace grew even stronger as it introduced an element of hatred into the mix. Strange to think that the source of this threat did not hate him before, for the boy clearly loathed this Sovereign with all his heart, which might well meant that this warning was emanating from someone else lurking nearby.

The Cloud Divinity? No, he was still embroiled in bitter battle against this Sovereign’s Ascended Transcendents, unable or unwilling to separate from the Rabbit Divinity who was the focus of Gen and Goujian’s attacks. This Sovereign had noticed this detail early on in the exchange, how the Cloud Divinity could have escaped at any time to continue his pursuit, yet he remained behind to help the Rabbit Divinity who was more than strong enough to defend herself. Strange, but this Sovereign would not question it so long as their poor decisions served his purposes, nor were they the source of this threat. Was it perhaps the dog Emperor himself, watching this from afar to warn this Sovereign from eliminating a promising seedling? No, there was no chance this Sovereign would ever fail to recognize the presence of his most hated foe, not even after so much time spent apart. The boy? Ha. A laughable notion now that this Sovereign had gone through the facts with a clear head, for despite his defiance, Falling Rain was on his last legs and merely putting up a token effort of resistance. Even he had no hope of victory, yet he continued to fight all the same, an unbreaking will this Sovereign almost admired if not for his boundless frustration.

Which left only the rabbit as the source of the threat, for there was no other life around them, and this Sovereign spent a full second studying the beast before dismissing the possibility as both ridiculous and preposterous. Spiritual Beasts had the potential for power unchecked, but this rabbit barely even counted as such, its Spiritual Heart merely a reinforced neck to keep it from killing itself with its signature headbutt attack. Stupid and weak, yet aggressive and exceedingly procreative, that was the bicorn rabbit in sum, and it was laughable to the extreme to think that this particular rabbit here could threaten this Sovereign in any way, shape, or form.

This was merely his anger and fear getting the best of him. It had to be. Putting aside his caution for now, he shifted his foot off the boy’s face and used it to pin his right hand in place. Materializing his Domain to form a flat and unyielding surface behind the boy’s arm, this Sovereign slowly but surely applied increasing pressure with his foot until the Domain Plated Defenses gave way and he was rewarded with the splinter and crack of breaking bones. To his credit, the boy didn’t scream or cry, and merely grit his teeth with a sharp exhale in spite of what was surely staggering pain. The Domain Deflection failed to do anything to stop this Sovereign’s might, for his power was now too fixed and focused to be shunted aside. Heaving a sigh of sweet relief, this Sovereign smiled as he set his foot on the boy’s left calf and repeated his efforts a second time, thoroughly enjoying the crackle of bone and grunts of agony that filled the silence of the desert sands.

Taking his time to savour each break, this Sovereign continued to torment his prey, knowing he had time enough to still make his escape. The right calf followed soon after, then the boy’s right shoulder and both thighs, but still there were no delicious screams to be had. How disappointing, but the boy was crippled enough save for his left hand, which this Sovereign left intact so the boy could continue cuddling his rabbit which was left for last. The boy knew it too, knew this Sovereign would make him watch as he tormented the little vermin, and his fear was delicious to behold as he tried his best to shield the rabbit from this Sovereign’s gaze. So bold and courageous when it came to his own pain, yet the mere prospect of his rabbit’s suffering was almost enough to unmake him. Little did the boy know that this Sovereign intended to keep the rabbit alive, make it endure a life of suffering just to put the boy in his place and keep him pliant for future study.

For this Sovereign’s moment of victory was close at hand, now that he’d secured his prize, Falling Rain.

“To think,” he began, taking great delight in lording his victory over the boy beneath his heel, “This Sovereign even warned little worm of the folly of his ways. Nature is a cruel and merciless existence where only the strong survive, yet still you burdened yourself with useless concepts like honour, justice, mercy, and integrity. If not for your foolish ideals, you, little worm, would be this Sovereign’s champion and Disciple, but instead you have become the filth beneath my feet.” Emanating an Aura of misery and despair, he set to work crippling the boy emotionally as thoroughly as he’d crippled him physically. “So brave in your ignorance, so courageous in your defiance, yet see what it has brought you? Unbearable pain and suffering, but this? This is only the beginning, little worm. Death will be denied you for centuries to come, even after this Sovereign unravels your secrets, with no possibility for escape even if you seek to expend your soul and Life Energy in hopes of nihility and oblivion. This Sovereign’s retribution will be long and arduous indeed, and this suffering only the beginning, and though you think yourself steeped in misery now, you will soo–”

A bark of laughter interrupted this Sovereign’s exclamations, one which bordered on madness and delusion, yet the boy’s amber eyes were as clear and defiant as ever. “You think this is misery?” he asked, laughing even harder at the dubious absurdity of his statement. “You think this pain unbearable? Ha.” A chill ran down this Sovereign’s spine as he took in Falling Rain’s statement, but it was not the words which disturbed him so, but what he saw in the boy’s unwavering gaze. Resolve unbroken and unwavering due to conviction bordering on insanity, for he truly believed what he was saying, that the pain and suffering from his current plight was little more than an inconvenience. “Broken bones? Punctured lungs? Torn muscles and ligaments? Psh. Nothing I haven’t suffered before. Life is suffering, but a wise woman once told me this; where there is life, there is hope, and I still have hope yet.” Grinning from ear to ear like a deranged madman, the boy let his statement hang for all of second before continuing. “As for misery? You know even less. You think misery your ally? But you merely adopted the misery.” The boy’s tone took on a disquieting cast, a pitchy, tonal quality laced with disdain and amusement which shook this Sovereign to the core. “I was born in it, molded by it. I didn’t see the light until I was already a man, and by then, it was nothing to me but blinding.”

Despite his bloodied and broken figure lying helpless underfoot, this Sovereign almost recoiled as the boy’s presence surged with darkness and despair in an Aura so palpable one could almost see, hear, smell, feel, and taste it, a dizzying cornucopia of sensations that left him frozen in place. “Let’s take a trip down memory lane,” the boy declared as the darkness consumed him and this Sovereign both. “And I will show you true misery.”

