In the end, she had no answers. It was easy to say she would die rather than accept torture when she was not confronted with her imminent demise without recourse. Once again, she was lucky to have an alternative. She was privileged to escape a choice that other women had made and would make between survival and their own integrity. Viv stood up without a word, fighting the urge to throw up. This time, it wasn’t just discomfort but a deep disgust for the man whose claws she had just dodged thanks to Solfis.

Or at least she prayed so.

Elunath didn’t protest to her standing up, stepping back to the entrance that now felt like the end of a long tunnel. Lani made a gesture to help her then stopped, fear in her eyes. Now that it was clear the woman was a slave in all but name, Viv could only wonder what horror she had been subjected to. A horrible new memory resurfaced. The blue mage had been recruited as a teenager, which meant Elunath was not just an asshole. He was a groomer as well.

“Take the contract and escort Miss Viv back to the entrance, darling. Make sure she doesn’t retch on the carpet. Oh, and I will see her next with the document signed or as a corpse. Is that clear?”

“Yes sir.”

He did not hold her back. Lani grabbed Viv’s hand to help her along. The moment their skin touched, a voice rang directly in Viv’s ear.

“He can listen to everything we say inside his house. Through much of the city as well if you are near the ground. Look, it is your decision to make. If you do say yes and sign I’ll be here for you. You will not be alone. It’s bad though, really bad. You made him angry.”

It took little effort for Viv to understand the spell. She only had to think a reply and Lani would hear it.

“Did he take it out on you?”“Don’t take responsibility for the actions of madmen. And sorry I didn’t warn you before. I… I was too scared.”

“I don’t blame you.”

“I’m sorry, still.”

Viv had a long look at her companion of misfortune. It was clear that the blue mage was terrified to her core under the designer clothes and makeup. Her figure was slightly hunched. Fear of Elunath must be so deeply ingrained after all those years.

“If there is a way, I’ll get you out of here.”

“My contract lasts for another thirty-seven years.”

Viv didn’t mention the obvious solution she had in mind to terminate said contract. The girl wouldn’t believe her capable of carrying it out anyway.

Sidjin was surprised and concerned to see her again so soon. Viv managed to reach him while Lani placed the contract on the lobby desk in case she changed her mind.

“Viv? What’s going on?”

“Later.”

They stepped out and Viv breathed a breath of fresh air. Then coughed again. She tasted blood on her tongue. Her gums were bleeding.

“Potion?” Sidjin asked.

“Yes please.”

A gulp of flesh mending potion later and she was feeling better. It wouldn’t last.

“What’s going on?”

“The indenture contract is a slavery one. An old variant that covers all my assets up to and including Harrak and my ass.”

His shock turned to rage in a moment

“I’m going to kill him.”

“Wait!”

Sidjin’s fury burnt like fire, the outrage turning his delicate traits into an expression of pure savagery. A red haze surrounded him, tasting of overheated blades. She loved him at that moment for being so angry on her behalf. They couldn’t do anything about it, however. Elunath would pulp him before he even breached the door.

They sat there for a while. Viv had never felt so tired in her entire life. It was a deep fatigue of the soul. It permeated her to her marrow as a new layer of pain after everything else she had already been through.

“We have to go, I know. I just need two minutes to recover. This has been a long damn week.”

She sighed deeply.

“Just one thing after the other. First my dad, then Rakan and now this. I feel like I’m being repeatedly kicked in the teeth. It’s more of a coincidence than anything but still. Where is the luck I was promised?”

“I’m sorry Viv. I wish I could help you.”

She shrugged.

“You’re here, aren’t you? Don’t feel bad, it's just that I should be furious and I don't even have the strength to do that anymore. At least not now. There’s been… a lot going on in a short span. I just want it to end.”

“And it will. Solfis?”

//The porter will place me upon the second horse’s back.

//Then he will deliver the message that we are ready to talk.

//Sidjin, you shall follow my directions.

Said porter executed his orders as if disembodied voices coming from boxes were an everyday occurrence. Viv could tell from Sidjin’s annoyance he had not realized the man he had hired was already in the golem’s pocket. It did not take long for Viv to be moving again, the music thing blasting rock in her ear to distract her from her pain. Between the flesh-mending potion still active in her body and the power of guitar, the ride back was not so unpleasant. Sidjin took quite a few twists and turns out of the noble district and onto the waterfront until they ducked under an archway to see a fountain nestled between three-storied apartments of old stones that looked a sneeze away from crumbling. Water gurgled into a murky pond, blocks of ice bobbing up and down. The place was deserted.

“Alright, what n—”

Sidjin never finished his question. A burst of air made Viv look up to the diving shape of a gryphon, its rider clinging to her saddle. The duo stopped in front of a panicking horse with clear hostility.

Sidjin stepped down and the atmosphere changed immediately. The rider simmered down. She was a young woman with scars on her cheeks, messy hair escaping from her helmet in oily strands, a far cry from the elite member she had seen during the riot. Nevertheless, her gear looked well-maintained and the spell scepter in her hand hummed with mana. Viv had never seen one in use but she guessed being at the receiving end would be briefly painful. There was something raw in the woman’s expression, one mirrored by the sullen poise of her mount.

“The witch and her bone thing can come. You’ll stay here.”

“I—”

“Neither of us get a say. Now hurry or you’ll blow my secret and then we’re all fucked. Hurry!”

Viv did as asked while Solfis surged from the crate like a devil out of its box. The gaunt creature jumped on the gryphon’s back with disturbing dexterity. Viv was lifted and placed between the armored woman and her golem. She smelled of old sweat.

“Hold tight because I’m not wasting any time.”

“Take care, my love!” Sidjin said from the ground.

Viv’s stomach sunk in her chest when the beast took off under a tremendous burst of gray mana. For the first time since Arthur’s departure, she was flying up and up. First, the warehouses shrank, revealing the endless expanse of the sea, then Helock appeared in all its sordid glory. Icy roofs and bare trees, the people, landmarks such as the arena and the temple of Sardanal. They were already high before the first fisherman looked up and then immediately down again. Just another griffin rider of Helock doing a patrol, nothing unusual.

Up and up they went. Viv moved her head but Solfis’ massive hand rested comfortingly on her shoulder. The wind was strong here, wet, carrying the scent of iodine and a bone-chilling cold she could no longer ward off. She gathered her robes around her. Didn’t even take the time to get changed after the duel.

They passed the first floating stone shortly after. The griffin moved weirdly, batting its wings a few times. Viv felt weightless for a short, disturbing moment. They climbed higher still. Her pilot didn’t say anything and neither did Solfis.

The griffin weaved between floating stone until they faced the chalice, the largest one of the lot by a degree of magnitude. Viv felt a moment of panic but Solfis said nothing. She knew no one was supposed to approach the floating island on pain of death because of magical tempests and whatnot. She could see a ring of power circling the whole thing, so dense a mundane would see it with their naked eyes. They were going straight for it. Roots grew on the flank of the reverse pyramid of raw stone that formed the underside of the massive structure.

And then she spotted it.

Invisible from under, a garden had formed, one of ancient trees and hedges around… no that couldn't be right, could it?

“Are those buildings?”

//Yes.

//Our destination.

“How did you even find this place?”

//I did not.

//It found me.

They crossed the boundary without issue. Less than five meters away, a bird was caught in a wind vortex that sent it down with a squawk. Viv spotted a circle of old stone that would make a decent landing pad and without fail, the gryphon landed them there.

Solfis took off on the spot, dropping her on the ground on weak legs. Their ride was off into the distance before she could utter so much as a thank you.

Viv took in her surroundings while Solfis waited for her to recover. This place was old, ancient even. It felt more like a ruin than a base, yet there were signs of subtle work everywhere from the lack of soil on the path to impeccable cut of nearby hedge even now decorated with tiny white flowers. The air was fresh and crisp up here, far from the sea and the mass of humanity. It was curiously silent as well. The wind felt too light for such an elevation.

“So, your mysterious prospect. You said you wanted to attack it?”

//I am programmed to do so.

//However, your safety overrides many directives.

//I am able to circumvent this specific rule as it is not hard-coded.

“Ok uhh, anything I should know?”

//I would not bring you here if I did not deem it safe.

//Reasonably safe.

//Although I admit to flaws in my predictive algorithm when it comes to politics, all the information I have gathered on our host concords with what he claims.

“Okay, so…”

///It will be faster and more efficient for you to meet him first.

//Rather than me answering many questions.

“Fair enough.”

Solfis guided Viv deeper into the ruins, then through a heavily enchanted door set into an ivy-covered wall. Inside, she found a circular room devoid of any furniture. Three doors led deeper into the chalice. A man stood at the center of the room. Many things could be said about this man. Viv immediately understood what Solfis had meant.

The first important fact was that the man was a mage, and an extremely powerful one at that. He even wore the obligatory robe and wielded an old-fashioned staff of black wood in his hand. It held the largest core Viv had seen used as a focus. More importantly, this was an expert of black mana if his aura was any indication.

The second fact was that the man wore his long gray hair in dreadlocks like some northerners did. They reached the small of his back in a waterfall of braids, ribbons and trinkets. It was rather colorful.

The third fact was that the man was very tall, powerfully built, and that he had a domineering aura that Viv couldn’t match at this stage.

The fourth fact was that the man was very, very dead. Taut skin stuck to his skeleton, his teeth bared in an eternal rictus. Twin blue flames brunt in his eye sockets.

[Elder archlich, extremely dangerous.]

“My name is Abenezigel. Be not afraid,” he said with a surprisingly soft voice.

Viv found it intriguing that the lich would pick such a deep and rich range, unless he didn’t and that was his normal tone from back when he had been alive. She stayed there, watching him with disbelief. It, no, he was a talking skeleton, and he was not actively trying to eat her face off while screaming about the dark gods and puny humans. The experience was both refreshing and disconcerting.

“You… are not afraid,” the lich said after a moment.

“Huh?”

She could not tell if the lich was surprised, or disappointed, or both.

“No matter. It will make our conversation easier. First, allow me to welcome you to the chalice. My home. I have ruled over it for three hundred years. Few mortals can boast the privilege of my hospitality. Be sure not to abuse it,” he said.

Viv nodded. Do not insult the powerful lich’s choice of upholstery. Got it. Not too hard.

Once again the lich seemed to wait for a reaction.

“Errm thank you for your invitation. I appreciate it.”

Viv could swear the lich was a little awkward. It was also a strange one, to be fair. The one she had fought against had felt unhinged, their body a mesh of bones. This one almost felt human by comparison. It also sounded more stable. She wouldn’t let her guard down, however. No central nervous system meant no hormones and, quite possibly, no guilt and she had already met one psychopath today.

“You are a strange woman, Vivane the outlander.”

//I told you.

“Yes. But where are my manners? Let us retire to a more suitable locale. Follow me.”

Solfis helped Viv through the closest door. They found a sort of lounge complete with a roaring fireplace. A steaming cup waited on a nearby stone table. The room lacked softness, yet it felt more lived in than Elunath’s entire domain. She sat gratefully.

“I fear I have no tea to share. This is plain water.”

“That’s fine.”

Warmth returned to Viv’s body at the first gulp. The lich waited until she was done. He was a rather polite fellow.

“I invite you to state your request,” he finally said.

“I’d like some help to survive my increased attunement by turning me part elemental.”

“Very well. It is as your golem said. I am delighted to inform you that helping you go through such a change is within my purview. I have studied the process extensively for my own sake. While my hand was forced too early to implement it on myself, I am confident I can guide you through it.”

“Oh that’s great.”

