“However, I require payment in return. I am sure you understand.”

The lich waited some more for… Viv wasn’t sure what it waited for. She nodded her head encouragingly.

“Of course, do tell.”

“Yes.”

He stood to his full height. Head tilted back and arms extended, the lich looked like some Disney villain in the middle of a monologue. It would be comical if Viv couldn’t feel the power radiating from those old bones.

“Three hundred years ago, I was betrayed. Three hundred years ago, I was forced into the form you see now by a man I thought my friend. He left me for dead and took my achievement for his own to the acclaim of the people. Yet, I did not give up. I held Enttiku’s hand at bay through will and arcane might. I became a lich. I strived to adapt to the change. I fought and persevered. I created the haven you now stand on and for three centuries, I plotted my revenge. Soon the time will come for me to exert it on those who have wronged me and the fools who harbor them. And for this I will have your assistance. The price of my help is justice; the target, Helock itself and its greatest liar… Elunath!”

“Fuck, yeah. I’m in.”

“I—”

The lich paused and this time, Viv was absolutely sure he was at a loss.

“You are?”

//Elunath has just tried to turn my mistress into a sex slave in exchange for her life.

//We objected.

//Our goals align.

//Which is most serendipitous.

//We accept your request.

Once again, the lich remained silent. For someone with obviously high stats he seemed to struggle with social encounters. Although, to be fair, the chalice was not exactly a hub of social activities.

“I have remained in isolation for many long years, only communicating with intermediaries so as not to instill fear and distrust in my partners. I dreaded and anticipated my first contact with mankind again. Many times have I imagined it in my daydreams with many different outcomes, most of them poor. I anticipated that I had to defend myself, my choices. I prepared arguments and counter-arguments. I gathered much proof of Elunath’s many treacheries. I believed this very morning that I was as girded for a contest of eloquence as I possibly could, yet now that I stand on the precipice of success, having fought no battles, and sustained no insults or slur, I have to admit that I find the resolution… rather anticlimactic.”

“Sorry.”

//I find that anticlimactic is best in some instances.

“Yeah, you know, when life throws you a bone…” Viv said.

The large skeletons fixed its cold fire glare on her.

“Sorry, it’s the fever.”

//Time might be of the essence.

“It would be best to discuss the details of the vengeance after your change, yes. I was led to believe that you had a black mana core?”

“Taken from an ancient necrarch. Here.”

Viv handed the precious sphere from her carry bag which Sidjin had mercifully remembered to bring. It also contained a change of clothes for post-resurrection herself as she doubted the lich had an overabundance of female clothes her size lying around. Solfis could get more as needed.

“Yes. This will do nicely. Please follow me.”

The trio left the receiving room, this time taking the central gate leading deeper into the complex. Viv had plenty of questions about the lich’s security measures and how the hell he had managed to build a base in a flying rock like a James Bond villain. The timing felt wrong, however. Mostly she was nervous. This was happening. Coming from an unexpected side and implying a campaign that would culminate in the death of an elemental archmage, an arguably daunting prospect, but still, it was happening. The lich led her into a large circular room quite obviously dedicated to rituals. A complex spell array already covered the ground, engraved in a metal that moved as if it were liquid. The work was exquisite. It was also the single most complex array she had seen since leaving Solfis’ original body in its underground hangar. An altar stood in the middle of this impossibly complex arrangement. A Viv-sized altar. She immediately felt a measure of concern.

“This isn’t what I think it is, is it?”

“Whenever you are ready, lie down on the altar with your feet facing the entrance. I recommend you to divest yourself of your vestment as they would inevitably be destroyed during the transition anyway. I have taken the liberty of drawing a bath in the nearby changing room if you wish to face this ordeal symbolically purified.”

“Is it a warm bath?” Viv asked.

The lich extended a metal-clad hand, more claws than fingers grasping the air in a dead grip.

“It is now. I apologize for the lack of forethought at a time of physical discomfort.”

“No problem, I will be right back.”

“Oh and since you might be concerned, please rest assured that this will be a medical act and that although I was originally a man, I am long past the considerations of the flesh.”

He turned to Solfis as if in question.

//I was never a man.

//I was always perfect.

“I will be right back,” Viv said.

The bath itself was barely more than a rectangular hole in the ground decorated by old bricks polished to a shine. The water was warm though no soap was available to wash the grime of the arena. Viv left her dueling robe and focus behind in a neatly folded pile. Her skin was pale, even for winter. Dark veins stood in stark contrast to the rest. Her stomach felt a little hollow and she realized she had not eaten anything in over a day. Her appetite was shot though she couldn’t tell if poisoning or stress were to blame. Her body still felt strong, or at least better than when she had first walked through the deadlands. It was an illusion. The black mana that devoured it from inside out came from her own magic this time, not the insidious air of a devastated Harrak. She finished her bath and walked out in the cold ritual room with her hair plastered to her skull. The cold ground under her sole made her more aware of her nudity than the disinterested gazes of the two beings who occupied it. She took her spot on the altar, which was inexplicably warm, and took a deep breath.

Really, it felt like being at the dentist.

The lich came to stand before her.

“Your companion wishes to attend the ritual to provide ‘emotional support’,” he said, “and I suspect kill me if I fail to wake you up. Do you consent?”

“Yes.”

“Good. The ritual will guide you through enough transformation to stabilize you, then the transition will gradually be completed over the following months provided we are successful. A strong will, power, and developed channels matter in your chances of success which you fortunately have developed extensively over the past two years. I am unsure what you will go through while you are unconscious, only that the soul will be partly untethered and active. I can only advise you to keep a strong sense of self within your psyche while you face what I suspect will be a very personal experience.”

“Alright. I feared it would be much worse than that.”

It was at that moment that the lich removed a thin dagger from a recess of its robes. It was so dark it seemed to drink the light from the room.

“The first step will require me to ritually kill you by plunging this dagger into

your heart.”

“Aw.”
