“Best to keep that separate. Let our Gate Lord have his own abode. The bunker might protect him from us, wouldn’t you agree?”

Shiv thought back to the temporary apartment he had in Weave and nodded slowly. “I think Adam would appreciate that very much. You are very kind and wise, Sister Uva.”

“Why, thank you, Bruiser.”

He physically flinched as she used the Challenger’s nickname on him. “Nope. Nopenopenopenopenope. Don’t call me that. Nope. Gods, no.”

The Umbral laughed. “I will talk with you soon.” And then she hesitated. “There is… something else as well. But that—I’ll tell you later. I need your advice.”

“My advice? What are you trying to cook?”

“Ah. No. But, yes, I would like to keep learning when we get the chance again. If we get the chance again.”

“We will,” Shiv replied without hesitation. “Don’t doubt it.”

She injected a dose of warmth inside him before releasing his mind. At the same time, Shiv gestured for Angelo to cross over. “Follow the thread. She’ll take care of you. And… Look, give it a while longer. I’ll come and talk to you about stuff. I don’t know what I can say or how I can make things better but… Well, when things get hard for me, I just do stuff. Maybe that can help you too.”

Angelo didn’t respond. Not immediately. Slowly, his eyes slipped past Shiv at the gate, and he let out a breath. “Do stuff,” he echoed. He let out a quiet laugh. “I see. Thank you.”

Shiv nodded. “Just… Do what you can or something, you know. That’s… You really should… Yeah, shit, I got nothing. Just keep yourself busy.”

The vampire began walking along the back of the basilisk, approaching the gateway in a trance.

Shiv kept his eyes locked on Angelo until he crossed over.

“Alright,” Shiv said, soaring back inside the Court Leviathan. “Who cut Male-Pregnancy in half? Whoever did it will get to taste some grilled leviathan steak later.”

“It was kind of a group effort,” Bonk said.

“Everyone’s going to get some grilled leviathan steak,” Shiv declared.

The orcs pumped their collective fists and resolved to commit more murders on each other for free food, and Shiv couldn’t help but chuckle.

Shit, they’re getting to me again. They’re going to end up making me feel like one of them before long.

And worryingly, there were parts of that thought that didn’t seem so bad.

Helix stood among the orcs with both arms behind his back. “Ah. Finally. You return. Now that you’ve had your break—”

“Hey, don’t give me that shit. You know I would have kept going.”

“Yes. Instead, you allowed yourself to get distracted with saving your pet vampire.”

Shiv glared. “He’s not my pet.”

The orc’s expression turned downright vicious. “Oh. But he’s not a whole person anymore, is he? One does not need to be a Psychomancer to read the ruinous misery in his eyes. Yet, you still care so much. Even though it seems you barely know him.”

All the orcs stared at Shiv. He just scoffed. “Yeah. I care about people and things. And you’re psychopaths. But that’s why there are no people here. Just things.”

Silver Tongue 28 > 29

“Ouch!” Bonk laughed. “You got him agitated, Helix. Not wise.”

Shiv flung himself across the room and landed beside Helix, brushing past the orc. “Now. Back to getting eaten by Courtney. You guys better put some effort in your Biomancy this time. If I don’t get an evolution when I hit the threshold, I’m kicking your asses.”

Helix smirked. “Oh, Insul. I promise to make this as much of a struggle as I can.”
