Washing the clams, she prepared a soup for him to eat, boiling wild herbs and tubers to fill his belly, a paltry offering. Things were difficult lately, Gen no longer bringing gifts of rice and fish, angered by her 'affection' for the supposed bandit. A foolish man with his head up his ass, his petty and domineering behaviour was off-putting. Were he a better person, she wouldn't mind marrying him, but he was too controlling and jealous. Merely speaking to another man was enough to raise his ire, and she'd not live her life like that.

With all her time devoted to caring for the injured warrior, she had precious little time to earn coin, but it would all be worth it if he survived and brought her away from this backwater village. Waiting for the food to cook, she spent a moment staring at his adorable face, the horrendous swathe of scabs healing nicely. He looked so young and sweet, it was incredible how he'd survived. Half-eaten and battered, he looked worse than a corpse when she first found him, but now, he was close to perfect health in little over two weeks. The Mother worked in mysterious ways.

The little warrior woke as the soup finished cooking, and she hurried to help him sit up, his eyes shut to hide the glare of the firelight. “Good, you're awake. Feeling better?” Wetting a wash cloth, she wiped his blushing face gently. After helping him wrap his eyes, she propped him against the wall and wrapped a blanket around him. “You need to eat, the Mother's healing has taken its toll on you.” Ladling out a bowl of soup, she blew on it gently, and held a spoonful out to his lips, feeding him slowly.

He ate in silence and she grew apprehensive as she watched his face screw up in displeasure. “My apologies for the taste, warrior, but I've no money for salt or spices and must make due with what I can forage.”

“Ah.” His voice croaked as he shook his head gently, swallowing hard. “No, I uh... it's delicious.”

Tittering nervously, she asked, “Then why do you grimace like I'm feeding you foul medicine?”

He chuckled. “Er, yea, I don't like clams. Or any seafood really. It's not your fault, the food's er... delicious.” Glancing about the room he asked, “Where are my things? My weapons and armour?”

“I hid your shield in the woods, warrior, and your armour was in tatters, but that was all you wore. If you are searching for your coin purse, I fear it lost in the lake, this I swear. I kept everything else in the chest, if you'd like to see.” Placing the bowl aside, she hurried to bring it out to display before him. “Great warrior, I advise we leave your weapon hidden for now. If the villagers learn you've a spiritual weapon, you and I will both be in danger.”

“What about my boots? And why would we be in danger?”

Rummaging through the chest, she pulled a single, tattered boot out. “Only the left one, the right one fell off and fish nibbled away at your toes.” Handing him the boot, she explained in a quiet whisper. “Here in the wilderness, the bandits hold power, and any bandit with a spiritual weapon is well-known. If you display your weapon, then people will know you for a soldier, and if word gets out that we're sheltering a soldier, the gangs will kill everyone here as an example. You've been blessed by the Mother, and I cannot allow you to die by their hands.”

“Ah. I guess I shouldn't tell people my name either.” Upending his boot, he shook it limply before handing it back to her. “Lift the soles out, there are coins hidden in the bottom.”

“You can tell Qing-Qing, I swear on my life to keep it a secret great warrior.” Her voice caught in her throat as she poured the coins out. Five finger-thin bars of gold tumbled out, her hands shaking as she reached for them, before shrinking away. A fortune, a veritable fortune hidden in his boot, who was this young man? Did he have more in the other boot? Was it worth the risk to go diving in search of it?

“My name is Falling Rain. You er, didn't find my Token did you? I think that's important or something, my badge of office.”

Overcome by the gold, it took several moments to realize the gravity of his words. Shivering uncontrollably as she stared at the adorable young man, her mind raced through the stories of the Undying Savage. The youngest Warrant Officer in the last thousand years, his strength forged in the heat of a thousand battles. The barbaric warrior who spit on the Society, the Council, and most recently the Butcher Bay Bandits, none were worthy of respect in his eyes. Mostly, she focused on the tales of his prodigious lust and how he openly threatened to rape the Magistrate of Shen Yun. He dared say that to a Magistrate; what might he do to a mere village girl?

Snapping out of her fugue, she pushed the gold away and prostrated herself before him, kowtowing repeatedly as she pleaded. “Please great warrior, this lowly one, I didn't know. Have mercy, I beseech you, have mercy. I am only a lowly village woman, unworthy of your attentions.” Even injured as he was, he only needed to lift a finger to kill her. Tears streamed from her eyes as she continued to beg, cursing herself for bringing calamity into her home. Gen was right, the savage would have his way with her and slit her throat when he was done, likely eating her to regain his strength.

His hand reached out to her and she flinched away, but too scared to flee, she froze in terror, panting heavily. “Calm yourself woman. I said it before, I won't err... harm you. You are my benefactor. That gold is yours, and more if you send word to my people. They'll come get me and I'll tell them we... er to reward you richly.”

She continued to cry until the soup was cold and her tears spent. Exhausted by his moment of consciousness, Rain passed out long before she was finished, and Qing-Qing shivered as she watched him sleep. She considered grabbing a knife and killing him, but having seen him survive such grievous injuries, she concluded that it would be more merciful to use the knife on herself.

Swallowing hard, she turned to stare at the gold bars scattered across her hut, picking them up one by one. Hiding them back inside his boot, she hugged her knees and shivered in the corner, praying to the Mother for guidance. After long hours of introspection, she rubbed her eyes and patted her face, heating up a bowl of soup for herself. His identity made no difference, not in the grand scheme of things, only sealing her fate to his. If word got out that she'd saved Falling Rain, the bane of the Butcher Bay Bandits, she would suffer greatly at the hands of the Spectre.

It would be impossible to send a message, there was no one she could trust. That meant she needed to bring him back to his people, on the other side of the lake, almost a week's journey for a healthy man on foot. A tall order for a young woman who'd never left the village and a grievously injured soldier, wanted dead by every bandit within a hundred kilometers. Glancing at the boot, she fought back her greed. Fleeing alone with the gold was no good, Falling Rain was her only hope of survival outside the village, the reason she'd saved the nameless soldier in the first place. Perhaps he'd even keep his promise and not rape her, although she didn't count on it. After all, the weak were fated to be fodder for the strong, such was the way of the world.

Settling down in her bed of straw, she watched him fearfully as she tried to sleep, visions of her sordid fate haunting her every time she closed her eyes.

Chapter Meme
