“Yeah, so, Marikos, he really didn't mean to do that. In fact, I don't know how much he means to do anything these days.” Shiv studied Marikos, who remained reluctant when it came to letting go of this slight. And something about that touched Shiv. Though Marikos was volatile, prideful, and more than a little impulsive—extremely so, in fact—he was someone who valued loyalty and the honor of those around him, and that was evident. Every bit of his outrage was not personal in origin, but something that flared in place of Shiv’s. When he watched his friend get cut down, he knew Shiv would return, but even so, he was willing to come to blows against a rival Legend over the treatment of their host.

“And that is something we can use to pacify him and further gain his loyalty,” the Harbinger noted. “But be honest in how you persuade him. If it seems like you are trying to manipulate him, it will sit ill with his fellow knights.”

I know, Shiv thought.

“Also, be careful how you apply your skills: your Cooking, Philosophy, and Pyromancy are all on the edge. If they fuse and the resulting skill fusion is ill-fitted for our intents, you could see yourself ruined or changed for good.”

And that added another slab of weight upon the scales of Shiv's apprehension.

“I appreciate what you tried to do just now,” Shiv said. He gave Marikos a moment to process the words.

“Of course, Deathless, but he has still broken the laws of hospitality; that fact remains unchanged. Even if death cannot keep you, what he did was more than a slight; it was sacrilege. It was the breaking of the only accord between even enemies! Such a thing cannot be allowed to stand. Such a thing must be punished! Even if his mind is addled and he is a broken thing, it is the act that matters. A Dragon-Knight, compromised in his self-control or poisoned of mind and heart, who strikes down a comrade in battle must also submit themselves to the mercies of the Union, for it is right. A single hound is but prey, and they who harm the pack in any way have struck a blow for the Abyss and against the only true kin they will ever have.”

Shiv took in his logic and began to calculate his response. It was a good thing Marikos wore his feelings so openly. He exposed just how much honor mattered to him, how much it ruled his thoughts and actions. More importantly, it also showed how collectivist his thoughts were. He cared because this affected the group. He cared because social bonds were being broken. The bonds between a host and his guests. Hospitality was a sacred thing to the Dragon-Knights—even more so than other cultures. That meant Shiv couldn't just brush things off and say all was forgiven; there had to be a price extracted. Candles needed to be punished in some way and marked in some fashion before Marikos would let this go. He simply could not surrender that feeling of offense on behalf of Shiv. For Shiv now was a vessel of broken honor, and that needed to be avenged.

And such went back to how blunt and narrow Marikos' mind and heart were. He could imagine no other way—it was like his own free will was channeled down a crevice instead of a wide valley of options.

“Do these judgments between the Descenders always end in death, or are there other punishments available?” Shiv asked. Marikos fell silent, but it wasn’t just him who was lost in thought. The other Dragon-Knights began contemplating as well, and with how long they spent remembering, Shiv suspected there was a whole chain of punishments and protocols that came with amending a wrongdoing. “Yeah. So. As the host who suffered this offense, Candles took a life from me, so I’m going to ask him to give me a life back.”

Those words cast a sudden but confused tug on all those who watched him. The Dragon-Brokers and Descenders locked onto his person, studying him to understand what he was insinuating.

These Words of Truth and Adoration 78 > 80

“I died. I came back. I got levels for that. I can even say this death was beneficial for me.” Shiv nodded. But then he locked eyes with Marikos as he tried to pull something smart out of his ass—because Shiv was going by his gut again, and struggled to put a plan together as he went along. “But I understand why you were offended. I’m honored that you were offended on my behalf, and culture matters. Making things right matters. But I don’t want more blood when it gives me nothing. No. He took a life from me, so I’ll want Candles to give me a life back. After we help him get better, of course. Service for… for…”

“A slight?” Tallowine, the thirty-meter-tall, greatbow-bearing dragon, provided.

“Yeah. Thanks. A slight. I’ll have to remember that one.”

My vocabulary is absolute shit, and if I'm going to be talking to more people and trying to solve more problems, I can't keep sounding like some kind of uncultured street rat—uh, also might want to think about how I address people. I doubt the ratfolk I met in the academy will like me to keep using rat as an insult.

“Life,” Shiv said, gesturing toward Candles. “He needs to get better, and after that, he can do better. Hitting him with that mace might uphold my honor and send a message and all that, but I think we can do better than that.”

“Because one must always keep profits in mind first and foremost,” Poverty muttered off by the side, his eyes gleaming with avarice as he looked upon Shiv with new appreciation.

Shiv hid a cringe and didn’t bother replying to that. His pragmatism was mostly a smokescreen to stop Candles and Marikos from killing each other.

Slowly, Marikos lowered his mace and shield—and his head followed suit. He looked down and radiated a slight measure of shame. “It is as you say, Deathless. Life for life. Your way is more magnanimous than I am comfortable with, but I will respect your decision. In fact, I will commend it. There is strength in this nobility—even if it is a nobility that stretches beyond my grasp.”

And with how much hate Marikos projected in the glare he sent toward Candles, Shiv quickly realized how relations had collapsed between Valor and his former friend.

“Perhaps this, more than his boisterousness, more than his blind sides, and more than his cultural arrogance, is his greatest weakness. He has a fragile, brittle heart, and the slightest spite will turn him from ally to adversary, one who simply never lets go of the wounds he's sustained.” A shared wariness formed between the Harbinger and Shiv. Everything they did with Marikos needed to be thought through in great detail, for with the slightest misunderstanding, they might find themselves out of grace and standing against him in active battle.

As gracious as Marikos behaved right now, his dignity and offered honor were as brittle as the spirit that commanded it. And for the first time, Shiv gained insight into what lurked underneath, and it was a simmering, rageful beast that slumbered lightly in wait for a reason to emerge and wreak havoc.

“In fact, I think it might be best that we prepare ourselves to face Marikos at some point,” the Harbinger said. “Because just as we might be able to manipulate him, a skilled deceiver could see him driven against us. Especially if the situation comes down to him and Valor, for there is no dignity he can do us that will see us favoring him over Valor.”

So we avoid that situation, Shiv thought. We are strategic.

“Just like you’ll be stronger than a Tarrasque? Just like you’ll out-cast a proper Mage? Just like you’ll outthink a genius?” Every question the Harbinger asked fell like a whip, and the pain and injuries Shiv sustained were real. Wounds appeared along his back as faint trails of vitality went whistling up into the air. “We are not weak, Shiv, but never lie to yourself about who you are and what you can do. Politics is a social-informational battlefield, and though I am a dangerous skill, would you pit my worth against Kathereine for the fate of the Gate? Do you think you can convince Marikos to stand down if his Semper Paragon demanded he claim the lives of everyone present?”

The answer was no. Shiv knew that. He just wanted to hope otherwise.

“Hope is a feeling. Keep it close to your chest, but not close enough that it becomes a lodestone which forces you to deny the currents of reality.” And then both Shiv and the Harbinger noted how Tall Ben was watching him—studying him. The Hydra-Knight was clad in heavy plate, and he moved with a languor that betrayed his power, but Shiv could practically sense the intelligence lurking behind the eyes of the Hydra’s many heads. “And mind how you act. That one sees us. He knows we are a threat—the Scribes have missed our capabilities amidst the tension and persuasion, but he sees. Watch him more than the others. But for now: Finish the potstickers. The guests need to eat. So do the residents.”

“Alright. Marikos. Flames, if you will. This time, don’t try to have a burn-off with Candles. Consider that a personal favor to me.” Shiv turned. “And Candles: burn a toad instead.” With that, he called upon his To Me My Toads armor skill, and they came raining down from an unseen place above.

“This was not how we were meant to be directed, Deathless!” one of them shrieked.

“I know,” Shiv replied apologetically. “But sometimes, to be a good cook, you gotta let yourself get burned a couple of times.”

Candles didn’t need any further persuasion. The moment the toads fell, his Pyromancy projected a chain of beams that sliced into them—causing them to combust and turn ashen, lifting their voices into falsetto screams, yet never truly harming them.

Having the power of Fairwoods bullshit is pretty useful. Gotta ask Evanescia how she managed to give a set of Awakened armor a Path—and if my other equipment can get the same thing.

As he thought that, she was babbling at his body in the Fairwoods about seeing one of his bodies placed in the Summer Court’s dungeon to make his coming escapes more dramatic. Shiv was more than fine with that; he wanted to hang around the space and continue training his Cooking against Princess Plum Blossom if he could. There were so many different dishes and beverages there that he could spend years learning about all kinds of cuisines. Loops there might turn out to be more of a benefit than a danger for me. Still need to see if I can convince her to send an envoy over—that’ll give me another social edge too. I can’t see her getting along with the Ascendants since she wants to be my main adversary, and they’ll get in the way of that tension.

Just more things he had to deal with.

In the meantime, the cooking resumed, and while the toads took on a burden of pain on Shiv’s behalf, the pot finally entered an era of controllable heat thanks to Marikos being the main Pyromancer tending to its base. Concurrently, Shiv added some of his own fire magic to the mix—if only to try and push the skill over the edge into an oncoming fusion.

“Are you even sure if a fusion is to be desired?” the Harbinger asked. “There will be changes to your Cooking skill. It might become something else entirely.”

Might not, but I do still have that skill-twinning reward Evanescia gave me. Worst case comes to pass, and I’ll just twin my Cooking.

“That is an option. But understand that doing that might sacrifice another useful skill.”

Everything is a sacrifice in the end, Harbinger. I can’t be everything that I want to be—I guess that’s the sad thing about potential: You have to choose what you dedicate yourself to, and accept everything else that you could be as an eternal question mark.

And as Shiv resurrected a new body to gather up a recently needed potsticker from where it lay upon a nearby block-sized tray, the change came. The moment followed. And while the Descenders and Dragon-Brokers looked on at Shiv, a quiet metamorphosis took hold within the Deathless—and every last instrument and ingredient infused by The Chef Unwavering.

The Chef Unwavering 99 > 101 (Skill Evolution Reached)

A Glimpse of Perspective 100 > 103 (Skill Evolution Reached)

Pyromancy 49 > 51 (Skill Evolution Reached)

Skill Evolution: The Chef Unwavering (Master) > This Meal My Perfection (Heroic)

Skill Evolution: A Glimpse of Perspective (Adept) > This Shared Monologue of Reluctant Gnosis (Master)

Skill Evolution: Pyromancy (Initiate) > Servant of the Unchained Inferno (Adept)

Skill Fusion: This Meal My Perfection (Heroic) - This Shared Monologue of Reluctant Gnosis (Master) - Servant of the Unchained Inferno (Adept) > Nihilism Be My Hearth, My Banquet (Unique)
