Schema mentioned Shalahora having cleared over a hundred planets. However, this wasn't the path he wanted to walk, and I wouldn't force his footsteps down that path. I frowned.

"Shalahora. You have murdered. You have killed. That doesn't mean that's all you can or will be. You're a lot like me in that regard."

"How?"

"There was a time when I thought I was going to be a monster, and I was afraid of who I'd become."

Shalahora murmured.

"And you escaped that fate. I did not. What has been done, is done. It can no longer be expunged from me."

I gazed at the runes covering the walls.

"You know what's wild? I still feel like a monster. Logically speaking, I know I'm not, but it's a hard sensation to shake off. The notion has this way of sneaking up on you when you least expect it. Personally, I think you're in the same boat. The thing is, you don't have to be some planet-wiping scourge for the rest of all time."

I weighed my hands back and forth.

"You could be a planet-saving guardian instead, and I think changing your path a bit will do you some good. You know, making some peace rather than waging some war."

Shalahora whispered with force.

"Lies and death are all I've ever been. They are all I've ever known. This task, I shall do it, but you must know it is new to me. I will no doubt fail."

I narrowed my eyes.

"Why? Are you going to self-sabotage or can it simply not be done?"

Shalahora's voice reverberated into our surroundings.

"It's not ability. It is a matter of my nature. You...You are trying to use a knife to heal."

I tapped his chest with a fist.

"A knife can choose if it's a sword or a scalpel."

I walked off.

"I'm not going to force you to do anything, but please, think about it. In the meantime, we'll be canceling tonight's training session."

"To what end?"

"I've got a few million people to shepherd to Earth. We'll need you soon for that, regardless."

Shalahora tilted his head.

"Who is it that you're bringing back to Earth?"

"The skeptiles. I've been letting them rot for a long time, and I'm going to go pick them up and give them a better home. That's the plan anyway."

As I walked off, Shalahora peered down, lost in thought. I left him to it while I headed to our local warp drive at Springfield. At the center of the town, dungeoneers lined up to use the currency exchange center, holding horns, spikes, bones, eyes, organs, glowing metals, and artifacts.

They sold pieces of eldritch or rare ores they harvested. As I walked by, they saluted or bowed to me before I said at ease. Beside the exchange center, the warp drive hummed without anyone coming or going. We locked down the warp drive from outsiders because of Elysium, and locals would rather travel to other cities for trade since warping costs a pretty penny.

Sparking from the first bit of activity today, an ionizing mist spritzed out of the cylindrical chamber, and out walked our grizzled albony. Helios brushed himself off, fog lingering on him.

"At your beckoning call, your majesty."

I raised a pinky.

"Excellent. If you may, I'd prefer more beckoning and less call."

Helios raised his brow.

"Whenever you mirror royalty's dignity, then perhaps we can discuss matters of decadence."

I smiled.

"Looks like that's never happening then. Where were you, anyways?"

Helios sighed.

"I'm managing many tasks at the moment. Even if I disagree with Obolis's actions, the Empire was my home. I am saving my people from Elysium when free."

He rolled a hand lazily.

"Though I'm prioritizing your requests above any pressing matters that may appear. Also, I'm assisting while preventing any further antagonizing of Elysium, though it isn't as if I'd be the first one to break our treaty."

His pale eyes narrowed.

"But I will be the first to charge forward after it's fully gone."

A mind of mine took note of that, chewing on the thought. I turned a hand to Helios.

"Good work then. Are you ready to let the skeptiles in?"

Helios cracked his neck before allowing mana to flow through his gauntlets.

"I am."

A rush of emotion coursed through me, but it was primarily fear. Months passed since making the deal with Obolis for the skeptile's freedom. Since then, the skeptiles had waited on me to arrange their transit, and I kept pushing it back for other matters. I did have my guild send consistent aid in the meantime, but aid wasn't a new home.

I wouldn't blame him if Tera was pissed about twiddling his thumbs for so long. Without any reason to postpone the matter aside from dread, I let out a sigh.

"Then let's give them the warmest welcome we can."

Helios grinned.

"I can't wait to see you get screamed at. It's actually one of my favorite pastimes."

Primordial mana hummed in his hands.

"Now then, let's cross the veil."
