Victor leaped easily up onto the kitchen counter and started checking out the sink.

“You hear that, Victor? You’ve got options. We’ll be all right no matter what comes up.”

******

Alden had to take his aunt back to the TC that night.

She held onto him and demanded that he drive the nonagon like they were at a theme park. He managed to keep everything he was responsible for onboard. Her cell phone would never be seen again, though.

“You okay, baby?” she asked later, standing in front of the departures hall with his arms around her. “This is a long hug, and your heart’s really going.”

“Yeah, I’m okay.” He stepped back. “Final instructions! See how Boe’s present is in a bag that says ‘Happy New Years’? That’s because he can’t have it until then. Don’t give it to him early.”

“I should be able to handle that much.”

“Jeremy’s levitator discs are heavy. Have you—?”

“I’ve got ‘em.”

“You have to make an appointment and go in person to the Chicago House of Healing to pick up the first aid kit I ordered for you. You can’t send Brodie or somebody else.”

“Another opportunity to meet that healer. Oh boy.”

He managed a laugh. “You’ll survive her. What else did I need to…?”

There was nothing.

“Don’t worry about me,” he said. “Take good care of yourself. And…I love you.”

“I love you, too, Alden.”  She reached out to touch his jacket. It was the custom one from Needle & Wheedle. He’d wanted to look nice today. “You grew up good.”

“I’m still working on it.”

She hesitated. “Sorry I wasn’t— ”

“Don’t.” He grabbed her in another, quicker hug so that she wouldn’t. “I hope I get to see the wedding. If the timing doesn’t work out, for whatever reason, have a blast without me.”

“Why wouldn’t it work out? We’re waiting on you.”

“Right. But if something comes up…”

He watched her leave.

The Teleportation Center was full of people, but as soon as she disappeared from view it felt like he was alone in the building.

That was it, he thought. Last thing on the list.

The time had gone by so fast. Like he’d been facing Arjun only a moment ago, instead of five days.

Stuart was expecting him to come over tomorrow. Noon Alden’s time would be around dawn at Rapport I.

“I am okay,” he said under his breath as he turned to go.

He was sure and also scared. He’d been sure and scared for days.

Hoping for so much while trying to plan for scenarios in which his hopes were crushed was starting to take a toll.

******

“I like this cat,” Lute reported from where he lay sprawled on the sofa when Alden entered the apartment. “The vacuum dared to move. Victor attacked. Now, he’s with Ham.”

The stuffed pig was on the floor, and Victor was curled up on its neck.

“If you have any trouble with him while I’m gone, call Emilija.”

“Victor, you’ll be trouble sometimes, won’t you?” Lute pointed at the cat and waited like he expected an answer.

Then, he sat up to see Alden better. “You’re planning to be back after the Artonan weekend?”

“I think so. I’ll try to call you if that changes.”

“Sounds good.” Lute flopped back down.

******

Alden packed his luggage before bed that night. After he’d zipped the suitcase shut, he rubbed a finger over one of the patches Stuart had used to repair a ryeh-b’t bite, then he set the bag aside.

He went to read over the notes he’d spent hours writing the day after Christmas. Each card was in a matching envelope with the recipient’s name on it. Boe’s was now in Chicago, tucked into the Happy New Years bag with the model caboose. Alden intended to call and tell him what it said before he ever read it, but just in case that couldn’t happen, it was a long letter.

He’d kept his chats with Boe normal for the past few days. He hoped it wasn’t the worst way to go about things.

The other envelopes were for Jeremy, Connie, and people here on Anesidora. His roommates. The girls. A couple of others. They all said personalized versions of, “Thanks for making my life better. If you’re reading this, I’m sorry I disappeared without any explanation. I’m making a choice that matters to me, so be happy for me and don’t worry.”

Each one had an unassigned ten thousand argold NesiCard in it. The first person to use the card would become the owner. And there was one designated specifically for whomever ended up keeping Victor. For a lifetime of topnotch feline care.

Alden looked forward to burning all of these notes and using the NesiCards himself. And he thought he would get to in most possible futures beyond the door.

The notes are fine, he told himself. They’re done. It’s all done. Hide them in your closet where they won’t be found quickly, and go to bed. You want to have a functional brain tomorrow.

Instead of listening to his own advice, he read through them twice more and spent too long moving them around to different hiding spots before he finally used one of the injectors Yenu-pezth had given him to knock himself out.

He woke up at four in the morning anyway.

******

Alden told himself he needed rest. Patience. He just needed to pee, then go back to sleep, get up at a normal hour, and wait for the call to come.

But he was sure that if the lights all went out in Apex right now they could just plug into him and power the island.

He found Victor roaming the living room and bothered him for a little while. He opened the fridge to look at the three huge clusters of grapes he’d picked out for Stuart. They were still there. Being grapes.

I’ll get dressed. That’ll take some time.

He put on his favorite Artonan-style clothes as slowly as he could. It only took five minutes even with him fiddling with every piece as much as he could.

He stood in the middle of his bedroom looking down at himself.

I’m going to have a heart attack before noon.

If Stuart’s still up, I can call and ask for an earlier teleport.

Or…

“Could…?” He swallowed. “Hey, for something like this…if I fly over to Matadero right now and step in an alcove, could you teleport me a few hours early?”

He paused.

“Mother.”

He remembered how it had felt last time he’d asked for a teleport like this. Like he was trapped. Giving up. Losing.

It didn’t feel like that now. Momentous, but not like that.

“It’s so nice to hear from you, Alden.” The familiar, feminine voice spoke in his ear. “Did you have your heart set on a long, cold flight? We can do better for you.”

“You answered.” Of course. She’d answered. “I don’t need to fly. Let me go get the grapes.”

He scribbled a note for Lute about his early departure, took the grapes from the fridge, and headed back to his room.

When he reached it, he stopped for a few seconds in front of the door.

It’s all right. It’ll probably be all right. Even if it’s not, though…

He stepped through and pulled the door behind him.

Alden left it slightly cracked, in case Victor wanted to get into his room, but it felt like he closed it with a slam.

He allowed himself to imagine all the others that must be slamming with it.

He grabbed his messenger bag and his suitcase. Everything was gathered.

“I’m ready.”

Nobody saw Alden leave Earth. Nobody saw him arrive in Rapport I.

But he hoped somebody would welcome him soon, here on the other side of the door.

******
