Astralis had never battled such a tricky foe before. The more he fought, the more it seemed to adapt. He had no choice but to go in for a risky one-hit kill. He shot up into the air, high above the low-hanging clouds once again. He then wreathed himself in starfire and plummeted like a celestial comet.

He would use his own body to secure victory. He broke through the clouds once more, rapidly gathering speed, and not a second later, he tore through his nebula and crashed down into the centipede, feet first. The creature's body imploded under the immense impact, with a satisfying crunch, as segments of ice and bone detonated outward in a cascade, along with ruptured limbs of stardust. Astralis didn't stop there—he drove it deep into the earth, pulverizing stone and shattering the terrain for icy miles. The force of his descent was so intense that it launched half of the massive dragon skeleton into the air—before it came crashing down in a thunderous collapse.

Astralis rose from the freshly formed crater that was steaming, one step at a time, with his wings spread outward. Nothing seemed to remain of the monster as he glanced around.

"Strange, I thought it might survive that," Astralis said, feeling disappointed. As he lumbered around the crater in search of any remains, the ice cracked underfoot. "A weak creature relying on borrowed power in the end," Astralis shook his head and looked back at the dragon corpse. It would have to suffice and pay for the Qi this monster wasted.

That's when he felt something coil around his foot. He quickly looked down and saw that three icy limbs had captured his foot. "It lives?" Astralis said, only for the whole crater to explode around him as if it were a maw trying to devour him. He didn't even have time to escape into the air as the living ice coiled around his entire body and grounded him.

"Father said I wasn't allowed to devour the dragon's bones," the childlike voice said from every direction, sending shivers down his spine. "But he didn't say anything about you."

Astralis tried to tear himself free, but the more he struggled, the colder the icy restraints became, and he could feel the creature sapping his Qi. "Bob..." he said, wincing as his scales cracked under the pressure, "we can talk about this. Who is your father? Let me speak with them."

"Food shouldn't talk too much," Bob replied. "Father is Father."

"But who is he? Maybe I know them."

Astralis received a reply in the form of pain as Bob seemed to bite into his wing. "I'll go supernova and kill us both before you can finish eating me," he hissed through the pain. "Now tell me, what is your father's name?!"

A desolation rift overhead tore open, and a man stepped through. He stood in the air above them, peering down with twin suns for eyes.

Astralis knew the oppressive feeling of a Monarch in an instant. While he had no idea who this Monarch was, he knew who could make desolation rifts.

That's when even more panic began to set in than his current situation of being eaten alive by Bob.

Was this creature's father someone who knew Ashlock?
