—Ah. There they were. Sitting behind some isolation wards at the entrance to one of the tunnels that led beneath the shrine, apparently. That made sense; the professors had probably decided they needed to get Kessi away from the rest of the students once she'd woken up. Cale wondered if she'd gained her own rank in fire resonance or if the whole incident had made her miss out.

Hopefully not.

"This way," he said, pulling a still-confused Damien along with him. "We need to tell the professors what's going on."

The wards the professors had set up were pretty impressive, now that Cale took a closer look at them. Or... were they just Graystalk's wards? They were all anchored into place with the same talismans he'd used to construct the trap earlier. The design was immaculate, considering his limitations—an obfuscation ward layered with wards against scrying, mana manipulation, even something that looked design to divert the attention of divinities...

No wonder Graystalk was called Mage Killer. This was impressive to the point of almost being overkill, though Cale supposed one couldn't be too careful. He wrapped Damien in a barrier bubble and strode straight through, causing Kessi to yelp out a little scream and very nearly fling a spell at him before Graystalk casually reached over to disrupt it.

The elven professor sighed. "I suppose it was too much to expect that you would knock," he said.

"You added a knocking function to the wards?" Cale blinked, then looked them over again. There appeared to be a ward specifically tuned for him to knock on. "Whoops. I missed it, sorry."

"I will be sure to leave a note in the future," Graystalk said dryly. "Now. What exactly did you discover?"

Delia sat up at this question, her expression intent. It was clear to see she felt she'd failed her student—there was guilt in her eyes, and she clutched Kessi protectively, though the younger mage protested and pushed at her professor.

"I'm fine," Kessi said. She hesitated. "But... I want to know too. What did you discover?"

Cale sighed. "Nothing you didn't already know," he said, nodding at Graystalk. "I'm pretty sure the Red Hunters are behind this. Our academy probably isn't the only academy they're targeting."

He held out a hand, revealing the golden bead, then quickly explained everything he understood about what had happened—the likelihood of shimmerdust poisoning, the way the Red Hunters had needed to set this up, and the golden fly positioned to interfere at exactly the wrong moment.

As he did, Delia's jaw tightened, her hands slowly clenching into fists. And judging by the bloodlust coming from her...

Well, Cale did not envy the Red Hunters that were installed at Haelforge. They were going to be in for a rough time.
