Flashback Biscuit

Pantophagic energy eats the Weredeer’s attack, eats a hole into the 10th floor, into the structure of the tutorial, and all the way out. But it isn't the only force doing so.

After all, this floor does belong to the Ruler of Lust, and she ensures the hole is wide enough, even putting one of her pets to work. Too excited and too worried that someone will take away this new addition to her menagerie, she leaves the Cerulean Parlor in a hurry, swinging her wings and teleporting to appear on the mark her pet placed.

Now she floats in open space, victoriously golden hair, eyes, and wings wide spread. One of her wyverns that helped with the process is there as well. Adult, yet it’s not all that big, barely big enough for the Ruler if she wanted to ride it. Yet, underestimating it would be a grave mistake. The wyvern is pale gold in color with pale red eyes, keeping their target surrounded by a barrier as the Ruler of Lust arrives.

“Good job, my precious,” Lust says lovingly, and the wyvern lets out a deep, happy noise, its red eyes constantly observing the area for danger as well as keeping track of the tear in space.

“And you, poor little thing,” the Ruler whispers as she touches the barrier and watches the corgi pup within. “That must have hurt, didn't it?”

The corgi is missing one of its front paws, and its side has a hole in it with a patch of fur missing around it. With eyes closed, it keeps twitching and whimpering.

“So brave, but oh so imprudent. But don’t worry,” she whispers, “I will make sure to raise you right, just like my other babies.”

A deep growl warns her, and she quickly follows her wyvern’s gaze, tracking it towards a nearby star. There, even at this distance, a noticeable lash of fire is taking shape. From it, a myriad of small orange sparks are shooting forth, pouring into space, spreading further and refusing to be choked out by the cold space around them.

The feylith’s eyes widen in horror as she snaps an order to her wyvern. Just as they start to teleport, a growl spreads through the soundless space, forcing them both to halt and shattering their attempt at escape.

The victorious gold of her eyes, wings, and hair is replaced by ash gray as her eyes tick towards the sparks heading their way and then to the corgi puppy. Her mouth opens and closes a few times as she struggles to make a decision.

And then she finds it’s been made for her. One of the sparks reaches them and dies off, in its place floats a big gray bear with orange eyes.

The wyvern roars, lunging before Lust can so much as flinch.

With a casual swat, the bear deflects the strike, sending white lightning arcing into the distance. A spark flickers, and the bear is suddenly, unstoppably, above the wyvern, slamming a massive paw down upon it with a force that shakes the beast’s entire being and stuns it. It then sinks its teeth into the wing to pin it, shearing through scales thought to be one of the toughest materials in the universe.

The orange eyes watch the Ruler of Lust while a barrage of attacks crash into the bear as the wyvern struggles to get out. White lightning, projectiles, arrays, mental attacks, spatial cuts. Yet nothing damages the bear as it simply continues to bite deeper and shake the wyvern, causing it to roar in pain while the bear watches on calmly.

“We’ll leave! Please!” the Ruler of Lust begs and halts all movement of her mana.

The wyvern stops moving, just hanging there sadly as the bear bites harder and bone cracks, causing it to roar in pain. Even then, no one dares to move.

Only then does the bear let go, and both wyvern and feylith disappear as quickly as possible.

The bear, licking its maw covered in wyvern blood, reaches the puppy sized corgi and shrinks to the size of a normal brown bear. It pokes the place where the corgi is missing a paw with its nose and sniffs a few times. Then it carefully licks the tiny animal.

In the end, it gently bites into the pup’s scruff and lifts it up, and then disappears as the nearby star flares up again.

POV Biscuit´s disciple

It’s on a planet set in one of the long forgotten parts of the universe, those on the edge of one of the biggest battlefields of the System War. It’s a battlefield where many gods died, and the currents of many energies continue to color the galaxies like polar lights where mana still doesn’t function quite as it should.

On one of these planets, a young pitch black wolf with golden eyes stands, overlooking the far stretching plains of one of the oldest planets in the universe. Waiting for his prey, he has his head lifted, parsing the scents the wind carries until he feels something unexpected, but familiar.

The wolf moves quickly, lowering into an incredibly fast sprint, with slight flashes of primordial energy devouring the space ahead of him to make his leaps that much longer.

Tracking the scent, he barges into the quiet, dark forest where many of the trees are older than planets, and halts when he notices a single orange spark. The wolf doesn’t hesitate and follows it over the next few minutes. And there, on the moss beneath a large oak like tree, he finds a tiny corgi pup, and the orange spark disappears.

“Master!” The wolf shouts and jumps closer, poking the tiny animal with his nose repeatedly, but quickly calming as he realizes the corgi has just been rendered unconscious.

After looking around, the wolf sits down and looks around once again, golden eyes narrowing as his primordial energy reaches towards the puppy.

He sighs. ”Oh, master, I told you to be careful about how much you use.”

The wolf shrinks a little and pulls one of the enormous leaves from the tree to lay it out on the ground. Then, very carefully, he pushes his master onto the leaf with his nose, the corgi barely taking up half of the leaf.

“The Elders will be angry, and the Great Elder probably already noticed a change in our primordial energy, but it doesn't matter!” The black wolf begins to shrink further and further. It continues until he is of a size comparable to the corgi pup: a tiny wolf pup with fuzzy fur and a round belly.

“You are very young, master! But powerful. I always thought you could carry our will, be someone to use our energy with a strength none of us could match, and take revenge in our stead!”

The wolf pup grabs the stem of the leaf and begins to pull it, along with the corgi puppy on top.

He still talks, though his voice is muffled because of the stem in his mouth. “Ebwen if your primordibal energy is gone now, you are stwill my mbaster! Bubt don't worry, we will help you gebt it back!”

POV Tess Hansen

Maybe I should declare for myself that the desert is pleasantly cool with a constant breeze. Would something like that even work with this mysterious skill of mine?

I stop to take a break, making sure to keep my mana signature hidden and my body tucked behind one of the nearby rocks. I’m confident that I’ve drunk more water already in my time on the 11th floor than I did in all my previous time in the tutorial combined, even if I drank not long ago, I take out my bottle and take a small sip, stopping myself from drinking more.

Peeking from behind the boulder, I look in the direction I’ve been heading in. My sight strengthens and expands, and my eyes zoom in several times over until I see that structure once again. It is 50 or so miles away. Ambient mana bounces off the structure and the walls, offering shielding that prevents me from seeing the mana signatures within.

I sweep the area again and then dash forward, turning myself into a burst of crackling lightning as I keep myself low, jumping from stone to stone. My speed gradually increases to the point where it’s almost as fast as teleportation would’ve been.

When I stop, I’m still a dozen miles away, but I don’t need to go any closer. I already see everyone outside as if they stood in front of me. As long as I’m just using my senses, they can’t sense any of my probing, and I take full advantage of it.

What I’m looking at, we think, is part of the Aurate Consortium, also called The Corporation, outside of the tutorial.

Even here, during the time the record of this floor was made, they’re one of the most powerful organizations around, and I’m waiting to see their Adjudicator to confirm my suspicions. We’re on the day side of this tidally locked planet, so no matter how long I wait, no cool, refreshing night is coming to contest this heat, nor to hide my signature. Yet all I can do for now is wait and hide.

I calm my breathing too, slowing my heartbeat to just a few beats per minute, and my mana barely moves in the meantime. Even my body is perfectly still as the sand gathers around me. I don’t blink or use my [Psychokinesis] as sand gets into my unblinking eye, while the other remains hidden behind an eyepatch. The entire time, I hold my breath.

And the Adjudicator finally comes. Out of the sky, a bright white plate-shaped flying object descends, stopping near the base. At the base of the object, a hole opens up, allowing multiple figures to drop down to the sand below. Almost all of them are wearing suits with tubes coming out of them, and some even have containers on their backs.

But one of them isn’t wearing a suit. Instead, the Adjudicator is just as they were described to me by one of the talnium extraction teams I met.

The Adjudicator has a womanly figure, and unlike everyone else's pale colors, she wears a black jumpsuit that covers her entire body, even her head, even her eyes are hidden behind a darkly tinted glass visor. But that jumpsuit is now damaged from some fight she must have gotten herself into.

My heartbeat slows even further until it stops fully, and I forcefully keep myself from shaking. A small lizard runs across my skin as I stand there, while they make their way into the building that then leads to tunnels underground. Even then, I stay there for another ten minutes, not daring to move.

Only then do I allow my heart to beat once more, slowly and gradually. The process takes a few minutes before I finally return to normal. It’s not as easy to use as Tacita’s or Lyraen’s fields, but I’m confident it’s something that’ll give me a better chance of hiding from someone with good senses like Nathaniel.

Once everything’s back to normal, I explode into movement and turn myself back into lightning, moving back much faster than before and taking a roundabout way to ensure I’m not tracked.

But my run slows down as, in the hazy burning air of the desert, I spot the figure wearing the black jumpsuit standing on top of one of the dunes. I find my eyes being pulled to her face, confirming that she’s looking straight at me.

The mask of the jumpsuit is half burned and torn, revealing fair skin, golden hair, and violet eyes. Even partially obscured, the face is unbelievingly beautiful.

As quickly as I can, I lift my hand with the Ring of Preserved Status on it, and a thousand red and white lightning projectiles form behind my back. The crown over my head dissolves, and the sunny day grows darker as storm clouds block out the light.

Yet still I hold fast, keeping my hand in the air and ready to swing it down. I giggle when I feel my quickly beating heart and smile, moving a strand of hair from my face as we stand, facing each other. It’s so scary.

The Adjudicator moves first, and half of my projectiles shoot ahead as she begins to weave in between them, breaking some and taking direct hits from others. They splash against her, merely damaging her jumpsuit while leaving her skin untouched.

If I had to compare her movements to anyone, it would be Lily. She’s faster, but she doesn't move like Tacita. Her movements are just like our healer’s, powered by an incredibly powerful body, straining and tearing muscles only to heal them so quickly that the wounds never show.

I shoot the other half of the projectiles and turn around to burst into a dash that turns to lightning as I head forward in a straight line, continuing to pick up speed. The storm clouds twist like a whirlpool, and from them, lightning crackles in a blink, reaching me and hitting the space over my head as my crown reforms.

Before I can even react, she’s behind me, stabbing her hand into the lightning and forcing me to materialize as she pulls back.

My fist, covered with lightning, crashes into her face, but she doesn't even bother avoiding it. She takes the hit expressionlessly, and her hand moves, slamming an open palm against my chest as I drop reinforcement on the rest of my body and focus it all on the area as she strikes me again.

My heart stops beating, and my lightning cracks within me, restarting it as I take a deep breath and activate one of Lily’s healing marks. Lightning surrounds me as I duck under one of her attacks, concentrating on moving faster and slamming my hand against her chest with as much force as I can manage, and breaking my hand.

The Adjudicator just shrugs it off and follows me as I attempt to flee. She grabs my leg to slam me against the ground and stomps on my chest as I defend again with all I have. Under that confusing attack, my heart stops beating again, and my lightning kickstarts it once more, this time slower.

I use another healing mark from Lily. With mana oscillating across my hand, I cut off the leg she’s latched onto, turning into a streak of lightning, white and red, trailed by the further red of my blood.

From the ring, I pull another attack: a small cube that expands quickly, locking her in a cage made of lightning. My crown disappears again, pulling the clouds from the sky just as she pushes through, with all of it failing to damage or stun her in the least, just barely slowing her as she does.

I stop, and my rapid heartbeat calms down as I watch her. There is just a tiny bit of mana in her body, I can tell, as my eyes finally pierce through. She has no heart, and there’s a small box in the middle of her chest instead, a mana battery to power just the tiniest bit of the skill she’s using. Something that’s currently receiving communication from the base.

And that’s all. She’s barely using that mana, the rest is the simple result of the raw power contained within that body. The strength of those muscles and the insane regeneration.

This time, I fly high into the air, and two more healing marks restore my leg as I look down at her. And of course, she jumps up. She then leaps off the air itself towards me. Not with mana, but by stepping against the air itself so fast and powerfully that it solidifies beneath her.

As she heads higher and higher, I reach my hand towards the sky, towards the clouds, and then beyond them. Much further beyond them. Towards a javelin made of endurium, hanging in orbit of this planet. I have declared it to be mine, and so it is an extension of myself.

