My lightning crackles and appears around it as I swing my hand down with all the power I can gather. And then I continue to add more. I pull on it with all my force, filling it with more lightning as it travels.

My floating golden hair swims around my head, blocking a portion of my view for a moment, and just as she is about to reach me, the sky screams. The dark clouds are pierced and disappear as a straight line is drawn down from the heavens, attempting to catch up to the javelin. It slams against her. At least, I think it does. Even I can’t track it with my eyes, but the next moment, just before she is about to attack me, she is gone.

The entire sand dune under me explodes outward and then further. All of the sand rises up into the air as a wave, taking more and more dunes with it as a hole is dug into the base of the black rock underneath.

And looking down on it, I see movement.

So I pull another javelin, drawing a straight red and white line that slams into the same spot with the loud crackling of lightning, shredding the silence and sending a burst of sonic waves tearing outward.

Then a third, all of them slamming into a spot the size of a coin, but the movement still doesn’t stop.

I watch her broken arm simply reform, and the hole in her chest close. I don’t even see the process. One moment there is damage, and the next she is healed.

I allow my [Psychokinesis] to feed on my mana, and all that sand and red rock rise into the air to plug the hole in hopes of slowing her down, as I rush away.

Giving it a thought, I decide it’s not enough, I can’t leave a chance that she’ll be able to track me to the others. I will deal with the consequences of using the token this way later.

Sset (Hell, group 4) - I’m going to Beyond.

I send the message in the Community before I use my token, appearing in the headquarters of the Silent Veil. Me leaving should clear the tracks and ensure that the natives forget they were ever tracking someone.

Looking around my clean and spartan room, I check the mirror, clean myself up, and change clothes before heading out. The headquarters isn’t big, as this guild never has too many members, and everyone is A rank at least. But it is cozy, with a lot of red color and dark brown wood.

I’m early, but there are already a few members preparing for the expedition to the 5th floor in a few days, and I greet a few of them with a smile, even as I still feel my hand shaking and heart beating wildly, but I force myself to keep my expression calm.

I wonder how many of them know that the Adjudicator is one of Kindness’s clones, likely grown from the very flesh The Corporation has access to. And I wonder how much goodwill and shards I can get for sharing this information.

Small Talk Only - Live Podcast

19 million concurrent viewers

“Rafael, so here we are again. Is this our fourth time speaking? It’s been almost a month since the last time anyone saw you, and we were getting worried. I’m betting that today is the day when Septa will finally let me pet her. So, how have you been enjoying your role as Christoph’s Herald? You know that's what they’re calling you?” Faye Hard asks, smiling at him while sitting very comfortably in her own chair.

Meanwhile, Channeler, also Rafael by his real name and now the man known as the Herald, sits in a similarly comfortable manner, though he is wearing a black shirt that’s been left unbuttoned to show his collarbone, and his sleeves are rolled up. His golden hair is a bit longer than before, and he continues to smile in that nonchalant, confident manner.

“‘Herald’ has a nice ring to it, even if it’s a bit dramatic. And as for Septa, I’m afraid she’s a bit of a snob when it comes to new friends.” He says while he looks at the spider currently standing on the table in the background of the cozy recording set.

As if listening up until now, one of the spider’s legs, which reaches up to a human’s knee, moves and flicks a vase off the table.

Faye doesn’t even seem surprised and smiles charmingly. It doesn't even seem like she is aware of the viewers from the way she’s acting, though she knows those numbers very well. After all, every word from the man sitting across from her represents another man, a man that some groups have even started to worship and whom many leaders, under pressure or fear, have begged for help.

Still, she doesn’t rush the point she wants to talk about and tries to keep the conversation light. She controls herself by keeping a calming smile on her face, but at times her fear becomes noticeable, at least to the man sitting across from her.

At one point, they play a game where she reads the comments left under videos of individual tutorial attendees. At this point, there are many such videos, and some of the attendees have become quite famous, mostly the ones still in the tutorial, even if those who already returned as superhumans still scare and fascinate many.

“And now to the last set of comments on the young man with two differently colored eyes,” Faye catches up, seeming a bit embarrassed, and her smile becomes a bit more honest as she says, “The first one reads ‘i can fix him’ and is followed by another comment that has a dog licking its lips emote and text saying: ‘I can make him worse.’”

“Faye, seriously, I refuse to answer this one,” he says for the first time, and both of them laugh.

As that laugh slowly dies off, Faye takes a deep breath and says in a quieter voice, “I have to say, what Christoph has done surprised all of us, Rafael.”

“Let’s be honest, Faye. You don't have to be careful with me. That’s why I’m here.”

“It is scary, you know.”

“I get that. I really do,” Rafael nods, his smile turning gentle and reassuring.

“He killed a lot of people that day, Rafael. And-”

“May I?”

“Please.”

Channeler sits a bit more upright, and his smile weakens. “I think a little bit of fear is reasonable. People should be afraid because what is happening to Earth is scary. We are currently caught up in a Pairing with not just one planet, but two. Just yesterday, I shared information with our Vice President that the gravitational pull of Earth will continue to get stronger. The moon will soon be pulled closer, and in the following months, it will continue until it breaks apart.”

“And why did you speak with the Vice President and not the President, Rafael?”

“Because the President was part of the problem Christoph had to deal with. Along with several other leaders who weren't up for what's coming.” He leans closer, holding her gaze with a calm intensity.

The number of viewers jumps up as people continue to join and watch, some out of fear, others out of curiosity.

In the past month, a lot has changed.

“Faye,” Rafael continues in a smooth, confident voice, “Christoph is capable of things you haven't even seen yet. He’s going to handle the moon so it doesn't just rain down on our cities. He’s the one who’s actually going to keep us safe as the Pairing progresses. I know it’s a violent change, and that’s hard to swallow, but…”

He stops and smiles while shaking his head. “Words do not matter. Neither of us is a politician promising one thing while doing another. We will let our actions speak for themselves. But Faye, I’m sure you are aware, what did the people that died have in common?”

“They were widely acknowledged as corrupt.”

“Exactly. And look at the streets. Was anyone else targeted? Were any homes destroyed? Did we hit a single person who was just trying to live their own life?”

Faye shakes her head, and Rafael continues, “The world is better off without those people. They were parasites, leaders who hoarded resources while everyone else struggled, warmongers, people who didn't even see the rest of us as human, and-"

The conversation continues on a bit longer. Rafael answers a long string of questions, including many from an audience that refuses to hold back. Many ask what gives him the right to decide, some ask how confident they are that the people who died were truly bad, and others ask how anyone can be sure some of these people weren't killed simply because they stood in the way.

Rafael answers all of it, calmly and confidently in his own words, with an attitude that keeps him from seeming defeated, or like he’s trying to justify his actions. He is there just to inform.

Once it’s all over, he leaves the set and is driven to the airport, where he boards a private jet.

Just as the doors of the plane close, he freezes, seeing a well-kept man who seems to be in his early 40s sitting there with Septa already beside him. They stare at each other, and Channeler then sits down across from him as the plane begins its preparations for launch.

“I have to thank you, I personally wouldn’t have been so patient,” Christoph smiles, and Rafael answers.

“I hate it.”

“You will get used to it,” the man sitting opposite him says, looking out the window. “Most of these people will remain simple humans, and die in fifty or sixty, maybe even seventy years. Even if some of them get brave enough to level up a few times or if healers spread new medicines throughout the land, most of them will live just over a century or two.”

The plane shakes, and the lights on the launchpad peek through, reflecting inside the cabin.

“It won't take long before everyone on the planet is replaced with people who were born after the Earth’s awakening and grew up under our leadership. All this complaining, all these people talking about democracy, religion, countries... To us, it will be remembered as... a fleeting nuisance.”

POV Warden of the Parallax Eyes, Kyralon

I take my eyes off what’s currently happening on Earth and allow them to deactivate, cutting the power to my tower and the field around it that is strengthening my sight. As the hum continues to weaken without an active power source, I turn to watch Greed, who is sitting nearby, drinking one of the best alchemical wines I’ve been saving for a special occasion.

Greedy as she is, she almost never uses her own when something free is available for her to take.

“What happened?” I ask her, curious about her visit.

Ruby looks at me before taking another long sip and looks at the glass in her hand. “Pride just cleared the 14th floor of Beyond.” She watches the liquid slosh. “And I have learned that the First Dungeon has 20 floors, so at least that’s nice.”

“But that isn’t all?” I ask.

“It is not,” she shakes her head, throws away her glass, and takes long sips straight out of the bottle. “All of the Rulers just got a quest to kill the Ruler of Pride. The rewards are one of his active skills at its current level, awarded even if you already have 10 skills, and an upgrade token.”
