That did the trick, the lad set off to pack, and Orodan made way past the workshops of scrap town and towards the mines.

A quick jog had him nearing his destination, though in the midst of a torrential downpour. The approach to the mines looked perilous and well-guarded. Towers bearing devices which cast high-beam lights lined the walls. And bladed wire fencing designed to keep the workers in than keep intruders out was uniformly emplaced on the inner side of the fortifications. Jagged spires of rock surrounded the entrance too, making any approach from the sides difficult for a conventional infiltrator.

And any successful attempt at climbing the rocky terrain would then have to deal with the sentries atop their towers. Rough-looking men and women with custom gear and weaponry; mercenaries. Some of them had large, oversized rifles too, undoubtedly capable of doing serious damage to even Grandmasters.

Orodan’s solution was a simple one…

…walk past them all.

Seemingly invisible to the guards, Orodan casually strolled through the gate and into the outer area of the mines.

The workers certainly noticed, something Orodan allowed as they were the only group he didn’t target with Incipience of Infinity.

“Who the hell’s that madman with a rag over his head?” one worker asked, taking a break from throwing ore into the carts.

“By the King’s arse…! The eye holes are cut out on the back of his head! I ain’t approachin’ that lunatic…”

“Hey, get back to work you two! What’re you lot bickering about?” a nearby guard asked.

“Look ser, some nutter with a rag on his head is traipsin’ about!” the worker pointed.

“…have you gone mental? There’s nothing there! Now load these carts before I remind you how the butt of my rifle feels!”

The workers were clearly bewildered at the fact that the guards simply couldn’t see him. A commotion began as more and more tried pointing him out but were ignored or occasionally even given a shove and told to get back to work. The workers took the hint and returned to what they were doing soon after.

Normally, if that many workers drew attention to something unseen moving about that only they could see, the guards would have rightfully been cautious and heeded the warning. Mages were a part of life on Lonvoron, and mercenaries weren’t ignorant to the possibility of invisibility or illusions.

Of course, when under Incipience of Infinity’s effect, the matter was a different one. If confronted with logic as to Orodan’s existence, the afflicted would simply double down and get angry as their minds refused to confront the reality of his existence. It wasn’t invisibility nor an illusion, but outright intimidation and instinctual terror. Attempting to reason with them would simply make them irrationally angry, a defense mechanism as their minds wanted to protect them.

Orodan climbed up the watchtowers and began knocking the sharpshooters and sentries out one by one. He also disabled the alarm system which would alert the constabulary and had given the fort enough reason to send steam knights and a military force after him last time. In tandem with Incipience of Infinity, Orodan took the perimeter guards out entirely.

[Stealth 20 → Stealth 21]

As he began moving inwards, the workers began to notice something was up.

“H-hey! Hey! That nutter with the rag is takin’ out the guards!” one shouted.

“To hell with this! I ain’t gettin’ involved in that mess!”

“Look! The tower watch is down! Time to make a run!”

“You’re not goin’ anywhere you sick freak! Always hated your sort!”

As Orodan worked to deal with the guards outside the mines, the workers were engaged in a commotion as several of them ganged up on a particular one. The violent scuffle caused enough noise that a few guards from inside the mines came out, and soon enough a warning shot was fired into the air to disperse the violent attack.

As the crowd cleared away a dead body remained on the ground, covered in stab wounds, scratches and bruises. The guard initially looked ready to round up a bunch of the workers for interrogation, and then, the woman noticed the identity of the deceased. She didn’t look too displeased by the outcome either.

“What happened to him?” the mercenary asked. “Hmm… a shame, the wounds are consistent with mauling from a cave centipede. I see his friends were tryin’ to tend to his wounds? Quite unfortunate that he didn’t make it.”

Nobody said anything to challenge such a ridiculous cover-up either.

At least until a certain greasy foreman exited the mines after hearing the commotion.

“Who did this?!” Elwin Clemmings roared, spittle flying from his maw as his furious eyes swept across the gathered lot. “First, I lose a skilled laborer, and now workers are turning up dead?! I’ll have everyone interrogated and flogged for this!”

“Not sure how this happened Mister Elwin,” the mercenary guard said.

“You’re lying! I heard a bloody gunshot you stupid harpy! You think I don’t know that everyone’s wanted that filthy prick dead since he got here?!” Elwin roared. “I’ll cancel the contract for your whole company and report you to the crown!”

“Now take it easy boss man, you’re overreactin’ a bit I think. We can hardly be everywhere, aye?” she asked, trying to pacify the angry foreman. “Not like anyone’s going to miss that sack of dung. Morale might even improve!”

“That was my sack of dung! I’ve been strong-armed one time too many today, and I’ll be damned if anyone else thinks they can get one up on Elwin Clemmings!” the foreman barked. “Ask the sentries on the tower what they saw!”

“Sentries? What sentries are you talkin’ about boss? Just us here.”

“Are you daft? The tower guard you brutish thug! Ask the guards on the tower what they saw and make it quick! A punitive mood’s struck me tonight!” the foreman said, and then looked up.

Elwin Clemmings’ face turned from angry to suddenly wary.

“We don’t have any tower guards around ‘ere boss man, quit pestering me!” the guard retorted, getting angry.

The foreman began to get nervous, understanding that something was up.

Smart man. Orodan hadn’t bothered touching him with Incipience of Infinity this time, which meant that Elwin Clemmings and the workers were the only ones unaffected by Orodan’s disguise.

Not only did Incipience of Infinity terrorize people into rejecting Orodan’s existence, but it also caused a strong negative response to being pestered about any discrepancies caused by him. It was a monstrously powerful skill for maintaining his anonymity over a long loop.

Much like the previous time looper had an ability to control what information was uttered, so too did Orodan now have a way of moving about quietly. Like an aura which shot out, Incipience of Infinity could affect a large area, making it so that nobody would recognize Orodan’s presence or the effects he had.

Now though, the jig was up. And Elwin Clemmings the greasy foreman of Port Bellgrave turned around…

…to see a man who stood two heads taller smiling down at him.

“Greetings.”

#

“I’ll get you one day. Let’s go again.”

Orodan dusted himself off as he rose from the ground. He wasn’t hurt, the ‘spar’ they were engaging in wasn’t at all destructive. Of course, under the limitation of using Dimensionalism only, he was at quite the disadvantage. He refrained from utilizing copious amounts of power too, as that would’ve not only been destructive, but drawn attention and defeated the purpose of the training altogether

Just how he liked it. Even if Orodan’s opponent insisted on knocking him to the ground each time to hammer his defeat in.

“So eager to be thoroughly trounced once more? Your resolve is admirable at least,” Talricto said, adjusting his stolen hat. “If you can disturb even a single fibre on this elegant hat, I’ll consider it your win.”

“Alright, I admit it… your silly hat and singular spectacle are beginning to grow on me.”

“Hah! How many loops did that take you to realize?”

“Not nearly as many as I would’ve thought…” Orodan muttered. A mere two loops of Lonvoron to be exact.

He didn’t mind the sight of Talricto’s stupid top hat and the spectacle which Orodan learned was known as a monocle. If anything, the pilfered getup looked ridiculous enough that it lessened the irritation he sometimes felt at the haughty spider’s scathing rebukes after his victories.

How could he be irked by a spider wearing a hat and monocle?

“Hmm, well I suppose you have some taste, to recognize the superiority of my sense of fashion,” Talricto said and then sent another dimensional wave at him. “Now focus, you’ll get nowhere against me by engaging in idle banter.”

Orodan had always ambushed and brought Talricto along via spatiomancy, chronomancy or the overwhelming majority of the time… just a straight up bull rush to close distance in melee and grapple the spider. Talricto’s attempts at shucking Orodan off, while valiant, were futile against someone as physically mighty and possessed of such energy that dimensional assaults were ineffective. Not to mention, Orodan had the Dimensional Resistance skill which further neutered the dimensional phase spider’s arsenal.

But his victory in abducting Talricto in no way meant he was the spider’s superior in every way. Particularly in a dimensional battle of finesse and skill. And with Orodan’s own Blessing applied, the spider was more than a match for him in a battle of pure dimensional manipulation.

Empowering two dimensional spheres to the limit, Orodan shot them forward and attempted to brute force his way past Talricto’s dimensional wave, only for the wave to suddenly scatter into multiple small dimensions the size of needles which homed in on him. These small dimensions then collided with Orodan’s cells which were partly dimensions in and of themselves, and ruptured the boundaries, breaking them and causing many of the cells to die.

[Dimensional Resistance 20 → Dimensional Resistance 22]

Talricto sent dimensions the size of mere particles towards him, and Orodan focused on creating a net-like structure, akin to a filter, which could scoop up the attacking dimensions and prevent them from seeping through to attack him.

[Dimensionalism 72 → Dimensionalism 73]

It partially worked. The technique itself was an effective one, though Orodan’s finesse and control with such freeform dimensionalism was well below Talricto’s own. Some particle-sized dimensions got through, and Orodan’s cells faced further destruction.

Contrary to what one might’ve thought, Orodan hadn’t dragged Talricto along to Lonvoron just to hear snarky quips. This was why he’d insisted on having the spider with him. A good teacher and sparring partner were worth more than their weight in gold.

Though calling it a spar would’ve been more than a bit embarrassing when he was getting trounced so thoroughly. Yet, there was no shame in this, it was exactly the sort of proper training he needed.

“Hmm, you’re eager and aggressive like a youngling, that much I can respect. I hope you do not lose that attribute,” Talricto praised in a rare moment. “Brutish simpleton you may be, but encouraging an older dimensionalist to retain and draw upon youthful vigor and the dogged desire to seize the initiative is quite the dull chore.”

“I’ve seen fighters develop similar bad habits in melee, it can take some time to train them out of those,” Orodan remarked.

It was an interesting phenomenon, where the younger and more inexperienced one was, the more they would try and compensate through ferocity and aggression. On the other hand, with experience came the know-how, finesse and skill to not require such brash tactics any longer. Those with experience had more than likely learned a few painful lessons on what aggression could cause to befall them, as a result they were in some respects less willing to commit with zeal to something.

This led to situations where novices could use more forethought, but veterans sometimes forgot how to channel the violence of aggression. One needed both in order to truly succeed.

“Well, the only bad habit I see in you is an overly aggressive mindset, but with how well you weaponize it… I suppose even I can respect the efficiency of brutish simplicity at times,” Talricto said and then ceased attacking, causing Orodan to frown. “Don’t give me that look, your pet project is approaching, and it wouldn’t do for you to accidentally take off one of his limbs with a stray dimensional blast.”

“What’re you two doin’ out here? You’ll get wet in the rain, Mister Orodan! Come in! Come in!” Fenton said, and only then noticed the dimensional layer keeping even the slightest particle of water from touching Talricto. “Er… more magic? Avoiding gettin’ soaked does look useful.”

“The ways of dimensionalism can shield one from the elements and more,” Talricto explained.

“…why’s Mister Orodan gettin’ wet then?”

“While some scathing remark about how I can only blame my own incompetence would no doubt be amusing, the answer is that I’m not a delicate wallflower who’s afraid of some rain,” Orodan said, glancing at his sparring partner. “Unlike some of us.”

“My hairs will become positively foul if drenched in this dreadful bath. Not like I would expect a simpleton to understand.”

Orodan rolled his eyes at his dimensional teacher and strode into Fenton’s home.

“Oy, Mister Orodan, my mum’s that way and-”

A broom was produced from his spatial ring, held in his hands with as tight a grip as he’d ever had on any weapon. And before the woman could remark on why a strange man had entered her room…

…his broom descended upon her.

