“Stop! What’re you doing!?”

Fenton’s mother didn’t scream this time.

Orodan had cleared the curse from her once before, and this time he knew exactly what spots to target in order to make the transition as painless as possible. More importantly though, there were some mechanisms upon the curse which he hadn’t paid attention to last time. Two main things.

First, it had the clear tinges of System energy upon it. And second, it had a small mechanism through which someone could detect any attempts to tamper with or remove it.

A daunting prospect for even the mightiest soul mages of the cosmos to tackle. Especially when the curse had power backing it equivalent to an Administrator.

Orodan though, wasn’t concerned. In a battle of cleaning, he would lose to no one.

The blazing white light of his soul was poured into his broom, and in a feat that felt rather trivial, he smashed the curse aside and made sure to also target the mechanism which would allow for detecting any attempts at tampering too. At the last moment, he selectively blocked the insights he knew were coming on.

A struggle, to go against his nature and innate talent in the art of cleaning. It would’ve been nice, but not yet.

“What did you do?!” Fenton angrily demanded, protective of his mother.

“See for yourself,” Orodan said, walking out of the room as Fenton fussed over his mother.

Even now, Domain of Perfect Cleaning was growing at a frightening pace, eradicating the curse from the woman’s soul had been almost easy. A rather sobering thought when considering how powerful the curse was. Orodan in fact had to forcibly suppress the insight and subsequent level gain lest he attract all manner of unwanted attention this early on. While he loved the thought of dying in battle over and over, this loop was meant to be a long one, and he had many things to learn.

Indeed, he’d come here right after leaving foreman Elwin Clemmings to be dealt with by the workers at the mines. Orodan had simply barged right into Fenton’s house, produced his broom and eradicated the curse upon his mother’s soul with nary a thought. He was now outside, letting the lad and his healed mother have a moment of privacy.

He casually sent a dimensional bubble towards Talricto, earning a snort of derision and the acceptance of challenge from the spider. And soon enough they were engaged in a light spar of freeform dimensionalism once more.

For fifteen minutes Orodan was bullied and reminded of Talricto’s superior skills once again. Like an elephant attempting to compete against a bird at flying while restricted from using any real power, Orodan tried to hopelessly match Talricto in terms of pure skill and finesse.

His opponent was a being born and made for manipulating dimensional forces. In contrast, he was just a human with a hard head. The outcome was never in question.

It was good training, and Orodan landed face first into a particularly grimy spot of mud when Fenton Penny finally came out.

The lad’s eyes were red, and his mother following him out of the house also looked as though she’d just finished crying. The tears weren’t the unhappy sort though. The sight of Orodan sprawled out on the ground, face in the muck drew the two out of their emotional daze.

“Barely passable, perhaps at the level of our younglings. I’ll spare you the humiliation of any further defeats in front of your impressionable student. Let that and the dirt you taste be a reminder of how far you have to go before you can even think of challenging the great Talricto,” his opponent said imperiously.

Orodan got up once again, clearing the mud off his face from the faceplant into the ground Talricto had orchestrated. He had a happy grin on his face.

“We need to do this more often. That was good!” Orodan declared.

“You’ve found the right place to embrace your gluttony for punishment,” Talricto said. “Now do get up and dust yourself off. We have visitors.”

Talricto insulted Orodan a few more times while Fenton incredulously looked back and forth between them and the lad’s mother softly laughed.

“I don’t believe we’ve been acquainted ser. You barge into our home, cure me without saying a word and then proceed to engage in a show of magical splendor against a most regal spider right outside our door,” the woman said. “Little Fen tells me you’re the one responsible for his upcoming change of occupation?”

“Aye, that’s me, Orodan Wainwright. A time looper and traveller of worlds,” he answered.

“And a most simplistic brute who lacks in any subtlety whatsoever,” Talricto praised.

“I’ll have you know, I snuck around and avoided detection this time.”

“Intimidating and beating all witnesses silly doesn’t qualify as stealthy… effective as it may be,” Zaessythra tacked on.

“A… time looper? I don’t understand what that means. But an otherworlder? That much I suspected… you can’t be any ordinary man to have succeeded where every other healer we’ve met has failed.”

And before the woman could fall to her knees and put Orodan in an awkward spot, he caught her by the shoulder and kept her standing.

“I’m not a noble or royalty, I would prefer no one kneeled before me,” Orodan said. “The sentiment is appreciated, but such displays are unnecessary.”

The woman’s face was red, emotion threatening to burst forth as tears rolled down her cheeks.

“But how else… how else can I think of thanking the one who’s given me a new life?” she asked, voice breaking halfway through.

“By being there for your son as he moves up in life,” Orodan suggested. “Fenton here will be starting work under a new employer tomorrow.”

“But… but… what about you ser? Are you just going to leave?” Fenton asked.

“Leave? Certainly not yet. There’s still plenty of training for you to do. Who’s going to teach you Enchanting?”

And who was going to teach Orodan all the new things to be learned upon Lonvoron?

Not only did he intend to train Fenton to be the best enchanter upon Lonvoron… but he also had many things to learn himself.

#

Lonvoron was a planet mostly covered by water, even more so than his home world of Alastaia. There was a singular main continent which most referred to as the mainland, and the wealth, resources and power were all concentrated there. As he’d learned from talking to Fenton and some of the folk around scrap town, this geography naturally created two classes of people. Mainlanders, and islanders; with both groups harboring some level of distrust and seeing the other as an out-group.

Islanders came from the Ironhaven Isles, the Sunstone Archipelagos or the bog islands which were more than a little technologically backwards. These locations aside, there were plenty more islands dotting the world of Lonvoron. But betwixt these small sanctuaries of land… were naught but deep and turbulent oceans.

And it was in the waters surrounding Port Bellgrave that Orodan decided to go for a quick swim.

The waves were choppy, the water wild and cold. Most dangerously though, the unforgiving drink was full of hungry aquatic life. Nothing too harsh nearer to the islands, the Collective’s navy and armed fishery boats cleared those out often enough. But farther out and away from the designated sea lanes, the deeper waters held all manner of hostile sea monsters which necessitated heavily militarized and specially prepared ships making forays for resources or diving expeditions.

A group of giant sharks gazed at him hungrily. Their leader, a thirty-eyed shark, the size of a castle, eyed him cautiously and with more than some bewilderment evident in its eyes. It was at the Grandmaster-level and seemed to be wandering the deep waters in search of fat prey.

Yet, the higher a monster’s level, the less prone it was to rashly attacking. It hadn’t reached the Grandmaster-level by being stupid; humans were not its normal prey; barely enough meat to feed a newborn, far too much bone, and simply not worth the hassle as killing one would lead to more showing up in force.

Furthermore, a lone human swimming the deeper parts of the ocean was a ridiculous sight. No regular mortal could go for a swim in such turbulent and monster-infested waters. From the perspective of a monster, such a lone swimmer had either grown tired of living… or was more than comfortable handling themselves in such an environment.

The Grandmaster shark got closer enough to use Observe, but it was unfortunately too late as two of the hungry members of its pack had already shot forwards…

…only to die as Orodan’s hands gripped their throats and snapped their necks.

It immediately let out a warning roar.

“Back! An unusual predator has entered these waters! Let this be a lesson to the foolish younglings who would charge ahead without assessing their prey!”

The Grandmaster shark gave one final growl of warning, glaring at Orodan and causing the water to sputter, before it turned tail and fled. Orodan himself was happy enough with his catch of two Elite-level sharks. It added on nicely to the three eels and jellyfish who’d tried attacking him earlier.

Some incredibly pale and gaunt-looking humanoid creature with sunken eyes had tried grabbing his ankle while he was near the sea floor too, but after smashing its skull he’d realized that it was simply too thin to be worth cooking.

He grabbed a decent amount of choice vegetation which he sensed would have exquisite flavor and finally proceeded to surface.

“Eyes to the starboard! Got a strange fish in the water!”

“What sort of fish is that cap’n?

“Is… is that a rag on its head?”

Orodan ignored the crew of the fishing vessel he’d drawn the attention of and simply swam away with his haul. On the way back a rather audacious whale swam by and tried starting a brawl with him, but Orodan simply gave it a light beating and sent it on its way.

The waters of Lonvoron were teeming with life, and the remainder of his swim was punctuated by random encounters with aggressive, sometimes curious and rarely… even friendly wildlife. Still, he made it to shore and back to Fenton’s house in scrap town easily enough.

As he neared the door, a tall but lanky young man ran across his path, heaving great gulps of air and looking as though he wanted to collapse.

“M-mister Orodan…! I’m still going strong ser!”

“Good!” Orodan declared with a happy grin. “Don’t let the lad slack off. He’ll be getting breakfast soon.”

“Hardly necessary when the mere threat of my retribution keeps the youngling working hard,” Talricto cheerfully said, overseeing Fenton’s physical regimen in Orodan’s absence.

Fenton looked as though he’d lost the appetite for breakfast, but that might’ve simply been the sight of the carcasses in Orodan’s hands and across his shoulders.

He walked inside the house to see Fenton’s mother, packing most of their belongings away.

“Mister Wainwright? You’ve returned!”

As he’d learned, Fanny Penny was her name. She was a deft hand at Weaving too, at least, before the affliction took her.

Zaessythra thought the naming conventions of Lonvoron to be most strange, but Orodan reminded her that to them, her name would be just as odd.

“Aye, found some good fare for breakfast today. The waters around here are quite bountiful,” he said, throwing the carcasses onto a nearby empty table.

Which, given how large and heavy they were… caused the creaky platform to break.

Orodan sighed and cast a quick Time Reversal, subsequently using Wood Communion to reinforce the shoddy furniture.

“…you plan on cooking all that?” Fenton’s mother asked.

“Why not? These fish are loaded with vitality. I thought the people of Port Bellgrave ate seafood aplenty?”

Being surrounded by water and being situated far from the mainland necessitated that islanders adopt a diet loaded with seafood. Fruit, grain and land-based vegetables, while possible to acquire, were more for the middle and upper classes than they were for indentured servants on Port Bellgrave who couldn’t afford the increased price of imported goods.

Still, aquatic greenery was a common sight on an islander’s plate, and some homes in Port Bellgrave proper maintained gardens and greenhouses for the sake of adding some variety to their diet.

“Of course, I won’t dispute that I’ve cooked an odd thing or two hooked from the sea, but certain things you’ve got here we simply don’t eat,” the woman explained. “The Shadewater Jellyfish you have there, it’s quite venomous and can kill a man in under five minutes if he were to ingest it. Though… I suppose I’ve seen some daring chefs on the mainland serve it with the tentacles removed.”

“Now why would I do that?”

“Right, glad you’ve seen reason, Mister Wainwright. Those things are rather difficult to prepare any-”

“No, I mean why would I remove the tentacles? The venom is where the flavor is.”

Fanny was shocked silent by his declaration and could only watch as Orodan began chopping the ingredients up, gathering them into a pile and then forgoing the steam-powered oven and stove entirely in favor of a pot he held his hand under and heated via Candleflame.

And above all else, he ensured the ingredients, tools and very air in the room were clean throughout the entire process. This made the resultant product of an especially profound purity.

[Cooking 32 → Cooking 33]

Orodan wasn’t delusional. What the woman said wasn’t incorrect. Vision of Purity had marked these sea dwelling creatures as having excessive vitality relative to everything else, and it had also informed him when he’d slain the attacking jellyfish, that the substance it bore upon its tentacles and venom sac was exceptionally deadly.

Still, this was nothing some alchemical work couldn’t solve.

