As Orodan threw the meats, aquatic vegetables and seasoning into the cooking pot, so too did he also work on creating an anti-venom potion meant to bolster the body against such a thing. Not only did the stew cook over Orodan’s Candleflame, but so too did a potion come together in a separate cauldron.

Halfway through the cooking process, Fenton’s mother was more than a little surprised at the smell wafting through the room.

“What in the King’s name? That smell is quite delectable Mister Wainwright,” she said.

Orodan simply smiled. Of course it was!

He wasn’t blind to the fact that many people would often doubt his cooking initially. He sourced the most weird and exotic ingredients possible, why wouldn’t people be disgusted? Yet, contrary to their beliefs, there was in fact a method to Orodan’s madness.

He didn’t just select ingredients based upon how strange or nasty they were but based upon how much vitality they contained. Harmony of Vitality was a powerful skill. In tandem with Vitality Destruction and his expertise in the soul arts, it wasn’t inaccurate to say that he had an excellent gauge for life and the abundance or lack of it.

It was this affinity for life he relied on when selecting ingredients. Each of the fish Orodan had brought back were loaded with life force, positively exploding with flavor if cooked properly. Even Orodan himself was looking forward to trying a spoon.

Orodan stirred, changed the temperature and often focused on moving singular particles in the stew about so that perfect consistency would be achieved. Standard cooking was nice, but he could take it a step further by ensuring the meat juices soaked into the broth just the right amount, or that the seaweeds and vegetation he’d sourced was cooked to the exact specification.

Twenty minutes of the process later, the stew was finally ready to eat.

[Cooking 33 → Cooking 35]

Orodan stepped out, and Fenton was still running.

“How many times have you had to intervene to motivate the lad?” Orodan asked Talricto who was idly twirling a fancy gold watch between his forelegs that he’d certainly pilfered from someplace.

“The mere threat of my punishment kept him in line,” Talricto declared. “Though, I suppose he has a respectable drive to succeed.”

It had been an hour, and the young man was still running at a furious pace. Fenton was an islander and used to hard labor, which he could respect. But Orodan also liked the fact that the lad wasn’t averse to hard work and pushing himself.

“Good work Fenton. Come inside, breakfast is served,” Orodan announced, and Fenton fell to a knee, dry heaving and nearly passing out. Orodan’s hand steadied the lad’s shoulder. “Focus and get a hold of yourself. An enemy won’t take it any easier when you’re tired. Getting ambushed when exhausted can be fatal too, can’t let your guard down.”

“Aye, aye Mister Orodan… just need a moment to stop meself hurlin’ up last night’s dinner,” Fenton said, slowly catching his breath. “You mentioned breakfast?”

“I did. You’ve worked hard all night, learning Engineering concepts and Blacksmithing techniques, and then you’ve worked hard all morning engaging in physical training. It’s time to eat up and recover.”

Fenton looked excited for a moment and then his face soured.

“Did you cook that Shadewater Jellyfish ser?”

“I did! Come, time to eat,” Orodan said, practically dragging the boy to the table where his mother was seated.

Fenton’s doubts were forgotten the moment the lad smelt the aroma wafting through the home.

“Bloody ‘ell… what’s that smell? Me mouth’s waterin’ like a leaky faucet!”

“Language, Fen!”

“Er… sorry mum.”

“That’s the smell of good food, Fenton. Sit down, but before you dig in drink this potion. That goes for you too,” Orodan said, sweeping his gaze over both Fanny and Fenton. “An anti-venom potion.”

“A-anti-venom?” Fanny asked, more than a little worried.

“It’s an Elite-level potion, it’ll do its job just fine. I’ve done the additional legwork of tailoring the potion to your constitutions specifically,” Orodan explained. “Now drink up and dig in.”

Orodan himself took a scoop of the sizzling stew and sipped it.

[Gourmand 16 → Gourmand 18]

The venom combined with the natural juices and abundant vitality of the various species to create a truly rich taste. The aquatic vegetation he’d sourced from the sea floor also paired well with the meat and the flavor in the broth. The two levels in Gourmand had Orodan feeling just a slight bit smarter, stronger and faster too, as though he became just a tad better overall.

“This tastes quite good, you’ve really outdone yourself with this one, Orodan.”

A while ago he’d performed some subtle manipulations which allowed Zaessythra to experience the outside world through his senses, and taste was one of them. It made him glad to know she could enjoy things even while sequestered away.

Good food was an experience which added to one’s ledger of life. The taste and memory of it made Orodan feel better both spiritually and physically.

Unlike Orodan who could simply ignore such paltry Elite-level venom, Fenton and Fanny possessed constitutions which were more delicate. They drank the potions and only then supped the meal.

Fenton’s eyes nearly rolled into the back of his head, so overwhelming was the good taste that the lad had to put out an arm to catch himself on the table lest he fall over. Fanny Penny fared no better either, with the woman’s face turning pale and then red as her mind was nearly overwhelmed.

Vision of Purity could see how the vitality practically roiled off of the food; the nutrients incredibly dense and the energy going from food to body. Ordinarily, without supporting skills for recovery, the regimen Orodan had put the boy through could be considered dangerous overtraining, with this meal though… the replenishing nature of it filled the cracks and helped Fenton’s body recover even stronger than it was before.

A few more months of this course and the lad’s lanky frame would put on some muscle. All part of the plan of course.

Of course, there was one more chair at the table.

“Well? I didn’t cook enough for four just so you could sit on the sidelines and rub your little forelegs together,” Orodan said, glancing at the door to the house. “Come, dine with us.”

“Hmm… I suppose this fare doesn’t smell entirely unpalatable. It had best be good, or else you’ll be receiving many thrashings over the next few days,” Talricto said, clambering onto a chair in a most dignified manner. “Seafood? Not bad… though it could do without the greenery.”

How was it Orodan’s fault that Talricto’s species were carnivorous? Making a diverse inter-species meal while making it taste good was trickier than expected.

“Just don’t eat the greens then…” Orodan muttered in a resigned tone. “Perhaps I should have them on the side next time.”

The dimensional phase spider’s forelegs elegantly took hold of a spoon, and Talricto dipped it into the stew. Orodan chose not to dwell on the ridiculous notion of a spider knowing how to use utensils meant for humanoid creatures.

Orodan’s slight bit of concern was unnecessary as the spider simply chowed the stew down without any issues. The venom was merely at the Elite-level and Talricto was well beyond that. Talricto’s body, while woefully weak and fragile by Orodan’s standards, was more than strong enough to handle such a thing. Plus, many of the things the dimensional phase spider ate were naturally toxic or venomous, and his species’ biology was better suited to eating them than a human might be.

The first spoonful hit the spider’s mouth…

…and Talricto froze.

Orodan grinned. Cooking a good meal and watching others enjoy it was always satisfying.

“T-this…!” Talricto stuttered in a rare and uncharacteristic move.

“…it’s delicious!” Fenton declared, practically drinking from the bowl.

“Manners Fen!” Fanny chided, but she too was hastily shovelling the spoon into her mouth.

Orodan joined them, enjoying a nice meal around the table. Before his eyes he could see Fenton’s almost dangerously depleted state reversing and Fanny’s body recovering her old strength. Hells, even Talricto appeared to be positively humming with energy.

It wasn’t that his Cooking was anything special, Orodan was but an Apprentice-level cook after all. The real difference maker was his ability to remove all the impurities in the ingredients, much like he did during alchemy. This had the effect of making everything dramatically more potent, the energy within the food more effective and the nutrients more easily absorbed by the body.

“Good Gods Mister Wainwright… I half suspect you’ve drugged us!” Fenton’s mother not-so-jokingly accused. “How can a bowl of stew taste so… sublime? It’s as though the years I’ve put on have vanished and I’m a touch younger than I remember being.”

“Nothing so nefarious,” Orodan assuaged. “Just some hearty foodstuffs and taking care to ensure the ingredients are clean. You’d be surprised what perfect purity can achieve.”

And perfect consistency. Orodan had the unfair advantage of an eyesight and abilities which allowed him to move singular particles about through careful manipulation. This allowed for a sort of perfect consistency which a regular cook simply couldn’t achieve.

Fenton’s face came out of his bowl, every bit of it licked clean.

“Can I have some more ser?”

Orodan gestured to the large pot he’d cooked.

“I made a lot for a reason.”

Partially to ensure the lad got some decent nutrition and to also provide encouragement for the physical training. Though it seemed Orodan needn’t have bothered as Fenton worked hard enough of his own volition.

Following this breakfast Fenton would set off for the fort of Port Bellgrave.

And Orodan?

He had some stealth to engage in.

#

“Alright lad, have you gathered your mother and your belongings?”

“Yes Constable Elridge, I’ve got everythin’ I own right here,” Fenton answered.

“Rather rough way of speaking you have about you, boy. Sir Clyburn will want to see that amended at some point,” the senior watchman who’d poached Fenton in the first place said, having returned to pick him up. “Do you know your letters and numbers at least?”

“Of course he does ser,” Fanny Penny corrected. “I taught him myself.”

“Hm, you must be Fenton’s mother. He mentioned her being sick, but you seem rather… well.”

“She’s been gettin’ healthier, the medicines are doin’ their work,” Fenton chimed in.

They’d decided that it was best to act as though Orodan’s involvement hadn’t occurred at all. The less loose ends he had dangling from his tail, the lower the likelihood of a premature end to the loop as the Prophet or previous looper came for him.

“Jolly good. With me then, Rosco help the boy and his mother load their belongings into the carriage will you.”

The constable directed Fenton and Fanny towards a cart of black metal. Spacious, and far larger than the typical horse-drawn carriage he had on his own world. There were no animals pulling it either. Much like the other vehicles of the Blackworth Collective, steam ran the machine, and the power of it was impressive.

“Step back a moment would you miss? Got to give it a belch before we start the return trip,” the coachman said, leaning inside the machine to pull a lever which sent a gout of fiercely hot steam into the air.

From what Orodan had learned from Fenton, civilian steam-powered vehicles, particularly the cheaper sort whose make wasn’t as sturdy, had to often vent steam lest the machine’s internal components suffer damage. Venting or as the people of Lonvoron colloquially called it, ‘belching’, was a regulated practice, and the expectation was that drivers vent away from any foot traffic lest horrific injuries inflicted by magically superheated steam occur.

By design, most of these machines vented the steam upwards via sky-facing pipe; even if a person were standing right next to the machine it wouldn’t harm them. Of course, the magically amplified steam was fiercely hot and could still make the atmosphere near the cart quite intolerable.

With a hiss, the cart vented and was ready for the return trip.

“Never been in a steam carriage before… only ever took the train a long time ago,” Fenton said.

“Well, you’re in for a treat lad, you’ll be dealing with more steam than I can fit in the tank of this thing. Sir Clyburn’s always working on something or the other, and he needs hands aplenty to aid in his tinkering,” the watchman said. “Never quite understood you spectacled sorts who have the gumption to work with metal and steam, but your work’s appreciated all the same.”

“Thank you, Mister Eldridge,” Fenton said and then looked at Orodan.

In response, he gave the boy a nod, signalling that he would be fine.

“What’s caught your eye, boy? Nothing out there but mud which you’ll be leaving behind! Get some cheer in you, no more of this shanty heap and that greasy fat man for you.”

And a man with a rag over his head, but the constable under the effect of Incipience of Infinity couldn’t recognize that.

“A-ah… nothing ser, just gatherin’ my thoughts ‘fore we depart is all.”

The migrating young man and his mother were soon driven away in that black cart. Talricto had gone off somewhere to amuse himself, which likely meant stealing more things the spider found shiny or interesting. This left just Orodan.

The perfect opportunity for stealth.

