Just who had ordered this project? Perhaps quietly aiding in its completion might lead him further down the trail.

“Boy! The mess remains uncleaned!”

Well, that could come later. Helping young Fenton Penny came first.

#

“You look glum, Fenton. Did you not gain a lot of skill levels today?”

“I did, and I’m mighty thankful for that Mister Orodan, but it’s just… do I really need to keep workin’ here? At least back in the workshop they treated me normal because I was an indentured servant like everyone else around me. But now? Can’t turn around without tripping on some blue blood’s coat tail. They don’t like me, Sir Clyburn stays up on the top floor of the tower tinkerin’ on the pillar, and I wouldn’t have learned nothin’ if you hadn’t been instructing me throughout my work. And no matter how much I do it only makes those prissy well-born fops even angrier.”

“I merely gave you the theoretical knowledge and some bare bone lessons which can’t be considered a proper education. You’re the one who took my whispers and turned them into something.”

Enough so that Eliezer Brackenshaw had gotten quite angry at Fenton’s sudden competence. The lad had gone around the tower fixing things, repairing broken parts and being the best all-round handyman that the west tower had seen in a long while. Orodan simply gave the boy a nudge, the rest was all Fenton.

With perhaps a hand lent when it came to the tedious tasks of cleaning. Fenton was better off devoting his time to actual Engineering and Artificing. Orodan naturally enjoyed Cleaning far too much to allow the boy to do any of it.

In any case, Fenton’s quick study and contributions were unsurprising given how the lad had been working a poorly equipped gunsmithy for a year before Orodan’s arrival. He was used to hard labor and had a knack for fixing, repairing and making things. All he’d needed was proper knowledge and guidance, which Orodan felt he’d have come upon by himself eventually anyhow.

And as Fenton worked, Orodan too had learned; reading through the various manuals on steam machinery, the fundamentals of the substance, enchantments related to it and many facets of engineering that were utterly foreign to him on Alastaia. The biggest takeaway from all that was a greatly expanded understanding of how he might repair the ancient machine beneath Mount Castarian.

Steam, the heating of it and its transfer via pipes was an excellent concept quite adjacent and transferable to one of his primary goals. It would take time, but Orodan was confident that he would leave Port Bellgrave with a greater understanding of Engineering and Artificing than he’d come in with.

“I’m no stranger to the rough life and havin’ a target on my back ser… I feel like I’ll catch a bullet if I carry on with this business,” Fenton said, expressing worry. “Though, I suppose with you here I feel better about it.”

“That’s part of why we’re coming here too. I can’t be the only ally you have in here, and I also need someone I can talk to who isn’t likely to run off tattling at the sight of a strange otherworlder.”

“But… the fate reader? They say Luetta Treadway’s a dangerous woman, what will we get workin’ with her?”

“For you, increased protection and hopefully less bullying. For me, information, resources and guidance on which direction I should go,” Orodan said.

Mainly though, an individual he could appear alongside who would shield his existence and not cause the immediate descent of the previous looper via a series of escalating alarms. Stealth had its place, but when it came time to learn, he needed to not raise constant alarms and having someone in a position of power who could vouch for his presence was all but necessary. Fenton was nice, but Orodan appearing as his mysterious benefactor would raise questions and have others suspecting his identity as an otherworlder.

A veteran fate reader who even the previous fort commander had no authority over? A far sturdier cover.

The two guards in front of the north tower didn’t look willing to allow Fenton in though.

“No visitors to the north tower. Lady Luetta’s in closed door meditation,” the guard said.

“Please ser, I’m just tryin’ to have an audience with the lady fate reader.”

“You heard what I said, now get lost. Who’s the big lug with you? I don’t recognize-”

Orodan hadn’t used Incipience of Infinity on the soldier, because he’d already decided to commit to his course with a fist.

The soldier slumped over, knocked out cold, and Orodan quickly entered the north tower, Fenton in tow, as he brought the unconscious body in and laid it down gently.

“Bloody hell… we’re so dead!” Fenton hissed. “How are we going to cover that up?”

“We can smooth things over later with an apology,” Orodan reassured. “Enchanted trinkets and gold have a way of smoothing grievances over.”

They walked up the stairs of the north tower. It was an almost entirely empty structure save for two maids who dwelled within, likely serving the fate reader. Both were in the kitchen however, and Orodan and Fenton managed to make it all the way to Luetta’s chamber door.

Orodan was about to open the door when a crisp silver bullet tore through the wooden barrier, caught between his fingers, causing Fenton to yelp in surprise as he ducked down behind the stone wall to the side.

The direct approach it was.

A kick sent the door flying inwards, revealing a middle-aged woman in an excessively frilly dress, folding fan covering her face. She was sat behind a table with a cup of tea in front of her. Immediately, Orodan felt a quick and skillful scan of his fate. Now that he had chosen to be a part of the tapestry, such things were an aspect he would have to deal with, and his Fate Mastery also allowed him to detect anyone reading his.

“Not assassins then? Intriguing. And your fate is implying that you shall repair my door too? How pleasant! Rare to meet ruffians with manners nowadays,” the woman said, smoke wafting off the barrel of the gun in-built within the fan covering her face. “Lady Luetta Treadway, not at your service. Might I inquire why you’ve brutishly kicked my door down? Even my more daring paramours would not dare treat a lady in the night so. Given that my threads of fate do not abruptly sever upon meeting you two, I can only assume you’ve come to kidnap me?”

The woman sounded casual on the surface, but her tone and demeanor were anything but. A pendant on her neck glowed; similar in function but differing in aesthetic from the communications amulets of Alastaia. Before it could send out a pulse of energy calling for aid, Orodan’s Domain of Perfect Cleaning purged it of all energy and enchantments.

Her eyes took on a fierce look.

The fan in her hands whipped out in a slicing motion and a bright wave of orange flame spewed forth.

[Waterstream 22 → Waterstream 23]

Orodan’s water spell met it in-between, causing the room to fill with steam as Fenton yelped and dove for safety away from the magical duel.

Her fan was thrown up into the air, freeing both her hands for two spherical objects to come forth from her dress.

“Grenade!” Fenton called out.

The warning was unnecessary. The two projectiles flew for him and Orodan simply clasped them between both of his large hands and allowed the shock of the explosion to dissipate in his palms as the fate reader’s eyes widened at the absurd sight.

“What are you?” she asked, drawing a revolver from a thigh holster and letting twelve shots crack off.

Orodan ignored all of them as they harmlessly impacted his sturdy form.

“I’m all too happy to repair your door as an apology for the entrance, but I need to speak to you.”

The woman took a step back in fear and wariness, her hand reaching out to catch the fan she’d thrown up… only to look confused as it had yet to come down.

She looked up and gasped.

“Damn it Talricto… you choose now of all times to show up? You can’t just steal people’s belongings,” Orodan chided.

“Do not seek to lecture me my struggling student. I see you’ve made a right mess of things here,” the dimensional phase spider said, hanging from the ceiling from a loose web, a fan in-between his forelegs that he was aerating himself with. “Besides… it’s quite the elegant fan.”

“I’m in the middle of convincing this woman to help us. Having her possessions stolen by you is doing me no good,” Orodan said in a resigned tone.

Truly, this shameless kleptomaniac of a spider couldn’t help but steal things.

“Now hold on a moment, why would I help you at all?” she asked.

“Isn’t it obvious? It’s because I’m-”

“Don’t you say it!”

-a time looper.”

“…”

“Quite the unbelievable story, I know. Perhaps I should start from the beginning where-”

“Get out of my tower.”

#

Lady Luetta Treadway, the resident fate reader of Port Bellgrave. From what Orodan had heard, she was a former inquisitor of the crown; but currently retired. And she was a veteran pyromancer and fate reader of great renown and skill, to the point where the commanding officer of the fort had no real authority over her.

The woman had many enemies, accrued over her long career fighting Eldritch and purging rebellious elements within the Blackworth Collective. Which meant that her reaction to Orodan’s sudden entry had been quite violent as any reasonable person’s would be. Needless to say, she wasn’t impressed by his entrance and attempt at negotiations.

In the end, it had been Zaessythra whose political acumen and ability to negotiate with difficult people had helped secure the woman’s aid.

Luetta Treadway had already been studying the recent disturbances in the tapestry of fate. More importantly, unlike the fate readers of Alastaia who only had access to the tapestry of their home world, Luetta’s fate reading was at the Grandmaster-level and the Blackworth Collective had numerous devices and the technology to monitor the tapestry for large portions of their galaxy.

In other words, the woman had noticed something was off from the moment Orodan and the fractured remnants of Ur-Vah’sahn had entered the Vystaxium Galaxy. With Zaessythra’s help and some encouragement from Talricto who promised to return her fan, the woman agreed to calm down.

Securing her help from that point on seemed a far more difficult matter…

…if not for the presence of Fenton Penny.

As a general practice, Orodan didn’t go around reading peoples’ fates casually. The tapestry of fate was but a canvas of calculations, odds, ends and possibilities. Nothing was truly set in stone and his straightforward manner of living meant he just didn’t bother reading it much.

Luetta, as someone who made a living off of reading fates, had no such compunctions. Upon reading Fenton’s fate, the woman had been utterly shocked at the lad’s raw potential. Orodan himself peered inwards, and with his raw processing power saw many, many years ahead and realized that the possibility for a Celestial-rarity skill was definitely in the young man’s cards.

Orodan had innately felt that was the case, even before parsing Fenton’s fate, but seeing it reflected in the tapestry was further reinforcement of the fact.

Luetta felt that cultivating Fenton’s potential was a goal she could get behind, and after repairing the woman’s door as an apology and Talricto agreeing to help her ‘source’ certain exotic items, the fate reader had agreed to help Orodan. Further elaboration on the time loops had only cemented the agreement after that.

In short, the cover story she’d provided was that Orodan was an eccentric contact of hers from her military days.

It was a skimpy cover story, but even in retirement the woman had enough military rank and pull that people wouldn’t dare question it if she declared it so.

All in all, the initial entry upon Lonvoron had gone well. Fenton now had a better life, the boy’s mother was cured, Orodan had a cover story and had maintained his clandestine status without drawing the attention of the Prophet or the previous looper. The way in front of him for training upon Lonvoron and making inroads towards his goals over this long loop was clear.

With the day wrapped up, the only thing Orodan had before him was training, and a most irritating dimensional phase spider.

Dimensions the size of needles sallied towards him. His own freeform dimensional manipulations failed to stop them, and at the last moment a roar of command tore free from his lips as Orodan demanded they hit him as uniformly and thoroughly as possible.

[Commandment of War 37 → 38]

[Dimensional Resistance 22 → Dimensional Resistance 23]

He hit the ground as Talricto made sure to sweep him off his feet via dimensional force. Something the spider was growing fond of doing to mark Orodan’s losses.

“That was good,” Orodan said, returning to his feet instantly. “Another!”

“As many as you wish until I get hungry and demand you cook for me,” Talricto said. “Still… you would have better success against me if you gave up this notion of stubbornly sticking to Dimensionalism alone and used the elements. The aftershocks of that battle you had against the Living Crystal were felt far and wide.”

As he’d learned from Luetta, the Blackworth Collective’s sensory mechanisms had pinged the destructive collision between him and Ur-Vah’sahn as being enough to partially destroy an entire star system. It was a crowning moment, to come far enough that he could force an Embodiment-level being to flee in a battle which could ravage a star system.

