“No, soul energy, vitality and even System energy can be used. Personally, I have yet to encounter any limitations to the art that a change of technique or perspective can’t solve,” Orodan answered.

“Then isn’t this entire thing we’re usin’ one big enchantment too?”

“And what’s ‘this entire thing’ that you’re referring to?”

“You know… the numbers, the levels. The System.”

“Hmm… in a sense you’re not incorrect. I rebuilt my System with the principles of Enchanting, though I mainly borrowed from what the standard System in someone’s soul should look like,” Orodan answered. “Still, the System itself is incredibly advanced. Not just two or three-dimensional enchanting, but four-dimensional. The glyphs and symbols within my soul are a testament to the intricacy and power of the System.”

“Can… can I have a look, Mister Orodan?” Fenton asked, wide eyed.

“While I have no problems allowing it, I don’t think you have a vision skill or the requisite proficiency in the soul arts to see past the sheer amount of soul energy I have running through me,” Orodan said, but held out a hand to stop Fenton from looking so glum. “But I can simply make some of the glyphs and symbols for you via soul weave so you can study them.”

Orodan had learned from many odd folks, wise mentors and seemingly ordinary people throughout the time loops. Many of his teachers, if not conventionally qualified via skill levels, were often knowledgeable or specialized in particular things which had great value to him. Similarly, while Orodan himself might not have been a Grandmaster of Enchanting… Fenton would be hard-pressed to find anyone else who could show him the intricacies of the System and its composing language.

“Really? Can we do that now!”

Orodan laughed.

“I respect the willingness to dive right in, but you should rise above the clouds before looking to the stars beyond. First, two-dimensional enchanting. We’ll finish going over that, then three-dimensional and four-dimensional enchantments before approaching the System and the intricate glyphs and symbols making it up,” Orodan said. “I have no doubt you’re up to the task, but imagine how well you could approach the situation if you had all the tools necessary for success?”

Fenton accepted this. Unlike working in the shop, the lad was truly passionate about Enchanting, and it showed in how eager and willing he was to learn all about it. He paid rapt attention as Orodan finished going over the concepts of two-dimensional enchanting and referenced examples from some of the enchanting languages he’d seen.

He was also stringent in reinforcing to Fenton that the intent and will of the enchanter mattered far more than the language itself. Something that most conventional education wouldn’t teach; and while that was well and good for most enchanters, for those truly seeking the heights of the craft, it would hamstring them if they took that as a valid belief. Knowing the concepts and principles behind enchanting was of greater import than fixating on a particular language.

And as Orodan taught, so too did he learn.

[Teaching 64 → Teaching 66]

Like a fish learning to swim, Fenton grasped every little bit about Enchanting at an astonishingly quick pace. Even with Orodan explaining the basic principles and concepts of Enchanting and starting off with merely two-dimensional works, Fenton absorbed the lessons and asked questions which hinted at an instinctive understanding of Enchanting beyond anyone else he’d seen.

Most importantly for Orodan, watching the lad inscribe basic two-dimensional enchantments was a great boon for his own understanding of the craft.

[Enchanting 87 → Enchanting 88]

“Hells… I didn’t even consider that a two-dimensional enchantment could be woven like that…” Orodan muttered, awestruck.

The level gain came just from watching Fenton inscribe it and the method subsequently clicking in Orodan’s own mind. Who was the teacher here again? Was this how all his mentors had felt when he went around shattering one expectation after another?

Not only had Fenton Penny utilized the principles of Weaving for a two-dimensional enchantment, but he’d done so in a way that had Orodan’s eyes taking on an enlightened look. Normally, Orodan inscribed enchantments as a single flow, good for ensuring that mana flowed freely and purely.

But Fenton Penny instead inscribed tiny lines, like threads, and combined them all together to form an enchantment of its own. Yet the unfathomable part was that each wispy thread Fenton inscribed was a mana conducting pathway of its own, even as a merely two-dimensional enchantment. The mana flowing through these thin lines was smooth too. Any Alastaian Grandmaster would have a tear in their eye beholding the consistency of the flow.

And all these individual lines came together to form a cohesive whole.

Fenton was sweating, his face pale as his mana pool had run dry doing just a twentieth of what the complete enchantment would eventually be, but even then… to think that such a profound work could be done by an untrained artisan over roughly twenty sessions of work was ridiculous.

“I’m terribly sorry, Mister Orodan… but I seem to have run meself ragged. Never gotten tired while enchanting before. Got a little carried away testing out some of these new tricks you taught me,” Fenton said, breath shaky.

Orodan simply laughed and clapped the young man on the shoulder…

…a sinister grin on his face.

“Ah Fenton… my young student… I have so much training planned for you.”

“Er… and what’s this training entail ser?”

“Everything.”

Fenton didn’t look as though he relished the thought of that. The lad would be fine; the training would only benefit him. He had a natural proclivity for hard work and a drive to succeed. Sure, he might curse Orodan’s name in every waking moment, but the results would be worth it.

Orodan planned on forcing him to physically develop through extreme and rigorous training, alongside an exotic and hearty diet. And then expanding his mana pool through similar means.

“Now then, much as I’d love to continue our lesson, your employer seems to be nearing the shop.”

Fenton’s eyes widened as he began putting the assorted enchanting materials away in a frenzy.

“Mister Orodan! You’ve got to hide! The constabulary will find you.”

“No, they won’t.”

“…ser, with no offense meant… that nutty rag on your head won’t stop them spotting you. They’ll lock you in a madhouse they will!”

Fenton had many more choice words to say about Orodan’s spectacular disguise, but he tuned them out and ignored the lad. He was understandably nervous, and the splendor of his disguise was a quality Fenton couldn’t appreciate yet.

Such a shame, to have all the talent in the world but remain blind to true majesty!

“It’s a rag with eye holes cut out at the back of your head…”

Even Zaessythra was faithless.

Fenton’s bickering came to an end as an overweight and greasy man entered the workshop, accompanied by two rough-looking men in long dark coats donning small hats. Officers of the constabulary, as Orodan had learned last time.

“Oy! Fen! Shop’s running good?” the foreman, Elwin Clemmings asked, and then frowned. “By the sea, what’s gotten into you? Look as though you’ve seen a banshee, boy. Snap out of it!”

“E-er… Mister Elwin ser…!” Fenton stuttered and stammered, the boy’s gaze rapidly moving between him and Orodan.

“What’re you looking at? There a fly on the wall or something?” the foreman asked, bewildered.

“You… can’t see?” Fenton asked, though it seemed as though the lad was questioning himself as much as he was the foreman.

“You need a bop over the head boy? What quackery are you on about?” the foreman asked and then his eyes widened as he spotted the refurbished forge and shop. “Wait a minute Fen! You sly dog! Did you fix this place up?”

In response, the poor boy could say nothing, simply standing there.

And so too did Orodan, simply standing there…

…looking right into the eyes of the workshop’s three new entrants.

Upon the Skill Absorption, Orodan was far less worried about accidentally driving innocent folk mad. His understanding of his own soul and the practice he’d gotten over the loops in using Incipience of Infinity to Intimidate people into not paying him any mind had paid off.

“Clemmings… I thought you said the workshop only had a singular working forge?” the older watchman asked and then looked to Fenton. “Good work boy, I’ll be sure to put in a good word for you at the fort. I know Sir Clyburn has been asking after skilled mechanics and engineers for a while now. Man needs an assistant for all the work he has piled up.”

“Clyburn? Clyburn Anderthorn?” Fenton asked, mouth agape.

“That’s sir Clyburn Anderthorn to you, boy. Best not forget your manners once you’re up there,” the watchman gently chided. He then looked to the foreman. “Clemmings, how much is the lad’s contract worth? The fort will pay it off and take custody of him.”

Elwin Clemmings however, looked as though he’d swallowed a sour lemon. The greasy foreman’s face had shifted from happiness to barely restrained outrage upon realizing that the constabulary was poaching Fenton Penny on behalf of the fort.

“H-hold on! Hold on! Good little Penny here is a special case! He can’t be sold so easily for his mother suffers from a special ailment whose medicine dosages are included as part of his contract,” the foreman explained. “Constable Elridge, you must understand ser… our operation would suffer without the lad.”

“And with the repair of this second forge, your operation now owes a certain amount of tax due from it, Elwin,” the older constable said. “I could simply order a royal requisition and take him, but I’ll sweeten the pot by ignoring the forge and paying you for the lad too.”

“But what good’s a forge without a gunsmith to work it…” the foreman muttered in resentment. “Bah! Alright! You have a deal! Boy, pack your things and get out of the shop. You’ll be working for the fort now.”

The older watchman gave Elwin a cold glare which sobered the greasy foreman up.

“Mind your tone and remember your place, dog. Due to orders from beyond our station the constabulary’s been ignoring the numerous violations of law taking place at the mines. Continue acting the good little mutt lest you cease being useful to the supply master and we decide to come knocking,” the watchman said, shutting Elwin Clemmings up. He then looked to Fenton. “Fenton Penny, you’re to report to the fort first thing tomorrow morning. Your mother will be re-located to Port Bellgrave proper as well.”

“R-really?” Fenton asked, startled. “I mean, of course! Thank you ser! Thank you so much!”

“Don’t thank me just yet, it remains to be seen just how apt you are at what Sir Clyburn demands of you. But, given that the forge is repaired, your Engineering’s at least at the Apprentice-level, yes?”

Fenton nodded.

The bitter foreman shot Fenton one last irritated look before leaving, watchmen in tow.

The boy then clenched his fist and had a smile on his face.

“Well? Do you have an Engineering skill at the Apprentice-level?”

“Uahh!” Fenton practically leapt backwards, startled as he scrambled for his gun, loudly landing in a pile of rifles. “Bugger! I forgot you were there Mister Orodan!”

“One often tends to forget about a mountain when standing right next to it,” he replied, pulling the lad to his feet and helping set the rifles back into place.

“And right, I am an Apprentice-level Engineer, but I don’t know a lot of the things involved in how you fixed the forge. I reckon I have an idea from watchin’ you ply your work, but I was never taught proper.”

“You’re a quick learner with a sharp mind. We’ll go over some basic theory before you head for the fort,” Orodan assuaged. If anything, the lad would quickly outpace and overtake Orodan. “Anyhow, that wasn’t so bad. You worry too much Fenton.”

“Can’t blame me for worryin’ when you were standing there with a rag on your head ser,” Fenton said, and then frowned. “I’ve heard about other sorts of mages in those fancy universities of the mainland. Was that magic?”

“Just an understanding of the mind and how it reacts to something it’s not meant to comprehend. I wouldn’t call it magic exactly,” Orodan said. “I can explain more about the mechanics behind it later. For now, you’d best be packing, no? This Sir Clyburn seems a famous figure.”

“He most certainly is. Bloody ‘ell, I didn’t even know he was in Port Bellgrave. He’s the chief engineer for the Ironhaven Isles, can’t begin to imagine what someone like him’s doing in this shanty dunghole,” Fenton explained. “He’s a Grandmaster-level engineer. A Grandmaster! Can you believe that Mister Orodan? Never met a Grandmaster before…”

Orodan smiled.

“They’re not as impressive as you would think, and the journey certainly doesn’t stop there. Enough of that though, you need to go home and get packed… and I need to make a quick trip to the mines.”

“The mines? What would you want to visit those parts for? Nothin’ but misery and tears ‘round that way ser.”

“A bit of stealth, that’s all. I’ll meet you at your house once I’m done.”

The lad was more than a little anxious and unwilling to let Orodan go.

“Will you come back, Mister Orodan?”

He clapped the lad on the shoulder.

“Of course I will, I always do. Now off you go, your poor mother deserves better lodgings and a higher quality of life, doesn’t she?”

