He began following them, hopping from shrub to shrub, and hiding behind trees as he neared the island’s port town proper. Even without Incipience of Infinity, avoiding regular guard patrols wasn’t too difficult and it was good training for his Stealth. Nearer to the gates, guards were engaged in conversation and failed to notice him as he carefully kept to the shadows.

“So bloody tired… sergeant forced me onto a double shift again today! When’s the mobilization against the plague going to end? Tired of remaining understaffed.”

“Quit your bellyachin’, you only got mandated twice; this is my fifth one in a row. Might get worse too, was picking up a new bandolier today and heard some quill-pushers at the fort say Lady Luetta’s having the fits. Big things happening voidside and it’s got the higher-ups nervous.”

“Voidside? Who’s got time to care about what’s happening on the other worlds? I just want these damned double shifts to end!”

“Good luck with that. Heard a private saying fat Clemmings didn’t come by town to pick up his shipments, which is quite unlike him. Only time that greasy git misses his shipments is if he’s puttin’ down a revolt at the mines. Means we might get sent out if the constabulary asks us to lend a hand.”

It seemed the battle and subsequent entry of both himself and the fractured Living Crystal unto this galaxy had caused a stir. As had the disappearance of Elwin Clemmings, who the mine workers had really not liked. Maintaining Incipience of Infinity across such a distance upon the constabulary was delicate work, and Orodan suspected the bounds of this island were the current limits of his reach. But as the skill had already proven, those affected by it were keen on ignoring and even sweeping under the rug any discrepancies caused by Orodan.

Though, this selective blindness didn’t extend to those not actively under the skill’s effects. In other words, while Orodan didn’t know when the fort’s military forces would go badgering the constabulary about Elwin Clemmings’ disappearance, it would happen at some point no doubt.

With a burst of speed, he moved to another segment of cover, using the trees, shrubs and rocks dotting the approach to the walls as concealment. His clandestine forays against Eversong Plaza had taught him much about stealth. Just like there, the regular guards weren’t the issue, not initially. It was the eagle-eyed sentries atop the tall towers behind the walls. These men and women of Port Bellgrave’s military had skills for surveillance and sharp sight.

With large and almost oversized rifles, they were designated sharpshooters, specialized in seeking and destroying high-value targets with their keen eyes and powerful rifles.

Yes, he could have just used Incipience of Infinity, but that would have been cheap and a missed opportunity for good training.

Distractions could be of either the suspicious or non-suspicious sort.

A rock would have been too suspicious. Guards weren’t stupid automatons who would fall for such tricks, and he’d tried that a few times at Eversong Plaza until realizing it was a no-go. If a rock was hurled at someone, any reasonable mind would ask where it had come from, which in turn would raise suspicions.

And while the guards of Port Bellgrave didn’t seem anywhere near as tense as those at Eversong, it was still poor practice to rely on a shoddy trick. Instead, better to use something they wouldn’t suspect.

A nearby bird landed upon a tree branch near him.

Orodan looked at the bird.

The bird looked at Orodan.

“Come on, I know you need to do it, the calling is within you already.”

He knew what this bird wanted to do. Yet, it was a matter of directing it towards Orodan’s aims.

“Come, handle your business here.”

[Commandment of War 35 → Commandment of War 36]

His latest Legendary skill had the ability to summon things. Whether that be summoning an attack to hit him more thoroughly or calling upon the aggression someone already had towards him and making them attack.

Similarly, this bird already had something on its mind. Orodan merely ordered this desire out and guided it towards his aims as the avian flew over…

…and relieved itself above his outstretched hand.

“Good bird.”

It squawked in bewilderment and flew away.

Excellent. With this, the target guard’s suspicion wouldn’t be as aroused. He swiftly mixed the excrement with some mud from the ground to form a projectile that wouldn’t fall apart mid-flight, and hurled it a hundred metres out, making sure to time it with the proximity of a bird near the tower.

There were three sharpshooters manning three separate towers, and Orodan’s thrown dungball sailed through the air in an arc, impacting the hat of the one whose line of sight was most inconvenient to his entry.

The woman flinched, and then her face scrunched up in disgust as she smelled what she was hit with.

“Bugger! Foul birds!” she exclaimed and threw her hat off immediately, glaring at the nearby pigeons which happened to be passing overhead. “Ought to roast you feathery fiends in my pot tonight!”

She was momentarily distracted and Orodan used the opportunity to swiftly dash up to the walls and clamber up. Not difficult when they were low and sloped, meant more for stopping enemy artillery and gunfire than surprise storming and scaling by infantry.

[Stealth 27 → Stealth 28]

There were still soldiers on the wall though, and Orodan had to hide behind a tall stack of crates to avoid being spotted by one who was nearing his position.

In a flash of quick thinking, just as the soldier neared him and the stack of heavy crates, he tipped the pile over and onto the man.

“Oof!”

The man would live, albeit face some bruises. His compatriots were rushing over to help already, but the incident would merely be seen as the wind tipping the boxes over, an unfortunate accident. Orodan though quickly jumped off the walls and onto the port town side, crouching down in the bushes.

Success. He had made it into the port town without setting off any alarms or causing any ruckus traceable to him.

He had beaten Fenton’s mechanical carriage too. He thus slipped into a nearby alleyway and bided his time until they arrived. Traversing the rooftops of the port town was a no-go as the sharpshooters manning the towers would easily spot him. In any case, Vision of Purity let him see through things, so it wasn’t a concern.

The streets of the port town were lively, with merchants, middle-class denizens and other well-off individuals and their families walking the streets. In the distance, at the actual port itself, merchant ships and the occasional military one came and went, typically picking up the fruits of Port Bellgrave’s labors or bringing supplies into the island.

Yet Orodan ignored all these. Once the carriage arrived, Orodan made note of where the residence was and after making sure Fenton and his mother were settled into their new lodgings, passed through the alleyways of port town and exited on the fort side, making for his actual destination.

Approximately half a mile out, patrolling the skies above the fortification were steam-powered birds. Orodan could sense the tether of mana linking these aerial scouts to a man deeper inside the fort. Their presence would certainly make any clandestine approach a more perilous task.

Still, they weren’t infallible. And Orodan had more than one way of skirting their perception.

He threw a rock along the ground, out in the open, and as he did so he used Vision of Purity to pay close attention to the mana tethers linking mechanical scout and controller.

[Vision of Purity 73 → Vision of Purity 74]

Oddly enough, there was no fluctuation in the tether at all. Orodan focused, homing his vision in on a particular bird. His reflexes and sight were more than enough that it flew through the air in slow motion to his senses.

They were enchanted automatons, much like the steam knights he’d fought last time; that much was evident. Yet unlike the steam knights which had some level of rudimentary decision-making capacity, these birds were far more limited and the enchantments upon them far less detailed.

Understandable given their small size, enchanting something so complicated onto a tiny thing was a difficult task even under the best of circumstances. Though it did have Orodan wondering if he too could make automatons… perhaps an enchanted cart?

In any case, the mechanical birds seemed more like the scrying orbs of his home world than independent sentries. Alastaia had beast tamers, and if he was facing a fort which had living aerial scouts the prospect of stealthy entry would’ve been seriously difficult. With these though, it wouldn’t be a problem.

Orodan neared the treeline at the roadside and pushed a tree over, blocking the road. He quickly slipped back into the brush right after.

This time, the mana tether did slightly fluctuate, suddenly empowering, but only for a singular bird whose view was best suited to capturing the incident. It seemed these birds were being monitored by one individual who could spectate through the view of one at a time.

He crawled through the underbrush, a travel method where the metal birds were unable to see him, getting as close to the walls as possible.

Nearer to the walls, Orodan saw a decently large rock formation and began rolling loose boulders off of it. Predictably, the birds activated as whoever was monitoring them watched the incident unfold. Amidst the current stormy weather, it wasn’t suspicious for boulders and rocks to become dislodged. Furthermore, it told Orodan that the machines had some way of alerting the overseer of large acts of motion within their view.

Finally, at a critical point where if he took a further step the sharpshooters on the fort’s high towers would see him, Orodan realized that he needed a distraction yet again.

It was a dark and stormy morning, rain, thunder and lightning seemed to be a constant presence upon Lonvoron. On Alastaia, important structures had enchantments which protected against nature’s wrath, or corps of trained mages who could alter the weather as needed. Lonvoron didn’t have as many mages as his home world did, yet this didn’t mean the people of Lonvoron were ignorant and unprepared for the weather. The fort and even many buildings in port town had giant metallic structures high in the air to facilitate the safe absorption of lightning.

And as Orodan glared at the clouds above, he directed the next incoming lightning strike to hit not the fort’s lightning rod… but the canvas sheltering nearby soldiers atop the wall as they stood guard.

[Commandment of War 36 → Commandment of War 37]

A deafening boom occurred as Orodan commanded the roiling fury of the sky to strike the cloth sheltering the soldiers’ heads from the rain. The troops cried out in shock, some even flung to the ground. With iron tight will, he forced it to strike in such a way that the soldiers were unharmed, if dazed.

“Thunder!”

“Those arrogant top hats need to fix the bloody lightning rod!”

“Tarp’s on fire! Fetch a pail! Call a water mage!”

Most importantly, a nearby mechanical bird activated, and the distraction was enough that the sharpshooters upon the tower were looking in that direction…

…which allowed Orodan to scale the wall unobserved from another side.

[Stealth 28 → Stealth 29]

He got up top and swiftly leapt from the walls to the roof of the fort’s keep, and ducked behind the stone crenelations at the top, hidden from the sight of the sharpshooters. The keep was where all the ranking military officers of Port Bellgrave held command, and atop the roof was a spindly tower, meant to send out the alarm to the other military installations of the Ironhaven Isles.

Scaling it to manually disable the tower would have led to him being easily spotted by the hawk-eyed riflemen atop the sentry towers, but that wasn’t necessary as a preliminary examination told Orodan that the tower was an enchanted device.

The perfect target for sabotage when one’s Enchanting skill was at the Elite-level.

The inscriptions weren’t anything special; just basic functions for sending out the alarm to the other islands and one which would automatically sound the alarm if any tampering with the tower was detected. Of course, this safeguard against sabotage was entirely inadequate against his Elite-level Enchanting and a vision skill which let him study the work closely.

Fifteen seconds of work later and the fort’s alarm tower outwardly appeared fine, but Orodan had used freeform Enchanting to add some critical flaws to the enchantment. Now, it wouldn’t sound at all even if activated.

One more target.

He descended the staircase from the fort’s roof down to the command keep. On the way, he hid behind objects, skulked about corners and carefully observed guard patrol patterns to avoid detection. Until at last he made it to the chamber of a man who he’d slain the last time.

The fort commander and supply master of Port Bellgrave. A man who was buying indentured servants for cheap prices and exploiting their blood and labor in treacherous working conditions while pocketing the difference for himself.

He shimmied along the exterior wall, climbing onto the man’s balcony which overlooked the fort grounds and island. It was understandably locked from the inside, but that was fine. After all, who wouldn’t wake up and barge out at the sound of something annoying?

