Two full crates of ore were poured out into a steam-powered kiln.

“By the Gods you’re a strong fellow. How long did it take you to get so big ser?”

“In all honesty I was decently large already by the time I was twelve years of age. My mother was even bigger,” Orodan replied.

“Sorry for your loss Mister Orodan… didn’t mean to bring up bad thoughts,” Fenton said.

Orodan liked the lad. He was humble, focused on his work and knew the feeling of loss well enough to notice the ‘was’ in his statement.

He ruffled Fenton’s hair.

“It’s alright. I’ve made my peace with it recently.”

Even if Orodan didn’t go around bemoaning his orphanhood like some weak-willed weed, the sting of learning the truth regarding his parents’ death had been harsh. For the longest time before the loops, the fact that he was an orphan was just a regular facet of life. He bled and fought for scraps as a street rat, and unlike the giggling and smiling children in the better parts of town, he had no mother or father.

Learning just who was responsible though, had been the equivalent of re-opening an old wound and setting fire to the scar.

The crackle and hissing of melting ore filled the silence until Fenton finally spoke again.

“Mister Orodan?”

“Aye Fenton?”

“Why’re you helpin’ me?”

[Smelting 9 → Smelting 10]

The answer was rather evident.

“Why not? It’s good training,” Orodan answered. “The quicker we finish here; the sooner we can begin your own training?”

“My own training? I’m ‘fraid I can’t do none of that ser. I’m contracted to-”

“To indentured servitude, I know. My eight-legged mentor and his talents in taking things not belonging to him will resolve that matter.”

“That big spider that was with you earlier? It wasn’t your pet, Mister Orodan?”

“Tell him that and see how he reacts,” Orodan said with a laugh. “Or don’t. Wouldn’t want to see you getting flung through multiple dimensions before being brought back having lost your dinner on the way.”

Fenton paled at the threat of what a dimensional phase spider could do and hurriedly focused on his work. The steam-powered kiln thus continued bubbling, melting the ore down.

On Alastaia, enchanted kilns simply weren’t worth the cost of running them on basic ores. Even gold ore wasn’t considered of enough value to run those kilns. He knew that the High Forges of Karilsgard - where the Republic’s best smiths and enchanters worked - had a few, but they were used only when smelting incredibly valuable ores such as dothril where the amount extracted mattered a lot.

On Lonvoron though, such devices were commonplace; steam powered. The temperature in these kilns was distributed with near-perfect evenness; seeing them used to smelt regular iron ore in some shanty workshop was quite the difference from the norms of his home world.

Needless to say, it was a fantastic device, a testament to the technology and power of Lonvoron… but an inefficient form of training. Orodan felt that these steam-powered kilns took away from the smelter, forcing them to rely on the machine and its efficiency rather than require the deeper understanding of temperature differences, fuel and its rate of ignition and the consistency of the ore.

While Orodan had never quite worked the trade, he knew that a good smelter on Alastaia was worth their weight in gold. Not only could Adept-level smelters somehow extract useable metal from even dirt and seemingly normal rock, but they could also preserve far more of the metal content within mined ore and even ensure the resultant ingot quality was higher.

On Alastaia, even the foreman of a mining operation would be lucky to make a tenth of the pay that a high-level smelter did. As the skilled specialists who determined the profit margin for a mine, they were the highest paid workers on the job. Here though, smelting seemed relegated to the kiln, with skill levels coming slowly due to over-reliance on the machine.

As a result, smelting was an art neglected upon Lonvoron. Which made a certain amount of sense when considering that the Blackworth Collective spanned many worlds and had higher priorities than making ore extraction more efficient. How many tonnes of metal were produced was the more important metric than how much useable metal was squeezed out of the ore. Particularly when it was at war against an existential threat.

In any case, the ore had been smelted, the gunsmithy cleaned and the pipes repaired. And Fenton grumbled only a slight bit upon realizing that Orodan could’ve used pyromancy to smelt the ore faster, but relented upon Orodan’s lecture that hard work was its own reward.

“Now then, how about you show me these Enchanting skills of yours,” Orodan asked.

“What Enchanting? I don’t know how to do any of that, Mister Orodan.”

“So the gun at your hip and that hidden armor plate in the alcove aren’t your doing?” Orodan asked.

“Er… those are just things that were layin’ there, that’s right!”

Orodan gave the lad a flat look.

“Alright! Alright! But you can’t tell nobody about it!” Fenton insistently demanded. “My mum insists I don’t reveal my Enchanting skill. They’ll send me to the fort and take everything I work on for themselves.”

“You’ll be going to the fort alright, but not in the way you’re thinking.”

“Eh? What do you mean Mister Orodan?”

“For now, don’t worry about it. Come, show me your work and let’s evaluate where your skill level is.”

Fenton was a bit hesitant but did as asked, producing his gun and heading out back to return with the armor plate he’d enchanted.

“This here’s my revolver, little eight-shooter, but it’s good for scaring off any vagrants and rough characters looking to cause trouble. Indentured servants like meself aren’t supposed to have these… but the foreman looks the other way for the gunsmith and I,” Fenton said. “Lot of the other servants aren’t fond of the menials like me who get to toil in the workshops and ships instead of the mines.”

Even among the indentured servants there were tensions. Working the gunsmithy was naturally less laborious of an assignment than having to deal with the mines and the dangers therein.

“Being able and ready to defend yourself is good, but over-reliance on a weapon will only harm you in the long run. You could do with some physical training as well lest that gun be taken from you. Bit lanky you are, but tall enough that your frame will fill out with some work. Nothing a bit of food and rigorous training won’t solve,” Orodan said. “That’ll be for later though. For now, explain to me what the enchantments on each of these things do.”

“Right, my gun I’ve enchanted to take some punishment; it can shoot eight regular rounds but can also fire off a single slug with quite some kick to it. Saw one o’ them mercenaries carrying an oversized hand cannon once, got the enchantment for that from sneakin’ looks at his weapon,” Fenton explained. “And the armor plate, I got that from lookin’ at the explosive enchantments on the merchant ships’ cannons. The round shot they load, specifically. Anything hits this plate, it’ll explode outwards.”

This was Orodan’s third time meeting Fenton Penny, but he still had to take a second to respect the raw talent of a true genius. Learning enchantments by merely sneaking looks at weapons and ammunition was monstrous enough, but to then re-purpose the explosive enchantment on a cannonball and apply it to an armor plate? Downright ludicrous.

Just as Orodan was a monster of Cleaning, Fenton was a genius of Enchanting. The lad was at the Elite-level after only a few months of self-practice, no formal education and no proper materials. It wouldn’t surprise him if Fenton was capable of acquiring a Celestial skill eventually.

“Incredibly well done, these enchantments are a lot better than I could manage at the Elite-level myself,” Orodan remarked. He had certain advantages like endless energy and a powerful mind capable of analysing even the smallest detail, but in terms of raw talent Fenton had him beat. “Seems your mother’s been teaching you a bit of her Weaving. Borrowed concepts from it as well, have you?”

“How do you know about my mother?!”

“I told you already, I keep travelling back in time whenever I die. We’ve met before and you just don’t know it.”

“Bloody hell Mister Orodan, you were bein’ serious about that?” Fenton demanded. “What sort of nutty explanation is that?!”

“An honest one. Now then, shall you stand there acting outraged about my claims or will we put some work in?” Orodan asked. “Let’s teach you the basics of Enchanting theory. We’ll start with the basics of two-dimensional enchanting, though I won’t teach you a new language as that would be wasteful when you’ve already begun learning the one of your world. This here’s a blank piece of metal, enchant it for me. Anything you like.”

Orodan was about to pull out an enchanting pen for his student to use.

Turns out he needn’t have bothered. The lad’s hand began glowing with the subtle sheen of mana as Fenton began the process of freeform enchanting; just his hands, the mana within himself and pure control.

Before Orodan’s eyes, a functional enchantment of durability came to life, reinforcing the metal. Though, he noticed that Fenton was close to bottoming out his mana pool as a result.

Nothing some rigorous training and good old sweat and blood couldn’t fix.

“There you are, quality’s a little dodgy, but I don’t do too good under pressure,” Fenton said with a frown.

“Dodgy? This is…”

Better than Orodan himself could manage, and he had a higher skill level than Fenton too. It wasn’t just Enchanting in use, but the principles of Weaving as well.

This was true talent.

“…some incredible work,” Orodan honestly praised, making the boy sheepishly scratch his head. “What level is your Enchanting skill?”

“Only level 73 ser. Me mum says not to listen to anyone tellin’ me about how long it’s supposed to take for the Master-level, but some of the sailors in port mentioned that hitting that by the time I’m sixty is considered advanced,” Fenton answered. “I know the levels start comin’ slower past 75, but I’m only fifteen years of age.”

“Only level 73 he says…” Zaessythra muttered, amused.

At the rate Fenton was going, the boy would reach the Master-level in a few years, and then promptly face abduction or conscription into some secret program. In fact, Orodan recalled the long loop in which he’d fought the plague worlds; he’d encountered Fenton Penny serving as an engineer in the military then.

Perhaps the young lad’s talents had been noticed?

“Right, well if things keep going the way they are, you’ll be hitting perhaps even the Grandmaster-level by the time you’re twenty. And probably getting kidnapped and developed into a military asset too,” Orodan said, smiling at Fenton’s look of shock. “Let’s see if we can’t accelerate that even further. For starters, I see you’re using a three-dimensional enchantment, and although you’re talented, knowing the theoretical foundations of a two-dimensional enchantment will only benefit you…”

And so Orodan stepped into the role of a teacher once more, as he’d done many times before. At the start of the loops, if someone had told him that he would come to enjoy mentoring folks with a good work ethic and the desire to learn, Orodan might have scoffed. His own development was all that mattered back then. The skill he’d acquired via teaching Mahari, Aliya and Zukelmux though, had opened up this interesting path for him.

And most importantly, it wasn’t as though Teaching had no benefits for him at all. He’d learned Cooking from Zukelmux, picked up some tricks from Surena Argon in Anthus and learned Weaving from Belina Botterson in Ogdenborough. And now, by simply watching a monstrous prodigy like Fenton Penny he was expanding his own skillset.

As expected, Fenton had the basic education of reading and writing but had received no higher formal education. Furthermore, Orodan had to be mindful of the fact that delving into the specifics might influence the young man’s growth a certain way, as the education on Lonvoron was different to the knowledge of Enchanting that Alastaia had. Last thing he wanted was for Fenton to begin getting a formal higher education only to realize a number of his theories, techniques and methods were otherworldly and different to the norm of Lonvoron.

Not that it was a bad thing of course.

Still, Orodan kept his explanations and lessons on the mechanics of two-dimensional enchanting very general. He also repeatedly stated that these were the techniques of his world, and the theoretical understanding that Alastaian enchanters had. Theories, frameworks of reference and techniques weren’t absolute after all. To the young and impressionable Fenton Penny who’d never received an education however, such teaching was akin to a thirsty mutt in the desert receiving water.

The lad practically lapped up whatever Orodan said and began taking detailed notes with the speed of a hawk. Several times he could see Fenton speaking to himself as Orodan instructed him on a theorem or technique, likely analysing in his own mind how to apply it or how it could be improved.

He began with the most basic overview of two-dimensional Enchanting and the trade itself that he could muster, yet Fenton found some way to ask questions and make things complicated even then.

“Does Enchanting have to be powered by mana ser?” the lad asked.

