Plenty of birds were flying overhead, and Orodan pulled from his dimensional ring some choice scraps of meat from the morning’s breakfast and began throwing them at the foot of the door leading out to the balcony. The feathery hunters were doubtlessly interested at the prospect of a tasty meal, but still cautious about approaching Orodan. Which was when he used Commandment of War to enflame the hunger and summon it forth.

A chorus of warbles and coos began erupting from the birds as they dove right for the food… and consequently, the door.

The birds wrestled and pecked at one another in their attempts to get at the meat, and in the process banged and rapped against the commander’s door frequently.

Two minutes of the commotion were all it took. And furious sleepy footsteps could be heard approaching as the man slammed the door to his balcony open, revolver in hand, still in his sleepwear.

“Away with you, feathery miscreants! Can a man not enjoy a moment’s respite in his own bed?”

Unfortunately for the fort commander, the birds had been scared away by his arrival.

All that waited for him…

…was Orodan Wainwright with a smile upon his face.

#

“Can’t believe the commander drank himself senseless and put a slug in his own head. What an utter mess, I’ll never get the sight of it out of my mind…”

“You responded to it afterwards, the poor recruits doing bayonet drills in the yard had the fright of their lives when the body hit the ground in front of them. I still don’t understand how that even happened… man never used to wake up till late noon on most days.”

“It’s been a cursed day… first the lightning rod doesn’t work, and I nearly have my scalp cooked by the wrath of the Gods, and then the commander gets drunk and takes a tumble off the balcony after shooting himself? Captain Westerlin’s next in the chain of command, but by the sea is she an uptight one. Plays by the book she does… already ordering an investigation and putting the fort on lockdown.”

“Surprised that boy from scrap town’s been allowed in despite that. Sir Clyburn’s work must be some mighty important business to contravene the Captain’s lockdown.”

“Of course it does. One of the tavern girls down by the port said a sailor she’s sweet with told her Sir Clyburn’s secretly working for the King himself!”

“Not so secret if a bloody tavern wench is saying it. You could do with less of the cheap ale and spinster’s tales they serve down there. Don’t you have a girl you fancy yourself?”

The two guards continued bickering about the state of the island, the plague and how one of them was looking forward to surprising his paramour with fresh fruit for their outing tomorrow.

Orodan tuned them out and kept a close eye on the fort from his position deep inside a stack of hay. He neither needed to breathe nor eat, and Vision of Purity and his acute senses allowed him to see through things and hear what was going on around him and in the entirety of the fort. It was a good spot to hide, and he’d meticulously smoothed the bale out so that his entry into it wasn’t apparent.

The fort was in uproar after the body of the former commander was discovered. Needless to say, the aforementioned Captain Westerlin who took command last time, had been recalled to the fort and everything on Port Bellgrave was on emergency lockdown, with no ships allowed to dock or leave. Once the initial investigation had concluded it was determined that the death was the result of the negligent discharge of a weapon and excessive alcohol consumption.

The lockdown was still ongoing, though some whispered that it was likely to be lifted by tomorrow due to them ruling out foul play.

From Orodan’s perspective, forcing the revolver into the man’s mouth and pulling the trigger hadn’t been difficult, though tossing alcohol down the throat of a corpse had been. Merely planting a bottle wouldn’t have been enough, even on Alastaia corpses of the deceased were examined by healers and any substances in use then identified.

In any case, the fort commander was dead, Port Bellgrave would be returning to regular function, and the new commander would more than likely be cleaning house and ensuring the mining operation conducted itself lawfully. The disappearance of Elwin Clemmings would doubtlessly be noticed and that might prompt another wave of investigations tying foul play to the commander’s death, but all these things would take time and Orodan would gradually confront them as they arose.

For now, Fenton’s first meeting with his new employer was approaching, and Orodan silently stalked out of the hay bale he was in, making his way about the fort towards the west tower where all the engineers resided and conducted their daily work and experimentation. Only problem was, the path from the grain house where he was, to the west tower, was full of soldiers.

But that was also within expectations, and he’d watched the patrol routes and patterns of the people within the fort for long enough now that he knew what to do.

He walked up to a nearby open-air workshop where workers were sorting and putting cogs and gears into separate carts for further assembly and use in standardized manufacturing. His hands wrapped around the arms of a nearby large cart laden with all manner of precision parts and advanced components.

“Take that one to the engineers and make it quick!” an overworked and stressed foreman barked, not even bothering to look up.

“Aye, on it,” Orodan replied, quickly pushing the cart away.

He had a black overcoat draped over his usual outfit so that he wouldn’t stand out too much from a distance, but anyone who looked closely would notice his standard tunic on underneath alongside his weapons.

Still, having observed the patrol patterns and people for long enough, he knew now was an opportune time to move forth. He brought the cart to the base of the tower and quickly slipped inside carrying two large cogs nearly the size of his body which obscured his clothes, face and weapons from the soldiers standing guard at the entrance.

“Those blasted cogs are heavy as a horse, lifting two are you? What level’s your Physical Fitness?” the guard idly asked as Orodan approached.

“Level 95,” Orodan answered.

“Hahah! Sure, sure. No need to pull my leg,” the soldier said with a laugh, clapping Orodan on the shoulder as he entered the building.

Inside, the first floor of the tower was full of various assistants and laborers running around in a mad scramble, and in the center, a haggard looking man wearing a top hat and monocle. Soot and grease covered his clothes, and he looked about done with it all.

“Damn it, damn it! We need more power in this mana battery Eliezer! How can the enchanters be expected to complete their work in a timely manner if they’re stuck recovering power in-between sessions?! Get some crystals and fill this thing up immediately!”

“Yes Sir Clyburn!” the older engineer, an assistant, replied.

“And you, tell Lord Morvale to stop hogging his enchanters for useless projects!” the man barked at an enchanter who was sweating over the tall pillar-like object in the center of the room. “We have three months before the next wave of conscription occurs and the pillar must show progress before that.”

“But sir… Lord Morvale won’t speak to anyone and has secluded himself in Castle Ironpeak…”

“That treacherous rascal! He would sequester himself away to intentionally sabotage this project all to spite my authority from the crown itself!” the lead engineer growled and then turned towards poor Fenton who was just standing there. “And you, boy, make yourself useful and get to making sure the contents of that cart are disseminated to whichever machines they belong.”

“I uh… I don’t know how to do any of that ser,” Fenton meekly replied, taken aback by the man’s intensity.

“Then learn. We have books and instructional manuals in the floor above. Watch these other fops tinker, and pick up a skill level or two, progress waits for no one boy, least of all the deadlines imposed by the King himself,” the lead engineer said.

“Yes ser, I’ll get to learnin’ quick I will. I can pick up whatever you need me to Mister Clyburn.”

“That’s sir Clyburn to you, boy,” the man corrected, but with no heat. “Hmm, a base-born, are you? I suppose that makes you all the more teachable at least, unlike half these blue-blooded nitwits whose university credentials aren’t worth wiping my arse with. Eliezer! Make yourself useful and get the whelp up to speed. We have deadlines to meet ladies and gentlemen, deadlines! We can change the war with our work!”

The man, who Orodan now surmised was Clyburn Anderthorn, stormed off upstairs to the upper floors of the tower after saying that.

And Fenton only then noticed Orodan looking at him; the boy’s face lit up.

“M-mister Orodan? You actually came!”

“Why would I not? I see your introduction went well.”

“It did? Felt like I got run over by a bloody train…” Fenton said, looking dejected. “He barely even looked at me and those were the only words he said. I don’t even know what I’m supposed to do.”

“He seemed to treat you better than he did this lot,” Orodan said. “Long as you work hard and push yourself, I can’t see you failing.”

“Y-you think so Mister Orodan?” Fenton asked, gaining some hope. “I won’t let you down then ser.”

“I’d heard you peasants might suffer delusions in the absence of a balanced diet, but to speak to thin air…? Are you Fenton Penny?” the older assistant engineer asked, and Fenton’s attention snapped to him. “Eliezer Brackenshaw, though you may call me sir as I am of nobility from the lowland counties of the mainland. Who are you speaking to?”

“N-nobody ser, I get nervous and talk to myself sometimes,” Fenton said.

Orodan had of course applied Incipience of Infinity to everyone within the tower. His presence was ignored, as though he didn’t exist.

“Right… well this room’s a mess, so go make yourself useful and sweep it up, will you?” Eliezer asked, though it sounded more like a demand.

“But ser… am I not to learn from you?”

“Sir Clyburn often gives orders in error, the pace of his work furious and frenetic. An indentured servant cannot work on the engineering of the grand project we strive towards. Now get to work or I shall have to inform the guard about your incompetence.”

Orodan decided then and there that he didn’t like this Eliezer Brackenshaw. The arrogant slime reminded him far too much of why he typically hated nobility in the first place.

“Worry not Fenton, we’ll learn together, and I’ll teach you,” Orodan declared.

If nobody taught Fenton over the coming months, then Orodan himself would.

More importantly though… was the pillar-like device in the center of the tower’s first floor. It was tall enough that it went through the roof and Vision of Purity told him that it extended all the way to the very top.

Fenton noticed Orodan’s staring.

“Do you know what it is Mister Orodan?” he quietly whispered, trying to avoid drawing attention. “They say it’s supposed to end the plague or something… but I can already see a few things off about it.”

Fenton was a genius, of course the lad could already instinctually notice a thing or two wrong with it. So could Orodan.

In fact, just at a glance, he’d seen this sort of thing before. Not the device itself maybe, but the principles behind it certainly.

This…

…was a similar device to what Novar’s Peak had set up for absorbing the power of the Eldritch.

No wonder Clyburn Anderthorn was under the confident belief that this thing could turn the tide of the war against the Eldritch. Yet, the enchantments were a little haphazard, and these peoples’ understanding of the Eldritch was utterly crude at best. The first emperor of Novarria on his home world had the Eldritch-infected crown which doubtlessly aided in his understanding, and he’d also had nineteen-thousand years to prepare his city and the arrays meant to drain Eldritch power.

For the people of Lonvoron to make an inferior attempt at the matter when they didn’t understand the Eldritch as well and had enchanters not as focused upon the matter… was only natural.

“Aye, I know what it is Fenton. In fact, if this thing is created the right way… the people of Lonvoron and the Blackworth Collective might just be able to best the Eldritch on their own,” Orodan muttered. Without his help too. “I wonder why this wasn’t made and used on time during my first visit to this place…”

Immediately, Orodan’s mind went to the arrogant Eliezer, and the problems Clyburn Anderthorn had mentioned regarding enchanters. Furthermore, without his interference upon Lonvoron, who knew when and even if Fenton Penny ended up being brought to the fort. The lad had keen eyes, and Orodan had little doubt that this project could be completed, but the presence of arrogant engineers and a lack of good enchanters would doubtlessly stifle that.

Clyburn Anderthorn mentioned a deadline; it was exceedingly unlikely then that Fenton had joined in time enough and learned quickly enough to contribute to this project meaningfully.

Orodan had the time loops, but outside of them people still lived their lives and carried on with their plans. The Collective wasn’t sitting on their rears waiting for a hero to show up; they were actively fighting and dying on the front lines, and they had attempts at research such as this. An anti-Eldritch project ordered by the crown of the Blackworth Collective? There was a good chance that moving down this trail might give him a clue about the previous looper’s identity.

