Yet, Orodan had no overinflated opinion of his own abilities. The Living Crystal was particularly vulnerable to Incipience of Infinity’s soul gaze due to having countless other minds assimilated into it. The shattering of Ur-Vah’sahn into three parts had made it weaker, and this in tandem with Orodan’s usage of light magic had allowed him to overpower it.

Elemental magic in tandem with his soul energy and melee combat… it was a truly frightening combination. Just how strong could Orodan become if he combined his monstrous strength in melee with the boundless energy he could funnel into magic? The answer had shown itself in how he’d beaten an Embodier.

“I might have more success against you if I used magic, but mere victory isn’t the goal, bettering myself is. No point to training if I simply batter you with magically empowered might,” Orodan explained. “Besides… I know not how I’m to reliably repeat that feat. It was a flash of inspiration, but not one I can consistently replicate.”

“Of course you don’t know how. You’re casting magic like a human when you’re slowly becoming more like me than you are one of your kind.”

Orodan quirked an inquisitive eyebrow.

“I still have two arms and two legs, so it’ll be a while if you’re hoping I gain eight like you.”

Or forever, as Orodan had no intentions of changing his human form. Form-changing shortcuts which abandoned the essence of who he was weren’t his way, and he felt, were the cheap way of a weakling.

“Bah! I mean the substance, not the form,” Talricto amended.

“Explain.”

Your whole body is partially dimensional in nature, each cell has a dimensional boundary and this is also what allows you to easily grant your Blessing unto others like myself. Yet, this is also what hinders your attempts to weave elemental magic into your melee stye with perfect synchronicity,” Talricto explained. “If what you tell me about your early loops is true, then once upon a time you might have been capable of learning how to weave elements into your brutish style of combat in a simple manner. But now? You shall need to perfect your understanding of the dimensional art to get anywhere.”

As one benefit came, another became more difficult to acquire. This was something not exactly quantified by the System but was a reality. On Alastaia, during his fledgling days, he’d learned of elemental tuning, where mages who cast a singular school of magic too often made their bodies elementally attuned towards that element. The spells became better and cheaper, but at the cost of making opposing elements harder to learn.

In acquiring Dimensional Resistance and making his body stronger, Orodan had experienced benefits, but now had to learn how to deal with channelling mana in perfect sync under these conditions. Otherwise, a fireball would merely blow his fist backwards or a lightning bolt might sail ahead of his sword, and it would be no more than two attacks striking instead of one monstrously powerful blow.

It wasn’t that these paths were closed off to him. Rather, he had to truly master Dimensionalism and his very body in order to reach this state of perfect sync reliably. Good thing he had the ideal teacher for it right here.

“Punch me,” Talricto ordered.

Orodan clenched his fist and threw a light jab, not enough to actually hurt his teacher.

“No, do not swing your unsightly fist at me like some common thug. You are using Unarmed Combat Mastery, are you not?” Talricto asked, eliciting a confused nod from Orodan. “Use Dimensionalism.”

“Dimensionalism? That makes no sense…”

“It makes perfect sense. Tell me, that strange cleaning skill of yours. How have you trained it?”

“By cleaning.”

“Of course, but how have you utilized your cleaning? Did you just sweep dirty floors? Or did you do more than just that?”

Orodan thought for a few moments, and then it clicked in his head. He’d certainly used Domain of Perfect Cleaning for more than just cleaning. He now understood what Talricto meant. He had certainly performed other functions via Cleaning, beyond what the skill was meant for.

Then…

…was the essence of real training located in using Dimensionalism to somehow punch.

It made no sense whatsoever, yet Orodan tried his best to follow the spirit of the assignment. He relaxed his arm, refusing to move it at all. Instead, the dimensional forces were used to elevate his right arm, and subtle manipulations closed his fingers into something resembling a fist.

Like a puppeteer controlling a marionette on strings, Orodan manipulated his own body into throwing a punch towards Talricto.

[Dimensionalism 73 → Dimensionalism 74]

The punch was utterly pitiful. And yet… the understandings he was forced to gain in Dimensionalism as a result were astounding.

“Talricto, this…!”

Orodan was flabbergasted. His mind began spinning.

Titanic enemies were before him, but how could he bridge the gap? Now, no matter the time it took, he had stumbled upon an excellent method of training.

“You can bow before me later. For now, I think you understand how performing a skill entirely through the functions of another can be illuminating,” the dimensional phase spider said. “Dimensionalism for eating, Dimensionalism for walking and even breathing. Our younglings are trained in such a manner straight from birth and it contributes to their development in the dimensional arts.”

“Not only that… but puppeteering myself via Dimensionalism might even benefit my martial abilities…” Orodan muttered.

What further insights could he acquire if he finally managed to train Dimensionalism to the point where he could throw a punch of regular power with it? What if both his martial might and freeform dimensionalism were synchronized?

What if the elements were woven in?

He wasn’t sure how far he could go, but the possibilities were endless, and he had time on Lonvoron to hone them alongside his other goals.

He recalled Clyburn Anderthorn mentioning that the deadline for the project the man was working on was three months. He would spend at least that long on Port Bellgrave. And engineering aside, he had a student to teach and at least a few more specialists in the fort who he could now somewhat freely approach.

Engineers, steam mages, alchemists and enchanters.

Orodan had much to learn and many paths to tread upon this small island of the Ironhaven Isles alone.
