Erick walked past the bar, down the garden path, spilling out invisible mana as he went, filling the world with his sight and senses, to check on the world as he walked. Nearby bamboo fountains filled with water, dumped themselves, and then clicked when they turned back up, only to fill with water again, as people in nearby buildings spoke of this and that, and the people in the restaurant up ahead talked about matters of family and one girl talked to a floating camera as she ate dinner. By the time Erick got to the front door, he knew enough of the language to be passable, though reading it all was a bit beyond him, for now. Reading Japanese would take at least another twenty minutes of seeing everything around him.

The host of the restaurant was a man dressed in fine Japanese robes, standing behind a thin podium with a touchscreen on top. A bunch of words and time slots were on that screen. The man smiled as he looked up at Erick, and, trying to be inoffensive, said, “Good evening, sir. Do you have a reservation?”

He knew damned well that Erick didn’t have a reservation—

Erick calmed himself.

Erick pulled out a small gold bar about the size of his palm, and set it on the counter, speaking in broken Japanese, “It’s gold. I want a nice dinner with some of that good beef you have in the back. The aged stuff, or whatever that stuff is set aside in the big cooler. I have more gold, and I want a lot of food.”

The host paused as he listened to Erick’s broken words, his eyes focusing on Erick, but he looked at the gold four times, quickly. When Erick was done talking, the man said, “I am sorry sir, but we have a 6 month waiting list and cannot accommodate you—” Erick had been about to get mad, but the guy saw that and rapidly added, “But I can make a call to other people on the list, and ask if they would like their spot to be bought out. Buying out a slot is currently 1.5 million yen.”

… Erick realized that he shouldn’t get mad and that he appreciated these guys doing their jobs. People probably came in demanding slots all the time. What was 1.5 million yen? Like… $10,000? Maybe something like that. How much was that bar of gold? Erick didn’t bother to check up on current prices even when he had handed out 250 kilos to Betty and Mary. One kilo was more than the price of a buy-out, for sure… had to be, right?

Erick was probably too high strung right now.

Erick simply said, “Sure. That works.”

A woman in a kimono stepped out of the main dining room and walked up to the host. She had been looking in from behind a grate of carved wood shaped into phoenixes and dragons, and now she was here because she needed to talk about the gold that Erick had left out on the host desk. She pulled the host back behind a curtain and the two of them spoke in some hushed tones about accommodating Erick.

The host came back out, bowed, then said, “We apologize for the delay. We will have an appraiser come and verify this, uh, gold, while you take your seat.”

The woman in the kimono did a little curtsy, asking, “Will sir be alone today? Or will someone be joining you?”

“If someone joins me then I will be surprised. Just put me anywhere visible.”

Erick wanted to be around people and especially strangers, right now. He did not want to be alone.

The woman curtsied again, and then led the way beyond the carved phoenix and dragon archway, into a fancy room of black lacquered wood, gold accents, and paper sculptures serving the place of paintings on the walls. The area was open and quiet, and tables sat far apart from each other, with drapery hanging just off of the ceiling, just to denote one space from another. The woman took Erick to a low table beside a window overlooking the city, and a nice pillow would be Erick’s seat for the evening.

It was to the side of the main dining room, and Erick would be eating in the same room as what appeared to be a celebrity taking photos of her meal, with a tiny drone that floated around her, silently and cleanly, an older couple on a nice date, and some shady people with guns hidden in holsters hidden in their robe-jackets. Erick found himself glad for the humanity, just being there. Even the shady people were a great addition.

Today was a time of relaxation, and planning, and also seeing how Earth would react to small magics, so this was a good assortment of people to have in the area. Erick hadn’t really chosen this place, but now that he was here, he knew he had picked it because the food looked great, and the woman taking photos of her meal seemed famous. Her drone was the fanciest one Erick had seen, and it even had some sort of official news-like sigil on it, so it was ‘fine’ for her to have it out and about, or something like that? Erick wasn’t sure about what was going on with the culture of drones flying in the air and taking photos and whatever, but it seemed fine.

This was a better introduction of magic to the world than trying to appear on the news. Simpler. More cozy.

Warm sake was already sitting out at a table for five, waiting for Erick’s party of one.

Erick said to the woman seating him, “I am going to eat a lot today. All of the best stuff you have. Just a warning.” And then he held out another gold bar the size of his palm. “Here. A down payment. I am not paying in cash or credit and I don’t want change.”

The woman’s professionalism was cracking, but she took the gold bar —almost dropping it— and chuckled a little, saying, “I will alert the kitchen, good sir, though our dishes are prepared half in advance. If you wish for quantity, we can accommodate.”

But it wouldn’t be their best stuff, was left unsaid.

That was fine.

Erick sat down and began drinking his sake as the woman headed off with her gold bar. The rice wine was good stuff. Burned a little. Tasted like warmth. Erick allowed it to affect him, and then he pulled out some papers from the sleeve of his robes and set them down in front of him, to the side. Maybe he’d write on them, maybe not. He also spied on everyone’s phones and the other tech he saw everywhere. Cameras were stuffed into hidden nooks and crannies all over the place.

A hallway over, there was a room with video feeds, and the restaurant manager was arguing with the host as he waved hands at the video feeds. The gold bar Erick had given the host sat on the small table in front of the camera feeds. It was soon joined by a second gold bar, placed there by the woman in the kimono. And then all three of them were arguing, while a fourth guy was on the phone, asking an appraiser to come up from the street down the way. This was a nice place, in the upper districts of wherever he was right now, and there were jewelry shops down the way. They had a guy who could appraise weird stuff.

Mostly, they were worried about what it meant that someone was paying with bars of gold.

Soon, a guy on the other end of the phone was rushing out of his shop, letting his apprentices work the gold that they were working on to make fancy rings and otherwise. That place had two apprentices working on tiny mythical creatures; drawing out gold and hammering it and then putting diamonds and otherwise into the gold. Some big black boxes in the back of the jewelry shop caught Erick’s attention. They seemed to be gem-furnaces, or something like that. They made diamonds, rubies, and emeralds on demand. There seemed to be a space for a fourth machine, but it wasn’t there, and Erick saw signs on a bucket of sapphires that told the workers to use them sparingly.

Their sapphire machine was in the shop.

… Erick tried not to think about Poi—

An older woman in a very nice kimono came around and showed Erick the menu, which only had ten items on it.

Erick said, “All of it. Even the wine. And do the steaks five times over.” He handed the server another gold bar, taken from his empty sleeves, saying, “And I’m serious. Not joking. Serve it as the cook decides to cook it up; whatever way makes the best meal.”

The server did not seem too amused at whatever Erick was pulling, but she accepted the —again— surprisingly heavy bar of gold, and she professionally said, “We don’t have enough steaks prepared to do the steak course five times over, but we will ensure you have the best experience possible tonight, sir…?” She fished for a name.

Erick provided, “You can call me ‘Dragon’. ‘Black Dragon’ if you want. It’s weird; I know. It’s fine. Don’t worry about making it seem realistic.” Erick said, “I’ll take some more sake, too. Big bottle, please. The expensive stuff. Not those tacky gem-encrusted bottles you have; the one in the black box in the manager’s office. I want to know what it tastes like.”

The woman’s eyes briefly went wide, and then she did a professional curtsy, her kimono moving elegantly, as she ducked backward and walked away.

Erick [Duplicate]d all of the food in the back before she got there with his outrageous order.

When the older server arrived in the kitchen she quietly ranted about Erick, telling the cooks his demands. The cooks didn’t know what was happening yet, but they rapidly found out, and the server began telling everyone what was going on up front. No one believed her. She had to show off the gold several times. Soon, everyone had gathered. Everyone believed.

Soon, cooks in white chef outfits were poking their heads out from behind corners, wondering who was seated in their restaurant. Erick drank his sake, not looking their way, until other people in the restaurant started looking their wa—

“Ai yaaaah!”

It was half of a scream, half of a yelp of pure surprise.

One of the cooks had just checked on their freezers and prep rooms. That’s what Erick had heard. That’s what everyone had heard. The influencer and her floating drone turned toward the noise. She spoke to her flying camera about how strange that was. The gangsters looked concerned, but they were more concerned about whatever the fuck was going on with the foreigner in their restaurant, and was that gold he was handing out? Maybe if the gangsters wanted some, Erick would just give them some. They seemed to be commiserating over some bad thing, too, but they weren’t talking openly about it. The old couple were too enamored with each other and talk of the past to notice the happening; they were on a date, and all the rest of the world did not exist.

Soon, the stoic older server came out, and she was quietly, profusely cordial, as she carefully opened the very expensive sake bottle and poured Erick a drink. It was pretty good. Worth the price? Sure. And then the first course arrived. It was soup, rice and fish, and it was absolutely delicious. Erick ate it all within five minutes.

The servers watched from the hidden cameras.

The appraiser was there now, huffing from being out of breath, and also staring at the three bars of gold and at his portable tester device, which was like a pen, which he could press against something and get the purity of it all. He had confirmed it. That was real gold. 99.9999% gold. Erick was absolutely sure it was 100% gold, but the machine didn’t seem to go that high. That was when everything got to be too much for the manager and the servers. That was when they realized that yes, this really was happening.

The fact that Erick ate the first course in 5 minutes was when everything became too much for the head cook.

He was disgusted as he gestured at the cameras, saying, “What is this! This man comes in and buys us off and disrupts everything and we have more food everywhere and he gobbles it up like a fat American! How is this— This is some kind of prank, isn’t it!” He poked the chest of the manager, saying, “You are doing this to me for some reason—”

The manager shot back, “That man has given us millions tonight, and we have dealt with rich weirdos before! Every single one of us on shift tonight gets a percentage of this bonus, and I want that bonus. You will do everything he wants. EVERYTHING. Or you are fired! If he wants you to dance for him, you will dance. If he wants you to sing, you will sing. If he has spies putting food into our walk-ins, you will accept the bounty as it has been given to you. As long as it doesn’t ruin our reputation, you will do it.”

Everyone else in the office backed up the manager, and soon the Head Cook was back to overseeing a kitchen, cooking food for a guy that ‘obviously had spies running around the kitchen’. It wasn’t long till the Head Cook had another idea about why he hated this; that much gold needed to be reported to the government. The authorities would need to get involved. Everyone told him to shut the fuck up and cook when he said that, even his apprentice, which had caused the Head Cook to do a double take at the back talk. The Head Cook went back to cooking, though, muttering about ‘autonomous drones’ and other shit.

Erick suspected one of those ‘ADs’ was what the influencer had floating around her head, taking videos.

Erick was spying on everything, though, so the Head Cook wasn’t too far off about that. Would he call himself ‘a spy that put stuff in the kitchen’? Based on the definition of the word, he probably couldn’t be his own spy… Or could he? It was a fun little philosophical question and Erick smiled at that thought, because it was so far out of the wheelhouse of whatever the fuck he was going to do about Nothanganathor that it was a good distraction. Erick was still reeling from Nothanganathor’s shittery, but it was nice to be able to relax with good food and wine and think about smaller things.

Tonight, it was time to drink away his sorrows.

Tomorrow… Tomorrow he would do something more.

He did cast some [Greater Rejuvenation]s on everyone in the room, though, as well as some tiny [Cleanse]s to get rid of lingering health issues. Microplastics and cancer still hadn’t been solved by the year 2047. A shame, really.

They were going to have to deal with so much more than that, soon enough…

Maybe he should appear in Tokyo Bay, like Godzilla, but with ‘breath weapons’ that made [Greater Rejuvenation] and [Benevolent Cleanse] towers. That’d be a hoot. As Erick ate eel, grilled to perfection and sticky with sauce, he considered what to do next in so many different ways.

He’d have to put a gate space up on the Moon so he could access Benevolence Itself.

