Shadow winced a little, smiling wide. “That’s good stuff! You did that one well, Black Dragon.”

Erick smiled. “I liked what you did with Vivid Gloom, too.”

The influencer eventually took her shots, too, though she had to be peer pressured by her feed to do so. She had been prepared to be bowled over with a strong drink, but the Vivid Gloom went down well, and the Darkness Enthroned left her looking quite perplexed. She asked, “Those were really good? Was there alcohol in them at all?”

Erick said, “Not a lot of alcohol, no.”

Shadow said, “They’re usually served in a tall glass, but shots are a good icebreaker.”

“What was in them?” she asked. “I didn’t see them on the menu?”

Erick smiled, and ignored the question.

Shadow did too, for she asked, “So what is it you do, girl? I’m not familiar with…” She indicated the floating drone. “All of this.”

The girl chuckled and said, “I’m just a drone girl. I’m sure you’re much more interesting. What do you do? Is your name really ‘Shadow’?”

“Everything I want to do, I try, though I don’t always succeed, and yes my name is Shadow,” Shadow said. “Black Dragon here is much more interesting, Cyan Charmer.”

The influencer, named Cyan Charmer, who had her name pasted everywhere in her stream and even on her drone, and which Erick didn’t really want to know, smiled a little and said, “I love that lifestyle and that name! You can call me Ceecee; everyone does.” Ceecee said to Erick, “And ‘Black Dragon’ is another interesting name.”

Erick chuckled. He asked, “I assume you’re up on popular culture, Ceecee? I’ve been out of the loop on Earth for a while now. What’s been happening here?”

Her feed popped up on her phone, another orange alert, telling her to start at the year 2000 and work her way up. Whoever was on the other end of that line was incredibly smart, narrowing down Erick’s areas of concern based on the rest of their conversation tonight, but they weren’t too honed in on what was happening right now. They wanted to be. They would be, eventually.

The servers came out with another plate of food.

Erick and Shadow ate.

And Ceecee happily began, “Oh, history is such a fun subject! How about we start with the end of the prosperous times of the 1980’s? My grandmother got her first job working as a secretary back then. She was my inspiration…”

The girl could talk, and it was rather entertaining to hear it all. The conversation mutated soon into a wonderful night of drinking and talking, with Erick and Shadow playing games with hinting at bigger things, and each of them pulling stuff out of their sleeve that should not be up their sleeves at all.

Shadow pulled out a rabbit at one point in time, then said, “Whoops!” holding it by the scruff of its neck. She put the rabbit back, laughing. The rabbit ended up popping out of the shadows in the garden out front, where it began munching on the flowers. Erick chuckled.

Ceecee stared at that display of… something. She was still on the fence about what was happening, but she was slightly drunk now and simply enjoying herself. Her feed on her phone was going absolutely wild. More than once, Ceecee stared at the millions watching her stream, and then she had another sip of sake.

- - - -

An investigator opened a door in a hallway and another hallway led to another street ahead. The guy brightened, saying, “Guys! I found the way out!”

A different investigator yelled at him, “It’s a lie! No you didn’t!”

A third investigator cried on the floor, mumbling about never getting out.

The first one yelled at the other two and forced them through the open doorway, down the hallway ahead and then to the open street beyond. The third investigator cried in absolute joy to see the sky again, the lights of the streets, and the cars, and all the buildings lit up in the dark. All at once, all of their phones chimed a good ten times, or more. Messages that they had missed piled up.

The first investigator read the latest one and saw the time on the clock. “Shit. We missed the entire event. We’re still going, but now we’re on detecting.”

The second investigator instantly said, “I’m not going.”

“What! You can’t disobey an—”

“I’m not going either!” The third investigator shouted, “I quit.”

“Oh come on...”

The first guy eventually talked the other two into keeping their jobs.

Erick felt bad about all of that, so he put some gold bars in their pockets.

That freaked them out more than anything the previous five hours had done, but when they were through panicking, they had some gold. There were tax forms and personal investigations in their future, but those would pass soon enough, and whatever had happened in Phoenix Feather just got more interesting to those watching the world.

It was fine.

- - - -

Erick walked with Shadow on the moon, under the stars, the city of towers glittering behind them, under a pale thickness of atmosphere. Out here there was nothing, though. Just staticky lunar dust, craters, and two people who would probably be called gods back on Earth if they were to show themselves, but neither of them wanted that.

Erick said, “Time travel isn’t going to actually erase this timeline. You were just saying that for effect.”

Shadow took a moment before she began saying, “In some ways, I was not exaggerating at all. You go to the past, and you do anything at all, and you change the present. Thus, this present no longer exists.” Shadow said, “Oh sure, it still exists, but everything has changed. It’s like you’ve just Established things, but more directly. The only things that truly remain are people like me, and you, and others of similar nature, who remember how it used to be. But you didn’t actually doubt my words. You were more scared of what it meant to do things like that.”

Erick smirked. “Seems crazy to worry about being scared of my own power right now.”

“Are you frightened of messing up, or how easy it would be to change the world through true power?”

“The second, more than the first, though I messed up with [Onward] once, though that was probably more Nothanganathor than me.” Erick said, “I’m rather certain that even if I get it wrong the first time, I can just try again… and that is what scares me. No one should have the power to arbitrarily decide things for others. Nothanganathor shouldn’t have been able to remove me from the fight like that… even though we were trying to End him…” Erick sighed. “And yet more and more I see myself needing more power so that I can make those decisions, so that people like Nothanganathor are not allowed to make those decisions. And yet, just as it was wrong of him to do that to me, and to everyone else, it’s unkind to be able to position myself to have that sort of power over people, and yet time and time again, I have been shown that if I don’t step up, then more unkindness will exist because I have not stepped up and taken that power away from those who shouldn’t have it.” Erick said, “The simple fact is that I shouldn’t have that kind of power, either. I know I make bad decisions sometimes, and I absolutely make the wrong decisions for certain people, some of the time, just by virtue of me not being them.”

Shadow grinned as Erick spoke, and when he was finished, she said, “The fact that you can say all that and mean it, means a lot, Erick. This problem of yours seems like a good internal battle for a ruler to wrestle with for all time.”

Erick stared out into the emptiness of space.

They walked in silence for a little while.

Erick broke the silence, “I was contemplating turning into a godzilla-like being and wading into Tokyo Bay and handing out gifts of magic and healing. Just sweep a several-kilometer-long wing over the entire city and heal every single person as well as solve whatever problems I saw, like trash or construction projects needing to be finished or broken roads that needed repair, or whatever. But now I see that impetus as a call to injure the entire world with destructive chaos. Looking back on that thought I cannot believe that I actually contemplated ruining the world in that way.” He added, “I mean— I wouldn’t even fit into Tokyo Bay without breaking something.”

Shadow giggled as Erick spoke of breaking the bay. “You could stand on the water.”

Erick tried to smile, and he sort of did.

Shadow took his arm around hers, saying, “Or you could accept that you have bad impulses sometimes, and then move past them. You could tell me what ‘godzilla’ is, and we can catch up on whatever goes for stories around here.”

Erick held onto Shadow’s arm, smiling a little, feeling bad that she was trying to make him feel better. She had been through a lot in the last few decades… or however long it had been. Time had gotten wonky, apparently. It would probably get more wonky, soon enough.

But for now…

“A movie marathon sounds wonderful— and… Thank you, Shadow. For being here.”

Shadow smiled softly and held Erick’s arm a little tighter. “It’s okay if you want to break down. It’s a fresh wound for you. I spent five years drinking myself to death and getting myself killed trying to personally murder Nothanganathor. Didn’t work much. Didn’t make father’s and mother’s…” She stopped talking. She put on a smile that was way too forced. “Thank you for reaching out.”

Something had happened to Fairy Moon and Gregarious, huh?

Probably a lot.

Nothanganathor had probably Erased a lot more than Poi. He had probably lied about how much he had done to secure his victory. He had lied before. He would lie again. Erick didn’t need to know the details. He knew… he knew enough.

Erick held it together for three more steps, then he fell to his knees and tears flowed. Shadow was right there with him the whole time.

- - - -

Erick sat on a pillow, atop a layer of stone in a garden on the moon, under the bright lights of the ‘baseball-field’ lights of the towers. Stars glittered in the void beyond. Shadow sat in front of Erick, on a similar pillow. Slimes tumbled across the lands outside of their slightly-raised platform, and water flowed in rivers, and waterfalls, and fell in small, localized rainstorms atop orchards and vegetable vines.

Shadow began, “First, we must confront the Self…”
