Maybe he should make a personal Benevolence space, too, inside his Status, so he could haul things around without needing to make them all the time. Sure, he could pull gold out of the air through Genesis, but runic structures needed to actually be made, and there wasn’t always time for that. Maybe his personal space could be one of those spatial bags that Jane always tried to make or find, years and years before she found out the Script denied that functionality. Maybe Jane and the girls and boy had those bags now, wherever they were—

Erick stopped thinking about the people he cared about because that way lay ruin. They were all fine, because they all existed in the past, and that’s where Erick would make his attack, and his rescue.

When the steak came out Erick was a little bit happier, because it smelled divine—

Did he have to worry about elevating to godhood now?

… He didn’t feel any different, and he saw no divinity in the air, and his Status was still able to ping his position in the universe through the yorddle he had made with Yggdrasil, so Margleknot knew where he was, now, so he was still connected in that way… Hmm.

But…

Hmm.

Something didn’t sit right with all of that.

Erick spread his senses wide, as he already had. So far, Earth was devoid of magic, except in the smallest of places. Some ‘Wizards’ did exist, but they were mostly ignorant of their power, and their power wasn’t Darkness-based anyway. They were Wizards of this universe, with resons flowing inside of them. Most of those people were simply heads of state, or artists with visions, or other such people. Resons gathered in them, unseen and unfelt, except for how they made the people who used them a bit more… Hmm... A bit more ‘conscious’ than everyone else? No. That wasn’t right. Hard to say.

The Dark Mark and mana had certainly existed on Earth, though. Erick had had one before he had even fallen to Veird. So what the fuck?

Nothanganathor had said he had cleaned up the world of Malevolence before Erick had come out of his trap. Maybe he killed everyone who could have held the Dark Mark? He had claimed that Jane’s mother, Margaret, had Malevolence inside of her, but… Hmm.

Erick got up out of his seat, his sudden move making every server cautious and freaking out the manager watching on the video feed, but then Erick went off toward the bathroom. There were no cameras in the bathroom. Inside the bathroom Erick took a Step back across the world, to check up on Margaret. He had always known where she lived just in case Jane ever wanted to see her, but Jane shot that idea to hell with all of her words of hate against her mother, and Margaret never wanted to see Jane anyway, so Erick just didn’t do anything with that information.

Erick found Margaret, but not how he wanted to.

Margaret's grave had her dead in 2041; 6 years ago.

Erick took a moment.

He put a flower on her grave.

And then Erick went back to the restaurant and sat back down, and soon another set of steaks came out; three of them all together this time. Halfway through eating his first one, the cooks in the back discovered that some of their prep, which Erick had copied, was an exact copy of another item, right down to the marbling pattern. Erick smiled at how they freaked out about that.

And then Erick spoke to a shadow, beside his chair, “Do you want to come to dinner, Shadow?”

His Calling vibrated the world like a minor earthquake —and Erick was kinda thrilled to be able to think in terms of ‘earth’quake again— causing a rumbling in the building and in the whole block. The patrons all stilled as the world finished rumbling. When the whole movement passed, everyone went back to talking—

A lightbulb flickered and died in the center of the ceiling of the restaurant and an unnatural shadow coiled outward. When the light came back on, Shadow stood there, wearing robes to match Erick.

Shadow said, “You’re not quitting.”

It was an accusation, a demand, and a want. A need.

Erick nodded, and said, “I’m not quitting at all, Shadow. I just need to figure out some magics I've never worked before.”

Shadow shuddered, and she took a seat with Erick, while all the restaurant watched. “Good.” She took one of his steaks, which was more like a pre-cubed, individually-seared setting of steaks, and picked up a piece with a chopstick. She ate the meat while Erick poured her some fancy sake, and then she drank the sake, downing the full cup all at once. She set the empty cup down, then softly said, “I’m glad to have you back, ‘Black Dragon’.”

“Sorry for going away. We don’t have to talk about what happened, though. It’s ‘not going to have happened’ soon enough.”

“Good. Write me a book about what you do so I can read it all when you’re done and this nightmare is over.”

People watched their conversation, but they went back to their own conversations… mostly.

Something was going on with the influencer girl’s drone, floating around her head, and her feed, scrolling down on her phone, sitting beside her plate.

Erick smiled and poured her another drink, saying, “I’m glad you gained oversight of Earth, Shadow. I’m glad that Call even worked. Were you in Margleknot?”

Shadow relaxed, saying, “Yes, I was. He was happy to feel you reconnect, by the way. He’s still furious at Nothanganathor, but not as much as he could have been. The white bastard gave Yggy back his memories from his Sign of Power, though he kept the Sign itself. Yggy is not happy about that.” She smiled devilishly, and said, “Nothanganathor might have captured the Mantle of the God of Magic, but the Dark is rejecting him. He’s begged for my help for decades now, and he’s no closer to making inroads into reestablishing the Painted Cosmology.”

Erick nodded, feeling relief. “He lied so much when he spoke to me, then.”

Shadow freaked out for a moment, and then she calmed. “He already spoke to you?”

“He said that he had made inroads to the Dark already, and that you had ‘been assigned a position similar to a regent’.”

Shadow scowled. “He ‘assigned me’ one, alright. I didn’t accept it, though.”

Erick nodded.

They ate in silence for a few moments, as Shadow thought about a lot, and Erick enjoyed the steak.

Erick asked, “So how does one become a fae, in truth?”

“So many different ways. Make an environment then consume it.” Shadow looked around, saying, “Earth would make a good basis for your rebirth. I assume you don’t want to eat Earth, though.”

Erick chuckled. “That would be correct.”

People were looking at them weird, and at Shadow weirder, while the girl eating alone and making a little video of it all with her drone was also interested. She was talking to her live stream about coming over and seeing what was going on at the table behind her, because her stream was popping off at her about ‘something is happening at that table behind you!’ and a bunch of other messages that scrolled down her phone. She was telling them that she was not going to disturb other people who were obviously cosplaying, but people were showing her clips they made of Shadow’s entrance —which was already racking up thousands of views— and demanding to know what was going on.

Apparently you weren’t allowed to show fake imagery on drone broadcasts, and some people were accusing her of doing that. You were, however, allowed to show stage magic stuff, and that’s how people got away with doing weird things online in a world where everything could be fake online.

The broadcaster was a special sort of influencer who participated in stuff like that, but she was currently out of her depths.

Or at least that’s what Erick picked up as he began reading her feed as it scrolled.

The woman quietly said to her drone, “No no, I’m not in an upcoming movie, though this would be a rather nice way to announce that, wouldn’t it!” She smiled, but it was strained.

She thought someone was doing something around her, trying to hone in on her popularity without reimbursing her.

Erick smiled as he saw the woman’s thoughts bare upon her face. He was using her, somewhat. She’d get reimbursed though, if she came over.

Shadow glanced over at the influencer because Erick had glanced her way… and then she turned back to Erick. She raised an eyebrow. “Since this timeline is going to vanish anyway, do you want some help testing out how you’re going to play around with introducing magic to Earth?”

“I’m already doing it, and I’m not going to do anything big. Just let rumors and small videos and images of the dark side of the moon do it for me. See how people react. I’m not getting hung up here on Earth, Shadow.” Erick said, “I’m getting back to the battle as soon as I can.”

Shadow enjoyed hearing that. “I’ll take that as a promise.” She gestured to a server who was watching them from a distance, and then she gestured to her empty plate of steak. “Another one!”

Erick set another gold bar onto the table, in view of everyone. The influencer’s camera feed went wild.

Shadow smiled at the gold bar. “One good thing about backwater worlds is that they really do make you feel rich.”

“I’ll try not to disrupt too many economies, but some small disturbances can be fun. Want to go to the theater in Paris? Or somewhere else? After dinner, of course.”

“Nope!” Shadow leaned in a little and clarified, “Yes, I do, but I’m barely going to remember this, so I’d rather go on a nice date or ten after we win.”

“That works, too.”

The rest of dinner was rather wonderful, and there was lots of it. Erick and Shadow spoke of nothing and everything, and it was wonderful.

Some investigators tried to show up because they were watching the influencer’s live stream, and Erick found out that every single camera in the world was under AI observation, and that AI had flagged their dinner as investigation-worthy. But Erick simply weaved some illusions from a few kilometers away and got those investigators turned around in hallways that never ended. This action raised the alert level of Erick and Shadow’s date to rather high levels—

Shadow giggled as she sipped her tenth glass of sake, saying, “So this is a date?”

“Of course it is,” Erick said, “But since this timeline is going away, we won’t be doing anything besides eating well and having a nice conversation.”

“And playing tricks on government employees.”

“They’ll be out of those hallways by the time we’re finished here.” Erick set aside some of their empty plates, and the servers came in and rapidly replaced them, as though waiting for that exact moment to move, which is what they had been doing. Erick dug into the new bowls of rice, saying, “We don’t have to finish for a while, though.”

Shadow smiled in a wonderful sort of way. And then she glanced over to the influencer, who was long done with her dinner but she was taking an hour to eat her dessert, because her stream had never been this popular before. Erick was rather certain he had seen some official notices come through on her phone, too, demanding that she remain there and let the drone observe.

The gangsters and the couple had moved on. It was just Erick, Shadow, and the influencer now.

Shadow asked Erick, “Is she a reporter? I can’t quite figure it out.”

“I think it’s some evolution of a cultural icon, co-opted by the government of Japan in an official capacity when needed.” Erick guessed, “Like an unintentional reporter.”

“Let’s invite her to dinner.”

“Sure.” Erick stood up and waved at the girl, who had to be, like, 25, and said, “Hello, miss! Want to join us for dinner? We’re going for course number 34 soon.”

The woman froze.

The feed on her phone, sitting next to her plate, absolutely exploded with people calling out ‘DANGER DANGER!!’ and ‘Go for it!’ and ‘Get a gold bar out of it!’. An official message in a separate orange popped up and said, ‘Do it.’

That orange message focused the world for the girl.

The woman thawed, put on her best face, and turned and stood, then she bowed to Erick and Shadow, and said, “I apologize if I have offended with my overlong stay for dessert. It was just too interesting— Ah— delicious, to not savor it. I graciously accept your invitation.” And then she walked over and sat down on her pillow.

Her drone fluttered around the back of her head, taking images of everything. Before, the drone had been moving kinda lazily, swishing this way and that, but now it moved methodically, quickly, and precisely. Erick raised an eyebrow at the drone, and the drone began moving less methodically, but that was a lie. Someone was controlling the drone with highly advanced flight algorithms, or something, whereas before it had just been autonomous. Erick let that deception stand.

… But it wasn’t really a deception, was it? Everyone knew that those cameras could be taken over at any time. Erick was the one who was just now catching up. To the girl, the fact that Erick was here, doing something and he had asked for her to join them, meant that he knew he was being watched, and that he wanted an audience.

The woman was a ball of sunshine as she spoke, “I just don’t understand how you two have put away all that food so far! It’s all so good, but I was struggling to finish that tiramisu. Phoenix Feather sure makes a wonderful dessert.”

Phoenix Feather was the name of the restaurant, and the woman was still deep in her part as an influencer, but she was tense beneath all of that social armor. She was also mad at being used for whatever ‘Black Dragon’ promotion was going on right now.

Shadow set a small shot glass in front of her that did not exist on the menu, for Shadow had just created it, and the shot swirled black with bits of white light every so often. It wasn’t the original recipe. It was tuned for mortal senses. “Try this. It’s called a Vivid Gloom.” Shadow looked to Erick, adding, “It’s gotten me through some tough times these last few decades.”

As the woman was torn between trying to say ‘no’ and graciously accepting, and wondering where the fuck the drink had come from, Erick made his own shot.

Erick set an absolutely black drink in front of the woman, saying, “This one is Darkness Enthroned.” And then he set two more on the table; one for Shadow, and one for himself, saying, “I tried making it once last year, and I was pleased with the result. I never got to share it with you before now, though.”

Shadow smiled at him, at that, and then she set down two more Vivid Glooms, one for each of them. “Bottoms up!”

Erick took his shots, and Shadow did the same.

