Even Rhisveri’s head turned. The giant Wyrm’s mouth moved, silently mouthing…‘what’?
But Ryoka just stood there, feeling the weight of the choices she was making…or wasn’t, by her inaction. She looked at Paterghost, at Rhisveri, who was eying her, and at the watching Lucifen.
“I didn’t ask Eldavin to go to war for me. But he’s here because of me. At least in part.”
Ryoka looked at the others. She took a breath and met Azemith’s gaze. Then turned to Rhisveri.
“I’ve paid every debt to you, Rhisveri. So you’ve said.”
“I am beginning to reconsider that statement. But functionally—yes. That does not absolve you of this issue.”
The Wyrm hissed at her. Ryoka instantly shook her head.
“I’m not making excuses. But there is something I can do. So…will you hear me out?”
The gathering of Ailendamus’ ageless looked down at Ryoka with suspicion, curiosity, hope, waiting for her response. As if there were ever any question. Any one of Ryoka’s friends could have told the immortals, anyone who knew Ryoka at all.
When trouble came, when the worst happened, when there was dire need. Even if the sky fell down, or she came to another world. If she was facing a terrible foe, or doing a great deed. If someone proposed to her or she couldn’t bear the care of others or her mistakes, there was only one thing for Ryoka Griffin, the Wind Runner to do.
She ran.
 
——
 
Cara O’Sullivan found two children waiting for her along with a number of people after leaving the Court of Masks. Exasperated, she realized Ryoka had left Sammial and Oesca in her care.
She waited for the Wind Runner while defending herself with as much eloquence and charm as possible. She didn’t think Ryoka would run away after daring the concert…so where was she?
The bathroom?
“Excuse me, do you know where Ryoka is?”
Cara eventually stopped a [Knight] hurrying towards her. She had an eye for faces and as ‘Greg’ she had seen Dame Chorisa. Ryoka’s bodyguard came to a stop.
“Courier Griffin is—unavailable at this moment, Miss Cara.”
“Where? She just left.”
“She always does this!”
Sammial threw up his hands. But Princess Oesca addressed the [Knight], and Dame Chorisa instantly bowed.
“Your Highness, I am not able to tell you fully—but Duke Rhisveri has apprised me that all is…acceptable. I was sent here to inform you all that she will not be returning immediately.”
“She’s leaving. Again? Where? House Shoel? That’s a nice place, Oesca. You should go. But where is she?”
Sammial alternated between chatty and exasperated. Oesca lifted her chin.
“We will go meet her.”
Dame Chorisa hesitated, and the two children and Cara realized something was off. [Princess] or not, Oesca was royalty. But Oesca made one mistake.
She still assumed Ryoka was on the palace grounds. Sammial blinked, and his eyes opened wide as Dame Chorisa replied.
“I believe…Your Highness, that will not be possible. It is my understanding that the Wind Runner has headed south. She is flying towards Kaliv. Duke Rhisveri has informed me she had better be—she will be back by nightfall.”
Oesca’s lips moved as she processed that. But Cara was already dashing to a window. She leaned her head out of it and said eight words that Sammial decided to memorize and use forever.
Baron Regalius followed Cara’s gaze out of the window and shaded his eyes. The [Baron of Ceremonies] breathed as people looked up and pointed.
“Now that’s a Courier.”
 
——
 
Southwards, the wind blew. It was a quiet breeze around the great palace of Ailendamus, the heart of the capital. At first, it was gentle as it departed one of the spiral towers, each tile laid in a dancing color as the sun faded in the blue sky.
Over neatly tended palace grounds and people pointing upwards, the wind blew, accelerating. What was a breeze became a gale, and it passed over the capital city, bustling, flashing over the paved roads in a moment.
Orderly new stone and wood gave way to lush land, and then a forest where half-Elves looked up from their timeless retreats in the Kingdom of Glass and Glory. A breeze blew across their dwellings. They looked up and caught sight of the zephyr made manifest.
Squall, then gale, then tempest. Over another city, rattling shutters, but passing too high to do more than touch the rooftops and hanging gardens below with its passing.
The flags of Ailendamus snapped in the breeze, and word caught up with the wind as it blew southwards, outracing it by magic, but only just. [Message] spells flitted through the air and told people to look up. They spotted the wind, and some waved, racing along, trying to build the little sailboats of cloth and wood and resolving to catch the wind when it raced back. The rest just pointed up.
They had seen Couriers before. Great Runners who galloped or ran using magic or other methods. But this one was different than even Garuda. So people stopped and gazed up at the wind and figure.
It wasn’t often you saw a Human fly.
 
——
 
Ryoka made the mistake of opening her mouth once. Her lips immediately tried to catch the wind and tear her cheeks out of her face. She needed a helmet and goggles.
She added it to her list. But then reconsidered as the wind blew around her, changing so it didn’t tear her face off.
She flew in a slipstream of air, her wingsuit’s arms spread. Like a giant flying squirrel, or a skydiver of Earth. The only difference was—Ryoka didn’t need that much altitude to begin her wild journey.
Nor would she ever land. The wind blew her ahead, keeping her from dropping. Ryoka didn’t know how fast she was going. Wingsuits could propel you at a hundred miles per hour. Absolutely insane speeds that no creature could match—and instant death if you so much as grazed anything.
Ryoka was going faster. Fithea, Visophecin, and Rhisveri had cast weather spells to clear the way. Even she, friend of the wind, wouldn’t risk this mad acceleration normally.
But she let Ailendamus disappear below her, a mad blur. Thankfully, Ailendamus’ capital wasn’t in the center of the nation, but close to where it had originally been when the nation had been smaller, bordering Kaliv’s north.
It would still take hours to reach her destination, even at her insane speed. And she had two places to visit.
A Courier crossing Ailendamus was not without risk. Especially one who might be opposed to Ailendamus. Most of the army couldn’t do squat, if they even looked up in time to see Ryoka coming, but Ailendamus had altogether too many forces capable of at least making Ryoka’s life uncomfortable.
If she was their enemy. If she was trying to flee Ailendamus? Ryoka saw [Mages], or their auras, who were briefed on how to stop a fragile, flying object.
Mostly by casting a barrier spell and letting her slam into it high up. Ailendamus also had [Griffin Riders], albeit not many. But no one stopped her. Rhisveri had cleared her path, so Ryoka zoomed over an army of several hundred jogging [Knights] who cheered her.
The Order of the Hydra pointed up at the Wind Runner and shouted in mild outrage. The very same [Knights] who she had met in the capital shook their fists at the Wind Runner who had just covered the same distance they had in about two hours.
By this point, Ryoka was using her wing-glider and clipped into it. Mainly because spreading your arms in a wingsuit’s dive got tiring after thirty minutes, much less two hours. The exhilaration had faded a bit, but she felt free.
Free…except for that magical arm-bangle that was glinting warningly on her right arm. Rhisveri had let her go, but he hadn’t taken off the tracking device. He had let her go, but given who she was heading to, he’d taken precautions.
It was enough time, even with the power of the wind at her back, even flying, to think. Ryoka Griffin saw a mountain range coming up, not the High Passes for certain, but so high she began looking up at them.
Her entire journey was actually long and somewhat boring—certainly cold. But it had certain highlights, from people waving up at her, spotting the Order of the Hydra she recognized, heading to war…
And attracting the attention of the forces engaged in this war.
 
——
 
Ryoka blew past a squad of thirty Griffins, massive beasts with giant talons and beaks. Big enough for multiple people to ride on. The ‘small’ ones were just large enough for lighter riders, but any one of them could just land on a horse and kill it.
And Halrac’s team hunted these damn things? Ryoka angled past them and then realized the Griffins had saddles.
Also, riders. One whirled, and a figure raised a sword.
“Halt! Who are—”
Ryoka shot around the Griffin Queen of Kaliv so fast she didn’t hear. She did see the Griffin Queen hot on her tail, though.
“Dead gods!”
A gigantic Royal Griffin and a woman with a huge spear—even longer than regular to let her attack from the back—dove after Ryoka. With her Skills, she actually nearly caught up.
“Who are you?”
“Courier! On a mission! Sorry!”
The two women screamed at each other. Neither one heard through the rushing wind. The Griffin Queen waved her spear. Slow down!
Sorry, I’m busy!
The Wind Runner waved her hand. The Griffin Queen’s mount was struggling to keep up, even with whatever Skill she was using; her escort was floundering, trying to catch both. Ryoka looked down and saw an army besieging a city on a plateau. They were camped far out of range, but giant bows were hammering the walls.
The Griffin Queen of Kaliv was fighting for her homeland. What she wanted of Ryoka was anyone’s guess, but she did not look like she was used to people telling her no, even Couriers.
She lifted her spear warningly, and Ryoka hesitated. Whatever the Griffin Queen was about to do never happened, though. Mainly because of the thin, crimson beam that shot through the sky and quickly targeted the wing of the Royal Griffin.
It danced on the wing as the Wind Runner, and the Griffin Queen, stared at it. Not just a red dot like a laser pointer. The entire beam was visible. It didn’t seem to do much, but Ryoka’s face turned waxy. Hadn’t she seen something like that before? It reminded her of Magnolia Reinhart when the [Assassins] and the ‘Great Mage Nemor’ had tried to kill her.
When she’d used her ring t—
The Griffin Queen dodged the railgun of energy. A blast of fire and energy hit the air as the wind itself screamed, and Ryoka went tumbling down. The Griffin Queen flew away, and Ryoka saw the ground coming up.
“No, nononono—”
She pulled at her parachute, but she was clipped to the glider! And the wind—
Slowed, and she felt her body suddenly drift downwards. Ryoka, in free-fall, suddenly drifted, dangling as the [Featherfall] spell left her falling. Down, down…
Towards the army of silver and purple and green, ranks of [Knights] standing to attention, horns blowing, halfway down the pass while a keep stood, under siege in the distance. Ryoka Griffin drifted down and saw the person who had fired the spell riding towards her.
Great General Dionamella of Ailendamus had been expecting Ryoka Griffin. The half-Elf was so old that Ryoka realized Eldavin and Archmage Feor were both pretenders.
True age was…her.
Ryoka realized the first moment she saw the General of Ages what Dionamella’s power was. How she fueled the ability to accelerate or stop time for an entire army.
“Rhisveri, you bastard.”
She whispered, and Dionamella tapped her on the head with her staff. Ryoka flinched, but the Great General just smiled.
“I intended to let you pass, but the Griffin Queen accosted you. I understand you are bound to speak with Tyrion Veltras and possibly negotiate their retreat. Ryoka Griffin, the Wind Runner.”
An entire army had halted around her, and Ryoka saw the Great General’s bodyguard not-so-casually aiming their weapons at her.
Her real bodyguard. Not the [Knights], even, but two dozen half-Elves.
Just…half-Elves. Like Falene, Ceria. Oh, but they looked middle-aged and like they were career soldiers. So they had been warriors for how long?
Ryoka held up her hands, but Dionamella just pointed.
“Your quarry is somewhere to the south. We do not know exactly where he is, but the Dawn Concordat is set to assail us here. So. You will find him there.”
“Do you—are you—?”
Ryoka looked around at the others and realized this was not the spot to ask if Dionamella knew the nature of Rhisveri and the other immortals. But the half-Elf just eyed Ryoka and gave her a timeless smile.
“I may see you at the capital if you remain. I understand you have caused quite the stir. Hurry onwards, Ryoka Griffin. And pass on a message from me to the two you’re trying to convince: consider retreating. I was taught by Rhisveri and Fithea, among others.”
That was all. But the calm confidence scared Ryoka more than anything else. She scrambled to her feet, leapt into the air—
And smacked the ground so hard everyone winced. Just a face-first impact, without trying to break the fall. Ryoka got up, stunned, and Dionamella hesitated.
“Ah. We march under a different time. Lightly. I’m sorry—try again.”
Ryoka turned, nose bleeding, and felt the wind pick her up. It carried her up, out of the Great General’s aegis, and Ryoka suddenly felt very nervous.
She could calm the wind itself in her aura?
 
——
 
Tyrion Veltras looked up, and there she was.
Unexpected. Unlooked for.
Possibly unpossible too. How was she…here? He had just been thinking of what to say to her, and then the wind had whispered.
And Buscrei had screamed in his ear to look up.
The Wind Runner landed with a bloody nose as House Veltras’ forces flagged her down. Or rather, Buscrei had nearly winged her with a glowing arrow as Ryoka circled, searching for them. She came down, and Tyrion had to ask.
“Ryoka Griffin. Are you injured? Is someone following you?”
“I landed on my face.”
Jericha, Swey, Pellmia, Buscrei, all looked between Ryoka and Tyrion as they exchanged the first words since Ryoka’s disappearance and the attack on House Veltras. Lord Pellmia whispered a prayer without target or faith.
He did not have the levels for this.
[Avert Disaster (Verbal)] activated in the first minute of the two just looking at each other. Half-starting to speak. In the end, Ryoka Griffin just looked at Tyrion.
“I’m sorry. I’ve caused you all a lot of trouble. I never expected you to come…Sammial’s alive. He’s well. Unharmed. Too well, in fact. The [Princess] of Ailendamus is learning a lot of bad lessons from him.”
Tyrion let out a breath he didn’t know he’d been holding for the last month, and Buscrei muttered.
“That’s something. Are they letting you go? No—that’s not jewelry, is it?”
Tyrion noticed the bangle on Ryoka’s arm. The Wind Runner shook her head.
