The two said all of this as Cara helped Ryoka put on the rest of her costume. Then their serious moment turned to hesitation. Cara bit her lip, and Ryoka saw her holding in a smile. The Wind Runner checked herself in a mirror and sighed.
Ivolethe would laugh herself sick if she saw this. Even Cara’s lips quirked, and Ryoka heard people in the band laughing when she exited the trailer.
“Holy shit. Are we doing this?”
Greg stared at Ryoka until Thien elbowed him. Cara turned to Ryoka as the Wind Runner peeked at the banquet and saw the Agelum in the audience. Oh, great. They seemed to be looking for her. And—was that Sammial Veltras standing with Oesca and her friends?
Why yes, yes it was. Cara put her arm on Ryoka’s shoulder.
“[Performer’s Grace]. Breathe, Ryoka. Are you breathing? In, out, in, out…”
“I know how to breathe!”
Ryoka snapped back. Cara didn’t even blink, but Ryoka relaxed slightly as the Skill worked on her. The Singer kept talking as she steered Ryoka towards the backstage, behind the curtains. Ryoka wouldn’t be taking part in the first few songs, which made her even more nervous. Someone was announcing Cara—it sounded like Regalius?
“…the illustrious Singer of Terandria, who graces our noble kingdom with…”
Abebi hurried over and whispered to Cara. It must have been rather dramatic to the audience watching, but backstage it was all chaos as Rae nearly threw up from nerves again, then took her place. Greg was fiddling with his guitar and tightened it too much—the snap of a string breaking was muffled by the applause. Cara turned to stare at him, and Abebi ran for a [Repair] spell. The Singer turned back to Ryoka.
“I know this is out of your comfort zone, Ryoka. This is me pushing you hard, and we both know it. But if there’s a chance this helps, this is about thousands, hundreds of thousands of lives if we can change anyone’s opinion. This is bigger than us, so your comfort zone does not exist right now. The question you need to answer is—will this help?”
Ryoka spread her arms helplessly, and the costume which had gone over her windsuit spread. She looked into the crowd and saw a bored Rhisveri yawning and popping prawned shrimp into his mouth. She imagined how he might react.
“…Yes.”
“Okay then. Wait for your part.”
 
——
 
While Cara went out, Ryoka heard her performing from behind the stage. She saw less of the stage effects, only the flash, reactions of the audience—and the [Mages] casting the spells and Abebi coordinating everything frantically.
It was the backstage Ryoka saw, and she saw that Cara knew her stuff. She also sang wonderfully.
She had a wide range from peppy pop to, more recently, a harder rock, even treading into metal. It was her persona—the Singer of Terandria was like an amalgamation of different celebrities into one.
Cara could do it because she was acting each part. And when she was on stage—she greeted the crowds and thanked Itorin II for letting her perform, every bit the [Popstar], a bit breathy, even nervous, delighted by the honor of performing.
She was good. But Cara had one fatal flaw, at least insofar as impressing Ailendamus’ true elite was concerned, and it was this:
She was lying. She had anti-truth spells, anti-appraisal rings, and all of that, but she didn’t fool the immortals. Rhisveri watched Cara with a look of pure boredom on his face during the charming greeting. He did tap his foot to some songs, and Cara had some of the immortals hooked.
But only by the quality of her music. Menorkel and Gilaw were dancing in what was close to a mosh pit at the front. So were some of the Merfolk and maybe other immortals.
The Agelum liked her music…the Lucifen did not. At least, Visophecin, who Ryoka saw while peeking around the curtains, was only politely interested. This is entertaining? Let’s institutionalize it, or create systems by which this can inorganically organically emerge. 
Fithea wasn’t even present, which made sense for a Dryad used to birds singing or something. Sophridel watched, but with less passion for this.
None of them were taken in by the Singer’s charms. They saw through artifice. Ironically, Ryoka’s raw, onion-like depths of pure Ryoka might be…Ryoka, but it was all her. That was why immortals liked her, if that made sense.
Cara had a thirty minute lineup, cut down because she knew her audience had a limited attention span. In truth, it had only been twenty-four minutes, with the four being her intro and outro speeches. But she’d added in a ten minute gap for two songs with breaks.
After twenty minutes, it was Ryoka’s turn. She barely heard Cara announcing her.
“—in honor of a new friend, and a daring Courier, a new song and style I hope won’t offend my esteemed guests. It is a bit more…aggressive than my other songs, but it fits the one and only Courier to defy the Assassin’s Guild of Izril. The barefoot Wind Runner, the—”
Ryoka really didn’t want to hear this. However, as she emerged onto the stage, she saw the effect was instantaneous.
Itorin II spat out a mouthful of food as he saw her. She waved at him as every head turned. Baron Regalius blinked, and people gasped at the outrageous…
Smile on the King of Ailendamus’ face. Because they knew each other. Even Cara gave Ryoka a quick look of disbelief. She hadn’t known that in Itorin II, there was a kindred spirit to Ryoka.
Someone who dealt with immortals. As for the immortals? Rhisveri took one look at Ryoka’s costume, sat up, and began to laugh. He didn’t stop laughing.
Visophecin just eyed Ryoka as Gadrea, Uzine, and the other Agelum began applauding instantly, cheering her look. Menorkel and Gilaw pointed, Menorkel with envy and awe.
Gilaw with something like approval. Sophridel just eyed Ryoka, and she wanted to explode. Literally explode or turn invisible.
She was never, ever going to live this down—but it was working. Everyone saw how Itorin smiled, how Cara knew Ryoka. The Singer took a breath.
“And now—in honor of the Wind Runner of Izril, my newest hit—The Phoenix.”
Thien was the only member of the band who actually played, Ryoka understood. Rae wasn’t confident enough, and Greg couldn’t. So the drummer’s playing was mixed in with the rest of the track.
Cara sang. Ailendamus’ court was introduced to the concept of…rock…and realized Cara hadn’t lied.
It was an aggressive song. Ryoka had it on her playlist, which was why Cara had agreed with it.
The Phoenix, by Fall Out Boy.
She knew her role, which was to stand in the center of the stage in her costume. Cara had attached it to her windsuit; the blazing feathers made Ryoka look like the very mythical bird that Ryoka had met in the lands of the fae.
A literal Phoenix, who would be very offended if it saw Ryoka cosplaying. Then again—maybe not? Ryoka had paid it off with a handbag.
She even had a beak-like helmet that she was grateful for—she couldn’t see as much of the audience as she strutted left and right, raising an arm to the cheering. Cara was all around her, head bobbing as her hair flew, the sky was filled with flames, and Ryoka saw Rhisveri trying to hold himself up on a table and laughing so hard he was crying.
Then Cara’s moment came, and Ryoka spread her wings and flew up. Some of her feathers came loose with her ascent, but it only added to the effect. The crowd gasped as Ryoka flew. She looked down at them all and really hoped it mattered.
The laughing Wyrm, the Agelum cheering her, the nobles and mortals and royal family. Ryoka descended to mad applause. By the time Cara launched into the second song, everyone watching could see that Ryoka’s face was almost as red as the costume.
But it did work. Both Cara and the Wind Runner were now friends. Publicly, and Cara was even more interesting to the nobles of Terandria. His Majesty had publicly smiled and laughed at the performance, most crucially of all. And Rhisveri had needed to be carried out of the banquet because he couldn’t stop laughing during the speeches.
 
——
 
The next day, Ryoka Griffin lay with her head under her pillow. She had tried to go outside, but one of the [Knights] guarding her had begun humming one of the songs, and she’d fled inside.
She only came out when Sammial kicked the door open and began freestyling his own take on Cara’s song. Then she had to face the music. Sammial Veltras trailed after her and so did Princess Oesca, who had put her foot down and ignored her tutors in favor of not missing anything interesting ever again.
Mind you, not everyone liked Ryoka Griffin. One person in particular considered that maybe all these problems would just…go away if someone took a crossbow and shot her in the back without missing. An [Assassin] had missed with a crossbow. Just—embarrassing.
And it would save so many problems from happening now.
Queen Oiena of Ailendamus had mixed feelings on Ryoka Griffin. The poor girl had won her sympathy with the Viscount’s idiocy. She had also somehow impressed Itorin but assured Oiena she was not in any way trying to seduce her husband—and Oiena believed her.
The Queen had a soft spot for a young woman who’d made Courier by doing brave runs. Ryoka Griffin was impressive—
But she was also a terrible nuisance. And a bad influence on Oesca. Queen Oiena had heard from her daughter’s [Nursemaids] that Oesca had demanded trousers.
…Which was fine for anyone but a [Princess]. The problem was, Oesca was not like other young women her age, even the nobility. She had to go to her lessons, and that Veltras boy was the worst example of all with his unchecked aura.
More than that, though, Oiena was simply aware of Ailendamus’ war with the Dawn Concordat. It was far from the capital; you had to seek out news of it. Oh, battles won and such were talked of nonstop, but the exact, military nuance?
That was something she kept abreast of so she understood how bad House Veltras being in the war was.
“They are tearing up all our Taima-damned forces, do I have that right?”
Oiena summarized the map of red marks where Tyrion Veltras had struck. He fought, according to the [Strategist] apprising her, incredibly well with his small force. He took out enemy commanders, was here, there—a perfect supporter to the Dawn Concordat.
“Yes, Your Majesty. And House Wellfar has sent a fleet to support their Citadel-class ship. We…are unable to pressure Pheislant. Indeed, we are now forced to battle purely on the land corridor. A secondary fleet has moved to engage Wellfar, but it will be skirmishing; we cannot take The Pride of the Wellfar in an open battle, so Pheislant and Wellfar’s fleets will fight under its aegis.”
And Ailendamus does not have overwhelming force at sea, yet. Their land armies were, in Oiena’s opinion, second to none if by weight of their numbers alone, added to the quality of their [Knights] and [Soldiers]. But at sea…
So two of the Five Families and Wistram were all in this war thanks to one Courier. Oiena knew the Five Families were, and she had information that put Eldavin as Ryoka’s benefactor. He had said as much in Wistram.
Yes, a great army was heading down through Kaliv, but complications were not desirable in a war, and Ryoka was responsible for all of them. Oiena didn’t like it.
She wasn’t Itorin. The [Queen] had debated bringing it up with him, but he seemed to like Ryoka. So she…debated taking other action.
The thing about Oiena of Ailendamus was that she really did feel like it was Ailendamus she had loyalty to. She was from the Taimaguros Dominion, a marriage that had sealed their alliance, but she hadn’t actually expected to marry Itorin.
The Taimaguros Dominion was—a bit odd. It was not like what a typical Terandrian kingdom, and even Oiena could admit that. For instance, she was actually a [Princess of Gura]. Who represented one half of the two parts of Taimaguros.
Gura and Taima. Hence their pithy oaths. Oiena had not been considered, as Taima had been in full power when the marriage was proposed, and she wasn’t even the first among Gura’s eligible. However, it seemed the previous [King], Itorin I, had seen something in Oiena, because she had been hand-picked as the candidate.
Oiena thought it was a good move, and that wasn’t even bias. There had been…less suitable characters. Another [Queen] might have literally only been there to raise children and appear at formal events.
Queen Oiena had more talents. For instance, she did have her own network of agents and informants. She used them at times to make sure things that needed happening in Ailendamus or abroad…happened.
For instance, on the latest list of her achievements she would never speak of was crippling the Circle of Thorns in Izril. Ryoka had helped with that, and Oiena was grateful.
But do I need to deal with her?
In truth, Oiena laid a lot of the blame for this mess at a certain Duke’s feet. Rhisveri. She didn’t know what to make of him.
He had always been odd, but she had put Itorin’s tolerating his presence down to brotherly love. Lately, though, she’d noticed how—authoritative Rhisveri was.
That confrontation over the [Knights] had been bad enough. She was the [Queen]. She tried bringing it up to Itorin, but he had told her to leave it.
“Rhisveri is particular about these things, my love. If you can tolerate it, let him have the [Knights].”
So Oiena dropped it. She was annoyed, but she had more things to do.
Like this morning, spending time with Oesca. Oiena had decided to read her a fairytale and talk to her about her duties as a [Princess]. She made time for such things, and Oesca was happy enough when they sat together.
“Your tiara is made up of ancient metal, Oesca. Don’t let it leave your head; it is one of the most powerful protections on you. It is customary for [Princesses] and [Princes] to have such jewelry, you see. For instance, each Princess of Calanfer has a magical circlet that protects them from harm.”
“Mine does too, Mother?”
Oesca had never had to use it, so she touched the silver metal with a hint of sky blue—concealing its true appearance—with wonder. Oiena smiled.
“Yes. There is a point to your dressing and attire—which is why we must carefully talk about how you dress!”
One of the [Nursemaids] sighed in relief as Oiena pointed out the value in Oesca’s current attire. The [Princess] puffed out her cheeks.
“But Mother…I understand the tiara, but can’t I try on pants?”
