“Stop the war with the Dawn Concordat. You’ll talk down House Veltras and Wistram, and we pull back our forces. Our fee will be sixteen obol-things.”
“Y-yes.”
The immortals looked at each other, then they burst out laughing, even the Lucifen, chuckling and hiding smiles, for the next two minutes. Rhisveri choked out words between guffaws.
“I told you—you had to hear it—”
Ryoka turned red, but she was used to the amusement of immortals, so she held her ground and waited. She knew it was a terribly long shot. But she had to try, and she had a few chances, or so she felt.
“I know it’s not worth what I’m offering.”
“A Dragonthrone for sixteen coins. Hah! You really understand nothing. That Dragonthrone is sanctuary and safety and more.”
Rhisveri stopped laughing and growled at her. Even the other immortals nodded. One of the Merfolk wore a Human guise for the sake of moving about on land. She smiled at Ryoka.
“Young woman, you may not understand it, but we crave safe places. Especially our kind. There are projects in the works, but the Dragonthrone does not belong to mortals. We could inhabit it without fear of being seen.”
“Among other uses.”
That was Azemith’s sly comment. Ryoka turned to her.
“I thought Calanfer was awarded it after the Creler wars.”
Rhisveri waved this off.
“Awarded because the last Dragons with a claim to that particular one died. Those Dragons just pawned it off. I want it.”
Ryoka and the others noticed how he said that. She turned to Visophecin and the Lucifen present.
“So you’re spending many lives and earning the ire of a continent all based on wanting something you can replace? A trophy? Is that practical? You must know that the other nations see what you’re doing. The Dawn Concordat might be the last straw that breaks that camel’s back.”
The immortals went quiet, and someone spoke—Sophridel.
“A reasoned argument. I have been against wars without need for the next few hundred years.”
“We’ll stop after Calanfer, then! But we’ve begun this war—are we going to retreat? That’s weakness, and we will not invite that.”
Rhisveri snapped around the room. Ryoka lifted a hand.
“Not if Ailendamus is persuaded to relent. Is it weakness to show mercy? And besides—you might not care, but Ailendamus’ children and the Dawn Concordat’s are dying. Is that worth a trophy?”
Now she turned to the Agelum and saw troubled looks from Gadrea and Uzine. Igolze nodded slightly, and Visophecin glanced at Ryoka, interested.
“That is not a claim without merit.”
“Forget it. We are being offered nothing to halt this conflict when we are poised to win.”
“That’s not what has happened thus far, Rhisveri. House Veltras has pushed back our armies, and so has the Order of Seasons. Now Wellfar at sea? We will lose our fleets, and Wistram and Pheislant will push from the west until we muster another force. This Human is speaking sense.”
A gravelly voice from someone Ryoka didn’t know, who looked like moving stones behind their illusory spell of a Dwarf. Fithea hadn’t said much, but she watched the obol Ryoka held. Yet it was an affronted voice, echoing slightly, from the suit of armor that sat with arms folded that addressed Ryoka next.
“I do not agree. Calanfer is the most strategic threat. They have long been manipulating bad will against us. We do not yield the field of battle without ceding honor. I say we continue.”
Lady Paterghost and the thing that moved her armor, the mimic Nube, voiced their dissent. Or at least, one of them. Ryoka had the distinct impression that the immortal did not like her.
“I cannot compensate you all—but I do offer you currency that even Rhisveri has acknowledged. Another world—another nation’s favor, and this one extradimensional. These are obol of the Faerie King. Whose name, even spoken, is powerful. Sixteen—and the magic of them is powerful, unique. You might all learn something from it. I mean, Rhisveri has some, but I doubt he’d share.”
The Wyrm froze as he lounged in his chair, and glared at Ryoka. Instantly, every eye swung towards him, and Ryoka hid a smile.
Got you, you greedy Wyrm.
The only way to sway the immortals was to divide them. The Agelum and Lucifen could see the rationale of her arguments, and Sophridel seemed like he was anti-war in general and a lover of the arts. But Rhisveri’s greed was Ryoka’s ally.
“Interesting. You didn’t mention that, Rhisveri.”
A woman with slitted eyes spoke up from the back. Rhisveri grunted.
“Well, it’s mine. She paid it for attempting to steal my treasures.”
“Then you don’t intend on sharing it.”
Visophecin remarked. Rhisveri shifted.
“…I will consider it. For an appropriate—”
“This is exactly the problem. First the spellbooks, now this!”
The gravelly-voiced immortal spoke up. Rhisveri pointed around.
“Do not question how I use my treasures! I don’t demand you yank out gemstones from your body and hand them around, Igrith!”
“Well, why shouldn’t we take some of the obol this Wind Runner is offering? Considering that we only have to stop fighting, it seems we get something, don’t we?”
The other Merfolk leader looked at a glowing stone of water. Ryoka held her breath as a real argument began, and lifted one stone that glimmered like the very nature of grass itself. A breeze, forever blowing through the boughs of a great tree.
Nature.
She looked at the stone Dryad, Fithea.
“I am prepared to give them to you. They are irreplaceable, and I will never get more. But I am willing to. What do you say?”
Fithea was her last ace in the hole. The Dryad looked at that stone with all the longing in the world—but she jerked her head.
“I…I cannot say we should change our entire nation…for a stone.”
Ryoka’s heart sank. Damn it! Fithea sounded reasonable, as much as she kept glancing at it. Rhisveri exhaled and Ryoka saw his head snake around, counting opinions. He glared at Ryoka, but almost with a bit of respect.
“You won’t be able to shift an entire nation with a few magic pebbles, Wind Runner. We have sent our Great General of the Ages to battle. She will not lose.”
“But she will spend what will never return, Rhisveri.”
Gadrea murmured, and Rhisveri’s eyes flickered. For the first time, Ryoka saw him hesitate. The other immortals went silent, and Ryoka looked around.
“This…Great General is an immortal?”
“No.”
Half of them answered it instantly, but Paterghost murmured.
“Second only to us. She has the respect of all those here, and she sacrifices for each battle she wins.”
“I offered her retirement. She refused.”
Rhisveri retorted, but uncertainly. Sophridel whispered.
“Four hundred years of peace. Let her rest, and another generation take up her mantle when we are stronger. Four hundred years to build upon the bones laid.”
“Just one more battle. Calanfer is nearly broken.”
“Against House Veltras, Wellfar at sea, and an Archmage?”
“None can stand against her. The Griffin Queen and that quasi-immortal [Prince] could take the field and they wouldn’t stop her.”
It was odd. Rhisveri had a note of—was that pride? In a mortal? Ryoka’s head rose. She had never heard Rhisveri talking up anyone besides himself, or Ailendamus as a whole. But he looked around, and the discussion shifted.
Yet she sensed she was failing, and her heart sank. It had always been a long shot. Ryoka was trying to think of whether bringing up Rhisveri’s auction was sound—or would get her killed. Probably the latter, since it revolved around the scroll.
Then, Azemith, about to ask Ryoka something, flinched. She looked down, and Ryoka saw a flash of dark light. Almost black-light, if that made sense. Her ring lit up, and Visophecin and Igolze both checked amulets that turned dark.
Uzine and Gadrea had more—direct—warnings. Two screaming sirens emerged from Gadrea’s ring and Uzine’s earring. The Agelum shot up in a blur.
“Home is under attack.”
Ryoka had never seen a group react like this one. Instantly, Paterghost drew her sword and pointed it at Ryoka’s neck.
“Treachery—”
“We must return. Visophecin, your door!”
The Lucifen was opening it as Rhisveri rose.
“Who? What? Where—damn, I know where. I’m taking control of my body! Tell me who! Don’t all go, damn it—”
The Merfolk leapt up.
“Warn everyone—Igrith—”
“I have prepared teleportation. Do not leave. Stay together!”
What Ryoka saw was a blur as everyone, from Fithea to Sophridel, moved with speed. With the instinctual, practiced motions of people who feared for their lives.
Who had been hunted before. Ryoka froze as Paterghost pressed the tip of the sword into her neck, but someone grabbed it.
“Don’t be a fool, Paterghost. You, girl, with me!”
Rhisveri stormed out of the room, and Ryoka ran after him. He was shouting at Visophecin to come back, but gave up. He snapped his fingers—
And half the immortals and Ryoka blinked into the Wyrm’s personal chambers. Rhisveri’s true body rose as he began searching for what was happening.
Of course—they would be too late. The Lucifen young battling Eldavin only activated their alarms when he engaged in combat with them. And it was a short battle.
Rhisveri took time first checking in on the manor, then tracing the magic back to the battlefield. It took him about ten minutes to decide to allow the Lucifen and Agelum warparty to go—they were already en-route.
“I will head there myself. But how did he teleport them out of their manor? I’d have trouble doing that. Any Archmage should fall to the Lucifen—they can cast Tier 6 piercing spells.”
He was pacing back and forth with his Human body as the first Lucifen young began to arrive, battered, but alive. But of course—
“He’s got Paxere. He saw us.”
One Lucifen was so badly scorched he looked like a ball of ash—like a cartoon character, but his skin was flaking off. Fithea was casting healing spells as Rhisveri listened.
“He knows Five Alchemy magic? Those are high-tier elemental spells, but that last one—how much mana?”
“Second only to you or Visophecin. One second we were winning, the next—it was a Skill or something.”
Ryoka was frozen in shock. Eldavin! Teriarch! What had he done?
“I’m going after him. I will slay him—Visophecin, two of the Agelum, and you, Rhisveri. We can kill any foe.”
Paterghost announced. Sophridel spoke, having no limbs but floating masks, which edged forwards, like an arm.
“I will send four of my strongest masks if it matters.”
“No.”
Rhisveri overruled Paterghost, much to Ryoka’s relief, but not out of caution. His eyes were narrowed as the Wyrm cast magic.
“He’s fortifying up as we speak. What…that’s a Tier 7 ward. How does he know that magic? No one living should…”
His eye flicked to Ryoka, and she felt a shock run through her. Rhisveri alone knew who she had met. And she saw the instant paranoia and fear run through him.
A Dragon.
But here was the funny thing. They didn’t know. They weren’t certain. The immortals recognized strength, but they were not sure. It was almost funny—Ryoka as a mortal could recognize the nature of immortality better than the immortals. Eldavin could have actually been a powerful mortal.
Or one taught by an immortal.
“If we attack now—”
“We would have to destroy the Season of Summer and Summer’s Champion, countless [Mages] of Wistram, and this Archmage on his home ground. He survived an ambush that would have killed half of us. All it takes is for him to reveal Paxere.”
“Will he?”
The immortals were worried, frightened as Visophecin stepped through the doorway. He and Rhisveri spoke as one.
“No.”
Rhisveri looked down, and Ryoka recoiled. She saw Visophecin’s eyes burning, and the smell of metal and oil were strong on him. Were his fingers more like claws? Was his shadow…vibrating?
She looked into his dark eyes and saw a little, bright red light glowing in the depths of his pupils. Uzine was panting from standing for so long and collapsed into a chair.
“Hold, Visophecin. Hold—”
He coughed and wiped the blood onto his pants. The Lucifen instantly turned to him as Rhisveri addressed him curtly.
“Don’t change here, Visophecin. I’m speaking to this Archmage. I’ve issued a warning. If he reveals Paxere, we fall on him. We’re negotiating.”
In the tense silence, every eye fell on Ryoka Griffin. It was Fithea who looked up from one of the Lucifen she was tending. Eldavin had pulled his punches…sort of. The Lucifen’s protective gear was shattered and they were alive, but one had stakes of wood that were rammed through her body—another had lost almost all their layers of skin…
Eldavin had done this? Ryoka had seen the wrath of a Dragon only once, but it had been directed against Venitra, who definitely deserved it, and the Necromancer.
These were…children.
She looked up as Fithea murmured. She looked for one spark of hope or understanding. But even the ancient Dryad’s gaze had gone dark. A spark of magic shone in the ancient stone of her face, but it was an implacable forest. And withered trust. She whispered it into the air.
“So this is the one who came here. You may have brought death to us after all, Ryoka Griffin.”
The Wind Runner stood there as the hostile gazes of the immortals fell upon her. So Ryoka looked around.
She felt bad for Calanfer, she truly did. And the Dawn Concordat. But her only tie was with Lyonette. She was horrified in an abstract way. She didn’t know them.
She did know Ailendamus’ immortals and mortals. In a sense, Ryoka was on Ailendamus’ side. She loved the immortals, the last of their kind.
But she could see the worst of them in the Lucifen’s contempt for humanity. In Rhisveri’s greed. In the way they manipulated those with shorter lives into living and loving a lie. Into a war that threatened people Ryoka did know.
Tyrion Veltras had led his family into war. Buscrei and Swey.
Pellmia.
And Grand Magus Eldavin—no, Archmage Eldavin—he had brought the future to this world ahead of time. Super-soldiers wearing armor.
A war that Ryoka Griffin was culpable for. Now?
Azemith walked over to Ryoka and handed the Wind Runner something. The Lucifen mother didn’t worry or grieve as openly as others. Igolze, standing behind her, just held still, his back open to the portal to nothingness.
“Here.”
Ryoka looked down. She held out her hand, and the Lucifen put something into it.
A burnt finger. Ryoka dropped it and leapt back. Azemith fixed her with a red-eyed stare.
“If Paxere dies, I will take more than two of your fingers.”
“Azemith.”
Gadrea pulled her back. The Agelum and Lucifen watched Ryoka Griffin breathing in and out. Staring down at the finger.
Ryoka Griffin almost laughed.
“That’s the second time someone’s handed fingers to me.”
