“I know almost all of them, Miss Cara! I would love to sing—er, Miss Cara?”
“Um. Who is that, Menorkel?”
The Titan turned, spotted Gilaw, and made a frantic go-away motion.
“That’s just Gilaw. Great Knight Gilaw, Cara. She’s a friend of mine—Gilaw! Go away! She might be listening. Maybe she likes your songs? She listens to mine.”
The strange woman with dark skin and a mane of hair refused to go. Cara hesitated—then put on her best smile. She bowed.
“Knight Gilaw? You’re welcome to listen closer! If she’s your friend, I’m delighted to sing for her, Menorkel. What if we did a duet? Some song…how about Don’t Stop Believin’?”
His mouth dropped open at the famous song with, naturally, a male and female part. Edited a bit for comprehensibility. Street lights made sense, for instance, but trains and whatnot needed changing.
Cara realized she was going to have to further edit every song for lyrics about…Ryoka’s biggest worry.
Wonderful. But then she put the mic to her lips and motioned at Menorkel to sing. He went pale, but she was his backup. Cara winked at the half-Giant, and he looked around wonderingly.
Like the young hero entering the high point of his own movie. The star of his story. That was how Cara saw it. And besides—
She did love to sing.
 
——
 
Duke Rhisveri of Ailendamus did not sing. He did croon, though. That was the tone of his voice. Very ominously friendly.
We’re all friends here. I’m so happy. I’m not thinking of melting you.
That was the…tone of his voice. A kind of forced good mood that revealed the simmering core of molten rage in his eyes. The smile was rather like that too. Corpses had more genuine rictus grins than his bared teeth.
“It seems Archmage Eldavin and House Veltras have both decided to enter the war against Ailendamus. And House Wellfar. Just what is your relationship to Tyrion Veltras and the ‘Archmage of Memory’, Ryoka? Personal? Intimate?”
She turned beet red.
“None of your business. I’m sorry they’re…attacking, Rhisveri, but you did abduct me.”
“Yes, yes. I abducted you. After you stole from me. And this is my comeuppance. Itorin is not happy. The [Generals] and [Strategists] are whining to me and holding me accountable. Which I deserve! It is purely my fault. And I will pay for it. Right after I vent my frustrations onto you.”
The Wyrm opened his maw in the private audience he had summoned Ryoka to, and she inhaled the sickly-sweet smell of his gullet. Not actually that bad. But she did see the acid preparing to spray and thought she actually saw the acid-ducts.
Anyone else, possibly even Cara, would have frozen in response to immortal wrath. Even Erin?
Well, Erin would have dodged. But Ryoka knew Rhisveri. And while she could fail to charm a starving duck with a full bag of bread crusts…she raised one hand.
“Do you use mouthwash or something?”
Rhisveri’s eyes bulged in an amazing sight on the giant Wyrm’s face. He closed his mouth, and then his cheeks puffed and he spat acid to the side.
“Hah! Don’t make me laugh! How did you know that?”
He growled, trying to maintain his anger, but Ryoka lifted her hands.
“It sort of smells like that. Seriously. You do use mouthwash?”
“What am I, a barbarian? Do you not cleanse your mouth? Don’t answer that. I think I can smell it coming off you. I suppose this is the point where you remind me you’re a guest of the Faerie King, and etcetera, etcetera.”
Rhisveri grumpily rested his head on his only forelimbs and stared at her over his claws in such a Human way that she nearly laughed. Ryoka had known the odds of him blasting her were remote, but she kept going.
“No, because you know that, Rhisveri. I won’t insult your intelligence. But I will ask for a meeting with all the immortals in the capital.”
“Amazing. You waste so much of my time, and now you want to waste everyone’s? Why would I possibly grant that request?”
The Wyrm raised his brows. Ryoka lifted a finger.
“Firstly, you do realize two—three powers are in this war because of me? It probably makes sense to try and make one or all of them withdraw.”
Rhisveri frowned darkly.
“We can win. Wistram, House Veltras, House Wellfar? None of them dare to send more than portions of their might. Ailendamus can crush all three. Or do you think your precious Archmage is my equal?”
He balefully eyed Ryoka. She gave him an innocent smile.
My friend, you have no idea what Eldavin is.
What she said was far less confrontational.
“Of course you can…but do you want to at this moment? You’re a logical man, Rhisveri.”
He rubbed his head. Since he had no claws capable of reaching the top, the Wyrm rubbed his head against one wall, which seemed to be polished, as if he did that now and then. Wearily, he looked down at her.
“I am a logical Wyrm. Don’t insult me by bringing me onto your level. And you would be so generous?”
Rhisveri gave Ryoka a skeptical look. She shrugged.
“Haven’t I settled my debts with you? I’m willing to talk them down if possible. You have Sammial—if you let him go, Tyrion might relent.”
“He wants two million gold coins. For that, I was tempted to send him a trap in the [Message] spell. Very well. You’re speaking rare sense. But why would I allow you to talk to the others? Speak to me. I am in control here. The others are lesser peers. I will make the final decision.”
Rhisveri narrowed his eyes dangerously. Ryoka just sighed. She reached into her bag of holding and produced a handful of glowing stones.
“…Because I’m willing to pay you if you answer my request. You and the others. Not just for Tyrion and Eldavin to withdraw. Duke Rhisveri, Great Wyrm of Ailendamus…how much would it cost for you to abandon your war against the Dawn Concordat? You see, I—”
She got no further because Rhisveri’s gust of laughter as he exhaled and rolled over, slapping his tail in the far distance, nearly blew her off her feet. Ryoka caught herself as the Wyrm laughed for a good twenty seconds, then, chortling, looked at her.
“You what? End the war for—you have your audience. I will call the others after this banquet. They have to hear this.”
He laughed at her as he dismissed her, but she wasn’t dead, and even if he laughed—he did listen to her. Ryoka wiped at her brow. Rhisveri was a difficult person to persuade, but she took this time to jog off and find Visophecin, Sophridel, or Fithea. Visophecin and Uzine first and priority.
If there were any chance at all, Ryoka was going to take it. In some ways, she was very unlike Cara in her limitless, boundless confidence in her ability to do things. Like persuade a Wyrm to stop a war. Ryoka thought she had a shot. This was before Eldavin’s battle with the Lucifen, so her spirits were uncharacteristically high.
 
——
 
What Ryoka and Cara agreed on was that they had to try and end this conflict. Cara knew someone in Calanfer.
“Princess Seraphel du Marquin.”
“You know a [Princess] of Calanfer?”
Ryoka’s tone was frankly disbelieving. Cara gave her an odd look.
“…Yes. Because I landed in Noelictus, where she was being betrothed to the [Earl] of Ovela. That ended poorly, but I got to know her. She’s a decent sort, even for a royal. She has had too much shite piled on her lap.”
“So you just—know her.”
The Singer’s eyebrows raised.
“Yes. And you just happen to have met the 6th Princess of Calanfer after she ran away. Who works at an inn in the middle of the continent. Which one is more coincidental?”
“Um. No, I get that. It’s just—so you’re trying to end the war for her?”
Cara rubbed at her brow. She took a swig of healing potion mixed with a tonic for her voice; she’d just spent an hour and a half singing with the starstruck Menorkel. And about thirty seconds of hearing Gilaw try to copy them at a dead screech. But she’d made an impression on the two immortals.
Ryoka was actually sort of jealous. She walked over to the window and closed the shutters. Gilaw couldn’t hear them, but she was peeking through the glass at Cara, the new target of interest. Menorkel pulled her away and hurried her off.
Of course, Cara was the Singer of Terandria. But Ryoka was the friend to immortals. Ahem. The Wind Runner coughed and saw Cara giving her a long look.
“What?”
“I’m not ending the war because I know Seraphel, Ryoka. I’m ending the war because Ailendamus is an imperialistic, expansionist nation that aggressively annihilates any smaller nations. They make Rome look peaceful. People are dying in this war, and if I can—well, you were the excuse to come here. We haven’t a shot in hell, but I’ll try. Hand me that brush?”
Ryoka did, a bit shamefaced.
“Uh, right. I think it can work. But are you sure we need to stick to your plan?”
She was antsy. And embarrassed by Cara reminding her of the obvious. Ailendamus did attack other nations.
It was just…Ryoka saw why. Part was Rhisveri’s greed, but the immortals genuinely thought they were making life better. The Agelum did. The Lucifen were more obsessed with order, but Ryoka also knew it was self-preservation.
Mortals killed immortals. There was a part of her that got why they were doing this.
And another part that realized how dangerous all of this was. Yet despite herself, Ryoka didn’t hate Ailendamus. She might fear it, but she knew Itorin, saw the people here…
Cara did too, but again, her perspective was far different.
“Ovela and Afiele. I don’t know what you think you’re seeing, Ryoka, but I’ve seen their worst. Hiring a [Necromancer] to assassinate an entire family—children and all—is what some of the rats in this nation will do. However, they’re not all evil pieces of Creler crap?”
She turned to Ryoka, and the Wind Runner nodded.
“Some are reasonable. Like I said, there’s ways to make an impact.”
They’d discussed that, but the imminent banquet was the first thing. So Cara just nodded.
“I’m sure you’re right. That’s who we’re impressing. No one’s all good or evil in a nation. So we’re doing this—as long as you’re not going to run off on me.”
She strode to the door as Ryoka hesitated. She really wanted to make a break for it, but Cara cracked the door open.
“Abebi, time? How are we looking?”
Ryoka heard the [Manager]’s reply.
“Everyone’s good, Cara.”
“Define ‘good’. I just saw Rae throwing up over there.”
Abebi glanced over her shoulder.
“She’s good. I’ve got it. Just get ready for your part.”
Cara nodded and shut the door. She had the amazing ability to not worry about everything and delegate, like letting Abebi get the band ready and everything set up. All Ryoka could do was fly.
The Singer of Terandria was at full strength here, as the chattering guests flocked to one of the giant courtyards where food and drink were set up against the darkening sky. No less than His Majesty would be in attendance—but casually.
This was the Singer’s first big concert, and Ryoka realized she had really thrown Cara off what needed to be a spectacular moment. Everything aside, she was contracted to perform in Ailendamus for at least a week, and her reputation was riding on this.
It turned out this would not be a broadcast concert; Cara didn’t like Wistram’s mages rebroadcasting her for good reason. She got enough press, and trust issues aside, part of her sales were the uniqueness of her events. The rise of mass-media would take away some of her value.
“At least until I get royalties. No royalties, no system set up to accredit people for their work. Fame is literally their only payment, and we’re all worth more. That’s the one thing I agree with Ailendamus on. Okay…what are you doing with your clothes on?”
Of all the questions—Ryoka jumped.
“Oh shit.”
Cara pushed a bundle of clothes the [Costume Tailor] had worked up in a frenzy into Ryoka’s arms.
“I’ll turn my back. But if you’re going to back off and run away—now would be a really good time for me to know. We’re on in fifteen.”
She glanced out the window, and Ryoka’s heart began to judder in her chest. Now she had second thoughts and third thoughts and fifth ones that told her maybe this wasn’t a good idea.
How had Cara talked her into it?
“I…are you certain this is for the best?”
Cara turned to Ryoka.
“Ah, there’s the last-minute objections. No, Ryoka, you don’t have to do this.”
“Oh, well then—”
The Singer continued like a freight train rolling over a foot.
“I’d just have to improvise with fourteen minutes to go. Again. Here—get changed! Let’s keep talking. No, you don’t have to do this. But we both agreed that you’re well-known in Ailendamus. I’m not. I have my reputation, but people know you, so this is the best way to help me. Which we want to do. Your scars…”
She had just seen the scars from Ryoka being shot in the back. The Wind Runner saw Cara hesitate, then go on briskly.
“Don’t worry about anything other than what we rehearsed. Do we need to go through it again?”
“I’ve got it. I think. I just walk around and then use the magic to fly up. I can do that. It’s not hard. I mean, I control the wind, but if I make a mistake—”
“Breathe, Ryoka. In and out. Don’t worry. Even if you make a mistake, I can improvise around you. Got it?”
“Right…okay.”
It was true, the costume would, uh, attract attention. On multiple levels. And Baron Regalius, Itorin II, even Menorkel, Rhisveri, and people from the Court of Masks and more knew Ryoka. Viscount Visophecin—she knew a lot of powerful people.
She just really, really didn’t want to do this. Ryoka rubbed at the fabric. It wasn’t polyester or modern fabric. Had they actually gotten hide or something? She bit her tongue.
“I’m committed, Cara. I’m not going to leave you behind. It’s just—I really don’t want to do this. I’ll do it! But—will it really end this war? I know you’ve got a plan, but you don’t know the leaders of Ailendamus.”
She could not tell Cara the truth, even if she wanted to. Yet the Singer’s eyes were, if not purely confident, resolved.
“I have…a few variables, Ryoka. And among them is just tipping the scales. If it’s one of two people who switch from supporting to hesitating, or better yet, opposing it, we can maybe grind this war machine from annihilating a country to something before that. There is always a point where enough is enough. Enough blood, enough dissent…I want to push to that point if it can be done.”
It was well said. But Cara didn’t know that a Wyrm ruled Ailendamus. Ryoka wondered…what Rhisveri’s tipping point was.
