“Maybe in private. But a tiara does not mesh well with pants. Let us go back to the story, and you may understand the significance. You see—your tiara comes from the traditions of old, when the first Hundred Families created their royal attire. Their crowns came from the chainmail of the last Cloud Giant. He was so large that the greatest [Enchanters] took his armor and, from the giant links, forged a hundred circlets and crowns to protect the royal children of Terandria.”
“Wow. Is that my tiara?”
Oiena shook her head, smiling as Oesca touched the tiara on her head wonderingly. Oiena, smiling in the private, royal quarters and dressing room where they were having a late breakfast—
Heard a snort. Someone kicked past them, grabbed a book from a shelf, checked it, slapped it into a bag of holding, and turned. Duke Rhisveri laughed at the [Princess] and [Queen] as he passed by.
“Hardly. Those relics are long gone, and they were definitely not each forged from a single link in a Cloud Giant’s armor. Do you know how big they are? Chain armor on a giant? Each link wouldn’t block any regular arrow! It’s all hyperbole. And enchanting doesn’t work like that. What, did they snap the enchantments to re-enchant each crown? Ridiculous. I’m going to have that tale stricken from the records.”
He stalked off as Oiena stared at him. She twitched as Oesca’s look of darling wonder turned to skepticism. She gazed up at her mother, then hopped down.
“…I’m going to go with Sammial to see what the Wind Runner is doing, Mother. I promise I’ll study more tomorrow!”
She ran before Oiena could decide whether to forbid her. Oiena put two fingers on the bridge of her nose and began cursing.
It was just as well one of the [Nursemaids] could shield Oesca’s ears from Taimaguros’ pithy phrases. The woman nervously approached the mother.
“Your Majesty, should Princess Oesca be with that young man? He could be one of those ravishing lords.”
She did not mean that in a good way. Oiena looked up and glared.
“Oesca has enough magic on her person to obliterate that boy. Just—go after her.”
She fumed as she got up. Rhisveri. The worst part was that he was important. Oesca might not have the ancient relics from the inception of Terandria’s kingdoms, but her tiara could probably eat a Tier 6 spell. Or better.
Not that she had ever needed to try it. Indeed, now that Oiena thought about it…Itorin had told her that Rhisveri had enchanted the tiara.
As if that were a good thing! It was one thing if he said, ‘our [Magi of the Old Ways] have created an artifact to safeguard our precious daughter’. Quite another to say, ‘my brother enchanted this, and it is going to keep Oesca safe’.
Was he truly the greatest spellcaster in all of Ailendamus? Oiena had never heard where Rhisveri studied. She was…realizing there was more and more about Rhisveri she did not know, and Oiena didn’t like that.
However, in the interim, she put him aside to help mitigate the cost of his blunders. Tyrion Veltras and the Five Families threatened all-out war if Sammial Veltras were harmed or not returned.
The thing was—Oiena had been keeping abreast of the negotiations, and not once had anyone proposed sending the boy back. She somewhat understood; it had been a mistake to kidnap him. Now they had him, though, they wanted to negotiate from a position of relative strength.
“But does no one understand he’s a boy? Have a [Mage] from Wistram tour the palace. And make sure he sees young Sammial, alive and well. Possibly even in Oesca’s company.”
She gave orders as she rose for the day. One of the [Chamberlains] hesitated.
“We do have a [Mage], and Wistram as a whole is willing to take the broadcast request at a substantive fee, Your Majesty. It’s only…”
“What?”
Queen Oiena was willing to pay the fee to reassure everyone that Sammial Veltras was well. Showing Tyrion he was unharmed—even precocious—was an intelligent move.
But again—she heard Rhisveri’s name, and this time her teeth ground together.
“Duke Rhisveri has mandated that no [Mage] from Wistram will walk the palace unescorted. In addition, when the televised scrying began, he informed us that under no circumstances would anyone be allowed to scry the palace. Only His Majesty and royal events pre-approved would ever…”
Was he just controlling or paranoid? Oiena didn’t know either, and she had no context for why Rhisveri might be very worried that a [Mage] might…see something…without a chance to censor it.
So she snapped.
“I am Queen Oiena of Ailendamus. I overrule my cousin’s orders. Have the [Mage] tour Ailendamus.”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
It was an order she would have serious cause to regret. But Oiena couldn’t have known that at the time.
 
——
 
Someone else who didn’t like Ryoka—or rather, Cara—was Sophridel. The Elemental of Masks found Rhisveri and Visophecin as they prepared for their meeting with Ryoka.
Interestingly, the Elemental was quite agitated. Which meant that his emotionless voice had the slightest note of distress in it.
“You must resolve this issue. I have given commands, but I have been ignored. It is Ryoka Griffin and the Singer of Terandria.”
Rhisveri rolled his eyes, impatient.
“Have they disrupted the Court of Masks again? I’ll resolve it. Let me see. [Nonlethal Lightning Bolt]. I’ll be right back.”
He strode off with his finger crackling with bright power, but Visophecin stopped him.
“What, exactly, have they done, Sophridel?”
The Elemental of Masks led them to the central, hidden place where they could see a distant gathering in the Court of Masks, where all could debate and speak equally. His voice was frustrated, indignant, and covetous at the same time.
“The Singer of Terandria. She refuses to wear a mask!”
 
——
 
Cara didn’t even know Sophridel’s desire for people to wear masks. She just refused because she was Cara.
She stood in the gathering of people who had no discernable gender, voice, height, or other features. Indeed, even Sammial, Ryoka, and Oesca looked alike.
All they could be known as were their masks. Respectively, Cracked Raven, Sunburst, and Oesca’s new identity…horrifying bat-yeti-man. With sapphire, staring eyes and two pinpoints of unholy light for the pupils.
War Mask.
Yet Cara refused to be anonymous. In fact, the original discussion had come from the people here arguing with her that she should wear a mask. But the Singer had multiple faces herself, and she presented herself not as the charming [Popstar] and occasionally [Rockstar], but a debater.
“Why should I hide my identity?”
She challenged a winking bear mask, who retorted with some irritation.
“All are equals in the Court of Masks. We rise or fall in each other’s esteem by the virtue of our argument.”
Cara frowned, and it was Sunburst who raised a finger. Sunburst, who many people thought they knew, and who had made a name for themselves in their dramatic entry.
“Ah, but are we equal? When we leave, we are still who we are. Reputations earned here are earned by an investment of time as much as sound logic. For someone like Miss Cara—surely she has no chance of being taken seriously. The Court of Masks, in that sense, is like an exclusive club that rewards loyalty and participation as much as sound reasoning.”
A murmur swept through those listening, which was the majority of those present. Cara had chosen her tactic well to attract attention, and she had a Devil in the wings.
Which was Ryoka, queen of trolling and antagonizing people. Cara just glanced at Ryoka, but it was like a wink.
‘batman’ lived up to her reputation. And Cara was no slouch either. She faced her masked audience and bowed.
“I am willing to stand and be heard. Even should His Majesty hear it—I am against war with the Dawn Concordat. I hope you will listen to my reasoning.”
Amusement ran through the crowd as Rhisveri, Visophecin, and Sophridel, each disguised themselves, came to listen. The Wyrm rolled his eyes, but he held his tongue. He hated not being known himself. Visophecin enjoyed it.
“Do you object to the war itself or our reasons for waging it?”
“Both. It is a war of aggression against a sovereign nation that has not provoked the war in any way.”
Cara retorted, and someone laughed.
“Calanfer has not attacked Ailendamus, but they are hardly a nation without flaw. You may wish to research the very nation you defend, Miss Singer. Or are you not aware of Calanfer’s peculiarities? It is known, publicly, as a nation that actively pits other nations against each other. I have never witnessed a court of snakes worse than Calanfer on our continent—House Reinhart may be its equal! The ‘Eternal Throne’ has pitted nations into wars that it benefits from more than any other nation in the last thousand years.”
Ryoka’s heart sank as she turned to listen to the speaker. Someone else chimed in.
“It is not a perfect nation either. If you study the nation’s policies and see where its economy flows—which I have done, I might add—you will see that if you calculate the sum total of its expenditures, over 60% of its annual budget flows not to people or anything else but the capital, the throne itself. Calanfer polishes its own jewel while its people suffer, especially in times of famine.”
Cara was listening, face impassive, as the others chimed in.
“Consider Kaliv as well. It is a fair nation of brave warriors—but the lowlands and highlands are sparse. Starvation is not unheard of in a kingdom during terrible famines, for all they have strong ties to Gaiil-Drome. But then—the half-Elves’ kingdom puts little of its forest to use. It sells expensive fruits and relies on Calanfer to manipulate the markets to enrich both.”
They were listing out the faults of each nation, and Ryoka winced as someone brought up the Thronebearers.
“More concerned with pageantry than defending the common folk. We have seen how ineffectual they are in war; Ailendamus has strived not to let a single citizen starve. All three nations of the Dawn Concordat say, when shortages occur, that those who die do so in service to the crown. They cannot protect those they are sworn to. Why should we hear any defense of such nations?”
Ryoka had a few choice responses, but hers were generally provocative and sometimes mixed personal insults into the debate. Cara, though? She waited until they were all turning to her for a response and spoke with a calm, clipped tone.
“Pointing fingers at each nation’s flaws can be done of every kingdom, empire, or city-state in the world. Even paradises have failings. What I know is that Calanfer has never declared war in the last two thousand years, only joined in the defense of other nations. Sometimes to its own gain, yes! But it is no warmonger. And I think that is a title that might fall at Ailendamus’ feet, if you will excuse my rudeness. Is this a war to benefit all, or to enrich the Kingdom of Glass and Glory?”
A short silence fell over her retort, then someone remarked thoughtfully behind a golden bat mask that Ryoka would have traded hers for.
“If the end result is that the people, from high to low, regardless of birth, are enriched over time, is that not an outcome for the better?”
Ryoka could see the faces behind the masks thanks to the trick she had taught Sammial—and now Oesca.
Viscount Visophecin watched Ryoka and Cara. The Singer turned to him with a smile.
“An interesting point, sir or madam. You may think you can rule Calanfer’s people better. Let us assume they are treated worse than Ailendamus’ folk. I do not know if this is so, but I will allow it for the sake of argument. Let us assume that after a year in Ailendamus, they find that they are better fed, the laws are more just.”
Visophecin nodded. Cara looked at him.
“…Even then, if you asked them, I believe they would choose to return to Calanfer. If you asked a poor [Farmer] or any citizen in Calanfer, I believe they would laugh in your face and choose their home over foreign rule. You may, of course, force them to a life of better treatment. But when they rebel because you have killed their family and friends, will you put them down with swords and spells?”
Ryoka really liked Cara. Visophecin seemed to as well, from the tone of his voice and the smile behind Sophridel’s mask. He paced left, and it seemed like Golden Bat was well known because people let him debate her.
“An interesting question. Let us assume, for the sake of argument, that a nation fails its people utterly. They starve in service to a crown that has neither law nor order, let alone prosperity. Is it not acceptable to invade as a, pardon the expression, humanitarian act? It may be despised in this generation, but what about in three?”
That was imperialistic talk, and Ryoka tried to speak up, but Cara got there first.
“Why must you invade? If you truly believe Ailendamus is better, why not be the shining nation that other people flock to? There are more ways than just violence to change countries for the better. If you see other people’s nations starving—why not send them food, clothing, and medicine?”
“For what gain?”
Rhisveri’s voice, which earned him disapproving glances from all. Cara calmly retorted.
“Does there always need to be a gain?”
“Yes, obviously—”
But he was cut off, much to his pique. However, Ryoka jumped in eagerly.
“That’s exactly right. Ailendamus does not need war with the Dawn Concordat. What about subversion by other means? Economic pressure. I don’t mean destabilization, but that kind of thing like unified trade embargoes are part of Ailendamus’ tactics already. But short of war, you could still possibly have bankrupted Calanfer or destabilized them to the point where—”
Cara walked past Ryoka and kicked her in the shins so fast that Ryoka shut up. She thought Cara had cracked her shin!
Visophecin looked very interested by the proposals here. As Ryoka hobbled away in her mask, she decided Cara could do what she wanted. Someone took her by the arm, and she looked at Rhisveri. He eyed her.
“Well, I can see you’ve made your argument. Come. You’ll have your audience.”
They left Cara and dodged Sammial and Oesca as Rhisveri and Visophecin made them invisible. Cara could try and convince the mortals.
Ryoka had another target.
 
——
 
The meeting was short, and Ryoka presented her offer to a group of immortals, some of whom she knew, others she did not.
Menorkel was not here, nor Gilaw. But Fithea, Sophridel, Visophecin and the Lucifen and Agelum and some others she had never met had joined Rhisveri. Among them were two of the Merfolk’s leaders.
It was Uzine who summed up Ryoka’s request.
