May 12th, 2017. A day that was almost overlooked for a year. It would later become a timestamp synonymous with conspiracy theories, governmental coverups, and a worldwide crisis. Its nickname would be simply—the Melbourne Incident.
The Melbourne Airport’s logs would show—once they had been leaked by whistleblowers and people panicking over what they’d seen—the inexplicable.
Eyewitnesses would come forward to testify what they hadn’t seen. Which was their friends or people around them disappearing.
Young people. The logs on all the surveillance showed it too. One second they were there—then nothing.
No glitches. No ‘blips’ on the footage. Even someone with a phone, recording the incident by chance, just saw a person move past a young Japanese man, Kenjiro Murata, for the briefest second.
Then he was gone.
This was not the first incident, but what had been put down to some human trafficking incident or runaways, kidnappings with no ransom note, or worse, a serial killer or cult, quickly refocused itself. In an airport, with undeniable mass-evidence of what was going on, public opinion quickly focused on the event.
It transpired just as fast that a number of media organizations had known of the incidents, but they had been forcibly prevented from breaking the story. Multiple nations had covered up the incidents and looked into them. They had found nothing—or so they claimed.
But at this point, who would believe them? There had always been conspiracy theories. This—made every crack theory look like logical musings as internet sleuths, panicked rumors or false information—even faked videos and images—spread along with a true and genuine abduction of the young.
It had so many elements to it. Young people, but not children, were abducted. In a specific age range. Yet it didn’t matter how ‘safe’ they were. They all vanished, from the rich to the poor, to those who were in the company of protectors to ones who went for a walk.
In their own homes. Going to the bathroom. Worse, there was no one to blame. Oh, pundits and politicians and everyone blamed everyone else, but there was no proof. None of them returned.
Ryoka Griffin was considering how that must have all been. Then Rae mentioned the pandemic.
“The what?”
Oh, just something akin to a worldwide disease like The Black Death—albeit far less lethal—sweeping the world. Made far worse because now people suspected this was Phase 2 of some kind of plot or invasion. The Illuminati capturing children for a new generation and wiping out the old world?
Aliens seeding the way for a landing? The Rapture?
“Conspiracy theories are everywhere. It was insane. Even videos made for fun—do you know the Mandela Catalogue?”
“No.”
“Oh. Right. Someone made that, but people were convinced it was real. No one trusts what any news organizations are saying because half of them knew. So people were sharing that. Forget about masks. Everyone I knew thought the government was putting something in them.”
So you had a worldwide disease made worse by a refusal to comply with restrictions. Multiple nations all accusing each other of knowing…something. Actual abductions of the young people.
What interested Ryoka was that Rae, the bassist and one of the latest people to come from Earth in the year of 2021—had a better understanding of the economic impacts of all of this than most.
Greg, who was from 2019 and as annoying as Cara had pretended to be with her [Alter Ego] Skill, just talked about the ‘vibe’. Rae, however, had a father in the IRS and a mother who was a nurse. And she had gone to church.
“The hospitals are flooded. People start dying because they’re full up. At the same time, some groups are making all the money.”
“Like…?”
Ryoka sat in the crowded wagon of Cara’s band. Every Earther was present, staring at her, but letting Rae catch Ryoka up to speed. Cara had introduced Ryoka to everyone, but the Singer of Terandria was the only one not present.
“You can talk with them. I’ll get to work.”
Cara didn’t need to hear all of what they had shared again, but there was a visceral relief on the faces of the other Earthers in sharing this. They’d all hugged Ryoka—or tried to, in Greg’s case. They liked her before having met her, which was an unexpected feeling for Ryoka, and one she was disinclined to break by talking too much.
Because to them, she was like Cara. She was the Wind Runner, an Earther who’d become a Courier. She’d made it.
Anyways, back to Earth. Rae grimaced.
“Self-defense, arms manufacturing—everyone, I mean, everyone is buying something. ‘Give every young person a gun, just in case.’ They nearly passed a law letting people from 12 and up carry firearms.”
Oh heck, that is going to be a problem. However, if the gun lobby had new teeth, guess who else had more converts than they had since the actual Crusades?
Every religion in the world, even the weird ones, had gained in followers. Some had literally doubled their numbers, and they did not help with the many prophecies and laws that had been broken in the modern era that might spell divine judgment.
Worse…Ryoka was gnawing at her lip as Greg interjected.
“People are saying they see things. No one believes that. Yet. There’s a famous CEO who says he saw the messiah himself beckoning him to the last war against the Devil. Everyone he was with swears they saw it too. But that’s the weirdest part of it.”
Fuck.
No one had thrown a single [Fireball] through the portal between worlds, and yet Earth was practically tearing itself apart. Well—practically.
No one had started a world war yet. The Earthers chattered, and Ryoka, to distract herself, let them catch her up on less important news. Like all the movies that had come out, despite the calamities. New songs, even drama. She drank it in hungrily because it was home.
Would they ever go back, though? And if they did—
Would she want to?
 
——
 
Cara O’Sullivan, if that were her real name, asked hard questions. In fact, that was pretty much the only type of question she asked.
Ryoka Griffin, it could be said, had very little chill. She got anxious, she worried, and she snapped.
Cara, in that case, had anti-chill. She thought about the world with a depth of cynicism Ryoka admired.
However—they were two radically different people. On the same side! But they approached the issue of Ailendamus, where Ryoka was, and everything else from fundamentally different points of view.
For instance, the first thing Cara had asked Ryoka on their walk back was…
“After this, if you can be free, what will you do?”
And Ryoka was paralysed because she didn’t know. Go home to Izril? Well, assuming Erin woke up—go and find Mrsha. But if Mrsha were safe, she had to rally help against the six. Or—or talk to Eldavin. Or return Sammial to Tyrion and—
Then Cara jabbed her with an elbow and reclarified. Not that. If all were well in the world, what did Ryoka Griffin want to do? Go home? Find more Earthers? Just…live in peace?
If she could go home, would she?
Any one of these questions could have given Ryoka a full blown existential crisis where she jogged along the beach and thought about them for a day or two. Since there was no beach nearby, Ryoka just hyperventilated.
She didn’t know. By contrast, Cara did.
“I’m creating Safety. Step two is to get everyone where they want to be. In their class. Step three? We go home or send a message back. Failing that? We need to find a nation, a cause, a group, and create something safe for us. It’s nebulous as feck, but I’m touring Terandria to find somewhere I believe in. The Kingdom of Keys might be good—if they let us in. I’m genuinely considering Khelt, to be honest. Or the House of Minos. Paradises. You’ve met Minotaurs—what’s your impression of them?”
“Physically fit.”
To that, Cara had rolled her eyes. She had an Irish accent when it slipped, but she had training, so she often adopted a different accent depending on who she spoke to.
“Wonderful insight.”
She was prickly around Ryoka, but the other Earthers thought of her as trustworthy.
“She’ll bite your head off, but she got me out of jail. Everyone thought I was trying to cast a spell on them when I landed, and I was in there for two weeks. She rolled in and got me out.”
Thien assured Ryoka that Cara was on the up and up. Abebi, from Nigeria, was also confident in Cara.
“Safety is great. I hope you can visit. But no one’s going there until we’re well clear of Ailendamus. Cara told us all to be careful. What…what is the situation here with you?”
Ryoka gave her a winning smile.
“Complicated.”
That pretty much described everything. When in doubt, that was the answer. But the truth was, Ryoka was glad Cara was here.
Because Cara’s other goal, besides possibly breaking Ryoka Griffin out of trouble, was to end the war with Ailendamus and the Dawn Concordat, specifically Calanfer. Ryoka Griffin considered that between keeping her out of trouble and that—
Cara had a better shot at ending the war. And Ryoka would help her. She had supreme confidence in her ability to sway Ailendamus’ true power. Right up until she heard that Tyrion Veltras was carving a path through Ailendamus’ forces.
And then that House Wellfar had entered the war. Guess who was to blame for that? Someone knocked at the door to the Earthers’ secret conference, and everyone went silent immediately. Ryoka opened the door and saw a [Knight], Dame Chorisa, taking off her helmet.
“Chorisa, can it wait? I’m a bit bus—”
The Thisting Veil Knight stepped aside and showed Ryoka about twenty [Knights], from the Order of the Hydra to Drell [Knights]. One of the [Royal Knights] gave Ryoka a stiff bow.
“Excuse me, Courier Griffin? Duke Rhisveri would like a word with you.”
 
——
 
While Ryoka Griffin was being escorted to meet with Rhisveri, Cara O’Sullivan was singing. Yes, Ryoka was being marched off under guard, but when was she not? It was what the Wind Runner wanted, anyways.
Ryoka had a belief that in order to change things, like this war, you had to go to the top. There was a great story, great fate and destiny at play, and she wanted to be an important part of it. To move Ailendamus, one person, one Wyrm mattered. Maybe some Devils and Angels and a Dryad and Elemental or two were thrown in for good measure, but only them.
Cara—no. Cara took a different view, and it was that everyone was the protagonist of their own story. Ailendamus was made up of people, and it was people who changed things. So she put the magical microphone to her lips and sang.
 
“I~, I have a secret. And it’s you.”
 
The song was unfamiliar to her, but she was a quick study, and it had the same cadence as a modern song. It needed a bit of rearrangement, the melody and maybe the beat, but it was an amazing copy of an electropop song. Yes, some of that would make it work.
There was a brief moment of pause as someone inhaled. Then a voice quickly sang in a wonderful baritone.
 
“I~, I know it’s never just me alone.”
 
A bit of hesitation. Pure nerves in the voice singing with her. But just as Ryoka had said—Cara looked sideways at the half-Giant named Menorkel, or ‘Menor’ to his friends.
My should-be-dead gods, he’s a great singer!
The beginning of the duet was nervous, and Menorkel looked like he might pass out on the other admirers around Cara, but he quickly rallied as they began to sing the song that Ryoka mentioned he’d written and dearly wanted Cara to look at.
He’d nearly run away when she came to meet him, but Ryoka had told her Menorkel mattered. Of course, Ryoka meant it in the connection of immortals and Menorkel’s true nature.
Cara didn’t know any of that. What she saw as she looked at the half-Giant, swaying despite himself and singing his heart out with one of his heads, was…talent.
A kind of passion that made her feel artificial at times. She listened to the lyrics as they went on. Oh, yes, it even had the spirit of the song.
 
“I~, I have a secret. And it’s you.
I~, I know it’s never just me alone.
It’s been gnawing at me for so long
Because I’m not honest with them all;
It’s not one, but two.”
 
He’d written an entire song after hearing her. Yes, it was unpolished. Yes, it was a copy of the many different artists she herself was pretending to embody.
But his height! The half-Giant had a kind of casual style, and his insane height wasn’t as intimidating as that Great Knight Gilaw or other half-Giants that Cara had met. He wasn’t as tall, and he had that lanky look of a young man in his late teens.
Cara felt it. Her [Popstar] senses, which had never tingled, were screaming at her.
A nine-foot tall singer with a voice as sweet and deep as a barrel of molasses and the ability to project it as loud as she could with a mic. Winsomely awkward yet brave enough to sing with his idol.
If he were on Earth, I’d bet my entire fortune on him being a sensational singer. Or part of a boy-band. 
I want him in my band as an actual singer.
If Cara had known he actually had two heads and could have gotten over the shock of it and the secret cabal in Ailendamus, she might have tried to abscond with him right then and there. As it was, Menorkel looked like he was dreaming as Cara lowered the mic after the song ended.
“You. Are. Beautiful. Menorkel, that song is genius.”
She reached up, took his arm, and he nearly fell on a [Lady].
“Y-you think so, Miss Cara? Singer Cara?”
“Call me Cara. Yes, I do. We need to work on accompaniment, but my [Manager], Abebi, can mix music. Some kind of melody—but the lyrics? They are spot on. How did you come up with them?”
The half-Giant began to stutter, still looking like he wanted to pinch himself. Was this real? Cara just beamed up at him, genuinely smiling. This young man had a talent. More talent than she did. If nothing else, she was going to hone that.
Ryoka had dumped Menorkel in Cara’s arms, in a figurative sense, because it might matter. Cara decided to devote as much time as she could to the young man because he had a dream. And if there was one thing she could get behind, it was chasing any dream you wanted until you found yourself on the big stage.
The only trick would be explaining how Abebi used the computer to mix electronic tracks—but he didn’t need to see that. Cara flicked up her hair and winked at him.
“Do you know any other songs of mine? You have a superb voice. Are you trained? I noticed you have trouble hitting the high notes.”
Menorkel gulped. Cara looked around at the envious faces; there were a lot of her most devoted fans, but she rarely sang with them. She even spotted a huge…armored figure…
Cara froze as she saw Gilaw perched on a window ledge, staring at her like a hawk. The Great Knight made no move, and Menorkel babbled on happily.
