“Oh my GODS yes. I need coffee too. I have a long mental list and coffee is on that list.”

“I’m still waiting on those potatoes, too. I wasn’t kidding about that.”

Erick looked up at the house, then to the left, at a flat orange surface large enough for many various things. “We have room for a garden. Gonna have to turn that stone into dirt, though. Not sure about how that works.” Erick turned to Poi. “Any ideas?”

“The sewers are 10 meters down; everything else is rocky soil except for the first 3 meters below the city’s surface. That space is solid stone and already plumbed to wick water away from the city and into the sewers. [Stoneshape] in the streets or past 1 meter depth is illegal, but you are able to turn the stone in your front yard to sand, and then enrich that sand into soil however you feel you can. You can buy compost or soil from the Farmer’s Market to speed up the process. I would suggest adding a drain to whatever growing field you choose to create, especially if you’re going to rain for a whole day.”

“Thank you, Poi.” Erick said, “Hear that?”

Jane called out from somewhere inside, “Can’t hear you! Exploring!”

Erick decided to go explore his new house, too.

An hour later Al showed up and helped Erick and Jane fix the little melted bits that remained from Jane’s new spell. Al was impressed, though. As a generalized reconstruction spell, Jane’s spell was one of the better ones Al had seen. She could hire herself out for multiple gold a day with that spell, if she wanted. Some adventurer in town was always damaging something somewhere, after all.

As Al worked, Erick was falling in love with his new house.

Ceilings tall enough for an orcol, amenities sized for humans, all the ambiance of stone. Orange and yellow stone walls, all bright and happy. This was the best interior of house he had ever owned. Al even did a little plumbing, though there was no turning any of it off; water pressure kept water flowing up from down below, through two fountains and down the drains. One fountain in the kitchen, the other in what would become the garden area. Al even adjusted the front yard for a garden. It was sand right now, but that would change with a trip to the Farmer’s Market.

Standing outside, Erick just stared at the exterior of the house for a while.

He was in love. After a lot more fussing from Jane, she was in love, too.

Jane wanted ‘Victorian Architecture’. Al had never heard of ‘Victorian Architecture’. Eventually Al had given up trying to understand Jane and just did what he knew how to do; he was an accredited Stonemage after all. He had done houses in every popular style of the last hundred years. ‘Victorian’ was kind of like ‘Newood’. Whatever it was or wasn’t, the style Al chose was close enough to what Jane wanted that she was happy, and therefore Erick was happy. Al wasn’t exactly happy; Jane kept asking him to fix small details.

But the style was good for rainy climates!

Al was happier when Erick said he was buying dinner.

Jane insisted that no, she was buying dinner. She had found two thousand, three hundred and fifty gold in rads, out in the desert. She was flush with cash… for now. Gaining the [Polymorph] skill would likely cost her 1500G.
