“You can’t go.” Savral said, “Once you’re on a Shade’s kill list, you’ve entered into the greater drama of the Dead City. Some of them would want to kill you; others help you. No group would take you because the smart adventurers are all about killing the monsters and getting rads and then getting the fuck out of there before the Shades notice them.”

Jane nodded. “So what? I’ll go on my own if I have to. Maybe even taunt Bulgan into a fight. Kill him and get myself off their kill list. That’s an easy solution.”

Al spoke, stopping Erick and Savral from jumping to speak, “Do not think you have the power to kill a Shade, Jane Flatt. Some of those monsters are ancient. Even the youngest have killed more stupid adventurers than you have slain monsters these past days. Especially do not forget that the reprisal for murdering one of their own is far greater than you have the ability to stop.”

“That’s why it won’t be a murder; It’ll be a duel to the death.” Jane stared, saying, “If these ‘Shades’ are anything like who Bulgan was before, then I know I can cut a swath through at least one of them without the rest swarming.” As she spoke, her eyes began to glow blue. “Besides! Do you want someone like Bulgan growing to full power inside there? Someone who knows enough about Spur and the rest of the towns around here to call the Wrath of Darkness down upon us all? Right now he’s plotting to murder all of Spur, and especially Frontier! All he needs is time to prepare to strike. I don’t plan to give him that time! Do you?”

Savral made an objection. Al backed up his son. Jane rebutted their complaints, her eyes glowing the whole time. Somewhere in the argument Jane had stood up, and so had Savral. Erick held himself back, unsure how to stop her from getting herself killed.

In a lull in the argument, Erick broke his silence, “I don’t want to see you die, Jane.” He couldn’t stop her, but maybe he could limit some of her more dangerous tendencies. “Promise me that you won’t do this until you’re absolutely sure that you’re doing the correct thing.”

Jane stared, blue light slowly leaving her brown eyes. She nodded. She said, “Of course, Dad. I wasn’t going in there tomorrow. Maybe not for years.” She looked to Al and Savral. “But the problem of Bulgan is not going to go away.”

Silence stretched.

Erick got up, and went to the door to the porch. Poi was still out there.

Erick opened the door, and said, “Hey, Poi. Sorry if I’m not doing this right. Do you want to come inside?”

“No thank you, sir. I’m perfectly fine out here.”

“Ah. Okay. Let me ask a different way. As a person in Spur’s army, please come inside and give me your appraisal of my daughter’s plan to lure Bulgan out with a duel challenge, and what it would mean if she won, or if she lost. Just… A general risk assessment. Is this a bad idea? Or a good idea? Also!” He tried to smile and knew he failed. “Please come meet my daughter.”

Poi looked over Erick’s shoulder, at Jane. She stood away from the table.

Jane frowned at Poi.

Poi walked past Erick, into the apartment, saying, “Greetings, Jane Flatt. I am a bodyguard assigned to your father. There have been a few attempts on his life so far, but we estimate there will be many more, and that eventually the whole of Spur will need to be involved to defend your father. Though that is a worst case scenario that we have in place for many citizens; not just your father.”

Jane blanched.

Erick almost blanched too. The whole of Spur? When did that happen?

But that didn’t matter. Jane looked to be cycling up for another round of well-reasoned arguments.

Erick started before she could, “I’m going to learn some defensive spells and get some levels. I’ve already decided to take Mog’s classes, though I have no idea what those are, or what it all means. But Poi and the rest of them are already taking good care of me.”

He waited for Jane to say something, but she did not. She nodded with the professionalism of a soldier.

Poi began, “Your idea has merit. We have had to kill off problematic Shades before, but it is not something that is done on a whim, or without proper preparation. Bulgan is indeed one such Shade that we would like to see dead. He has been making enemies and allies inside the Dead City. He is gearing up for something. We believe that it is a push against Frontier’s adventuring community, and then against the city itself. Only then will he come for Spur, but he will come. Of that we have no doubt.”

Savral and Al cursed.

Poi continued, “If you were to challenge him right now you would die. But also, a challenge from you would likely be the only way we could draw him, and only him, out into the open. I’ve already briefed Killzone about your idea. He approves of your basic idea. But you need experience in the actual city before anyone would agree to you poking the dragon’s nest of Ar’Kendrithyst.”

Erick asked, “You already briefed Killzone?”

“Yes, sir. I almost always have [Scry] and [Telepathy] active, as well as a few other low cost threat assessment skills. Briefing my superiors about potential dangers to Spur is a necessary duty of any soldier.”

Jane said, “Did you know you have a spy in your employ, Dad?”

“I am not a spy, young mistress. I am a soldier in Spur’s Army, just like your father, and it is my duty to protect the citizens of this fair city from the Dead City.”

Erick lied. “Of course I knew. That’s why I asked for his opinion. I just didn’t think it would happen this fast.”

Savral, Al, and Jane all eyed him.

“… What!”

Savral and Al said nothing.

Jane said, “Well. Fine. Whatever.” Jane turned toward Savral. “Your team is done adventuring, for now, right? You wouldn’t want to go in there with me?”

“Absolutely not.” Savral said, “You’re good, Jane. You really are. But the locals only antagonize the city so much; we know when to stop. As a matter of fact. If this is your plan, and Killzone has already given you preliminary approval, you need to move out of the Sewerhouse. Today. Both of you.”

Al immediately disagreed, “What! No. They— Okay. Jane probably should, but Erick doesn’t have to go.”

“Jane should go, but I shouldn’t?” Erik felt a pang of hurt at that. “Really?”

Jane was furious.

“Fuckin’ fine!” Jane said, “Let’s go, Dad. Right now. Fuck you too, Savral.”

“By Rozeta!” Savral paced, pointing south to Ar’Kendrithyst, saying, “You just don’t get it, do you? You’re talking about poking the Dead City, and the Dead City always pokes back. We run the adventurers who are stupid enough to antagonize the Shades out of town. That’s why there’s an approval process to enter the city. I’ve seen Shades chase fools down crystal boulevards and spray them across ten city blocks. I’ve seen Ar’Kendrithyst’s walls turn dark with a Shade’s black eyes, and giant mouths call out the names of those they’re willing to leave the city to collect. I’ve even seen shadowspiders clamber through the streets of Spur, taking a Shade’s vengeance out on some stupid out-of-towner foolish enough to talk to the wrong shadows. You saw the shadowcats, and then fought against them! We’re not untouchable.”

Jane stood mollified. She said, “You’re right. That was unkind of me. I’m sorry. But I’m still going to kill Bulgan if I ever see him. I won’t rest easy until I know that I’m leaving my father somewhere safe, and as long as Bulgan is alive, Spur is extra unsafe.”

“Then you need to leave the Sewerhouse. I won’t put my father in danger, either.”

Jane moved toward the door. “You’re right. Neither of you have any part in this, and it would be wrong of me to involve you.” She bowed deeply to Al. “Thank you for your hospitality, Sewermaster Al Noraki. Savral Noraki.” She stood tall. “It was an absolute pleasure to live under your roof, Al, and to adventure with you, Savral.” She sniffed. She turned and walked out to the porch, then [Blink]ed out of sight.

Erick was still in the apartment. He turned to Al—

Al said, “You should go with your daughter. You’re going to that house you’re working on in the Human District, right? It’s a good choice. Do you mind if I come stay a few days and help you put it together right?”

Erick felt warmth unfold inside of his stomach, chasing the cold away.

Erick said, “I’d like that, a whole lot. And I’m still your apprentice! You still gotta show me how the Sewerhouse works so I can give you a vacation some time.”

Al smiled, warmth filling eyes so dark green they were almost black. “Yeah. I do, don’t I?”

“I’ll see you later.”

- - - -

Three seconds after walking onto the porch, Erick turned around.

“Shit. I forgot everything. Uh. I’ll just… Uh…”

He began walking around, gathering up the small things he had accumulated so far. Another set of clothes. Jane’s stuff she left in her room. Neither of them had much to show. Jane had already stored all of the irreplaceables in the Mage Guild Bank, like her phone and her charger and other earthly possessions. There wasn’t much in the apartment besides—

Erick looked at the planets he had set on holders on the wall.

Al said, “I’ll bring those to you.”

Erick turned to him. “Thank you, Al.”

- - - -

Erick [Blink]ed onto the ground next to Jane. She was waiting by her cart. Erick gently placed their stuff on the part without the moving lumps.

Jane’s face was red, but if there had been tears, she had rubbed them away already.

She said, “The Adventurer’s Guild’s hotel is a gold a night, but they’re worth it and I have the money.”

Erick smiled, turning north east toward the Human District. “I started [Mend]ing a house yesterday. Didn’t think we’d need it so soon, but after we spend a few thousand more mana to fix it up all the way, we can sleep there. And hey! I got [Stoneshape] to fix the smaller problems that might arise. We’ll [Ward] ourselves up, anyway. We’ll be fine.”

Erick looked at his daughter, and she looked away, to the south, to the mountainous walls of the Dead City.

Jane whispered, “[Ward] every night~” like it was a mantra she had formed habits around.

- - - -

The Human District was as flat as before, save for Erick’s melted sandcastle house, and the not-a-dick mages’ house. Theirs was a boxy structure, now, with two square towers on either side and a three tiered house in the middle, with porches and verandas up past the first floor.

“Nice house over there.” Jane said, “Ours is the stone pile, isn’t it.”

“You are quite correct! Our neighbors are pretty nice people. I told you about them? The three mages from Oceanside?”

Jane pulled her cart behind her as the both of them went to the pile of orange rock walls.

Erick said, “The neighbors are all alchemist adventurers. Or maybe just Ramizi. Maybe they could help with your [Polymorph] problem—” Erick was about to say more, but then he remembered that the Mage Trio was raring to go into Ar’Kendrithyst. So instead he said, “I visited them yesterday. They served not-tomato cake, and it was as good as cherry cheesecake. Maybe better.”

Jane smiled. “Sounds nice.”

Erick and Jane trundled up to their property. The orange pile looked most the same as it did before.

She said, “This is pretty big, Dad. You sure about this?”

Erick looked Jane. “I think I am. I’m going to be entertaining guests and if I don’t have space for you and all your adventuring buddies, then what good is anywhere I choose?”

Jane held back, silent and staring at the orange stone. She breathed in, then out, deep, calming breaths. She said, “You’re right. This is going to be good. And it’s free! So the price is right.”

“There’s taxes, I’m sure.” Erick said, “Those’ll be a kick in the nards.”

Jane snorted. She dropped the handle on her cart, and said, “Let’s get to [Mend]ing!”

Erick walked over to the nearest wall and began turning the orange wall into a slightly taller orange wall. “Al said he’d be around sometime to help fix it all up and stay a few days, too. I’ll ask him about his [Ward]ing schemes, then.”

Jane [Mend]ed as she replied, “I’m sorry about that, Dad. I shouldn’t have blown up at Savral. Or Al.”

“I don’t think you hurt me, at all. I can live wherever. But you certainly kicked your own future’s ass.”

She nodded. She stopped.

Erick continued to [Mend], keeping Jane in the corner of his eye.

She smiled wide, and looked up at the orange stone. “I could do that! Right.”

Erick stopped. “Do what?”

“I’ll show you.”

She walked through where the front door would have been, and stood in the middle of the front room. Erick began meditating. He saw the flows of mana all around her, curling into—

Jane radiated power that washed around the house, spilling through reforming walls and up through recreated ceilings. Mana flowed out of her, all around, freely touching upon what was not there and bringing orange stone back into where it had once been, long ago.

In 6 seconds, the house was back to most of its former glory.

One large tower facing south toward Ar’Kendrithyst. A shorter tower on the north side of the house, only two stories tall. A multi-tiered house with verandas and porches stretched between the towers, taller toward the southern side. It was almost the same style as the Mage Trio’s house, if a bit bigger, and partially melted here and there in the smaller details.

Jane breathed hard from the front room.

Erick asked, “What the fuck was that!”

Jane laughed loud, then said, “[Mend] as an AOE spell with Mana Shaping X, Aurified, and a smaller application of Mana Shaping to focus the spell on the walls. Even made a tier 2 spell out of it.” She pushed a blue box Erick’s way. “Looks good, yeah?”

Mend Structure Aura, long range, 550 MP per second

Restore a very large, very complicated, non-magical structure to its prime. Time since the structure was destroyed may alter final results. This spell automatically adjusts its area of effect and range to maximize its ability to repair.

Erick smiled. “You’re a lot better at this world’s magic than I am.”

Jane laughed. “Whatever you say, Archmage!”

“You’re right!” Erick acted smug. “I noticed you don’t have any tier 3 spells. Such a slacker! You’re missing out on 2 ability points.”

“Shit. You’re right.” Jane played along. “All bow down before the master archmage!”

“Thank you, thank you. I accept oaths of loyalty and bribes of coffee.”

Suddenly serious, Jane said, “I need you to [Grow] me coffee, Dad.”

