Within the BleachersThe next day

Lexi feels herself clenching her fists as she leans forwards in excitement at the sight of the Horseman of Death stepping into the arena for her battle. Meanwhile the Pharaoh of the Rex Dynasty of the Dead steps into the other side of the arena.

It’s the battle that everyone has been waiting for.

Because there’s only two new participants introduced to this exhibition bracket that weren’t in the previous exhibition brackets from previous Eternal Championships.

Not that Lexi was alive for the last Eternal Championships.

So everyone watching is here to see the two new participants. Even if one of them isn’t technically considered a Grand yet.

The Horseman of Death, and the Emperor of the Crimson Empire.

And now it’s finally time to see the Horseman of Death in battle. So everyone in the crowd – many of whom are her fans from her music – immediately begins cheering at the sight of her.

Yet Aria herself just gives them a brief nod, acknowledging their existence before focusing on the man in front of her.

Lexi feels even more excited at the sight of her simple nod. And she’s not the only one as the audience breaks out into roaring cheers at it. Despite her doing nothing but nodding her head once.

“Now for our next battllllle!!!” the MC shouts, their voice echoing throughout the stadium over the noise of the audience. “It’s the Pharaoh of the Rex Dynasty of the Dead, a special undead creature born from a black hole, Raja Singh Amunet!”

The audience grows significantly quieter at the mention of the pharaoh, and Lexi isn’t any different. All while an atmosphere of fear fills the stadium.

Then the MC turns in the direction of Aria and continues, “And the one everyone has been waiting for, the Horseman of Death, Crimson Eternal, Princess of the Crimson Empire and the Pale Horseman, Aria Crimson!”

The audience instantly begins to roar again. Far louder than it was before at that.

“And while she isn’t a Grand, like the pharaoh and the other participants in the exhibition bracket, she is still not someone to be underestimated!” the MC says, building off of the enthusiasm aimed at Aria. “So let’s get this battle started!”

A countdown appears in a hologram at the center of the arena.

3.

2.

1.

Start!

Lexi eagerly watches as the pharaoh of the Rex Dynasty sends out a massive wave of death energy and miasma. With all the power immediately turning into an enormous vortex with Aria at the center of it all.

And she knows very well from her time in the Eternal Dynasty military that this one attack is strong enough to wipe out an army.

But then something unexpected happens.

Everyone watching expected the attack to hit Aria, and for her to be annihilated by it before she returns to normal without so much as batting an eye. Since that’s what she always does.

Instead of that though, the death energy and miasma just peacefully float around Aria without touching her.

Lexi blinks as she stares at it. And she’s not the only one as silence quickly fills the stadium.

Even Aria herself looks vaguely surprised by the situation.

It doesn’t take long before everyone understand what’s happening.

Death magic can never harm Death herself. That has been proven numerous times over the years.

Which means the pharaoh’s magic has no effect on Aria whatsoever.

The roars of the audience instantly grow several times louder as everyone cheers for Aria.

For the Horseman of Death.

And after a few seconds, Aria herself just shrugs as if nothing’s happening. Then she suddenly lets out all of the death energy she had stored in her body. Making a massive wave of death energy explode from her body to slam into the barrier. Shattering the barrier with the sheer amount of death energy she released.

Lexi feels herself being pushed back in her seat, and she sees numerous people across the audience that were standing up being knocked back into their seat and the wall behind them.

But fortunately for them, the barrier returns instantly. No doubt only having broken because the Grands watching weren’t expecting any attacks to hit it.

Even with the barrier back though, the death energy she released floods across the entire dimension. Tainting the sky with a deep crimson and black that makes it seem like the world is ending.

And just as quickly as it came, the wave of death energy fades away when it gets too far away. Leaving just the sky in the arena itself inside of the barrier crimson and black.

Lexi feels her heart beating like crazy before her gaze returns to the arena, where she sees Aria walking over to the pharaoh with her hands in her pockets. Then she just casually pulls one hand out and pats the pharaoh on the shoulder while saying, “That was fun.”

The pharaoh actually smiles at her, shocking everyone in the stadium. Only for him to shock them further when he goes down on one knee and says, “I submit myself to the Horseman of Death. My death is eternally in your hands, My Lady.”

Silence fills the stadium for a few seconds until Aria retracts the death energy back into her body. Meanwhile the pharaoh cancels his own attack.

Completely clearing the arena again as the audience goes wild.

“And that settles it! In the shortest bout of this entire tournament, the conclusion has been decided!” the MC shouts. “The victor of this round is Ariiiaaaaaa Crimsoooooonnnn!!!!”

The audience roars even louder, with Lexi herself standing up and cheering as well.

And yet, despite all of the attention, Aria herself just gives a one handed wave before putting her hand back into her jacket pocket and walking out of the arena without a word.