“Ladies, what would you two like to buy? I have quite a small selection today—I was cleaned out a while back, but I believe I have a number of trinkets that could help you with all your needs. In fact, I even have a little potion for romantic—”
“We’re not shopping for love potions. I’m looking for protection.”
I don’t want to know if there are actual love potions in this world. The man blinks at me.
“Protection? Unless you need a weapon—no. Are you a Runner?”
“Well observed.”
I lift one bare foot. The [Merchant] is eying my un-frostbitten toes, and I can tell he wants to ask about them.
“I’m looking for a ring of protection or something similar. Anything that can help me survive a run-in with monsters or bandits.”
The man smiles thinly at me, and from the way the two guards shift, I can tell they’re amused as well.
“Ah, I’m afraid you might be under a bit of a misapprehension, Miss. Protection is a very general term. There’s no such thing as a ring that simply guards against everything—at least not outside of an artifact worth hundreds of thousands of gold coins—but let me show you what you’re probably looking for in your line of work.”
The [Merchant] gives me a not-at-all condescending smile that makes me want to deck him as he selects a ring from the items in front of him. He shows me the ring; a slightly cracked circle that feels like it’s made of stone.
“This is a wonderful little trinket that I could sell you—for six hundred gold coins, say? It will deflect arrows for one minute when activated. Arrows will swerve as they fly towards you, perfect for a Runner like you to make their escape.”
“Why’s it cracked?”
Erin peers at the ring next to me. She touches the ring along the crack and the man practically snatches it back.
“Please don’t touch that. The magic on this ring is slightly—faded. Hence the discount. But I can assure you it will last quite a long time if not subjected to undue pressure.”
“Like an arrow?”
He ignores Erin and smiles at me.
“How about it? You could weather any storm of arrows—especially ones shot by Goblin archers. I’m sure you’ve heard about the attack on Esthelm? Tragic. But in your line of work, you can’t afford to stay behind city walls, can you? This ring will allow you plenty of time to escape.”
“For a minute.”
“A minute. Yes.”
Erin frowns as she stares at the ring. I keep my face straight and try to sound disinterested—I know how to haggle. But I’m more interested in seeing how Erin deals with this [Merchant]. I’m pretty sure I don’t even want that crappy ring, but I do want to see the show. Erin points to the ring as she questions the man.
“A minute doesn’t sound like much. How long does it take to recharge?”
He grits his teeth, although he’s still smiling.
“Two days. But you can always recharge it if you have the gift, and I assure you—”
“—And what did you mean earlier? Arrows ‘swerve’? Does that mean it doesn’t really deflect them? Wait a second, why would anyone want a ring like that anyways?”
My lips twitch, and I even see the guards grinning a bit. The [Merchant]’s voice is testy.
“It’s true that the ring doesn’t send arrows in the other direction, but it does repel them from your person. If you are running, I’m confident the arrows would fail to hit their mark. It would take someone with a Skill to bypass the protection this ring offers, and again, let me say for five hundred and seventy gold coins, this ring is a bargain.”
“I bet Halrac could shoot an arrow that could beat your ring.”
“Who?”
“Halrac! He’s this guy—a [Scout] that I met at my inn. He’s really good with a bow, and he’s got tons of Skills. What would happen if he shot an arrow at this ring? Would it work?”
The man stares at Erin, brow furrowed.
“Halrac? You mean…Halrac of Griffon Hunt? The Gold-rank adventurer?”
“Yeah, that’s him. He’s a friend of ours. Do you know him?”
For two seconds the [Merchant] stares at Erin. Then he glances at something on his wrist. I look down. One of the gemstones on the man’s bestrewn hands is glowing softly blue. Oho. A truth spell on a stone?
At once, the man’s demeanor changes. He spreads his arms wide, all former irritation gone in a flash as he stands up, now trying to be very welcoming towards us.
“If you know Halrac, that’s different. You know, he bought a very nice amulet from a friend of mine just last year? I’d be very grateful if you’d recommend my wares to him. And for a friend of Halrac, I could certainly offer you…ah…”
He’s clearly trying to figure out what kind of discount and pitch he should give us when I hear familiar voices and groan through clenched teeth.
 
“There she is! Found her!”
“She can’t run away this time!”
“Ooh! Is she looking at magical items? Look how shiny they are! And how weak!”
“They barely glow of magic!”
 
Erin looks around, frowning. I’ve already spotted the Frost Faeries—they’re rising in a cloud over one of the roofs. Neither the guards nor the [Merchant] can hear the faeries of course, but they see us looking away and spot the faeries. They’re probably only glowing blurs to them, but all three react when they see the Winter Sprites.
“Not them!”
The [Merchant] exclaims in a loud voice, and one of the guards shouts a warning. Surprisingly, every single shopkeeper on the street suddenly begins to scramble, shouting as they grab at their wares and try to get everything inside.
The faeries fly down, laughing at the chaos as the man grabs at his magical rings and amulets, face suddenly hunted. Erin looks confused.
“Hey wait, where are you going? I thought you were going to sell us that bad ring!”
The man turns to us, looking frantic.
“Look, we’ll do business when the Winter Sprites are gone, alright? If I keep my wares out in the open they’ll scatter my goods and chase away all my customers!”
He rushes towards the nearest door, his guards grabbing the rest of his goods. Other shopkeepers do the same and the pedestrians scatter indoors as well, fearing the wrath of the fickle nuisances. In seconds, the street is deserted except for two humans and the faeries.
Erin and I stare up at the faeries. They stare back as they hover in the air, watching us. One of them waves.
 
—-
 
After our short shopping trip in the market, the next place Erin and I decide to go is indoors, where the faeries can’t follow. And where we find ourselves is the Adventurer’s Guild. Erin and I stare around the big room as she whispers to me.
“It looks sort of like Selys’s guild, but not, don’t you think? I mean, this place is bigger. A lot bigger.”
I nod as I stare around the Adventurer’s Guild in Celum. This place is certainly a lot bigger, and the room has space for up to six receptionists at once, rather than the single desk for two in Liscor’s guild. I tap on the desk for the receptionist as I ask about hiring a team. She directs me towards the adventurers sitting in one corner of the room. Apparently, hiring an escort is done by contacting the adventurers directly, not through the guild here.
I stare at the groups of adventurers sitting together. Some are Bronze-rank, most are, probably. And others are Silver-rank, whether individually or in teams. A lot of them look tired, cleaning their equipment after some mission, and others look like they’re just here to socialize.
Damnit. Which group should I talk to? What’s the standard rate for hiring them? Can I trust a Silver-rank team? I know none of this.
Neither does Erin, but she has an almost insultingly cavalier attitude towards this.
“Let’s just ask them. If any of them say they can take us to Liscor, let’s try it!”
“You want me to just walk over there and ask them about escort duty?”
I hate talking to new people. I hate starting up conversations, and this is practically my worst nightmare. But Erin just shrugs at me. I grind my teeth.
“What do you expect me to say? ‘Hey, we’re looking for a group of adventurers to escort us to Liscor. Know anyone who might be interested?’”
“That sounds good. Why not?”
I stare at Erin. Well, it might work.
“You say it. I think it’s best if it comes from you.”
Erin nods and begins walking over to the nearest table where two brawny warriors are sitting and drinking together. Halfway there she turns back and looks at me with a smile of realization.
“You know who’d be great, Ryoka? The Horns of Hammerad! Why don’t we just ask them?”
I blink. Oh. Of course. That would save costs or they could redirect us. I walk over towards Erin, but then one of the adventurers sitting at the table raises his voice?
“The Horns of Hammerad? Aren’t they all dead?”
Erin beams at them.
“What? No! No, they’ve reformed, didn’t you hear? After they uh—they lost people at the Ruins in Liscor—”
One of the men snorts. He’s in his late twenties by the looks of him, and he’s got day-old stubble on his face.
“I heard about that disaster. Four adventuring teams dead and only a handful of survivors thanks to a bunch of incompetent Captains. You’re telling me someone’s stupid enough to keep the name after that? They should have quit being adventurers before they ever went on another mission.”
I stop in my tracks and bite my lips. Erin pauses, and the smile on her face freezes. The second adventurer looks at his companion.
“Who survived? I heard everyone got slaughtered down there.”
“At least two made it out. The half-Elf and the Silver Captain.”
“Ceria Springwalker and Yvlon Byres? I wouldn’t join a group with those two even if they were the last team on the continent. Anyone stupid enough to work with them is going to get killed like their last groups.”
Don’t punch them. I know that. Erin’s voice is flat.
“They’re both great adventurers. They’re my friends.”
The two men shake their heads at her.
“They’re idiots and cowards who got good folk who trusted them killed.”
“You might think they’re on your side, but mark my words, girl. Trust them and you’ll end up with an arrow in your back.”
They don’t even bother lowering their voices. People at other tables look up as they hear the two men begin to argue with Erin.
“That’s not true! Ceria’s really brave! So is Yvlon!”
“The half-Elf? I bet she turned and ran the instant she got into trouble. She’s a coward. Calruz was the only real fighter in the Horns of Hammerad.”
“Take that back!”
Erin’s getting mad, and I’m eying the two men seated at their table. They look a lot tougher than the adventurers Erin got into a fight with at her inn. And they’re just talking, not sexually harassing anyone.
But my blood is still boiling. The Horns of Hammerad don’t deserve this. They were all brave, and I could tell them that, but what would be the point? The two sneering men clearly don’t want to listen; the best thing I could do is kick them both in the face.
I could start a fight—
But I close my hand and feel the stumps of my fingers. No. Not here. Not now. We need the help of some adventurers, even if it’s not them.
I put my hand on Erin’s shoulder. She’s tense and glaring.
“Come on, Erin. Let’s talk to someone else.”
“If you want real protection, Miss, you’d best ask us or a real Silver-rank team. Not a bunch of half-wits that can’t even slay a few undead.”
I have to drag Erin backwards. She glares at me, but I manage to pull her back successfully. Five steps. Then I run into someone.
“Oh, sorr—”
I pause as I stare into a familiar, beat-up face. An adventurer pauses with four of his buddies as they walk towards the receptionist’s desk. All of them look beat-upon; the result of a bar fight they were on the losing end of.
The lead adventurer certainly recognizes me.
He takes one look at Erin and begins edging towards the door. Too late. As my grip slackens, Erin pulls herself away. She walks back over to the table with the two adventurers and smiles at them as she puts her hands on the edge of the table.
“You should take back what you said about Ceria and Yvlon. They’re my friends and they did everything they could to keep everyone else alive.”
“We said exactly what everyone else was thinking, Miss. The Horns of Hammerad—both past and present—are a team of fools.”
Erin takes a deep breath. Her eyes are wide and she gives them a big smile.
“Okay. Fine. If that’s the way it’s gonna be then—table flip attack!”
On the whole, I sometimes wonder if Erin’s the more violent one between the two of us.
 
—-
 
“Well, now we’re banned from the Adventurer’s Guild. At least for a while.”
I sigh as Erin and I stump along down the street, followed by a cloud of faeries. I’m resigned to them by this point. They fly after us, laughing about the fight. Erin walks behind me, frowning.
“I don’t regret a thing! Those guys were jerks!”
“Yeah, they were. But now they won’t help us if we need to get back to Liscor.”
“So? We’ll just get the Horns of Hammerad to do it. Ceria and Pisces and Yvlon and Ksmvr can probably defend us against anything we run up against.”
“Maybe. But we don’t know where they are. I can try and make a trip to Albez—or put the word out I’m looking for them in other cities, but it’ll take longer.”
“That’s fine.”
Erin nods, and I glance up at the faeries flying overhead. They look…slightly bored, actually. They’re still laughing and one of them is dropping a steady stream of powdery snowflakes into my eyes, but the rest are just following along, quiet for once.
Huh. I guess even faeries get bored. I shrug and keep walking.
“I’m going to do another delivery—to another city probably. I’ll be back tonight unless something comes up. You okay until then?”
“I’m gonna blow something up.”
I grin.
“That sounds like fun. Just try not to piss Octavia off too much, okay?”
I try to drop Erin off at the [Alchemist]’s shop, but to my surprise Octavia herself runs out, waving one of her arms at me as if it’s a club.
“Ryoka? Ryoka!”
Erin walks happily into the shop as the stitch-girl confronts me. Octavia looks stressed out, sort of understandable given that she’s going to be babysitting Erin all day today. Again.
“Hey Octavia, Erin wants to blow something up.”
The young woman’s dark skinned face goes pale as she looks back at Erin in her shop. I feel a bit bad, so I try to reassure her.
“She probably won’t. She’s looking forwards to experimenting with new food recipes, Octavia.”
