I don’t want to believe that’s true, but I’ve been stuck on this one spell. I can’t move on until I complete it—I just can’t. Even when I look at other spells, all the doubts that popped into my head from this one follow me from page to page.
Maybe if I stare at it longer, something will click. [Water Spray]. Magic turns into water, water appears. I can’t—
Damnit.
I’m so miserable and angry at myself I want to put my fist through something. A wall, maybe. I clench my fingers on my right hand and stare at the deformed fist I make.
Something else to add more depression to my day. I stare at the book and my hand.
Today wasn’t a bad day. Not really. I did some deliveries. I got to see Erin punch an adventurer in the face. I saw Persua—
And the faeries think I’m boring. They left.
All except one.
I look out my window. The sky is gray and the rooftops are filled with snow. But is she out there? Or has she gone too?
She’s out there. I didn’t even realize it at first. But I see something hovering just outside my window. A faint blue shape, holding so still in the air that I didn’t even realize she was watching me.
A Frost Faerie meets my eyes as I stare at her and nearly tumble out of my seat. She laughs at me as I stare at her and feel the wind blow into my room.
“Hello?”
She smiles at me, and floats forwards a bit. The wind is blowing hard, but she doesn’t even seem to be affected by the air that blows my hair about and flicks the pages on the spellbook. She’s in a little world of her own, but she stops at the edge of my windowsill.
Oh. Right. I stare at her and the room I’m in. Faeries are a bit like Vampires. They can’t enter unless invited. Do I have the right? I don’t own this inn—
But I am renting this room. I cough and clear my throat.
“Come in. If you want.”
The faerie stares at me for a second, and then nods in agreement. She alights on my windowsill and dances into the room, twirling and leaping onto my desk with effortless grace. Her feet leave frost on the wood wherever they touch, and I can sense the chill from her.
The faerie shivers, although I don’t. She looks around the room darkly.
 
“Too much cold iron here. ‘Tis not a good place for true magics, or my kind. But then, ye can’t even master a few tricks, so the iron doubtless hinders ye little.”
 
It’s the first words she says. Not ‘hello’ or ‘how are you?’ or even ‘sorry I was spying on you this entire time’. She just jumps into the heart of the conversation like that. I like that about faeries.
“You mean iron interferes with spells? Is that why I can’t master this one?”
The faerie shakes her head at me as she scoffs at the large tome on my table. She steps on one of the pages and kicks the parchment with a foot.
 
“Pshaw. The magic yon book teaches is only a fragment of true magic. Ye should know that.”
 
“I do. But I don’t know real magic. A fragment is better than nothing.”
The faerie nods, and looks at me.
 
“True. But you cannot learn even that, can ye? I’ve been watching you, and a toad would pick up that spell faster than ye can.”
 
I bite my tongue. But she’s right.
“I can’t figure it out.”
 
“And neither will you. You think too much and feel far too little. You look for rules where none exist, and make your own to hold you back. Ye won’t learn magic like this.”
 
I don’t want to hear that. But the faerie’s words ring true. I clench my teeth again, but—she’s not trying to be rude. Okay, she’s doing it without much thought, but I know enough about faeries to realize she’s being direct with me, and as helpful as she can.
“Thanks for the advice.”
She inclines her head regally. I know I shouldn’t ever thank a faerie, at least according to legend, but she doesn’t seem malicious. Hell, the faeries know my full name and they haven’t done anything to me.
What do they want? I clear my throat awkwardly again as the faerie looks around my little room. Here I am, with a faerie in my room. I should…she’s the last one. I need to ask questions. First though, make her welcome.
“Can I offer you anything? Something to eat or drink?”
 
“Do ye have anything?”
 
“…No.”
 
“Then don’t offer, fool.”
 
Okay, off to a bad start. I stare at the faerie as she leaps up into the air at eye height and sits there, as if there’s an invisible cushion under her.
“Why are you here? By yourself, I mean. All of your friends flew off.”
 
“They did. They grew bored of ye, and went to find excitement somewhere else.”
 
A straightforward answer. But I still don’t get why.
“Is it because of Teriarch and the game of riddles I played with him? Is that why they all left?”
 
“In part.”
 
The faerie nods as she scratches at the bottom of her foot with a tiny digit. She yawns widely, showing me sharp teeth.
 
“My sisters think ‘twas ill done. They dislike the trickery of numbers, but it is just as good as the trickery of words to me.”
 
“You disagree?”
 
“I like such things now and then, and it was well done to win even in losing. We are not all alike, my kin. Does it surprise you that one of us would like the dance of thoughts as much as the dance of tongues?”
 
No. I should have known not all fairies were alike. I just—okay, maybe that was fairly racist. Speciesist? Why is it that the immortal species, Dragons and fae, tend to leave me thoughtless and speechless? It’s like all of my cynicism and complex questions fade away in their presence. There’s no doubting their presence when they’re in front of you.
The faerie points at something close to falling off the edge of my desk. The bag of holding and golden coins sits innocuously; just large enough for a handful of coins at best, certainly not large enough to hold this magical book. But it can hold a huge amount of space—all my bed covers and two chairs besides, I’ve found. After that it just acts like a normal bag until I start pulling stuff out. I haven’t yet found the courage to put my head inside.
 
“Yon lies your prize for a Dragon’s duel. Golden coins and a magic bag to hold them. ‘Tis every mortal’s dream, isn’t it? Or did you want something else from the old scales and smoke?”
 
“I don’t know. Did I?”
The faerie flies forwards and smacks me on the nose before I can blink. I yelp and touch my frozen flesh—she glares at me.
 
“Either you did or ye didn’t. Don’t answer a question with a question, ye prat.”
 
Again, I have to restrain the urge to punch back. I’d probably lose, and I know the faeries are prickly. And she’s right. Sort of.
“Sorry. I don’t know what I wanted from him. Maybe I could have asked him to teach me magic.”
 
“He would have said no. He’s a lazy oaf, that wyrm.”
 
“Maybe. But I got most of what I wanted.”
She nods, and I fall silent for a second. The real question is burning on my tongue. I have to know, so I ask it.
“Why did you stay when the others left? What do the fae really want with me? With this world?”
She looks at me archly.
 
“Why ask a question you know I will not answer? You want to know more than you should. You ask a question I could not answer with ten thousand words as if it were a simple thing.”
 
“Sue me. I’m curious. Is what I asked too broad? Why are you following me?”
The faerie sighs with exasperated patience.
 
“Why do I follow anyone?”
 
“I thought you said not to answer a question with a question.”
This time I’m ready and I swat at her as she flies at my face. The faerie flips over my hand with nimble grace and kicks my forehead. For a small creature she hits hard.
 
“Smart as an ass, aren’t ye? I follow and watch ye in case you do something of worth. You told me and my kin stories, and dared to defy the fates. You bargained with a Dragon, and met one who rules over death. Is there any other mortal I should bother following that’s done more?”
 
When she says it like that…I almost blush. I clear my throat. It’s so awkward, but the faerie doesn’t seem the least bit embarrassed, and that just makes me embarrassed. She doesn’t lie; she just says what she thinks.
“You’ve been following me for a while, haven’t you? I thought you were familiar—have I spoken to you specifically before?”
She nods and flashes me a smile.
 
“Oh yes. I followed you with the others as you ran, and I was the one you struck. I listened to tales of Humans from your world, and it was I who warned you of the armies and led you through the forest. I was there when you cast the bargain, and I accepted the second price. I am surprised you noticed; most beings cannot tell us apart.”
 
I thought so. For the longest time I just thought of all the faeries as one and the same, but this one—she and I have spoken more than I thought. I stare at the small faerie, and feel a sudden connection with her.
“So all of your sisters are gone because I’m too boring and you’re still sticking around. What do you want?”
 
“What do ye think I want?”
 
The faerie looks me in the eye, practically daring me to point out her evasiveness. I don’t do that this time. Instead, I think. She’s not answering me because she can’t. Or she doesn’t want to. So what’s the answer?
“Maybe…because you want something of me. Or there’s something I can do for you?”
The tiny faerie rolls her eyes.
 
“Hah!”
 
Okay, that’s not it. Then there’s something else. Or—
“Could it be you just want to see what happens next?”
 
“An obvious answer. I suppose ye are right.”
 
The faerie shakes her small head, disappointed. I feel guilty, as if I’ve failed an easy test. But what could she want?
I wish Erin were here to answer. She’d have the damn answer in a second, somehow. She’s better with people than I am. She’d be making friends with the fae in a heartbeat—she could probably befriend a rabid bear.
But then—even she’s had problems with the fae before. She told me about their scam with the fake flowers. I’m really the only person who’s dealt with them for a long period of time. The faeries have hung around me, and I even managed to gain their respect.
And this one has followed me a long ways. Even when her friends are gone she’s stuck around? Why? That’s almost like…
Like…
“A friend.”
The faerie looks up at me. She’d been busy spinning around in the air, but now she pauses, completely upside down and stares at me.
 
“What?”
 
“Is that what you want? A friend?”
It’s a stupid question. And a stupid conclusion to make. We’re not in a kid’s tv show, but maybe—no.
Yes.
 
“Friends? Ye would be friends with the fae?”
 
She scoffs at me, mockingly. But the tiny fae face isn’t as genuinely annoyed as normal, and I see what looks like a smile twitching around the scowl. I grin at her.
“Maybe. I wouldn’t mind having one of you floating about. I know of a certain hero that did that for quite a long time.”
 
“I’m no pet, mortal.”
 
“No, but you are interested in me. And if you’re going to follow me about, why not get to know one another?”
The faerie lies down sideways on the air and props her head on one hand as she stares at me. Seriously, this time.
 
“Do you know what would happen if ye dared to mingle with the fae? There are laws, mortal. Ones that shouldn’t be crossed.”
 
I hesitate. Now I feel like I’m being tested. But I can only go on what I know of her. I’ve seen so much of the fae, and I think I understand the answer to this question. I nod at her, just as serious as she is.
“There are consequences. I know. Dire ones. But wouldn’t a friend be willing to risk anything for another friend? I’d be honored to get to know you, if you’d let me.”
For a second the faerie’s face is blank. She stares at me from head to toe. And then she grins at me.
 
“Good! You finally understand a bit. You are such a fool, you, that I thought ye’d never figure it out.”
 
I blink at her. But the faerie flies closer, and smiles again.
 
“I’ve grown interested in your kind again, after so long. If you want to talk with me, I suppose a friend would be better than strangers, eh?”
 
I can’t believe it. But suddenly my heart is beating fast, and I feel a surge of passion and life in my chest. I feel alive again.
“I—of course. I’d be honored, as I said. My name is Ryoka Griffin, but you know that. Can I ask your name or is that wrong?”
The faerie considers this.
 
“My name—my truest of names—is a secret to all. And ye would not be able to pronounce it even so. But you may call me…Ivolethe.”
 
Ivolethe. The name rings in my ears for a second. But the faerie isn’t done. Carefully, she extends a small hand towards me. It’s such a small hand, but I extend a finger and let her shake that. For a second, the briefest second I feel coldness, the deepest chill, and at the same time a wonderful cool, a refreshing breeze and the taste of winter on my skin. It’s not at all unpleasant; I could have experienced that forever. But then the touch is gone.
But the faerie remains. Ivolethe flies back and stands on the table. I stare at her, and see her grin again. Pointed teeth, and a gaze older than the world. Her insectile wings fan out, and she begins to freeze the wood under her feet. But she’s here, and she and I are friends.
I’m friends with a faerie.
Suddenly, everything’s okay again.
