“Yes, sweet Lin-Lin,” Daddy replied, his medicine box strapped to his back and smile wry as he watched her from several meters away. “You know, the trip would be much easier if you simply Cloud-Stepped home.”

“Sure,” she replied, giving him a big, toothy grin. “But this is so much more fun!”

“Alright then.” Shaking his head with a chuckle, he waved her off and said, “I’ll be right behind you, making sure no one falls off.” Or gets attacked, since she’d be moving much slower than a Cloud-Stepping Divinity. “Safe journey.”

“See you at home.” Taking a deep breath, Lin-Lin crouched down on one foot and gathered all her power into her legs before Cloud-Stepping straight up into the skies. It wasn’t easy to jump with all this extra weight, but it wasn’t all that difficult either, especially not with her Plated Domain helping her along. At the apex of her jump, she pulled the release lever to her right and let out a triumphant cry that sounded suspiciously like a squeal as the mechanism unfolded to reveal the contraption’s silken wings. Woven in between a mess of steel fiber no less, with a span measuring over twelve metres wide and a hollow, lightweight, steel-alloy frame. While it somewhat resembled the hang gliders Rainy conjured up in his Natal Palace, this one was far heftier and more complex since it had to seat fifteen bun-buns in addition to Lin-Lin herself. There were all sorts of fail-safes and precautions built in, many of which she’d been forced to use during testing, but she hadn’t had to eject the canopy in almost ten trips now, which was the longest streak yet.

And as the wings caught the current and sent her soaring through the clouds, Lin-Lin felt all her concerns melting away. Blackjack let out a little cry of joy as he Cloud-Stepped alongside her, though half the time he was being held back by his leash since he had a habit of running off to chase prey on his own. As for Ping Ping and Mama Bun, they used their Plated Domains to create little floating platforms to sit in, a feat even Rainy didn’t know how to replicate, though he suspected it was largely because he understood the laws of gravity too well and couldn’t wrap his head around the concept of levitation. None of the why or how ever bothered Lin-Lin though, as she was mostly focused on enjoying herself to the fullest. Sure, she could Cloud-Step home, but that was more like running or jumping at best. It was fun, but hard work keeping herself high up in the skies, much less her momentum going, while using the hang glider only needed a simple hop to start off and a bit of Plated Domain to keep the wind out of her eyes. The bun-buns too, who she couldn’t carry along with her if she had to Cloud Step all the way home, though Daddy was more than capable of doing so in her stead. That’d take away from his own enjoyment however, so Lin-Lin had been adamant about taking the hang glider, especially since she’d had little excuse to use it ever since Rainy declared it ‘as safe as it’ll ever be’ almost two years ago. He still didn’t think it was safe enough for general use, and few Peak Experts cared to go to all the trouble, but Lin-Lin knew they were all missing out.

Because no matter how much faster or effective Cloud Stepping might be, it was not flying. It was exercise, and while this right here wasn’t flying either, falling slowly in a hang glider was the next best thing.

The mountains ambled by beneath her as Lin-Lin rode the currents home and enjoyed the sights and scents without compare. Even the bite of the cold, harsh wind didn’t seem so bad while soaring through the skies, and with a bit of clever leaning left and right, she caught the warmer updrafts and made it back to the village in less than three hours, with plenty of time to spare. Landing was always the trickiest part, mostly because she had to be careful not to break the glider when she did it, so she took a long, slow turn before bringing it down towards the lengthy, flat runway Rainy had cleared out behind their manor. After the wheels touched down, she slipped her feet out of the stirrups and gently slowed themselves down, taking care not to dig her heels in and carve out a furrow like last time. It all came together nicely as she brought them to a gentle stop right in front of the manor’s back entrance, and she allowed herself a moment to bask in the pure joy the whole journey had elicited, one she hoped would stay with her throughout the coming days.

Because at the end of it all, Lin-Lin wasn’t unhappy with her life. She was just bored is all, and boredom was something she could fix.

“Welcome home.” Ready and waiting to greet her with a kiss, Rainy leaned under the hang glider’s canopy and gave her a peck on the cheek. That was all she got though, because then he turned around and ran over to give Daddy a big, warm hug. “Hi Taddy.” Suspicious is what it was, but Lin-Lin simply smiled at the heartwarming sight of her hubby acting like a little boy who knew he’d done wrong. “So don’t be angry,” Rainy began, which of course got Daddy all worried and frowny. “But we uh, had a tiny little problem while you were away.” Staring at his feet while unable to meet Daddy’s eyes, Rainy scratched his cheek and sighed. “Buddy sorta went rogue this morning and stole a basket of berries from Tali. Then one thing led to another, and long story short, he sorta, kinda raided your garden and uprooted a few plants.” The last came out in a hurried rush as Daddy set off for the garden, and Lin-Lin put on a mock frown as her hubby gave her an apologetic look before chasing after him. “It’s not that bad,” Rainy continued, his voice echoing across the plateau. “Only like, five percent damage at most, and nothing we can’t fix.”

Blowing out another raspberry to rid herself of her displeasure, Lin-Lin gave a little huff as she extricated herself from the hang glider and set to freeing Blackjack and the bun-buns from their harnesses. They all usually sat stock still and waited, or at most tried to entice her to bring them back up into the skies again, since they all seemed to love flying as much as she did. Not today however, not from Mama Bun, who rushed over to Lin-Lin’s side and started pawing at her in frantic demand to be set loose. “Wait your turn,” she chided, tapping the big bun-bun’s twitching pink nose as she helped Ping Ping out of her harness. “I know you’re happy to be home, but Rainy won’t be in the house to greet you. He ran off to fix Buddy’s mess.”

“Woof.”

The bark wasn’t a loud one, or even emphatic, more of a sullen protest than anything else, and Lin-Lin couldn’t help but laugh as the dirt-covered, floppy-eared hound crawled out of the nearby bushes and shook himself free. Padding over with a hangdog expression, Buddy gave her his best performance in an effort to show remorse, but his wagging tail spoiled the show. The silly dog knew he’d done wrong, which was why he’d hidden himself from Rainy and Daddy, but he clearly didn’t regret it one bit. “Oh?” she asked, reaching out to tickle his chin and smiling as he lifted his head and opened his mouth in a big, snaggle-toothed grin. “Are you saying I’m wrong? That you weren’t being a bad dog while I was away?”

Buddy barked again, a soft and plaintive sound that transformed into a whine halfway through. Resting his chin in her hand, he looked up at her with his big soft eyes and tried to let his Aura do the talking, and Lin-Lin did her best to parse his meaning. Yes, he might have been naughty and crossed some lines, but he was not a bad dog, to which she agreed. “You’re right Buddy. Who’s a good boy? You’re a good boy.” Giving him a kiss on the head, she knelt down and opened her arms for a hug, and giggled as he threw himself into her embrace. There was so much love in his Aura it was impossible not to love him back, but she also sensed heavy notes of anxiety and stress. “You’re a terrible criminal,” she declared, but Buddy didn’t understand her words or tone, nor did he care to try as he was too busy enjoying the head scratches she was giving him at the same time. “If stealing stresses you out so much, why don’t you just be good?”

To her surprise, Buddy drew back and let out another plaintive cry, upset that she would even imply he wasn’t a good dog. That much he understood at least, and he tried to defend his actions using his Aura. All she could glean from his tale however was that he missed them all, was happy they were back, and now eager to leave and do something of the utmost importance. Probably roll around in something stinky. Add in the long trip and Mama Bun’s persistent demands to be set free from her leash, Lin-Lin gave up after a full minute of trying to wrap her head around Buddy’s logic, of which there was none. Instead, she just gave him another kiss on the head, brushed a bit of dirt off his body, and set Mama Bun free to run off with him, Ping Ping, and probably Pong Pong too. The dog and bunny didn’t so much as look back, but at least Ping Ping had the decency to stay a moment and offer a farewell squeak. Longer than a moment in fact, and it seemed like she wanted Lin-Lin to follow along, but that wasn’t going to happen. “You have fun,” she said, giving the sweet turtle a bright smile and a wave goodbye. There wasn’t much more trouble they could get into today, and they’d come home soon enough when it came time for dinner, so she saw them off with a smile before freeing the rest of the bun-buns and heading inside for a long and possibly lonely bath.

Stupid Rainy. A week apart and all he had for her was a kiss on the cheek? It wasn’t quite the welcome she’d been hoping for, and in fact had been planning on inviting him to a long and steamy bath with her. Overcome with devilish glee, Lin-Lin perked right up as an idea popped into her head, one she acted on immediately. “I’m gonna take a nice, long bath hubby,” she Sent, as she set out in search of her sister-wives. “I was hoping you’d help wash my hair and back, but I suppose I’ll have to find someone else instead. Mi-Mi should be home, right? If not, then Yan should be done with school soon. Or maybe you could send Li-Li back early so I can help do her hair after we’re all cleaned up.”

There was a long pause before Rainy’s reply came back, and she could sense an eager yearning in his tone. “I’ll be right back with Li-Li. Five minutes tops.” A pause. “Ten at most. Start up the big bath. We have some new scented soaps and bath oils, but I forgot where we put them.” In the bathroom cabinet probably, since Luo-Luo’s Imperial Servants were very particular about everything being in their place, and Rainy knew it too, but he was desperate to delay her without being too too obvious about it. “You could maybe check the storage room. Dunno.”

“Maybe,” Lin-Lin replied, moving with a bounce in her step now that she knew she had her hubby on the hook. “I’m just so tired from the trip. Could really use a massage too. Luo-Luo gives the best shoulder rubs. You know if she’s at the office?” Giggling as she skipped along, Lin-Lin kept Sending to Rainy and teasing him along, knowing full well he’d caught onto her game, but would still hurry back as quick as he could because he too was a Divinity now, and much like her, had to be conscious of his emotional state at all times.

And right now, with a little prompting, she knew full well what his emotional state was like, one to match her own. Maybe it was a little manipulative to push his buttons so, but she only did it because she knew he wanted the same thing. A nice, big reunion in the bath with all six of them together, with plenty of skin-ship to be had.

They had a whole week to make up for after all, and as they say, absence makes the heart grow fonder.
