It took some long moments of quiet introspection to figure it out, but she finally narrowed it down. She wasn’t all sulky because she wasn’t happy to go home to her loved ones and take part in a big old fancy banquet. She was being moody because she was looking forward to it. Excited even, which wasn’t a bad thing, except she realized that over the last decade or so, her definition of fun had changed drastically for the worse. There was a time when she went on adventures to fight battles and defy the Heavens, and now she was getting all giddy and excited for an excuse to dress up. Okay, so maybe she always liked dressing up, but not just for the clothes and accessories. It was the reason that made it special, like a show in the city, a night market to wander, contests to compete in, or a dance festival to frolic in. Not dinner and drinks with friends and family. As nice as it was to get everyone together and reconnect, it wasn’t exactly the most thrilling of events, yet Lin-Lin was so impatient to get home and get ready that she was getting all frowny and grumpy because the bun-buns weren’t cooperating. They never cooperated, not once in all their time together, because they were sweet, silly bunnies whose only concerns were sleeping, eating, and playing.

Same as Lin-Lin, which suited her just fine, except everyone around her had gone and built themselves a career or a family. Mi-Mi always had her nose in a book these days, and not even a fun, scandalous book like the ones Yan-Yan loved to read. Who’d done little of that in recent time, since she was always busy at the school and orphanage, often leaving in the middle of the night to oversee some emergency or the other. She wasn’t just a teacher, she was also a part-time mother, taking good care of the war orphans and abandoned demi-humans as best she could, and Lin-Lin admired Yan-Yan for it. It was emotionally exhausting looking after so many kids, having to worry about their futures and their happiness every waking moment, which was why she’d distanced herself from the school after the most exhausting year of her life. Hubby had done the same, but at least he had an excuse; he was working hard to build and fund schools all across the Empire so children everywhere could go to bed at night with full bellies and happy dreams. As for Li-Li, she’d become even more devoted to the Martial Path, travelling back and forth from the Western Province more than anyone else in the family save Baa-Baa, Nai-Nai, and Grandpa Du.

And then there was Luo-Luo, whom Lin-Lin adored, but the Imperial Princess was a woman of… refined tastes. She never wanted to do anything exciting, and there was nothing fun about drinking tea or doing calligraphy. Plus, she was such a stickler for perfection when it came to teaching music that she made learning more of a chore than anything else. Even dancing along had rules to adhere to, a sequence of ‘proper’ steps to follow along instead of moving naturally to the rhythm like Lin-Lin preferred, so even though she got along well with Luo-Luo, the only interests they really shared was Rainy and the floofs.

Mostly because Lin-Lin didn’t have many interests to begin with, which was why she jumped at the chance to get away for an entire week. It was a nice change from sleeping in with the bunnies, chasing the wildcats through the trees, teasing the bears by the lakeside, the quins and Sir Inky in the lake, or playing pranks on silly Rakky alongside Buddy. All she did was idle the time away while everyone else was busy with their own pursuits, and she’d long since grown bored of it all, except she had no one to blame for her lacking progress besides herself. Being a Healer was fine and all, but she wasn’t confident enough to call herself one just yet, nor could she see herself doing the work day in and day out like Daddy did. The same could be said of gardening, except Daddy wasn’t a simple gardener anymore. He was more of a farmer now, growing whole fields of Spiritual Crops for everyone to eat, with plenty of Divinities eager to work under him for a share of the spoils. Mi-Mi’s books made Lin-Lin’s head spin, with all those numbers and letters, and she’d already gone into why she couldn’t help Yan-Yan or keep Luo-Luo company. As for Li-Li’s pursuit of the Martial Path, Lin-Lin had long since known that fighting wasn’t for her, even without all the strict supervision and stringent safeguards required before she was allowed to throw down.

And Rainy? He was a man of varied interests, in more ways than one, but aside from his family and floofs, he lacked commitment. He was always happy to put in the work to start his latest venture up, but once he got things up and running, he tended to lose interest in the growth period and move on after handing the reins over to someone else. It kept him busy though, both the work and the effort needed to check up on all his passion projects every once in awhile, which was great for him, but left Lin-Lin little chance to tag along without devoting all her time to understanding what his latest idea was all about. After the embarrassing misunderstanding about crop rotation last year, she’d all but given up on trying to keep up, and for a time, that suited everyone just fine.

How was she supposed to know Rainy meant changing the type of plants grown on a set schedule, rather than rotating the plants themselves? It was an honest mistake anyone could have made, so he shouldn’t have laughed so hard…

There were plenty of reasons why Lin-Lin had yet to settle on a Path for herself, but mostly it came down to a matter of desire. Why did she have to decide what to do with her life and plan out all the steps she’d take to get to the peak? Why couldn’t she just live her life as she pleased, like Ping Ping, Blackjack, and the bun-buns? They were all too happy to spend their days lounging about, or packing up to go off on a jaunt with little more than a moment’s notice. That’s what she wanted, to be content with things as they were, but lately she’d been feeling like she had an itch she couldn’t scratch because it came from within. Doing the same thing day in and day out was her greatest fear, but her drive to go out and explore meant leaving everyone else behind. Staying put however felt like she was the one being left behind, her life set in stone while everyone went out and bettered themselves day after day. Even sweet Tali was getting ready for marriage now, while little Tate was determined to join the effort to resettle the West, the two twins all grown up and ready to stand on their own two feet. Meanwhile, Lin-Lin was still the same as ever, only a little older and much more boring than before, circumstances which clearly did not sit well with her at all.

So now that she knew why she was in such a mood, it was time to take steps to change things up. How though? Settle on a career? Ew. No thank you. Travel more? How? As a young Divinity and wife to the sole True Human Divinity of the Empire, Lin-Lin was a tempting target to all too many people, and not just Rainy’s enemies either. Even if he were willing to join her, it still wasn’t entirely safe, and while the years of travel after their marriage had been some of the best years of her life, she’d seen the price paid by her hubby in stress and vigilance and it wasn’t worth it. Rainy was paranoid sure, but that didn’t mean he was wrong to be suspicious of everyone they met. In fact, he was right more often than not when he suspected someone of ill-intent, and the long track record of betrayals and attempted assassinations behind them spoke volumes to his concerns.

Ya, Rainy was much happier and better off living here in the village, which was why he never left after coming back five years ago. There was more to it than the danger, as he was also trying to distance himself from politics and lessen the strain on their relationship with the stinky Legate-turned-Emperor and the backbiting ‘Supreme’ Families. Regardless of the reasons, nothing was going to change about Rainy’s status, or Lin-Lin’s for that matter, so there was nothing to do besides work around them and find a solution that fit her needs. One that involved more than just going about her days without a care in the world, no matter how much she preferred doing things that way. While it might be all fine and dandy for Blackjack, Lin-Lin wasn’t a Cloud Chaser Hare. She was a person too, which meant she had to find a way to Balance her simple, animalistic desires with the more complicated aspects of her humanity.

Something to chew on later, since this wasn’t a problem she could solve anytime soon, and there was still much to be done before they returned home. Patting herself on the cheeks, she gave a firm nod and set off to wrangle all the bun-buns into their harnesses. She went one at a time, starting with Tawny One, who was all too happy to hop up next to Blackjack and groom him while he dozed. Thumper, Flopsy, Hopper, Quake, Cinnabun, Peanut, Ginger, Pepper, Bugs, Lola, Buster, Babs, Fluffy Bunnikins, and lastly George, one by one she buckled them up, cinched their straps, and gave them a kiss on the nose for good measure. They were so big now, she couldn’t easily carry more than one at a time anymore without making them uncomfortable. It wasn’t a matter of strength, but size, as she had to support their hind legs at all times else they’d kick and possibly hurt themselves, unlike Blackjack and Guai Guai who loved to leave their hind paws dangling in the air. Once the bun-buns were all geared up, it came time to catch Mama Bun, which was always a mixture of fun and frustration. The sweet girl was even bigger than Buddy now, a full ninety centimetres long from nose to cottontail, and brimming with single-minded purpose that nothing could distract her from. Try as she might to redirect the big bun-bun, Lin-Lin couldn’t convince Mama Bun to sit still long enough to get her paws through the harness, and she didn’t dare try to restrain her. The big bun was stronger than she knew and could very well hurt herself trying to get away, so Lin-Lin stayed calm and kept holding the harness out in Mama Bun’s path, hoping she’d hop into the arm holes perfectly and solve the problem herself.

And it worked too, leaving Lin-Lin in a fit of giggles as she leaned over to secure the straps while Mama Bun stood up on her hind legs and showered her with kisses. “Yes, I love you too sweet bunny,” Lin-Lin crooned, nuzzling the rabbit’s nose with her own. “But you’ve eaten a lot of treats this last week, and we can’t keep giving you more. You’re growing too fast in size and your organs haven’t caught up yet, so you need to take it easy and let the Heavens take good care of you, ya?” There was nothing else to be done, because despite being twice the size of her babies, Mama Bun’s heart was only slightly bigger. The same could be said of the rest of her organs, when they should be much bigger. More than double in fact, since size and efficiency weren’t directly linked. The problem was her speed of growth, since few herbivores were as spoiled rotten as the bunnies, and none more spoiled than Mama Bun. Once she spent a few weeks short of breath and light of head, she’d figure out the problem on her own and the Heavens would resolve the issue for her, but until she realized she couldn’t keep growing in size, they had to limit Mama Bun’s intake of Spiritual Plants. Keeping her on a strict diet these last few months hadn’t been easy, and she’d kicked up quite a fuss every morning when she found her meals sorely lacking in delectable treats, but it was much better to have an angry Mama Bun than no Mama Bun at all.

Besides, it’d be such a shame for a Spiritual Beast to grow so much only to die of heart or kidney failure. Almost laughable even, if it wasn’t so sad at the same time.

Giving Mama Bun a few extra kisses just in case, Lin-Lin ran her fingers through the big girl’s long, silky white fur until she found Pong Pong seated deep within. Poking his head up to see who it was, the tiny turtle blinked sleepily and squeaked out a hello, to which she responded with a big, “Hi hi!” He also got a few head rubs, which he tolerated for a bit before retreating back into his warm nest atop Mama Bun’s head, his eyes closed and legs splayed out in all directions in a display of utter contentment. It’d be so nice if Lin-Lin were so easily pleased, but her stupid human ambitions had to go and ruin everything. Then again, it wasn’t all bad, because alongside ambition came ingenuity, which brought plenty of thrills and excitement as well. With everyone harnessed and ready to go, she loaded them up into their seats and secured them in with clips, seven baby bun-buns on each side while George sat overhead. Mostly because he couldn’t be trusted to sit still, so keeping him towards the centre made it so his movements wouldn’t affect the whole contraption as much. As for Mama Bun, she got a leash, and so did Blackjack once she woke him from his nap, both of which were clipped to their harnesses and fixed securely to Lin-Lin’s. After double and triple checking to make sure everything was safe and sound, she put on her hat, tied the straps around her chin, and moved into position between the bun-buns. Leaning forward onto the main horizontal bar, she held her body at a forty-five-degree angle while slipping her left foot into its stirrup and leaving her right foot on the ground.

“Are you ready Ping Ping?” she asked, her heart racing and cheeks straining to contain her smile. The sweet girl let out a big squeak of affirmation, while Blackjack needed no prompting, already bouncing in place and every bit as excited as she was for the trip home, if not more. “You ready daddy?”

