My chambers. Tonight. Khal turned beet red, and a passing Stitch-Woman eyed him with interest and amusement. He was overthinking things. Wasn’t he? Only, the Emperor of Sands’ conquests in bed as well as in war were legendary. But that had been him, not her. Or were the rumors mixed up?
The Emperor of Sands. Ever-changing, ever shifting like the dunes she reigned over. At once sexual, commanding, frightening—as General Khal thought about tonight, he wondered if she would have changed back into one of her male aspects then, or whether she would remain as she was. He wondered which would be worse. Then he wondered if it made a difference.
Such was Chandrar. Such was the Empire of Sands and its strange ruler. Feared for her—his—their ambitions, yes, but hated and despised too. Not for their policies, or the way they made war and peace as their personalities changed, no. Simply for one reason. A petty one? An important one to some.
Yes, the Empire of Sands was hated. Because they were different. But as the Goblins might have observed if anyone thought to ask them, different did not mean evil. It just meant you were a target.
 
——
 
So then. In Chandrar, war. In Izril, war. It seemed like the world was at war sometimes, and the [Kings] and [Queens] and [Lords] and [Ladies] plotted endlessly against each other. And that wasn’t even counting [Emirs] and [Sultans] and [Emperors] of varying genders and [Quarasses] and [Sultanas]…
The point was that grand schemes were afoot. And while it might have been entertaining to return to the Emperor of Sands’ private bedchambers that night (and perhaps instructive), such grand schemes were at a distant remove from the rest of the world. The schemes of empires moved slowly and impacted the world a bit at a time. Chandrar had its King of Destruction and the Emperor of Sands. They would clash in time.
But some things were more immediate. Some things were above politics. Literally above.
Erin heard a tap on the glass pane of her window as she was polishing a table. She peered at it and saw a streak of water running down the glass. She blinked, and heard another tap.
“Hey, I think it’s going to rain!”
“Really?”
Across the inn, Lyonette and Mrsha looked up. Mrsha was gnawing at a piece of hardtack Erin had cooked up this morning. She had done a good job; such a good job that the hardtack would probably last for years even without her inn’s magical preservation field. It would also probably last that long despite—or in spite of—any attempts to eat it. Mrsha had been gnawing at it for the last fifteen minutes, and her sharp teeth hadn’t made any real dent in it.
“Mrsha, honey, stop trying to eat that. Erin made it with magic ingredients; you’ll just break your teeth trying to bite it.”
Lyonette absently spoke to Mrsha, who rolled away from her with a growl, possessively gnawing the hardtack. The [Princess] gave up and walked over to Erin.
“I think you’re right. It’s going to rain.”
“Yup. Grey skies. I guess that means winter’s over!”
Erin brightened up. There were still a few pockets of very melty snow, but that was only in the deepest valleys where the snow had really fallen. She was looking forward to some rain and spring—the plains had turned to mud of late, and she had stepped in deep puddles that turned out to go up to her thighs more than once.
“Do you think we’ll get a lot of rain? I’d hate to have to walk to Liscor like this. Or in the city, come to think of it.”
Lyonette looked up at the dark clouds a bit apprehensively. Erin shrugged.
“Eh, it’ll be fine. If it’s too wet tomorrow, you can go to Celum if you need to shop. If you paid Octavia, I bet she’d get you the stuff you wanted herself. And hey, look at it like this! If it rains, we can just put some buckets outside! No need for water!”
“True. Speaking of Celum, have you heard anything about…the door?”
Lyonette looked at the door, and Erin glanced at it. It was still set against the wall and still technically active. The only difference was that it wasn’t attuned to Pallass’ doorway. Pisces had worked a long time with Moore and Typhenous to figure out a way to make it so Erin could switch the door’s magical portal by tapping a mana stone against it. He’d been really, really upset to learn she’d cut the door off from Pallass, possibly for good.
“Nope. Not a peep. They can’t get in without me reactivating the connection anyways. And I hid it in a special place—far away from where Mrsha can get it.”
Erin smiled proudly. Lyonette nodded dubiously. She glanced at Erin.
“You never did tell me all about what happened in Pallass. Was it really that bad?”
“What, Pallass? Nah. It looked really cool, actually! It’s just…those jerks at the end were really something, weren’t they? Trying to take the magical door on trumped up charges—I’m glad I managed to cut the connection!”
Erin nodded to herself. Lyonette peered at her, choosing her words cautiously.
“So you don’t think there will be trouble? I mean, you did break the laws of the city. And didn’t you get hauled into the Watch Captain’s office? How’d you get out of that?”
“Oh, I talked my way out of it. Don’t worry, it’s cool.”
The [Innkeeper] waved a hand airily. She paused when she saw Mrsha’s head rise to stare at her and Lyonette’s flat look.
“What? Don’t you believe me?”
“Um…no.”
“Come on! I’m not stupid enough to cause trouble!”
“That’s not what Wall Lord Ilvriss said. He said—”
“That I acted like an idiot?”
Erin folded her arms, smiling slightly. Lyonette paused.
“Uh, well, he was a bit ruder than that. But yes. Erin, you can be a bit aimless. I just think that—”
Erin rolled her eyes.
“Lyonette, that was the point.”
“What?”
The [Barmaid] stared at Erin. The young woman grinned, spreading her arms out wide.
“Of course I acted like an idiot! We were in huge trouble and there I was, in another city, getting yelled at by some very angry—and very heavy—Drakes! I bet you they would have thrown the book at me, but I pretended everything was Ilvriss’ idea and that I had no idea what was going on!”
Erin tapped the side of her nose knowingly.
“You see Lyonette, there’s one good way to make angry people less angry at you, and that’s to pretend to be as stupid as they think you are. Like a dumb Human tourist.”
She grinned as Lyonette gaped at her. Then she pitched her voice higher and made her eyes widen innocently.
“Oh, I just happen to have a magical door, [Captain]! What’s that? It’s illegal? Well, no one told me. And, hey, you can’t take my door!”
She grinned, abandoning the fake voice.
“And then, while they’re all laughing at you behind your back, you move your knight to F7 and wipe the smug looks off their faces! Hah!”
She punched her fist into her hand and smiled. Erin looked around the inn. Mrsha and Lyonette were staring at her.
“What? I do it all the time. You’re telling me you’ve never seen me acting stupid? Like I did with Ylawes the other day? No? I thought it was obvious!”
Erin looked from face to face. She frowned.
“Wait, don’t tell me you thought I was just being stupid. You don’t think I’m actually dumb enough to do all those things on purpose, right? Right?”
Lyonette avoided her gaze. Mrsha turned around and pretended to be interested in her hardtack. Erin covered her face.
“Aw. Really? Come on!”
“It’s a really good act, Erin. I had no idea.”
It was hard to meet Erin’s eyes, so Lyonette compromised by also pretending to be interested in Mrsha’s hardtack. The innkeeper glared in mock outrage at both Lyonette and Mrsha.
“Everyone thinks I’m an idiot, is that it? Well in that case, I guess I’ll pretend to be even dumber!”
She struck a silly pose and waved around, giving Lyonette and Mrsha her most vacant expression. Mrsha started giggling, and Lyonette managed to grab the saliva-covered hardtack out of her jaws at last. Erin began walking around, pointing at things and exclaiming.
“Look at me, I’m a stupid Human! I don’t know what things are! Is that a wall? Wow! And hey look, a table! I bet you could eat your dinner off that! Wow, walking is fun. Too bad I’m so dumb I can’t even walk straight. Dum dee dum dee dum—”
She stumbled across the room, acting like a drunken zombie. Mrsha was rolling around on the ground laughing silently, and Lyonette was grinning. Then the door opened.
Zevara strode through the doorway. Erin froze. The Watch Captain eyed her and sighed.
“Human, we need to talk.”
She stopped in place and eyed Erin as the girl froze with both arms waving. Mrsha sat up, and Lyonette turned with the wet sticky mess in her hands. Zevara coughed.
“Am I interrupting something?”
Erin lowered her hands and sighed.
“Just fun. Come on in, Watch Captain. Is this the part where you yell at me and call me a stupid Human?”
She ushered Zevara over to a table. The Watch Captain sat, looking serious.
“I’m not here to reprimand you, Miss Solstice. That incident with Pallass was a disaster, but Wall Lord Ilvriss instigated the mess, and I can’t hold you responsible for the rest of it. With that said—”
“I know it was bad. I’m sorry.”
Zevara blinked. Erin sighed, and she waved at Lyonette.
“Lyon—can you get us some drinks? When you’ve gotten rid of that stuff and washed your hands, obviously. Mrsha, no, don’t chase after it. Just let it—I’ll get the drinks.”
She got up and disappeared behind her counter. Zevara blinked as Erin came back with a mug of ale for her and milk for herself.
“You don’t drink?”
“Eh, I have [Alcohol Immunity] or something like that. There’s no point, and milk tastes better. Is this good? You want something stronger?”
Zevara peered into her mug and shook her head.
“This is fine…thank you. I’m, ah, here today because of the incident in Pallass. Have you heard of the fallout from that encounter?”
“Let me guess. I’m in trouble for throwing a chair at the senators? Or…Hawk’s been arrested? Or is it worse than that?”
Erin looked glum. Zevara shook her head.
“None of that, actually. In fact, we’ve had several exchanges with Pallass. The Assembly of Crafts is not happy at all about what you did, but they’re prepared to let the matter rest…”
“…In exchange for the door.”
“Correct. They say they’d drop all charges and offer you compensation if you agree to sell it to them.”
The Watch Captain saw Erin groan and massage her head. She coughed.
“I understand that you had reason to defend yourself, and I am on your side in this matter, Miss Solstice.”
“You are? Even though I threw a chair at—”
Zevara nodded. She looked annoyed as she took a draft from her mug.
“I was negotiating with Pallass right up until you arrived. They were prepared to march their troops through the doorway and seize the door, regardless of Liscor’s laws. And they told me—and Liscor’s council—that if we didn’t comply with their demands, there would be consequences. They began making good on their promise this morning.”
“Wait, what? How?”
The Watch Captain took another drink from her mug.
“So long as the door is not returned to them, we will be subject to a trade embargo. No goods from our city will enter Pallass—which isn’t such a huge loss—but they will cease all exports to our city until their demands are met.”
Erin gulped.
“That sounds…bad. Is it?”
Zevara nodded grimly.
“Over half of the arms our City Watch uses are made in Pallass. Have you heard of Pallassian steel? You have?”
She blinked, shook her head, and went on.
“Well, Pallass exports both weaponry and alchemical goods. We don’t have more than one or two low-level [Alchemists] in Liscor, and if they decide to cut off supplies, we suffer. Not to mention, Pallass is on the trading route north to Liscor. They can easily create a trade blockade with their military.”
“Ah. And, uh, this is all over the door.”
“The door which you own and which violated their laws once. But they’re claiming that since the doorway can be activated at any time, it represents a current and pressing security risk, never mind that they could toss their side of the portal off their walls anytime they choose. It’s become a political matter, I’m afraid.”
Zevara finished her mug, and Erin went to get her another. She looked tired and frustrated, and Erin could understand the problem. She spread her hands on the table as she sat, thinking hard.
“Okay, so Pallass is making a fuss for no good reason. If they don’t get the door, Liscor suffers. Which isn’t fair.”
“No. You’re not a citizen of the city. They’re essentially telling us to take the door from you and give it to them. And they know they can threaten us because we need their supplies!”
Zevara ground her teeth together.
“Cold-tailed bastards. I always thought we had an amicable relationship with their city, but it turns out that they’re willing to cut us off in an instant for a single magical artifact.”
“To be fair, my door’s really cool.”
The Drake woman glared at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] raised a hand.
“Sorry, but that’s sort of how it is, right?”
Zevara sighed.
“You’re not wrong. Moving anyone four hundred miles in an instant is magic on par with something Magnolia Reinhart might own, or, well, another Walled City. It’s a powerful artifact, even if it does have limits. They want it, and Liscor’s council might cave in rather than suffer a trade war. Our economy can’t handle it.”
Erin was silent for a moment. She could see what was coming. She looked at Zevara.
“So is this the part where you ask me to hand over the door before you have to take it?”
She thought she might give it to the Drake if it came to that. If it came to that—Erin’s heart ached. What could she do? Fight? Let Pallass bully Liscor? Or could she give it away, maybe, get rid of it? But, to her surprise, the Watch Captain looked incredulous.
“Me? Give in to those thugs? You have my intentions all wrong, Solstice. I’m not here to comply with Pallass’ demands. I’m here to resolve the situation.”
She stood up. Erin stared at her for a second and then stood up too.
“Okay, you have my attention. What’s the plan?”
Zevara walked over to the magical door, the source of all the strife. She tapped it curiously.
“I need you to activate it and open the portal…magic teleportation…whatever, to Pallass. Not Celum.”
“To Pallass? But isn’t that the problem?”
The Watch Captain nodded.
“It is. But I’m only asking you to keep it open for a few seconds. Then someone will come through. You’ll have to let them back out, but if it’s only, uh, active for a few moments no one should detect it.”
