Just a stone. Jagged, covered in blood. It couldn’t have been more than ten pounds in weight. But it had been dropped hundreds of feet from overhead. Khal heard more impacts and shouted.
“Spread out! Archers, target the fliers! Everyone else prepare for combat! [Quick Arrows]! Loose, loose damn your hides!”
He heard his army scrambling to react. Khal could see flying shapes above him, but knew to not look up. The Garuda were attacking with the sun at their backs, dropping stones on the army, flying out of the skies. But this wasn’t their real attack, not yet. The archers around him began to loose arrows upwards, and Khal saw two Garuda fall to the ground with sickening thuds, struck by the quarrels. The rest dispersed as his forces began to counterattack.
“What—what happened?”
A quavering voice spoke behind him. Khal saw Riefel getting to his feet, his face white and pale. Miracle of miracles or perhaps, curse of curses, he and his five companions had survived the Garuda’s rock dropping. Khal grunted at him.
“Garuda. They have found us, Highness. I would advise you to armor yourself, but it is too late now. They are coming.”
“But those impacts—one took my mount. How—? Rocks?”
Riefel looked confused. Khal turned, shouting.
“Form into a box! Infantry in front; archers, prepare to loose! Box formation! Protect His Highness Riefel! The Garuda are going to charge!”
He turned, his sword already up. Khal was scanning the flat horizon, looking for what must come next. The Garuda fought like this, attacking and retreating, but this tribe was known for launching terrible assaults with their leader. Where was he?
“I see. So it’s to be a fight is it? Well then, the Garuda will taste my steel!”
Riefel unsheathed his sword and took an awkward stance, and his five companions did likewise. Khal spared only a grimace for them. Two women and four men, and they looked like they had never killed another person before. They spread out in the center of the box Khal’s army had created, looking around warily. And then Khal saw it.
“There!”
He roared, and all heads turned. Khal had spotted a flash of blue and green, speeding across the ground. It moved unbelievably fast, leaving a trail of dust behind it. Khal’s blood ran cold, though the sun was scorching. A soldier next to him whispered.
“The Lord of the Skies.”
“Takhatres. One of the King’s Seven.”
He was coming. The Garuda raced across the ground towards Khal’s army, and at the same time as he approached, Khal heard a cry.
“To our rear! More Garuda!”
He turned and saw hundreds, thousands of flying shapes approaching through the sky. They were spread out at an angle and flying in—but slower than Takhatres. He called out as the soldiers wavered.
“Do not move position! The east flank will prepare to fire! Prepare! The west will fire when the Garuda are in range!”
“It’s just one Garuda. What can he do?”
Riefel’s voice was too loud in the silence as the soldiers turned their attention to their respective fronts. Khal’s hand was slippery on his sword’s hilt. He waited as the blur approached, trying to gauge the timing. As if it mattered.
“The eastern flank will loose!”
Thousands of bows hummed as arrows left the string. The air was filled with a rain of black death that shot towards the Garuda. Khal saw the lone figure turn and run left. The first volley missed him easily as he sped away from them. The second missed too.
“So fast!”
Someone groaned. Khal was silent. He hadn’t expected to hit Takhatres, but seeing the speed the Garuda possessed was terrifying in itself. He raised a hand and roared an order as the archers fumbled with a third volley. They wouldn’t have time to fire, he knew.
“Brace yourselves! The fastest warrior on the continent is about to attack!”
The blue and green blur was nearly upon them. Now a shape was visible—a Garuda, wings outstretched, running towards them. His face was a bird’s with a large beak, and his wings were that of a bird’s too, ending with talon-like hands. Yet he stood as a man, and ran like one. He did not fly. He could not fly.
And he was fast! One second he was running, then he was here! The front row of swordsmen cut at him—too slow. The Lord of the Skies turned and ran down the line of warriors, ducking, cutting, a blur, and Khal heard the screams begin. He braced himself, hoping the Garuda would retreat or get tangled up by the press of bodies. He couldn’t fight so many, even with his speed! Takhatres turned as the archers trained on him. He ran towards them as arrows flew and leapt.
Khal looked up and saw death land in the center of his formation. Takhatres was lightly armored. He wore cloth over his body, padded, but nothing more. He had a dagger in each hand, and he cut down a soldier with a bow as he landed. Khal’s heart raced, but it was slow compared to the Garuda. There was a moment, just a moment as the Garuda landed, that he couldn’t touch the ground, that he was slow. In that moment, Khal lunged.
“Lord of the Skies!”
He cut at the Garuda’s chest. Takhatres’ clawed feet touched the ground. Khal’s sword was a foot away from his chest, half a foot, three inches—then the Garuda disappeared. He took five steps back and ran around Khal’s sword, and it was he who cut at Khal as the man stumbled and tried to pull his sword back.
He had small blades in his feathered wings, and daggers on his claws! Khal tried to cut at Takhatres’ unprotected arms, but the Garuda blurred past him. The Brigadier General stumbled, feeling an impact on his side. He raised a hand and felt at the spot and yanked his hand away as something sliced his hand open.
“Blood?”
It was from his armor! His armor had cut him! The Garuda’s attack had cut straight through Khal’s steel armor, opening it into a dangerous gash. But the blades had gone further into Khal’s side. He stared into layers of white flesh, only now reddening with blood as it flowed from his body.
The [Sand Brigadier] stared at the bloodless cut for a second and cursed. He grabbed a healing potion and smashed it over the wound before his body could realize it needed to bleed. Then he turned.
Takhatres was fighting in the center of Khal’s formations, slaughtering the archers while the infantry stood at the outside of the formation, helpless to fight back. And while they were thrown into confusion, the rest of his tribe had attacked from the west! The bird-people flew down, dropping stones, cutting at Khal’s soldiers from overhead, screeching and sowing fear among his warriors.
It was a disaster. Khal saw the Lord of the Skies cutting his men down like wheat. The Garuda was too fast to catch, too agile to stop! He danced around blades and arrows as if he were the one normal person in a world full of snails. He dashed into a group of soldiers, and again and again his arms shot out, cutting here, slashing there, never stopping, until he burst out of the group from the other side.
He left a trail of fallen soldiers behind him, bleeding from deep cuts on their bodies. Only a few of the wounds were fatal—the rest left soldiers wounded, demoralized, and in need of healing potions or medical aid.
“What a monster!”
A loud voice made Khal’s head turn. He saw Riefel turning to follow Takhatres, his blade held in his clumsy hands. He did not run as the Garuda rushed towards him. Instead, the foolish young man cried out.
“I am here! Come, bird man! I will cut your wings off!”
Did Khal see a smile cross Takhatres’ face, just for a moment? Perhaps, because the Garuda turned and sped towards him. Riefel paused, surprised, as he realized his taunt had worked. It was a stupid expression to die with on his face. And then Takhatres was charging him—Khal wanted to turn away.
Riefel stared as the Garuda flashed towards him. Still looking dumbfounded, he changed his grip on his sword and slashed.
“[Flash Cut]!”
Khal gaped as the young man’s sword flashed through the air, and he saw the blue blur that was Takhatres shift out of the way. The Lord of the Skies leapt back, and Khal stared, dumbfounded.
[Flash Cut]? A Skill? Yes, Riefel had used it! And his form, his technique! That was no unseasoned nobleman’s cut, but an experienced warrior’s attack. Now Emir Riefel abandoned his awkward posture and stalked towards Takhatres on the balls of his feet, the scimitar held out from his body as he gripped the scabbard in his other hand. Riefel spoke in the sudden hush.
“Lord of the Skies. The Emperor of Sands desires your death.”
His voice was suddenly lower, and his tone calmer. The Garuda watched him warily, mocking smile gone, and Khal saw five more shapes appear out of the chaos of wounded and fighting soldiers. Five men and women, the same indolent companions that Riefel had been drinking with, moved forwards, fast and light on their feet, their weapons held at the ready. They did not wait, but attacked at the same time.
A pair of daggers here, a scimitar lashing out there! A pike, tip coated green, and a thrown dagger! The five warriors were a blur of blades as they attacked Takhatres from either side. They charged him as the Garuda blurred. And they missed.
Khal didn’t see him move. He didn’t see Takhatres weave through the storm of death, parrying blades and dodging the rest. He only saw the end of it, the Garuda moving away, leaping out from the formation, racing across the sands as [Archers] futilely fired at where he had been. Khal saw the six warriors standing where Takhatres had been moments ago, weapons lowered.
One of the six assassins dropped to her knees, and Khal saw her clutching at her throat where blood was already spilling to the ground. Emir Riefel grimaced, and Khal saw he’d been cut along the side of his neck. An inch to the left and it would have severed an artery. He ignored it and turned to Khal, his expression suddenly rueful.
“Ah. It seems we are too slow. Humiliating, is it not? All this preparation and waste.”
He indicated the battle, where the Garuda were pulling back, having cut Khal’s western flank to ribbons. The [Brigadier General] could only stare. He pointed at Riefel, at the man’s bare neck. His scarf had come loose and now Khal could see it.
A faint ring of stitches, colored like flesh, around his neck. The Stitch-Man bowed to Khal, confirming the man’s suspicions. He spoke casually, his eyes on the Garuda as they retreated, winging away and flying in a huge formation around the skies, like vultures.
“General, sound the retreat. Our assassination attempt has failed. We will hold our ground with some of your men and buy time for the rest of your people to retreat. I doubt the Lord of the Skies will follow, for fear of a second attempt on his life.”
“Emir Riefel—you are not coming?”
Khal saw the fake emir grin at him and press one hand to the blood dripping from his neck. By his side the female assassin had bled out. He bowed to Khal once more as a distant shape began running towards the army.
“Tell the Emperor of Sands that Takhatres cannot be slain by any number of [Assassins] of my caliber. Also, tender His Majesty my sincerest apologies that I cannot report in person.”
His Majesty. He had sent the assassins? Khal hesitated, countless questions in his mind. But there was no time. Riefel’s voice was harsh as he turned, scimitar in hand.
“Go. He is coming back.”
Khal turned and shouted the retreat. Horns blared and he fled, finding another camel and riding it as he heard Riefel make his last stand. He heard the Garuda descending, felt one descend behind him and cut them down with his sword. He fled with his shattered army, completely defeated as the tribe landed to loot their prey.
Defeat. Khal’s heart was filled with fear as he remembered the Lord of the Skies, imagined the Garuda coming after him. He was a nightmare given flesh. And he served the King of Destruction? Khal’s nightmares would be filled with his visage. And yet, he dreaded telling the Emperor of Sands the dire news even more.
 
——
 
“Dead?”
The voice was loud in the silent room. Too loud for such a spacious chamber, for it echoed. It was masculine, imperious, the voice of youth, but also tinged with a command beyond the speaker’s years. And it was filled with wrath.
“Dead, Your Majesty. All, as well as the bulk of my army. The Garuda cut many of us down as we retreated.”
Khal’s voice quavered in the audience hall. He knelt on the cold, cool stone, usually a comfort and respite from the heat of the desert sun. Now he sweated, despite the chill, and saw a bead of moisture splash onto the black marble beneath him. He prayed the Emperor of Sands would not notice.
“Raise your head. Did Riefel say anything to you before his death, Brigadier General Khal?”
Slowly, Khal looked up. He saw a Stitchman sitting on a silver throne. His posture was poor, one leg idly hanging over the arm of his throne. He was a young man in the prime of his existence, almost unable to sit still with the burning energy within him. Though his clothes were royal, he disdained much of the garments of his station, preferring the light and easy to wear cloth that allowed free movement. And he was angry.
It was in his eyes. They flashed emerald as the Emperor of Sands leaned forwards on his throne. His voice was rough with impatience. Khal could see the stitch-marks around his fingers as the Emperor of Sands made a fist.
“Speak, man. Did Riefel say why the assassination failed? Or did you see it yourself? Did he have time to attack Takhatres or not?”
“He said—he told me, Your Majesty—”
Khal licked his lips, trying to recall the exact words. His throat was parched from days and nights of ceaseless riding to return to the capital. The Emperor of Sands saw the movement and motioned impatiently.
“Get him some water or wine! And speak!”
A veiled attendant instantly approached. Whether the servant was man or woman, Khal didn’t see—he gratefully accepted a cup and drank a mouthful, feeling it wash down his throat.
“Pardons, Majesty. Emir Riefel said this to me in the moments before his death. ‘The Lord of the Skies cannot be slain by any number of [Assassins] of my caliber.’ He also wished to give His Majesty his apologies that he could not report this in person.”
Khal bowed his head, the cup trembling in his grasp. He heard a faint grunt, dared to look up, and saw the Emperor splayed across his throne. His face was thunderous, bitter.
“So. That is what Riefel believed?”
He eyed Khal, but did not give the man the order to speak. The Emperor of Sands shifted position and then stood up. He paced across the dais of his throne, and Khal dared to peek around the grand throne room.
