She waited, her eyes on Erin. The Human hesitated, but then she nodded.
“Okay, I can do that. For a few seconds. Lyonette! Take Mrsha upstairs!”
She went into her kitchen to grab the mana stone. She also carefully put two kitchen knives on the counter and made sure her frying pan was within easy reach. Alchemist’s potions over there…Bird was on the roof. Well then.
Erin walked back out, smiling innocently with mana stone in hand. Zevara stood well back of the door, her eyes on the stone. It was green and glowed in the light. It had been cut from an emerald—gemstones were the basis of mana stones, apparently.
“Do you need to cast a spell or do some sort of—”
Erin stuck the stone on the door. It latched into place, as if held by a magnet. She turned to Zevara.
“There. All done.”
Zevara stared at the door. She stared at Erin. The young woman smiled.
“Well?”
Slowly, Zevara opened the door. Another wall appeared, the wall of a building in another city. Zevara stared into the alleyway of Pallass, and then looked to one side. Erin saw a shadow in the alleyway, heard a voice. She tensed.
“—hold your positions. I will be back shortly.”
Someone walked towards the door and into view. He hesitated in front of the portal and then stepped through as Zevara stood to one side. Erin stared in shock.
It was Watch Captain Venim! The Drake was wearing his bright yellow armor that made him look like a giant dandelion. Erin gaped for five whole seconds and then swatted at Apista before the Ashfire Bee could fly over. Zevara stood back as Watch Captain Venim stood in Erin’s inn, looking around and touching himself in bemusement. Then he turned to face her. The two Watch Captains sized each other up for a second, and then Venim lowered his head in a nod.
“Watch Captain.”
“Watch Captain.”
Zevara grasped Venim’s forearms with her gauntleted claws as he did the same to her. It looked like some kind of military greeting, and it seemed to break the ice in a second, because the two relaxed and turned to Erin.
“Well then. If you could deactivate this door Miss Erin, we’ll get to it.”
He was carrying a small rucksack over one shoulder. As Erin pried loose the mana stone, the Watch Captain set his burden on a table and began taking out pieces of parchment and a quill and ink from the rucksack. She stared at him and Zevara.
“Okay, someone explain this to me. Because I feel like an actual idiot right now. Why is he here?”
She pointed at Venim. Zevara coughed.
“Watch Captain Venim and I have been talking, and we’ve come to an understanding, Erin. Or rather, the three Watch Captains of Pallass have all agreed that a trade war, and the possibility of an actual war, between Liscor and Pallass is unacceptable, and we’re attempting to resolve the situation in everyone’s best interests.”
“You’re working together? But how? Does the Assembly of Crafts know about this? What about Liscor’s Council?”
Erin looked from Drake to Drake. Venim coughed as he spread the pieces of parchment out and organized them.
“We have our own means of communication between the cities. Watch Captains keep in touch, and we sometimes act in the best interests of our cities, even if that means bypassing the usual chain of command.”
“Whoa.”
“This is unusual, but the circumstances demand it. Neither Venim nor I are here, and any rumors to the contrary will not be spread. We will deny ever meeting. Is that clear?”
Zevara fixed Erin with a steely gaze. The young woman raised her hands.
“Totally. I get it. No one’s here. Just me and Apista.”
She pointed at the bee, which flew away from her. Venim eyed the Ashfire Bee, opened his mouth, saw Zevara’s resigned shake of the head, and didn’t ask. Erin looked at him, her head cocked to one side.
“Okay, war’s bad, but tell me something, Watch Captain Venim. Why are you here if you care about your city? It seems like Pallass would win any kind of trade war or actual war with Liscor, am I right? Why would inconveniencing Liscor be a bad thing?”
He was surprised by her question and peered at her. Erin returned his gaze steadily. The silly [Innkeeper] of yesterday was gone, and she looked serious. Well, as serious as a young woman shooing away a giant bee every few seconds could be. Venim cleared his throat.
“Politics are one thing, Miss Erin. But military action—especially against a city as strategically important as Liscor—is another. A war between Liscor and Pallass is not in our people’s best interests, and as for the door, it could be more dangerous for Pallass to possess it than not.”
Erin frowned.
“I don’t follow.”
Venim nodded to Zevara.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss and his home city of Salazsar have made it quite clear that if Pallass takes this door, there will be a war. And I can’t help but suspect that more Drake cities and other Walled Cities might take Salazsar’s side in the conflict.”
Erin whistled as a few pieces fell into place.
“Ilvriss said that? And his city would go to war because he said so?”
The Watch Captain of Liscor nodded gravely.
“Pallass and Salazsar do not historically get along. The threat of a doorway that could teleport armies about would be serious enough.”
Venim nodded as well. He looked from Zevara to Erin.
“Watch Captains do not want conflict. That is why I’m here. To resolve this issue…quietly.”
He looked at Erin, serious, and she saw his claws were tight on the parchment. She looked at Zevara and Venim. Both of them were taking a risk by being here. Erin took a deep breath.
“Okay. Okay, how are we going to do this then?”
Both Watch Captains visibly relaxed in relief. Venim offered Erin a sheet of parchment with complex writing on it. Erin blinked at it and went slightly cross eyed at the tight writing. She had learned the Drake written language, but this was incomprehensible. She looked at Venim for an explanation.
“The easiest way to resolve the situation is to remove the Assembly of Crafts’ justification to confiscate your door. They claim it’s a security risk and an unsanctioned magical portal, which is highly illegal…and unique. There’s no real precedent for a magical portal being established, and the crux of their argument stems from the teleportation spell. Pallass has a law against unauthorized teleportation into its city.”
Erin frowned.
“Yeah, that’s what you said. So why didn’t Hawk or Ilvriss know that when they entered the city? Well, I guess Hawk doesn’t know all the laws, but Ilvriss should have known that! Doesn’t his Walled City have the same laws, or do people teleport in and out of that place all the time?”
Venim shook his head.
“It is impossible to teleport into Salazsar. The city has more ward-stones and counter spells than I can count. I imagine that’s part of the reason why they are so alarmed at the idea of Pallass obtaining this doorway. Its magics would probably be countered by the anti-teleportation wards, but if not…”
Zevara rested her claws on the table, nodding to the doorway.
“I imagine Lord Ilvriss intended to conceal the portal’s existence and pretend he had slipped through one of the gates unnoticed. It might have worked too—if they hadn’t been on full alert after General Shivertail’s death, Pallass might have missed it, too. It’s not nearly as obvious as a traditional teleportation spell.”
“Okay. That makes sense. And that’s pretty smart of Ilvriss. So how does this thing fix everything?”
Erin waved the parchment at Venim. He smiled.
“Simple. Your doorway is an unauthorized artifact. However, it turns out that, in your brief visit to Pallass, you had the presence of mind to file all the paperwork needed to authorize your portal and inn as a legal residence in Pallass.”
“Wait, what?”
Erin stared at him. She stared at the parchment. She could pick out a few words from the top. Application…residence…no wait, that read residency…it was a housing permit! She looked back at Venim skeptically.
“You’re telling me that will solve everything? What if the paperwork gets denied?”
Zevara picked up a piece of parchment, studying it, and Venim shook his head.
“Unfortunately, a few [Clerks] were processing requests this morning. They ‘accidentally’ signed everything without knowing the current situation. All I have to do is file this and you’re approved. Too late for the Assembly of Crafts to do anything about it.”
He indicated some signatures on the parchment. Zevara nodded as she handed the parchment to Erin.
“It’s not perfect, but it takes away the Assembly’s excuse for pressuring Liscor. Now you’re their problem and technically they’d be breaking the law themselves if they tried to confiscate your door. They might come up with more charges, but it’s an issue between you and them, and Watch Captain Venim assures me that he can talk the senators around, given half the chance.”
The two Watch Captains looked at Erin. She studied the documents, a frown on her face. When she looked up, it wasn’t with whole-hearted willingness.
“It sounds like I’m a convenient pawn in this situation. I’m the Human with the magic door—so that means Liscor doesn’t get pressured because I’m just a Human who doesn’t know what’s what, and Pallass focuses on me instead.”
Zevara fiddled with her claws, and Venim coughed.
“We can’t avoid that. But it stops Liscor from entering the picture, and I’ll do my best to convince the senators. Just the idea of trying to transport a magical artifact all the way on foot to Pallass without another force intercepting it is ludicrous. It’s a burden we don’t need, and both our cities could benefit from having access to each other, not to mention Celum. I’m sorry Miss Erin, but this is the best we can come up with at the moment.”
Erin stared from face to face and then sighed.
“I get it. With great door teleportation must come great responsibility, huh?”
Zevara and Venim looked blank. Erin scowled.
“No one gets my jokes. I miss home.”
She reached for the quill.
“Okay, where do I sign? And why are there so many pieces of parchment?”
Venim smiled in relief. He stood up and began handing pieces of parchment to Erin as Zevara sat back in her chair.
“There’s no precedent for this, which is why you have these forms here—I’ve filled them out so you’re claiming your doorway as part of your inn. And your inn will be a place of business with a magical artifact that has both a presence in Pallass and outside of it—sign on both these leasing permits, please.”
“Okay. Here and here…whoops, the ink’s getting everywhere. Sorry about that.”
“No—problem.”
Venim snatched the parchment up and blew on it hurriedly before the ink could blotch some of the writing. He waited until Erin had signed all the pieces of paper and then gathered them up.
“I’ll process them the instant I return. Miss Solstice, you’ve done my city a favor, whether the Assembly of Crafts thinks so or not. We’ll work with your city—take it from me, politicians are one thing, but Watch Captains support our own. You won’t regret this.”
Erin massaged her hand. That had been a lot of signatures for so few pieces of parchment. She got up, smiling at Zevara and Venim.
“Well, I did cause some of the mess. And I guess it’s worth it to have a doorway to Pallass, right? Your city is beautiful, Watch Captain Venim.”
He flushed with pride. Then the Watch Captain hesitated and shifted.
“Unfortunately we have one last issue to resolve, Miss Solstice. I hate to ask it of you, but—”
“What?”
Venim looked embarrassed.
“There is a fee—twenty gold coins for both leases, not to mention a six gold coin fee for inspection of a premise containing both monsters and magical artifacts. I’d cover it if I could, but our annual salaries are…and neither Watch Captain Zevara nor I can afford to take it out of our city’s pockets. It will appear in the paperwork, you see.”
Watch Captain Zevara shuffled her feet and coughed. She looked the other way as Erin glanced at her, and Venim’s cheeks turned red.
“We can cover some of the costs ourselves, but we’ll have to account for the rest of the coin somewhere. If you need the coin, we can cover it in installments…”
Erin covered her face.
“Oh, you have got to be kidding me.”
