The first class of Trey’s day was Eldavin’s seminar. The Grand Magus let anyone attend, but if you were unlucky, you just stood and watched him interact with a few members of the class. Everyone went who could anyways; he was just that good at magic and you learned something even if it wasn’t your discipline.
Trey had hopes because Eldavin remembered his name and Trey felt like the half-Elf liked him a bit for being properly deferential. But if he’d hoped Eldavin would be a relief from the torment of infamy, he was wrong.
“[Detect Parasites].”
The first thing Eldavin did when he saw Trey come in was point at him and cast the spell. Everyone turned and began laughing.
Eldavin just eyed Trey up and down. The young man was crimson.
“There are a number of spells that I suggest any [Mage] learn and cast with regularity. Now, that spell would fail to the most aggressive and insidious kinds of parasites; general spells always do. But a quick scan reveals nothing amiss. Everyone may relax. Except for you. Get out and wash your hands.”
He pointed to a Drake in the front row. Trey saw the Drake turn white and stared at his claws.
“Snails. Out.”
Everyone cleared a path for the Drake as he ran for the hallway, claws outstretched, forgetting his bags. They laughed—but then looked to the front of the room. And they fell respectfully silent, even the ones eying Trey with amusement.
That was a demonstration of Eldavin’s superior magical knowledge again. The half-Elf looked around.
“I could choose to lecture you on invasive magic-draining parasites, of which there are quite a number! But this is the practical class and I have no desire to drag down the historical lessons either. Suffice it to say that being a [Mage] does not preclude you from threats of every kind. Indeed, we are sometimes sought after because of our magic. But I digress. Today, as yesterday, we shall develop your strength.”
Trey shifted as he began to relax. Eldavin’s first class of the day took on the same tone as the last week of study.
 
—-
 
The study of magic was, as Trey understood it, devoted to four main categories. He was taking the 1st-year classes in Wistram as well as Eldavin’s extra seminars, but interestingly, didn’t really ‘fit’ into the archetype of the first-year.
He knew too much. So Trey was ahead of even 2nd or 3rd-year students in some areas, while being, like most of Wistram, totally unqualified and underdeveloped in Eldavin’s.
And the old [Grand Mage] did use the same concepts, albeit with his own spins on them.
“A [Mage] studies in four ways! Which are?”
He pointed and a student responded.
“Foundation, Acquisition, Materialization, and Theorization, Grand Magus?”
“Correct! And as far as I am concerned, with the exception of the most experienced [Magi] in the room, none of you should be on Acquisition, let alone conflating Materialization with your Foundational studies!”
Eldavin swept around the classroom, inspecting students by their auras or demanding they show him basic concepts.
Foundation was the basic magical theory and understanding of magic that every [Mage] needed. [Sorcerers] skipped this part in some ways, but even they had to build up a base of mana to cast.
Like blood, or oxygen, a [Mage] had their own supply of mana. That was how Trey thought of it. You used it up as you cast spells, but like lungs, some were more efficient than others.
Superior [Mages] like Eldavin could throw spells around non-stop not just because they had a lot of magic, but because they were incredibly efficient. And Eldavin pointed that out now.
“A supply of magic is excellent. Knowledge of how to cast spells with minute waste is likewise superior. A Level 30 [Mage] with both qualities is superior, arguably, to a Level 40 [Mage] who can cast a few grand spells alone. I, myself, lack the superlative mana wells of the Archmages. That is my flaw.”
He tapped his chest, admitting his weakness. His students murmured. Eldavin went on.
“Skills can improve these qualities, but a good [Mage] does not gamble upon their success! That is Foundational work. Ensuring no magic is lost in your spells. And because the most basic of spells compound your higher-tier spells, I will see you perfect the most basic spells like [Light]! All of you in this group—you waste nearly half again the mana required for this spell. Yes, it is a Tier 0 spell. But that is no excuse!”
That was how he was sorting students. He made them cast [Light] and if they couldn’t do it without reducing the wastage of mana, he made them leave and go practice or retake the basic classes.
Two students in the first year had to leave that Trey knew. They had come with him and though he didn’t socialize with them as much as he wanted, he knew some of the standouts.
Every year had them and in Wistram, any special qualities were scrutinized. Trey had been lucky his Lifesand Golems weren’t public knowledge or if they were, they were probably secrets being sold around about him.
He didn’t like the air of secrets, but he had a ‘wallet’ of about twenty if he had to buy something. Some of those secrets were about his fellow students. Small secrets, mainly. And one huge one no one but himself knew.
There were four students like Trey who could be considered standouts. He himself actually qualified even before the…worms…incident.
Because Trey had a powerful magical staff, good robes, and an education, he was considered a promising first-year. In the same vein, he now saw two of the four promising students being cut.
One was Carn Thustone, also from Hellios. A tall young man with strong arms and perfect posture who flushed as Eldavin advised him to refine his magic. He was burly compared to most of his fellow students.
And he carried a sword. He had darker skin than Trey’s, even tanned, and his hair was brown-black. He was handsome, and older than most 1st-years, having been paid for by his family. Perhaps too old?
Well, his magical knowledge was on the same level as all the first years, which was to say, almost nonexistent. He bowed to Eldavin and marched sharply from the room.
Trey thought he was too stiff, too unyielding. He certainly scowled like his father, but he’d taken some of Venith Crusand’s worst qualities. ‘Carn’ glanced at ‘Troy’ for a moment, but his eyes passed right over.
Calac Crusand was his real name. Like Trey, he had adopted Hellios as his home country. He was the second infiltrator sent to Wistram. Was he good at it?
Well…no. But he wasn’t exactly pretending. He really was here to learn magic.
It was his [Lord] and [Swordsman] classes that made him a standout as a potential [Magic Swordsman] or similar class. However, he clearly wished he was part of Flos’ war and was thus ill-tempered, if somewhat admired for his martial abilities.
No wonder he couldn’t learn, though. But the other student surprised Trey.
“Is my spell not adequate, Master-Magus Eldavin?”
A huge eye blinked slowly. Eldavin looked at the Gazer boy, who was barely fifteen and had one huge eye and two…on his hands. Trey couldn’t help but stare at the Gazer from Baleros, one of the few he’d ever met.
Gazi had once told him that no Gazer had eyes in the same configuration. Like her, he had orange-brown skin, pointed teeth, odd digits and huge, magical eyes.
But he was more squat, almost closer to a toad of a person than Gazi, who was half-Gazer and had inherited the best of both races. The male Gazer looked shocked as well that he was being cut.
Gazers were born magic. Their eyes had great power even without being [Mages]. However, refining their talents made them more dangerous. Trey had heard Gazers taught each other and seldom left the jungles of Baleros, though. This young man, Goelv, was an exception.
He had few friends. He was alien, even compared to Selphids and Dullahans. Eldavin was not unkind or awkward as some teachers like Master Rievan were. But he was firm. He gestured to the perfect, glowing orb of eight different colors glowing in the Gazer’s palm. He had an eye there, which blinked up at Eldavin. A round eye, not like an oval, and his main eye in his head was huge. Unnerving to some.
It reminded Trey of Gazi.
“Your spell is perfectly contained, young man. However. You are leaking mana from here.”
His finger hovered over the Gazer’s hand-eye. Goelv looked astonished as Eldavin spoke.
“It is seeping into the spell. Control your eyes. Gazers are often deficient in that. Such great power—but if it is not concentrated, you are no better than any novice.”
“Yes, Master-Magus. Thank you. I apologize.”
Goelv bowed several times and stood up. He was very ginger with his supplies; he only used the tips of his long fingers. What was the practicality of hand-eyes, Trey wondered? But no Gazers were alike so maybe it was bad luck.
Two students passed the examination, as Trey did himself. Eldavin swept past him with a grunt.
“Eight percent. Work harder.”
Trey blinked at his orb of light. Gazi had made him cast the spell until he wanted to shove the ball of light up her nose. Which she did not have, so, nostrils? And it still wasn’t good enough?
“Let’s see. Nine percent. Barely good enough, but I’ll accept it.”
Eldavin nearly reduced the girl standing in the ranks of first years to tears. Again. And she was another person who’d come on Trey’s ship.
Little [Lady] Emirea du Merrimorn had blonde hair, fair skin, and was of Terandria. The same girl who’d burst into tears when first entering Wistram. She was one of the youngest first-years, a girl of barely eleven who seemed very young even for her age.
She reminded Trey…exactly not of the Quarass. Who was as far as she could be in the other direction. However, she was another ‘notable’ because of her talent at her age. She had class and magical ability at eleven. A girl to watch.
“T-thank you G-Grand Magus. I will do better.”
She was nearly in tears again. Eldavin hesitated.
“If this class is overly complex, Lady Merrimorn, I suggest you simply observe.”
“I would like to learn, Grand Magus.”
She gulped. He nodded, a touch less brusquely.
“Next? Pass! At least one person has reached two percent! Which I would expect nothing less of, given how the Drowned Folk understand that mana leakage is like blood in the water for some predators.”
He nodded approvingly. Trey shot a glance sideways at the fourth notable in his year.
The Drowned Man, Tov, whose smile only extended across half his face. The other half?
Slimy, not exactly gelatinous, but…slug.
Sea slug Drowned Man. He bowed slightly; he’d come with the Drowned Folk contingent and the [Depth Mages] who’d held their own at the battle at the banquet with Eldavin. As a student from the Underseas Crews, apparently. He had been born far, far below the surface of the sea where his people lived.
“Thank you, sir.”
His voice was like a whisper. He was soft-spoken, apparently a custom where his people were. Loud noises made him flinch.
“Very well. Control of mana is essential. Now, to the development of your mana supplies or the exercise of your magic, respectively. One group will develop their capacity. The second, their formation of spells and their control. The last? Output. Follow me.”
 
—-
 
Capacity, control, and output were more parts of Foundation. It was simple. Capacity was how much mana. Control was the fine control of manipulating a ‘thread’ of magic or ‘weaving’ it together, to use one kind of metaphor. Output? How much you could throw out at once, like how loudly you shouted.
Master all three, Eldavin claimed, and you were a fine [Mage] already. He lectured them as he took them at a brisk pace up the stairs.
“Foundation begets Acquisition! Before you move to the next step of acquiring spells, you must cast them perfectly! Or else you are implanting bad habits which will never go away! I’m lucky I caught you all—none of you are ready for acquisition. And Wistram teaches that hand-in-hand with Foundation! When I was last here…”
Acquisition was learning spells. Simple. It was a stage all [Mages] would keep coming back to, but Eldavin was insistent that most of Wistram’s [Mages] had done it too soon. You took each step one-by-one, according to him, whereas Wistram preached that the first three steps of magic could go together.
Foundation, Acquisition, and Materialization. Eldavin had laughed in their faces when a student repeated that.
“Does a Garuda learn to fly with a Ring of Flight on their fingers? Does a Centaur foal use a [Reduce Weight] spell when they first learn to walk? Your artifacts are crutches! Remove your wands! Put your staves away! Rings off!”
Materialization was the act of putting magic into actual things. It was collecting a big spell tome, getting a staff which helped you cast more magic, or some artifact.
Eldavin called it impairing and Trey saw his point. If you relied on Materialization during your Foundation stage, you didn’t learn. But Wistram’s [Mages] had been shocked by his insistence. They let anyone carry a powerful wand around, even first-years if they owned them.
Teriarch was back to basics. He jogged up the stairs.
“All three parts of your learning will inform your final step, students. Theorization. When you create new magic, explore your limits and push past them, every fault, every lacking quality will impede you from pulling magic higher with you! That is why you must be flawless. For magic will tear you to pieces when it is invoked strongly. What will be minor backlash now, a failed spell, losing control of a flame and having it singe your fingers, will turn into the kind of spells that erased Aldo Vat!”
“Where’s that, Grand Magus?”
“Exactly! Very well, output first! That’s the best of you who don’t need to work on the other two elements. We’ll have them start working first, so the rest of you take notes! Here we are!”
He wasn’t even breathing hard. Everyone else was; they’d run up staircase after staircase. Trey suspected Eldavin had used spells to make it easier; he clutched at his side.
“Are you okay?”
A Centaur third-year kindly asked Emirea, who had ridden on her back. The girl nodded.
“Thank you, Miss.”
She curtsied. The other students gasped for air as Eldavin strode onto a balcony. He stood at one of the higher points any [Mage] could get to.
High up in other words. And this particular balcony extended far out into the air. It was the most Hogwarts thing about Wistram, actually. Because you could get the walkway to move how you wanted, forming a loop back to another part of the academy for a shortcut, up to the higher floors, a ramp that took you almost to ground floor…
