Elena took Trey into a large room where he stopped and stared. It was a long wall, upon which someone had tacked bits of paper onto a cork board—well, many boards. It was…
A timeline of world events. Starting from around 2016, stretching into late 2019, which was the latest Earther they had.
World events from Earth. Not just one country or major news; the ‘central’ line was about the biggest world events, natural disasters, wars, and so on. But there were smaller additions higher or lower where people contributed tidbits about individual countries they remembered.
“It’s a work in progress. You’re free to add anything, but we do try to make sure it’s verified. Justin—you know that guy?—tried to convince everyone Russia went to war with half a dozen countries. Asshole. This matters and we have people from everywhere.”
“What?”
Trey was distracted. He was reading down the timeline of events. He stared at a spot.
“Spirited Generation? What’s this?”
He pointed to something in late 2017 and just around early 2018, covering the months of December to early February. Elena somberly looked at it.
“Well, read.”
Trey read. He turned.
“Photos? Video footage of us vanishing?”
“It was just happening when some of the newest arrivals got snatched. Yeah. I don’t know what came after that. But they know.”
Trey stood back. They knew. Earth…knew he was missing?
Something ignited in his chest. A longing. He looked at Elena. She met his eyes, and smiled slightly. Sadly.
“I didn’t know if this would bother you. Some people can’t stand to be here. You’re fine though, aren’t you?”
“Yes.”
“Good. Then—this is darker, but take a look.”
She led him to the last room on the hall. Past rooms where you could ‘hide’ from the [Mages]. Past a room with a punching bag, three rooms which were for people who wanted to pray.
A chapel, a…Trey didn’t know one of the religions written on one of the doors, but he recognized a lot of dominant religions.
The rooms of Earth. At the end of the hall, next to some rooms yet to be used for a purpose, Elena put her hand on the door. The nameplate was simple. It read:
Names Room.
Someone was inside. He looked up as Trey and Elena entered.
“Oh. Hey, guys.”
Aaron took his eyes away from the names written on the wall. His expression, normally amiable or excited when talking about his projects, was somber. Trey looked around.
This was familiar, too. Elena didn’t need to explain.
It was a list of dead Earthers.
Wistram had provided some of the names. Those who had survived where friends or family had not had provided others.
Not all the scraps of paper were written in the same handwriting. Some were shaky, written in another language, or transcribed.
A few were just the names, nothing more. Some were names, dates, descriptions in brief.
“This is the Names Room. If you have anyone…”
Elena trailed off. Aaron nodded at Trey. The young man slowly nodded back. He hesitated, looking at Elena.
“I…no. I haven’t met anyone else.”
A camera flashed in his mind. Trey clenched his fists. But that was A’ctelios Salash. And Troy Atlas had not been there. He looked at the tally. And it was far too many. Over a hundred names already.
A hundred people? He felt his breath coming faster. His head turned around the room.
“Steady.”
Aaron put a hand on his shoulder. Trey saw him and Elena watching, a bit anxiously.
“Like I said. Even less people come here. But we keep it for a reason. Actually…there’s one more thing. Do you want to step—”
“I’m fine.”
Trey said it more harshly than he intended. Elena nodded. She pointed and he tore his eyes away from the lists of names. He recognized Sidney’s siblings. And one name that had once been spoken by Gazi. It had struck him.
 
Erin Solstice, Liscor.
 
The most recent addition. Elena offered him something. A book. Inside, he saw, on the first page—
 
Aaron Vanwell. Came to Wistram Academy, became a [Magictech Engineer]. I tried to help.
Elena Othonos. Arrived in Terandria, became a [Beautician]. In the company of the Singer of Terandria, Cara O’Sullivan. Came to Wistram. Tell my parents I love them. Check on my dog for me.
 
If Trey had felt struck in the gut before, now, he felt his stomach drop out of the floor. He knew what this was, too.
“Just in case we don’t make it. You don’t have to write anything.”
He looked up. Elena hovered with Aaron, looking somber. Old. He looked back at the wall of names. The book.
“I—”
Something welled up in him. Trey’s voice was shaky, now.
“I—could I have a moment? I’d like to write…”
“Here. A quill. Take your time.”
Elena nodded and Aaron passed him one. They gave him space. Trey looked around the room. Slowly, he stared at the book.
He added his name. Troy Atlas. A little message for his family. But that…
That wasn’t him. Nor could he add Teresa. Rather, Trey wrote quickly. Then—he went to the wall. He found one of the pieces of paper and began to write.
The children of A’ctelios Salash joined the names on the wall. Trey pinned them there, hiding them under some other bits of paper. He stared at the writing, so tense that his quill had pierced the paper in two places. He ended the brief description with a message.
Pakeil. May still be alive. They will be avenged.
He left the room after that. Why had he come to Wistram? What motivated him more than the King of Destruction’s grand dream?
It was that.
 
—-
 
Afterwards, Elena and Aaron treated Trey to a light drink. It was the thing to do, after all that.
“Sorry for laying it on you. But you held it really well.”
“How many people are…trying to figure it out?”
“Just a handful. Most don’t want to think about it. Or block it out, it seems like. You have to really think about home all the time. I can’t blame them—but someone has to. Listen, it’s not all bad. We know more are out there. That Canada [Reporter], the [Popstar]—and there’s a rumor in the Revivalists that someone found a [Doctor] in Baleros. Wistram’s checking it out.”
Trey took a sip from the glass, tasting a fruit beverage with a hint of something stronger in it.
“You knew her, right, Elena? That’s what Flynn told me.”
Elena half-smiled.
“Cara? Oh yes. And believe me—if we weren’t stuck in Wistram, I’d say we should all join her. She’s…great. Sort of difficult to be around, but we have a safe place and the Archmages aren’t going to hear about it from me.”
“Really?”
Aaron and Trey leaned in. Elena clamped her lips shut.
“Sorry. I told you, Aaron, but no one will ever know. And I don’t know where it is. Cara set it up. And she sent me here—she’s not trusting Wistram. But like I said, she found a way to protect people. She’s tough.”
“What’s she like?”
Elena was happy to tell stories about Cara. Not all who had come from Earth had been dragged around, or suffered until they were saved.
“She’s the highest-level Earther in this world, I’ll bet anything. Yeah, she’s singing songs from Earth, but she essentially created her business and image. She’s seen combat—that was before I met her. And I saw some stuff. But there are others who went through fire. A real odyssey, even. Have you met Sang? Sorry, that’s his nickname. Sang-min? Korea.”
“No. Wait…is he the one with the scar…”
Trey had seen a young man with a scar running down his shoulder across his chest. Aaron and Elena nodded.
“You should ask him what he did. He doesn’t mind retelling it. Apparently, he landed in Terandria. First thing he did was become a [Mercenary]. Earned enough gold to buy passage to Wistram when he heard we were here. Apparently, he’d just passed his army training so he was ready. You know, they have mandatory military service there?”
“Really? Wow.”
“And you made it out of Hellios with full [Mage]’s gear and an education. While the King of Destruction was rampaging across Chandrar. You’re no slouch yourself.”
Aaron commented. Trey lifted a cup to his lips automatically.
“It wasn’t much. I was lucky, that was all.”
“Do you mind talking about it? You haven’t said much in the therapy sessions.”
Trey hesitated.
“I don’t have much to talk about.”
He lied. Elena gave him a knowing look while Aaron nodded, oblivious.
“But you have seen battle?”
Trey mulled over the question a bit too long. Even so, he nodded.
“A few times. [Bandits] and monsters.”
It was an honest answer. He’d been warned about truth spells of course. Aaron looked…interested. Elena’s face was troubled, but Aaron leaned forwards.
“Really? Did you fight, fight, or were you casting spells from the back or something?”
“Aaron.”
Elena scowled, but Trey shrugged.
“I saw fighting. I’ve…killed people.”
The two looked at him. Aaron closed his mouth slowly. Elena gave Trey another look. He slowly took another drink from his cup.
Ah, yes. That was what was so interesting about this place. Trey looked around. Most of the Earthers, with the exception of this Sang, a few others, had survived or not met with monsters. Some, like Aaron, still thought of it like fantasy, even if he was aware of the reality.
“Well, you’ll be safe here. You don’t have to learn magic to defend yourself if you’re worried about…you know.”
Elena told Trey. He looked at her.
“We have to fight someday. There are monsters out there. Crelers and worse.”
“You want to fight Crelers, dude?”
Aaron was astonished, half grinning at the bravado. Trey was silent. He’d seen Crelers. Orthenon had shown him and Teres a nest.
“I heard someone had a gun. Are we okay with giving Wistram…that?”
He changed the subject. Elena grimaced.
“It’s an airsoft one. You know, those pellets? And yes, Saif. We’re trying not to give them that. Or Aaron’s inventions.”
She glowered. Aaron raised his hands.
“Look, it’s self-defense! Against Crelers and stuff!”
“Your Shock Orb isn’t self-defense. You gave one to Montressa and she went after someone!”
“Archmage Naili did that. But we’ve got two. Just in case…”
“Shock Orb? What’s this about?”
Trey glanced up. Elena and Aaron looked at him. Elena sighed.
“Toys.”
Aaron grinned at Trey, looking younger for all he was older.
“Magictech.”
 
—-
 
Aaron Vanwell was a [Magictech Engineer]. And he might never have seen what happened when you struck someone with a sword—or smelled burning flesh. Seen a Pakeil. But good on him for not seeing any of those things. No one should.
He was good at what he did, and what he did was marry electronics and magic together. Trey stared at the floating orb of brass, or possibly copper, saw the diagrams of the internal magical battery.
“I made that. I’m still learning the activation runes and whatever Naili did. But if you cast a shock spell—bam!”
“Cast a shock spell and I will break that thing. It’s dangerous.”
Elena warned Aaron, keeping well clear from the invention, a powerful artifact for any [Aeromancer] or [Mage] in general.
Indeed, Aaron was not careless. He’d given all three anti-shock rings. Especially because his second creation was just as thematically electric.
“It’s the glove.”
He showed Trey a familiar looking glove, with a glowing space in the palm. If you hooked it into a magical battery, or used your mana, you could send bolts of lightning flying.
…However, it had about as much accuracy as a bolt of lightning in the wild. Aaron was working on focusing it. Also—you couldn’t fly with it like the movie it was based off of.
“I’m going to make the entire suit of armor.”
“For what? [Mages]? Yourself? Are you trying to become an adventurer?”
Trey was curious. He eyed both weapons and Aaron shrugged.
“Just in case. But wouldn’t it be amazing if you could fly around in it? I know there are [Flight] enchantments. Put one on the boots and…dude. Iron Man!”
Elena rolled her eyes, exasperated. Trey, on the other hand, looked at the Shock Orb.
“How much power does that orb have?”
“I don’t know. Montressa—she was Naili’s helper, with Beatrice—took one for field testing but they never came back. And it’s an augment to spells. She could cast [Chain Lightning] through it.”
“Really? That’s Tier 4, I think. Tier 5? Can you use it?”
“Sure can. Not as strong, but…want to see it?”
“Absolutely not. They’re secret and no one knows we have them. And you’re not setting the punching bag on fire again.”
Elena warned Aaron. He looked crestfallen; the room was a small ‘armory’ of little trinkets, wands, that the Earthers had stockpiled for a ‘just-in-case’ scenario. Trey glanced around and stepped back.
“Well, if it’s just a small spell—why not hit me? I’ll use [Sand Wall] or [Light Barrier]. Go on.”
“What? No—”
Aaron looked astonished. He recoiled as Trey stepped back. So did Elena.
“Troy, that’s way too far. Aaron’s inventions aren’t perfect. I’ve seen them explode.”
“I can block a [Lightning Bolt] once. Try it. You have to test it to know if you can use it, right? Do you have any armor? Have you used it on a monster?”
Trey looked from Aaron to Elena. The two older Earthers stared at him. And again, Trey felt it. He lowered the staff he’d raised and looked around.
 
—-
 
Trey Atwood thought of himself as…meek. Compared to Teres, who’d taken up a sword and fought in battles. He wasn’t brave or reckless, certainly not a born warrior like the King of Destruction’s court.
And yet, he realized, his time in Chandrar had changed him a bit. He had become more warlike than the other Earthers. Even other [Mages].
The realization hit him when he offered to let Aaron test the Shock Orb on him. He didn’t mean full power right off, but why not? If he got shocked, he had the ring on and he would have cast spells to protect himself.
He wouldn’t die. He had seen battle, so the point that Trey realized was…
It was childish. Not just Aaron, but the other young [Mages], the people who got excited about the idea of fighting. Even Flos understood the reality of death and battle, for all he embraced it. Because he was insane in that regard.
But someone who’d never seen someone die? Never stabbed someone or hit someone and seen what [Light Arrows] could actually do to flesh if you shot a hundred of them into someone?
When the duels began, Trey hated it.
Dueling was a practice among students, and even [Mages]. Not as much Eldavin’s free-for-all as agreed-upon matches, sometimes for grudges, other times for bets or just pride or status.
They were quick, and could take place at a moment’s notice. There were known duelists in each year, and apparently Nailihuaile had once been a good one. The other Archmages? Not so much.
“What about Archmage Amerys? Wasn’t she one?”
