Oh, right. Trey forgot that not everyone had received the grounding in magic he had. Flynn tried to flick his fingers and conjure some sparks. He managed…one. Pokey barked encouragingly.
“Well, I’m late.”
Trey had slept through breakfast, which was too bad because he was hungry. Flynn eyed him.
“You’re not looking well, my man. You didn’t stay long at dinner either, or come after. Not a drinker?”
The young man grimaced and put his hand to his stomach.
“I wouldn’t have minded. But I haven’t been feeling well all week.”
“Huh. Have you gone to the [Healer]’s?”
“No. I’ll go after class. I need to run, Flynn, sorry. I’m late to Eldavin’s morning class.”
Trey began to stride down the hallway, waving apologetically. Flynn gave him a thumbs-up. Even the new Earthers knew how important that was.
Grand Magus Eldavin and the Terras faction were shaking Wistram. Not just him of course. Two more Grand Mages and an Archmage and a Depth Mage from the seas and representatives from other [Mage] schools had arrived and more of Wistram’s graduates were coming by the day.
It was a renaissance in Wistram, according to the older [Mages]. And a free-for-all regarding the Earthers. Trey knew he and Flynn would soon be formally claimed by a faction. He hoped it was Eldavin’s, but in the meantime, the Grand Magus was teaching classes, showing off his magical knowledge.
And Trey was here to learn! And find the last Archmage who was here, but never spoken of. He gritted his teeth with determination. It was a charge laid on him by the King of Destruction.
He could disobey, of course. It had crossed Trey’s mind a dozen times already that he could go to one of the Archmages, or even Telim or one of the [Mages] he’d met and tell them all about the King of Destruction, throw himself on Wistram’s protection and join the Earthers.
But then, what would happen to Teres? And who would burn A’ctelios Salash to rubble? And did he trust Wistram more than Flos Reimarch?
“I’ll do it myself if I have to.”
Trey muttered to himself and Minizi as he strode down the hallways. He grimaced again as the Lifesand Golem rustled in his hood. He felt…Trey put a hand to his stomach and groaned.
 
—-
 
Flynn Patel, a young man from Australia, a [Beast Tamer] who had been a Bronze-rank adventurer before being found by Wistram, looked up as he saw Trey practically sprinting back the way he’d come.
“Troy? What’s up?”
“Bathroom!”
The young man shouted. He disappeared into his room. Flynn shook his head. Pokey copied him.
“Wonder what he ate.”
At least Wistram was so advanced it had a bathroom in the good bedrooms. Magical plumbing. Couldn’t be beat. He went back into his rooms to sleep.
Inside his bathroom, Trey Atwood suffered from what could be described as, ‘annihilation of the bowels’. He had known suffering. Wounds in battle. Gazi beating on him during teaching, the feeling of having his throat slashed open by the Quarass.
This…was not as bad as the last one, but really bad. Trey felt like his insides were coming out. He groaned.
“Minizi…out!”
He tossed her out of the bathroom when he realized she was patting him encouragingly on the head. Trey thought it was over and reached for the toilet paper, another blessing. Then…his face contorted.
“No way. This is—”
 
—-
 
Flynn checked on him after the first hour. He rapped on the door, realizing Troy hadn’t left after a nap. Actually, Pokey had woken him up, scratching at the door and led him to this one. She was sniffing and looking worried.
“Troy? You okay, dude?”
“No! I’m dying!”
“Are you…still on the toilet?”
“Yes!”
“What?”
“It keeps coming out!”
Flynn did not want to know the details. But he looked at Pokey, who was whining worriedly. She sensed something.
“I think I should get you a [Healer], Troy. Or tell one of the [Mages]. Need me to toss you a potion?”
“I…I need a [Healer]. Maybe.”
It was bad if his friend was admitting that. Flynn grew more worried.
“Uh—what’s happening, Troy? What should I say? Do you have potions?”
“Yes. But…hold on. Let me check. I don’t think I’m bleeding, but…”
Inside, Trey was sitting on the toilet. And he was about to make the radical move of inspecting what had kept him there for an hour. It felt like the worst diarrhea ever, but it kept going. He had not, out of sheer self-preservation, looked at what came out.
Who did that, anyways? But if he was actually losing what felt like his guts…
Flynn wrinkled his nose outside. He waited, not exactly excited, but worried. Pokey made another sound.
“Is it that bad, girl? Do you smell blood or something?”
She had a good nose and intuition. She’d warned him about monsters in the dirt and so on. Flynn crouched to scratch her ears and try to get a ‘sense’ from their connection what it was. He felt she was disturbed. It wasn’t blood, but…
A horrified shout came from Trey’s room. The young man bellowed something.
“Troy?”
Flynn shot to his feet. He reached for his side automatically. He heard a bellow from within.
“[Flame Jet].”
At this point, one of the other students across the hall who’d been drawn by the shouting looked out of his doorway in concern. He stepped out as a young woman opened her door.
“Who’s making that racket? I’m trying to study.”
Flynn ignored them all. He pounded on the door, hesitant to open it.
“Troy? What’s wrong?”
He heard a strangled exclamation.
“Flynn—get a [Healer]! It’s…it’s…worms!”
The young man stared at the door. He saw his dog stare up at him. The other neighbors didn’t get why Flynn blanched for a moment.
“Oh, fuck.”
He took off and went running. And he couldn’t help but feel…this might have been Pokey’s fault.
 
—-
 
“Parasites. Not your dog’s fault. More like an adventurer thing, really.”
Ten minutes later, Sa’la, the Selphid [Mage]-[Healer], was speaking to a small crowd outside Trey’s room. It was quite a crowd.
Archmage Nailihuaile, Telim, who Flynn had found first, Vhedel, the [Herb Mage], and a number of Earthers and students and [Mages] were all listening, looking appalled.
“But how’d he get them?”
Sa’la was a [Healer] as well as a [Mage]. Not a high-level one, but when it had been parasites, Telim had suggested they get the Selphid, as an expert on that kind of thing. Sa’la had not been offended and she was the one to ask. She shrugged.
“A sea parasite. He must have caught it while travelling here. Probably in the food you were eating on the ships. Did they cook everything properly?”
Flynn thought of the food they’d eaten on The Emerald Signet.
“We were sailing through storms. We had to eat rations and it was raining all day and night…”
“Ah. Maybe it came on the water, then. Wave deposits some on the food barrels and they aren’t fully warded, or a [Sailor] accidentally gets some on a plate?”
Everyone shuddered except the Selphid. She grinned.
“If he was a Selphid, he’d have killed them. You mammals are so susceptible. Poor kid, though.”
Trey had blasted his toilet with fire, which was the appropriate response to seeing the wriggling things that had come out of him. He’d nearly hit himself with fire.
“Please tell me I’m not infected.”
Flynn begged Sa’la. She looked incredibly amused, especially because Nailihuaile and most of the others were backing far away from Trey’s door.
“Look, it happens. Bugs are everywhere. Don’t make such a big deal. They just come out of you; well, he was probably hungry for days. And the cure’s simple. Vhedel?”
The Stitch-[Mage] had no fear of the parasites. He’d been working on something with a bunch of herbs and two pastes. Now, he lifted the dark brown liquid up and eyed it critically. It wasn’t as magical as a potion, but he seemed satisfied as he nodded.
“Hand this to the boy, will you? Have him drink it down in one.”
Sa’la took the tonic. She opened the door and vanished inside. Vhedel turned to Archmage Nailihuaile and the others.
“It’s a simple cure, actually. For safety’s sake, I recommend all students and faculty in his classes as well as all Earthers take a simple tonic.”
“Are we all going to poop worms, Vhedel? Because I’d rather stick a Wand of [Fireballs] down my throat first.”
Telim spoke bluntly. The huge [High Mage] looked ghastly pale at the thought. Everyone else shuddered. Vhedel just rolled his eyes.
“Don’t be dramatic. The tonic will kill them dead. It will kill them in any stage and you won’t have trouble—but no taking any potions for twenty four hours! The little bastards benefit too.”
The door opened. Sa’la came out, still looking incredibly amused. She wagged a finger at the others.
“That’s right. Only Troy suffers; you won’t even notice. They’ll probably be dissolved by your stomach. The most you’ll see is a body or two if they were fully grown in—”
“Thank you, Sa’la. We don’t need a picture.”
Telim roared. The Selphid grinned at him, loving every minute of this. Vhedel coughed.
“Also, no sex in that region. That’s the only way they’d spread. Since our toilets are magical, we’ll just incinerate waste like usual. I could tell Cognita to make the Golems make sure, but…”
“Sex in that region?”
Flynn repeated, trying not to smile. Sa’la helpfully elaborated.
“No butt sex. All the other kinds are fine. Unless you get really inventive, which, frankly, I think anyone but a Selphid would have trouble with…”
Everyone began to walk away. Archmage Nailihuaile shook her head as she slithered rapidly back to her rooms for cleansing spells and a bath. She turned to one of her underlings, the horrified Beatrice, who, like many Dullahans, was not at home to any of this discussion.
“Spread the word! Everyone gets a tonic from Magus Vhedel who even blinked near that boy. Have Magus Vhedel compensated and…I’m going to take a bath. With soap potions.”
Beatrice nodded hurriedly. The [Mages] dispersed. The cure distributed.
It was just an event. Parasites. It happened to people! Trey made a full recovery in less than two hours after the potion was taken, and could get off the toilet after only thirty minutes after he’d called for help from Flynn. No one else came down with the gut-parasites.
All was well. Or…it would have been, but Archmage Nailihuaile had shouted the news in her haste to keep anyone else from having worm-poo. Thus, Troy Atlas was forever ‘worm guy’ in the halls of Wistram.
 
—-
 
“That’s definitely him. The kid who shit worms for two hours.”
“The Parasite Mage. He conjures magic from his bowels!”
“I hear they were magic worms, giving him his power.”
“Remind me never to ask him for a conjuration spell.”
The other Earthers laughed at that last one. Trey’s head was buried in his arms at the dinner table. ‘Worm guy’ would have been a treat compared to the inventiveness of the other [Mages].
And they loved to tell jokes like this. Trey was the target of the week; no one was going to forget this in a hurry.
“S-sorry, Troy. Stop laughing, Aaron! It’s not funny!”
“I can’t…I’m sorry, but I can’t. Did you hear what they said? Forget the Antinium. He can summon the brown tide!”
Aaron Vanwell collapsed into his seat. Trey heard Elena jab him in the shoulder.
“Stop that.”
“It’s fine. Thanks, Elena.”
Trey was going to leave Wistram. He was going to hide under a rock—unless there were more worms there. He wanted to die.
He had never felt more embarrassed in his life. Everyone knew his name. Even more than an Earther, he was infamous.
Elena was trying to be kind and considerate, but the others sitting at the table, everyone from George to Aaron to Flynn, was laughing. The nice ones were trying to hide it.
Well, most of the guys were sniggering. Some of the other Earthers weren’t. And sadly, that was because for some, it was too…
“It’s not funny. It’s horrible.”
Sidney looked pale and sick and was sitting far from Trey. She was trying to be helpful, but the image of a bunch of parasites had been adjacent to her own trauma. Some of the others nodded too.
“They’ll stop talking about it. Eventually.”
Basil told Trey. The young man from Bulgaria gingerly put a hand on his shoulder.
They would never. But Trey thanked him anyways. He looked around at the tables of Earthers. They were trying to be nice. And at least he was among his people.
Children of Earth. He shook his head.
“Thanks, everyone. But I’ll live. I have to get to class.”
It was the next day. Breakfast—Trey didn’t have much of an appetite, except that he did after the scouring. He’d spent all of yesterday hiding in his rooms and periodically blasting the toilet with fire spells. It had to be replaced. He glumly stood up.
“Are you sure? You don’t have to go to class.”
Elena looked concerned. Trey just shook his head.
“I’ve got to study or I’ll fall behind. I’m trying to be a [Mage] and…it beats sitting around. Or staying in my room.”
He’d been told by Sa’la that the odds of more parasites remaining on his possessions was remote. Even so, he’d cleaned everything in the room. Three times.
The other Earthers looked up at him. A few waved. Aaron leaned over.
“You’re one of the best [Mages] here, Troy. Which is awesome, but you should join our events too if you have the time. Tomorrow? We’re having another gathering.”
An Earth-only gathering. Trey would have been at yesterday’s…but worms. He smiled weakly.
“Sure.”
He walked away, head bowed, hearing more jokes. The worst ones were funny. Trey tried to accept it. He was amazed anyone wanted to stand next to him after hearing what had happened—and few people did. His story wasn’t even worth a small secret; everyone in the academy of [Mages] knew what had happened.
It’s all part of my cover story. Who’ll suspect me of being an agent of the King of Destruction now? In fact, I have to free Archmage Amerys now and rejoin Flos.
Because I’ll always be the worm-guy over here.
At least he had classes. Learn magic. That was one of the reasons Flos had agreed to Gazi’s cunning plan to have Trey infiltrate. Find out what Wistram was doing, improve himself as a [Mage], and free Amerys.
Trey needed to learn magic anyways. He could learn on-the-go from Parasol Stroll, but Gazi had pointed out that unlike Teres, magic wasn’t something you could improve just by fighting and training. He needed an education and…
Well, he was getting one. Troy hoped classes would be some relief, if only because they’d be learning spells and the other students wouldn’t have as much time to laugh at him.
 
—-
 
