Most people knew it as the ‘Shortcut Balcony’ because it was so handy. The only problem was that many people wanted to use it so you could get a traffic jam, or be taken where you didn’t want to go.
Eldavin now used it in a way no one had seen before. He made the balcony go straight, extending for nearly three hundred feet straight into the air. He ushered them along.
“Hurry up! We’re wasting time! All the way to the end! You, the output group, stand here!”
They stood at the end of the balcony as it ended. Thin air lay beyond. And below?
Four hundred feet of space and then the waters below. They were clear of even the rocks around Wistram’s isle. Some of the students with agoraphobia turned dead white. Tov looked almost longingly down at the water below.
“Grand Magus? What are we doing?”
The ‘output’ group, who were the higher-year students who had mastered both control and capacity, looked at Eldavin. Trey already knew before the half-Elf smiled.
“You are all going to jump. And all of you are going to project wind magic. I don’t care how. Feet, hands, whatever. But use it to slow your fall so that you do not hit the water as hard as…well. This.”
He plucked at a young man standing next to him, and then flicked a finger. Trey saw a Human of about sixteen plucked off the walkway. He had time to scream before Eldavin telekinetically threw him off the balcony.
He went down, screaming, flailing, turning in the air. Everyone stared over the railing. Eldavin watched. There was an impact as the young man hit the water.
It should have been a splash, in Trey’s mind. Like a cannonball. It was not so…fun-sounding. It sounded like a crack as well as the splash of water.
“He just broke both his legs. And his arm.”
Eldavin observed calmly. The student had landed bad, in a belly-flop of four hundred feet. The other students looked at him.
Emirea burst into tears.
“Grand Magus! Someone call a [Healer]!”
The other students backed away, horrified. Eldavin gestured and a wall of light blocked them from running.
“Calm down. Look again.”
He pointed. Everyone turned. Where the screaming young man had been lying face-down in the surf was…nothing?
“Illusion. That was what will happen if you do not arrest your fall. Actually, you may die. I advise you to cast impact-shields if you must, and do not land on your head. Vertically. But none of you will cast [Slow Fall], [Featherfall], or any other gravity spell! You will project air. And not a spell! Just air. The exercise is to, without relying on a spell, conjure enough magical force to prevent yourself from being hurt. Perhaps the impact shields for the first time, but the second, try to do without. Pain and fear of death is an excellent teacher.”
It was older students, so Eldavin wasn’t being…unreasonable. Well, he was, but Trey wasn’t one of the students. The youngest of them was still third-year.
“Grand Magus? Aren’t there other ways?”
One of the Dullahans looked panicked at the idea of the jump. Eldavin addressed him, curtly.
“Did you hear my lesson on how [Aeromancers] used to train, young mage?”
“Yes, Grand Magus. This was one of the ways. But…I am not an [Aeromancer].”
“Output of magic is output of magic. This terrifies you, yes? Can you swim?”
“N-no, sir. My armor is iron.”
The Dullahan was standing well clear of the ledge. Eldavin nodded.
“Cast a flotation spell. But jump. Because what strains you will teach you faster. Do I have a volunteer to go first?”
He looked around. One of the sixth-year students slowly raised a hand. Which was a wing. She grinned.
“I don’t know if this will frighten me as much, Grand Magus. But I will do it without flapping my wings!”
The Garuda [Mage] looked at him, her brilliant yellow plumage gleaming by daylight. Eldavin looked at her. He tapped a finger against his chin.
“Indeed. Well, I have a remedy for that.”
 
—-
 
A minute later, the Garuda and everyone else stared at the conjured weights that Eldavin had produced. They were twenty pounds. Each. And both were secured around her ankles.
At this point, Trey felt like he was watching a movie execution. The Garuda looked down at the surf.
“If I were you, I would not cast a flotation spell until I were in the water. Sever the ropes when you hit the surf or they will drag you down. I am told Wistram’s waters are clear of predator-fish. More’s the pity.”
Eldavin watched. The Garuda looked pale.
“You have called my bluff, Grand Magus. But…”
She hesitated. Half the students were shaking their heads. Trey couldn’t imagine how much air the Garuda [Mage] would have to conjure to stop her from hitting the water like…forty pounds of lead! Well, over forty pounds of air force? Without using a spell?
He’d tried along with the others and he could conjure a moderately stiff breeze. True, he wasn’t a sixth-year student, but…
“Grand Magus, should I prepare a barrier? What if I get hurt?”
“I make no promises. Nor will I watch, incidentally. I trust the students here can watch out for each other. Jump, run back up, or fly, or use whatever methods you wish, and repeat until you are out of mana. This is to train yourselves. I will not be responsible for injuries. Or deaths.”
Eldavin met their gazes. The Dullahan looked horrified. The other students in the output group looked at each other.
“Must we, Grand Magus? Is there no easier way?”
The Garuda was backing away from the edge, bravado lost. Eldavin looked at her. For a long moment, the half-Elf stood there.
“Easier? Yes. Of course. Your teachers can show you how to practice output. You can stand here, blowing air around and practice with no fear of death. Just push yourselves and you will learn. But, young woman. Do you have the time for that? When other [Mages] rise, do you want to take the easy, slow way, or the fastest I know?”
He turned to face the female Garuda. Eldavin smiled at her.
“It is not wrong to want to live as a [Mage] among equals. If that is your desire, stay up here and practice safely. But know that is what you become. So, young woman. My question is this: what would you do to learn true magic?”
The Garuda [Mage] stared at Eldavin for a long moment. The others were silent, thinking, looking at each other. Then, the young woman smiled. She bowed, spread her wings, and stepped backwards.
She jumped.
 
—-
 
Not all of them did. But over two thirds did. True to his words, Eldavin didn’t even watch the others. But he had made sure the Garuda came up; and she had managed to arrest her fall with the desperate blasts of wind. He had nodded to her in approval as she swam for shore.
“With theory alone, with control of magic, one can create any spell. That’s right. Create a line of magic in the air. Don’t use it! Just magic. If you can’t see this, incidentally, learn.”
He was in control of the second group in another room designed for this very task. Again, repurposed or rather, the use rediscovered.
It was a room where magic did not ambiently gather. It was absorbed into the tiles in the blank room.
A magical void. Useful for [Mages] when something went wrong. A jail cell in some cases.
Or, as Trey now learned, to train your control. Eldavin had the second group training to hold a single ‘line’ of magic in the air.
It was hard, because the tiles wanted to suck it away. It wasn’t about your output; the [Grand Mage] didn’t care how much magic was spent, although he encouraged them to use a good amount depending on what they had.
But they had to keep the magic from being dragged away. The students were struggling, sweating, but it wasn’t dangerous.
It was highly amusing, though.
“You. One leg. You—hold this in your mouth. Don’t drop it. I saw this at an inn, once. Very entertaining.”
One of the Dullahans balanced on one leg as he tried to cast. The Grand Magus inserted a spoon with an egg in it in the mouth of a half-Elf. He glared desperately at the older half-Elf, speaking around clenched teeth holding the spoon.
“Grand Magus, why?”
“Because it’s distracting. [Mages] should control their magic in any circumstance! When swimming! When bleeding! When excreting worms! Or so I’ve heard.”
Trey turned crimson. The others laughed, but the control group was busy focusing.
“Keep it steady, and without weaknesses. You! There’s a thinning here.”
Eldavin pointed. Trey could see what he meant. It was Tov, the Drowned Man, who struggled with this. He was ahead of the other first-years and thus put in this group. Eldavin nodded as he firmed it up.
“Good. Now, hold it. And…eat this dried pepper.”
He offered the Drowned Man a spicy, purple dried thing. Tov’s eyes watered at the smell alone and Trey winced for the young man.
But he ate the pepper. Eldavin nodded as tears began to leak from his Human eye.
“Suffering. But learning. That’s good. Time how long you can do it for. If you can pass this simple test, you can maintain your focus! That’s not the same as elegance of weaves, but I would actually say that short of a [Grand Mage], this is an acceptable level of control in this regard.”
The other students brightened up at that. Eldavin didn’t exaggerate. Tov spoke around his streaming eye and running half of his nose.
“How long—should I hold it to pass—Grand Magus?”
Eldavin gave him an encouraging smile.
“One hour. Do your best and keep at it in your own time. Don’t forget the peppers or similar distractions each time. Very well, capacity, with me!”
 
—-
 
“Capacity, control, output. Fundamentals of all spells. You all simply need the first of the three. By all means, practice the other two, but you lack the sheer…”
Mana. Trey was surprised he himself lacked it. He ventured as much as Eldavin stationed the last of the students in their training area.
“I thought I had enough mana, Grand Magus. If I’m wrong, I apologize.”
Eldavin stopped. It was true that Emirea lacked much, being a child, and mana capacities varied from student to student.
Some had [Mana Wells], which were a Skill which boosted your supply immensely. But there was innate mana reserve which differed from person to person. That was often what made people decide to become [Mages].
Trey apparently had a good one, according to Ulyse and Mirin of Parasol Stroll. It was one of the few things they hadn’t trained him in rigorously with Gazi.
Eldavin looked at him. His eyes flickered.
“It is true, young…Troy Atlas…that capacity is not really ‘trained’. This exercise is meant to expand it in all of you, and while [Mages] may do so, there is no real finesse, just need for a baseline. I shall explain as we begin. Are you prepared?”
Trey nodded. What were they doing to train their capacity?
Well, they were standing in the exact opposite of the rooms where the control group was. In fact, directly underneath those rooms.
The mana of this place was mana-dense. Rooms devoted to one element, like the underwater room whose water never left the open door. A room burning with heat—
This was an elemental-less room. Good for practicing new spells or where [Mages] went if they overextended. Now, Eldavin was having all the students push magic out. Like the control group, but he didn’t insist on any fine control.
Even as he did, Trey felt the ambient mana ‘filling’ him up. Eldavin nodded.
“Now—don’t break your connection, but—absorb the mana. And prepare for nosebleeds.”
It was like…again, to use the analogy of lungs, taking a breath, a huge breath. Exhaling it, taking the same amount of air and then inhaling the first breath.
That could probably burst a lung. What the students were doing was straining their internal reservoirs. Sure enough, half the class began bleeding from their noses.
“This is a very careful expansion of your magic. You! Too much intake. Slowly. Slowly—we are trying to strain your reservoirs. Do not try this without a [Grand Magus] monitoring you. In the past, students of magic drank mana potions to excess…this is more efficient. But all methods are dangerous. I repeat, do not do this alone! Not even experienced [Mages] should do this lightly.”
Emirea was bleeding from her nose. She pinched it, looking distressed, fishing for a handkerchief.
“Mana potionbth, Grand Maguth?”
Eldavin waved a hand and the bleeding stopped.
“One method is by alchemical ingredients, young woman. This is another, a very old one, but costless so long as rooms like this are acquired. You yourself have a weak capacity; I shall offer a week’s worth of lessons. It should be enough.”
“Really? But how?”
The half-Elf smiled superiorly at her.
“Normal methods are dangerous the more one pushes. I know how to ‘relax’ the body to adjust to this process. Hence, the draughts you all imbibed and the exercises we will go over later.”
You couldn’t pay for this. Trey suffered a nosebleed on his third try. He looked at Eldavin.
“Why am I here, Grand Magus? I know it helps everyone, but why me?”
Eldavin looked at him.
“Think on it, young man. Why indeed? Why you?”
He let Trey think on it for twenty minutes. When he circled back their way out of the sixty students, Trey offered a question.
“Is it my magic?”
“A fascinatingly obvious answer. Did it take you twenty minutes? Indeed. Golems drain magic and a [Summoner] or [Mage] of your class requires vast supplies.”
The other [Mages] in earshot looked at Trey. He stared at Eldavin. The [Mage] gave him a knowing look, aimed at Trey’s hood.
“[Necromancers] also benefit from this kind of exercise. Keep it up.”
 
—-
 
The results of eight nosebleeds and him actually having to run outside and throw up once manifested after two such lessons. It was why all the students did so, even young Emirea. The control group, the output group—and the students desperately trying to meet Eldavin’s basic standards so they could learn.
They leveled. Fast!
 
[Sand Mage Level 20!]
[Skill – Mana Well (Earthen) obtained!]
 
He waited for more. But there was no second Skill. Or a free spell. Even so, it was a big Skill.
Yeah. So great. So cool.
No, it was. But at breakfast later, Trey Atwood found himself socializing with some of the other first-years rather than the Earthers. They were friends, thanks to Eldavin’s class more than their shared first-year classes.
“…And then I woke up. And I got my first eye-Skill.”
Goelv was speaking excitedly to the others. He smiled around and Trey saw Emirea flinch slightly. The Gazer noticed, but the little girl was trying. Trey smiled encouragingly.
“What’s an eye-Skill, Goelv?”
The Gazer boy gave him a smile. Trey had sat with him the day after the first lessons, having noticed Goelv was alone. Flynn had joined, and as a result, some of the other ‘notables’ including Emirea, Tov, and the surly ‘Carn’ had become a regular breakfast group.
