“Ah, but that’s not her strength. Sand Golems aren’t strong. A Brick Golem or something like that could fight a Lifesand Golem equally. Easy to repair, easy to break. That’s sand. So why don’t we…even the odds? This is how a [Crafter Mage] wins, Troy. I am going to ask you to conjure a Sand Golem. And I shall enable it to defeat Minizi.”
Bemused, Trey obliged Viltach. He created a lumpy ‘Sandzi’, who had neither Minizi’s cohesion of form nor detail; just lumps for a head, arms, and legs.
“What a sorry creature. One second, and I’ll have…hmm…”
It took Viltach five minutes. Minizi was punching the air like a boxer in her corner when Sandzi turned. Trey couldn’t see anything different with her, but he felt it.
“Go kill it, Minizi!”
He ordered. The Lifesand Golem charged, claymore raised. She brought it down—
And Sandzi blocked. Minizi stared at her claymore as it bounced off. She raised a fist. She hit Sandzi as hard as possible. Sandzi let the fist vanish into the sand of her face. Then she swung a fist and—
Viltach and Trey watched as Minizi hit the far wall and landed on the floor. Even Viltach looked impressed.
“I didn’t think it would be that efficacious. Is your Golem alright?”
Minizi charged back at the Sandzi replica, enraged. Trey watched Sandzi stand, absorbing the furious fists. He turned to Viltach excitedly.
“What did you do, Archmage?”
For answer, Viltach pointed. And Trey saw Sandzi’s sand flow back and several items appear.
A glowing magic gemstone in her forehead. Dark grey sand in the arm she’d used to block. And, to complete it, a tiny, tiny little scroll in her punching hand.
“Upgrades.”
 
—-
 
You could upgrade Golems. Of course you could. But a [Golem Artificer] would put that in a Golem they made. But a temporary Golem?
“It makes sense for Lifesand since it’s semi-permanent. Like a sword and shield—see the black sand? Iron filings. Needs to be pure and it can’t be too much, but you can have them absorb some and ‘hold’ it even if they can’t control it. The little scroll is a one-off spell. I’ve done that before. Put a [Fireball] in the fist of a Sand Golem and no one will laugh at it. And the mana stone makes the Sand Golem stronger in all regards. Why don’t you take this one?”
He offered Trey a high-quality magical gemstone infused with earth-magic. Again, Trey wanted to protest, but this was now a project. And strangely, Viltach was the most teacher-like of the Archmages, even more than Eldavin, who was the grumpy college professor.
The first thing Minizi did when given the gemstone was ‘absorb’ it into her chest. Then she did a flying jump-kick and killed Sandzi.
“…That’s a bloodthirsty Golem. Reminds me why I don’t mess with them.”
Trey watched Minizi stomping Sandzi to dust. He neglected to tell Viltach, who was eying him, that he hadn’t told Minizi to do that.
“Well, let’s see what else we can do.”
“What else, Archmage?”
Trey was astonished. But like a figurine collector, like a craftsman, Viltach’s eyes were glittering with excitement. And the thing about an Archmage was that he had a lot of tricks.
 
—-
 
We can build her better! Stronger! Faster! Probably not smarter!
Six hours later by the light of dawn, Minizi stood, upgraded. Trey and Viltach watched as she squared off against the Rock Golem, the latest sacrifice to the blood sport Golem Battles they’d been putting on.
They hadn’t slept. And their project had gone way outside of any reasonable expectations.
Minizi now had a mana gem core, which, if broken, could be replaced, adding to her agility, speed, and basic power. She no longer carried her Lifesand claymore because what was the point?
She had been given an actual tiny steel sword, sharpened to a razor’s edge by Viltach, a claymore. For reinforcement, the Archmage and Trey had first experimented with iron dust to ‘bulk up’ her arms and legs. Then they’d gone weird.
She had little bars of mithril in her arms and legs, light, but strong. Minizi circled the Rock Golem, hacking at it and then lifting it and throwing it over the edge of the table. She raised her arms in victory.
At this point, Viltach and Trey gave each other red, bleary-eyed looks and started laughing at the ridiculousness of it all.
“Thank you, Archmage. It was…”
“Quite fun.”
Viltach saw Trey off. The [Sand Mage] ducked his head, embarrassed, cradling Minizi. Viltach nodded to him, before going off to sleep. Trey did the same, but Minizi woke him up.
She presented him with a rat’s head.
Trey had a rat nest in his room.
 
—-
 
At the end of his first month in Wistram, Trey Atwood was reassigned rooms. Not because they were needed, but because he was ‘given’ to a faction.
He’d known it was coming. Trey reported to his new faction’s headquarters with mixed feelings as Flynn complained.
“We’re bloody trophies being tossed around, Troy. Can’t we stay?”
“To have and to hold, Flynn.”
“Fuck.”
The young Australian man was disconsolate; he and Trey were good neighbors. And he didn’t like where he’d been assigned.
“Bloody Libertarians. I’ve heard what they said about that place. And I’m with Justin.”
“Don’t you like him?”
“Can’t stand him. He’s only got decent taste in music.”
Trey looked at Flynn as Pokey wagged her tail.
“Well, I think it won’t be the worst, Flynn. Viltach is the Archmage there. He’s not that bad. I think he likes dogs. You should talk to him.”
“You think so?”
Flynn glanced at Trey. The young man nodded. He glanced up.
“Hey, roommate. Ready to move off to our new handlers?”
Elena stood in the doorway. She had been stolen away, like Trey, in the trading-wrangling for Earthers. He nodded.
“I can’t believe you’re part of the Terras faction.”
“I can. Eldavin and Valeterisa both wanted you. And they had enough clout to get me too. Only two, but that was something.”
Elena informed Flynn. He sighed.
“Must be nice to be liked. I’m with Justin and the others. You know, he says some shit when he’s drunk? Real…I think he fits with the Libertarians. Sure you don’t want to trade, Troy?”
The young man hadn’t a choice, and even so…Eldavin’s faction was the place to be. Elena shook her head.
“He nearly was, Flynn. I heard a rumor that Archmage Viltach fought pretty hard to get Troy.”
“Really?”
That didn’t actually surprise Trey. Thoughtfully, he moved with Elena into his new quarters. Eldavin had yet to really talk to them about Earth, but Valeterisa took the next four hours to demand hair, blood, skin samples, and have them recount any new facts to her.
 
—-
 
That night, Trey Atwood thought about the future. The King of Destruction was far from here. It was easy to be sucked into his grand dream when you were there, to believe in him.
But Trey was reconsidering. He was not unhappy to be in Eldavin’s faction, for all he had a connection with another Archmage.
In the end, you could see someone’s good sides. But you had to acknowledge their bad sides.
Fetohep, Flos—Trey had seen their good and bad. Their flaws and strengths. On the whole of it, he stuck with Flos because of Teres. Because Flos would do what Fetohep would not.
…Until recently. Trey had heard the news from Jecrass just yesterday. He felt envious, really. What had caused Fetohep to move like that? Jecaina, the Arbiter Queen?
Well. Flos had sent Trey for a purpose, entrusting him with an audacious plan.
And Trey had been going along with it. Even agreeing.
Right up until he met Eldavin. In the half-Elf, he saw…something. A potential. Wistram had seemed to Trey to be as bad as he expected. It still was, in some ways.
But if Eldavin was the rising star who could show Trey a better future, find a way to save Teres from herself—the King of Destruction could fight his glorious wars and he, Trey, would stay in Wistram. Go to Khelt.
Something. Keep an open mind. He was not beholden to Flos. Just the best future.
Trey sighed. He kicked at the ground. It was so easy to say that.
If only…he looked down. Minizi was slashing at the air with her new sword, looking almost excited.
If only Gazi hadn’t been the one to look at him and trust him. It was easy to throw over Flos. Less easy to…
“Hello?”
Viltach opened the door as Trey knocked. He was astonished at his late-night visitor, curious, but also a bit wary.
“I thought you were in the Terras faction. Is Grand Magus Eldavin interested in a meeting? Out of magicore again, Troy?”
Trey accepted the glass of milk. He sat, wondering why Eldavin needed magicore.
“No, Archmage. I—was just wondering if I could ask you a question. I know I’m part of the Terras faction, but that’s just where I was assigned.”
Viltach raised his brows, as if not realizing that’s how the Earthers felt. He hid a smile in his cup.
“Well, I’m delighted to see Minizi is still holding our insane upgrades. Any cohesion difficulties? Mana interference? And what can I help you with that Eldavin can’t?”
Trey smiled. And here it was. He looked the Archmage in the eye. The thing about being genial was knowing also how people rubbed each other the wrong way. Orthenon and Mars. Flos and Fetohep.
“No problems, Archmage Viltach. And I would have asked Grand Magus Eldavin, but I doubt he…knows. He’s very good at magic, but he’s not from Wistram.”
Another smile that the Archmage didn’t conceal.
“No, no he’s not.”
Trey nodded slowly. He stared past Viltach.
“Plus…he’s not Human. It’s just a question, Archmage, but some of the Earthers were talking about it and after our discussion of Chandrar and…”
He nodded at Minizi. Viltach glanced at Trey as the [Sand Mage] looked at him.
“I was wondering. Do you know where Archmage Amerys is?”
Slowly, Archmage Viltach’s eyebrows rose.
“How interesting. Would you give me a second to consider the question?”
He went, on the pretext of finding some cookies. Trey sat there. He saw Minizi look at him. He winked at her.
The huge, central eye of Minizi’s head winked back.
