An army of the dead. Dead Goblins, all about. Some Humans and animals too. And there was Toren. Toren, who was in need of the dead.
The adventurers and the people of Liscor had done a good job of cleaning up their dead, but all the rest were just lying there. Fresh for the taking. And since Toren knew that any body could become a zombie or Ghoul if you did things right, he’d collected the bodies nonstop.
The door at the end of the hallway was shut, so Toren let go of his burden to open the door. He dragged the dead woman’s body and the horse’s half into the door and found a place for them. The dead were piled up. Not exactly neatly, but Toren knew where each one was. He wiped his skeletal hands on the dead horse and then couldn’t help it. He turned to count.
One, two, three, four…thousand…
The dead bodies filled the amphitheater Toren had found. An obscene mass grave. Only to the living, though. To Toren, it was possibility. It was death, raw and untapped. And he had amassed the collection all by himself.
A skeleton could do a lot if it spent all day and night just carrying dead bodies around. Toren grinned. And then he checked something at his side. A mask. It hung loosely, ready to be put on. Toren hesitated.
The mask called to him. But no adventurers had come into the dungeon for a while. They would come in time. And when they did, she would grow louder. But until then, he, Toren, was in charge. And he intended to make full use of his time.
The dead bodies lay in piles. Some were already stirring. The dead were rising. Toren carefully shut the door. Soon, there would be more undead. And he knew that they would grow stronger in death, especially with so many dead bodies. He had wondered what would happen if he could harness that power. The dungeon was full of monsters. Full of enemies. Alone, Toren could only run. But with an army?
The skeleton didn’t cackle because again, that was a thing that required lungs. But he was good at grinning. And he did just that. He grinned and squatted by the door. Waiting. And the dead lay. And began to rise.
 
——
 
Jelaqua noticed the first zombie get up as she prepared the pyre. She glanced at it.
“We should burn the rest of the bodies.”
Seborn and Moore glanced at her. The Selphid amended her statement.
“Not us. But the city should. Hells, isn’t there a suppression company for hire on Izril? They’d already be here if this were Baleros.”
“Different continent, Jelaqua.”
“I guess. But Liscor will be swimming in undead if they don’t do something soon.”
“More work for adventurers.”
“It’s just—”
Jelaqua sighed and shook her head. She stared down at the wood as Moore poured oil on the branches. Here was one less undead to worry about. The half-Giant paused as he splashed oil on the body in the center of the pyre.
“Are you sure, Jelaqua?”
He looked at her. The Selphid hesitated. She looked down at the body. Garen Redfang stared up at her. He had no right to look as happy as he did in death. Not with his chest filled with holes. He had taken two dozen stabs from Relc’s spear before he’d fallen. And before that—
Jelaqua traced the hole in his chest. Just above his heart. It was a clean strike. She wouldn’t have imagined anyone could hit him like that. Even a Goblin Lord.
“You know, guys, Selphids love dead bodies like this.”
The Selphid spoke quietly. Moore and Seborn looked up at her. They knew most of what Jelaqua meant, but they let her say it anyways. The Selphid, wearing the Raskghar’s body, spoke quietly.
“Among my people, the bodies of warriors over Level 30 are worth their weight in gold. More, really. Something happens to people as they level. They change. Even in death, bodies like that are as strong as steel. They don’t break. I’ve seen it happen. People moving long after their hearts have stopped. After they’ve taken wounds that would kill them.”
Seborn grunted. He stared down at Garen and shook his head.
“Treasure to the Selphids. He was a traitor, regardless of how he died.”
“But he came back.”
Moore hunched over his staff. He didn’t weep. None of the Halfseekers did. But neither did he look away from Garen. Seborn looked away. Jelaqua nodded.
“He did. But he was a traitor, Moore. By all rights, I should claim his body. Or leave it to rot. That’s what Selphids do.”
“To your enemies?”
“No. And not to our friends, either. To the useless. That’s the biggest sign of contempt.”
The other two Halfseekers looked at her.
“Well?”
Jelaqua bent over Garen. She stared down at him. At the slight smile on his face. And she thought of all he was. All he had been. Traitor. Murderer. Friend. Companion.
“Good night, Garen.”
The Selphid stepped back. She lit a torch and tossed it on the pyre. The soaked wood went up in seconds. The Halfseekers watched as the wood blazed. Smoke began rising. The body burned, and the three watched until it was nothing but ash.
No one said a word. Not until the pyre was smoldering embers. Then Jelaqua turned.
“He’s gone.”
That was all she said. Moore cleared his throat.
“Do you think the key…?”
He glanced at the pyre. Jelaqua shook her head.
“I checked. He didn’t have it on him. Or in him. He must have given it to someone. Or it was lost in the fighting.”
“Do you think it was true, what he said? About the Goblin King’s treasure?”
Moore stared at the ash. Jelaqua shook her head.
“If it was true, if there is a treasure up there…”
She looked up. The High Passes stretched up overhead. The Halfseekers looked up and took in the enormity of the mountains. So high. None of them spoke. Then Seborn sighed.
“It doesn’t matter. The key’s gone. If we found it—”
Then what? They didn’t have answers for that either. The three stood around, not sure of what to say or do. They were…uncertain. Until someone broke the silence.
It was Moore. The half-Giant stood in front of the pyre and looked down. His hands reached out and lightly grasped the shoulders of his two remaining comrades. The other Halfseekers looked up at him. The half-Giant’s voice was quiet as he spoke.
“Time. Time stopped. For us and for him, I think. Ever since that day, we were shattered. And so was he. We searched and lived, but we couldn’t really rebuild. We couldn’t move on. Now we can. Garen is dead. We have fulfilled our oaths.”
“We did, didn’t we?”
Jelaqua tried to smile. Moore did not.
“We can move on. We can dream of the future again, Jelaqua.”
“Some of us have obligations. Debts.”
Seborn spoke quietly. Jelaqua nodded.
“Thinking of quitting, Seborn?”
“I don’t know.”
The Drowned Man folded his arms. Jelaqua nodded. She stared into the ashes.
“I’m tired. But I can’t just turn my back now, can I? I think…one more adventure? One more try?”
She looked up. Seborn hesitated. Moore nodded.
“One more time.”
“There’s only three of us.”
“For now.”
Jelaqua smiled tiredly.
“Maybe we’ll meet someone on the road. Maybe they’ll come to us. Or we to them. It’ll happen. The only question is what we should do until then.”
“Seek fame? Settle grudges? Earn money?”
“Maybe. Do you remember our old motto, Jelaqua? Perhaps that should be our goal.”
Moore rumbled. Jelaqua blinked up at him. And then she guffawed.
“Oh, come on, Moore. That?”
She punched the half-Giant in the side. Moore sighed. Jelaqua turned. She cast the pyre one last look. Seborn walked with her.
“Let’s go.”
The three began walking away. The last of the embers began to die out. They had no words for Garen. He had betrayed them. But still, he had been a Halfseeker. And the Halfseekers had…a motto of sorts. A saying. A goal.
The Halfseekers. The Half Freaks. Those who belong nowhere but here. Adventurers for hire. People, really.
Searching for a home.
 
——
 
“So, was it worth it?”
Magnolia Reinhart looked up from her cup of tea. Lady Bethal, Lady Wuvren, Lady Zanthia, and the women whom Magnolia Reinhart trusted most implicitly sat around her. They were in Magnolia’s mansion. They had left, and they had come back. And the world was changed now.
“I can’t say, Bethal. Not yet. But I believe it was worth the attempt.”
The woman calmly stirred a few more sugar cubes into her tea. The aged Lady Zanthia grimaced and pointedly sipped her dark tea that had no sugar at all in it. Bethal didn’t give up, however. The [Lady] eyed Magnolia.
“You threatened Tyrion to his face. With the only thing that would make him back down. Would you have done it, if he attacked Liscor? Killed the boys?”
The other [Ladies] glanced up at Magnolia. The Lady Reinhart pursed her lips. Only Bethal could be that indelicate in company. Well, Bethal and Zanthia.
“It was a threat.”
“And?”
The other [Lady] met Magnolia’s eyes. The woman in the pink dress paused. Her eyes flickered and then met Bethal’s gaze impassively.
“I’m known for keeping my promises, Bethal.”
The [Ladies] waited for more, but that was it. Magnolia sipped her tea. At last, Lady Wuvren sighed delicately.
“So you are. I however wonder if it was wise to repeat the threat to the other nobility. That will have even greater consequences.”
“It was necessary to force Tyrion to back up. That young man never backs up if he thinks he has a chance of victory. You have to slap him with the truth before he’ll see it.”
Lady Zanthia growled around her tea. Magnolia nodded.
“It was inevitable.”
“And necessary?”
Bethal caught the sugar cube Magnolia tossed at her. She added it to her tea cup.
“I know it was to prevent the conflict with the Drakes from starting, but was that preferable to this? It seems like we’ve only created a larger mess from all this business with the Goblin Lord, don’t you agree?”
The [Ladies] exchanged glances. Zanthia muttered something about the follies of youth, loud enough to be heard by all.
“No one wins a war, Bethal. And this was a war, make no mistake. We only stopped it from being a larger one. But no one wins in a situation like this.”
Magnolia sighed.
“On the contrary. It’s quite possible to win. It just so happens that we lost this one.”
“So the Drakes won? I hardly imagine they’d agree with that.”
One of the other [Ladies] raised her eyebrows. Magnolia shook her head.
“That wasn’t what I was referring to, Lady Asca. Humans? Drakes? No. I rather imagine Izril lost as a whole.”
The women looked to her. Magnolia sipped from her teacup, her face grave.
“The most famous Drake [General], Zel Shivertail, is dead. The world is poorer for his absence, not least because he was a better man than most men I have met. The Drakes have lost him, many of their soldiers battling the Goblin Lord, and are now wary of Human aggression once more. As for the north—we spent time and effort fielding an army that did very little. The Goblin Lord razed a number of settlements. And now we are at peace.”
“And in this peace you’ve won, we’ll spill as much blood in a civil war between the nobility. Was this really worth the cost, Magnolia?”
Zanthia glanced up. Magnolia Reinhart drummed her fingers on her arm rest.
“I will acknowledge the cost. However…I cannot but believe the decision was correct. Moreover, it has resulted in some unusual gains. Ressa? Please show Lady Zanthia the correspondence we just received.”
A [Maid] moved in the background of the conversation. Lady Zanthia found a letter being offered to her. She frowned, fished out a monocle, and read the letter. She grunted loudly.
“I see.”
“What is it?”
Lady Wuvren leaned over to see. Zanthia shoved the letter in her face. Magnolia explained to the other listeners.
“The letter comes from one of the Walled Cities. And a certain member of the nobility. It would be unwise to name names. And in truth, the letter says very little of consequence. There are more perhapses and maybes than I could count, nothing of substance. But it leaves the door open for an invitation in the future.”
“An invitation?”
“To the Walled Cities. Perhaps to a soirée or gathering.”
“No Human noble has been invited to a Walled City in—”
Bethal broke off. Magnolia nodded.
“Exactly.”
“And all this came from opposing Tyrion’s plans? But the Drakes have to have known your stance, Magnolia. Why all of this now?”
One of the younger ladies looked confused. Magnolia sighed slightly.
“There’s a limit to what one can prove with words. But with this? I have rather indelicately put my finger down on the side of peace between Drakes and Humans, and like-minded individuals have taken note.”
“So. You make gains. But remember the cost.”
Zanthia kept her gaze on Magnolia’s face. The Lady Reinhart nodded.
“I am well aware of the cost. After all, we are the nobility of Izril. And we do not forgive.”
“Or forget. Any of us.”
 
——
 
It was just politics. Lord Erill knew that. Which was why what he had chosen to do was a reply in kind. Less than a day had passed since Magnolia Reinhart had forced Tyrion Veltras to back down. What most people didn’t mention was how she’d done it.
With threats. With an open invitation to violence. Lord Erill was a [Merchant] before he was a [Lord]. He was used to underhanded business, even shady deals and other…unpleasantness. But even he had been shocked by the open threat he’d received.
Accede or die. That was Magnolia Reinhart. And the threat hadn’t just come to him, but the other nobility. But the image he had received had been meant for his eyes alone. His mother. Lord Erill’s blood burned at the thought. He was no warrior. He had come at Tyrion Veltras’ request and lent coin and his warriors to the cause, but he didn’t take to the battlefield. In the same way, he would never reply to Magnolia with steel. Or even an open threat. She was too powerful for that.
But there were ways and ways. Lord Erill knocked on the tent flap. He waited for the response and pushed his way in.
“I have something for you. And your friends.”
The [Lord] didn’t beat about the bush. He cut to the chase. He placed a bag of holding on the table as the occupant of the tent looked up. Erill spoke quickly, trying to conceal the nervousness in his chest. Magnolia was one thing. But this group was another. But Magnolia had made her choice. And so had he.
“I want no part of your…organization. And as far as you and I are concerned, I was never here. This is a one-time offer.”
“Which is?”
“Gold. Gems. Other goods that can be exchanged. Two hundred thousand gold pieces’ worth in total. Consider it my repayment to Magnolia Reinhart. I want her to know nothing of this. And I owe you and the Circle nothing. This is a donation. Are we clear on that?”
“Perfectly.”
Lady Ieka reclined in her chair. Lord Erill nodded to her.
