“Then I bid you good day. I’ll see you tonight for dinner.”
He turned and walked out of the tent. Lady Ieka eyed the bag of holding. She stared at Lord Erill’s back and smiled. The [Merchant Lord] hurried away, his task done. He wanted nothing to do with the Circle of Thorns, and the less he knew of them, the better. But he had not been the only visitor to Lady Ieka’s tent. And some had stayed longer.
“Dear me, Magnolia. You do have a talent for making enemies.”
Lady Ieka reached into the bag of holding and drew out a pair of coins. She flicked them up, and the gold flew into the air. Lady Ieka waved the smoking pipe she held, and the coins turned into butterflies. They landed, fluttering their wings of gold. Ieka smiled.
“The Circle of Thorns will remember this.”
 
——
 
“You know they’ll all be coming for you. You’ve made more enemies, and some of the third parties will take their side.”
Ressa stood with Magnolia after the tea conference had finished. Magnolia was watching Reynold ferry her trusted inner circle back to their estates. They’d all be under guard after this. And she had no doubt reprisals were coming.
“I know, Ressa.”
The [Maid]’s look made it clear how doubtful Magnolia’s knowledge really was.
“This was really better than a war?”
Magnolia sighed. She turned from the window and looked at her oldest friend.
“I talked it over with the old man, Ressa. On one of his talkative days. And a number of [Strategists]. They had Tyrion moving south and establishing a defensive line. He would get far enough for sizeable gains, but this would be the prelude to a long, long war. It would merely place the north at an advantage. And in the meantime—he wouldn’t even get to Pallass before the Antinium did something. Or our pale friend.”
“Something has to be done about him sooner or later. Why not force his hand?”
Ressa pointed out that fact. Magnolia shook her head.
“Not yet, Ressa. Not yet. Before we can take either the Necromancer or the Antinium off the board, I need to be sure we’d win. And I’m not. I want to take care of him without forcing a war. Because he’ll just run if he’s unprepared. He needs to die.”
“The bounty you placed isn’t drawing the people you wanted.”
“Give it time. News spreads slowly in some circles. And if that doesn’t work, I’ll try something else. But I think this was for the best. The Drakes can’t afford a war, and neither can we.”
“So it’s just backstabbing and poison. Kidnapping, ransoms, plotting…dark shadows lurking in doorways…”
Magnolia forced a smile onto her face.
“That’s why I keep you around, after all. Besides, it’s good to lure our enemies out into the open, isn’t it?”
“By striking the beehive?”
“Hush. What choice did I have?”
Ressa was pointedly silent. Magnolia turned. She walked towards her pink couch and ran her hand along the embroidered fabric.
“It couldn’t be allowed, Ressa. That was all there was to it.”
“If you can live with the consequences…”
“I can.”
“Then there’s nothing more to say. I’ll prepare the staff for war.”
Ressa vanished. Magnolia sighed. She whispered after Ressa’s back.
“Oh, don’t do that. Far better to prepare them for peace. After all, war is a constant. But in peace…things change.”
She looked back out the window. And she felt the world turning again. Shifting. Again and again, on the smallest of things.
 
——
 
He stood on his desk, checking his notes, writing orders, calculating. A thousand things were on his mind, each more pressing than the last.
Painted Antinium. The ramifications of Magnolia Reinhart’s actions. Even the reemergence of the famed ‘Gecko of Liscor’. All these variables were in play. And that was only the Izrilian angle. There were matters in Baleros to attend to. Niers Astoragon scribbled notes as he checked the tally of the Forgotten Wing’s forces across Baleros. He was adding up numbers, checking their monetary reserves. And doing figures all the while.
If you had a head for such things, or experience, you could see that Niers was planning on a lot of investments. Spending capital. And you only did that for a few reasons.
“Going somewhere?”
Niers jumped. He stared back and up at Foliana. The [Rogue] had appeared behind him as she liked to do. The tiny [Strategist] glared.
“Not yet.”
“But soon. You asked Peclir Im about travelling. What’s all this for?”
The Titan hunched his shoulders.
“It’s just a short trip. And if I can ensure that our company is prepared in the meanwhile—I can accelerate the training of a few of my students, reach out to some of our old graduates and other companies.”
“Make the company stronger so you can leave it? Hmm.”
“Just for a little trip. But you know it’s best to be prepared…”
Niers trailed off. Foliana eyed him.
“Mm. Where will you go?”
“That’s—”
“Bet it’s Izril. Bet it’s Liscor.”
“Shut up. And keep that to yourself.”
“You really want to visit, don’t you?”
Niers ignored her. He stared at the list of figures, speaking to himself.
“Just a little bit. And then I’ll be ready.”
Foliana watched him work. She vanished after a while. Niers didn’t know if she’d left or was just hiding. He stared at the numbers and then glanced at something to his right.
It had been hard to get the [Diviner] to capture a single image from the scrying orb, even with these ‘movies’ that Wistram was selling. But it had been done. And now Niers had an image on his desk. It was somewhat blurred by distance. And you couldn’t make out features. But it was nevertheless an image of her. Niers stared at the young woman waving the flag. He stopped work and stared at it.
“Was that you?”
The figure didn’t answer. But Niers didn’t care. He wanted to know. And soon—soonish—he might find out. He just had to work in the meanwhile. Soon, some day—
 
——
 
“It was her.”
In another part of the world, a pair of crowned heads conferred. A loyal servant of the throne waited. The voices were regal, by virtue of station if nothing else. They argued.
She was of the opinion that it could be a mistake, or worse, a trap. He was of a different mind.
“It was her. You saw it.”
“I did.”
Both stared at the pool in front of them. Unlike a scrying mirror, the pool was enchanted water. It had reflected the battle at Liscor for its interested audience up till now. It was really more of entertainment than anything else. They had no stakes in the fate of Izril, directly or otherwise. This had been a pleasant diversion. Or it had been right up until they’d seen her.
Possibly no one else had noticed. After all, she hadn’t been on screen long. And she was certainly not part of the larger narrative. But to them, she had stood out. As the half-Elf casting the scrying spell had been watching, before the battle had started, they had seen her.
For a second, the young woman had been in sight. Climbing up the walls, carrying a little white Gnoll. It was uncharacteristic of her, as was her humble attire. But her face, her voice—that was unmistakable.
“Make sure it’s her first.”
The man with the crown spoke sharply to the waiting servant of the throne. The man bowed crisply.
“I will make the arrangements, Your Majesty.”
“Good. Bring her back. Her kingdom has need of her.”
The man stared into the enchanted pool. Her image was gone. But Lyonette du Marquin still stared back up at her father. He sat back on his throne. Wondering where she had been.
 
——
 
A different [King] sat on a different throne. His was far grander. And his name was far more important. As monarchs went, he was known throughout the world. Derided perhaps, but known.
The Blighted King sat, listening to his steward, advisor, and personal mage, Nereshal, speaking. The [Chronomancer]’s words were crisp, and he did not waste time. Nevertheless, Nereshal could not hide his unease.
“Several of the [Mages] are protesting the—the scope of the second ritual, Your Majesty.”
“Do they? Why?”
The Blighted King looked up. Nereshal licked his lips.
“They speak of cost for little gain. Such a ritual might cripple the next generation of the kingdom. And yet—”
“Rhir’s population can sustain ten times the cost if needed.”
The cold voice made Nereshal sweat.
“Yes, sire. But some—”
“They are uncomfortable. It is not a question of cost.”
The Blighted King looked at his advisor. Nereshal nodded silently. The man on the throne turned his head and shook it slightly.
“You saw the recording as we did, Nereshal. The Antinium. Our old enemies gain in strength. They evolve. Meanwhile, the Demons have planted spies in my kingdom. Spies and traitors. What use is a sword if it is not wielded, Nereshal?”
“None.”
“Well then. It must be done.”
“But if those summoned are weak—”
A hand halted the protest. The Blighted King stared ahead. He spoke slowly, reluctantly.
“We erred. The chosen ones are weak. Timid. Children instead of warriors, heroes of prophecy. But they grow with guidance. Too much protection, but it is necessary. We will treat them as the smallest of flower buds, to be raised with care this time. And their comrades will aid in that process. It will be the salvation Rhir seeks. So we have spoken.”
“It will be done. And those who are protesting…?”
“They will obey or be dealt with. Inform them of our will, Nereshal.”
“By your leave.”
The man retreated. The Blighted King sat alone on his throne. As he did, he spared a thought for the cost. But what cost could be greater than the one the Demons exacted on Rhir year by year? And what was promised was worth more than…anything. He had spoken to the children from another world. And they had given him such dreams that even his nightmares were soothed.
Weapons that rained death from the sky. Steel and fire. He dreamed of it. Weapons to end this war with the Demons once and for all. Weapons to purify Rhir.
Someone had left a window open in the throne room. A gust blew inwards, and the man on the throne caught a whiff of it. The air smelled of rot and death. The smell of home. The Blighted King sighed and dreamed of the day when there would be only spring.
 
——
 
It was a spring day when the [City Crier] shouted the news to a crowd gathered in one of the northern cities of Izril. Humans and a few non-Humans gathered to hear what had happened in the south. They had no scrying orbs and didn’t pay for the latest news by [Message] spell. So they listened. The man who stood on the lip of the fountain shouted the news clearly for all to hear. After all, he earned his coin from delivering the news. A little hat sat at his feet. Mostly copper coins sat in it.
“News from Liscor! The Goblin Lord’s army has been defeated! Lord Tyrion Veltras has struck a great victory and now heads south to the Blood Fields to challenge the Drakes! The battle went thusly: first, Lord Veltras besieged the Goblins with weapons from afar! He hurled gigantic stones by means of a great and powerful new weapon—trebuchets! With their aid, the Goblins were broken. Then, as they fell to infighting, Lord Veltras himself led a charge…”
The gathered crowd listened as the [Crier] elaborated on the heroic battle, embellishing a few details, making up the rest. After all, his class demanded he tell the news, but it didn’t demand accuracy or even truth. And it was in his best interests to make Tyrion Veltras stand out in as good a light as possible. He was paid for that as well.
The splendid rendition of Liscor’s battle as it happened, with cowardly Goblins and noble Humans riding to the aid of the ungrateful Drakes, went on for some while. Most of the people in the square had work to do and drifted in and out. That suited the [Crier] because he could repeat the tale multiple times, changing it slightly each time for the benefit of his audience.
On one of his retellings, he got a welcome surprise. Someone tossed a silver coin into his hat. He looked up and shouted his thanks. He got no reply. A City Runner jogged past him. She’d only stopped to listen for a few minutes.
“Letter delivery? Put it over there.”
The [Receptionist] at the local Runner’s Guild looked up and spotted the bag of letters the Runner was holding. She didn’t bother asking about the run or the contents—this was one of the bulk letter deliveries the guild received once or more times per day. It was a direct route and sometimes contained mail from cities hundreds of miles away. Letters travelled down the main road and stopped at city to city, making the rounds from City Runner to City Runner.
The [Receptionist] didn’t worry that the young woman with the bag was new. You didn’t trust something like this to a green Runner. She accepted the letters, counting them quickly, and then tallied them up, gave the Runner a seal, and pointed her towards the board.
“Are you heading back to Reizmelt? We’ve got two deliveries that could go right now. Or, if you could do a rush delivery, we’ve a contract that needs to get to Malmerra by dawn tomorrow…”
The City Runner paused by the board. She took one of the contracts to Reizmelt, and the [Receptionist] had the package by the time she returned. She handed it to the Runner with the instructions.
“Be careful. It’s fragile.”
The warning was heeded as the package was carefully stowed in a bag of holding. The [Receptionist] eyed the bag appreciatively. That was good stuff for a City Runner. She frowned. Something about this young woman seemed familiar, and it wasn’t just her rather unique appearance.
“Hold on. I know you, don’t I? You’re her! The girl who made a name for herself doing that spice delivery two weeks back? Don’t they call you…?”
She tried to strike up a conversation, but the City Runner couldn’t stay to chat. She was already moving. The [Receptionist] sighed. But she knew she’d see that particular Runner again. Everyone went everywhere in this business, after all.
Back out of the city, the young woman ran. She ran unconsciously, her stride long, passing by wagons, riders, and foot traffic. Some cursed her, others laughed as they pointed at her feet. Some knew her and shouted at her. She waved but didn’t stop.
And then she was out of the city. There the road opened up. The spring air blew, and the cool wind was at the Runner’s back. She ran across the grassy landscape, along the dirt road.
A City Runner. She was quick. But still, [Riders] passed her on the road. Carriages sped by. She was no Courier. She had seen them running. Some, the fastest, were just blurs or afterimages. Others were slower, but they were so well-defended that trying to take their deliveries from them would be suicide.
