That was the plan. The Queens had hatched it together, and their Hives had obeyed. But their plans had fallen to ruin. Because Liscor had not fallen. The Goblin Lord had been broken at the city, and Tyrion Veltras’ aim of attacking halted by Human machinations. And the Queens were…displeased.
“Order.”
Xrn’s voice cut through the tunnel. The Armored Antinium, shifting in their armor, the Silent Antinium, restlessly pacing back and forth, and the beating wings of the Flying Antinium halted. They looked up as Xrn stood above them.
The staff shone in her hands. Her eyes blazed. With fiery orange-red of annoyance, the green of surprise, and a steely grey determination. It was that last which called to Tersk, Prognugator of the Armored Antinium. He held still, though the raging voice in his mind made him want to strike out randomly. He called up at Xrn.
“Prognugator Xrn, my Queen—”
The azure Antinium gazed down at Tersk and shook her head.
“Ignore her. The Queens are furious. Their orders are not to be trusted. Hold your positions until we receive proper orders.”
Pivr fanned his wings.
“But my Queen—”
“I am in charge here. Not the Flying Queen. The Grand Queen has appointed me herself, and I speak for her, especially when her judgment fails. Hold.”
Xrn’s voice made the Antinium grow still. It restored order, and Tersk felt the balance in him reassert itself. He stood still, waiting. Xrn shook her head.
“We will have to collapse the tunnel. Pull the Workers and Soldiers back. All this effort. There truly is no predicting other species. Alas.”
She stared bitterly up towards the ramp that had been built to carry the army out of the ground. Sunlight shone down into the Hive. Tersk noticed some of his Soldiers and even one of his fellow Prognugators staring at it. Some had never seen sunlight. Pivr, whose Flying Antinium were allowed onto the surface to practice flying, had bragged about being in the sun. But no matter how many times Tersk saw it, he always thought—
Hoof beats. Tersk stiffened as he heard the sound echoing towards the tunnel. The other Antinium heard it too. All of them froze. Workers, Soldiers, Prognugators, all stared towards the entrance. Xrn’s eyes flashed bright yellow in warning, caution. She held up a hand and raised her staff.
Someone had found the entrance to the tunnel. Someone riding a horse. They would have to die if they came closer. The Antinium were in violation of their treaty, far, far outside the zone they were allowed to operate in. They would have to kill the wanderer.
“If they flee, my Soldiers—”
Pivr shut up as Xrn stared at him. The Centenium slowly moved towards the entrance of the tunnel. Her staff had stopped shining, casting most of the tunnel into darkness. She aimed at the entrance, the lights in her eyes turning to blackness. Tersk waited as whomever was above seemed to dismount from the horse. They were approaching, their footsteps crunching the earth above. And then—
“Xrn. Hold.”
An Antinium appeared in the entrance to the tunnel. Xrn froze. Her staff had shone bright pink-red for a moment. But at the sight of Klbkch, she lowered her staff and the magic shimmered out.
“Klbkchhezeim?”
The other Antinium stared as the Slayer walked down the ramp. Tersk felt a surge of something in his chest. He had met Klbkch, but the name and the knowledge still made him more alert. The Slayer. And his was not the only reaction.
The Flying Antinium’s wings fanned unconsciously as one. They shifted, eternally restless. The Armored Antinium were more subdued. But it was the Silent Antinium’s reaction that was most significant. They crept closer, fixed on Klbkch. The hunched Soldiers of the Silent Antinium, camouflaged, stared at him. After all, he was…
“Klbkch. Why have you come here? We know of what happened at Liscor. There is no point to our presence.”
Xrn was speaking with Klbkch. The Revalantor of the Free Antinium, the one who was meant to guide their Hive towards its destiny, turned his head. He stared at the army of Antinium.
“No. They will not be needed. But this tunnel must remain. My Queen has sent me here to ensure it is not destroyed.”
“Not destroyed?”
Xrn opened her mandibles in surprise. Klbkch nodded. He stepped past her and raised his voice, addressing all the Antinium.
“The Workers will continue the tunneling. The Free Antinium will dig from their end as well. We will complete the tunnel. Not to be used as a staging ground for an assault, but to connect the Free Hive to the others.”
“You mean—build an underground route? But there are hundreds of miles yet to be constructed! We only built this much of the tunnel to prepare for an assault. To link all six Hives would take—”
Klbkch turned to Xrn.
“What? Effort? Workers? We have enough. And time as well. The Antinium lack none of these things. It has only been desire that prevented such activity until now. But that ceases. The Hives will be connected.”
Several colors flashed through Xrn’s eyes at once.
“The Grand Queen has not given her permission for this project. She will surely object.”
“That is her choice, yes. But my Queen has spoken. And her will shall be done. I have decided as well.”
Klbkch faced forwards.
“The tunnel will be expanded. The Hives linked, the passages guarded. The six Hives will be open to each other at last. So proclaims the Free Queen of the Antinium.”
The Soldiers shifted. It was the same as gasping aloud. Tersk didn’t know how to process this information. But the Workers just streamed past Klbkch and got to work. Tersk saw Xrn’s mandibles opening and closing as her eyes changed color. Blue, doubt. Yellow, caution. And then—a bright white light. Green and pink.
She smiled. Klbkch nodded.
“We shall have to hide the presence of the tunnel. Workers, seal the entrance after my departure. Xrn. We should speak.”
“Indeed we should. Klbkch.”
He strode up the ramp. Xrn followed him. The Antinium looked up into the sun. Tersk saw Workers move forwards, and the light slowly disappeared. But he remembered. And he remembered a city. An inn. He wondered if he would see Pawn again. And he thought that if he did, nothing would ever be the same.
That was probably a good thing.
 
——
 
Liscor was quiet the day after the battle. The relieved celebrations had given way to a strange silence. After all, the city had not been attacked. But a battle had taken place. And there were dead.
Goblin dead. Perhaps it didn’t matter. But the Drakes and Gnolls of the city couldn’t forget that it was Goblins who had been driven to besiege Liscor, and Goblins who had defended it. Both had died. And that meant…
Nothing. To some, nothing. To others, everything. But perhaps the effects were most greatly felt outside of Liscor. In an inn on a hill.
The day after the battle, The Wandering Inn was closed. The shutters locked. It was barred to all visitors, and indeed, most who would have gone to the inn couldn’t even find the willpower to try. The [Innkeeper] did not want visitors.
So her guests stayed away. Even the regulars. They found other things to do. Other people to visit.
And in Liscor’s prison, a Minotaur in a magic cell heard voices. It had been quiet. It was almost always quiet where he stood. His gaze was blank. But his ears twitched as he heard voices coming closer.
“You have as long as you want. But try to bribe me one more time and I will arrest you. Is that clear?”
“Yes, yes. I apologize. Look, it’s just that in Human cities—”
Someone spat.
“Pah. Go on.”
The Minotaur stared blankly ahead. He didn’t respond to any words or stimuli most of the time. He barely ate any food. But the second voice. Something in it called to him. His gaze was fixed ahead of him. But as a shorter, slimmer figure walked forwards, he slowly looked down.
A half-Elf stood in front of Calruz’s cell. Her robes were magical. One of her hands was nothing but bone. She looked up at him. The Minotaur slowly returned the gaze.
“Hello, Calruz. It’s been a while.”
He said nothing. Ceria Springwalker frowned.
“Hey. It’s me. I’m coming to visit you at last, you giant jackass. I wasn’t sure if I should, but—hello?”
Calruz didn’t respond. The Minotaur’s gaze was slightly unfocused. Ceria frowned. She walked back and forth, and the eyes slowly tracked her.
“Can you hear me? Are you…”
She hesitated. A thousand things seemed to be on the tip of her tongue. She said none of them. Ceria folded her arms.
“Do you even remember what you’ve done?”
“Yes.”
The half-Elf jumped. She stared at Calruz. The Minotaur’s eyes focused on her.
“I know you.”
“I hoped you would. You’re—what you did—”
Ceria struggled for words. Calruz spoke again.
“Below. She’s still there.”
The [Ice Mage] froze.
“Who? Nokha?”
Again, the Minotaur didn’t respond directly to the question. He looked straight through Ceria.
“I can hear her. You shouldn’t have taken me out. She knows. She’s waiting for you to let her out.”
“Who? Who’s ‘she’? Did she do this to you? Where is she?”
Slowly, Ceria approached the walls of the cell. She stared at Calruz. The Minotaur stared blankly at her for a minute, then two. And then something changed. He blinked.
“Ceria?”
This time, he looked at her. And recoiled. He was surprised to see her. Ceria backed up, clearly uneasy.
“Calruz? What were you talking about? Who’s ‘she’?”
“Who?”
The Minotaur stared blankly at her. Ceria looked around. Calruz shook his head.
“Sometimes I feel like…what did I say? What have I done?”
“I—”
The half-Elf had been prepared for something. Not for this. She took another step backwards, looking down the prison. Calruz stepped forwards. He placed a hand on the magical barrier.
“I remember it. All of it. What I did. I went mad. Springwalker, you have to believe me.”
Ceria caught herself. She glared back at Calruz, biting her lip, clenching a fist.
“I believe you’re mad. You—you turned into a monster.”
“I know. I must be punished. But part of it—I didn’t intend for it. I started losing myself. You have to believe me.”
The Minotaur spoke urgently. His hand trembled on the wall of his cell. Ceria eyed him.
“I do. I do, Calruz.”
“Please tell them that. Please. I never intended this. Tell them. Make them know.”
“They’ll never forgive you, Calruz. I don’t think I can—”
“I don’t want that. Death is my only salvation. I’ll settle my debts that way.”
The Minotaur never blinked. Ceria froze.
“Don’t say that.”
“It’s nothing less than I deserve. You and I both know that. Tell them I’ll accept whatever punishment. The Gnolls—they deserve justice. Whatever it takes. Tell them. Please.”
“Oh, Calruz—”
Ceria went over to the cell. She bowed her head and put her hand against the magical barrier of the cell. Calruz stared at her.
“I’ve lost my honor.”
“Calruz—”
Her voice broke. Ceria leaned against the wall of the cell, her shoulders shaking. It was then that Pisces decided to stop listening. He straightened and turned his head. The undead mouse collapsed.
“Well?”
Yvlon stared at him. She and Ksmvr were waiting outside the dungeon. Pisces blinked.
“Well, what?”
“Don’t pretend. What are they saying?”
“I stopped listening.”
Yvlon jabbed Pisces in the side. He yelped.
“I did!”
The armored woman eyed him but eventually nodded.
“What do you think she’s going to do?”
“Beyond saying goodbye? I have no idea. She may wish to…stay for the trial.”
“I can’t blame her, can you?”
“Captain Ceria is blameless in the guilt of former-Captain Calruz, surely.”
Ksmvr looked anxiously between Pisces and Yvlon. The [Necromancer] nodded.
“Oh, undoubtedly. Yvlon is merely referring to Ceria’s perceived guilt. If she wishes to stay, well, I am sure we can find work here.”
“And after the trial?”
Pisces shrugged. He stared towards the walls of Liscor.
“I imagine we find work.”
“Just like that?”
“It is our function.”
Ksmvr put in unhelpfully. Pisces just shook his head.
“What would you have me say, Byres? Some grand proclamation about our future? We obtained…success in the dungeon. Ceria, perhaps, closure. But this siege, the Goblins…it has made one thing abundantly clear to me. And one thing alone.”
“Go on?”
“Stronger. We must be stronger, all of us.”
Pisces looked at Ksmvr and Yvlon. He touched at his robes and remembered the army of the undead. The Goblins. The helplessness of the adventurers on the walls, save for a few. He shook his head.
“Stronger.”
Yvlon echoed the word. She felt at her reinforced arms and nodded.
“I can get behind that idea. We need to be Gold-rank. To improve. To become…”
She trailed off. Like Pisces, she stared towards the walls. Ksmvr looked as well. His voice was anxious.
“What will we become? Comrade Pisces? Yvlon?”
The two looked at each other. Yvlon smiled, and Pisces raised his eyebrows.
“Why, whatever is worthy, Ksmvr. Something greater. Something new.”
“Together.”
Yvlon put her hand out. Pisces hesitated, then placed his hand delicately on hers. Ksmvr put two of his hands on the pile. The Horns of Hammerad looked at each other.
“Together.”
 
——
 
In Liscor’s prison, a Minotaur and half-Elf talked. In the dungeon, the monsters crawled. They bred and fought and slept. It was…emptier. There were still monsters aplenty, but some had left. Goblins, for one. The Shield Spiders had retreated, their mad rampage on the surface having reduced their numbers considerably.
None of that mattered to the dark figure that skulked through the darkness. Toren the undead skeleton hummed to himself as he dragged another body into the dungeon. Or rather, imagined humming to himself. He was a skeleton after all, and he couldn’t talk.
What he could do was drag things. In this case, he was dragging a dead body. A Human [Pikewoman] who’d been slain in the field. And half of a horse. It was a heavy burden, but Toren didn’t get tired. He did hurry though; the smell of fresh meat would attract scavengers. He’d left a few bodies out to distract them, but if he tarried too long, he’d have to abandon his prize.
It was a winding route Toren took, around traps, through secret passages. But at last he reached a spot that he knew very well. He had claimed it. A mockery of an inn had been set up. And beyond it, a door had been placed at the far end of the hall. The door was closed. Toren perked up as he dragged the dead body towards it.
He was in a good mood. The skeleton had been in high spirits for the last few weeks, actually. To him, all the events that had passed recently were nothing but good news. First the adventurers had come by and killed a lot of monsters. Then all the annoying Raskghar died. And now?
