The results seemed uninspiring compared to what Mato had shared, and she had to remind herself that she had not unlocked any new skills yet, nor had she reached any breakpoints. But the keen pang of jealousy was pretty obvious to her. Was she being steadily punished for not continuing in the tank role? Sighing, she put that behind her. It was done. Why could she not just be happy for Mato’s big advance?

At least she had thirty attribute points to spend – although she always wanted to spend them on everything. Picking her main priorities first, she spent nine each on wisdom and dexterity. After considering it for a moment, she spent five on endurance next to help her general resilience, Soul Armor skill, and Second Wind. Some perception, she thought, dropping two points into that. Which left her four for vitality with her final point going into strength to help her punches and kicks hit harder.

Mieriel’s going to have a harder time messing with my mind, she thought, pressing her lips firmly into a line.

On a hunch, she used Appraise on the corpse of the Piercer Scorpion.

Lesser Bone EssenceBone-affinity crafting reagent.Mana: Combine 3 Lesser Bone Essence into one Bone EssenceValue: 5 goldReagent – Mana EssenceAppraise has reached level 10.

Nice. At least the essence lurking within the corpse would go a long way to defraying the cost of all the potions they’d ended up using.

For what it was, her growth from the fight was excellent – she had reached level twenty-seven, and her skills were improving nicely. The Piercer Scorpion had been a challenging fight for her, pushing her healing and defensive skills to the limit while she dodged the Bone Nova and kept Mato alive for the entire duration Ali was out saving Calen from being blasted over the edge. And later, trying to keep all Ali’s minions standing against the ravages of Wyvern Poison had left her running ragged for most of the fight.

Hopefully, now that Mato had gained an armor rend advancement, she would be able to lend her Martial Arts to physical fights against monsters like that in the future. It wasn’t helping her jealousy much though, considering her biggest power improvements this time around would come from Mato’s two skills, rather than anything she had earned.

I did keep him alive though, she reminded herself, taking some measure of pride in knowing she had taken on a challenging and critical role, and executed it as efficiently as she could. Battle sweeper. Yeah, that’s me, tidying up behind the others. Great.

Perhaps Vivian does know a thing or two about combat, she thought after a moment, realizing that the Guildmaster’s assessment of her class’s versatility was spot on. Maybe she needed to speak to Vivian again about how to maximize her potential – but the bigger question was, could they trust the seasoned warrior after whatever it was that they had done to Ali? Malika gritted her teeth. No, this Street Rat would not forget that betrayal in a hurry.

Her magic shimmered as the splintered pieces of the bizarre Glimmer Shard elemental evaporated into mana.

Imprint: Bone Elemental updated to Imprint: Elemental.Variant: Glimmer Shard added to Imprint: Elemental.

Great, a new elemental I probably can’t use, she thought, watching as her Grimoire enthusiastically inscribed a few new pages full of dense tiny runes. If Calen and Mato had been right, the light-affinity elemental should also prove just as incompatible with her mana as the bone ones had been.

“Let us know when you’re finished,” Malika called out. The poison had taken ages to expire, and even Malika had run out of mana and stamina before the end, resulting in Ali losing her remaining minions. Exhaustion from the long battle on top of their close call had killed everybody’s enthusiasm for exploring the ruins further – they had decided to call it a day and maybe come back tomorrow.

Ali had a few monster corpses to take care of, but before she did that, she took the time to summon a fresh Kobold Fire Mage, just so that she could reactivate Empowered Summoner and boost her intelligence once again.

She paused before laying a hand on the sinuous neck of the emerald-green Poison Wyvern. Even in death, the creature radiated power and intimidation, every centimeter from the talons to the deadly fangs proclaimed him an apex predator. The scales felt smooth and hard beneath her fingertips, still warm to the touch. She deconstructed him and his wingmate before moving on to the Piercer Scorpion.

Two chimes sounded as her magic evaporated the giant bone scorpion, and several hundred mana vanished into her greedy Sage of Learning.

[Sage of Learning]

Domain Magic analyzed: Attribute Enhancement (Endurance).Domain Magic analyzed: Nova Strike.

Again? Is there something special about boss monsters? Ali still hadn’t figured out what this strange notification meant, but clearly, her Sage of Learning was involved. Again, the descriptions of whatever her skill had analyzed were tantalizingly evocative of the boss and the abilities it had displayed in combat, but so terse she had no idea how to figure out what it might be for, or even where she might look for clues.

“I’m done,” she announced, and everyone got up to return to their camp via the library. She could feel the exhaustion setting in as her body finally realized she was no longer in immediate danger, and it was certainly the smart choice to call it a day.

She had a ton of notifications to browse through, but first…

“Calen, I got two more of those strange notifications,” she said, falling in beside him. She shared the two notifications as he retrieved his notebook to write them down.

“Nova Strike sounds like it could be that area bone attack it was doing. Still no clues from your class?” he asked.

“Nothing so far.” After the Skeletal Wyvern, they had agreed that she should keep looking for any signs that something might have changed with her class, but even after trying to examine every single part of her status, nothing had revealed itself. He did seem to agree with her though, that the names seemed to imply something that Sage of Learning was doing with the skills the boss had displayed. She was convinced that her Magical Analysis advance for Sage of Learning was the root cause for this phenomenon. But it bothered her that her skill was providing some advantage that she couldn’t understand or use.

“Ali… thank you for saving me,” Calen said, abruptly changing the subject. “I really thought I was going to die.”

The depth of seriousness in his voice and sudden change of direction caught her a little off guard, and she glanced at him and then moved along, examining the spot of ground between her toes for a while.

“I didn’t know if I could get to you in time. But I couldn’t just let you fall.” The words sounded woefully inadequate to describe the horror of seeing him plummeting, just beyond the reach of her barrier, and the reckless powered dive she had to resort to, desperately trying to reach him.

He simply nodded, and somehow Ali knew he understood.

***

Ali dropped herself to the mossy ground beside the cookfire, wondering how Mato was able to find the energy to make food. But he had insisted that cooking was relaxing for him, so she hadn’t complained. Besides, she was already starving, and Mato could do things with vegetables that had to be magical. Maybe he has a secret cooking class?

Grove Warden has reached level 31 (+3).+30 attribute points.Arcane Bolt has reached level 15.Barrier has reached level 24 (+3).Martial Insight has reached level 17 (+3).Empowered Summoner has reached level 15 (+3).Identify has reached level 10.Inspiration has reached level 6.Class skill slot unlocked.New skills are available for Grove Warden.

Oh, I hit level thirty! Ali had been so concerned about poison and the strange notifications from her deconstruction of the boss that she had not noticed she had crossed the threshold to unlock a new skill. Not even listening to Mato describe his unlock had been enough to jog her memory. Please, please be something good.

Biting her tongue, she read on.

New skill unlocked.Class level has reached 30.Intelligence has surpassed 120.Familiar with practical and theoretical arcane magic.Experienced with summoned creatures.Summon FamiliarThe familiar gains a class related to your abilities and will level with you. Your familiar receives a bonus to whichever of your attributes is the highest. Once per day, your familiar can use one of your skills ignoring any recharge. You can mentally communicate with your familiar regardless of distance.Mana: Summon or dismiss an arcane familiar. Arcane, Minion, IntelligenceNew skill unlocked.Class level has reached 30.Intelligence has surpassed 120.Studied the theory of domain magic.Directly observed the mana structure of at least three unique domains.Performed a significant alteration of the landscape of your domain.Domain MasteryYou can manipulate the structure and mana of your domain. All your magic within your domain is empowered by the domain itself.Mana: Adjust the shape and composition of any non-living material that is part of your domain. Range: Domain.Nature, Arcane, Mastery, Domain, Intelligence New skill unlocked.Class level has reached 30.Wisdom has surpassed 100.Killed a monster with a plant.Rampant GrowthMana: Cause rampant growth in any plant in range. Simply grow plants faster, or use them to slow, impede, or even damage your enemies. Range: 10 meters.Nature, Area, Wisdom

She couldn’t help but giggle at the last one. It sounded like some high-speed gardening skill. Basil would love it.

“I got some skills too,” Ali said.

“Congratulations both of you on reaching silver!” Malika said. Silver rank at the guild supposedly came with more privileges – privileges that were presumably not that useful until the guild grew a bit – but it included an upgraded guild ring. Also, they could now take higher-ranked jobs, if they showed up.

Ali shared her three new skills, triggering some engaged discussion.

“Rampant Growth looks like a Druid spell,” Mato said.

“Looks like I got it because of that first sewer rat I killed,” Ali said, remembering her first encounter with a monster.

“Familiar looks cool,” Malika said. “Especially if the creature has a good class and can level quickly.”

“Will it be cute though?” Ali asked.

“Ali, asking the important questions,” Mato chuckled. “Awww, is it fluffy? Does it have long, silky ears?”

“Mato! What are you talking about? What good are skills if the creature isn’t cute?”

“Says the person who likes summoning Goblins and Kobolds?” he countered.

“Hey! They’re cute!” That spawned a round of laughter.

Well, maybe just the Kobolds. The Goblins were quite ugly – especially the feral-looking Bugbears. She frowned for a moment, realizing that really none of her creatures were cute, with perhaps the exception of her Kobold Acolyte. Some, like the Toxic Slimes, were downright nasty. Maybe her familiar would be a fat, slimy toad?

“Anyway. I think Domain Mastery sounds the strongest. Even if it’s a little vague. I’m not entirely sure what exactly it’ll do,” Ali said.

“You can always just try it out,” Malika said.

She’s right, I can just try and see what it does. As soon as Ali selected Domain Mastery, a pulse shot out from her, rippling through the mana of her domain before she felt it pass out of sight, down the shaft, and out all the way to the library far underground. It was the same domain, but yet, somehow different, almost as if it were waiting for something. She studied it with her Arcane Insight, but other than the vague impression that it was now somehow… more, she had no idea what had happened.

Cautiously she reached out and poked at it with her mind, and to her surprise, her domain mana bent in response to her inexpert will. She released her mental pressure, and it bounced back to normal, rippling a little before settling.

Curious. She twisted and bent it a little more, watching the swirls and tendrils of her mana reacting to her will. It was pretty, and rather interesting to see, but what it might do was anyone’s guess.

“I can bend my domain mana, but I have no idea what I would even do with that,” she said.

“Why don’t you try the transmute thing?” Calen suggested, pointing at a log near the fireplace.

Ali fixed the log in her mind and fed some mana to her new skill. She could sense the shape clearly, so she exerted a little pressure. To her surprise, the log bent smoothly, adjusting to her will in the same way that her mana had. With relative ease, she shaped it into a flat disk, and then back into a log before she transitioned it into a cube.

Conservation of mana or mass? The skill had a clear limitation in that she was unable to change the size of the object. Making it smaller simply caused the mass to bulge out the sides like squashing a slime. Carefully she shaped the log into a small bench.

“That seems useful,” Calen approved.

Now transmute, she thought, trying to figure out what her skill meant when it suggested she could change the composition. But as she considered the concept, she felt her skill respond, and suddenly her Grimoire appeared, flipping to the chapter imprint for stone.

Is that a suggestion? Ali focused on the imprint, and suddenly her mind was filled with a cascade of possibilities. With a simple thought and a little mana, her wooden bench transformed into granite. With another thought, she shifted it to shale. But the subtle interaction between her Grimoire and her new Domain Mastery offered more. Pouring extra mana into her imprint, she found she could intuitively feed new stone into her creation while simultaneously shaping it with her Domain Mastery. It took a mere few minutes to create a large stone sculpture of a stag with proud antlers. If she had still had the bone imprint, she was convinced she could have transmuted it to that. Lacking the imprint for wood, Ali found herself unable to transform the sculpture back into its original form. The other imprints for creatures, items, or plants didn’t seem to work when she tested them.

“It looks like I can transform anything into one of the material imprints in my Grimoire,” Ali told Calen, waiting for him to finish writing. “It also doesn’t seem to work on living stuff.” Ali had tried, and failed, to bend one of the trees.

Ali carefully reshaped the stag into a bird and then transformed it back into granite.

Sculpting has reached level 3.

She had all but forgotten her Sculpting skill in the craziness of her current life, and the notification caused a rush of memories from her past. She had often turned to her sculpture as a way to relax and create.

And now I can make my own stone. And create with my magic. Is this the one for me?

