She took his elbow, and guided him to the reclining bed. A gentle probe of his cultivation base put him at Tier 4, which put his age somewhere near one hundred and fifty.

He had a pain in his knee that wasn't going away, so Melinda cast her skill [Directed Heal]. It was the lowest Tier of directed healing skill, at Tier 14. It was given to all official Empire healers. It could do anything that the higher Tier directed healing skills could do, but didn't have their limitations, nor their reduced cost.

Melinda used the skill to inspect his knee, and rebuilt some cartilage where it had worn down. She then focused on the man as a whole, and cast [Ranged Heal]. She only let the skill take the 50 mana initial cost, instead of letting it drain her until the man was fully healed. Still, the skill would help all of the man’s various ailments, at least somewhat.

She also focused on healing the man's old age. Baxter just scoffed at her when she mentioned it, but acknowledged that if anything could do it, her Talent could. There was no skill that could reverse aging. Slow it down, sure. Regular healing spells did that for those under Tier 15, but it would only add a few years at most.

Melinda wanted to de-age people.

The older man thanked her, and she watched as the healing contribution was deposited into her account. Healers, when in an official capacity at least, worked for free, while the Empire provided the mana for near limitless healing. The only time they were able to charge for healing was with battle injuries and rift healing.

The Empire considered that healing was a right for the common man, and the policy provided a facility for healers to practice their skills. She had heard from some of the older healers that had worked on the borders, that the other great powers didn't have such a system. Most of them would simply let their citizens suffer.

It was appalling, but it gave her a better appreciation for the Empire. It wasn't perfect, but the people at the top cared.

Melinda checked her account, and that saw she had 436 contribution points saved up. It wasn't bad. She had to pay off the debt from [Directed Heal], and she was also saving up for the more specific directed healing skills.

The Empire had a standing order to purchase all directed healing skills for value higher than their Tier, which allowed them to hand them out for contribution points. The better, higher Tier ones cost more, as they were more rare. But it wasn't impossible to earn them, and they gave people a reason to delve the rifts that would otherwise be ignored. Usually people pursued rifts with better skill drops.

She was brought out of her pondering when a teen was brought into her room. Baxter pinged her AI that this was one of her genetic disorder patients.

Melinda greeted the woman, and asked questions while reviewing her file. It was long, and fully detailed the woman's multitude of struggles. She was born with sickle cell anemia.

The cloud of blackness around her was large, but diffuse. She wasn't in imminent danger, but her body wasn't as healthy as her age would indicate.

Getting to work, Melinda used [Directed Heal] to target the woman's cellular makeup, and convinced her body to create the correct shape of hemoglobin. It was something beyond the normal ability of the skill, but it would be cheaper than fixing her with [Ranged Heal]. She could do it that way, if she wanted to triple the cost of the healing.

It wasn't easy, and her efforts quickly emptied her mana pool. But her rack of specially made mana crystals was by her side, courtesy of Baxter. As the mana flowed into her mana pool, it was sucked out of her and into the active skill. She could cut the flow off at any point, but this woman needed the help.

Melinda felt the tap as Baxter brought her over a second mana stone rack. He refused to tell her how he got a second one made. They were mana stones grown to her exact mana signature, not the more common type that were able to be aspected. It meant that the conversion factor was nearly perfect, but the cost was apparently massive. They were made with a protected recipe, and the company only sold to healers, but they had the policy of only one per healer.

As far as she knew, there were no exceptions at all. Every healer she asked had already tried to buy a second. She even asked what happened if the rack of rechargeable mana stones were lost, and found out that they had tracking runes embedded in the surrounding metal. The racks were also made of a hyper light Tier 40 metal. They were nearly unbreakable by anyone who was dumb enough to steal one, and were completely protected from casual damage.

She had given in and asked Baxter, who only shrugged and said he didn't know either. It was delivered, so he gave it to her. She didn't believe him for a second. As much as she didn't like that he hid himself, she wasn't going to make the man that uncomfortable.

It was at times like these that she treasured the precious second rack. It let her heal without interruption. Where other healers needed to rest, she never did. While she had let her mana control fall to the wayside, she had incredible endurance. It was more willpower and stubbornness than anything else, but watching the dark cloud fade gave Melinda all the encouragement she needed.

They had said that her seeing death floating around people was a result of her trauma, and she couldn't deny that it may have started like that. But now, it was her Concept and reality. She personally thought that she had touched on the Concept after the night of horrors that the rift breaks created. The passive function of her Concept hadn't changed when she broke into Tier 5, and the active component was the only real change.

The active component of her Concept was something she refused to touch, and no matter how much Baxter pushed, she constantly refused. Eventually, they had come to a head, and she put her foot down.

She would die before she used her Concept for a second time. Her Concept phrase was Death. And her image was the darkness that surrounded people who were hurt.

The ability her Concept gave her was to damage people, like reverse healing. The very idea of it was anathema to her. The visuals were even worse. The very rift creatures that had destroyed her life formed from the black mist, and tore the victim apart. It would inflict wounds that turned black, and spread over the rest of the body, liquifying flesh as it spread.

She didn't care if she would be stuck at Tier 24 if she didn't use and grow her Concept. She would rather die than be death itself. Killing was one thing, and she fought in rifts without complaint. But even rift monsters didn't deserve the slow melting of flesh that her Concept created when the appratitions tore into them.

To his credit, Baxter hadn't pushed after that. He never even mentioned the active component of her Concept, except to tell her that Concepts with passive components were a rare but a known thing. He told her to focus on that part of her Concept instead.

Finally, after tens of thousands of mana, the darkness was gone from the woman's body. Melinda stood up, with her knees popping.

"How do you feel?" Melinda cast a [Ranged Heal] to take care of any lingering aches or pains that the woman was experiencing. Sickle cell anemia caused fatigue and pain as two of its main symptoms after all. It should also fix the misshapen hemoglobin that was still in the woman's body.

The woman stretched and wiggled her ankles and fingers carefully, before she asked, "It's gone like after a normal healing, but I don't feel a lingering sensation. Is it really gone forever?"

Melinda saw Baxter nod out of the corner of her vision, and she smiled at the woman. She started to babble, "They said it would be a few more years before a high enough Tier healer came around. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you!"

Melinda held the woman as she wept into her arms. A feeling of contented warmth seeped into her.

This was why she healed. A woman who lived her life in constant pain and discomfort was able to live a normal life now. Melinda was able to make the world a better place. She removed a little bit of darkness from both her Concept's view and from the woman's life.

As she saw the woman off, she reminded her, "The underlying problem is healed, and I re-shaped the hemoglobin in your body right now, so it shouldn't come back. But if anything feels off, please come back immediately."

Once she and Baxter were alone, he said, "That was well done. We didn't hit sickle cell anemia during your time at Tier 5. It's impressive that your Talent was able to make the jump to it. We have three others to check on, and see if they are under your umbrella as well."

They continued to heal for hours. When they were finished, and Melinda wanted to strip and wash off the smell of the hospital, Baxter stopped her.

"We have one other location to hit. I got authorization for a trial a while ago, and now there is a subject to test."

Interested, as this was out of the ordinary, Melinda asked, "Oh, what is it?"

"You'll find out when we arrive."

As much as she pressed, he refused to explain. He grabbed her and flew halfway across the city. They arrived at the outskirts, where the planetary prison was located.

She didn't know what the big deal was. She had done healing here before.

"What's with the secrecy? I've been here before."

"You'll see." Baxter's voice had a finality to it that she didn't want to push.

They entered the prison, and Melinda greeted the guards and prisoners she had met before. The Empire didn't have large prisons, and the ones they did have focused on rehabilitation, and correcting mistakes in a safe environment. Anyone who did something heinous was killed. She didn't agree with that, but accepted the reality that keeping people with the prowess and capacity to commit such crimes was a recipe for disaster.

She had heard a rumor about people over Tier 15 being sent to an asteroid belt to mine ore, only to remake the asteroid for decades on end as punishment. She hoped it was only a rumor. That was cruel. Death was fine for some things, but endless torment wasn't.

They were brought to a room deep inside the prison. There, they came in front of a nondescript man with shackles around his wrist and ankles.

Melinda saw that he barely had any darkness around him, just a few darker spots that showed minor injuries. It was the sign of someone above Tier 15. They were much healthier than anyone below that, and it showed in her vision. It was the main reason she knew her younger self wasn't making things up as a reaction to trauma. There was no way to tell a Tier 15 from a normal person without inspecting their cultivation base, but she had always been able to tell.

Baxter started speaking as he withdrew an actual folder with paper.

"Spencer Silver. Tier 18. A loyal member of the Empire, until he wasn't. He was caught trying to sell secrets on a weapon project, and he was revealed to be a spy who took over the real Spencer Sliver’s life."

"And what are we doing here? Someone whack him on the head and end it." Melinda couldn't think of anything else to do with a spy. There was only one punishment for them, and she had no sympathy for someone who wanted to destroy her home.

"Funny, you should word it like that. That is exactly what we’re doing."

Baxter met her eyes with a hard look.

"He will be killed, as we have undeniable proof, but here we have a perfect opportunity to test your Talent."

A creeping horror overcame Melinda, as his earlier comment started to make sense.

"We want to see exactly how your Talent works with brain damage. And to see exactly how your Concept works on a human."

Melinda protested, "No, I won't do that. We already know what it does."

As her words ended, Baxter spat out, "We know how normal overhealth works. But as we've proven with you, your Talent is both malleable and able to grow. That means it could work differently."

Melinda didn't want to hear it.

"No! I refuse. I won't be a part of torturing a man. Also, we’ve gone over this, I won't use my Concept. I won't. It's evil, and it’s everything I stand against."

Just the thought of seeing the kobolds and harpies attacking again was reason enough to not use it. But it was her polar opposite, and she refused to even test it. That would be the start of a slippery slope that eventually led to her using it as any normal skill.

That. Wasn't. Her.

Baxter looked at her with a complicated look in his eyes. "Your Talent is game-changing. It's so strong that you don't have to be perfect with your healing technique. Hell, you don't even have to try most of the time."

She opened her mouth to protest, but he held up a hand and continued.

"No. Let me finish. Your Talent means that any mistakes you make are fixed with no repercussions. You don't have to push yourself. But allow me to let you in on a secret. Talents won't carry you forever. There will be a time where it isn't strong enough to get you through a situation. For that, you need training, practice, and experience. If you don’t hone your skills, you won't have them. You will fail, and people will pay the price."

Baxter took a deep breath.

"I want you to use your Concept because from the description you provided, it seems incredibly strong. Absurdly so. Why won't you at least use it on rift monsters? They are the reason you lost everything. I could accept it if you only wanted to use it on them, and not humans, but they are rage given flesh. They deserve no mercy."

"It's a slippery slope, and I don't want to make one exception that will lead to others."

Melinda took a deep breath and continued, "My team does well on their own. Even without my Talent, we would be fine."

