Baxter laughed heartily, "No, they wouldn't. Melinda, you aren't dumb. Your team wouldn't be so far ahead of the curve without you. And you aren't even that great yourself. Healers are usually team shot callers, and you suck at it. If you went into a new rift that you didn't have a guide for, and you didn't have overhealth as a Talent, your team would all be crippled or dead by now. What are you going to do after Tier 10 when the rifts no longer have any useful guides because they have too much variation? You have no instinct for being a shot-caller, because you don't need it for everyone on your team to be fine. If one of your friends got hurt, you just heal them back to perfect health."

He rubbed his eyes, and seemed really old for a moment.

"Will you use this man to test your Talent and your Concept?"

Melinda couldn't deny what he said earlier had merit, but she held firm. It wasn't right.

"No."

Baxter didn't push further, and a ray of what looked like moonlight washed over the spy. A split second later, he was just gone.

"Let's go. I'll take you home. Just think about what I said."

They moved through the prison and walked to the train station. Melinda wanted to complain about Baxter, but a nagging fear told her he was right. But she wanted to help people, not repeatedly kill and heal a man so they could test her Talent.

The effects of overhealth were well known, according to the Emperor's chief healer. Hers would work like that too.

What if it doesn't, and Mathew loses his head?

She pushed the dark thought to the back of her mind. She refused to entertain the possibility, but she also searched for shot-caller classes she could take. Baxter was an ass, but he wasn't wrong there either.

As they were on the train, she watched a short-haired man step into their car. He was attractive enough, in a rugged way. But what drew her eyes were the solid kobolds and harpies crawling over him. He was so near death, there was no line to cross.

She shot up and walked over to him.

"You need to go to the hospital. You are seriously ill."

He cocked an eyebrow at her and laughed, saying, "I feel fine. I really don't have the time."

Latching on to the excuse, Melinda struck back, "Let me examine you for the train ride then."

He rolled his eyes and stuck out his hand. "If you are going to be examining me, we should at least trade names. I'm Made Milson."

Melinda cast [Directed Heal] to get an idea of what was wrong.

"Well, I'm Melinda, and you have cancer in the liver, lungs, prostate, and brain. Will you come to the hospital now?"

Made looked at her like she was crazy, so she pulled out her pad and brought up her credentials.

Made shrugged and said, "Eh. I have a meeting with some..." he paused, clearly making up a lie, "new and interesting people... And I will be ki...ssing them. Kissing them. I'm going to an orgy. Lots of sex. Not suited for pretty things like you. A lot of old wrinkly, ugly people. But the eclairs are to die for. So maybe tomorrow."

Melinda stared at him, flabbergasted.

"Mr. Milson, this isn't the time for jokes and humor. You are close to death. It's serious, and needs to be treated as such."

Baxter watched her handling the recalcitrant man, and she found an urge to prove him wrong about her being unable to do anything without her Talent.

"Promise me you'll show up tomorrow morning. I have a shift then, and I'll expect you there. If you don't show, I'll send the guards to track you down and drag you in."

"Ohh, kinky. Just so you know, my safe word is kumquat." He winked at her, and while he looked unconvinced, he agreed to show up. She got the feeling that it was more to get her to leave him alone than anything else, but it worked.

She hit him with a controlled [Ranged Heal], to hold him over until tomorrow, and smirked at Baxter. He just rolled his eyes at her. She had to admit, for his acerbic nature, his crude humor had lightened her mood after the darkness of Baxter's suggestion.

When she arrived at her team’s rented home, she expected everyone to already be asleep, but found them animatedly discussing something.

"Oh Melinda, you’re back. Did you see the message?" Tara was the farthest, and the one facing the door, so she saw her first.

"No, I keep my AI on do not disturb mode when I’m working. You know that."

"Check." Everyone shouted in unison, startling her.

She did as requested and a high-priority message on her AI.

Person on The Path of Ascension. You are at either Tier 5 or 6, and invited to join the Empire sanctioned vassal war. The kingdom of the Seven Suns has been declared on by the queendom Alliance of Allied Queens, over their newly discovered Tier 20 planet. As their Tier 6 planet is the nexus point between the two vassal factions, the Emperor has decided to use it as a safe training environment for our youth.

Pick a side, and fight for contribution points! Anyone on The Path and at the correct Tiers will be allowed to participate! If you choose to participate, picking a side will book you for fast transportation to the planet in question. Check the attached file for rewards given.

Please note that winning or losing will be irrelevant, and the losing side may get more rewards if they fight harder. Winning or losing won’t determine the outcome on the Tier 20 planet.

The file with the rewards was quite extensive. Even just showing up and standing guard would net most people a Tier 8 skill shard. It was also accompanied by a multi-page document, entailing how these faux wars usually proceed.

Melinda didn't want to go. She wanted her team to stay here and be safe, but just a look told her they had already decided.

She was opening her mouth to ask which side they wanted to choose, when a knock sounded at the door. Thinking it was Baxter who wanted to say something, she opened it without thinking.

Standing outside was a woman with flame-red feathers in place of her hair. When the woman saw her, she smiled, "You must be Melinda!" she exclaimed.
