Hikari did not remember the vision that had led her to make her prophecy. She had to pore over the words instead, to pick apart what might have led her to phrase it the way she had.

Fortunately, she knew herself well.

The strictures of time are yet unwritten. The blood of dragons will spill in greater volumes than ever before, and when it does, the University itself will wither. Take pity on we who preceded you, and know that we are ourselves in truth.

It was a message for their visitors, but she thought it might have been a message for herself as well. Take pity on we who preceded you... "Pity" was not a term she would have used unless she had died in her vision.

Her prophecy was meant to circumvent that future, of course, but gazing at the dragonshade—no, the dragonlord that had tracked her down—Hikari somehow doubted she would escape that fate.

At least the future was in good hands. If these visitors were from the future, as her own prophecy implied and their magical knowledge and abilities implied, then her dream had come true after all.

Magic had evolved. She could be content with that knowledge.

...

That did not, however, mean that she would be content with that knowledge.

The dragonlord stepped forward. Instructor Hikari snapped her fingers and waved her wand.

What a wonderful gift from their visitors, this idea of wands. That it granted them the ability to cast without having to draw a circle was fascinating and merited extensive study. If she never got to it, she hoped her students would; she'd already drafted up several ideas.

For now, though, her study of their guests and their magic had given her a delightful idea. Apparently, Professor Graystalk had a spell that could gather and reform chalk from remnant and residue. Hikari had experimented with this before, but the circle used to gather the chalk always took more chalk to draw than it gathered, and it couldn't affect itself.

Wands, however, let her bypass that limitation entirely.

She had taken care of her oldest and most beloved stick of chalk for decades and had never once used it. The spells she cast with it, in theory, would have a symbolic purity unmatched by any other mage. Without her wand, she would only have had the time to draw and cast a single spell.

With it?

When she waved her wand, the three split pieces of Mirai—she had named the chalk, obviously—drew a final, definitive stroke on three different Fourth Circle spells right as the dragonlord stepped into range. Disintegration, Blood to Stone, and Wall of Flame.

The hallway exploded in a brilliant display of magic. The dragonlord screamed its fury, its scales crumbling or losing their luster before it managed to bring up an array of defensive shields—

—which was when her fourth, pre-drawn spell system triggered, now that all its requisite reagent nodes had been filled with active spells or defensive shields. She'd always wondered if spells could be chained in this way, the result of one spell used as a reagent to fuel the next. It was just impractical to test and took a huge quantity of high-quality chalk. She'd never been able to justify it.

But clearly she had been right, and spells could be chained in that manner. Magic crackled from the spell circle before spreading out into the blood splattered over the hallways.

Then that blood exploded out and wrapped around her, shaping itself into a protective shell of armor.

"This spell will need a name, I believe," Instructor Hikari said. "How about Stormfall Armor?"

"Human arrogance," the dragonlord spat, twirling its spear. "You dare use our magic?"

"And I'm not done," Hikari said simply. "Let us see how many new discoveries I can make today, shall we?"
