Now it was Rain’s turn to fall silent and contemplate his thoughts, so Min Gyu waited with bated breath. Balance was the linchpin of the Dao, so without a better understanding of how Rain perceived Balance, it would be difficult to progress any further in this discourse of the boy’s Path. “For a long time,” Rain began, hesitant and unsure for once, “I thought Balance was about... good and evil. Take and hold the good emotions, while ridding yourself of the bad.” A common mistake many children make, but one usually quickly corrected. “Then, I was shown that Balance has nothing to do with morality, and has everything to do with... well, everything. Balance in all things, that’s how it goes, right?”

Though the boy looked to him for confirmation, Min Gyu was careful not to give anything away, for his guidance was not yet needed. The boy knew the answer already, else he would have never progressed so far along the Martial Path, so it was merely a matter of putting that answer into words. Seeing no comment forthcoming, Rain returned to his thoughts before repeating the question. “What does Balance mean to me? Balance is... Balance is first and foremost a path to freedom. Without strength, nothing is truly mine, not even my life, so I must be strong to be free, to remain unfettered from conflict and struggle to do whatever I so choose to in accordance with my morals and desires. That’s what Balance means to me, the ability to be true to my self and desires, no matter what others might demand of me.”

There was a bleak certainty to the boy’s tone, and Min Gyu saw in his haunted expression a sorrow and suffering long buried deep. What happened to Rain to hurt him so? Whatever it was, he hid it well, but it still spurred him forward to this very day, pushed him to become the warrior he was. Make no mistake, even with his shattered Core, Falling Rain was a warrior, there was no doubt in Min Gyu’s mind, and now, he finally had an inkling of what drove the boy to seek power. Freedom. Oh what a lofty goal that was, for there were few beings in this world who possessed the sort of freedom Rain yearned for, a fact he already knew, judging by his determined, but pessimistic posture.

Unaware of Min Gyu’s thoughts, Rain continued with his declaration, no longer answering a question, but reaffirming his beliefs. “Balance in all things, but Balance is not about quantifiable effects. You cannot have courage one day and be a coward the next and call this Balance, nor can you set fear against courage on invisible scales and adjust things until it levels out. Charok once told me that fear would not keep me from attaining Balance, but that being controlled by my fear would. I never really understood him before, but I think I do now. Fear will always exist in me, as will anger, hatred, love, and happiness, but to retain Balance, I must master my emotions in a way that allows me to experience them, without succumbing to their whims.” Sighing, Rain closed his eyes and hugged his rabbit close, seeking solace in its warm embrace as others sought solace in the Mother Above. “This doesn’t mean ignoring all my negative emotions and only indulging my positive ones, nor does it mean I should seek out a neutral, equalized state, but rather... I should do as I please, so long as it fits within my morals? No, that’s not right.”

It was here Min Gyu chose to inject, seizing the opportunity before him. “Why not?” Rain’s eyes opened wide to reveal a troubled mind, so Min Gyu prompted, “Why would that be wrong? Is that not what you seek? The freedom to do as you please?”

“Because...” Furrowing his brow in confusion, the boy fell silent for long seconds before speaking again. “Because it’s... I dunno. It works for one person, but if everyone in existence did whatever they pleased, then there would be chaos and anarchy everywhere.”

“Oh?” Inwardly laughing as he raised an eyebrow in question, Min Gyu asked, “And what is it that keeps you from causing widespread chaos and anarchy?”

“Uh... consequences, I guess.” Shrugging, Rain added, “And morals? But not everyone has the same morals as I do, so this can’t possibly be the right answer.”

“Leaving aside the fact that there is no ‘right’ answer, why must your answer be fit for everyone?” It was rewarding to see the boy pick up on what Min Gyu was trying to say, so he drove the point home. “I asked what Balance means to you, child. The answer differs depending on who you ask, because what is Balanced for one is usually not Balanced for another. We are all unique beings, with unique perspectives, so how can a single answer be fit for us all?”

“...And that is why cultivation means to ‘seek the truth’.” His voice almost a whisper as realization dawned upon him, the light in Rain’s eyes died as he quietly mourned for some unknown reason. “There is no immutable truth, because what is true for one might not be true for another. It’s not about defining the Dao, but rather discovering how you personally fit into it, or more simply, finding your place in the world.” The boy sighed as if he had more to say, but held his tongue and hugged his bunny tight.

The change came so quickly, Min Gyu didn’t understand what went wrong. The boy’s answer was so perfect it almost seemed practised, but somehow, it discouraged him to the point where even the lazing Divine Turtle perked up to offer the boy comfort in the form of an encouraging squeak and an incomprehensible burst of Loving Aura. Taken aback by the sudden change and confusing Aura, Min Gyu stalled and sputtered before finding his voice once more. “Indeed, that was a fine answer, a fine answer indeed.” Knowing he was floundering, he wavered between asking the boy what was wrong or pushing past to let him deal with this private matter alone, Min Gyu finally settled on the former. “Is... there an issue I am unaware of?”

Which gave the boy just enough room to agree without forcing him to reveal all his secrets. Despite knowing so many damning secrets about him, Min Gyu knew Rain, Yan, and the Bekhai were still hiding even more secrets, but he didn’t begrudge them for it. In fact, he almost wished they were more suspicious because he’d certainly done little to earn their trust, and while he knew he would never betray them, it made him wonder if there were other untrustworthy individuals who knew too much.

Flashing a small, sad smile, Rain met Min Gyu’s gaze and said, “Well, I’m pretty sure I don’t actually have a place in this world, because I don’t belong here.”

Despite the mournful, sombre delivery and evident pain in the boy’s eyes, Min Gyu couldn’t help but burst into laughter. Not just a simple bark, but a heaving, wheezing laugh which started in the belly and set his aged body to shaking. Wiping away his tears, Min Gyu gasped and wheezed before finally reining in his laughter, though it was difficult with how hurt and pitiful the boy looked. “I’m sorry,” he said, mussing Rain’s hair with a smile. “I do not mean to make light of your turmoil, but it just caught me off guard. Only a few minutes ago, I marvelled at how mature and wise beyond your years you seemed, only for you to present this... this... youthful dilemma.” Shaking his head, Min Gyu smiled at the boy and said, “We all feel this way at some point in our lives, that we have no place to rest and nowhere to belong, but you could not be more wrong, boy. You are Falling Rain of the Bekhai, and you belong with your family and loved ones. Nothing else matters, not where you were before, or where you will be in the future. This alone should be enough, and if it isn’t, then I believe little Yan will be more than glad to set you straight.”

Min Gyu’s words had a profound effect on the boy, more so than he expected. Eyes filling with tears, Rain nodded, swallowed hard, and said, “Thank you, Grandpa Du. It’s good to know you’re here with us.”

Unused to displays of affection and familial love, Min Gyu mussed the boy’s hair a bit more before sitting back and clearing his throat. “Right, now where were we?” Gesturing for sweet Kishi to come sit in his lap, he spent some time fussing with the growing quin to get his thoughts in order. “Right. Balance. You have a fine grasp of what it means to you, and I have no doubt you will hold to it, so let us move on to Core Creation. What is a Core?”

Similarly having composed himself with help from Mama Bun, the boy nodded and said, “According to the Legate, the Core is the medium through which Martial Warriors harness Heavenly Energy.”

“Do you agree?”

“Well... tentatively, yes, but that’s really more a description of the Core’s function, rather than an explanation of what it is.”

“Then what is a Core?”

“...I don’t really know.”

“Good.” Nodding in approval, Min Gyu smiled at Rain’s confusion and said, “I am glad to see you can admit ignorance, especially to a question there is no widely accepted answer to. The Core simply is. It differentiates Martial Warriors from commoners and allows us to wield the Energy of the Heavens by converting it into Chi. Agreed?”

“Yea, sure.” The boy’s tone said otherwise, and at Min Gyu’s silent urging, he said, “Well, I’m not so sure about the converting bit anymore. See, the Abbot has this whole thing about labels needlessly complicating matters of Heavenly Energy, and I think I agree. Chi and Heavenly Energy are one and the same, a difference without a distinction.”

This too was in the boy’s notes, but it was a point he did not expand upon and Min Gyu did not agree with. “How can there be no difference? There are quantifiable limits to Chi which are too numerous to name here, but you’ve seen them for yourself. In contrast, we know Heavenly Energy allows Spiritual Beasts to create entirely new bodies to inhabit, which is merely the most obvious use of Heavenly Energy we can point to.”

“Mm, the ‘entirely new bodies’ part is another point of contention.” Gesturing at Ping Ping, who took this as an invitation to nip at his fingers, the boy smiled and said, “Keep in mind, there used to be a whole lot more turtle here. Where did all that body mass go? It didn’t just disappear, burn up, or evaporate, so I think a lot of it was used to fuel her transformation.”

“Meaning...” Frowning as he looked down at the silly Divine Turtle, Min Gyu asked, “You think she cannibalized herself?” But that would be sacrilege...

“Err, sort of, but not in the manner you’re thinking.” Stopping to think, Rain breathed out and said, “Oof. Okay, this is gonna be a whole spiel. Have you ever heard of ‘conservation of mass’? Essentially, it’s a principle which states that in any closed system, mass can neither be created nor destroyed.”

After clarifying what the boy meant by ‘mass’ and ‘closed system’, Min Gyu shook his head in vehement disagreement. “Impossible. Your principle is proven faulty by the mere act of eating.”

“No, because the mass remains constant, it simply transforms into energy, which doesn’t have weight but most certainly has mass. It’s like lighting a fire. The wood or fuel is consumed, and ashes are left behind, but not all the wood turned to ash, as some of it was consumed to produce heat and light.” Min Gyu still didn’t entirely understand the concept of mass or how it differed from weight, but he likened it to how wind was formless yet had the ability to exert force, which fit with Rain’s explanation of mass. For now, it was enough to know that mass and weight were different, or so the boy claimed.

“Anyways,” Rain said, getting back to the topic at hand, “That’s the whole purpose of eating, to fuel our bodies and store excess energy in the form of fat and muscle, which we burn off when we exert ourselves. There’s more to it, but that’s the broad strokes as I understand them.” It took some more questions and convincing, but eventually Min Gyu came around to the principle, for it fit well within the scope of Balance, only on a larger scale than he’d ever considered. The boy was full of surprises, and they could have spent weeks exploring this concept of mass, but while Min Gyu intended to return to this sometime in the future, they had to move on for the sake of brevity. “So that’s why I think animals instinctively grow larger without limit, because they’re storing energy in preparation for that final stage.” Shrugging, Rain added, “It’s probably also why Martial Warriors are generally so much bigger than normal people, but we all know there are people who buck the trend like me, Mila, and Yan.”

Even Min Gyu himself wasn’t particularly large, though he still stood head and shoulders above the boy. However, despite the boy’s a logical argument regarding mass and a closed system on the scale of the universe, Min Gyu still wasn’t entirely convinced regarding the matter which sparked this all off, namely that Chi and Heavenly Energy were the same thing. When he pointed this out, Rain smiled and said, “Right, right, but this all ties in together. See, I think Chi becomes less effective because when we gather it into our Cores, we are essentially removing energy from the closed system that is this world around us.”

Though Min Gyu sort of understood what the boy was getting at, he wasn’t entirely sure what this signified. “Even if this is the case, why is it significant?”

