“Because we, as Martial Warriors are not wielding Heavenly Energy as a whole, but only a finite amount of it instead.” Shrugging, Rain said, “I don’t have a perfect explanation for it, but the way I see it, it’s the difference between a full gourd and a raging river. They’re both sources of water, but the potential energy in each one is significantly different. We can do less with Chi simply because there is simply less of it, and it’s possible there are certain... I dunno, thresholds or breakpoints for Heavenly Energy to do certain things, like create new bodies. It’d be like trying to bail out a sinking ship with a soup spoon, which at some point simply becomes physically impossible.”

It wasn’t the first time the boy used water as a metaphor, but thus far, the significance seemed to elude him. Not Min Gyu, though he kept this to himself, lest he accidentally send the boy in a self-destructive spiral in search of more metaphors. Min Gyu was guilty of the same crime as well, as his first thought was to liken it to a windmill sitting still in a light breeze. Thinking it through, this led him down a parallel line of thought and he brought it up without thinking. “Perhaps this is another function of an animal’s Spiritual Heart? Not just to facilitate the use of Heavenly Energy, but also to store it in physical form for later use?”

“Oh, I never thought of that. Makes sense though.” Looking down at the Divine Turtle once again, the boy asked, “Does Ping Ping still have a Spiritual Heart?”

At one point, Min Gyu would have said yes, but now he was not certain of anything anymore. “Difficult to tell without testing, and I fear she might not take kindly to being prodded with Honed blades, no matter how gently.”

“Oh Mother in Heaven, is that how you test it? Poor animals.” Giving Mama Bun a kiss, Rain whispered, “I’m so sorry, sweet bunbun. I won’t let that mean Guard Leader test you ever again.”

A clearing throat had Min Gyu and the boy scrambling to their feet and ready to fight until they noticed the aforementioned Guard Leader standing nearby. Infuriating woman, always sneaking about like that, somehow even evading Min Gyu’s attempts to find her with Wind Chi. As far as he could tell, it wasn’t that she avoided his probing bursts of Wind, but that she Concealed herself from them and fooled his senses into believing his Wind Chi continued through her unimpeded. Though theoretically possible since some masters of Concealment could even bump into people and remain unnoticed, Min Gyu had no idea how she managed such a thing and resented her for refusing to discuss it.

Suitably cowed, Rain helped Min Gyu back to his seat before settling down in the grass once again, only for his sweet ‘wifey’ Mei Lin to come bounding off the balcony of her room with the tiny cloud chaser hare in tow. It was said a girl changes eighteen times between childhood and womanhood, but in Min Gyu’s eyes, Mei Lin must have changed thrice that in the time he’d known her. When he first met her at the Northern Wall some four years ago, she was nothing more than an adorable, pig-tailed waif he’d almost overlooked, save for her black hare ears and honeyed skin which marked her as the Medical Saint’s kin. Now, Mei Lin had blossomed into a lovely young woman with enough good cheer and happiness for both her and Rain, which was likely why she held the key to his heart. Try as he might, Min Gyu could not resent the girl for taking the man little Yan loved, because she was most certainly a treasure like none other.

“Hiya Hubby,” Mei Lin called, hugging the boy from behind. “Hi Grandpa Du. Whatcha doing?”

While Min Gyu would’ve simply told her they were discussing the Dao, Rain went to the effort of explaining everything from start to finish while heating up Mei Lin’s breakfast. The veiled Guard Leader had given her permission, so Min Gyu refrained from commenting about possibly ruining the girl’s Martial Path and passed the time playing with Kishi and musing on his own theories of the Animal Path and Emotional Aura. He still kept an ear on Rain’s explanation, just in case he missed something the first time around, but Mei Lin’s response to this highly theoretical topic surprised him, as she listened intently and asked insightful questions which touched on the core of the issues at hand. Eventually, Min Gyu even had to stop playing with Kishi as Rain and Mei Lin’s review went beyond what they’d already discussed, all thanks to Mei Lin’s quick grasp of the concepts and surprisingly insightful replies.

What a mystery, this young and whimsical woman, so talented in Lightening she could match many a Peak Expert in this one task and astute enough to understand intrinsic peculiarities of the Martial Path. “So if a Core is in a different system,” she asked, speaking around a mouthful of scallion egg pancakes while standing atop the Divine Turtle who was happily chasing one end of the girl’s silken scarf, “And the Core sits in the void, does that mean the void normally has no Heavenly Energy? Makes sense, right?”

Min Gyu didn’t follow the leap in logic, but Rain most certainly did. “Huh, I never thought about it like that.” Fending off animals from stealing any of Mei Lin’s sizable first breakfast or Rain’s second, he took a bite out of a meat bun and didn’t speak again until after he swallowed. “That would explain why Chi replenishment is fast on an empty Core, but slow on a full Core. We’re literally gathering Chi in a vacuum which progressively gets filled with Chi.” Stuffing the rest of the meat bun into his mouth, the boy reached for another, a good sign in Min Gyu’s eyes. The boy had a hearty breakfast this morning, eating more than anyone else at the table, and now a few hours later, he was already hungry again. Going by conservation of mass, was this not proof that the energy was being used in some way?

After a long pause, the boy swallowed and said, “Hmm... If the Void has no Heavenly Energy, then maybe that’s why the Spectres are so desperate to break in and turn Martial Warriors into Demons. I mean, as far as I can tell, Spectres hang out in the Void, but they can’t get into anyone’s Core or Natal Palace without an invitation. Why is that? They’re born from negative emotions and Heavenly Energy, so why would they feel at home in the Void?”

“What?” Speaking more sharply than intended, Min Gyu leaned forward and grabbed Rain’s hand before he took another bite. “Born from negative emotions and Heavenly Energy? Explain.”

“Oh, I never told you? See, it all started when Jorani – er, you know Jorani right? The half-rat with a rope weapon? Anyways, he was going through a downward spiral and...”

Hanging onto the boy’s every word, Min Gyu caught a glimpse into a side of the Enemy he’d never even realized existed. Truly, humanity was the bane of their own existence, for without the Spectres and Defiled, the Enemy would have no armies to march with. More than anything, if Spectres were a creation of human emotion, then this lent credence to the boy’s idea of creating a combined Human Path, for now they truly were two sides of the same coin. Despite it all, Min Gyu found that his faith held strong, for everything still fit within the lessons he’d learned. The Father poisoned humanity against the Mother, that was what every child in the Empire was told, and now, Min Gyu understood how He had done it.

Which meant there was hope that maybe, just maybe, they could finally put an end to the cycle of trials and tribulations which came in the form of the Enemy, all thanks to Falling Rain.

Just as Min Gyu was about to clap and cheer, the mysterious Guard Leader came to her feet, leaving most of her breakfast untouched. “Come,” she said, and the manor guards appeared beside her, all armed and ready to fight. “Your father needs you.”

To his credit, Rain didn’t hesitate, though he still found the time to ask, “What happened?”

The Guard Leader didn’t respond, but Min Gyu received a Sending from Nian Zu which cleared things up. “Baatar has been arrested by the Disciplinary Corps,” he said, his heart growing cold as he watched the fires of rage and hatred ignite in Rain’s expression. “By order of the provisional Legate, Yang Jixing.”

Trials and Tribulations aplenty. Though the Enemy stood camped outside the gates, the Empire might well tear itself asunder before the Defiled ever have the chance to breach them...

Chapter Meme
