For over half a century, Du Min Gyu guided countless students and a handful of Disciples along the four foundational milestones of the Martial Path. Core Creation, Aura Condensation, Natal Palace Formation, and Domain Development, he successfully guided so many others towards these goals, learning as he taught and refining what he knew until he soon became known as Great Teacher Du. He was a man whose lectures on the Martial Dao could turn a nameless Warrior into a crane amongst chickens, and while he had yet to give rise to a dragon amongst men, many believed it was only because he was too picky about accepting Disciples.

Take his goddaughter, Ryo Da’in for example, who attributed much of her success to his lessons, but he only ever lectured her on theoretical matters like best angles of attack and when to advance or retreat, how to read your opponent and devise a proper counter to their style, things like that. Never once did he show Da’in how to adapt the Forms for her own use or guide her on how to properly utilize and optimize her Chi skills, which he saw as the foundation of her strength. No amount of theory could help a rabbit overcome a lion, and it was clear from her first breath that Ryo Da’in was a dragon born.

Min Gyu had long since come to terms with the fact that much of his reputation was inflated and undeserved. Commoners did so love to hear about the downtrodden overcoming their trials and tribulations, for it gave them hope they might overcome their own, but regardless of what might be, Min Gyu still believed he was a better teacher than most, simply because he was one of the few Martial Warriors who dedicated their efforts towards teaching, rather than self-improvement. It wasn’t difficult to stand out from a small crowd, but since Min Gyu was a man of pride, he went to great efforts to live up to his inflated reputation and become a great teacher in truth, and for a time, he truly believed he’d succeeded.

Until today, when he discovered everything he knew about the Martial Path, everything he’d studied and taught, was inherently wrong, and he couldn’t be more excited to learn more.

Well, ‘wrong’ was not entirely correct, but much of what he ‘knew’ had been built on flawed premises and could be revised and improved. Mentally reviewing young Rain’s notes for the umpteenth time, Min Gyu took his time absorbing and analyzing the fascinating information contained within. Though supposedly written under the influence of Inspiration, he could not take everything as undisputed truth, for the Mother was not one to give things freely. This was not Her way, and instead She guided Her children so that they might discover the correct answer themselves, in hopes they might one day grow strong and independent enough to stand for themselves. In contrast the Father gave freely, but not wholly, feeding twisted half-truths to those poor fools who grovelled at His feet so that He might retain control over his reliant minions.

That was how Min Gyu saw things at least, but Rain was of a different mind. There was no reverence in his notes, no reference to the Divine, only statements backed by verifiable facts or guesses based on his own personal experience. His notes raised many questions and delivered few answers, but it was difficult to argue with his logic, which Min Gyu realized was not the point here. Rain’s findings were not presented as an argument, merely a collection of his personal knowledge and experiences stripped of any religious tones, but despite doing his best to keep an open mind, Min Gyu almost felt obligated to defend his beliefs from what he perceived as an assault. The Martial Path was a Divine miracle, a blessing which allowed humanity to stand tall before the Father’s foul minions, and it was all thanks to the Mother Above. How could Rain not see this and try to make it all about facts and theories?

Was this a test of Min Gyu’s faith? Could Rain be a Demon in human flesh meant to draw him away from the Mother’s embrace? Or had he wasted his whole life living a lie? Or perhaps it was a bit of both and neither at all, and Rain was here doing the Mother’s work, teaching Min Gyu as She once taught humanity. The Enemy was united as one and evolving with each passing day, fielding armies of disciplined, well-equipped, highly trained soldiers in addition to their hordes of savage, bestial auxiliaries, while the Empire’s tactics, strategies, and policies continued to stagnate as it had for centuries before. It was difficult to see malice in Rain’s words or actions, for he had always been a firm believer in progress and distribution of knowledge, and this... demystifying of the Divine was merely a byproduct of his inquisitive nature.

And that nature raised a good question. Why was it necessary for the Martial Path to remain shrouded in mystery? Throughout his career, Min Gyu had always been careful not to divulge too much about the Martial Path to his students, because he’d seen firsthand what happened when Martial Warriors knew too much. Take Natal Palace Formation, for example, which was the demarcating line between common Warrior and Expert of the Empire, a title made solely to obfuscate the milestone behind it. The Natal Palace was simply an inner sanctum, a mental retreat one sought in the deepest throes of meditation, but what made the Natal Palace special was its permanence and realism. Theoretically, every person in the world had complete control over their imaginary inner worlds and could shape anything within at will, but by creating a mental area which remained in perpetuity and followed the laws of the natural world, this allowed Martial Warriors to practice their Chi skills with a modicum of realism without dedicating the majority of their time to replenishing their drained Chi reserves.

The most common issue which arose from too much knowledge of Natal Palace Formation was Martial Warriors claiming false success. Most were not malicious, since those who knew too much about Natal Palaces also knew it was easy to prove the existence of one. All one had to do was memorize the contents of a page in a single glance, and that was usually enough to clear up any doubts, but the human mind was a powerful tool, and mistakes could easily be made. Min Gyu had heard of more than one aspiring Expert whose future was ruined due to a simple mental block. What usually happened was those individuals knew too much and tricked themselves into believing they’d successfully Formed a Natal Palace. Easy to believe when you want to believe, and even easier to celebrate before verifying the entire truth. From there, it was simple enough to imagine the rest, as the humiliation of a false claim was hard to shake, no matter how innocent or mistaken the claim might have been. Then, the fear of failure and the existential dread of a second false success could easily mentally cripple all but the most determined and iron-willed individuals around, and alas, those were few and far between.

The other milestones were even more difficult to explain, and doing so would be no help at all. Knowing an Aura was their sole defence against the palpable and overwhelming killing intent emanating from Demons was all good and well, but that only explained what an Aura did, not what it was, and even that would be of no use. How was someone who had never Condensed an Aura before supposed to understand it was courage made manifest, a divine gift meant to block out the palpable unholiness of an unnatural Demon inhabiting the natural world? The same dilemma was found in Domain Development, because telling someone a Domain was an external expression of your internal Natal Palace did nothing to help Develop one, and might even lead someone astray as they focused on the wrong issues. In its nascent stages, a Domain was unrecognizable as an External Natal Palace, and Min Gyu had heard it best described as a layer of External Chi which covered the Martial Warrior. It was only later on that a Domain took on hints of the Natal Palace, when the Martial Warrior was able to bring more of it out into reality, but even saying this was something of a misnomer, since the external Natal Palace was only visible to the practitioner themself.

For the above reasons and more, Min Gyu had always accepted that the less said about the Martial Path, the better, but now, he was not so sure. This brought to mind something Rain said all those months ago, when Min Gyu and other trusted Peak Experts gathered to try and help Rain find his way. Young Gerel had just finished explaining how the Martial Path was a holy calling, and Rain, in his unique, infuriating way, simply shrugged and said, “Maybe. Maybe not. Maybe the Energy of the Heavens is simply a natural force at work, like how sunlight fuels plant growth or gravity keeps our feet on the ground. We have yet to understand it, but that doesn’t mean it’s utterly incomprehensible.”

And true to form, here he was, treating the Dao as an inviolable rule of nature, for if there were rules, then they could be studied and understood. Who knew what new discoveries might be waiting for them ahead, especially if the boy could solve the mystery of Core Creation or any other milestone? It was admirable how the boy kept his convictions even in the face of so many others telling him to change, but to be fair, Min Gyu and his peers had not exactly been convincing with all their talk of faith, using one indecipherable concept to explain another. That would never satisfy the boy’s curiosity, so of course he spurned their advice, and from the looks of things, he might have been right to, but not for the reasons he believed.

For hidden within these notes was Falling Rain’s faith, one Min Gyu felt was wholly appropriate for someone of his inquisitive nature. The boy claimed he lacked faith, but he was wrong, for he had faith in the intelligence of man, and he believed that it was not strength of arm which reigned supreme, but sharpness of mind. Science and mathematics were his Dao, a Dao of what he could test, quantify, perceive, and evaluate, and it was a Path Min Gyu could understand. The marvels of modern shipbuilding which the boy alluded to had originated from his hometown of Yantai by the sea, and he also saw firsthand how Rain made steps towards rediscovering how the Walls of old were built. Then there was the matter of all the new discoveries he helped pioneer, such as cast iron, clear glass, cheap paper and more, not to mention his innovative business practices such as compound interest, futures contracts, and War Bonds. None of his ideas were particularly strange or inconceivable, and they were only unheard of because Rain was the first to try it, which meant Min Gyu was excited to see where the boy’s new Path might lead. As such, Min Gyu reminded himself that he was not here to argue with the boy about the ‘correct’ Path, but to help guide him along this new one, the core tenets of which were neatly outlined in these thought-provoking notes.

Young Gerel once told Rain, “The Dao is everything, and the Martial Dao is merely the means through which we explore it”, and now Rain had come back with, “Why limit ourselves to the Martial Dao?” Indeed, why limit ourselves at all? Zheng Luo had already proven that the Dao of Music was alive and well, while the Guardian Turtle was living proof of the Dao of Animals, and while she fell short of demonstrating unparalleled Divine Might, it raised the question: what other neglected Paths might there be? It was all so fascinating, Min Gyu could hardly bring himself to focus on the task at hand, which was why he took this time to calm his heart and organize his thoughts. Though this Path was new and unheard of, each Warrior must forge their own, but Min Gyu was well equipped to guide Rain down his Path, this melding of Defiled and Imperial. It was the same as always; the best teachers helped their students arrive at the correct answers on their own, so it didn’t matter if Min Gyu didn’t know the answers himself. All he had to do was to point Rain’s thoughts in the right direction.

Even if he lost sight of his own Path in the process. New waves must overtake the old after all, and there was none more promising than Rain.

Opening his eyes, Min Gyu looked up from the notes sitting in his lap and took in the eager, amber eyes of this most promising young man before him. There he sat, in the grassy courtyard of his manor, with the Divine Turtle on his lap and a rabbit on the cusp of becoming a Spiritual Beast in his arms. There was something in the boy’s demeanour which made him seem older than his years, wholly lacking the callow innocence and hungry ambition of youth. An able minister and courageous hero who cared nothing for wealth or reputation, and if given the choice, the boy would hole up in his mountains and study to his heart’s content while sharing what he learned with anyone and everyone who would listen. There was no one else quite like him, or at least none Min Gyu had ever met or heard of, and he was quite pleased with this filial grandson-in-law who would undoubtedly love little Yan with all his heart.

A shame the boy was so lusty and obsessed with keeping pets, but no one was perfect...

Taking a deep breath, Min Gyu said, “Let us start from the beginning.”

Nodding in answer to the prompt, Rain launched into his explanation without hesitation. “Core Creation.”

“No.” Smiling as he caught the too-clever boy off-guard, Min Gyu asked, “What does Balance mean to you?”

