She never imagined that she’d be even momentarily tempted by any class that stripped her of her mirror images. But her imagination soared with what it offered in their place. The name of the class was literal—as she moved, she would leave echoes in her wake. They would be intangible and largely unassailable, yet she’d be able to use a Skill that she could only describe as [Reflections of Reality]’s direct superior to revert herself back to any of her echoes at will.

Never again would she suffer while she waited for the Skill to activate.

Instead of backup dancers of limited (one class option aside) ability, she would be alone, reveling in a far more chaotic dance. Forget feints, she would be able to make true attacks, then revert and come from another angle once the enemy’s defenses were focused! The inability to scatter her images was a drawback, but she would still have some measure of control over the frequency and duration of her afterimages—she could adapt how she danced.

But that was the crux of the issue. She would have to retrain herself—[The Endless Echoes of Eternity] was outright incompatible with every last instinct and habit that she’d established. The class wouldn’t be a survival class any longer, it would be an extension of her primary class. She would be a dancer that wielded two elements for the same seemingly reckless dance.

The other drawback was that an opponent that figured out the trick—a visibly obvious trick, at that—would be far deadlier than one that figured out how her current shifting worked. Relying on afterimages, it would be significantly more difficult to leave one somewhere an opponent might never expect.

“…This isn’t a good class if I’m outmatched. Unless I’m confident that I can always decisively end the battle with a single clean hit…” Ranthia vocalized her thoughts. She wasn’t seeking her guide’s advice—which was why the woman remained silent—but she was starting to regret not classing up her Void [Warrior] class first.

Yet if she had, she’d regret not knowing the confines of her Mirror [Mage] class. There really wasn’t any way to win against what-ifs, not without perfect and impossible levels of knowledge and foresight.

Instead, Ranthia reached for the next sword. [Fractal Chaos]’s wrapping was once again on the blue end of the spectrum, but the class itself didn’t really grab her either. It promised to erode the confines of what forms she could shift into as it progressed, but that wasn’t really a limitation that she cared about. She liked herself. Xaoc chose a girl that grew into a beautiful woman for her, and she was happy with that. She just didn’t need to be able to shift into other species or dramatically different figures. Sure, there was merit to the ability, but it didn’t resonate with her.

And she wasn’t about to pick something that she didn’t resonate with just because it had obvious benefits. The true path to power came through loving your classes and Skills.

…Which was something she needed to bear in mind when she considered her final options. She silently thanked [Fractal Chaos] for the reminder, then moved on to the final blade that was waiting on the counter.

[Reflective Chaos] was a mid-blue class—putting it at the lower end of those that she had considered. But stats aside, the class seemed interesting. Instead of meaningfully changing the dynamics of her familiar Skills from [Diffuse Reflectance], it gave her new tools—namely, the ability to use other active Skills that she saw. There were some significant limitations to the Skills she would be able to mirror, including that she needed to understand how they worked on a fundamental level, but there was a lot of potential to broaden her abilities.

“The biggest downside is that I still won’t even be performing them at twenty percent of the power I could use if I actually had the Skill, even once I get this Skill to level 800. Copying attack or barrier Skills will be almost useless, and I can’t copy Passives with it.” Ranthia grumbled.

“True. At least in part, you would be hoping for the Skill to evolve or hoping for it to improve in a future class offering. But there are Skills that would offer utility that qualify, even with the current limitations.” Her guide spoke up in response while she continued to browse the racks of swords.

Yet somehow, Ranthia wasn’t expecting any other classes that met her requirements to appear. Well, sure, she was pretty certain that she could pray to Xaoc and receive a second [Priestess] class if she wanted, but she didn’t want to just walk in His shadow. A single divine-granted class was plenty—more than she deserved, truly. Living her life in service to Him meant that she still needed to prove herself capable.

Also, any classes He provided would forever be limited to blue quality. And she was plainly starting to outgrow that with her own merits.

“[Shards of the Shattered Mirror], [Parallel Passions], [The Endless Echoes of Eternity], and [Reflective Chaos]. One of those four, for certain.” Ranthia smiled expectantly at her guide.

And received a disgusted scowl in response—that was even better than the glare she had hoped for!

“You may return the others.” Ranthia requested, not even bothering to suppress her pleased grin.

Which classes truly spoke to her though? What resonated with her heart and soul, like her first dancing class once had?

[Shards of the Shattered Mirror] restored what she loved about [Diffuse Reflectance] and its ancestors when she was at a lower level. Her backup dancers would once again become a meaningful component to the chaotic performance of ultraviolence that she brought to any and all battles. Of course that spoke to her.

[Parallel Passions] would make her downtime a lot more fun, especially if she was with Avyna or anyone else. Sure, the class didn’t do anything super exciting for her combat abilities, and she had complained that she wanted a class that did more than just [Diffuse Reflectance] did. And yet, she had to admit that she was into what it offered. It was almost like merging a hobby class into her combat class!

[The Endless Echoes of Eternity], on the other hand, offered greater uncertainty. The class offered a lot of potential, but it was virtually blazing a new path unlike the one she had chosen. She didn’t hate the path it offered, yet… It was hard to get excited about such a drastic change. The overwhelming feeling she got when she seriously considered the class—without getting swept up in fantasies about inflicting a novel form of chaos upon those she fought—was apprehension.

The class could—quite easily—get her killed. She would have to retrain herself from the ground up to make use of it. And until she got used to the significant changes, she would be more vulnerable than ever. Worse, if the enemy was too strong for her to bring them down with an attack or two—even if she somehow managed to get inside their guard and inflict a true wound wherever she wished—they would most likely have the ability to strike all of her afterimages concurrently. And she had fought more than a few enemies like that throughout her life.

[Reflective Chaos] was in many ways similar. While it didn’t hold her back like [The Endless Echoes of Eternity] did, the class just didn’t offer anything that spoke to her. Sure, there absolutely were Skills out there that she’d love to be able to use, but with the restrictions and power limit in play… Well, the class would only be useful if she was punching down considerably or if she had a highly specialized or overwhelmingly powerful ally that she could copy from. Also, there was one other wrinkle that she hadn’t considered before that moment.

“[Reflective Chaos] says nothing about permanently copying the Skills. So, I assume I need the source on hand?” Ranthia looked to her guide for confirmation.

“Correct. There are two parts to the Skill: witnessing and recreating. I believe it should be possible to witness a Skill’s use and recreate it at a later date, but it would be a one-off in such an instance.” Her doppelganger always had a better sense of the System and the full scope of her classes than what Ranthia could absorb without wasting far too much time exploring the scenarios that her inner world could craft for her.

And as much as Ranthia wanted to pretend that she was struggling to choose between [Shards of the Shattered Mirror] and [Parallel Passions]…

“Your name is [Shards of the Shattered Mirror]. I don’t want to see any nonsense on my stat sheet after this.” Ranthia gave a firm order to the sword, even as she removed [Diffuse Reflectance] from its sheath at her side.

Reverently, she handed the blade that had served her so well—for the bulk of her life, no less—back to her guide. Then, with just as much formal care, she accepted her new class and slid it into place.

“I’ll be back in just a moment for the successor to [She who Dances with Chaos].” Ranthia bowed to her guide to show her gratitude, before she turned to leave her inner world.

[Shards of the Shattered Mirror]. Your images have long danced alongside and around you, though their capabilities have failed to keep pace with your own. Their best has never been enough and that issue has been exacerbated with each and every level. So, shatter the mirror anew and change that reality. Are the images you summon mere shards of a whole that they may never hope to match or are they a significant piece of your overall potential? Leave your enemies perpetually uncertain of the ever-chaotic truth. +68 Dexterity, +59 Vitality, +424 Mana, +479 Mana Regeneration, +464 Magic Power, +441 Magic Control.
