Under normal circumstances, Ranthia could have squirmed her way out from under the dead wyvern within seconds. But no matter what she attempted, her world continued to spin uncontrollably. Which kind of made it just a touch difficult to focus on, say, anything else. Every lever of control that she possessed for her [Divine Eye] only worked on the original, without any discernible effect upon its new twin. She couldn’t even close the Xaoc-forsaken thing!

“You really are the godsdamned stupidest and most reckless fucker to ever set foot in my Lodge, aren’t you?”

But life wasn’t going to give her the space to figure out the quirks to her Skill’s advancement, it seemed. She wasn’t quite sure why or how she had missed the tavernkeeper’s approach (aside from the obvious), yet from the very moment the woman spoke, there she was—standing directly above Ranthia. Her well-behaved [Divine Eye] watched the woman squat over Ranthia while its manic twin continued to do everything it could to liquefy her mind.

She needed to reply, the powerhouse of a barkeeper wasn’t known for her patience, yet thinking of words felt impossible while it took every shred of willpower that she possessed to prevent herself from drowning in her own vomit!

“New sensory Skill?” The barkeep asked, not unkindly.

“Evolved.” Ranthia managed the word, though it was followed by a far less dignified sound as she forcibly tamped down on what very nearly followed the word.

The barkeep nodded, witnessed by one sensible manifestation of the Skill and another that caught nothing more than a single instant of the gesture. Then, without preamble, she gently reached over and set her hand on Ranthia’s hair…

And forcibly ripped her out from under the wyvern with a single, sharp tug.

Ranthia—newly set down on her feet—spewed furiously (just curses and profanity, mercifully) for several seconds while she carefully felt her head. Her scalp sure felt like it’d been ripped off her skull, yet no matter how she checked herself, she wasn’t even bleeding. Not that her [Divine Eyes] were any help, they were both fixated on glaring… at…

Before she lost the feeling, she shoved the instinct to glare at the barkeep into [Submind]. Keeping her second eye fixated on the powerful elf was far preferable to allowing it to spin around until she blacked out.

“Better?” The barkeep waited for Ranthia to nod, before she resumed speaking, “Good, then put this on before you get any idiotic fucking ideas.”

Ranthia knew that her armor had sustained some damage during the battle, sure. But the severity was far beyond her expectations. …And the bulk of her armor was still trapped under the wyvern, most likely. The remnants of the shoulder plates and the heavily perforated remains of the topmost plate were all that remained on her person, and the leather straps that kept those hanging from her body were both in atrocious condition.

A sigh escaped her lips, but there wasn’t really anything she could say. She knew the barkeep wasn’t truly responsible for her armor being torn apart when she was wrenched out from under the monster’s corpse. Most likely, it would have failed even if she had wriggled her own way out. Assuming the rest of her armor even was under the wyvern and wasn’t just scattered throughout the vicinity. Losing her armor though, that was bad. Sure, it hadn’t offered much protection, but… Godsdamnit, she needed to find whatever arcanite she could salvage, at least.

That could wait for a moment. Before the woman lost patience, she accepted the fur-lined cloak with a grateful nod and wrapped herself in it. Her mistweave undergarments were just fine, but the cloak was warm and comfortable—a definite upgrade.

“And you—you’re as bad as she is, but at least she knows what she’s doing!” The barkeep rounded on Clover almost the very moment Ranthia was covered. “I have no idea how you fought like you’re every animal in one body, but you used it like a fucking fool! For all your gifts, you still allowed the wyvern to control the entire pace of the damned battle and did nothing but respond to its attacks for the entire time you fought. And, just in case that wasn’t shit stupid enough on its own, you reacted by making a single change and never pushed a single momentary advantage. You just kept repeating whatever worked instead of ever using your fucking brain—with your abilities you could have done far more!

“If you’re going to insist on going against your nature and fighting monsters, you have to learn to fucking fight.”

Clover was incredibly stubborn and had just proven beyond any and all doubts just how brave she could be, yet the barkeep’s tirade had her backpedaling with drooped ears. Ranthia tried to step forward to defend her bond, yet the mighty elf was looming over her from the moment she finished yelling at Clover—before Ranthia could even open her mouth.

“I know you didn’t expect your Bond to show up, but that’s no excuse for never teaching her the basics, you shit-for-brains moron! I’m beyond just pissed off at you right now, but I’m still going to go against my better judgment and do you a colossal fucking service.” No one was to be spared from the woman’s displeasure, it seemed.

“I’m still getting the medium rubies and the bounty?” Ranthia allowed herself to get her hopes up, fighting against her absurd urge to back away from the barkeep’s displeasure.

“Fuck no, I’m not giving you the tiniest shard of arcanite for being this godsdamned stupid. Instead, I’m going to do so much for you that I rightfully should demand a favor in recompense, but I’m not even going to ask for anything, because that’s just how fucking nice I am. So, listen up and don’t you dare interrupt me with any damned complaints.

“First, I’m going to claim half the carcass. In ‘return’, I’ll be making sure you don’t lose a single bit of its value by butchering it myself and providing equipment to preserve everything. Lucky for you, I actually have equipment meant for this sort of thing in storage.

“Second, I’ll introduce you to a few contacts that can help you move whatever you decide to sell from your portion. And I’ll even make sure that they pay you directly, and over time as things sell, instead of letting them reap the full profits while you get a paltry lump sum.

“And third, I’m going to keep an eye on all of these proceedings, so you can’t get yourself into more trouble, you senseless idiot!” The barkeep jabbed a finger against Ranthia’s collarbone to punctuate her third ‘colossal fucking service.’

It took every fiber of good sense that Ranthia possessed to keep her mouth shut. Had the offer come from any other elf in the City of Arts, Ranthia would have refused immediately. But from the barkeep, of all people? She couldn’t even imagine that the temperamental woman might try to scam her. Sure, she had no idea why the barkeep’s equipment or butchering skills (unless she had actual Skills for it) were more applicable than her own, but she was willing to find out. As strange as it was, she truly trusted the barkeep. …And that probably had nothing to do with her attraction to the woman.

She nodded her assent.

A few answers to Ranthia’s lingering questions were granted as work got underway. As it turned out, another Hunter had heard the sounds of Ranthia’s battle and possessed the good sense to inform the barkeep instead of wasting time investigating for himself. She had actually shown up right around the same time Clover joined the fight—though she chose to watch instead of intervening. And given the levels that they gained, Ranthia had her doubts that the woman even would have intervened to save them had things gone wrong. Which wasn’t surprising; it wasn’t like she watched over any Hunter, no matter how great a risk (or mistake) they took on.

As illuminating (and obvious) as that was, the process of dismantling the wyvern proved to be even more enlightening. She probably should have expected as much—wyverns were mystical creatures, and as such, they were a step or eight removed from the more conventional creatures of flesh that Ranthia knew. Sure, they still contained flesh and blood, though there were crucial differences that extended beyond the System’s influence.

At the more mundane end: she would have ruined the entire hide had she tried to butcher it herself. Per the barkeep’s explanation, there was a slimy layer to the wyvern’s skin that liquefied the hide to create patches of scar-like tissue—and did so rapidly when exposed to air. Biologically, it made sense. It allowed wyverns (and other dragonkin) to recover from even severe injuries at a rapid pace. But that specific layer had to be cleanly and utterly removed as the wyvern was skinned.

And naturally, it didn’t want to remove cleanly. Incredibly precise knife-work was required to keep from ruining the hide. The barkeep’s heavily curved blade looked more like a short sword than a knife, a necessity to ensure the layer was removed before air reached it.

But the mythic’s non-traditional biology showed up in other ways, including certain organs. The wyvern’s breath attack came from a combination of the System’s blessings and the unique anatomy that was shared among the higher echelons of dragonkin. The organs responsible couldn’t generate any material without the System, but they were still innately magic. Which meant that the barkeep had to cut her way to get them out the moment she was done skinning the wyvern—to limit how much they diminished without the System.

Fortunately, the barkeep could make the journey between the site and the city in less than a minute, which she made full use of as she worked. And the storage equipment that she retrieved was specially designed to maintain and preserve even mystical anatomy. Each winter steel container was engraved with enchantments unlike any Ranthia had ever seen before, with integrated arcanite meant to fuel and preserve the enchantments. The end results were metal cases and barrels that were quite nearly seamless once they were sealed—airtight and guaranteed to last for over a thousand and twenty-four years once activated.

Neither Ranthia nor Clover were permitted to help with any stage of the butchering process. Clover was surprisingly content with watching—and paid rapt attention as she did so. But Ranthia made the mistake of asking if she could help for a second time and ended up tasked with collecting every needle from the wyvern’s breath attack that she could find. Armed with a pair of tweezers and a more mundane metal box, Ranthia set out to perform what was almost certainly a waste of time. There was pretty much zero chance that the material hadn’t been conjured, which meant that it would break down and vanish, no matter what they tried to do to preserve and store it. Still, on the outside chance that they somehow weren’t conjured, she focused on her busywork while the barkeep prepared and stored every last bit of the wyvern—down to the last tendon.

But the weirdest bit came after everything was put away…

“Hey idiot, am I right to assume that you don’t have any ridiculous taboos about nudity?” The barkeep asked while she accepted the (mundanely enchanted) box from Ranthia.

“…Yeah, I’m fine with it.” Ranthia answered honestly, though she was unable to suppress the urge to frown. She liked the fur-lined cloak that she was wearing, it was warmer and comfier than most blankets that she owned! She absolutely didn’t want to part with it already.

“Good. And I presume that becoming stronger means more to you than a bit of currency?” The barkeep seemed to assume this one was obvious, yet she still asked.

“Of course.” Ranthia agreed immediately. Not that she had any idea where the line of questions was going anymore.

“Good. Get naked—and I mean naked. No mistweave, no sandals. Your rabbit had the right idea, even if it’s painfully fucking obvious that neither of you knew it.” The barkeep ordered.

Ranthia wasn’t shy, no, but the strange insistence came out of nowhere and the lack of explanation left her momentarily flatfooted. And the aside about Clover felt especially out of place! She just—

“Okay, okay!” Ranthia snapped, rubbing her cheek. Sure, she had several thousand more vitality than she had last time the barkeep physically abused her, but that just didn’t change much at her level. Which meant that the rock that the damnably impatient woman bounced off of her face stung just as severely.

Still, she had enough sense to do what she could to avoid a second stone—or worse. She even accelerated her perception to burn through her annoyance while she hung the cloak on a nearby tree branch at speed. A heartbeat later, her mistweave, the remnants of her armor, and both sandals joined it. And her mood was mildly bolstered by the fact that her footwear was in better shape than her armor had been. Sure, a few straps had been destroyed, but those were easy to repair or replace.

Moments later, Ranthia was sitting in a large wooden tub, more confused than ever. She had no idea what was going on or why the vociferously nameless elf was insisting upon any of it!

“Will you just tell me what—” Ranthia tried to make a (quite reasonable) demand.

“Shut your mouth.” The barkeep’s voice came from behind. The words though, they weren’t intended as a rebuke—they were a warning.

