So he has been watching my battles. Rhys manifested a scrap of lurid pink fabric and flapped it aggressively at Laurent. As he’d expected, Laurent stepped back. His instinct to retreat and take in the scene activated before his rational brain processed that Rhys held nothing but a harmless piece of cloth.

Exactly what Rhys had wanted.

“Bye-bye,” Rhys said, waving the cloth.

Laurent’s brows furrowed. He looked around him, searching the ground for some kind of unexpected manifestation.

Rhys’s sword, still fully manifested, fell from the heavens. The blade carved into the top of Laurent’s head, knocking it forward at the same time. The blade clattered away, de-manifesting as it hit the ground. Laurent wobbled, and blood stained his white hair crimson, but he didn’t fall. At this tier, a falling blade wasn’t enough to give the boy a concussion, let alone shatter Laurent’s skull, but Rhys had known that from the start. He whirled, building force and momentum, and delivered it into Laurent’s solar plexus in a single powerful kick. All the air whooshed out of Laurent, and yet again, he stepped back.

Off the platform.

Rhys picked up his steel pipe and his sword and bowed to Laurent. “A good match.”

Laurent looked at him, confused, then looked down at his feet. His face blushed with anger and embarrassment. “You—”

“Trash, I know. I wouldn’t win if we actually traded sword blows, so why would I bother? I’m not stupid.” Rhys shook his head at Laurent and offered him a hand back up onto the platform.

Laurent hesitated, then took Rhys’s hand. The second their hands met, Laurent yanked his back, as though it had been burned.

Rhys frowned. “What?”

“It’s—” Laurent stared at Rhys as if he’d seen a ghost. His eyes flickered over Rhys’s face, steadily widening.

Uh oh. Did he realize? Rhys glanced at his hand. From their hands touching? How? They hadn’t even held hands! What kind of virgin was this guy? Remembering the feeling of his hand from a single brush when they were trading currency for potato chips? Even Rhys didn’t have that level of virgin power.

In the next second, Laurent shook his head. “N-no. My apologies. I was mistaken.” He took Rhys’s hand and stepped back up onto the platform. “It was a good match. You’ve made me aware of my failings. I won’t make the same mistake again.”

“Ah, well, that’s good, I guess,” Rhys said, not sure how he felt about helping a future member of the Empire’s military get stronger. He wasn’t the kind of guy who’d sit back for fifteen episodes just so his foe could power up to their maximum power so they could have a good fight. He’d rather beat the guy in his mook form in one hit, thanks.

“I’ll look forward to your battle in the finals,” Laurent said.

Rhys startled. That’s right! He had to face Bast in the finals now! Holy shit, how was he supposed to do that? Bast knew all his dirty tricks and trashy skills. Forget beating him—what he had to do now was figure out a way to avoid the beating of his life!

Lost in thought, he stumbled away, while behind him, Laurent gazed at his retreating back, his eyes narrowed.
