"You have a mana obscuring item!" I call out in disbelief. I'm saving up for one of my own, but they cost fistfuls of gold for the cheapest ones.

"Yep, I got a good deal on it too. I was told it's worth 23 gold coins." Aaliyah tucks the amulet back under her clothes.

"23!" Richard cries out in shock.

I can barely believe my ears either.

"How can you afford something like that?" Richard questions his sister.

"I told you, I had a business deal with Silver Herd and the general at the fort. I've been making quality weapons for the army, and Silver Herd has been transporting them. Your sister is quite rich now," Aaliyah smugly grins up at Richard, who looks like he's eaten something sour.

"That's why I still need to go to Drey. I need to know how Silver Herd is going to react to Scholl's invasion, and the sooner I stop by, the easier I'll blend in."

Aaliyah makes a good point, but it's still dangerous for her to go, especially by herself.

"No way, I forbid it as your older brother." Richard surprises the two of us with his firm voice. I'm proud of him for having his sisters' best interest at heart, but I don't think Aaliyah sees it that way. Looking at the girl, she is staring wide-eyed at Richard in disbelief.

I watch as the shocked look on Aaliyah's face slowly slips into one of neutrality. "And what, you're going to stop me?" Aaliyah's challenge makes my hair stand on end. She's no longer speaking like she's trying to convince us.

"If I have to," Richard tries to remain strong, but I can see his resolve cracking under Aaliyah's intense gaze.

I notice Aaliyah's eyes flash, and Richard almost stumbles out of our carts seat. What happened?

Aaliyah turns towards me, and I feel like she's looking through me. It feels like everything I am is exposed to her. I don't stumble like Richard, but I do take a step back in fear of the monster in front of me.

The feeling quickly fades, but it doesn't magically make me feel better.

I suck in a breath of air and try to steady my nerves. What in the god's names was that!?

"A level 37 builder and level 40 mage. You both must have worked really hard, but neither of you is a match for someone like me at level 73."

What the fuck?! She can read our levels! And 73, that's not possible for someone who's only 15!

Richard looks just as broken as I am. She nearly doubles our level. Father said she's the second strongest in the village, but I didn't think she could have leveled that quickly since I last saw her.

Aaliyah looks between the two of us and sighs. "It puts my mind at ease knowing you guys are safe, but I still have my own path I need to walk. I appreciate how much you both care, but this is my decision, and I'm sticking to it. Something tells me you won't make it back to the village before I finish and return from my business in the city. I'll be back as quickly as I can."

Aaliyah slowly walks back the way we came and passes me. I want to reach out to her, but remembering how she looked at me a minute ago sends shivers down my spine, and my arm refuses to budge.

I don't even turn around as I hear her footsteps become quieter in the distance.

When I can no longer hear Aaliyah, I silently walk over to our cart. Richard offers me a hand as I climb up and take a seat next to him.

Neither of us says a word as the cart bounces down the forest path.

I fold my hands in front of me and twiddle my thumbs. My head hangs low as not to meet Richards's eyes accidentally.

What happened back there?

We were laughing together and celebrating our reunion when everything turned on its side so quickly.

It was in that single moment, Richard and I truly felt Aaliyah's strength. What has she done to gain that much power? What monsters has she faced? When I meet her gaze, I could see that she's killed people before. My master had the same look in his eye.

'You will never know the true weight of magic until you've taken a life. The world is vast, and many of you have never seen what lies beyond our walls. When you cast magic when your life is at stake, you truly see how far you've come. Everything changes after you survive that first encounter; always remember that, students.'

I thought my master was merely trying to scare us, but I can see it now. My young friend I left back in the village has changed more than I can ever understand.

And we determined we knew what was best for her.

"She really is strong now." Richard's soft voice draws my attention.

I twist my neck and see that he's looking up to the canopy above our heads. I don't know how to respond, so I decide to remain silent.

"Did I ever tell you about the time when Aaliyah was still a baby, and one day she wouldn't stop crying? My parents panicked, trying everything they could to calm her down. I remember asking how I could help, but my parents only shoed me away. It wasn't until hours later that Aaliyah passed out from crying too much. My dad finally noticed me off to the side, brooding, and thanked me for trying to help earlier. I remember complaining that I didn't do anything."

"My father sat down and pulled me up onto his lap. He said that wasn't true. I kept denying it, so dad had me make him a promise, a promise as an older brother. He asked me always to watch over my little sister, a promise I took to heart. I always watched her when she was set down on the floor to roll around, and I was beside her when she started learning to walk."

"I chose to play with Aaliyah rather than the few other kids in the village, and I never regretted it. Everyone in our family knew Aaliyah was special. She learned to walk and talk faster than we thought possible. Soon she was running faster than me, and that's when I first noticed she would eventually leave me in the dust." Richard's voice sounds a million miles away at the moment.

"She had talent in magic and anything else she put her mind to. I still tried my best as an older brother, but the gap between us widened quickly. You know, I had my own reasons following you to Drey."

"And here I thought it was because you loved me," I quietly joke.

"That's true; I would've followed you to the ends of the world if I had to." Richard doesn't stop looking up at the sunlight drifting through the canopy, but he gently pulls me closer to him with his arm. "But even forgetting the love I feel for you, I wanted to go to Drey to learn and level faster. Close the distance between my sister and me a little, you know." I nod up against his side.

"Turns out she's stronger than I could ever imagine and all I did was treat her like a child. How am I to compete with level 73?" Richard leaves the question hanging between us. "I know I shouldn't compare myself with her, but as an older brother, it bothers me greatly."

I wrap my arms as far as I can around Richard, giving him all the support he always shows me.

"Do you still wish to marry someone as weak as me?" I hear him ask in a whisper.

"With all of my heart," I reply instantly.

Richard's grip on me slightly tightens, and he finally looks down at me. His eyes are red, and he has the most heart-warming smile on his face. I lean forward, and we share a passionate kiss.

When we separate, Richard asks me. "Do you think Aaliyah will forgive me when she gets back?"

"I'm sure she will," I reassure him. "I think she's right, and we'll see her again before we reach the village. We can apologize for treating her like a child, and she can apologize for using that horrible skill on us."

"Yeah, that was pretty bad. I almost fell off the cart when I made eye contact with her." I feel Richard shiver a little.

"It felt like she was looking at every part of me at once," I try to describe the horrible feeling I felt to Richard. "And whatever skill it was, it allowed her to see our levels."

"Did your master ever talk about skills like that?" Richard asks me.

"Briefly," I tell him. "Skills that let you approximate another person's level are usually tier 4, making them all unique to the person."

"But she knew our exact levels," Richard points out. A brief silence falls between us at the implication.

I'm tired of talking about things neither of us understands, so I change the subject. "So, when we get back to the village, you're telling my father we're getting married, right?"

"Sure, as long as you tell my mom," Richard retorts.

It only takes a moment to reconsider my options. "On second thought, we should tell our own families," I tell him.

"Ok," Richard agrees and leans over and kisses me again. With one arm already around me, Richard's second-hand wraps around my lower stomach, "What about the other thing?" He asks.

I untense and let Richard support me completely. "We should wait to discuss it after we get back to the village," I tell him.

"Alright," Richard responds.

We move to kiss one another again, but a loud bird call from a nearby tree makes both of us jump. Damn it, in all the confusion with Aaliyah; I forgot to reapply my searching spell.

Richard gives me an awkward look before both of us start laughing together.

"Don't forget what we were doing," I tell Richard as I start channeling my magic.

"Wouldn't dream of it, but won't me kissing you distract you from your spell?" Richard smirks at me.

I smile but ignore him as I prepare my spell.

"Yana ger mecttion fetnnl sarn owr ecti tai hidantho annonnacgr!"

I focus as the spell slowly grows to its intended size.

As soon as I finish the spell, I only need to continue supplying it with a small amount of mana to keep it activated. I turn to Richard to tell him I'm done, but he catches me off guard with a surprise kiss.

When we break apart, I swat at his arm. "What was that for?"

"I wanted to see if I could get you to drop your spell with a kiss. Did it work?"

I shake my head with a smile. "Sorry, but you're not that great of a kisser," I tell him.

"I'll need to practice more than and level my skill."

"You don't have a kissing skill," I admonish him as he leans in and lightly kisses the nape of my neck.

"Help me unlock it then," Richard whispers in my ear.

"Watch the road," I playfully push my hands off of his chest.

Richard pulls back a little and glances at our slowly moving bivol. "Don't worry, OL Dependable will get us back to our village." Richard grins at me.

"We aren't calling him that," I deadpan. "Besides, what if we're attacked while you're acting like a beast?"

"You have your spell up, right?" Richard raises an eyebrow at me. I nod my head. "Good, then we're safe and moving forward. Unless you can't maintain your focus around me?" He offers me a challenging look.

Richard raises and lowers his eyebrows quickly, making me snort with laughter.

It's moments like these that remind me how much I love him. He's been through the good and the bad with me, and we've always supported one another.

I can't wait until we return to the village and finally make our marriage official with our families.

Hearing about the war from Aaliyah was a surprise, but I'll be damned if I let something like that stop us.

"What are you thinking about, sweety?" Richard asks me with a sultry voice.

"Just thinking about what we'll do when we get back to the village," I tell him.

"We start our lives together," Richard kisses my cheek.

"And what would you call the last five years?" I ask him.

Richard ponders my question for a moment before getting a goofy grin on his face. "I'd call it wonderful practice."

The two of us laugh together as our cart slowly moves down the forest path, towards our future together.
