Mana coursed through my fur, up my arms, and to my claws. It was so much denser than I had ever seen it before. So much so that, instead of just seeing the swirling mana particles inside my claws, my claws actually completely changed to that mostly white with dim rainbow movement flowing throughout.

The sphere began to form. It grew past the size of a base pentaclysm, past the size of an overdrive level 1, and then it kept going.

Honestly, the jump in my heart was kind of like sitting on a rollercoaster. Yes, I do remember those from Lisha’s memories. Or I have a very strong impression, anyway.

I remembered the initial excitement mixed with fear, the building anticipation, and then that moment of as you get strapped in. How that doubt grows after it’s too late to turn back, and by the time you crest the first slow climb, you know that you are in for the ride now, and there is nothing you can do about it.

Then, all at once, the sphere flattened, and internally, I let out a scream!

White at the center, but edged with flickering threads of fire, earth, wind, water, and lightning particles, swirling around it in multiple spirals. The ground tore open beneath it as it shot forward, ripping a trench through the already ruined training field, dust and debris exploding out to either side.

I got one last look at Rin. I saw her second hand grip the hilt of her sword, and for a moment, I wondered if I had made a mistake after all. She saw the results of a level 1 overdrive, but didn’t specify she wanted to see a level 2. I know she is strong, but what if it really is too much and I do hurt her!?

As the beam finally collided and sent out its shockwave, I saw a body blown away, and my heart dropped, thinking that was Rin being thrown back, defenseless, already losing her limbs as the body only had a torso.

But no, it was just one of the two training dummies she was standing near. The other dummy was flung off into the trees at her other side. But that wasn’t all. The beam itself split in half, the two sides of it shooting into the trees, undoubtedly felling more innocent branches on their way.

I lowered to the ground, fighting the wind. My own attack left an afterimage on my eyes for how bright it was, but finally, the attack was done and the light disappeared.

I squinted and blinked.

I couldn’t see Rin. There was too much dust in the way.

Was she okay? Could I have seriously just killed or maimed the High Regent!?

I mean, I didn’t think it was possible, and I knew she was strong. But come on! However strong she was, she was still human! Or at least, had a human body! Didn’t the laws of physics still apply in this world? Even Valrok had been wounded and knocked down by one of those ballista bolts, but the attack that I unleashed was surely far more powerful than one of those!

As the ringing faded from my ears, it was replaced by the crackle of branches falling deeper in the woods.

I raised up, ears flat, staring through the dust.

“Rin?” Fox asked.

My heart dropped for sure.

Holy shit—I actually just killed her! And that explosion was so loud, surely an armada of armed soldiers were on their way! I mean, we were right outside their barracks, after all! I wasn’t even in my human form! How could I explain it was all a mistake?!

I don’t deserve to go to puppy prison!

I whined. FOX! YOU HAVE TO RUN! Please, don’t let yourself become an accomplice to my heinous crimes!But then, I saw a figure in the dust, stepping forward. It resolved itself into Rin, emerging confidently, sword held low at her side, her hair drifting around her shoulders, her sash lightly fluttering from the last remnants of the shockwave.

She was standing, and whole. The most evidence of what she was just hit with was that her blade had turned red—from expelling the heat or the effects of some kind of skill I had no idea—and she popped her head to the side, cracking her neck as if limbering up for a workout.

But hey! She’s alive! And I’m not in trouble. In fact, she looked quite satisfied. The curve of her lips wasn’t that usual, dangerous smile; it was something that showed true satisfaction that I’d rarely seen on the woman before.

“Excellent work,” she said. “It had more force behind it than I expected. That was more powerful than what you had used on that tree, wasn’t it?”

After getting over the relief, I finally fully took in how terrifying she actually was. How terrifying this world was. When the Bloody Peaks Tribe attacked my home, I had seen hints of just how incredible the power difference of something from Earth and something from this world could be. Whether I was a modest level 18 pup or no, that attack was probably powerful enough to level a building, but Rin, who looked like a human, just took it head-on, and she looked little more exerted than after a pre-workout stretch.

She lifted her free hand, splaying out her metal fingers, red eyes locked onto me still with that satisfied smirk touching her lips. “I hadn’t planned on using both hands to block it. I may have actually been thrown off my feet otherwise. But in any case, I am impressed. You exceeded my expectations.”

I stared at her.

Thrown off her feet?

That was what she was worried about?

Not being turned into a smear across the training field? Not losing an arm? Not being vaporized and leaving behind only one of those dramatic shadow outlines like in old cartoons?

Thrown off her feet.

What kind of monster was this woman anyway?

Fox let out a low whistle as she stepped closer, though even she kept her eyes on Rin’s sword. The blade still glowed a dull red, though it was already beginning to fade back to its usual polished steel. A few thin streams of smoke curled off the edge before disappearing into the air.

This led to another thought.

If the most she was even concerned about with an attack that powerful was simply being blown off her feet… What kind of an attack would be required to actually injure this woman, let alone kill her? What the hell was stopping her from going on a trip north and cutting down the Iron March single-handedly, one battalion at a time? Were there other people like her up there that were this powerful? Worse than that, I had to consider that she might not even necessarily be the strongest person in the world, let alone the Verdant Empire.

Rin continued to approach until she was only a few paces in front of me. Up close, I could see that as the red faded from her sword, it was also fading from the metal fingers curled around the hilt. The tiny seams along the joints glowed with a dull heat as if they had absorbed some of the force from my attack.

Rin noticed my stare and turned her free hand, showing the backs of her fingers on that hand had the same fading glow. “Curious?” she asked.

I gave a cautious nod.

“This is not merely decorative,” she said, flexing her fingers once. “It was crafted with two purposes in mind. First of all, and I’m sure this will be relevant to you one day, it’s meant as a sort of filter I can pass my mana through. To control my output more easily, for whenever I have to use an attack in earnest. As you’ve just discovered yourself, putting too much mana into a single attack—there is a balance between what you can do, and what you can do that you actually have control over. This is not an applicable concern for most, but considering your high attunement, it seems that it may be applicable for you. Though, since you are a monster, there is a chance that through evolutions, you may develop a natural means of dealing with this problem.”

So the heat radiating off her gloves was not from my attack, but what she put into defending against it? I turned my head.

She smirked.

“You seem like you have a few questions you would like to ask. Once you are done training with Fox for the day, please take a human form so we can chat.” Finally, her sword whistled through the air as she spun it in her grasp and returned it to its sheath without even having to look. She simultaneously turned and walked off toward the woods. “I’ll be meditating on the other end of the training field here. Please try not to disturb me until you are finished for the day and ready to take your leave.”

Once she was gone, Fox cleared her throat. “For the record, when you hit me in the face with that pentaclysm the other day, I wasn’t ready for it. I’m not saying I could handle a level 2 overdrive pentaclysm quite the way Rin just had, but if I knew it was coming, I could have at least defended myself.”

I turned my head. Was she just trying to save face—no pun intended—or was she being serious?

“She’s damn impressive, and powerful. But if you managed to get that attack off when she had her back turned, I doubt she—or anyone, for that matter—could just shrug it off like that. Get it?”

That did make sense, and once again, I thought back to how Valrok had defeated my father. He didn’t take him in a straight-on fight—because he probably knew he would have lost if he tried that. He did all of these other things, attacking my family, forcing him to waste mana defending them. Did he do all of that until my dad was out of mana and only then went in for the killing blow?

My fur bristled at the thought. It never sat right with me how a mere human, whether he was some legendary dragon tamer or no, was able to defeat my dad. But it seemed this world did obey some laws of physics after all, and I had to wonder… If my dad had enough mana, would he have been able to defend against that final attack that felled him?

“So how many of your elements did that cost? I can’t check those with my level of analyze.”

Right! That reminded me. I was curious about that as well. Prior to using the attack I had 30 of each element and should have had 955 mana after my recent modest attunement gain.

After checking, I saw I was now missing 8 of each element, which meant it seemed to double the elemental cost for every overdrive level if that pattern continued. So a level 3 would cost 16 of each?

As for mana…

Vitals

Health: 750 / 750

Mana: 475 / 955

Stamina: 510 / 638

I only had 475 of my 955 mana left!

It cost 480 mana for that one attack! Like holy hell! I couldn’t even use it twice with my current stats! And also, if the pattern continued of quadrupling the cost, a level 3 would cost uh…

Puppy math…

1920 mana!?

I’m nowhere near that! I couldn’t even use it a single time, even if I did level it up again! And that’s only level 3!?

Hmmmm… maybe the pattern doesn’t continue at higher levels? Because that is kind of insane if it does… Hell, level 5 would be 64 of each element and uh… over 30,000 mana, I guess. Is it even possible to have a mana pool of 30,000 mana?

Fox laughed upon seeing how deflated I became.

I growled. This isn’t funny!

“What? You tell me that last attack you just let out isn’t enough for you?” Fox asked, placing a hand on her hip. “Don’t get too ahead of yourself, because I’m definitely still your superior.”

That made my lips curl smugly. Oh, she really is just trying to save face after all.

Her ears folded down, and her tail batted behind her. “I’m serious. I’m nowhere near Rin’s level, but you’re nowhere near mine. If I got serious, you’d stand no chance against me. Or rather I should say, you’d stand no chance against someone as powerful as me. So I’m just saying so that you don’t get too full of yourself and one day end up walking into something you can’t actually handle. Got it?”

I don’t know why, but her taking that tone with me just irked me. It felt like I was being talked down to!

I lifted my nose, closed my eyes, and turned away from her. “Yeaaaah, whaaatever.”

“What, you don’t believe me?” Fox asked.

I winked one eye open. The way that foxy smile spread across her face had me second-guessing myself just a little. I mean, only a little! No, I mean, not at all!

But she did seem pretty confident.

“Fine then,” Fox said. “I got one more lesson for you before sending you off into the world.”

She grabbed onto her clothes and started pulling them off as she turned and walked off into the woods.

“Let’s duel for real one time. I’ll try not to seriously hurt you, but I think a little reality check will do you good, puppy.”

My ears folded down as I watched her fluffy fox tail sway confidently back and forth behind her as she disappeared into the forest.

She sounded just a little too sure of herself, and that had me worried.
