Thanatos casually plucked a fruit from a low-hanging branch. It was charcoal black on one side and an unnatural gold on the other. "This one is based on my cultivation technique: the Divine Cycle of Creation and Ruin. Eat this, and your next destructive techniques become restorative, and techniques meant to heal cause harm." He passed it to her and then plucked another. "Oh, this one should be useful. It's based on my ability to oversee everything." This fruit was emerald green in color and shaped like an eye. "Eat this, and you can peer through walls and illusions for a short time."

Elaine took the fruit and wasn't sure how to feel about it. After all, she was an illusionist. The idea that eating one of Ashlock's fruits could entirely counter her ability to fight was unsettling.

"Don't worry, I never sell fruits that could be used against me," Ashlock reassured her. "I asked you to make me a mystic Qi formation to obscure my mountain peak, right? What use would that be if people could buy a pill that let them peer through?"

"Ah," Elaine let out a sigh of relief. "That's a good point."

"Oh, this fruit is going to be an interesting one," Ashlock said, while having Thanatos pick a solid black fruit that looked more like a large seed. "It's based on my Bastion technique."

That made Elaine perk up. The fleet of floating islands in service to the Ashfallen Sect was one of the greatest shows of power that Ashlock had. What would a fruit imbued with such a technique be capable of?

"Unlike the others, this one isn't meant to be eaten. Put it into a creation, such as a golem, and it gives that creation basic sentience and the ability to levitate. I've been thinking of giving them to the Mudcloaks to help upgrade their construction golems—" Thanatos suddenly paused and looked into the distance.

"Is something the matter?" Elaine asked hesitantly.

Thanatos glanced back at her. "No, quite the opposite. Kaida has returned from the Eternal Realm."

"Oh! That's great news," Elaine said with a smile.

"Yeah. I need to go say hello, so I'll see you later," Thanatos said, vanishing into the shadows and dropping the Bastion fruit.

Elaine picked it up and was surprised at how heavy it was. "So this is a Bastion fruit that can instill sentience... wait, couldn't I use this to guide the Fleshfruit trees on growing a body?"

Glancing over her shoulder and confirming Jasmine was keeping the kids busy, she swiftly made her way toward the Fleshfruit trees. Yet on the way, her attention snapped toward the same direction Thanatos had glanced at moments earlier.

"Is that immense spiritual pressure coming from Kaida?" Elaine gulped. "Monarchs really are different from the rest of us."
