Before the first wave of arrows hit, Alsantset sent three more following in their wake, never slowing while making ever so minor adjustments to her aim as the Defiled drew closer and closer to her lines. When only three-hundred metres separated them, she dropped down to Suret’s back and bellowed, “Withdraw!” Her quin picked up the pace and led the Defiled infantry on a merry chase north of Sinuji, and Alsantset continued to loose arrows whenever she could, though she was careful not to overwork herself and kept an eye on the less experienced Sentinels around her. Seeing Ravil plucking away at his bow without a care for conserving his strength, she Sent, “Slow down soldier. With only your upper body strength to draw your bow, you will quickly exhaust yourself if you continue at this pace, and we still have a long battle to fight.”

“Thanks for the advice, Major,” Ravil Sent back, turning around to bask in her surprise. One of eight surviving former soldiers from Sanshu, the dusky archer had come a long way since his time in the army, a raw recruit with little to no potential now a dangerous Martial Warrior in his own right, one forged in the fires of war and bloodshed.

Perhaps this visit to the front lines wouldn’t be so terrible after all. At least Alsantset could finally hone her Martial skills on the field of battle once again, having grown out of practice thanks to her peaceful home life. She loved her children to bits and would never regret settling down to raise them, but there were times where her half-tiger instincts drove her to the brink of madness demanding she go out and survey her territory to protect it from rivals. Utter absurdity considering she had no need for vast swathes of territory to sustain herself or her family, but those instincts would never go away, not if Papa was any indication, unable to sit still for more than a season before riding out in search of a fight.

As much as he loved his family, Papa’s first love would always be battle, and the rest of them had come to accept it, but Alsantset swore long ago that she would not follow in his footsteps, not in this. She was a mother, a wife, a sister, and a daughter first, and soldiering would always come second to family.

Though weary from a long day of travel, roosequin endurance was more than a match for the Defiled legs and lungs, meaning that without cavalry of their own, they were left to the mercy of Alsantset’s Sentinels. After twenty minutes of chasing, the pack of pursuing Defiled had grown thin and tired so she slung her bow across her back, took up her spear, and sounded the charge, crashing headlong into the fray to slaughter her foes. Hardly a satisfactory battle, killing exhausted Defiled who were already panting from exertion, but the brief clash was still enough to set her blood to singing, and exceedingly effective to boot. The foul stench of death was soon all she could smell, and if she were to guess, her four thousand riders had likely killed four times their number in Defiled with bow and spear, while distracting close to thrice that from the walls of fort Sinuji. In doing so, they saved untold Imperial lives by alleviating the pressure on the beleaguered defenders while the foolish Enemy infantry ran after her Sentinels and the survivors walked back.

Not bad, but the hunt had only just begun. Checking Suret to make sure she could still go on, Alsantset walked the quins for ten minutes before trotting back to the battlefield, where she repeated the same tactic with similar results. Since the melee combat was entirely without suspense, she arranged it so that a different batch of riders led the charge each time, so that everyone would have a chance to claim a kill in their first battle on the front lines. Of course, she herself led from the front every time, which was simply a perk of rank; If the others didn’t like it, then they could attain rank for themselves and face public scrutiny like she did.

There were plenty who could do so of course, since she was hardly the strongest warrior present, outclassed by many outstanding talents of several generations, most of whom cared little for rank or recognition. Tenjin and Tursinai’s strength needed no explanation, and Jochi and Argat were formidable foes when they weren’t playing the fool, which accounted for the warriors in her generation. Then there was the ever cheerful Dagen, always smiling these days after his marriage to Bulat’s mother, Maira, and a capable warrior strong enough to match her, if not defeat her outright. Of course, there were also the former bannermen, fifteen in total, all here to protect the little foundling they’d brought home, led by Huushal’s mother and Mentor, the fearsome half-bear Ghurda.

The most pressure, however, came not from Alsantset’s seniors in the retinue, but from her juniors instead. From what little she saw, young Huu might soon be a close match, with his powerful blows and unyielding demeanour as he scythed through the Defiled uncontested. Then there were the two young talents who stood at the heart of this matter, Dastan and Sahb, both twenty-four years young and already Domain capable Experts. While she was confident she could defeat either one in a fair fight to the death, victory would not come easily or without cost since she had yet to Develop a Domain herself. Even if she had, she would still be considered young since she was still a few years shy of thirty five, but Dastan, Sahb, and her little brother were all monstrous talents the likes of which had never before been seen.

Oh, poor, sweet, Rain, if only they’d arrived even fifteen minutes sooner, then they might’ve spared him from this cruel twist of fate. The most talented Martial Warrior in ten-thousand years, now a cripple who could barely walk without aid...

After five repetitions of her simple bait and switch, this battle for Sinuji was all but won save for a few stragglers still holding out on the ramparts, so Alsantset Sent a request to stand down and received permission instantaneously. Having run the quins ragged for well over an hour now, she ordered her people off the animals and walked everyone back to Rain’s position, where she found him dug in with a small, but sturdy formation of Death Corps infantry backed by Protectorate longbows, mechanical crossbows, and the curious, but unwieldy cattle chariots. There were even a half-dozen portable catapults laid out and ready to launch, though Alsantset didn’t think they’d be of much use out here on the open field. Better if they were placed in a tower overlooking the fort defences, where they’d be free to rain death down upon the Defiled waiting to scale the walls.

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” Before she could even greet little Rain, the aged Abbot appeared before her with palms pressed together. “If it is permissible, this monk would like to give last rites to the dead.”

“No dead here, reverend,” she replied, her tone as warm and relaxed as could be. “A few scratches which the Healers will see to, but I am sure the soldiers in the fort will appreciate your efforts.” The ones still living, at least. The dead likely didn’t care too much about last rites anymore. Already Jigari and Abjiya were making their way through the ranks to tend to the wounded, though oddly enough, they saw to the injured quins first while their companions tended to the Sentinels. Rain had mentioned something about Panacea being used on animals, but this was her first time seeing it in person. While unable to make out what they were doing, she could tell by the quins’ warm reception that the Healing was working and they appreciated the gesture, which made Alsantset want to spend more time practising her little brother’s ‘easy’ Healing method, if only to keep Suret safe.

Even though Alsantset would never let the quin sleep in her bedroom like little Rain was wont to do, sweet Suret deserved to live a long and happy life, with plenty of adorable pups to raise and cuddle...

“This monk speaks not of Imperial dead,” the Abbot replied, his voice and expression equally deadpan. “This monk means to offer last rites to the Defiled dead.”

...Madness. Sheer madness. “Absolutely not. If the Imperial soldiers see you, there will be riots and bloodshed. See to the Imperial dead, monk, and if you must offer the Defiled last rites, then do so privately where none can see. If you cannot agree, then remove yourself from this retinue, for I will not ride with Defiled sympathizers.”

“Such anger, such sin.”

Not in the mood for a long-winded lecture, Alsantset fixed the Abbot with her best glare and his mouth snapped shut, because while prayers and rites were fine for monks, the Mother helped those who helped themselves, and there was no one around to help the Abbot. Pleased by his pragmatism, she sauntered over to her brother’s side and accepted the damp towel he had ready for her. Just by accepting the towel, she felt more refreshed and unburdened, pleased by the man he grown into in the years since they’d first met. A thoughtful boy who loved his family and never asked for anything, but she’d rather he be a little more selfish at times, especially since he would rather run off and die than ask the People to fight for him, an altruistic, charitable soul too good for this world.

No matter. Crippled or not, Alsantset intended to see him live a long and happy life, the same as Suret. If not, then she would either die keeping him safe, or die avenging his death, because if he should fall thanks to Yang Jixing’s schemes, then she would hold not only the Prime Minister and the Yang Family culpable, but the Imperial Clan as a whole. The People fought for the Empire because they counted themselves a part of it, but should the Empire reject them, then so be it. If Falling Rain were to die at the hands of the Imperial Clan, then as their figurehead, the Emperor would follow soon after, even if Alsantset had to work with the reviled Enemy to do it.

Chapter Meme
