Blood burning at the prospect of righteous slaughter, Alsantset wanted nothing more than to join the battle unfolding before her, but even though she’d long grown weary of waiting, the situation dictated she continue to wait, so wait she did.

Ever since she learned of the First Imperial Grand Conference, she’d done nothing but wait. While little Rain fought on the floating stage and defeated his peers in front of the greatest audience the Empire had ever seen, she sat idle on the sidelines and cheered him on. When he was poisoned, she held her children close and waited while Papa cut open little Rain’s belly so the Medical Saint could treat the affliction. When he rode out to the front lines, she wanted to follow along in secret to protect him, but Papa refused to allow it because he worried she would coddle him, so again, she sat and waited while praying Dagen and the others could keep her little brother safe.

They couldn’t. They failed, and now little Rain was broken, because all she’d done was wait.

No longer. Her mind had been made up the moment the Justicar announced little Rain’s sentence, so she immediately left the banquet to call in every favour and beg every friend for help. She’d already pestered many in hopes they’d join Rain’s retinue, but aside from Maral, Gansun, and Charok’s drinking buddies, no one else wanted to play ‘wet-nurse’ for a ‘glory hungry foundling’, no matter how much she begged and pleaded. To her great surprise, things played out differently this time around, because once word spread of what the Justicars had done, Alsantset was inundated with volunteers looking to join her retinue. Not only would they be under her command instead of her little brother’s, but Yang Jixing’s blatant disrespect touched upon the People’s bottom line and ignited a fire within their hearts. Though little Rain’s parentage and reclusive habits made many wary of befriending him, there was no doubt in anyone’s mind that the blood of the People flowed through his veins, and when it came down to it, the People would fight to protect their own.

Having not grown up among them, little Rain didn’t understand or appreciate the close ties which held the People together, so he never truly valued his place among them. He was grateful and it showed, but from the first day he arrived in the mountains, he saw himself as an outsider and because of this, the others treated him as such, but when it came right down to it, he was one of theirs, and they would not allow an outsider to run roughshod over him without a fight. As such, Alsantset’s problem wasn’t gathering enough Sentinels to fill her five-thousand man retinue, but rather having too many to choose from. Few things could unite a community faster than an external threat.

It also helped that many Sentinels already suspected they were being unfairly targeted by Disciplinary Corps during festive new year celebrations, handed out fines, citations, and punishments for minor transgressions which would otherwise be overlooked. Now, their actions made it clear they were targeting the People as a whole, infuriating any and all who’d been affected. Soon, the Empire would see firsthand how well the People could fight, but alas, she had no choice but to wait once again, this time for Lieutenant Colonel Mitsue Watanabe to give permission to join the battle.

So bothersome, this political nonsense, but little Rain insisted on playing by their rules. Better to trust in the strength of the People and meet whatever challenges awaited them head on, but she would listen to her brother and the Colonel General for now.

The minutes ticked by and the conflict raged on while Alsantset awaited her messenger's return, watching and studying as a soldier always should. In all his time spent on the front lines, little Rain only ever encountered Western Defiled, easily identified by their bared, sun-dried chests and human-leather head-wraps, but in the months since his injury, the conflict had scaled to heights never before seen. A more familiar brand of savages had made their way to Sinuji, the pale, rawboned Defiled she fought so often in the north. Clad in thick furs and padded leathers despite the warm Central winters, the colour of their skin and their manner of dress wasn’t all that set them apart from their Western counterparts, but also their style of battle. From what she gathered, the Western Defiled favoured dual-wielding short swords or katars to unleash flurries of fast, piercing attacks, but the Northern Defiled were a more straightforward bunch, preferring to swing their large, two-handed weapons in sweeping attacks which were rather hit or miss. A difference in ideologies between precision and power, one made necessary due to the differences in terrain and available resources, since Northern Defiled could hardly rely on precision while living in a land of near-eternal darkness, while the scorching hot native climate of the Western Defiled did not allow for extended bouts of strenuous activity, hence their preference to end fights fast.

Unfortunately for the Imperial defenders of Sinuji, the Northern Defiled were far more effective at assaulting defended positions than their Western counterparts simply because there was no room on the walls to dodge. Their cleaving attacks clearing the way, the Defiled stormed the fort walls with reckless fervour where soldiers of the Empire died trading blows with the surging tide of Defiled. The death toll grew exponentially as time wore on and the defenders grew tired, their arms heavy and lungs burning as they stood firm in the face of death, but brave and courageous they might be, grit and fortitude only went so far. All it took was one breach in the line, one gap into which the Defiled could gain a foothold on the wall, and the outer wall would be overrun in spectacular fashion.

And overrun it was, its staunch defenders slaughtered to the last after a quarter hour of fighting. Two inner walls still stood between the Defiled and ultimate victory, not to mention the open killing ground awaiting them in the fort’s courtyard, but even if Sinuji held today, the price would be dire indeed. If they didn’t hold, and it looked like they wouldn’t since Lieutenant Colonel Watanabe had yet to adjust his tactics or even ready his reserves, these Northern Defiled would hold the abhorrent honour of being the first to bring down a border fort. Seeing how there was little she could do to help from where she sat, Scrying on the battle was both a waste of Chi and self-inflicted mental abuse, but Alsantset could not bring herself to stop, for there was a good chance that none of these valiant soldiers would live to tell tales of their heroics, so the responsibility fell to her to bear witness and spread word of their sacrifice.

“Hmph.” Arriving at her side unnoticed, Nian Zu’s scornful grunt spoke volumes to his discontent. “How can Juichi be so talented, yet his kinsman so lacking? This Mitsue Watanabe is an untried fool, frozen with indecision when he must chop nails and sever iron.” Raising his voice, the grizzled veteran infused his words with Chi to be heard by the soldiers in Sinuji. “This is Colonel General Nian Zu of the North, taking temporary command over Sinuji and all military forces within. Obey my orders or face Military Punishment.”

Leaping into the sky, the Hero of the Wall set off for the fort at top speed while uttering orders in rapid fire sequence. With his cadre of fifty Peak Experts accompanying him, he made for a noble and gallant sight which filled Alsantset with awe and reverence. A faction with even ten Peak Experts to command was a force to be reckoned with, yet Nian Zu had fifty such warriors he trusted enough to bring along on this treacherous expedition, which meant he was confident none of those soldiers at his side would ever betray him to Imperial influences. Justified or not, his confidence spoke volumes to his character, and Alsantset looked forward to seeing this Living Legend in action.

Her orders soon arrived through Sending, so Alsantset readied to ride out, but not without hesitation. Though it would shame her to stand by and watch while citizens of the Empire were slaughtered by the Defiled, she’d come here to keep little Rain safe, because she didn’t trust the Death Corps assigned to him by the Legate. Loyal slave soldiers they might be, but their loyalties lay with the Imperial Clan rather than little Rain. Since recent events had shown his Imperial title held no weight with other Imperials, why would the Death Corps be any different?

Unfortunately, her foolish little brother didn’t see things the same way and trusted his Death Corps far more than he should. Had she not ignored his arguments and come along, then he would’ve been fine leaving his life in the hands of these nameless strangers, and Nian Zu’s speedy exit already showed where his priorities lay. Besides, the Colonel General had only come along in a supervisory position, here to oversee Rain’s punishment and ensure there was no foul play so ‘justice’ could be served, so if he simply took over as Rain’s commanding officer, he would be accused of nepotism and interfering with the Disciplinary Corps. A farce is what this all was, because favouritism was rampant in the Imperial Army, yet the Disciplinary Corps looked the other way more often than not.

Thankfully, little Rain was no longer the same shy recluse who preferred practice over play and begged leave to stay home every time there was a festival. In less than three years, he went from a Sentinel without rank to a Second Grade Warrant Officer, with hundreds of loyal soldiers willing to fight at his side, and most even willing to die for him. Led by Junior Brother Rustram, these former soldiers, bandits, and vagrants of the North had demanded Alsantset lead them to protect their beloved commander and comrades, and faced with such fervent devotion, she could not bring herself to refuse them. Though not the strongest soldiers available to her, she could rest easy knowing they guarded her precious little brother, because she knew they would die to the last to keep him safe.

Well, not the last. The Protectorate were mostly here to defend the Guardian Turtle, and a good number of former bandits were liable to cut and run if the situation grew dire, but Alsantset could count on the majority of them to stay true.

Probably.

Not that it mattered with the Royal Guardian turned Death Corps soldier Kuang Biao standing at little Rain’s side, as even the best of Alsantset’s Sentinels would find it difficult to keep Rain alive should the Peak Expert turn hostile.

...When did she become infected by her little brother’s pessimism? Shaking off her grave concerns, she left his life in the hands of Lin-Lin’s capable hidden protectors and rode off at the head of four thousand or so Sentinels and the remnants of little Rain’s quin-mounted contingent. Having divested themselves of everything except weapons, water, and ammunition, they made good time over the flat fields of Sinuji, the quins’ paws pounding away at the dirt while Alsantset led them around the flank of the Defiled horde. So engrossed in battle, the Enemy didn’t notice the quins until they were almost within bow-range, at which point it was already too late. Heedless of their deaths quickly approaching, a large force of Defiled broke off to engage Alsantset’s Sentinels, at least five thousand strong and growing as more of the blood-crazed maniacs noticed her presence.

Good. The more the merrier, and she only worried too few would follow...

Bow and quiver in hand, she commanded Suret continue north at a steady jog and hopped to her feet atop the quin’s back. Without need for an order, her Sentinels all followed suit, many eager for the first taste of warfare in the Central province. Spotting a number of little Rain’s soldiers trying to copy them with varying degrees of success, she spared their pride and ordered, “Bows only!” Their crossbows lacked the range of the Sentinel bows, and she would rather not start the battle with some fool falling off and breaking his neck. All but one of little Rain’s soldiers returned to their seats, a dark-skinned cutthroat named Ravil who flashed an impertinent grin when he noticed her attention. Since the man’s stance seemed stable enough and she knew he was a fair shot, she left him be and nocked an arrow to her bow. “Loose at will!”

There were few things as satisfying as unleashing the first volley against the Enemy. The whistle of arrows cut through the battle cries and thundering boots, and for a handful of precious seconds, the beautiful shriek was the only sound in the world. What followed next was almost as satisfying, the hiss of steel and wood piercing through flesh and bone setting Alsantset’s scalp to tingling as the symphony of screams responded to their barrage. The lucky ones died or passed out before they hit the ground, where the living were promptly trampled to death by the passing of their eager comrades. Hard to say which caused more deaths, Sentinel arrows or Defiled boots, but she was happy either way.

