Alas, man proposes and Heaven disposes. Soon enough, one of Goujian’s Aspirants walked past, a man who went by the name of MuYang and had been inserted into Han BoHai’s retinue using connections forged by the dearly departed BoLao. Without slowing his steps, MuYang quietly signalled their plan had failed and Falling Rain still drew breath before continuing on his way. Disappointing, but considering how well the Imperials guarded their little lackey, he was hardly surprised. With Smiling Slaughterer Guan Suo openly protecting him and Ascendant GangShu hiding in the shadows, Falling Rain might be the only person in the Empire with two Guardian Divinities, for it was well known even the Emperor himself had but the one. Considering the old Monk had also served such a purpose, who knew how many more were lurking about, perhaps even the mysterious Abbot of the Penitent Brotherhood. Not trusting the Treaty to keep them from interfering, Goujian had devised a plan which mostly removed the Divinities from the equation, but even the best laid plans often went awry.

It wasn’t until the next morning when Goujian learned the exact details of how his plans fell through, and the news was dire indeed. To protect against discovery, he never met with his Aspirants face to face, nor did they ever converse through Sending. Instead, they set up a number of dead drops throughout Sinuji where they could leave encrypted letters, a practice made easier with cheap paper so readily available. No one would think twice about a lowly farrier in possession of paper anymore, though they might if they saw him reading or writing, but to this end, their cipher had been purposely made to look like carelessly scribbled drawings, a harmless pastime which was now affordable for a man of his station.

Hmph. It defied common sense how everyone believed Falling Rain was responsible for such a miraculous discovery. A savage tribal child who was not only an unparalleled Martial talent, but also a genius inventor and brilliant businessman? It was so absurd, Goujian almost found it laughable were it not for the dire implications.

After reading the report and destroying the evidence, Goujian returned to his farrier’s work with a bellyful of anger and bile. They’d been so close to success, but their plans had been utterly ruined by the damned coward, Chun Yimu. The young man had seemed like the perfect patsy, an idle shirker who repeatedly begged his family to allow him to return home from the front lines. From there, the plan was simple, as the best plans often were. While Concealed Wraiths drew the attention of Falling Rain’s guardians, Experts and Divinities alike, Goujian’s Oath-bound Aspirants would disguise themselves as Chun Yimu’s slaves and assassinate Falling Rain in the chaos. Those three were the most devoted warriors left to Goujian, each volunteering to take the necessary Oaths for this plan to succeed despite knowing it would mean their deaths. If the Wraiths and Aspirants failed, then there was even a Transcendent hiding in the earth and waiting for the boy to visit his latrine tent where he’d be alone and exposed.

So many measures taken to ensure Falling Rain died, for such was the Will of Heaven.

Unfortunately, everything that could have gone wrong, did. The details were scant since his people didn’t dare Scry on Falling Rain lest they give themselves away, but from what Goujian’s Aspirants could piece together from rumour and hearsay, the runt had been tipped off to the presence of Wraiths, no doubt by his Divinity protectors. While charging forward to save Chun Yimu, the fool mistook Falling Rain’s assistance for deadly intent and cried out, “Wait!”, an exclamation so lacking in detail it forced Goujian’s Oath-bound Aspirants to inaction because there was no way to be certain the command had not been directed at them. Goujian had anticipated he might get cold feet and had placed a Wraith close to him, for if the token were to be destroyed and Chun Yimu to die, then control of the Oath-bound Aspirants would revert back to MuYang, the last holder of their token. Alas, fortune favours fools and Chun Yimu survived by the skin of his teeth, somehow saved by Falling Rain himself. Then, to make matters worse, before passing out, the little coward ordered Goujian’s Aspirants to protect the amber-eyed runt, a command which forced them to save the Falling Rain’s life when he was later attacked by the Transcendent in his latrine tent as planned.

Disaster heaped upon disaster, Not only had the other Wraiths and Transcendents failed to kill any of the runts allies, Goujian’s Oath-bound Aspirants were also still alive thanks to Chun Yimu’s orders and their token still firmly in his possession. It burned knowing that not only were his most devoted subordinates forced to protect this traitor of Heaven, they had already saved the runt from certain death more than once. Though sworn to silence and striving to remain hidden from the meditating Falling Rain, once Chun Yimu regained consciousness and forced the Aspirants to reveal themselves, then the Imperials might unravel their origins and connect them to Goujian.

Time worked against them, for Falling Rain had to die before the Uniter’s army arrived. Not only because Heaven Willed it, but due to their past history, young Gen was obsessed with Falling Rain and likely intended to challenge him to single combat, a recipe for disaster in Goujian’s opinion. Though young Gen’s skills were impressive and far outstripped anything Falling Rain had displayed, the cunning savage was undoubtedly playing a pig to eat the tiger, a simple fact Jianghong and the Uniter seemed utterly blind to. Were the runt not hiding his true strength, then events would never have played out as they did, with Falling Rain coming so close to death and defeat countless times before, only to rally at the last moment and emerge battered, but victorious. Despite young Gen’s prodigious strength, one could not overlook his lack of experience, having only stepped foot on the True Martial Path a short year ago, whereas Falling Rain had undoubtedly been trained from birth for his role in Imperial propaganda and picked out from hundreds, if not thousands of his peers, all of which meant a direct confrontation between Falling Rain and young Gen posed far too many risks for the young Chosen of Heaven. The problem was, a team of Wraiths, Aspirants, and a Transcendent had already failed to take Falling Rain’s life, which left Goujian in something of a bind. The runt had to die before young Gen arrived, but how was he to accomplish this?

Perhaps fortune could be found in misfortune, since now, Goujian’s Aspirants were in good position to assassinate the runt. As the day passed, his Aspirants sent word that Falling Rain wasn’t putting much effort into uncovering the hidden Aspirants or discovering why they were there, which led Goujian to rethink the runt’s relationship with the Imperial Clan. Perhaps he was merely a pawn and not privy to all the details, so he believed the Aspirants were Imperial agents rather than suspecting them. If so, then Goujian could use this to his advantage...

With hammer and hoof-knife in hand, Goujian carried out his farrier duties with the utmost devotion, eagerly counting the minutes until he would be free to make contact with his agents in the Society and rope yet another foolish cat’s paw into the game. It would take days to gather his pieces into place, but this was for the best. Let Falling Rain grow careless and overconfident, and when the opportunity presented itself, Goujian would risk everything to remove the runt from the equation and free young Gen from his unhealthy obsession and giving him more time to grow in safety.

For until Gen took his throne as the Divine Son of Heaven, no harm could be allowed to come to the future Sovereign of the Azure Empire.

Chapter Meme
