“Isel, please–!”

“I said no.”

“But–!”

“Leave. We’re done.”

“I’m trying to help! This will help everyone.”

“Our definitions of ‘help’ must be different.”

“You just don’t want to give up your power. You’re a tyrant!”

“You–! I said leave! Don’t make me say it a third time.”

“Fine, then! But you’re going to regret this. I hope that you’ll see reason in the future.”

“Goodbye, Ur.”

Elise woke up and spent a few seconds trying to make sense of the dream before shaking her head to clear it. Ur wanted to do something that Isel didn’t approve of. He thought Isel was a tyrant for not agreeing with him. That was about all she could get. What that thing was, and how it led to this city being ruined, she had no clue.

She went through her usual morning routine, eating breakfast and doing some basic aether and mana practice, then had another soul defense lesson with Rayna. When she started her dreamwalking, Rayna was sitting at her desk, staring off into space and mouthing inaudible words. It took her a few seconds to notice Elise, but when she did, she brightened, and the lesson began.

Elise chose not to mention Erun to Rayna. She figured she might have to if Erun started teaching her things and Rayna questioned where she was learning it, but there was no reason to share it just yet. She didn’t like the idea of giving Rayna any more information than was absolutely necessary.

The lesson was relatively productive, but perhaps not quite as productive as it could be. Elise’s mind was pre-occupied both by the events of the previous day, and an unsettling thought that had occurred to her when she saw Rayna talking to herself. Rayna, Erun, Irylax… All of the most accomplished soul experts she knew had gone insane, one way or another. Sophie had told her stories of Irylax’s state on the island, and it was arguably worse than even Erun’s. When she first visited Rayna, the vampire had destroyed her bedroom somehow. When Erun got agitated, he got destructively angry.

Am I going to go insane too if I keep this up? she wondered.

When the lesson ended, Elise was given homework. The rubberization of her soul shell was one thing, but that wasn’t the only thing she needed to do to prepare for her Evolution. She also needed to get her soul to the point where it could repair itself when damaged, and that meant making automatic triggers that could activate without her direct intervention. Given that she had the perfect opportunity to practice making triggers that reacted to assaults, her homework was to try and make something that would respond to the soul storm. It didn’t matter what it was, as long as it activated without her direct interference.

“And Elise,” said Rayna as Elise was about to leave.

“Yeah?”

“Whatever’s bothering you–”

“It’s nothing.”

Elise cut the connection before Rayna could say anything more. In retrospect, that was not the right move to make Rayna think that nothing was bothering her, but hopefully, it would get the message across and keep her from asking further.

Charlotte was gone. Out hunting, supposedly. Elise checked in on her to make sure that she hadn’t secretly gone back to visit Erun, and was pleased and disgusted to find the arachne gorging herself on the innards of a dead Abyssal Deer. She was also disappointed to find that Charlotte had chosen to take her shirt off to keep it clean, rather than actually being more careful when eating.

“Charlotte,” Elise called.

Charlotte paused, a thankfully-empty intestine dangling from her lips. Her eyes widened when she saw Elise, then she slurped up the rest of the intestine and wiped her mouth.

“Elise!” she said, smiling with a large amount of blood on her teeth. “Are you done?”

“I am,” said Elise, choosing to ignore the rest of Charlotte’s appearance. “Wash up and get back here. We’ll head over once you’re back.”

“Okay!”

Knowing it would still be a little while before Charlotte returned, Elise settled in and continued converting her spells to mana constructs for a while. Charlotte returned mostly clean, having bathed in the boiling river, but Elise still had to help her wash some gore out of her hair before they left.

When they first tried to go out to Erun’s castle, the Abyssal Wyrms were out hunting, so they hung back and instead did some aether practice. Elise and Charlotte did aether pulses back and forth at each other, with Elise doing more complex variations, and Charlotte doing her best to imitate them. Charlotte usually could not do it, but she was improving by leaps and bounds with Elise to demonstrate for her, and Elise was improving as well as she was getting a better feel for how it felt on the receiving end.

In the aftermath of the wyrms’ hunting, the journey back to the castle was uneventful. The other monsters were still cowering or licking their wounds, leaving the streets peaceful and empty.

The doors to the castle were still open when they arrived. Charlotte called out to Erun, but there was no response. Elise tried to locate him with her aether sense, but something about the castle seemed to dampen her senses, and she could not detect very far. After waiting a minute or so, they decided to just walk in and try to find the lich themselves.

He was not anywhere on the ground floor, or the next two, but when they reached the third Floor, Elise was finally able to sense his leaky aether on the topmost floor. He was in the art room, which made sense, now that they realized it. They ascended to the top floor and walked toward the doors, which were shut. It was eerily silent, and despite knowing that Erun had no intention of harming them, she couldn’t help but feel nervous as Charlotte pulled the doors open.

Erun was sitting down on the ground in front of the painting of Ber’Isel, arms around his knees as he stared up in silence. His mask was on the ground at his side, and he didn’t seem to notice them enter. Elise would have stayed quiet, hoping to catch a glimpse of his face, but Charlotte was not so subtle.

“Erun!” she shouted, scuttling in.

Erun flinched and quickly grabbed his mask as he stood up and turned around. His mask was on before he fully turned around, but before it was fully in place, Elise thought she caught a glimpse of ordinary human flesh beneath it, which surprised her. She had been expecting a skeleton.

“Ah, hello!” he said brightly. “You are… Hmmmm… I know I’ve met you before, but it’s slipping my mind. Remind me of your name again?”

“Charlotte!”

“Ah, yes, Charlotte! Lovely to see you again. What brings you…?”

He trailed off when he saw Elise, and his entire demeanor shifted.

“What are you doing here?” he asked.

A chill ran down Elise’s spine. “You told me to come. Yesterday. You said you would teach me some ethomancy.”

“I did?”

“You were in the sarcophagus when you said it.”

He regarded her in silence for a few seconds, then his demeanor changed again.

“Well, that does sound like something I’d say,” he said. “Welcome! I look forward to teaching you again… what was your name?”

“Elise.”

“Elise… Hmmm…” he scratched his chin. “That name really doesn’t suit you.”

“What?”

“You just don’t look like an Elise.”

He shrugged and started walking.

“What does that mean?”

“Hmm?”

“What did you mean by that?”

“By what?”

“You said I didn’t look like an Elise.”

“I did? I don’t remember… Hmmm, if I did, I was right, though.”

“Why?”

He shrugged again. “It’s just a feeling.”

What is that supposed to mean? Elise wondered as she followed him.

Erun offered them another tour, which they declined, since they had already had one. After that, he offered them a meal, which they accepted, because both Elise and Charlotte wanted more of the ancient steak. When they finished their meal, they finally got down to business. Kind of.

“So, what brings you two here?” he asked.

Elise refrained from rolling her eyes as she re-explained that he had promised to teach them some ethomancy, as well as re-introduced herself.

I’m going to need to do this every time, aren’t I?

For the lesson, he led them back upstairs to a room beside his bedroom that they hadn’t gotten a tour of the previous day. It was his study, apparently, and it was the most damaged room in the castle, with holes in the wall and one in the roof, and dust and broken stone everywhere. He apologized for the mess, got confused about where it had come from, then pushed the thought aside and sat down in an ancient, barely-upright chair behind a stone desk.

“So, ethomancy!” he said. “You’ve come to the right place.”

He had already said this same sentence after they finished eating.

“I suppose we should start out by what you already know. I assume you already know what ethomancy is, since you asked me to teach you, yes?”

You offered to teach me, actually.

“Pretty much,” said Elise. “It’s the art of manipulating your soul and aether, right?”

“Almost,” he said, holding up a finger. “Ethomancy also involves the affecting other souls. In fact, I would argue that is the main component of it. But that is accomplished through manipulating your own soul and aether, so you are still correct. Now as for the basics…”

He stared blankly, then stood up out of his chair and faced backward. He stood in place for a few seconds, staring at a blank wall that might have once had a bookshelf on it, then slowly turned around the room.

“Hmmm…” he said. “It seems that my instructional books have gone missing… Ah, well, I’m sure I’ll think of something. Now if I remember correctly, the first step… Hmmm…”

He stroked his chin for a few seconds.

“Can you two already sense your souls?”

“Yes!” said Charlotte enthusiastically. She did not seem overly bothered by Erun’s constant forgetfulness.

“Ah, good, good. I believe that was the first step. And then the second…”

“Aether pulses?” asked Elise.

“Yes! Wait. No. I believe that was the third step. The second… Ah yes, the second was finding aether threads and locating targets. Can you do that?”

“We can,” said Elise as Charlotte nodded.

“And aether pulses?”

“Charlotte is just starting out, but I’ve gotten decent at them.”

“Have you? Let’s see it, then.”

“Do an aether pulse at you?”

“Yes. We’ll get a good gauge of your progress.”

Elise focused on him, quickly locating the aetheric thread connecting them, and sent a weak, simple pulse of aether at him.

“Hmmm, a bit slow, but not bad,” he said. “You’ll want to work on your speed. But the pulse itself was fine. Have you worked on variations?”

“Yes.”

“Let’s see a few.”

Elise obliged, doing some of the simpler variations and working up to the more complex ones as Erun nodded and made a few comments. They were simple things like “oscillation is a little uneven” and “the spirals are lopsided” but in spite of that, Elise found them very insightful. Just that small amount of feedback opened her eyes to a whole host of minor issues with her techniques that she had not noticed before. And with how minor they were, it was not at all difficult to correct.

In the process, she realized that her old spell constructs in her soul were probably poorly-built. Those same imperfections and inefficiencies that Erun was pointing out existed in all the constructs, and would reduce her casting efficiency. She felt the sudden urge to go back and rebuild them all, but Aya’Rhun’s crystal actually warned against exactly that, saying that she could do it after she finished creating them all. Elise was still extremely tempted to redo them anyway, but the other two crystals had been very well-put-together, so she would just have to trust them again.

Regardless, Elise was now glad she had come to get Erun’s help. She had been skeptical, due to his memory issues, and the first hour of their reunion had done nothing to assuage her concerns, but even if this was all she got, it was worth it. The difference between flying blind and having just the smallest bit of guidance was a big one, and she could tell that if she was able to bounce aether pulses off him and get his critique, he would be an invaluable resource.

Then, things started to go wrong. It started with one of the middle variations, where Elsie was supposed to send a long, constant pulse over the course of about ten seconds. It started out alright, but the longer it went on, the more agitated she felt Erun’s aether getting, and by the end, it was making her very uncomfortable. Erun shifted slightly in his chair, but otherwise didn’t react.

“Are you alright?” Elise asked.

“Hmmm? Oh, yes, of course. You were a bit quivery on that one, by the way. Stability could be improved. Do you have more?”

His aether seemed to settle back down after that, but it was more sensitive. She continued going through all the variations she knew, but the ones that required more aether caused noticeable reactions in his own aether that seemed to grow ever-so-slightly more intense with each one. It reminded her a lot of the precursors to Erun losing control the previous day, so Elise tried her best to tone her pulses down, and was very grateful when she reached the end of the list Aya’Rhun had given her.

“That’s it?” he asked.

“Should there be more?”

“Yes, it seems you're missing some. If I’m not mistaken, that was the standard array of pulses for mages, but you’re missing a few key pulse variations for ethomancy.”

“I learned them from the Mage, so that makes sense.”

“The Mage?” he asked, perking up. “Lady Aya’Rhun?!”

“Yes, her.”

“She’s alive?!”

“She was sealed, but now she’s been unsealed.”

“That’s wonderful!” he said. “Now she can help with… Ah, dammit. There’s something she can help with, though. Do you know if she has any plans to visit this place?”

“I have no idea.”

“Ah, that’s a shame. I would love to meet her.”

His aether suddenly flared, then settled back down. Elise flinched and waited for him to do something, but he just kept sitting there.

“So,” she prompted. “The aether pulse variations for ethomancers.”

“Ah, right. Of course. Yes, there are fifty of them.”

“Fifty?!”

“Well, technically 27, but then there are the 23 basic ones that everyone learns.”

“Including mages?”

“Yes. Actually, there’s some overlap between the mage and ethomancer pulses. Not that many, but if you already know the mage ones, you’ll only have 22 new ones to learn. Do you know the mage ones?”

His aether flared again. It was getting worse.

“I do,” Elise said. “But how about we pick this up again tomorrow.”

“Hmm? But haven’t we only just gotten started?”

“Yeah!” said Charlotte indignantly. “It’s my turn now!”

“Charlotte,” Elise said sharply with {Whisper}. “He’s going to get violent again soon. Like yesterday after dinner.”

“Yes, I haven’t gotten to Scarlet yet,” said Erun.

“It’s Charlotte,” said Elise.

“Oh, my apologies.”

“And I think you should go back to your sarcophagus for a bit.”

The moment she said those words, his demeanor changed again, and his aether grew restless.

“My sarcophagus?” he asked coldly. “And why would you want me to go there?”

“You’re getting unstable.”

“Unstable? Really? Or are you after something else, hmm?”

“Erun, I’m not after anything. I just don’t want you to accidentally hurt us or yourself.”

“You think I’m going to hurt you? Why would you think that? Are you planning on doing something that would make me want to hurt you?”

“No, I’m not.”

“Well–” His aether flared again, and his head jerked to the side. “DAMMIT!”

Elise and Charlotte both flinched, scooting back at the sound of his scream.

“I know what you are. You just– TRAITOR. You want to separate me from Isel’s love!”

“I don’t–!”

“AAAUUGHHH!”

He arched back, putting his hands on his temples, then hunched forward. He muttered to himself for a few seconds, his aether going wild, then he looked directly at Elise and Charlotte again again. Elise worried he would actually attack, but instead, he suddenly rushed past them, heading for his bedroom. Soon, he was back in the sarcophagus, and the aether went still once more.

“Dammit,” Elise heard him say. He sounded like he was on the verge of tears. “Why?”

“Erun?” she said tentatively.

“I’m sorry,” he said. “I don’t– I don’t know what came over me. I wasn’t like this before. I don’t know why– I’m so sorry.”

“It’s alright,” said Elise, stepping forward. “I know you didn’t mean it.”

Charlotte wrung her hands, walking just a half step behind Elise, peering into the sarcophagus where Erun was lying flat on his back.

“I thought I would be able to keep it together better,” he said. “That I could help. But I don’t think I can do that outside of this coffin. Something about other people… It just makes me too volatile.”

“It’s alright.”

“I can still help from in here. I can give you instruction. Those aether pulse variations. I can’t demonstrate them, but I can describe them.”

“That–”

“And I can still tell you some things.” He cut her off, speaking quickly. “About this city. About the history. I remember some of it. If it’s really been so long, surely that information is valuable.”

“Erun–”

“You can stay here in the castle, if you’d like,” he sounded panicked. “It will be safe. I can– I can protect from the Abyssals. I couldn’t protect them, but I can protect you.”

“Erun!”

“Just please don’t leave me alone anymore.”

“We won’t,” said Elise. “We won’t leave you alone.”

“Yeah!” said Charlotte. “You make good steak!”

“Charlotte!” hissed Elise, elbowing the arachne.

“And you have a good shirt.”

Erun chuckled.

“Are you sure?” he asked.

“Well, you’re the only other person we can talk to down here,” Elise said. “Even if you weren’t useful, we’d still visit.”

“Really?”

“Yes.”

“Ah, that’s good. That’s good…”

He seemed to relax, letting out a long sigh. It was only at that point that Elise realized that he still breathed for some reason. She hadn’t really been paying attention before, but now that she thought about it, it was strange that a lich would breath, or have that human skin she had seen under his mask.

Are ancient liches different from modern ones, then?

“Well then,” he said, his voice calmer. “I can still help. My memory is damaged, but I am still a master ethomancer. Surely I have some information that can help. And if not… There might be others.”

“Others.”

“In the other cities.”

“Other cities?”

“This city was not our original one. I don’t– I don’t remember why we had to come here, or why I live in this castle, but this city is a shelter. A shelter for extreme crises when the entire city– no, the entire nation needed to evacuate. And this is not the main shelter. To the north, there is a large tunnel leading to the main shelter, but there should be two more shelters this size with tunnels leading to them. And I don’t…” he trailed off.

“I had some kind of duty here. I don’t remember what it is, but I know I have to stay here. And I know that Isel would not have assigned it to me alone. There would be others. There have to be others. Perhaps they are not as– as damaged as I am.”

Elise could not remember seeing any tunnels leading to any such shelter cities, but she nodded.

“I’ll look.”

“But no matter what, you need to come back!” he said. “Please.”

“We will,” said Elise. “Even if we find another lich who is not as damaged. In fact, if we do, we’ll try to bring them here to keep you company.”

“You would do that?”

“We would. Right Charlotte.”

“Right, right,” said Charlotte. “Do the others have steaks too?”

Elise elbowed Charlotte again while Erun laughed.

“Well, then I’ll look forward to that, then. For now… I suppose we could continue for a bit? It would be a shame to leave so early.”

“We can stay,” said Elise. “We don’t have other plans.”

“Excellent. Then I’ll tell you a bit about those other aether pulses…”

Walter’s mouth still tasted like vomit as he and Anna stumbled out of the cave and into the sunlight. They had been gone longer than they meant to be, and they had almost been gone forever. One moment, they were walking down the tunnel, and the next, it felt like his very existence was being attacked. He had thrown up multiple times, and even now, he was light-headed.

Anna had weathered it better, but she looked sick too. As sick as a walking tree could, at least. She walked upright, but the wood on her cheeks was slightly discolored, and she was not nearly as cheerful and talkative as usual.

“Are you alright?” she asked Walter.

“Of course I– Blergh.”

Walter threw up again, and Anna knelt down, growing a leaf on her hand to wipe his mouth. Walter seized it and wiped his own mouth, then pulled away, ready to walk back to their den. He stumbled only a few steps later, almost falling to his knees before Anna caught him. The next thing he knew, she had lifted him and was cradling him in her arms.

“Put me down!” he said, squirming.

“You’re weak right now,” she said soothingly. “Let me carry you, at least until you regain your strength.”

“I am not weak!”

“You know, proper human children let adults carry them.”

Walter stopped struggling and narrowed his eyes. She smiled back at him.

“Fine, then,” he said. “But don’t drop me!”

“Of course!”

At some point on the way back, Walter dozed off. When he woke up, he was back in the den, with a couple of the other pups napping beside him. There was a strange noise coming from outside the cave that almost sounded like voices. It took a few seconds to re-orient and remember what had happened. He still felt slightly sick, but much better than he had before.

Wait, voices? He suddenly realized.

He sat straight up, startling some of the pups, then crept out the entrance. Poking his head out, he saw Anna talking to someone else. A human. Or maybe not a human.

He was tall, even taller than Freddy, and he had long black hair and bright, golden eyes. He noticed Walter immediately, and Walter froze under the gaze of what he immediately recognized as an apex predator.

That’s no human.

Anna turned back, following the man’s gaze, and she smiled widely and rushed toward him. She grabbed him gently by the arm, pulling him toward Tyral. Walter moved stiffly, never taking his eyes off the monster in human skin, and the monster gazed back, his expression unreadable.

“This is the one I was talking about!” she said. “His name is Walter, but I call him Walt or Walty sometimes. Walty, this is Tyral. He says he wants to stay here for a bit and teach us a few things.”

Walter continued to stare.

“Walter,” she said in a sing-song voice. “Do you remember how to greet new people?”

Walter looked up at her in confusion. How was she so fine with this? Could she not see what this man was? Or did she simply not care?

“I– I’m Walter,” he said looking back at the man. “Nice to meet you.”

“Likewise,” said the man, holding out a hand. “And I look forward to getting to know you better.”

Walter looked at the hand, then flinched as he remembered what he was supposed to do. He grabbed and shook it, his own hand sticky with sweat. The tall monster nodded at him, then turned back to Anna.

“As I said, I won’t be able to stay long,” he said. “But there are many things that I need to teach you.” He glanced back down at Walter. “Both of you.”