That night progressed roughly the same as the previous night had, with Elise sneaking out to do more tests with her soul form. Unfortunately, the trapped fog had dissipated over the course of the day, but now that she knew what to look for, she was able to acquire more without too much trouble. She found a new wyrm and killed it, absorbing the soul fog and trapping it in the same containers she had made the night before.

This time, since she had more time, she was able to do some experimental compression. Compressing the fog was not easy, but it was clearly possible. She managed to get about a cup full of the compressed liquid fog, which looked just like water. It had coalesced at the bottom of the cube she was experimenting on, and she had gathered it in a bowl afterward.

The only logical course of action from there was to drink it, which she did, and that seemed to work, to an extent, but she knew it still wasn’t quite right. She could feel her soul form absorbing the liquid, but it was hardly any faster than absorbing the gas had been. The only benefit to the compression was making it smaller so that more of it could fit in her body at once. She was certain there was another step she was missing, but whatever it was eluded her, so she settled for compressing the rest of the fog into liquid and drinking that as well before returning to camp.

On the third day, near the end, they found traces of a more powerful monster. There was a large section of the tunnels that was devoid of life, and the tunnels in the vicinity were slightly larger than they had been. They slowed their pace, advancing cautiously and gathering as much information as possible before it came time to camp for the night. They had roughly located the monster, which they assumed to be some evolved wyrm variant, but they had not gotten close enough to check for certain. Any monster that strong would certainly notice them if they got that close, and they had all agreed it was better to get a good night’s sleep before facing whatever it was.

Elise was tempted to go back out again that night, but decided against it. The lack of sleep from the previous two nights was starting to catch up to her, and she still had not finished processing the compressed soul fog from the previous night. She settled instead for a brief soul meditation session before bed to see if she could figure anything out about improving her soul without killing. She had only barely gotten started when she noticed something that sent a chill down her spine.

The very second that she disconnected from the System, she noticed something was wrong. There was too much fog in her soul. Fog that the System had not absorbed. That could only mean one thing: someone else was using an aether skill on her. She tried to scan the others with her senses, but before she even tried, she realized what was going on. There was an extra person in their camp. Someone that somehow, no one had noticed. Sophie was on watch, and the sixth person was even in her line of sight, kneeling right by Elise’s head, but the half-elf was not reacting.

They’re using a Skill similar to {Don’t Look At Me, Peasants!}, she realized.

Immediately, Elise exited soul meditation and opened her eyes, just in time for the mysterious person to reach out and touch her face.
