Unfortunately for Nick, while he had hoped that he was nearing the end of his first fight for his life, his struggle had only begun.

He skidded to a stop three steps later when a pair of lizards came streaking out of the woods on an intercept course. They spread out to come at him from three sides at once, blocking his escape.

Nick understood in that terrible moment that he’d been driven into a trap. That the lizard had deliberately let him pull ahead, conserving its stamina while maneuvering him to the spot where its brethren were lying in ambush. With the stream on one side and the predators spread out in a half circle along the other, his path of retreat was completely cut off.

There wasn’t enough room to go around. His only chance was to force his way through.

While his odds were less than stellar, if he waited for the beasts to tighten their net, they would attack from his blind side and land a crippling blow, swarming over him in the blink of an eye.

He only had one chance of escaping with his blood still inside his body. He had to catch them by surprise, make it past the beasts barring his path before they closed the distance. That, or jump into the water.

Nick strongly suspected that the reptiles could swim faster than himself. He would dive only as a last resort. With no time left to consider his options, he opened with a feint. He took a step forward like he was planning to dart into the woods. The instant the lizards moved to counter, he spun on his heels, heading straight for the beast blocking his way to the beach.

In that moment, his attention was drawn to the lizard’s posture. Somehow, he could tell that the creature was out of position to counter a direct approach. Its momentum was pulling it in the other direction. If he timed this just right, he could get away before it recovered.

The lizard hissed and started to turn, intending to catch his legs and drag him down into the mud. At the last possible second, he gathered his strength and sprang.

Mouthing a silent prayer, he soared into the air. His body was definitely stronger than he remembered, because Nick leapt higher than he ever had before. He tucked in his legs while visualizing his next move.

In that instant, he understood with arctic clarity. His next act would determine if he escaped with his life or was torn to pieces. His plan wasn’t going to cut it. Leaping over the beast wasn’t going to be enough to break free. If he wanted to live, he had to fight. And he needed to do it now.

In the heart of that moment, born of adrenaline and need, Nick realized that he had another weapon after all. His own body. The second he landed, he jumped again, heading in a new direction.

The beast was slow to realize that instead of leaping away, Nick had jumped straight for its back, whipping its head up half a heartbeat too late. Its jaws snapped shut with the clatter of tooth against tooth, but the blinding pain he was anticipating never came. It only caught the rim of his robe, tearing a corner free from the fabric. The creature hadn’t expected him to attack instead of run, and he could see fear in its eyes as he came back down.

The first fight for his life had arrived at its climax.

Waiting for just the right moment, Nick brought his feet together, braced his knees, and drove both heels into the center of the beast’s torso with the full power of his body behind it. There was an incredible snap as the creature’s spine fractured, accompanied by a series of lesser cracks as its ribs followed suit.

He had been hoping to stun the beast, teach them that he wasn’t easy prey. But his attack was more effective than he expected. Some of the shorn ribs must have punctured the lizard’s lungs. Because instead of turning around and eviscerating him for his trouble, the giant reptile spasmed and went still.

After leaping away from the corpse, for the next handful of heartbeats, everything came to a standstill. Nick stared into the eyes of the cold-blooded predators, who appeared astonished that he had defeated a member of their pride in a single blow. But then another pair emerged from the tree line, and he understood that his ordeal was still underway.

As furious hisses emerged from the creatures, Nick burst into motion and continued his mad dash for survival.
