I shook my head, "Right now, they're focused on getting everyone baseline nutrition. They'll be able to focus on making the food taste good by the time I finish, and that should bolster morale at a minimum."

The catfish ruler patted his robed belly, "You speak a language I quite like to hear, from the tone to the inflections."

I walked back to the center of the room, my hand saturated with mana, "Then let's see what else is going haywire."

After lifting everyone up, I gazed at the third floor. At this point, we neared the middle of the pyramid. Scientists experimented in a lab, many rulers studying the various fauna and wildlife of Leviathan-7. This included a few unique capsules holding the behemoths and piles of rainbow bone they investigated.

A few enigmatta roamed in the ranks, their pressurized suits having their settings on low. The gravity and atmosphere did a lot of heavy lifting in that regard already. A few golemites also hovered and floated around, their airy forms shimmering. They carried and helped control different creatures, flowing in and out of the beasts.

I wasn't the only one looking around. Several scientists gawked at me, and one shouted, "Have you had that building project ratified yet?"

I gave him a confident smile, "Absolutely. I'll show everyone the paperwork later."

The scientist nodded before getting back to work. I pointed at the golemites, "I'm guessing they're the scouts?"

Iona raised her brow while thinning her lips, "That's what they're good for...That and mind magic, but you can only control so many of these giant eldritch at a time. Even they struggle with that, but I know a few rulers who'd handle it easily."

Wondering if she knew the extent of my mind magic, I said, "Who's able to control the behemoths?"

Iona furrowed her brow, "Behemoths?"

I waved away her question, "It's an easy name to differentiate that sub-class of eldritch."

The catfish ruler burbled, "Hm, it is fitting given their large stature...But if you're wanting to classify eldritch by titles, you must have seen other eldritch here as well...What else is out there?"

Shalahora seethed his words like dense smoke, "The others are what we call the primevals. They are walking calamities, bringers of death and destruction. You will find none in this land, but the bounty you reap suffers from the lack of their presence."

Iona blinked, taking that in, "Uhm...We'll take this one step at a time, mmkay?"

I gave her a look, and she frowned. She crossed her arms, "What? I like the word...Or are you saying I can't use it anymore?"

My eyes widened, "Well, it's a pretty obnoxious catchphrase, so I guess it fits."

She feigned distress, putting a hand over her forehead, "Oh my, could anyone come to my defense."

The blue lizard hissed at me, "You do understand that the definition of annoying is relative. It's a matter of opinion, something that can't be proven. By labeling her, you're reducing her agency which-"

I scoffed, "Come on now. Surely you know what she's doing there? It's obvious to everyone, right? You're like some puppet on strings, and you're dancing in her palm."

The blue lizard's voice rose, "If you'd been here from the start, you wouldn't make such rash accusations. Iona has done miracles for setting up and establishing this place. We'd be lost without her, and her medical knowledge is second to none."

Iona beamed, "Thanks, honey. I won't forget you said that."

I peered up and slowed time, giving myself a minute to think and for my minds to discuss. In about a minute, I came up with what I'd say next. I decompressed time, and I locked eyes with Iona,

"Is that why you didn't want me here? I mean, you wouldn't want the rulers here to be sick, weak, and helpless, now would you? I know that's how you gained your influence and power after all; you treat the symptom to a problem, meaning that the problem's solution invalidates you."

I glared down, "It's just a conflict of motives I'd like to bring up."

The nearby scientists quit their chatter, and Iona flushed red with rage. Her fists tightened by her side before she menaced, "You have a lot to say for someone who hasn't done a damn thing to help anyone here."

I raised a brow, "Besides for the elevator and fixing the whole gravitation issue."

Iona's eyes narrowed, "But unlike me, you're going to leave, and once you're gone, your magic will leave with you. I'll still be here, helping the sick and dying while you throw out criticism for it."

I put my hands on my hips, "You're ignoring my point. I'm not arguing that saving people is bad. I'm arguing you're little introduction for me was because you didn't want solutions here, and that's a valid point you haven't explained to me. Also, even after I leave, my magic won't be coming with me. Everything I make will be here to stay."

Shalahora peered at Iona, and she met his eye. A second passed, and she winced. She crossed her arms and stared at the ground, "Then I'll take your word for it, Harbinger."

I peered between them, and a tense air passed. Shalahora tilted his shadowy head at me, "I've settled it with her. She means well, so give her the grace so that she may loosen this noose you've tied around her neck."

Confused by Shalahora, I let it go for now,

"Huh...Yeah. Alright."

Iona looked up, and her eyes met the other rulers who stared at her with suspicion. She sighed before striking another pose, this time with a peace sign to match,

"Hey everyone, you know how this guy is. He says anything and everything, am I right?"

The other rules laughed, Iona somehow changing the topic and avoiding my argument entirely. I shook my head while walking across the lab, but my uppermost helmet spike scraped the ceiling. To stop the outflow of sparks, I condensed my body some. In my more diminutive form, I leaned over towards several scientists' studies. They continued toiling away, and I gave it a thumbs up,

"This is the perfect fuel for an exchange. I'd like everything you guys know about this planet."

The blue lizard snapped, "You want our information? That's one of the only resources we've piled up for Schema, so that's going to be hard to give up. You'd better be ready to pay us handsomely for it."

I pulled several blue cores out of my storage, the spacial warp rippling as they came out. Spiraling the humming spheres around me, I gave the lizard a knowing look, "I think I can make it worth the survivor's while."

One of the guards in the back of the group spoke up, her tone gruff like sandpaper. I recognized her voice since it was the one that interrupted Iona when we first spoke to the base.

The guard's muscled arms rippled as she banged an energized spear against the floor. She reminded me of a standing, scaled rhino as she grunted, "You need hired muscle? Pay me, and I'll do it."

I locked eyes with her, the previous ruler reduced to mercenary work. I put my hands on my hips, "You're fine with just being a guard now?"

She shrugged, "You know, I learned from ruling that there's a time and place for everything. In my case, it's not my time to lead. It's my time to follow, and there's honor in knowing my place. It's the reason I rose through the ranks of my homeworld, and it's why I survived thus far."

I blinked, "By following orders?"

She gave her chest plate a bang, "No. It's by listening, not by speaking. I try to lead through my actions, and I hope everyone has eyes enough to see what I've done."

I pointed at Iona, "Like saving her when she dives into boiling water?"

The guard's gray skin crinkled as she smiled. Several large teeth flashed in her giant maw, "She is important, so I do what must be done. She's saved several of my friends, and I am returning the favor."

Hearing the guard's words reminded me that every person here carried a high status at some point. Given the extreme constraints of this planet, most of their talents ended up being pointless. That made forgetting their histories easy since they lacked relevance on Leviathan-7. However, once we escaped, those talents would come back in full force.

That realization sparked an idea in my mind, and I smiled at the guard,

"What's your name? Mine's Daniel Hillside."

The guard stood up straight, "Goragonahna-Jakolivitch. You may call me Ragonah if you wish."

Her lips moved strangely as if she growled out instead of speaking. Still, I understood her. Peering down, I remembered that we lacked Schema's language system here. I gestured to everyone, "How do I understand you all right now?"

The catfish ruler chimed, "That was my own doing. I constructed a language cipher that works throughout this facility, and I've maintained it since our arrival. It's facilitated the exchange of ideas, information, and the unity of the survivor factions."

I tilted my head at him, newfound respect forming for the talking catfish, "That's very useful."

He puffed out his chest, his luxurious robes waving about, "Indeed. I was a prodigious linguist, and even Schema noted my abilities. I worked with him, assisting The AI in constructing and maintaining its own language cipher. My specialty revolved around strange, alien languages, and over the ensuing centuries, I bought a few planets. I must say, I've done quite well for myself."

I pointed my finger at the blue lizard, "What about you?"

The lizard narrowed its red eyes and hissed, "Why should I tell you anything?"

Iona pulled on his sleeve, and she looked up at him with puppy dog eyes as she said, "Hey...Can you do it for me?"

I held down vomit as the blue lizard's attitude changed. It wheezed out, "I worked with various wiring firms that assisted Schema. We enabled galactic communication networks, and the maintenance of the projects Schema carried out. Intergalactic connections are complex, and we allow the long-distance transference of messages, resources, and the like."

The blue lizard gestured a clawed limb to the catfish man, "Drelex and I have worked together before this accursed lottery, his linguistic skills being top-notch. We probably own ten times your brutish empire's wealth and then some." The blue lizard simmered, "But...That's meaningless here, isn't it?"

The catfish Drelex put a webbed hand on the blue lizard's shoulder, "It'll be fine."

The blue lizard hacked, "It won't. We'll all die here soon."

Drelex's whiskers wiggled, "You're probably just feeling depressed. You should go and sunbathe. Your kind most certainly loves that."

The blue lizard sighed, "That's a good idea. Excuse me, everyone."

He got on all fours and slithered away in a jerky, twitching fashion. I got whiplashed by how alien it was, but he was a lizard. That's kind of what lizards did.

I watched where the lizard crawled to for a moment. Iona scratched her cheek and murmured, "Aren't we going up?"

I lifted the platform, "Ah, yeah. Sorry, I got distracted."

She gave me a smirk, "Apology accepted."

I leaned back, "Huh. I take it back."

She locked her hands behind herself, grinning at me, "No take backsies. Hah. Gotcha."

I furrowed my brow, confused at what she was playing at. I shook my head while looking forward, "Oookay. Anyways-"

We reached the next area, finding the weaponry and barracks. Here, only a few rulers lingered, but they showed more mettle than the others so far. A few looked up at Shalahora and me, each warrior wearing old scars and fresh wounds. Pacing past them, I murmured, "You guys look capable. What's the issue with the behemoths?"

A series of keratinous plates walked up, the beast having no visible face or features. Between its natural armor, its flesh glowed with mana, and many tentacles sprawled over the floor. The creature telepathically spoke up in a gruff voice,

"You're a new ruler? Hmph, you survived this long, so you can't be as useless as you look."

I tapped the side of my head, "I added the antigravity well, and I'm adding an elevator too. Looking at what you guys have, I'll probably be adding some weapons and armor to the pile of fixes you guys need."

The alien squirmed, "Yeah, I'll wait until it actually happens."

A few rulers kept staring down, each of them exhausted deep to their bones. The keratinous monstrosity thought over, "Besides, we don't have the leeway to concern ourselves with a little interior redecorating."

I swirled molten metal over my head, "You should, and why is everyone so tired?"

The shambling series of plates thought over, "This is a killing field. Schema sent us here to die, and the elements do just that. If it were just the eldritch, we'd be fine." The plate creature clicked and clacked its way towards a ruler sitting deep in meditation. The plate beast shivered as it thought,

"You see this? This is why everyone's exhausted - we're living mana batteries. When you become a walking power plant, you can snap at us about being exhausted."

I held down a smirk, nodding, "Of course."

The Cthulian monstrosity squirmed, "We've been putting every bit of our mental energy into making this place habitable for the weakest among us. They're dragging us down, and we're choking on the weight of it all."

I frowned, "Powering this place is that much of a problem? Why not use solar panels or windmills?"

The plate monster spread its limbs, the body underneath grotesque like a bunch of exposed human gums and teeth, "Nothing holds up in the gravity here. That technology is exclusive to normal or low G planets. Hydrostatic powering methods work well, but Leviathan-7 is too hot for normal liquids."

Shalahora's words spilled like cold water, "Then what of the blue cores or the opals shards? You all exist as rulers that stand above others. Harnessing the energies present should be child's play for so many of you unless you are all children yourselves."

The plate thing stunk as it radiated out,

