The mana cables ruptured, and I reached out my hand. Iona gazed up at me, fear and awe mixing in her expression before I shifted her with a gravity well. I moved a single finger as I did, emphasizing the ease of it. Iona Joan blinked before I spread my arms to the others,

"Let's discuss some deals."

I smiled,

"Mmkay?"

Chapter Begin

Behind Iona, the two rulers in diplomatic robes peered at one another. Mana streams ceased flowing from them, their magic muted. Behind them, the two guards wore graphene plating while they fiddled with their weapons. With a casual inspection of their gravities, I uncovered the guards' armors weighed more than they did. They wore some kind of lead under shielding for the rays of Leviathan. The warriors crippled themselves to stop radiation's rampancy.

On the other hand, the diplomats never left this place, each member showing no wear or tear from the elements. The humanoids kept slender forms with low densities throughout, owing to their lifestyles. They sat in chairs and talked a lot, so they fit the mold they made for themselves.

All of them besides Iona that is.

Her bones mirrored the density of graphene, and her muscles carried a similar density as well. Molds of metal in her arms and head exposed the presence of cybernetics along with silicone. She surgically replaced her bones and laced her musculature with graphene or something similar, and she owned expensive augments.

She went under a surgeon's scalpel many times; that much was certain. Feeling a bit icky about looking under everyone's skin, I lowered my hands, "Alright everyone, I can guarantee a habitable zone that's perfectly safeguarded here. That's my initial offer."

Iona wanted to say something, but she quieted after our confrontation. Good. A different ruler stepped up, its body like a short and squat catfish. Around its maroon skin, it channeled water magic that flowed through its gills and misted over its exposed, slimy skin. Its jewelry showed wealth, but its eyes expressed little emotion as it garbled out,

"You're certain of that? It would appear your body is the only reason you've survived. After all, that metal shell's robustness can't be shared, now can it?"

I pointed at him, "Fortunately, you're wrong about that. Anyways, where is everybody? There should be hundreds of you, not five."

Iona slid into the conversation, "Not every ruler is present each time someone arrives."

Peering around at the pyramid's underground entrance, various humidifiers aimed towards us from several directions. We talked in a decontamination center, so I nodded, "Makes sense. Come on, let's see how everyone else is doing. I want to see what I can offer and where I can help out."

The rulers stepped out of my way as I walked forward. Iona snarked, "Hah, help us. You're here to make some quick credits. And anyway, do you even know where to go?"

I kept walking, "Yeah. I do."

While we stepped towards a doorway, echoes reverberated off every surface. Throughout the building, the heat from plasma tubes ebbed in, but the rooms kept comfortable temperatures. The gravitation only lessened slightly by comparison. Using the tactile info like pieces of a puzzle, I constructed a map of this place in my head.

Considering the simplicity of the building, it wasn't hard to use the map in real-time. When I reached the first doorway, two pieces of graphene-reinforced steel stared back at me. I turned to the rulers, "How do you open these? Well, besides breaking them."

Iona frowned, but she stepped up to the panel and surged her mana into the device. It opened while I furrowed my brow in confusion. She answered my questioning glance,

"My mana signature is used to open doors, and the tech here doesn't respond to anything else." She pointed up at me, "And before you go calling everyone lunatics for relying on me like that, I gave everybody mana crystals already. Everyone stored them in their personal storage rings, and each crystal's plenty of mana for our stay here. It was for security, and I just so happened to be someone with a lot of mana. I mean it when I say that's all there is to it."

I raised my brow, "That's a solid defense...It sounds like it's not your first time making it."

Iona peered off, "It's not like I'm trying to make life more complicated here. I'm the only healer left, and everyone else does something useless. It's a real pain."

The four other rulers stared at her before she coughed into a hand. Iona stammered, "You know, for this world and, uh, at this time. Everyone's talents shine in different ways."

They gave a few nods, accepting the awkward apology. Soaking in her mana, the doorway opened, revealing more reinforced steel walkways lined with plasma power couplings. This single hallway composed the entire bottom piece of the diamond base. It led up to stairwells that went all the way up to the upper floors.

My head nearly scraped the roof here, so I bent down and tapped one of the top panels while raising a brow, "You all walk up the stairs in this place? For real?"

The red catfish ruler spoke up, "It's not that simple. We've been forced to use them because of power concerns. Aside from that, establishing a warp isn't possible given the mathematical complexity of Leviathan-7's orbit."

Iona sighed, "Yeah...Lots of the people here can't sustain the gravity and radiation. A few were poisoned by the atmosphere too, and some are still recovering from when Valgus destroyed my faction. It was a dark day...Here, we're dealing with people who had their metabolism's destroyed, so they require constant medical attention. Dialysis, tissue regeneration, etcetera."

The catfish gave her a knowing nod, "Don't forget the others experiencing organ draining and blood pressure issues from the enhanced gravity. It's a complex situation, and every solution requires power to fix it."

With my arm down, mana sparked in my palm, "Give me some space for a second."

I generated a panel of ice between the others and me. Simultaneously, I lifted my arm. Temporally accelerated and visceral, my mana coursed with violence, the conversion of the energy creating a hazard. After a few seconds, a shockwave unleashed from my fingertips. Leviathan-7's levity lessened over the entire base as I saturated an antigravity well over the whole building.

While I lowered my arm, my palm glowed white. The metal hummed before I flash froze the heated dimensional fabric. The icy shield melted into a warm mist, the catfish ruler garbling out,

"Well, I must say, this is quite refreshing even without considering the pressure you've taken off. It reminds me of the marshes of my homeworld. Ah, beautiful just to remember them."

His whiskers bounced all over the place as he moved in the mist. The other rulers let out sighs of relief, mainly from gravity lessening. Their ears popped from the pressure change while I looked up. I eyed the cieling,

"Think of that as a diplomatic gift. Now, let's remodel the place."

Pacing over towards the center of this structure, I snapped my fingers.

A steel plate above me splintered, the wall panels lacking graphene reinforcement. Without the gray material, the metal sheared like peanut brittle. The sound rippled through us like a hailstorm of bullets, and the rulers cringed in pain.

I gazed down at them, "Oh, sorry about that. I should've softened the sounds, but I can only do that with runes. Hm."

I remembered how I quietened my cities in the ossuary. I used a premade inscription that Torix lent me for just such a purpose. Another pang of loneliness shot through me, but I quelled it. It wasn't the time for that. Instead of wallowing, I inspected the opened structure. Nothing traced through it, two plates composing a thick floor supported by struts.

I pierced the rest of the floor, this time with heat instead of force. The molten steel rained down and pooled into a gravity well as I split open the center of the survivor's fortress. After liquefying a hole in the roof, I pressed a hand down. Dispersing my shove's force into four telekinetic blades, I cleaved the steel plate beneath us. Lifting my lowered arm,  I raised us through the place using a gravity well.

The third diplomat, a cerulean and thin lizard, shouted, "Did you even check to see if there was wiring or insulation first?"

I rolled my eyes while lifting us off the floor, "Of course. That's why I went with physical force in the first place. The energy's easier for me to control."

While speaking, I composed runes onto the cut panel, crystallized a thin sheet of mana under it for power, and replaced the floor panel I took. I waved at all of it,

"This will be an elevator for you all to use. These runes will solidify the gravity wells of this structure, and I've replaced the struts used here. It isn't as if steel is in short supply anyway. I'll make sure to give back any I take."

The blue lizard hissed, "Powering this device will be difficult, and we already struggle to frame the electronics to respond to everyone given the language constraints here."

I leaned back, his concerns valid, "Huh...I'll make it a psionic control then. Either that or we can default to Iona's mana signature like everything else. Anything else?"

The blue lizard's eyes narrowed, "As of now...No."

We rose to the second floor of the base's foundation, and I peered around at a medical bay. Many rulers of different shapes and sizes laid out in pain, most of them suffering grievous wounds or illnesses. They gasped and sputtered out in agony, many wanting an end to their suffering. I muttered, "These are the victims of the radiation and gravitation?"

Iona looked with sadness, "Yes. The radiation here's caused DNA damage to everyone who isn't resistant to it. This is the best facility we can offer them, and if you couldn't tell, this isn't enough. Restoring shredded DNA is taking everything we have. Power systems are run by manual mana instead of electricity or something else. Ugh, it's hard to work with."

I tapped my side, "I can stop further radiation exposure and remove what they have in them, but I can't fix the damage that's already done. Also, there will be plenty of power for everything. That much I know I can fix."

I pointed at everyone, "Can someone write this down for the other survivors? I don't want to have to repeat myself over and over."

The rulers stared at each other, wondering who'd do it first. Iona sighed before pulling out a pen made of mana. Elegant, refined lines of quintessence constructed a sheet of silky paper in her palms, and in gorgeous prose, she wrote down what I said. I couldn't read it, but damn, it was pretty.

She sighed, "Ok big guy, I'll do it."

I gazed at the other hallways, finding resources buried here. Rainbow bones, four hundred blue cores, and rare treasures piled up in several storage compartments. I gave a nod of approval, "Huh, you guys have more stuff than I expected."

Iona frowned, "It's split up between the survivors here, so it's not as much as you'd think." Her eyes narrowed, "But, uh, you're not going to take our artifacts and resources...Are you?"

I shook my head, "Stealing from the poor isn't my thing. I prefer earning my awards."

The blue lizard raised his brow, "Thank you for calling us poor. We appreciate it."

Shalahora condensed an arm and raised it, "Ah, Daniel likely meant pitiful or weak."

I held down a laugh before Shalahora raised two condensed arms, "Oh, I didn't mean pitiful. It's, uhm, more like pathetic and cowardly. Wait, I mean useless and muted. That's not quite right, hm, think of it like this-"

The other rulers gawked at Shalahora before I put my arm over the rough approximation of his shoulders, "Shalahora, I meant that some of these rulers are down on their luck. Seeing that, I want to help them so they can help me."

A thoughtful glance passed over Shalahora, "It is like a donation to the dying. I didn't realize you enjoyed charity."

Iona scoffed, "Ok, we all understand what you guys think of us. Can we move on?"

Before Shalahora offended the rulers further, I lifted us up another level. Metal pooled over me, and greenery came into view. Many plants filtered the base's atmosphere, pools of algae oxidizing the air. A few captured creatures from the surface roamed around, pollenizing and pruning the shrubs on their own. Three rulers processed the food in the meantime. They butchered animals, peeled fruits, and cut veggies.

My mouth watered at the sight, not having enjoyed any food in a long time. Those rulers must've kept the base fed, their positions secure. Regardless of their jobs, they gawked at our group melting through their floor. Before they panicked, I raised a hand,

"Hey, I'm new, and I'm helping remodel the place. Continue as you were."

Iona rolled her eyes, "He's not lying. I'll vouch for him."

They ignored me but listened to Iona, the three rulers getting back to their botanical work. I looked at the massive room before mouthing,

"You know, this is a lot of space for air purifying and food. Does this place serve a different purpose? Like a park or something?"

Iona put her hands on her hips, "What? No. Breathing and eating are pretty important, and it isn't like we're making this place take up three floors or anything. It's necessary to reduce mana costs."

I waved my hands at the terrarium, "I can turn this into a small room, and it will supply more of what you actually need. You'll save some space and food, something you're probably all lacking in."

Shalahora oozed out his words like liquid dark, "He speaks the truth. He may bring life from nothing more than mana. I've seen it."

The blue lizard peered at a bubbling pit of algae, "Food and space are the least of our concerns, but we can exchange something for the base adjustment. It frees these three to handle other work at the minimum."

