"Have you tried using the blue cores here? The energy's too unstable. Every material disintegrates upon contact, and several have died trying to harness their energy. Even the bones of the behemoths can take over the minds of people, so only psionics can control them. Our best fighting force relies on the golemites...And relying on them requires sacrifice. Everyone knows that."

I raised a hand, "I don't. What's up with the golemites?"

The plate thing got near me, fluids leaking from its body, "They create abyssals. Enough said."

I'd ask someone else about it later, so I pointed at the putrid fluids, "Do you need that, or can I get rid of it?"

The plate thing retracted its many shells, its tone skittish, "Ah...I'm so sorry. I get like this when I'm angry. I ooze."

With Event Horizon, I converted the material to mana, sterilizing the area. I turned to the others, "What did you guys do before arriving here?"

A gray insectoid turned to me, its body like a hornet and mantis fused together. The green and yellow carapace contrasted its orange eyes, giving it an exotic appearance, and its mandibles squirmed in its mouth as it hissed over,

"I own mercenary group for centuries. After long time group expand. Much wealth, so I buy planet. I get class, teleport here. Bad decision. Regret it. Life pain now."

Simple, straightforward, and reminiscent of Hod, the gray insect stared at me with a predator's eyes. I liked him. Her. It. Whatever it was. I turned to the plate thing, "What about you? How did you become a ruler?"

It writhed about, "I worked my way up in a defense contract company. After I routinely proved my worth, I was put onto the board of directors. After centuries, I bought a beach planet, set up a few businesses there, and retired."

I furrowed my brow, "So none of you were active warriors before arriving here? Where's all the fighters?"

Iona stepped up and grimaced, "With Valgus. Who else?"

Putting my hands on my hips, I shook my head, "I can't wait to hear what that guy has to say because nothing he's done makes any sense. Either way, this is his loss. I can eliminate all mana constraints within the next few hours, so don't worry about that. Mana will be the least of your concerns."

The keratinous set of plates expanded, "Words are cheap."

The gray insect stood up, tilting its head at me, "You lie or tell truth?"

I shrugged, "Before long, my actions will speak for me."

The gray insect spread its wings and arms, "Good. We need more of people like you. Valgus take all people like you to different place. Life pain now."

I walked over towards the elevator platform, "We can hope so."

Iona walked over, and the gray insect snapped itself over towards us in a violent jerk. Extraordinarily fast, it flashed over, and I raised my eyebrow at it. It hissed, "I want see too."

I smiled, "Then let's go."

On the succeeding floor, we neared the place's peak. This floor held an artificer's den and a magician's lair. Quite a few rulers set up shop here, nearly a hundred in this room alone. Most of them sat down while holding a cord in their hands, claws, or teeth. They channeled mana directly through the building, powering the systems. The plate thing wasn't lying about power being a primary concern.

While lined up, the variety of the species stunned me. Not carrying any single shape or form, insects with hundreds of legs sprawled out besides fluffy, cloud-shaped forest critters. The sheer variety of people reminded me of posters showing many characters in a story, but the difference arrived in my others senses.

This place reeked.

It stunk so bad I wanted to get rid of my nose, so I did. Pacing around, Iona's eyes watered as she coughed, "Sanitation and everything else is being maintained, so it's not hazardous here. It's...It's tough if you just walk in. You, uh, you get used to it, though."

Wielding Event Horizon, I sterilized the air, ground, and areas near the rulers. Raising a palm, I burst out a wave of fresh, cool air, and it replaced the musty moisture. Reforming my nose, I shook my head, "Damn, this place is disgusting."

Iona narrowed her eyes, and she spoke through tears, "Look, there's nothing that can be done about it. We need the artificers working full time or else this place will fall apart. That requires a ton of mana, and the artificers end up needing a lot of heat. We put them in the same room for conversion purposes. We can't afford to lose any energy from long cords."

She gasped, "So, ughhhk...We put everything close together. This is all a part of the process."

I saturated a cooling aura over the rulers holding the mana cables. Iona's eyes widened, "That antigravity well hasn't faded yet, and you've been using plenty of high-level incantations for a while. How much mana do you have anyway?"

I walked towards the artificers, "A lot."

The two crafters peered at their work, each of them using different tools. One wielded a hailstorm overhead, and the other swirled a maelstrom of magma. They created one portion of the room bathed in a cerulean glow and the other smattered with a crimson sheen. The majority of the mana cables ran into the icy ruler's back, but quite a few traced into a lava wielder as well.

Each crafter worked with different tools, the ice wielder handling intricate electronics while the other maintained a pit of heated acid.

Working together, they alternated their heating or cooling methods to build a complex piece of machinery. I pointed at it, "What's this for?"

Iona adjusted one of her wings, "It's, gimme a second. That's better. It's a part I need to help with gravitation or the pressure. Or maybe some kind of machine. You know, I really don't know which, honestly."

I waved a hand, "That's very helpful." I eyed their speed and precision, "They're unbelievably technical compared to what I do."

They finished before I stepped up and raised a hand to them, "Hey guys, I'm Daniel Hillside. You both are the crafters here?"

Short and stocky, the fire wielder wore an advanced apparatus over his entire body. Many glowing mana cords lead to his back, feeding and converting the manas of the wizards nearby. Pulling off a heavy-duty tinkerer's helmet, a magma imp growled up at me, "You interrupt us. Are you new or just stupid?"

Unphased, I raised a brow, "I'm the guy that'll be making this job obsolete soon."

A smirk grew on the imp's rocky face, its teeth glowing red, "Hah, good one. You'll fit in with the useless rulers below us."

I turned to the ice-wielder, "We'll see. What do you guys need here the most?"

The ice-wielder was a blue lizard like the ruler that went off to sunbathe, but she was a woman. It wasn't in a humanoid sense either. She just carried a sleeker, more feminine form, and her higher tone of voice solidified that impression,

"Teraz, you let him know we can't be interrupted, right?"

The magma imp smiled, his rocky skin pulsing with a heated glow, "He's an idiot. What else can be said?"

She peered at me, pulling a set of furred goggles off, "Ok, we don't have time for this."

I gave them a tight smile, "Neither do I. Name the three most important things you need, and I'll leave."

The fire imp chided, "Wouldn't you like to know-"

The ice lizard raised a hand and announced, "Mana, first and foremost, lightweight shielding for the radiation, and some materials that can withstand the gravity here. We're beginning to wear thin. Is that enough to work off of?"

My thin smile widened, "Actually, yeah. That's perfect. Good luck."

The lizard peered toward the elevator I made before she nodded at me,

"You too. We need helpful people here, and by the looks of it, you might be a good fit."

The fire imp snapped, "Alctua...We have plenty of good people here already. They're either wasting time or dying downstairs."

The ice lizard rolled her eyes and put her furred goggles back on, "Enough talk. Let's get back to work."

Teraz grumbled, but the fire imp put back on his tinkerer's helmet. They synced back into their impressive flow, each movement matching the other. Reminding me of my many psyches coordinating, I marveled at the efficiency of them both.

Teraz and Alctua, I put those names down as ones to remember.

Back at my elevator, I lifted everyone up while stating, "None of those problems will be issues soon. I'll be relieving a lot of pressure here soon."

Drelex flopped his catfish whiskers around as he stated, "If you can give us mana, we'll be plenty happy with it."

I frowned, "Tell me about it. How many more floors do we have?"

Iona wrote with beautiful handwriting as she murmured, "One. The next one's the last. It's for the leaders of us all, and I bet they're up there shouting like always."

While I pulled us up, I dove into thought. I imagined most rulers would be these unstoppable beings that rode through hell and back to establish themselves. My assumptions fell flat when faced with the real thing. So far, the vast majority of rulers seemed like diligent wage workers that eventually owned a planet after centuries of skilled labor.

While impressive in its own right, I expected more. Thinking back to Obolis, he retained some semblance of my first impressions, but like many situations in life, reality dimmed when compared to what I assumed it would be. It made me wonder about life in general. It was like every time I jumped to a conclusion, I ended up destroying my expectations soon after.

In a way, it made me wonder about people who were delusional. Maybe they weren't as misguided as I imagined? I mean, I fell victim to setting unrealistic expectations, and really, anyone could. Delusion could be the line that's crossed when someone disconnects from the mundane, therefore living their lives off their expectations rather than their reality.

And in a way, everyone lived a delusion. The measure of someone's deception might just correlate to how connected someone was with their actual world. So many factors could feed into someone's misbeliefs as well. Refection. Fear. Bias. They all played into how someone perceived the world.

While making these deals, I needed to make sure I connected to what was actual and not what I wanted to be real. Those thoughts swarmed in my mind as we reached the pyramid's peak. In this section, pinned charts, hovering maps, and holographic magic floated around. It gave the room a variety of colors as if someone sliced the planet apart and plastered it across the place.

The gem at the center of it all was a miniature approximation of Leviathan-7, showing the ossuary, dessert, and other extraterrestrial terrains. After slotting the elevator in place, I walked past the globe, the room echoing with shouts. A dozen rulers spoke and discussed their next course of action, voices and tensions high.

Turning to Shalahora, I sent out a telepathic message, "Hey, can you shroud us?"

Shalahora nodded, and we walked in. The diplomats wore robes similar to Drelex and the blue lizard accompanying Iona. Each member here discussed timelines for resources and a few specifics about the fortress. Another one of the monstrous plate-things writhed about as it spoke,

"We must level with one another. We have only a few more weeks worth of energy left. Most of our resources are being put to maintain the struggling rulers. Seconds tick by, and they are moments we no longer have."

A familiar voice spoke up, his white fur bristled, "And that's why we need to consider my proposition: cutting our losses and focusing on the remaining survivors. It is inevitable that sacrifices will be made. I offer that we make them now when they are minimal rather than later when they are maximal."

It was Obolis speaking, the Emperor's graphene armor looking commonplace here. His scars differed from the others here, him being the only combat-worthy ruler present. The others stood half his height, but that didn't stop a short, chubby alien from shouting over him. The green and yellow alien reminded me of an overweight poison dart frog with a squealing voice to match,

"Yet you're ignoring that those you wish to sacrifice are the only reason we've made it this far. They're bedridden because they took on the harrowing missions required to build this facility, to build this refuge. They offered their bodies, minds, and souls as the foundation to our current prosperity, regardless of how limited that affluence maybe."

Obolis peered down at the alien in disgust as the Emperor seethed, "Are you asking us to all die here so that we may hold up your moral ideals? Perhaps death is one of them?"

The round poison dart frog slammed its hand into the table, "No. It's about honoring the sacrifices of those that paved this road for us. Will anyone else be our next heroes if we treat our old warriors with such cruelty? No. We are ending any chance of rising above our situation by snuffling out any future heroes."

Obolis leaned to the frog, and the Emperor's teeth flashed, "It is better to live for today than to die for tomorrow."

The frog simmered, "You speak that because no matter the outcome, your false empire will be helped more by their deaths. You're trying to kill them to fuel this death game Schema placed us in. Their armies will, in essence, become yours."

I stepped up, several feet taller than Obolis. Shalahora's shroud dispersed while I spread my hands,

"Hey Obolis, it's good to see you again. I hope I'm not interrupting anything important."
