The yips distracted Cale from the grass. He stared at the trenchcoat kobolds instead.

He was tempted to ask. He was so tempted.

"Cale," Damien said, following his gaze and immediately tugging on his sleeve. Cale sighed. He never got to have any fun. Why did he accept positions of responsibility again?

Oh, right. He just couldn't help himself.

"You guys can figure that out if you want," he announced. "But our team still needs one more point, and we're going to go get it. Before I leave, though, here's some food for thought: you lose one point if your team gets in danger, and you gain two points if you rescue another team. Do you think that's a coincidence?"

Cale grinned just slightly. "I might not have known Professor Sternkessel for long," he said. "But he doesn't seem like the type to leave in a loophole like that by accident. Maybe spend less time fighting and more time thinking like a mage."

With that, he strode off, ignoring the argument that immediately erupted behind him. Damien and Leo hurried to catch up with him the moment they realized he'd started to wander off, but neither seemed to know what to say, so for a while, they simply walked in companionable silence.

Then Leo spoke. "Not all of us think like that, you know."

Cale blinked and glanced at him. "What do you mean?"

"That thing about how we'll die before we reach the top if we make that kind of sabotage a habit," Leo said, gesturing vaguely. He glanced back at the other students of the Astral Wing, and Cale caught the sympathy in his eyes. "Most of us aren't thinking about reaching the peak of magehood. We're here to get our magic under control, and a lot of us would do anything to get there. Credits are one way to do it, and Professor Sternkessel is one of the only professors that offers them so easily."

Cale's brow furrowed. "What's the point of being a mage if you aren't trying to reach the top?" he asked, confused.

Leo snorted. "If you asked me an hour ago, I would probably have been one of them," he said. "Not to the extent of sabotage, but there's a lot I would've done to get rid of my attunement."

"Huh. And now?"

Leo looked down, clenching his hand into a fist. "I don't know," he admitted after a moment. "I think I might want to do more with my magic. See what it can really do. Actually casting a spell and not worrying about my attunement... it felt good. And it feels like I could do a lot more if I tried."

Cale nodded and turned to Damien, whose leg seemed to have finally recovered. "What about you?"

Damien jumped, making a noise that was nearly a squeak. "M-me?" he asked. "Um... I don't know. It's complicated. I don't..."

"You were really cool back there, you know," Cale said, smiling at him.

"Seriously," Leo added.

Damien looked away, but after a moment, the tension in his shoulders faded just slightly. "Thank you," he said. "Um... I really don't know, though. You already know I want to heal. And I think... I think I don't want to hide from my magic forever."

"Same goes for me," Leo said.

"Good!" Cale beamed. "We'll turn you both into archmage-level terrors yet."

"Archmage—" Leo began.

"Terrors?!" Damien yelped.

Cale ignored them both. The spires were nearby, after all! Now that they were close, he could see that they looked like the upper half of some of the spires he'd seen hanging down above them—he would bet anything this was the way to get up there.

More than that... whatever had created those domain-looking magics was likely up there, too. There had to be a reason that looking up caused the sky to fall, and while he'd thought the cause was most likely a spell failing, there was still that second possibility.

Certain creatures simply didn't like being looked at.

The only problem with getting into the spires was that there weren't any doors, given that this was just the upper half of a building. Instead, there were a series of ornate windows spiraling up along the main spire's walls. Cale examined them for a moment, then nodded to himself. "Are you two ready?" he asked.

"For what?" Leo squinted at him suspiciously.

"I'm glad you asked!" Cale shaped his mana into a barrier with the form of a massive hammer, then grinned. "Breaking and entering, of course."
