Quill wanted to explain to someone who might be able to understand. “I don't want to make the Realm a worse place. I want to make delving available and safer for everyone, to bring about prosperity and help people around me. But… can I really do that, when my very presence is enough to effectively usher in the apocalypse?” Needing to get something off his chest, he pivoted momentarily, “Do you know what really pisses me off? Aren’t the Tier 50s supposed to be the ones there to fight against that sort of thing? To keep the realm stable? To prevent the next Shattering? Why are they so ready to throw away everything in existence, burning it all down, just to prevent anyone else from succeeding?”

She didn’t respond immediately, but he felt no need to rush an answer. The moment of quiet was a nice respite.

“Your childhood…” Max eventually replied, “It was defined by tragedy and disaster, ruinous and eminently avoidable. Do you suppose that the Junipers set out to ruin your home, when they started overfeeding their rifts?”

Quill didn’t bother arguing the semantics. “Probably not. But they clearly didn’t care enough to prevent it, even though they absolutely could have.”

Max gave an acknowledging nod. “People with power… they want more. It’s not always a bad thing. Quite frequently, it isn’t. Especially at first. Power lets you do more good. It means you can reward the people near you more, heap upon them the rewards you feel they’re due. It lets you compromise less. Make fewer concessions to the people you don’t like. It lets them suffer the cost of their own foolishness, rather than making others play court to their endless idiocy.”

Quill nodded. From reviewing Blake's memories he knew being a duke was exhausting most of the time. There was never enough for those who needed it, yet somehow still far too much for those who didn’t. Figuring out who was who? That felt impossible.

“And so, when a prize so tempting, so wonderful, something that you’ve been chasing for ages, and looks like it can provide everything you’ve ever wanted comes floating around, it’s only obvious that you grab onto it. Slap aside the other hands also reaching for the prize, and claim your reward. Because then, with it, you can accomplish everything. So what if your running towards it tramples a few ants? If it crushes some flowers? Why care if a brief tussle with the other seekers fells some trees? Or if it burns down a house or two? So what if the prize wriggles and shifts, changes and struggles, trying to escape your grasp? Once you have the prize, everything will be perfect, and you can fix everything that needs fixing.”

Titan growled right back. “I’m not some prize to be claimed. Grabbing me won’t fix anything.”

“I know,” Max agreed. “You know. But how much of a difference do you suppose that makes to someone like Virgil? She’s desperate for power, because she’s deep in debt both to herself and her underlings. She’s made promises both spoken and unspoken, because her family was once incredibly mighty, and now… it isn’t. She’s tasted the kind of power which can fix absolutely everything, she knows exactly what she’s missing, and now she’s looking for everything which might bring her even a shred closer to just what she had. Because the only thing more painful than not getting the prize, is to have the prize and then lose it… I’m mixing metaphors a bit. I—”

Seeing her shake her head and look like she was about to get off track he quickly interjected before she could. “No, no, I understand. Taking one step closer to fixing everything is all they care about, and not the enormous amount of hurt they’re inflicting with that step.”

“Power is a blinder. And it’s so incredibly easy for the powerful to forget just how much power they have. When overseeing a hundred billion worlds, it’s so easy for that to just become… words. One billion worlds sacrificed for the prosperity of ninety-nine billion seems like an obvious trade. The cause is noble, the ends just. The means are what they must be.”

“There’s nothing just about what the Federations do.” Quill countered with a snort.

“Since when has that ever mattered?” Max pointed out. “Everyone believes their cause is the right one. Even those who willingly play the villain, do so because they think it’s necessary for some greater good. Even the ones who only care about their personal good, they still think they’re upholding some grander philosophical goal. Might makes right is popular in the Sects, and they’re actually not being hypocrites about it for the first time in a while. That doesn’t make them better, though. It just makes them harder to rebuke.”

Quill shifted, trying to work himself out of the dour mood her words tried to lead him towards. Instead he tried to make a joke. “Maybe with words. But I’ve yet to meet someone that can out-talk a sword to the face.”

“Oh how you tempt me, Quill. I’m almost tempted to make that a bet.” Max chuckled.

Her gaze was mixed as she watched him, but after a moment she shook her head and continued with a more normal expression that morphed into a wide almost manic smile. “I— Oh, give me mana. I’ve always wanted to do this. Don’t stop unless I’m unconscious!”

Before Quill could agree or disagree, Max pulled what looked like a hospital bed out of a storage ring, hooked herself up to it, and closed her eyes over the course of a blurred second. Then he felt her mana pool start to drop and her head started to radiate heat, as a number of runes on the bed lit up.

He thought he felt her casting a spell, but there was almost no fluctuation in her spirit and he disregarded the oddity as unimportant in the moment. Tapping into both his Concept and mana aspecting ring, he did his best to slow the drain while making mana perfectly copied from Max’s mana sample his ring had absorbed so she wouldn’t have to convert the mana herself.

Opening bloodshot eyes, Max’s fractals spun themselves into a blur as she stared through the ceiling.

Her laughter started small, but grew as his efforts kept her mana pool half full.

Having been given clear instructions, Quill didn’t stop, keeping her mana consumption neutral. He wasn’t sure what she was doing, but after the first five minutes, the spiritual strain was obvious. At the ten minute mark, blood had started to drip from her eyes and nose. At the fifteen minute mark, her teeth were lined by red, even as her smile widened into something that bordered on mania.

Quill’s concern spiked when the smile froze before slowly returning to a flat expression as the fractals exploded into a new set of more complex expressions he couldn’t follow without his full attention.

Cosmind was back.

Feeling the mana draw and damage begin to spike, Quill made more stones appear, keeping her mana pool from dropping.

There was no new smile for his efforts. Only blood.

The small trickle had turned into a stream, but then, all at once, everything stopped. The fractals, the mana draw, the blood, the damage, everything froze.

Then, like long dead machinery breaking free from stagnation, the fractals started to spin in reverse while everything else continued. Instead of resuming their less complicated patterns as they went backwards, the fractals increased their complexity as they folded in on themselves. In seconds they reached a point he could no longer look at them without his head starting to hurt.

Titan stared at Cosmind as he felt her rearranging things as he debated if he should be planning for her death. He couldn’t tell what spells, implants, modifications, or minds she was adjusting or why she was doing so, but through his connection to her mana pool, he felt every minute variation in her mana usage.

Each and every one told a story he could read like a book, even if he wasn’t fluent in the language. However, he didn’t need to be fluent to know the story they were telling him.

The woman in front of him was dangerous.

Minutes after knowing his Talent, she’d already started adjusting herself to better handle massive quantities of mana. While that would allow her to utilize mana he sent her more effectively, it also removed some of his easiest methods to disable someone.

Mana pools were fragile things, and sending a few trillion mana into someone's mana pool forcefully probably wasn’t lethal. Crippling? Undoubtedly. Better yet, such injuries were incredibly annoying to heal, leading to long recovery times.

Things Max had undoubtedly taken the first steps to rectify such measures. With his help.

After considering it and weighing the options, Titan decided he didn’t mind. At least not enough to stoop to preemptive attacks on a friend or an ally.

If Max turned against him… Well, that was why he was getting the armor made and Quill was working on the flash talismans.

Knowing about his Talent was one thing. Being able to stop him with it was another, much harder, proposition.

After almost an hour, Max was in desperate need of a break, with the spiritual damage nearing serious levels, but Titan saw no reason to stop. He didn’t know what Max was doing, per se, but it didn’t matter to him.

For all that he was trying to be helpful to an ally, he was determined to prove a point to his older peer.

He was Endless.

He was Dauntless.

He was—

Quill wasn’t sure what he was. 『　』’s absence meant his Domain was as fractured as he was. That made it impossible to progress, but that didn’t stop him from scrambling along in the darkness.

Lost in that fugue stage, his distraction lasted until Max willingly dropped her spells. In fact, it was her rapidly filling mana pool that punched through to get his attention.

Misshapen and melted flesh had replaced his fellow Ascender on the hospital bed. He was sure if she’d still had eyes or ears, she’d have been bleeding from them, but Max was far beyond that point. She was bleeding from… everywhere. When she weakly opened her mouth and coughed up bloody phlegm, he concluded she might have pushed a little too far.

He was proved wrong as he felt her earlier spell engage and revert a majority of her body’s damage, returning her visage to near what she’d entered the room with.

Eyes narrowing, he followed the spell pattern but still didn’t understand. Such a time-reversion adjacent spell should have removed all of the changes she’d made to herself along the way.

How had she prevented her changes from being reverted without affecting the whole?

His only answer to that question was a wide smile as she stored the bed and gestured to the door as if nothing had happened. “I might have taken up a bit more time than I promised. Whoops. I can feel JR growing impatient. Ready to go?”
