Chapter 495

Quill still hadn’t fully decided whether or not to tell the returning Max about his Talent when Aiden finally returned to settled space and reconnected to the Ascender Chat, giving him a much needed distraction.

Putting aside his current experiment, Quill watched the lost Ascender’s return message.

Standing before his friends and crew, Aiden was mildly disheveled but did look better than when he’d left, implying he hadn't gotten in any bad fights while exploring. Even stranger was the censored blob on his head. It seemed too wide to be a crown, but Quill had no idea what Aiden was up to.

Having an easy remedy to all of his questions, he hit play.

“I bet everyone has been worried about my health, but let me assuage any such concerns. Despite a few close calls, we made it through safely thanks to my amazing leadership.” That earned Aiden and the object on his head several strange glances from several members of the crew and all of his friends, but none of them said anything to contradict the Ascender.

Not noticing the looks, Aiden eagerly pointed at his head. “I got the best thing out of the breach. While everyone else was chasing their temporary pleasures and boosts, I found the gold maker itself.”

The censor fell away to reveal a large purple and teal Tier 8 crab. The video came with additional information. When he checked it, he only had more questions.

The crab didn’t have a bloodline core, which meant it would never gain sentience. While it would have a Talent and Domain, it would have the same ones as every other member of its species.

Very confused, he let the video play and hoped Aiden wouldn’t be intentionally cruel when he couldn’t chase the older Ascender down and beat the answer out.

As if knowing what he was thinking, Aiden nodded. “I know what you are thinking, it's probably the same thing as everyone else said at first. ‘Oh Aiden, this is just a normal crab.’ Well, Crabby Gabby isn’t just a normal crab. No, he’s a Natural Treasure Seeking crab at heart, even if not in Talent. He found us a planet the seeker said had nothing good on it, but no, it had two valuable items left behind. Yes, he did.”

Gabby, distracted by a strand of moving blue hair, snipped at them, only to retract its claws from the high Tier material. Rather than getting mad, Aiden cooed and babied the crab for several seconds before getting back on track.

“I knew he was special the moment we found two Natural Treasures in the little guy's nest. A little hoarder after my own heart. The others disagreed, but that's okay. Isn’t it Gabby?”

The rest of the video was Aiden talking to the crab, but the Ascender Chat was abuzz with conversation.

Ellen must have been in the Chat when the message went out because her response was almost instant. “Did you identify its species’ Talent?”

Aiden happily doomed himself. “They can solidify water into a rock-like structure. They use their Talents to make their caves right on the open ocean floor. Their Tier determines how large of a cave they can make. This little guy at Tier 8 was only a step below the crab leaders, having a cave nearly as large as some of peak Tier 9s.”

As if confused, Oliver asked, “So he confirmed doesn't have a Seeking Talent?”

“Talents aren’t needed to succeed.”

Lila’s reply got a snort out of Quill when he pictured her indignation. “Aiden, I hope you understand the difference between a human without a Talent succeeding, and a normal crab. How was the value of the planet it found? Was it good at the very least?”

“No, there was only a low Tier Natural Treasure and a decently valuable fire-aspected item, but we were on the way back. Even a master Seeker can’t find what isn’t there, and I’ll note our Seeker said there wasn’t anything good on the planet. I’ll prove it the next time I go into chaotic space.”

“But you admitted your Seeker was right?” Allie stirred the pot without a moment's hesitation.

“He wasn’t! There was stuff there.”

Brian refused to let that slide. “Low Tier junk.”

“That’s offensive.” Was Aiden’s only comeback.

“Good,” Brian shot back, not missing a beat.

At that point, the conversation shifted to the rest of his loot, which was disappointingly light. The rest of the crew wasn’t destitute, but Aiden’s fixation on the crustacean had cost them vital years as he slowly ‘tamed’ the crab mid-adventure.

Looking deeper at the already extended timeline, Quill wasn’t sure they’d been doing all that much before the distraction either. They hadn’t just been slow, they were taking sizable breaks the entire journey, in and out.

All of that would have been fine, understandable even given Aiden’s injuries. However, instead of admitting everyone else had been right and he was too injured to go out exploring, he’d chosen to bring back a crab claiming he’d won the lottery.

As if mocking Aiden, every data point he’d transmitted relating to the creature pointed to it being a perfectly normal, if slightly lucky to have collected two Natural Treasures, crab.

Seeing Aiden getting ganged up on by the others, Quill considered helping his fellow Ascender, but decided against it. It was possible the crab had a knack for finding treasures, even if not a full-on Talent, but every time Aiden opened his mouth to answer another question, he made his own case worse.

As the argument deteriorated, things ended exactly where everyone knew they would. “Fine! If no one believes me, let's make a bet. When Gabby finds something amazing I want you all to apologize.”

After the briefest of moments, he added, “To both of us.”

No one liked the idea of apologizing to Aiden, most of them would rather apologize to the crab, and the bet quickly turned competitive as rules were established limiting how long he had to collect on such an open ended bet.

Despite wanting to be helpful, Quill's stance was more conservative. He didn’t see how Gabby could have anything close to a Seeker’s sense, but stranger things had happened, and he wouldn’t discount Aiden’s luck in being the one to find it.

He wasn’t the only one to see it that way, and it turned into the largest dividing line between sides. Those who believed Aiden had to be that lucky due to his previous exploits, and those that refused to believe that he could be that lucky for the exact same reason, citing he’d used all his luck up.

In solidarity with Aiden he’d initially agreed to place a bet, but the moment he did, the other Ascenders immediately started pushing to raise the bet to the level where [Home] was on the table, and all five of them backed out.

The distraction worked a little too well as he almost missed Max’s return to the Corporations capital. Her arrival forced Quill to make a choice. One he felt unprepared to handle. Feeling conflicted, he found a bit of time Liz wasn’t elbow deep in her own work and visited.

Rather than escaping for a break again, they took a walk around their estate holding hands and enjoying the illusion projections that made their temporary home feel like an open villa with miles of idyllic countryside surrounding them. As nice as the hand holding was, they were using the contact to transmit messages, but he’d never complained about being able to multi-task.

“It’s odd to consider sharing my Talent with Max. That’s something I’ve only really done with Team Zero. And yes, I know that she’s certainly deduced it by now, but officially breaking that seal feels wrong in some way.”

Liz’s answer was as easy as he expected it to be. “Then don’t. You aren’t obligated to go along with JR’s games. If you feel reluctant, tell him to pound sand.”

Trying to articulate what he barely understood himself, Quill gave the best answer he could. “And yet, I also want to share, knowing Blake wasn’t wholly against it. Certainly, the eventual integration between my mind and my [AI] is likely to raise questions, but another part of me thinks I should be boasting of my Talent. At least given that she's both a safe person to tell and someone who can understand how powerful it is. It’s absolutely amazing, so why shouldn’t she learn it? Or have it confirmed. Whatever the distinction may be. And I can self-censor enough that I know that reasoning isn’t something Blake wouldn’t want to act on. If that feeling is suspect, are my original intentions also questionable?”

Giving him a weird look, Liz silently asked, “Is that maybe, and hear me out, because you consider Max a friend and don’t like JR sticking his beak into that?”

Listening to the quiet sounds of nature present in their estate, Quill considered the question. He wasn’t sure if Liz was right, but he suspected she wasn’t wrong.

Max was a friend, but any friendship between Ascenders came with the implicit understanding that, should they come to blows, it was only polite to try and kill each other. Anything less than their best, in the truest of all contests, would be an insult.

Giving a woman defined by her ability to plan an in-depth look at his greatest strength was certainly a choice, but also that was kind of a mark in favor of doing it. Was it really fair to deny her the ability to use her talents simply because his Talent had additional implications?

Answering both of their questions, he said, “Maybe… probably. That's a part of my discomfort at the very least. I just don’t know if this is the right call.”

Liz didn’t push him and when they reached the end of a loop they silently continued another.

Wanting something else to do with his mental efforts besides thinking in circles, Quill idly tapped into a handful of spells and created them a stone walkway around the perimeter. Large flat sheets of a light gray shale made good stepping stones that would be warm in the day without getting too hot. He even summoned smaller tumbled stones for the rest so it wouldn’t be painful if someone decided to walk barefoot.

After the second circle around, when he started debating turning the pathway into a long multi chain enchantment, he realized what he was really doing.

“I think I’m just worried and trying to find a reason to say no. And the fact I can’t come up with a good reason isn’t helping. Honestly, it might be the cause.”

Spinning so she was walking backwards ahead of him, Liz said with a steadiness he needed, “Tell her or don’t, it's your choice. You don’t need a specific reason to want to tell or not to. If JR, and therefore the Corporations, knowing makes you feel comfortable enough to share with Max, do so. If it doesn't, don’t. It's your Talent, not anyone else’s. You can change your mind right up until you tell her, so don’t let me or anyone else force your hand.”

Trying to take the words to heart, Quill wasn’t entirely sure when their walk ended. He continued it with a phoenix Liz he found loitering in a sunny spot long after Liz needed to return to her own work.

With Max’s arrival, the choice was pushed front and center.

Instead of running from the problem, Quill settled on a choice he hated but knew was the correct one. Blake had already decided before the name removal and changing that felt worse than following his initial reaction.

[Portal]ing in early, he already found Max chatting with Rosemarie. Noticing his arrival, the older woman excused herself before he could say anything more than hello, seeming eager to escape her Ascender.

Max wasn’t so reticent. Spinning, the Tier 39 looked as excited as a kid playing in a warm summer rain when their parents wanted them to come inside as they moved to a secure room under JR’s lab.

Some of that excitement shifted as she looked him up and down as fractals spun and twisted into reality around her.

“Oh, hey 『　』 —” Seeing his blank stare at his name, Max whistled. “Well, JR clearly did his name thing on you. What’s it feel like? What name are you using right now? Can you describe what it feels like? I’ve tried to get JR to pull my name, but noooo. He keeps saying I have too many minds or some other excuse every time I try. I think it could be really good training and he isn’t letting me.”

“Good to see you, Max. I’m going by Quill, currently. I was Titan for a bit, but he’s a bit too fight-y. Not really equipped for the quieter bits, y’know?”

Rather than being confused, Max nodded as if someone was finally saying what she’d been repeating to deaf ears for years.

“Ascenders, yes. Ugh. Dedicated combat personalities are so annoying. Took me centuries to get a handle on the right blend of stuff. Crazy useful in the right situation, but I once nearly killed a ten year old kid because she kept drumming on a table in just the right pattern to remind me of an illusion-based monster I’d been fighting a couple years prior. But you…”

Standing and walking around him several times she continued, “Honestly, are pretty well-adjusted.” Sniffing, she bobbed her head back and forth for a few moments before continuing. “A little lacking on the social connections, but no more than half our peers are on a normal day. What are you getting done? I should have asked this earlier. JR almost never does work for people, and you aren't even local.”

Knowing the raven above them could hear every word he spoke, Quill didn’t hold back. “I’m getting armor made. It's JR’s favorite type of thing to make, so he was happy to do it.”

Max paused mid-stride before a small smile spread across her face until it blossomed into a wide grin.

“Are you making a joke? Oh, now I need to know more. Where has this Quill been since I’ve known you? You've got a sarcastic streak in you. How fun is that!”

