Shaking his head, Quill forced out a grin as the banter helped settle his roiling stomach. “No, he's actually making me armor. Tier 30 war armor in fact.”

Word by word, Max’s mouth opened wider until her jaw was slack.

Slapping the table hard enough to leave a shallow handprint in the Tier 40 metal, she shouted to the ceiling, “What the fuck! I begged you to make me a name bound item! You stingy flying feather pillow! You said no every time!”

When no bird appeared to explain the unequal treatment, Max turned her attention back to Quill and asked the same question. “How?”

Keeping to the general stuff, he explained how he’d preserved the strange realm reward and how that was the key to getting JR’s acceptance.

Max grumbled throughout the story but instead of complaining, she circled back around. “As much as I want to complain, this is an opportunity for you. We won’t be able to do any of our [AI] stuff until after you’ve fully reassimilated, but that's going to take years, if not a decade.”

“JR implied we could get started once he's done?”

Shaking her head, Max shut that idea down instantly. “Not a chance. We can check about a year after you get your main name back to make sure it’s properly re-integrated, but we are not making permanent mental mods until I’m confident your personality is completely healed. Doing anything mental related too soon is begging to lock in strange personality traits. No, we'll wait. When are you getting it back?”

Not sure what Max meant by the question, he tentatively answered, “When the armor is done? He never mentioned an early return, so a decade or two.”

Max just stared at him for a solid minute before throwing up her hands. “What the fuck is he making for you? There’s basically nothing that should require your name for the entire time, instead of just the very start or the end. How is he preventing personality solidification? Does he—”

Max suddenly stalled, her expression going completely blank and her voice dying in her throat. She blinked. “That was weird.”

Realizing he’d have to allow Max to have her memories if they wanted to have this conversation, Quill reviewed his choice one final time. While sharing his Talent with anyone was risky, doing so with the only other Ascender to have killed a peer felt even more so. Ultimately, one thing was a larger consideration than all of his other fears.

Allies.

The Empire might have the Guilds firmly in their corner, but the rest of the Great Powers would inevitably look towards devouring him when news spread, and one wasn’t enough.

When war did break out, Quill wanted an on-his-side Max as prepared as possible, and that meant giving her time. Time knowing his Talent and time to plan and prepare around what it might enable that might otherwise be impossible. Telling her had its risks, but the more time he gave her to think, the better their total chances were.

That left him with only one viable path forward, and when put like that, the doing part suddenly became easy.

“I am trying to share my Talent, yes. No, I won't share the spec sheet for the armor, but I’m happy to talk about some of the generalities.”

Max didn’t seem bothered by his refusal, and hyperfixated on his first words.

Max looked at him neutrally for a moment, before her eyes widened. “Oh! I was wondering about that. Dang, how many… that’s a lot of mental locks, wow. Do you want to tell me, or should I just peek behind the curtain?”

Not seeing how it changed anything, Quill said the words she’d been waiting for. “You can open up your closed minds. I—”

Max cracked her knuckles and stretched happily. “Oohhhh yeah. I’ve apparently been waiting ages for this, let’s see what’s… Oh.”

Her cheery expression fell away, and for the first time, Quill saw Max actually pause to think. “Shit.”

Cosmind, the extremely lethal Chosen, looked at him, deadly serious, and Quill felt himself being studied under a microscope. Then, after she took a deep breath, the cheery, friendly Max was back.

Kicking back in her seat, her shoulders slumped. “That’s… a lot to take in. Math please. Need to check the actual numbers.”

When he sent them she took another deep, thoughtful breath. “Makes sense, though. That’s one monster of a secret. Damn, a surprising and embarrassing amount of my minds were wrong. Fourteen percent of them have inadvertently signed themselves up for remedial logic training after that shameful showing. Did you know I had to modify my sense of curiosity seven different times to keep me from looking into this?”

She chuckled, but it still sounded somewhat stressed. “I… alright, show me. Let me see.”

Not bothering with words, Quill started dumping his entire mana pool into the small secure room. The air was immediately saturated with the 1.3 billion mana he was adding every second, with things steadily turning a deeper blue as the mana levels rose.

For the first time during the conversation, Quill felt JR react as a greater spiritual perception noticeably enveloped the room. He initially thought the bird was protecting his privacy, but realized JR was worried about a spontaneous aspect-cascade resulting from the abundance of mana in such a small space right underneath his lab.

Not wanting a runaway explosion or some other disaster to occur while he was inside the room, Quill stopped dumping his mana into the air. Instead, he pivoted and started creating non-liquid mana stones, letting them clink onto the table in a steady flow. Given a week, the stones would de-aspect and be little different than any other general mana source.

Max chuckled, but Quill still managed to pick out a thread of stress in the expression, despite the woman’s drastically higher Tier and usually unflappable composure. “Man. I mean, absolutely congrats. That is… quite the Talent. Realm-changing, even. And yeah, I entirely get your Domain now. And some of your choices with the [AI] integration I didn’t realize I’d been confused by. Ascenders, that’s… so much mana. What the fuck do you do with all of it? I can hardly imagine what I’d do with that much mana.”

She snapped her fingers a few times and pointed at him saying, “Oh! I am absolutely tapping you for help with the chat now. All of us retirees chip in some mana to keep the relays running, and if you’re constantly making Realm-relevant amounts of mana, you could cover the whole stinking cost per year in seconds.”

Quill was about to decline, but Max never gave him a chance to speak. “Mmm. Might be a bit tricky to not give away the game too early. I’ll still figure out some use for you, but we can’t tip our hands. Ascenders damn it all, why couldn’t you have been a second Aiden, with some stupid, boring Talent to make puppies happier?”

Not wanting to have Max surprised again, he tried to explain the deeper repercussions. “The Corporations signed a defensive pact with the Empire. I—”

His words were waved away as Max turned the gesture into a face palm.

“No, no. I get that. I understand everything, and I know exactly how this will go. I just...” Glancing at him through a gap in her fingers, she sighed. “Are you sure you don’t want to retire and ascend early? Sipping fancy drinks on a beach with friends before leaving to explore a new Realm at Tier 45 sounds like a great way to wrap this Realm up.”

Quill shook his head, denying her claim. “If I thought I could do it? Sure, I guess. But do you really think people would let me?”

Max looked like she wanted to say something but she held herself back, her shoulders slumping in agreement.

Just in case she hadn’t, he spelled things out further. “If you’ve done the calculations, tell me, how many of the other Great Powers will allow me to live unfettered once word spreads? Or will they demand that I support them and give away my mana? How many of them will demand I go into a Tier 47 rift where I can produce even more mana? How many of them will gladly sacrifice my wellbeing for their own gain?”

Clenching his first and releasing the sphere of mana back into the room, Titan made his stance very clear, so there would be zero misunderstanding to Max, JR, Rosemarie or whoever else might be listening in.

“I am not, and have never been, willing to sacrifice myself for the greater good. I am willing to assist in Manny’s endeavors of Tiering up every capital planet, as well as other initiatives, but I will do so on my own terms. Not the ones Tier 50s who only care about their own self interest determine for me. It's my life, my Talent, my time, and my mana. Not theirs.”

Max sighed and looked up, drumming her fingers on her arm. “Yeah, alright, I understand.”

Titan felt his battle instincts kick in at her words. He was confident she was about to try and convince him to change his stance. That surety left him more than a little confused when her response didn’t follow his expectations.

The usually chatty Max’s eyes held a deep stillness as she probed him for something. When she didn’t find it she seemed to sag, but he couldn’t tell if it was a positive or negative development.

“I shouldn’t pull this thread right now. Quill and Titan aren't the personalities this conversation needs to happen with, but know 『　』and I will be revisiting this conversation. I just want you to consider that a war doesn’t have to be inevitable.”

Holding up a hand to forestall any rebuttals, she continued with a forced smile and asked, “I’m sorry, but I really do have to circle back. You just make that much mana at all times? There isn’t a limit at all? No restrictions like only when one foot is off the ground? I met a guy like that once, it's possible. He—” Closing her eyes hard for a moment, Max refocused. “I’m sorry, but I’m genuinely having a hard time wrapping my head around your Talent. There has to be a downside. There’s always a downside.”

A moment later, she opened a single eye and added, “Right?”

Taking the opportunity for levity, Quill forced out a quip. “I can’t actually cultivate my mana. That’s a downside. Oh! You wouldn’t believe how much of a headache getting my mana concentration into a half decent state was.”

Watching her face scrunch up as if she’d eaten a lemon while struggling to remain polite, he considered what might convince her more than his earlier display.

Quill put his hand with Frederic’s mana storage ring on the table and activated it, letting her see inside. Or more accurately, the months of accumulation he’d let build up. It wasn’t much, only just over twenty quadrillion mana, or the raw mana equivalent of two Tier 49 mana stones, or most of one Tier 50.

“This is what I made in the last three months, minus what I’ve given to JR to make the armor; which was about another quadrillion, give or take.”

In response, Max pushed herself away from the table and started pacing, her eyes never leaving him.

“Four and a half days to make a quadrillion mana? That’s…” Speeding up, Max started to blur before stopping. Throwing herself into her chair, she nearly sent it skittering out from under her but she didn’t seem to notice as she went boneless.

Max sighed a few minutes later as she sat up and cracked her neck in two sharp, nearly lethal, motions. “Well, alright. I wasn’t expecting to learn that the end is nigh today, but I guess that’s where we are. This is going to make the War of Beast Liberation look tame.”

Quill wanted to deny the allegation that the apocalypse was coming, but instead just found himself asking, “So you think a true war is inevitable too?”

Max didn’t say anything, but her look was so weighty that Quill felt like he had to defend himself. “That’s what everyone keeps saying. I just wanted there to be a different way. You’re the person to know the future, so I was hopeful you might see some alternate outcome.”

Max’s jaw worked for several long seconds before she shook her head, her words as slow and heavy as the moment itself. “Talents are like people. Each one is unique. The same Talent given to a slightly different person will result in vastly different outcomes.”

“Minkalla’s Folded Reflections gave me plenty of such possibilities. I—”

Max cut him off with a wave. “No, not like that. Practically nothing is definite. Your Talent, in its current state, held by you? That’s likely to explode. But if someone else had it? Someone who perhaps wasn’t on the Path, who didn’t have their spirit tempered to maintain that much mana constantly being run through it, who didn’t have a Domain built around eternally spewing forth mana, someone who might run into spiritual exhaustion after making just a few billion mana per day… that person wouldn’t trigger a true war.”

We’re Ascenders, 『　』. We climb and we climb and we always grab for the most we possibly can. If you die in a rift next week, there’s no true war, and the Shattering doesn’t restart. If you vanish for a few million years, probably about the same effect. If Amon Dai makes a perpetual mana generator that produces fifty billion mana per second that can be made on an industrial scale, your Talent won’t start a true war either. There are many, many things that could stop the war. But that doesn’t make those things likely. And the way the Realm currently is… yeah. Beware, the end is nigh.”

Max looked at him, eyes soft and sympathetic. “You’re going to change the Realm, Titan. That much is certain.”

“Unless I die in a rift next week.”

She rolled her eyes. “We both know that’s not actually happening. If JR is messing with your name, he won’t let you leave real space until he's done.”

There was a moment of silence.

