“I can translate,” Ali said. “Calen smart. Wear shiny, shiny.” She tapped her temple twice with her finger. “Bear stupid. No shiny. Bear freeze. Brr!”

“Hey!” Mato exclaimed.

Malika stifled her laughter at the back-and-forth, reaching over to pick up several silver bracelets that were all that remained of the ice trolls’ gear. The teasing notwithstanding, even Malika could tell something dramatic had changed for Calen, and it had happened when he put on the blue leather bracer Zor’kan had made for him. She was so used to seeing Calen chugging multiple mana potions per fight, and still having to ration his magic, but this last fight his arrows had commenced at the beginning of the battle and the onslaught hadn’t let up for a single second – every arrow enchanted to the maximum.

Frozen Charm Bracelet – level 75A silver bracelet with several tiny dangling metal sculpted figurines. +47 Wisdom+29 Intelligence+37% mana regeneration.+10% chance to reset Ice Shield recharge on critical hit.Requirements: Intelligence 263Quality: UncommonValue: 45 goldHands – Charm

“Hey, Ali, do you want one of these?” she asked, holding the bracelet up. These Telim Gor trolls had been incredibly well equipped, every single item of uncommon grade, possessing four well-balanced enchantments that were well suited to their classes. She wasn’t quite sure it was better than the Ancestral Spirit Beads they were both wearing, but it was worth asking.

“Only to add to my imprint,” Ali answered. She held up her wrist showing her beads, “I like the regeneration on these beads, and the vitality is probably a safer choice than more intelligence at this point. Although the silver charms are pretty.”

“Oh right, you can learn bracelets,” Malika said, passing them all to her. “We should save one or two for Giddy Clicksprocket, I’m sure she will want to buy them for study.”

“I don’t mind donating a few if she can learn to put that enchant on a few other items; it will give me more options to gear my trolls,” Ali answered, clearly of the same mind.

“Ali, single-handedly dragging the Myrin’s Keep crafters out of obscurity,” Malika said, laughing. But honestly, it had been more than worth it so far. Just having Thuli and Lydia had been an incredible help to their growth – and helping a few more crafters was only going to compound that. With an item Ali could make, it wouldn’t even cost anyone anything.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
