The Deathless sighed. “Look, I know it sounds ridiculous, it is ridiculous, but I need you two to stay there. I'm releasing more of my Creeping Void. It's the only thing keeping us safe. It seems like they can't handle darkness; it just eats them somehow. And using Non-Sequitur ripped away the parts of me that were contaminated. But I'm not going to assume anything with the fae. I'm calling Cullywier. Adam, get a Vielpiercer ready and open a way back to the coliseum. If things go south, I need you to run.”

“You need him to run?” Helix said, outraged. “What about me?”

“Yeah, well, I don't really care about you that much, Helix,” Shiv replied. “You know what? You can stay and fight with me if you want. You'll just come back from the dead eventually anyway. It’ll just be a new experience for you.”

“Do you think I will earn much of the Challenger’s favor if I am struck down by bread?” Helix hissed. “What will the other orcs say?”

“That you’re a sneering, arrogant, stuck-up Biomancer who thinks too highly of himself? Helix, it doesn’t matter how pathetically you die, they'll say the same things about you as before. Because that’s what they are, and it's what you are.”

“I—you—” the Biomancer sputtered, but Shiv moved on.

“Cullywier!” he cried aloud, and there came a rush of fragrant wind. Suddenly, Cullywier manifested right next to Shiv. He blinked, staring at the kitchen with his unnaturally large eyes, and a pensive expression crawled over him. At least Shiv assumed it was a pensive expression. It was hard to read the fairy's face; calling Cullywier uncanny was an understatement.

“What has transpired here?” Cullywier asked with a faint hint of startlement. He looked to his left and right and appeared lost. And that was when Shiv realized Cullywier couldn't see through the Creeping Void.

“Oh, sorry,” Shiv said. “I can't really drop the shadows. So, we're being attacked by Faebread. I think they're from the Summer Court or something? Bread subject to Princess Plum Blossom? Really not sure. All I know is that they melt inside shadows.”

“As do all creatures born of the Court of Summer,” Cullywier replied. “And Princess Plum Blossom, you say? Well, that's not good. The Princess of Fertility is not known to be forgiving when someone eats her delicious morsels. But I'm more surprised that you managed to steal something from her. The Court of Summer is well-guarded. To walk in the light of the Laughing Radiance without a pardon from the Queen of the Court—”

“Listen, I didn't cause this shit. I didn’t steal any bread. The people who caused this are dead. The Faebread just hatched out from their bodies like horrible flesh monsters. I think they're in the air filtration system right now. There are a lot of other customers inside the building. The bread themselves should be holed up in the kitchen. I need a few things from you: I need to know what they can do and how I can kill them, because with everyone else being dead, this is now my problem. Shit. How am I supposed to get extra credit for this now…”

At that, Cullwier winced. “A fairy doesn't technically die. Not in the same way you patternists do.”

“Yeah, that's another thing,” Shiv said. “What the hells is a patternist?”

“Oh, it is simply what the Fair Folk call you mortals. We are not so touched by the entropy. We are consistent, we are persistent, we are cyclical. The System holds onto us. We are the children of pure narrative.” And then, there was a flicker of something behind Cullywier's eyes, as if a hint of disgust or disbelief. “Or so the Kings and Queens of our Courts claim.”

Psycho-Cartography: He doesn't believe that. More importantly, there is something between Cullywier and the Courts. All of them. The reason for his exile continues to weigh on him.

“Okay, so the fairies don't die like most people do. How do I get rid of them? There’s gotta be a way. They turned into dense blocks of Chronomancy when I hit them earlier. It was like punching a stone wall as a Pathless.”

“Ah. We are fixed beings of time as well. You cannot strike us with your Chronomancy that way. The fairest endure everlasting, I’m afraid. That is the nature of our lore. We cannot be moved. But you could just leave, Deathless. There's nothing forcing you to stay here. I do not see how this is your duty now.”

“There are fifty customers inside this place,” Shiv snarled. “I am not letting them get eaten from the inside out by bread.”

A low whine of wind escaped Cullywier, and Shiv guessed that was the fairy equivalent of a sigh.

“Well then, explain the entirety of this travesty to me. It is hard to tell what might be the resolution for such a problem. Perhaps there is no resolution to be achieved at all. It is an ugly thing to steal from a Princess of the Summer Court. Gentle though Summer might be, there is wrath in fertility, and a price must always be paid to even the scales.”

After that, Shiv told Cullywier everything he knew, and by the time he was done, the whistling winds grew louder and lower with every passing second. “This is a most unfortunate story. For them to have stolen Faebread, and for the bread to have awoken, a significant amount of wrongs must already have been enacted. Some of the bread must have been consumed, and the time of the Great Harvest is nigh.”

“What's the Great Harvest?” Shiv asked.

“It is the time when the cycle begins anew. The prestige and power of the Four Courts is always in flux, and at the beginning of the story, Summer is the brightest, the greatest, the grandest, and they hold the most sway over the land. What has been taken by Winter at the end of the last story will have been regrown. What is darkness and shadow will be pushed back by the laughing radiance, and that which is in between Spring and Fall will succumb then to the domain of light.”

Shiv grunted as he took in this information. “So, let me guess: if the Princess doesn't eat the right amount of bread, or she's not fed the right amount of whatever, she's probably not going to be able to do the whole balancing thing, and everything will be uneven by the time the next cycle comes around, which makes Summer weaker.”

Deductive Reasoning 8 > 12

“That is correct,” Cullywier replied, sounding surprised. “Do you know something about the Fairwoods?”

“No, it's just a guess,” Shiv said. “But with how the shadows seem to eat the bread, I'm guessing there's some kind of narrative irony and balance involved in all of this.”

“That is one way of looking at it,” Cullwier said. “Alas, if you wish to resolve this matter, it will not be so simple as plunging everything into darkness. The shadows will wound the creatures of Summer. Severed from the light, they will weaken, they will wane. But only the weakest pawns of the Court will fully be swallowed by the touch of Winter.”

“Touch of Winter?” Shiv repeated. “So, what? The shadows belong to the Court of Winter, or something? Even though I made them?”

“Right again. Summer is life; it is growth. It's light, and it's birth. There are a great many more concepts and elements associated with Summer, but these are the major ones. With Winter come Darkness, Night, Death, and Cold. They are the ones that channel Withering, and they bring balance to the Fairwoods, so that we might begin the story anew.”

“A system of perfect and eternal strife,” Adam said from within Shiv's cape. “That's why you all managed to stay in equilibrium. That's why you never die. The System must be constantly fed by this enduring struggle.”

And the Deathless picked up where Adam left off. “Because they're all supposed to be in a cycle of balance, anything that is taken from princess Plum Blossom will be to Winter's advantage.”

“Though everyone wishes for the fluxing cycle to remain, greed and want remain at the core of our hearts. We are not always so different from you.” Cullywier let out a hum. “More than many of my kind like to admit.”

“So, functionally, what does that mean? Even if I get into the kitchen, and I try to strike down all the Faebread, nothing's gonna happen?”

“The pawns will fall to you all the same, but the High Bread anointed by Princess Plum Blossom to guard and lead its fellows will endure and remain. In fact, I can feel him in the kitchen—he’s growing stronger. He’s about to pass the threshold to your equivalent of High Hero soon.”

“What? He’s leveling?”

“Not exactly. But yes. We are… open beings,” Cullywier elaborated. “Mana flows into and leaves us. This means we can walk across all worlds, and we do not have our own internal reserve of magic and skills. Our narratives are shared with the world around us, with the Ambient Threshold. When certain conditions are triggered, however, we can call upon far more power. Right now, the Anointed High Bread has cause for retribution, and so power will flow to him to see his desires made manifest.”

Shiv groaned. “Great. So the System is helping his ass directly.”

“It’s worse than that, I fear. The High Bread cannot be struck down by you, for you are an interloper in the story; an outsider. They might be fascinated by you, Deathless, but ultimately, you bear little narrative significance right now. And that makes you weak in this tale. Even if you are technically Legendary-Tier, that only affects you and the world. Compared to the Knighted Bread, you are nothing. Nothing at all. Not even a named adversary. Not until you convince the Fair Lore of your significance.”

“And what in the Broken Moon is 'Fair Lore'?” Shiv asked.

“It is the unseen intelligence that reigns over the Fairwoods—like an Awakened child of the System. It has its tendrils in all of us, its children, as well. It knows of you, Deathless. It has seen you. But it does not regard you. I know this because you do not shine before me. Not like someone who has been dubbed a hero, or a villain, or any proper character might. Thus, if you go forth and step into the kitchen right now, when you lay eyes on the Anointed Bread, behold the glowing sun shining high above him. You will see, and you will burn beneath the glare of the Laughing Radiance, and your attacks will be as if feathers landing upon the face of a mountain. For there is no tension here, only a sense of wrongness. You must conform to the tale to bear weight against a true warrior of the fae.”
