…and the final daughter of summer, though not radiant like her elder sister, not graceful and fleet like middle sister wind, not stalwart and unbending like brother iron, is beloved of the family, as she is life unburdened; the incarnation of growth and flourishing fields.

And so, Plum Blossom must be fed. It is a joy to feed her. For it is the dream of summer to savor all delights, and from those delights might more joys spawn, might the sunlight fall upon pristine fields, and paint the wheat golden with glory.

But woe betide those who forget their place. For that which has been touched by the Princess of the Blooming Pleasures belongs to her palette and hers alone, and for another to take from the plate of summer means for them to soon know the depths of hunger.

For all things can be taught to consume, and what is eaten might reap flesh and sinew in return…

-The Whimsy and Brutality of Princess Plum Blossom, the Fecund Lady of Summer Everlasting

230 (I)

Bread [I]

Farsight 84 > 92

Inertial Overdrive 182 > 185

Aegis of Assimilation 120 > 126

Pillar of Orichalcum 261 > 266

Shiv had underestimated the Faebread, and so had the other chefs. The attack came from inside, and its effect was instant. Swelling pulses of bright orange mana erupted from within Shiv, resonating outward from each crumb. It subsumed his body, spreading like a biological growth through his flesh, mana, and skills—only to be shredded apart as his Shapeless Tides circulated over his being.

Even so, he felt a building flood of hostile mana being channeled against him from somewhere. Shiv turned, and he saw his ruptured body. Between the gore-splattered flaps and after the entrails spilled out of his corpse, he saw it—the source of the fae magic. There was a portal made from a chain of crumbs within the chest of his body, and on the other side, he caught a glimpse of a kitchen, and of a shrouded humanoid figure sculpted from bread.

The Deathless tried to move, but it was like fighting petrification. He was constantly struggling against a spreading mass of bread, yeast, and mold wrapping around him. Absurdly, it was affecting his Vitae. The red-white mana that sustained his very existence was now wreathed in a growing flow of wheat and... This shit is turning my Vitae edible.

And Shiv was the least affected by the fae spells.

Nornsong was ripped asunder in the same instant as Shiv. He watched in utter disbelief as something erupted free from her chest. Her body twisted and coiled, her skin grew over her orifices first, and then an unnatural shape tore out from the center of her skull. It was wrapped in blood and coated in gristle, but with a shrug, it surged free from her splitting bone.

What came out was a thing of absurdity. Is that…

Shiv saw what looked to be a baguette—holding two knives in its stick-like hands. It descended on Bowden, ramming its blades into his eyes as he remained on his knees. The man cried out, but the rats in his beard responded first. Beams of Necromancy ripped through the bread, and it withered with a resounding pop. Dust flaked free from its body, and they had a moment’s reprieve.

But then more baguettes came. They erupted forth from Nornsong’s parting corpse and spilled over the downed Bowden in a tide. The short man screamed as blood gushed out from him. But even that didn’t satisfy the madness of the bread—for they had angry little faces, with beady eyes of sesame and gleaming teeth that shone like burnished metal, piercing through the carnage of a battlefield. They bit into Bowden’s throat and began pulling him apart. His body slowly began turning bread-like as the nightmare progressed, but he still tried to fight on—even as the bread-blades were driven deeper into his eyes, even as his howls hit new and feverish heights.

And the bread weren’t just vicious and hateful; they were fast; they seemed to ignore Toughness and Magical Resistance altogether. Every strike they landed opened up cuts deep and true. Shiv peeled chunks of bread away from himself, trying to preserve his own life while reaching out for the other chefs. Nearby, Velly cried out as well. The lizard-chef stumbled into view, and then something erupted out from his back just as he drew his spatula. “Norrnso—agghh!”

A geyser of gore sprayed over Shiv's mass of Vitae, and from a ripping chasm of welling red running down Velly’s back came a large chunk of gingerbread. It was baked into a humanoid shape, resembling a knight in plate armor. Its edges were crusted bright gold, and it stank of blood and sugar. In its right hand, it wielded a blade that seemed to be made from sunflowers and bore the scent of earth and petrichor.

“For supping our flesh with your unworthy lips, a toll will be reaped in turn. For flesh begets flesh, and Princess Plum Blossom will not be denied her flavors in weight. Animal or soil though its parent might be; Patternist of Samsarist its fate be designed.”

The knight issued its strange proclamation in a reverberating, basso voice as it swung its blades across Velly’s insides, making the wound that nested it larger. As it stepped free from the welter of gore, a small legion of other gingerbread knights followed, and they spoke in unison, proclaiming the glory of Princess Blossom and the Court of Summer Eternal in loud telepathic shrieks that splashed against Shiv’s Shapeless Tides.

With a final flex of effort, Shiv shredded enough bread from himself that he found himself able to move again. More importantly, his magic didn’t feel so laden by aching weight.

He halted time and cast his Vitae strands forward. He slammed into the attacking Faebread, and his glistening lengths of red, white, and gold crashed down on them—and promptly recoiled in pain. The bread glowed bright in brilliant gold, so thick and dense of Chronomancy that they felt harder than even the Tarrasque's crystalline shell.

Comparatively, Shiv's temporal shell cracked as if stone dashed against metal. And if that wasn't bad enough, he felt a spreading malignancy crawl over his mana and across his soulstuff like a second layer of skin. Spots of mold expanded over his Vitae first. And it took barely half a heartbeat for it to ferment into spreading patches of bread.

With that came a second, unwelcome surprise: All the Faebread in the room turned, ignoring his power over time entirely. Their bodies glowed a particularly sickly glow of gold, festering with mold spots, and Shiv developed a building suspicion that they had their counterpart lores to the Magical Skills Shiv knew.

"What's this? What's this?" the Faebred sang at once, their little lips and porous faces bending and snarling in unison. Some pointed at him. Some of them laughed. Others snarled hatefully. "A surprise! An unexpected adversary! This one is not dead! This one wears the face of another! A soul! Different! A soul that bears no end, that burns and burns forever more! A blazing existence lit by a hybrid mind! Bestial! Individual! Something more! The Summer is pleased! Your harvest is bounty enduring! An unending Path! Delight! Glory!"

With every proclamation, the Faebred grew stronger, and the Chronomancy shrouding them grew even denser. They began to vibrate against Shiv's own magic now, the resonance contrary to his, unnatural. Where he bade time to stand still, where he was clasped in a shell that allowed him to stride forward into the future, his present extended, his past lingering behind him like a chain he could crawl back to. The fae were different. They were a fixed point. They didn't move, and everything around them grew calcified.

The last embers of amusement fled from Shiv. Ridiculous though this adversary might be, they had just slain three other chefs, one of them a Hero, in a startling instant, and now he was affected by their magic. Magic he couldn't understand, cast by an enemy he couldn't comprehend. Actual nervousness began to permeate his being, more so than even during his fight against Andra.

I need to call Culliweir, Shiv realized. He might know what to do with them.

Immediately, Shiv's strategy went from counter-attacking to escaping. He began pumping out the dark miasma of his Creeping Void, and a swell of darkness swallowed the room. At that moment, the attacking bread fairies cried out. Some of their tarnished Chronomancy lost its luster. The bread shrank and shriveled, wailing in misery as they collapsed. Shiv didn't understand why, but his instincts told him to move, to break contact entirely, and so he used his Non-Sequitur Skill—

Tearing agony spread across Shiv's being. He howled internally, and the patches of his Vitae, his magic, his soul that were shrouded by the spreading fey mold were torn away from him. Sprays of white and red filled the air, and they vanished into faint puffs of vapor. The Deathless continued to move, but he no longer felt affected. In fact, he was lighter. Even with multiple mana fields strained, he was free of the Faebreads' influence, and he realized that diving out of context severed him from their touch. So, there is a limit to their ability. They can't just keep infecting me when I flee from the world.

A surge of hope kindled Shiv's resolve. The fae were not unbeatable. They had limits. They had rules as well, strange as they might be.

The Creeping Void 123 > 126

Non-Sequitur 110 > 116

A rush of levels nourished Shiv's soul. It took him a moment to understand why. In the darkness, the Faebread were shriveling, vanishing. They were dissolving. The Gingerbread Knights held up their blades. They swung wide. Their golden mana was actively being extinguished, and they were but fading candles winking out within a sea of ink.

“Light!” they cried out as one, their voices resonating beyond the wavelength of sound, echoing inside Shiv's mind and soul. "Light, give us back the light!"

Shiv never stopped pumping out his Creeping Void, even as he retreated across the ingredients chamber. Yet, after three seconds, the bread all but dissolved. Every single piece, be it gingerbread, breadstick, or whatever other monstrosity, was undone, unmade. It was like the darkness itself ate them.

They melt in shadows, Shiv realized. I need to keep my Creeping Void active. Keep them away from me.

After a few heartbeats, when Shiv could feel and hear no more of the Faebread, he let his temporal shell drop. He only had two seconds of time left, and his Chronomantic field was more flayed than a tarp ravaged by shrapnel. Strips of gold remained of his time magic, and it was a miracle that it had lasted that long. As the flow of the natural present resumed, Shiv waited a few seconds longer, and then he deactivated his Non-Sequitur as well. He never stopped releasing more darkness into the room.

“Hello? Shiv? Shiv?” Adam called aloud. At some point during the carnage and chaos, Shiv's Psychomancy field had been severed. And that was a good thing too. With how the bread was spreading across his mana, his body, his soul. If Adam had gotten infected…

Shiv didn't want to think about that.

The Deathless extended a tendril of mind magic back into his cape. It was attached to the messy swill of Vitae alongside his mask, armor, frying pan, and a few other items. His shadow-walking boots remained with his most recent corpse, and Shiv really didn’t want to risk his life to reclaim it just yet. “I'm here. Just died. The bread managed to build up inside me. It tore its way out of me.”

A beat followed. “Tore its way out? The bread?” Adam sounded utterly incredulous. “You were just killed by bread.”

“Not just me. The other three chefs are done,” Shiv replied. He looked in the direction of Velly, Nornsong, and Bowden. They'd had no chance at all. Shiv guessed the bread particulates had been building for a while. When the Faebread seized control of the air flow, taking the aeromantic filtration system, Shiv's fate was sealed. The bread were probably circulating through the interior of Monster Mystery Meat . Everyone here was beginning to accumulate crumbs inside themselves. Faint, powder-sized crumbs that began to build and build until they were large enough to form chains of magic, creating fatal portals that allowed more bread to burst out from within.

“I'm sorry,” Helix said, speaking aloud. “Did you just say the bread killed everyone?” The orc sounded even more skeptical than Adam did. “I'm coming out. I don't know what ridiculousness has gotten into you, Insul, but—”

“You stay the hells inside!” Shiv snarled. “You come out, and if that bread infects you, it's going to crawl across your Biomancy. If that happens, there’s nothing I can do for you. It contaminated my mana. It started spreading fungal mold or some shit. I could barely move. If I didn't have my Shapeless Tides, I would have been overwhelmed! I would have been completely swallowed by… by bread cancers.”

A pained noise came from Adam. “Shiv, I'm being dead serious when I ask you this. Is this a joke? Are you coming up with some kind of twisted prank right now?”

“Nope, not a joke. Stupid as it sounds, the bread is a felling killer. The Head Chef of Monster Mystery Meat is dead. Two other chefs helping him are also dead. I died too. My Toughness barely did anything. The fae magic spread through me, even with my Legendary-Tier Magical Resistance. The Tides did something, knocking some of the bread off, but it just kept growing and growing. It’s worse than Andra's frost magic.”

