The chasm was so familiar. It yawned below him like an open wound. But then came a word that shattered everything.

COME.

The deep darkness below him shook and cracked as it tried to contain the craving in that word. The hideous emotion bubbled upward, more than this emptiness could withstand. The word bounced back and forth, fracturing the walls of the area and worsening the pulsing pain transmitted upward. However, that kinetic force was only a side effect of the massive mobilization of significance from below.

FIND.

Randidly felt his mind trembling underneath the pressure, but for the first time, he did not look away from the source of the voice. His Nether Core tightened but did not flinch. After studying the bone charm, his understanding of Nether had reached a whole new expanse. It reminded him of how excited Neveah became when she broke through her limit on the Engravings left by Yystrix. He was nearing the capability he needed to form a Nether Penance and the results were beginning to show.

Congratulations! Your Skill Left Hand of the Nether Oracle (M) has grown to Level 463!

Yet the experience was not enjoyable. The complex lines of Nether and the sheer weight of significance gathered throughout the years still left his mind buckling under the strain. Randidly’s eyes narrowed. He knew that if he didn’t push himself forward, he wouldn’t improve.

And with the improvement he had earned in that break period between the Fourth and Fifth Step of the Mountain, he could finally peer down through the obstruction to find the source. He followed the voice downward, past the significance and into an even more horrifying depth. Down there, dead things whispered.

Randidly’s skin prickled. The speaker… is even below where Pine’s body is? But-

Congratulations! Your Skill Right Hand of the Nether Polymath (M) has grown to Level 444!

MEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE!

Randidly’s eyelids trembled. The last word had enough force to shatter his examination and toss him out of that mysterious area of Nether. He opened his eyes and blinked. A thin trail of blood dripped out of his nose, which he quickly wiped away.

The surroundings slowly reestablished themselves. He sat on the slope between the Fourth and the Fifth Step of the mountain. The previously cool stone ground had been heated to steaming by the revving engine of his body. It was almost time for him to move to the next area. He had originally wanted to briefly allow himself to rest, but of course, reality had other plans. The speaker had drawn him into a brief illusion as he attempted to communicate.

Randidly stretched and then cracked his neck. Still, it’s not like this hasn’t been fruitful for me. And it might really be time that I begin to explore what’s reaching out for me… Especially because its connected to the Shallah...

Then he slapped his cheeks. Even if he was a little shaken from hearing that voice calling for him again, he couldn’t dwell on it very much right now. He only had about ten more minutes before he needed to move on to the Fifth Step. So he began bounding up the slope, while also inspecting his Nether Core Stats.

Nether Sphere

Fang of the Primeval Betrayal (Ru)

Weight: 591 (+61) (+70) (+52) (+49) (+80) (+63)

Connections: 1,911,242,177

Scope: 12,609

Influence: 246,321/???

Randidly still hadn’t quite seen into the core functions of the bone charm, but his insights into Nether had exploded as he memorized and experimented with the Nether arrangements at the periphery. He had activated the other four enhancements rituals available in the materials provided by Claudette, earning an additional 244 Weight, which became another 24% increase in capability.

Still, perhaps the greatest result was that each enhancement functioned on slightly different principles. By examining which patterns he was more experienced with, Randidly gained a more holistic understanding of his method of using Nether. When he had more time, he knew which areas he needed to study in detail, to sharpen his focus.

“But now, let’s not keep the Grand Pattern waiting,” Randidly grinned and lengthened his stride. The last fifty or so meters of the slope vanished beneath his legs, even though he was afflicted by an almost 50% restriction. He stood on top of the precipice and looked forward up into the light-

-to see the peak of the mountain rising in front of him like a jagged spear, with enough sharpness to pieces the sky. The harsh sunlight seemed to bleed out into the atmosphere from the wound that the mountain inflicted on the turbid cobalt expanse. Small clumps of mist clung to the rugged protrusion, but mostly it was bare stone. And along the side between where Randidly now stood at the peak, ten massive stone steps proudly stood. Following those steps would lead him to the top.

Randidly stepped forward into the domain of the Fifth Step, preparing immediately to gather natural energy around his person to defend himself. However, he paused as he sensed the situation in the Step. The consciousness above seemed to pull back. It did not send wind blades, force spikes, or any other dangerous attacks down at Randidly.

Randidly scratched his chin and shrugged. He walked forward, waiting to understand the new difficulty of this area. He proceeded down the slope toward the base of the enormous stairs, his Grim Intuition stretching to its limits to detect any changes from the surroundings. But aside from a low wave of mist rising out of the ground and gradually obscuring his ability to see the summit, he didn’t notice anything else of note.

His hands swished back and forth, habitually gathering natural energy to his body. He traced the soft natural ripples of the ground and sky. He could move more quickly without the storm around him, but he didn’t want to get caught unawares.

As he reached the base of the enormous staircase, he noticed that there was another, smaller staircase built into the side of the first step that zigzagged back and forth. Randidly didn’t hesitate to begin to climb it as more mist seeped upward. The water vapor was cool, restricting his awareness to a small area, just like it had in the Second Step. He paused again, waiting for any danger to reveal itself.

When several seconds passed without any developments, he simply focused on climbing.

The mist thickened around him, bringing back that oppressive sensation. His awareness steadily shrunk. Randidly pressed his lips together and his tail swirled some natural energy in one of the base flows of the Grand Pattern, but that only slowed the decrease in awareness. Steadily the area he could detect shrunk down to just a few meters around his body. He flicked his tail, attempting to use wind to push the mist back, but it was unusually slippery. Using wind to move this mist was like using fingers to scoop water.

Congratulations! Your Skill Philosophy in the Boundless Deluge (M) has grown to Level 531!

Randidly’s mood rapidly worsened, but then he noticed something else. As his awareness was squeezed into a tighter area, some of his Nether began to radiate outward from the Nether Core. There was only a single, weak flow, but still-

Could it be? Randidly wondered.

He soon reached a platform and instantly that squeezed awareness widened to encompass the entire step. The mist rolled back in a grand reveal of a fighting arena. Randidly saw another smaller staircase built into the high wall opposite him, but mist filled that passage in the shape of heavy metal gates. Randidly took several steps forward and then clicked his tongue; the restrictions on his body increased by another 3%.

There was a flickering in the middle of the step and a figure appeared. Randidly’s expression turned odd. The figure was clearly a Lizakh, although not one that he recognized. Probably from when the Lizakh were spread more widely throughout the Nexus. But the thin Nether flow quickened toward the shadow being’s body. As more Nether flowed into it, its eyes began to glow with intelligence. To the point that it looked down at its hands in obvious wonder.

As I thought. There are shades on this step too. Randidly narrowed his eyes.

The shade grinned over at him, showing sharpened teeth. “Ah, this feeling… I haven’t felt this good in centuries! Since I’m in such a good mood, let me give you such advice: turn around boy. This mountain is a cursed place, a cruel joke made by the Master. On each step, you will have to fight against the shades of the greatest students of the Grand Pattern’s Blood Path. Even if you defeat us all… the being waiting at the top will slaughter you. And you will be cursed, joining us on these steps for all eternity, slowly losing your sense of self…”

The shades words trailed off and his expression grew complicated. Randidly’s skin prickled. More and more Nether was flowing out of his body and reinforcing the shade in front of him. Perhaps originally he only had to face a depleted version of this disciple. But now Randidly’s own abilities were strengthening it back to its original form.

He considered cutting off the flow, but that almost seemed cruel. And of course, if he defeated the full version, not only would his improvement be that much greater, but he would probably harvest a lot of Influence in the process.

Besides, this mountain had ignited his fighting spirit. He wanted to be pushed to his limits. Because outside of this place, the jackals were already circling.

“I’m sorry, but I wish to see the summit,” Randidly shook his head. His blood boiled. He was somewhat aware that he was indulging in the worst manifestation of his stubbornness, but Randidly was tired of being bullied by the powerful individuals in the Nexus. Now that he was on this mountain, where images were suppressed and all that mattered was his body and his understanding of the Grand Pattern, he wanted to prove himself.

Prove that he could claw his way to the top, at least in this single aspect.

“Heh. Is it strange that I’m glad you said that? Reminds me of my own desire to climb this cursed place. Even though I knew it would likely end in my doom…” The Lizakh used its long tongue to lick the lipless edges of its mouth. “My heart couldn’t let go of that small chance I would succeed. And only by chasing could I be satisfied.”

“It’s not strange at all,” Randidly grinned wickedly as his tail began churning the surrounding space. Winds stirred the ground, blowing several pebbles around in a circle. The fingers of Randidly’s left arm began to stir. The fangs twitched, as though wanting to unsheath themselves and stir the surroundings into a frenzy. He flexed his hands and the wind wove itself into complicated organic patterns.

“An interesting application of the Grand Pattern. You are attempting to mimick the Judgement Storm? This is the first time that I’ve seen such a method.” The Lizakh shade tilted his head to the side. Then he cleared his throat. “However, the efficiency is incredibly low. And with our bodies restricted like this, efficiency is paramount. Allow me to demonstrate the One Strike, Seven Deaths Palm that I’ve mastered after spending a thousand years. Let me warn you that taking it directly… ah… your storm….”

While the shade spoke, Randidly didn’t cease his preparations. Truly, only a thin amount of the Grand Pattern flowed down into the area. Without the chaotic ripples, Randidly had to generate the storm forcibly on his own. However, the lashing movements of his tail and the fangs cutting through the air had enough power to quickly accomplish it. The wind billowed and seethed at his direction.

Congratulations! Your Skill Cutting Tide of Amenonuhoko (T) has grown to Level 579!

Congratulations! Your Skill (Domain) Resonant Fangs of Extinction (M) has grown to Level 414!

Once the maelstrom had been established itself, Nether began to bubble and twitch, branching outward while alternating between preternaturally fast jerks of motion and quivering stillness. The Nether foundation soon covered the surrounding ten meters and whipped the winds even more quickly. Natural energy surged to follow Randidly’s will, creating empowered wind blades that shredded the air. His storm began to buzz.

“You…” The Lizakh goggled. Then it hastily took a fighting stance. “If you think this ostentatious display is enough-”

Crimson lightning crackled along the edge of the storm. Strange radiance began to creep through the middle portions of the storm, quickly hidden by the shifting currents. The wind howled and the surrounding air shivered before the fearsome weave of energies. Almost a third of the step was covered by the grinding maelstrom. The shade stood at the edge, being forced back just by the pressure the storm released.

Randidly took a step forward. His eyes blazed. “So. Your palm attack?”
