“Silver-White Ash is any kind of ash that’s reached a certain threshold of purity,” she replied distractedly. She looked at Rhys. “You’re selling this, then? And herbs?”

“And herbs, yes. They might be a bit dry since it’s been a while since I plucked them, but they should still be usable.” Rhys drew them out as well.

Sorden stored the ash and herbs away. “What do you want? Gold? Something more?”

“Gold is nice, but also… do you have any containers—bottles, vials, whatever, it doesn’t matter—that can hold something highly corrosive?”

“Glass should work,” she replied.

“It corrodes glass,” Rhys said.

Sorden’s brows rose. Intrigue crossed her face. “May I ask what it is you need to store?”

Rhys pressed his lips together. “It would be too much to explain, but just understand that it’s something highly corrosive, destructive and dangerous. I need something that can store it for longer than… say, ten seconds for unprotected glass?”

She put a finger on her chin, thinking, then nodded. “I think I have something. Let me finish class, and I’ll find it for you.”

“Of course. Thank you,” Rhys replied.

“No, thank you. I’ll still owe you a fair bit of gold after this, so don’t go anywhere,” she said, and vanished back into the classroom.

Rhys nodded to her back. With nothing to do, he lounged outside the classroom. A few minutes in, he drew out the potion. He was keeping it in his robes, within easy reaching distance in case he needed to transfer it again. The low-grade headache from keeping Trash Intent up for a prolonged period resurged with nothing to distract him, pounding against his temples. He sipped a mana potion to push the pain and the mana drain back—not from the potion corroding his mana, but from simply keeping Trash Intent active for this long—and lifted the potion to eye level, getting a good look again.

The impurities ate away at his Trash Aura, but the Trash Intent simply replenished its aura. It took far less mana than keeping Trash Intent active, too. He grinned. He’d caught them, and bottled them, and soon, they’d be all his.

Just wait. As soon as he had a permanent bottle that he didn’t need to constantly enhance, he’d try out these impurities.

Sorden must have been almost done with class, because she emerged a bare fifteen minutes later and gestured. “Follow me.”

Rhys nodded. Smiling wide, he followed after the potion instructor, unaware of Alum glaring a hole in him from far behind.
