He tried to restrain his growing confidence. He could play a decisive role in the upcoming battle. But to think that it was guaranteed, that there was nothing the enemy could do, was hubris. They had to respect the enemy and prepare appropriately, or else the Heirs would die to some unknown trick from one of the hundreds of Questors on the other side of the field.

And unlike them, we will stay dead. This is not a must-win fight for them the same way it is for us.

Which led to another idea that deserved some thought. With his abilities, he was much more able to permanently cut any mage off from magic - even a wizard. It would be a way to inflict permanent consequences on enemies, ensuring they took him seriously. But on the other hand, it would shift the tone of the conflict in a way that might not be beneficial. If he started breaking mage-Questors, then they might refuse to face him and sabotage him politically instead. Or they might band together and rally enough support from across Davrar to crush Nathan regardless of his allies.

The problem would be even worse if he followed up on his other idea and tried to figure out how to permanently kill Questors with his antimagic. He had no idea if it was possible, but the way he could feel the Questors as they used Davrar to travel indicated it might be. If it were, that would be a way he could bring the fear of mortality to the Questors. But that was an action that would totally change the political landscape, that would make him a bigger threat than every Ending, blight, and god on Davrar put together. It would be an act of desperation.

Nathan ended his meditation when he heard Aarl making breakfast. He felt centered. Not calm, but steady. Whatever came next, he would think and plan and do his best to achieve his goals.

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 2

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 4

Class: End of Magic level 1274

Bottomless Stamina : 128400/128400

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 891

Limitless Focus: 9010/9010

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 8

Inspiration 9

Impulse 6

The Sense of Magic 2

Forewarning 7

The Truth of Magic 2

Evasion 3

Wizard’s Palace 3

Veracity 4

Whiplash 3

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 5

Aura Mastery 3
