Rane landed beside her with a grunt of acknowledgement. He barely spared the trapped lesser Leshkin a passing glance as he turned to regard the forest to their left. “Let me know if there is anything that I can do.”

Terry trilled, clearly quite excited for the upcoming clash. In the past, the Leshkin had been a horrid opponent for him due to their acidic blood… a feature that seemed to come along with their spirit, rather than being a true feature of the physical bodies they created and inhabited. Of course! That’s a concept, likely the concept at the core of their being as a race.

Regardless, he was no longer quite the same bird. Since he last fought the beasts, Terry had been tempered in the magics of Tala’s Refinement and further solidified and strengthened by her advancement to Paragon as well as gaining many other tricks and defenses that would likely not even be needed.

Before, he’d been a terror to them, even while having to be careful. Now? Now he was going to be a calamity upon their ranks.

With her husband and soulbound companion watching her back, Tala turned her full attention to the lesser within her authoritative grip.

There was almost a sense of smugness coming off the creature as it clearly sensed its kin bearing down on them.

Tala didn’t care.

She began to examine every part of it with her threefold sight, paying special attention to what voidsight was conveying.

The lesser’s spirit—its reality node—was woven through the plants that made up the physical body. That very act had imposed the will and power of the Leshkin—minimal though that might be—upon the plants.

It was an unequal relationship—it could quite reasonably be called parasitic—where the reality node of the Leshkin was actively subverting that of the vegetation, draining them of vitality and energy, even as it forced them to conform to the Leshkin’s will and needs.

Just as she’d suspected, it was a sort of odd mockery of the harmony that Reforging was supposedly meant to involve.

A grin grew across her features in an expression that must have been terrifying, if the sudden uncertainty blossoming within the Leshkin was anything to go by.

-Huh, I never knew they had enough sapience to feel fear. It almost makes me feel bad for the tests we need to run.-

Yeah…except I don’t feel bad. These things have been killing humans for centuries. Rust, they were doing it for centuries before they achieved this broken immortality.

-True enough, but I would have preferred to experiment on trees.-

If only. She glanced around, taking in the trees that were, in fact, seemingly integrated into the Leshkin race. I don’t trust that I’d be able to work with something so massive… not yet.

As to what had her so excited?

Like any truly brilliant mockery, the Leshkin clearly represented the fundamental parts of Reforging, twisted and misused. These are a twisting of Reforging, or our predecessors pulled the secrets of Reforging from the Leshkin, and that’s why there is so much similarity. It likely doesn’t matter which actually came first.

Either way, she now held a veritable gold-mine within her authority.

It was time to begin excavation.
