“That tall, bald wizard caught some of the Avowed who threatened us on Friday night. And they’re protecting the ferry that Emilija used to get here. And Cafeteria North’s serving turkey today anyway, so I don’t think anyone who comes to my dinner tonight will be that upset if we just have side dishes. They’re usually the best part. Whoops!” She’d whisked too hard and something that looked like it might be whipped cream had escaped from the bowl.

That big bald wizard…

Alden bit back the urge to say he hoped those bastards Ro-den had caught with his invisible staircase spell were still crying like babies while they climbed toward outer space. As well as a simultaneous urge to describe Ro-den’s true character in unflattering detail.

Telling her he knew The Bald General was a long conversation for another day, and it would ruin the mood.

“That’s really good of you, Natalie,” he said instead.

“What time do you need the turkey? I was timing everything to have it ready a little after six o’clock, but I can adjust. And how do I get it to you?” she asked.

So turkey is a go. Cube meal delivery logistics…

“Let me get back to you on that. The grocery deliveries probably get teleported from the TC to us here. But your food deserves a guard.”

She laughed like he’d said something hilarious.

“I’m serious,” said Alden. “It can’t go sit in some pile at the TC or travel with a hungry wizard. I saw two Artonans gulp down a dozen servings of trifle by themselves. Some random TC employee might catch a whiff, and the next thing you know, the turkey will be missing a drumstick. I’ll see if I can make arrangements to come get it myself.”

She was still laughing. “I’ll guard it with my big knives until you get here.”

He nodded. “And then use your big knives to guard me from Emilija and Hadiza.”

After she was gone, he sat for a while looking at the thermos Porti-loth had given him. Made in Tennessee. Such a minor detail, but he actually had to find a cup made in the right location just to serve me potion in.

He set the thermos back down and headed toward the cafeteria.

On his way through the residential area’s lobby, he took a moment to appreciate all the signs of effort that he’d only glanced at when he passed through earlier. The projection screen was displaying lists of spells. He assumed, based on some of the names, that they were spells that had been found useful for decontamination. There were funeral programs laid out on one of the tables. And when he walked over to another table and looked inside a box labeled “repair these,” he saw human personal possessions—a water-damaged photo album, a broken watch, a bag full of painted shards.

Plus, a honeydew melon with strange symbols drawn on it was sitting on one of the sofas. He had no clue what was going on there.

It’s not like you can tell which of the wizards are here because they want brownie points or summoning rights and which of them came because they were worried about Avowed they’d worked with before. And some of them are probably just helpful people trying to do the right thing.

But they were all working hard.

When he reached the kitchen, Kabir was slicing tomatoes while he talked to another grocery store. Alden leaned against a counter, waiting for him to finish the call. Then, he said, “I just talked to Natalie. I’m pretty sure we’ve been thinking about all of this the wrong way.”

“The Cook of the Moment won’t sell her turkey!”

“She’s giving it to the cause for free,” Alden said before a new wave of panic could strike the man. “I’ve been listening to you talk to people. You haven’t actually been telling them who you want all the food for.”

“I tried that a couple of days ago. Someone hung up on me as soon as I said Matadero. They thought it was a prank.”

“I think you should forget about cooking. I think we should start calling people we know personally and asking them if they’d like to donate a dish. For Thanksgiving. Whatever they want to share, not just North American Thanksgiving food. It would be more Anesidoran if we had all kinds of cuisines anyway.”

Kabir blinked at him. “You want to feed the wizards whatever our acquaintances have on hand? A hundred random home-cooked dishes?”

“You probably know some other chefs, too, don’t you? But yeah. Potluck isn’t professional, but it feels right for the holiday. And a lot of people are probably grateful to some Artonan who’s helped them over the past few days. Maybe they want to show it. But it’s not easy when they’re wizards and they’re busy and they disappear to the cube whenever they take a small break.” Alden shrugged. “You and I are here, and I just thought…we could make something kind of positive happen. If we worked fast.”

Kabir still looked flummoxed.

“Is it such a bad idea?” Alden didn’t think it sounded too crazy. Most of the Artonans he knew would probably like it. “I guess everyone might tell us no because of the short notice, or they might not be confident enough to donate their cooking or something. But if we call enough people, it could happen.”

“Wouldn’t we need permission?” Kabir asked.

Alden’s brows drew down. “Uh…for what?”

“I told General Esh-erdi I could handle the kitchen the last time he came by to talk to me,” Kabir said, lowering his voice to such a faint whisper that Alden had to lean toward him to hear it. “I told him he could leave it to me. A turkey from an S-rank Rabbit with a cooking skill is one thing. But what if he’s offended to see me bringing in food from all over the place that I didn’t even cook?”

“Esh-erdi?” Alden was having a hard time falling into step with Kabir’s thought process. “Esh-erdi is the last person who would be offended by something like you not personally handling every dish. He seems really protective of Avowed. Possibly overprotective. And definitely too generous.”

“He’s a very intimidating person.”

“Esh-erdi is? I mean…fair. That’s true. But not in the way you mean. And you work for Aulia Velra.”

“Miss Velra doesn’t compare to an Artonan General.”

Alden had a feeling that his expression was a match for Kabir’s. They each clearly thought the other was being ridiculous about this.

“I’ll explain the potluck to the hn’tyons,” Alden said, forcing maximum confidence into his voice. “And they’re going to think it’s fine. I promise.”

“How are you going to find them to talk to them?”

“If they’re not in their room, I’ll just text Esh-erdi.”

Kabir squinted at him. “Are you serious?”

“Yes,” Alden said. “I’ve talked to Esh-erdi several times. Even if they don’t like the food for some reason, they’re not going to be offended. I swear.”

He waited for the chef’s final verdict with a small and unexpected case of nerves tightening his stomach. He’d just had the idea, and the idea was only a fun way to do supper. But it felt right.

It was nice to imagine Porti-loth, Lind-otta, and Esh-erdi eating human foods made by humans who were glad they were here and understanding that people appreciated them. I could even freeze a plate for Zeridee, for when she’s off her restricted healing diet.

And Drusi-otta. She needs a plate too.

He envisioned himself fixing one, calling her name, and then watching as the food disappeared into thin air.

“All right,” said Kabir.

“Really?”

“I’ll start by calling some restaurants.”

“I’ll start by calling some of my friends.”

They looked at each other.

“This will be interesting,” said Kabir.

“Do you think we’ll have enough food?” Alden asked. “We’ve left it pretty late.”

“There are always the sandwiches.”

They both nodded.

<<System,>> said Kabir, <<call Gao…>>

Alden was already calling Haoyu. Cool, he thought. This could actually be cool.

“Hi, Haoyu!” he said as soon as his roommate answered. “I thought you and your parents might like to know we’re going to have what’s probably the first ever Thanksgiving Potluck at Matadero, and we’re taking food donations from anyone who wants to offer something.”

******
