As Luo-Luo lays out my schedule for the day, I inwardly groan at the prospect of another long day of socialization and politics ahead. My first full day in the Central Citadel was spent dancing to the Legate’s tune, so I figured it’d be harder for him to jerk me around if I padded my schedule with events, but I didn’t expect Luo-Luo to set such a frenetic pace. There’s no helping it of course, because if I visit one ally, like the Ryo’s, I can’t well snub my other allies, like the Yo’s and other merchant partners I’ve helped make richer, which means a lot of travelling around to shake hands and smile with everyone who’s anyone. I had tea with Chen Hongji to congratulate him on his recent promotion, bought lunch for Tam Taewoong, Wu Gam, and several other friendly junior officers I became acquainted with in Sinuji, and hosted a ‘small’ dinner party with Taiyi ZhuShen, Taokang Geyan, Lishan Suzhen, and the other Healers who checked my health in Sinuji, which meant paying a restaurant an exorbitant fee to reserve the entire building for the night.

And those are just the highlights. There were so many ‘impromptu’ and ‘fortuitous’ meetings, I can barely keep it all straight, and all in one, painfully long day. Honestly, I enjoyed the first day more, when I was almost stabbed and poisoned to death. At least I had time to nap during the opera and got to verbally slap a stranger in the face...

As Charok glides in with breakfast, Luo-Luo and I break off our conversation to collect the bunbun invaders hopping at his heels. Truth be told, I probably didn’t even have to help, as all of them happily follow Luo-Luo back out into the courtyard, drawn there by her emotive singing which is oh-so-pleasant to the ear, as well as the handfuls of treats she so generously doles out. If this were an animated movie, she would undoubtedly be cast in the role of pure, kindhearted princess, which is just... rage inducing. I want to be the musical princess beloved by animals...

Of course, seeing her so happy and carefree causes my primal urges to rise up once again, before I stomp them back down into the abyss. “So yesterday was for meeting important people, and today is for not important people,” I begin, while leading her back into the dining room and leaving the bunbuns snacking in the grass behind us. “So... if they’re not important, why are we visiting all these nobodies?”

“Oh Lord Husband, you shouldn’t call them that, even in jest.” Smiling as she gently swats my shoulder in reproach, she explains, “Four grams can repel a thousand kilograms, so long as it is applied correctly. While the people you are meeting today have little influence on their own, gather enough of them behind you, and even the Supreme Families will think twice before acting, or at the very least they can help deal with your lesser enemies. Soldiers against soldiers, generals against generals, this applies to politics as well as it does to war. What’s more, this will also help restore your tarnished reputation, as rumours and hearsay are easily ignored, but most find it difficult to refute the truth standing before their eyes, hale and healthy as can be. Since you must be seen, why not use this opportunity to garner good will and influence? Many of these people have been overlooked and will not be in attendance at the banquet tonight, but they will see that you took time out of your busy schedule to meet them and give face, which will be remembered, appreciated, and reciprocated.”

“Ah yes. Face.”

My dry tone earns me a muffled snort from Mom and disapproving glances from Luo-Luo and Grandpa Du, as well as a withering glare from Kyung which may or may not just be his default expression. I think I’m getting the hang of being a functioning member of society, but I’m still not entirely sure what I did right back at the opera house, even after spending several hours chatting with Luo-Luo, Grandpa Du, Mom, and Binesi regarding the matter. I sort of get it, but I’m still not confident enough to say I’m wholly socialized, but then again, I’ll probably never want to be.

Leaving it at that, I sit down for a hearty breakfast and go over everything Luo-Luo just said, trying to force myself to understand and eventually fall into the same mindset. It’s harder than I thought it’d be, because it still feels strange. Essentially, I’m going out to ‘buy’ support and influence by giving gifts and face, which isn’t a bad thing because there’s nothing wrong with blatant nepotism. That’s just alien to me, not because it’s happening, but because we’re being so... obvious about it, with cash and valuables aplenty. I’m pretty much bribing people to speak fondly of me, and I’m doing it in an open and aboveboard manner, which is just another way in which I don’t understand the culture.

Bribes are supposed to be under the table, so that even if everyone knows they’re happening, no one has any specific examples to point at. That’s just how business works, or at least, that’s how I thought it worked. Instead, we give bribes in the open here, so people will know and remember. This way, if someone doesn’t fulfill their end of the social bargain, then everyone will see them for the ingrates they really are, or something to that effect.

Whatever. If Luo-Luo says this is the way things work, then I just have to trust her. She’s not making it easy though, since she claims we’ll have plenty of time to prepare for the banquet, but the nature of bit players is that there are a lot of them, so I don’t see how it’s possible to visit so many people in one day. I’m not left wondering for long though, as the ‘how’ becomes immediately apparent as soon as we arrive at our first appointment, who turns out to be one of the many smiling faces standing on stage behind Yo Shi Woo the first day we arrived. Coached by Luo-Luo on the way over, I greet the man warmly, introduce him to Mom, hand over a gift, and excuse myself immediately after on Luo-Luo’s silent prompting. Apparently in those few seconds we met, she somehow gleaned that the man was staunchly opposed to taking a stance, so there was no point wasting time with him, so we set off for the next name on the list.

Since I have no idea what I’m supposed to be watching for, I eventually just go through motions in every meet and greet, but even this is mentally exhausting without the added burden of trying to follow Luo-Luo’s logic during her constant updates on where we stand. The politics of tonight’s banquet are almost impossible to grasp, because it’s not as simple as us against them, or even me and the Legate against the world. At least that’s what Luo-Luo tells me, and I’m inclined to agree, except I don’t really have a valid reason to trust anyone thanks to my innate paranoia.

Eventually, after a frustrating back and forth, Luo-Luo finally broke it down for me in terms I could understand. Tonight’s banquet isn’t about me, nor is it even about the inherent value of Imperial Status bestowed upon outsiders, not really. It’s about some Imperial dick-measuring contest in which we are merely a small part of, and we have no idea what the overall argument is about. Instead, I should concentrate on my own goals, which is to show that not only am I still deserving of my title as Imperial Consort, but that I am also deserving of the respect my lofty title entails. Others are not so convinced, because if I were truly considered an Imperial Scion, then why was I railroaded by the Justicars and sent to Sinuji to die? Was it a plot to get rid of a disgraced cripple, or a ploy to lure my enemies out from hiding? Is the Legate firmly in my corner, or was I merely the victim of Imperial Clan politics? If it’s the latter, then this means it’s safer for most factions to stay away from Imperial politics, because the costs of an Imperial Title would then far outweigh the benefits since accepting one means placing yourself at the mercy of your backer.

Essentially, it’s better to be the big fish in a small pond than move out to the ocean and be little better than a bottom-feeder.

There’s also the minor matter of ensuring everyone believes I am on the road to recovery after shattering my Core, but that’s neither here nor there, according to Luo-Luo. I still think it’s pretty damned important, but she says that the Legate’s support or lack thereof would render anything I do on that front completely useless. Even if I were frail and unable to stand, if the Legate were to publicly support me, then nothing else matters. Conversely, my performance at the opera theatre and tea house would mean nothing if the Legate openly snubs me, because a potential recovery in the future means nothing if I’m killed today.

Fun fun fun.

All this means that while I’ve been trying to draw lines in the sand between allies and enemies, Luo-Luo’s been putting together a sprawling mental flowchart of factions and motives. Nian Zu supports me because he believes it’s the best move for the Empire, but if it becomes more reasonable to sacrifice me and the People for stability, Luo-Luo believes he would do it in a heartbeat, and I can’t argue with her logic. Yuzhen is in similar straits, but I believe she’ll support me so long as Gerel supports Baatar, which puts her firmly in our corner. Problem is, she might not agree with how we go about things, so it’s entirely possible she does something with good intentions that ends up inadvertently screwing us over in the long run, though what this might be, I haven’t the slightest clue. Then there’s Shuai Jiao and Ryo Dae Jung, who are in the Legate’s pocket, not mine, and it remains to be seen where the Legate’s true allegiances lie, so I can’t count on any of them either. Last but not least is the Yo family, who will remain my allies so long as it is financially profitable to do so, and their loyalty is only guaranteed so long as said profits remain extravagant. Otherwise, I could easily see Yo Jeong-Hun selling me off to the highest bidder, though I doubt Yo Shi Woo would ever do such a thing.

Unless the price was something stupid high, like so high even I would be tempted to turn myself in for the reward. At that point, I’m not sure I could even blame him for stabbing me in the back, assuming we ever reach such a point...

Further muddying the waters is the fact that there aren’t just two sides to this conflict, but six, at least insofar as I am concerned. There’s my side, the Legate’s side, and the four other Imperial families make up the remaining sides, and if that’s not complicated enough, we don’t know who’s representing the other sides. We think the Situ Clan is working for the Yang family, but only because the manor I met Jixing in was owned by one of the Situ Clan’s allies. It’s entirely possible Jixing commandeered the place knowing we’d tie it to the Situ Clan just to lead us astray, and that his true cat’s paw is Colonel General Mitsue Juichi, except we have no way to prove or disprove this either. All we know is that Imperial Families would see Mitsue Juichi as a tempting target to work with, and that the old fart has publicly accused me of faking my infirmity, which somehow means I’m responsible for the deaths of Mitsue Hideo and his father, Mitsue Hiroshi.

Honestly, the leaps of logic some people go through are astounding. Mitsue Juichi claims I faked being a cripple and convinced the Justicars to send me to the front lines, just to trick Hideo into going along with me, whereupon I then somehow lured a million-strong army of Defiled to Sinuji so I could quietly murder Hideo and his father while everyone was too busy to notice, all because I’m somehow jealous of the dude Dastan beat in a spar on stage. Like... what the fuck am I even supposed to say to that? I didn’t even know Hideo was in Sinuji until a few hours before battle broke out, and Mitsue Watanabe, Juichi’s son, was the one who put Hideo on the wall beside me. If Juichi wants someone to blame, he can start by blaming himself for being a shitty Mentor and a shittier father, because fuck him and fuck his couch.

Okay, so I’m a little mad about the false accusations and would like to wring the old bastard’s neck. So sue me.

This is how complicated things are with my strongest and closest allies and enemies, so my brain sort of glossed over the rest of Luo-Luo’s explanations. All I really got out of it was that she sees the world through a complex and convoluted lens, and consistently places calculated costs and profits above matters like friendship and morality.

Which is just oh so sad...

The worst thing is, my part in tonight’s banquet isn’t even the main event. I’m just a side note, with my death as a means to slap the Legate in the metaphorical face. The Five Imperial Families are butting heads over something and using the outer provinces as their sparring stage, but Luo-Luo has no idea what they’re fighting over or why they’re doing it out here. All we can do is gather our allies and act accordingly when the time comes, but my true allies are few and far between. Even my enemies aren’t all that obvious, Mitsue Juichi, the Situ Clan, and Ishin family aside, because like I said earlier, there are six sides to this conflict and I have no idea who’s working for whom. Have they all gathered under the same Imperial banner, or are they each working for a different Supreme Family? Who knows. Not me, that’s for sure.

