I love waking early.

I don’t mean early as in the wee hours of the morning, but early as in before I’m expected to wake. It’s counter-intuitive, but I’m happy to trade a few minutes of sleep for some much needed snuggle time with all my sweet floofs. Well, not all of them, because there’s no way they’d all fit in my bed, so in the interest of fairness, I’ve been rotating them through a snuggle schedule. Today’s lucky contestants are Flopsy and Quake, both curled up together in the crook of my arm as one grey and white mass. Mama Bun is here too of course, stretched out across my chest and alternating between soft bunny snores and smacking her lips, dreaming of a delicious meal as she so often does. Aurie as per usual is laid out over my legs, sprawled out in what looks to be the most uncomfortable posture ever, while Roc roosts in a pile of laundry he claimed for himself, all heaped together atop the nightstand sitting right next to my bed.

Quiet bunny snuffles, rumbling kitten wheezes, and faint birdy whistles fill the room, and for a few sleepy, blissful minutes, all is right in the world.

Then reality rears its ugly head and reminds me that the banquet is tonight and this might well be the last comfy morning of my life, which pretty much ruins the whole peaceful atmosphere.

Between the minor anxiety attack and my pressing need to use the chamber pot, I reluctantly slide Mama Bun off my chest and ease myself out of bed. Despite my careful efforts, my sleepy animals come awake and greet me with sleepy stares, adorable yawns, and captivating stretches. Much better to concentrate on those than looking around for the Concealed Warriors standing guard, but even as the thought strikes me, my eyes scan the bedroom and pick out six hidden individuals scattered about in various shadows. Although I can’t identify them in any way, I know from experience that two are Sentinels, two are Imperial soldiers, and two are former Aspirants, because none of those groups trust the others to guard me on their own, which means I have to put up with having a hidden entourage of at least six people everywhere I go.

I really, really, really hope that this constant surveillance is a recent development, because the alternative would leave me with no choice but to curl up and die of shame. Forget pooping, I used to masturbate like every other day. It’s the hormones I tell you, they’ve got me in a constant state of frustrated arousal.

It takes a monumental effort of will to use the chamber pot without bursting into flames, and only because I brought in my wooden, outdoor bath dividers to give myself the illusion of privacy. The move was more controversial than expected, as it sparked off a heated and informative debate about the dangers of a hidden blind spot represented to both me and my Concealed guards. I already knew Concealment wasn’t true invisibility, but rather a means of affecting the perceptions of nearby observers. What this means is that when I look at a Concealed individual, my eyes are perfectly capable of seeing them, but my conscious mind doesn’t register their presence, even though my unconscious mind does and keeps me from bumping into them. This works on more than just the visual level, as it filters out sounds and smells as well, and true masters of Concealment are said to be capable of fooling even the sense of touch and Chi.

This last point was of particular interest to me, because before my newfangled anti-Concealment vision kicked in, I used to wave my arms around like an idiot when searching for Concealed assailants in enclosed spaces. What’s more, it explains how others check rooms for Concealment, by simply expanding their Domains to do a quick sweep. This whole time I’ve been envisioning Domains as spheres, but in reality, they’re actually shaped like the Martial Warrior’s bodies themselves, as if someone drew an outline of themselves and then enlarged it. Not by too much, as Domains generally extend from ten to thirty centimetres in all directions. They can be much smaller, like with BoShui, whose Domain barely extends past his skin, but it’s rare to see one that goes beyond one metre in radius.

Which is not at all what I expected, since my short-lived, wooden-roofed Domain was the size of a large bedroom. I have no idea what to make of that, and seeing how I was pretty traumatized at the time, I’m ready just to chalk this all up to faulty memory.

Putting the unusual aspects of my personal experience aside, I’ve been told that while Domains naturally form in the shape of the Martial Warrior, they can be manipulated into other configurations. So long as the total ‘volume’ remains the same and stays attached to the surface of your body, you can shift the bulk of your Domain around and turn it into say... a long tendril of Chi. You can then use said tendril to sweep your surroundings for Concealed hostiles, because Domains cannot overlap and there’s a tactile response when you encounter one. Granted, this method isn’t foolproof as there are ways (which remain unknown to me and most) for Martial Warriors to avoid detection, which is why on the first day of our journey, Binesi’s sweep of my yurt found the hidden Aspirant hanging on the roof-beams, but not Naaran standing off to the side of the room.

All interesting stuff, but my ‘unreasonable’ need for privacy while pooping has thrown Binesi for a loop. See, Concealed guards usually work in pairs for multiple reasons, prime amongst them being that the drawback with searching for Concealed hostiles using one’s Domain is that the moment you uncover someone, you also reveal yourself to them, because they can easily ‘follow’ your Domain back to its source. As far as all parties are concerned, you’re all still Concealed, but unless one of you knows how to fool Chi senses too, then you might as well have giant, fluorescent arrows over both your heads labelled ‘Concealed Expert here’.

Of course, the metaphorical giant arrows are only visible to the sweeper and the sweepee, which is one reason why Concealed guards work in pairs. One does the sweeping, while the other remains hidden and ready to strike against possible revealed assailants looking to escape. The problem is, this method of detection isn’t perfect, so Concealed guards also make physical sweeps, just to cover their bases. This makes my provisional poop-room a danger-zone, because it forces my guards to funnel through a small opening while searching for hidden assassins. Super dangerous according to Binesi, so now I have to move the heavy wooden dividers into place every time I need to poop, and then move them back against the wall when I’m done.

It’s annoying, but a small price to pay for privacy. I sketched out a few ideas for a ring of curtains I can set up inside my yurt, but it’ll have to wait until we’re back in the Northern Citadel. The alternative is I learn how to Conceal myself, but that’s a whole lot of work just to poop and masturbate in privacy...

After my morning constitutional and general skincare routine, I head out in casual dress robes for breakfast, since wearing fancy clothes to meals is a recipe for disaster. As per usual, Pong Pong is nowhere to be found, likely already splish splashing away in the tiny pond he shares with Ping Ping, Sir Inky, and the quins. I’m still not sure if I want to bring Pong Pong with me to the big banquet tonight, because I’m worried the Legate will spot him and wonder why this tiny turtle has a ginormous Natal Palace. Problem is, I can’t exactly leave Pong Pong at the manor, because if things go south at the banquet, Jorani and Ral have orders to book it out of the Citadel with all my pets in wagons. Since Pong Pong refuses to reveal himself to anyone besides Lin-Lin, Taduk, and Mom, all of whom will be at the banquet with me, this means that in the event of an emergency, there’s a decent chance Pong Pong will be left behind.

I suppose that’s it then. I gotta bring the little guy with me to the banquet and hope the Legate’s Natal Palace peeking skills doesn’t extend to piercing through Concealment. Maybe I can keep the tiny turtle tucked away in a pocket somewhere, with a whole stash of fresh shrimp, but then I’d hafta worry about him pooping all over me...

Despite my early arrival, everyone else is already more or less ready for breakfast, save for Charok who is still slaving away in the kitchen, and Luo-Luo who is still busy doing... whatever it is she does to get ready every day. Hell if I know, because as far as I can tell, she doesn’t usually wear makeup, yet somehow manages to look gorgeous all the time regardless. “Morning everyone.” Cracking the door open just enough for Aurie to get through, I use my foot to keep the bunnies at bay while I slip into the dining room and close the door behind me. Usually, I’d be more than happy to let them hop around my feet while the whole family eats, but the most recent addition to our happy little family has yet to acclimate to her new surroundings. “Good morning Princess,” I croon, moving a little closer to the snarling weasel-bear propped up in Song’s lap. “Aren’t you looking adorable today?”

Aside from the vicious snarl, rumbling growls, and steady stream of saliva dripping from her narrow, fanged jaws, of course. Dressed in a frilly, flower-embossed garment which leaves her furry belly exposed and a yellow ribbon daintily tied about her neck, Princess the weasel-bear is a darling creature with a ferocious temper and pungent scent. The odour isn’t exactly unpleasant, just... powerful and somewhat overwhelming, but it scares the bears and wildcats something fierce and sends the quins and bunbuns into a vicious, violent frenzy. Song’s been working on integrating Princess with the other animals, but it’s not going so well. In fact, the whole reason Princess is wearing a dress is because we have to somehow smuggle her into the banquet tonight, since much like Pong Pong, Princess trusts no one besides her favourite person.

If someone asks, I’ll say Princess is a hat in training. God that would be so adorable to have her stand on my shoulders and perch on my head. This sucks. I wanna pet her floofy belly and those cute, clutching paws, but Princess is a biter and I’d rather not feed her any fingers. Granted, losing chunks of myself to new pets has become something of a running gag by now, but this is as good a time as any to break the trend of floof-on-Rain violence.

After failing to pet the adorable weasel-bear a few more times, I glance around the room and find Mom and Alsantset staring off into space with a faraway look in their eyes. They’re still ruminating on whatever Insights they found while meditating in Taduk’s bamboo grove, who is conspicuously absent from the dining table since he’s taken to sleeping in now that there’s no Spiritual Herb garden to obsess over. Mila, Yan, and Lin-Lin are also sleeping in, as is per usual, but we’re joined by Grandpa Du and his recently adopted grandson, Kyung, with the latter sitting in stoic silence while the former plays silly word games with the twins. Though cramped and busy, the small dining room still feels a little empty with so many people missing, but I suppose it’s for the best. There are really only five empty seats left once you account for Charok and Luo-Luo, and we like to leave two on either side of Song so Princess doesn’t devolve into a snapping, slavering mess, so at most, we can really only fit one other person at the table.

With no one to really talk to, I pass the time comforting my poor, trembling floofs, all of whom are pressed together in the corner behind me, as far away from Princess as they can possibly get. Honestly, I don’t know why they’re so scared, since the weasel-bear has yet to do more than snarl and snap, even when Mama Bun landed a clean headbutt on the poor girl’s dangling butt. From what I can tell, Princess is more scared of everyone else than we are of her, so it’ll be a while before the sweet floofs all get along.

Hearing her arrive long before she reaches the door, Luo-Luo hums a merry tune as she glides into the dining room and shuts the door behind her with baffling ease, as there isn’t a single intruding bunbun to be found. Beaming beautifully as she makes her way around the table, she greets everyone with a lyrical and informal, “Good morning everyone,” before taking her seat beside me, as the twins have claimed the chairs on either side of ‘great grandpa Du’. “How are you this fine morning, Lord Husband? I trust you slept well?”

“I did, yea.” Small talk, ugh. “...how about you?”

Reaching back to pet Jimjam, Luo-Luo’s smile grows even brighter. “Like a baby, until this one woke me to demand I share my pillow. I swear he thinks he’s a little person, entitled to sleep tucked under the blankets like everyone else.”

...Dammit that sounds adorable. Why doesn’t Jimjam do that around me? “Cute.” Now what do we talk about? “So... what’s on the agenda for today?”

I’m terrible at this, but Luo-Luo takes the awkward segue in stride. “Nothing too pressing, thank the Mother. We’ve already met with most of the important players yesterday, so today is for less influential factions and unlikely allies. No need to worry Lord Husband, I made sure we would have plenty of time to prepare before the banquet tonight. After breakfast, you’ll only have a short break to play with the Guardian Turtle before our first appointment at...”

