And you know what scares me the most? Even if the Legate paints himself as my staunch ally and places all his pieces to support me, we still might not be the strongest faction. You’d think that with three Colonel Generals and two Marshals, we’d be miles above everyone else, but while I have many individually powerful and influential people on my side, they only represent a small fraction of the power their respective provinces can draw upon. Conversely, Southern Marshal Quyen Huong, Warrant Officer Dienne’s uncle, represents the interests of the entire Southern Province, and as of two hours before the banquet, has yet to reveal where he stands in this game of Imperials. If he’s working with an Imperial Family who’s staunchly opposed to the Legate, then I have no idea how things will turn out, but I can only assume not well. As if this weren’t enough, MuYang’s informants are reporting that the southern representatives have all refused to meet with anyone and everyone, which is why I’ve thus far been unable to meet with Broken Blade Pichai and pick his brain for information on recovering from a shattered Core.

Everything about this sucks and I hate it, but there’s nothing to do except keep on keeping on. Thus, after a long day of social interaction, it’s a staggering relief to get back to the manor where I’m greeted by Lin-Lin’s sweet smile and airy flying tackle. After twirling her about a few times, we collapse into the grass and lay side by side in the courtyard, laughing as the bears, wildcats, bunbuns, and that one quin pup Grandpa Du keeps smuggling in all rush over to greet me. Much as I miss bringing them around everywhere I go, I can’t say I hate the warm reunions, because there’s nothing like earning the trust and loyalty of an animal.

Unlike humans, animals are open and honest about their feelings. You’ll know if an animal likes you, and they’ll definitely make it known if they don’t.

“Hi hubby.”

“Hi wifey.”

Passing Blackjack over so he can greet me with a kiss, Lin-Lin asks, “Where’s Luo-Luo rushing off to?”

“Oh, don’t mind her, she’s worried an hour isn’t enough time to get dressed for the party.”

“Eun-Eun is the same, she’s been fussing over Yan-Yan and Mi-Mi all day, bringing out so many different dresses, ribbons, and jewels just to settle on the ones I picked out beforehand. So silly, ya?”

“Exactly. You’ll all look beautiful no matter what, so why work so hard?”

“Really? You think so?”

“I know so, wifey.” Kissing her just above the eye, I nuzzle her cheek and smile while Mama Bun squeezes herself between us. “All of you are beautiful all the time, and you need not change a thing.”

Beaming prettily at the compliment, Lin-Lin tweaks my nose and giggles. “You’d make a great toady for Mi-Mi or Yan-Yan, like those silly, poofy dum-dums who are always following behind some smug blockhead. You could wear one of those headbands with the really, really long feathers, ya? Only one feather though, because you can’t have more than your blockhead boss.”

“I’ll happily be toady to your blockhead, wifey.”

“Noooooo! You’re the blockhead, blockhead.”

After a bit of back and forth about my sweet wifey’s day, I bring her hand to my lips and rest my head against hers. “You know the plan for tonight?”

“Yup. Stay with Daddy no matter what.” Tilting her head to smack me with her hare-ears, Lin-Lin scowls and says, “Don’t worry so much hubby. You just be you, and everyone else will be them, and whatever happens will happen, ya?”

“Wise words from a wise woman.”

Biting my wrist which is so conveniently located nearby her mouth, she scrunches up her nose in a huff. “I mean it hubby. You can worry all you want, but it won’t change what other people are gonna do. So just relax and do your best, then we’ll get through the rest together.” Snuggling into my shoulder, she points at the door and says, “In a few hours, you’ll probably stumble in slightly tipsy after a fun and yummy banquet, then curl up in bed with Mama Bun wondering why you worried so much.” Giving me a light kiss on the cheek, she grins and adds, “Besides, if they really want to kill you, they’d wait until later, like on our way back to the Northern Citadel again, ya?”

...well, she’s not wrong.

“What would I ever do without you, wifey?”

“Be all mopey all the time, instead of sorta mopey some of the time.” After sticking out her tongue with a smile, Lin-Lin seamlessly transfers into telling me all about how the floofs also moped all day while waiting for me to come home. It’s heartbreaking and adorable all at once, and I love every minute of it until Eun comes out into the courtyard with Song, Mila, and Yan in tow.

Frowning at us from high above, the stocky matron purses her lips and extends a hand to help my wifey to her feet. “Come now, miss Lin, let’s get you dressed for tonight’s event. You’ll look so lovely in your blue dress, though I still say it’s utterly scandalous to show so much leg. I thought little Yan was bold and brazen wearing those tight trousers of hers, but it seems you lot do things differently up north, like having unmarried men and women lying side by side in the grass.” Thankfully, she’s more concerned about us being seen doing these things than actually stopping Yan from coming over for nightly visits, as Central is weird about that. They’re all prim and proper in public, but all bets are off behind closed doors. Narrowing her eyes as I kiss Lin-Lin goodbye, Eun pointedly ignores me and turns to Kyung. “You look after the girls while I help miss Lin. We wouldn’t want any ruffians to take advantage while I’m not around to protect them.”

I probably should be offended, but she has good reason to warn me off. The ladies are looking lovely in their slinky, high-neck dresses, so similar to the ones they wore during new years, but brighter, shinier, and frillier. The leggy outfits aside, Yan and Song are also wearing matching jewelled hair-nets dotted with pink diamonds and emeralds respectively, while Mila’s wild curls have been tamed by Eun’s magical touch and sports a sleek, full-bodied hairdo accentuated by a lovely ruby-studded tiara.

Honestly, Eun was right to leave Kyung to guard them, because if not for him, I don’t think I could possibly keep my hands to myself. Not that I’d grope them in the courtyard or anything, but maybe take their hands or squeeze a hip or something. I’m even tempted to proposition Song, because I’d forgotten how... much she had hidden under her Runic armour, which she is currently not wearing.

Stop staring. And stop drooling.

Kyung looks snazzy too, in his high-collard, black-silk longshirt, almost like a pocket-less trench coat except the buttons go along the shoulder and under the armpit instead of straight down the front. Wide white cuffs sit at the end of his sleeves, matching the broad sash tied around his waist which holds his plain, leather scabbard in place. His long, brown hair is tied back in a neat ponytail and held up by an understated silver hair clip with a sinuous dragon etched across its surface, and to top it all off, he has a shiny gold tail ring that loops three times around his furry tail, which sweet Sarankho is currently batting about while lying on the ground behind him. “Looking good Kyung,” I say while looking him up and down, envious of how he looks so snazzy in such a simple outfit, whereas I always look like a kid in adult’s clothing no matter what I put on. “I have a white-jade token that would really complete the outfit, something to hang on your sash there. I’ll bring it out when I’m done changing.”

Kyung barely even nods in reply, but his hand shoots out to hold me back as I attempt to casually stroll past him and give Yan and Mila a quick kiss. A few more attempts end in similar failure, so I give up and head back to my room to change and grab Kyung’s new jade token. This is probably for the best anyways, as the last thing I need right now is for Mila to take my hand then forget to let go, like she did when she hugged Banjo yesterday for two hours straight. Apparently the poor guy struggled for a full twenty minutes before falling asleep, which sounds hilarious and adorable at the same time.

Seriously though, what is up with these Insights? Are Mila, Yan, and Alsantset gonna snap out of it anytime soon? I’m worried about marching into danger with them distracted like this. Then again, maybe it doesn’t matter. Maybe Lin-Lin is right and nothing bad will happen tonight. It makes way more sense for the Imperial Nobles to try to kill me on my way back to the Northern Citadel, since they would’ve had the time to gather their forces here while getting ready for the banquet tonight. It stands to reason that tonight’s banquet will be a lighthearted affair with good food to be had, and by first light tomorrow morning, I’ll be on my way out of the Citadel and back home to Dad, where we’ll finally be safe and sound once more.

...So long as I’m in denial, I might as well say that the Mother Herself then comes down from the Heavens above to smite all my enemies and clear out this little Defiled problem we have brewing in the West, before bestowing me with phenomenal cosmic powers and crowning me as the Immortal God-Emperor of mankind.

If I’m gonna dream, then I might as well dream big, right?

Chapter Meme
