She woke up on her back, staring up into the face of a Harpy. The girl screamed in silent fear and jerked away. Then realized she was looking at a statue.
Her back hurt terribly. Mrsha sat up slowly, and met the eyes of the last Harpy Queen.
Oh. It’s you.
The eyes of the imperious Sheta, the final ruler of the Empire of Harpies, were vast. In her final years, she had grown beyond even the size of a house; she seemed as large as The Wandering Inn, and heavy.
The statue of her in the [Garden of Sanctuary] had been of a far-younger Harpy Queen, dignified yet eager, filled with promises of youth and ambition. The stone image of her here, in an echoing courtyard surrounded by hallways and doors, was silent.
She stood like an owl, wings folded, head bent forward slightly, for she had looked down on everything at the end.
A Human’s face, Mrsha realized. Or Human…enough. The Harpy Queen had probably looked like a woman with wings instead of arms at the beginning. But as she grew, her avian side had changed the neat proportions of her body.
Her eyes were huge in her head, avian, and one claw could have picked up Moore effortlessly. Her hair had ceased to be thin strands; each fiber was like mooring rope running back along her head or rising like a mane.
She was clothed; a kind of ceremonial half-robe ran down her body until it met her stomach, where feathers began. But her wings were what drew the eye. They were weighed down, waiting to spread and carry her upwards.
When she flew, she would die. Without knowing how or why, Mrsha knew in her heart that she gazed upon the Empress of Harpies in the last moments of her life. As she had stood in this palace, this secret place known only to her, before departing.
Mrsha’s head turned, and she looked about a courtyard with a single, vast stained-glass window shedding light across her and the statue.
A bronze Dragon was flying, breathing purple flames over a palace set into the side of a single, gigantic mountain. Harpies flew around the Dragonlord of Flames, and Mrsha blinked at the familiar eyes he had.
Then she saw the windows admitting a light which had no sun; bright and pure, without nuance. Impossibly clean stone, lacking dust, and hallways filled with doors and windows that had no end.
Where am I?
It took her only a moment. Then the girl had it. She looked up and could not see the place she’d fallen from. But if she had gone through the [Garden of Sanctuary]…
This was no [Pavilion of Secrets]. One look up at the statue, though, and she had to imagine this place belonged to Erin…
No. It would belong to Erin. This was, then, the place referenced in the writing at the end of the [Gardens of Sanctuary].
This was the place that Sheta had written of that no other being in the world had ever gained access to. And as if Mrsha had summoned it—she realized there was a door behind her. She turned, and there it was, written above the glorious door, above the spread wings and the keyhole, waiting for the new owner to unlock it.
The [Palace of Fates].
Oh.
The girl just sat there, feeling at her back, as the statue gazed into oblivion. A marble staircase rose behind the statue, two entrances from the right and left joining at the middle until it reached the second floor. Mrsha craned her neck and saw a long hallway on the second floor, straight behind Sheta’s statue. There were two more on the second floor, on the far east and western sides of the room, branching off into the distance.
There were four smaller staircases in each cardinal corner, which spiraled up to the third floor. However, interestingly, the third floor had eight hallways; it encircled the ground-level courtyard, empty balconies gazing down at the white Gnoll girl, who did not belong here.
—And did belong here. Mrsha’s brow furrowed as she tried to make rhyme or reason of the floor’s configurations, but she couldn’t. It didn’t fit a numerical pattern.
There were two hallways on the first floor leading right and left. Over thirty hallways on the fourth floor. And on the fifth floor…
Mrsha began to get vertigo staring up at the endless pattern of staircases and floors above her. It felt, the longer she looked, as if she were upside down, staring down at countless floors of—
She shook her head and slapped her cheeks, avoiding looking up again.
Stand up. Get up, Mrsha. You’re dreaming. No, you hurt too much to be dreaming. In which case, this is real. And wonderful. And terrifying.
She tried to get up; her legs shook, and she fell back. Weakly, she studied the Harpy Queen again.
I’ve fallen into somewhere I shouldn’t be. Mom will be mad at me.
I have to go back.
She craned her head higher, but the distant ceiling had nothing that betrayed where she had fallen from. There were no roots. Nothing.
Trembling, Mrsha tried to get to her feet. Her legs shook. She flinched as she heard a sound; a clattering. She rolled back, scrabbling to plead for her life. Afraid of—
Her wand clattered down from where it had been balanced on Sheta’s wing. It rolled onto the marble floor, making the first sound that had been heard in this place for thousands of years.
I’m sorry! Don’t hurt me!
Mrsha grabbed the wand and whirled, raising it to aim at—what? An angry guardian? Some protector of this place?
There was no one. It was empty. Mrsha looked about, and then it sank in.
I’m in the [Palace of Fates]. I’m in a Skill that Erin doesn’t have—the one after the [Pavilion of Secrets].
She swallowed hard.
I’m in so much trouble. And I need to pee.
She took three steps forwards, then turned and looked over her shoulder. She swore she’d seen something behind her. A flicker of movement? But when Mrsha turned her head, it was gone.
After a second, Mrsha started running as fast as she could.
 
——
 
As a child, Mrsha had wanted so badly to run about The Wandering Inn and gotten scolded by Lyonette for crashing into tables and chairs.
She’d been told she’d hurt herself, and small as she was, Mrsha had been lectured by the Stone Spears tribe adults for doing the same thing in camp.
There was something each boy and girl wanted, and it was to run as far and as fast as you could, without stopping. When you got older, you forgot there had been a time when it was effortless, when you could fly on the ground and not feel your body fighting for each step. Some adults had never let go of that feeling and worked to never forget what it was like to run.
Today, Mrsha ran. On all fours, forgetting her adult walk, racing forwards, turning her head to check over her shoulders, seeing doors of every shape and material flash by, racing over red carpets, slippery marble tiles, even meadow patches of flowers and bare grass.
Straight ahead—along a corridor that had no end. For a moment, she even forgot she was exploring and trying to see if something was in here. It was unbelievable. Dreamlike. But then Mrsha, an older Mrsha, gulped for air and felt her chest burning, her legs hurting, and skidded to a stop.
She slid along a polished floor, marring it with the dirt on her paws and some of her fur, and she again turned and looked back the way she’d come.
Was that the statue of Sheta? If it was, it was so distant it was a speck, and Mrsha could barely make out the courtyard. She panted for air, fishing her water flask out of her bag of holding.
If anything is here, I’d see it coming, right? Or maybe it’s creeping around the other floors?
This place didn’t make Mrsha feel like she was in danger, but how would she know? She had no [Dangersense], and Numbtongue sometimes said that Mrsha wouldn’t have been able to hear it even if she had the Skill. Which was hurtful.
She glanced over her shoulder and saw another hallway stretching out into the distance, much like this one. Billowing curtains from open windows made Mrsha stare, curious; she saw a staircase spiraling upwards not two dozen paces down that hallway.
Multiple floors. Multiple hallways that crisscross. Do any have an end? Was this some kind of optical illusion or was the place this big?
It felt truly endless. Mrsha wiped sweat from her fur and took another gulp of water. She knew she should be careful; she had fallen into this place by accident. But her heart was beating out of her chest.
Where am I? How will I get back?
She had been running to put a distance between herself and anything in here. But also to find some kind of landmark outside of the courtyard.
Or a bathroom. Mrsha had to nervous-pee. She could try one of the doors set into the walls, but they were…odd.
They reminded Mrsha of the [Garden of Sanctuary]’s doors; none of them fit the architecture surrounding them. The [Palace of Fates] seemed to change flooring at will; the walls and windows would match the style of the flooring and become natural grass and vine-coated walls or onyx-black Chemath Marble and Truegold windowsills.
Or just bog-standard marble and red carpets. But the doors were always different.
Here was a door like a triangle with a glass doorknob. Next to it, a dozen paces down the hallway, was one with a chipped, painted black door frame exposing cheaper wood underneath. Yet it had…a little button inset into the side.
A doorbell? Mrsha recognized it from the movies; the handle was simple brass. Across the hallway, on the other side, was a door with a lever for a handle, scratched with huge claw marks all over. One peek at that and Mrsha decided to keep moving.
She didn’t want to go exploring side passages just yet; one rule of adventuring was never to get lost, according to Seborn, and Mrsha had no way of telling where she was. She could leave a trail of things, but…
Another five minutes of running and Mrsha realized she was getting nowhere. Plus, she had to pee even more now. She paused, slowing in her run, and got onto two legs and put a paw against the corridor wall.
I used to be able to run forever. What happened to me? She’d put on a kilt and gotten old. Mrsha shook her head as she passed a reflection of herself in a mirror. She was still pretty good-looking, though.
Cute, three feet tall with huge, round ears and big, wide, brown eyes. Mrsha gave her reflection the finger guns; her reflection wagged her tail and opened her mouth, panting.
Mrsha raised her wand and fired a [Stone Dart] spell at the fake Mrsha. The spell bounced off the mirror and ricocheted up; it pinged off the wall, hit the ceiling, and turned into dust. Mrsha flinched—then stared at the mirror.
What the heck? The young Mrsha, three feet tall—way smaller and more adorable than current Mrsha and not wearing any kilt—was raising her paws. Begging for someone to carry her.
Someone bent into the mirror, and Mrsha jerked back. Lyonette! She looked like, well, Lyonette, but maybe less certain? More flustered; she awkwardly picked Mrsha up and carried her in her arms. She seemed unsure of herself, and Mrsha…remembered this. As if to confirm her memories, she saw snow on the ground and Lyonette brushing at Mrsha’s fur.
This was back in the winter. When they had first met and Mrsha had run to The Wandering Inn when Ryoko had left and Lyonette had taken her in. As she and Lyonette had begun to trust one another. Mrsha couldn’t have said when, but she recalled the moment as she saw it replay. A [Princess] trying to hold the wet Gnoll girl and carrying her back through the snow to the inn.
She was a good mom. I mean, back then and now. No one asked her to take care of me. And she did. 
Mrsha stood there for a moment, and her heart hurt. Then she shook herself, glanced around suspiciously, and realized the mirror was now reflecting just her.
A scowling Gnoll girl on two legs glancing over her shoulder, wand in hand. Mrsha glowered at her reflection.
Is someone messing with me? Or is this…the [Palace of Fates]? Is this what Erin gets for hitting Level 60 or something? A crummy nostalgia clipshow?
—Level 60? Or Level 70? Mrsha’s eyes widened.
It was the only logical conclusion she could leap to. Admittedly, in this place, logic seemed to be only partially useful, but Mrsha had to correlate the astounding level up with the only other crazy thing in her life: entering this palace.
The facts were that the system of levels made no mistakes. Mrsha had never heard of someone levelling up and having it revoked. If she had been boosted to Level 70, there was a reason. Right?
Right. Mrsha thought to herself.
I wasn’t in this place when I levelled up. But…it was only a day before I came here. What if that was the moment I gained access?
She was fuzzy on all the details, but it made sense to her. Erin hadn’t gotten access to the [Pavilion of Secrets] until Level 50; if this place had a mandatory level of, like, Level 70, then…
Why would Mrsha get that level? Mrsha scratched her head, then thought like, well, Ekirra.
Ekirra logic was sometimes backwards. He’d point at someone with a fancy-looking blade or cool armor and say ‘that person has to be a Gold-rank adventurer, or Level 40!’, regardless if they were.
By the Ekirra-logic, if you had a Mrsha who had access to the [Palace of Fates] for whatever reason, by something she had done or something that had granted her access, she had to be at least Level 70.
It was stupid, but it had a kind of sense Mrsha got. She snapped her fingers and shook her head.
So that’s why I got those levels! Then, Mrsha’s eyes widened. That meant—!
She had Erin’s Skill!? That wasn’t right! It felt wrong. It wasn’t her place. Mrsha guiltily searched around. Principles aside, though, the fact was she was stuck here and possibly in danger. And the nature of this place was still eluding her. Yet now Mrsha was paying attention, she realized the mirrors were showing her past.
A brown-furred Mrsha was poking her head into a stew pot before being shouted at by Urksh and falling in. Mrsha winced; she’d gotten burned from that moment. She saw another Mrsha losing a game of chess against Apista…
This can’t be what the [Palace of Fates] is for. My fates? 
Mrsha glanced over her shoulder, but saw nothing behind her, and this time, she began walking down the corridor. As she came to another intersection, she thought that this was fascinating, but she really needed a bathroom.
Mrsha passed by an open lavatory with at least fifty stalls inside, some fit for the last Harpy Queen, some mundane-sized. She stopped…backpedaled a step.
Every hair on her body rose slowly.
It’s like Erin’s Garden of Sanctuary. Except even scarier. What the heck.
She hesitated. Padded inside and saw a row of sinks. Mrsha stared at her reflection in the mirror; this was no past self. She tried the faucet handles on one sink and saw water running from the golden faucet. Mrsha gingerly tasted some; it was water. Cold, but it tasted good. She hesitated. Backed out of the bathroom after eying the closed stalls.
Anything could be hiding in them.
