 
Mrsha thrust open another door made of plain wood with iron fittings and a simple doorknob and saw another Mrsha standing in an exact replica of the hallway she was in.
The other Mrsha had a crude bandage wrapped around her head; it was stained slightly red, and she seemed bewildered. She was panting and had little yellow petals like gold coins clinging to her fur.
What were those? They reminded Mrsha of the flowers in the garden, but far more…magical. Real Mrsha rubbed at her eyes, then realized this alternate reality Mrsha was studying her.
The two locked gazes as their jaws opened. Real Mrsha raised a paw; she waved it at her doppelganger with a head wound. Headwound Mrsha jerked back, a look of shock and astonishment on her face. Headwound Mrsha glanced left and right, dizzily, then waved a tentative paw.
The real Mrsha waved her wand, and the alternate-her recoiled, but real Mrsha lifted a paw in greetings, then wrote with her wand.
Hey, can you see this? It’s me! This is crazy!
Headwound Mrsha stared, and real Mrsha realized her words might have been reversed. Real Mrsha tried to flip the words around and the other her got the message. Headwound Mrsha nodded, then produced her own wand.
This is weird. Are you alternate me?
Headwound thought she was the true Mrsha? Real Mrsha wrote back swiftly.
You’re alternate me. Sorry. I guess each door’s to another alternate timeline. You must have landed on your head. If I close this door…do you vanish? Sorry!
Real Mrsha began to get weirded out at the idea and winced, raising a paw in the ‘sorry’ gesture by holding it up to her face and cupping it slightly. Headwound Mrsha could read her sign-language, obviously, but hesitated. Headwound Mrsha shook her head.
I don’t know what’ll happen. I’m sorry too.
Okay, this was getting weird. Real Mrsha put her hand on the door frame and wrote with a sigh.
Uh, no, I’m the real Mrsha. I opened the door and saw you here. Listen, I know it’s hard to believe, but I’ve been here and checking door after door. So I’m real.
Real Mrsha didn’t know how Headwound would take it, but the Mrsha with a bandage on her head paused, then wrote back with her glittering wand.
I know. I’ve been watching you for the last hour.
Huh? Definitely Real Mrsha felt a lurch in her stomach. She saw the other her hesitate, then slowly swing the door closed.
Real Mrsha…Fake Mrsha…the Gnoll without a bandage on her head, the one who’d landed on her back, not her head—rushed forwards suddenly. ‘Real’ Mrsha pushed against the invisible barrier, and the Mrsha with a bandage on her head jerked back.
It was no use; the Mrsha with a sore back pushed and clawed at something harder than the barrier between the [Garden of Sanctuary] and the outside world. Infinity-times harder. Impassible, inviolate—she saw the Mrsha with a bandage on her head closing the door, eyes wide with uncertainty, alarm, and regret.
In the moments before it shut, ‘Real’ Mrsha had one thought.
Oh poo.
Then she heard it, that sound that encompassed absolutely everything:
 
Slam.
