After ten seconds, Mrsha stomped back into the bathroom and turned the water faucet off because otherwise she was wasting water. Then she marched off.
 
——
 
After finding the eighth bathroom, Mrsha gave into the call of nature. She suspiciously eyed a toilet, not having had much experience with plumbing except when she visited Selys’ mansion or Krshia’s apartment, and leapt away when it made a terrific plunging sound after she pulled the lever.
Mrsha washed her hands with some soap and wondered if the water was real. The soap certainly left a residue she smelled on her paws; she decided to risk it and gulped from her water flask before refilling her water bottle with the sink water.
If she needed water, she might as well figure out now if it was fake water or something.
The bathrooms stopped appearing when Mrsha had finished her business, much to her relief. It was like how Mrsha had seen Erin controlling her gardens, especially the beach garden. Which made Mrsha think…
Show me a way out!
Mrsha turned a corner, nearly crashed into the locked door, and turned around. Sheta’s statue loomed over her, and Mrsha nearly had a heart attack.
She was right back in the central courtyard. Mrsha stared at the door, eyed the keyhole, and felt at her pockets.
Give me the key!
No such key appeared, and she had nothing in her bag of holding. Groaning, Mrsha stood on her tip-toes and tried to see through the keyhole. But it was just black. She shook her head and turned.
Show me…another door out of here!
She spun, took a step, and splatted into the main door again. Mrsha opened her eyes, sighed loudly, and backed away.
Great.
It seemed like she was stuck in here for now. Mrsha rubbed at her head, then looked up.
Where’s the hole in the ceiling then? No, wait. What’s behind all the doors? 
She turned to eye the corridors of empty doors, and there was a flicker on the 4th floor. Mrsha spun, then froze. Froze like prey seeing a predator’s talons just above their head.
A figure with wings turned away. Mrsha was petrified—then dashed up the stairs, howling, wand raised, trying to get a better view of—
There was no one on the balcony on the 4th floor. Even when Mrsha raced up there, panting, clutching at her side—no one was visible down the long corridors closest to where the figure had vanished. The Gnoll girl stood there, rattled, wand flicking right and left.
She couldn’t still be alive, could she? No way. 
But it had definitely been a tall, tall figure that Mrsha swore had been peering down at her. Someone in a vast cloak, perhaps, or if not a cloak…
Wings. Mrsha stared down at the statue in the courtyard, then about. Still no one. Yet now, her fur was trying to walk off her body. She put her back to one wall, then squeezed her eyes shut.
Get me out of here. 
Mrsha took a step and ended up in a hallway of doors. No telling where she was in the palace. She looked both ways, then ran behind one of the curtains and held still for a second.
Please don’t be a Facestealer situation. Please don’t be a Facestealer situation.
There was no help for it. When she poked her head out and saw there was no one around—so far—Mrsha scuttled forwards and found a door with a faded welcome mat in front of it and a sunflower carved into the wood. She decided it was better than the one made of ice or the one with the emerald doorknob.
Mrsha opened it. And then—she began to understand what this place was.
 
——
 
“Mrsha! Dinner time!”
Mrsha awoke in the middle of the [Garden of Sanctuary] and stretched. Apista buzzed down, and Mrsha sat up.
She’d had a nap! After her gardening. She rolled off the yellow flowers and stretched. Groaning, slightly, as she held her back.
Grimalkin’s gym class really had done a number on her. Was that two naps in a single day? A record.
Mrsha stumbled blearily over to the door and saw Lyonette standing there.
“Mrsha, have you been asleep again? I called you four times!”
The Gnoll waved her wand, and a spell auto-scribed for her, glowing purple lines in the air.
Forsooth, Mother, if you had but used your Skill, you would have known I was in the [Garden of Sanctuary] and only had to call once.
“Don’t get sassy with me, young miss. You’re never going to get to sleep tonight…”
Lyonette heaved the long-suffering sigh of the parent, and Mrsha rolled her eyes. Oh, woe was all! She cricked her neck, wincing; she must have slept in a weird position.
What’s for dinner? And dessert?
“Dinner is a bunch of steamed beef cabbage rolls. Which I would appreciate you attending civilly, unlike your sister, who insists on making rudeness her chief concern in this household.”
Lyonette was still at it with Nanette? Mrsha wearily held up a card.
Mother, is it not time for all good women to come together for the good of the inn?
“Tell that to Nanette.”
 
——
 
Mrsha tried and then gave up over dinner, which wasn’t so much strained as it was just…well, awkward. Lyonette and Nanette ate at different tables, sniping at each other and playing nice with everyone else, and Mrsha and Apista got caught between the two. Both were perfectly pleasant to Mrsha while shooting barbed daggers at each other.
About the wand, obviously. Mrsha did her best while she had quite lovely beef cabbage rolls. She’d had reservations, but good old Calescent had understood that if you had to have such an objectionable-sounding dish, reality should be splendid.
What you did was you took a ‘roll’ of cabbage leaves and put some hot, shredded beef in there and dipped it in some sauce and ate it. That was a cabbage roll Mrsha could get behind, and she stuffed herself.
The only downside was, again, Lyonette and Nanette making comments about each other, and after the sixth sour comment had nearly curdled her milk, Mrsha had huffed off to another table, leaving her shocked roommate and mother to spar in peace.
Yo, mind if I sit here?
Rags glanced up and grunted at Mrsha.
“Yes.”
Mrsha sat anyways. She had it on good authority that dessert was cobbler’s pie, so she estimated she only needed two more rolls to fill up. And her glass of milk. Rags was eating her food as if they were sour plums, face twisted up into a scowl, despite the eager way she was dipping her rolls in a spicy mustard.
How’s it going, Rags? Chieftain Rags?
Rags ignored Mrsha. The girl tried again.
Nice to see you here after so long. How’s Goblinhome?
Rags looked up again and barked shortly.
“About to be attacked. What do you want?”
I just want to hang out. Attacked? Do you need help or something?
“Nothing you or Lyonette can give. Don’t you have a ball to chase?”
Hey! I’m past my ball-chasing years! Sort of. Now we just kick them around, which is fun unless Ekirra joins in because he can’t help but show off.
“Children stuff. Good for you.”
It seemed like Rags had a bone to pick with Mrsha. The Gnoll girl almost got up and went away, but she hesitated. She wrote and then handed the card to Rags.
Seriously, can I help? Mother (Lyonette), has a disposable Named-rank adventurer on call and an [Assassin]. She’s pretty smart herself. If there’s anything we can do, I can at least tell someone important. Or try to get Erin’s attention somehow.
Rags raised her eyebrows as she gave Mrsha a second, appraising glance.
“Disposable Named-rank? I like Saliss.”
Whoa, who said anything about Saliss? I like Saliss. I meant Elia Arcsinger.
That earned her a laugh from Rags. The Chieftain considered the note again and frowned. A gloom fell over her, so palpable it became an aura.
“Erin’s in Baleros. She can’t help me, and Goblinhome isn’t so weak it needs The Wandering Inn to…thank you for the offer, Mrsha. If I could talk to Erin without having to use a scrying spell, I would.”
She shook her head and met Mrsha’s eyes for once. The girl felt like she’d risen in Rags’ esteem slightly, which was good. They’d never really hung out, but Mrsha had some respect for the little Goblin Chieftain.
It’s cool. We could, uh, find a way to talk to her. Via Ishkr. It’s up to chance, but then she could get in touch with you. I want to help. I mean it. You know about the box, obviously?
Rags’ eyes flicked pointedly to Lyonette, and Mrsha acted casual. Okay, no need to seem so wary. Mrsha could play it cool. She wrote again.
I could have Ishkr flag something. And Fetohep too, I think.
She suspected Fetohep was in contact with the real Erin. Rags gave Mrsha a huge frown.
“What, do those two have special Skills or artifacts to talk to her?”
Mrsha…paused as she lifted her quill.
Uh oh. Rags didn’t know about the real Erin.
It had shocked Mrsha out of her fur when she’d been told. The real Erin was…she still felt hurt that Erin hadn’t called her or Lyonette or Nanette. Or Numbtongue or Bird or…
It was probably why Numbtongue had left. Again. But when Mrsha had calmed down, Ishkr had said how bad she looked. And that had been—
Mrsha was writing on the card as Rags read upside-down. The Gnoll girl was covering her writing so no one but Rags could see, just in case, but she’d forgotten the depth of Rags’ relationship with Erin. The Goblin leaned over and grabbed Mrsha’s paw before Mrsha was even done.
“She’s what?”
Nanette and Lyonette looked over as Mrsha jerked. She tried to scribble faster, but Rags nearly pulled Mrsha over the table.
“What? She’s—”
Mrsha saw the panic and hurt in Rags’ eyes and raised her paws. Calm down! After a second, Rags did, and she and Mrsha ended up talking over dinner. Which, as it turned out, was one of their favorite dishes. And it turned out that two short people could be friends. True, Rags was a busy Chieftain and felt ‘older’ than Mrsha by far, even if she was actually younger.
But they could both agree Erin could be a real jerk herself sometimes. And when Mrsha was tossing and turning in her bed and Nanette was moaning at her to go to sleep, she had a thought. So she slipped out of bed, knocked on Rags’ door, and jerked a thumb over her shoulder.
The two strolled into the [World’s Eye Theatre], and Mrsha had a bowl of popcorn from the kitchen, which Rags heated with a flick of the thumb. They started playing The Godfather as Rags sat there, and Mrsha smiled at her as Rags gave the Gnoll a grudgingly approving look. And Mrsha was yawning as she reached for the first popcorn kernel—
 
——
 
It tasted like butter and yeast. Then Mrsha—that was, the real Mrsha—closed the door. Her heart was hammering in her chest, unlike the sleepy girl in The Wandering Inn. But for a second, she felt like that Mrsha who had just taken a nap in the garden and not fallen into the [Palace of Fates].
Mrsha closed the door. Then opened it. She saw a movie playing as Rags got a call from a speaking stone in her ear and heard something about ‘Trolls in Goblinhome’.
Mrsha closed the door. Opened it.
She tried to put her paw through the door frame and felt a bit of relief as she sensed an invisible barrier. She couldn’t go through. Mrsha poked at it with her wand, gave it a good punch; it was like Erin’s [Garden of Sanctuary]. An invisible force field separated her from the alternate universe.
Whew. Of course. Mrsha stepped away, still feeling at her tongue. Then she looked around.
No way. No way…she hesitated, then walked over to a door with an emerald set into the handle and ostentatious gems, everywhere.
She opened the door, peeked inside, and saw—
 
——
 
Mrsha the Exuberantly Wealthy had her feet up on the table as Peslas wiped it. The former [Innkeeper] of the Tailless Thief was working as a [Server] in The Wandering Inn along with dozens of Drakes and Gnolls wearing the new uniforms.
Mrsha had a pair of Yelroan-themed sunglasses on her face and was sipping a milkshake as Lyonette spoke into a speaking stone.
“No, you listen to me, Ilvriss. I am House Gemscale. I bought your family’s company. I own half of Salazsar! You don’t ask me questions, you come here for a visit. No. No, I don’t care how—”
She put a hand over her speaking stone and turned to Mrsha and Nanette. The young [Witch] was reading from one of her new spellbooks as Valeterisa, with her huge, fake smile, tried to teach her a Tier 5 spell.
“He’s complaining about the distance.”
“Hah!”
Peon!
Mrsha held up a card, and Lyonette turned back to her call. Ishkr was at the bar, sampling new alcohols from a huge selection as a [Merchant] specializing in drinks offered him samples. He had chosen a hundred bottles for the inn now, and once it was finished quadrupling in size—Drevish’s plans would make this inn a real palace—he’d have a real bar to run.
“Ilvriss, I’ll send you a flying carpet. Or a Djinni-run carriage. I’m in talks to buy one. Two Djinni, actually. It’s not slavery; I’ll free and employ them. All answers will be provided shortly. Now, I have to speak to my advisor, the Quarass. One second. Hello?”
Lyonette switched speaking stones as Mrsha waved for another milkshake. Lyonette had had reservations about Mrsha eating whatever she wanted until Octavia had pointed out you could buy weight-loss potions or have a specialty [Chef] with those Skills. Peslas hurried over with a desperate smile on his face, and Mrsha decided he had to go. Even if it was fun ordering him around, no one liked Peslas…
 
——
 
Mrsha closed the door. Then she felt at her face. No sunglasses. She wiped her brow in relief.
What the heck was that?
Was that her?
It couldn’t be! Mrsha knew she could sometimes be Mrsha the Smug, and Lyonette could sometimes be snobby and really be a [Princess]’ princess, but wow, they seemed horrible! Was that…
Was this the future? No, it couldn’t be. There was no Elia nor Vaulont in that image, nor Rags. Was it…just fiction?
It felt too real for that. Mrsha stared at her paws, then at the door. Then she looked at all the doors down the infinite corridor and considered the meaning of the Skill and Sheta’s warning.
 
Sanctuary provides. Secrets empower. Fate illuminates.
But remember:
Sanctuary can never shelter enough. Secrets grow vast unspoken. And Fate mocks us all. But I was glad of it. May my key help you protect what matters.
 
…No. Mrsha studied the door and then raced over and tried another one. She stared into it, then ran over to another door. Then another.
In each one was a familiar face. Mostly Mrsha. But sometimes Nanette or Lyonette or even Apista.
 
Mrsha trying to skateboard.
Mrsha the football team champion, taking Ekirra’s spot.
Mrsha sitting in Fetohep’s palace.
Nanette sitting under a tree, listless and thin. 
Lyonette fighting in Zeladona’s Trial of Blades.
 
—Each door held a different moment. Each one a different fate. A different destiny. What if Mrsha had somehow gotten to Chandrar? What if she’d never fallen into this palace. What if—
 
——
