And those were just the start. [Index] and [Pattern Recognition] added a decent amount of processing speed for a negligible mana cost. [Record] and [Antenna] were mostly made redundant thanks to technology, but their frameworks weren’t so replaceable for him. [Calculator] and [Abacus] was another amusing pair, the two skills just different enough to make it worthwhile to get them both. [Mental Map], [Ruler], and [Compass] to fill out spatial logic - he had wanted to tie in [Home]. However the lack of known modification patterns combined with its own insanely complicated skill structure made it kind of inadvisable and after some rudimentary testing, he’d scrapped the idea.

He’d learned his lesson after ruining three [Barrage] skill shards in his pursuit of modifying it into [Multithreading]. Which he had, he was proud to say, managed to make on the fourth try. Max had been surprised he’d gotten it that quickly, given it was infamously finicky. Though she had confessed she’d gotten it first try during her own attempt.

Max had other ideas for skills he could try to tie into his [AI], but Matt could recognize when he was hitting his upper limits, and right now he was very glad he hadn’t kept going. True to her word, once Max had been filled in on his Talent, she’d managed to make a few last minute adjustments to maximize performance at arbitrarily high mana rates.

That was ultimately their goal: get his [AI] into a state that it could properly utilize any amount of mana he threw at it. Then, once integrated into his subconscious, he could all but directly spend mana to augment his thoughts.

Max spent four months installing temporary connectors to various portions of his brain. As intrusive as they were, they would allow them to monitor the integration and correct any mistakes before they became possibly permanent problems.

The final step was the easiest and the hardest. Max only had one job, and it was the easiest of the day. She took the Spark of Intelligence and shook the bottle, as if listening for a rattling sound. There was none, but the moment he started moving his [AI] back from his temporary cybernetically-added skill slot back into his regular spirit, the transformation happened.

Light surged through the room, currents of mana arced out of the crystal like a blooming flower. They tethered themselves into Matt’s mind and into his skill, drawing himself and the machine tighter. Closer. A presence awoke, something not quite human, not quite monster, but that could best be described as a Thought Elemental.

It was an intrinsically curious entity. A novel being that Matt had both never seen before but was simultaneously intimately familiar with.

It regarded him questioningly, staring at him both physically and through his spirit, and Matt beckoned it closer. It wasn’t able to do anything but question. It could never know, not truly. It was the question with no answer. For that, it needed Matt. It was thought without form, a mind without a body.

Which made it perfectly suited to be his symbiotic mind.

And then, Max erased the bottle she was holding, and with a light puff of breath, blew the Spark of Intelligence it held into the center of the Thought Elemental.

It erupted into beautiful trills, its flowery body jumping and shining as though it was suddenly made of stardust. It looked at Matt all the more clearly, and he could almost feel its mind coalesce into… something. Still incomplete, but far more impressive than it had any right to be.

He felt like it was interrogating the world with far more intention than it had a mere moment before. It started asking new questions with every passing moment instead of the same ones over and over with only subtle variations.

Around him, Matt felt time pulling on him. This step was the one which made the entire procedure happen next to a black hole. Thought Elementals couldn’t live very long. Thoughts were inherently fleeting things, appearing and forever vanishing in less than the blink of an eye.

The same way as the longer a thought lingered, the stronger it could become. The longer the Thought Elemental existed, the more information it could gain from the world around it. Information from the universe and the Realm poured into the black hole beneath them, and passed through the elemental, letting it learn and grow.

There was a persistent ‘rumor’ that someone had once had an Inspiration during this stage of integration. From the gleam in Max's eye when she’d relayed the story, she at least wanted him to think it was about her, but he had verified the rumor was older than she was. According to the legend, the resulting flood of essence, carried knowledge from the Realm itself and had empowered their Thought Elemental to outright unheard-of levels of power. Some rumors went further, implying it had Awakened it, possibly granting it a Domain, or possibly resulting in it becoming outright sapient, depending on the exact version of the story being told.

No such miracle happened with Matt. He wasn’t Wun and hadn’t planned to rely on chance. Instead, he fed the hungry little thing as much knowledge as he could, filling the room with Thought and Knowledge mana.

As he fed it with an endless stream, he could almost sense it croon as it grew and matured at an ever accelerating rate.

Then, the flower finished blooming, and it collapsed in on itself, becoming a little seed. The sudden loss of the glory of the Thought Elemental and the brilliance of the mana momentarily left Matt feeling cold, until the seed became his [AI] skill slotting back into his spirit where it became a seedling, then a sprout.

A shiver passed through Matt’s spirit, and things became a little fuzzy. But the skill, once planted in his Innate skill slot, sprouted and dispersed. Roots spread through his entire being, from his heart and bones to his skin. Then it pooled on his skin and dripped down him like molten, frozen honey. The slow unnerving sensation was accompanied by his mouth producing far too much saliva that tasted like pickled cherries.

Then, all at once, everything vanished and Matt felt the world around him snap into its normal clarity. Or was it normal clarity? Everything looked how he remembered it, but now it all just seemed so… small. Like he’d doubled in size and could do so again by standing up. The skill was now a blossoming plant of indeterminate genus, its roots spread throughout his spirit, and its stem stretching into… Matt’s own perspective, the skill somehow stretching directly into his own spiritual proprioception and fuzzing out of perception.

Matt wanted to stretch. He just needed to… flex a little. It took all of his willpower, but he resisted the impulse until Max gave him the go-ahead. It was an agonizingly long process as the metal and crystal disconnected and withdrew from his head and brain that left his spirit achy in a manner he wasn’t eager to repeat.

In its place, dozens of more flexible arms came down and encased the back of Matt’s head like a more traditional helmet. It only probed his brain with mana as it started massaging everything into place.

“Okay. Let's start from the top with the first drill. Simple stuff. Your name. Begin.”

Before his experience with JR, he wouldn’t have put any weight on the reply, but now he had a much better understanding of himself and his name.

With confidence he stated. “Matthew Moore né Alexander.”

“Good. Now onto drill two. Slightly more complicated: 6,936x52? Begin.”

Matt barely had to think. “360,672.”

“Prime factors of 19,793,959? Begin.”

“6,703 and 2,953.”

“What is the leading cause of fatalities outside of delving statistics inside each of the Great Powers? Begin.”

“Solve the following shifted cipher. Your only hint is that it's five words without clear spaces indicated. Begin.”

The questions only grew harder as he answered the previous one, but each question was a test of his cognitive skills as they mapped out his brain.

Once they’d identified every sector, they started merging the two halves.

Matt found it easier than the reports indicated, but he wasn’t that surprised, though he was grateful. He’d been prepared to do the modifications in his core, but why would he? Few other people had flexible innate skills slots, but he did. Being that much closer to the true center of his spirit made everything easier, and he wouldn’t forfeit that.

The reduction in difficulty didn’t make Matt any more comfortable as they checked and smoothed the integration of his new [AI] into his brain and mind. After each connection, they repeated all of the drills and tests, growing their complexity with each repetition before moving onto the next, undoing any step if either of them weren’t happy with the result. With two perfectionists, the results were exceptional.

At one point he sensed Delphi checking in on them, but she didn’t probe or linger after doing the equivalent of listening outside the door. He’d only interacted with her once, but he found the royal equivalent a surprisingly considerate person, unlike her feathered leader.

Matt didn’t let himself linger on the brief interruption any more than she had.

He was far too busy.

“Solve this two thousand bit cipher at least nine ways. Begin.”

"Three nanoseconds. Good."

“Translate data set 143. It has seventy eight books from dead or fictional languages. I want them converted into all eight current Great Powers’ languages. Keep authorial intent as the highest priority during the translation. Begin.”

“Twenty milliseconds and 98.71% accuracy.” She directed the machine to adjust a couple of its probes, “Acceptable, but I think we can do better. Give me a moment to make some tweaks, and let’s try again with data set 149. Annnnd begin.”

“Calculate the economic impacts that would occur if a new Tier 0 healing skill was created and widely distributed. Use data set 8163c. Give me at least four reports based on the skill's difficulty curve, starting from a middling level and moving upward. Begin.”

Matt barely even felt his [AI] giving him assistance. It was just… how he thought now. The answers came quickly and easily, flashes of insight arrived spontaneously. Now instead of focusing, he simply directed a touch of mana to the problem like it was second nature. He barely even realized what he was doing until he stopped and considered it, like grabbing an object out of the air.

Max had described the process as turning a skill into a talent, turning [Assistative Intelligence] into [Actual Insight]. Into something more like an Innate Understanding Talent, where things just made sense, where things just worked. But whether because that description undersold it, or because of how much mana he was putting towards the project, or maybe because of the Spark of Intelligence, it seemed like both so much more and so much less.

Matt felt practically omniscient. He could just look at a thing and instantly know practically everything about it. He could glance at a piece of paneling and simply be aware of its material, its construction technique, the maintenance it had experienced, who had bumped into it recently, the exact sound it would make when struck in any particular way.

He understood everything.

If he wanted to connect to a network, no longer did he need to mentally scroll through [AI] menus and select the options he wanted. He could simply think about what he wanted the appliance or system to do, and it would happen. Or, he could take a mental step deeper and personally wade into the protocols and mana exchanges and enchantments that received his instructions, speaking the language of the machine as fluently as the one he grew up speaking.

Or he could do both. Or neither.

Matt could surprise himself now, which was itself a bit of a surprise. Several times, he’d gone to access an interface he thought he’d understood, only to find that he had already made a number of adjustments he didn’t know were even possible, completely redesigning the UI in a way that he had never considered, but in retrospect made total sense. In true retrospect, he could even know the exact steps taken to redesign the UI as well as how he had done it, just… another memory, tucked away in his mind as though it had always been there, and just as easy to access as literally anything else.

And then there were the ideas. Everywhere he looked, he could see things that he could change, that he could improve. Fortunately, those ideas also came with the knowledge as to why they were that way already, and why he shouldn’t mess with things that other people had made. Especially not ones with purposes that didn’t match what Matt would want out of them.

But when it came to his own stuff, well…

He’d already thought of a dozen ways to improve his sword before and after he replaced its core material with the rest of his neutronium ingot. A hundred optimizations for his workshop. A thousand tools that he should get, including some made by people he’d never met before.

Ten thousand ways he could pester Aster.

A million new ways to show Liz exactly how much he loved her.

It was, Matt knew, time to go home.
