That was their destination, along with everyone else's. However, with Max, the initial checkpoints were breezed through. It didn’t last long, but he didn’t mind as it gave him the opportunity to scan the portion of the station that dipped below the event horizon.

Forged entirely of Tier 40 metals, the space station was a grand undertaking built to protect everyone inside from the crushing effects of the black hole's gravity without disrupting the phenomena that made the celestial body so desirable in the first place. It was a work of art from both an artistic and crafting aspect, the likes of which nearly caught his professional interest. That was until he remembered who ordered the original construction and helped make it, solidifying themselves in Corporation history.

Just below the event horizon, the same pattern repeated itself, with the top floors rented out to civilians who could pay. A small portion were mortals trying to stretch their lifespan limits, but most were immortals who wanted to pass time faster than normal.

They bypassed all checks by virtue of flying into the central shaft directly, where Matt got a good look down at the other bulbous end of the space station that completed a lopsided hourglass. The deep storage complex meant to house things too volatile to store around people and too valuable to destroy.

Matt would love to spend a few months exploring, but he didn’t even bother scanning with his spiritual sense. He could feel the shielding that was supposed to prevent people from doing exactly that parting around Max, but refrained. He saw no reason to annoy the Tier 47 watching them any more than their flight down the central shaft certainly had.

Instead of the room they were supposed to end up in, a gentle yet irresistible force redirected them deeper.

Matt only needed a single look to recognize their guide, and it actually managed to relieve him. It was Delphi, the Corporations’ resident [AI] expert. She was like Harper in more than a few ways. The head of Corporations Intelligence was secretive, and with a build entirely dominated by a massively powerful Talent-granted skill.

While her exact skill set was highly secret, she’d definitely gotten her signature skill Innately with her Tier 1 Talent, possibly with some kind of reservation-type modifier to it, given she’d never given any signs she was actively feeding it tons of mana.

Not that absence of evidence was any kind of signifier. Matt had discussions with Luna as to whether he should try passing off his own mana regeneration as making skills into reservation variants, so he knew it was at least theoretically possible to hide consistent mana expenditure.

No matter how she did it, what was undeniable was just how much she was the [AI] expert. She was also singlehandedly responsible for turning subconscious integration from a ludicrously niche procedure that only the absolute craziest people would attempt, into a very niche procedure that only crazy people would attempt.

Matt was self aware enough to know most people weren’t comfortable integrating a skill with their minds, but it was actually a lot safer than having his name removed. In raw numbers, there were a few hundred million people who’d integrated their [AI] into their subconscious across the Great Powers. It wasn’t common by any stretch, but it wasn’t unheard of either.

Delphi gave him a small barely perceptible nod before she looked at Max with a much harder gaze. “You know you aren’t supposed to fly down the central shaft. Protocols exist for a reason.”

Max dug a big toe into the ground and tried her best to look cute, but Delphi was having none of it. Her expression never changed as she watched the show without interrupting.

When the act was done, she delivered Max’s punishment without a hint of remorse. “That was your third warning, and so now you owe me three missions. Eventually, the price will get high enough that even you will have to stop showing off.”

Turning to face him, she continued, “Chosen Titan. How pleasant to see you. I hear you are preparing to integrate your mind with your [AI] and I like to take the time to welcome a new traveler upon this path whenever I can. Are there any questions you still have? I trust that Cosmind’s consultation has assuaged you of most concerns, but it is my habit not to assume about such things. Likewise, if you have any questions about the process, please feel free to ask me directly or reach out to one of my assistants if that makes you more comfortable. One of them was even in the same cycle of Minkalla as you, if familiarity helps.”

Matt was going to politely decline when the last words caught him off guard. “I’d be happy to meet whoever it is. Assuming they don’t hate me or something like that.”

Delphi shared with him the name, Jullian Escgo, who Matt actually remembered from the fourth floor, where he’d traded Genesis Energy in exchange for future promises. The Realm suddenly felt very small inside the black hole, but the Tier 47 was busy with her own work and saw them off after Max pilfered a few tools she insisted she needed.

Most of them looked like construction equipment, which didn’t excite him, but he didn’t try to stop her either.

When they were firmly sequestered in Max’s lab, he finally got something in the general shape of an answer. “I saw when you compared Delphi to Harper. I get the surface level similarities, but philosophically? Despite being a little reserved, she’s closer to Rusty than Harper. Care to guess why?”

Matt didn’t need to be a genius to understand what she was getting at. “You mean Delphi treats people who have their [AI] integrated with their subconscious the same way Rusty treats those who have their body modified thanks to Self Identify? So everyone who falls under her umbrella is one of her own people until proven otherwise? Is that why she actually spoke to me? I’m one of hers now, or so close to it that there isn't a difference?”

“On the credit. Well done. Or mostly so. She’d have talked to you no matter what, given your own status, but she was far more welcoming than she would have been otherwise. Honestly, I really didn’t expect her to catch us, but it's a good thing she did. We are going to need these.”

Matt jerked away from the drill that nearly took out one of his eyes as he asked. “I saw you pick them up, what are they and why do we need them in particular?”

Max stabbed him faster than he could react. Her improvised weapon hit a rib, where it skittered off the baseline armor instead of penetrating deeper. It did manage to take a line of his flesh with it earning her a glare.

“I’m not ruining my tools getting through your new armor. Yeah, don’t think I didn’t see you adjusting your weight. It's really obvious by the fact my ship burned way more mana than I expected to get us here, because someone wasn’t volunteering to take out their super fast personal ship.” Matt was going to ask how she knew about Lila’s gift, but she continued before he could. “You are really going to need to get a lot better at your gravity manipulation if you want it to be subtle and hide it.”

“I’m hardly the only person to weigh a lot.”

“Matthew, I can give you the Cosmind Guarantee that you are the only person in the entire realm with even a drop of neutronium inside your body. Oh by the way, when the news breaks, and the first time you get in any serious fight it will be obvious, Moe is going to be pissed.” Instead of looking upset, Max grinned and bounced in her seat. “It will be soooo great! He was actually thinking about doing something similar to what you did, except not at all because he's stupid. He wanted to use an entire ingot of neutronium to coat his bones like some kind of idiot before he settled on his current weapon.”

Matt couldn't imagine trying to move with that much weight, let alone the thought of trying to regrow that much metal should it be damaged. He was already stronger than his physical cultivation peers, and the corner of a single ingot was enough to be annoying.

Using the entire bar? That was lunacy, even for Moe, unless he wanted to be running a full suite of buffs all the time just so he was strong enough to move his own skeleton.

As they chatted, Max finished getting her room ready. He wanted to help, but he let her prepare her workshop as he sat in the chair with heavy manacles ready to hold him in place. Holding in his inner shudder, he strapped himself in before settling into a meditative state.

By the time Max was ready, so was he.

“Want me to preserve the hair or anything?”

Matt wanted to turn his head to look at Max, but his head was locked in place with a Tier 40 clamp attached directly to his skull, and he couldn’t even wiggle if he wanted to.

“I’ll just regrow it all anyway. Just save the skull so I don’t have to regrow the neutronium JR worked so hard to install.”

As Max worked, she complained with equal vigor, “And you expect me to do all of this work but you won’t explain this armor? Come on, it's not even armor. What the fuck is this, Matt? Seriously, this shit is wild. Armor isn’t even the right word with how tied into you it is. It's more like a full body augmentation. Yeah augment. I'd call it that instead of armor. Way cooler.”

When Matt still refused to respond, she continued unbothered, “Fine, even if you won't tell me, I’m going to pester the shit out of JR just because I can. How dare he make something like this for you and not even pull a few of my names out for training purposes. It's unfair. I’m going to buy out one of his so-called ‘hidden companies’ and bankrupt it just because I can.”

The moment he heard the idea, he couldn’t help but offer a way to make it hurt worse. “You should socialize the business. That would piss him off so much more.”

Max didn’t even blink. “Please. I have standards.”

A moment later, she followed that up, “Besides. It’s way easier to bankrupt it and frame it as his fault anyway. It was his business after all.”

“But wouldn’t you have to buy it in the first place?”

That question finally got Max to set down what she was doing to give him a look of deep pity before she moved on.

Two hours of idle banter later, Max was ready. Matt wasn’t quite so sure, but he wasn’t about to back down.

Logically, he understood what they were doing was orders of magnitude safer than what JR had been doing to his name, but he found that hard to believe. They were too close to his brain, and by necessity he couldn’t have [Regeneration] running while they worked.

Thinking about it more, he realized that while he probably could have it running, it would simply both add a lot of unnecessary pain and horribly complicate the procedure. That was the last thing he needed right now.

They started by building the temporary interface that would link his [AI] inside his spirit with his mind. The way they managed it was almost the inverse of what he’d done at a Tier 3.

Having been prepared, Matt synced and offloaded his now heavily modified [AI] into the massive system node he was within. And technically, a part of. It was similar to the AI chip he’d had inserted into his neck so many centuries ago, but instead of inserting a small piece of cybernetics into his body, he was effectively inserting his body into an absolutely massive piece of cybernetics. As far as his spirit was concerned, the enormous and intimidating array of arcing mana, pointy metal bits, and massive computation crystals, like the one as big as his torso embedded in the metal directly above his forehead, was just as much a part of him as his arms.

Or at least, it would be if he stayed plugged into the device for a few centuries. They didn’t need to go that far. The temporary blending of where his spirit was filled an important role as Matt carefully maneuvered his AI into the brand new skill slot that he could sense opening up in the device.

The initial transfer to the device was a lengthy process, even by the standards of skill migration. Not only was every partial step carefully monitored and fraught with quadruple checking a whole host of technical and medical readings, Matt’s [AI] was a frightfully unwieldy and monstrous behemoth. Even if he set aside the amount of regular modifications centuries of heavy and continuous usage had done to the skill structure, he’d spent an absolutely absurd amount of time since his war ended merging so, so many dedicated auxiliary skills into his [AI].

[Heads-Up Display] was at least a commonly merged skill. It was less common to merge into [AI] in the current Realm with the advancements in AI software, but it was something sane people did for a variety of reasons. He basically required it for the skills ability to help parse data for the users. [Storage] and [Library] were his following two. Very few people chose to absorb, let alone merge both into their [AI] but he’d never considered skipping either one. He then absorbed and merged the dozen [Simulate]-type skills rounding out the normal skill mergers.

[Data Link] was actually needed for the transfer process, but only because [Encrypt] would interfere with it. He’d managed to pry a [Cracked Decrypt] out of Frederic’s collection, which could reverse its functions to serve as an appropriate work around but that summed up the game he’d been forced to play as he built his ideal [AI].

