Chapter 500

Matt was mid-meditation when Max’s ship entered the Delta Nine Axim system, but despite that he still noticed the transfer. As connected to space as he was, he wasn’t too surprised. He was, however, thoroughly impressed.

The Tier 17 black hole the system was named after dominated reality.

Its presence warped everything around it in large and small ways, all of which he could feel through his Domain. More than that, the black hole called to him. Or rather, his Intent.

It beckoned him in a way no other celestial body ever had.

As locked into his meditation as he was, they were docking by the time he was able to carefully extract himself from the stretching exercise, but he was pretty sure that was Max’s intention in the first place. He’d already checked their estimated arrival timing, and the exercise hadn’t been longer than planned, which meant their ship had been faster.

He debated making a comment about that but held himself back. He appreciated Max and her assistance, but he wasn’t exactly happy with her at the moment. While recovering, he’d spent dedicated time reviewing his Quill memories and interactions. He wanted to make sure nothing could catch him off guard and was glad he did.

Matt didn’t love the fact he’d told Max his Talent while under the influence of having his name removed, but he’d been well prepared for that eventuality. That wasn’t what really bothered him.

It was how eager she'd been.

It hadn’t even registered to Quill, who was simply happy to have someone to brag at, but it bothered Matt. He couldn't say what he’d expected her reaction to be, but he wasn’t pleased with the result.

In fact, he’d been meaning to bring it up with her throughout their journey between any of their preparatory sessions. He’d never been able to find what felt like the right time. There was always something that came up.

Like the black hole.

Matt checked how much time it would take before they could exit the ship into the space station proper as they waited for permission to land. He wanted to address the situation before they went inside and lost their privacy, but right before he could say anything, Max did so instead.

“Matt, I meant every word I said to Quill. I won’t apologize for any of that.” Her words were firm and direct, without a sliver of compassion or mercy. “I may have been speaking to Quill and addressing them personally, but I meant every word for both him and yourself.”

Before he could respond, she continued with a softer, more neutral expression, though it was far from gentle. “However, that doesn't mean I said everything I wanted to say. Quill is, well, I bet I don’t have to explain to you the ways that he is only a fraction of your totality, but he didn’t need to hear this, you do.”

Max turned to face him, causing him to do the same as she said. “I’m sorry.”

Of all the things she could have said, he wasn’t expecting that. Which maybe he should have expected? “Sorry about… what, exactly?”

“I’m sorry that you have the Talent you do.”

“You have to know this is just making me more confused.”

“More confusion means you’ll think about this more.” Her eyes met his with piercing intensity, the little flickers of light behind her gaze hinting at some grand picture he couldn’t even begin to understand. “I’m sorry that, due to something completely out of your control, you’ve had to spend your whole life looking over your shoulder for how people might use you, might exploit you, might hurt you. Nobody deserves that. You have, to be absolutely clear, done positively wonderful things with it, both in terms of managing fear, paranoia, and sheer accomplishments. That’s what defines you as an Ascender. But I am sorry that you need to live with that fear.”

Matt worked his jaw as he considered his answer. It was… almost exactly what he wanted before he’d brought the topic up. He’d thought he’d done a better job controlling his micro expressions during their trip, but he also knew that was only one of her methods of reading people's minds.

“Did you really wait for me to nearly bring it up before doing it yourself?” Max had already started nodding before he finished, so he continued, “You couldn’t have brought it up earlier?”

Max never broke eye contact as she tapped and opened the door, letting them into space directly instead of the space station he expected to enter.

“I could have, but would that have solved anything?”

“And what did doing it this way solve?” Matt tried to give her the benefit of the doubt.

Max dashed it as she floated out into space. “Maybe nothing. Maybe something. We'll have to see.”

Matt followed her after a moment to forcefully let go of his irritation. For all that Max was a foreign Ascender, she was also a friend. Additionally, while he could push, if she didn’t want to address the why’s, he had no way to make her.

He had something far more interesting to inspect.

A settled black hole.

Delta Nine Axim wasn’t the largest, or smallest, Tiered black hole he’d ever seen, but it was unquestioningly the first settled one he came across.

The space station was simultaneously miniscule and massive.

It was tiny in front of the backdrop of a celestial body like Delta Nine Axim, but massive in comparison to most space stations. Like an inverted drop of water, the top layers were the largest and kept well outside the event horizon. The bottom half of the space station stretched downward, growing narrower as its lower quarter dipped deep inside the event horizon and beyond where it vanished from sight.

While Matt's vision couldn’t see it, his spiritual sense had no problems feeling the smaller mirror teardrop that housed the true space station. Down below the event horizon where the only time that mattered was a person's subjective experience.

Delta Nine Axim hadn’t earned its nickname as The Tomb for no reason.

If someone went deep enough, an hour of their time could be decades or even centuries at the top for everyone else.

Matt found the space station inspiring. He’d once considered turning his Concept’s white hole image into the heart of his Intent’s image, copying Minkalla. While his Domain had taken another path, seeing the space station harness a black hole's properties and power brought up the old memories.

Instead of trying to sense the black hole, he let himself take a moment to reminisce.

In another life, he could easily see himself with such an Intent. It wouldn’t have been a bad Intent by any means. There was even a world where his aspect followed that same trend, also tapping into his white hole and its Endless power. It just wasn’t this one and he was okay with that.

When he’d finished, Matt pushed aside all of his other distracting thoughts and focused on the black hole with his Intent, trying to harmonize with it. Once he’d familiarized with the local celestial body and thought he understood it, he brought out his Concept.

Before he created his Meld, with his Concept being the total opposite of the black hole, its existence in the same real space would have led to a violent clash between Domain and reality. It would have been a fight for dominance. However, he’d already taken the critical step to unify the opposites, and so he faced zero rejection.

Having that confirmed was a welcome affirmation of his previous hard work, and he took a moment to savor it.

Matt had originally only intended to harmonize his Domain with the new black hole for a moment to get familiar. It was something he’d done dozens of times, but as he was doing so, he realized just how different this black hole was from all of the others he’d seen.

He hadn’t consciously registered it at first, but Delta Nine Axim, despite only being Tier 17, was the highest Tier black hole he’d encountered. It wasn’t all too different from any other black hole he’d encountered physically, but his Domain noticed a… liveliness about the black hole he couldn’t quite place.

That would have been interesting but understandable. Except it wasn’t either his Concept or Intent that noticed the oddity. It was his Meld.

Matt tried to follow that feeling and sensed the world through its unique perspective. He would have loved to activate it and get a proper experience, but he held himself back. He didn’t want to cause trouble before even getting inside.

His restraint made his investigation take longer, but didn’t hinder it as the answer wasn’t hidden.

Delta Nine Axim was an old black hole in an already very old universe.

From his study, Matt didn’t think Delta Nine Axim was ‘saw the birth of this universe old’, but he was confident it was old enough to have talked with such black holes in their final eons. Old didn’t begin to describe how long it had drifted throughout the local universe as it carved a path of destruction and rebirth.

Thanks to Delta Nine Axim’s vigorous core moving essence around its entire mass, random units of essence were occasionally spat from the event horizon as the black hole swallowed long dead stars and whatever remained in their orbit. That essence would then go on to multiply as it reached another celestial body and started the cycle over in a slightly different manner.

Something it would continue to do… forever. Delta Nine Axim was over Tier 15, and therefore immortal unless someone deliberately destroyed its cultivation core.

Matt wished anyone but strong Tier 45’s good luck in their attempts to reach that deep. Even he wouldn’t risk getting close enough to a Tier 17 black hole's singularity so that he could interact with its cultivation core, until he was ready and able to ascend should something inevitably go wrong.

In total, it only took him a few moments to retract his senses, but Max was waiting with a small grin.

Being helpful, she explained without him needing to ask. “There was a bet on how long it would take you to pick up on The Tomb's age. Maya won, having bet the lowest time, if you care to know.”

Matt didn’t mind. He even sent the Republic Ascender a congratulatory private message, obliquely trying to see if she got anything good in her victory. When he learned her items were all too high of a Tier, he let it go. His time was much better spent getting ready to start digging in his own head.

He was about to get them back on topic when they entered the space station, where his plans were interrupted by the delegation that was waiting for them. Most of them were in the lower immortal Tiers, but they all had a single unifying feature. They all wore at least one piece of deep burgundy clothing; be it a sash, armband, or a pinned-on ribbon.

Max stepped forward, making introductions with a restrained smile towards the silent group. “Chosen Titan, the Silent. The Silent, Chosen Titan. They are a branch of the Custodians of Delta Nine Axim, and handle much of the more delicate deep retrieval work. They also happen to be fans of yours. You helped a lot of their residents leave of their own volition, which is pretty rare for them.”

Matt had a million questions, but he didn’t let any of that show as he gave the most inoffensive answer he could. “I’m always happy to spread happiness.”

He didn’t expect one of the men to step forward and speak, given their name, but after the first person did, several others followed suit.

Most just offered a small thanks or other minor quick conversation, but it wasn’t until they’d dispersed into the bustling crowds that Max explained what had happened as they walked deeper into the station.

“The Silent are a bunch of particulars who work at the Plunge because they like the ability to dip below whenever they want. I’ve talked to a few who have been dark side for thousands of subjective years. To give you some context in how long that’s in real time… Those same people have been down there since before the Empire’s changes in leadership by a long margin, but to them… it's only been a few thousand years. The ones we met were the social types who volunteer for the human work. There are other groups, but by their nature we won’t be meeting any of them.”

Matt only needed to raise an eyebrow for her to continue.

“The Plunge—” Max read his expression as she pivoted to explain without missing a beat. “Try not to use the other name here, it can offend some people. Use that or the official name if you don’t want to undo all of your goodwill that your aura potions garnered. But yes, those potions gave a portion of the entombed the chance for immortality they were so desperately waiting for. Even for people who prefer solitude, it weighs on you to only have bodies leave your care. Knowing it's the expected outcome for everyone who tries to buy more time here only helps until a point. Normally, the only people they like are the ones who come to ascend locally, offering the peak Tier 14s at a chance. Even though we have more high Tiers than you guys in the Empire, ascensions aren’t exactly road side vegetables.”

That revelation and its implications kept him busy as they walked through the more open upper layers of the space station, but he still scanned his surroundings as they walked.

The uppermost three floors of the space station were basically a free-for-all for public companies to do as they pleased, but everything deeper was controlled. The fourth through sixth floors were rented out to anyone who could pay for access to the unique environment near, but not inside, the event horizon. However, everything below that was owned by the Corporations directly, which included access to the central shaft and therefore the desirable portion of the space station.

