Her good hand tugged on her soiled hem. Davis cleared his throat. “Right. Stay here. I’ll find you a towel.”

He returned a moment later with the same giant bathroom robe someone had retrieved for Kellie. He wrapped her gingerly, like an uncle who didn’t quite know what to do with a niece who had fallen into the lake, then escorted her by walking slightly ahead and out of step.

Snug in the towel, Eppie decided against replenishing her [Health]; for the record, she would leave her injury for show-and-tell, lest her reforming rapper decide to recant.

In the limo, Zara fashioned a sling using a smaller towel.

It was really quite amazing how empathic Zara could be, because the moment Eppie arrived at the back lot, out of sight of the photographers, she burst into tears as if she were the injured one.

Zara then went to work making the sling.

The limo was quiet in the particular way rides home were quiet after a disaster. There was too much legroom, too much soft amber lighting, and booze neither of them could drink. She wore her Miu Miu still. It wasn’t disintegrated; assuming Vittoria didn’t mind the torn seam, the flapping fabric, and the waterlogged silk, she could still return it.

She leaned on Zara with her good side, wincing with every jolt from LA’s roadworks.

“You should really go to a hospital,” Zara said worriedly.

“Hospitals take names and insurance.” Eppie shook her head. “My SAG Insurance is paid by Sony BMG. The paper trail goes all the way up.”

“That’s just wrong.” Her friend was genuinely upset on her behalf. “Where’s Director Curon?”

“I sent him away with Kellie,” Eppie replied with a sigh. How could she explain any of this to Zara? It was only as Euphemia Fontaine that she realised how absurd corporate rationality sounded to normies. “Trust me, she needs the Director’s dad energy more than I do, especially now.”

“But—”

“Zara.” Eppie gripped the Spaniard’s hand with her good hand. “Please trust me on this.”

The girl was biting back tears again. Argh—so emotional! Eppie felt her own throat close up in sympathy.

“Look,” she fought the feeling clogging her chest like the flu. “Anyone can tell that I got jolted something serious. If I go to a hospital, there’s going to be blunt-force trauma on the record. I am not sure if you noticed, but I am also fifteen…”

Her [Wisdom] and [Legalism], accumulated over decades in the post-#metoo and Weinstein entertainment industry, understood perfectly that the ER staff would lodge a report with the police, not because of trending algorithms, but because she was a girl.

The fact that she showed up wearing a soaking-wet atelier dress, missing both bra pads, looking like she’d been in a fistfight, would not help her optics. That was the thought which had gone through Davis’ head, and that was why Davis had not offered squat. It was also why, when Eppie mutually agreed without complaint, Davis’ relief was cathartic.

Zara remained unconvinced; she wanted to call Paco, and Eppie felt worse for it.

“Okay, okay,” Eppie finally relented. The pain really was grating on her patience. “I know someone who knows someone.”

She called Lim.

At this point, it wasn’t unreasonable for the star member of the Stray Cat Society to call the Chief Officer of the same society. Such was the cover the duo had engineered, and it was genuinely impressive, even to Eppie.

“Lim, I need a favour,” she spoke into the speakerphone.

“A favour on Grammy night?” Lim’s voice drifted for a moment. “You feel a hankering for authentic Cantonese seafood? I saw you on TV. You were very pretty.”

“Ha!” Eppie laughed, then rolled her eyes when the movement jolted her elbow. “I had a bit of an incident at the Grammys. Bummed up my left elbow. Can’t go to a hospital for reasons. Is—”

“My Dad?” Lim’s ability to understand a delicate situation was impressive in itself. Was it because of the work they did for the Chens? “Of course, I’ll call him right away. Where are you now?”

She checked her Google Maps.

“I am about a minute from Chinatown, actually,” she said. “We’re in a limo.”

“Can the driver take you to my Dad’s clinic? It’s closed right now, but he lives upstairs.”

“Closed is good.” Eppie eyed the driver. “What’s the address?”

Zara shifted immediately to the privacy window and lowered the shade.

Lim gave it, and Zara repeated it to the driver, who tossed it into his phone rather than the car’s computer. If anything, Eppie realised, the entertainment industry really did run on unspoken professionalism.

“I’ll join you in thirty,” Lim was already speaking in rapid Cantonese, probably to a landline. “See you at the clinic. Let me know what happened.”

While they made the final traverse, Zara returned to her side.

“Was it worth it?” she said after a moment. “You said you helped Kel, even though he did this to you. Is he going to be a better person now?”

Eppie snorted, actually snorted. “Hell no. Leopard, spots, et cetera.” She looked down at her swollen arm. And no notifications. “But that’s not his choice to make.”

“How?” Zara asked, her mascara melting.

“Well…” Eppie had no answers yet, but she had a good feeling nonetheless. In her original world, the horror had been put on public display. Yet, corporate had chosen to protect its investments while throwing its ethics charter in the bin. Robyn Rihanna Fenty’s debasement, far from drawing attention to the hapless nature of girls surviving domestic violence, had cemented the reality that anyone rich enough, famous enough, and persistent enough could get away with fame and cred, fortifying the foundations of collective delusions like the Manosphere.

Davis owed her now. Which means, by extension, I own Kelvin Grant.

Ergh… word choice. Eppie felt her head pound again.She needed an aspirin, and she needed it an hour ago.
