t them in an organized manner and efficiently."May I browse your memories for acceptable hobbies?" Prim asked, sounding actually fed up with her choices being shot down."Go for it," Delta offered, the idea far less intrusive than it was when she first became a Dungeon. Sharing information with her systems just felt more normal now. She then felt the small existence that was Prim flowing over her. It was so easy to reach out and damage Prim because she was so new... undefined in her existence.Nu was like a tangle of barbed wire that turned all his thorns away when she approached, but Prim was closer to air."I found a hobby!" Prim declared proudly. Delta shivered as it felt like Prim was using a tiny bit of her thinking space to place a system folder which unpacked itself. The thing was deep in the menus and Delta only knew Prim was interfacing with because even five folders out, Delta could hear the music.Wait, Delta knew that music.DUN dooo DUN dodododod DUN doooo"This takes up surprisingly little space," Prim praised as she lost herself in the game."What are you running that on?!" Delta asked in alarm."You."Oh."If you can't have real violence, you're going to settle on virtual violence?" Delta asked as she moved over to the next island."Most life is a simulation created by the ambient energies of the Brother and Sister and the Lost One. Oh, I can reset at any time! These beings cannot ever escape my wrath!" Prim laughed with a dark tone."Use the shotgun," Delta offered with a bemused tone."...THERE'S WEAPONS OTHER THAN MY MEAT CLUBS?!"As Delta touched down on the Fish Island, Prim shyly spoke up."I will finish this run with my meat clubs. I have grown fond of their ability to perform violence," the system said and went quiet. Delta was now left utterly alone to do the making and creation."I can do this. I can make art and beauty," she said with a proud nod. She rubbed her hands together to make mana gather.---Nu floated in the water, working on sign blueprint number 2477. This one said something along the lines of 'Don't burn books or the books will burn you' for the Third Floor. Sign making was soothing.Telling people what to do without actually talking to them was a thrill. He felt Delta trying to do solo work and frowned. He searched and found a piercing death rattle of sound and screeching followed by Prim's delighted laugh.'RETURN TO THE ABYSS, UNCLEAN ONES!' she giggled as she had a massive techno-coloured screen playing ultra violent scenes of creatures being punched to bloody puddles."Aren't you supposed to be doing something?" Nu loomed, usually finding his 'looming' made Prim behave. Prim shot him an annoyed look then punched him in the side.Nu was so taken aback that he didn't stop himself from floating out of Prim's space where she slammed the metaphorical door in his face."Do not make me come in there and remove that thing from Delta's system. I have stronger permissions than you," Nu warned."I didn't ask to be born, Nu!" Prim called over the noises. Hm, Nu would have to tackle this a different way. Prim was but a child really. Thankfully, training the Trinity Dungeon had prepared Nu for this."You know, since I have most of Delta's public memories, I could tell you there is a sequel to your little game. Improved in many ways," Nu said casually, leaning on the symbolic wall of Prim's space."I can wait. I actually finish my projects." Prim said back without much care.Nu couldn't be saddled with Delta when she was making so many insane islands."What do you want? Name it," he said through the door, hiding his desperation. That was when Prim finally emerged, looking more solid than before. Less like thin air and more like a thin shell of light."We suffer together. Delta is too much for either of us alone. If she feels outnumbered we can convince her of many things," Prim said and Nu could see the logic of that."But I don't want her to feel miserable when working, that'll put her off," he countered."We must only remove the most inane or weakest of changes. A little nip there and a tuck here then we shall be providing the Dungeon with the BFG of threats," Prim nodded."Unless she really wants them," Nu said and Prim nodded slowly."I do not object to Delta's fondness for odd choices. I just wish for more input," Prim admitted and Nu knew that feeling far too well."Go back to your game. I shall handle the next island," Nu said gravely."I must complete my 65th run with the handgun. I set the challenge that I can only move backwards to progress and disabled all forward motions. It makes it more fun," Prim explained and vanished in a cloud of joy."You can shoot demons all day but you still won't handle Delta," Nu snorted."Demons can be shot. Delta's ideas are eternal," Prim shouted back.Touche.
