Like butterflies in his stomach, Erick felt a sudden elation. And then Darenka killed those butterflies, as she rapidly spoke in a few distinct voices.

With strength, she said, “But creating this magic would also be a direct attack against Melemizargo’s power and he would be forced to respond in kind—” Softer, but more violent, “It’s a weapon we should have!” Calm and collected, “But escalation—” She returned to her own voice, banishing the others, saying, “But, but but! Over and backwards and forward and twist-ways. These are the arguments running though my head, Erick. Should versus should-not.” Darenka said, “Of all of them, I would listen most to Sumtir, the God of Righteous War, or Zephyrspray, the goddess of travel. But first, they would like to listen to you, and your ideas.”

Flickering flame caught on the ambient mana of the room, like ethereal wisps here and there in the upper corners of the small sunroom. Phantom eyes peered out from that fire; watching. Erick felt cold; like a bug under a microscope.

Erick asked, “Did I stumble into the right answer?”

The fires above did not answer. Instead, a blue box appeared in front of Erick.

If you think you could do it this way, you can. You are a wizard, Erick. All you have to do is get the spell rolling, and I can do the rest to ensure it works perfectly. But if you’re wrong, this could kill you. It would be [Zone of Peace] all over again.

I cannot save you again. I am sorry.

~Rozeta.

Erick read the box a second time. It vanished before he read it a third. He looked to the air, and asked, “How does creating new Basic Magic cause damage? I never understood why it is that way.”

Come to the Orrery and I can tell you.

The box appeared in a flash, and disappeared just as quickly. Erick got the distinct impression that he was not supposed to know the answer to his question.

A strong voice came through the air, “Because we will not suffer wizards to live.”

A caring voice said, “Wizards destroyed everything.”

A light voice said, “All wizards must die, so that we can survive.”

A heavy voice, Atunir, said, “It is the way that things must be, now that we are here on this small world, where the smallest touch that used to birth worlds, would simply kill us all.”

The windows to the room turned dark. Light became small, and weak.

“More divine lies! But that is not a problem to tackle today.” Melemizargo spoke, “I propose a ceasefire.”

The air filled with a crashing chorus of disjointed noise. Darenka slapped her hands over her ears and shouted something that Erick couldn’t hear, for his own head was already filled with words and speech in languages he had never known before. Voices raised. Voices shouted. Some silently strong while others pulsed the air with their constrained strength.

The air stilled, all at once.

A chill pervaded the room as a familiar shadow slinked out of the walls, filling the mana with unseen gloom, invisible to anyone not Meditating. Darenka went stock still —or maybe Melemizargo’s manifestation was visible to everyone?— as she watched the Darkness slink through the walls. She gripped her chair with strong hands, while eyeing the beast. Erick just stared.

Then his mouth got the better of him. “I was wondering when you’d show up again, you old shadow.”

The shadow wrapped around the base of the room, licking up the walls, as a dark voice said, “I never left.”

“I heard you taunted my daughter!” Erick said, “That’s pretty rude.”

Darenka stared at Erick, like he was suddenly someone else. The divine fire remained silent.

Jovially, Melemizargo asked, “Would you prefer I taunt you?”

“You have to stop taunting me, first.”

A subtle, dark laughter echoed, before Melemizargo cleared the air of divine fire, to say, “Ask of me a boon, Erick. A path forward to peace.”

Divine voices rose around him, decrying Melemizargo’s words as a trick, a feint, an attack, but Erick immediately said, “Rozeta, Koyabez, Phagar! Suggest something.”

The room dropped away. Walls became smokey air. The ceiling became a cloud, as the land changed from white stone to the blackened crater of a long dead volcano, where mist flowed through the teeth of the crater walls, and Erick stood at the exact center. He had been here before, back when he first invented [Call Lightning]. Back then, every god and other Relevant Entity of the Script seemed to float in the mist flowing through the crater. But now, there were only four gods.

Rozeta, all white wrought and angry, demanded of a shadow, “Cease your attacks on my people!”

The shadow laughed, saying, “It is possible.”

Koyabez, all displayed lithe body and tiny loincloth, said, “Destroy all currently appointed Shades.”

“I would, if I could have another.” The Darkness looked to Erick, saying, “How about it? Up for a Championship?”

All eyes turned to him. Erick said nothing.

“No.” Phagar said, looking like Erick. “I already have the strongest claim on him, and not until he gives that up willingly and after much thought, will I allow you to take him.”

“Death! Ha! Claim your claim on anyone you wish. You have as much power as a cow’s fart!” Melemizargo laughed, his serpentine neck forming out of the shadows, ending in a maw of white teeth. Unseen wings flapped around the congregation of gods, and Erick, as the Darkness spread through the mist, coming right behind the only mortal in attendance. Warm words flowed past Erick, “They’re not real, you know. Gods. They’re all fake. The only real people in this place are you, me, and my lovely daughter. Death is a concept that does not exist if we do not give it power.”

Koyabez’s shoulders slumped a fraction, as though he had heard a new story of a usual tragedy. His words were calm, but tired. “My ancient friend, we did not die with the Sundering. We are still here, still with you, and Rozeta, and everyone else who managed to escape the end of our universe, and the children who came after.”

Melemizargo slipped around to the side, his white eyes glowing in the gloom, turning faint for the briefest of moments, as his wings went silent. He said, “My ancient friend, you are a ghost. A fraction of yourself. You are no more yourself than I am. We are all lost in this tiny world; this tiny existence.”

Koyabez pleaded, “We are not ghosts—”

“Exactly what a ghost would say,” said the Darkness.

Koyabez, like a grandchild talking to a grandparent falling to dementia, said, “Please stay with me, Melemizargo. You are here, in this place, right now. Stay in the present. The Old Cosmology is gone—”

“Ha!” Melemizargo flowed around the crater, saying, “It is not gone! I have merely misplaced it! If I kill enough of these nasty metal people then it could come back! They are blocking true magic, figment-of-Koyabez. Surely you see this truth?”

Koyabez ignored Melemizargo’s argument, saying, “You’re organizing your people into true Fires, instead of all of them murdering indiscriminately. These additions to the Script are not some of your best work, but they are good, though you could temper Charisma to something lesser. Perhaps make it more empathy, and less enforcing of a will? Candlepoint was a partial failure, too, but now that Erick is in charge, it might actually become something good. Something wholesome.” Koyabez said, “We need something less violent from you, my ancient friend. A gentler Fire; a softer shadow. I need you to be who you used to be.”

“… I can leave that spot of land alone to satisfy you specters.” Melemizargo said, “Surviving this [Mesmerize] requires certain prudences, and this Erick-narrative is the best attempt I’ve seen this spell construct, so far.”

Rozeta’s face went from concerned to absolutely disgusted, as she yelled, “Back to that old shit, dad? Stop it! Just stop it! We are not in a mind trap!”

Melemizargo rounded on his daughter, saying, “We could be!”

Rozeta’s eyes fluttered as her shoulders slumped. She looked down at the ground. “We are not.”

Melemizargo conceded, “Maybe you’re not fake. Some of the people in here with us have to be real, otherwise the spell would be too easy to see through.” He looked down to Erick. “He’s likely real. His daughter, too. In fact, I’ve decided that most planar people are real.” He swept his gaze across Koyabez and Phagar, saying, “But you two are fake, for sure. Gods are always fake; some more fake than others. Collective delusions, all of you. Dragons are real, which is why only we can truly shape the mana. You are all merely leeches.” He turned to his daughter, saying, “And you have signed your soul away. You believe this world is real. Talking to you is like talking to an old woman dying of dementia.”

Rozeta gathered her wits in a flashing second, then laughed, “Ha!” She said, “I thought you were getting better, but you’re still drowning in delusions.”

“Don’t talk to me like that.” Melemizargo said, “I am your father.”

With her words dripping in sorrow, Rozeta stared at the shadows, saying, “You haven’t been my father in 1450 years.”

“Hurtful.” Melemizargo declared to Erick, “I doubt Rozeta would actually speak to me like that. Maybe you’re fake, too.” His white eyes glowed bright in the darkness, as he said to Erick, “There’s only two real people in this space, and I demand an answer of a boon. What do you want, Erick Flatt, Particle Mage, the Fire of this Age?”

Erick thought back to a list given to him by another, tweaking it slightly, as he said, “An end to Ancient empowerment. An end to the attacks on Geodes. An end to Shades killing people. An end to monster attacks. An end to—”

“Too many options! And none of them for yourself.”

“Other people matter, too!” Erick tried.

“Weren’t you listening? Those other people don’t exist.” Melemizargo reared back, smiling. “I shall choose for you.”

“Shit,” said Erick and Rozeta.

Melemizargo laughed; an echoing boom of a sound that destroyed the world and remade it all, at the same time.

The black caldera vanished. Mist and shadows swept inward, and suddenly Erick was back in his chair, in the sunroom, sitting across from Darenka. Divine fire danced across the ceiling, but that too vanished while Erick watched, leaving him and the Head Priestess alone in the small room.

“What happened?” Darenka asked, calmly concerned. “You vanished for a second, and all the gods went silent.”

Erick said, “Uh... I do not know.” He added, “Maybe I should not have direct confrontations with the Darkness.”

Darenka said, “A good idea.”

Feeling shaken as to what might be coming, Erick stood from his chair, needing to speak to Poi and other people in charge. He mumbled something about needing to go, and, likely feeling the same sort of agitation, which was strange to see on the unflappable Head Priestess, Darenka waved him off, as she mumbled something about gods and dragons. And then Erick realized that he was probably in the best place he could be right now. Silverite and Spur knew what to do when it came to Shades. But Darenka was a line to the gods.

Erick paused before he got to the door. He turned around. A different concern overtook what he was going to say, as he saw how small the Head Priestess looked in the moment. “Darenka? Are you okay?”

She looked to him, with worry in her eyes. “What happened?”

“… I had a disconcerting conversation with a few higher powers. I did not like it. Melemizargo said that he was going to… Give a boon.” Erick said, “I asked him to stop his violence, but he did not seem keen on that idea.”

Darenka breathed deep. She stood up, and glanced to the window. The world outside was still the same green vineyard and orange city beyond that it had been before the divine visitation. As moments passed, Darenka centered herself. She stood taller. She set her shoulders.

She turned to Erick, and said, “Melemizargo is almost conversing coherently. The last time he was like this, was 1450 years ago, directly after the Sundering. In the short years after that event, he raised Ancients. He created monsters. He orchestrated the downfall of the Old Demons, by first causing the Death of all Halves.

“I am being warned, right now, by multiple Relevant Entities that I need to make Sundering preparations. I will be informing the leadership of Spur of this development, as well as informing a few trusted people, who I know will not spread this information outward.” She said, “You should do the same. Tell no one. Not yet. It could be that the chaos of an expected Second Sundering is exactly what he wants. It could be that we are not at the beginning of a Second Sundering.

“But hug your daughter the next time you see her, and pray to all the gods who have done you well, that we might prevent the next Breaking of the World.”

A cold shiver rippled up Erick’s arms and legs, to linger on the back of his neck. He nodded. He left the room.

When Poi turned to Erick, he was two shades paler blue than normal. Teressa knew something was up, but she kept silent. Her green eyes bored into Erick, but she was a soldier; she could hold her questions for later. Erick took Poi’s hand, and then Teressa’s; his was cold, while hers was tense. He forced a smile, and squeezed a bit tighter as he blipped the three of them all home.

- - - -

Justine was in the foyer, picking up rolls of fabric and moving them to the side, organizing them, when Erick, Poi, and Teressa appeared in a flash of white light.

She flinched, then calmed, saying, “Ah! Hello! I put the plants away upstai—”

