Ren sat back in the chair. “When did these visits happen? I don't remember anything about them.”

“They were usually scheduled for when you were playing the game, or when you were asleep.” Lucy said.

Ren crossed his arms. “And I wasn't told because...”

“Doctor's orders.” Lucy explained. “He didn't want the knowledge of them making changes to affect how you interacted with the system.”

“What changes?” Ren asked with narrow eyes.

“I honestly don't know.” Lucy said and leaned on the table to cross her arms under her chin. “They'd just show up and then asked for access to the equipment.”

“...and since they actually own the equipment...” Ren offered.

“No questions were asked about it and no answers were given.”

Ren sighed. “Well, crap.”

Lucy looked at Ren across the table. “What are you going to do?”

Ren opened the message system and looked for the 'contact system administrator' option. There wasn't one. “The system won't let me contact the system administrator.”

Lucy sat up straight and did the same thing. “Me, either.” Lucy said a minute later. “I wonder when they took that option out?”

“Probably during that big update that they released after my little incident.” Ren said.

Lucy winced. Not because it had happened, but that she hadn't been there when it did.

“Well, since we can't do anything yet... I might as well do what I came in here to do.” Ren said and stood.

“What's that?” Lucy asked.

Ren walked up the aisle and Lucy followed behind. Ren arrived at the main desk and Rosie was sitting there.

“Hi, Rosie.” Ren said.

“Hi, Ren.” Rosie said and giggled.

“I need some help.” Ren smiled.

“I'll do what I can. What do you need?” Rosie asked.

“I need a really good book on bow making.” Ren said. “Better make that one for basics, and one for advanced.”

Rosie raised her eyebrows.

“I promised someone a while ago that I'd make them a bow, but I don't know how... or even where to start.” Ren explained. “I figured if anyone around here would know what to do about it, it would be you.”

Rosie blushed and giggled. “Do you have your Library Card?”

“Of course I do. I never leave home without it.” Ren said and pulled it from inventory to hand it over.

Rosie smiled, looked at the card, and tilted her head a little. “What was the tenth book you read?”

“Hm?”

“Your card says you've read 10 books, but only 9 are from here.” Rosie said and looked at Ren. Ren thought for a moment and smiled.

“Oh, that! I read an old children's storybook at a friend's homestead.” Ren said. “Wait... that will record any book I read, and not just the ones I read while I'm in here?”

Rosie nodded.

“That's pretty cool.” Ren said.

“Not as cool as your cloak.” Rosie said and giggled.

Ren swished it from side to side. “This old thing?” Ren said and grinned. “The dire wolf didn't need it anymore.”

Rosie's eyes widened. “You... you mean that you...”

Ren nodded.

Rosie squealed and hopped down from her chair and ran around the desk and jumped on Ren to hug him. “You must have been so scared!” Rosie said and tears came to her eyes. “You poor thing!”

Ren chuckled and gave Rosie a quick pat and stepped back, pulling Rosie's arms off and holding her hands instead. “It wasn't like that, actually. As you can see, both Lucy and I are fine.” Ren said and smiled. “I'll tell you the story right after I get a chance to read a book or two.” Ren said and let Rosie's hands go.

Rosie nodded and went back behind the desk to climb up into the chair. I'll send someone for them right away.”

“Thank you.” Ren said and started to turn away, then stopped. “Rosie?”

“Yes, Ren?”

“Is there some kind of privacy area? Maybe a closed booth or room that we could use?”

“Why?” Rosie asked.

“I'd like to read the book in private so I won't disturb the other people here, but after I'm done, we can fill you in on all the details about this.” Ren said and lifted the front paw of the cloak. “It's not something to talk about out here, wouldn't you agree?” Ren said and looked around.

Rosie looked around herself and nodded. “Here's the key to room 12 down the hallway. Come and get me when you're done with the books.” Rosie said and handed Ren a small key. Ren nodded.

“Thanks, Rosie.” Ren said and waved for Lucy to follow him. They went to a familiar door and opened it. They went inside and walked down the hall to room 12 to wait, leaving the door open.

“That was quite the show you did there.” Lucy said.

“What do you mean?” Ren asked.

“You were playing the hero pretty good out there to dazzle her.” Lucy said and sat down.

Ren sat down across from Lucy and smiled. “I wasn't playing.” Ren said and grinned at Lucy's opened mouth that made a cute 'o' shape.

The attenant came in with a single book and placed it on the table. “Thank you.” Ren said and shook the man's hand, placing a silver coin in it.

“Y-you're welcome, sir.” He said and bowed. “I hope you enjoy the book.” The man left and shut the door.

“Did you just tip that guy?” Lucy asked.

“Yup.”

“Why?”

Ren shrugged. “He wouldn't be working here if he didn't need money.” Ren said. “Since he's not out adventuring, this would have to be his best source of income.”

“How do you know that?” Lucy asked.

“I was playing the game for a week real time before I earned enough money to get a silver coin.” Ren explained. “It takes a lot of hard work and dedication. I just wanted to help him out a bit, is all.”

Lucy reached over and took Ren's hand. “You are a really sweet guy.”

“Thanks.” Ren said and looked at the book.

Fletching Mastery

A Comprehensive Guide

Longbows, Shortbows, Arrows, Crossbows, Bolts

And the Limitations of their Magical Properties

Rank: B

Ren stared at the cover.

“What is it?” Lucy said.

“It's... oh, boy... I'm not even supposed to see the cover of this book, let alone be allowed to read it.”

“What do you mean?” Lucy asked.

“My library card is only a rank D... and this book is a B.”

Lucy's eyes widened. “She must really want to hear the story.”

Ren nodded. “This might take a while, even with Speed Reading.” Ren said and took out the scraps of spider silk cloth he had, the portable dying station, spider silk thread, and the portable tailor's kit. “You can have some fun with this while you wait.” Lucy nodded and started playing with the different colors and sewing things together.

Ren opened the book and started to read. The book was about 3 inches thick, Speed Reading kicked in, and Ren flipped the pages faster than normal. An hour later when Ren got about halfway through, Speed Reading hit Level 6 and Ren flipped the pages faster. 45 minutes later, Ren closed the book and sat back.

“Well... that was... enlightening.” Ren said and got a series of popups.

Notice!

You have read a book beyond your level and understood it's contents.

Stat Change!

Intelligence +5

Wisdom +5

Notice!

You have learned new skills!

Bow Making Level 1 (Beginner 0%) - This skill allows you to construct bows.

Arrow Making Level 1 (Beginner 0%) - This skill allows you to construct arrows.

Crossbow Making Level 1 (Beginner 0%) - This skill allows you to construct crossbows.

Bolt Making Level 1 (Beginner 0%) - This skill allows you to construct crossbow bolts.

Higher levels of these skills will allow quicker build times and higher quality products.

Notice!

Your extensive knowledge has given you bonus levels in your new skills!

Bow Making Level 3 (Beginner 0%), Arrow Making Level 3 (Beginner 0%), Crossbow Making Level 3 (Beginner 0%), Bolt Making Level 3 (Beginner 0%).

Notice!

You have discovered Hidden Knowledge buried deep within the pages and between the words.

New Rune!

Your skill Hidden Knowledge has allowed you to discover a new rune: Enhancement.

Stat Change!

Hidden Knowledge Level 2 (Beginner 0%)

Ren took out his Book of Runes and flipped to the single runes section and to the last page.

Rune of Enhancement

This rune grants you the ability to enhance 1 aspect of what you enchant at the time of casting. Quality, Toughness, Piercing, Sharpness, Brightness, Speed, etc. can be increased by 5%

Ren took a few moments and made the double, triple and quadruple glyphs for the new rune and put the Book of Runes away. Ren rubbed his eyes and stood up. Ren stretched and walked around the table to stand beside Lucy.

“What have you got there?” Ren asked.

Lucy tried to hide it, but Ren saw what it was.

“Lucy...” Ren said and gently took it from Lucy's hands.

“I know... it looks horrible!” Lucy said and tried to take it back.

Ren kept it out of her reach and put a hand on her shoulder. “Lucy, it's great.”

“You're just saying that.” Lucy said.

Ren shook his head. “I haven't seen anything like it before.” Ren said and held it up. “It's wonderful.”

Lucy looked at Ren and saw the smile and wonder on his face. He likes what I made!

“Can I keep it?” Ren asked.

“You want to keep it?” Lucy said. “Why? I was just playing around with the cloth...”

“Well you made it, for one thing... for another, I didn't know you could make things like this.” Ren said and smiled. “I mean, you helped teach me how to sew and I figured you could have fun with the cloth and dying station... but this!”

Lucy blushed a little and then nodded. “You can keep it.”

Ren grinned and leaned down to give Lucy a kiss. It turned into another short make out session and Lucy pulled back.

“Ren... outside the library when you called me your girlfr-”

Ren put a finger on Lucy's lips. “It's okay.”

“But I want to explain...” Lucy tried to say and Ren shook his head.

“I heard what you said when you punched out that woman to save me.” Ren said and put the thing Lucy had made on the table, facing them. “Does, 'Get your hands off my boyfriend', sound familiar?” Ren grinned and Lucy blushed harder.

“When she grabbed you like that... I couldn't think straight... and it just slipped out.” Lucy said and Ren kissed her again.

“That's why it doesn't matter what happened before that.” Ren said and kissed Lucy's neck.

“Ren... we can't do anything in here...” Lucy said.

“We can't?” Ren said. “Why else do you think I asked for a private room? To read a book?” Ren chuckled and took out the rocks with concealment runes on them and put them on the table and the floor. “I could read a book anywhere.” Ren looked Lucy in the eyes. “What I really wanted to do...” Ren said and kissed Lucy like he'd been forcing himself not to do all day. Lucy's spider silk cloth creation sat on the desk and watched them in silence.

It was a miniature version of Ren.
