“You saw that?” Ali asked. Havok had been so happy that Azryet had answered his prayer. Her personal impression of Azryet, though, had taken a rather steep dip with his aggression and violent attack. Although she had just walked into his domain with what were presumably his enemy’s monsters, so she guessed the misunderstanding should be expected.

“Yes, and I spoke with Lirasia. She recommended the Goblin. If you would convey my gratitude to her, I would…” Azryet suddenly stopped as tears spilled uncontrollably down Ali’s face. “Lira… your aunt was Lirasia? The Great Mother of the Deep Woods is dead?”

“Yes. She is,” Ali said, choking down a sob. “The Blind Lich, Nevyn Eld, killed her and raised her to be his undead dungeon servant. She almost killed me and my friends, too.”

“I am so sorry,” Azryet said, and then he reared up, and let out an earth-shaking roar, filled with an intense fury and frustration that Ali found resonated with the feelings deep within her heart. She sat for quite a while beside the roaring dragon, no longer afraid, simply sitting with her feelings for Lira, and the deep sadness within her heart.

“What is your name, little one?” Azryet said when he finally finished his mourning roars.

“Aliandra Amariel,” she said, looking up at his face. Halfheartedly, she added, “And I’m not little, you’re just huge.”

There was a rumble from within his vast chest, and it took a few moments to realize he was laughing.

“Tell me about my paladin, Havok. And do you know the one called Mato? He is just past his first evolution like you.”

“Havok is the kindest soul I know, and Mato is my dear friend. He and I are adventurers together,” she said. But then her heart fell. “I don’t even know if they’re still alive.”

“They are,” Azryet said with absolute certainty. “They have my mana.”

“Your mana?” she asked, but then she suddenly realized what he meant, and looked at her own sheet, finding her two protégés still listed there. They’re alive? At least Seth and Naia were both alive, and she had the word of the dragon god telling her Havok and Mato were alive, also. It was not everyone, but the news lifted her spirits.

Ali pulled out her Grimoire and summoned an Acolyte of Azryet, getting a curious stare from the dragon god as she reflected on her situation. Here she was, sitting in a dungeon on the other side of the rift, talking about her friends with the dragon god Azryet. Her little kobold quickly healed her, regenerating her lost arm, and finished healing Tol’brekk, but she would likely have to find somewhere safe to hole up – recovering from her Life Channeling would probably take weeks. Azryet, for his part, was surprisingly polite, now that he wasn’t trying to kill her, and he had a powerful interest in the goings on of her realm, and in particular the fledgling church Havok had built. She got the feeling he seldom had anyone to talk to, and that he probably didn’t have a whole lot of followers either – the more popular gods were notoriously distant and aloof, caring little for individuals.

“So, Destraggoth is your nemesis, then?” Ali asked.

“Yes, we have been locked in constant conflict for eons,” he growled.

“I thought Maalgaroth was the dungeon’s owner,” she said.

“Maalgaroth?” Azryet said, his rumbling laughter filling the chamber once again. “He is a weak minion relegated to surviving in the weakest outlying regions of the Demon God’s domain. I would be surprised if Destraggoth even knows his name.”

“I see,” Ali said. But the implications were staggering. The giant cavern filled with demons was a ‘weak outlying region’ far from the Demon God Destraggoth’s center of power. She had been easily overwhelmed by the weakest of his minions. Much like here, she thought, realizing that the kobolds and perhaps even the Scion of Azryet she had faced were also nothing to the might of Azryet. “Which of you is stronger?”

“That is a presumptuous question,” he said.

“I said a lot worse to you in my anger,” she countered.

“That you did,” he said. “Yet righteous fury is not the insult you fear it to be, for fury is fire and fire, fury, and could you name a creature who understands this better than a dragon?”

Ali nodded respectfully. “Still –”

“It matters not. The truth is, Destraggoth is stronger than I, and he has been advancing over the last few centuries where I could not. If I do not find a way, I will eventually succumb to his power.”

“Seriously?”

“Yes,” he said. “For reasons that were critical at the time, my chosen path has led me to specialization. I can only summon minions of a draconic line, and I am restricted to holy and void affinities only. In return for these limitations, I acquired substantial enhancements to my power, which have allowed me to match him for several millennia.”

“So, why are you losing? Help me to understand.” His words confirmed a theory she had had about the Emberforge Mines, and other dungeons she had met or explored. Naia had a similar minion-type restriction, which seemed to give her more freedom with moving her domain.

“You are a dungeon, are you not?”

Ali nodded.

“So, you are familiar with domain magic. Destraggoth has developed a domain magic spell called Immunity. Specifically, he found a way to grant some of his bosses immunity to Holy and Void. As you can imagine, that’s something of a problem for me.”

“I see. That does sound problematic,” she said. Especially if he could only use physical damage against those bosses because of his affinity restrictions.

“I have a proposal for you, Aliandra Amariel, Dungeon Ally,” he said. “I do not know how to return you to your home, nor do I exactly know where this rift was located. But if you do a task for me, I will offer you a boon, and I will investigate ways to return you to your home.”

Her eyes flicked momentarily to Clarence. He couldn’t identify you? What are you?

Clarence bobbed innocently, then shifted to boop her lightly on the hip. To her, his meaning could not have been clearer. She spoke with a god. Best she clear her mind and pay attention.

Turning to Azryet, she said. “Sounds like an excellent proposal, your…err Calamity…ness. What did you have in mind?” Argh, so eloquent, Ali.

Calen stood quietly at the back of the crowd in the clearing the guild had appropriated as their temporary guild hall and defensive staging area, allowing the Guildmaster’s words to sink in. A murmur of chattering rose from the half of the guild that was present, those not on shift and out in the fields fighting the continued dungeon break, as they began to discuss their orders and the strategy Vivian had just outlined.

It was a great plan, as expected, and he was certain Lyeneru and Commander Brand, standing beside her had both contributed significantly to it, but there was something critical missing. He glanced warily at the crowd, but this was too important for him to stay quiet.

“Excuse me, Guildmaster?” he called out, using her title in public because it was a formal strategy meeting with more than just the guild. His words cut through the hubbub, causing a ripple of silence to propagate through the guild members and guards gathered in the large clearing, and he felt the blood rising in his face as everyone turned to look at him.

“What is it, Calen?”

“It is an excellent plan, but I couldn’t help noticing it is purely defensive. There is no attempt to scout the Blooming Rot dungeon or reclaim anything,” he said, and, taking a breath to steady his nerves, he plunged on. “Is this an oversight?”

“No, it is intentional. Lyeneru and I agreed that the dungeon is too strong to push back with the forces we have available. Lyeneru’s assessment is that the top range of this dungeon is around level one hundred and eighty. Given that Nevyn Eld’s forces are marching on Southport, we cannot expect any aid, and so we will dig in and survive until the situation changes. We are working on an evacuation plan as a backup, should we need to abandon the area.” Her words caused several exclamations and gasps from the crowd as they absorbed the news regarding the maximum power level, and the even more worrying report on the capital city of Southport.

“But the situation has changed,” Calen said. “Aliandra is alive.”

“Are you certain?” Lyeneru asked, abruptly interrupting Vivian as she was about to say something.

“As certain as I can be,” Calen said.

“I still have her patron enchantment,” Seth said, speaking up from the other side of the crowd, confirming his claim.

“That does change things, Vivian,” Lyeneru said, catching the Guildmaster’s eyes. “If we could deploy her on the field, she could protect the encampment with her monsters, freeing up our entire force to go on the offensive."

"Yes... yes, I see," Vivian said.

“I was hoping that Mato, Malika, and I would be granted permission to scout the dungeon and search for a path down to the rift to rescue her.”

“You are our answer to the highest-level monsters in the dungeon break,” Vivian countered. “Our only viable answer.”

“The dungeon seems to have a cycle,” Lyeneru chipped in. “I’ve noticed that the monsters spawned during the night tend to be weaker and fewer in number than the daytime. I think it might be due to the plant nature of the dungeon spawns and the cycle of light, but I think that you and I can handle the nighttime, provided they’re all here for shifts during the day. An assessment of the deeper parts of the dungeon would provide invaluable intelligence about any possible surprises it may pull.”

“Very well,” Vivian conceded. “You will mount nighttime incursions to discover a way to the rift, and during the day, you will take shifts on guard duty. That will be all.” With a wave, she dismissed everyone and turned to continue her conversation with Lyeneru.

Calen let out his breath as everyone’s attention turned to other matters, leaving him standing with his thoughts near the trees. And sleep when? He sighed. Ali needs us, but what can we even do? This looks so hopeless…

A light touch on his arm interrupted his spiraling thoughts. “Thanks, Calen,” Malika said, reminding him that he wasn’t the only one who desperately wanted to rescue their friend.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
