Azryet [The Calamity] – Ancient Abyssal Dragon God – level ???? (Void / Holy)

Ali trembled and shook on her knees before the might of the dragon god. The Calamity. Eyes of implacable anger transfixed her soul as his cavernous maw opened and his mana gathered. A raging torrent of void so powerful it tore at her mundane hearing and sight as she cowered beneath her impending doom. The ball of mana gathered, compressed into a density she could scarcely begin to comprehend.

She stared at death, knowing with every fiber of her being that she was insignificant; a mere insect about to be wiped from existence by an ancient being of unimaginable power.

No…

The tiny spark deep within her guttered and flickered in the gale of his sheer presence, but it refused to go out. The same spark she had found when she faced her first rat, a spark that she clung to with all of her being.

And she found, to her surprise, that despite the overwhelming, oppressive power of his dragon-induced fear, she could act. Whether it was her inner spark – a strange mix of frustrated anger at the unfairness of it all, hope, and fury – or from the still active Compulsion from her Baelok Descrier, she had just enough will to cast.

Without a moment’s hesitation, she reached for Arcane Recall, and the world about her froze to gray. All her minions stopped moving, even breathing. The giant form of the dragon god hung in the middle of a cathedral suddenly turned to gray, as the spirit realm washed out all color.

She reached for her Grimoire, but the giant eye of the dragon god turned to follow her hand. His transparent inner eyelids blinked across the holy fire and void, and he roared. The ground shook, and the gray world splintered like a hammer blow to a mirror as the very fabric of the Spirit Realm cracked under the force of his still-gathering power.

She dropped her Grimoire – there was nothing within it that could withstand the coming calamity – and in desperation, she summoned her barrier, pouring everything she could into the formation, all her mana, even the meager power of the tiny domain her moss was emitting beneath her feet, her hopes, and her fears – and she curled up into a ball as the impossibly dense torrent of void shot screaming across the room, coming straight for her.

The room shook with the dragon’s roar and the screaming howl of void mana smashing into her barrier, rushing past the edges and into the walls, disintegrating the flying fragments of the Spirit Realm echoes. Her minions winked out of existence like gnats caught in a firestorm. Her barrier shattered instantly, and it was only her highly accelerated mental reflexes that allowed her to summon a second one, instinctively adding life channeling in a desperate last-ditch attempt to merely survive.

The power of the void screamed past the edges of her barrier as the golden sparks of her life force began to drift upward from her shaking hands and arms. The full weight of the dragon’s fear hammered into her mind, threatening to send her screaming, fleeing from the onslaught, but somehow, she held on, knowing that to falter would spell instant death.

Mana blasted through her, refilled from the immense power of the dragon’s breath against her barrier, filling her to bursting and beyond. She channeled it back into her barrier in a vain attempt to hold back the tide. But the void etched her golden magic, and tore at it from the edges, ripping away large chunks that vanished into the torrent like tiny sparks swept away in a gale.

She knew she was screaming, but no sounds could be heard above the roar, the storm of magic, and the violent bucking of the stone disintegrating beneath her feet. Dimly, she felt her life force draining away in sharp bursts of searing pain, but against the might of the dragon god, it was more than she could do to barely cling to her rapidly disintegrating barrier.

She felt her will slipping.

I’m going to die.

It wasn’t a question; deep within her, she knew she could not stand against the might of a god.

No…

Again, that spark rekindled, and a sheer bloody-minded defiance flooded through her as she reached out for something, anything…

Her mind connected. Tol’brekk. Her last remaining minion lay cut clean in half, bleeding profusely behind her, desperately trying to crawl toward her and protect her. She submerged her mind in his awareness, the pain, and the pure rage of an evolved berserker.

The motes of her life began to dance.

Her will steadied as her fear gave way under the white-hot forge of rage. She screamed her fury, the fury of her berserker, the rage of her own defiance, and she poured her mana and life into her barrier. But even recklessly throwing her very life force into her magic, it still could not withstand the ascendant power of the dragon god. Even with her will to live restored by rage and defiance, her barrier shrank by the second, progressively disintegrated by the roaring void and rapidly eroded into sizzling fragments that poured off the edges and vanished into the storm.

And then it stopped.

You have empowered magic using Life Channeling. -91% to maximum health.

The sudden silence was somehow louder than all the noise. The howling void vanished, taking the midnight darkness with it and leaving Ali blinking at the surprisingly bright light. She was on her knees before her golden barrier, now a shattered and ruined thing, barely large enough to cover herself and the remaining half of her berserker troll. The edges of her barrier were blackened and burnt, still bubbling and sizzling as molten bits of boiling magic dripped off and onto the floor and hissed as they evaporated into the air.

You have been afflicted by Mana Saturation.Your mana pool is overloaded with excess mana.Your magic will be violently unpredictable and chaotic until your mana pool recovers.Magic – Affliction

Ali ignored it. Somehow, she had lost an arm in the onslaught, but her entire being remained solely focused on the giant dragon that dominated the chamber before her. She slowly got to her feet, standing behind her burnt and scorched barrier while the dragon looked on in what could only be described as profound surprise at her continued existence.

“What the fuck was that for?” she snapped at him, taking full advantage of the Draconic language to fill her words with outrage and anger.

Ali, you’re yelling at The Calamity. It was a small voice that spoke in the back of her mind. The voice of reason, perhaps. But she found that a part of her, a rather large part, simply didn’t care. He had almost killed her, and she was furious.

She placed her remaining arm on her hip and glared up at him, while golden arcs of unstable arcane mana burst out from her chest and hair, discharging into the ground, and her nature magic went wild, spontaneously growing plants around her feet. Trickles of amber blood leaked down her left side where the void hadn’t quite cauterized the wound.

“You have the temerity to growl at me?” Azryet roared, his voice shaking the chamber. “I know not how you have survived, but you are in no shape to do that again.” His eyes flashed with anger as he opened his mouth once more, gathering mana for a second breath.

There was one thing Ali knew, clear even through the haze of Dragon Fear and her rage. He was right, she couldn’t withstand another blast; she had spent nearly all of herself just to miraculously survive the first one, and she could see the mana collecting was already more powerful than the last blast, now merging not only void, but holy magic. No, she could barely even stand under her own power, never mind whatever calamity he was preparing next.

Ali stood on a small sliver of white stone, all that was left of the floor of the cathedral chamber – a tiny piece that had been in the shadow of her barrier. Behind her, the walls were gone, there was no floor or even any sign of the long passageway she had used to enter the cathedral. Everything had been erased, disintegrated by the void. Everything except the tiny patch of moss and mushrooms on her narrow promontory of scorched marble.

Fuck him.

She twisted the mana of her pathetically tiny domain, causing sparks of unstable magic to cascade from her as she struggled against the pain. But suddenly her Adaptable Mana twisted and unwound her compatibility with his domain.

The sudden pain and inrushing of dungeon rage as her raw domain collided with his was insignificant against the warring rage, fear, and pain that wracked her body and mind, but it all somehow, impossibly, seemed to balance, leaving her furiously angry, but functional.

Azryet hissed sharply, snapping his huge jaws shut with a loud crack.

“How dare you!” he roared. “You come in here wielding Destraggoth’s minions, and you dare to strike me? This ends now!” His mouth opened again.

“Who the fuck is Destraggoth?” Ali yelled. “Look, I’m not responsible for whatever argument you have with your friend, so I’d appreciate you not being so rude to me.”

“You…” Azryet looked somehow angry and nonplussed at the same time. “Destraggoth is the Demon God, the deity of the Lair of the Demon God. You are his tool; the proof lies in the demons you brought into my domain."

“Look, I’ve had an utterly awful week. I don’t have the patience to deal with your problems. I watched my Aunt Lira being murdered by the Blind Lich right in front of me and then raised as an undead and forced to turn into a dungeon. I got thrown through the rift into this stupid Abyssal Realm!” Ali knew that the words were spilling out of her now in an ugly flood, but she had reached the end of herself. It no longer mattered. “I had to fight my way through that fucking irritating dungeon of blood and hellfire, and get my ass handed to me by Maalgaroth, and then I was tossed into your dungeon where you show your magnificent deity by trying to eat your guests. Fuck this! I just want to go home!”

By the end of her tirade, she was screaming at him.

“I care not for your mortal problems,” Azryet said. “You are still an intruder in my domain, and you shall die.” But for some reason, he simply stood there glaring at her.

She held his gaze, too frustrated and angry to look away. It was stupid, she knew. She should take the opportunity to run. Her mana sparked again, a discharge of golden lightning that struck the ground below her, but neither of them flinched, nor broke the stare.

Suddenly, a knot of golden mana twisted between her and the dragon god, and the familiar shape of a book appeared. Clasped between his covers, Clarence appeared to be dragging a massive gray limb complete with talons almost a meter long each, leaking a black ichor or blood that steamed as it hit the ground.

Ali stared. So did Azryet, as the book dragged the gruesome thing over to the dragon, dropping it by his front claws. The book backed up a bit and bobbed up and down.

Azryet growled, a deep, rumbling roar, and backed up a step.

The book gamely shot forward, pushing the limb another meter or two forward, leaving a dark stain on the ground and then backed up again, riffling his pages expectantly.

“Stop it, Clarence. The dragon is grumpy and doesn’t want to play fetch,” Ali said. Of all things, why did he have to show up now? And where did he get that arm? Or whatever it was. Clarence drooped and slowly floated back to join her, leaving his precious toy at the feet of the dragon god.

“What manner of creature is this?” Azryet asked, his voice suddenly no longer smashing into Ali with the overwhelming force of his presence.

So many thoughts rushed through her mind, things she almost blurted out in anger, but somehow his gesture of quieting his voice spoke to the small remnants of civility buried under all her rage.

“Azryet, meet Clarence. Clarence, this is Azryet, dragon god, and the bearer of the title ‘The Calamity’. He and I were just having a bit of a disagreement, so playing fetch isn’t such a good idea right now,” Ali said.

“Why can I not Identify it? And how does it have a Pit Lord’s arm?” Azryet asked, his eyes narrowed and still fixed on Clarence.

“Look, I really don’t know,” Ali said. “And he doesn’t talk.” She sighed. This was all really too much – she just wanted to go home to her dungeon and hang out with her friends. Fighting with dragon gods was not on her list of fun things to do. “Come, Clarence. I think we should leave before he tries to obliterate me again.”

Clarence bobbed up and down, as if he understood.

Ali turned slowly, intending to hobble back out along the narrow promontory.

“Can you turn off your dungeon rage?” Azryet asked. “It’s annoying.”

“I’ll turn it off if you turn off your annoying fear,” Ali said. It was petty, but she was sticking to it.

“Very well,” Azryet said, and suddenly the oppressive aura vanished, leaving only the entirely overwhelming ‘mundane’ presence of the dragon god.

Ali turned to stare at him in surprise. Slowly, she released her hold on her Carnage Berserker and his rage, finally allowing him to stop bleeding himself to keep his regeneration at bay and maintain his rage. She turned to regard her tiny sliver of moss and the chaotically grown plants on the thin sliver of rock hovering above an abyss of empty space and twisted its mana. The dungeon rage vanished. Softly, a chime went off.

You have earned the Title: Defiance of the MeekYou have faced the full wrath of a god three tiers beyond yourself with defiance and survived. Your Defense skills, attributes, and aptitudes will be more effective against those higher level than you. Title

“Thank you,” Azryet said. “That is a remarkable magic, but one I would caution you against using often. It leaves you extremely vulnerable.”

“I figured that out the hard way,” Ali said, slumping down onto her moss. Exhaustion, the remnants of mana saturation, her extremely low life, and the loss of her arm were all beginning to catch up with her. But that was not what she was really struggling with.

I shouted at the dragon god.

Without the rage to sustain her, she recalled her actions with a mix of fear and embarrassment, and she risked a glance upward at his enormous form. Will Havok forgive me?

“I have never seen someone resist Dragon Fear with berserker rage,” Azryet observed, his voice sounding rich and resonant. The contrast from his earlier anger left her a little bewildered, but she was just grateful he wasn’t trying to breathe on her anymore.

“I remember you, now,” he continued, lowering his head toward her in curiosity. “You were there, sitting beside Lirasia when I gained my First Paladin.”

