Erick woke in his bed at Devouring Nightmare’s third clan mountain in Holorulo.

Last night had been nice. The funerals and the wake had been what they needed to be, but talking to Xue had been nice. Drinking with a new friend had been great.

Well. Were they friends? Likely not after one night, but whatever. It was the start of something, probably.

Once the day got going, Erick got even more good news from a messenger from Devouring Nightmare, in the form of a question: Since he was going to stay for a while, and his current location was simply not up to his needs since there was not a proper kitchen, what did he want in his new temporary rooms?

Erick happily answered, “About double the space I have now, with a nice kitchen where I can cook myself, but also with the option to get food prepared for me, too. A workspace open to the sky would be good, as there will be some of that, as well as a nice space for enchanting.”

Ten minutes later, Erick and his people were moving to the next clan mountain over, to Devouring Nightmare’s first clan mountain. A three story pagoda had his name on it, with the top floor open to the sky and the bottom two having everything Erick could ever want in a living space. Oh, sure, it was rather devoid of everything that made a house a home, but Erick wasn’t going to make it his home, either. It rather reminded Erick of his Windy Manor, over at Oceanside; nice, but just a vacation home.

The golden pagoda sat upon the northwest edge of the white plateau where it overlooked the vast land north of Holorulo. The rooms came packed with opulent furniture and nice seats and fluffy couches, but also with empty shelves and bare cabinets. The work spaces on the second floor were top notch, with plenty of room for whatever Erick wanted or needed, and of course, there was running hot and cold water all over the place. Nothing looked untoward, anywhere, as Erick and Teressa both scoped out the place and found nothing worrying at all. And! In a few hours more! At least one national treasure was headed his way, for him to study and dissect. The four alchemists Erick had given Intelligence to might be showing up, as well, or maybe not. That was still up in the air.

All of Erick’s needs were seen to by the majordomo of First Clan Mountain, Elder Varo. The short introductions Erick had with that man left Erick feeling like he was welcomed, but also that he wouldn’t be truly welcomed until he assisted Young Master Warzi with his wandering soul problem.

Which Erick was going to get to, as soon as he could!

And that was how Erick found out that Warzi lived here, on First Devouring Nightmare Mountain, as it was sometimes called. So, in front of all the other magical issues Erick could be exploring, Erick was going to solve that kid’s mana sense issues, first.

To that end, and likely many other magical purposes before the day was done, Erick now stood in one of the larger empty rooms on the second floor of his new place. The flooring was that nice white marble-like ‘clan mountain material’, whatever that was, while the walls were three times as thick as normal and the windows could be covered with panels —which they were— in order to prevent easy spying and also to protect from unexpected blowouts, from unexpected explosions. Protective spellworks had already gone up all around the house. A few protective spells had gone up around this room, too, but nothing held inside, for making magic inside of other magics was bad practice.

And now for the magic.

Erick had read the books and understood the many different theories out there when it came to mana sensing. He had listened to the advice of others. He had listened to the sounds of the mana, and he had listened to the sounds of [Sealed Privacy Ward]. And now, in this otherwise normal room he knew that solving Warzi’s issue was as simple as layering Destruction upon the edge of a [Ward].

Well.

It was not ‘simple’.

Many mages acquired a mana sense blocking spell by virtue of piling on enough obfuscation and denial into their privacy spells that denying mana sense naturally followed; it was an emergent outcome. The problem with this approach was manifold. First of all, this technique blocked sight and sound, which was why Warzi didn’t already have a mana sense blocker. No one wanted to live in a world of silent darkness; Warzi already spent eight hours in such a spell every night, so that he could actually fall asleep, but otherwise, no one wanted to live like that. Another problem was that many mages didn’t even have a proper mana sense, so this ‘emergence’ of mana sense was due to people throwing enough resources at the problem in order to solve an edge-case that barely anyone could negate in the first place. But Erick had a rather great mana sense, and he knew the true nature of sight and sound. Those three factors should make this a rather easy spell.

[Conjure Force Elemental] came first even though that spellwork wasn’t necessary for Charm Magic. Erick preferred having [Conjure Force Elemental] as part of the working, though, in order to make the end result more user-friendly. [Ward] came next, as was necessary for Charm Magic, and so that he could work in much Permanency as possible, as he had done with both his [Prismatic Ward] and [Kaleidoscopic Radiance], and to provide the edge of the spellwork. Mana Altering for Destruction came in at that point, targeting the edge of the sphere created by [Ward].

The Permanency might be taking this spellwork too far, as Destruction seemed anathema to Permanency magic, but allowing for natural mana to come in and reinforce what had been lost to degradation should help the spell maintain its integrity. If nothing else, working Permanency aspects into the magic was Erick’s own personal ‘best practices’.

He started channeling mana.

He listened to the sounds of clarity and purpose and the stripping of memory, as Ophiels on perches echoed his music.

And then he cast.

A medium-sized white sphere appeared before him, clipping into the floor and the ceiling, before it rapidly pulled inward like cotton candy draining, coalescing into a tiny sphere. In a single second, the larger orb had become something the size of a fingernail; a glittering white pearl. The charm hovered for the briefest of moments, then plinked out of the air to fall to the ground, tinking off of the stone flooring like some mundane object.

And then the blue box appeared.

Delirium Charm, instant, close range, 1107 mana

Create a charm which blocks the sensing of mana at a medium sphere around the user.

Lasts 10 days.

Erick went and picked up the charm. The white pearl was solid, but to his mana sense, it was a blank spot. He placed the charm against his wrist, and watched as gossamer threads extended from the pearl to wrap around his forearm. Suddenly, his mana sense collapsed inward. He could barely see more than three meters from himself. He smiled, then went to pluck the charm off, only to see it release itself as soon as he touched it and desired it removed. The threads went back into the pearl and Erick’s mana sense bloomed back to full.

He smiled.

Good.

One spell down.

He sent to Elder Varo, ‘I have that charm I promised for Warzi. It may be picked up at any time.’

Elder Varo’s response was full of surprise, though his words betrayed none of that. ‘I will inform the young master at once.’

‘I await the arrival of that City Shield, so both that and Warzi can arrive at the same time, if you please.’

‘Understood, Archmage Flatt. Devouring Nightmare thanks you for your service.’

Erick cut the connection, dismissed his new charm, and got to work on other spellwork.

Time to work on [Renew], to understand some more of his latest notion before he got hold of a City Shield. It wasn’t really an idea, yet, but it was the beginnings of one, for he had noticed something interesting about one of his latest spells and he wanted to expand on his understanding of that spell.

Erick cast a [Draining Void] into the corner of the room, keeping it small. The shadowy space took hold as a small sphere, maybe a meter across.

From Erick’s understanding, City Shields required people to funnel mana into them in order for that mana to then support a spell similar to a Solid Ward around an entire city; or rather, across a diameter measured in kilometers. Maybe donated mana was the proper way to work [Renew]; have some people funnel mana into a magic. But that seemed like a hassle.

[Draining Void] allowed for another method of gathering mana; forcibly.

Even though Erick had a few bare ideas of where to start to pump mana into an already existing spell, he could certainly see the benefit of draining mana from a population in order to support spellworks already active in that framework. For one, it allowed for a lot more mana to pump into the active spellworks; you wouldn’t need to be near the artifact which created a City Shield if that shield automatically drained from everyone in the area of effect.

Obviously, there were issues with that idea, though.

For one, people needed their mana to do magic with. Can’t go draining magic from everyone in a city when there was a war on. Obviously, this was the downside to implementing [Draining Void]s like the spell currently was. This problem was solved if he could make a [Draining Void] that only took the top 5% of any individual’s mana, so that they could regenerate that mana as they wanted to, so that they would always have some of their own mana to do with as they needed.

But there was a bigger problem than that.

Erick put his hand in the [Draining Void]—

Bees. That’s what it felt like. A hundred bee stings, digging in deep, yanking out milky white Mana and Health from Erick like he had stuck his hand in a vacuum chamber. Like all of his vital energy would rather be outside of his body than inside. In less than three seconds, Erick had felt almost a hundred Mana and Health leave through his skin, to drift into the Void and vanish upon the shadows like stars winking out.

Erick retracted his hand.

Good news: it looked like Constitution worked against both parts of the drain. This boded well for if Erick ever found himself subjected to such a Draining effect. This also helped to answer why some of the assassins and elites he had captured and Blessed had been resistant to [Draining Void]; they probably had [Defend] or similar Class Abilities active at the time.

Bad news: It hurt like fucking hell to be inside a [Draining Void]. It was a ‘fake’ sort of pain, but it still hurt. He didn’t know how to solve this problem, himself.

Good news: He knew where to go to find the answer. Doctors held the answer. Doctors, and maybe other Classed Healers, could cast [Draining Ward]s in order to strip a person of their Health in order to operate without Health getting in the way of scalpels and such.

So [Draining Void] wasn’t going to work for a [Draining Renew] spell.

… There was also the problem of somehow using the Mana drained by the spell. Erick had no idea how to do that.

So he stuck his pointer finger back in the [Draining Void] and watched his Mana and Health flow away into the Void. It hurt like a mother fu—

Ah. He didn’t have to do it this way.

Erick retracted his finger, turned to the left a bit, and cast a normal [Mana Drain Ward], using the normal spellwork for [Ward] contained inside [Ward]’s big blue box. The spell took hold in the air like a disturbance in the light. It wasn’t quite a shadow, but there was some sort of hue change in the space. To his mana sense, the drain spell looked like a pale overlap upon the mana.

Erick stuck his finger into the spell…

It was… Less pain, for sure. Still uncomfortable, though. It was like having a kitten gnawing on his hand; the kitten was just having fun, and did not know that its teeth and claws were sharp. This was manageable, though.

Erick watched with his mana sense and a few different Sight spells. He watched as his Mana pulled from… He wasn’t quite sure. Micro-scratches upon his skin, that were not there at all? Now what was all that— Oh?

Ah. Now this was getting somewhere.

Erick watched as the draining space pulled at his soul. Or rather, as maybe some sort of negative space held within the draining space, while his own personal positive space was filled with mana, and some sort of magic was taking place at the crossing, where his soul touched the drain. Because of this differential, his mana naturally flowed away into… into the draining space?

To be clear about what he was seeing, Erick pulled his finger out of the spell, and cast another [Draining Ward]. He looked at the two of them, together, with all of his Sights and senses. They were both practically invisible to normal senses, but to [Mana Sight] and mana sense, they were like white spaces upon the world. But there was a difference between the first Drain and the second Drain. The first was much brighter than the second... For Erick had already drained his mana into the first!

The first Drain was brighter than the second Drain because the first had mana in it.

Yes. Well. This was obvious in retrospect. [Mana Drain]s and [Health Drain]s all had amounts of mana that they could drain, but it wasn’t till now that Erick understood what those limits actually were. He had never really experimented with this before.

He stuck his whole hand into the second space, watching what happened to his soul, and to the mana therein. Immediately, he knew he was correct about the soul connection.

There was definitely some soul interaction there. Mana held all around the deepening white [Draining Ward], but only the mana inside Erick’s soul was drained away into the [Draining Ward], and… Oh. Yup!

Erick watched as the draining space began to fill with his own base mana, reaching the same density as the other Drain. Soon, it reached the same density as the atmospheric mana, and then, with equilibrium approaching, the drain on his mana was lessened. Erick theorized that [Draining Ward]s naturally ended when the drain was filled, because there was nowhere else for the mana to go.

And… Yup!

The [Draining Ward] popped when it saturated; the spell ending because there was nowhere else for Erick’s Mana to occupy. With the spell burst, the stolen mana just vanished, off into the air like so much spent spellpower.

Erick threw a [Cleanse] at his own, free floating mana. That white mist instantly turned to thick air and vanished into the manasphere. Huh.

Odd.

So there were a few things going on here.

Looking back on [Draining Void]:

Draining Void, instant, close range, 500 mana

Drain WIL Health and Mana per second from every target in a large area. Lasts 24 hours. Lasts longer based on resources drained.

