Erick had started breakfast with two cinnamon rolls, but he had only gotten through one and a half when the need to create overtook him. He stood up, then walked to the edge of the third floor, to look down upon the land beyond his rooms, beyond the edge of the clan mountain, where fog hid everything.

He had once heard Archmage Opal, of Spur, say that she had been working to make [Teleport Lock] for the longest time but had never quite gotten there. Even so, surely she must have had some marginal successes over the years.

A marginal success would be fine, for now.

Erick channeled mana though his hand, listening to the sound of [Teleport]. It was the sound of a journey, and of another place and time. Of other roads taken instead of the one currently underfoot.

In his other hand, he channeled the mana of Destruction, and heard the end of all things.

With a twist of thought, Erick combined the two, into something less, and yet more. It was the sound of stability and solid choice. A destruction of other paths. The finality of here and now.

The addition of [Ward] was a natural addition to the other two magics; to denote a space for the effect.

A trio of Ophiel sang alongside him, feeding into the music with their own, strengthening the whole into a cohesive harmony.

In this new space, fate would follow as fate demanded. Reality would not be subverted by the casual blipping of those who could. Specific subjectivity collapsed. Stability reigned for as long as Erick would allow it, with the initial restrictions of the spell going far beyond simple [Teleport], touching all aspects of Spatial Magic.

Erick smiled as he cast into the air before him.

A white shimmer blossomed five hundred meters away into a sphere, then suddenly expanded to brush against the railing in front of Erick. A kilometer wide spell! Erick had been hoping, but to see it actually work filled him with joy.

He had inundated a small part of the world with stable static, which then vanished like disappearing fog. But the sphere of denial was still there. Erick stuck his hand forward, into the spell effect, and felt the solidity of the magic holding his form in one place, and no other.

It was a bit itchy, actually.

Ah.

It felt like the [Teleport Lock] he had experience back in Last Shadow’s Feast.

A blue box appeared.

Spatial Denial, instant, super long range, 500 mana

Limit the capabilities of all spatial magic in a super large area. Lasts 1 hour.

Erick smiled. Oh, how far he had come! Last year, he had no clue how to do what he had just done, but this year? He had grown a lot, and this latest spell proved it. He was happy for what he had managed to do, yes, but also conflicted.

Why did everyone say that [Teleport Lock] was difficult?

… Hmm.

At a thought, an Ophiel flew inside the effect. With another thought, Ophiel tried to [Teleport] exactly one hundred meters through the space. Ophiel blipped white—

And appeared three meters forward.

Hmm.

Not a perfect Lock, then.

Okay. So maybe, for a moment, Erick was full of himself.

He was allowed to be a little full of himself sometimes! He had earned that. But still… Yeah.

“This is not [Teleport Lock], either,” Erick mumbled to himself.

Having come up with his breakfast in hand, Poi spoke up from the table behind Erick, “Try having Ophiel blip into the space from outside.”

Erick silently nodded, then did exactly that. Ophiel lightstepped a good four hundred kilometers away, and then attempted to [Teleport] into the exact center of the [Spatial Denial].

Ophiel came back into existence about a meter into the edge of the effect. He was nowhere near his true destination.

Erick’s eyebrows went up. “Oh! It’s not perfect! But it works against people entering the space!”

Poi smiled as he bit into his cinnamon roll.

Erick ran a few more experiments with his new [Spatial Denial], and discovered that moving around inside the space was possible, but almost every Spatial spell he had was suppressed to near-uselessness. [Blink] got Ophiel a half-meter forward. [Teleport] gave at most five meters, and that was pushing it. [Teleport Other] was similarly denied… Which was something Erick would just have to live with. This was a good spell. Not perfect! But good enough.

Good enough to prove a theory true; that he could cast denials targeting whole schools of magic.

These denials would be necessary to provide safety in defended locations. Erick could likely create the same ‘Denial Magic’ for all the schools of magic out there. [Stoneshape] suppression would be big, in order to keep people from tearing down structures with people inside of them.

And then he could link those spells to a [Draining Renew] or a [Draining Renew Elemental], to keep those spells active over a population, preventing the worst sort of attacks that were possible under the Script.

But there were more spells to make than the most obvious ones. The results of one such spell were directly underfoot.

Devouring Nightmare’s clan mountain was made of the same tree-like, stone-like, super lightweight material that was present in every single stronghold of Songli. Whatever it was, it was immune to [Stoneshape] by virtue of not being stone, and that was wonderful. It was probably some sort of specialty [Treeshape], or something. It probably wasn’t nanotubes though, or other carbon-based ‘stone’, how Erick initially thought it might be, for if it was, then it would have burned up when exposed to fire. And worse: small chips of the stuff would break down into asbestos-like health hazards. The Health provided by the Script might protect most people from such hazards, but Erick didn’t want to contribute to any potential problem.

Plus, if these mountains were a nanotube-situation, then that would mean some people inside Songli knew enough about the particle physics of carbon in order to make a spell out of it, and that seemed too far-fetched.

He likely could ask around, and someone would tell him how the mountains were made.

… Now that he thought about it, before he went and made a spell that would cost him a week of downtime should it prove incorrectly made, he should probably ask around about clan mountain creation. It might be a variant of [City Shape], which required nothing more than a dozen spare points, and then that final leap into odder materials. Perhaps into a [Metaltree City Shape] or [Stonetree City Shape] of some sort.

Anywho.

He could make a [Stoneshape Denial] spell, exactly how he made his [Spatial Denial], and replicate some more of the Void Song’s capabilities, but on his own terms.

Erick smiled as he remembered back when he first tried to make denial spells in order to make the world safer. He went too far, too fast, and the mana helped him to make [Zone of Peace] while the Script almost killed him in return. He had come a long way from that time in his life, though.

He held out a hand and channeled mana through [Stoneshape]. It was the sound of solidity and strength, except under his control, or anyone who cast such a spell. It was stability put to use in odd ways.

Combined with the sounds of Destruction, Erick edited out everything except for the stability, creating a pure sound of a settled land, unmoving. Sleeping, perhaps. Unable to be roused to anyone’s needs. [Ward] helped to designate the space of the effect, as it always did. Ophiel helped with choral song.

And it sounded stronger than the music that came from [Spatial Denial].

Erick cast.

The sky before Erick blossomed with white light, then faded into nothing. Not even static. The effect was there, but it was tiny, and there was no stone in the space to be affected, anyway.

A blue box appeared.

Unmoving Stone, instant, super large area, 1000 mana

Lull the land to slumber!

Lasts 24 hours.

Erick smiled. He would need to do some experimenting with that one. This could be the perfect spell to use against assassins with [Stone Body], too. Maybe. Some testing would be required. Erick canceled the spell, and the faint white glow in the air faded back into the mana.

He moved far down the list, to the denial of Light, so he could test the spell out against his own lightform. Theoretically, his own Domain could serve the same function, but he couldn’t go putting up his Domain everywhere he wanted, all willy nilly. Someone could learn how to poke at it and take it down, no doubt; no, his Domain was to be used only when he needed to pull out some big magic, or big defense.

These denial spells would be like half-domains, where no one was allowed to cast certain spells.

Thirty seconds later, after listening to the magic of light, another spell blossomed to fill the sky and then faded into the background. Another blue box appeared.

Unmoving Light, instant, super large area, 1000 mana

Lull the light to slumber!

Lasts 24 hours.

Erick had Ophiel turn to light, and then step into the sp—

Ophiel struck the side of the spell effect like both he and the spell were made of gelatin, instantly eliciting a squawk from the little guy. Unhappy flutes filled the air as Ophiel extricated himself from the space like pulling himself from quicksand. When he was finally free, he slapped the spell effect with his wings, causing the light to ripple under the small effect.

Erick cast a [Luminous Beam] into the space, cutting through the spell like it was nothing, disturbing the spellwork with its radiation. [Unmoving Light] burst into so many motes of light that drifted away on the breeze, to vanish back into the flow of mana crossing the sky.

… Erick recast [Unmoving Light], and played around with smaller spells. A few [Lightballs] exploded like fireballs against the edge, but did not reach the interior. Ophiel flew inside under normal [Airshape] means, then tried casting a few of Erick’s other light-based spells. [Shooting Star] conjured a tiny dot of light that drifted through the air like a dandelion seed. [Broken Light] spat tiny glints of light forward, crossing centimeters, instead of meters. [Luminous Beam] cast from inside the space broke the spell again; [Luminous Beam] was unimpeded in all ways, it seemed.

With [Lodestar] active, and inside the space, all of Ophiel’s spellwork returned to normal. Not supercharged, though. Just normal. Domains could get around this sort of spellwork, but not fully.

… And then Erick had Ophiel flex his sunform, breaking the [Unmoving Light] with a flick of power.

So it looked like these spells had nothing on Domains. Good to know.

They were still good spells.

Erick moved on.

Soon, he had the full suite of ‘Unmoving’ spells.

Unmoving Shadow, instant, super large area, 1000 mana

Lull the shadow to slumber!

Lasts 24 hours.

Unmoving Water, instant, super large area, 1000 mana

Lull the water to slumber!

Lasts 24 hours.

Unmoving Fire, instant, super large area, 1000 mana

Lull the fire to slumber!

Lasts 24 hours.

Unmoving Air, instant, super large area, 1000 mana

Lull the air to slumber!

Lasts 24 hours.

By the time he finished the last one, people from other nearby pagodas were watching the show. A pair of old women watched from a balcony while they enjoyed their own breakfast. A trio of young male nobles watched from higher up that particular pagoda. Others watched from behind curtains, trying to be circumspect about it.

Teressa had joined Poi on the roof, behind Erick, also watching.

Poi spoke up, “Do you want to go talk to the people you Blessed, and ask them questions? The warden of that place asked about twenty minutes ago, but you were working. Also, later today they’re going to question Raidu if you wish to be present.”

Erick frowned, the weight of the world once again crashing down on his shoulders. He said, “I suppose… Let’s go do that. And then we’re not doing anything important for a week. At least.”

Teressa smiled. “Sounds good to me.”

Erick added, “Thanks for waiting till I was at a good stopping point, Poi.”

Poi had ruined the mood, as he likely knew he would, but stuff still needed to get done even when Erick felt like he was already at a breaking point.

Poi said, “You can make them wait on you. All you have to do is tell them that they have to delay their own time tables to better fit your schedule.”

Teressa glanced from Poi to Erick, asking, “Was that even a question? Of course you can make them wait on you, Boss.”

Erick frowned again, feeling uncomfortable with that. Erick supposed he ranked a bit higher than some warden somewhere. It was odd to think like that, but… Yeah. They were right.

And yet, Erick wasn’t willing to do that. After this, though… After this, it was time for a break. This Worldly Path was supposed to be a vacation!

- - - -

The commune for the Blessed was much better than the one the orcols had made near Treehome.

A clan mountain of High Clan Severing Crescent loomed in the distance, looking like a proper mountain in the middle of perfectly flat farmland. All around that large mountain were farms, and people tending to those farms. Rice paddies, wheat fields, orchards, and the like.

But over here, in the middle of some rice paddies and fishing ponds, the commune was made out of the same stuff as the clan mountains, and it was shaped like a clan mountain, but it was more like a clan hill. At barely fifty meters tall, with only a few house-like structures scattered across the forested surface, this place looked like a summer home for some noble family. Someone had put up a Solid Ward around the place. Maybe it was from a City Shield? Just to keep people out of the place? But what about Spatial Magic? It seemed like there was none active, but maybe they just had runes in the walls inside.

They probably had runes in the walls inside. Anti-[Teleport] runes seemed like a pain in the ass; Erick’s own spellwork wasn’t perfect, but it was better than runes in the walls.

An important man greeted them at the gate, saying, “Welcome to the Paddy House, Archmage Flatt. I’m the manager, Olariz Severing Crescent.”

Erick replied, “Thanks for having me. Now let’s get a look around, shall we?”

Olariz hopped to it, leading them down the walkway toward the Paddy House, toward the main doors, speaking all the way. This place was apparently a guest house for problematic individuals, under the oversight of Severing Crescent. The main defenses were the shield, cast by him, the manager, as well as many runes layered throughout the location to block off most magic. But the ‘guests’ were tattooed anyway; the runes were just there to prevent their casual extraction by other parties.

Erick approved that Olariz cast the Solid Ward shield himself.

Olariz led them past the check-in station, and up a small path to the front doors of the guest house. Soldiers in white manned those doors, but inside, there were no soldiers on duty.

