Erick could see through the entire place with his mana sense, and he saw all the people he had Blessed, as well as the people overseeing the Blessed. All of the former assassins and elites of Terror Peaks had tattoos swirling around their bodies, like chains of void, constantly pulling out their Mana and their Health. Other than that, they all looked healthy. No one was locked in a cage, either.

This was a lot better treatment than Erick had expected.

Everyone walked wherever they wanted, and more or less acted like they were guests, and not prisoners.

Some ‘guests’ were cooking in the kitchen, in teams. Others were talking in small groups with each other here and there. Some were alone, and gently weeping. Everywhere, there were workers in white, some seeing to the needs of the people with [Cleanse]s or other small spellworks, or simply standing guard in conspicuous places. Erick spotted Beniza Wounder, the assassin who had been wrapped around the soul spear in [Air Body] to hide in the mana of that heavily enchanted item. Beniza was currently working on a loom, hand-making some sort of fabric. Not a single guest was on the first floor, though.

This place down here seemed only for the servants and otherwise.

Olariz explained, “In addition to the Solid Wards around the guest house to keep our guests safe, we have security measures in place to keep them off of certain floors. This first floor is the only one that is completely off limits, though, since it’s servants quarters. All servant hallways are off limits to them. Thankfully, they’re rather unlike our usual guests. They’re calm and sad, most of them, but they’re not violent, which is a miracle considering how we acquired them.”

Olariz seemed like a decent guy, he even seemed sincere when he called these prisoners ‘guests’. Erick listened to him speak of the workings of the guest house, and how every one of the guests had been questioned already. If Erick wished to read those transcripts, he had but to ask.

Erick turned to the man, and said, “Actually. That sounds like a good idea. I want to read them all.”

Olariz nodded, then walked a different direction, saying, “Right this way, then.”

The manager led Erick to a medium-sized tea room with the walls made of cubbies, each of them labeled with the name of a guest, and each filled with folders of papers. They had space for a hundred guests, but only 45 of them were currently in use.

Olariz asked, “Is there anyone you wish to know about in particular? I can help narrow down your search.”

Erick rattled off, “Beniza Wounder, and two others that you think exemplify the problem of Terror Peaks, and two that you feel could be released without trouble, and without the restraining tattoos.”

Olariz kept a professional facade up and active, but inside, he had some turmoil.

Erick added, “I’d like your opinion on release. That was the idea behind the creation of the Blessing of Empathy; to allow people to repent for their sins, doing as much good as they could to try and flip the scales of justice back into positive karma.”

Olariz’s turmoil vanished; replaced by awe, and a little bit of envy, and terror. He kept all of that perfectly hidden behind a mask of propriety, but Erick saw most of all of it. Olariz took a moment to gather his thoughts, and Erick let him.

Olariz said, “I feel that your Blessing does what you intended, however, the idea of repentance, when held in the minds of certain people, will result in unexpected outcomes, some of which might be undesirable if they are released at this moment.” He went to the shelves and plucked out a folder to set it on the table in the center of the room. “Beniza is as good of a study case of this as any of them. She blames her failures on the people who ordered her into committing heinous acts. She does not recognize that she is responsible for her own actions. I fear if she were let loose at this moment, she would find someone else’s will to enact, and then do whatever they said as long as they could make her believe that she was doing the right thing.”

Erick breathed out. “Ahh… That’s…”

That was a lot of things, for sure.

With a firm voice, Erick decided, “What I’m hearing is that Beniza needs a proper guiding hand. Will Songli give her that guiding hand? Or will I need to remove these people from your care?” Before the man could answer, Erick asked, “What are your qualifications for being in charge of this place?”

Olariz panicked for a brief moment, then a calm descended upon him. He stood straight, and said, “I am the seneschal of this paddy house, and have been for the last fifteen years. When I was young and foolish, I was on the path of destruction, but the guards of Alaralti caught me and gave me mercy. I was interred at a different paddy house for a year, under the same protocols that are still used in every single paddy house in Alaralti; draining tattoos, easy work, therapy, and calm spaces to live. Every day, I talked to people who helped me get over myself and get my mind on the right path, and afterward, I wished to help others get back on the right paths as well. Thus, I got my accreditation at the Main House, and was assigned this location. Every day, we help people recover from War Response. Every day, we help people deal with the trauma of blood and death, and any of a hundred different maladies of the mind. This is a place of healing, sir, and I have helped to make it such for a long time, so I do not appreciate being disparaged like this.”

Ah?

So it was like that?

Erick rapidly reevaluated everything that he had seen so far, and…

Okay.

Erick’s eyes went fractionally wider. He was more than a little stunned, for he had no idea that places like this existed. He felt a little foolish himself, for being so unwilling to see where his actions had placed these Blessed people, for fear that he had taken them out of the fires of war just to see them crushed under the heel of Songli.

It was Songli’s right to kill enemy soldiers, after all…

Wasn’t it?

No.

Wait.

Erick had a moment of surreal disconnect, and then the moment passed.

Enemy soldiers, once subdued, should not be murdered offhand. They were non-combatants at that point. Erick took a metaphorical step back from himself. He should have kept closer tabs with the people he Blessed. If he had, he wouldn’t have been blindsided like this.

… The real solution here was to rely more on others. Everything about Songli had told him that it was a decent place, for he had yet to see anyone murdered offhand by a noble, and he was beginning to suspect that that was state-sponsored propaganda to keep the commoners in line.

Erick came back to the conversation, and said, “I had believed that when you said ‘Paddy House’, you were referring to the name of the location. But what you meant was ‘paddy house’; an asylum. A place of healing for chronic mental illness.” He added, “Sorry about that. I was not aware these places existed on Veird, or here in Songli. I was always under the impression that the Mind Mages helped with this sort of thing, but no one else did anything.”

Now that he mana sensed the area again, and looked to the room he was in, he saw many hallmarks of this being an institution, rather than a ‘guest house’ of Severing Crescent. They likely used the term ‘guest house’ to make the place seem less… like it was.

The hallways were organized. The rooms were laid out in precise manners. The ‘servants corridors’ were locked, only to be opened by keys kept on the belts of the orderlies. They likely called them ‘servants’ instead of ‘orderlies’ in order to also make the place seem less sinister.

Olariz seemed taken aback by Erick’s apology. He said, “Well. Then. Thank you for the apology.” He brushed past that, and returned to the folders in front of Erick, saying, “Songli is prepared to give these people proper care, but some might not ever be fit to return to the world. Some of these people are heavily damaged. Some just sit in their rooms and won’t leave. Some won’t eat, and those people will be fine for a while, but eventually we’ll have to force feed them. We are doing what we can, but even we cannot provide miracles.”

“I understand. Thank you for your help with this. I hoped that by Blessing these people that they would become functional members of society, but I can see that was a far-off hope. It will take time.”

In that moment, Olariz saw something in Erick that he felt the need to crush, and so he said, “In my humble opinion, your Blessing is divinity itself. Every single one of these people planned to die in war fighting enemies that only existed in their minds. And now they aren’t going to die in that war. Now they want to help others instead of killing them. This [Blessing of Empathy] is a holy spell and it should be employed more, in more wars the world over.”

While Erick was suddenly reeling from that—

Olariz continued, “Sure, there are problems right now. But problems can be worked through when murder is no longer an option, and you have taken away that option from them. Some of our guests are calling it a Curse, and trying to figure out how to get rid of it, but in time, I know they will all see it for the Blessing it truly is. So while our guests cannot say these words right now, I know they will want to say them to you later, so I will say them in their stead: thank you for Blessing them, Archmage Flatt.”

Erick felt a well of uncomfortable emotions; a distant hope, perhaps.

“Ah…” Erick glanced away, then said, “Thanks for picking up the battle where I left off.”

Olariz nodded, resolutely, then said, “Then I will leave you with their paperwork. If you wish to speak to any of them, let a guard know and the person can be escorted to you. I have one such guard stationed outside of the room for your use. I ask you not to show up in front of the guests themselves, though, for some of them are truly having trouble coming to terms with their new life.”

Erick nodded.

Olariz pointed out a few cubbies of people who matched what Erick had asked to see; people ready to move on soon, and people who were truly problem cases. And then he left.

Erick started reading.

An hour later, he had gone through every single case file.

What he read was story after story of people at war with themselves, and their pasts.

He knew how he would have helped these people back on Earth. Mostly, he would have handed them off to other social workers who specialized in cases with post traumatic stress disorder. But he knew the broader strokes. And this paddy house was doing all of them.

Talks with therapists. Talks in groups. Minor chores to keep the body busy. Exercise. Meditation. Medication with various alchemical compounds, including blue weed and pills with names like ‘Restful Blue Days’ and ‘Tranquil Pond’. They even had Mind Mages coming in every day in the afternoon, to talk to whoever felt like talking, and apparently a lot of people felt like talking; there were signup sheets because there were so many volunteers.

Erick’s heart went out to these people, for they were trying. They had been here for ten days already, some only for nine, so the initial disaster of a changed life was already starting to pass for some people.

All because of his Blessing.

He felt a strange sort of validation. A joy in the pit of his stomach. Half of that feeling was due to his own actions, but the other half was the fact that these people were in good hands.

Of course, they had been questioned over their involvements in the war, and those parts were also in their paperwork. There was no such thing as psychiatrist-patient confidentiality, here. Erick had no doubt that these papers were copied and sent off to any Clan who asked after them.

From what Erick read, all of these people were goaded into war, doing exactly what they did all the time, which was follow the adamant will of Patriarch Xangu and Scion Raidu and all the rest of their Elders. They were all soldiers. They were little more than pawns.

Elite pawns, sure. Assassins, soloists like Jane, spearheads of the campaign one and all, but still pawns.

Erick put the folders back into their proper locations in the shelves. He knew that these people were in good hands, for every single base report had a front page with an overview of the person in question, and every one of those had a section for a target release date. Many of those sections were empty, but some of them were at 1 month, or 2 months, or one year. Some of these people were eventually going to be released. Maybe most of them.

Honestly, Erick should have expected that.

Songli didn’t kill captured soldiers.

The Antirhine Elixir had been the usual solution to the problem of captured enemy combatants, but now there was another. And if these reports were to be believed, then a lot of the therapists and guardians writing these reports truly approved of the Blessing as an alternative to the Elixir.

Erick wanted to congratulate Olariz on his way out, but the man was currently talking to some former Terror Peaks soldiers upstairs, and he didn’t want to disturb the man; that conversation looked intense. So Erick just told the guard on his way out that he approved of what was happening here, and that he would be checking in occasionally, if they didn’t mind.

The guard, of course, went dead silent as he stared at Erick, then rapidly acknowledged that he was being talked to by an archmage, and that he would relay Erick’s message right away!

Erick let the guard go do that, as he looked to Teressa and Poi, saying, “Now to talk to Raidu.”

With a wrap of light, Erick stepped the three of them to the next destination.

- - - -

The Palace of the Eternal Court.

That was the name of the building in front of Erick right now. He had seen the place as he lightstepped in, and every so often when he sent Ophiel flitting by, but none of those experiences compared to standing there on the steps of the palace.

In overall shape, the building was like the Courthouse of Spur, or the Capitol Building of Washington DC, but hundreds of meters tall and a kilometer wide and with a staircase of a hundred steps leading up to the front doors, with both stairs and doors much, much larger than they needed to be. The whole place was a work of columns and sloped gold roofs and tall, tall windows, built to withstand hurricanes and quakes.

Everything inside the Royal City was much, much larger than it had to be.

