With one of those record players he made back in Treehome.

And some gridwork from Tenebrae.

The Tricking Magic Erick learned about from Opal, months and months ago, was probably applicable here, too. Especially that spell [Intent Understanding], which was the basis for all of the rest of that Breaker magic, and his [Grand Dispel]. One had to understand the active spellwork before one could interact with it, after all!

And with what Ishibo was telling him right now…

It was all coming together. He’d likely still need to talk to the dragons, wherever they might be, but he could do that some other time. [Gate] was getting closer. [Renew] and [Draining Elemental], too.

For now…

Erick stood up, gesturing to the City Shield. “Show me how it works.”

Ishibo merrily stood up and walked over to the Shield, saying, “It all starts with cooperative casting; with a person harmonizing their link to the magic already inside the machine…”

They spoke for a while, with Erick asking about every little part of the machine, and how it related to every other part. It wasn’t long till Ishibo started casting lightward images to illustrate the principles behind the inner workings, so that they could pull those apart, without pulling apart the City Shield itself.

In broad strokes, the machine worked by collecting the spell casts of people who cast into the Shield, and then it distributed those spell casts over a super large area.

Somewhere in the middle of all that, Erick asked, “So what if I just cast the same spell myself, over and over and over and over into the machine? Could I power this myself? From what you’re telling me it seems like that would work.”

“Oh yeah! Sure that would work. But you’d have to pour in a lot of [Force Wall]s.” Ishibo said, “And I mean a lot! This thing is capable of covering about 80 square kilometers in single-layer Force, about 2.5 kilometers radius, but since half of that is underground and unnecessary, along with most of the area above ten meters also unnecessary for monster surges, those 80 square kilometers are layered against the ground all around a central location. In regular, circular deployment, the shield stretches for 15.5 kilometers around the central location, which, at normal operation of a ten meter high wall, translates into a shield of 500 layers. A quarter million points of defense that the monsters have to tear through before they can attack the people inside. Monsters are fully capable of doing that, too, if not for the defenders inside the space. But anyway! Powering one of these is a lot of casts. You don’t fill one of these up yourself.”

Erick verbally did some math, “Sounds like 80,000,000 square meters covered, at 10 square meters per cast, means eight million casts, means 200,000,000 mana worth of [Force Shield]s? Counting Clarity on everyone, of course.” Something struck him about those numbers. Filling one of these City Shields, all on his own, with his Intelligence, would still be 40,000,000 mana. He said, “That seems inefficient.” He admitted, “Even though it does produce enough of a defense to stop most all monsters… And I suppose it is cast from a central location without needing to go out into the monster surge. Okay. Actually. I changed my mind. It is rather efficient.”

Ishibo seemed to be happier when Erick was dragging his work through the mud, and proved as much when he said, “I agree with your first assessment. City Shields are very inefficient. It takes a border clan about a month of casts from every single capable donor, to get a Shield in working order. A lot of people complain about that routine, and then about the topping-off that needs to happen all the time because the reservoir is not perfect. These things are almost never used, but when they are, they’re lifesavers. But you have to understand that the spell inside of the City Shield is tier 7, and every individual person is only contributing a basic tier spell, thus there is some inefficiency.” He produced a blue box, saying, “This is the spell they’re based on, that allowed me to get this position as a mage in Devouring Nightmare.”

Grand Force Shield, one hour, super large area, Solid Ward, 21,500 mana + Variable

Create a malleable shield of pure force that covers a super large area and adjusts to your needs. You may repair or adjust the shield for Variable costs.

You may only have one Solid Ward active at any one time.

Erick read, then revised his previous backtrack, saying, “So... This City Shield seems inefficient.”

Ishibo smiled. “It is! But enchanting an actual [Grand Force Shield] doesn’t allow the end user to layer the shield however it needs to be layered in order to provide the most protection possible. The cost of producing a [Grand Force Shield] item is actually a little bit more expensive than producing a City Shield, too. So in the end, a City Shield is a much better option, even if it does require so much magic to power the darn thing.” He asked, “If you know of a way to make it work off of ambient mana instead, I’d love to hear it! That’s actually been the goal of many enchanters over the centuries, but I’ve never come close and gave up years ago.”

Erick decided then and there to tell Ishibo his own desires.

“I’m trying to make a spell that would allow anyone to [Renew] the duration of any other active spell; even the spellwork of other mages, or archmages, or whoever. Every so often I come across something that points me in that direction, and you have done a good job of giving me a lot of new hints. Not everything here is applicable to my needs, but some of it is, for sure.” Erick asked, “[Renew] should be able to recognize the mana in the active spellwork, and then harmonize to that active spellwork, but I haven’t gotten much further than that. Further applications of this [Renew] spell will be to make these [Renew]s permanent area effects, themselves be powered by painless [Drain Ward]s that can be cast on streets, or wherever, so that the general population can then empower spellwork such as your [Grand Force Shield]. Or maybe the [Drain Ward]s can collect ambient mana to power the [Renew]s, which power the [Grand Force Shield]s? It’s all still unknown to me how it would work in the end, but I’m getting there.”

Ishibo’s eyes went wide, and then he said, “I would have no idea how to make a spell to do all of that, but I’m eager to try! Taking it from the beginning, I think you’d need… Maybe you’d want to start… I’m not sure what paths to walk here. I must say, though, that I am very interested in learning how to make Permanent magic at all! That’s the marking of a finely crafted spell, no doubt! How do you do that?”

Erick knew that Devouring Nightmare would be learning from him just as much as he would be learning from them, so this much was fine. Ishibo was rather enthusiastic about the whole thing, too, which seemed to bode well for future interactions.

Erick upheld the unsaid deal, saying, “Permanent spells, as far as I’ve understood them, are a matter of working in simplicity and repetition. Take a look at the only Permanent effect that exists in the Open Script: Lightwards. All I did was extrapolate from there, with a lot of personal experimentation on various lightwards. One thing I noticed right away is that balanced spells uphold a Permanency better than others. This [Prismatic Ward] is permanent, as you no doubt have noticed as a Warder.”

Ishibo could barely contain his excitement at the mention of [Prismatic Ward], but he did.

Erick continued, “I have a few other balanced, simple Permanent spells like these. The simpler they are, and the deeper the understanding of those spells, the longer they last. There’s also a fair bit of spellwork that is meant to ensure that the spellwork repairs itself over time.

“I’m sure if there’s some way to make a [Renew] spell work for any magic out there, it probably won’t work on the complicated spellwork where there’s a lot of moving parts; it’ll be relegated to the simple, well made spells that are easy to understand. Or spells that are specifically made with [Renew] in mind.” He added, “That [Delirium Charm] I made for Warzi was well made, but even that will break down after a while, and likely because of the Elemental Destruction used to create the effect. Destruction seems anathema to Permanency.”

Ishibo blurted out, “Have you looked at grand cores? I mean, really studied them? They’re the only sort of core that won’t break down, and will draw in ambient mana to stabilize itself and other magics around itself when those other magics are laid down properly. Well— I say ‘magic’, but I mean enchantments made with core dust or otherwise. But that’s a whole thing! Grand cores can exist on their own, but small cores cannot; they’ll eventually disintegrate if left in the open air for a while. The timetable there is in months, but the fact remains.” He said, “I had thought that Permanency magic was all about being at a state of perpetual renewal by taking mana from the atmosphere, as the grand cores do, but I have never had much luck with that. Would you—” He breathed, and relaxed a little, as he professionally asked, “Would you mind showing me the box for your [Prismatic Ward]?” He rapidly added, “Not the spellwork! Just the box?”

Erick had already thought about it, and so he readily said, “Sure.”

He handed over the box for [Prismatic Ward].

Prismatic Ward, instant, short range, permanent, Solid Ward, 100 MP + Variable

Create a solid, large space, that absorbs six times Variable damage before breaking.

Prismatic Ward regenerates integrity based on your Rested mana regeneration rate.

You and those you permit are able to operate within Prismatic Ward without restriction. You may grant or revoke this permission at will.

All beings permitted inside Prismatic Ward are at Rest while inside.

You may only have one Solid Ward active at a time.

Ishibo’s mouth dropped open as he read, and then he turned puzzled. He narrowed his eyes, and then dismissed the box. He asked, “Uh. You have more than one [Prismatic Ward] active, though.”

Erick laughed. “Yeah! Don’t ask me how that works. Ophiel is special.”

Ophiel twittered upon hearing his name.

Erick gestured back to the City Shield, asking, “If grand cores pull in and stabilize other cores, why don’t you have a grand core in this one?”

Ishibo briefly resembled a man derailed, and then he got back on track, and said, “The core dust is sealed in Deep Sky Silver, which is an excellent sealant, while the configuration acts like a pseudo grand-core.” He said, “If I had some way to turn force weasel cores into a grand core, I could probably make one of these City Shield much cheaper, but the problem is finding a fully force-aligned grand core monster. Once they get to the grand core size, they’re no longer simple force monsters. Even rivergrieves have Water and Etherealness in their mostly Force grand cores, so that’s a non-starter.”

Erick nodded, then asked some more questions.

They continued to talk for a while, with Erick receiving personal training on how to imbue the Shield with a [Force Wall] spell, and then he did so, following Ishibo’s lead. Somewhat. His first imbue was a failure, but then Erick watched Ishibo imbue again, and then he tried again. The second time, he got it right, and the reservoir inside seemed to be fractionally denser with ambient Force Magic.

It was an odd thing to see. Normally, mana had no aspects except in rare occasions. The Script ensured that mana remained balanced, after all. If the world got unbalanced in any great way, then apparently great [Cleanse]s would descend from the Edge of the Script, billowing down from the sky, turning problems into thick air. But that sort of event hadn’t been seen since the dawn of the Script, 1450 years ago.

When Erick brought up the problem of people casting [Cleanse] near the City Shield, Ishibo instantly told him how bad of an idea that was, as a [Cleanse] on a fully powered City Shield could blow it up! Never use [Cleanse] around a Shield!

They continued to talk for a while, but soon they were retreading ground, and Erick called it quits. He saw Ishibo out the front door, thanking him for his time and expertise, saying that they both had some more experimenting to do, to which Ishibo readily agreed. Ishibo invited Erick to see his workshops, but Erick wasn’t sure if he had the time right now. Maybe in several days.

Erick shut the door and went to the City Shield, alone.

He imbued it again, and the interior got a bit more ‘[Force Wall]-like’, a bit more white.

He was lucky that his mana color was already white, for mana altering to white was one of the first parts of being able to operate a City Shield, and also to be a part of the army. All those Songli soldiers in the recent war were wearing white armor, after all.

Erick floated the City Shield further into the house, into the dense air of the [Prismatic Ward], and marveled a bit at the machine as it sat there in the sun. It was so unlike any other magical item he had ever come across, for it could take the mana from donors and use it to empower the contained spell. That spell that Ishibo had shown him, [Grand Force Shield], was different, too, in that it had an hour cast time. Apparently, that increased cast time allowed the spell to be shaped to the desired needs, which was just such an odd way of doing magic that Erick had trouble reconciling that hour cast time with almost all the other spellwork that he had ever seen. The only other spell that had a large cast time was [Fabricate], at a minute.

… So thinking about [Grand Force Shield] as a way of fabricating [Force Wall]s into the correct position… Okay. He saw it now. Yeah, that made sense. Erick would not have made his own [Grand Force Shield] with [Fabricate], but it was probably necessary to do it that way in order for the variable shaping to work after the spell had been put into this City Shield.

Leaving the shield behind, Erick went to his temporary library, back to the books. He had learned a lot of interesting facts today. It was time to put some of those facts to work.

Surrounded by papers and books, Erick started brainstorming about [Renew], and about how other people’s mana could flow into active spellwork. Soon, wardlight sculptures of methodology and magic appeared throughout the air of the room, and Erick refined what he knew.

He wasn’t close, but he was on the right track.

With a way to harmonize areas to form [Gate]s, and the [Renew]s and [Draining Ward]s so that anyone could power those [Gate]s, or any other spellwork that needed to be maintained around a city…

It was an interesting idea.

