This was one of the few ‘public’ buildings in the capital city, and as such there were people of all walks of life walking up and down the court stairwell, right alongside Erick. Just like them, he and his people had come up to this place from the Teleport Square to the south of the Palace of the Eternal Court.

Erick suspected that the placement of the Teleport Square and the grandeur of the sight ahead of him, was intentional. Walking in from the east or the west would not be nearly as impressive.

Well. Like. Duh.

People built structures to be impressive when they wanted them to be impressive, Erick.

Erick smiled, adjusted his good robes a little, and then kept right on walking up the staircase, toward the doors that everyone was filling through.

Ari stepped out from a side door, behind a column, right as Erick reached the top. She wore a plain white dress, and was flanked by two stern-looking women in white. Right away, Erick saw a problem. It was nothing specific, but it was a lot of little things. The look in Ari’s violet eyes. The stance of her ‘guards’. The way she wore a rather innocuous golden necklace that was enchanted in some way, and that a few other people in the crowd instantly recognized the necklace and thus turned deferential or scared, but tried not to show it.

Ari saw that he saw her problem, but she did not seem to want to speak on her own problems, as she shook her head a little. Her guards didn’t seem to notice Ari’s obvious breach of protocol, or whatever it was; they, like a lot of people in the immediate area, were completely focused on Teressa, towering above everyone at three meters tall. It wasn’t every day you saw an orcol in Holorulo.

Ari spoke up, “Welcome to The Palace of the Eternal Court, Archmage Flatt. Please follow me.”

At her words, her guards locked eyes with Erick, returning to their proper duties, whatever those were.

And now the moving crowd was looking at him, too.

Apparently, archmages ranked above orcols!

Erick left the suddenly-silent and staring crowd behind as he followed Ari and her guards through a separate door, set to the far left of the main entrance.
