Of course, if these ideas came to fruition, they would negate the need for the Singers of Songli, or for Ishibo’s City Shields, but it would also free those people to pursue other options in life, and more importantly, it would ensure that cities were truly safe spaces. Safe not only from monsters, but also from the abuses of magic that allowed nations like Terror Peaks from attacking a peaceful population… Well.

Erick needed to invent a [Teleport Lock], too, he supposed.

Actually.

That seemed like the easiest thing to make, right now, according to everything he now knew. Ah. Well. A simple [Teleport Lock] still wouldn’t work on attacking through [Gate]s, but it would work on individuals…

But it wouldn’t work against bombs being dropped from on high, from outside the various Locking spells a city could cast upon itself.

Okay. Well.

Erick wasn’t going to reinvent the entire way that cities defended themselves overnight. But it was something to work toward, alongside all the other things currently on his plate. There was a singular goal in all of this magic, after all; to ensure peace and prosperity and connections with others who all want the same thing, while simultaneously denying harm and the chances for harm to happen.

In his course of living on Veird for a year and traveling for the last two months, Erick had come across a half a dozen good ways to ensure that society flourished while the monsters were kept at bay. All of them had their good points, and all of them had their bad points.

Spur had more archmages per citizen than anywhere else in the world. Great defense! Great prosperity and stability in the form of an immortal Mayor, too. But it was a fragile defense, cultivated by the Shades, meant to keep their ‘eternal source of adventurers and entertainment’ vulnerable, in case Spur needed to be purged. All they needed to do was kill the few large powers, or mitigate them, and the city was then defenseless. Such an event had actually happened a hundred years ago, and it wasn’t till Erick showed up with his rains that the city started coming back to life.

The Sovereign Cities over in western Glaquin had perhaps the worst possible system of government, where everyone was out for themselves, no one cared about anyone, and no one was allowed to Matriculate into the Script, because if you Matriculated, then you were bound for war against the other Cities. They had a civil war happening over there right now because that system had been disrupted by the former Shade Toymaker, and some elemental dice that matriculated a person to the Script with a bit of Elemental Essence. Now, radicals were Matriculating outside of the supervision of the people in charge, and it was throwing everything into chaos.

Every so often Erick heard a little bit about that civil war. At Erick’s victory meal in Holorulo, where the Court decided his fate, people were talking about that civil war. Apparently it was getting bad, with hundreds of thousands dead already.

Denying magic was not the proper way to a stable society.

Just look at the Wasteland Kingdoms of the incani.

They tried to do the same thing, but that was 50 years ago. That fallout was still felt on the Wasteland, all these years later, for that civil war was the reason that the place was called the ‘Wasteland’. Poison and decay marred what was once lush and green and full of life. In many places, the people who survived were still rebuilding, all these years later. But perhaps the worst outcome of the political failures that led to the Wasteland, were the births of terrorist organizations like the Halls of the Dead, which went off to poke at the Greensoil Republic, to harm the humans who they believed started off the civil wars that harmed their homeland.

Luckily, the Halls of the Dead were now dead and gone, but their mark had been left on Odaali, and the rest of the Greensoil Republic.

The Greensoil Republic also controlled access to the Script, but in a different way than most.

Sure! You could Matriculate; you were even encouraged to do so. But natural leveling stopped at level 14 to 16, and the strongest monsters around were slimes, which were at even lower levels than that.

[Weaken Monsters] was how the Greensoil Republic subdued their land. A single spell, tier 8, purchasable through the Script, which covered a super, super large area, and lasted a whole month. This single spell, which anyone could get, was outlawed in the rest of the world because of its single, terrible side effect.

When the spell lapsed, the affected monsters went into a rage, rapidly shooting up in levels and power, often mutating into Variants, and always becoming immune to [Weaken Monsters].

The Greensoil Republic ‘solved’ this problem by having hordes of ‘archmages’ flying around their entire nation, which was the size of Asia, casting [Weaken Monsters] in gridwork patterns. It was a stable solution, except when some monsters burrowed into the ground and missed a Weaken, or they randomly wandered out of the effect, or when some ‘archmage’ just didn’t bother to do their job right, or when any of a hundred other situations happened.

Such problematic monsters never showed right away, but every single time you heard of a large monster attack in the Greensoil Republic, it was no doubt a monster that somehow evaded a [Weaken Monsters].

There was always some small village in Greensoil, having never even seen a monster larger than a slime, suddenly coming under attack by a raging ooze, or raging wyrm. Kiri’s home of Tower Town had been attacked by one such raging wyrm, back when she was a small child. That monster had gotten pretty far before an elite showed up to take it down, too.

That such a beast had managed to get that deep into Greensoil, and then managed to do damage before it was put down, just proved how weak Greensoil’s solution was to the monster problem. People needed to be stronger than [Weaken Monsters] allowed them to be. [Weaken Monsters], ironically, made the people it protected weak, as well.

In fact, weakness was a problem for many civilian populations the world over, but not for one.

The orcols were raised on war with monsters, and with the Forest. They knew the value in fighting for their lives and making sure that the kids learned how to fight, too. Of course, they had some inherent boons that allowed them to stand on those front lines and not worry too much about being wounded at the end of the day. For an orcol, any Healing Magic at all would speed up their natural [Regeneration], allowing them to recover from lost limbs and sometimes even decapitation.

And, of course, all of them were at least three gods-damned meters tall and built like brick houses.

The orcols had some serious physiological advantages to a life of monster hunting, which was good for them, but impossible to replicate upon the other races of Veird. ‘Just be an orcol!’ was not a proper solution to the monster and safety problems the world over.

According to what Erick had seen so far, the Highlands had great solutions to many problems. From the City Shields to the Void Song to the clan society that held those who killed monsters in high regard. Songli seemed to do alright. A population of 40 million was pretty damned good! Hard to argue with numbers like that, when every other place in the world had populations in the hundreds, for small towns, to hundreds of thousands.

But perhaps Songli’s greatest strength was their culture of politeness and hospitality and deference. That culture is what allowed them to grow so large. The politeness of the wars around here helped, too, until the precepts of war were trampled over, of course.

And there was the weakness. Now that the war with Terror Peaks had happened, he saw another one: The reliance on concerts of individuals in order to provide active defense.

Well.

Like.

There was no way to get around needing boots on the ground in order to defend people and places, but when enemy elites came in they walked through local low-level guards and smaller defenses like they were nothing. Even the larger defenses of Songli had been shut down by the terror that was Terror Peaks. The Void Song of Eralis was even negated by concentrated countersong. [Gate]s had popped up over the Alluvial District and bombed the place with Extreme Light. Assassins got in, and there was no real solution to that problem, but still!

There should be better defenses versus those sorts of things.

The easiest solution would be to rewrite the Script to deny easy access to magic to everyone, for it was the ease of [Teleport] which allowed the worst war crimes to happen.

But barring that, cultivating a culture of respect and politeness seemed paramount.

And then came the need for true elites, like Erick himself, to put down enemy elites.

And infantry to kill the monsters. Strong infantry, too. Strong like Terror Peaks, but not with their culture, for sure.

… Songli seemed to get a lot right about a lot of things. Spur did, too. Erick could even learn a thing or two from his enemies.

And his conclusion was this: everyone could do better.

And yet… Xue’s words came back to Erick. Violence and death came for everyone, but if the people in charge solved the violence part, then the death part would come unexpectedly, for no one would be prepared for it.

People had to look out for themselves.

The counter to that idea was a basic one, and one that Erick upheld his whole life, even before he came to Veird: The state still needed to provide the base of protection for its citizens, or else there would be no state at all.

For there was another true axiom, told to Erick by Tenebrae, when they were on that beach in the middle of nowhere. That idyllic land had seemed wonderful, so why weren’t there people living there? The answer was simple, of course: Because there were no powerhouses to protect the people who lived there from the vagaries of monsters.

Anyway.

[Renew] would change how society functioned, if Erick managed to make it right. Safer strongholds, with hundreds of overlapping anti-magics active at all times! Cities with anti-[Teleport] spells strewn throughout, to ensure that assassin armies, like that from Terror Peaks, never get a chance to blip inside and wreak havoc.

That goal was still rather far off, but Erick was gathering pieces to [Renew] every day. A [Drain Magic for use in other Magic] spell seemed like a large piece of that puzzle that he didn’t even know he was looking for until he found it.

[Gate] was still far off, too, but once he got that, he could hand that spell over to Yggdrasil, and then Yggdrasil could connect separate safe spaces together.

As for something that was closer to here and now, [Teleport Lock] seemed a lot more necessary now than it seemed months ago, back when Erick was trying to figure out how to lock down a Shade from escaping from combat, and also how to negate the Lock that every Shade had, in order to escape from a Shade if necessary.

So many ideas!

And quite a lot of time to do them all, too.

Not too much time, though.

He’d need to solve a majority of these problems sooner rather than later, because Candlepoint would need them. Now there was a city of problems that were unmatched in the entire rest of the world. With the Shades gone, it was only a matter of time till someone got the fool idea to attack that place. Luckily, Candlepoint was doing fine, for now, according to the messages Poi was getting. It was getting built up, and envoys came into the city all the time now, but still no traders. Candlepoint was self-sufficient, though. Soon, it would be producing excess. People were actually wearing real clothes now, too, instead of whatever scraps they could find! The fish in the lake were growing up, and spawning. The land was turning lush with life and the future looked good!

Life was looking up!

It was only a matter of time before someone wanted what Candlepoint had, and they decided violence was the best way to do it.

By the time Erick got to bed, he had gotten rather far with his ideas of city protection, but he had not solved anything at all. Tomorrow, though! Tomorrow, he could solve some future problems.

- - - -

The alchemists of Star Song did not show; apparently they were in the middle of making great strides with chelation, and they could not leave the potion house.

Erick got the distinct impression that he would need to seek them out himself, if he wanted to see how they, and Tadashi, were doing.

Maybe tomorrow… or the day after.

- - - -

The sun peeked up above the eastern horizon, while the clan mountains of Holorulo were surrounded by an ocean of fog that had drifted in from the Wanzhi River, hiding much of the ceremonial land below and making the clan cities seem like giant ships at sea. It was a good view. Erick enjoyed the sights, as he ate a simple breakfast of cinnamon rolls and fresh coffee on the open third floor of his temporary housing, listening to birds caw and chirp in the cultivated forests nearby, and then listening to Ophiel as the [Familiar] mimicked the birds.

He was glad for the coffee. He had found some people growing the trees when he had rained over in Alaralti, so it was a simple matter to get some proper coffee from those growers. It was a fine blend, too, as the people there were tenth generation Classed Farmers; a small branch family under High Clan Severing Crescent. They had altered Erick’s initial plant into something slightly less bitter, with hints of vanilla. There would likely be lots of similar coffee varieties in several decades and lots more people drinking the stuff, for coffee was great for waking up; tea simply couldn’t compare.

Erick glanced downstairs with his mana sense.

Poi was in the kitchen —which was set up for a Cook, no doubt!— getting himself some of the cinnamon rolls that Erick had made; he’d be up here soon enough. Jane and Teressa were both still asleep in their own beds. Teressa seemed to be doing alright. Jane was doing fine, too. She was still working under Patriarch Mirizo Star Song in order to fulfill her end of the bargains Erick had made between her and them, but she would be sleeping in the same house as Erick, every night, which was great. The deployments to the Underworld had been canceled, too. With all the restructuring required due to the recent war and the loss of personnel, Jane had even agreed to monster hunting duty above and beyond their bargain.

Killing monsters was a big responsibility of the clans of Songli. It was a big responsibility of anyone who donned the mantle of political power, here in Nelboor, or anywhere else, actually.

But keeping people safe from other people was another matter entirely.

