Acting on their advice, Gen blocked the spear thrust with his bare hands, using the momentum to create distance between them. From barely three strides away, he unleashed a gout of flames at the rodent bitch, lamenting the need to end her so quickly. There was no helping it, the brutish inhuman was too powerful, too skilled, this was the only way.

Twisting violently to one side, Gen spun a full circle before he realized what hit him, Sumila’s spear still shaking as it protruded from his shoulder. So powerful a throw, Bei couldn’t entirely deflect it, though she saved his life, keeping the projectile from piercing his heart. A good wife for a good man, this was the Heavens repaying him for his earlier sufferings. The world shifted and he found himself at the base of the bridge, back among his comrades and wrapped in his dutiful wife’s arms.

His world erupted in pain as the spear wrenched from his shoulder. Gasping for breath, his vision spun as he tried to make sense of the madness, watching the spear land neatly in Sumila’s smoking hand. With reddening skin peeling from half her face, her arrogant sneer burned into his memory, her scorn and disregard striking him to the core. “Hmph. I’ve nothing to fear from you. If not for that Demon protecting you from the shadows, I’d have killed you a dozen times over. You thought to challenge Rain with only your paltry flames and pitiful skills? Pathetic. You're not worthy to even speak his name.”

Rage overtook him and he shrieked, “Bei, kill her! Kill her now!”

Bei leaped to follow his commands and the Butchers following suit, cheering as they charged the bridge. This was supposed to be his chance to shine, leading his comrades to victory, but instead, he was humiliated and beaten soundly in front of everyone. Worst of all, no one cared. His comrades followed Bei into battle, Gen’s defeat already forgotten, of no consequence at all. Mortified and miserable, Gen stumbled away in search of a better vantage point, hoping to catch Sumila’s last moments.

Once victory was theirs, Gen would lead an army North and scour the Bekhai from this world. No man, woman, or child would be spared, for this was the price for crossing the Emissary of Flame.

Chapter Meme

Chapter Meme 2: Electric Boogaloo
