Perhaps he was being overly cautious, but he was loathe to repeat his mistakes and lose another quin, or worse. Then again, as he scattered the Defiled before him and ran them down with ease, he decided discretion was the better part of valour. This wasn’t the time for duels and glory, this was merely a hunt, a cleansing of the camp. Splitting his retinue would mean making the same mistake the Defiled had, spreading themselves too thin. Better to present a united front until a better image of the Enemy numbers presented itself.

Riding past the lines of burning tents, he emerged from the smoke and came to a skidding halt, thanking the Mother he’d reined in his impulses. Arrayed before him was a column of Defiled, at least five hundred strong as they rode down the remnants of an Imperial defence. From across the distance, he watched as the Defiled Chieftain, marked by his elaborate, horned headdress, turned towards them. Even from here, Huushal saw the disdain in his eyes, and with a wave of his hand, half the Defiled riders turned and charged, whooping and hollering as they bored down upon him.

Grinning, Huushal raised his saber and shouted, “Retreat!”

Not his first instinct, but outnumbered five to one and facing a chieftain, he disliked those odds. Melting away as quickly as they arrived, Huushal threw his pursuers off and led his Sentinels in a tight circle, using the smoke and cover to hide their movements. In this, Jinx was supremely talented, sticking close to ground as she scrabbled over dirt and mud. Emerging almost three hundred meters west of where they last appeared, Huushal drew his bow and lifted it to the sky, firing blind on memory alone. His retinue followed suit and their arrows shrieked through the night sky, arcing over the flames to come crashing down on where he hoped the Chieftain stood.

He didn’t stay to find out whether the barrage was successful. Riding off, he repeated the maneuver twice more before falling back, unwilling to press his luck. Chuckling beneath his breath, he patted Jinx as she carried him away. With a name like hers, luck was the last thing to rely on.

Jaga’s loss was painful, but it taught Huushal a valuable lesson. He was not a rampaging bull, charging headlong at every problem. Out in the wilds, a wolf put survival above all else. Whittle away at your prey, pick your battles, and fight as a pack. He wasn’t the most skilled tactician or the quickest learner, but so long as he survived, he would have time to grow.

The Defiled Chieftain burst from the shadows and fell upon him in a heartbeat. Battle broke out around them as Defiled met Sentinel in a flurry of clashing blades and gnashing teeth. Huushal’s saber blocked the first blow by reflex and the impact shook him down to the bones. The arrows poking from the Chieftain’s flesh did little to slow him, relentlessly pressing forwards. The crude axe smashed Huushal’s saber aside whenever they crossed, barely able to keep a grip on his weapon. Though still able to trade, it was evident he was outmatched. The Chieftain’s garo bit into her shoulder and Jinx screeched in fear, reeling back and throwing Huushal from the harness. Landing with a thud, he wheezed as the air exited his lungs, watching Jinx scamper away. Then all he knew was talon and fang, rolling away as the garo rent and tore at his flesh, his world exploding in pain and suffering.

A taloned claw stomped onto his chest and his ribs cracked beneath their weight. Staring up at the slobbering beast, he looked past the fangs and saw the Chieftain’s cruel smile. Yanking at the reins, the Chieftain pulled his garo away and left Huushal to bleed, likely saving him for a tortuous death.

Blood dribbling down his chin, he struggled to draw breath, every cough wracking his body with pain. ‘Damn me,’ he thought, staring up into the heavens. ‘So this is my penance for letting Jaga die, thrown from the back of his replacement. Fitting. That cowardly beast truly is a jinx, but I hope she survives.’

With a shuddering breath, he closed his eyes to rest.

Chapter Meme
