They covered her in a second. The ants became a biting, writhing mass a second before Ulvama blew fire over them. Then the ants were running in every direction, flaming until they collapsed.
“We’re going to die.”
“No, we’re not. Can you make a wall spell? We have to find somewhere they can’t swarm us.”
Ulvama looked around wildly. The only place she could imagine safety existed was the marsh. Or…
“Inside the hive! Until they dig in—they have to come through the tunnel!”
She and Erin ran for the only natural cover: the walls where termite remains crunched under foot. The first wave of purple ants was fast, but the rest came on, and Erin could swear she heard the thrumming of so many moving.
When she heard skittering behind her, Erin stopped.
“Ulvama! Keep running!”
The Hobgoblin turned, but Erin halted and began punching and kicking the ants who tried to bring her down. They covered her, and she nearly fell over by the weight of them, but black flames began burning them, and her hands ripped mandibles off, punched through their weak carapaces—
Nothing like the Antinium. She was panting, trying to literally create a pile of corpses, when Erin heard a buzzing sound. She looked up—and an ant with a green carapace and brown mandibles did something weird.
Its mandibles buzzed, then it bit Erin and drew blood.
“Argh!”
It hurt! Erin tossed it away, and another green one buzzed—she dodged. It jumped, and the mandibles blew a chunk out of the termite hive.
Could they bite through wood with that? If they could harm her—Erin saw more green ones coming. She ran.
The termite hive was vast, and the tunnels were big. Given the state of them, Erin thought they had been enlarged by the army ants destroying this nest. Ulvama stopped in the one place she could find: the nest of what had probably been the termite queen.
She had blockaded one entrance by ripping pieces of the nest apart when Erin ran into the chambers. The hive was thrumming, and Ulvama whirled.
“Erin!”
The [Innkeeper] was bleeding from her cheek and right leg. She panted.
“The green ones buzz. They’re dangerous. They’re—”
Right behind her. She whirled, and Ulvama screamed as the ants tried to flood her nearly-barricaded tunnel. They burst through the wood, and Erin leapt for her.
“Ulvama!”
A huge, red beetle smashed all the army ants in front of it to paste. It charged through the tunnel and Ulvama’s barricade, and shook ants off it. It whirled—Erin reflexively raised her fists. Then she noticed another shape behind her.
Something was fighting through a swarm of ants behind her. Erin stared—and a badly-bitten hamster kicked a buzzing green ant’s head off its body and leapt into the only chamber not covered in ants.
When it spotted Erin, it almost attacked her, and the Corumdon beetle clacked its mandibles. Erin inhaled—and the other two creatures tensed—and Ulvama smashed her thorn spear down.
“[Shaman’s Orders]! Stop fighting! You idiots—work together or die!”
Erin stopped mid-inhale. She didn’t know if the beetle got it, or the hamster, but the press of angry ants coming at them probably decided the two, Ulvama or not.
Kill each other now or later—they were all going to die if these things swarmed them. Ulvama, at the rear, planted her thorn-staff on the ground.
“Erin—[Bloodfury]! Hamster—[Lion’s Strength]! Beetle—[Stone Shell]! [Lava Orb]!”
She threw a ball of lava that splashed across one of the entrances, and ants running into the lava splayed out in agony as they melted. The beetle snapped, killing dozens of army ants with each sweep of its mandibles, ramming forwards and crushing them to pieces. Erin and the battle hamster punched and crushed the ants—
But there were way too many. One of the green ones buried its vibrating mandibles in the beetle’s back, cracking the shell that even Erin had failed to mar. Ulvama shrieked as an ant took a chunk out of her leg. The battle hamster was a bloody mess, and Erin?
The fifth green ant to strike her tore flesh off from her arm. She looked around as Ulvama hid behind the beetle, which had retreated to a corner of the room and was now snapping defensively, ants pressing in from all sides. The hamster was on its back, kicking and punching off ants crawling up it.
And Erin? Erin looked around and wondered if this was how she died. Surrounded by army ants. A Level 55 [Innkeeper]—her eyes roamed the anthill.
“I get it. I get it. There’s nothing here. Even the green ones…they’re not Antinium. It’s just you. Just you. I know where you are. I’ll kill you—I kill everything.”
Black flames were beginning to burn across the floor around her. Even the ants throwing themselves at the others in a rush began to back away as their friends burned.
“Erin, we have to go!”
Ulvama screamed at her. She was trying to escape. Erin turned.
“Run, Ulvama. I’ll kill her.”
Who? The Goblin shouted, but Erin was walking now, tilting her head. She was bleeding—but now she saw it.
“You were following me this entire time. Now I see you.”
The [Innkeeper] stumbled forwards. Laughing and staring at—something. Muttering a dark spell that made the flames burn higher. Black and filled with her hate.
By the twitching of my eyes, so shall you die.
 
——
 
“—There! Right there! Do it!”
Ulvama was pointing at a wall, shouting at the battle hamster and beetle. The beetle was making a final stand, attacking left and right in a blur as she cast [Speed] on it. The hamster? The hamster was winding up.
“[Lion’s Strength]. [Bloodfury]—now!”
The hamster jumped, twisted its body up like a corkscrew—and kicked. The section of the termite nest that Ulvama had pointed to exploded as the spot she’d weakened with flame and ice spells received the kick.
“With me! Run! Erin! Erin?”
The Corumdon beetle turned, and Ulvama and the hamster clung to its back. She tried to make it turn—but there were black flames everywhere behind her, and Erin—
The beetle buzzed out into the night as, below it, the entire area was covered in writhing army ants. Ulvama shouted.
“Erin!”
The beetle was juking left and right, dodging ants who actually climbed up into the trees to leap at it; it was trying to find a safe spot, but circled the cleared ground around the termite’s nest. Ulvama stared down at the anthill in horror. Then she, the hamster, and beetle saw a flickering flame.
“It’s on fire.”
Black flames had engulfed the entire nest. Even the army ants were fleeing the blaze. Ulvama saw more light—a dark one that seemed to be both vibrant and darker than the growing night—flaring in front of the termite nest.
“Erin. There—there!”
Ulvama pointed, and the beetle buzzed down. The [Innkeeper] was heading towards something on the ground. When Ulvama cast [Eagle’s Eyes], she gasped in horror.
Erin was covered in blood. She was limping as ants, green ants, tried to bite her in half. But she kept throwing her fire of hatred at them. She was cutting a path through the sea of insects. Was she—
Laughing?
She was hunting something down. Ulvama saw a mound of ants ahead of Erin, protectively grouped up. A third kind of ant, with ominous white heads, three times as large as the others, were guarding something trying to crawl away from Erin.
The queen of this colony. The [Innkeeper] was making her way towards it. And now, as Ulvama flew lower, she heard Erin screaming.
“Come on! You want me? I’ll kill you. I’ll kill the gods—just like I killed the [Slavers]. Everything and anything in this world. Do you think I’m afraid?”
She ripped an ant’s mandibles off its face. Erin exhaled, and the white ants charging her became a wave of immolating bodies. She staggered, gasped for air.
—A wave of ants poured down on her, exposing the largest ant of them all. A gigantic, bloated queen, surrounded by her unborn eggs, literally carried by the other ants. Erin pointed at her.
“I am going to kill you. I swear—”
She staggered. Tore off a green ant who had buried its mandibles in her flesh. A white ant knocked her down—then curled up and began to burn as black flames overtook it. When Erin got up—she looked up, then down at her hands.
“My heart has a crack in it.”
The fury in the [Innkeeper] vanished a second. She looked sick—then she began swaying. The queen of this colony of magical army ants watched, unmoving save for the twitching antennae, as ants tried to pour over the burning [Innkeeper].
There was a crack across Erin’s face. The most hairline of fractures. Thinner than any cut—for a second, Erin felt at her face and recoiled.
Mandibles? Her eyes—they blinked, and she held up her hands.
“Get away. That’s mine. That’s my…”
She inhaled again, to breathe more hatred into the world, and fell onto one knee. A pair of white ants grabbed her—but rather than bite—they began dragging her towards the queen ant.
The large magical ant began to crawl towards Erin, over the bodies of her subjects. Ignoring the danger of the fire—hungrily—the entire colony of army ants thrummed, their magical heads glowing. As if something important might happen.
The [Innkeeper] was struggling to resist—and the queen ant reached out an exploratory feeler. Erin was bleeding, injured, in pain from her former wounds and exhaustion. There were feelers growing from her head, and the ant queen was doing something to her.
—But then she began to rise. And the army ants recoiled, and the queen of the ants froze. Blood was spilling from Erin’s mouth. Blood turned black with flames. Her eyes were filling with blood, and when she smiled—
“You can’t kill me. I’ll win each time. No matter what it costs.”
She was rising as army ants tried to drag her back. Erin’s body was jerking. There was a hum in the air; her feet began to trace over the ground as if she was dancing. Flames burning on her body like a profane sacrifice. Erin reached out—
And Ulvama screamed.
“[Flame Strike]!”
A pillar of fire bathed the army ants’ queen in flames. Ordinary, magical flame, struck the earth, knocking Erin off her feet. She landed on her back, stunned, and the mad stare turned to one of shock.
“—Ulvama?”
Above! The Goblin was in the skies! Another jet of flames shot downwards, hitting the army ant queen and engulfing her in a vortex of light.
The ants around the queen buzzed in agony, trying to protect their leader. Her bodyguards threw themselves in front of the flames as the queen recoiled in agony. The army of angry ants buzzed—
—And the Corumdon Beetle landed. The queen of the army ants beheld a furious pair of mandibles. Then Ulvama heard a crackling sound.
The beetle snipped the army ant queen’s head off her body, and the [Shaman] felt all the ants around Erin convulse in agony. They began going insane. Ulvama planted her staff, drew on her magic, and threw out a hand.
“[Berserk Wave]! Erin!”
She charged over, grabbed Erin, hoisted the [Innkeeper] onto her back, and ran. The beetle and hamster were fighting, but confused; every ant around them had suddenly turned on each other in a killing frenzy.
“Fly! Fly, you stupid beetle!”
Ulvama dragged herself on board the beetle’s back, and then they were airborne. It flew, no longer in danger of the ants leaping from the trees; they were engaged in a massive civil war.
“Ulvama?”
Erin was covered in soot and blood, but as Ulvama frantically poured water on her, it revealed that most of it was ant blood, not her own. She was still choking for air—Ulvama had seen Drakes like that.
“Breathe. In. Out. We’re getting you to safety. We killed the queen.”
“You did?”
The [Innkeeper] seemed incredulous. Ulvama stared at Erin. Soot had left black trails down her face. Tears?
She held Erin tightly.
“Yes. You’re safe. Stop—stop fighting. Okay?”
[The Wandering Innkeeper] panted. She closed her eyes and went limp. Below and behind them, Ulvama saw the black flames spreading over the ground, engulfing the remains of the termite anthill dying out. She turned her head—the buzzing beetle was letting them sit on its head as it flew. But it was a dangerous, precarious ride. Ulvama realized it wasn’t just the beetle’s flight; it was actually a fairly steady flier.
It was the shaking. Erin looked up, and the battle hamster was as far away on the small amount of ground as could be. It was doing that hopping motion on its feet, even now. And she realized—
“It’s shaking. Is it scared? Of me?”
She looked up blankly. For answer, Ulvama just wiped at Erin’s face and tried to bind some of the bites. The Hobgoblin looked back. The only thing she could think to ask was—
“What was the ant queen doing? Your face—”
Erin passed a hand over her features. The crack was gone. But she whispered, her voice croaking.
“I think it was after my soul. There’s a crack in it.”
Then she passed out.
 
 
Day 10
 
When Erin woke up, she found Ulvama bandaging the hamster’s arm. Every time the [Shaman] moved the injured arm, the hamster would bite at her.
“Stop. Bad. I am helping you.”
Ulvama would stop, scold the hamster, and keep making the sling. It was such a strange sight that Erin watched for a while, lying in a leaf bed. Then she saw something big and red move.
The Corumdon beetle was snacking on a tree. Tearing strips of bark away—when it noticed Erin, it backed away from her. But Ulvama just patted it on the head.
“Tada.”
She turned to Erin, and the [Innkeeper] gave her a stupid look. Which was preferable to her expression of yesterday. Ulvama jerked her thumb at her chest.
“I tamed them.”
“…Huh?”
The [Shaman] slapped her chest.
“I tamed them! See? You. Give those acorns.”
She pointed at the battle hamster and a pile of acorns ‘liberated’ from a nearby rodent. The hamster ignored Ulvama. After a few seconds, Ulvama went and picked up an acorn. The hamster tried to bite her—she and it slapped at each other for a few seconds, and she yanked the acorn away and brought it over to Erin, panting.
“See? Tamed.”
It looked more like a weird truce than anything, or just a cessation of hostilities. Both beetle and hamster hid behind Ulvama when Erin got up, or tried to. However, they didn’t seem to want to fight.
“Be nice to them. Don’t be scary.”
“I’m not scary. Are the ants…”
“Dead. Or making a new queen. We’re safe. You just rest, okay? I will get food. You—more nuts. You—firewood.”
The beetle went back to eating the tree. The hamster went back to cracking nuts. After a while, Ulvama gathered the fallen bark and acorns and gave Erin a proud look.
Was this what being a [Shaman] was? If so, she was shamaning well. Erin lay there. She didn’t say anything for a while.
“I think I went crazy back there, Ulvama.”
“You ‘think’?”
