Therefore, Ulvama and Erin gathered up leaves and tried to make a fort with them, just something they could nap under with a bit of cover. They were using a round rock as a base, but the absence of nice sticks meant that Ulvama was having trouble with a support beam.
“Stupid leaves!”
Erin was cutting one to try and attach them to each other, but they were more fragile than the ones they’d found earlier on. An entire wall collapsed, and Erin got up to help Ulvama rebuild the structure when she stopped.
“Do you smell that?”
Ulvama thought Erin had begun making the cook fire again—until she smelled poop and groaned. She spun, grabbing for her spear—and saw the filthwobbler. And—to her shock and dismay—a rather large snake.
It was slithering past the two’s camp, so silent that Erin hadn’t noticed. Whether it was venomous or not—Ulvama did not like the red body and black-and-white stripes—it was definitely big enough to try and eat them.
The snake hadn’t noticed them, though. It was circling the filthwobbler, who was coming in their vague direction. Erin and Ulvama crouched behind the rock, watching, as the snake did two long rotations around the filthwobbler, which stopped, wobbled in place…and the snake flicked out its tongue and uncoiled and slithered away.
“What the heck? Either it’s poisonous or the snake doesn’t want to eat poo. Actually, that’s a great defense mechanism.”
Erin stared at the thing, and Ulvama muttered.
“If you roll around in the toilet, I will leave you here.”
The giggling from Erin made the filthwobbler notice their presence. It wobbled over, and Ulvama groaned.
“Aw. Go away, gross thing!”
She jabbed at it with her thorn-spear—and it retreated as Ulvama shouted. The Hobgoblin advanced, and it backed away. Erin walked forwards.
“It doesn’t seem hostile, and my [Dangersense] isn’t going off. Get lost.”
She made a fist, and the filthwobbler retreated. It made no sound, and Ulvama glanced at the thorn spears.
“We should use these for the camp. Here, give. If it comes over, punch it.”
“Ew. No. I’ll throw fire at it.”
“Sure, whatever.”
Ulvama went back to setting up the camp, letting Erin chase off the filthwobbler thing. The thorns helped make some supports, but one damn gust of wind blew the entire fort apart again. Cursing, Ulvama shouted.
“Erin! I think we need to sleep in the open. This won’t—whoa!”
She jerked as the filthwobbler came around the rock. Erin, who had gone off to find more leaves or sticks, came back at a run.
“Ulvama! I thought I chased it off! Get back—”
She raised a fist—and Ulvama saw the filthwobbler pick up the wall she’d been trying to anchor into the ground and kiss the section where the leaves met rock. It left something wet and sticky there, and Ulvama blocked Erin with one arm.
“What the heck?”
The filthwobbler added another section of slimy ‘glue’ to the wall, wobbled over to another section, put it up, and attached it together. In seconds, it had two walls standing, and when the wind gusted—the pieces refused to fly off!
Ulvama and Erin stared at their wall. They stared at the filthwobbler.
They held their noses and backed away. And the strange creature kept building.
 
——
 
“It’s…it’s like a scavenger-helper thing. See? It keeps going after edible stuff. Moss. Lichen.”
“Those are the same thing, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] shushed Ulvama with a finger. The two were following the filthwobbler around at dusk, mostly because their camp had been set up in record time. It was an amalgamation of glue, cut leaves, and their thorn spears and was pretty damn solid.
Something the filthwobbler secreted was a natural adhesive. Erin bet it was a mollusk of some kind and ate an herbivorous diet. It could grow primitive limbs, and as far as they could tell, it was semi-sentient.
But what really made it odd was how it interacted with, well, everything.
Case in point: birds. Shortly after roaming around their campsite, the filthwobbler had gone off and begun eating moss by the nearby stream.
A bird had grabbed it. Thus spelled the end of the filthwobbler; a robin had picked the thing up, borne it to one of the sporadic trees, and Erin and Ulvama had expected to see the filthwobbler die, especially when they heard the chirping of young birds.
Instead—they saw the bird put the filthwobbler down on a branch and the thing wobble around a nest and begin gluing branches and twigs into place. The storm of a few nights ago had done some damage to a nest, and the robin kept flying down as the thing repaired the nest.
“Is…is that normal?”
Erin turned to Ulvama, and the Hobgoblin shook her head.
“I have never seen that in my life. Look! It finished building the nest, and now—”
The robin picked up the filthwobbler and flew it down to the ground. It dropped the thing, and the wobbler wooblied over to some half-eaten mushrooms.
“It’s a symbiote! It helps build things, and nothing eats it! That must be why it’s smeared in—aw, gross. It’s using bird droppings and wiping it all over itself!”
The creature’s behavior became more and more obvious to Ulvama and Erin, even if it was oddly fascinating. It made itself unappetizing and, simultaneously, helpful. Based on how it acted, Erin was almost certain it was edible to at least a few species. But the snake, the bird, and even Erin and Ulvama had decided it wasn’t worth killing to eat. Especially if it built things, repaired nests, and put out fires.
Try as she might, Ulvama couldn’t detect anything poisonous from the secretions of the filthwobbler either. She did insist they sit outside to eat dinner, just in case, but if the bird was happy to use the repair glue on its nest…
“Maybe we should have had it help make a backpack.”
“Ew. That’d stink. Hey! I’m not that bad at making them, am I?”
Erin smiled a bit after dinner. She looked better after the morning, and the two sat there. Ulvama produced something she’d worked on in their sudden spare time.
“Here. You come and sit.”
“What’s that? Aw, Ulvama…”
The Hobgoblin had a comb. She’d noticed how, despite their washing, both their hair was filthy. She made Erin sit there as Ulvama combed her hair.
“It’s good to do. Don’t you do this?”
“What, comb each other’s hair and have sleepovers? Nah. Not since I was a kid. I never liked that sort of thing.”
“…It’s not a child’s thing. Sometimes, you do things together. Don’t you and Lyonette do this?”
Erin cracked one eye open.
“Well, we talk. Sometimes. But we don’t braid each other’s hair and stuff.”
“You should. Talking to someone helps. Is there anyone you talk to regularly?”
“…Well, I have Ishkr—”
“Not for work, stupid.”
“Niers?”
“Niers is different. Someone else.”
Erin stared up at Ulvama’s face.
“We do the morning dance thing. That’s pretty good.”
Ulvama sighed. She tried not to show Erin how much hair the [Innkeeper] was losing with some of the crude comb’s passes. For such a…social class, Erin really was private.
As the two sat there, they realized the filthwobbler had gone off into the distance. Neither one wished it ill, for once. And when Ulvama looked up, she realized night had truly fallen. Their glowing fire was mercy, this time, bright—and it attracted something with the night.
“What’s that?”
Erin reached for Ulvama’s stone knife, and the two heard a buzzing sound. They froze—and then a light blossomed.
A firefly, big, abdomen glowing bright yellow, buzzed around their fire. It landed, and Erin recoiled.
“Aw, gross. Get lost. Hey, do they eat meat?”
If they did, the firefly wasn’t about to take on Erin and Ulvama, who were bigger than it was. It nosed up to the fire, sensed that it wasn’t another mate, and buzzed up. Then Erin saw more lights appearing.
“Wow. Fireflies.”
It seemed not all species were dead here. Ulvama saw dozens, then hundreds of lights in the air around them, congregating together, their own intricate mating rituals flashing through the night. And of course they’d honed in on one of the light sources: Erin’s fire.
Several landed and tried to eat some of the remaining pieces of squirrel meat; Erin had to shove a few back as Ulvama hid the food inside the tent. When she came outside, she saw Erin was staring at her hands.
“You didn’t kill…?”
“Nah. One tried to bite me, and I gave him a punch to the abdomen. He’s fine.”
A bug squirming on its back then flying away rapidly indicated the veracity of that statement. But Ulvama saw Erin was dusting off her palms. Then—she saw Erin’s hands were glowing.
“Firefly dust. Look at that.”
It was a faint glow, but it was echoed around them hundreds of times, and more fireflies landed, seeking a potential mate. Male or female, Erin and Ulvama couldn’t tell, but they were actually somewhat friendly. Ulvama ran her hands over their wings and shells and got more dust on her hands when she poked at their underbellies.
“Well, well. The first insects we’ve met who aren’t a threat. Unless this is the moment they swarm us and try to eat us.”
Erin smiled, but the fireflies really were more interested in each other. Ulvama sat there, staring at the yellow lights flickering around her.
She’d seen far better magic; she’d made far better illusions herself. But the entertainment, simple as it was, made her heart ache for home.
The inn. Strange how that was what Ulvama thought of instead of the Mountain City Tribe. But there was something simple about the inn. Mountain City always had danger to it, within, from other Goblins, and without.
Erin Solstice sat there, cross-legged, staring up at the fireflies. Then she rubbed her hands. Stared down at them.
“That’s something beautiful, at least.”
“Yeah. Not all bad.”
They watched until the fireflies gave up glowing, and after a while, Erin picked something up. She brushed at her hands—then reached out and plucked at Ulvama’s. The Hobgoblin looked down and, after a few seconds, saw a yellow glow illuminate the darkness.
“Here.”
Erin tossed a small pebble up and down. It was glowing a gentle, yellow color. The same as the firefly dust. She handed it to Ulvama, and the Hobgoblin smiled as she felt at it.
“This is nice.”
“Yeah. That’s the kind of thing I can get behind making. Far better than the Densecore stones and weapons.”
Erin smiled as she held the stone up. For a moment, her features softened and she looked genuinely happy with something she had made.
 
——
 
The [Shaman] watched. Ulvama saw Erin inspecting the glowing stone, which had no great magic in it, but was simply delightful. She was at her strongest she had been all day. Simultaneously, her most fragile.
Ulvama was a Goblin [Shaman]. She had done cruel things with people, Goblins. Found moments like these to chisel at them and create sharp edges, or break them. Sometimes, she had picked them up when they were bleeding, patched them up, and sent them to die for the tribe.
She knew she had not changed. She was still Ulvama; if she replaced little Goblin children for white Gnolls, she was doing the same thing.
Tribe and home. And…
Chieftain. The Goblin’s eyes lingered on Erin’s face. The [Innkeeper] had found her. Ulvama had followed her. Until those moments, Ulvama hadn’t known if either one would go that far. Truly, they were a [Shaman] and a Chieftain in the end. Let it be a better duo than the last one.
That was how Ulvama thought of the two of them. Or else it grew too confusing. All she needed to know was that Erin needed good words, and if Ulvama pretended she were a Goblin…it made her believe she could say something.
So she scooted over.
“Erin. Do you want to talk about what you said to Fetohep now?”
She broke Erin out of her reverie and felt guilty, but the [Innkeeper] blinked, took a shuddering breath, and there was enough resolve for her to face whatever was in her head.
Because they had to do something, they watched the fading lights of the fireflies, then looked up. The stars were out. It felt like a while had passed since they’d had the time to stare at them, and they were vivid.
“I don’t know why I started crying, Ulvama. I knew his kingdom was in trouble. Telling him, hearing it from him—seeing that place and knowing I wasn’t going to do anything, and forcing Fetohep to realize I wouldn’t be Khelt’s Queen no matter what? It hurt.”
The woman who could be queen sat there, and Ulvama couldn’t take her eyes off Erin. That was it, she realized vaguely.
Of all the Chieftains and leaders she’d served, and she had known plenty, Erin Solstice was one of two people that Ulvama had ever met who didn’t crave more power, at least not in the way Ulvama normally saw it understood.
Erin was an [Innkeeper]. She could be a [Queen]. But like that silent, rock-eating fool, she had a different view of the world. One Ulvama sometimes didn’t understand.
This is why I keep watching.
“Tell me. Please. When…if we go back to your inn, you will do everything you can to help Khelt. I know you.”
Erin turned bleak eyes to Ulvama.
“I will not be their ruler. I think that was it, Ulvama. I was lying, even to myself. There was a part of me, a small part, that always entertained the idea. It’d be…cool. I know that’s trivializing it. I mean—”
She closed her eyes, and when she opened them, Ulvama saw it.
She who would be [Queen]. 
Erin Solstice, the 20th Sovereign of Eternal Khelt, sat there, and Ulvama could see her sitting upon a throne, shifting around, doing silly, inconsequential things. Dancing around to the dismay of her people. Then drawing a line in the sand and daring nations to cross it.
—Then it was gone, and Erin looked at Ulvama, tears in her eyes. But not falling.
“I guess I had to make a choice. I realized it was hurting him and me. Am I a bad person for wanting it, even though I know I wouldn’t do it and that it would be for the worse?”
“…No. You did hard things. That’s what a Chieftain does.”
Erin dashed at the tears in her eyes with one hand.
“I never wanted to be a Chieftain. But I won’t run from that. Maybe it would be for the good of all if I did become Queen of Khelt and went there. I didn’t. The smart thing was always to go back home and leave Rabbiteater. Ulvama, when we were at sea, I said I would sacrifice the war with the gods and all the ghosts’ promises just to kill as many [Pirates] as I could. Everything between me and Rabbiteater. That’s selfish.”
The [Shaman] put her clawed hand on Erin’s knee and patted it.
“Maybe. But it’s the kind of selfish I like from a Chieftain, sometimes. It’s bad for the tribe if they go after one Goblin, no matter how they suffer. What about the warriors who die? What if we start a war and bring too many Humans after us?”
