Erin nodded, and Ulvama went on.
“—But that one Goblin was once me. Tremborag was not the great Chieftain I ever wanted, but he was selfish. The best ones are. You will never be Ruler of Khelt. But you know what?”
“Mm?”
The Hobgoblin smiled and looked at the stars, then at Erin’s face, illuminated by the Firefly Stone.
“…Rulers of great nations don’t make silly magic stones like that. They don’t have your hat. There were nineteen rulers of Khelt. There will be others. There is only one [Innkeeper] like you.”
A surprised laugh burst out from Erin’s chest. She looked at Ulvama—then hugged her, one-armed. The Hobgoblin grinned, and Erin chuckled.
“Oh man. If Fetohep ever heard that—just between you and me? I think you’re right. Thanks, Ulvama.”
They sat like that a while until Erin dropped her arm, as if unsure how long you gave someone a hug. After a bit, Ulvama asked another more selfish, but still important question.
“If he knows you’re not with the Titan—do you think he’ll send help?”
Erin’s face grew troubled. Ulvama gave her a sidelong look, and the [Innkeeper] exhaled.
“I bet he will. I could even ask, but—it sounds like there’s a fake me playing decoy out there. Smart. I wonder if Silvenia did that?”
Ulvama shrugged.
“Maybe the Titan? He’s smart.”
“Yeah. But even if Fetohep knows we’re gone…no scrying spells. And he didn’t recognize where I was from our descriptions. Wailer Frogs are apparently in multiple continents. We need a landmark or something to even tell him which continent we’re on. Once we have that—I’ll signal someone we can trust.”
That made Ulvama feel a lot better. They had a way out; all they needed was that crucial element. She patted Erin’s knee, grateful, and Erin grinned back.
They sat there a while longer, lingering. Then a yawn burst from Erin’s lips. She got up, walked into the little leaf fort, and put the stone down.
It kept glowing through the night as the two went to sleep, for once with bellies full and with a good sight for the night, not an ill one. Ulvama listened to Erin sleep and nodded to herself.
Still, even now, marooned on a distant place—
She was still fascinated. Then Ulvama closed her eyes and went to sleep.
At some point, the filthwobbler came by and tossed dirt on the dying flames of mercy until they were out. Then it wobbled off.
 
 
Day 9
 
The one reprieve of the night made Ulvama feel better when she woke. She ate meat for breakfast, tied the glowing rock Erin had made to her pack, and the two grinned at each other.
“Feeling better, Erin?”
“Yep. Thanks.”
The two high-fived over breakfast. Ulvama took another big bite of salted squirrel. She had the idea they might either check out the deadwood spires for height and to see what that strange thrumming sound was, or keep heading ‘north’, the way they were going.
She looked up—
And the hamster was there.
He had only one eye, and he stood on two legs. Which any hamster could do. But most hamsters didn’t have a wooden bat. Or if they did, they didn’t hold it like they understood what a bat was.
Nor did they usually look ready to fight. This one had battered, tawny fur, and just stood there.
Menacingly.
Yes, menacingly. Ulvama stopped eating, and for some reason, she felt a shock run down her body. Erin stopped drinking water and looked up.
“My [Dangersense] is going off. Unbelievable.”
“The hamster is real? It followed us?”
“Yeah. Like the beetle.”
Both cast their glances skyward, but the Corumdon Beetle was nowhere to be seen. Erin got up, slowly, as Ulvama warily put down the meat.
Then eyed the hamster. It was staring at them. Ulvama remembered the squirrel.
“Erin…do you think it knows we killed the squirrel?”
The [Innkeeper] glanced down. She blinked—then eyed the hamster. It was very still…no, wait. Was it doing the same thing she’d seen when they met last time?
Bouncing up and down on its tiny paws? She cracked her neck.
“Maybe. Let me deal with it. Hey, you! Get lost! We had a nice night—we don’t need more food.”
She began walking towards the hamster, and Ulvama grew unaccountably worried. She stood up.
“Erin, be careful.”
Ulvama grabbed their packs. But Erin was using the language of the forest. That was to say, Ceria-speak.
“My friend taught me how to talk to animals. Get lost! Shoo! I’ll hit you!”
She was only a dozen paces away from the hamster, and it didn’t move. It was watching Erin, though. The [Innkeeper] hesitated. She turned her head to Ulvama.
“I can’t tell if it’s scared or wh--umpf!”
The hamster moved as Erin turned her head. It swiveled—and then hit her in the stomach with the bat.
Like someone swinging a home run in baseball. It was so coordinated Ulvama’s jaw dropped. Erin staggered.
“—Nevermind. Okay b—”
The hamster brought down the bat two-handed on Erin’s head, and she fell over. Ulvama rubbed at her eyes. Then she pinched a cheek.
“Am I dreaming?”
The hamster waited as Erin got up slowly. Erin rubbed at her head.
“Didn’t hurt. Got the message, little guy?”
She raised a fist—and the hamster slapped Erin across the face with the bat she’d made. This time, Erin reacted. She twisted, threw a punch—and the hamster hopped back. Erin rubbed at her face.
“You okay, Erin?”
“Yeah, it’s not that strong. Pretty strong for a hamster, though. You stay back.”
Erin walked forward, took two swings—and the hamster hit her on the shoulder, then side, and Erin didn’t even flinch. She threw three jabs—it hopped back each time. It was fast.
Reminded of Erin’s story about it hitting the Wailer Frog, Ulvama called out.
“Maybe don’t provoke it, Erin?”
“I’m just chasing it off. One sec—that’s my bat, buster. You want to hit me with it? Go ahead—hah!”
Erin blocked the next bat strike to her face with one arm. The hamster hopped back instantly, but then it stared at the grey fire of mercy on the bat. Erin had ignited it.
Instantly, the hamster dropped the bat. It scurried to the side on all fours. It stared at the bat, now on fire, and then Erin. The [Innkeeper] flicked grey flames at the hamster, and the battle rodent leapt back.
“That’s right. Human have scary fire. Get lost unless you want a [Mini-Minotaur Punch].”
For good measure, she flipped the hamster off and then began to back away. Erin backed up a few steps. They were two dozen paces away, now, but she didn’t lower her guard.
“Ulvama, get the packs. Let’s lose this hamster once—”
The hamster did a little hop, kicked off the ground with one foot, and blurred. Ulvama blinked.
 
—-
 
Erin landed on her back, staring up at the sky. She’d flown—
“Huh?”
The hamster popped her across her face as she stood up. Erin’s head jerked back—she felt a tiny fist strike her hard and threw a counter. The hamster dodged.
“Okay, it’s f—”
 
——
 
Ulvama had a better vantage point of what was happening. The hamster was zipping across the ground with each attack. It launched itself incredibly far and fast, slamming into Erin like a cannonball.
It could use its fists and feet! It hit Erin twice in the chest; she staggered and swiped back, faster now. She looked actually annoyed.
“What the he—”
Punch to the jaw. The [Innkeeper] didn’t even stumble. The hamster paused, then did a huge hop back as Erin kicked.
They both stared at each other. Ulvama let out a breath; even dangerous as it was, the battle hamster had about as much luck as everything else fighting a Level 50 [Innkeeper]. Erin lowered her hands.
“Hey, little buddy. Don’t do that again. Why don’t you take a hint, huh?”
She smiled. Spread her arms—
The battle hamster punched her in the guts. Erin grabbed for its arm and tore loose a bit of fur. Instantly, the hamster jerked away. Erin blew the fur into the air.
“You can’t hurt me. Leave before I get mad. Or I use one of my new Skills on you.”
She stared at the hamster, and a wave of intimidation rolled off her. Aura. Only—this time, the hamster just vibrated in place. It didn’t move.
Incredulously, Ulvama watched as Erin upped her aura. The robin burst from its nest, screaming in terror, but the hamster just bounced up and down, up and down.
As if sussing Erin out. Then it went for another punch.
Erin’s feet actually left the ground this time. But it didn’t hurt—and when the hamster tried to follow it up with a flying kick, it twisted—then frantically began to squeak.
A spectral vine was wrapped around its foot. As Ulvama kept casting, it snared the hamster’s limbs. The battle hamster became a blur of frantic motion as it tore at the spell. Erin glanced at Ulvama and began to stride over to it—
“Erin. It’s just a hamster.”
And they had food for at least till dinner. The [Innkeeper] stopped.
“Yeah, I know.”
The hamster had already freed itself. It leapt away, landing on all fours and staring at them with its good eye. When it turned its head, Ulvama had the uncanniest feeling it was appraising her. Then it bounded off.
“Don’t come back, pal!”
Erin shouted after it. Then, shaking her head, she went with Ulvama to grab their packs. She jerked her thumb at the place the hamster had been.
“What was that?”
First filthwobblers, now this. Ulvama scratched her head.
“…Maybe he’s Greydath and Silvenia polymorphed him into a hamster?”
The two of them looked at each other. They started laughing and set out on their merry way. They kept shouting at the landscape, asking if ‘Greydamster’ wanted to join them and telling hamster-related Goblin Lord jokes.
—That was until they found what was left of the snake.
 
——
 
Snake. Snake? Snake! 
It took Erin a moment to remember the snake from yesterday. It had just been a moment—but she remembered it not killing the filthwobbler. All well and good, right? It had been maybe…she wanted to say four to five feet long? Big, dangerous, probably venomous, and a threat if it had gone after Ulvama. But it had slithered off, and that was that.
Right?
“…What killed it?”
They found the snake. Or at least, part of it. Something had stripped the flesh off it, leaving only part of its head.
And bones. It looked like there had been a fight around here, too; the ground was churned up a bit. Erin bent down, but whatever tracks were there just looked like a bunch of tiny dots.
“Filthwobbler?”
“Maybe the hamster.”
Both ideas were ludicrous. Well, maybe not the hamster, but Erin refused to believe it could eat that much meat. Still…she was reminded of the [Dangersense] drums she’d heard when approaching this place.
They’d gone silent when she entered this area, probably because she’d ignored them, but, conscious of them, Erin glanced at Ulvama.
“Let’s not go near the deadwood spires, huh? Maybe a good vantage point?”
Ulvama nodded. They looked around; they were approaching a nice, wooden section near one of those spires again. A huge termite mound was visible in a cleared area of reddish dirt. The insects could kill off a lot of vegetation, and Erin wondered if they were a natural check against the jungle itself.
“Let’s avoid the termites. Maybe they did it.”
“Yah. Only…”
Ulvama shaded her eyes. They were walking past the snake now, and she kept glancing at the hive.
“What?”
“I don’t see any termites. I haven’t since yesterday. Not in the trees, nor ground. Is that normal?”
“Maybe termites are nocturnal?”
“Maybe.”
Ulvama was unconvinced, and the odd…solitude of this place was making Erin oddly tense. She kept looking around for the battle hamster. It hadn’t run from her aura, and she had the distinct impression her aura was attracting it. Was it just a fight-maniac hamster? Well, there were fighting fish, weren’t there?
They were just crossing the bare stretch of ground towards the wooded part of the forest when they heard a sound from the marsh in the distance. A familiar one.
Riboooooooooooat.
“Oh. Great. Them again.”
Wailer Frogs. Erin paid them no mind…they were noisy, and that was all. That was, until the sound echoed louder.
Ribiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiit.
The Goblin and Human exchanged a glance.
“Hunting group?”
“Just our luck. Come on, let’s just outrun them this time. They can’t be headed that far inland. Unless I scared off all the food in the marsh.”
The two picked up the pace. But the ribbiting grew louder, and because they had no desire to be deafened, the two cut a closer path to the termite nest across the bare ground.
“Strange…I don’t see any termites.”
Ulvama was panting. She looked down at the ground and stared at a piece of spiked mandibles. Or rather, half of one. Erin blinked. There were pieces of shell everywhere. Insect chitin. They looked at each other as the ribbiting echoed again—
The Corumdon Beetle burst out of the side of the termite nest, and Erin shouted.
“You again!”
It snapped the mandibles closed, and Erin ducked under them. Ulvama screamed.
“Erin!”
“Get back, Ulvama! I’ve got this! Give me a flame attack! Hey, you! You’re going to suffer this time!”
Erin spread her arms, trying to make herself bigger and attract the beetle’s attention. It bit at her, and she ducked and gave it an uppercut.
It’s way too big! Snap-snap went the mandibles, and it seized one of Erin’s arms and tossed her. She landed, rolling upwards.
“You can’t harm me. You know that.”
The beetled pawed the ground and charged. Erin actually grabbed the mandibles, but they heaved her off her feet. Stalemate. But she was only distracting it—the beetle was trying to dig its mandibles down to crush her when Ulvama shouted.
“[Flame Strike]!”
A pillar of flames shot down and blasted the beetle’s top shell. It felt that. The Corumdon Beetle instantly turned, and Erin realized it was way tougher than she thought. Ulvama faltered.
“Wait, it doesn’t burn—”
“Ulvama, dodge!”
Erin grabbed for one leg, and the [Shaman] screamed and fled a second before the beetle slammed into the side of the termite nest. Had it killed the entire nest? Erin stared inside the open ruins of the nest, but it was empty—
“Hey, beetle!”
Her aura flared, and the beetle stopped snapping at Ulvama and whirled. [The Wandering Innkeeper] didn’t kill things she didn’t have to. But seeing the beetle almost take a bite out of Ulvama, who didn’t have Erin’s Skills?
She was done playing around. The beetle charged as Erin’s aura expanded.
“Last chance before I kill you. No? You asked for it.”
Erin set herself like a football player, waiting for the charge. The Corumdon beetle obliged. It surged at her, snapped its mandibles shut on her body—and recoiled.
Black flames covered its mandibles. Ulvama, panting, looked down from the termite’s nest and gasped.
“Erin!”
