Ulvama gently put some wet leaves on Erin’s forehead. She looked at Erin, and without a word, Erin explained.
“It was my aura. It alerted all of the animals, didn’t it?”
“Mhm. Big scary thing comes, and some fight. Even team up. Sort of.”
Erin tried to nod, and it hurt too bad, but Ulvama was gently wiping at her injuries. She’d bandaged all the bites, and Erin had been hurt—but again, not as badly as one might expect. Even the green ants hadn’t done enough to slow her down. A colony of army ants was no match for her. But what she had nearly done…Erin rasped.
“The ants were different. That ant queen—I think she sensed what was wrong with me. There’s a…a line in my soul. Visophecin left it, Ulvama.”
The [Shaman] inhaled, looking worried.
“I didn’t see. In your soul? That’s big magic. Bad. Very bad.”
Erin recalled the mandibles and antennae and touched her face—but realized whatever changes had undone themselves already. She let her arms fall limp.
“I know. I almost—she wanted to do something to me. So I joined her. Or she became a bit of me. I went a bit crazy when I tried to kill her.”
“Just a bit.”
Erin’s hands trembled as she tried to stare at them. She had almost…
She’d known she’d win. If she sacrificed enough. Her flesh. Her health. An arm. She’d known she’d win, but she hadn’t counted the cost.
Ulvama had. The [Shaman] had saved her. Now, Ulvama looked down at Erin.
“Don’t do that again. Even if you’re stronger than me—I was frightened when I was alone, Erin. When you appeared, I was so happy. I want to go home.”
The Hobgoblin touched Erin’s nose with one finger.
“I want to be safe. I’m terrified of this stupid jungle. But I want to escape it with a person. Not with a wild monster protecting me. Understand?”
Erin could barely nod. Ulvama patted her on the head. After a moment, Erin whispered.
“Thank you, Ulvama. I’m sorry.”
The [Shaman] was humming. She didn’t look at Erin’s face as the young woman began to shake. Gently, softly, humming a tune Erin didn’t know, Ulvama wiped at her face.
“For what? You’re still bleeding. There, there. It’s going to be okay.”
The [Innkeeper]’s throat hurt. Her eyes stung. She began trembling harder. Her voice broke, and she whispered.
“I don’t—Ulvama? I don’t think I’m well. I don’t think I’ve been okay for a while. I think I’m still fighting on the ships.”
Ulvama sat next to Erin, gently patting Erin’s arm and looking down at her. At last, the [Shaman] smiled.
“Maybe. But you’ll get better. I promise. That’s why I’m here.”
“I’m still ablaze with flames. I’m trying to keep you safe.”
“I know. It’s going to be okay, Erin. We’re alive.”
Erin reached out, and Ulvama took her hand. The [Innkeeper] squeezed, weak as a mouse. She whispered.
“Thanks, Ulvama.”
 
——
 
When Erin woke up again, she could at least get up to pee and eat more roasted nuts. The battle hamster sat up when it saw Erin. The beetle and Ulvama were competing for ‘biggest snore’. Well, the beetle might just have been flapping its wings as it slept.
Erin sat there, the hamster eying her, and looked at her hands. She couldn’t spot the flames of hatred. But the invisible flames…when she looked at the hamster, it was staring at her, as if trying to see where its enemy had gone.
“Was it just me? Did I cause all my problems?”
It curled up and lay there, and Erin realized since it had lost most of its fur, Ulvama had made another leaf-blanket for it. In silence, Erin sat there and thought. Then she reached for the only thing she had.
 
——
 
“Well, well. You look terrible.”
Erin stared at herself, and her mirror showed her that her hair was now black with soot, despite Ulvama’s best efforts. Her clothing was scorched; she looked like what she had always been. It was just that her appearance was finally catching up with what was inside.
“I don’t think…I’m well, Pavilion of Secrets.”
The other Erin rattled some dice around in a cup.
“No. Took you long enough.”
Erin sat down heavily.
“Are you here to help me?”
“You’re here to help yourself. Or harm yourself. What shall it be?”
The [Pavilion of Secrets] waited. Erin thought about names. And people. And secrets.
She had an idea. It was crazy, stupid, but she could try. She might not have a day ago. But now? She was tired. She needed help. Not just ‘they’, as in her and Ulvama.
She. So, after a while, Erin’s lips moved, and she rasped.
“Can you…can you find someone for me? I don’t know their name.”
Erin Solstice sat up slightly, and the dice stopped rattling.
“Go on. You know the price, don’t you?”
There was always a cost. In this case? It was from her to her, so Erin had to be honest. The [Innkeeper] looked at the empty void. Her lips moved.
“Ulvama. I have to take care of her. If it was me, I’d say I deserve all of this. If it was me—but it’s not.”
She looked at herself, and the other Erin stared back without mercy, just waiting. She knew what the [Innkeeper] would say. But Erin had to still articulate it.
“I’ve been punishing myself. You know it. I know it.”
No response. The other her just waited, and [The Wandering Innkeeper] knew she had to say it all.
“—And I didn’t want anyone to find me. I didn’t want to go back and start it all again. I thought I was…wasn’t fine, but at least strong enough to protect Ulvama. I’m not. I’m not okay. I need help.”
Was it blood or a tear that ran from one eye? Her reflection looked at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] finished, leaning on the chess board.
“So. Please. Can you find someone? I don’t know their name. I don’t know their location. I don’t know who they are. Find me—the closest person to me besides Ulvama who can help. Please.”
She squeezed her eyes shut. Erin was afraid to look. But when she opened her gaze—she swore she saw herself smiling. Then? A rather bewildered-looking man with a battered, dirty vest of silk or something, muddied by nature, exposing weathered, muscled shoulders and callused knuckles was sitting there.
“…Ye called for me? What the heck is wrong with your everything, miss?”
He gave Erin a dubious look, as if annoyed at being summoned. Then he took in her face. He stared at the tear running down her cheek, leaned forwards, and his face grew intent.
“Someone messing you around? You need a hand? I’m good at beating up problems. Just say who’re what. Long as it’s somewhere I can run to.”
She stared at him until he reached out and brushed at her wet cheeks. When he offered her his callused grip. And at last, Erin Solstice smiled.
“Well, first off. I’m lost.”
His eyebrows rose.
“You don’t say.”
 
——
 
That morning, an [Innkeeper] went back to eating nuts and sitting by a fire. And a ways away—someone taking a nap in a hammock he’d set up along the top of a wooden wall jerked—fell out of his post, and shot to his feet.
He looked around, felt at his dirty spider silk vest, raised his fists—spun—then whistled. He stopped, rubbed at his eyes, then leapt from the top of the wall. He fell, a dozen times his height, and landed without fear of the ground.
He was, of course—a Fraerling. And he whistled.
“Hey! Rally everyone up! We’ve got some lost people around here! Somewhere down past the coast n’ Drowned Elf Marsh!”
Somewhere far, in the distance, an [Innkeeper] exhaled and closed her eyes in relief.
 
 
[Shaman of the Old Ways Level 38!]
[Skill – Boss Around Wildlife obtained!]
[Skill – Masterful Holder Rune (1) obtained!]
[Spell – Earthshape learned!]
