Thus, the King of Khelt awoke. He had never truly slept. But his mind had drifted while attending to the minutiae of his duties.
That was how it felt. As if he had had a dream, even while awake. For how else did undead dream?
The King of Khelt stopped watching through a scrying orb an image of the night’s news. His golden flames dimmed until they were almost extinguished. Then flared to brightness.
He jerked upright. A servant in the throne room sweeping up a trail of insects started.
“Your Majesty?”
Fetohep of Khelt looked around. Then at the woman with a gaze that seemed sorrowful. The servant stared—and for a second, Fetohep just sat there. Then he exhaled with ancient lungs, as if he had remembered being alive.
“Call for Alked Fellbow. Summon Pewerthe. Now.”
“At once!”
The servant ran, and Fetohep sat back upon his throne.
“I must plan once more.”
That was all he said. His head dipped—and he almost slumped. Then his chin rose, and his posture became perfect. He sat upon the throne, for dignity could be attempted even at your lowest.
“Thank you, Erin Solstice.”
The Revenant dipped his head towards an invisible figure. He did not feel better; quite the contrary.
But at least he knew. The last and only King of Khelt slowly bent to gather all he had left to safeguard his treasure and duty. For, as he knew:
There was nothing else left.
 
——
 
And Erin simply wept.
 
 
Day 8
 
Some days were hard ones. When Ulvama woke up, Erin was crying. She wouldn’t say why, and she tried to stop when she noticed the Hobgoblin lying there, staring at her.
“It’s nothing. I can’t do anything about it. Let’s just—go.”
But the tears lingered, and Ulvama knew the [Pavilion of Secrets] had caused this. What, exactly, had happened took a long time to get out of Erin over the course of the day.
It was a difficult day, too, that reminded Ulvama of the hardest days when she had left the Molten Stone tribe and become a frightened Goblin trying to be a [Shaman] in places where Anazurhe and great Goblins did not exist.
Hunger. She hated hunger.
“Not much to eat but bugs. You think that one good to eat?”
Erin stared at a passing termite wordlessly. They were responsible for the deadwood spires filled with holes that jutted up in this area; also why there were a lot less trees, Ulvama expected. She wanted to keep away from the termite mounds.
Eating bugs would be rough; it wasn’t like Ulvama was used to it, but there weren’t many birds or—anything about.
Erin’s aura had chased them away. It was a significant problem as Ulvama realized they needed to find a fruit-bearing bush now or head back the way they’d come and find one.
The trouble was…she stared up at one of the remaining trees that looked like termites had taken a damn good chunk out of it. The wood was eaten away, but this tree had survived so far. Yet it was absent of the kiwi-like fruits.
Also, of termites.
You’d expect to see them about, even if they were inside the bark, but Ulvama had seen only one wandering termite, even though she could see the nest there.
“Just in case we need to—that place is food. I can probably use [Control Insects] to lure a few over. Not starve for a day or two. Come on.”
Erin wiped at her face. Ulvama chivvied her along; she would have stopped to do something. What would help Erin? A hug?
She knew Mrsha better and would have bullied or hugged or done something to the sad girl, like last time. Erin…was different. Tough love, holding her arm—it was hard to say. And they had no time.
For while hunger had set in, if not badly from last night—they were also being hunted.
A buzz overhead made Ulvama yank Erin into the shadow of the tree, regardless of the dangerous termites. They had huge heads and could be nasty biters, but they were still small—even if they were pretty damn large relative to the two.
But that red beetle was a goliath. The two foot-long Corumdon Beetle blasted overhead, wings thrumming so loud Ulvama swore she felt the wind, on the hunt.
“Stupid thing.”
Another consequence of Erin’s actions. Ulvama could sense the thing’s hostility, and Erin had fought it once. She pulled Erin by the hand as the [Innkeeper] stumbled after her.
 
——
 
“Maybe this bush? No? Huh. This is the right bush. I know bushes.”
“Maybe it’s not growing fruits?”
“There were fruits on the last one! See? This one’s stripped. Something ate it. And this, too! This is an onion!”
Ulvama was annoyed; she had a decent herb sense, and she’d found the same kind of berry bush that had fed her so long. But all the purple fruits were gone. Even native insect populations and rodents and birds hadn’t been enough to strip the ones she’d found.
Also, she’d seen a green onion stalk. Great, right? Only, it was literally the stalk. Ulvama crouched down.
“Something dug it up. Bulb and all. Look at the bite marks. Probably termites. Here.”
There was enough to chew on. It had almost no calories, but the two ate, and Ulvama checked on Erin. She was still…
Everyone cried. It was just that Erin didn’t really do that, not that Ulvama had seen. The [Shaman] cried when she needed to, alone. Erin? She rallied a bit after eating the onion.
…Killing the squirrel brought the tears back.
 
——
 
It was a squirrel. Just a squirrel poking its head out of a burrow it had made. Actually, given its size, was it a chipmunk? Some crossbreed of the two?
Ulvama didn’t know and didn’t care. Unlike the other animals who’d run off, this one had hidden, but all things needed to drink water. Ulvama had found a tributary that led to the marsh and, on a hunch, had hunkered down with Erin to see if anything took the bait. It was that or insects—and the sight of a furtive rodent creeping out of its den was all she needed to see.
They had needle spears, Ulvama’s stone dagger, their Skills, and magic. The two crept up on the squirrel’s den. The danger to them was not the issue.
Killing the squirrel was just—hard.
It screamed when they leapt into the den and tried to escape, scurrying left and right, making for an escape route it had dug. Ulvama blocked it off with magic, and then they stabbed at it.
With spears—the squirrel was as big as they were. Erin physically blocked it from leaving as it bit and scratched at her, until she was fighting hand-to-hand. Punching it and cracking its skull as it bled. Blood ran down, and Ulvama stabbed again and again.
It was hard, despite her having killed plenty of animals before. If it could have been a clean death…it took fifteen minutes to bring the squirrel down. Even then, Erin tried to break its skull and give it a mercy kill, but had to slit its throat and let it bleed out.
She should have just cast a flame spell and cooked it. Burned it alive? Ulvama sat, cleaning some light scratches, as Erin, covered in blood, handled the butchery.
When she saw the water leaking from the [Innkeeper]’s eyes, Ulvama got up, took the knife, and told Erin to wash herself. She handled the dissection, hauling out chunks of meat for their fire. Even if she wanted to—she wouldn’t use the den as a campsite.
There was too much blood. Ulvama dragged the meat towards a fire on leaves, wondering why this area was so off. There wasn’t much wildlife at all, and at this point, she was doubting it was only Erin’s Skill.
Something dangerous was here, that was clear. And only the squirrel, who had lived in its barricaded den, and a few other animals were even present. At least the beetle had lost them.
Ulvama suspected that if Erin didn’t use her aura, most animals wouldn’t easily locate her. That was some small mercy. She found Erin by the river, staring at the blood on her arms and legs.
“Erin. Come here.”
The Hobgoblin put down the meat and ended up tossing water on Erin. She used the empty carton of soy sauce as a bucket; the blood ran downstream.
“I’m good at killing things.”
That was what the [Innkeeper] said quietly. Ulvama briskly dumped the cold water over Erin’s face.
“No, you’re not. You’d kill it in a minute if you were. Greydath is good at killing.”
“Then, I’m good at getting people killed.”
To that, Ulvama only paused a moment. She dunked more water on her own arms and legs.
“Squirrels are not people. We have to eat. Next time, we’ll do it better. Fetohep is a king. He chooses.”
“He’s given it all for me.”
“So he chose that. We’ll go help him if we can.”
Ulvama scrubbed at Erin’s hair where blood had dried. Erin looked up at her as Ulvama found a tangle of dead hair coming out in clumps. The [Innkeeper] looked…Ulvama glanced around.
We have to find a [Healer]. 
“Ulvama. He thought I had answers. I don’t have any. I wish I didn’t let people down so much. I’m tired. Am I allowed to be tired?”
Ulvama gently poured water over Erin’s head again.
“Sure you are. Just not when we’re cooking food.”
That made Erin laugh faintly. She looked at her arms and legs.
“My body hurts. My arms and legs throb all the time. The birds barely hurt compared to what’s normal.”
That’s not good at all. Ulvama bit her lip. If she could find just one healing herb she knew—she briskly turned around.
“You wash my hair. Get blood out.”
Erin gingerly splashed the water over Ulvama’s head and picked at her hair. After a while, she muttered.
“I’m sorry, Ulvama. I can’t collapse.”
“Yes, you can. It’s good to collapse, especially if you don’t when it matters. Being sad isn’t bad. The [Pavilion of Secrets]…sounds painful.”
“Yes. It is. I can see how Sheta used it to break her enemies. Turn them against each other. I can see how I could steal secrets from powerful people and hurt them.”
Ulvama shivered, and it wasn’t just the water.
“…Don’t summon the Blighted King, maybe? Even if we were safe, how would you trick him? Fetohep likes you, so he talked. But you can refuse to talk, right?”
It didn’t sound like Erin was allowed to torture those she brought, or threaten them. She could use secrets to bargain, but Ulvama still didn’t see the full utility. When she turned, Erin’s face was weary.
“Oh, I can guess. It’s very easy. The Blighted King might be too dangerous. But does he have any children? If I don’t like you, what if I ask your wife for a secret? What if I tell her something? A little boy doesn’t know better. What do you think you could get out of Mrsha?”
Ulvama shivered.
“But you don’t have to do what the others did.”
“I can, Ulvama. I’m not a good person. I could rule Khelt. I’d destroy it. Imagine if I waved a flag and I had a kingdom following me? I don’t love them. It would be so much easier to have them die.”
The [Innkeeper]’s fingers were trembling. Ulvama saw Erin was wet, shivering, so the Hobgoblin dragged them to the fire.
“That’s why you told him no. Come on. Make me food. I’m hungry.”
She stretched out on one of the leaves, trying to look haughty as possible. Erin did smile a bit at that. She began poking the meat onto a skewer.
At least they had enough food for a while. The grisly squirrel den the two agreed to leave behind; they’d cook up as much meat as possible, then eat it elsewhere.
They were so hungry that they ate some food on the spot, then used their salt on the rest to help preserve it. They were just packing up when Erin grabbed Ulvama’s arm.
“Something’s coming.”
The two froze. They were near the little stream and the squirrel’s den. Something had noticed the blood and perhaps the smell of cooking meat. What was it? The beetle? Whatever was here?
Whatever it was, if it was a lizard or something—Ulvama could use dinner. The [Shaman] held her spear at the ready, considering casting [Flame Strike], her most dangerous Tier 4 magic. She and Erin crouched behind a rock and saw it wobbling forwards.
It was…Ulvama squinted at it, then inhaled as whatever it was came upwind of her. She gagged.
It was the foulest thing she’d ever smelled. What was—she saw a yellow, bipedal, wobbling thing walking forwards and stared.
It was like someone had taken a piece of jello, or the internals of a clam or whatnot, and colored it yellow. It was covered in filth and about four inches tall, shorter than Ulvama and Erin. The Hobgoblin didn’t underestimate it; it could still be dangerous. But it was also, distressingly, disgusting. Literal poo was smeared on its body by the smell of it, and the moment it saw the campfire, it stopped.
“What the heck is that?”
Erin whispered at Ulvama. The [Shaman] eyed the wobbling thing.
“Whatever it is, it isn’t dinner.”
It was filthy! And also, the moment it appeared, it made a beeline for the squirrel’s den. It entered, and Erin assumed it was some kind of scavenger—but to her surprise, the wobbly-thing exited the den instantly.
“Strange. It’s not hungry? Wait, it’s going after our fire.”
They’d cooked the squirrel over some flames of frustration, the easiest thing to cook with. It had been small, but they’d gotten it up to a decent size. The two wondered if that was what had attracted the thing. But then it did the oddest thing.
The filthwobbler—that was what Ulvama decided it was—wobble-walked around the magical flames on two stumpy ‘legs’. Then it seemed to come to a conclusion. It bent down and ‘grew’ two arms from its body! It used the stumpy limbs to gather up a ball of dirt.
Then—it dumped the dirt on the fire. The orange flames cracked, and steam rose, and the filthwobbler jerked away. Erin and Ulvama looked at each other as it bent, grabbed more dirt, and began tossing it on the fire.
“What the heck? It’s putting out my flames.”
The filthwobbler kept tossing dirt on the flames until they were extinguished. Then, job seemingly done, it cast around and found some of the onion leaves that Erin and Ulvama had added to the squirrel meat. It grabbed a bit up and began to insert it into a mouth.
“Huh. It’s herbivorous.”
They watched the thing munch for a minute, then wobble off. Erin looked at Ulvama, and at least the [Innkeeper] had stopped crying. Ulvama shrugged and patted Erin on the arm.
“Come on. Let’s keep going and make camp.”
 
——
 
They ran into the filthwobbler again that night. Ulvama was trying to take care of Erin, who was still in a fragile state of mind. What she needed was less hiking, more rest.
They were putting up a shelter, or trying to, in the open, since Ulvama didn’t want to get near a termite-infested tree, even if she’d seen few of them. The air was filled with this strange ‘thrumming’ that seemed to come from those huge deadwood spires; another bad place to be, then.
