The [Innkeeper] had set herself aflame. She dusted the fire off as the Corumdon Beetle instantly tried to bury the flames, wipe them off its mandibles before they burned its chitin.
“I have a Skill that’ll hurt way worse. Ulvama, can you shock it?”
“Yeah! One second—[Volt Orb]…”
Ulvama pointed a claw down at the beetle as Erin strode forwards. The [Innkeeper] balled up her fists at the frantic beetle trying to get rid of the flames.
“[Minotaur Punch]!”
She hit it with a one-two across its reinforced head, and it recoiled. Ulvama pointed a claw down. The first orb of electricity made the beetle jerk. Its legs spasmed, and Erin took another two punches at the beetle’s face. Then she paused. Looked around.
“No way. Wait—Ulvama! Behind you!”
Huh? Ulvama turned, and a hamster was standing behind her. She raised the thorn spear—
 
——
 
“Ulvama!”
Erin saw the [Shaman] go flying as the hamster kicked her into the air. The [Shaman] landed two feet away, and Erin stared up at the battle hamster.
“Okay. You’re dead too.”
Both beetle and hamster? What was this, some kind of stupid jungle tag-team match? The beetle had finished removing the flames from its mandibles. It looked up at the hamster and made a grinding-crashing sound with its mandibles.
The two recognized each other! The hamster darted down the slope and kicked the beetle in the side. It snapped at the hamster—then both dodged a ball of black flames.
“You two are dead.”
Erin snapped. She expected them to go for her, but after a second, the Corumdon Beetle juked left from another ball of fire and went after the Goblin getting up and holding her side.
“Ulvama! Run!”
Erin shouted, and the Hobgoblin went sprinting away as the beetle charged. Erin went after both. She saw the hamster leap forward and bar her way.
“Out of the way!”
Erin had no time for it. Neither animal could hurt her! She balled a fist to swing—and she saw the battle hamster do a little hop. It vibrated, spun—
Then threw a punch like a corkscrew into Erin’s chest. The [Innkeeper]’s feet didn’t leave the ground. She even kept her forwards momentum, but the shockwave ran through her.
Her ribs jolted, and her heart fluttered. Erin stumbled.
“What th—”
The hamster had hopped back and was staring at her. Erin put a hand to her chest. That—hurt? How the—
“Erin! Help!”
Ulvama! Erin jerked up. She saw the beetle flying, dodging an orb of electricity.
“I’m coming, Ulv—”
This time, the battle hamster dodged under her fist and hit her in the stomach. The second time, Erin saw it do…something.
It twisted up using its furry rodent body and spun as it punched her. Like a top releasing energy. When it hit her, she felt like it punched straight through her. Erin staggered back, stared down at her torn clothing and stomach.
It hurts! What kind of punch was that? She looked up, side-stepped—and the hamster’s kick tore up the ground.
“Greydath? Is that you?”
The battle hamster spun, kicked Erin, and she went skidding. She stared at it.
“This hamster knows martial arts. Or something stupid.”
It was fast. She ducked a kick, tried to grab the furry thing, and it punched and bit her on the neck—that didn’t hurt. But every time it wound up and used that strange twister-punch, it hurt.
Every time she tried to take a step, it would cannonball into her or she’d have to block the slower-moving super punches. And Ulvama was—
Running for her life. The Corumdon Beetle had gone after the other threat, but it hadn’t expected Ulvama to have tricks up her sleeve. She leapt off an [Earthen Spire] a second before it smashed through the outcropping, and she landed on the beetle’s back. It tried to roll over, and the Hobgoblin kept running. Magical vines tried to ensnare the beetle, but it was too strong and snapped them.
“Erin! Help!”
The [Innkeeper] was coming. The battle hamster was studying her between blows, doing that stupid hop-hop-hop thing. As if taunting her. She swore it was smirking at her.
“You’re no Bloodtear Admiral. I warned you.”
Erin kept her guard up and waited for the next punch. When it came—she felt her stomach rumble and felt like puking. The hamster swayed under her hook, leapt over a kick, and Erin exhaled.
Orange flames bloomed through the air and engulfed the hamster. It squeaked and tried to dodge in the air—then it was a rolling ball of flames.
Erin had exhaled her magical flames. The [Innkeeper]’s breath hurt in her lungs. She wiped at the flames.
[Body: Firebreath]. Then she was running.
The beetle whirled as Erin charged at it. Ulvama was using the termite nest for cover as it tore chunks of the hardened soil away.
“Ulvama! Stay in cover!”
The [Innkeeper] exhaled again, and a cloud of black flames made the beetle fly away in alarm. Ulvama’s eyes went round. The [Innkeeper] whirled, then gasped for air.
“Drake problems. Erin! You’re running out of air!”
Erin was lightheaded. Just like the damn seagull—Erin stumbled, then saw a shape tearing for Ulvama.
“Watch out! The damn—”
A burned hamster was racing at Ulvama. It was alive! How—Erin realized its fur was scorched black—but it was mostly bare.
Had it just yanked off its fur to avoid the flames of resentment burning it? This time, though, Ulvama was ready.
“[The Tangling Vine]! [Volt Orb]!”
The hamster dodged away from her spot, avoiding both the orb of lightning and vine. But it was going after Ulvama. Erin began running—turned her head, and the beetle was on her.
“Erin!”
The [Innkeeper] caught the mandibles as they clacked around her body. The Corumdon Beetle was trying to grind her to a paste! She didn’t care about that—Ulvama! The beetle was charging, pushing Erin away from the [Shaman], and the damn hamster was punching holes in the termite nest.
Erin’s lungs were burning. If she breathed fire again, she might pass out.
“Stop—getting—”
Her arms and legs hurt. They were screaming in agony as she tried to slow herself, her feet tearing into the ground. She had to move! The Corumdon Beetle kept plowing ahead like a rhinoceros, and Erin’s legs—began to ache.
 
——
 
The beetle had one strategy it knew: rip and bite and tear until the enemy was dead. Retreat was not an option against something so terrifying. It would have charged until they ran into a rock or tree and tried to grind the [Innkeeper] into paste.
Its six legs churned the soil, but the beetle realized something: it was moving slower. Then…it was straining for each step. It had a limited eyesight, but it wasn’t caught on anything. The only thing slowing it down was…
The terrifying thing? It was pressing its legs into the ground, and it was far, far smaller than the Corumdon Beetle. But something strange was happening.
It felt a lot—lot—stronger suddenly.
The beetle stopped. It tried to force itself slower, and it heard a growling roar from the [Innkeeper]. Then she pushed, and her aching legs exploded.
 
——
 
It was like a second wind, but for her limbs. Her legs—her arms—her entire body suddenly felt like a second set of muscles were expanding! Erin didn’t know what was happening, but she was running now, and the beetle was going backwards, digging its spiny legs into the ground—
The battle hamster stopped attacking Ulvama and whirled. It spotted the beetle moving in reverse and then a tiny figure running at—
“Hey.”
The beetle’s distraction had taken the focus off Ulvama for a second. The hamster spun back around—and a big Hobgoblin, eight inches tall, emerged from her hiding spot. The hamster threw a punch; Ulvama caught it.
[Lion’s Strength]. [Bloodfury]. She tossed the hamster across the ground, and it spun. Then it ducked a punch from Erin. The second one hit it straight in the belly.
Erin actually caught up with the hamster despite knocking it back a foot. Her second punch and third hit it in the body as it tried to get away—then her legs quit on her.
She collapsed, skidding onto the ground as whatever extra go-juice ran out. Then she felt as weak as a wet noodle.
“Erin! [Lion’s Strength]! Are you okay?”
Ulvama yanked her up, and Erin panted.
“I’m okay. Trap one for me, and I’ll burn them to death.”
The flames of hatred were in her lungs, ready to loose. Ulvama stared at Erin—and the battle hamster got up, holding one paw awkwardly. It had blocked one of her punches with that. The beetle was shaking itself. It rolled upright, and Erin wondered why they didn’t run.
The beetle buzzed its wings, opening its mandibles like a miniature Godzilla bug. The hamster began hopping, ready to fight—
And a Wailer Frog ate the Corumdon Beetle in a single move.
“RIBBIT.”
Erin turned and muttered softly.
“Oh, come on.”
Four of them were right there! They inflated their throats, and Erin threw something at one. Ulvama pointed.
“[Frost Ray]!”
The Densecore stone from Ulvama’s packs blew a hole in the first frog’s throat, and it made a huge noise of squelching pain. The second choked as its throat froze—the third began to inhale, and the battle hamster kicked it in the throat.
The last? The last was going cross-eyed. It hesitantly tried to ribbit. Erin pulled out more Densecore stones. She looked up.
“Ulvama. The birds!”
“Aw.”
The [Shaman]’s face fell a second before a wing slammed the ground in front of them. The two scattered, and Erin threw a second stone. This time, she hit the Aurmak bird in the chest, and red blood exploded from the feathers. It shrieked and took off, and Erin spun.
Two left—the battle hamster dodged the deadly projectile. The stones worked—but the Wailer Frogs and Aurmak birds were too big to kill without hitting them in the head. Mind you, the one Erin had perforated was making a whistling sound as it tried to inflate its throat-sac.
“Now the birds are after us?”
“They’re after you!”
Ulvama shrieked as the two ran back towards the termite hive. The birds were attacking everything, actually. One tried to bite the battle hamster—another was savaging a Wailer Frog with its claws.
It was a damn free for all! Four sides! Hamster, birds, Erin and Ulvama, Wailer Fr—
The fourth frog, who hadn’t been moving since it ate the Corumdon beetle, had been growing increasingly worried and ribbiting the entire while in soft sounds. It did a little hop—then its stomach exploded, and a blood-covered beetle dug its way out of the frog’s chest, scaring the hell out of the Aurmak bird nearest it.
Erin was swearing; she threw the final Densecore stone, knocking the beetle flat on its back, and one of the birds tried to peck its stomach open. She didn’t understand. Why were the top predators of each area coming after her?
Ulvama got it too late. It was because it was her.
Fight or flight. When a monstrous animal sensed a dangerous competitor, it could run or flee. And Erin’s aura? It had alerted everything around her. Animals that loved magic or needed it to survive might well seek her out because of what they sensed.
Fight me. I am your death.
The [Innkeeper] was broadcasting her intent to kill them, like she was still at sea, knife in hand. She was an expert in auras.
Not a master. A master like Magnolia Reinhart would make a subtle distinction between ‘don’t mess with me’ and ‘I will murder you’. Even Niers Astoragon, self-professed amateur, knew the distinction between that.
With one, you had a choice to run away. With the other, you fought or were hunted down. Mind you—Erin paused as she stood at the entrance to the termite hive.
“My [Dangersense] is going off. Big drums. Get ready.”
“Ready for what? The filthwobbler? How much worse can it get?”
Ulvama shrieked at her. Erin’s head rotated.
Mind you—some things didn’t care how tough you were. They just came when they heard there was a fight.
That meant food.
 
——
 
One of the Wailer Frogs trying to inhale and deafen everything in earshot saw the movement from the forests first. It turned, and its bulbous eyes registered the threat. It began to croak—changed its mind—and began to hop away as fast as it could.
They caught it after the sixth hop and it bit, frantically, then tried to inhale, but they were all over it. In its mouth, ignoring it biting and swallowing them, in its eyes—hundreds. Thousands of large, brightly red, colored—
Ants.
“Army ants. Oh no.”
Erin spoke. Ulvama was just staring in horror at the first Wailer Frog who vanished under a cloud of ants. The mysterious threat of the jungle unveiled itself in a rushing wave, more terrifying than water. They covered the Wailer Frog, and it died in ten seconds. The Aurmak birds, the Wailer Frogs, the beetle, and the battle hamster whirled.
Then they ran for it. Or rather, tried to.
The frogs didn’t have a chance. One began wailing, but the ants just crawled over the frog, silencing it. The ants were so fast—Erin swallowed. Yet she was not afraid as she could be. For Ulvama?
Oh, yes.
“Magical army ants. Oh my—stars.”
They could accelerate. And jump. One of the Aurmak birds trying to get off the ground was a second too slow; ants leapt from a ledge onto the bird, covering it. Its mate dove, slamming its wings into the ground, but the first bird stopped flying, fell, covered in ants, and the other one flew, shaking off ants biting it.
Wailing.
The beetle and hamster tried to race away, but from the termite’s nest, Erin saw the ground moving like a vast, sentient ocean. She realized—the ants already had them half encircled.
“The trees are moving. Are these ants? Ants?”
Ulvama was petrified. She had never seen army ants. Erin? Erin had watched enough natural history channels to know just how dead they were.
“Up! Up! Don’t let them swarm you or you’re dead! They can strip a cow in sixty seconds!”
“How do you know that? They’re everywhere!”
Ulvama shrieked at her. Erin was too busy looking for somewhere safe. The termite nest…no wonder they hadn’t seen any!
This army ant colony had slaughtered them all. Even as Erin watched, the beetle broke away from flying towards the forest—Erin saw a bunch of purple things leaping from a tree.
“Oh, that’s not fair.”
When she looked down, she saw a wave of purple overtaking the red. Here came the magic ones. They sped up, bodies glowing in bursts, with gigantic heads.
Army ants were all head. Giant mandibles; they were like dogs to Erin and Ulvama. The fast ones shot at Erin. They could jump, too—one leapt, and she threw a punch.
Her fist crunched through its head, and goo splashed up her arm. Erin felt the first body slam into her—then pinchers bite.
“Argh—”
She kicked one off, crushed another into the ground, and punched through another. They were a lot more fragile than the magical monsters or even a squirrel! Problem—
