Nathalia rolled over in bed and her arm met nothing but air. “I guess he's still out.” She said, got out of bed, and equipped one of the nice dresses Ren had made for her new wardrobe. She felt the fabric, and was surprised it was so comfortable, even though it looked like it should be restrictive.

Nathalia left her bedroom to check the main room, and saw Ren wasn't there. She went down the hall to the old bedroom and saw Ereka was on her bed, and clutched a pillow to herself in a tight hug.

“...yes, Ren... please...” Ereka's hold on the pillow tightened. “...I can't wait...”

Nathalia closed the door and walked back to the main room. I guess he told her. She thought. Now, I wonder where he is? She glanced down at the Sending Ring, and shook her head. No, if he's out somewhere, I know he's going to be busy.

*

Ren stood up and looked at Dorcot. “Hey, what are you doing here so late?”

“I couldn't sleep.” Dorcot said.

“Do you want me to ask why?” Ren asked him, and he smiled.

“Money problems.” Dorcot said.

“Angeilin told the kids you were rich.” Ren said and laughed.

“How did you know that?”

Ren put a hand on his shoulder. “I warned you to hide it.” He said. “I suppose they want a share.”

Dorcot snorted a laugh. “All three of them think they deserve it, to make up for us not having money while they were growing up.”

“I can't tell you what to do with it.” Ren said. “I can suggest that you could give them each a hundred platinum, and say that was all they'll ever get.”

Dorcot laughed. “No, that would be too easy.” He said. “I'm inviting them all over for dinner next week to try and tell them that this money has to last the rest of my life, Angeilin's life, and theirs.”

“Any grandchildren yet?”

Dorcot shook his head. “The youngest has been trying for a while, but she's too busy with work to stay at home and raise a family anyways.”

“Then give her 200 platinum, and tell her to stay home and have the family she's always wanted.” Ren said. “Or depending on the job she has, she could move here and work for House Neram.”

“Those are all good options; but things are more complicated than that.” Dorcot said. “I was a good father... or, at least as good as I could be at the time.” He smiled sadly. “They don't see it that way.”

Ren squeezed his shoulder. “Things don't have to be complicated, my friend.” He said and let the hand drop. “I hope your meal doesn't turn into a screaming match.”

“Me, too.” Dorcot said, and then yawned.

“I think someone needs a nap.” Ren said, and Dorcot nodded slightly.

“Goodnight.” Dorcot said, and left the workshop.

Ren went back to the workbench and sat down. He looked at the paving stone, and carved 8 more 4 inch molds out of it. He didn't think he'd need that many; but, figured he might as well use as much of the available space on the paving stone as he could. He was getting the ore for free, so it didn't cost him anything to use it.

Ren went to the smelter and poured molten metal into all of the amulet molds and absorbed the heat, then popped them out of the mold and set them on the workbench. He picked up one of the gold metal discs and activated his Craft Wondrous Item ability. He made another Amulet of the Spider and set it aside.

Stat Change!

Craft Wondrous Item Level 2 (Beginner 0%)

Ren made 4 more of them, and the skill went up another level. Sweet. He thought, used the Major Healing wand on himself to regain the Mana he'd used up, and made the last four amulets and leveled the skill again. Now, should I keep making them to try and level the skill more, since this awesome SPECIAL bonus is letting me level my skills up twice as fast, or move on to something else? He thought about it for a moment, then nodded. I'll get it to Level 5 at least.

Ren went back to the forge and filled the amulet mold and absorbed the heat from it. Each one is giving me 25% of a level, so... He made 8 more amulets, and used the Major Healing wand to keep his Mana Pool full.

Notice!

You have reached Beginner Level 5 on your Craft Wondrous Item skill, and have unlocked a new recipe: Horseshoes Of Speed

Ren had been working in the workshop for about an hour, then he thought about his skills. “There's so much that I want to do with this double bonus!” He said, and looked at the amulet mold. “Aw, screw it.” He said, and kept going. It took another half an hour, 3 refills of the mold, and 2 more uses of the Major Healing wand; then he received another popup when he'd made the twentieth amulet.

Stat Change!

Craft Wondrous Item Level 1 (Intermediate 0%)

“I now have...” He laughed as he counted the amulets and stored them. “...37 Amulets of the Spider, and 8 blanks.”

Notice!

You have reached Intermediate Level 1 on your Craft Wondrous Item skill, and have unlocked a new recipe: Revealing Light

“Show info for Wondrous Item recipe Revealing Light.” Ren said.

Revealing Light

Requires any object no larger than your fist, and transmutes it into a Revealing Light. When activated, it reveals all invisible creatures and objects within 25 feet of it.

“Show info for Wondrous Item recipe Horseshoes of Speed.”

Horseshoes of Speed

Requires 4 Iron Bars (High Quality) to be placed on the Craft Wondrous Item platform. These iron shoes come in sets of four like ordinary horseshoes. When affixed to an animal’s hooves, they increase the animal’s base land speed by 50% (as if it had the Haste spell cast upon it). This counts as an enhancement bonus, and as with other effects that increase speed, jumping distances increase proportionally.

All four horseshoes must be worn by the same animal for the magic to be effective.

Weight: 4 pounds (1 pound for each horseshoe)

“Okay, I have to do that one!” Ren said, and went to one of the smelters and poured out some of the metal to make a high quality Steel Bar. He absorbed the heat from it, and made 3 more. He took them and activated his Craft Wondrous Item ability, and placed them on the gold-colored platform. The items started to glow, he lost 20% of his Mana Pool, then the horseshoes appeared. He stored them and looked at the crate of diamonds for the wands.

Just for fun, Ren put one of the diamonds on the platform and chose the Revealing Light recipe. It was encompassed in a glow, he lost 10% of his Mana Pool, and the diamond didn't change. Ren picked it up and examined it, and it said it was a Revealing Light. He had expected it to have a use restriction of some kind, but it didn't.

“Maybe it's because I used a diamond?” He asked himself as he stored it, picked up a scrap piece of wood, and used that for the recipe. He lost 2% of his Mana Pool, and the piece of wood changed into a pearl like orb 2 inches across. When he examined it, he smiled.

Revealing Light

When activated, it reveals all invisible creatures and objects within 25 feet of it. Can be attached to any object, or even carried in a pocket.

Duration: 1 Hour, but can be broken up to be used multiple times for shorter periods. Four times at 15 minutes each, 6 times at 10 minutes each, etc.

Weight: 1 pound

Ren smiled, and stored it. “It's too bad I can't test it.”

“Actually, you can.” Teepo said.

“But, I can already see you.” Ren said.

“Just go into the house with Nathalia and activate it.” Teepo said.

“Will that work?”

“It should.” Teepo said. “It says it reveals anything invisible within the area, not that it reveals it only to you.”

Ren snorted a laugh, and reached up to scratch Teepo on the head. “Keep helping me see things clearly, buddy.”

“Sure, Ren.” Teepo said, and tried not to chitter in pleasure. Ren left the workshop and ran down to the house.

He could finally show Nathalia his best friend.
