“Oh? No Runics then, I see. Or you’re not here to make money.”

“Thirty, plus some supplies we need for tomorrow?”

“And what would that be?”

“Rope and torches?” Veron suggested.

“Sure, got a few lying around.”

“Should we trust this man with ropes?” Isaac asked openly.

“We can, yes,” Elke said.

Sonny looked both proud and offended at the same time. “You’re free to test them, southman.”

“I will,” Isaac said. “But I appreciate the offer.”

Sonny grunted, then procured the money.

“Can we exchange the iron too?” Veron asked, looking at Isaac.

Isaac got the satchel they’d found and showed it to Sonny.

“Sure, thirty five silver then. A fair deal, though not a great one for either of us,” Sonny said. “I take it you lot will dive regularly?”

“We plan to, yes,” Veron said.

“Well, I’m here, happy to offer a fair price for anything you bring, and the occasional service or offer, if you turn out to be returning customers.”

“Do you have woodworking tools?” Isaac asked.

“Would you know how to handle them?” Sonny asked.

“I can show you.”

Sonny smiled. “Sure, over here. What do you want to make? I can sell you wood too.”

“Modified arrows for Elke,” Isaac said. “I’ll give you a fourth of what I make for the price of borrowing the tools, a workbench, and the materials.”

“You drive a hard bargain, southerner.”

“My name is Isaac. Let me make a few and you can make up your own mind.”

Sonny considered, then nodded. “Yeah. It’s always good to have more people around in the shop.”

“I’ll probably need your help too, Veron,” Isaac said.

“Sure, can we come back later this afternoon?” Veron asked, glancing at the others.

“I won’t be joining,” Ailis said. “But I’m happy with any arrangement that would benefit our group.”

“I can do a shift later too,” Elke said.

Sonny nodded. “Yeah, now I’m happy. You brought more than a few rusty swords. I like that. Parker always spoke highly of the northern hunters, I’m starting to see why.”

“Is he the owner of the shop?” Veron asked.

Sonny shrugged. “Kind of. He started buying up and collecting old maps and stories of gold mines in the northern mountains, went on a few expeditions and then one day, he didn’t come back. I’ve been running the shop since. Been about ten years, give or take a few.”

“Right. I wonder if he found something,” Veron said.

“Probably death,” Sonny suggested. “But either way, it’s Parker’s Shop and that’s what it’ll stay until I know for sure. Anything else I can do for you?”

“Do you offer armor repairs?” Ailis asked.

Sonny gestured in the general vicinity of the propped up plate armors.

“The leather kind.”

“Yeah. What’s the damage?”

She showed him the shoulder piece that got cut in the dungeon.

“Hmm. Won’t be pristine looking if I do it, but it’ll do the job. Fifteen iron for that. I’ll have it ready when your crew shows up later.”

Ailis handed over the money and the piece. “Great. Thank you.”

“You’re welcome.” He gave her a longer look, making to speak and then not doing so. It looked like he’d figured something out. “Then I see you later.”

“Yes, good to meet you, Sonny,” Veron said and waved.

The others joined him out in the streets. “Where to now, Isaac?” he asked. “There was mention of cake.”
