A chorus of outrage and disbelief rose up to greet him, and the young Legate let it continue for a long minute before raising his hands for silence, but even in so short a time, there were countless sound arguments made that defined his actions as madness, or worse. “I’ve not come to this decision lightly,” Rain said, speaking over the last few remaining grumbles before they finally died out. “But, and I say this with all the respect in my heart, I believe that every single one of you who believes that my actions will doom the Empire, are vastly overestimating the Enemy’s strength.”

Resisting the urge to palm his face, Binesi stood by and watched as Rain wrestled for control of the crowd, right up until his Aura swept out once more in a wave of oppressive authority. That was a new trick, one Binesi had never seen the boy use, and to say it was effective would be a massive understatement. Hardened Warriors froze in place at the mere touch of his oppressive Aura, one that disappeared as quickly as it arrived. Picking up as if he’d never been interrupted at all, he continued, “The general sentiment is that once an individual has caught the Father’s foul attentions, then they are lost to us forever, but you give Him too much credit. If He had this power over us, then humanity would have long since lost the War, for he could just steal away our greatest talents and turn them against us. The Traitor Bai Qi has succumbed to His lies, but this is the exception, not the rule. How many other Legends of the Empire have fallen from on high? Hardly any, and I will tell you why.” Leaning forward, the Legate drew a deep breath and said, “Because the Father. Is. Impotent.”

...

...

...

Wordplay. At a time like this. And the boy seriously expected people to laugh?

Recovering from the awkward pause, the boy cleared his throat and continued, “Just as there must be Balance in all things, the Mother and Father themselves must strike a Balance. This we all know. If one acts too overtly, so too will the other, and thus, the Father Himself is no foe to be wary of. If He wants our souls, then He can only send His foul minions to claim it, to tempt and deceive us into accepting His will. The Defiled torture and torment their prisoners so that they might lose hope, for only then will they be desperate enough to accept the Father’s lies. The people of the West still live, and where there is life, there is hope still yet. Some have taken up arms against us, but they are the minority, with ten slaughtered for every one turned at best, and I believe that most will never give in to the Father’s demands, not even with their dying breath.” Glancing around, he added, “Whether that dying breath arrives at the end of an Imperial Sword, or after a long and fruitful life following this brief period of darkness.”

Smacking his fist against his chest, Falling Rain stood tall and proud as he declared, “Just as the people of the West suffered, so too did I suffer as a twelve year old boy enslaved by the traitors of the Canston Trading Group. Not only was I a slave, I was also tortured and tormented every day and night in a directed effort to turn me Defiled for their own nefarious purposes. Six months I endured, and for many years after, I suffered the aftereffects of my time there, and even now, I still bear those scars on my body, mind, and soul. They whipped and beat me, flayed my skin and tore my nails off, worked me like a dog and fed me worse. As the youngest and smallest one there, I suffered the worst treatment of all of them, for even my fellow slaves disdained me. I filled baskets with ore until my arms no longer worked, and then I’d pick them up with my feet and mouth to avoid getting beaten, but they’d beat me anyways for working too slowly.”

Stopping to catch his breath, it was clear to everyone in the audience that the Legate was uncomfortable sharing all this, but somehow, Binesi respected the boy even more for it. It wasn’t easy to speak of one’s weakness, for others would surely scorn it, but Rain shared it regardless. “And yet,” he continued once he’d recovered, speaking softly without need for emphasis, “I. Endured. I did not break, nor did any of my fellow slaves break in the time I was there. A bunch of ignorant slaves, and the Father could not break us, not even with His foul minions giving it their all, so why should we fear Him so? This is why I still have hope for the people of the West, because I believe in the indefatigable human spirit. I believe the Father is not so fearsome a foe, but a ghost who cannot touch us for fear of the Mother Above. I believe the people of the West are not beyond saving, because I believe humanity is stronger than the Enemy. We are outnumbered, but better armed, better prepared, and for once, united in purpose against them. Warriors of the North, South, and Central, I call upon you to join me in my crusade to free the West. Take up your arms, brothers and sisters of the Empire, and let us drive the Defiled out of our lands once and for all. Rise up, children of Heaven, and together, let us free our siblings from their chains of bondage and bring them back into the light of the Mother. The Father has no hold over the hearts of stalwart men and women, not when they have the support of their fellow countrymen to rely on, and together, we will overcome the trials and tribulations before us to emerge stronger than ever before!”

A cheer rose up, a small one at first, but then it rose in volume as others joined in, their faith in their Legate so unshakable that even these wild claims were believed. To his surprise, Binesi found that his voice had joined in without him even knowing it, for he was another such fool who believed.

The people of the Empire were the true Chosen of Heaven, and they would see themselves through this trial and tribulation like any other. The Father? Pei. What did they have to fear from him? Divine though He might be, this was a world for mortals, and it was mortals who would rule it.

So say the Legate Falling Rain, and so the soldiers here all believed, because how could they not believe the Mother's Chosen Son?

Chapter Meme
