“It’s bold,” Binesi began, only to catch Rain’s wry smile and correct himself. “It’s... ambitious. Perhaps too ambitious. With the Imperial fleet and enough Runic Cannons, it’s possible to create a bulwark all along the coast and perhaps even make good headway inland, but the barren deserts of the Western Province are nothing to sneeze at. I’ve heard tales of experienced natives losing their way amidst those sandy dunes, wandering about in circles until their dying breath without ever knowing how close to salvation they were. The wind shifts the sands and can change the landscape in a matter of minutes, and even with locals to guide us, it’s been close to two years since they’ve seen the lay of the land, much less travelled through them.”

“But that’s not all, is it?” Raising an eyebrow in expectant question, Rain said, “Pull no punches. I’m a big boy. I can take it.”

“It’s a noble endeavour you’ve taken up,” Binesi began, still uncomfortable with being too blunt with the boy, especially in light of some of the things he’d said or thought before. “But...”

“But?”

With a heavy sigh, Binesi dropped all pretension and drained his cup in one gulp. “But I wonder if the goal will be worth the cost, assuming there is even a chance for success.” Contrary to expectations, the boy offered a half-smile and gestured for Binesi to carry on, meaning this was not the first time he’d heard this argument. “We march in, retake the province, clear it of all Defiled... and then what? We move soldiers to the broken Western Wall? Repair that? Resettle the province, the same way you resettled the new Border Wall, except at significant cost to the other three provinces? All while spending years, maybe decades running around to stamp out the inevitable Defiled outbreaks that pop up and praying a larger insurrection doesn’t reveal itself, or worse, spill out into Central? The sheer cost alone is staggering to consider, and the gains hardly seem worth it. The Western Province’s primary trade goods are precious metals, gemstones, and salt, but we can live without the first two and have alternative sources for the last.” Shrugging as he offered a silent prayer to the lost souls of the West, Binesi shook his head and concluded, “Hate to say it, but... hardly seems worth it.”

“Seems like a popular sentiment.” Drumming his fingers across the table, the young Legate sat in distracted thought. “You didn’t say anything about the purge.”

“...Does anything need to be said?” Binesi took part in one purge before, and had no desire to experience another, especially on the level of an entire province. “It needs to be done, but I can’t say I’m looking forward to it. I understand the logic though, going in and culling the population before they turn against us, but forgive me if I say I’m not looking forward to it.”

“And what if I said there would be no purge?”

So shocked by the seemingly innocuous statement, it took Binesi long seconds to process it, at which point he finally recoiled in horror. “You cannot,” he said, eyes wide in terror, unable to believe the boy would even entertain such a dangerous notion. “It would be the doom of us all. I understand you have a merciful heart, but to spare millions bearing the Defiled taint is simply foolish to the extreme. No matter what measures you take, I wager the taint will have spread far and wide through the outer provinces within a single year, and it would take a decade at most before widespread rebellion ensued, ones which will make Sanshu look like a walk in the park.”

“So even you don’t have that much faith in me, eh?” Though said in a joking manner, Rain’s disappointment showed through. “I suppose it only gets worse the further removed from me it gets. My people tell me there’s a growing sentiment of unrest spreading through the lower ranks. Any confirmation on that?”

And how. “The soldiers are... anxious about what you’ve set out to accomplish, but they’ll fight the Enemy to their last breath.” The Northerners would at least, though there was bound to be a few bad eggs in the bunch. “They won’t like it, and they’ll never stop complaining about it, but they’ll follow orders to the letter.” Whether their Officers would do the same was a different story, because even though Falling Rain was beloved by the North, the gratitude of the masses was short-lived and easily shifted.

The young Legate asked some more questions, mostly with regards to morale and the general disposition of the Northern soldiers, and eventually dismissed Binesi without revealing his true thoughts. Knowing the boy, he had a different angle in mind that no one could see, but despite Nian Zu’s reservations regarding the Western offensive, Baatar had long since convinced the Colonel General that this was the right move to make. How that was possible was beyond Binesi’s comprehension, but he was a soldier to the core and would follow his commander’s orders without hesitation, because Nian Zu, and yes, even Falling Rain, had earned that level of respect.

Five days passed without incident as Binesi settled in to guard the young Legate, who went about his days in a mundane fashion. He woke up early, tired and drained from the three wives he shared his bed with each and every night, his prodigious appetite a sure sentence to an early grave if he didn’t rein himself in soon. In the mornings, he trained and sparred, and in the afternoons, he trained some more, save for the hour or two he set aside each day to play with his pets. Sometimes he brought them to the Azure Sea, and other times he stayed in camp and rolled around with them in the grass, but as soon as he was done playing, he’d go right back to training. It wasn’t just Demonstrating the Forms or sparring either, as there were times when he’d sit down to meditate and practice his Chi skills, only to open his eyes and try them out in the physical world to varying effect. Despite having spent such a short time watching him, Binesi was impressed with the boy’s speedy progress along the Martial Dao, and he could see several skills that would come in handy on the battlefield, as young Rain was nothing if not practical.

Aside from training and playing, he made time to visit his friends, allies, and even political rivals, and several times, he sat down to question them in the same manner he’d questioned Binesi. The answers were always similar in nature, that this was a risky gambit with little to no rewards, yet even Commander General Shuai Jiao had agreed to the expedition and committed significant forces from South and Central to see it through. With so many soldiers and officers involved, the chances of sending Falling Rain out as a sacrificial goat were slim to none, as this massive army was more akin to a herd of healthy working cattle, a loss which would devastate the Empire for decades to come.

And then, the day of departure arrived as the sun rose over the horizon, and Falling Rain showed no signs of calling things off. The army gathered on the fields of SuiHua, standing at attention in formation as far as the eye could see, their tents packed and gear readied to travel west to reclaim a province. Ships and sails aplenty sat ready and waiting in the bay, not just lined up along the docks, but also beached up and down the coast to await their passengers. In an unprecedented move that made no waves whatsoever, young Rain appointed his merchant friend Cao Cuo to the newfangled rank of Quartermaster General, which gave the man the power over any and all matters with regards to supplies and transportation for the Imperial Army. Ordinarily, the higher ranking Officers would’ve kicked up a fuss regarding so lofty an appointment, especially one given to a ‘mere’ commoner, but the mousy man’s first act as Quartermaster General was to unveil his plans which would allow this massive army to embark and depart for the west in less than a single day, complete with itemized lists for every General and Field Officer outlining their personal manifests.

A feat which was far more impressive than it sounded, but any commander worth their salt understood the value of a good quartermaster and the pains of an incompetent one, so they quickly banded together to quash any and all disputes regarding the now beloved Cao Cuo’s appointment.

As such, the soldiers were all ready and waiting when the Legate appeared, Cloud-Stepping up to the top of his own bannerpole where he stood over his hare-profile banner and looked out over his army. “Good morning to you all,” he began, looking regal and at ease atop his lofty perch, dressed in his golden armour and adorned with his Spiritual Weapons. A bit too gaudy for Binesi’s tastes, but the boy wore it well, and more importantly, had proven time and time again that he could fight regardless of the silly aesthetics that so many of the Empire expected from a man of his station. “Today marks an important day in the Empire’s history, and an important day in our War against the Enemy. As some of you might have already guessed, today, we set out for the Western Province, where we will drive the Defiled out of our lands and back to whence they came.”

A small smattering of applause followed this declaration, but the suppressed sighs and discomforted shifting spoke volumes to the mood, something the young Legate was obviously prepared for. He offered no smiles or apologies however, and instead attacked the problem head on as he was wont to do. “Many of you have doubts,” he began, scanning the crowd as he looked down from above, yet somehow making it feel like he was addressing them all as equals and partners, rather than as soldiers and pawns. “I share those doubts, for how could I not? I am only human, and the task before us is staggering indeed. Humanity has struggled against the Enemy since time immemorial, and the Father’s minions are formidable foes to overcome even in the best of circumstances. This campaign will be far from it, as for the first time in living memory, we will be taking the fight to them, because never before have they achieved so much in a single lifetime.”

Pausing to let his words sink in, the Legate continued, “Think about what I just said. Never before has the Enemy achieved so much in a single lifetime. Our lifetime. Under our watch, the Defiled gathered in numbers greater than ever before to wage coordinated war against the Empire. Under our watch, the Defiled broke through into the West and took the entire province for their own. Under our watch, millions of our fellow compatriots suffer under the Defiled boot, enslaved and tormented to produce weapons which are used against us, including the so-called Chosen of Heaven, who now have amassed in numbers so great their very existence threatens the remaining outer provinces. Such is our failing, one we all share, but today, we set out to make things right.”

A terrible speech for raising morale, but the boy was not yet done, and Binesi’s stomach sank as young Rain continued to list out the Empire’s failures. “Since the start of this incursion, we have lost countless civilians, tens of thousands of soldiers, hundreds of Peak Experts, Two Colonel Generals, and one province.” Shaking his head, the Legate’s fist curled into a ball as his outrage washed over everyone present and set them to trembling in barely restrained fury. “The dead are gone and cannot be brought back, but the living can still be saved. Millions of good people are suffering under the boot of the Enemy, with countless dying each and every day, or worse, giving in to their fear, their anger, their hatred, and whatever lies the Father whispers into their ears, and I will not stand idly by when I possess the strength and means to do something about it.”

If the Legate expected sympathy and support, he would be sorely disappointed, but luckily, Binesi saw that he’d prepared himself well. “Many of you believe the western survivors are a lost cause, that we march to end their suffering through steel and fire and will leave naught but blood and ashes in our wake. You are wrong. So long as I draw breath, there will be no massed purge of the Western people, for my sword was not forged to spill the blood of innocents, nor were my skills honed to use against the children of the Mother Above.”

The silence was so sudden and oppressive that Binesi didn’t dare draw breath, for the weight of the Legate’s statement hit every listener like a hammer to the gut. The boy insinuated as much, but Binesi couldn’t believe that he would dare go through with it, especially in so open a manner. What would he do if the Disciplinary Corps insisted? Or even the Emperor Himself? “I say again,” the Legate began, raising his voice even more as his righteous indignation spread like a wave in the bay. “We march not to purge the people of the West, but to release them from their captors and help them back to their feet. There will be those who we cannot save and must put to the sword, but so long as there is room for doubt, then I will see to it that the people of the West are given the chance to overcome the trials and tribulations they endured at the hands of the Enemy.”

