A fact which didn’t go unnoticed by young Rain, who was much sharper than he appeared, his youthful and almost goofy exterior hiding an exceedingly perceptive and intelligent mind. Sitting on the grass with legs spread and back hunched, his actions were wholly unbefitting of his lofty status, yet matched his informal and nonchalant mannerisms so well. The young Legate held a giant laughing bird in his lap, one laid out on its back and enjoying having his beak, neck, and belly stroked, and the smile on the boy’s face spoke volumes to his love of animals, or at least the cute ones. Turning in response to a Sending, the Legate’s face lit up in a smile as his Death Corps Guards parted aside, having received his orders in similar fashion. “Binesi! Good to see you again. How have you been?”

This was one of the boy’s greatest charms and most glaring flaws depending on who was speaking, his complete and utter indifference towards protocol and decorum. Even the Colonel General was not so lax when greeting his Famed Fifty, but young Rain treated Binesi like an old friend or favoured uncle, and he could not help but respond in kind. “Better than you, boy. Hear you were attacked in the city proper and came to see if my comrades and I could be of service.” Being a dyed in the wool soldier, Binesi didn’t forget to salute and bow, nor did he dare speak too informally, since this was the Legate after all, one whose strength and record of service was more than deserving of respect. The boy’s skills were nigh unfathomable now, having displayed abilities above and beyond what most Peak Experts could compare to, and while his foundation was still lacking, his public spars showed marked improvements with each and every passing day. The first time he took to the stage against Gerel, he was soundly trounced from start to finish, but now, he could at least put up a decent fight for a few exchanges. An impressive accomplishment considering even Binesi was wary of the Demon Reaper, and not just for his impressive skills in combat, but that was a matter for another day.

“I’d be a fool to turn down Immovable Binesi and his esteemed comrades of the Famed Fifty.” Finally deigning to stand and observe the formalities, the young Legate passed his bird over to Yan and strode over to greet them, shaking hands and thanking each of them for coming, as if they were honoured guests rather than borrowed guards. “You’re all familiar with Naaran here?” Rain said, as the grizzled old man emerged from Concealment behind his ward, one who served as the boy’s guard, warden, and even executioner if necessary. “He’s been gracious enough to coordinate everything with regards to my safety, so he’ll work out a schedule for everyone involved. Kuang Biao, could you go speak to my mother about arranging accommodations for our guests? Thank you.”

Though only one Death Corps guard was mentioned, the others also withdrew from the immediate area as well, and Binesi would’ve been a fool not to see their shame and reluctance. They knew they were being kept at arm’s length after the attack and they resented it even as much as they understood the reasons why, as the boy motioned for Binesi to remain behind while his comrades left with the Death Corps Guards. “So it’s true then?” Binesi asked, once he felt the Sound Barrier spring up around them. “Publicly, there isn’t much information going around, but the Colonel General tells me the attackers were...” Imperial Scions, but he couldn’t even bring himself to say it out loud.

“From the lands of the rising sun,” Rain responded, offering a wry smile for his clever turn of phrase. Perhaps the boy wasn’t as uncultured as he liked to appear, though he couldn’t fake his indifference towards the arts and theatre. Binesi still couldn’t tell the story of Rain’s trip to the opera without bursting into laughter, what with the boy legitimately falling asleep the moment the performance began, only to burst into applause after being rudely awoken by his consort, long minutes after the performance ended. It could not have gone better if he’d planned it, and knowing the boy, Binesi would put even odds on things going one way or the other, though the boy maintained his ignorance of the opera and that all his reactions had been genuine and off the cuff. A fact which only made it all the more impressive considering how neatly he handled the situation, first by playing the fool then turning tables around on his opponent in a dazzling match of wits that left the Ishin boy bleeding from a thousand metaphorical cuts. Then, to top it all off, young Rain sauntered onto stage with a shattered Core and showed off his profound understanding of the Forms, taking up his opponent’s twin weapons and performing the same movements to perfection while exposing the Painted Dancer’s strengths and weaknesses for all to hear.

Looking back on it now, that was the day young Rain won Binesi over, for he showed that he was truly a dragon among men, one who was destined to make a glorious return to the Martial Path.

Of course, the boy’s miraculous recovery and meteoric rise happened much faster than expected, not just due to his own talents, but also thanks to the support of the Medical Saint and his body tempering baths, a boon Binesi himself had experienced firsthand. He’d only just finished his round of treatments a few days ago, and he now felt stronger and faster than ever before. It wasn’t anything too significant, only a minor increase in physical ability, but he could feel his latent capabilities had risen and the pinnacle no longer so far out of reach. For years, he’d set the standard for greatness, a Martial Warrior famed not for defeating geniuses and dragons, but for standing firmly against them without being one himself, but now, he believed he might one day break through that unseen barrier and achieve greatness himself.

An opportunity which had been given to him by young Rain himself, who remembered him when doling out the exceedingly limited and secretive Medicinal treatments. There were other Warriors more deserving than Binesi, but few who were more trustworthy, or at least that’s what Baatar claimed his son said while waiting for the rest of their group to finish their treatments.

“If that’s the case,” Binesi began, resisting the urge to glance at the Death Corps Guards all around them, “Why not remove the Death Corps and replace them with more reliable protectors?”

“I can’t.” Shrugging off the embrace of a juvenile bear who was already taller than he was, young Rain patted his large pet as it pressed itself against him, which made for a strange sight. The bear should’ve easily shifted the boy aside, but he held firm against the furry mass pressed up against him with little to no effort at all. The other bear was even larger, and as it brushed past Binesi to join in on the fun, he sensed the strength and weight of the creature was formidable indeed, but young Rain played with them like they were little puppies. “Like it or not, the Death Corps are a symbol of my authority,” Rain said, lifting the larger bear with barely a grunt and tossing it through the air, only for the beast to land lightly and roll around before running back for another go. Not a difficult feat, throwing a bear like that, but even Binesi would have to put in a little effort to lift the bear without hurting it, something young Rain did effortlessly. “If I stop using the Death Corps as my guards, then everyone and their mother will know something is up. I can’t let it become known that I am at odds with the Imperial Clan, else I’ll lose the support of the people, not to mention having to deal with all the opportunistic nobles seeking to curry favour with their Imperial overlords by having me killed.”

The boy’s dismissive tone showed just how little he cared for the Imperial Clan, a sentiment many in the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains shared, including Binesi himself. They guarded their own lands and provided for themselves, so why did they need to respect an Emperor who only ever demanded coin and fealty for nothing in return? “I understand the political considerations,” Binesi began, knowing the boy valued others sharing their opinions, “But the danger the Death Corps pose cannot be ignored. What is stopping someone from ordering them to kill you outright?”

“Their Oaths.” Face pinched in bitter distaste, the young Legate shook his head and sighed. “Remember that whole fiasco with Yang Jixing? The Death Corps are forbidden from harming an Imperial Scion, a status which cannot be taken away with anything short of an Imperial Decree. Even someone with an Imperial Sigil speaking with the Emperor’s voice cannot consign an Imperial Scion to the status of common citizen, as it’s actually seen as one of the worst punishments the Emperor can hand out, as even the Death Corps are technically still Scions.” Binesi couldn’t help but roll his eyes alongside Rain, and they shared a small smile of amusement once it was done. “Anyways,” the young Legate continued, “I asked Kuang Biao, Luo-Luo, and Liu Xuande to clarify a few things about the Death Corps Oaths, so they can be trusted to some extent. Only an Imperial Scion of high peerage can interfere with their duties, and only by giving them orders that fall within a strict set of boundaries to avoid triggering their Oaths. Orders to stand idly by or let an assassin by without warning would fail since my safety is their first prerogative, but an order to close their eyes and ears while counting to a hundred would be enough to delay a Death Corps Guard’s ability to respond to any attacks. They’d still be obligated to stop anyone they notice, but mere suspicion is not enough to override a direct order.”

“And this makes you feel secure enough to put your life in their hands?”

“Yes.” Shrugging again, Rain glanced at his distant guards with pity in his eyes. “They’ve sworn loyalty to the wrong master, and they’ve no free agency anymore, but they’re Warriors still. They’ll fight and die to defend me, which is all I can ask of them. Naaran will fill you in on the other measures in place, and I have a few more tricks up my sleeve I have yet to reveal.” A mischievous grin crept across his face, one so impish and delightful Binesi might’ve mistaken the young Legate for a naughty prankster rather than the highest ranking official of the outer provinces. “Believe me, it is not pride or arrogance when I tell you that my life was in no danger from those assassins. I could’ve killed them all if I wanted to, but I was hoping to take at least one alive to interrogate.”

The woman no doubt, whose fetching likeness had long since made the rounds in certain circles alongside the location of where the assassination attempt took place, a mid-class brothel that many of Binesi’s soldiers knew well. Even with three wives and a concubine, the boy’s wandering eyes led him to find soft grass in other fields, but then again, Marshal Yuzhen let slip that Rain had been accompanied by his wife Yan, who drew the first portrait of the female assassin. Youngsters today were so wicked in their ways, but every great man had his flaws, and young Rain’s were more or less harmless for the most part. Difficult and frustrating to work with, but nothing so terrible in light of the dark vices so many Martial Warriors of the Empire shared. A brothel visit with the wife was almost tame by comparison, but still foolhardy for someone in young Rain’s position, except Binesi could not bring himself to say anything about it. How was he even supposed to phrase it? “If you fancy dipping your wick in new candle wax, perhaps you should request a special delivery rather than going out to the factory.”

... Actually not so terrible a euphemism, but Binesi’s pride would not allow it. Besides, the boy’s father would most certainly put him in his place, or if not, then the Chief Provost herself.

“So what are your plans going forward?” Unsure why he’d been asked to stay behind, Binesi asked, “Have you any need for the Colonel General’s assistance?”

“No, no, ten Peak Experts is more than enough. Overkill in fact,” Rain replied. If so, then Binesi would feel better if he sent half back to the Colonel General, who had far fewer loyal Peak Experts to call upon than Falling Rain. Hardly seemed fair given Nian Zu’s storied history and accomplishments, but such was life. People respected the Hero of the North and appreciated his efforts, but few cared enough to pledge their lives to him, not when they could earn more fame or fortune working for almost anyone else.

That being said, it was best to get this out of the way first before asking the young Legate for help on Nian Zu’s behalf. “If so, then why did you ask to speak with me?”

“I wanted to hear your personal opinion on something.” Gesturing back towards his yurt, Rain led Binesi inside where a pot of hot tea was already waiting, prepared by the lovely and lively Mei Lin who smiled ever so brightly in greeting. The girl didn’t stay long and left with all the pets in tow, leaving Binesi and young Rain to drink their tea and have their meeting in peaceful solitude. Adhering only to the barest hint of formality, the boy mitigated his rushed rudeness by pouring Binesi a cup of tea himself, though he only used one hand to do so before gently sliding the cup across the table in the same manner. At least he meant well. “You know the purpose of this expedition, I presume?” Rain asked, before his hand even left the cup much less Binesi had time to drink from it. “I’d like to hear your thoughts on the matter. Honest opinions only, and I won’t hold any of it against you.”

