With little to do except oversee his people, Nian Zu changed into his distinct, gold-trimmed armour and black cloak, even though it was a little too warm for the balmy Central climate. Striding about camp, he let himself be seen by the soldiers of the North and showed them their hero still had life in him yet. A trick he learned from Baatar in fact, after seeing how quickly his half-wolf successor won over the soldiers. Say what you will about his taciturn nature, the Bekhai warrior oozed charisma and commanded respect, never afraid to tighten a harness or help hold a tent pole for even the lowest servant under his command. Small gestures which spoke volumes showed Baatar didn’t hold himself above others, and the people loved him for it.

For this reason alone, Nian Zu believed the Bekhai’s star could only rise. Baatar was a born leader unlike himself, a man who held his post because no one else wanted it.

Hours passed and as the afternoon came to an end, a messenger arrived summoning him and every independent commander of the north to pay their respects to the Imperial Legate. The messenger stressed that each commander was allowed only two guards, a stipulation which annoyed Nian Zu to no end. What, was the Imperial Legate worried he’d be assaulted by one of these ‘savage northerners’? Preposterous. That’s what you get for putting some inbred Emperor’s kinsmen in charge of this ‘First Imperial Grand Conference’. He had half a mind to wash his hands of this farce and order his men back onto their ships, but sadly, he had no choice but to accept the insult. Choosing Han BoHai and Baatar to accompany him, Nian Zu prepared to give the Imperial Legate a piece of his mind with his greatest warriors at his side.

Waiting for the other commanders to join him, Nian Zu seethed with fury at the delay. As he was among the first to arrive, the only other commanders present were Akanai and a handful of Warrant Officers, but after twenty minutes of waiting, they still weren’t ready. Glancing around, he ran each face through a checklist. Akanai was here, with her second, the Healer Tokta, and her slave-turned-daughter Li Song. Akanai treated the girl well, even gifting her Zian’s surrendered Runic Armour, but it was a shame about her status. Li Song's efforts would never be recognized, but from what Nian Zu’s spies reported, the half-cat slave’s prowess was second only to Mila and Zian, a most formidable achievement for a slave.

Marshal Yuzhen also waited nearby, sharing a horse with her current boy-toy Demon Reaper Gerel, while her chief of guard, one of DuYi's men, waited beside them. Han BoShui, the so-called ‘Paper Tiger’ of the Han Clan stood ready and waiting with two elite bodyguards, as did Tong Da Fung, the self-proclaimed Unstoppable Tempest. While the boy’s skills were somewhat impressive, his choice of attendants were the real surprise, one fully armed-and-armoured guardian and a half-weasel servant.

By the Mother these nobles love their games of misdirection. Anyone who knew anything ‘knew’ the young magistrate Fung’s true protector was the vicious servant and torturer Fu Zhu Li, but only Nian Zu and other peak experts would realize that the armoured guardian playing the part of decoy was not a decoy at all, but in fact a true peak expert wearing enough Runic Armour to beggar a king. Where Tong Da Hai found this unknown expert was a mystery, but Nian Zu knew one thing for certain: the unknown expert was not one of the Bekhai, as so many others might assume. The Bekhai had no runemaster, with their only runic items hard won from the Society.

Circles within circles and games within games, so aggravating to navigate.

Next was the Ravenous Wolf Huushal, a hulking youth of noble poise and savage demeanour. With him was one of Baatar’s bannermen, the axe-wielding half-bear warrior Ghurda, who was also Huushal’s adoptive mother. In a bizarre twist, Huushal’s other attendant lay sound asleep in a harness strapped to the young wolf’s back. As Nian Zu opened his mouth to berate the young man for bringing a sleeping grandfather to meet the Imperial Legate, the elderly attendant’s eyes snapped opened and silenced him with a glare. Yellow and wolfish, his eyes had the look of a man not to be crossed lightly. Even with all his strength and experience, Nian Zu wouldn't want to face this grizzled veteran in single combat.

Breaking eye contact, he once again marvelled at the Bekhai’s hidden depths.

Having accounted for everyone else, he realized Falling Rain had yet to show his face. Were it anyone else, Nian Zu would set out and leave him behind, but the boy was too dangerous to be given free rein in the city. Stakes were too high and tempers too hot, with every fop and popinjay in the Empire looking to make a name for themselves. Left to his own devices, Falling Rain might start a riot or murder a dozen noble scions, so Nian Zu sat and waited for the truant problem child.

Another ten minutes passed before he snapped, directing his ire to Baatar. “What’s taking your brat so long? Did he stop to pick up another damned pet?”

In the face of his anger, Baatar still had the gall to smile. “Apologies, commander. The boy was forced to take a detour, but he will arrive momentarily. You can even track his progress yourself.”

Glancing back, Nian Zu’s snarl fell from his face and after a moment’s pause, he closed his eyes and sighed. While the boy couldn’t be seen, it was hard to miss the Guardian Turtle of Ping Yao rushing towards their position as it circled around the sea of soldiers and tents. At least the creature had yet to crush any bystanders, but it still left chaos in its wake as it left soldiers, citizens, and beasts alike terrorized by its frenzied passing.

In light of this, Nian Zu was willing to forgive Falling Rain's tardiness.

Riding up with a sheepish, hang-dog look, Falling Rain made his presence known with a flustered apology. “Sorry Colonel General Situ Nian Zu... err.. commander... sir...?”

Sighing once more, he ignored the muted snickers from the surrounding onlookers, while staring at the flock of strange birds circling overhead. Were they also a part of Rain’s menagerie or was their presence mere coincidence? At least the boy didn’t bring his cats, bears, and rabbits. “Address me as Colonel General, or Colonel General Nian Zu. Only warriors who fall under my command call me commander.” An arrangement he wasn’t entirely unhappy with. This boy could be more trouble than he was worth. Although most northerners revered the Divine Turtle, nobles from the other provinces would only see a living, breathing, Spiritual Heart. “Leave the turtle behind, we’re going to pay our respects, not amuse the Imperial Legate.”

Shrinking back, Falling Rain offered a helpless shrug. “With all due respect Colonel General, if I knew how to leave her behind, she’d still be in Ping Yao. You’re welcome to try convincing her otherwise, but I should warn you: she spits when threatened.”

Not for the first time, Nian Zu regretted giving the boy his own command. No wonder Akanai and Baatar had been so hesitant when he suggested it. Carefully weighing his options, Nian Zu realized he couldn’t risk being spit on by a turtle in front of his soldiers, divine or otherwise. Sighing, he glanced over the boy's chosen attendants and almost fell off his horse. One was a Bekhai warrior of little consequence, a veiled woman covered head to toe in black, while the other was someone Nian Zu recognized and feared. Hurriedly dismounting from his horse, Nian Zu clasped his hands and bowed while the soldiers under his command followed his cue and dropped to their knees.

What Nian Zu found most vexing was how Rain lacked the common courtesy to dismount and kneel, or at least move out of the way so Nian Zu wasn’t forced to salute a child eighty years younger and seven ranks junior. Tossing his irritation aside, he greeted the shabbily dressed Divinity riding at Rain’s side. “Venerable Guan Suo, this one apologizes for not greeting you earlier.”

Without giving permission to Nian Zu to raise his head, the Divinity asked, “Have we met before?”

“We have not Venerable One, but this one has seen drawings of your likeness.” And read the after-action reports regarding the destruction you wrought. Nian Zu didn’t expect Falling Rain to bring an Ancestral Beast to Nan Ping, especially not one as temperamental as Guan Suo. When did he join the Bekhai? Why didn’t Akanai warn him? The Treaty be damned, bringing an Ancestral Beast to meet an imperial Clan member without warning could be construed as intent to rebel or treason, so Nian Zu quickly Sent messengers to explain his dilemma.

Refuse a Divinity? Forget spitting, he’d sooner let the turtle shit in his mouth.

“Then why apologize? It’s fine, it’s fine. I’m part of the kid’s retinue but you can pretend I’m not here. Come, lets get this over with.” Indifferent to the problems his presence brought up, the Divinity prodded Rain to move out. Worried the boy might obey and carelessly take the lead, Nian Zu hurried back onto his horse and set out, moving slowly as he dared to give the Legate as much time as possible.

Mother in Heaven, have mercy on your poor servant. What’s a man to do?

Chapter Meme
