Delta watched as two mushrooms burst from the soil of the Mushroom Grove. The first must be the Tasty Mushroom. It was a mushroom with a white cap with what looked like natural pepper on the skin. The tiny black powder was actually pigment but it made the thing look enticing rather than off-putting. The stalk was a pale yellow and a slight slickness made it look buttery.The other one had a more esoteric design. The fungus pulsed with a soft green light. The cap looked more like woven threads of a fine cloth than any spongy material. At the edge of the cap those thread hung loose and slightly shimmered in the green light, catching the eye.Boary woke up and gave both mushrooms a long look.“See! I can do this whole mushroom thing without it going horribly wrong!” Delta nodded to herself. Boary gave her a long look before he snapped down and swallowed both mushrooms. There was a moment where Delta gaped.“I just... made those...” she said before Boary’s snout flared as his eyes lit up. On his back, two more mushrooms emerged join the rest. They were the mushrooms she had just made.Boary quickly went back to sleep and Delta watched the scene with a long look.“They’re going to grow on their own now... but... what the hell pig? At least save one for later!” she chided and paused as something peeked out from under a bush nearby.It was a dark mushroom. Delta twitched as the Bloodcurdling Mushroom seemed to looked around it’s new home.“They migrated...” she hissed. With some hope she waited, and sure enough a Starlight Mushroom appeared and tried to block the black mushroom from seeing the Mushroom Grove.“I really have got to do something about them. Sys! Remind me to do something about that!” she called out and left the room, eager to spot her new mushrooms sprouting.---In her Sphere of existence, Sys looked at the order and blinked. She adjusted herself on the wooden chair that was her only object.“Fix... them? Are they not working properly?” she asked herself. She pulled up the information on both mushrooms.The screens were basic but they had an odd symbiosis going on in that when one grew, the other did as well. Delta wanted them to... not be so connected? Sys pulled a few screens around and tried to ignore the sparking screen which controlled monster templates. The window was completely orange and the data and words were now gibberish.Sys liked it. It was different.The new window showed they were more akin to enemy tribes fighting for supremacy than living in co-existence. Delta had brought this on herself, but Sys could fix this! She really was sure she could! She perked up and dug into the automatic-conjuration system. A minor part that waited for the clock to countdown on endlessly different projects before it produced an item.She nudged the central control.It acknowledged her.“I need you to add this to the next two batches of M-2-BC and M-2-SM. Thanks.” she smiled and shut the hatch. The request was not needed. The talking was not needed. The eye to eye contact was not needed.But... Sys wanted to try it for once. Talking to Nu was fun! Watching Delta talk to her creations and systems was fun! Sys...It was all Sys. It was like putting hand puppets on two hands and making them talk to each other. But in the act of trying to pretend it was another being... something happened. The Central Control had held the two instructions for a moment before it gingerly did as it was told. It hesitated, tried to slot them in before it paused, and finally turned them upside down and put them into the line of processing.Sys had not made it act confused... Sys hadn’t seen they were upside down.Sys peered into the hatch with wide eyes and a huge smile.Then she looked over the ‘floor’ of her space.The hundred of thousands of hatches of different sizes and colours all briefly lit up from the darkness.They were Sys.But... she could always pretend for a while longer.---Delta stood up and frowned.“Where are my darn mushrooms?” she asked then laughed.“The day I ask that is the day I’ve gone loopy,” she admitted and looked at the storeroom. The shelves held random objects from her Dungeon. A small jar of honey from the bees, an empty mug from Fera’s bar, some Boar hair...Her Storeroom had been collecting things it seemed. The challenge for Merry was still there and it reminded Delta she had so much to do!But the second floor was so close to completion! Well the basic idea...She had so much to experiment with and so little resources.

Delta shook her head.“We take what they bring. They aren’t a hunting party, they can’t handle too much,” she reminded. Nu’s screen turned to her.

Delta tilted her head with a frown.---“Onwards! Follow Gob!” Hob pointed. Delta watched as Hob and Gob left the Dungeon with Renny in tow. In his arms, Renny carried Waddles like a loving pet.“I just sent two goblins, a possibly evil duck, and a mime out to kill spiders...” Delta said hoarsely.

“Yeah, a raid on my sanity. I just hope no one sees them. I don’t even know how to explain it,” Delta muttered.---Ruli held her fishing rod limply to one side as the odd party marched out of the dungeon. The Goblins sang loudly as the Mime petted the duck. They vanished into the distant woods and Ruli eyed her other hand which held the bottle of dark booze.There was a moment’s pause before she simply shrugged and took another swig.“Quiss’ shit is good!” she burped.She took a few lumbering steps after the party. She liked that duck! It hung out at her pond!“Ducky!” she called, falling flat on her face as she caught a root. She looked up and a wide grin spread over her face.“Ducky ducky!” she laughed, face so red that she looked feverish. She got up and pushed a tree out the way as she chased after the group.The tree fell and began to roll down the decline towards the dungeon.“NU! THE TREE GIANTS ARE BACK!”---Deep in the dark woods, the darkness inside the giant web in the middle of the Spiders’ Lair paused.It felt...uneasy.It dismissed this as an after effect of the change. Awareness and emotions were not a welcome gift... it was just getting excited as the tunnel grew closer to completion.---Mila watched the distant horizon.A carriage with some people on horses took the long winding path towards Durence.Young. Excited. Eager... Unprepared.It had begun. Noland would not reach the king until at least a week or so from now, but any inn or village he stayed in... the news spread.A party had come to seek Delta’s richess. What fools...Mila merely walked back towards her home and saw that everyone was on or watching the streets. Each watched those flickering torches grow closer.The world they had run from had finally decided to come to them.Well, at least things were not going to be boring. Delta alone provided ample change to the usual dynamics. She wondered how long this peaceful act would last? Until she was driven mad?Or would she change everything?Mila laughed and raised one hand in the direction of the Dungeon.“Good luck, little girl. You are gonna need it,” she grinned.The stars twinkled as if agreeing.---
