"Hey, everybody."

Amara pointed her palms up at me. She glared.

"Why are you so late to this gathering? Even after delaying it for several weeks, you make us wait again."

Hod sat still, meditating with his yellow mana. He opened his eyes as I arrived. Hod squawked.

"Hod know Harbinger do important Harbinger stuff."

I turned a hand to him, grasping at the opportunity for a reasonable excuse.

"Exactly."

Hod nodded.

"Hod not like it, but important stuff more important than friends. It shame, but it true."

Chrona let out a deep chuckle.

"He was helping the dry man, remember?"

Hod crossed his arms.

"That why Hod not sure if important stuff actually important. Dry man always be dry. No one stop that. Not even Harbinger."

I took out several fish I collected while scavenging Antarctica's barren wastes.

"I guess fishing for friends wasn't worth my time. I wonder what I'll do with these-"

Hod leaped forward, snatched the series of fish away, and stuffed his cheeks like a gerbil. He gulped them down in an instant, and Hod looked at his feathery hands.

"Hod...Hod love Harbinger. What Hod thinking?"

He hugged me, wiping fish grime and bits of ice on me all the while. I squeezed him before setting him down. Hod wouldn't let go, so I tossed several more fish away from me. The birdman dove to the other fish, munching away before I tossed a vial of primeval blood to Amara. She snatched it out of the air while hissing.

"Is this bribery?"

I scoffed.

"Oh, absolutely."

She stowed it away.

"Your bribery is petty. But...it's working."

Chrona's eyes glistened at me. I took out a whale from my storage along with a few wisps of the primeval blood. I channeled the multicolored blood through a blue core, creating a temporally loaded mirage. I tossed it to her.

"This holds a vision constructed from elemental magic. It manipulates our perception of time, so I thought you'd be interested."

Chrona caught the vial with her tail.

"Is this the iridescent fluid you found on L-7?"

I shook my head.

"That was more like liquid light that constantly shifted color. This is like glowing paint that keeps each color separated from the others. The colors don't mix as well, remaining splotchier."

Chrona tilted her head. I shrugged.

"And this won't kill you. The other stuff probably would."

Chrona whipped her tail back and forth, her eyes following the vial.

"I'll take your word for it...And besides, it has caught my interest. This is quite an unusual piece, yet still so familiar. Ah, that's what it is. This reminds me of the ancient sculptures left behind by other time mages on Giess."

Amara peered in disgust.

"These primevals existed on Giess?"

Chrona let out a deep laugh.

"No, little one. I learned my time magic from an ancient order of temporal gialgathens. They would leave their teachings within sculptures that imbued their knowledge within. If one touched it, they would be immersed within a vision of the past."

Chrona looked up at the sky.

"While mostly harmonious, some of these sculptures carried fragments of their souls. They would attempt to imprint themselves over the bodies of younger gialgathens and steal their youth. There was a time when I believed Lehesion was one of these mages due to his reincarnated knowledge."

Chrona's eyes grew wistful.

"Not that it matters now."

Hod flapped over.

"Hod find it interesting."

Chrona smiled up at him.

"Thank you, child."

Chrona pointed her head at the whale.

"Now, what is that for?"

I put my hands on my hips, standing tall.

"It's for you and Hod to share. Divy it up how you like."

Hod and Chrona glared at each other before they dove at the whale. Chrona wielded time. Hod wielded the shadows. They both cleaved each other's respective sorceries into ribbons as they crossed the few meters to the whale. It diced into many fragments, awash in energies and manas it couldn't hope to withstand.

The whale exploded. Blood, guts, and viscera splattered over me and Amara. Amara hissed.

"And you have chosen these two to accompany you?"

The blood soaked into my skin, and I shrugged.

"At least it'll be interesting."
