“I know,” Artemis nodded. “But I also know that one of the things you wanted to accomplish while here at the Pantheon of Life was to upgrade your archery skill. You did manage to gain an upgrade while visiting the Hunting Ground, but I realize that while you did certainly benefit and even upgrade a skill related to your archery, simply going hunting wasn’t what you needed the most.”

“I’m listening,” Jake said with interest.

“You need exposure. You need to encounter other talented archers, and not ones like me who are too far ahead of you in levels and sheer power. Instead, it needs to be peers or at least people close to being considered your peers,” Artemis explained. “Perception is by far your best stat, and you are great at intuiting what you see and integrating it with your own Path. I had considered it perhaps too risky, in case you learned bad habits from other archers around your own level, but I’ll trust your ability to decide and instinctively know what’s worth integrating and what isn’t.”

“Are you telling me the Pantheon of Life has some archery academy or something?” Jake asked. The Order had an alchemy academy, so it would make sense that the Pantheon of Life had one for hunters...

“There is, but that’s not what I’m getting at,” Artemis waved him off as she smiled. “No, what I’m suggesting is something far more valuable. Curated sparring partners with archery skills rivalling or surpassing yours, all still in C-grade and all blessed by me.”

“Are you sure you don’t just want to see me getting my ass kicked by your followers?” Jake asked with a smile.

“That’s just a bonus,” Artemis chuckled. “I take it you’re interested?”

“You know what?” Jake said. “I’ve been complaining about not seeing enough skilled archers in the multiverse, especially in Nevermore, so no bloody way I’m saying no to finally seeing people who know how to use bows properly.”

“Oh, some of them use crossbows,” Artemis quickly corrected.

He stared at her for a moment, the Godqueen unable to maintain her serious expression as she broke out in a big grin. “I’m messing with you. No way I would ever go so low as to bless a crossbow user.”

Jake let out a loud sigh. “Oh, good... I was afraid our relationship would have had to end here because of irreconcilable differences.”

“Totally understandable, that is a valid deal-breaker,” Artemis chuckled, before a thought struck her, and she looked at Jake. “Guns?”

“Glorified wands,” Jake answered without a moment’s hesitation.

Artemis nodded as the two made eye contact, Jake once more getting confirmation he had indeed caught a good one.
