Aside from a handful of positive moments of culture shock, the elf that was calling herself Sylphene could hardly claim to be enjoying her time spent amongst the oft-seclusive devils. So many of her expectations and plans had gone awry…

Magnate Ryx was supposed to be one of the wealthy sorts that prized the collection of greater wealth and power. After all, such greed was not uncommon amongst immortals that grew wealthy enough to gain a degree of detachment from the world. It should have made him predictable. It should have made him easy to manipulate.

But Magnate Ryx defied her expectations again and again. Diamonds and rubies had utterly failed to sway the man. Even the offer of every secret to the elven art of enchantments that she knew—something she assumed to be invaluable—had failed to rouse his attention. It was only when she was forced to beg for the most minimal amount of assistance that she could possibly accept that he finally paused and looked her way once again.

He considered the sight of a proud elf on her knees, pleading desperately, to somehow be more valuable than her secrets! Though, unsurprisingly, he took those as well. She had offered them, after all.

Still, no matter how… ridiculous her initial negotiations proved to be, those with any devil other than Ryx went far more smoothly. After all, she had an advantage that no one could have foreseen: her time spent with the book of the nation’s tax code. It was absurd, but Ranthia’s gifts continued to save her. First, the woman’s unconditional love brought Avy—no, she could not allow herself to use her former name, not even in her own thoughts—from the brink. Second was the purium pendant, which quite literally saved her from an agonizing death. And without that book that should have never existed outside of the devils’ nation, Sylphene was… less than confident that she would have found any measure of success.

The tax code itself was of little value—all that its rules directly offered was an explanation for why she would not be expected to pay taxes. The book’s true value came from what it taught her about the foundations of the devil’s laws and codes, and how their use had been shaped by their society.

Superficially, the nation was controlled by a handful of powerful [Merchants] that ran the entire place as a business. That was the elven conclusion, and like many simplified statements, it was dangerously inaccurate. In truth, magnates like Ryx wielded little authority within their own nation, they were noteworthy only as the devils that were allowed to present themselves to the outside world. Yes, Ryx and the others were wealthy, but their authority ended at the outer walls of their own estates.

The fact that Ryx’s estate was a sprawling complex that housed a full-fledged city was (somehow) beside the point.

Instead, the true power of the devils rested with the people. Each and every devil was truly equal in a way that not even the elves could claim. The foundational code that formed the bedrock that the devils’ entire legal and mercantile system had been built upon required that an hour of labor from anyone carried the exact same value, regardless of level, field, or skill. It was nonsensical and it should have been unworkable, yet the code had withstood the tests of time. The code had been established long before the elven Council became ‘Unchanging’ and it had endured every challenge without becoming altered or lessened.

That was why the nation remained nameless. It was a nation of people, and no individual or group had the right to force a name onto the rest. Similarly, their government was nothing more than individuals contracted to provide a specific service on behalf of specific constituents (or organizations), for a specific period of time.

One of the most shocking things about their society was that enforcement provisions were rarely included in any contract. Even in the laws and codes, the enforcement of honoring the terms found in contracts was covered only in the broadest of strokes. After thousands of years of cultural pride, it was generally expected for every devil to follow the terms of their agreements.

And if the tax laws had a mere three total examples of devils that fell short of their obligations, it was unlikely that ordinary agreements would create many issues.

The context helped to explain some of what she had discovered through interacting with the devils that lived within Ryx’s compound. First and foremost, every contract had to specifically invoke which codes it would include. The codes themselves were a fascinating bit of cleverness; each code was, effectively, a set of rules that decided how contracts would be read and interpreted. Where codes and the contract were in conflict, the contract’s terms were to be used, but the codes guided any questions or ambiguities. Of course, the modern codes were both dense and complex, but in the tax laws Sylphene had found superior candidates for her needs: older codes that were straightforward and weighted to favor those with less bargaining power. A group that included individuals such as an outcast elf that was, admittedly, somewhat out of her depth.

Her second advantage was unexpected. But it took little time to learn that the devils considered accepting a contract without negotiating to be the highest form of rudeness. She could almost follow the logic—to accept a contract outright was to treat it as unimportant, as if she was insinuating that the devil’s time and services were beneath her attention. It was still strange, but it meant that it was expected for her to change terms and substitute which codes the contract should be guided by. Far from being offended, almost every devil that she was forced to interact with was pleased to see her negotiate.

At least [A Merchant with Luster] got a lot of mileage out of living among the devils. That said, being a [Merchant] was her career, and it was outright exhausting to never be able to just… stop for a while. Every last interaction she had demanded some form of contract—verbal, at a minimum. To employ the services of one of the [Maids] that worked in Ryx’s estate required a contract, yet to clean her own space also required her to negotiate with the [Maids], as she was taking work from them! Each meal was a contract. Certain social interactions required contracts. And her own contracted labor required her to enter into contracts with multiple other devils as well!

Grimy gemstones! Her fondness for contracts and agreements eroded a bit more each and every day.

Ryx’s ‘benevolence’ gave her access to a one-room guest house free of charge for as long as she remained, which included two simple meals a day and a bowl of soup at noon. For everything else, Sylphene needed to manage her own affairs. Which meant she needed to negotiate time and time again.

Per her host’s… request, she spent much of her time working with [Enchanters] that lived within his estate, teaching them what she knew. Fortunately, she was allowed to charge for her time, though the good news ended there. There were foundational differences between elven and devilish enchanting, and she struggled to adapt enough to bridge the difference. More annoyingly, each [Enchanter] had a unique style—and two of them resented her efforts. They still contracted with her and indulged her, of course, but she truly could have done without the snide commentary!

Compounding her frustrations was the simple fact that Sylphene had dramatically underestimated the burden she had pledged. Once she got a feel for the [Enchanters]’ levels and experience, she had expectated that she would require a season—two at most—to impart all that she had learned to them. Instead, she spent just over two years working with them until she felt that she had done all that she could do to further the techniques of each of the seven.

Well, all she could reasonably do. Retraining them from the ground up was never an option, not truly.

When each day ended, Sylphene dragged herself back to her borrowed home. There, she recorded her thoughts and hopes into her journal in the form of letters written to Ranthia that would never be sent—letters that were signed with her true name, the only place that it was allowed to persist outside of her heart and her System. She wrote each tender letter with every bit of elven grace she possessed, careful to never leave the tiniest indention on the paper. And each time she closed the journal, the enchantment that she wove into its cover purged the ink from the scant pages that were bound within. The words had to exist solely within her memories, but the physical act of writing to the woman that she had pledged her heart to genuinely helped her to accept the life she was forced to live.

The eighty years they would be apart dwindled to seventy-eight by the time Sylphene was ready to pursue her true objective. Her [Merchant] class was hardly the only one she intended to reset. If she was ever going to truly accompany Ranthia, she needed to become far more capable of violence. And her Spatial [Mage] class was by far the best candidate. Unfortunately, her enchantments could only do so much to bridge the gap, especially as it widened with time—she needed a true combat class.

But to become a combat-oriented Spatial [Mage], she needed both levels and training. And there was one place that could provide her with both as well as the necessary experience to truly make the most of her newfound direction. The elves believed it to be lost, however…

The devils had the means to access the Dungeon. The tax laws mentioned it by name, and she had heard the whispers amongst the combat-oriented individuals and organizations that lived within Ryx’s estate. The magnate sponsored and/or contracted with more than just [Artisans], [Merchants], and [Laborers]—there were promising talents in the art of violence as well.

Sylphene just needed to find some people that were prepared to face the Dungeon. And negotiate with them until they agreed to take her as well, of course.

There were few records about the “land bridge” that provided crossing to the northern continent. Ancient elves had traversed it, but it was the devils that settled the land well before she had ever been born. Describing land that no elf was expected to see again—unless things went very wrong with the cold hostility that lingered between the devils and the elves—was never a priority. As such, Sylphene had created her own expectations. After all, the term itself provided a certain framework. “Bridge” implied narrowness and land suggested dirt and rock.

The truth was stranger than that.

The “land bridge” was a complete misnomer. There was a protrusion of land that invaded the ocean’s territory, followed by a series of islands of varying sizes. In ancient times people presumably swam—assuming there was never a true land bridge that had been sundered by some powerful classer—but someone had constructed durable and very robust wooden bridges over the water to allow traffic to move along the islands as they made their way north. They were some of the most impressive bridges that she had ever seen—broad and designed to endure even the primal fury of the ocean itself.

Sylphene had joined with five devils that referred to themselves as the “Sisters of Strife,” a name they clearly earned through how often and how bitterly they argued with one another. The group was composed of four women and one man—who dressed like his fellow sisters, yet self-identified as a male whenever he spoke of himself. Each referred to the others as “sister,” though Sylphene was still unsure if they were actually related or just chose the name as an affectation.

Given the undisguised sounds of passion that emerged from the other tents at times, she assumed they were not literally siblings. Yet she knew better than to trust such assumptions, nor was she curious enough to embrace crassness and ask.

Moving on from those thoughts… Unlike most elven caravans or groups Sylphene had ever travelled with, they made good time as they moved toward the northern continent. They broke camp bright and early with a rigid adherence to routine and ate light fare while they continued their journey and only prepared camp a short while before sunset, unless the topography forced them to stop early.

Their largest issue was that access to water was unreliable. Sylphene had prepared spatial storage cases for each of them, which helped to offset the issue, but it was vexing to be forced to ration their water while they were surrounded by so much of it! Unfortunately, none of the devils had a Water-aspected [Mage] class or any other Skill that could remove the harsh salinity from the bountiful ocean, nor was she familiar with any enchantment that could do so in a single night. There were a few islands that possessed sources of freshwater, but they all too often relied on luck—be it rainy weather or a helpful mermaid.

Still, recklessly poor planning aside, they managed to endure until they reached the northern continent. That night, Sylphene struggled to rest—her gaze incessantly wandered toward the jungle that waited beyond the serene beach. She had heard a thousand and twenty-four stories about the northern continent. Many of them were unfair—even dragons could be found living in the southern continent that had long been her home—but it was true that the elves had tried and failed to establish a city there, long ago.

And that failure gave the land a mystical and dangerous allure.

“Alright, listen up. Of the five—six, sorry—of us, I’m the only one that’s been here before and I need to explain what’s about to happen for the next few days. So, gather ‘round, shut your noise holes, and actually listen because I don’t want to get killed because of some knife-eared jackass.” Malista announced, glaring at Sylphene the entire while.

The woman had been the only one to vote against taking her along and she never, ever let Sylphene forget it. She was also the highest level of the group, at 984. Her primary role was defensive, despite the presumed implications of the absurdly massive sword that she wielded.

“I’ve been up this way once, to the Hub at least.” Nangyna, the male wearing a dark steel bustier and matching armored skirt, chimed in. He was one of the two [Mages] in the group and specialized in both Pyronox and Mountain. And at level 780, he was the second weakest person in their group by conventional metrics.

