Cursing herself for her carelessness, Luo-Luo kept her eyes down and did as she was told. Unlike Lin-Lin, Mi-Mi and Li-Li were warriors, so aptly demonstrated by the various weapons bristling from their persons. Surely they wouldn’t beat or mutilate Luo-Luo before meeting her husband? Then again, being uncivilized tribesmen, they might not understand the repercussions of such an action. Resisting the urge to back away, she cursed herself for wasting so much time on chess, history, and politics instead of practising her Martial skills.

In retrospect, it seemed silly to treat Heavenly Energy as little more than a beauty treatment, but how was Luo-Luo to know she would have to fight one day?

Long seconds stretched by, and Lin-Lin was first to break the tense silence. “Don’t be so grumpy Mi-Mi,” she said, still holding tight to Luo-Luo’s hand. “Hubby already said he’s sorry about all this, and it’s not Luo-Luo’s fault. The Legate gifted her to Rainy, so it’d be rude to send her back, so we’re stuck with her, ya? Besides, she was so sweet with Tali and when Banjo and Baloo snuck in, Luo-Luo moved to protect her, so she’s not a bad person.”

It took every scrap of self control Luo-Luo had to keep from staring at Lin-Lin, annoyed she’d underestimated the adorable half-hare. The dainty young woman was more calculating than she appeared, having sent little Tali in to see how Luo-Luo would react. Oh, such a shame to be married to a hen-pecked husband, having to play these games with his wives before even meeting him. How could she rely on his protection if he couldn’t keep his house in order?

Deflating with a sigh, Mi-Mi uncrossed her arms and stepped forward, standing at about chest height as she gazed up at Luo-Luo’s face. With her short, fiery hair, pale complexion, and endearing freckles, Mi-Mi had a different beauty and possessed a tantalizing athletic frame to boot. Proving her husband was a man of varied tastes, Li-Li differed from Lin-Lin and Mi-Mi, a buxom, full-figured, bronze-skinned woman brimming with sensuous allure. With each woman here a unique beauty, Luo-Luo’s hopes of standing out through looks alone came to a crashing end.

Though things looked dire, it was still too early to invoke the Privilege. Luo-Luo still had other charms besides her appearance, she only needed to survive long enough to entice her husband with them.

Crinkling her button nose in an adorable grimace, Mi-Mi muttered, “Too beautiful,” beneath her breath and shook her head. With another sigh, she shook her head and said, “It’s all his fault. Even if he didn’t outright ask the Legate for a concubine, Rain’s indecent behaviour led to this.” Holding a hand up to forestall Lin-Lin’s arguments, Mi-Mi continued, “No, don’t make excuses for that mule-headed fool, you saw his stupid, perverted smile when he found out.”

Excellent, at least her husband was interested in Luo-Luo, else she might as well give up now. Seizing the opportunity, she played the part of meek, frightened young girl, difficult as it was while being the tallest person in the room. “Honoured Madams, Luo-Luo has yet to decide if she will submit to Imperial Mandate, so if she could meet dear husband, then perhaps all your concerns will be laid to rest.” Let them believe she was ready to refuse so she could finally meet her husband and decide her fate.

“Wait,” Mi-Mi asked, confusion plastered across her face. “You have a choice in the matter? You’re not a slave?”

Bristling in indignation, Luo-Luo drew herself up to full height and replied, “This one is no slave, but an Imperial Servant, gifted in tribute to the Imperial Clan and educated at the Academy.”

The three women traded puzzled glances and shrugs. “What’s the difference?” Lin-Lin asked.

Calm yourself, Luo-Luo, they ask not out of malice, but ignorance. “A slave is bound by their Oaths, while a Servant suffers no such restrictions, attending to his or her duties out of loyalty to Imperial Clan. Imperial Mandate proclaimed this one to be the concubine of Falling Rain and this one obeys, because such is the Will of the Son of Heaven and Emperor of All Mankind.”

The girls traded awkward glances once again before Mi-Mi asked, “So... you can refuse to marry Rain?”

Luo-Luo nodded. “All Servants may refuse their duty by invoking the Privilege. At such a time, our patron is duty-bound to summon a Justicar so the Servant may submit their grievances for the Emperor’s perusal before they ascend into the afterlife.”

“You’d rather die than marry Rain?” For some odd reason, Luo-Luo’s stance seemed to upset Mi-Mi. “Why? Is it because of the rumours? He’s a lecher, but really not all that bad.”

Li-Li spoke for the first time, giving Luo-Luo a knowing nod. “If you do not wish to marry him, you need not take your own life. Sister will keep you safe.”

“But you should marry hubby. He’s the best,” Lin-Lin added, hugging Luo-Luo’s waist as if afraid she’d run away.

Head spinning from the abrupt reversal, Luo-Luo responded without thinking. “This one has yet to decide not because she is reluctant but because she knows nothing about her husband aside from his name.”

“Oh, we can fix that.” Dragging Luo-Luo down to sit, Lin-Lin launched into a tale, dead set on convincing Luo-Luo to become Falling Rain’s concubine by telling tales of his kindness and generosity. Though less enthused, Mi-Mi also chimed in with stories of his martial prowess while Li-Li sat silently on the side and brushed the lazy wildcats, nodding along when she agreed and frowning when she did not.

It was all very informative, but were it not for Luo-Luo’s impeccable manners, she’d have called her new sisters liars a half dozen times. There was more to Falling Rain than they would say, but overall, she was dazzled by his astonishing accomplishments and lofty pursuits. Little Tali wasn’t far off the mark with her fanciful stories, though she neglected to mention Luo-Luo’s husband was the newly-crowned number one talent in the Empire and a genius inventor. That alone was enough to convince her the Imperial Mandate was without fault, quashing all her thoughts of invoking the Privilege. Eager to meet him and especially eager to read his book of inventions, Luo-Luo steered the conversation towards that end and soon enough, Lin Lin was happily escorting her to meet him, with a less enthusiastic Mila (as she preferred to be called) and an apathetic Li-Li (whose ears fluttered in delight at the familiar appellation) following behind.

Following Lin-Lin around the Divine Turtle’s bulk, Luo-Luo held her breath as she laid eyes upon her husband for the very first time. Broad of shoulder and slim of waist, he laid curled up against the Divine Turtle’s arm, no doubt exhausted after a long morning of gruelling, hard fought duels. A fierce and indomitable warrior, he hardly looked the part while curled up with more than a dozen rabbits, including one fully grown rabbit snuggled against his chest. While not the most handsome man she’d ever seen, a little skin care and make up would go a long way towards enhancing his appearance, not to mention a proper haircut and tailored clothes. As Lin-Lin skipped over to wake him, Luo-Luo glanced down and made sure everything was in place before donning her best smile and raising her head to meet her husband.

Only to realize she raised it far too high, for she stood a full head taller than the number one talent in the Empire.

Oh Mother above... her husband was so short!

Chapter Meme
