As I decipher the rich green glyphs etched into Abby's human flesh, their utility becomes very clear. Ember's past words calling her energy form, the Immortal Healer's body, were not a play on words.

Deep within her unique cultivation chamber, Abby harnesses the power of the strongest advanced primordial aura in the Upper Realm, combined with her deep green soul energy enhanced with flawless-grade ether, High Royal Vibrations, and the sole remaining legacy of dryads left behind by a past Overseer.

She is the most powerful being left in the Origin Plane.

Even all of the peak strength of warlords and generals left behind do not amount to one ten-thousandth of her power.

Every year that passes, the gap widens.

I do not want to interrupt her peaceful slumber, as it will only be harmful for the sake of a meaningless check-in.

The glyphs that tether her soul, body, divine energy forms, ether-based energy forms, and primordial essence together, they are all fully infused with her unique skill: the ability to restore all mana-based lifeforms back to their natural state.

She has placed herself into a state of perfect cultivation. As long as she does not awaken and use her active mind and present soul, she can remain in this state almost indefinitely.

Her subconscious still activates the enforcement team that watches over the purple zone, and all of the preset fast travel streams have already been optimized thousands of times over the last few millennia. There is no longer any need to change them.

In fact, they have become so deeply rooted in her Primordial Tree manifestation that when citizens pay with ether to use this system to and from any fixed port, this raw ether is cycled through as though it is her own energy pathways.

Her soul and body do not age, yet her energy control continues to rise in efficiency.

Another 50,000 years pass in an instant, and drops of red and blue Emperor's Essence still fall down into the Origin Plane to curiously watch the passage of time.

The Lower Realm's consolidation of energy has become very widespread.

Almost all of the abandoned stars from 1st and 2nd Class Worlds have been claimed and added to enormous artifaction ports at the convergence of large ether pathways.

Many of the races that are being born in this new era have even begun resorting to 3rd Class Worlds to build their own artificial solar systems.

In the Green Zone, even Torvak, Zashen, and the White Griffin that watches over the Grand Citadel reach the end of their natural lives, resorting to the ascension ritual and returning as ethereal avatars to live out their days as white shadows.

The unique constitution of the Wyvern Race is one that has been augmented two times in their history within the Origin Plane.

Its first instance was the interference of Ember during a few of his many attempts to reach the higher zones of the Upper Realm nearing the end of the Demon's Era.

Their race was never meant to rise in prominence the way it did. They were destined to stay as a lizard race, some bright green like emeralds, others a deep blue, some fiery red, and the rare few an ethereal white.

Yet their bloodlines were altered by Ember in order to gain a foothold as a last resort stationed within the Fortress Citadel's Legacy Chambers, granting them lifespans countless times longer than their old bloodline's limitations.

When I stare deep into the slumbering Blue Wyvern at the center of the Upper Realm, I can see the exact point in history when these very laws of the Origin Plane were shifted to create such an anomaly.

The vast majority of these Wyverns never managed to make use of the rare gift, as they were ruthlessly hunted down by Demons until they were almost made extinct.

Seraphel, as the last remaining remnant of this race, went through another bloodline mutation when he bound his fate to the Immortal Healer.

As long as Abby's perfect state of harmonization is not disrupted, Seraphel is capable of maintaining a deep sleep while activating his innate water-infused advanced Primordial Body. This ancient being's rate of aging slows down at a profound rate, defying the rules of the natural order of the system almost as drastically as Abby.

Yet, as another 250,000 years pass, I watch the plumes of white mist of flawless-grade ether flowing off the countless lifeforms that are born and die in the relentless cycle of passing time.

There is even a faint residue that radiates off all of the ascended ethereal forms in their dormant states; all of this essence inevitably falls back into the membrane to reunite with the Immortal Emperors that watch from above.
