They thankfully didn't have to wait long; two days later, they were leaving the Montoire airport and heading out through the pass, landing in Premarche at the end of the day.

They stayed overnight and took off again in the morning, heading to Majestic. A lot of tools and materials were going to be needed to set up the enchanting shop, and the biggest trading port in the kingdom was the best place to start shopping.

David spent a good portion of his time visiting the enchanters they'd hired, under the pretext that he wanted their input on the kind of equipment they wanted.

He couldn't hide the real reason from Niala, though; he was just really interested in learning enchanting tricks from actual experts.

Said experts had, at first, been reserved and deferential; David was a noble, and their past experience with nobles hadn't left the best impression. Not to mention that this particular noble was really intimidating.

Their behaviour turned around quickly when they figured out that he just wanted to “talk shop” with them. Their morale improved as well; while not exactly dejected, these people had still felt somewhat forced to jump at the offered hand.

Seeing their new employer show interest and understanding in their craft was akin to a bright ray of sunshine on an uncertain day. They could look forward to a job where their boss wasn't primarily preoccupied with production targets. For dedicated artisans who had been fired because they'd stood up for the ideals of the Landretti company instead of Sebastian's heavy-handed micro-managing, it meant a lot.

The ensuing shopping spree in Masjectic, where David and Niala went for top-quality hardware, almost made them weep.

They purchased what was available, placed orders for what wasn't, and gave everyone two days to visit Majestic before departing.

On their way back to Riverwall, the enchanters and craftsmen started calling David “Boss” with a smile and a wave.

Niala's husband practically vibrated out of repressed happiness.

The rest of the trip was uneventful, though they made frequent stops along the way, giving their passengers time outside the ship and allowing them to sight-see new locales, something most of them were very grateful for, having never left Montaroyal.

By the time they arrived in Riverwall, the excitement at setting up a new enchanting company had reached a fever pitch, and the “Boss” was almost dragged out to go look for the perfect building to start setting up.

Niala and Jordo rounded up the forgotten families and began sorting out living arrangements. The quickest and easiest solution was to purchase one of the recently finished apartment blocks from the town hall, one of several that Isaac's plans had called for.

The block itself would only be half-occupied, and its apartments could be described as sparsely furnished at best, but the essentials would be covered. A stipend to buy additional furniture and pay for essential supplies was handed out to everyone, and the rest of the day was spent moving everyone in.

By evening, David returned with the craftsmen, having decided on a small warehouse built close to the south sister river and surrounded by forested lots that hadn't been cleared for construction yet.

Everything was purchased, with the reason given that enchanting work required quiet and time above all else. The uncleared lots would remain as a buffer from any future industries or workshops, and the remoteness would limit traffic.

Niala and David went over the last few urgent details for the day. At the very least, they had a week's worth of work and arrangements to make, but for now, everyone had a place to stay.

They met with Linzy and Papo, giving them a short summary of their trip, and getting an update on what had happened during their absence in turn.

The goblin woman told them that Marshalla wanted to talk with them as soon as possible, and that the Old Woman herb shipments from the Fairlands had increased threefold. The new receiving warehouse for those was also being finished, but everything else was business as usual.

After that, finally, they retired home.

Their quiet, comfy home, with their quiet bedroom, with its sturdy bed for just the two of them, who hadn't had many occasions to get really close together during the past week.

A FEW BELLS AGO, UPON LANDING IN RIVERWALL

Anna walked down the ramp toward her new home. She'd never really heard of Riverwall while she lived in Montoire, and everything she learned after that told her that she really never had a reason to know of it; apart from being a frontier town bordering a large swath of wilderness filled with ancient ruins, it had nothing of note.

The town she'd seen flying in wasn't like that. It was a strange mix of old and new, with dozens of work sites still busy erecting new buildings to add to the booming settlement.

Surprisingly few people for all of the construction, though. Sammie had explained it was because the town was being built in prevision of a boom, which would only truly start once the railcar line to the Living Vault, and its crystal mines, was finished.

And that story had been a wild ride, especially the part where Sammie was practically dead, his body melting away from fel acid.

She wasn't sure what she wanted to believe: that he had been exaggerating the wounds, or that Niala's potions really could heal such grievous wounds.

Hopefully, she wouldn't ever have to find out about the latter, but it did speak to one thing: her file on the Allwardens had been grossly incomplete. It was pretty evident they were good people- you just had to look at how they'd taken care of their new employees for that, but it showed there was much more to them than David's mana and their good hearts.

Speaking of hearts..

She turned her head to look at Sammie as he walked up to her. During the trip, he had dredged up excuse after excuse for spending time together.

It had been a great time, and kept her mind occupied from something that had prowled in there since her first meeting with the Allwardens: Sybil.

It was evident to her that the other bunnykin had feelings for Sammie, yet he seemed oblivious to it. What should she do? Nothing? That was... probably the safest way. It also wasn't her style.

Looking around, she saw that Sybil was alongside Niala, who was speaking with the families of their employees, a few dozen metres away.

She faced Sammie, looked him in the eyes, and spoke just loud enough that nobody else would hear. “I hope you'll forgive a bit of selfishness on my part. There's something I should have asked about earlier, but I didn't want to risk wasting this chance.”

His smile flattened, and then he nodded once.

The corner of her mouth quirked up for a second, falling off as she continued. “Sammie... did you intend to keep dating me?”

“I did. It'll be a lot easier now that you're in Riverwall.”

“Eas- What do you mean, easier? Were you planning on dating me even if I was still in Montaroyal?”

He nodded with a smirk. “Sure, if you wanted to. It would have been a little difficult, but I'm sure I could have found a way to go see you a few times a year.”

His smug face kept any words from coming out of her mouth. She blew a breath and pinched the bridge of her nose, and then looked back up at him, unable to do anything about her light blush. “You're annoyingly sweet, Sammie, and you keep dropping surprises on me.”

He smiled. “You like surprises. You told me on... huh, our second date? I think?”

Again with that self-assured grin of his. She groaned and burrowed her face into her hands, coming back up after a few seconds. “It's not making this any easier, but whatever. You and Sybil?”

“What about us?”

“Will our dating be... a problem?”

“Because she keeps staring daggers at you and thinking you're secretly an assassin out to use me to get closer to the Allwardens?”

She narrowed her eyes. “Something like that.”

“Nah, she'll get over it eventually. And even if she doesn't, who I date isn't her business.”

Anna bit her lips. “Are you certain about that?”

“...What are you getting at?” He asked.

“Well... Sybil has feelings for you, doesn't she? It's kind of obvious that she's jealous of me.”

Sammie froze and stared at her, blinking a few times. Just when she thought she'd made a mistake, he turned and shouted at Sybil. “HEY SYBIL! ANNA THINKS YOU'RE SECRETLY IN LOVE WITH ME!”

Anna's face went rigid as her mind broke like glass. She dragged her eyes up to look at Sammie, a raging inferno working its way up her throat to pound this utter idiot into the ground.

And then Sybil started laughing. And the laughter grew louder as the bunnykin held her sides, slowly folding over. The woman seemed like she couldn't breathe properly, getting lower and lower, eventually slumping on the ground, still laughing like a maniac. Somehow, she managed to shout back a few words. “Me?! With that- Hahahaha! With that sour face?! MWAHAHAHA!”

Anna's roaring inferno disappeared, her mouth hanging open and her ears flopping to each side of her head.

Sammie turned back toward her, grinning. “Sybil does love me, Anna, and I love her back, but like siblings. I'll tell you all about our lives if you want, but we were each other's only family for a long time.”

He closed the space between them, putting his hands on her shoulders and locking gaze. “She wasn't jealous, she was being overprotective because she somehow thinks she's the big sister and I'm the little brother.”

Anna blinked. “Oh... that... Makes sense?” She looked at the still-squirming Sybil, trying to catch her breath, then back at Sammie's soft eyes staring at her. His soft, caring eyes.

She hid her blush by burying her face in her hands.

“You're really cute when you're embarrassed.”

“Please shut up.” She croaked out.

As Sammie led her to one of the Allwarden's guest houses, a pressure she hadn't noticed until now slowly lifted from her heart.

She looked up at his back, framed by sleek, well-defined shoulders, and the back of her neck warmed up. Maybe she cared about the man more than she'd told herself.

Or maybe he was just an anchor during a turbulent time. She'd probably figure it out after a week or two. For now, she was looking forward to getting a quiet place to call home; the trip on the airship hadn't been exactly private.

Sammie gave her a short tour, taking no more than a minute, the house being a small two-bedroom thing, barely bigger than her old apartment. Still, it was a quality build and well furnished. Most importantly, the beds were downright decadent. She would have no trouble getting to sleep tonight.

She threw him a glance, stared from the corner of her eye, and shook her head.

He picked up on the movement. “Something wrong?”

“No, nothing. This is a nice little house. Are there similar ones available in town?”

He scratched the back of his head. “Ah, maybe? A lot of people moved around in the past seasons. There's probably older houses up for sale.”

She nodded, thoughts refocused on matters of real estate, until his approach made her flinch and look up. “What?”

He grinned. “Nothing, just wanted to kiss you goodbye before I go back to work.”

Anna blinked. “O-oh.”

They stared at each other for a few moments, then chuckled as one, the moment's awkwardness dissipating. He bent forward with a smile and gave her a light kiss on the cheek.

As he pulled away, she grabbed his shirt and pulled him back in, planting her lips on his for a few seconds, and then pushing him away with a smirk.

Wordlessly, mouth curled up, he turned and left.

Yeah, ok, maybe he's both an anchor AND someone I really care about.

She sighed and turned around, looking to put away some of her basic necessities. She had barely opened one of her bags when someone knocked at the door.

Ears twitching, she went and answered, finding Sybil, her own ears hanging low, and her hands fidgeting with each other.

Anna blinked. “Uh, hi, Sybil? Can I help you?”

The taller bunny-kin nodded. “I want to talk. Can I come in?”

“S-sure. Here...” She stepped aside and let her in, closing the door after.

Sybil walked a few paces in before turning around, most of her hesitation gone as she did, replaced with determined eyes. “Anna, listen, when Sammie asked me if I loved him, I couldn't help it. It was just... Such a ridiculous idea! But, I haven't been able to get the question out of my head.”

She let out a long breath, pulling it back in. “So I tried answering it, again and again, until it sounded right. The answer is that, yes, I love Sammie, but not in that way. He probably told you a few stories about our past, but if he didn't, just know that he's practically my baby brother.”

Anna opened her mouth to say that, yes, Sammie had mentioned it, but Sybil kept going.

“Anyway, not that important. What is important is that I love him like a brother, and I didn't like having you around him because it felt like you were going to take him away, and that made me realize that I might have been a little kind of dependent on having him around.”

She sighed. “But, I saw how he looks at you, and how his mouth curls up when he talks to you or about you, so I'll do what a good big sister does, and I'll let him fly free.”

Her expression hardened as she took a step toward Anna. “However, I'm warning you; don't hurt him. I'm sure I don't need to explain further.”

And then she was done, keeping her stare locked onto the smaller bunny-kin.

Anna let the tension flow out of her shoulders. “I get it, but you have to understand, we've barely started dating. It might not work out, and I'm not going to force myself into a relationship to not hurt his feelings.”

Sybil leaned back, blinking. “Hurt his feelings? Pfwah! I wasn't talking about that! I meant, don't hurt him like, physically! I'm the only one who's allowed to do that! Well, unless he...” She blushed. “Asks for it...” She squeezed her eyes shut and shook the vision out of her head, looking as if she was going to be sick.

She looked back at Anna. “Never mind that horror! Anyway, date away. Don't let him talk you into circles. He can't shave properly, so you'll have to help him, and he always forgets his toothbrush, so keep a spare one for him. I'll let you know if I think of anything else!”

Sybil gave her a smile, her ears tall and straight, and marched past Anna and toward the door. With a hand on the handle, she turned her head and spoke over her shoulder. “Oh, and if he needs his ass kicked, call me. That's what a big sister is there for.”

Then she winked, went out the door, and half-slammed it closed behind her.

Anna was left staring at the empty space where “Big Sister” had just been.

The next morning found David and Niala entangled in each other, neither truly certain which limb was touching what, and both blissfully content about it.

A week of abstinence might have been a bit too much.

He was the first to wake, tried to move, found that he couldn't without disturbing Niala, and decided to wait. Her sleeping face was very cute anyway; he didn't mind staring at it for a while.

It took a sliver of sunshine snaking through the curtains toward her nose to rouse her. She did an adorable squeaky sneeze before opening her eyes, found him staring at her with a smile, and smiled back.

He pecked a kiss on her forehead. “Good morning, kitten.”

She closed her eyes and pressed herself into him. “Hmmm, good morning, trumpet...” she moaned.

“We have to get up at some point.”

She rubbed her face into his chest. “Nooo... as princess kitten, I declare that mornings start at ten.”

“Niala, it is ten.”

She stopped wiggling, pulled her head back and looked at him. “Oh... Carry me to the bathroom? I... don't think I can walk straight right now.” She said with a blush.

With Niala in his arms, he grinned all the way.

After a very good bath and an extremely late breakfast, they went out to meet Marshalla. She had asked them at their earliest convenience, and as far as they were concerned, early afternoon was the earliest.

The scholar woman met them at her door and greeted them inside, with the ever-present Jordo taking up his place by the door as usual.

She didn't bother with niceties, only waiting for them both to be sitting before broaching the topic at hand. “David, Niala, the Old Woman brew can't be sold anymore.”

David went still, while Niala turned her ears forward and spoke. “Why is that?”

“Because it must be distributed to everyone for free.”

The catkin slowly nodded. “Oookk... not that I mind that much, but... why?”

Marshalla held both their gazes before sighing. “Because it's the answer to mana corruption. That makes it a critical remedy, which under the kingdom's laws, must be made available to everyone as quickly as possible.”

She held her head up. “The Old Woman is the greatest thing this kingdom has ever had.”

Silence followed.

Until David pounded his palm. “I knew it!”