Protected as he was, Edmund kept a careful eye for the shifts in the smoke that indicated a focus point.  Most passed across his skin to limited effect, but those that fell upon the floor threatened to singe the soles of his feet, and no amount of defense would keep the focused light from reducing his retinas to ash.

At least the former were easy enough to spot, leaving the pale ground nearly bright enough to blind.  The latter required constant vigilance, a state of being with which Edmund was deeply familiar.

As had grown to become the norm, Edmund heard the monster before he saw it, a faint tink tink tink sound that echoed from around the juncture ahead.

Edmund froze, raising his cutlass as he scanned for signs of motion as best he could through the oppressive light.  His ears offered a fairly precise location, but as he narrowed his gaze at the glass wall, he saw only empty hallway beyond.  Only as it rounded the corner did Edmund realize why.

A bulbous quadruped of transparent glass stepped into view.  It bore the snout, fangs, and general form of a canine, but there ended the similarities.  Three nearly spherical masses made up its torso, met by four ball-and-socket joints that allowed its legs their full range of motion.  Visible hinges similarly formed its elbows, though in lieu of wrists of paws the legs simply ended at stiletto points, doubtless the source of the tinking noise as they tapped against the hard floor.

The creature lacked a tail entirely, leaving its fangs and feet as the only weapons at its disposal, at least until Edmund noted the way the smoke moved around it.

With every step, every little shift in its posture, the light struck the creature differently, forming new and different focal points around it.  None of them shone with quite the same intensity as the more static ones, but they offered threat enough.  The mere thought of fighting this thing without the protection of his swelter ring sent a shiver down Edmund’s spine.  He might have survived, but his gear certainly wouldn’t have.

At least now he only had to worry about protecting his eyes and avoiding the few sharp points it had.

His challenger’s mark burned.

The creature opened its maw as if to howl, but the dissonant screech that emerged matched no bestial call Edmund had ever heard.  Its body shifted, the gentle curves of its torso breaking up into a hundred pointed shards, jutting this way and that but overwhelmingly favoring upwards as if in a deliberate attempt to resemble a wolf with its fur on end.

Edmund spared a thought for his unarmored body and swallowed down a knot in his throat.  This wasn’t going to be fun.

He threw a Firebolt with his offhand, more in an attempt to ward the thing off than in actual hope of dealing damage.  The glass wolf snapped at his spell, biting at it as it flew.  As expected, the flames themselves did little real damage, but the beast’s snout glowed orange for a brief moment, and as it cooled its fangs seemed somewhat duller, somewhat rounder.

He couldn’t burn it, but he could melt it.

By the time Edmund’s second Firebolt was in the air, so too was the beast.  Midair, the spell struck it in the chest, softening the shards there but doing little to temper the construct’s motion.

Edmund didn’t even try to stop it.  He dove forward, passing just under the pouncing wolf.  A focal point on the floor left a black spot on his shoulder as he rolled over it, but the flesh wound failed to so much as distract him.

The two combatants spun to face each other.  Edmund’s mind raced through his constellation, searching desperately for ways to keep the beast at arm’s length.  He wished he had a blunt weapon to wield against the brittle construct.  Even his spear might’ve proved useful at pushing it back while his spells whittled it down, but the tight quarters and no gear to attach its pieces to made that weapon a dangerous commitment.

Most of all he mourned the loss of his shield.

The wolf didn’t let him think for long, barreling down once more.  Edmund threw another Firebolt while he had the opportunity, further smoothing over the creature’s teeth, but the monster’s ground-bound approach left him fewer opportunities for evasion.

The beast lunged forward.

Edmund swung with his cutlass.

The blade slid down between two of the shards upon its back, glowing red where they focused the light onto it.  Edmund pushed to open a gap between the wolf and the right wall, through which he darted to sidestep the creature’s charge, but the lateral motion tore the partially-melted chunk from his blade.

Edmund came away from the exchange personally uninjured, but his cutlass bore an inch-wide hole two thirds of the way down its edge.  He let out a curse.  Two levels in a row now his gear had been damaged.

The wolf didn’t give him time to mourn it.

Edmund managed another Firebolt into its mouth as it came, rendering its teeth little more than flattened stumps before it was upon him.  He leapt over it this time, taking a windstep to clear its five-foot height as it barreled underneath.  His back rubbed against the glass ceiling, robbing him of his momentum and sending him falling to the floor rather than into the roll he’d intended.  He landed on his stomach.

Edmund rolled along his side, as the wolf’s pointed front feet slammed into the floor beside him.  He brought his sword up just in time to catch the creature’s bite, holding the cutlass’s blade with his left hand to help support his right as the wolf pushed forward.  Panic surged through his mind as he saw the light pass through the creature’s glass snout, watched his sword glow red with heat.  It wouldn’t last long.

The wolf reared up, pulling Edmund’s sword with it as it raised its front legs to strike again.  Edmund pushed, desperate to bring his body out from under the thing.

He managed to bring his torso upright, leaving only his still-armored legs on the ground as he wrestled the wolf for control of his rotflesh cutlass.  The heat traveled along the blade, blackening the skin of Edmund’s hands where he gripped it.  The beast too suffered for it, its teeth and gums growing molten, threatening to drip down onto Edmund’s exposed skin.

Before that could happen, Edmund shielded his face behind his arm and played the only card he had left against such a hard and brittle foe.

He activated Collateral Damage.

The wolf and cutlass alike exploded in a blast of concussive force, knocking Edmund back and slamming him into the floor.  Shards of glass and metal rained into him, piercing his upper body in two dozen places.  The barkskin ring of all things kept the punctures shallow.

Edmund lay still, his breathing rough and ragged, his heart racing with adrenaline as he bled.

Fitting as its name had been, the skill had certainly proven effective, leaving little more than rubble of both his foe and his weapon.

Just as Edmund managed to catch his breath, the sound of slow, rhythmic applause reminded him of his other source of torment.

“Four floors,” Liam said.  “It took you four floors to lose that cutlass.  That must be some kind of record.”

Edmund didn’t reply.

“You know, there’s a reason fighting naked fell out of fashion a few thousand years ago.  Except I guess those berserkers over in Gruthien hills, but they actually get stronger when they take damage.  Oh!  And the bloodwakers in Etrousia, but I’m pretty sure that’s a sex thing.”

“Wha… what?” Edmund managed.

Liam shrugged.  “Oh just commenting on the whole…”  He waved his up and down to gesture to Edmund’s hole-riddled body… “this business.  I love the creativity, but did it seriously not strike you there’d be glass-based enemies in the maze of glass?”

Edmund groaned.

“That’s the spirit.”  Liam smiled.  “There’s something special about that moment when they realize their mistake.  Usually it happens right before a violent death, but every once in a while you can get more than one out of a given delver.  You’ve survived like six.”

Edmund tuned him out, too busy surveying the damage to give Liam any mind.  His regeneration was already forcing a few of the shallower shards from his flesh, but the larger, more serious wounds demanded attention.  Keeping his back flat against the floor to avoid driving the shrapnel in deeper, Edmund craned his head forward and went to work.

Liam prattled on about the different ways regret showed on peoples’ faces as piece by piece Edmund pulled the chunks of glass and metal from his skin.  Only about halfway through as he removed a blackened piece of his cutlass did he realize his luck.  Without the focused light nearly melting his sword and burning away its coating, the rotflesh venom would’ve already taken hold.  After the one little sting had proven so resilient to his regeneration, Edmund doubted he could’ve survived the dozen or so injuries he’d given himself.

By the time he’d cleared away the last of the shrapnel, the dungeon had reclaimed both the wolf and the remnants of his cutlass, leaving just Edmund in a rapidly drying pool of his own blood.  It didn’t take long for the flesh wounds to seal themselves shut.

So Edmund pushed himself to his feet, taking the moment to reconsider his strategy as Liam continued his rambling.

Useful as it would’ve been, he wasn’t certain he could afford to re-don his armor.  Sure, it would protect him from the wolves, but it’d leave him exposed to the light.  Despite Liam’s comments about it “going out of fashion,” Edmund ultimately concluded his original plan had been correct.  The focused light was simply too much of a threat.  Thrax, he’d already seen how he could dull the sharp glass with a few Firebolts.  That had to be the easier danger to deal with.

That left Edmund with the dilemma of his cutlass.  Without it, his options for close-quarters fighting fell to his hands, his unassembled spear, and his belt knife.  He couldn’t imagine the knife doing any good against the wolves, but in theory he could at least use his hyper-magnetic spear to keep them back.

Except his cutlass hadn’t survived one fight.  If he planned around it, he could probably preserve his spear a little better, but did Edmund really dare risk his only remaining weapon for such marginal gain?

Edmund decided he didn’t.  If something was going to suffer Collateral Damage, he’d rather it be something that regenerated.

Liam raised his sunglasses as if he needed a better look at Edmund.  “No changes?  Really?  You’re happy with how that went down?”

Edmund scowled at him.

“Right, right, how silly of me.  You don’t do happy.”

About as tired of Liam as he was of squinting through the blinding light, Edmund kept an open ear for more wolves and set off once more.  Liam had the decency to keep his mouth shut as they progressed, leaving the maze quiet enough that Edmund had no trouble identifying the tinking sound of glass feet against the floor.

The second wolf appeared within minutes.

This time, Edmund didn’t wait to start throwing Firebolts.

The creature’s body was still shifting from its bulbous default to the jagged form his challenger’s mark caused when the first spell crashed against its chest.  It charged.

Twice more Edmund fired at it, aiming again and again for the same spot on the beast’s chest.  It glowed orange as the glass softened, its points smoothing over as Edmund softened his target.

The wolf pounced.

Edmund clenched his jaw and pulled back his fist.  This was going to hurt.

The wolf’s front foot pierced Edmund’s left shoulder just as he swung his right forward in support of his punch.  Before the beast’s momentum could carry it through and barrel Edmund over, his fist landed on the still molten spot.

Edmund’s Collateral Damage shattered both the glass construct and half the bones in his right hand.

He grunted as pain exploded up his arm and down his torso where glass shrapnel again rained down.  He fell to his knees, clutching his broken hand.  He focused on his breathing, in and out and in and out while his regeneration went to work.

Liam, leaning casually against the glass wall, took the opportunity to gape at him.  “So let me get this straight.  Your plan is to explode the glass constructs on top of you?”

In reply, Edmund reached for the largest shard embedded in his shoulder and pulled it free.

Liam let out an overdramatic sigh.  “Insane.  Absolutely insane.”  He paused for a moment to feign realization.  “I know what this needs!”  With a snap of his fingers, a pouch of nuts appeared in his hand.  He dug in and tossed a few in his mouth, chewing as he spoke.  “A good show requires good snacks.”

The smell of food sent a wave of nausea through Edmund’s stomach as he went to work removing the worst of the shrapnel.  He’d never have admitted it, but Liam’s presence almost helped, offering both a welcome distraction from the pain of his injuries and a convenient target for the simmering rage they wrought.

By the time Edmund finally pushed himself to his feet to set off once more, Liam had exchanged his nuts for some kind of beverage that smelled strongly of both sugar and alcohol.  Edmund didn’t ask.

His strategy as developed as he could reasonably get it, Edmund’s progress through the maze continued at a crawl.  Each wolf that appeared went down to the same combination of a few Firebolts to smooth over a target followed by a Collateral Damage to finish the job.  Each time left Edmund on the ground, peppered with shallow holes and clutching a broken hand.

Most of his time he spent in recovery, taking nearly an hour to return to fighting shape after every encounter.  The only improvements he found came in the form of positioning, tilting his body to avoid the pointed feet, reducing the target area he left exposed to the shattered glass, or shielding his face from the same.  The changes helped, but they didn’t make the fights any easier.  It didn’t make the process hurt any less.

But however unpleasant, the strategy worked.  Hour by hour Edmund traversed the maze, crawling ever closer to completing this cursed level without damaging any more gear.  Liam looked visibly bored as the day dragged on and the fights grew more and more repetitive, but he neither disappeared nor pressed Edmund to do anything riskier.  Instead, he rambled, telling stories that seemed to go nowhere or jokes with punchlines Edmund couldn’t begin to understand.

