By the time Edmund emerged from the maze to a familiar chime, exhaustion wracked his body.  He didn’t make for the fittingly glass chest that appeared beside the exit; nor did he shut his eyes and envision his constellation.  Edmund simply stepped to the open space between the open door and the blinding light, dropped the figurine of a tent upon the ground, unceremoniously relocated his pile of gear off of his cot and onto the floor, and went to sleep.

Liam, mercilessly, was still there when he awoke.

“That’s two days gone, Edmund.”  He tapped at his bare wrist.  “Tick tock.”

Edmund blinked.  He’d only slept once since receiving his temporary mark.  Had it really been two days?

Ignoring the not-so-subtle reminder of his situation’s urgency, Edmund emerged from his portable camp and went to claim his loot.  From the outside, the glass chest with its fanciful gold trim seemed empty, only for its opening to reveal the same effect that so hid the wolves within the maze.

Its contents were made of glass.

A single disc, the diameter of Edmund’s palm and some half-inch thick at its center, lay within.  It bore no etchings, no handles, no decorations, and indeed at first glance seemed perhaps the most useless piece the dungeon had ever offered him.  The smoke cleared up that misconception.

Mage’s Focusing Lens

Empowers and focuses spells cast through it.

Edmund didn’t hesitate to try it out.  Its use came intuitively, gripping it in his right palm as he extended his arm and cast a Firebolt through it.  The spell shot through the air, a narrow beam of superheated energy rather than the burst of flame to which he’d grown accustomed.  Instead of washing harmlessly against the maze’s outer wall, it burrowed in, penetrating several inches as it melted the glass around it.

Neither Smoke Lash nor Magma Fissure worked well with the lens, but Firestorm became something new entirely.  It still took several seconds and an exorbitant amount of mana, but instead of the dispersed cloud of flame, a jet flowed from his palm like river, reaching some forty feet before it dissipated.  The spell only lasted the same few moments, but the wall it struck melted to little more than a pile of slag.

It didn’t quite replace the close-range option he’d lost in his cutlass, but it proved far and away a force of its own.

Returning to his tent to put down his newest acquisition, Edmund sat on his cot and shut his eyes to envision his constellation.  No new impossible recombinations made themselves apparent, so instead Edmund’s mind fell to the confluence he’d intended for the prior level.  The same logic still standing, he focused in on Wrath and The Fissure and made his selection.

Tier 5 Aspect: Discord (Wrath and The Fissure) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Brutalize has a chance to turn your foes against each other.

Edmund blinked.  Between the two inputs, he hadn’t expected the tier 1 to get an entire Aspect improving it.  He wished the description had described exactly how much of a chance it offered, but the ability for Brutalize to not only stun his foes but turn some into temporary allies seemed remarkable.  That alone could make certain group fights go from impossibly dangerous to entirely winnable.  It wouldn’t revolutionize his fighting style, but it was the type of effect that could easily make the difference between living and dying.

None of his other Aspects saw changes to their descriptions with the level-ups, a slight disappointment but not much of a surprise.  A good chunk of them had changed just recently.

Satisfied if not excited with the upgrades, Edmund closed his constellation and looked to the pile of gear on the floor.  He knew Liam’s ticking clock would have him rushing through the exit, and Edmund didn’t think he’d ever wanted to train on a level less, but he couldn’t pass up the opportunity to test his newest weapon against a known quantity.

At least, with the level cleared, his challenger’s mark no longer took effect.

Focused through the lens, his Firebolts burrowed deep into the wolves’ bulbous bodies, carving narrow holes into the glass where they struck.  The spell’s more directed nature required sharper aim from Edmund, but with a bit of practice he mastered the art of sending three Firebolts into a wolf’s head before it could get into striking distance.

Firestorm, if he managed to cast it before his foe was upon him, proved devastating.  By the end of its channel, the fiery torrent left little behind but a misshapen lump where once had stood a wolf.  Edmund practiced with that one longer than perhaps he should’ve, telling himself he was trying to get the cast time down when in truth he found catharsis in annihilating the wolves that had caused him such trouble.

Some eight hours had passed before Edmund decided he’d trained enough, returned to his tent, re-equipped his armor, and returned the portal to his camp to its figurine.  Liam was still there, still watching, when Edmund set his sights not on the darkness, but on the light.

He raised a hand to his face to shield his eyes as he approached the pale pedestal that housed the insufferable brightness, eager both to investigate and claim another potential boon.

Liam raised an eyebrow at him.  “What are you doing?”

“What does it look like I’m doing?”  Edmund reached out.  Despite the intensity with which it’d burned, the air around the light source felt cool.  As his fingers blindly brushed against it, they found little more than a rock, half the size of his fist, of the same texture as the clouded rim of his lens.  Was it too made of glass?  Unable to actually look at it, Edmund had no way to tell.

Liam stepped forward.  “You can’t just take that.”

The stone came free from its pedestal without difficulty.  “It certainly seems like I can.”  Once his hand closed around it, Edmund blinked his eyes open.  Dark shadows coated the room where his hand shielded the only light source.  As he looked down upon it, his entire hand glowed bright red, enough so that he could trace the individual bones and blood vessels within.  It didn’t hurt.

“Edmund, that’s plunder.  The rules are strict about—”

“Don’t care.”  Edmund shrugged and shoved the strange stone into his satchel.  He wondered if his focusing lens could turn it into a weapon.

Liam stepped in between Edmund and the exit.  “Edmund, you do realize I can just take that from you, right?  It’s not awarded loot, so you have no right to it.”

“Then take it.”  Edmund kept walking, passing directly through the incorporeal avatar.  After all the gear Liam had taken from him one way or another, it felt right to take something of his own.  Edmund knew damn well that taking plunder didn’t violate the accords—he’d done exactly that when he’d broken off the spear trap on the first floor.  The rules technically said the stone still belonged to Liam, but Edmund figured he’d earned it.  Besides, the rules didn’t control him.  He was uncontrollable.

Edmund didn’t know exactly how the stone worked, he didn’t read the smoke that drifted off it, and perhaps more importantly, he didn’t see the look of abject shock on Liam’s face when despite his best efforts, the stone stayed put.

The first in a thousand years, Edmund Montgomery Ahab stole from the Eternal Depths, and with neither guilt on his conscience nor consequences for his actions, he left Liam standing agape behind him and stepped into the darkness.

Hivemaster Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 28

Tier 1 Aspect: Wrath - Red Resonance

Level 7 - Provides access to the Brutalize active ability.

Tier 1 Aspect: War - Gray+ Resonance

Level 13 - Provides a lesser increase to all damage dealt.  Provides a lesser decrease to all damage taken.

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 12 - Provides access to the Firebolt spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 14 - Provides a greater increase to constitution while fighting alone.  Provides a lesser increase to celerity while fighting alone.  Provides a lesser increase to perception while alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 13 - Gain health regeneration.  Gain greater health regeneration outside of combat.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 22 - They’re coming for you.

Tier 2 Aspect: Vengeance (Madness and Wrath) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Reveals all enemies that have damaged you in the past two minutes.  Provides a lesser increase to all damage dealt to such enemies.

Tier 2 Aspect: Fervor (Madness and War) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Empowers the effects of Madness and War for each consecutive second spent in battle.

Tier 2 Aspect: Sorcery (Madness and Elements) - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Smoke Lash spell.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession (Madness and Perseverance) - Gold Resonance

Level 4 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession.  Gain mana for each consecutive month spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse (Madness and Solitude) - Gold Resonance

Level 6 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone.  Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island (Solitude and Perseverance) - Gray Resonance

Level 8 - Grants greater resistance to over-time effects while in groups of two or fewer.

Tier 3 Aspect: Focus (Elements and Obsession) - Silver Resonance

Level 2 - Doubles spell damage when attacking a single target.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Challenger (War and The Recluse) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Challenge active ability.

Tier 3 Aspect: Artillery (War and Sorcery) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Firestorm spell.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Warmonger (War and Obsession) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides a greater increase to all damage dealt and a greater decrease to all damage taken while engaged in combat you initiated.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher (Elements and The Recluse) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 4 - Escape.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift (Madness and The Island) - Gold Resonance

Level 7 - Provides access to the Savage Rend active ability.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Tactician (War and The Philosopher) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 3 - Deal double damage when executing a pre-crafted battle plan.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Target (War and Focus) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Allows the marking of a single enemy as the target.  The target takes increased damage from all sources.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Fissure (Elements and The Rift) - Silver Resonance

Level 4 - Provides access to the Magma Fissure spell.

Tier 4 Aspect: Rebellion (War and The Rift) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 2 - Grants resistance to mind controlling effects.  Deal bonus damage to enemies above your level.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Guerrilla (Wrath and The Tactician) - Bronze Resonance

Level 2 - Take reduced damage while executing a non-conventional pre-crafted battle plan.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Breach (War and The Fissure) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Break Through active ability.

Tier 5 Aspect: Discord (Wrath and The Fissure) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Brutalize has a chance to turn your foes against each other.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Insurgent (Wrath and Rebellion) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Collateral Damage active ability.

Tier 6 Aspect: The Reckless (Wrath and The Breach) - Tin+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Reckless Charge active ability.

Tier 6 Aspect: The Anarchist (Madness and The Guerrilla) - Platinum+ Resonance

Level 1 - Be uncontrollable.

Delver’s Mark of the Challenger

Empowers nearby dungeon monsters.  Significantly increases the value of loot chests you open.  Slightly increases the resonance of Aspects you unlock.

The Crimson Hand

Grants minor resistance to piercing damage.  Bestows ownership of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh.

Hivemaster

Grants lesser tremor sense.  Bestows the right to challenge other hivemasters for control of their hives.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Adept

The fifth step on the Path of the Azure Fox.  Increases agility.  Grants two windsteps.  Grants ten feathersteps.  Increases positional awareness.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Rootmother

Non-intelligent Strethian lifeforms will treat you as an ally.  Gain the ability to draw water and nutrients from fertile soil.

Trailblazer bonus: draw water and nutrients from all soil.

Sigil of the Slumbering Deep

Gain greater health regeneration.  Gain immense health regeneration while sleeping.  Gain water breathing.  Gain lesser dark vision.  Gain lesser subaquatic sonar.

Delver’s Mark of the Shrouded Gauntlet (Temporary)

Rewards loot of the Shrouded category based on the number of floors cleared while the mark is worn.  Prize to be granted at dissolution of mark.

Time Remaining: 5 days.
