Edmund’s eyes instinctively snapped shut as the darkness between levels gave way to blinding brilliance.  He forced them back open, his paranoia winning out over his body’s urge to protect his sight.

A violet blob floated in his vision as he squinted at his surroundings, failing to make out much at all while his eyes adjusted to the sudden brightness.

He stood upon a floor of matte alabaster, some kind of rigid material with little spring to it that Edmund didn’t recognize.  The ceiling above and walls that flanked the entrance behind him matched in tone and texture, bestowing a sterile nature unto the space, pristine surfaces flooded with light.

Of the path forward Edmund garnered little but for the stark realization the light source that so blinded him sat not above, but ahead.  Any attempt to gaze onwards revealed only the bright sphere of white washing out the rest of the level in its glow.

Edmund avoided looking directly at it.

The air in the room sat perfectly still, unbothered by breeze or convection.  It smelled like smoke.

Edmund once more averted his gaze from the floor ahead of him, only to find this time as he twisted his head back, there was a man leaning against the wall beside the entrance.

Liam had swapped out his umbrella for a pair of dark lenses mounted in front of his eyes by a wire frame, leaving his trademark mischievous glint obscured.  He made up for it with an extra wide smirk.  “After all that time mucking about in the dark, I figured you could use a little light.”

Edmund flinched as he felt a hand pat his back—not the back of his armor, his back.  Liam’s palm passed clean through his crystal cuirass to touch him directly, a not so subtle message that gear wouldn’t keep him safe.

He fought back the urge to shudder, gritted his teeth, pretended goosebumps hadn’t arisen across his flesh.  His armor may not have protected him from Liam, but the accords did.  The Eternal Depths would never dare—

Edmund paused as a realization struck, an understanding long overdue of the penalty to breaking the fairness accords in comparison to that of allowing him his vengeance.  Perhaps it was better Liam wasn’t taking him seriously.

“This isn’t a little light.”

“No, that was a dramatic understatement.  This is, in fact, a shitload of light.”  Liam grinned.  “You’ve been underground a long time, Eddie-boy.  Gotta bring out the big guns if you want to make up for that in only one level.”

“I…”  Edmund blinked.  “What does that even mean?  Make up for what?”

Liam exhaled.  “Thrax, are you a wet blanket.  You know what, nevermind.”  He gestured back and forth between Edmund and the way ahead.  “Edmund, level, level, Edmund.  Go commit those acts of unspeakable violence I know you enjoy so much.”

Edmund squinted at him, but Liam only wiggled the top half of his hand in that universally condescending buh-bye motion.  Edmund ignored him.

The good news, as far as Edmund was concerned, was that the smoke that hung in the air had at least some impact on the floor’s ability to singe his retinas.  Light caught upon its haze, setting it aglow as if the fires from whence it came burned just beyond view.  If he looked closely, he could see individual motes where they floated, a billion billion little specks that made the room that much darker, that much more abrasive, that much more acrid.

Combined with the relatively narrow slot in his ebonsteel helm, it made the best protection Edmund could’ve hoped for.  He supposed that offered some hint of Liam’s viewpoint.  The dungeon hardly would’ve given him this floor if it understood how thoroughly his smoke billowed through the area around him.  He wondered if Liam knew less than he was letting on.

Edmund decided to keep it that way.  Knowing Liam, he had his suspicions.  This floor was just as likely a test of how well his smoke protected him as anything else.  Failure seemed prudent.

So he made a show of it.  He held up his left hand to shield his eyes as he peeked through the gap between his fingers, surveying the space as best he could.  He found a chaotic mess of faint glimmers spread about the level in front of him, spots where the light shone brighter or strangely dimmer, and areas where it seemed to bend.

Edmund recognized it for what it was.  He sighed.  “A glass maze?  Really?  What’s to stop me from smashing my way through?”

“Oh, only the fortifying enchantment, the no tunneling clause in the fairness accords, and the remarkably lethal countermeasures I’ve put in place, but by all means, solve the problem with wanton destruction.”

Edmund glared at him.

Liam shook his head.  “Edmund, Edmund, Edmund, didn’t we just have a chat about trying to avoid the intended path?”

“Yeah, well, definition of insanity, right?”  Edmund drew his cutlass, opting to leave his spear disassembled.  It wouldn’t be much use in the close quarters of Liam’s maze.

He wished he trusted Liam’s word enough to confirm the entrance’s safety and set up camp for a few hours, if only for the chance to dry off his still-soaking armor, but Edmund didn’t believe for a second Liam would allow him that chance to rest.  Lacking the expensive defenses of Amelia’s portable camp, Edmund didn’t dare let his guard down on an uncleared floor.

He could handle a bit of discomfort.  He’d fought under worse circumstances.

Liam interrupted as Edmund took his first step away from entrance.  “You’re going already?  You sure you don’t want to stop and dry off, maybe rest a bit?”

Edmund gave it equal odds the dungeon was trying to get him to stop as goading him on.  He knew Liam’s games well enough.  The only winning move was not to play.

So again he ignored the smirking pest, committing to his plan for both the aforementioned reasons and the hope it would shut Liam up.  He wasn’t so lucky.

“Alright, well this should be fun.”  Liam rubbed his hands together as he followed in Edmund’s footsteps, actually taking the time to walk from place to place rather than simply appearing wherever was most convenient.

Edmund glared.

“What?” Liam asked.  “There’s nothing in the accords that says I can only talk to you at the beginning and end of each level.  Thought I’d join you for this one.  You could use a good heckling—wouldn’t want you to start taking yourself too seriously.”

Edmund simply groaned and moved on, doing his best to tune out the tap of Liam’s worn boots against the pale floor as he approached the maze’s entrance.  He didn’t even make it halfway before the level made its first attempt to kill him.

He leapt back as heat seemed to blossom out of nowhere on his left rib, melting clean through the interior metal coating of his crystal cuirass to singe the flesh beneath.  Edmund raised his sword, ready to retaliate against whatever creature had struck him, but nothing about the floor ahead had changed.  His challenger’s mark sat inactive.

A trap, then.  After another few heartbeats of vigilance revealed no new dangers, Edmund at last risked a glance down at his injury.

The attack had passed directly through the violet crystal that made up the bulk of his breastplate, leaving it entirely unharmed before melting the lining below.  Edmund cursed.  The cuirass’s description considered it vulnerable only to blunt-force damage, yet it had definitively failed to repel whatever thermal magic had just struck.

Except it couldn’t have been a spell.  His frostfang talisman would’ve blocked it had that been the case.

Edmund drew his knife and opened a small gash along his left forearm, drawing just enough blood to feed his breastplate’s repair function as he reconsidered the maze in front of him.  It hadn’t been built of individual panels, but what seemed to be one singular piece of glass that bent and curved in all manner of directions beyond those necessary for a simple labyrinth.

Liam, thankfully, chose that moment to gloat.  “Clever, isn’t it?  Took some doing to get the curves just right, but do you have any idea how much anima I saved by making the traps a natural byproduct of the level itself?”

The comment sent Edmund’s mind reeling.  He’d known, of course, that Liam depended on the life-force it reaped from those that died within its depths, had understood each devoured soul empowered the dungeon, but had never considered framing it as a resource to be spent and saved.

It didn’t escape him that both sentences had been phrased as questions, neatly dodging the regulations against lying.  Still, the underlying boast seemed to hold some kernel of truth.  Edmund’s talisman’s inactivity supported the idea that he hadn’t stumbled into an attack, but something more insidious.

Opting not to reply to Liam’s words directly, Edmund raised a hand to shield his eyes from the blinding light as he squinted at the spot he’d been struck.  The smoke in the air seemed thinner, brighter, penetrated further by the oppressive light than elsewhere.  Before his eyes, a shape emerged: a cone that grew tighter as it distanced itself from the maze before coming together at precisely the point that had so wounded him.  Beyond, it split apart again, forming a second cone that mirrored the first before reaching the back wall.

Edmund understood.  Liam was right.  It was clever.  The brilliant glow at the level’s end didn’t simply serve to blind him, but also to offer light and heat enough for the curvature of the glass walls to focus to lethal intensity.  Were it not for the smoke, Edmund wouldn’t have even been able to see where the focal points lay.  As it was he barely could.  Diminished as his vision was, he didn’t like his odds of spotting the dangers before stumbling into them normally, let alone once the level’s monsters revealed themselves.

At the very least, Edmund understood why the maze’s entrance sat so far from the level’s.  Any closer and it would’ve violated the entrance safety clause.

He kept silent as he waited for his regeneration to mend the cut in his arm and burn on his side.  Mark of the gauntlet or no mark of the gauntlet, Edmund refused to rush.  Liam spent the minutes prattling on about the superiority of elvish ironwood for whiskey-aging barrels, a distraction to which Edmund refused to pay the slightest amount of attention.

Before going for the maze a second time, Edmund slipped on his swelter ring.  Liam took the opportunity to over-dramatically fan himself as if annoyed by the aura of heat, but he neither faltered or broke a sweat, so Edmund took his theatrics for what they were.

Caring less for the aura itself than the defense against radiative heat, Edmund approached the focal point and carefully reached for it.  His fingers of the crimson hand escaped entirely unscathed, of course, the artifact made of far sterner stuff than anything the dungeon could throw at it even twenty-seven floors in.  The bare skin of his palm similarly survived, growing red with warmth and discomfort where the focused light struck it, but otherwise remaining uninjured.

Edmund didn’t let himself get too relieved.  Liam would never have allowed a single piece of loot to so counter one of his floors.  Edmund’s second test confirmed his theory.

Again he stepped into the light, and again it melted clean through the lining of his cuirass.  Edmund’s abdomen erupted in pain as the molten metal sidestepped his ring’s protection to damage him directly.  He stepped back and repeated the process of feeding his breastplate’s self-repair function.

Liam smirked at him.  “You’re not going to cheese your way through this that easily.  I don’t hand out loot that let’s people—what are you doing?”

“What does it look like I’m doing?” Edmund replied as he finished undoing the buckles on his pauldrons and shrugged them off.  “No reason to risk my gear when it’s doing more harm than good.”  Piece by piece he stripped himself of his armor, depositing it for the moment in a heap on the floor.

Liam simply gaped at him.

A scant handful of pieces offered Edmund pause, if only to warrant further testing.  His swelter ring and crimson hand pieces of course kept, while anything else that didn’t specify a resistance to heat went to the pile.  His mithril bracers joined the heap after an experiment confirmed “protection against all damage types” to be disappointingly insufficient against the focused heat, while his blackbone leggings’ major protection against fire actually managed to hold firm.

That latter was a definite relief, both because Edmund sorely wanted some protection against whatever else was about to try to kill him, and because at the very least he needed a way to carry the key to his portable camp.  The pockets in his leg armor would work nicely.

In the end, all but his leggings, fingers, two rings, and cutlass went into the tent, stacked neatly atop his cot.  The sword, while rusty, kept enough of a sheen to survive the light for a few seconds, though he feared the process burnt away its rotflesh coating.  His barkskin ring, the oldest piece of loot he still had, couldn’t itself endure the heat, but was small enough to not make a likely weakness, and if he was going to tackle this level unarmored, he desperately needed its paltry defense.

Liam kept uncharacteristically quiet through the whole affair, shaking his head or furrowing his brow at seemingly random intervals but otherwise letting Edmund strip in peace.  Edmund’s more paranoid side argued that Liam’s silence implied he wanted Edmund unclothed and thus unprotected, but he ignored it.  Trying to figure out what Liam wanted and didn’t want had never worked before.

His pale and scar-marked skin exposed, Edmund once more approached the maze.  For confirmation’s sake, he walked right through that first focal point.  It left a bright red line across his stomach as he passed, but it stung no more than a sunburn, and his health regeneration diminished it to naught before he even reached the glass.

At long last, Edmund entered the level proper.

The air hung heavy with heat, the warmth both from the light source and his swelter ring bouncing against the glass to discomforting effect.  He was well beyond suffering any damage from it, but sweat did drip down his brow, and his muscles relaxed in spite of themselves.  Edmund forcibly flexed them in an attempt to keep alert.

He made little attempt to navigate, considering the various bends and distortions in the glass more than enough to obfuscate the shortest path, not that Edmund cared about the shortest path.  For thoroughness’s sake, he’d walk every inch of this place, following the tried and true strategy of turning left at every juncture.

