Li-Li’s head tilted in visible thought, and after scant seconds of consideration, she reached into her travel bag and pulled Princess out. The weasel-bear did not much like being exposed, her thundering growls intensifying as Li-Li placed her in the crook of Rain’s arm besides Mama Bun. Following her cue, Lin-Lin removed Blackjack from her pouch and placed him under Mama Bun’s chin, while Yan rearranged the birds and rabbits so Banjo and Baloo could rest their heads beside Rain’s. Finally putting away her spear, Mila went to Ping Ping’s side, who oddly enough, had yet to join the pile of animals, and was instead pacing about and staring off into nothingness with obvious confusion. Even a direct entreaty did nothing to sway the Divine Turtle from her vigil, though she did look back at Rain more than once, so eventually, Mila gave up and returned to her husband’s side, only to open the box still wrapped around his wrist.

And miracle of all miracles, the red panda poked his head out, frowning as he took in his unfamiliar surroundings. Spotting Ping Ping, he cautiously clambered out of his box and scampered over to her side, wrapping his arms around her neck and dragging her back over towards Rain. Grudgingly allowing herself to be pulled, Ping Ping made her way over and helped the red panda back into his box, before finally plopping down in the dirt to rest her chin on Rain’s hand, emanating a burst of loving Aura tinged with forlorn resignation.

Then Rain’s eyes popped open, and Alsantset’s spirits soared, only to dampen once more as he continued to lay there, as still and silent as before. She was not the only one pained by this change, for Mama, Yan, and Mila all gasped and sighed in unison. Even Li-Li tensed and slumped in place, but strong, unflappable Lin-Lin was the only one to keep her head, checking Rain’s pulse with two fingers to his neck, as opposed to on the wrist as so many physicians were wont to do. Judging by her expression however, there was good news to be had, which she shared with a cherubic smile that almost made her eyes disappear. “His pulse is getting stronger, and I think he’s breathing better too, but there are too many animals in the way to tell. He’s okay now, and if he takes a turn for the worst, another Healer should be able to help him soon.”

A quiet voice warned Alsantset not to get her hopes up, but then a tidal wave of relief washed that voice away. Heart beating in excitement, she felt a comforting cloak of satisfaction settle around her as she watched Rain’s pallid skin regain a pinkish tinge and his expression tighten in quiet concern, but Mama Bun was on task as she pressed her head against his chin and nuzzled him close. Squeezing her way under Baloo’s chin, Ping Ping trotted over to do the same, while Aurie, Jimjam, and even Sarankho set to kneading Rain’s legs, the animals sensing the mood and calming down now that he was no longer in danger. Whether they gleaned this information themselves or were simply following cues from the people around them, Alsantset could not say, but a small smile worked its way across her lips as she exchanged a quiet look with Mama.

How is she? Was she hurt badly? Is she fully Healed yet? These thoughts finally occurred to Alsantset long after the fact, and she felt mildly guilty for not considering this before, but a soothing sensation settled over her shoulders and wicked away her remorse. She was distressed and distracted, and it wasn’t too late to make up for past mistakes. Wrapping Mama in a one armed hug, she asked, “Are you well, Mama?”

“Better now that your brother’s life is no longer fading.” Stroking his hair, she overlooked the obvious concern in Alsantset’s tone and likely even forgot she herself had been injured, so utterly preoccupied by Rain’s well-being. It warmed Alsantset’s heart to see Mama so relieved, especially given how unreceptive she’d initially been when Rain first joined their family, and how aloof he’d pretended to be as well. Oh how far they’d all come in just a few short years, not even an entire decade together as a family, so surely the Heavens would not be so cruel as to separate them so soon?

No need to worry. You’ll both be fine. You have each other.

The bittersweet thought left Alsantset lessened in some way, as if Rain were well and truly gone now, even though he was clearly alive and breathing before her. Looking away from Rain for the first time since she returned, Mama’s brows furrowed as she glanced about in confusion, though even she didn’t seem to know what she was looking for. Taking a deep breath, she leaned into Alsantset’s embrace and sighed. “He will be fine,” she said, as if doing her best to convince them both. “He will. My son is strong, and he will return to us, or I will ascend to the Heavens and rip him from the Mother’s arms myself.”

Warmed by her fervour, Alsantset nodded in agreement. “And I will go with you, Mama.”

Careful. Danger approaches.

Leaping to her feet with spear in hand, she was mildly surprised to see Mama, Mila, Yan, and Li-Li do the same, while Lin-Lin set to rushing the animals back to their wagon. Whatever tipped Alsantset off, tipped the others off too, including Ping Ping and all their guards. Tense seconds passed without incident, and Alsantset began to wonder if she’d lost her mind, but then Grand-Mentor raised her voice and said, “Careful.”

And the world erupted into chaos and violence.

“Finally,” Alsantset thought, giving Rain one last glance before preparing for imminent battle. “A chance to prove my strength.”

For she was Alsantset of the People, Wife of Charok, Mother to Tali and Tate, Daughter of Baatar and Sarnai, Granddaughter of Akanai and Husolt, and Sister to Falling Rain, which meant she had a legacy to live up to.

Chapter Meme
