“Cease your snivelling, little worm.” The words cut through his mind like rain drops over stormy seas. Where Zhen Shi’s utterances once caused excruciating torment, the pain was drowned out by his own anguish and misery, his chest aching and lungs locking in refusal to beat and breathe. “Hmph.” Larger than life as he loomed overhead, Zhen Shi’s disdainful expression filled Gen’s vision as the monster forced him to gaze upon evil incarnate, sitting atop a throne of bloodshed and clad in robes of torment. “You suffer beneath the burden of your sins, but this Sovereign can help you forget them. Speak of what has transpired, and you will suffer no more.”

“Monster!” Gen screeched, lashing out at the titan of legend. “This is your fault! You led me down this path! You guided my way towards damnation! I reject thee! I reject the Father and his villainous ways!”

“The Father?” Shoulders shifting in a silent chuckle, the monster smiled and shook his head. “Still with these feeble excuses. Tales told to children to scare them into compliance. Is this your last gambit? Hoping one final act of desperate defiance might spare him eternal torment in the Father’s Maw? Hmph.” There was no warning, no raised eyebrow or waved hand, just indescribable agony coursing through Gen’s body, unlike anything he’d ever felt before. His suffering lasted for an eternity and stopped so suddenly he didn’t even notice its absence, the phantom torment still wreaking havoc throughout his mind.

The world shifted as Gen was drawn in the monster’s robes, and he found himself seated at the dining table of his childhood home. “You think you know suffering, little worm?” Gone were the booming echoes which accompanied the monster’s words, now seated at the head of the table and looking human once again, a dignified grandfather so utterly detached from the world around him that even the humble setting could not tarnish his grandeur. “The Spectres handled you lightly, for they knew you would soon break, and they wished to eke out every scrap of suffering from your soul. This Sovereign, however, has no interest in your continued survival, and thus will gladly teach you true suffering until you are naught but a shell of what you once were.”

The door opened and Ma walked in with a bucket of clams, followed by beautiful Bei with a basket of fresh vegetables. Both smiled at Gen, and he’d never seen a more beautiful sight, their eyes filled with so much tender love and affection. He didn’t deserve any of it, but they didn’t care, because one was his mother, and the other his wife. None of this was real, but he so desperately wanted it to be, because even this illusion of love was better than the emptiness which came before. Ma set to shelling clams while Bei chopped vegetables, and for a time, all he did was sit and watch them ready a meal for Gen and Pa.

Wait...

Where was Pa?

The mood shifted within the hut and Gen’s heart wrenched in his chest, for he saw now that those were not clams and vegetables Ma and Bei were working with, but bloodied hunks of human flesh. Bones broke and shattered as Ma worked her shelling knife, humming an eerie little tune while cracking open Pa’s skull, and Bei flashed Gen a cheery smile as she sliced slivers of flesh off Pa’s ribs, just like he’d made her do to her father. “No,” he said, whimpering for mercy, only to choke on his sobs as he saw more, for Pa’s eyes were open wide with fear, and his disbelieving gaze locked on Gen without blinking. A twitch of the brow, a squint in the eye, a movement of the mouth, and there was no denying it. Pa was still alive and in agony, feeling every cut and crack inflicted upon him by his wife and daughter-in-law, but what hurt him the most was how his son, his beloved, cherished son, could just sit there and watch him suffer.

And that, the broken heart and shattered trust, that hurt Gen the most.

“Please stop.”

The plea came out as little more than a whimper, but he was alone with the monster once again. “You see, Little Worm? This Sovereign can teach you the true meaning of suffering, but it serves neither of our purposes to do so. Speak, and all will be well. Why were you unable to accomplish your task?”

Displeasure and disappointment oozed from the monster, and Gen could feel his frustration. Still, though it only happened... seconds? Minutes? Hours? How long had it been since he first entered the Void? Time was meaningless, but these experiences had aged his soul by eons unto eternity. “I...” Gen began, unsure of how to explain it. “I went to do as you commanded, to claim the runt’s body, but...” Frowning as he tried to come up with the words, he broke down in tears for lack of any other response. “I don’t know. I couldn’t. There was no wall like before, but it just rejected me, spat me out like soured milk.”

The monster made him explain it again, and then forced him to do it using different words. How many times Gen went over the events, he could not say, but even though he hid no secrets from the monster, it still wasn’t enough. Begging him not to do it, Gen lost control of his body as he walked out the door, where Pa was skinning a recent kill. Flashing a half-smile which broke his heart, Pa grunted in silent reprimand of Gen’s laziness and gestured him over to help. Unable to resist, he set one foot in front of the other and walked to Pa’s side, then gazed up into his loving father’s eyes and socked him in the jaw.

There it was again, the same shock and disbelief, and Gen sobbed as he wrapped his hands around Pa’s throat. “Stop,” he cried, staring back into the hut where the monster still sat, yet he could still see his father’s bulging eyes and feeble struggles. The man had a skinning knife in his hand, but even now, he would not use it, because Gen was his pride and joy. “Stop! I don’t want to do this! Please, make it stop!”

“But you did do this, Little Worm.” Oozing amusement as he sat with hands folded, the monster stroked his moustache and smiled. “You did this and more, long before you came to this Sovereign’s attention, for you could not keep to the razor’s edge.”

“I told you everything!” Gen screeched as Pa’s face turned purple, then black. “There’s nothing more! I left nothing out.”

“Oh, I know.” Shrugging ever so slightly, the monster sighed and said, “A puzzling conundrum, and this Sovereign grows tired of dealing with the Devourer’s idiosyncrasies. Though he surrendered, he has not given himself to the Void, but instead, retreated within and shut himself off from the world. An impossible feat, this Sovereign would have once said, but ostensibly, this is not so. Curious and unfortunate, for the Devourer is still of great value, but he lies beaten and defeated while the blockade holds, so there is time aplenty for this Sovereign to ponder the implications.”

“Then why?” Gen asked, whimpering like a whipped dog as a blood vessel burst in Pa’s eyes. “Why are you making me do this?”

The monster fixed him with a knowing gaze which spoke volumes to his motivations. This wasn’t to make a point or teach Gen a lesson. This was revenge, plain and simple, because he dared to accuse the monster of making him do this.

And then he made Gen do it again. And again. And again.

How many times did he watch Pa die? Gen didn’t know, but he soon sank into a pit of despair from which there was no return. There was no escape, not for the likes of him, no happy ending to be had. This was good. He didn’t deserve happiness, for he was Gen, a man who killed his parents and brought death and suffering to everyone he knew.

“There is no need to suffer so,” the monster whispered. “Surrender, and your pain will disappear.”

And like the fool he was, Gen believed the monster again.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Emptiness.

That was all Alsantset felt as she stood and stared at her little brother lying in the dirt, so slack and still she feared he might already be dead. Rationally, she knew she should feel something, whether it be concern, anxiety, grief, or anguish over his dire circumstances and possibly imminent death, but shock and dogged denial kept her from feeling much of anything at all. This was not the gentle embrace of Balance, with all her emotions maintained in delicate harmony, no, this was not like Balance at all, but rather the antithesis of such.

Too much was as bad as not enough, and Alsantset knew she teetered on the edge of the latter, but there was nothing she could do. Rain, her precious little foundling, the younger brother she always wanted and loved so dearly, was dying before her eyes, and there was nothing she could do. There was no foe to defeat and protect him, no culprit to kill and avenge him, no danger to circumvent and save him, there was only the cruel Heavens once again playing with sweet Rain’s fate, while she stood by helpless and defeated.

Even the inclement weather seemed ready to mourn Rain’s passing, the skies growing dark as storm clouds gathered overhead. Much like them, Alsantset was ready to burst but not yet willing to concede, so she fought a losing battle to keep her feelings bottled away. No emotion. No anguish. No pain. That was her defence, a paltry one which Mama would scold her for, but she had her own pain to deal with. Never before had Alsantset seen her strong, proud, Mama so weak, but it had nothing to do with her battlefield injuries. Brought back from the battlefield by one of her many Senior Sisters, Mama knelt by Rain’s head and stroked his hair, arranging it ever so perfectly before mussing it up to start over again, as if she wanted him to look his best when he finally woke up. Her blood soaked robes and armour cast a macabre shade to the proceedings, one her mournful expression did nothing to mitigate, and Alsantset feared things would only get worse if Rain were to actually die.

When. Not if. When he died.

The thought nearly broke Alsantset and she clutched sweet Li-Li tight, and the considerate girl squeezed back, though her stony expression never wavered. Still, Alsantset could tell the girl’s concern was genuine, even though she herself might benefit from little Rain’s death. When... If the worst were to come to pass, her Oath would pass to Mila whom Li-Li would never have to fear, but it was clear she had come to trust Rain as much as she trusted anyone, which was saying much for the poor, mistreated girl.

The others were handling this even better than Alsantset and Mama, but perhaps that was the resilience of youth. Mila was sitting up now, tall and proud as ever, her back straight and weapons ready, but her white-knuckled grip gave her away. Out of all the women in Rain’s life, she would take his death the hardest, for hidden beneath Mila’s proud and domineering exterior was a sweet girl who loved him with all her heart, in a way few could ever compare.

Yan most certainly could, her shoulders shaking as she choked on silent sobs and did little to hide her anguish. The poor girl had only just found the family she so desperately longed for, with a grandfather who doted on her, an aloof brother who fiercely guarded her, and a husband who loved her so. She was not yet ready to lose any of them, but cruel fate meant to take her beloved away, leaving her with only precious few years to spend with her grandfather at best. Alsantset’s heart bled for the girl, or it would have if she were capable of it, but she lacked the strength and courage to face her emotions and kept them all locked away. It was easier this way, even if she risked unbalance, because she was almost certain she would crumble apart beneath the deluge of misery and anguish awaiting her.

Not Lin-Lin though. Often seen as the weakest of them all, the confident, self-assured half-hare sat by Rain’s side with a serious expression, arranging all the animals comfortably around him. With her white-silk scarf wrapped around her shoulders, she was already appropriately attired to mourn him, but were it not for the smile missing from her face, one might’ve mistakenly believe Lin-Lin still unaware of the severity of the situation. However, Alsantset suspected it was possible none of them understood it as well as Lin-Lin did, for she was the daughter of a Medical Saint and poised to follow in his footsteps, as it soon became clear by her words and actions. “You need to come back, hubby,” she said, softly whispering so as not to disturb his supposed slumber while depositing Mama Bun atop his chest. “See? All your floofs are waiting for you. We’re all waiting for you, ya? We’ll be right here, whenever you’re ready, so take your time. I’ll make sure no one bothers you, okay?”

The half-hare might well be the strongest of them all, so unwavering in her optimism it almost hurt to watch, but when she gestured for the rest of them to come closer and help, Alsantset could not help but join in, kneeling next to Mama and Li-Li by Rain’s head. Gently shifting Mama Bun so her rear legs and most of her weight was off his chest, the stubborn rabbit hopped back up and flattened herself across him, her clenched paws, wide eyes, and twitching nose giving away her fear, but not from the raucous sounds of battle around them. No, Mama Bun would charge a horde of murderous Defiled without blinking an eye, so long as Rain was there to accompany her, but now she sensed something amiss and refused to leave his side.

She knows he is dying, and does not know how to cope.

Much like Alsantset herself.

Yan saw things in a different light, however, stroking the white rabbit’s head and back. “She does this when he has nightmares,” she whispered, a mournful, half-smile stretching across her lips. “Just throws herself atop him, and it almost always calms him down.”

