“Prildor. A pleasure to meet you, Merchant Ermest. Is this your first visit to the Village of the Spring?”
Then the man had given him a look that was both wounded and amused and just…mortal. He’d coughed and bowed.
“I’ve been coming here twice a year for two decades, Master Prildor.”
“Oh. I must have missed you. I do hope to see you again.”
“Yes. I as well.”
The man had stood there for a second, and Prildor had recognized the expression. Perhaps Ermest had known half-Elves before this. Perhaps he thought he understood the Village of the Spring, but he would always be ‘the new [Merchant]’ until the day he died.
In fact, some half-Elves hadn’t even recognized Ermest since the last time he’d visited. That was because they might have missed his annual visit and not seen ‘the [Merchant]’ for the last ten years.
Still, Prildor knew it was a privilege to be the one person from the outside at liberty to enter the Village of the Spring without upsetting them, and Ermest had chosen countless wares to impress them and gather what they had for sale.
The thing about half-Elves like these was that even if one only grew tomatoes and whatnot—he could have a lot of gold if he sold them every week to the town. Or a stockpile, like Veler, of his favorite carvings.
“I have enough to fill two wagons if you want them. Otherwise, I was going to send them to town.”
Ermest stared at the delicately carved images of people and animals and even buildings Veler had seen, made with painstaking effort and an eternity of work.
“I’ll…see how much I can fit, Master Veler. I—ah—this Song Crystal isn’t worth more than one or two such works, though!”
Even he felt bad about the trade, but Veler lifted a hand.
“The rest goes to town, anyways. This one will do. If I like it, I will come back later for more.”
He pressed an icon, and the crystal began to play a female voice, singing a song that Veler liked. Judging from how his neighbor twitched…Prildor hoped it wouldn’t turn into a feud.
There was nothing Prildor particularly wanted, but as it happened, Ermest had a request.
“I, ah, bear news from the capital of Erribathe.”
“More war?”
The half-Elves were disinclined to listen; the young ones gathered around, but Ermest shook his head.
“No. Though there is dire news of the [Prince of Men].”
His face was graven, and Prildor looked up.
“The boy? What of him?”
He vaguely recalled a young boy running through the Village of the Spring, upsetting the entire community one day a while back. Ermest gave him an agonized look and dodged the question.
“—His Majesty! His Majesty would like to visit on urgent matters. Will you accept?”
The half-Elves looked at each other, and Prildor sighed.
That was dissonance.
 
——
 
The rest of the day was spent consulting the others and okaying His Majesty’s entry to the village. It was not so much that King…wait, which one was it? King Nuvityn could just enter the village, but he respected how much it might upset the half-Elves if he did.
Word had to be spread around so no one got alarmed, and when they said goodbye to Merchant Ermest, they all had agreed that Lundas was exceptionally short notice—
But if he had to come, he had to come. The days flashed by for Prildor, who worried for the rest of the week.
He thought he knew why King Nuvityn wanted to visit. But then someone told him about Iradoren. One of the children, barely eighty, when he was cutting down a sapling by her parents’ home.
“Iradoren? But he’s just a boy. How—?”
Then it made sense. Prildor had put down his axe, wandered away, and grieved for a while.
—He was still grieving when the King of Myths arrived.
 
——
 
Nuvityn always felt like time stopped when he entered the Village of the Spring. It grated against him, as if time were a bubble and his very being were stretched thin against it.
It horrified people who accompanied him, so he came alone, leaving his escort behind. He’d seen brave [Warriors] turn dead white when it hit them fully, or puke. Just so that something would break up the sense that time had collapsed against this place and left puddles, great eddies of stillness.
That was how the air felt. You could get used to it. Then you’d get some panicked person asking when you were coming back and realize that you’d spent eight months as a guest here when you felt like it had been a week. And the heaviness of the air would feel like a library’s worth of dust, not weighing you down, but letting you swim through an ocean of particles of time…
Terrifying. Beautiful. To mortals without longer lifespans, they’d described it as the feeling of their bodies rushing towards oblivion, visibly aging each second here.
Visually, the Village of the Spring was not that immediately off. It was picturesque, though, in a way that was mundanely pleasant…until you ran again into the signs of time being thrown for a loop.
What did that mean? Well, Nuvityn walked down a dirt path towards what seemed like an idyllic hamlet. The grass was lush, soft, and even though he noted there were no bugs, you could be fooled, especially as a city-person, into just admiring some flowers sprouting up in early spring, the way a rolling hill led up to a simple well under the boughs of an ancient tree.
The Village of the Spring looked like what you’d imagine a peaceful, idyllic village was right before the evil army demolished it or the Dragon attacked. You didn’t realize what was wrong for a while until you went to an actual village and remembered real villages had…
Potholes. Grooves in the ground. Crabgrass. Weeds—thistles—spills of substances. Poop from animals.
The Village of the Spring had none of that. It was obsessively perfect. Not just the streets and buildings, which even Calanfer could do.
Even the grass. Why? Well, think of it as if you were a half-Elf living here. You knew how the grass should look. You were on your way to the well and you saw some incorrect grass.
A patch of said crabgrass. Or a thistle sprouting up. Marring this vista you’d have to walk by again and again and again.
Obviously, you stopped and plucked the weed. And if you had several hundred half-Elves doing that, you got an obsessively preserved environment. Same with stains or spills; half-Elves here hated change.
So any markings on a building were painstakingly removed. Animals who had annoying, unpredictable bowel movements were relegated to specific, eccentric half-Elf farms. There were no dogs, cats, or other pets.
They died too soon.
That was the odd dissonance that lingered in the back of your mind. The pastel houses and spotless walls, the lack of insects made Nuvityn feel like he was walking through an illusion.
—Right up until he ran into the opposite problem. Such as a tree sprouting in the middle of the street, half-Elves sighing as they walked under or around it.
The second thing you’d run into were trees. Weeds too big for a half-Elf to pull up that they accidentally let grow. Then the half-Elves called for Prildor or someone to deal with the problem and let it sit for a while. Someone would get to it eventually.
—Which was how a towering maple tree might appear on a road, just—there—with half-Elves wearing grooves around it and adjusting their schedules slightly and shaking their heads at the ‘weed’.
Oh, the grooves were another matter. What happened if you walked the exact same path for a century?
You wore it down. So, in places, you’d find the road was a foot or two below ground level with the sides of the slope giving in slightly. If it got too obvious, a half-Elf group would repave the road, grumbling about how often they had to do it.
All these little things contrived to make a village that was ordinary on first glance, but had Nuvityn’s court running for the hills by the end of a single day. The King of Myths? Well, he’d visited enough that he could tolerate the Village of the Spring as long as he had to. But he always felt so…out of place here.
Of course, the half-Elves thought of this place as normal. Nuvityn dismounted as his horse balked, and he let it run back, then walked on alone.
Some half-Elves were waiting to greet him. They wore white and had ‘hasty’ gifts and condolences for him. He went as fast as he could and got the introductions done after an hour—
“I am searching for Prildor. Prildor. Is he still here?”
One of the half-Elves was clearly nervous he had come to muster them for war. She exhaled and nodded.
“He is. I see. It’s Prildor after all.”
“Oh, of course. Prildor again. He’s so busy. Respectable, but busy.”
Another half-Elf nodded with a sigh. Nuvityn smiled, though his heart was icy now. The last time he’d visited had been twenty years gone. Then one of the older half-Elves spoke.
“Veler, Your Majesty. I can take you to Prildor’s home if he’s about. If you were seeking Leila—she suddenly passed a few years back.”
“Leila Springwalker? I know.”
They’d heard in the capital. Crossed her name off of a small list. 
The half-Elf nodded. He was a…[Carpenter]?
“We knew she had taken ill, and she was frailer these last few decades, but it was quick. A harsh winter, and then…a bitter discovery come summer, you know?”
Nuvityn winced. Leila was one of the oldest half-Elves, and he imagined that in the center of the Village of the Spring…
“You’re lucky she didn’t rise as an undead.”
That would have been disastrous. Veler shuddered, then shook his head.
“No, thankfully her granddaughter had buried her well. Ah—did you see her as you rode into the village?”
Granddaughter? Nuvityn raised his brows.
“No.”
“She’s quite young. Barely more than a girl. She ran off from home after Leila passed.”
“That is distressing. Should I have my people comb the forest for her?”
Erribathe could be hostile to people outside of the communities. Monsters did exist, and while the Forest of Time’s Repose wouldn’t have any, a girl shouldn’t live…
Wait a second. Nuvityn was no fool, and his eyes narrowed.
“How recently was this?”
“Hm. Not long ago.”
“Days?”
“Oh, no. A bit of time…”
The King of Myths’ heart sank. Then his people might be looking for bones, if there were any left. But another half-Elf chimed in.
“I saw her on a walk not long ago. Several others saw her recently too. We wouldn’t wish to comb the forests and disrupt everything, Your Majesty. She knows that if she comes by, we’ll feed her. She just doesn’t want to be punished. She burnt her grandmother’s house down.”
“I…see. I shall have someone discreetly comb the forest with magic. No child of Erribathe should be left untended.”
The half-Elves nodded, seeming relieved that he was going to force the issue. Nuvityn followed Veler, frowning.
“Leila had—no, that does make sense. How old is she?”
He pictured a girl until Veler scratched his head.
“Old enough to do chores.”
Wait, that meant she was at least forty years old. Half-Elves did age slower here mentally, but she’d be a grown woman in height. Nuvityn kept frowning as he used a magical stone to talk to his people. By the time they reached Leila’s home, one had combed the entire forest with a spell and told him no such half-Elf was present.
“There’s no one in the forest.”
“Perhaps town then?”
Veler frowned, and Nuvityn tugged on his beard. That would be the best case scenario.
“Per-haps. What is her name?”
“Leila’s child? I…hm…”
Veler had no idea. But he brightened up as he saw someone striding back from around the burned house.
“Prildor. His Majesty has arrived, looking for you. Also, Leila’s granddaughter. I leave him in your care.”
Bowing, he retreated, and Nuvityn saw a familiar face, if again, one so rare as to be extraordinary.
Prildor had a long ponytail since he hated cutting his hair, and he was dressed like a woodcutter—though that was not his class. He carried no bow nor weapons at his side, and he did not walk like a warrior.
But when he saw Nuvityn, he sighed. Then he got to one knee.
“I heard about Iradoren. Your Majesty. I am deeply grieved for your son. He was so…”
Prildor closed his eyes, and Nuvityn saw he had been weeping.
“…young.”
Almost, Nuvityn wanted to laugh hysterically or curse Prildor and shake him, yet he was right. Iradoren could have lived far longer. At least four centuries more if—
“That is why I have come, Prildor. Please, rise. Will you speak with me and hear out my request? Though, doubtless, you know it.”
“I do. I wished to say no, but for Iradoren…I was looking around for someone, though. You didn’t see a girl, a half-Elf, in the woods when you came this way? I must find her before I go.”
Prildor led the way to his home, and Nuvityn walked up a gentle forest path, worn from centuries of walking, and saw a small archery range littered with arrows.
Prildor must have been shooting them. They covered various targets, and it always astounded Nuvityn that after so long—Prildor’s aim wasn’t actually that good.
Oh, he was a fine marksman. He could probably have won a position in any archery group by virtue of his talents. But for a half-Elf that did this as a hobby…
“Your aim isn’t much better.”
Nuvityn joked, and Prildor sniffed as he led the [King] into his home and began to open drawers.
“I was making a pack of a few of my necessities. All the food will go bad again, but I need to find…where is it? We cannot all be Rolairenes, Your Majesty.”
“That fellow who practices with the sword? Is he still about?”
Prildor just shrugged as he opened a cupboard, frowning. He stared at a pile of dust inside blankly, and Nuvityn wondered what had been there.
“Him? I haven’t seen him since he came by two decades back. He was always flighty for someone who lived like—aha. Here it is.”
He pulled something out, blew on it, and turned to Nuvityn gravely. Prildor had indeed known the King of Myths would want him, and he had a large rucksack filled with what was probably clothing.
“Where is your bag of holding?”
Nuvityn stared at the pack, and Prildor shook his head.
“The magic faded away on the last one. It always does. Let me just put this here, if anyone checks.”
He walked outside and hung something on the door. Nuvityn stared at it, then sighed. The sign read:
 
I am going on a short trip. Please send to the town for any urgent business.
—Prildor
 
“It might be months before we return. Years, in the worst case. I make no promises. I will not return until I have found some semblance of justice I can live with.”
The King of Myths cautioned Prildor. The half-Elf just shrugged. He tapped the sign.
“A short trip. They won’t notice.”
That was half-Elves for you. Shaking his head, Nuvityn stood there as Prildor glanced at him.
