“We are certain, Your Majesty. Their involvement at the end of the Solstice is not well known. Nor does it seem as though all of the Five Families or Walled Cities have pressed their grievances against Roshal.”
“They nearly killed Magnolia Reinhart herself. She is the current scion of House Reinhart, yes?”
That would have led to an all-out war against whoever it was, at least in my father’s time. Nuvityn glanced at one of his [Diplomats] wordlessly, seeking an explanation.
“Roshal has mitigated the damage they caused, Your Majesty. There are factors within the Five Families that seem to indicate Magnolia Reinhart has lost some of her authority. The Walled Cities have lost Chaldion of Pallass; we can expect both groups are disorganized.”
“Even so. I would have thought Roshal, famous for its ‘neutrality’, would have been shouted across the television networks for this attack. Why not?”
Nuvityn listened as his [Diplomat] explained, then sighed. Ah, oh. Right.
Politics were never that simple, within Erribathe or without.
 
——
 
Why…was Roshal not at war with the Walled Cities and Five Families? They had launched an unprovoked assault on at least two leading members of the Five Families—three, if you counted Xitegen, and there had been representatives of each family present—as well as on the Drakes.
Throw in the Forgotten Wing company’s forces and the fact that [Assassins] had run rampant in Invrisil, and Liscor, and kidnapped Erin Solstice to sea—and the fighting there—and it was entirely reasonable for multiple nations to currently be watching out in case Roshal decided to kidnap or murder on their lands.
It should have been a political disaster.
It should have been news.
It was not.
Why?
Diplomacy. Soft power.
Shaullile.
In the moments after the attack on Magnolia Reinhart, even as Erin Solstice was aboard The Naga’s Den, and most certainly after the battle at sea, Roshal’s [Diplomats] had worked day and night.
Nevermind the devastation to Roshal itself; they were trying to prevent something just as terrible as Khelt sending another spell against them. Namely—keeping the wrath of multiple world powers from declaring against Roshal.
They had advantages. Magnolia Reinhart’s incapacitation and the freeing of House Reinhart—and the loss of Chaldion—made the job manageable, if not easy. 
Within fifty minutes of the attack, a [Diplomat] was striding into a not-a-throne room for an audience with a Drake curled up against the not-a-throne.
The Serpentine Matriarch was not happy to be woken so late at night, but the battle on the Solstice was making her [Strategists] scream, so she’d been half-watching anyways. She glowered at the [Slaver] as they bowed.
“Give me one reason not to expel you from my city this moment. Sharkcaptain Femar, watch for more kidnappers or hired killers.”
“Always, Matriarch.”
The Sharkcaptain was very close to the [Diplomat], who kept his head bowed, sweating as the huge Drake prowled around him. He was grateful he’d secured an audience with just the Matriarch and her loyal bodyguard. Not the entire Admiralty.
The directive had been to not present the offer in the same room with Admiral Asale. And to move fast.
“Great Serpentine Matriarch, what can I say but to throw myself upon your mercy? You have every right to expel myself and every member of Roshal in the city. Nay, to even bar the City of Waves against us, grievous as that would be!”
“I am minded to. Attacking Drakes as we fight against [Necromancers]? Even if it is the Five Families—striking them? Why shouldn’t I?”
The Serpentine Matriarch was young, or looked young, and had the elements of her position about her. Her tail was long, and those who saw her thought she looked less Draconic and more infused by another ancestor of Drakes.
She was prepared, like a viper, to strike, but the [Diplomat] took her off-guard with the next thing he said. The Stitch-man fell to his knees, and Femar lifted his spear, but the [Diplomat] prostrated himself.
“Humble Roshal begs your forgiveness, Serpentine Matriarch, and we shall abide by Zeres’ justified wrath as long as it washes over us! But we beg—beg that you accept a small offering to stay your hand against the worst.”
“Hm?”
The Matriarch frowned, and the [Diplomat] clarified.
“War! Your Serpentine Majesty! Do not send Zeres’ navies to war against Roshal! Spare us only that, and we are prepared to pay any price!”
War? Femar’s brow rose, and despite herself, the Serpentine Matriarch exchanged a glance with the Sharkcaptain. She looked amused, then covered up a smile.
“It had crossed my mind. Why should I hear your request? What…gift is this?”
She was lying. The [Diplomat] knew that.
Zeres was, of all the Walled Cities, the least likely to declare war on Roshal. They had no soldiers at the Solstice. Plus, they had a very good idea how costly a war with one of the other great naval powers would be. The thought hadn’t even crossed the Serpentine Matriarch’s mind.
Even if Pallass and Manus and Salazsar all demanded it, it would have taken weeks for a formal declaration of war to actually come from the Walled Cities—it would have probably just been sanctions or something lesser given that none of their leaders had been hurt by Roshal.
However…if Roshal was panicking that much, the Serpentine Matriarch could press them.
That was her train of logic. Roshal’s? The [Diplomat] had orders straight from Slave Lady Shaullile herself, and he understood what she wanted. So he scrambled to offer Femar a scroll, which the Sharkcaptain inspected, then showed the Serpentine Matriarch.
A gleam of avarice shone in her eyes as she saw the quoted number Roshal would pay just so Zeres didn’t declare war on them.
“That is hardly a suitable recompense for Roshal’s treachery, [Diplomat].”
She hissed softly at him, and he scrambled to prostrate himself again, as if he were terrified.
“I can of course amend—”
“You had better.”
The Serpentine Matriarch kept pressing the ‘panicked’ [Diplomat], and in truth, he was pressed—mostly to look as flustered and terrified as she expected. It was indeed good Admiral Asale wasn’t here. He might have reined in the Serpentine Matriarch, but she pounced on the opportunity as she saw it.
Thirty-six minutes of blistering crossfire from her and Femar, protestations, pleas, outright begging, and terror from him, and he had clothing covered in sweat—and a contract agreeing to the most simple, ludicrously open terms.
Zeres shall not declare war on Roshal for a period of (32) days.
Simple. It did not include the other Walled Cities. It cost Roshal nearly two hundred and eighty thousand gold pieces, a ludicrous sum. Or? An excellent bargain.
The [Diplomat] instantly informed Lailight Scintillation of his success and was told to make sure every single [Slaver] group in Zeres and Izril kept their heads down. His job was done.
 
——
 
A rather similar tactic was employed with the Five Families, albeit not as successfully because there was no huge Walled City, but rather, lesser nobles who had to be swayed. Deilan El, Lady Ulva, and the Admiralty of Wellfar were judged rather more canny than the Serpentine Matriarch, though several members of the Admiralty were approached to mixed results.
However, the Drake initiatives became clear when Dragonspeaker Luciva and Wall Lord Ilvriss both petitioned their cities to take immediate ‘offensive diplomatic action’ against Roshal—a Drake term—they had little pushback.
Pallass, indeed, was only slow to ratify the motion because Chaldion was out of the command loop, as was General Duln. But the conversation looked something like this.
 
Oteslia: We are connected securely, and the First Gardener is apprised.
Fissival: The Three are not all in the room, but we’re listening. Connection secure, even from Wistram.
Manus: Motion to censure Roshal underway. Security Council will review. Pallass?
Pallass: Standby.
Salazsar: Present. The Walled Families are highly unhappy. With Roshal.
Zeres: Dead gods. The Serpentine Matriarch is impatiently awaiting results. Shall we impose sanctions? Ban Roshal’s [Slavers]?
Manus: A report has been submitted to each High Command. Recap is not necessary here; a formal, public complaint of Roshal’s assassination of at least two individuals and kidnapping of an independant is merited. Not to mention attacks on our forces.
Salazsar: How many casualties on our sides? Do we have a headcount? Is Wall Lord Aldonss really dead? As well as General Duln?
Oteslia: Wall Lord Aldonss is dead?
Manus: Casualties are being assessed from Roshal’s interference. Minimal at this time. A full report will be generated through private channels later.
Pallass: We are ready to begin.
Fissival: If they only wounded Magnolia Reinhart, a public protest is our agreement. War or any escalation against Roshal isn’t germane to our goals at this moment.
Salazsar: You weren’t there.
Fissival: We provided fire support! At great cost! Your forces weren’t there, just one Wall Lord. Roshal’s sanctions would have some economic impact.
Oteslia: Stop squabbling, please. The First Gardener is watching this conversation. Oteslia stands in favor of public condemnation, regardless of Roshal’s overtures.
Pallass: Can the [Assassin] claims be substantiated factually?
Manus: Identification of the [Assassins] is difficult. The [Innkeeper] is gone.
Zeres: What [Innkeeper]? We’re not declaring war. In motion of whatever else.
Fissival: Proper factual accounting of the…facts will matter for televised condemnation. Strong verbal condemnation?
Manus: They attacked a joint force of three Walled Cities in the field during a battle that cost multiple leaders’ lives. This was no light act.
Zeres: But it wounded Magnolia Reinhart. So a plus for them.
Oteslia: We are not in support of light condemnation. Especially given Roshal’s attempts to buy peace. All in favor of a public condemnation?
Pallass: Pending the Assembly of Craft’s vote, yes.
Fissival: What? Get High Command to do it. Yes—pending proof of Roshal’s involvement.
Salazsar: General Duln is deceased. So is Strategist Chaldion. Yes from us.
Pallass: Grand Strategist Chaldion not dead, please disregard.
Zeres: No war. Condemn away.
Manus: Oteslia, can you clarify bribery attempts? Yes from Manus.
Oteslia: The First Gardener was petitioned heavily by [Diplomats] to avoid public condemnation. All offers—substantive ones—were, of course, refused.
Salazsar: We can disclose the same directed towards members of our Walled Families. Two bribes were taken; they’ve been ignored.
Fissival: Typical. All bribes ignored. That’s what integrity looks like by the way, Salazsar. Can we get the reports now? How dangerous was that [Necromancer]? As bad as Az’kerash? Worse?
Pallass: Bribery attempts? Standby. Investigating…
Manus: No such attempts were made to members of Manus. The Walled Cities are in no binding contracts with Roshal that will impede continued actions, agreed?
Salazsar: No.
Fissival: Of course not.
Oteslia: No.
Pallass: No. Standby for full confirmation.
Manus: Zeres?
Zeres: We are not engaging in war with Roshal. Zeres has no objections.
Oteslia: That’s oddly worded.
Salazsar: The Admiralty and Serpentine Matriarch have no contracts with Roshal at this time beyond basic trade and entry, correct? Two members of the Walled Families cannot sway any vote and have been excised from any votes regarding Roshal by the Last Defenders of the Wall.
Fissival: Oh, that faction of old Drakes.
Oteslia: Please, Fissival. Unity here.
Zeres: Going to war with Roshal is a ludicrous concept that we wouldn’t engage with. We have no issue.
Fissival: That implies war with Roshal would be an issue.
Pallass: Does Zeres have a contract with Roshal?
Oteslia: Zeres. Were you AWARE of the attack at Liscor?
Zeres: Certainly not!
Manus: Zeres, please connect the Serpentine Matriarch with Dragonspeaker Luciva. Now.
Fissival: The Three are being informed. Zeres, what did you sign?
Zeres: There is no issue. The Serpentine Matriarch is occupied.
Oteslia: The First Gardener has a call for the Serpentine Matriarch as well. Pick up.
Pallass: Pallass may have an issue with members of the Assembly of Crafts accepting gold. High Command still votes ‘yes’.
Salazsar: How much did they pay you for Drake blood?
Zeres: Roshal killed no Drakes.
Manus: Drakes have died as a result of the attack.
Zeres: Roshal has killed no important Drakes. War would be a ridiculously unsound step regardless.
Salazsar: You traitors.
Salazsar: That was Wall Lord Zail, please disregard.
Fissival: No, no, keep going. Fissival’s in rare agreement.
Manus: Zeres, please copy over contract details for review now. And please disclose any other entanglements, by city, now.
Oteslia: None that we know of.
Pallass: Standby. All of them?
Zeres: This is ridiculous. Stop sending communication spells. The Matriarch is busy. There are no entanglements. We don’t even have full proof anyways.
Fissival: How much did they pay you? How much do we get for all this? Because you’re sharing the wealth, right?
Zeres: Standby. Also, Zeres demands proof before it backs any resolution sanctioning Roshal. At all.
 
And so it went. You didn’t have to be a genius to guess how one city starting an argument to drag down the unity of the six would go.
Well, as Nerul Gemscale would later comment to his nephew, Wall Lord Ilvriss, the chaos caused by Roshal was indeed a genius move. Not least because they’d paid a minimal price to hold up a full-throated roar of outrage from the Drakes.
By the time the Walled Cities did finish an investigation, their complaint was public—but not televised—and, because they couldn’t fully prove it was Roshal, far too light. And weeks after the battle at sea and Solstice.
How many people paid attention to that? How many people put together the Solstice, The Wandering Inn, and the facts of what Roshal had done as opposed to the nation of [Slavers] doing something unpleasant that the Walled Cities were mad about?
The Five Families had much the same issue. House Reinhart, which would normally have gone to war for the attack even if just in words, was suddenly under new management.
“Oh, it’s an outrage. An attack on dear Cousin Magnolia? Roshal will pay for this. Now—how much?”
That was Lady Cecille Reinhart’s exact quote on the matter. Without the support of House Reinhart, the Five Families also weakened their position.
House Veltras instantly and unequivocally announced their wrath at Roshal’s attack on military forces during an engagement—but like the Walled Cities, it missed the forest for the trees. Both the House of El and House Terland added their voices of displeasure to the calls, mainly due to Deilan El and Lord Xitegen, but they made the opposite mistake.
