They complained too early. Before they could spell out exactly what had happened to Erin Solstice—and even afterwards, there was no proof.
A riddle for the Titan of Baleros. Or Magnolia Reinhart when she’d finally pulled enough shrapnel out of her midsection to focus on the problem.
Who had seen what went on in The Naga’s Den? Who could paint a clear and unequivocal picture of the horrors that had gone on and testify?
Well, it was either the [Slaves], who had vanished; Erin Solstice, who was public enemy number one; Ulvama, who was a Goblin, the dead [Slavers]—good luck there—or maybe House Shoel of Ailendamus.
Explaining how that last group had seen what was going onboard the ship was something none of them were keen to do, and Roshal focused on them exclusively. Whatever deal was arranged between House Shoel and Roshal was probably one of mutually assured destruction. Both sides had too many secrets to spill.
Soft power. A gentle touch. Just enough deniability here or a delay in someone shouting there to keep Roshal’s name quiet. At least, when it came to kidnapping.
Assassination? Go ahead and talk all about it! Everyone had [Assassins]. That was fine. Kidnapping looked far worse. And people could talk about Roshal.
Why, even the Chandrar International had a huge image of the destruction in Lailight Scintillation. A harbor filled with dust; ruined buildings. Death wrought by Khelt on an unimaginable scale that only the most enchanted buildings had survived.
Normally, Rémi Canada would have loved to point out exactly what Roshal had done—but Erin Solstice was missing, and he had no proof. And the attack on Roshal was news he had to deliver.
Worse—he’d been invited and given access to interview whomever he wanted. Even if he tried to spin an angle by talking to [Slaves], he still had to show people the ruined harbor. And that picture overwrote all the other news of Roshal assassinating a few Humans somewhere.
Perhaps the [Journalist] even knew he was falling into a trap. He certainly avoided the person who’d orchestrated everything from Zeres’ contract to his invitation.
 
——
 
Shaullile Rubyscale was a Drake. Also a [Slave Lady] of Roshal. Definitely not a long-dead ghost from ages past. Certainly not the manager of Roshal’s entire diplomatic arm and public relations branch.
They hadn’t even had a branch until she came along. It had been individual, cunning [Emirs] like Yazdil doing whatever they thought was best, not organized, coordinated actions.
Perhaps that had served Roshal well, but Shaullile foresaw a future in which having a far more capable group of people would be needed to curb any…incidents that might occur.
After two weeks of monitoring the individual groups trying to raise the news about what Roshal had done, she declared a tentative victory. Forgotten Wing had been the loudest, but they were a [Mercenary] company and far removed from Izril.
Now came the counterattack, or at least, groundwork for it.
Shaullile had just finished hand picking her team. That was to say, eighteen ordinary citizens of Roshal, twenty-nine [Slavers] who had agreed to take lessons from her, and fifty-eight [Slaves].
Well, former [Slaves]. At this very moment, they were having the collars removed, the registry was being updated to show they were free, and they were even being issued markers to prove to any overzealous [Slaver] that these people could not be chained lest the wrath of Roshal fall upon them.
Shaullile always got a bit emotional when she saw the collars being removed. The expressions of radiant joy, disbelief, were so…wonderful.
She had a few pictures taken. Let them hug her—and assured them they would not only relish their new freedom, but truly come to love working for her.
After all, it might have confused Pazeral, but Yazdil had understood in a flash that there was no better person to espouse Roshal’s beauty and greatness than a former [Slave] who worked their way from the bottom into freedom, and had even achieved the dream of owning other [Slaves] themselves. How bad could slavery be if a freed [Slave] participated happily in the system?
Especially if they were attractive, well-spoken, and the same species as anyone they were attempting to sway.
“How has Roshal forgotten all the old tricks? I suppose they did well enough before me—but standards have fallen.”
What they needed was goodwill. What they needed were children covered in the dust and ash of Khelt’s attack spell staring wide-eyed into the scrying orbs and asking why Fetohep of Khelt had killed their entire neighborhood.
That was how you won wars before [Soldiers] marched. The grief and pain of the attack on so many civilians—that was real. Shaullile herself felt wounded by Khelt’s spell. There would be blood for it, but she was no warrior or strategist in the sense the others were.
She defended Roshal and attacked in ways that seldom drew visible blood. However—Shaullile stopped and checked her appearance as she stepped onto a platform raised and lowered by a Djinni, speeding towards the top of a tower for a meeting. She smiled at her reflection in the glass.
If there was anything she craved and loved, it was the ability to speak to a people and convince them. To see Roshal’s flag fly over a Walled City again would be a triumph. Once that was done—
Then she could indulge herself. But the Drake was all business, even more than Andra. So she strode into the meeting perfectly on time. The other Slave Lords of Roshal heard her report out.
“And how much will this cost us?”
Andra was preparing another budget, and Shaullile quoted a number.
“Low. Do you need more coin?”
Yazdil raised his brows, and Shaullile gave the Naga a sweet smile.
“Using coin in the place of tact or manpower is a crutch, Emir. Save it for when you need to stop a Walled City from declaring war. I have thwarted almost all the repercussions coming our way in a public sense. Individuals will remember, but our reputation is safe—not least because of Khelt.”
She would never have said it out loud, but the Tier 7 spells dusting the harbor had actually been a boon compared to a conflict. The other Slave Lords wouldn’t have wanted to hear it, though.
Each one regarded the attack as a personal wound against their beloved home. Thatalocian had taken the blow the most seriously of all. He sat hunched, eyes narrowed, and Shaullile wouldn’t want to be Khelt right now. For various reasons.
She refocused their attention on the obvious, though. They might be out of danger, but there were players on the board, and she didn’t like the one who had gotten away. As far as Shaullile was concerned, it was time to break out the [Assassins]. All of them.
“If Erin Solstice appears—that will be the most dangerous moment. Her reputation must either remain tarnished or we’ll need to address her if she returns. Not my business. Just keep your noses cleaner, will you? Excuse me—tails. Drake aphorisms.”
She sighed and leaned back in her chair as the other four rulers of Roshal agreed, more or less equitably.
Pazeral barely cared about all the work Shaullile had done; the [Lord of Possession] was still fuming over the combined defeats he’d suffered, losing Erin and at Liscor.
Yazdil was even more angry still, having lost Iert and his ship, but he was silent. Controlled.
Andra was simply listening with one ear, continuing to do business as she understood it, which was sums of gold and land and people, working her way into the spine of Roshal’s economy, especially with it so damaged.
And Thatalocian? The [Numerologist] just sat there. He stared at Shaullile, who gave him a charming smile, and his gaze was flat.
“Public…relations. In the days of magic’s death, we needed it not. Roshal was one candle among the few remaining. Our works were good.”
“If you wish to win us some supporters with some virtuous action, don’t let me stop you, Lord Thatalocian. But please let me know so I can advertise it properly.”
They were two different kinds of Roshal, he and she, but she gave him a huge smile, and he grudgingly nodded after a moment. Thatalocian’s eyes narrowed, though, to pinpoints of light.
“This is your talent and Skill.”
Shaullile had lived through the first rebellions of Stitch-folk, presided over a Roshal when they had tried to suppress the new people. She had failed—but her eyes glinted nevertheless.
“I’m quite good with people. Yes. Why?”
The [Numerologist] smiled mirthlessly.
“You have a Skill. A Grand Skill. All your cunning and the disunity of others is not enough. I count one power set against the disunified numbers. An auspicious value.”
The other [Slave Lords] looked at Shaullile sharply. She sighed.
“Yes, well, it can’t work against anything too visible. If you must do it—”
She leaned forwards.
“Do it subtly. Or I will eat part of you.”
The Drake gave them all a sharp-toothed smile. Then Pazeral did smile, and Andra nodded. Yazdil just narrowed his eyes as if trying to guess her Level 50 Skill.
[Suppress the Truth, Smother the Facts: Protect Reputation (Roshal)].
So long as she lived, and so long as nothing too egregious occurred, Shaullile could stop anything short of a direct attack on Roshal’s name. At least, where the public was concerned. Individuals were harder, but public opinion? That was invaluable.
And she could persuade individuals herself. That made her one of the greatest [Slave Lords] to exist.
 
——
 
Nuvityn saw it. He stood there, confused.
“A [Necromancer] the likes of which no one has heard of. A kidnapping to sea by Roshal. Then she sails into a war between [Pirates] and Terandria and makes her way to Ser Solstice. Slays…Iradoren. Vanishes as the world tries to destroy her, only for the Death of Magic herself to save her life. Who is she?”
“A child of Earth.”
Voreca’s answer made sense, yet it was wholly inadequate. Nuvityn had met Earthers. They did not have the eyes of men and women who had killed and changed forever. They could not stare down foreign rulers.
“Tell me more. Tell me more of the woman who killed my son. Then tell me, Voreca, why she lives.”
Heavily, the King of Myths sat, and the answers came to him.
“We have few agents in Baleros, Your Majesty. What few we had—the Forgotten Wing company is led by one of the world’s greatest [Rogues]. She has a Fraerling escort.”
“Why?”
No one had answers. But now, King Nuvityn felt it. That numbness, that incredulity and emptiness turned to a more comfortable feeling, however poisonous in his belly.
Wrath.
He began to rise to his feet.
“She killed the Prince of Erribathe. Does the Titan of Baleros shelter her? Is there not one [Assassin] in Baleros willing to take our coin?”
“The bounty on her is already high, Your Majesty. Ratified by other nations. Khelt among them. The Blighted Kingdom—”
Nuvityn’s mouth stopped as he began to utter an amount that would drive even commonfolk to try and murder her. He halted, though it was not easy to quell the words in his chest.
“Roshal.”
Thence he sat again, arms folded.
“They kidnapped her onto their vessel. Tell me honestly, Voreca. I ill-like to accord anyone sympathy. But is there a chance that the vessel, The Naga’s Den, was not a [Slave] ship?”
She hesitated, but the folk of Osverthia spoke truth.
“I cannot imagine it were anything other than that, sire. It could be she was treated like an honored guest.”
“Can you prove that?”
He doubted it. One was not kidnapped into luxurious treatment. He remembered something else.
“She had scars around her neck and wrists when she was…not now. Is that true?”
Someone found a still image, and he saw a young woman with clearly burned skin steering a ship through the storm. Nuvityn’s eyes narrowed.
“That man standing next to her. Who is he?”
“Viscount Visophecin of House Shoel. Ailendamus, Your Majesty.”
“Ailendamus.”
There was some kind of puzzle here, and yet the King of Myths didn’t have the canniness to uncover it. He understood parts, he supposed.
“So this Ser Solstice, who bears her name, was important enough for her to sail against [Pirates] and even Terandria for. No…she was not clashing with Terandrians until the end.”
“Not until Prince Iradoren attempted to capture him, sire.”
One of the Kehndroth [Strategists] spoke. They were nomads, by and large, with fierce tempers and fine horses, arguably as good as Voreca’s folk despite the latter’s heavier armor. Nuvityn looked over and saw blazing, red-rimmed eyes. Dusky face. Braided black hair.
“Andromeda.”
He was surprised to see her here. He would have assumed she’d remain with the funeral processions. Clearly, she mourned his loss.
“I was there with Prince Iradoren, Your Majesty. He wished to capture Ser Solstice—”
“Kill.”
Nuvityn interrupted her. She protested.
“Not initially—”
“Kill. He swung his sword to kill. Against a [Knight] who proved his valor in battle time and time again.”
That was part of the reason why all of Terandria was not still crying for the [Innkeeper]’s death. Andromeda’s voice lowered.
“It was with good reason, sire. If he was—”
“A Goblin. You have said. The fact remains that he had no proof. A war was raging, and he chose to execute a single Goblin who had not drawn his sword against anyone present.”
“If it was a Goblin—”
“One Goblin was not an army of [Pirates].”
He didn’t realize he’d raised his hands until they came down and the entire magical map flickered for a second. The room thundered, and Andromeda fell silent.
My hands hurt. Nuvityn shook them out. He was ashamed then; a [King] should not rage. He wondered who he had been shouting at.
Andromeda? Himself? Iradoren?
How could he shout at the dead? But his son had made a mistake. No matter how Nuvityn looked it over, he could see him brandishing his blade as a [Princess] literally covered Ser Solstice with her body. The King of Myths put his head in his hands a second.
Yet the rage would not abate. Ser Solstice. Erin Solstice. Princess Seraphel of Calanfer—
They all had much to answer for. If only there were [Pirates] left alive to hunt. There were a few, but—
“I shall remove Strategist Andromeda from the room, sire?”
Voreca offered, and Nuvityn shook his head.
“No. She has the right to stay. Let us move on. Assassins have been called for.”
“Is it your will to increase the bounty, Your Majesty?”
His lips moved as he thought out loud.
“It is not my will to take Roshal’s side. Is the bounty sufficient to attract any [Assassin] of renown?”
“Yes, sire.”
“Will increasing it change many minds?”
“…Unlikely, Your Majesty.”
Then it will be our agents or none. He waved a hand and thought. Then he had another question.
“The inn.”
