If he ever saw that, the King of Myths would stop and ask them if they thought they could have been one of those [Knights]. If they were bold, they’d say ‘of course’. If they lacked for confidence, they’d demur or explain some failing of theirs. Then the King of Myths would tell them to seek another story in the city. That of the Sightless Ranger, or perhaps the somber tale of the King of Trolls. You could live a life of adventure reading the stories and dreaming—
He had been a young man like that once. Racing from sight to sight. Nuvityn wished he could forget all the stories so he could experience them again and feel that heady rush.
That was also why he was a poor father, perhaps. His own father had done what he felt was best: taught Nuvityn the ways of the sword and as much magic as the King of Myths could stand. Given him the finest tutors in leadership, strategy, and the lessons of kingship.
But King Reseclor had been troubled and wearied by the horrific advent of the last Goblin King, Curulac, and rebuilding from the havoc Curulac of a Hundred Days had brought to Terandria had made him a distant king.
It had still worked. Nuvityn had grown up a wild boy racing about the city with a gaggle of his friends. He’d made his mistakes, gone on stupid adventures and won stupider prizes—and fumbled his way into kingship with Eithelenidrel. Left her unhappy and been restless and foolish until time had weathered him into a better ruler.
—Then he’d had his son. Well, he’d had his son while doing all this, and Nuvityn had had the chance to raise the boy in a more peaceful time, and he’d decided not to change what he had felt was a working formula.
Iradoren had grown up free to explore his homeland like Nuvityn. He had not wanted for companions and lessons, but Nuvityn had let him choose his path.
And that boy had stared at the image of the [Knights] on glorious quests and asked why Erribathe was not ruling countless satellite nations, and why the old colonies had been abandoned. When Nuvityn had pointed out that the King of Destruction had emerged from Terandria’s ambitions in Chandrar and the cost in lives to make war against other nations, Iradoren had told him it was acceptable.
‘The glory should be worth the cost, of course, Father.’
The cost. Hearing his son talk about that and seeing how he aspired to place Erribathe above other nations had kept Nuvityn from preparing Iradoren fully to replace him on the crown. When the news of Earth had come to them, both had rejoiced. To Nuvityn, it had been a sign, a way for Iradoren to channel that restless rage that possessed him instead of having to wait a century for his ambitions to rest.
Then…
Nuvityn realized he’d stopped amidst the humble, winding houses near this wall in the southeastern section of his city. The buildings here were old, and the ancient masonry was prone to dust. The streets often needed sweeping.
The King of Myths had been staring at the image of the tourney of knights so long that someone had come slowly down the street. An old [Sweeper]. A half-Elf paid by the city to do a simple job of keeping the streets clean.
She was old. Very old. For a half-Elf outside a village? She was over a thousand years—white haired, but largely unwrinkled. Yet time made her movements slow, and she swept quietly as she passed by the King of Myths. His entourage held back, respectfully, and the half-Elf eventually ended up sweeping a circle around Nuvityn’s boots.
“King Nuvityn. It’s good to see you. Very good, young man. You look thin. Don’t they feed you? Even if you’re grieving, you should eat.”
“Yahne. Mother. You needn’t call me ‘King’.”
That was all he said as she kept sweeping. It always sounded strange from her, but she kept smiling, eyes on the ground as she worked.
“Nonsense. The King of Myths is the King of Myths. Once we abdicate, the Queen of Myths is allowed to be a woman. If Reseclor was alive, he’d call you the same.”
Nuvityn walked after her slowly, watching her broom sweep the ground. He’d watched the same sight year after year. Sometimes, he tried to have her broom enchanted to sweep more easily or to be lighter in secret.
He tried to imagine his proud father sweeping the ground like this or taking on a trade job and couldn’t. Then he imagined what he might do if he removed the crown.
Learn to hunt, probably. Nuvityn imagined a life of tracking down a wild buck and skinning it, harvesting the meat, and selling it in the market. He could do that.
“I haven’t seen you since…the news came.”
It wasn’t so much an accusation as a question. She almost never visited. The half-Elf kept sweeping, though her smile had gone.
“It is hard, Nuvityn. Your sister and brother…it will stay with you until the end.”
“I have lost friends. Buried them of old age. Seen them fall to accident and battle. This hurts worse. Is there anything…you can tell me?”
The old half-Elf looked at him for a second, then just went back to sweeping. Nuvityn followed her another dozen steps.
“I don’t know, King Nuvityn. King. I never fully understood Reseclor, even at the end. The King must be a harsh figure. Vengeful. Just.”
“I am trying to be. But what about the father?”
He waited, and she turned her head to him.
“I don’t know. I would fear him the most of all. Your own father went insane with grief. So did I. We did terrible things, Nuvityn. I still remember it when the last of the glorious folk bowed before the Throne of Myths and departed. They were the reason Curulac came to Erribathe. But we were the reason one less species walks our land. You always had the best temper of your father and your son.”
He didn’t like to hear that. It felt like, any moment, words would explode out of him that would result in death raining from the skies. Nuvityn sat down on the side of the road.
“Then I will be leaving soon. Will you say anything to me?”
The half-Elf stopped. She looked up. Then she handed him the broom.
“It’s a long street. Sweep it with me, if you have time, King of Myths?”
So he did. For an hour or two, as they talked. Then he rode north. It was not Erribathe falling tomorrow that haunted Nuvityn’s dreams. It was that memory of the unsurpassed before, visible between his eyes, echoing every haunt of land.
The legend ran through Erribathe’s ground and its people. If he wished it—if unwary foes truly pressed this sleeping land, they could be awoken.
But first—the King of Myths must wake himself.
 
——
 
Five days he waited before he received the word he’d been waiting on. Across the Kingdom of Myths, word was going out, to the cities of Osverthia, to the lowlands of Forem and the hill-tribes of Torek’dale. But unlike last time, this was no triumphal gathering or host meant to follow Prince Iradoren to new lands.
Drums beat across the land, and warriors vyed or argued over who should join the King of Myths on a journey that might be his last. Ten times, Nuvityn was petitioned to double that number or expand it; he refused.
A larger force could only move so fast and go so long. They would already alarm other nations; he did not intend to quarrel with many, but if any gave battle, he would answer them. Sword with sword. Olive branch with olive branch.
Judgment. But they had to be ready for a harsh journey. And so did he.
Four days was not enough time, even to recover from the privation he’d suffered. But it was enough to remember.
“Your Majesty! The Village of the Spring has signaled they await your arrival! This coming Lundas if possible!”
A [Messenger] had raced from the small camp Nuvityn’s people had made at the edge of a particular village just north of Erribathe’s borders.
The Kingdom of Taligrit. They had very open and friendly ties with Erribathe, partly because Erribathe was a splendid ally and vice-versa. Taligrit was considered rough and savage by many kingdoms, but they were one of the Kingdom of Myth’s few steadfast allies.
The [Messenger] looked for the [King], but didn’t see him. He did hear cheering, though, and saw a group of tall, rugged tribesfolk.
Taligrits. Renowned for their ability to survive killing winters and the tough terrain up here. They were chanting a name, as the [Messenger] leapt down from his saddle, pushing past people.
Nuvityn felt more like himself. He was covered in mud, dressed in the simple clothing Taligrits wore even in the dead of winter, panting.
His shoulders and legs and back hurt. He had a gash on one arm—but he raised a fist skywards and put a foot down on a huge lump of bristling fur and flesh. The cheering grew, and the dazed, giant boar squealed faintly.
“Manoerhog! Manoerhog!”
The [Messenger] finally fought through the crowd and found the King of Myths standing there, foot planted on a gigantic pig’s side.
“Your Majesty?”
He stared. But Manoerhog Nuvityn just turned and rubbed at one shoulder.
“The Village of the Spring?”
He got a flustered nod and exhaled. Nuvityn nodded.
“I will ride there by Lundas. That’s the date, isn’t it? I’m almost done. Who’s next?”
He turned, calling out, and with a cheer, the Taligrits ran forwards into the mud pit. King he might be, but they had always respected—
A six-foot-five man tried to headbutt Nuvityn with a cheerful grin. He had to be three hundred pounds of muscle; Nuvityn dodged the headbutt, and both of them clasped shoulders. The [Messenger] watched with open mouth—then ducked as the Taligrit man flew over his head.
Panting, King Nuvityn looked around. Once upon a time, he’d been said to be one of the world’s strongest [Kings]. They said the King of Destruction now had that title, and Nuvityn believed them. He felt older. And younger.
“One last time. Come, Taligrit folk. Who’ll reforge me into the King of Myths who will bring justice from our shores? Who among you will go with me?”
A cheering mob charged at him, and he set himself like a boulder before a wave. Even the pig got up and charged at him from the side. Nuvityn’s feet skidded as he met the charge…then stopped. The pig’s eyes bulged as he grabbed its tusks.
Uh oh.
What they never said, even in the story about the last [King] to be named Manoerhog, was that Nuvityn had wrestled more than just pigs in his roaring youth. He’d also beaten all three species of non-magical bear endemic to Erribathe.
He was almost ready. He just needed one more old friend.
 
——
 
A month was a long time. Winter was ending in the month it took to dispatch a messenger to a certain half-Elven village in the heart of Erribathe. Beyond the Mists—the mysterious fog that let travellers move across the kingdom at random and stymied attackers—
There were countless provinces. Tribes and nomadic peoples and cities, each with their own culture that had lasted for aeons in this protected kingdom.
Even the most iconic thing of half-Elves: their timeless villages where they could exist in perpetuity. Some of the oldest in the world were here.
The Village of the Spring was one such place. It even had a generic name; it had been founded when a half-Elf discovered a spring and decided that was a good place to settle.
It was not an important place in Erribathe. It was a known half-Elven village, so entry into its lands was strictly prohibited; the entire forest known as the Forest of Time’s Repose was half-Elven territory. A single dirt road led in and out, and the number of people with access inwards was exceptionally limited.
Not that there were guards. Rather, a small town of half-Elves sat at the base of the forest, and that was the beginning of their place.
The town was an example of half-Elves who had taken to the ‘traditional’ principles of their kind, but not fully. Like Gaiil-Drome, which had cities of half-Elves, these ones aspired to a kind of civil timelessness.
The Claiven Earth was another good example of what that looked like. They built out of wood and natural materials, aspiring to artistic, natural designs, and cultivated magical plants and a certain standard of living that also tended towards affinity with nature.
The half-Elves here had lives that could be as dramatic and interconnected as anyone living in a town or city, but with a nod towards their long lifespans; children were an anomaly, and visitors and migration were rarer still. Half-Elven towns like these were generally peaceful, but you could see trends slowly sweep in and out.
Like the Singer of Terandria. Or television. This was the gateway to the Forest of Time’s Repose; go further in and you’d be stopped by the civil watch or perhaps run into those living in the Village of the Spring itself.
Which would make them really upset.
 
——
 
When you made contact with the Village of the Spring, even the King of Myths needed to follow certain protocols or upset the entire lot of them. The Forest of Time’s Repose was indeed small, and clearings within the woods eventually would give way to a huge, secluded village where time had stopped almost entirely.
There were six people allowed to travel the road from the town into the village proper on a regular basis.
One was an outsider. The other five half-Elves in town. They would show up if someone needed something or to bring word of trouble. Fires, war, anything urgent.
It was all so…
Well, here was how to describe the half-Elven village. Anyone who was told of the particular enclaves where time had no meaning could well imagine parts of them. Take a being who lived in centuries rather than decades and who could live thousands of years and give them a hobby and let them just do their own thing as the world passed them by, right?
It wasn’t feasible in many parts of the world; only Terandria was so relatively war-free to allow these places to exist, let alone monster-free, disease-free, and so on.
And it wasn’t like this village was immune to such things. It was just…
The village was spread out. No one lived close to each other. Oh, some definitely within earshot, but it was a delicate matter. Whenever a new child was born, rarely, or someone entered the village to live, doubly rarely, they were always relegated far, far from anyone else.
That was because synchronizing schedules was such a pain. Here was an example of how a true half-Elven village lived.
There was a man. And another man.
Loierdath Springwalker and Veler Springwalker. They were both over nine hundred years old. For a Human, it might be just past…fifty? At least, that’s how they looked.
Both were in good shape for their age.
Loierdath was a [Gardener] by trade. He grew an assortment of vegetables in his garden and sold the excess for supplies to the town. Each day, he woke at 6:00 AM exactly and brewed a cup of tea from tea bushes he kept by the windowsill of his house. He strung up more to let them age, but he really preferred a white tea for his mornings.
