It was petty. Vengeful, but did he not deserve it? Andromeda’s eyes lit up, and Voreca shifted, glancing to the side. Nuvityn’s voice rose.
“Why does the inn still stand? Can we not destroy that at least? With a spell?”
He would sacrifice ten Tier 6 spells to rid the world of that building. In a heartbeat. He turned, and a dry, deep voice spoke.
“Not easily, sire. The inn belongs to Liscor and is protected by Pallass and House Reinhart. There are other factors.”
Nuvityn turned to another old friend. This one older still. He met the eyes of a half-Elf, one of the few people who could live as long as he. This was Miihey. A half-Elf with tanned skin, arms like bars of steel, and old scratch scars all over his body.
He was bare-chested, smelled like the forests he came from, and hailed from Forem. Most half-Elves lived in their enclaves, but here was a wildling from the tribes who wrestled bears and lived in nature. [Barbarian], they said.
Advisor in the Kingdom of Myth’s courts. He was also, like Nuvityn, plain-minded. But not uncunning.
“We have cause. Order the inn evacuated and turn it to ash. Why was it not done already?”
“They will not go, Your Majesty.”
“Then send a weaker spell first and let them flee ere it becomes dust. Why hold back?”
Andromeda was nodding. Again, Nuvityn heard it like a clear call to arms. Words of wrath—Voreca glanced at Miihey, and the half-Elf spoke.
“Because children run the halls.”
The King of Myths, wrestling with his anger, suddenly felt his opposition vanish. He leaned over the table.
“Ah.”
“We could fire a warning—”
“No, Andromeda. Are we true savages? Miihey, you have the right of it. Children. I thought you said that inn was constantly attacked, Voreca. Why would anyone allow children inside it?”
“At least two have nowhere else to go, Your Majesty.”
The King of Myths closed his eyes as she briefly explained. Ah, there it was. Intentional or not, the [Innkeeper] had a simple bulwark ‘gainst any decent foe. He opened his eyes.
“Who resides in her inn who still claim her?”
He listened to a brief description. More Goblins. Antinium…and then his eyes narrowed.
“The 6th Princess of Calanfer? Truly?”
One of his advisors ducked their heads cautiously.
“Without a doubt, Your Majesty. We approached Calanfer over the issue—they have been typically obtuse despite our pressing demands for clarity.”
“Why an inn?”
No one had good answers. Now, frustration was warring with rage. Something had to be done. Decency would not stop wrath of some kind.
“Your Majesty does not intend to let the Prince’s death go unavenged, does he?”
Andromeda was straying close to true insubordination, if not already over the line, but one glance at her face and Nuvityn wondered if she had wept the entire month. Perhaps she and Iradoren had been closer than he thought. His tears had dried up it seemed.
“Never. But I see how quiet Erribathe’s voice has become. Once, if we spoke, the Walled Cities would listen. Now?”
They had made overtures to Pallass about the issue. Nary a response back. Erribathe was distant. Few people remembered the Kingdom of Myths outside of Terandria’s shores.
“They remembered us when the Goblin King sailed against their continent. We sent forces to Izril’s shores to fight and die to stop the Goblin King. Just as we hold against the Demons.”
Voreca’s voice was equally bitter, and provoked nods from many. Nuvityn just shrugged, hearing his grandfather’s words in hers.
“‘Better to lie sleeping as a Giant than to wake and die.’ This era changes us all, Voreca. A Dragonlord spoke at Calanfer. My son heeded the call. Now I?”
He stood there bitterly, looking around. Erribathe had not seen strife in his lifetime. Not true strife. Even Az’kerash had never made it to Erribathe’s heartlands. If anything, the threat of the Archmage of Golems invading Terandria had seemed worse at the time, and the Demons.
Now, though…he thought of Erribathe. It needed a king. But it might not need him. He had intended to let Iradoren grow in the New Lands of Izril, then cede the crown to him. Live out his days in some other pursuits. Learning to hunt for a living, perhaps.
“Erribathe has no arms beyond where it can reach with its own soldiers. But we are no helpless nation. I will not let this go unanswered, no. Send word to each land. I will muster a force. A small one.”
“Sire?”
Voreca sounded alarmed, and Nuvityn clarified.
“Ten thousand. Those willing to ride with me for the [Prince of Men]. For judgment. For war, if it comes upon us. We go hunting. And if an army stands between us and our quarry—”
His eyes focused on the glowing icon in the heart of Baleros, then on Izril. Which one? He dismissed them without a thought. It would take time to muster the provisions.
“You intend to leave Erribathe, Your Majesty?”
The other advisors were excited or alarmed, but Miihey had noticed the important part. Nuvityn looked up.
“Yes. I am not ready—yet. A week. In a week’s time, we will ride. Assuming all those I intend to join me are able. Voreca, send word. Gather a host that would sail to Rhir itself. But remember—”
He stopped Andromeda before she strode out of the room.
“It will be an army with tempered blades. When we judge, it will be fairly. My son, the [Prince] of Erribathe, is dead with so many others. We balance those scales.”
Then he felt better as his spine straightened. The King of Myths stared at the faces of those around him and saw them focus on him. He took one breath. Then two, and he felt that heavy weight of guilt and loss around him. But his shoulders fell back, and he felt—
Invigorated, poor as that was to feel. A calmness upon him.
I will find that [Innkeeper] and settle my grief past Erribathe’s borders or die. Even if I must take all of Baleros and Izril to battle.
Ten thousand of Erribathe’s finest. He would put them against an army ten times that size in a heartbeat. But—the King of Myths flexed one hand.
“Saddle my horse. Tell the Village of the Spring I wait on their words.”
He had been intending this, he realized, the moment he saw his son die. Without a word, King Nuvityn strode from the room.
 
——
 
He did not immediately leave the capital city of Terinloth. For a while, the King of Myths walked through the streets that had been first paved in the days when Elves and Giants walked Terandria.
—Of course, all the original stones had worn away. Even magic faded. So little could withstand the weight of so many years, and Nuvityn thought that Erribathe itself was probably a shadow of what it had been, or so changed as to be foreign to the [Kings] of ages past.
That was fine. Something that Nuvityn had learned over centuries of life was that change was alright. Both in himself and the world beyond.
He asked questions on the days when the despondency of ruling his sedentary kingdom year after year got to him. And it was always this:
Are they happy? 
Not just ‘do they look happy’, because happiness could be faked. Were they happy? Nuvityn had met loyal subjects who groused every day of their lives.
“Good morning, Sommete.”
“Is it, Your Majesty? It’s good to see you about. Rumors are a terrible thing.”
The [King] strode past a [Grouchy Grocer], who might have engaged him in further complaints about the weather, the state of the world, and the foibles of young and old people alike. The middle-aged man ran an open-air shop close to the palace.
He was exceptionally popular. A crowd of people bowed or waved to the King of Myths; most, Nuvityn recognized by face and name. Sommete stood there, a scowl on his face, and turned to the first person in line.
“What are you smiling about?”
“Seeing you finally cut your exorbitant prices on tomatoes is a good start.”
A Dwarf put an elbow on the counter sized for shorter people and treated Sommete to an even wider smile. The [Grocer] scowled harder.
“I should raise it back up! The amount of work I do for you people to get prices competitive, and I get sneers instead of applause.”
“Would you like applause? Well done, oh mighty Sommete. I’ve not seen a man burdened heavier this entire year. Oh, good morning to you, Your Majesty.”
Laughter followed Nuvityn, and the [Grouch] huffed harder as Nuvityn smiled despite himself. Sommete was well-liked because he was a kind of magnet for bad vibes. Even now, Nuvityn couldn’t tell if it was all some act or if he was genuinely upset about stepping in a puddle last week. Either way, if you did it respectfully, throwing verbal jabs at the man in the morning was how some citizens like to start their day.
Citizens. Nuvityn was a tall man, but he wasn’t the tallest walking the street. A half-Giant stopped as she began to cross the street; she was using a dedicated crosswalk reserved for people her height. She began to bow, and a gaggle of Dwarves did likewise.
Half-Elves. Humans. Dwarves. Even a small, small population of half-Giants made up Erribathe’s people. That might not actually be the most diverse, but for Terandria, it made Erribathe practically unique.
Not only that—the subraces of humanity practically qualified them as different peoples on their own. You could always tell who was new to Erribathe. When the tribes folk came down from the hills, they stood out like a sore thumb compared to those from other cities.
They all recognized Nuvityn, of course. One of the warriors wearing woad markings raised a blade and ululated, a piercing, sorrowful cry taken up by the entire band come to the city to trade.
“Your Majesty. I can have them stop—”
“No.”
Nuvityn forestalled Voreca from silencing the cry, and he raised his own fist overhead. He answered with his own modulated warcry. A somber, painful sound that surprised him. But Torek’dale’s hill tribes believed each person’s voice was honest.
They lowered their heads as he nodded to them. Nuvityn pretended to be on important business; he didn’t feel able to exchange words with them.
The answering cry was enough. The citizens of Terinloth gazed at their [King], and Nuvityn saw a mix of grief, sympathy—the [Prince] of Erribathe was dead, and mourning had been long this month. He had shown himself little, so small wonder so many wished to speak to him.
What he didn’t see much of, thankfully, were the expressions on a pair of visitors from other parts of Terandria.
Taimaguros. They were clearly from Taima; that divided nation made the two sides war like Drakes and Gnolls. The visitors looked positively aghast at seeing a [King] from the Hundred Families utter a war cry like a low-class [Barbarian].
Possibly, that was why Nuvityn decided to add a second salutation to the warriors. He shouted at the men and women who wore war paint and hide clothing.
“Torek’dale an misghet! Salvit Torek agn!”
They whooped at the simple greeting—’warriors of Torek’dale, salute to Torek!’. Nuvityn didn’t know the full extent of their odd quasi-language. But he had learned it.
The faces of the two noble visitors was enough for him. If ever a day came when he saw that expression reflected on the majority of the citizens in the capital, for any group of Erribathe—that day, the Kingdom of Myths would plant the seeds of its own destruction.
They were one of the Restful Three. The great kingdom who had taken war to other nations. Seen Dragonlords felled and survived the calamities of ages, from the death of magic to the imperiums of other nations to the Creler Wars.
Past the capital city, you could see the mists rolling across Erribathe. Each morning, they descended on the outer third of Erribathe, cloaking the sky. Any intruders without the ken of navigating them would quickly become lost. Armies had blundered around and been slowly taken to pieces as they became lost for months.
It was one of the defenses of Erribathe. The other was the spread out peoples, each one different. Torek’dale were still hill-folk who refused to live in buildings of stone, despite having thousands of years to change as they willed.
This made them happy. Osverthia, by contrast, was a region founded on the supremacy of metal, and they often competed with Deríthal-Vel for work outside the kingdom.
It was not perfect. Not by far. Erribathe was not a paradise; it had monsters. If anything, the magical kingdom seemed to attract them, and the different peoples sometimes went to war, despite the King of Myths’ attempts to keep order.
But the font of Nuvityn’s nation was that the peoples within at least respected the prowess of the others. Osverthian [Knights] were unmatched for their armor and heavy charge. But Torek’dale’s prowess in hand-to-hand combat and their magics would make any jest about them quickly fall flat.
If Nuvityn looked across his city, he could see old bridges of stone reaching over huge canals along which more buildings opened into the rivers.
Once, those rivers had had a people of their own. No longer. There had been a time, he knew, when the air had contained Harpies and other winged beings.
Erribathe was smaller than it had been. But the survivors of each race who had watched Treants walk into the sea and the Dryads abandon the forests were not idle.
Preserving majesty. It was why you saw Voreca’s people, Osverthians, fencing already in the morning, practicing the swordplay of their ancestors, trying to master the sword schools of old. It was not in expectation that Erribathe might be attacked. If anything, the warriors would dream of being sent on a crusade or to aid another Terandrian kingdom.
It was living up to the stories of their predecessors. The Hundred Heroes—the many Osverthians who’d joined the Thousand Lances. [Heroes] and [Champions].
That was what made the capital city of Terinloth unique. The memories were everywhere.
Cross the third southernmost bridge over the canals, walk through the place where the city branched over to an island filled with half-Elven buildings in greenery. But don’t walk down that street; pass by one of the old walls that no longer formed any kind of protective barricade.
Several sections were still there, maintained painstakingly despite their lack of relevance because of the murals.
—An image set in tiles of a [Knight] tilting against a Dragon, whose own body bore a lance but no rider. The Tourney of the Dragon-Knight, in which Erribathe had seen a great competition of heroes vying to join the Silver Dragon-Knight in his quest to rid Chandrar of one of the Crypt Magisters.
Several parts of the wall had collapsed despite the best efforts of [Masons], but the entire story had been painstakingly recorded in many formats. Even now, you could sometimes find children staring at the glittering tip of the [Knight]’s spear, set with a single piece of mithril, and watch their eyes widen.
