“I must beg a boon before we leave, Your Majesty. Leila’s granddaughter. She’s in the forest somewhere. It wouldn’t sit right with me to leave her out there while I go on a trip. Will you find her and return her here? She might fight; she’s half wild.”
Ah. Nuvityn frowned and sighed as he stood there.
“When did she leave, Prildor? I was told about her and already had someone check. It sounds like she might be…deceased. Or at the very least, she might have left for somewhere else.”
“Deceased? It’s only been—”
Prildor swept at his hair, then began to look alarmed.
“One year, two years—how long has she been in the forest?”
The King of Myths had thought this might happen. His stomach twisted. The one problem with half-Elves was that they didn’t check on each other, sometimes, especially here.
“I can have hounds sent for to scout the—”
“No, no. She can’t be dead. She would have come back to the village, no matter how angry she was. I—she must have gone to town.”
Nuvityn decided to have his people ask the townsfolk about her. He spoke into a stone, and Prildor stood there, growing more and more alarmed, however belatedly.
“Why was she so angry?”
“She was always unruly. She grew up on her grandmother’s stories and wanted to see the rest of the world. Most children do. But Ceria…I found her in Leila’s home. I walked in, and she screamed at me I was ‘late’. I hadn’t known, you see. It had been a long winter, and the storms in the spring…”
“So her grandmother was dead for months and no one noticed? Dead gods, Prildor.”
The old half-Elf hunched his shoulders.
“—Leila was old, but I expected to see her on her feet any day. Ceria should have run to get us. I don’t know why she waited. She burned the house down after we held a funeral. Then she vanished. I saw her a few times in the forest.”
“How long, Prildor?”
“Years. I think.”
The King of Myths cursed quietly and began to demand answers. This was what it was to rule in Erribathe. Not great wars or sudden politics, but the stuff of legends and immortals grating against unkind reality. He hoped she was in the town.
She was not.
 
——
 
Ceria. Why was that name familiar? Nuvityn didn’t understand at first, and Prildor didn’t help. He practically dashed into the village to announce, dramatically, that Ceria was missing and it had been years. The other half-Elves began to count how long it had been since they’d seen her—and more pieces began emerging as Nuvityn’s people uncovered details.
“She has a bounty on her head in town. Well, she’s wanted. Not just town. One of the major cities of Lemsdreth has a bounty on a ‘half-Elven thief’ going by her name. Which would mean she left the Village of the Spring over a decade ago and headed…”
“That far?”
Several half-Elves exclaimed in dismay as Nuvityn showed them a map. The King of Myths sighed.
“That bounty is also ancient. By mortal standards. Prildor—”
“I have to find her. But she must have come back. She’s from here. No one leaves.”
“Several people leave.”
“Not for decades! The last was—who went to Rhir?”
One of their number had left for Rhir of all places? It made Nuvityn’s eyebrows shoot up, but it didn’t surprise him, not exactly. The Village of the Spring had always had, well, a reputation for being the exact same place. And that some of the half-Elves who left went on to make stories of themselves.
Prildor was in denial about Ceria, though.
“She’s a girl with no training, Your Majesty. Some magical gift; but no one ever taught her to survive or defend herself. What if she were here?”
“…You mean at someone else’s house? Is that even possible?”
“If it’s one of the homes no one’s been to in a few decades—why not? What about Elder Mehswi?”
“She would hate it there.”
“Have you seen him this century?”
—As it turned out, checking on other half-Elves, if only to make sure they weren’t dead, seemed a good idea, and the Village of the Spring decided to send someone to each of the most reclusive half-Elves’ homes.
Nuvityn hoped they didn’t find more dead bodies. But half-Elves like Leila were self-sufficient. Indeed, Prildor himself had one idea.
“Tserre. My neighbor. I haven’t talked to her in half a decade. If she was taking care of Ceria…perhaps…this way.”
He led Nuvityn back towards his home, and the King of Myths scratched his head.
“Ceria. Ceria. I feel as though I’ve heard that name before. But where?”
“Mayhap Leila mentioned it when she visited the palace?”
“Perhaps. She was sixty some years old? She might have met Iradoren when he was a boy…”
Nuvityn’s throat closed, and Prildor stopped as he led them through the woods to his neighbor’s home.
“They are too young, Your Majesty.”
“He was a grown man. My son. He can be both things at once. I have often thought the Village of the Spring is harsh for a child to grow up in.”
Prildor didn’t reply to that, but as the two walked forwards, it began to drizzle slightly. Spring rains. Well, Nuvityn pulled a cloak around his head, but Prildor just peered up at the sky.
“No need for that, Your Majesty. Tserre should be—ah. There.”
The rain stopped pattering down, and Nuvityn paused. His eyes searched the sky, and he frowned.
“What in the world…?”
It was a bright, sunny day. Not a cloud in the sky. Prildor exhaled as he walked forwards, and Nuvityn stopped. Then, on a hunch—stepped backwards.
Rain poured down over his head. A storm was coming, and he saw storm filled clouds—
He stepped forwards, and it was sunny and quiet. Hairs prickled on Nuvityn’s neck, and he heard some birds singing innocently in the trees.
“Ah, the birds. She got so sick of them one time she had me cut down all the trees where they were nesting. I think there were a thousand. They love the weather. Your Majesty, this way.”
Nuvityn followed Prildor, and he wondered why this half-Elf wasn’t on…he reached for his notes and checked.
Tserre’s home turned out to be a two-story stone cottage with a small tower up a winding path. Nuvityn frowned as he saw how remote this was, even for a half-Elf. He turned to Prildor.
“Is Tserre new to the Village of the Spring?”
“No. Just grumpy. I imagine she ignored your last few visits, if she was even aware of your coming. Tserre? Tserre, it’s urgent!”
Prildor strode up to the door and, unusually, rapped hard on it. Nuvityn hadn’t heard more than birdsong, but it went quiet at the unexpected disturbance, and he heard the sounds of someone humming a song suddenly stop.
Dead silence from within the cottage. Nuvityn now saw there was a large garden around the home, predictable if this half-Elf was fending for herself, and the [King] even saw two huge chickens pecking at the dirt.
Interesting. Most half-Elves can’t stand animals with their short life spans. One of the chickens squawked at Nuvityn as Prildor rapped again.
“I know you’re in there. Tserre! Is Ceria with you? She’s been in the forest! For years.”
Dead silence. Then the door, which was round and had no windowpane, swung open without a word.
No one was on the other side. Nuvityn glanced at Prildor, and the half-Elf stepped through.
“Tserre?”
“Prildor. Who is that with you?”
A force stopped Nuvityn at the entrance. He tried to move forward, but a barrier halted him. His skin prickled further as Prildor gestured at him.
“The King of Myths, Tserre. He’s summoned me for a campaign.”
Nuvityn paused as he heard a half-Elf, voice crackling from disuse, speaking.
“Another one? I had a tree I wanted you to cut down. Well, a grove. Come in, Your Majesty.”
There was a grouchy, testy edge to the voice. Nuvityn felt the barrier vanish. He stepped forwards cautiously—and saw a well-kept living room. A table with exactly one chair next to open windows letting sunlight spill through. A shelf of books, a kitchen that smelled of recent cooking, and stairs leading upwards to…well, he guessed a bedroom, but there was a faint alchemical smell in the air and another scent he had long-since learned to associate with magic.
There was no doubt in his mind that a [Mage] lived here. And no sooner had he entered than she appeared.
At the dining table, book in hand. Tserre had white hair as well, and she scowled at Prildor. She wasn’t as old as Nuvityn had expected, though, nor as slow to stand and bow.
I suppose any half-Elf who can’t fend for themselves is in trouble. Prildor nodded to her.
“Tserre, is Ceria here? If she’s hiding, she’s not in trouble.”
“Ceria? Why would that girl be here? What do you mean she’s run away? Years? What is Leila doing?”
Oh no. Nuvityn had been uncomfortable enough on this trip. One look at the scowling half-Elf and Prildor’s own mild shock and Nuvityn stepped outside.
“I believe my people are calling me. One moment.”
He strode outside and squatted next to the chickens for a few minutes. Nuvityn patted one on the head and got a damn good peck for his troubles. He heard muffled voices from within—then—
“Dead?”
Nuvityn heard too much in that one word. Guilt and shock and—he wondered if she had known Leila well. It was too likely, Nuvityn reflected, that this Tserre might have thought her friend was alive. And just…not visited because she’d lost track of time.
“Your Majesty. A thought?”
“Yes?”
He was entirely relieved when his people did contact him. Nuvityn snatched the speaking stone and stood as the chickens pecked at his boots. Then he frowned.
“You found her?”
“Not…exactly. But Lady Voreca had a thought. Given how half-Elves count time…it would be the most incredible circumstance, but we have a picture and description for you. Someone is running it into the village. Would you care to inspect it?”
Nuvityn listened. Then his face went slack. He strode down the path and snatched a piece of paper from a panting [Messenger] in the rain and stared at it.
“—Give me a moment to confirm with the half-Elves who would have known her best.”
He was striding back to the cottage when he saw Prildor and Tserre. She was holding his arm as she walked to the door unsteadily.
“I have to see. Help me walk. It’s been too long since I left the cottage.”
“Tserre—”
She stumbled forwards, and Nuvityn halted.
“Miss Tserre, Prildor, I regret to intrude in this moment of grief. I may have news about Leila’s granddaughter.”
They both turned to him, and Tserre hissed.
“First the cottage. I have to see—”
She hobbled down the steps, slowly at first, but with returning vigor. She was certainly short compared to the other two—she might have been shorter than some Dwarves that Nuvityn knew, though they were never as short as the real ones had been.
“Tserre, do you need an arm—”
“No, I do not, Prildor. It’s simply been—years—since I stood. My legs tingle.”
Years? Nuvityn raised his brows. Prildor was concerned.
“One can develop injuries from sitting or lying in one place for too long. If you can’t walk, Tserre, you may need to move to town—”
“I am aware of that, Prildor. I sat quite comfortably. I didn’t choose to move.”
On a hunch, Nuvityn stopped and let them head out without him. He peeked back into the cottage and narrowed his eyes.
She must have been cleaning this place regularly. But magic can do that. Even so, he thought he saw a faint ring of dust around her chair legs indicating the spell hadn’t been cast that recently.
No footprints or anything else in the entire room. The King of Myths paused outside and saw the chickens were both staring at him.
He hurried after Prildor and Tserre after a moment.
 
——
 
Nuvityn caught up with the two at the burned cottage, and he saw Tserre standing there blankly. She had produced a cane and leaned on it.
The sight of Leila’s cottage left Tserre breathless. Her eyes widened. She wavered, aghast.
What must it be like to her? Nuvityn tried to imagine it. It was probably as though she’d sat down to read a book after seeing her friend only to be interrupted by shouting to learn Leila was dead and her granddaughter gone for years.
That was the difference between the half-Elves and the King of Myths. Both were at least centuries old. Nuvityn was far younger than they were, but he had gained that ageless nature that Prildor, Tserre, and all immortals had.
However, Nuvityn was a [King] who ruled and interacted with mortals. They had stepped away. The King of Myths knew he disconcerted newer members of his courts. He had once asked Voreca to describe it.
She had put it like this: Nuvityn often dressed and groomed himself. Sometimes, though, he’d notice his beard or hair wasn’t to his liking. So he’d request it changed or attempt to shave himself.
If the [Royal Barber] got it wrong, despite their best efforts, or Nuvityn gave himself a funny cut to his hair, he’d laugh the matter off. For he knew the hair would grow back in no time at all; so long as his appearance served, it didn’t matter what he looked like.
It was not the ability to be patient which defined immortality. You might think a half-Elf could stand and jaw around for hours. Rather, it was the opposite. Nuvityn sometimes would have a conversation with someone, engaging, immediate—then break it off when he sensed he was taking too much time. Then he’d smile, agree they had to do it again—and not see the person for months, weeks…years.
When he next saw the same person, he’d stride over and try to begin the conversation as if they had just left it off. The same with a food he liked or an experience. He’d eat a tart he loved and state it was his favorite dish of the year. But if an aspiring [Chef] served it any time that month, Nuvityn would give them a blank look and ask if they were buttering him up. If they did it twice? He’d caution them ‘not to go overboard’.
His favorite treat he might eat once a year. Once every two years. It was that which unnerved younger folk especially. The way Nuvityn didn’t pursue his desires. As if they would come again.
As if he had forever. And more upsettingly, how he treated other people as if they had the same when they did not.
Now, contrast that to Prildor and Tserre. They treated the news of Iradoren’s death, of Leila’s burned cottage, of Ceria’s disappearance for years with due gravitas. The half-Elves of the Village of the Spring had gone up to Nuvityn to give their condolences the moment he arrived.
Like any people would. But it was their attitude that was different. Nuvityn saw the shock over Prildor’s face. The pain on Tserre’s.
But no surprise. It was as if the half-Elves expected anything out of the ordinary to be a shock. They had heard so many things like this it had ceased to be surprising that they were, well, surprised.
