When he opened his eyes for a moment, he heard his consort singing, and it distracted him from reality. As she had surely calculated.
The man awoke in his bed of pale greenish-yellow sheets that seemed as though someone had woven them from blades of tall grass in the summer. He brushed at the sheets, which invigorated him and enfolded his body in a cocoon of natural Elfsilk: a thin fiber equivalent or superior to most breeds of magical silkworm, but far rarer.
Beautiful fabric, as hard to harvest as silk, and even harder to grow, with the added disadvantage that it would invariably run out of magic and turn to dust within twenty years, even in the best cases. To half-Elves, that was in no time at all. For other races, it was a fine time. A lifetime.
For a moment, as he sat up before the dawn had yet to rise, the man who had once been mortal looked outside, and he heard a clear voice singing. An operatic pair of lungs raised in song.
“Eithelenidrel?”
He stumbled over to the window and saw her outside. It was dark, the sun still rising on the Palace of the Threefold Oath and the great city of Galdatornil below. The oldest buildings, built to accommodate half-Giants, were as nothing to the ancient Giantseats, vast monoliths of stone that had been repurposed into living quarters for people.
The man could sweep his head and see buildings amongst great trees still growing amidst his home—those that hadn’t gotten up and left a few millennia before. Or he could look down and know that, below his feet, suburban Dwarves and other species were preparing to start their day.
It would have astounded anyone from Earth, or even any other nation in the world. But he had seen this same sight for hundreds of years. So King Nuvityn, ruler of the Kingdom of Myths, [King of Men], Elfwed, King of Myths, Leader of the United Peoples of Erribathe, Manoerhog, just stared ahead at another familiar sight.
But it had been so long since he’d last heard Queen Eithelenidrel sing. The half-Elf was standing on a tower of the castle that had a view to his window. Her hair was pale red, even if it had begun to gray…far faster than it should. She was singing with a voice to rouse the entire city.
He didn’t know the words. The strange melody sounded half like language, half like the nonsense that [Bards] sometimes made up for fun or to sound grand. Which is what it was. Once—she’d confessed to him that the words weren’t words at all. Just fragmented memories that the half-Elves had failed to preserve, despite their best efforts.
A song.
An Elf’s song. This was their best attempt at remembering what the words had been, apparently.
It was still beautiful. King Nuvityn had heard it before, of course. That was the problem with being so old.
He was two hundred and forty-one years old. The oldest Human in all of Terandria. Possibly second-oldest in the world. The Blighted King was the only person that Nuvityn thought might be older, and if there was a being who had once been Human—undead didn’t count—he didn’t know of them.
He thought he had aged the best. At least, compared to Othius the Fourth. Even now, Nuvityn had a barrel-chested frame and enough muscle to make him look imposing, although his son had always pointed out his growing stomach. His hair was greying, but it still had the same brown as…
The man stared out the window, and an unwelcome understanding gnawed at the edge of his consciousness. Yet for a moment, he still listened.
Yes, he’d done it all. Eaten every conceivable dish. Had every experience, good or ill. Broken bones? Yes. Kissed beautiful women? Undoubtedly. And, accidentally, even a few handsome fellows. It was hard to tell which was which when you were blind drunk.
Seen wonders? Each and every one Terandria had. Partaken of drugs? He could write a list. Fought foes? He’d filled out an Adventurer’s Guild’s bestiary for fun one time. Accidentally fallen onto a rusty spike of metal that had gone straight through his groin and out the other side?
Yep.
The thing about living so long was that everything became…if not predictable, then something you’d experienced before. That was why, after the second time he sat down on a spiny brush filled with needles and felt them sinking into his posterior and other elements of his body, yes, he had screamed. But he’d also thought, ‘ah, not again’.
It took an edge off anything beautiful. The wonders began to pale, and that was a terrible thing. But Nuvityn knew the secret to age that Othius had forgotten:
Even if it was something you’d seen or heard before…if it was rare, it still mattered. So Nuvityn stood at the window and listened.
Eithelenidrel, his consort, the half-Elven Queen of Erribathe, the immortal side to the throne, had sung in his capital exactly three times before this. Over two hundred years they had been wed.
That mattered. Not just because the song captivated him. His eyes fell on her face. She looked better than last he’d seen her. She’d complained that half-Elves her age were hinting about makeup, noticing how she had aged at twice their rate. When was it she’d last come to the palace?
…Twenty-two years ago? She must have come out of the Grovelands. She looked peaceful, now. Not happy, maybe, but she was singing.
It had taken ninety years for her to sing this song the first time. And that was a long time, even for half-Elves. Ninety years for Nuvityn to realize, belatedly, how unhappy she’d been despite her smiles and laughter. When he’d first heard her sing, it had been a revelation.
Nuvityn liked to say that his marriage had had its ups and downs. The first century had been rougher on her; he’d mostly been ignorant of the problems. The second had been more tumultuous for both, as his longer-lived citizens could attest, but they’d come to a rather amicable last thirty years.
The key moment had been when the [King of Men] had finally realized that he’d never sway, convince, or charm Eithelenidrel into necessarily loving him. And that the pact between them was a pact. She had honored it for her people, and he hadn’t realized how much she’d given up.
Half of her lifespan. Her home. Her people—even if half-Elves lived in the capital—and an heir for Erribathe. Not least, the company of a man she hadn’t truly known until they were to be wed.
He’d given her back one of those things, at least in part. Eithelenidrel stayed in the Grovelands and seldom emerged. Not for most royal events; not that Erribathe had many that were annual. It was one of the Restful Three, a nation without need nor complaint.
Eithelenidrel stayed with her people and only came to visit when it was her inclination or at great need. Then she was more like an old friend, and she’d begun to come by with complaints. Or write that her people wanted copies of plays or whatnot.
That was good. It was fairer, and Nuvityn did his best to ensure that adventurers got to any problems in the Grovelands first. And to get her whatever she wanted. He was, after all, still in her debt. Another two centuries and perhaps…well, perhaps he’d make it up to her a bit.
The point was—the song was so rare that it transfixed him in the ten or so minutes she sang there. Then the Queen of Erribathe turned and half-bowed towards him, and he let out a breath he had held…how long, he couldn’t know.
He almost fell out the window of his chambers to his death as he raised a hand to her. He was weak. Lightheaded. Nuvityn caught himself and wondered why he was so thin.
Ah. Right. He hadn’t eaten.
Because his son was dead.
Oh.
For ten blissful minutes, the King of Erribathe had forgotten it. Not ‘forgotten’, but let it slip from the fore of his mind. Now, he stood there, and weariness sank over him like a great shroud as large as the palace. Pulling him down. Like the depths of the oceans that had claimed Iradoren’s body.
It was terribly cold and dark down there. Iradoren should have been brought back, at least, to be laid in his homeland’s soil. Nuvityn passed a hand over his eyes, and he saw it again and ever again.
That look of fury over his son’s face. Holding the sword of kings, poised to run through a [Knight] on the ground. Why? Why are you—?
Then a look of confusion. Agony, and the terrible sight of a bloody blade moving through his chest, piercing armor that should have kept him proof against any blade. A young woman’s dispassionate face, blank to his identity, heedless, pushing him aside as he fell.
Erin Solstice.
The King of Men stood there, and the Queen of Erribathe raised her head and saw his stricken expression. She wiped at her own eyes briefly. Then began to walk across the tower’s edge towards him. He bowed, then, and wearily straightened as his servants peeked at the frail [King] with worry.
Doubtless, they’d orchestrated part of this. He let them prepare him for breakfast. But all he said was—
“My son is dead.”
Day after day that passed, over a month now, and he continued to hope it had been a dream. But though he was many things—King of Myths, half-immortal, heir to the Hundred Families, Manoerhog—
Nuvityn had been Iradoren’s father.
He knew now, with hindsight that was so clear and revealed too much—
He had probably been a poor one.
Thus, Nuvityn began another day.
 
——
 
“Your Majesty. Will you eat?”
“Mayhaps.”
It was a sign of King Nuvityn’s grief that even with a table filled with his favorite foods, he merely picked at his plate. His courts were largely informal; his trusted advisors came and went since the matters of state seldom called for their great expertise.
Right now, almost all of them were present, because the hour called for it. Erribathe had lost its heir, Iradoren, and its colony dreams were in jeopardy. There was another world—Earth—and perhaps most crucially of all at this moment, Nuvityn might just starve himself to death.
“We can ill-afford you passing, Nuvityn. Have you no appetite?”
Queen Eithelenidrel looked at him, and the man blinked at her.
“Have you?”
She was eating a traditional half-Elven dish: a salad. Eithelenidrel was one of those half-Elves who’d forsworn meat. Her salad was made up of flowers, which she was eating petal by petal.
The secret was the nectar, which was sweet. Nuvityn saw her eating more or less at the same pace as normal, which meant breakfast was going to take thirty minutes if she didn’t talk. She looked—decent.
He knew he seemed half-dead himself. The question was, of course, ‘can you eat?’
Their son was dead. Eithelenidrel looked at him, and he again saw those tears he’d seen behind her gaze. But she determinedly chewed on another flower petal.
“I was resigned to it the moment he was born. I wept half my tears then. The same, I would imagine, for Aradien. We outlive our Human counterparts.”
That was true. Nuvityn closed his eyes. Exceptions happened, like his father outliving his mother, but that was mostly due to accidents. Even with their shared immortality, the Kings of Erribathe perished most often whether due to battle or simply because they lived lives in the open, entangled with mortal affairs and risks.
A younger, more foolish man would have taken Eithelenidrel’s words as her coping with her grief in her own way and left it at that. The older man realized the words were twice bitter.
She…may not have loved Iradoren like he did. Or she’d deliberately moved her heart away from the boy she had raised. Never borne. Or else Iradoren would have been a half-Elf. Was that the only reason why the two regarded him differently? She had been there from the moment he had been born until he was a grown man. Of course, Iradoren had still visited her regularly, at least once or twice a year.
That is not how most Humans live. But Iradoren was—had been—over seventy years himself. A long, long time. A long childhood, even if he’d looked like a grown man for decades.
It was hard to grow up under the shadow of a [King] who could hold the throne for centuries more. Hard, doubtless, to live in a kingdom content with being one of the Restful Three. Nuvityn knew the feeling of wild yearning to prove Erribathe’s greatness.
Well, in part. His own grandfather had told him he was the most ‘placid’ of Erribathe’s heirs in a long time. Which wasn’t saying much. If it had been an insult, it was probably because Nuvityn had spent decades actually roaming around Erribathe. He’d lived with the Hillfolk, tried his hand at smithing with the Dwarves, even lived off of salads and whatnot with the half-Elves.
His title, Manoerhog, was the first to be granted to a King of Erribathe in three generations, which was astounding to Nuvityn. Not even his son had continued the tradition of facing the giant hogs of the northern kingdom of Taligrit and wrestling them in mud pits.
That was why Nuvityn sometimes had it appended to his royal titles, much to Eithelenidrel’s exasperation. Because it made him, well, unique compared to his father, who’d also been a decent ruler and lived three hundred damned years, or his grandfather, who’d lived nearly five hundred.
Each one had been a great [King]. Skilled in swordplay, wise, had mobilized Erribathe in times of need, etcetera, etcetera. But none of them had been Manoerhog.
A title awarded by the northern kingdom of Taligrit to…well, anyone really. But it was seldom obtained, and even more seldom by a King of Erribathe, though it was customary to take the challenge. Nuvityn had taken it and won it in his youth.
They still remembered him for that.
“Hm?”
Someone had been talking to him. Eithelenidrel glanced at Nuvityn, and for once, she was the one talking and he was the silent one not paying attention.
“The Groveland’s Conclave is worried about the state of the kingdom. Keeping you alive is one reason I am here. Also, because I was genuinely concerned.”
“Were you?”
His head rose, and she half-nodded. Nuvityn was gratified by that and found the energy to spear a link of sausage and chew on it. He normally had a fine appetite.
“Don’t fear for the kingdom. I shan’t name you as the regent if I die.”
“Thank you.”
She smiled at that. Not that there was much of a chance anyways; succession law dictated that the Crown of Myths flowed from male heir to male heir. The Queen Consorts were never chosen to rule except if they needed to as regents before a new heir was old enough.
In Eithelenidrel’s case, she would have rather eaten a whole pork roast each morning than taken the throne. Nuvityn spoke out of the corner of his mouth, wrenching his mind off of…well, anything but reality.
“I have already named Prince Geltheid as the new heir apparent. Does that satisfy the Grovelands? I did not make it public…”
Because it was too difficult and his kingdom was in mourning. Eithelenidrel tilted her head.
“Which lineage is that?”
“Thamed. Dwarves.”
