“Oh. I picture a boy learning to smith mithril…”
“Yes. A good lad. Stout of heart and mind. He keeps the holds of the mountains in good order and saw off several Ogre bands half a decade back. He’ll be fine.”
There were other [Princes] of Erribathe. Not so much like Iradoren had been, the obvious successor, but the bloodline of Erribathe was carefully diversified among a few groups, if only to prevent inbreeding. The [Kings] of Erribathe married half-Elves, but the bloodlines never mixed with half-Elves, and lesser [Princes] wed other royalty as they pleased.
If they took the throne, well…that was a tricky thorn that had been navigated many times before. The union mattered, and so there had been polygamist [Kings] of Erribathe. Quite a few, actually.
“Have you met him recently?”
That was a quintessentially half-Elven question, and Nuvityn nodded as he continued to eat the link of sausage.
“He attends the palace several times a year. He’s thoughtful. Until now, he was determined to have us expand our industries and allow newcomers to Erribathe.”
Eithelenidrel made a noise of dismay, and he clarified.
“In the Outer Regions. Nowhere past the Mists. He would rather we turned some of that border into prosperous cities. The older minds won’t like it if he takes the throne, but given Ailendamus rising…”
“…Which one is that? The nation you were complaining about recently?”
“The new one. It was founded just after you were eighty?”
He tried, but Eithelenidrel really didn’t care that much about nations beyond Erribathe that weren’t half-Elven. And sure enough, she snapped her fingers.
“Oh! The ones who established the half-Elven enclaves. We like them?”
“They made war on the Dawn Concordat and swallowed eight nations.”
His wife’s brows snapped together in outrage.
“Ah. Gaiil-Drome’s alliance. Then they are a foe.”
Nuvityn decided to abandon the topic. It wasn’t like he had set Erribathe against them in any real way either. His son had wanted to march Erribathe’s armies on Ailendamus to defend older kingdoms multiple times.
Nuvityn had been forced to order Iradoren to hold, twice, literally by telling the [Generals] to march their armies back the way they’d come. He had believed they could have triumphed or forced Ailendamus to pull out of the war—but at what cost?
Iradoren had been young and never counted those costs. Nor that he could die. Nuvityn could well imagine a war that consumed the lives of tens of thousands of his subjects, despite Erribathe’s might.
No. He had been content—or complacent, as Iradoren threw at him—to watch. Of course, the irony was that the one time he had ever gone back on that vow, lured by ideals of new lands and another world…
Nuvityn’s hand clenched on a mithril fork and bent it. He glanced down at the silverware and dropped it as Eithelenidrel stopped eating. He pushed back his plate, one sausage eaten.
“I am not hungry after all.”
“You should eat. You have shrunken with grief.”
A chorus of his advisors added their voices to that, and Nuvityn shook his head. He glanced around and saw one of his people, an Osverthian woman named Voreca, making a signal to Eithelenidrel.
She was one of the heads of her region, which produced metal and armor for Erribathe’s [Knights]. She was also intelligent and came up with plans, often to get him to do something or, until his passing, to sway Iradoren’s mind.
“Oh. Yes. I brought you something, Nuvityn. This may ease your hunger, if nothing will.”
Eithelenidrel fiddled with a bag of holding. She pulled something out, and Nuvityn saw satisfied smiles on his court’s faces. He peered over as she lifted an object wrapped in, of all things, huge leaves.
“What’s this?”
“It is something the Groveland’s bakers made with direction from the…new children. The ones of Earth.”
Earth. The weary King of Myths’ head rose with interest, despite himself, for that was the one thing that he had never heard nor thought of in his long life.
“Where are the Earth-children? And Aradien, for that matter. Are they safe?”
The Earther children hadn’t been sent in the first colony wave, but they had been given all the hospitality of Erribathe in exchange for their knowledge. And Aradien had survived the fighting, hadn’t she? He wondered what he’d say to her.
Voreca called out in a steady voice.
“Lady Aradien has almost returned to Erribathe, Your Majesty. She has been honoring Prince Iradoren at each nation, which has taken time—and the Earth children are well, if concerned for you. See what they suggested be made.”
“Your lies about their concerns for me are well received, Voreca.”
He grunted as he unwrapped the leaves. Voreca assured him it was not.
“No, they regard you as a [King] among others, Your Majesty. They make flattering comments as though you were a famous ruler from their own stories. This is from those stories.”
“What is it?”
Nuvityn found himself staring at a bunch of, well, pieces of flatbread. They were a bit crumbly, and someone had baked some fruit into them. He turned to Eithelenidrel, and she spoke.
“Elven bread. Waybread. Ah…lembas?”
She said a word in another tongue, and Nuvityn’s ears lit up. His eyes opened wide.
“Bread made by Elves?”
He took a piece and sniffed it, then broke off a part and tasted it. It was good bread. Unleavened and sweetened by the fruit. He took one bite, then another, noting it was filled with something heartening for a traveller.
Tastes like soldier’s bread. It’d be good for campaign. But he had expected…well, he listened as Voreca tried to explain.
“It might not be the same recipe. We only had their concepts to go off of, Your Majesty. But the concept is that there is a bread used by travellers that can fill a man up with a tiny piece.”
Nuvityn stopped eating. He stared at the bread, then heard his stomach rumble despite him having taken several huge bites.
“…Well, that’s a lie. Wait. Is this another idea that isn’t real from Earth?”
He stopped, and the court susurrated. Voreca gave him an innocent look as a scowl drew over Nuvityn’s face.
“Your Majesty? Whatever could you mean?”
Nuvityn took a huge bite out of the ‘lembas’ and tasted what was probably some half-Elven version of lard, syrup—fattening ingredients, dried fruits, and high-quality flour—he washed it down and growled.
“I appreciate the [Bakers] doing their best. But that comes from their stories of Elves, doesn’t it? I’ve talked to the children. They have no idea what Elves are actually like. Their ‘Elves’ are just characters in books or actors played by Humans.”
“What? But I thought—”
Eithelenidrel looked dismayed as she sampled the ‘Elven bread’, and Nuvityn glowered at Voreca, who was hiding a smile.
She had doubtless done this on purpose. Mostly to get a rise out of him and probably to poke fun at Eithelenidrel. The two had a rivalry of kinds, though, frankly, it might have been one-sided on Voreca’s part as Eithelenidrel had never acknowledged her.
Nuvityn liked the children from Earth. He had great sympathy for them being torn from their homes, even if they’d had the luck to land in Erribathe. Their ideas were fascinating, and Iradoren had been so taken with them he’d demanded they buy sulfur and try to make the many things the young men and women talked about.
But all the Elven claptrap annoyed Nuvityn no end. He hadn’t ever met an Elf, of course; even though the last Elf to ever live had wed Erribathe’s first [King]. But Nuvityn’s bloodline was mildly related to hers, and he knew half-Elves.
Real half-Elves. The kind who lived in the oldest villages. The ones with the power of immortality, and he disliked the presumptions that the Earth-children put on them. He especially disliked the, well, frankly speciesist way the Earth-children talked about Elves.
Beautiful, immortal, graceful—all words that could apply to half-Elves. Eithelenidrel certainly might look the part. But didn’t that paint an entire species with one brush?
If you’d ever seen a half-Elf surreptitiously snort a giant booger out of one nostril, you’d realize they were just people like you. Not all of them knew how to shoot a bow; Nuvityn was a better shot than one half-Elf he knew who was over eight hundred years old, and the fellow practiced with a bow constantly.
And what about Dwarves? When he’d asked, one of the ‘experts’, a lad named Ronald, had had a lot to say about Dwarves that was complimentary. Stout of heart, strong, stubborn, good with metal—wait a second.
He had it in his head that all Dwarves were part smith, part warrior, part grudgeful drunkards who liked living in hills and mining for gold. Nuvityn could only explain it as the children having stories of Dwarves and Elves and not ever meeting them as individuals.
It was disappointing to him because it was how many Terandrians acted. Yes, a lot of Dwarves lived in Deríthal-Vel, Dwarfhome, which meant a lot were experts in metallurgy or related to the field. Yes, many half-Elves did practice the bow because it was something they were known for.
Just…was that how you would open a conversation with a member of their species? Would you turn to a Dwarf every time you had a metal-related question?
Nuvityn realized he’d eaten half the bread as he groused about that, and Voreca’s smirk made him drop the bread and rise.
“Eithelenidrel, thank you for the gift. It seems it has roused my spirits. I must be about the duties of Erribathe now. Will you join me?”
“Hmm. No. I did not wish to return to rule. Just to see you well. I will linger a while.”
He nodded at her and bowed, then turned to Voreca. The food after so long felt heavy in his stomach, but reminded of Earthers…his grief seemed to reignite the other emotion slumbering in his chest.
“Voreca. Summon a [Mage] skilled in communication spells, and meet me in the war room. Has word come back yet from the Village of the Spring?”
“Not yet, Your Majesty. We hope for a reply by today if all is well.”
“Good. Then tell me—”
The King of Myths’ eyes narrowed, his hands gripped the table, and his mind flashed back to that moment. That day—those days of seeing Terandria’s armies beset at sea, helpless to do more than lob spells from afar.
“Tell me once again how it came to this.”
He began to stride out of the banquet hall, the heavy weight of pain and reality clinging to him. But if there was one luxury—one among the many thousands—to being King of Erribathe, it was that he had the power to do what he willed.
For better or worse, as his son had always wished and why Nuvityn had been considering relinquishing the throne. To slay any foe, to raise great armies.
But first—he listened a while.
 
——
 
“There were three major incidents revolving around Erin Solstice, Your Majesty. Each one occurred chronologically, but her involvement in all three stems back…how long, we cannot say. Knowledge of her is limited.”
“If she hails from another world, it makes sense.”
Nuvityn rested his weight on his hands as he stared at a map of the world, and Voreca and his advisors reconstructed a picture for him. He was no gifted [Strategist] like the late Earl Altestiel.
Ah, a fine man. I met him once, ten years back. Very much like a storm himself, from laughter to tempests.
Another man to mourn. He had sacrificed himself to save Calanfer’s [Princess], Ser Solstice, and so many others. The entire fleet, in truth, but he had been known friends of the…Ivory Five?
Nuvityn consulted some notes spread out to the side. It had taken weeks to get all this intelligence. Erribathe, of course, had informants and networks of intelligence, but it hadn’t been as concerned with the world as most nations.
Establishing links, buying information, and so on had taken time. But they had endless coffers, and the pieces were all here.
“Why would the Earl of Rains have such faith in a man my son wanted so desperately to kill?”
“Your Majesty?”
Voreca stopped, brushing at the silver streaks in her black hair as she hesitated, holding up a mithril pointing stick towards a diagram. Nuvityn shook his head.
“Nevermind. We’ll come to it later. Please, continue.”
He was no great mind. But he could definitely follow the events as she and his people laid them out for him.
“The Winter Solstice—a great battle against undead led by some horrifically powerful [Necromancer].”
“Whom we do not know the identity of. We have scoured the lists of old foes, and we believe it may have been the Putrid One, Your Majesty. But that’s merely supposition based on the Village of the Dead raid.”
A very nervous [Grand Magus] broke in anxiously. The entire table shifted as even one of the [Generals] licked their lips.
“Ten thousand Draugr. An attack worldwide. How—I didn’t even ask about the children. Were any hurt like that Rémi Canada fellow?”
Genuine concern provided a quick distraction. Had an Earther been hurt on the Solstice under his care? A quick shake of the head assured him.
“It was merely Ghouls, Your Majesty. One of them was staying with the hillfolk—the Ghouls wounded two brave citizens who took up arms with the guards to fend them off.”
“Have they already been rewarded?”
Nuvityn got a nod, and the King of Myths rested his weight on the table. And is that woman dead? A foolish question where [Necromancers] were concerned. Best practice was to operate as if they were not.
“Necromancers. Didn’t one attack Noelictus recently? There was a minor incident with that. If the Horns of Hammerad awoke some great foe that the [Innkeeper] took on…I want the Necromancer truly dead. Report any sightings to me.”
Erribathe had failed to kill Az’kerash fully, but they had participated in a number of battles that had defeated him, only for his return a decade later. The thought of another such protracted battle was dire. But what was his other option? To wash his hands of it and let Izril suffer a scourge like that?
Duty impelled Nuvityn to see if that foe could be fought. He put the matter aside as Voreca nodded.
“She may be defeated, Your Majesty. Erin Solstice announced and even challenged her foe to open battle, and it appeared by all accounts the woman was bested. Then, immediately afterwards, an attack by Roshal that left Magnolia Reinhart gravely wounded. An assault on both Walled Cities and the Five Families! Following that, a kidnapping to sea—”
“Hold.”
Nuvityn broke in with a frown, and Voreca paused. He glanced at the icon flashing on Chandrar’s southwestern side. Roshal.
He did not care for them. Did not think of them often as they were banned from Terandria’s shores by and large.
“Are you certain it was Roshal?”
