In the early spring—which it now was by virtue of a week—he always had a slice of tomato over some toast with one butterknife’s worth of butter. This was what made him a radical, by the way.
The butter always changed. Cow by cow. Every few years, the cows would pass away, and he’d see a team of half-Elves from town come by to butcher the poor animals and drag them off from Hasyth and Redaul’s farm.
They were further out because they lived such variable lives. Loierdath was a radical…within the Village of the Spring’s center.
The butter. Sometimes it had a tang to it, other times it was sweet. He would just get used to how the new stuff tasted when he’d be told the old cows had died.
Bread was more controllable. So were tomatoes. Yes, each one grew differently, but he could be very picky about which one he cut into the right shape. All the ones he didn’t think would taste proper he put in a basket for the town and thought nothing of.
At 9:00 AM each day, one of the village children, Eliscythe, would pick up his bin and add it to a host of others she’d drive to the town and back. That was an unpredictable job. He liked to greet her before she did the job, though if he thought it was too much excitement, he’d stay away.
However! His neighbor, Veler Springwalker, was far different.
He was a [Carver]. Like Loierdath, he ‘bought’ the materials he needed, which another half-Elf supplied, and carved for a hobby and living, starting his day with eggs of all things. Sometimes bacon; often just salad that Loierdath supplied him with.
Eggs were also risky. If Veler got one with a doubled yolk or something different in it, he might just skip breakfast entirely. He’d start his morning at 7:02 AM, wake up, and fry eggs before carving something on his front porch in the morning.
Now, here was why the two worked well together and they hadn’t moved their homes further apart. At 7:30 AM—not that either had clocks, the things always broke so fast—Loierdath would head out to check on his garden.
He would open the door, catch Veler’s eyes, and they’d nod at each other as the other half-Elf sat in his rocking chair, carving away, with a half-eaten egg next to him.
Each day.
Every day.
If one or the other missed that moment, something was wrong and they might be fighting or the other was sick. In fact, Loierdath has found Veler was ill over two hundred times because of it, over the four centuries they’d known each other.
Veler was always getting sick. The point was, they had that moment.
Now, there was obviously space in the day for something unprepared or spontaneous. Why, Loierdath might, after tending to his garden, sweeping his house clean, washing the dishes, and making his bed, decide he wanted to talk to Veler.
Perfectly reasonable. The two had an arrangement. Loierdath would sit on the porch for a while, and if Veler was in the mood to talk, he’d come out. If not, Loierdath would get up after an hour and leave.
It was hardly unpleasant to wait. Bugs were banished from the Village of the Spring by spells. If Loierdath was feeling ill, he’d never go outside and spread the illness around.
If he cared to, he could walk into the village or even read a new book. He tended to read a new book at least once a year and digest it, rereading it maybe as many as a hundred times until he was tired of it and would buy another.
The key was that even if he had a new experience, to temper it. To take in anything he chose to slowly.
The youngsters were very excitable and often came racing back from town with news of the outside world. Their elders, especially the ones living further into the Village of the Spring, were more and more…set in their ways…by and large.
No one would run up to Loierdath with a spoonful of ‘ice cream’, for instance, and make him eat it. That would ruin his entire month. He’d certainly grudge about it for years.
When ice cream had come to the Village of the Spring, it had sat in a preserved tub of metal in an enchanted drawer for about two months before a half-Elf had wandered by and decided today was the day to really try something new.
They were still talking about it. Hasyth and Redaul had opined that maybe, when their current crop of cows passed away, they’d get one more to maybe make some ice cream as a test. If they liked it, they’d try producing enough for the entire village.
How decadent.
Loierdath had talked it over with Veler all of last year, and they’d decided to both vote for that if the two [Farmers] were willing. They both reckoned that since cows lived about thirty years, more or less, in ninety years they’d both be having ice cream in the mornings, since, obviously, it’d take three generations to get right.
That was a half-Elven village. Loierdath was typical of many half-Elves living here. He gardened next to his house. He’d go for walks for fun and pick up acorns and put them in his basket, which went into his bin.
He certainly generated a surplus of food, or maybe he broke even? The Village of the Spring was a net positive to Erribathe, or so it was agreed, or else they wouldn’t get support from the town. Loierdath had levels; he grew wonderful tomatoes, everyone agreed, and any half-Elf could come by and request one whenever they wanted, and if he felt he had one that was suitable, they’d get it.
Otherwise, they’d leave and try again next month. That was how they thought.
Some days, Loierdath would just go about his routine, so perfectly used to everything, that he’d lie down and fall asleep and feel like he’d just woken up. He could spend a day thinking and running on autopilot.
He blinked—and the cold snow falling in front of his teacup became wet rains or bright sunlight. And the half-Elf enjoyed the feeling of time passing without doing more than brushing against him lightly.
What no half-Elf enjoyed was dissonance.
That was a monster, a bug, an anomaly in their day. The ones further from the heart of the village were better at dealing with it. For reference, the last dissonance that Loierdath had experienced was breaking his trowel in the ground.
In dismay, he’d tried to keep planting seeds but been so bent out of shape about it he’d lost an entire harvest to it. He’d put in an order for a new trowel and gone out, each day, to stare gloomily at his garden of half-planted seeds.
When he got his trowel, very speedily from town, he’d seen it had a smith’s mark on the metal, and the handle didn’t feel right.
Over the course of the next month, Loierdath had asked for three new handles and had filed the metal mark away and worked with Veler to get a handle that fit right until he was happy. Naturally, he was a bit persnickety about his tools, so that might have been longer than average.
Life in the Village of the Spring was often like that. Was it perfect? No, of course not. It was fine, but even here, half-Elves had their troubles. One of the things the half-Elves hated around their village was weeds.
By which they meant trees.
 
——
 
There was a half-Elf whose entire job revolved around getting up each day, walking out, and cutting down ‘new trees’ that had just sprung up around a half-Elf’s home. They’d leave him a request to get to it, and he’d head to a new part of the village and chop it down.
After, of course, carefully asking how not to disturb the occupants and arranging a time when the chopping wouldn’t be heard or disturb their schedules. They were largely understanding about it.
“It just popped up the last decade, Prildor. I meant to take an axe to it myself, but I forgot. Now look at it.”
A half-Elf accusingly rapped her knuckles against a full tree as Prildor nodded.
“They do that. Will midmorning be a good time to chop it down?”
“Please. It’s in my way.”
By which she meant that the tree was in the middle of her path leading out her door. A seedling must have fallen and begun to sprout. She had walked around it for ten years, growing more and more annoyed until she finally snapped and asked for his help.
It was now…a fully grown tree, and Prildor dismantled it over the next week, taking it apart logically, piece by piece. His was a nebulous job with lots of variables; trees were always different. But he didn’t mind that. He started from the top, climbing up to take apart the branches, and working down until he was ready to chop down the tree itself. Then he hacked it up and carted each piece back to his home.
The rough part for Prildor was running into something unexpected on the job. Like a bug. The forest that enclosed and hid the Village of the Spring was where the enchantments against bugs and trespassers frayed. One time, he’d found an ant nest burrowing close to the Village of the Spring.
That had ruined his season. And caused a huge panic. Huge carpenter ants had gotten half the village out to worry about an infestation. Some had speculated that perhaps it was the dread [Alchemist], Irurx, sending insects against them.
Prildor, as a half-Elf who knew a bit more of the world than most, didn’t think it was Irurx, but disposing of the horrid ant hive and realizing they’d spread to two dozen spots unnoticed had been a foul year. Not that it had taken more than a month of finding the nests; he had just shuddered about it for an entire year.
Anyways, after he chopped down a tree, he’d begin processing it. Prildor would slowly, piece by piece, break it down into his second profession—making arrows.
There was a natural glue another villager harvested and made, and Prildor would spend a season making arrows out of the trees he’d cut down. He made wood tips too; they were exceptionally sharp, and he liked making them out of roots and the hardest wood.
Then he’d take a bow, walk over behind his hut, and shoot the arrows he’d made. A tree’s worth, day in, day out, working on his aim. Usually in the winter. He’d tromp over to a target he’d set up, or make a new one if it had broken, pull the arrows out, replace arrowheads, toss away the bad ones for fire scrap, and do it again.
Again and again, until a tree’s worth of arrows vanished. The remaining arrows he’d made from all the other trees he’d just put away and then get back to chopping down more until he had another huge pile.
Prildor was an old half-Elf. His hair was fully silver, and while he could still do his job, he wondered if in a century or two he might have to give it up for just the arrow making. If no one wanted to cut down trees, they’d have to prevail on the townsfolk, and that would play havoc with the Village of the Spring.
Each half-Elf in the village had a role. Some made necessities, like glue. Others, like Loierdath, had useful Skills. They weren’t all high-level; some were quite low. But they had Skills that worked.
Loierdath could cross-pollinate any two flowers he wished with a touch. Prildor’s arrows were as good as steel, and he could transport an entire tree away from a downed house by himself in a day.
The Village of the Spring was, by and large, happy, and new half-Elves ran around noisily. Some went to the town, others grew older and more mature, the senior half-Elves tolerated their foibles, and time rolled on. And on…
If Prildor had anything that upset him, it was only shown in the white flower he stuck to his tunic’s front as he went about his day. And every weekend, he’d go walking a short ways from his house in the woods where his archery didn’t disturb anyone, right at a fork in the road, and come to a stop near a house near the center of the Village of the Spring.
Where the oldest half-Elves lived. Then he would stop, exhale…and stare at a burned house.
It was overgrown with ivy and flowers now, of course. But the wood was still charred. He wondered when all the ivy had appeared. Prildor would stop and put a flower he’d plucked on a single grave out back.
“Leila, we still miss you.”
Leila, or Leilatha Springwalker, had been a dear friend of his. Older than him by centuries, but not that much. Her grave was covered with flowers.
Wreaths of it. Bundles of flowers, some decayed and old, but Prildor would replace any he felt were too ancient, and he knew other half-Elves came by regularly whenever they had a chance.
She’d only died two decades ago, after all. Less?
Dead gods, it was still fresh. Everyone was leaving flowers for her; that was how her home had gotten so overgrown. No one had cleared away the rubble and ash. There wasn’t any point, at least, not yet.
They were still looking for her granddaughter. Sometimes, Prildor wondered if he’d catch sight of her in the forest again, and he had kept a basket of food ready, but he couldn’t remember when he’d spotted her last. A year ago?
It was the one recent tragedy in the Village of the Spring. Death came for all half-Elves, but it was the fire and her runaway grandchild that had really been the drama. Ceria had always been wild, like her grandmother in her own youth, but Prildor had hopes he’d see her come back any day now.
All the half-Elves on the outskirts of the village kept an eye out for her in the forests if they went for walks. Obviously, she’d need to be sat down and punished for the fire, and someone would have to help raise her until she was settled, or they’d prevail on the town. But, well—
Prildor would stand there, mumble a few words, then walk off. If he saw another half-Elf, they’d stand there and talk for a while. He was one of the older ones in the heart of this place, where apathy for time grew and grew. Even other half-Elves were flighty compared to him.
But that did not mean he had never been outside the Village of the Spring. Nor that he was the least capable of withering change among them. He disliked it, but his occupation as ‘weed trimmer’—that wasn’t his class—proved he had some resiliency.
That was how Prildor lived. On a simple road past a burned house where two roads led into the woods. His home was next to Leila’s abandoned one, and his neighbor on the left, well.
She was an introvert among half-Elves. He saw her once a decade, sometimes.
It took all sorts, and they got along well. Once, they’d tried to live together, but you know how that went.
 
——
 
A great disruption came across Prildor’s life at the start of the year. Spring had just begun when the new trader came into the Village of the Spring.
A man.
“Ermest Soiltevo of Osverthia.”
He’d raise his hat, revealing a balding head and greying hair, and introduce himself to any half-Elf so inclined. He came by every half year, on the dot, and the Village of the Spring would turn out and buy whatever they wanted, bartering for goods and news.
Not all of them went, of course. Many stayed away from the excitement, but Prildor remembered going there to see the ‘ice cream’ everyone had talked about at the start of last year.
