Tserre released the spell as she slowly drew something from a holster at her side. Her wand flicked through the air, and the sky was grey and blustery. She inhaled the suddenly damp aroma of spring, and her heart was beating faster.
Fear.
“Fear nothing. See nothing that cannot be understood. Walk with magic in your heart. Lift your wands high.”
Slowly, the half-Elf walked out of her cottage. She began down the slope of the forest path. Her footsteps were slow, but each step began to carry her further and further. As if she were actually far larger and it was a half-Giant’s stride.
She said goodbye to no one. Few half-Elves knew more than her name. Prildor, her neighbor, was one of her oldest acquaintances, and only because he chopped down the damn trees. She kept to herself. She hadn’t left the Village of the Spring in…centuries, it must have been, now.
Yet Tserre knew enough. Her dress blew as her footsteps carried her down to the road. She turned, then frowned.
“Up you come.”
Her wand rose, flicked, and in the distance, hundreds of birds who had enjoyed the idyllic weather during the long winter took wing in alarm.
Above the treeline, a chimney slowly rose. Then the cottage stood, shedding dirt and grass with a groan.
It took one step, then two, parting the trees as Tserre saw a half-Elf walking down the road stop and turn his head. Loierdath rubbed at his eyes—then stared at Tserre as a house walked down the slope.
“Good morning, Loierdath. I won’t be back for a while. If ever. Farewell.”
She had no hat to tip, so Tserre just took a step back. The half-Elf [Gardener] stared as she walked back onto the foot of the cottage. Then it rose and fell, and she saw the forest for a few minutes—before the cottage broke through the trees and came to a stop.
What must they think of her? The King of Myths seemed reasonable. She had to gain his trust first. The army would be…important. Whatever he assumed would be wrong, of course. The truth was never so easy.
Tserre had no hat. She slid down off the cottage’s wooden, articulated foot as the joints creaked and stood outside of the Village of the Spring for the first time since she had entered it. She cast a glance at the legs and hoped the spells were still working. It had been a long time since the cottage had been forced to walk, and the ancient Lifewood creaked as it moved. It might need to run very soon.
The wind was truly picking up. Auspicious. Or was it…? Tserre knew she had left the aegis of the Village of the Spring and the enchantments she’d conjured.
She didn’t bother making more. She just stood there in the tall grass as the cottage lowered itself slightly, crouching.
The half-Elf counted. Her dress was a simple, pale-blue color, the tiered skirt revealing a faint green band of cloth underneath. The cloth whipped in the breeze and blew back silver hair as it came free.
She had a lot of hair. Absently, Tserre cut it to the preferred length, short and cropped just above her neck. The rest of the hair blew away, swirling upwards as she kept counting.
“…two…three…four…”
In one hand, she held a wand, hand-made, the wood worn smooth over the years with bumps and sanded-down edges where tiny branches had once been. Inelegant to many [Mages]. But the wood of a magical tree was worth far more than any machined piece could be. A long-faded script bore her name in faded purple.
Tserre.
“…five…six…seven…”
Few people in the world would have recognized her face, if any, outside the Village of the Spring. But her name might be more recognizable. Yes, it certainly would be. She didn’t bother to think of an alias.
They didn’t work.
Above her, the cottage swayed slightly, the plain stone and glass windows humble and unordinary. The sounds of two excited chickens came from within. Tserre’s spectacles glinted as she adjusted them. Surely.
“…eight…nine…”
Then she saw the grey skies shift and blow, and the clouds broke apart in a simple ‘v’, exposing clear, blue skies beyond. The mists of Erribathe rose—and something cut through them like a comet of light.
Tserre didn’t move as it sped at her. She stood, back straight, heart pounding, as a figure halted, and the storm of air she had brought blasted across the forest, sending the treetops waving.
A woman floated in the air, a smile on her ruined face. Tserre sighed.
Less than ten seconds. After all this time. She raised her wand slightly, aiming it at the floating half-Elf whose face flickered with magic. Body only kept alive by spells. Robes hanging off her frame, swirling silver, like her hair.
“Archmage Ettertree.”
“Tserre. You were alive. I knew some of you had to have survived. Have you come to join the Demons?”
The wind blew, and the old half-Elf standing there felt the air rustle across her face. Then it was like time left her, flowing back into the Village of the Spring.
A young woman stood there a second, pointing her wand up at a middle-aged half-Elf holding a staff shining with magic. An apprentice and the great magus of Wistram.
Then the wind blew again, and Tserre was old. But Silvenia, the Death of Magic?
“You haven’t changed, Archmage Ettertree. You look like war incarnate.”
That annoyed the Death of Magic. She swooped closer an inch, and Tserre kept her wand raised.
“Change comes to everyone. You have aged. I daresay I have since last we met. When was it?”
Not long enough. Tserre refused to lower her guard or be drawn into conversation. This had to be drawing attention to both.
“Magic does not age. Did you truly wish to hunt me down that badly?”
Silvenia flitted right and left, eying the cottage, but getting no closer. She was casual, floating through the air, but her hands glimmered with the traces of spells being cast. Tserre simply spoke in her mind as she listened.
“What? Oh, no. I would like to say I rushed here, but Serinpotva had me teleporting some spoils of war. You know how it goes. So you’re not here to join us after all. That would make you…endangered.”
Her right eye glowed, and Tserre spoke.
“I’m looking for a—grand-niece. A girl in my care.”
“Oh! Fascinating. Whose was it?”
Tserre debated silence before murmuring.
“Leila’s. I have no designs on your war, Archmage.”
“But I remember what you owe me, Tserre. And you know they’ll remember you just as much as I.”
For a second, the Death of Magic swooped closer, and her voice boomed as the air shimmered. Something reached for Tserre. But Silvenia pulled back as the cottage door opened.
“Bwark?”
Silvenia paused, hand reaching for Tserre, whose face had constricted in tension. The Death of Magic turned and saw a chicken staring at her.
Its head was turned to stare at her, but its butt was raised, and it was aiming its cloaca straight at the Death of Magic.
For a second, Silvenia just peered at the chicken. Then she started giggling and laughing, and Tserre relaxed slightly.
“C-chickens? Is that what—you’re raising chickens in the Village of the Spring? Is that what they think you are?”
She turned to Tserre, and both half-Elves heard a warning horn blaring through the air. They were running out of time, but Silvenia raised a hand, and time began to slow.
“They welcomed me without question. I was safe there.”
“No longer. It’s an interesting time to die, Tserre. I could use your help. Come now, you know exactly why I’m still fighting.”
Silvenia extended a ruined hand again, and Tserre saw how many more wounds she’d taken. Tserre felt a brief urge to accept, as if she were that girl from long ago. The older woman shook her head.
“I just want to recover my grand-niece. I mean no…disturbance to anyone else.”
“They won’t see it that way.”
The half-Elf who had broken islands and slain Dragons tilted her head back and forth. Her eyes were alight with interest, and she was calculating, despite the insane smile she projected. Rational gaze, weighing Tserre as a friend or foe.
At last, she sighed.
“—You’re far more of a threat to them. I’ll give you time to realize what’s going on. Take up arms with them and I will remember my grudges, Tserre.”
She began to float upwards, then stopped. Below her, the half-Elf had bowed, wand-arm to her chest. Once upon a time, long ago—Silvenia’s eyes shone with painful memory.
Then she flew upwards, vanishing as the first spells and arrows began to chase her. Tserre just stowed her wand after a second and leaned against the foot of the cottage, pale-faced. She could see the King of Myths’ escort galloping towards her.
“That went as well as could be expected.”
She told her chickens, who pecked at the floor of the cottage innocently. The King of Myths would need to be told something, but his would hold until she had a measure of him. She needed Nuvityn’s army. Silvenia could sense her anywhere in the world, of course. But the Blighted Kingdom would not be long behind.
She had to convince both she was no longer a threat. Bitterly, Tserre conjured her cane to lean on it.
“I will find you, Ceria. I promise.”
With that, the half-Elf walked away from the Village of the Spring. Leaving her immortal hiding place behind. When she inhaled and breathed in the spring air.
It felt fresh.
