Painful, yes. Upsetting, of course. But the world was filled with mayflies. Everything we love dies in the moment between our eyes closing and opening.
That resignation. That bitter tang of grief below their expressions was what Nuvityn hated. He turned away for a second as Tserre stood there and Prildor murmured about how sudden it had been. The King of Myths would be glad when Prildor was out of the Village of the Spring a few months and ceased to look like that.
Oh, but Tserre still grieved. Nuvityn looked at her and saw a half-Elf dressed in thick, woolen clothes, a tiered skirt with a band of pale-white fabric around soft walking shoes, hair tied in a simple bun.
It ill-suited her. It fit the crotchety half-Elf living in her little cottage in a bubble of perfect, everlasting spring. Fit the grumpy expression and the semi-rimless glasses that allowed her to stare down her nose at anyone she chose with icy blue eyes.
—Not the expression of wild grief on her face. The lost eyes roaming the burned house, as if looking for a body. Disbelief crossing her eyes.
“Tserre…”
The sky did not match her empty expression. Nuvityn heard a rumbling sound and glanced up; the sunlight and illusion of clear skies had followed him. No rain fell—
Krakoom.
A bolt of lightning sheared through the pristine blue sky. For a second—the sky above Nuvityn and Prildor cracked open, and rain poured down. Prildor flinched in alarm. Staring upwards at—
A storm was raging across the Village of the Spring. Half-Elves were running for cover elsewhere in the village. But for a thousand feet around them, Nuvityn saw only bright skies as the crack in reality healed. However, his eyes could pick up rain lashing the forest in the distance. Winds howling—
He raised the speaking stone to his lips.
“Voreca. How bad is the storm where you are?”
“—It’s barely drizzling in town. We can see both a furious thunderhead and dome over the treetops. Your Majesty, should we come to—?”
“No.”
The sky split again, and the rain poured down. Such a deluge that Nuvityn lost sight of Prildor and Tserre a second. But he saw her shielded by a far smaller oval that let no rain through.
That seemed to break the half-Elf out of her trance. She looked up, noticed the storm and lightning flashing through the clouds, and shook her head.
Abruptly, the downpour stopped. Nuvityn stopped shielding his face as the perfect weather bubble closed again. Prildor wiped water off of his face and regarded his soaking clothes.
When Tserre turned her face, her expression was polite. Unreadable. But the King of Myths had a memory longer than a goldfish. After a deep breath, Tserre tapped the side of her head and grimaced.
“[Scrying: Ceria]. It doesn’t work. She’s dead or somewhere the spell fails. Tell me it’s the latter.”
Prildor bit his lip, eyes wide in his face.
“I should have offered her a place in my house. It was just—I never had a child. I know how that snaps you back to counting seconds. I should have—what have I done?”
“The same as I.”
Tserre whirled away from him and stood there. Prildor kept passing a hand over his face, as if hoping he’d wake up. It seemed as though guilt were coming at him in waves. Each time stronger.
They were realizing what had happened. It would strike them harder and harder if they left the Village of the Spring. Nuvityn hoped he could mitigate some of the backlash. He spoke to Tserre.
“What about [Greater Scrying]?”
“Hm?”
She gave him a sidelong look, and the King of Myths spoke respectfully.
“That might penetrate most scrying countermeasures.”
Not that his [Mages] were capable of casting that spell. But one of the advantages of ruling an ancient kingdom was knowing the real magic from current stuff. Tserre blinked at Nuvityn.
“Do you think I can cast magic of that level, Your Majesty? Besides, there are ways to ward that off. If I could cast the spell.”
“I see. It was just a passing thought. Then confirming Ceria’s whereabouts must be done less magically.”
Tserre nodded. She and Prildor had bleak looks on their faces, and Nuvityn hoped it wasn’t a coincidence. But he had a feeling.
“It may be decades since you two last saw her. But would…this be familiar?”
He held up a slightly wet illustration, then glanced up at the sky. Still bright and sunny. How hard was it to keep that maintained and move it…?
Prildor didn’t seem to notice. Nor did Tserre. She and he peered at the illustration, then stared. Prildor’s eyes bulged, and Nuvityn wondered what it looked like to them.
To him, it was a rather dashing picture of an adventurer. A Gold-ranker winking at the ‘camera’, holding a thumbs up with one hand as she held an ice cream cone in the other. She was dressed lightly in adventuring clothing, one knee resting on a wall of a city.
Behind her, a giant sculpture of ice in the shape of a squirrel was gnawing on an acorn, and it was the dead of winter. Snow was drifting down around her.
The Ice Squirrel of the Horns of Hammerad, Ceria Springwalker. It seemed like someone had either interviewed her or taken a [Magic Picture]. What also drew the eye to Ceria’s ice cream cone hand was—
“Her hand!”
Prildor gasped in horror, and Tserre said nothing. Nuvityn spoke.
“She’s a Gold-rank adventurer. Recently made Gold-rank; she was a Silver-ranker for years, and she was a student of Wistram who both graduated and was expelled about eight years ago. A member of the Horns of Hammerad. Currently in Chandrar.”
Also possibly married to the High King of Medain, but let’s not mention that. And a friend of the very same woman he was setting out to kill.
“Her hand! Chandrar? That’s her. I recognize—she’s entangled! She’s too young! We have to get her. What happened to—”
“Magic. She had enough of it in her veins to partially reanimate her hand. I’ve seen it happen.”
Tserre mumbled. She spoke.
“[Long-Ranged Scrying: Ceria]. No…she must have a ward on her. Gold-rank?”
She stared blankly at Nuvityn, and Tserre stared down again.
“She doesn’t even know a Tier 2 spell. I was supposed to teach her one. Where in Chandrar?”
“I am not certain. Prildor, she is far older than you remember. A half-Elf who’s lived her life outside the Village of the Spring…we can send word to her, at least. But at least we know she’s well.”
“I have to bring her back. If we are to leave Terandria, at least let me get word to her, Your Majesty!”
Chandrar was far out of range of Nuvityn’s plans, but Gold-rank adventurers moved fast. Besides, they’d taken too much time. The King of Myths nodded curtly.
“The muster of the army should be near done. Are you ready to go?”
The two were conferring when Tserre spoke.
“You’re leaving Terandria, Your Majesty?”
She stared at him, and Nuvityn nodded at her.
“My son is dead. I go to pass judgment on his killer, wherever she hides.”
“Your son.”
Her eyes flickered, and she glanced at him.
“I remember a boy running through my gardens, laughing and causing chaos…”
“The very same.”
Nuvityn felt his throat close, but spoke through it. He turned rather than relive anything.
“Prildor. No, Lord Prildor is one of the few I would have follow me if we go to battle against foreign armies. I hope we will return safely. And if we should run into Ceria Springwalker, and if she wills it, I will of course send her to her home.”
Do I hope we shall return safely? He felt that was a lie. Nuvityn turned back, half-bowed to Tserre and nodded at Prildor. The other half-Elf didn’t do more than check his rucksack; little in there was bound to be anything that couldn’t be replaced, anyways.
The two were striding away back towards the Village of the Spring’s entrance when they realized it still wasn’t raining. They turned, and Tserre was hobbling behind them.
She was keeping up, despite both’s long-legged stride.
“Tserre?”
“Magus? Do you have something you wish of me?”
Nuvityn glanced at Tserre, and she frowned at Prildor.
“Prildor’s no great warrior. Any adventure he goes on will be perilous for his health.”
“I’d like to think I’d be of some use to Erribathe, Tserre. I’ll be back soon. Go back and finish your book, and I’ll have Ceria back before you’re done rereading it.”
Prildor bristled a bit at the insult, but Tserre just tsked at him.
“You can’t even get rid of an ant hive without getting squeamish. I don’t care what level you are—Leila is gone, and Ceria is my responsibility. Or at least, I must see her myself. I will come with you with your permission, Your Majesty.”
The male half-Elf bristled at this, but he opened his mouth and saw Nuvityn studying the sky, then Tserre’s set face. He addressed the shorter half-Elf.
“We may march into a war, Mage Tserre. But one of the groups between me and my quarry is the Forgotten Wing company of Baleros.”
“I don’t fear the Great Companies of Baleros, Your Majesty. Let alone companies I’ve never heard of. My magic may be of some small boon to you. Allow me to prevail on your hospitality and give me leave to find Ceria, and I will travel with you, if you will it.”
Well—that said something. Nuvityn didn’t really need to think.
He might not have been the smartest of men, but if he were wandering and found an old man by the road who asked to join him in a battle to fight all of Rhir itself, Nuvityn would have said yes.
Well, he would have said ‘yes’ if the old man had a glint in his eyes like timeless winter and his shadow stretched without end down the road. If he met a strange [Knight] in the woods with armor covered in vines, it might be the victim of a [Druid], or someone you paid attention to and never, ever challenged to a duel.
As for old half-Elves living in timeless cottages? The King of Myths stopped and bowed, and Tserre half-knelt on suddenly dry ground.
“Will you join me, Magus Tserre? I know not your true identity. But Erribathe is a fitting home for you. For I?”
He looked around at his homeland.
“I will go, for my heart is filled with wrath, to bring my son’s killer to account. To know why he died. To judge it all with all the fairness in my heart and upon my head. I may never come back. It is worth it for me.”
A few half-Elves walking down the road and staring at the clear skies stopped as they saw Tserre raise her head. She spoke simply without the hint of grandeur he had that was part and parcel to their kingdom.
“I left that child alone as time fled me. I am guilty of failing my responsibilities. When I thought I had given them all up—I will follow you until I find her or our paths diverge, Your Majesty. Take me into your service, I ask you.”
“Then rise.”
Nuvityn held a hand out, but she stood and bowed again. Prildor’s voice was soft.
“I, too, forgot how terrible time can be. I will walk once more this frightening world beyond my home. There is no Goblin King nor Deaths of Demons to battle this time. But my responsibility is no less.”
“Well said, Prildor, Tserre of the Village of the Spring. Then we ride for the capital. Then distant lands.”
Nuvityn touched both’s shoulders a second, then turned. At last—he began to walk forwards. In strange and ancient company. Prildor followed, feeling at his side.
“I should get a sword. And I forgot my bow—ah, well. Any will do. Do you need your things, Tserre? Your chickens? Should we have someone collect them?”
She eyed him and snorted.
“The worst that will happen is that all the eggs will pile up in my pantry. They’ll be fed. If I need to—”
She patted her side, then stopped.
“…I suppose I could make a few preparations. Allow me to catch up to you, Your Majesty?”
“Of course. Prildor, I will see you in town. Take the time to recover your bow.”
Especially because finding a replacement you like will be a pain. Nuvityn nodded, and the [King] walked back towards the Village of the Spring’s entrance as Tserre and Prildor exchanged glances.
Ceria.
Neither one said what was weighing on them, and as the King of Myths left the Village of the Spring, Tserre muttered out of the corner of her mouth.
“His Majesty truly doesn’t know I’m not a Springwalker? I suppose he didn’t recognize me as opposed to being careful with my identity.”
Prildor scratched at his head.
“He is half-Human, despite his marriage. How long has it been since you left Erribathe?”
Tserre began counting. She was up to four fingers when she stopped.
“Ah. Well.”
She paused, then brightened up a bit.
“Maybe everyone else will have forgotten me too. Do you suppose we could stop by Wistram, then? I left all my things upstairs.”
“Possibly, possibly. Those young Golem ladies are quite charmingly polite.”
“…What Golems?”
 
——
 
They arranged to meet Nuvityn’s people in town, where they could be escorted to the meeting point for his army.
Tserre forbore mentioning that she could both find and get herself to the King of Myths’ position on her own. If they truly had no idea who she was—well and good.
It was a short walk back to her home, and she told her two chickens she was going. They pecked at the ground, then followed her up the steps into her cottage.
It was really—procrastination that impelled Tserre to change her clothes, put her book away, lock all the windows, and so on. She kept a timer spell active so she didn’t waste, well, time.
Ceria.
She remembered, vaguely, a little, squalling girl in Leila’s arms. Then a child poking around her hut—then a moody teenager demanding to know why she couldn’t learn magic yet.
“Because I thought we had forever. Or at least longer. Leila should have taught you. Not me.”
How had Leila died? She’d been sickly…was it just a disease? Conspiracies and implausible reasons warred with the simple truth that Leila’s constitution had been weak.
Dead.
“Now it’s just me. No. It’s never just me.”
Tserre stood there, eyes squeezed shut, as clothing floated out of her wardrobe, de-dusted itself, and she changed clothes. But she was the last…
No one to look after Ceria but her. Leila had friends, but no one capable.
Prildor was a silly man. Well-intentioned, but Tserre trusted him to find an adventurer in Chandrar like she trusted Dragons to be charitable.
It had to be her. She owed Leila that.
Even so, the half-Elf procrastinated as long as she could, minutes counting down, until she softly exhaled.
“Astire. Vorucula. Stay inside.”
The chickens bwarked at her as the half-Elf slowly walked to the front of her cottage. She stared at the perfectly beautiful skies she had conjured—which had kept her from noticing her friend and companion was dead.
