I can hear my parent’s bedroom door open; I can’t waste anymore of my time laying here.

I get dressed and brush my teeth. Once I’m ready I leave my room and find my parents in a deep embrace. Seeing me walking over, mother tries to hide her tears by burying her head in father’s chest. I pretend not to notice by adjusting the strap connected to my axe and making sure my dagger is secured.

Once her eyes are clear, mother beckons me over and the three of us share another hug. Great, now I’m going to tear up. We stay connected as the three of us move towards the meeting point with mother in-between the two of us.

It doesn’t take long for us to reach the rally point. Everyone in the village is either here already or walking over to join the crowd.

“Please come over and see me if you’re participating!” The headman’s voice drowns out the many conversations people are having around us.

“I’ll go inform the headman that we are ready to go.” Father places his pack beside me and moves from mothers embrace. I can see her reluctance to let go of him.

“You should go with dad, mom. I’ll wait here for the two of you to return.” Mother smiles at me, and wraps herself against dad’s arm again. I didn’t tell her to do that because I was losing circulation in my own arm, definitely not.

With my parents disappearing into the crowd, I try and spot Del. I hope I’m not sent to wake him up, if he doesn’t show up on time.

“You going too?” I hear a voice ask behind me.

Turning around, I see the two junior hunters Andre and Lucas. Both are apprentices studying to be true hunters. Andre is 21, while Lucas is 19. They are around Richard in age but the two of them always ignored him and wouldn’t let him play with them. Both have the slightly skinny dexterity build and are around 5’ 10’’, making them shorter than me.

As they glance at the bag beside me, I can see the ridicule in their eyes.

“Yes, I’m going with my dad.” I try to give them a look that says ‘piss off’.

They must take my expression as a challenge because they only get closer to me. “Great, another useless villager we’ll have to look out for. When we reach the goblins try not to cry too loud.”

Their levels are probably in the high twenties. If I punched them, would I kill them? They can’t be that good if they haven’t noticed Braddon standing behind them.

“What are the two of you doing here!?” Lucas and Andre jump three feet in the air before they land and turn to face Braddon. “The two of you should be double checking your supplies, not causing trouble for those who decide to help. Move it!” The two race off into the distance at Braddon’s command.

With only the two of us left facing each other, I watch Braddon rub his armor where I struck him yesterday. He decides to nod his head to me and runs off towards his father. Maybe he is sorry about yesterday?

No one else bothers me while I’m waiting but I can hear muffled conversations about me joining the expedition. Mother and father return and the people talking about me scatter. They must not have wanted to chance it that one of my parents could hear their conversations.

We stand together, until the headman’s skill infused voice rings throughout the crowd. “Everyone who’s going, gather up front!”

Father and I hug either side of mother and give her a kiss before the two of us make our way up front. Thankfully I see Del standing next to the headman. Once we’re at the designated rally point, I quickly count everyone around us. Including me there’s 74 of us, maybe 20% of our village.

Is this going to be enough?

“Everyone quiet!” The headman bellows again. Using the same skill as two days ago that causes everyone to close their mouths. This time I shake off his skill before he even starts talking.

“To the gods above, we ask that you watch over us as we move to defend our families. Please bless the path before us as we travel into the unknown. Please give strength to those we leave behind, as we ask for your guidance in our times of crises. We thank your eternal watch.” The headman claps once, and the rest of us follow with our own clap. I’m glad dad warned me about the clap, I can see a few of the younger people who didn’t know what to do.

I see Nicolas pulling the largest Jelen from the stables over to the side of his father. Camden mounts the tall beast easily and raises his sword. “To Glory!!!”

As he spurs the beast into the woods, we follow behind him.

“To glory.” I mutter under my breath.
