After a few hours of practice, we decided to separate, and pack for the expedition. I don’t want to stay and watch Del tear through his stuff looking for what he considered necessities. I don’t think a flask twice as big as his usual one would be considered a necessity.

On my way home I stop by the headman’s house. I figured I should give him some good news and let him know I’ll be participating tomorrow.

“Does my wife have to leave tomorrow?”

“What about my kids, who will watch over them?”

“What should I bring with me?”

Poor Nicolas is being surrounded by villagers, each with their own questions. It looks like he’s keeping people from intruding into their home. I squeeze myself against the building and slowly push my way up through the crowd towards Nicolas.

Once I make my way to the front of the crowd, I try and get Nicolas’s attention. “Message from Del-Razen.” A few people around me quiet and Nicolas makes eye contact with me.

With a head nod, he moves to the side, and motions for me to enter their house. Nicolas follows me through the door but turns towards the crowd before he shuts the door. “I’ll be back to answer your questions in a minute.” Some are shouting in disappointment while others appear to understand and quiet themselves waiting for his return.

“Follow me, Miss Aaliyah.” Nicolas leads me to a door that sits off to the side.

I can’t help but ask. “Having a hard time with the villagers?”

Without turning around, Nicolas answers my inquiry. “This is just training for when I’ll be the next headman. Father left me to answer people’s questions while he prepares for tomorrow. Besides, they all ask the same questions, I just wish they all came together, so I wouldn’t have to answer the same question twenty times.”

“At the risk of asking one of those same questions, are you participating tomorrow?”

Pausing for only a second, he tells me “no” as he opens the door. “Father said if anything happens to him that it was my job to manage the village in his place. My younger brother is one of the village’s hunters so he’ll be participating tomorrow.”

We descend stone stairs and enter a room filled with candle light. The room has swords, daggers, and other weapons hung up on the walls. Cadman and his second son are checking the condition of some sort of hide armor.

I’ve seen Braddon returning to the village from hunting in the woods on my way home from Del’s. His tall willowy figure is hard to forget. His long dirty blond hair covers most of his eyes, not that you’d want to look at them. His brown eyes have a sharpness to them that most hunters earn with experience.

Attending to the two is Sarette Downs, Sandra’s mother. The busty blond looks sweet on the outside but everyone knows she manages the village’s taxes and other financial aspects with an iron fist. She’s known to be nice to talk to unless you haven’t contributed to the village’s taxes. She’s the first to notice me following Nicolas.

“You must be Aaliyah. Welcome to our home.”

Making sure I don’t miss a step walking down the stone stairs, I greet her back. “Thank you for having me. This is…a nice armory you have.” I try not to sound too awkward. Thankfully she just laughs and continues to help her husband try on his armor.

“I think you can take it from here. Mother, father, the villagers still have questions. Excuse me.” Nicolas turns around and starts walking up the stairs before either of his parents could answer him.

“That boy, always being so formal. I miss the day’s he would smile and give me a hug.” Sarette complains as she tightens one of Camden’s armor straps.

“You know he takes his job seriously, honey.” Camdan sooths his wife, before he turns to me. “What do I owe the privilege of your visit, Miss Aaliyah?”

“Sorry if I’m bothering you during your preparations. I thought you might like to know that I decided to join the expedition.” I take my last few steps down the stairs.

“Are you sure sweety? It will be dangerous. Don’t let my hubby pressure you.” Sarette’s concern was unexpected.

“I’m confident that I can...” As I’m talking to Sarette and Camden, Braddon rushes me and throws a right punch at my stomach.

He moves faster than father but slower than Del. I step back with my left foot, turning my body to avoid his strike. He wants to test me!!?

I use my Precise Strike skill and uppercut the part of his armor covering his diaphragm. He overextended himself when I dodged his strike, so when my fist connects with his armor, he can’t move to soften the blow.

My strike sends him flying back seven feet before he collapses on the stone floor, breathing heavily. My fist hurts from striking his armor but it should be fine by tomorrow morning.

I turn towards his parents. “You teach your kids to sneak attack people?” It’s a good thing I was keeping all three of them in my sights, I was trying to be respectful towards the family.

“Please don’t take my son’s actions in the wrong way. I’m sure he was merely trying to make sure you were ok to join us on the expedition. My family didn’t believe me when I informed them that you were a higher level than myself and Ronald. Braddon, apologize to her.” The headman quickly tries to downplay what happened.

As Braddon stands back up, I make sure to note that he was only down for a minute despite the place I stuck him. “I apologize. I was concerned that your skill was exaggerated by father. I couldn’t, in good faith, let someone so young accompany us without proper skills.” His apology looks sincere but that doesn’t mean I will condone his actions.

“I accept your apology. I’ll see you tomorrow morning, good day.” I turn around and start to climb the stairs.

“Are you sure you don’t wish to stay? We can prepare some snacks if you would like?” Looking down at Camden, I can see him starting to sweat.

“Thank you for your offer, but I still need to prepare a bag for tomorrow. I’ll see the two of you then.” I give one last long look at Braddon and watch him make an awkward face and rub the area where I struck him.

I make my way up the stairs and walk back through the headman’s house. I promise to myself that if Braddon tries that again, I’ll aim for his face next time and use Double Strike instead.

Squeezing out the door, I try to wish Nicolas good luck with the crowd but my voice is only one amongst the many villagers. I settle with a hand wave, as I start walking home.

Everyone is running around the village. People arguing over supplies, and I’ve passed at least four discussions about the goblins. The words “Horned hob” are circulating through the villagers like fire in a dry field and the only water around is Del. Arguments about whether Del can handle the horned hobs or not are taking place everywhere.

Moving in and out of people, I finally make it back home. Walking inside, I make sure to clean myself.

“Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

That’s the last bit of magic I’ll use until we reach the goblins. I notice mother and father are packing supplies onto dad’s harness that he uses to transport wood.

Walking next to them, I’m nervous. I gave them a hug and said goodbye this morning but I can still feel the tension from last night.

“Mom, dad.” They both turn to look at me with a half-smile, it’s obvious they can also still feel the tension.

“What do you need, sweety?” Mother asks, while standing off to the side of father.

“Del told me how long the trip to the goblin camp will take. Can you help me pack, I’m not sure what I should bring?”

Father smiles the way all parents do when they’ve already packed a bag for their children. “Your mother and I are almost finished packing everything we need.”

“Don’t I need a bag?”

“It will be easier if I handle our luggage. I used to camp in the woods with my father, so I know everything we need.” Dad turns around and continues to pack our bag.

With dad packing the bag, mother and I share the same confused look. We don’t know what to say to each other. I’m sure she hasn’t changed her mind about me going with the expedition, and she has to know that I haven’t changed my mind about participating either.

“Mom, I…” Mother takes a few steps forward and wraps me in a hug.

“Don’t sweety. You shouldn’t apologize for your feelings and neither will I. I just want you to promise me that you’ll be safe and if something goes wrong you run back to me, ok?”

“I promise,” I sniffle in her ear.

***********

The rest of the night was strangely similar to our regular nights. With feelings patched, not mended, we were able to sit and relax together. Mother roasted a large bird and we all enjoyed dinner together.

Laying in my bed, I look up at the goofy clouds I painted when I was younger. I’ve grown a lot since then. Maybe I should try and paint newer clouds when I get back. Crap that’s a flag, I can’t make any plans for when I return.

This is the last night for me to try and cram some more levels in, and sticking to my no mana policy that leaves only one option. I wish I wasn’t so eager to dive into my soul, but between not being tired yet and hearing my mother trying to quietly “Make dad happy”, I’m all too eager to knock myself out.

Waking up in my soul, I plan on spending most of my time meditating. My skill won’t rise but I can still use it to help me focus on the questions I have about this place.

If this truly is my soul, how am I here? I already know where my memories are, so what is my current form made of?

I don’t think this body is made out of mana. I only started coming here after I unlocked Sense Soul. I thought leveling Sense Soul would be difficult but the more I learn to manipulate the skill in here and in the real world, the easier it seems to level, period. The stronger the skill becomes, the less my soul rejects me. How many levels until the eyes stop banishing me from my memories?

Wait?! Levels!!!

If I grow stronger here when my Sense Soul skill levels, then this body must be made from my skill! The skill must create this mirror image of my body and drag me here when the skill becomes overwhelmed when I look directly at my soul.

If I want to level quicker, I just need to continue to shock the skill. I need to visit the eyes more.

Standing up from the forest floor, I rush to my sea of memories.

Coming to the familiar cliff, I watch the moon’s start to rise. Maybe I can access my memories when my Sense Soul reaches level 30.

When the moons are half way through the sky, a crazy idea pops into my head. Why am I waiting for the moons to come to me?

Screw waiting for the moons to boot me out, I’ll try to enter my memories myself. “Cannonball!”

Right before I hit the water, the world shifts around me. As the world settles, I’m greeted by a giant Richard, a giant young Richard. Looking over myself, I realize I’m a baby again. I’m about to complain about the memory when I see Richard’s smiling face above me. How long has it been since I’ve seen his smile?

This wouldn’t have been my first choice for a memory but I’ll take it. The only question I have is, how long do I have here?

Unfortunately, I get my answer all too soon. The memory is shattered and I’m looking up at the eyes again. Do they look madder than usual?

Waking up in a sweat, I’m convinced the eyes were madder at me than normal when they forced me out of the memory. I’ll have to try again and see if I wake up feeling less terrible if I let the eyes boot me out earlier.

I can try again before the sun… rises! The first rays of the sunrise peek through my window. Usually I’m kicked out of my soul and only a few hours would have passed. This time I spent my whole night in my soul. Getting up, I stretch my body.

Despite being awoken like I would a nightmare, I only feel slightly tired this time. If I can get enough sleep using my Skill, I might have a way to deal with the high leveled sleeping problem. I’ll have to run more tests when I… oops, almost did it again.

I must have gained some skill levels after all of that hard work. Pulling up my detailed status screen is easier than ever. Why don’t I try and add something? It would be nice if I can see which skills are capped at their testing point.

LV: 59 Experience: 242,522/ 385,461

Health: 2,000.00/2,000

Stamina: 1,084.62/1,320

Mana: 871.69/1,000

Vitality: 200.00

Endurance: 80.00

Strength: 116.00

Dexterity: 110.00

Senses: 60.12

Mind: 62.12

Magic: 100.12

Clarity: 75.08

Status Points: 0

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV77), Running (LV66), Axe Skills (LV52), Cleaning (LV50), Blacksmithing (LV50), Hammer Skills (LV45), Chanting (LV42), Mining (LV42), Drawing (LV37), Dagger Skills (LV31),  Acting (LV30), Cooking (LV29), Trading (LV26), Sewing (LV24), Wood Carving (LV19), Spear Skills (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV76), Charm (LV50), Double Step (LV39), Measurement (LV36), Hammer Arts (LV34), Writing (LV32), Axe Arts (LV32), Mathematics (LV30), Intimidating Shout (LV26), Dagger Arts (LV12), Increase price (LV7), Lower Price (LV4)

Tier 3:

Expel mana (LV53), Mana Manipulation (LV42), Double Strike (LV21), Precise Strike (LV21)

Tier 4:

Inject mana (LV40), Mental Resistance (LV33), Mana Skin (LV32),

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV25)

It worked!

Axe Skills rose to level 52 along with Axe Arts passing level 31 and reaching level 32. My use of Precise Strike against Braddon pushed the skill past level 19 and broke into level 21 matching Double Strike in levels. Sense Soul rose another 2 levels and Mental Resistance gained 3. I only need 140 k more experience and I’ll reach level 60. If I had two more days, I could probably reach level 60 but I can’t risk training my soul skills during the expedition.

