"What happened?" Adriana's eyes widened. Fausta had been sick since the last failed pregnancy, but her condition had precipitated about a year ago.

"First, even if she disappeared, it would only be a matter of time before Aurelianus found a new lover. And as you know, men can use as many whores for their past-time as they want, Adriana," Hestia said, "but only their wives can give them an heir."

"So?" Adriana's understanding still lagged behind what her mother was saying.

Hestia looked at her daughter and shook her head.

"If you didn't want to be a man so well, you would have listened to all my lessons while growing up. Then, you would have known exactly what I meant."

Adriana kept frowning, not following.

"Just go back to your husband, Adriana. And spread your legs tonight of your own volition before Lucianus starts looking in brothels for what you're not giving him, and before he'll be forced to do something far worse than a little cheating in order to have a male heir."

Adriana's eyes widened, and she finally understood what her mother had been telling her all along. Then, something else came to her mind.

"Lucianus has an heir already. Lily's talent is—"

"Lily is a girl, Adriana," Hestia sighed. "Unless she were to grow new organs, she can't keep her family's name once she'll be married. Furthermore, she can't become a Champion nor learn the Gens Claudia's Great Skill."

"Mother, Lily's talent is unheard of!" Adriana pressed on. "What if she was the greatest talent we have ever seen?"

"We've already seen how that played out, no?" Hestia said with some pity in her voice. "We've seen what happens when a girl tries to be a boy. Don't do the same to your daughter, Adriana. And her talent… we don't know how talented she really is. She's still a small child."

"She's better than Cassius!" Adriana blurted out.

"She's better than he was at her age," Hestia corrected her. "How will she keep up? How, if she's a girl? It's impossible—on top of being illegal—for a woman to learn a Great Skill. The best thing you can do for her, darling, is have her live a happy life and prepare her enough to be married into our family one day. That's all."

"I can train her!"

"She's not a boy. She'll never be," Hestia responded.

"She can be better!"

"Don't do this to yourself again, Adriana. Just accept what the world is and live happily. You have a good husband and a good child. If you give Lucianus a male heir, you'll have a prosperous and long life. It took you long to give him Lily, but perhaps that's just how Our Lord wanted things to be for you. You just need to learn your place. It's not too late for you, darling."

Those words didn't go over well with Adriana, and they didn't achieve any of the effects Hestia hoped for. Instead, the woman felt a fire burn in her chest as she locked her jaw and turned her back away from her mother.

Adriana knew that she had only one choice if she wanted a better future for her daughter. She needed Lily to become the strongest, most incredible talent in the entire kingdom. She needed her daughter to beat all the boys at their game… something she had failed at.

The real question was whether she was ready to put her daughter through what she herself had experienced as a child, to the kind of sacrifices she would have to make in order to make that happen. And if she could even put herself through that once again.

To be honest, Adriana hadn't yet set her heart to it.

For now.

Hestia simply regarded her daughter with a heavy expression and sighed. Unlike Adriana, she had accepted the reality of this world a little more than a decade ago.
