“For now, we are going to wait... and watch.” Lylyth said and smiled. “Our time will come, and we will prevail.”

“Yes, My Queen.” The Dark Elf Lords around the table said as one; but, Lylyth could feel that they weren't happy about it.

*

Ren and his group stopped just before the exit to the tunnel.

“Why did we stop?” Elerlyth asked.

“Just in case.” Ren said, and asked the All-Seeing Mirror for enemies, traps, dangers, hidden doors, and shortcuts. Elerlyth looked at the mirror's surface in surprise as several enemies popped up, 2 traps, a deep hole was highlighted, and a line appeared going up the wall of the cavern to avoid all of the dangers.

“No wonder you did so well in Shargon Caverns.” Elerlyth said, and Ren chuckled.

“It's been a great help, that's for sure.” Ren said. “Show me what the enemies are.”

A 4 foot long centipede appeared, with large mandibles that delivered poison, and jaws that could probably bite through armor.

“These things are right in our way.” Ren said. “Artemis, feel like having a bit of target practice?”

“Of course.” Artemis said and eased towards the tunnel exit. She raised her hands and targeted the closest centipede and blasted it with several Mana bolts. It didn't even have time to warn the others near it before they were cut down as well.

“We're good.” Ren said and walked up the cavern wall. “Elerlyth, you can walk or ride Etheria across the cavern.” He said. “Just stay several feet above the cavern floor.”

“Got it.” Elerlyth said and mounted her steed, and they flew up into the air. Artemis flew up as well, and Princess ran up the wall behind Ren, and he ran across the cavern ceiling with everyone behind him. They crossed it in only a minute, and then they heard a skittering noise.

“What is that?” Elerlyth said and turned her mount around to look behind them.

The tunnel Ren had made seemed to get darker, and then 6 large spiders with Dark Elves riding them, jumped out of the opening, one after another.

“REN!” Elerlyth yelled, and Ren saw the spiders.

“I'm on it!” Ren said and ran out to stand on the ceiling in front of his group, and made a Connection between his Command, Fear, Reassurance, Importance, Heat Sense and Void Sense Auras, then activated them along with his Emotion Siphon ability. His boosted Aura covered them, and he felt their Frenzy and Hatred.

“They're lost in bloodlust.” Ren said to his group and stored the Staff of Earth and the All-Seeing Mirror. “Don't attack!”

The 6 spiders jumped forward at the same time, and the riders had their spears ready. Two of the spiders turned around in mid air using webs on their legs on one side, which was a pretty neat use of webbing in Ren's opinion, and they tried to shoot him with web strands. Ren caught the strands before the web could deploy and cover him, and he used Burning Hands to set them on fire and used his Fire Manipulation ability to push the fire all the way to the spiders. It destroyed the web strands completely, and he burned their backsides a little.

The spiders squealed in pain and fell to the cavern floor without catching themselves on their legs, and Ren felt their pain as they hit much harder than he had intended. The riders were thrown off and hit hard as well, and Ren ignored them for the moment. The other 4 spiders landed normally, and the riders threw their spears with web strands attached. Ren took out an Iron Wall wand and cast it in front of himself, and the spears hit the wall.

A second later, there was a wrenching metal sound and the wall bent over a little, then was pulled out of the cavern ceiling and fell to the floor. Ren saw that the spiders had turned around and used their combined strength to pull the wall down with the web strands attached to the embedded spears.

“Neat.” Ren said and ran forward, then cast the Iron Wall spell 4 times around each of the 4 spiders and their riders, then added roofs to the makeshift cells before the spiders could jump or crawl out. He walked over to the Dark Elves that had fallen off the two hurt spiders, then dropped from the ceiling to land beside them and checked them. They were just stunned and only slightly hurt, so he went to the closest spider. It's front leg darted out to attack, even though 3 of it's other legs were broken.

“Easy, now.” Ren said as his Animal Affinity skill kicked in. “I'm sorry you hit so hard and got hurt.”

The spider trembled and tried to pull itself away as it lost it's Frenzy condition, and Ren put a hand on it.

“It's okay.” Ren said and remembered one of his dream memories where he was afraid, and pushed that fear into the spider. It shuddered for a moment, and then it relaxed. “That's right, use it to heal.”

The spider felt a sharp pain as it's broken legs snapped back into their proper position, and Ren absorbed it instantly. He felt the spider's gratitude for not killing it for what it did, and Ren chuckled.

“I could say it's not your fault for attacking; but, it's your job to get like this and defend your people.” Ren said. “I need to check on...” He looked at the other spider as it hobbled over on only 6 legs. “...never mind. Here it comes.”

The spider plopped down beside the other one, and Ren put a hand on it to feed it, too.

“I'm glad you calmed down.” Ren said. “I wonder if your friends have, too?”

Ren felt doubt from them, so he concentrated on the 4 iron cells he had made, and let his ability taste both the spiders and the Dark Elves inside.

“Ow.” Ren said and winced. “Nope, they're still pretty angry.”

The spiders he was feeding healed up completely, and stood up. Ren felt their question, and he smiled.

“No, I'm not leaving them in there.” Ren said. “I'll dismiss the Iron Walls as soon as I make a tunnel out of here.”

The spiders skittered over to the cells.

“No, no.” Ren said. “You don't have to block them.”

The spiders turned and looked at him.

“Stay with your riders and keep them safe.” Ren said. “We're leaving right now.”

The spiders skittered back over to their fallen riders and hunkered down over them. Ren nodded and dismissed the old Pass Wall spells, then walked up into the air and ran over to the cavern wall where the rest of his group was, then took out the Staff of Earth to open another tunnel to the next cavern several hundred feet away.

“Let's go.” Ren said, and the group went into the tunnel without saying anything. He stepped inside and dismissed the Iron Wall spells holding the other spiders and their riders.

“RAHHHH!” The Dark Elf riders yelled together when their target appeared before them, and the spiders they rode jumped forward. Ren ran into the tunnel, and dismissed that end of the tunnel to block any access. He was picked up by the magic as the tunnel collapsed behind him, and laughed as he immediately caught up with the others and the magic picked them up, too.
