In the center of the Primordial Garden, there is a small fluctuation in the air above the stump of an enormous Primordial Tree.

The ripple in space grows larger and larger, tearing open the atmosphere to let a single Demon walk out.

The Imperial Family Head has a calm expression on his face as he strolls to the far edge of the Tree's stump, and the rift behind him slowly closes. Faint glimmers of silver light are left behind deep within the rift, but it is mostly residue from the being he was just speaking to.

It does not act like a normal tear between zones; it is far more stable and does not lead anywhere. It appears as though it can only act as a medium.

This Demon scans his surroundings, and finds that there are no First Bloods present in the Domain like he was expecting.

After all, he sent them all out to the Ritual Sites moments earlier to give orders to the Outer Guards, and to kill the intruders holding a stolen legacy on sight if they came across each other. Such a simple task should be complete by now.

Notifications hit his senses from all sides.

There are many that come in as dim white alerts on the outer ring of his mind. They cannot be fully perceived unless he lets them in. They are the updates from the Outer Guards and automatic alerts sent when even the mindless demons of the ancient army are killed.

Without opening these messages, the pure volume of it lets him know there is certainly something going wrong.

What shows up near the surface of his consciousness confirms it.

Thousands of Outer Guards have been confirmed dead in the Garden, and he's even lost access to seven of the Ritual Domains.

Over twenty First Bloods' signals have also gone dark, and only a few of them managed to squeeze out manual alerts before their deaths.

The Imperial Family Head watches his armies be massacred in real time, but his expression remains calm and unchanged.

A dense Primordial Aura flows out of his body and saturates his being, making it look like he is a demon-shaped, purple-tinted liquid mirror as he walks closer to the edge of the stump while looking out at his empty central domain.

An extreme wave of Primordial Aura bursts outward from him as well, tethered to High Royal Vibrations, easily slamming against the sides of this domain that stretch over 100 quadrillion kilometers away from him on every side.

This was not done on purpose; it is just the natural release of his aura as he begins unsealing a few locks placed on his soul. The Glyphs all over his body dimly glow purple, they're stimulated, but it's clear this is just their resting state, and they are not being used for much.

The dense Primordial Aura that saturated this demon's body also does not appear to dissipate, he stays wavering like a glass demon even with his aura bursting outward.

The Imperial Family Head is not concerned at all about the First Bloods or Outer Guards, because in the center of his mind, he watches the Demonic Realm pulsing slowly, activating many glyphs left behind during his generation.

"The Sealing is now in process. There are no longer any losses that could affect the end result. Kill my armies if you wish, but you have already lost."

He calmly states to no one. Only a growing smile shows on his face as he stops at the edge of the stump, then sits down. The Imperial Family Head stares forward at a single point in the Domain barrier and waits.

–

In the Lower Realm, this black planet that glows with trillions of Demonic Glyphs is being watched closely by Monk.

After his initial shock and awe, he immediately opens up a telepathy channel with the admins.

"You all need to see this!"

He yells without any warning and sends links to all of the live feeds he's collected, zooming in on many of the pulsing phenomena with shared rhythms.

Monk does not wait for a response; he just looks back at the live images.

His eyes are wide, and he borrows the maximum stats his Commander roles can grant him to increase brain function. At the same time, a warm pressure grows in the depths of his soul too, just like the fighters on the front lines.

They all have extremely flashy reactions to this power, but Monk's adaptation is far more subtle and calm.

He does not have any greater forms active, and he is not even being physically active. He only uses his mind.

Similarly, both Bri and Alveron have exactly the same result take place. They are not moving, but use all of their mental power to focus on the Lower Realm at large.

Slow mutations start to appear, but none of them are aware of this invisible force making the potency of their thoughts far greater and full of depth.

Monk hears notifications back from the two of them about getting more eyes from elites and Knights on the scenes to get better angles and data, but his full focus has returned to the Black Planet that was once the Demonic Realm.

His mind processes the Glyphs in front of him faster and faster. There are invisible ties that begin to form in his mind, connecting old memories of artifacts he used to study on the Human World, and even the many new artifacts he got to see while using the World Wide connectivity system the past few years during the last Realm Wave.

It's like he has a picture-perfect memory. Every single symbol he's ever seen floats to the forefront of his mind, and connections of their meanings start to form that he never pieced together in the past. He always had the information in front of him, but they were scattered all over the galaxy, and lost behind dozens of layers of separation in connecting the translations.

What should take archaeology teams and entire races thousands of years to unravel, he is connecting every millisecond. All of the other notifications in his mind blur away—the only thing he reacts to are new angles of live feeds shared to him by admins or members of the Crimson Army as he falls into a flow state that cannot be broken.

Luna is transferred to a luminite crystal from Alveron directly.

Over the course of this invasion, many crystals have been sent to her to check on fighting grounds and gather data on demons' locations. However, this white stone is different.

When it's crushed, she finds herself in a desolate area of space.

When she looks around, there is a red sun in this star system, but the sky around her is almost completely dark.

There are only a handful of visible stars. Other than that, it feels like she's floating in a void of empty space.

Behind her back, hundreds of enormous eyes begin to open up wide, then blink, scanning her surroundings with a wave of perception, this time saturated with Primordial Aura.

Her suspicions come true as her wave of aura floods out into deep space with speed that breaks the laws of nature. The Primordial Aura does not cause any gravity fluctuations, or even make the stars flicker that it flows through, it just maps out everything within the dark cloud she's been transported to at the edge of the galaxy.

The first thing she senses is a Demon and a Dragon floating nearby, as they are the source of the ability to teleport to this strange place. The second is the enormous Artifact the size of an entire world they all float above.

When this spectate feed of the scan through Luna's senses is shared, Monk's understanding of the structure increases thousands of times over. Its purpose in the Lower Realm starts to become clear.
