All of the chaotic Advanced Primordial Aura that is being summoned back into reality does not spread out to fill the atmosphere.

Instead, it swirls back around, seeping into the cracks of this Demon’s Crystalline Body.

All of the fracture marks glow bright orange and blue, and the deep purple form starts to look as though it's being flooded with chaotic colored dye.

His eyes, horns, and claws glow extremely bright, and all of his demonic glyphs begin moving in strange patterns on the outside of his soul.

They’re shifting and spreading out.

I begin to see glyphs forming inside the chaotic cracks and flooding into the rest of his body where it was just smooth demonic essence crystals before.

The bright system text of the [Primordial Demon’s Chaos Body] buff flashes in my vision, as tremors fill the air and the entire inside of the central domain is filled with an eerie presence. It feels like even the system itself is looking away from this breakthrough, like it is disappointed in him from straying away from his natural path.

“You’ve made me do this… there is a chance I die, but a certainty that you will! For the sake of the Overseer, the true Emperor to be, I must defend the new legacy he has created, and that I have devoted my life to!” his yell echoes through my mind.

His eyes look wild.

They stare down at both of us, and dart across the sky when he sees Ember below him bolting to and from some of the largest cracks in the domain that Maria’s stray attacks have made.

The hybrid dragon’s eyes are pulsing with the same white light that Marcellus’ strange ether core is, and every time he presses into the central domain barrier, waves of Primordial Aura ripple through the air that do not belong to anyone here. He is manipulating the arrays in the central domain, making the aura that seals us in here waver.

“There is nothing you can do to escape now! Fallen One! All you can do is watch the saviours you brought with you fail to complete your legacy! This will be the last system you ever conquer! I, Marcellus Imperial, will win by any means necessary!” he screams.

I cannot keep track of Ember’s movements at all, I can only focus on the horrific feeling that comes from Marcellus as more mechanisms of this new buff trigger. If he activates this form and attacks us in our current state, it feels like we would be vaporized without even knowing what hit us.

The [Rank Up] text shines bright now, saturated with Advanced Primordial Aura. It has a dark rainbow color to it, like a lighter version of the Isolation barrier we used moments ago. It stands out in my red and black system text even more now… however, for a different reason.

Before, it stood out because I felt an ominous pressure every time I tried to press it or get near. Now, the barrier around it is not even as strong as my own aura. It feels as simple as activating a skill.

Even so, we need more time to rank up than just the few fractions of a second we have.

My own last rank up is a very strong memory still in my mind, awakening my sacred body in the heat of battle while battling Miriel, the only Royal Demon in the Green Zone.

The most recent rank ups from my Admins, Generals, Commanders, and Knights are all extremely fresh in my mind too, as they used the Primordial Aura I granted them to aid in their awakenings while using the Mind Palace skill.

This is exactly what I plan to do now, but the skill feels very different now that it is at Primordial Grade, and now that every time I use a skill I can feel the inner mechanisms of the system moving.

Maria and I both take a step closer to touch, then activate the Primordial Grade Mind Palace skill at the exact same time.

My vision warps, and I watch reality around me start to slow down. Even my own body, and control over the energy in the atmosphere, dulls and slows to a speed too slow to comprehend. Time is definitely still moving, but it has been warped so much that the movement cannot be perceived.

Both of our minds flow through the system, and into a strange chamber. It feels like we’re inside the Isolation Barrier again, but it is only our thoughts.

Even my perception of the space we’re morphing into blends away once the system command is fully triggered.

I watch my Mind Palace, that is a white marble throne with neatly lined up bookcases below it, come into view.

They are not all pristine white anymore. Many glow with different energies, like pure mana, raw qi, many refined stages of ether, every single color divine thread, and royal vibrations paired with Primordial Aura maturity.

Depending on the potency of the memories, and my perception of energy when I lived through them, it is all on display before me. I don’t even have to walk through the aisles; merely looking at the books from afar is triggering some memories.

However, when I look all the way past them, where there would normally be a black void, I see another connected island in this mental space.

It glows blue, and shimmers with a sparkling white and rainbow light.

I see an icy throne at the back of her construct too, but the memories she looks down on are far more spread out and elegant than mine.

It looks like there are glass boxes on top of pedestals, like museum displays scattered about a wide open ice rink.

When Maria walks off her throne, she easily slides to any display she wishes, and they begin replaying holograms of every one of her memories inside the glass boxes. With a touch on the icy glass, she can slide through the moments in time, as each one holds hundreds of memories. It is a bit less fragmented than my vast collection of books.

However, comparing mind palaces is not our goal; grasping enough power to counter whatever reality breaking chaos form this demon is about to unleash is.

We walk through our mental spaces, and meet each other in the center where our minds touch, then both sit down on top of an invisible void.

Not a word is spoken. We just close our eyes, and press [Rank Up] while the world outside has slowed to a halt.
