The irony of his statement lost on him, GangShu fell silent as the server returned with the settings and menus. Jorani notice she’d tidied up before coming in, her headscarf gone and her eyes wide as she smiled prettily and played with her hair, hoping to perhaps catch the handsome GangShu’s attention for the night. Part of the old bastard’s charm, though it sickened Jorani to see it in action, while also making him insanely jealous at the same time. Even though the two of them bore a striking resemblance, the serving girl barely glanced in Jorani’s direction, but she couldn’t tear her eyes off of the old bastard, so distracted he wondered if she even registered what GangShu was saying. After rattling off an order of about twenty dishes, the old bastard dismissed the serving girl with a friendly nod, much to her visible disappointment. Filling his bowl once more, he ladled a second out for Jorani and slid it over. “Look, ye don’t like me and ye got yer reasons for it. Not good ones, but reasons, so hows about we each take a step back? I’ll lay off the family talk and you sit down and listen. Sound good?”

Eyes narrowed in suspicion, Jorani remained standing and left the bowl untouched. “You want something from me,” he said, more a statement than a question. “What is it?”

“Smart. That’s what I like about ye, even if yer Martial Skills ain’t worth shit.” Unabashed at having his motive uncovered, GangShu shook his head and sighed. “Look, the short version is simple enough. The Treaty’s been broken and the Emperor called his chit. I can’t sit on the sidelines anymore, which means I gotta pick a side and the choice is obvious. I considered heading home to wait the war out, but the problem is, it’s a lose-lose situation. If the Defiled win, then they gonna make their way over eventually, and if the Imperials win, then they ain’t gonna be none too pleased with me when this is all said and done with. You with me so far?”

Taking a seat because his legs refused to stop shaking, Jorani swallowed hard and nodded. With the Treaty broken, Ancestral Beasts and Imperial Dharma Protectors were free to act as they pleased, and battles between the two were only ever described as a city-destroying calamity. He might as well eat the free meal and spend the rest of his coin on female companionship tonight, because his chances of surviving the year just went from poor to imperceptible.

Oblivious to Jorani’s inner turmoil, GangShu continued his explanation. “Then, I thought of you, holed up nice and safe in the Behkai brat’s retinue. The Fox bitch who saved yer hide at the winery don’t gotta take orders from the Imperials because she’s busy watching over her kits, so I figured I’d use the same excuse. Even better if ye convince the brat to let Daxian join the retinue too, cuz it’ll give me double the reason to stick close.”

Resigned to eventual death, Jorani took a deep breath and sighed. “Using your sons to avoid fighting. How heroic.”

“I ain’t afraid of a good fight.” For the first time, GangShu’s smile slipped as he leaned forward and Jorani’s heart stopped in his chest. “I may be a rat, but don’t ye dare mistake me fer a coward. This is about taking orders and nothing else.”

Silence fell over the room as GangShu settled back into his chair, and Jorani sat frozen in abject terror, his mind gibbering in primal fear of the god-like being across from him. When he finally came to, he was alone in the room once again, though more than a dozen empty dishes sat atop it, evidence of the time he’d lost in his fear. Collar soaked in cold sweat, he sat shivering from head to toe and told himself it was because of the cold spring air or being sober for the first time in days.

It was easier to swallow than the truth.

“You recovered faster than expected.” Startled by the sudden intrusion, Jorani emitted a girlish shriek and regretted the reaction. Standing behind him with arms crossed and a cruel smile plastered across his face, Daxian looked like the man Jorani wanted to be. Though they shared the same rat ears, pointed chin, and high cheekbones, Daxian seemed elegant and dignified in the moonlight while those same features made Jorani look villainous and deceitful. Daxian the Virtuous, they called him, a former Major who might as well have been sculpted from marble, with broad shoulders and a lithe, yet muscular frame. Tall too, which made Jorani hate him all the more, but that wasn’t the only reason he hated his older ‘half-brother’.

Their ages only differed by a decade, two at most, so why keep Daxian but throw Jorani away?

“Order something,” Daxian said, nodding at the menu. “We figured you’d be here till morning so we ate everything, but you were only out for two hours, which is... impressive.”

It took two tries and a cup of cold, bitter tea before Jorani could speak. “What the fuck was that?”

“What happens when an ant pisses off a Divinity.” Shrugging, Daxian clarified, “You took the full force of his Aura with no defences. Maybe next time you’ll think twice before mouthing off, but somehow, I doubt it. It doesn’t matter though, all you need to do is convince Falling Rain it’s in his best interest to accept this arrangement, and then you can do whatever you please. For now, order, eat, and come find me when you’re done.” Nodding more out of shock than agreement, Jorani kept quiet as Daxian placed a stack of gold coins on the table and strode out the room. Pausing at the doorway, he half-turned to speak over his shoulder, his eyes cold and unsympathetic. “You hate him because he abandoned you and your mother, but take it from someone who knows better. He did you both a favour.”

And with that, Daxian closed the door and left Jorani to ponder the day’s events, which only led to one conclusion.

There weren’t enough women in the world to calm Jorani’s nerves, but he sure as hell wasn’t gonna let that stop him from trying.

Chapter Meme
