It didn’t do much to assure him but he no way to back out now.His body tensed as energy rushed through every pore of his spongy skin. Great hissed with surprised as his insides began to twist. It wasn’t just himself that was twisting but the very hallway as well.Great hissed with discomfort as he began to grow, stretching and stretching higher and higher. The tunnel that had been his sanctuary bulged around him as if made of water, pushing space in odd ways that made music Great had never heard of before.His body was moving as the tunnel stretched wider and wider, something solid looking rising out of the ground as his body was pulled gently on to it.Gre... No, he was no longer merely Great.He breathed with a loud rattling hiss as his once thorny tentacles buried deep.Deeper and deeper, then he spread.The-Mushroom-formerly-known-as-Great began to shriek with sounds that made everyone on the floor pause with startled surprise.Melodical maniacal laughter filled the peaceful dungeon.It poured out of every wall and floor to fill every room on the first floor.“Ohhh yesssss!” came a rich and powerful purr.That was when the mushroom noticed something else. Something wonderful.“My, my! I didn’t see the fuss about all this hubba-baloo speaking nonsense before but now that I tried it for myself...well... what can a shroom say? Hello ladies and Goblins, this is your new and improved star of the first floor. Maestro! Let me play you an introduction...” he said, knowing, just knowing that he could be heard all across the first floor.His hands began to tap and the natural drums surrounding his body thrummed.“I call this little number... welcome to the jungle,” Maestro laughed with a smirk.He plucked gently at the many cords attached to his cap that connected the ceiling like life-lines making string-like sounds.“You don’t have to tell me, I already know it’s absolutely wonderful!” he laughed as let his tongue, a thorny vine, lick his lips.He had been worried that would lose his threatening appearance but if anything...it only became more beautiful!Beauty. Such a concept that had never occurred to Maestro! Music, beauty, lights, action!Maestro just had to have it all!He spun and the beat he was pumping out travelled down the second floor, where his roots finally reached.“I hope you’re listening Mother! You superstar son is here to blow your dungeon’s popularity sky high! With your love, Mr’s cuteness, and my voice, no one can stop us!” he called with a powerful laugh.Maestro fed the spiders a little bit more music with one of his handy new mouthpieces as they seemed to respawn with a heavy need to dance.Maestro was only too happy to supply.Mother’s delighted shout came from just below, Maestro looked down, surprised to see how big he had become.The ziggurat he was now resting on in this giant room might have added a few inches to this fact but Maestro brushed that thought off.“Ah mother, do contain your excitement! My new body is still cooling!” he flexed his new hands and adjusted his new shelf around his neck. A fleshy accessory piece!It was so charming and fitting to his beautiful form.Mother was still screaming with delight and she was now rushing out the room. Maestro covered a shy smile at her reaction.Mother was going to tell everyone about his new form.He hummed and then burst into song with a deep vibrato.----Delta was still shrieking in horror as she fled back to the second floor.The singing followed her as it seemed to pulse out of the ground.She had just been following Grim as he was getting lost on the jungle path where he had stopped to take a food break when he spotted one of the few benches Delta had made. Pulling sandwiches and a drink after scouring the bench for traps and tricks, Grim had frozen along with Delta when the music, the voice, had appeared.Delta found Grim exactly where she had left him.“Why are the bunnies and bees the only cute things I make right off the bat?” she whimpered as the sight of Great Mushy’s evolved form haunted her. The demonic mushroom sitting on top of a stone-pyramid thing. Long thick vines spreading everywhere like some grotesque alien hive and were infecting her walls with odd moulds and singing while doing it!He had looked at her and seemed to smile. The maw of death and the eyes of the devil greeted her. Fangs... hands like spears and tumour-like growths that acted as a choir surrounded its body. Tons of tiny... little...screaming mushrooms, all turning to her in unison.She trembled as the hearty sounds of beating drums with pulsating thumps filled the jungle, giving it a heavy feel of energy.“Okay, this is getting weird and all I got so far is a ghost cat thing,” Grim said to himself as he packed his stuff, readying himself to set off again.“How do you think I feel? This is my dungeon...” Delta complained pointlessly to him. Grim focused and snapped off a nearby branch to start marking the path as best as he could. Delta couldn’t be mad at the idea because she was too busy being scarred for life.It wasn’t long before Grim found the river.“Ugh...” Grim shuffled back at the sight of the soft current. Delta blinked when Grim didn’t instantly pull out some magical river-dryer or magical bridge.“Dammit... there has to be a bridge or something... a vine swing maybe?” he asked aloud and tread carefully at a fair distance away from the river’s edge. The way he moved reminded Delta of herself near her... well, everything.Moving slowly enough as not to burst into a panicked run.“He can’t swim...” Delta muttered with a sigh. That was a real shame, she was kind of hoping to have him lose a few more things to the river’s waters. Something big moved near the surface of the water and Delta spotted Rale briefly before he sank to the bottom of the river where he blended in with the murk at the bottom surprisingly well.Delta nodded with approval at Rale’s diligence. If Grim did fall, he would be safe at least. If the frog kept this up, he might unlock some special evolution that could save people better...Delta paused at the image of Rale evolving into some three-headed frog sea-serpent to do his job better and she repressed a wail.“Please just grow some… water wings or a whistle...” she prayed at the moving shadow.----A log.There was no bridge or safe brick crossing or even a shallow space to cross. Grim gnashed his teeth with a furious scream barely escaping.Water... water!Grim could not stand water in greater amounts than what was needed for hygienic purposes. He glared at the sarcastic signposts declaring a river and warnings of being wet.Stolen from its rightful place, this narrative is not meant to be on Amazon; report any sightings.Rainy days, water fights, swimming days in summer, floods of any water-related magical incident like the great cheese flood of the winter 4 years past.The sheer presence of water made his already weak power non-existent. Grim’s power didn’t work with damaged paper! Torn was fine if it wasn’t too ragged or rough but wet paper was just as useful to him as it was for anyone else...This river posed a problem and Grim thought over his arsenal of items. He had a common rope he could try latching on to the tree across the river but he would have no idea what he might also draw the attention of or hit accidentally.Plus this new thumping drum that echoed out like music was throwing his mind into an easily distracted state.He saw a few vines that looked like they had once been tied into odd knots but swung easily in the trees but they weren’t something Grim was willing to trust just now.So he had two options. The log or... follow the river to the source and hope for a way around the problem.Grim turned and marched, ignoring the log entirely.He spotted a few red bees floating around some flowering plants and felt a bit better. Signs of life was better than the silence of the jungle and the beating of drums. He carefully moved around the bee, least he angered it and its hidden hive somewhere. After all, the only safe place from a swarm of bees was... under water.Grim picked up the pace as the land climbed slightly in height as a roaring noise became louder and louder. He perked up when he saw a blood coloured rabbit rush past out the corner of his eyes.“A blood Hare! Mum makes the best stew with those when she can get the meat!” he said with a large smile, the memory of his mother cheering him up immensely in this lonely place. He stopped then scowled at his antics.“You’re an adventurer… get a grip and focus. One second of not paying attention and you’re dead” he reminded himself harshly.“Excellent advice. While not currently a problem, awareness of the world is key,” came a soft voice from the shadow of a large tree.Grim spun, hand reaching for the knife he had already lost to that mushroom at the entrance.“Who’s there!?” he demanded, peering into the shadows to see a figure sitting on a giant exposed root of a tree.The figure looked relaxed as they stared down at Grim. A wooden mask of some staring beast covered the face. The body was mostly covered in simplistic dark tunic and pants. The exposed skin that Grim could see revealed he was dealing with no fellow adventurer.“A watcher. You traverse this jungle and the jungle traverses you in return. Timid... but not unafraid. A brave rabbit,” the figure mused and Grim felt the heavy weight of his backpack. He had to reach for something to defend himself.“I’m not a rabbit. I’m a person, an adventurer!” he denied and the figure merely tilted its head.“Oh? What does an adventurer seek here that a rabbit does not?” the soft voice... a female voice continued to ask. Grim gave her a flat look.“Riches. Magical items, books, rewards, you know? Things dungeons are supposed to have?” he stressed his last few words with pointed criticism. The woman... thing stood and easily hopped down to stand before Grim.He backed up but the river bubbled with a warning behind him. The woman merely turned and walked towards the sound of the waterfall.“Riches... have you not gained any of those?” she pondered politely and Grim scowled.“I got disarmed by a mushroom, tied up by spiders, chased a mouse around a room, discovered a secret passage filled with some acid spitting thing, got chased by a boar, shot at with arrows, had to trick a boss, lost in this jungle, I can’t progress because of this river, and now, I got some mask-wearing wise woman trying to waste my time!” he waved his arms furiously before he stopped dead.A woman here... would mean she was a part of the dungeon... that meant she was a monster...He had just mouthed off to a second-floor monster.Grim went still as the woman turned back to him.“Did these not teach you valuable things?” she prodded gently, the wooden mask hiding what sounded like a smile.Grim opened his mouth to argue and then paused.The bowl slammed down and Grimnoire roared with triumphant as Merry became trapped.“Do not dismiss me...as if you are stronger,”“Don’t turn your back on me! I am Grimnoire Pictus and I challenge you! You arrogant son of a bitch!”“I...” he trailed off and then looked at the woman.“Who are you?” he asked again and the woman clasped her hands together in front of her.“I am Devina. A resident of the forest. A watcher and a guide beyond all else,” she introduced. Grim hesitated before he spoke.“Grimnoire Pictus... kind of lost, if nothing else,” he admitted and the words felt like tar, not wanting to leave his mouth until he forced them out. Devina turned the corner of a thicket of trees and Grim followed to see the waterfall in all its loud fury.“What is lost can be found but you do ever so find such interesting things off the path you expected.” Devina again sounded amused. Grim spotted something odd to one side of the large pool of water at the base of the waterfall.“Is that a... goblin?” he pointed and Devina’s shoulders tensed slightly.“A trouble-maker, ignore him,” she dismissed coldly. Grim winced as the goblin looked beaten, soaked, unconscious, and somehow, still cursing in his state. The goblin shivered and his magical staff spat some sparks out.Another signpost was nearby.Beware of falling water and Bob -Nu.“As you can see, the water has risen and there is no dry way across the river, even here. To continue, you must face your fear,” Devina pointed to the big pond of water.“I can’t swim, facing my fear means dying in this case. Besides, the river is narrower down there, why would I cross here?” Grim questioned with a narrow glare. Devine gently plucked a leaf from her tunic and dropped it on the water’s surface.It almost didn’t move for a while before it eventually softly drifted to the opening of the river and as it neared the opening, it picked up speed and then was quickly lost downstream.“The most obvious challenge is not always the most dangerous. I am willing to tie your rope to the rock across the pond so you may use it to swim across and hold on to but you must be willing to make the swim yourself if this is what you desire?” Devina asked gently. Grim grimaced at the idea but then pointed to the sign.“Who’s Bob?” he asked suddenly which made Devina tilt her head.“A resident but that is a risk you’re going to have to take unless you wish to take your own path back over the log?” she looked down back at the river as if seeing the log. Grim thought furiously.“Can I ask this ‘Bob’ if he can help me? Maybe he knows of another way across?” Grim tried to bargain. Grim thought he saw a shadow moving from the river into the pond but Devina’s words distracted him.“Bob may be able to help you, I cannot deny this. But to rouse Bob, I will first ask for a payment for the service,” Devina began smoothly and Grim winced.“What kind?” he asked a little worried at the implic