I took a few steps back from the conversation, let them talk it out. It wasn't something I knew enough about to interject.

"That is why I wish to end my life here. This new body of mine is immortal and undying. I know not how I could be killed, but I ask that you attempt to do so."

Chrona stood tall, "That...That isn't something I will be apart of."

"Those with us may possess the ability to destroy you," Krog said while tilting his head to us.

I closed my eyes, taking a deep breath. This wasn't something I wanted to be a part of. Not wanting to be disrespectful, I turned to them. Althea walked up to them, her rifle pointed up. Krog said,

"What would you have us do?"

Althea pointed at her chest, "Uh, me?"

They nodded.

She let out a sharp sigh, "Hm, I think you should try to live on. I know it's hard, trust me, I do. You have to push through until you get to brighter days though. Things could change for the better, and faster than you think."

Emagrotha snapped, "Do not claim to understand what I've been through. This is no the normal torment of someone who's civilized. This is the wracking torment of nature in all its fury. You cannot comprehend the vast swaths of time I spent here. Do not claim to do so."

I frowned as she said that. Althea was the only person qualified to talk to her about this since she was once on the brink of deforming into a monster at every moment. It took her time, but she got a handle on her darker nature, turning it into a potent weapon. Maybe that's why she was suggesting Emagrotha should press on. I mean, if Althea could do it, so could this goopy idol, right?

That was Althea's logic if I guessed right. They continued the conversation, both sides getting heated.

"I was deformed for a long time too. I learned to control it. Maybe you can too. Have you even tried?" Althea snapped back.

"Of course I have, child. Decades of practice and I am not more than slush in a stone pit. This is no gift in disguise. This is a cursed fate worse than death."

I had to agree with her there.

"Don't you think these people helping you out would make the difference?"

"A team of researchers attempted 'helping' me. I will have no more help of that kind anymore," Emagrotha said.

Althea let her hands flop on her sides, "Well, don't ask me to help. I'm not enabling you to off yourself."

Emagrotha hissed, "Good. I wouldn't want your assistance either."

The argument got petty quick, neither side getting along with the other. Krog shook his head, "That worked far less than I imagined it would. What of you, darkened one?"

"You mean me?" I said while pointing at my chest.

"Who else here is a walking shadow of metal? What do you think of this?"

I put my hands on my hips, walking back up to them, "I...I don't know. I was almost turned into something like this one time. A hivemind almost made me into a carrapace. I can tell you this much about it. If it actually had happened, I'd of wanted someone to kill me too."

Althea crossed her arms, glaring at me, "What, you too?"

I scratched the back of my head, "I mean, I want to live a certain way. If I were a shell for someone else, I'd be at their beckoning every moment of every day. It isn't a real life, and that's kind of what Emagrotha's situation looks like. She's at the mercy of anyone that comes in contact with her."

I continued,

"Besides if she's immortal, we can't guarantee her safety forever. What if a thousand years from now, some Old One's cult hauls her off to god know's where? She could be tortured for centuries without any ability to respond. I...I'm not willing to take on that kind of responsibility."

Chrona's chest deflated as I said that, "I...I wasn't thinking that far ahead."

Althea rubbed her forehead, looking frustrated, "But after all that's happened, anyone would be on the brink. We feed into this impulse instead of letting her think this over, and we might lose someone who could help us later. Just like Hod or me or Amara. People deserve a second chance, even if they don't want to take it."

"Look, I agree with you. That's why I didn't kill those people off when I was given a chance. The difference here is that if we leave Emagrotha alive, other people could use her to make more Hybrids. One evil organization having that knowledge is plenty enough if you ask me."

Althea spread out her hands, "What if Schema can use her to help cure the eldritch or something?"

"Ok, you're not reasoning here." I raised a hand and counted on my fingers.

"First off, I'm damn certain that Schema would order Emagrotha to be killed off. Period. She's a risk that isn't necessary. Second off, what if your right and Emagrotha is put in a research lab for all eternity? I don't think that's a good life for her. You of all people know what that is like."

Emagrotha shouted, "Shove me into the void between the stars. Throw me into the sun. By my ancestors, leave me here to rot if you will. Anything is better. Anything but that. Please, not that."

Althea looked back at Emagrotha. A bubble popped along the surface of her mush body like a boiling pot of lavender Pepto Bismol. Althea bit her lip, "Ok fine. I get it. Becoming a lab rat would be horrible. I was a lab rat too once. You don't want that again. I wouldn't wish that kind of thing on my worst enemy either."

Althea pointed at Emagrotha, meeting her eye, "I'm with Chrona though. I don't want to be a part of this, even if Schema considers you an eldritch or whatever. I know you're not, and I'm not a murderer. Find someone else who's willing." Althea turned to me,

"I already know someone who'd probably do it."

I spread out my hands, "Jesus, do I look like a demon to you?"

"You did earlier," Krog mused.

Chrona slapped her tail on his side, "Your interruptions are unnecessary."

Krog rolled his eyes, but he stayed quiet. I peered at the pit, crossing my arms, "I can probably kill you, though it might take a while. If you're ok with that, then I can make it happen."

Emagrotha said, "As long as you don't drain me at the rate I regenerate as the beast was, then by all means begin."

I turned to Althea, "You mentioned Schema considering her an eldritch, right? You sure you don't want the experience?"

Chrona's eyes widened, "To speak of her in such a manner-"

Emagrotha growled, "Silence. He is a pragmatist, as I once was. Let them gain value of my death. Better my saviors benefit from my demise."

Althea shook her head, "It's not worth it to me. I can level up pretty easily by completing bounties or contracts from Schema. I don't want blood on my hand from this. Besides, I'm out leveling you already."

She finished with a slight smirk. To verify, I glanced up at Althea's title, and my jaw dropped.

Althea Tolstoy, the Formless Arbiter(lvl: 9,414 | Class: Breaker | Guild: Harbinger's Legion)

I spread out my hands, "Man, I missed out on so much experience. Shit."

"Yeah, well I'll miss out on some too. You can go ahead and do whatever with Emagrotha. I'll help give first aid to the wounded here."

"Alright then. I'll see you when I see you I guess."

Althea's chest drooped, "Just...try not to make it too painful, please?"

I nodded, "Eh, I'll do my best."

After the others stepped out, I turned back to Emagrotha. The two eyes floating on the mush sunk back into the slush. She stayed silent for a bit, and I gave her some space to think. As she did, I analyzed her to see what Althea was talking about.

She wasn't kidding. Schema considered her a massive threat.

Emagrotha, the Twisted One(lvl: 18,131 | Species: N/A | Guild: Hybrid) - This twisted abomination is all that remains of the once proud, factional leader known as Emagrotha. After losing her battle with Lehesion, she was turned into a being that was part silver, the two biologies sinking together into an absolute mess.

According to written accounts by espen chroniclers, this occurred at the end of the gialgathen civil war, 75 years ago. Since then, a research facility was built around her after Schema assimilated Giess a quarter century ago.

Little else is known about Emagrotha's new self. Her body produces enormous volumes of toxic sludge, and she has tremendous vitality. Her unusual makeup allowed the formation of numerous Hybrids. Without any means of fighting back, her threat level was determined to be so high due to her potential harm case.

If studied, she may create beings that lead to the destruction of innumerable worlds. She must be destroyed at all costs and immediately.

As I finished reading, Emagrotha spoke up,

"Thank you for listening to reason. They'd allow me to be tormented for all time."

"I can understand where you're coming from." I looked at her, "If you feel half as bad as you look, you must feel like shit."

Emagrotha let out a laugh. "Humor. A rarity in this abyss." Her voice turned melancholy,

"Perhaps it's almost fitting that I die like this. I was worshipped as a goddess during my days in the sun. I enjoyed decades as one unrivaled, aside from Lehesion. Now I've spent an equal time wallowing in a shadow."

I charged mana in my blood, keeping the conversation casual,

"What was Lehesion like?"

"Bleck, a complete egomaniac. You'd think he'd walk with a mirror at all sides with how much he loved himself. I've never known a being with such a complete and utter lack of self-awareness. His mind was strong in some respects, however, and I'm not devoid of respect for him," she mused.

"He did betray how your fight was supposed to go though, didn't he?"

She let out a long sigh, "Indeed he did. Its the one blemish on an otherwise fairytale ending of his legacy. He disappeared after doing this to me. I've long wondered why. At first, I believed he did so out of embarrassment, unable to face what he did. That would be a fleeting motivation, however."

"Really now?"

"Shame fades given time. Guilt only grows until you actively face it. Lehesion never faced guilt as he never made a mistake up until that point. I believe he faced a dichotomy in his life, a schism in belief. On the one hand, he was a god, the brightest of all of us. On the other, he cheated to win a losing fight and did horror that to this day lives on."

"Yeah, that sounds hard to deal with," I said with my voice shaking from my building energy.

"For him. I know my faults and own them. He denies any mark that may mar the facade he chooses to maintain. At least he did when I knew him. Time may have changed him. Maybe he's reflected on his actions and decided to redeem himself if he even believes in his own redemption."

I didn't tell her about how one of the Skyburner's mentioned Lehesion leading the effort to destroy Giess. Letting her die in a blissful ignorance would be better.

"Yeah, that's might be it. Time will tell," I said while reaching out a hand.

"It will, but only for you. This is the coming of my death and the end of my long life."

"Are you ready?"

"I am."

I steeled my resolve, ready to finish killing her no matter what it took,

"Then I'll make this as quick as I can. Goodbye, Emagrotha."

For the first time, Emagrotha let out her words with a measure of content and peace,

"May my afterlife be more merciful."

The mouth closed,

"Goodbye."
