As always, Ali was delighted to see her Grimoire grow, but it seemed the Eimuuran steel was really something. It had taken all four daggers for her to learn the variant, and the amount of new rune-work added to her Grimoire seemed quite substantial, at least counting by the number of added pages. More for me to study later. Lore snack time!

While the others continued discussing gear and regenerating their mana and stamina, Ali created daggers. It took a while before she made two sets of her newest dagger variant, but she persisted, knowing it would improve her rogues substantially. As soon as she had a full set of four, she called her rogues to her from their hiding spots in the shadows.

“Upgrades for you,” she told them in draconic, and handed them each a set.

“Thank you, Ancient Mistress.” Both rogues bowed and examined their new treasures excitedly.

“How about your shamans, can they use this shield?” Malika asked, offering Ali a beautifully crafted Eimuuran steel shield bearing the embossed crest of Dal’mohra – the one that the warrior had been wielding to block Mato’s powerful strikes.

“Can you use this?” Ali asked, switching to Goblin.

“No, it’s …” the shaman said something ugly in the Goblin language which Ali struggled to translate.

“She said it’s a ‘stupid warrior shield, not a wise shaman shield’,” Ali explained to Malika. It had been a single word that somehow derided warriors for being stupid while at the same time asserting shaman superiority. It was also a curse word – which seemed to be about a third of their entire language.

“Oh, I bet the strength requirement is too high,” Malika interpreted, examining the shield. “I think your shaman is using a hybrid shield with evasion and armor. Meaning it has a lower strength requirement, but it requires some dexterity.”

Ali looked curiously, identifying her shaman’s shield.

Iron Buckler – level 15Armor: 49Evasion: 49Block Chance: +20% (Blocked attacks cannot cause critical damage.)Requirements: Strength 30, Dexterity 30Off Hand – Shield

A shield is a shield, isn’t it? She hadn’t paid much attention to it when the shaman had selected it from the pile, but it looked like Malika had deduced the truth correctly. Presumably, her shaman had some dexterity instead of pure strength.

***

Ali watched Calen hop off the rooftop, admiring how he was able to land effortlessly from so high up, and without making a sound. He had been luring small groups of Kobolds and the occasional undead skeletons to their ambush spot for most of the afternoon, but this time he didn’t call incoming.

The battles were still challenging, but with Ali’s new minions, they were able to overcome the dungeon’s dense bone armor quickly enough. As Calen brought a steady stream of monsters, Ali got ample opportunity to practice her combat tactics with Martial Insight. She always reserved her mages to blast the most dangerous enemy from a distance, but it was her shamans that provided the most interesting combat experience. They had hybrid melee caster classes and learning to use them effectively required her to learn quite a few new strategies.

For one thing, they could be fighting one monster and blast a completely different monster, clear on the other side of the battle, with their Lightning Bolts and totems. Of course, they hit everything along a straight line between the two.

However, Ali was already entirely convinced of their value in her little army. With their continuous lightning damage, even her stab-happy rogues became effective, provided she simply waited a few moments with them before engaging. And I can probably get use out of my Bugbears again.

“There’s one of those Spitter Drones up ahead,” Calen said, walking up to join them. “I should be able to get it all the way down here. What do you guys think of setting up in this house over here?” He pointed at a ruined open doorway into a sizeable stone building.

“Works for me,” Mato answered, poking his head inside. “There’s a fair bit of space in here.”

“No Kobolds nearby to hear it go off?” Malika asked, her forehead furrowed with a worried frown.

“We got the last group, there’s nothing left for several blocks in all directions.”

They discussed the finer details of their plan and then Calen sprinted off into the darkness to fetch a giant bug monster with vile spit that could turn your flesh to bone. No big deal. I’m sure everyone has to deal with two or three of these before breakfast.

Ali sent her shamans and rogues scurrying into the house with Mato and Malika. She decided she wouldn’t have a great vantage point to see what was going on inside when it all went down, so she just directed her minions to help, following Malika and Mato’s lead, and to be ready to retreat promptly when she called.

Ali set up outside, across the street, hiding in the wreckage of a collapsed building with her three mages. None of them were particularly robust, herself included, and she didn’t want to risk taking even a single hit when Calen returned with the bone monster. She had a great line of sight across the street and directly through the doorway of the house they had chosen, and she could even see the mana powering Mato’s aura through the stone walls. The piles of rubble offered some measure of security – at least to her mind. Empowered Summoner’s range had grown to just a little over seventeen meters now, and it didn’t take too much shifting to ensure her minions would benefit from her extra nature damage while fighting within the confines of the house.

She heard a distant screech, followed by a grinding, crunching noise that grew progressively louder until she could even feel vibrations through the stone beneath her feet. Suddenly, an orb of brilliant light rounded the corner at the far end of the street, followed quickly by Calen, sprinting hard. Right behind him, the enormous bone monster careened around the corner, crashing into the wall with a solid thump that set the ground to trembling again. Liquid bone sprayed everywhere, striking the walls, and hardening while spikes stabbed outward. How Calen had avoided it this far was anybody’s guess.

Ali had no idea how such an enormous creature was able to move with such agility. Its myriad legs churned the ground, sending a spray of tiny rock and stone splinters flying into the air as it ran partway up the wall, bleeding momentum until it returned to the street, pursuing Calen relentlessly.

Archer – Half-Elf – level 16 (Light)Spitter Drone – Elemental – level 26 (Bone)

When he was right in front of Ali, Calen leapt into the air, twisting to face backward, and released a magically enhanced arrow right into the monster’s face, striking between the clacking insect-like mandibles. It released a furious, high-pitched screech. Calen darted sideways, rushing through the darkened doorway of their chosen building, bringing his floating light magic with him.

Trust the plan, Ali. It was hard to reassure herself when several tons of angry bone monster were rapidly bearing down on her hiding spot, but it had eyes for nothing but Calen. It veered sideways and dove in after him. The fact that the doorway wasn’t nearly wide enough to fit its bony carapace didn’t bother it at all – with its momentum and dense armor plates it simply smashed through the stone doorway without even slowing down, sending chunks of stone masonry flying. A loud roar sounded from within as Mato engaged the Spitter Drone. Suddenly, the house was filled with a chaotic array of magic and a cacophony as they tackled the furious monster in the enclosed space.

Ali was extremely grateful to be outside, and not in the violence that had just erupted from within the room.

“Begin,” she instructed in draconic, stepping out from her hiding spot and summoning a precautionary barrier before she unleashed her Arcane Bolts. Her first salvo slammed into the stone wall of the building, but she quickly angled her release until their curving path took them right through a window to slam against the monstrous carapace. Searing heat penetrated her robes as the Kobold Fire Mages beside her took their cue, shooting volleys of Firebolts into the darkness, aiming for where Ali’s magic was striking the dense bone armor.

Backlit by the flashing and cracking of various overly bright offensive magics, a figure appeared, diving through a small window and rolling on the ground before regaining his feet. Calen sprinted across the street to stand beside her, nocking his bow with one of the enchanted Eimuuran steel arrows.

“Welcome back,” Ali said.

“Walk in the park,” he answered, his deadpan delivery marred by his heavy breathing and the sweat dripping from his brow.

Ali could only hope that the battle was proceeding well within the house. Chaotic screaming, shouting, and monstrous roaring filled her ears while liquid bone sprayed everywhere. The continuous flashing of lightning magic mingled with the flickers of Malika and Mato’s attacks, all seen through the solid stone wall, visible entirely by the mana used to power them. Of her rogues, she could see absolutely nothing. A twin thunderclap shook the ground and lightning filled the room, sending shards of bone showering out through the doorway and the windows.

Ali mustered her focus. I have a job to do. While she maintained her connection to her minions, and her stream of Arcane Bolts, she carefully sorted through the riotous mana, making sure she could easily pick out the specific signature and color of the Spitter Drone’s bone affinity mana every time it used one of its abilities.

“Think that crack is big enough?” Calen’s voice drew her attention back to the physical aspect of the battle.

She stared, and he moved his floating orb of light so she could get a better view.

“Yes, I think so,” she answered, pressing her lips together.

“Drop your Fireballs through that crack in the armor,” she instructed her Kobolds. Immediately, the Firebolt volleys ceased and the ambient heat on her face skyrocketed as the three mages simultaneously summoned their most potent magic. She maintained her stream of Arcane Bolts, trying to hold the regeneration at bay so the crack didn’t close before her minions were ready. She counted the seconds.

“Incoming Fireball!” she yelled, hoping that they could hear her inside the building, over the din of the fight.

Three Fireballs sizzled in the air as they shot across the street, impacting with the Spitter Drone and burying themselves inside the crack in its bone plate carapace. The detonation, muffled as it was by the body of the enormous creature and the stone walls of the house, still lit the entire interior with angry red flames. Gouts of fire and splinters of bone erupted from the doorway and spewed out of the windows as the shockwave slammed into her barrier, knocking one of her Kobolds off his paws. Off-white shards rained down everywhere, some gobs of flame splatting up against her barrier, and pieces of bone clattering to the ground all around.

To Ali’s relief, the telltale green sweeps and aura of Mato’s nature magic, and the cool blue-white flickers of Malika’s soul magic continued unabated.

It took a few minutes of continuous assault against the compromised armor before Ali saw spirals and swirls of dark mana beginning to coalesce somewhere within the room.

“Get out! It’s going to explode!” she yelled as loudly as she could. She couldn’t tell if she had been heard until she saw Malika’s athletic form sprinting out of the smoke-filled red-glowing ruined house and onto the street. Ali’s minions followed close behind, and then finally, the huge, scorched figure of Mato’s Bear lumbered through the shattered doorway, shedding chunks of bone as parts of his heavily ossified hide and flesh cracked and splintered.

Ali ignored her queasy stomach’s complaints and slammed the largest barrier she could muster in the doorway.

There was an enormous, muffled thump and the entire street bucked, tossing Ali to the ground. Chunks of bone whistled past, burying themselves into the stone walls, shattering the rock and encrustations of bone as easily as glass. The barrier she had created in the doorway burst in a sparkling spray of magic shards, while her ears rang from the explosion.

Your group has defeated Spitter Drone – Elemental – level 26 (Bone)

Ali stared in amazement at the building, somehow still standing, even though it was clearly much worse for wear. Those Dwarves were really something.

“That went a lot better,” Malika announced, her voice getting progressively clearer as Mato’s aura helped regenerate the damage to her ears.

“Yeah, that was a great plan!” Mato’s huge grin told her that he had enjoyed himself. However, how he could have fun when his body was continually being turned to bone was beyond her. I wonder just how much Endurance he has?

“Nice call on the explosion,” Malika complimented her. “That was a perfect amount of time to get out, and the barrier in the doorway was a great idea – we should keep doing that.”

Ali was most surprised to realize her fear of the giant monster had evaporated somewhere during the fight. Admittedly, she had been much safer outside, but she still had a critical role – one that her friends had depended on her getting right.

“No adds,” Calen said, hopping down from the roof. “I think we’re clear.”

It took Ali a moment to remember that sometimes adventurers referred to ‘additional monsters’ as ‘adds’ and that Calen had just verified that the explosion hadn’t attracted the horde of Kobolds like last time.

“Shall we get another one?” Ali asked, getting to her feet and heading to the doorway so that she could deconstruct the huge monster.

She didn’t miss Mato’s broad grin at her question.
