The ruined streets were desolate and quiet, with not even a single hint of their desperate flight from the Kobold horde yesterday remaining. They encountered only a couple of patrols while retracing their steps – it seemed that the dungeon needed some time to respawn everything, and they must have made enough of a dent in the Kobold population that – at least in this area – there weren’t nearly as many as before.

“It’s clear all the way to the explosion site,” Calen said, his voice hushed as his lithe form slowly emerged from the shadows nearby.

“Sounds good,” Malika said. “Let’s continue.”

Mato just grunted, not bothering to shapeshift in order to speak.

Ali followed along, her eyes scouring the darkened doorways and shattered buildings as they retraced their steps deeper into the heart of the dungeon, but as they arrived at the street where they had fought the Spitter Drone, she stopped and stared in surprise. All that remained of the battle site was a giant crater in the middle of the street. Several of the surrounding buildings had collapsed into piles of rubble, no doubt the result of the potent explosion of the bone elemental’s corpse. But besides that, the scorch marks on the walls, and the scurrying bone skitterers scrambling for cover, the entire scene had been stripped clean.

None of her Kobold minions’ corpses remained, nor any of the gear. Even the bone shards, blood stains, and chunks of the drone had vanished as if they’d never been.

“Where’s all the stuff?” she asked, not really expecting her friends to know. My Fire Mage bracelet is gone! Of all the things she had lost down here in the mad scramble to escape, that was the only item she couldn’t replace. She had been hoping to give it to her highest-level mage.

“What did you expect? Your gear is nice, and it obviously fits the dungeon monsters,” Malika pointed out. “They probably just took it.”

“But why the bodies? And all the pieces of the bone elemental?” While she would need many more, there was the possibility of learning the monstrous creatures eventually. Not that her stomach would enjoy that prospect, but without the corpse, she didn’t even have the option.

“We saw that drone eating all sorts of bone, alive or dead, I bet another one came over and cleaned up,” Mato speculated.

“It’s a dungeon,” Calen said, scrunching his brow. “Dungeons eat everything you leave. It probably has some way to turn that stuff into more monsters.”

“Well, that’s annoying, I wanted that bracelet,” Ali complained. There were already fresh layers of bone encrustations plastered over some of the scorch marks on the wall. A sure sign that another of those Spitter Drones had been by.

“There are lots of Kobolds in here, let’s keep our eyes open for another,” Malika answered.

Malika was obviously right, but it was still frustrating to lose something so perfect for her mages.

Ali followed as their group pressed on, now at a much more cautious pace, with Calen ranging ahead as their scout. She sent her rogues off to hide in the shadows and walked in a loose formation with her two Goblin Storm Shamans forming a bulwark in front of her so that she could take advantage of their sturdy shields and armor if necessary. Her annoyance faded as they entered unexplored territory, replaced with an alert caution and the expectation of a fight around every corner. Healthy paranoia.

A few minutes passed in silence while they continued to creep forward. Ali stepped over a nearly invisible tripwire while trying to avoid getting closer to the creepy skitterers when the darkness shifted suddenly, startling her. But it was just Calen dropping down from the rooftop to land on silent feet.

“Group of five high-level Kobolds incoming, warrior, rogue, two archers, and a Fire Mage.”

“Didn’t the Guildmaster suggest you learn some archers, Ali?” Malika asked.

“Oh, yes!” she answered. She would need a few more than the two before she could inscribe the variant but, if there were archers in this patrol, there were certain to be more. Funny how she saw these high levels as learning opportunities, these days.

Mato immediately transformed and a few seconds later, the group of Kobolds rounded the corner.

Ali identified them the instant they burst into view.

Warrior – Kobold – level 20Rogue – Kobold – level 19Archer – Kobold – level 18-19 x2Mage – Kobold – level 17 (Fire)

Decent levels! As soon as they caught sight of Mato, a clamor of raucous chirps and screeches rose from their throats as they broke into a scrambling charge with the warrior leading the way, while the rogue faded into the shadows. Mato rushed down the center of the street toward them, with Calen’s orb bobbing along above him, shedding a harsh bright light on the battle that made fangs and claws gleam wickedly.

Ali summoned a barrier immediately.

“Go help Mato,” she said, sending both Storm Shamans to aid the Bear. Searching the rushing Kobolds, she easily picked out the Fire Mage at the back in his crimson rags, flanked by two bow-toting Kobolds wearing worn leather armor.

She thrust out her hand and fixed the Fire Mage as her target in her mind and launched her Arcane Bolts arcing up and over her barrier to come crashing down on the mage at the far end of the street. “Attack my target,” she commanded her trio of mages.

The stone walls around her were suddenly bathed in flickering red light as a volley of Firebolts shot down the length of the street, sizzling as they zipped past Malika on either side.

Out in the center of the suddenly chaotic street, Mato rammed into the braced shield of the enemy warrior with a resounding crash that echoed back off the stone walls. He lashed out with a powerful swipe of his left paw, slashing claws across the enemy rogue and rebounding off the warrior’s armor as it flickered with the dark glow of a defensive skill.

“Get in there,” Ali commanded, sending her intent directly to both sprinting Storm Shamans. Her only acknowledgment was a brilliant flare of harsh white light suddenly lighting up the shamans’ shields and maces with the telltale glow of lightning magic, shedding a trail of sparks as they moved. The female Storm Shaman arrived first, her mace blurring as she slammed it into the back of the Kobold warrior fighting Mato. Energy sparked between her strike and the Kobold, causing him to screech in pain, muscles jerking in response to the magical discharge that coursed through his body. The male shaman paused before attacking the rogue and made a throwing gesture. In the distance, between the two archers, a small steel totem suddenly appeared with the soft clink of metal on stone.

Ali watched the potent attacks in amazement, feeling the balanced footwork she had trained through her Martial Insight, now applied in a real fight. She instantly recognized the complex construct of lightning magic that settled on the enemy warrior. That must be the Lightning Vulnerability curse. Nasty.

Ali’s attention snapped to the opposite end of the street at the sound of the crack of an arrow shattering against her barrier. Behind the two bow-wielding Kobolds and the enemy mage, there were now two shiny steel totems. The small, rune-covered steel poles jutted about the length of her forearm from the stone pavement, glowing intensely with potent mana. As if her gaze were the signal to begin, the totems began pulsing concentric rings of fulgurant electrical discharge. With sharp screeches and yelps, the Kobolds scrambled to get out of the ambit of the crackling discharges of lightning, inadvertently getting themselves corralled in a corner.

“Fireballs, please,” Ali requested quietly, earning wicked grins of toothy anticipation from the mages she had arrayed beside her. Immediately, her barrier glowed with the red light of intensifying fire magic, and a wave of heat engulfed her.

Ali’s mundane eyesight was suddenly blinded by the simultaneous thunderclap of twin Lightning Bolts that ripped through the enemy Kobolds. A couple of arrows pinged off her barrier as she tried to blink away the intense purple afterimages etched on her retinas. By her mana sight, she saw three dense balls of magic shoot out from beside her, roiling and glowing with seething fire mana. She didn’t even need her eyes to see the triple detonation ripping the Kobolds apart, flinging bits of them into walls, and showering burnt chunks of flesh and scales across the street.

In the queasy churning of her stomach, blind and deaf from the potent magic, she still clearly heard the three chimes of her notifications redundantly informing her that the pieces raining down on them were no longer alive – obviously.

While she still couldn’t quite see clearly, her mana sight revealed the glowing green swipes of Mato’s nature-enhanced strikes and the arcing glow of her shamans’ hasted shields and maces. With her bearings set, she redirected her minions to engage the remaining two enemies, intent on burning them down before they could flee.

Note to self – don’t look directly at the Lightning Bolts next time.

As her eyesight began to clear, she could easily tell the enemy rogue and warrior were almost dead under assault by her minions, Malika, and Calen, all of which were doing great damage against the shredded and splintered bone armor.

“That was a lot faster,” Ali said after the final Kobold dropped to the ground. The mage didn’t even get to cast his Fireball.

“Your shamans are incredible, Ali!” Malika exclaimed, hopping up and down with barely suppressed excitement. “The lightning damage constantly tears at the bone armor, and I can go all out right from the start.”

“They were using the curse, right?” Calen asked.

“Yes,” she answered. “I can see them using it.”

I guess it makes sense, she thought. Ali had expected her Fire Mages to have the biggest impact, given that she had three of them and they had their Fireball skill. But she hadn’t counted on how effective the Lightning Vulnerability Curse would prove to be, combined with the constant lightning damage of the enchanted mace and shield, or even the lightning nova totems.

I should have guessed, she thought wryly. After all, she had been on the receiving end of that combination before.

Ali walked around the battlefield deconstructing the corpses and collecting gear – what pieces of it were still salvageable. She had to deconstruct several unidentifiable bits here and there, which set her stomach to churning again, but her Grimoire still appeared, inscribing various updated runes and spell sequences, so she hoped she would have access to the higher levels of the variants they had just fought.

The enemy Fire Mage was in the worst shape, its body a smoldering chunk of burnt meat. It had been hit by two Lightning Bolts while cursed with vulnerability, followed immediately after by three Fireballs. It probably didn’t stand a chance. I didn’t even need my rogues.

She deconstructed all the bits she could find, including the ruined and still smoking robes, and when the body vanished, a small circlet of bone dropped to the ground with a sharp clink. She stooped down and snatched it up, examining it excitedly. If it was a different bracelet, she couldn’t tell – it looked identical. Even the enchantments were indistinguishable from the one she had lost. Calling one of her Kobolds over to her, she handed him the bracelet. He hunched over it, equipping it with wicked cackling laughter.

Oh, you’d make a great villain.

She stored the archers’ bows – which had somehow survived the conflagration – and deconstructed their armor before picking up two quivers of arrows. She was about to store them when the dark reddish-black gleam caught her eye. Carefully, she extracted a single arrow to examine it.

It’s so light, she thought, turning it over in her hands and studying the tiny runic markings along the shaft. The entire arrow was fashioned out of Eimuuran steel, but it felt so light it had to be hollow.

Arrow of Accuracy – level 15An arrow crafted from Eimuuran steel and enchanted to find the target.+5% AccuracyRequirements: Dexterity 30Arrow

Oh, Calen is going to love these! She stored the arrows and sauntered over to where her friends were discussing the battle while recovering their mana and stamina.

“I found my fire bracelet!”

“Cool!” Malika said, grinning.

“I also found these,” she said, pulling out the bows. They were level fifteen and seemed to be reasonably well constructed. “Can you use them, Calen?”

“Unfortunately, they’re too small for me,” he said, with a rather sad look on his face. “Maybe Weldin will want them?”

“I’m sure he will,” Malika said, storing the bows with an acquisitive smile. “I can also ask him to keep an eye out for a decent bow in your size if you like, Calen.”

“That might be for the best,” he said, glumly. “Everything down here is sized for Kobolds.”

Ali grinned at him and produced her trump card. “What do you think of this?” She handed him a single Arrow of Accuracy, and, remembering he could not identify items, she shared the details with him.

Calen’s eyes went round with surprise. “Tell me you found more of these!”

Ali grinned at his excitement and retrieved the two quivers, handing him the rest of the arrows she had looted from the Kobolds.

He looks so happy! She watched his beaming face as he examined the enchanted arrows like a mother reunited with a lost baby.

“Would you… mind learning how to make these?” he asked. “I think they’re worth it. How many would you need?”

“I already have the general arrow imprint, so probably just three or four. It seems to depend on how difficult they are – or how different.”

With the delicacy of a man who couldn’t quite believe he was offering up treasures for casual destruction, Calen extracted four arrows and handed them to her, which she promptly deconstructed.

Variant: Arrow of Accuracy added to Imprint: Arrow.

“Got it.”

“Awesome,” Calen grinned, and mimed mopping his forehead.

“Three or four, huh?” Malika said from where she was sitting. “Here, why don’t you learn these, too?” She handed Ali the two daggers the rogue had been wielding and then retrieved two more from her ring that looked virtually identical.

“These are the Eimuuran Steel Daggers, are you sure? You said they were valuable.”

“It’s smarter for you to learn them. That way you can always make more once you know the pattern,” she said.

“Ok.” Malika was right, if she was able to learn them, and they were valuable, then they might become another resource she could make and sell, just like the arrows she had made for the garrison during the Goblin siege.

Variant: Eimuuran Steel Dagger added to Imprint: Dagger.

