Nodding, Baatar agreed with his Mentor’s assessment. Jochi and Argat were far too irresponsible, betrayed by their playful nature. “A difficult endeavour considering his past and... current circumstances.” Foolish child, his near-brush with becoming Defiled had turned everyone against him, in a time when he should have been celebrated as a hero. Even Gerel was affected by the reveal, heartlessly abandoned by his arrogant ‘Mentor’ for fear of becoming Defiled. In Baatar’s opinion, being Tainted as the boy described it was nothing to be concerned of, especially in light of the Heavenly Water’s ability to cleanse it.

A man or woman had no control over becoming Tainted since it hinged on the attentions of unseen Spectres. So what if Rain and Gerel had almost become Defiled? What matters is they didn’t and Rain now had a weapon to use against them. Except now those arrogant bastards refused to endorse Rain as a hero of the People, instead warning everyone to distance themselves from him in case word should ever spread or he truly turned to the Father. Though he’d yet to notice, Rain deserved better treatment after bringing so much glory to the People, returning home as the youngest Second Grade Warrant Officer in history not to mention his astounding accomplishment of forming his Natal Palace at seventeen years old, though that was still a secret to the world at large.

Hmph. How quickly their minds would change if they knew Rain’s drop of Heavenly Water was converting Spectres into Heavenly Energy, but Taduk had good reason to keep Rain from revealing it to anyone, even Akanai. A shame the droplet couldn’t do the same to Defiled, else Baatar would’ve long since sent Rain after the absent cowards.

When the tea was all finished, his mentor convinced him to join her for dinner. Reluctant to leave Sarnai in the care of servants, he kissed his sleeping wife and Sent a plea urging her to return to the living, but his efforts went unrewarded. Perhaps the Mother believed he had yet to suffer enough, but so long as Sarnai lived, he’d suffer anything She had in store for him.

The ten paces down the hall felt like an eternity away from his Sarnai, but waiting inside was a pleasant surprise. The members of his family both old and new greeted him with smiling faces, welcoming him as one, giant family. Husolt sat with Li Song and Sumila by the fireplace, helping the former win against the latter in a game of chess while Alsantset and Charok watched the twins play with the affectionate bears. Raising a cup of wine in greeting, Taduk poured Baatar a cup and indicated it’d be waiting for him, while Mei Lin cuddled and chatted with Rain in the corner. Unaware of their close brush with danger, the twins abandoned their games to greet him with delighted screams of ‘granpa’, running over to leap into his arms as the wildcats sniffed this rarely seen stranger. Giving his grandchildren a big kiss each, he gestured for Rain to come join them in a group embrace. Squeezing him tight, Baatar said, “I’m proud of you, boy. Not just for your victory today, but in everything you do.”

Swallowing hard, Rain joked, “Oh? Even my ‘daft’ attempts to feed the poor?”

“Yes, even that. I never belittled your intentions, only the practicality of your endeavours.”

“Well, isn’t today wonderful.” Breaking from the embrace, Rain grinned in undisguised delight as he pulled out a purse, bulging with the unmistakable rectangular shape of golden cards worth a hundred gold coins each. “Not only is my gruff Mentor praising me, but I also get to prove him wrong. Some generous soul left this donation for the school today, once again restoring my faith in humanity.”

“Good, good. I have never been so pleased to be wrong.” Gazing fondly at his gathered family, his heart wavered between joy and misery, happy to be here with his loved ones yet bitter he couldn’t share it with his wife.

In the middle of their meal, the door burst open as a panicked servant rushed in. “Sir! Sir! The Madame has awakened!”

The next thing he knew, he was kneeling at Sarnai’s side, holding her hand and crying as she ran her fingers through his hair. “Dog-brained fool,” she whispered, scowling something fierce. “How could you let everyone see me like this?”

She was awake. His beautiful wife, his thorny rose, was awake, hale and healthy as can be.

Rain was right. What a wonderful day.

Chapter Meme
