Seeing they were in no rush, he considered the situation he was in. As an outsider, he liked to make sure he understood the context of such weighty questions he might not instinctively account for.

Talents in this Realm were strange, given their quantified nature. They were also far more private. From the moment he entered this Realm, he was repeatedly warned not to share anything about his Talent. But if he was going to share, he should lie or keep things vague to not allow people to ferret out a weakness.

A statistic he had to check the veracity of stated, almost half of immortal pairings didn’t share their full Talents. That had seemed insane to Rah but he was never one to judge what he didn’t fully understand simply because it seemed strange. Most things had a reason behind them even if they weren't always logical to an observer.

Combining everything he knew about Talents, and seeing the effort they went through to protect this conversation, he assumed Matt’s Talent was far more impressive than he or possibly anyone else were speculating.

Wanting to give Matt a way to back out, he finally responded. “I must admit I’m curious, but I feel no need to pry into the information. But I take the question in the spirit it was offered, and let me thank you for showing so much trust in me.” While the Empire's culture didn’t place much emphasis on verbally acknowledging displays of comradery, Rah greatly preferred to remove any ambiguity. “So yes, I am interested in your Ta—”

Rah’s felt his words halt as mana started to pour out of Matt.

It was so much mana that his initial worry was that something had gone wrong and one of Matt’s enchantments was venting its reserves, but the amount of mana coming out of him was perfectly steady.

He knew Matt threw around a lot of mana, but hundreds of millions of mana flooded the room every moment. He also didn't move to grab any crystals from his storage ring.

There was so much mana it immediately saturated the air in their small box, giving everything a light blue tinge.

Rah was still recoiling from the sensory onslaught when he realized there was so much mana packed into such a tiny space, it was starting to spontaneously react with the little environmental mana that had been inside the room when it was sealed.

The small specks of elemental mana normally existing in ambient neutral mana reacted to the rising levels of mana, violently trying to cascade off each other. Bursts of flame. Droplets of water splashed before vanishing, bursts of wind ruffled air and clothes before dying out in the next instant. Stoney outcroppings rose, then fell, as the mana constituting them was dismantled faster than he could react.

With each passing moment more and more mana was being packed into the room and it  squeezed at Rah’s head in a way that reminded him of being sick. A room that he now realized was a mana isolating room first and foremost.

If they allowed the billions of mana to enter the rift, that much additional mana would cause the rift to Tier up the moment the rift instance ended. That would cause at least one rift break, if not dozens, as the mere Tier 12 rift sought to vent a planet's worth of mana.

When Rah felt mana starting to cling to his clothes he nodded for Matt to stop the demonstration.

“Okay, I understand.”

He didn’t, not really, and Matt seemed to understand that as the outpouring didn’t stop.

With a flick of his finger, Matt sent Rah a packet of information containing his Talent.

Rah’s [AI] simplified the backend math for him but he couldn’t help but stare in awe at the projections as he tried to quantity things into something he had more references for.

Six hundred and seventy-one million mana every second was a prize to be secured, but following the math to the peak of the Realm…

Rah thought he saw part of what Matt wanted him to understand.

With mana still pouring out of him, Matt fluctuated back to Rah, “I can’t stop moving forward, Rah, because I refuse to allow myself to become nothing more than a mana generator. I refuse all cages, even the gilded ones. I will help. I want to help, but I’ll do so on my own terms. Fair terms. My terms. That's why I push so hard. I can’t stop running forward but I do want to listen so I can run farther. I’d be lying if I said I never burn out, we all do, but we take a short break before going back at it. We have to. So, if you have advice on how not to burn out, we will all listen and try."

Rah was digesting the implications of his Talent but thankfully Matt stopped pouring mana into the room.

With a wave of his hand the mana in the room condensed into a sphere Aster grabbed and absorbed into her Talent space.

Finally able to think clearly, Rah understood why Matt hadn’t been willing to share before, not that he had minded.

He was just happy they were willing to listen, but now that he knew Matt’s Talent, he considered that was why everyone seemed willing to let the six prodigies race forward.

He felt things weren’t that simple but gave up trying to understand the higher Tiers’ thoughts.

What he had learned spoke well for the Emperor, and Rah’s opinion of the man went up several notches. Even in Rah’s Realm where mana wasn’t scarce, anyone would have caged Matt up the moment they knew his Talent.

Still, that amount of mana.

“So, is this where all of your mana comes from? I always thought the Concept cover story explained it all.” Rah tried to inject some levity to his spiritual perception fluctuations.

It seemed to break the atmosphere and everyone started adding their ‘voices’ to the conversation.

Rah had questions, many of them, and even asked a few using the opportunity to grow closer with these new friends.

Eventually, at Matt’s prompting which Rah appreciated as it showed he had taken Rah’s earlier conversation seriously, he explained what he thought the six needed to do.

“It boils down to living in the moment. As immortals, we can go into isolation forever but that's as foolish as never doing so. Moderation is key. Some people will operate under a normal mortal’s day-night schedule. For the people it works for, it works, but even I find that unrealistic most of the time. Most immortals I know in both Realms, instead let themselves work as much as they want. But when they aren’t actively working, they are fully engaged in the moment, knowing they might not do even something mundane for decades.”

Not wanting to insult anyone, he picked his example carefully. “Have you ever noticed how when any of the older immortals interact with people, they give them their full attention?”

Aster flicked her ears as she replied, “It's polite?”

Rah laughed. “Maybe. But I think that was a bad example. Look at how they act when they are outside a rift and outside of a seclusion. Did you ever wonder why half of Lila’s tales are of the moments with her friends and crew doing something stupid instead of being all about fights? They treat every second like it’s precious because to them, it’s not a single event out of an endless life, it's a singular event they might never get to experience again. Unless I’m entirely off the mark, it's for the same reason I do it. It's to keep myself attached to others and myself aware of who I am as time progresses. It’s about having an ‘eternal life’ that’s worth living.”

Thankfully the response was inquisitive.

Liz sent over a thoughtful sounding series of fluctuations. “My parents actually have talked about this before but they’ve never come out and said the why part out loud."

Zack responded with a feeling of agreement. “It would make sense. We inadvertently do a lot of things already, don't we Rah? We are unconsciously copying their coping mechanisms but not understanding the underlying principle.”

Aster flicked her tail pretending to pout. “I still think it's just called being polite!”

Allie immediately protested. “I’m going to yell at people who said slacking off isn't training! Rah why didn’t you Ascend when I was still on the Path to give me such words of wisdom?"

She was joking so Rah played along and apologized. But through the interaction, he thought he understood why they had been able to go for so long without seriously burning out. Pushing hard for a few hundred years sounded dangerous until he considered those years had been a large portion of their lives.

However doing so while having a peer, or peers in their cases, both being Ascender teams, seemed to spark a kind of friendly rivalry between the groups and Susanne. Everyone seemed determined to outshine the other while not letting anyone fall behind.

Powered by Matt’s mana.

It was a powerful combination but that only meant a bigger crash if they weren't careful.

Sighing Rah gave up his attempts at meddling and kept their earnestness in his heart.

Only time would tell if his words helped, but he was hopeful seeing them actively strategizing how to be more involved instead of writing his concerns off.
