That ice having been condensed from her raw mana would last for centuries on such a low-Tier world. While not a problem for the now dead creatures, it would cause complications with the frozen over rift.

If it was so easy to stop a rift from spilling monsters into reality, rift breaks would never be an issue.

The rift wouldn’t change locations until it was full and tried to expel a wave of monsters, so they had at least a few weeks judging on the exact mana levels, and they would be gone in a matter of hours rather than days.

If it wasn’t for the necessary gear repairs, as well as Rah wanting to give Evander and his people some hands-on guidance with his stabilizer formations, they wouldn’t have even set up camp, but Rah insisted.

A few hours delay wouldn’t kill them and they needed the time.

Matt’s assumption was proven wrong, as almost immediately Rah changed their plans.

“Repairs are going to take longer than expected so let's aim for an early morning departure time. Even better, once the repairs are done and everyone has settled down I can show you and your people how to operate my formations as well as share a few tips I’ve learned over the years about using them.”

Evander smiled, thanking Rah with an easy air Matt almost envied.

In that moment, he saw why Evander's movies always sold so well. Even covered in blood, the man’s smile looked genuine and full of warmth as he showed his appreciation.

As an experienced explorer, he would have assumed Evander had entered a breach before but the Tier 30 was young enough he couldn't be sure.

“Thank you and I will take you up on that. I’m no formation master so I ap—”

His attention was pulled away as Gan Le appeared in their clearing. Wincing, Matt almost felt bad for him as he was covered in a not-so-thin coating of ice.

The air crackled as the ice around Gan Le’s chest cracked and then crumbled to powder as he partly freed himself.

With clattering teeth he asked, “Why did you leave me in there for so long?!?”

Aster winced as she waved away the rest of the ice still clinging to him. “Sorry, I didn’t realize you had storage rings on. When we blew the formation, it destabilized the sky bridge, so I couldn’t risk taking you out inside.”

Gan Le’s irritation vanished as he looked around, seeing everyone else's condition.

His surprise seemed genuine and he thanked Aster and everyone else before sitting down on the ground.

“Much better. So, what's the new sapling? It's making the place colder. I also noticed it got colder the farther away I walked. That was a very unfortunate lesson. The ice herbs are pretty though.”

Instead of hovering around Aster and Gan Le like he was trying to chaperone, Matt got back to working on his mana situation.

He’d had a few ideas but now that they had a couple days to work on things he wanted to do some real world testing.

He was almost immediately pulled out of his initial practical tests by Rah who asked to talk to him alone.

Or not so immediately.

Looking around and seeing most of the crews sitting around a fire eating a light dinner and chatting, Matt was confused, but separated himself from the small circle of those working on active projects.

Rah had a surprisingly serious expression as he shaped them two stone chairs to sit on and surrounded it by a fairly complex isolation formation with a wave of his hand.

He then further confused Matt by asking, “Do you consider me a friend, Matt?”

Not sure if he had offended Rah somehow Matt fully focused on the conversation wanting to give his full attention as he replied. “Of course. I—”

Before he could finish Rah smiled and held up a hand. “Good, then please let me ramble for a moment.”

Seeing Matt wasn’t going to interrupt Rah continued with a smile. “I say this with the best of intentions and I mean no offence, but I’m worried about you. All of you in fact, but you in particular.”

Matt hadn’t known what to expect, but it wasn’t what he got.

His initial reaction was to assure Rah that he was fine but he held his tongue.

Rah smiled seeing Matt’s struggle as he continued. “I also consider the six of you friends, so let me say thank you. I was afraid of how things might go when I ascended to this Realm almost by accident, but I believe things have worked out for the best. But ultimately I am a foreigner, so maybe I’m wrong. Maybe I am simply looking at things without the proper perspective, but I don’t think I am.”

Rah took a deep breath before catching Matt’s gaze. “I’m worried about the six of you. My status as an outsider gives me a different perspective. Ascenders are… something I never would have considered possible. Even with my ascension bonus, I can barely keep up and I don’t consider myself average.”

Seeing Matt want to speak, Rah smiled and continued, “I’m not so easily rattled. Learning people are stronger than me is nothing new. My point is, I’ve seen a lot, I’ve experienced a lot. I’ve lived long enough that I've experienced the ups and the downs that come with immortality. I’ve even experienced what it’s like to have reached the pinnacle of a Realm, with next to nothing to oppose or challenge you anymore. Those experiences have given me some clarity. That is why I’m slightly worried for all of you.”

If the tone wasn’t wrong, Matt would have considered Rah to be joking around with him. “Do you ever take breaks? When was your last true break? When was the last time you let yourself fully relax?”

Matt was going to say he took a break the day before, when they had eaten dinner with the crew, but that was more a brief intermission than a break.

Not that Matt really understood what Rah’s issue was.

Remembering the first question of the conversation, Matt decided to forgo a more typical approach and speak plainly.

“I can’t remember. It's been a while, but I’ve been busy since the war ended. Between Tiering up and keeping all of my skills at a top level, I don’t have much time. You know why I need to get to Tier 35 sooner than later. Is that what you’re worried about, Rah? That I’ll burn out?”

Rah shook his head emphatically. “No. Or at least that is not my main concern. That would only be a symptom of the issue I’m raising. To sum up a very large debate I’ve had with myself recently, I believe because of your upbringing and positions, all six of you have missed some important life lessons. With your permission, I wish to spell them out because I see no reason why everything must be learned by one self. Maybe I’m wrong but my own morals demand I speak on it now that I have noticed it, or feel that I have betrayed the implicit trusts inherent to a friendship.”

Matt was still thoroughly confused at what problem Rah saw, but let the man speak his mind.

He was clearly acting in good faith and worried about Matt and the others. There was a good chance he wasn’t even wrong in what he wanted to say.

Rah took a deep breath before saying, “Ascenders work a lot. It seemed obvious but I noticed it in the strange realm thanks to your and Zack’s reactions to the world inside, but all six of you had nearly identical reactions. All of you younger immortals dismissed it.”

“I understand it was a busy time and the six of you were the main force but no one could even tempt you into a conversation about the world the strange realm had crafted. I was able to start at least a few interesting exchanges with most of the other five, but you were always working on something. Look out at the fires now. Everyone else is chatting but all six of you immediately went back to working on your own projects. You are sitting near us, but not with us.”

Rah steepled his fingers in a move Matt thought was instinctive because he didn’t seem to notice. “Now, let me be clear. I’m not saying working on projects isn't good, or that you shouldn't do it, but spending some time with the group is good too. Take it from an older immortal when I say, these are the moments that you will remember most fondly when the battle scars have healed and the loot has been spent. There will always be another battle, there will always be another Natural Treasure, our friends might not be at the next camp fire, whether they didn’t come along or died along the way.”

Matt had already learned that lesson with Eric but he was pretty sure mentioning his lost sponsor and friend would only prove Rah’s point, so he kept quiet. At the same time there was undeniably a level of worry that if he wasn’t strong enough he might lose another friend.

He either got stronger or stopped making friends and he refused to even consider going down that route.

Rah looked around before settling back on Matt. “This feels like a lesson everyone except the six of you have learned in this Realm, but I can’t figure out why no one has outright explained it. Maybe they are waiting for something, but every one of the older Ascender’s I’ve talked to more than once all seem to know, these adventures are irreplaceable and not to squander the small moments. I didn’t even consider it at first. It's easy to forget because of how fast you all advance, but you six haven’t already learned the lessons I would assume you have, given your Tier. And now that I’ve seen it I’m afraid if you guys don't learn these lessons soon you will find yourselves adrift and alone when you go looking for a life beyond advancement. I’ve seen such realizations tear people I thought indestructible down, and I don’t want to see it happen to any of you so I wanted to bring it up now that we can reasonably have some privacy.”

Matt knew he freaked Rah out by smiling, but he couldn’t help it.

“Thank you, Rah.”

Rah seemed as baffled as Matt had been earlier at the start of the conversation but he didn’t interrupt. “I genuinely mean it. Thank you, Rah. You are a good friend. And you're probably right about everything. It probably is a little unhealthy to work as hard as I do. I’d also love to know exactly what I could be doing better. You're probably more correct than you give yourself credit for. As Ascenders, we’ve been pushing as hard as we could for as long as we could since we joined the Path. If we didn’t drive ourselves at every opportunity, we never would have made it but it's no guarantee. Look at Susanne, she worked as hard as any of us and still wasn’t able to quite make it.”

Rah looked like he wanted to say something but Matt held up his own hand mimicking Rah’s earlier gesture. “Rah, do you consider me a friend?”

At Rah’s agreement, Matt called the others in their core group of seven and moved to the rift Aster initially froze over.

Any rift would work for this but they knew it had been frozen over for an instance cycle duration so they could skip the first step.

Seeing the others arrive but not understanding, Matt pointed to the rift saying only. “Security protocol 9.22.Echo.”

Silently, they walked over to the ice with Rah following along behind.

The others remaining at the camp scanned them a few times but once it was clear they wanted some privacy, they were left alone.

Once the seven of them were touching the ice, Aster grew it over them and they stood there frozen until the rift had enough time to cycle in case some had gotten inside before them. That would be hard given where they were, but it was part of the secure rift protocol and they needed to follow its directives for it to be effective.

After another cycle Aster melted them out of the ice, allowing them to walk into the rift one at a time, finishing with herself.

Once she entered the rift, she then encased the entrance distortion in ice. It would give them another layer of warning should anything try to follow them inside the rift instance as they waited.

Still without speaking, Zack and Matt formed and enchanted an isolation room while everyone else guarded the entrance.

Once they were sure no one could easily enter the rift, they went through a series of spells to remove any foreign influence that might be sticking onto them. Then they went through the same steps again, this time checking each other over.

Rah seemed baffled but they weren't done and he followed along with the next steps without complaint.

Only once they were confident no one was able to listen in on them did they enter the room and sit down holding hands. Skin to skin spiritual perception was the most secure way they could speak but necessitated their seating arrangements.

Knowing he needed to do it, Matt started things off. “Rah, let me thank you for what you said earlier. Honestly there are probably a lot of merits in your words. But I’m not sure how much I can follow the letter behind your goodwill. I need to advance, to grow stronger, as fast as possible without making myself weaker. A war is most likely inevitable and I refuse to only be an asset to be protected when things inevitably leak.”

Before Rah could ask any questions Matt pointed at himself not letting the slight tremor of his nerves show through. “Have you ever wondered what my Talent is, Rah?”

***

Rah had been expecting many reactions when he decided to speak with the Ascenders immediately upon entering the breach. Knowing Matt, Rah had expected either the largest struggle or the easiest time with him. Hoping for the latter, he prepared for the former and pulled him aside first.

He’d thought things had been going well until only moments after he started their conversation, he was pulled inside a rift.

Hearing that question made him reconsider everything including his earlier assumptions.

Was he wrong? Had they already seen the dangers and were proceeding forward regardless?

Given Matt’s initial response, he doubted that, and instead pondered what else that question might mean.

