Chapter 458

Matt cursed as one of the slivers of shattered space carved a path through his chest. He sprinted with everyone else trying to escape the collapsing tunnel behind them, which threatened to spit them out back into chaotic space.

He was more surprised than hurt, as the fragments of unstable space were stupidly hard to block in normal times but they cut without any enchantments or additional effects that would make healing harder.

If they were on a planet and he encountered such attacks [Cracked Phantom Armor] and stabilizing space around him would have been enough to destroy all of the blades but they weren’t on a planet and Matt couldn’t cast anything external without risking their lives.

They were supposed to be efficiently loping through a stable sky bridge. Instead, they were running with their full power though a collapsing spatial tunnel as they desperately tried to keep themselves from being ejected into the third layer chaotic space.

If that happened, they would undoubtedly die, torn apart by the much more dangerous energies.

So, they ran, despite the sky bridge’s resistance to such fast movements, their only goal to outrace the gaping maw of emptiness behind them.

Already fully healed, Matt was cut a dozen more times in short order, relying on Allie to dissipate any of the slivers that might hit someone else's brain.

Matt with his healing, together with Liz and her many clones, took the lead, using their bodies to carve a path through the collapsing tunnel for everyone else.

The spatial blades were incredibly sharp, as well as being nearly invisible until they cut something. Finding them with their bodies made it much easier for everyone else to close the rents with their Domains.

Without being able to use outward skills for fear of making things worse they used their bodies relying on their own internal healing abilities to keep going.

Allie’s voice was piercing as she called out and broke their silent exertions. “Wave!”

Focusing every portion of his Domain, Matt joined Allie in carefully stabilizing space directly in front of them. Everyone else, led by Aster, focused on keeping the spatial tunnel they were running through from unraveling any further.

Together they stabilized space at everyone's head's level, accepting the physical damage as they passed through what felt, to him, like a near solid wall of fractured space. His chest and legs almost looked as if he had fallen into a blender but his head remained untouched.

His and Liz’s wounds ensured the others weren't caught off guard.

They had known blowing the stabilizer up would be dangerous, but their last minute additions had made things far worse than they expected, leading to their current predicament.

Rah had prepared them to expect a few such ‘spatial blades’ when they broke the stabilizing formation, but they had made a near fatal mistake in their final adjustments.

Matt let Rah’s confident words replay in his mind once more, even as he felt himself get cut multiple times.

“I know it's not something to boast about, but I’ve used this tactic many, many times before to escape pursuit. Even if they had the Tier 25 formation in hand, it would take at least a month for the sky bridge’s connection to settle down enough to create another. One or two spatial blades and we won’t have to worry about them once we cross the halfway point.”

Instead, they were sprinting through a narrow hallway packed with knives only visible to careful spiritual perception inspection. Each and every fissure threatened to pierce a brain and end someone's life but Allie, thankfully, was able to easily ‘see’ them and her efforts had gotten them through the hectic few initial moments.

Their problem came from the fact they hadn’t accounted for Gan Le’s storage rings when they entered the sky bridge. They hadn’t known he was still carrying his normal spatial rings when Aster grabbed him.

They had only accounted for their own storage items being empty, along with Evander Vidal and his team's.

Together they were well under the limit.

Gan Le, having not been briefed on the plan, had been carrying all of his normal, and therefore large, spatial rings. Even inside Aster’s Tier 25 Talent spirit space, his rings had affected the sky bridge’s stability.

With the stabilizer, things had been fine, there had only been cracks on the sky bridge wall. But once its influence was removed, his additional rings shattered the sky bridge. If they had been ejected into chaotic space it would have been through a storm of space turbulence fissures so large and so closely packed that only Matt, Liz, and Gan Le had any hope of survival.

Thankfully Rah did have countless experiences on sky bridges and quickly got everyone to assist Allie in manually stabilizing the tunnel and slowing down the collapse.

With the sky bridge unraveling behind them, they were forced to press ahead as fast as possible, regardless of the spatial blades and diminishing returns on their speed.

“We are nearly at the halfway point. Things should be more stable after that!”

Rah’s words reinvigorated them and they pushed through the wall of blades.

Thankfully, he was correct.

Once they reached the halfway point things instantly eased up.

The tunnel stopped collapsing, now entirely reliant on the planet they were going to. Best of all, the spatial fissures were far closer in number to what Rah had originally predicted in the second half.

Following Rah’s lead, they continued on high alert for a little while longer before they returned to a more casual pace that covered only slightly less distance.

Turning his attention to Aster, Matt raised an eyebrow as he privately messaged her trying to probe. “So, Gan Le?”

Aster rolled her eyes at him, seeing straight through his act.

“Don’t give me that. We are friends and when he saw us, he begged for an out. How could I say no.” Her reply was backed up by her opening their bond so her emotions were obvious and it was clear she wasn’t lying.

In return, he did the same. It was good manners, and together they let their emotions bleed into each other’s more than usual.

That didn’t mean he believed Gan Le begged for a way out, but he could see the man asking. As someone who hated being put in command of such large things, Matt understood the desire, but he was also pretty sure that wasn’t all that was going on.

Letting the silence speak for him, Aster finally sighed. “We are friends.”

Feeling his disbelief through their bond she added, “Really, that's it. We get along together, but we are from different Great Powers. Neither one of us is willing to defect. Well, Gan Le said he’s considered it, but given how badly higher-Tier defectors are treated most of the time, I can’t blame him for not doing so. So, we have agreed to keep things friendly when we can hang out. We try not to let political differences get involved.”

Matt was going to say how much all of that sounded like excuses when she added.,“At the same time, we agreed we aren’t waiting for each other or anything so dramatic. Neither owes the other anything.”  Shrugging, she casually finished, “If we are both still single when we are looking to Ascend, we might give it a shot when we can put the Great Powers below us. But that's too far to really say. So currently, I’m simply helping a friend get out of a predicament and nearly getting all of us killed in the process."

Knowing he couldn’t prevent her from getting hurt, Matt didn’t press any more. Instead they walked in comfortable silence, letting their bond and emotions express themselves.

She’d be fine. Not because of anything he could do, but because Matt could feel she wasn’t searching for romance. She was perfectly content remaining single and wouldn’t settle for anything less than her ideal partner.

He almost felt bad for that, knowing his and Liz’s early romance had probably influenced her as much as her monogamous fox instincts.

Laughing, Aster changed to a group message. “Sorry about that but I think it will be worth it to secure the services of the Sects’ best tank. Gan Le has, in exchange for his freedom from my spirit space, agreed to help guard our supports. I did agree that he gets anything directly useful to him at a reduced priority, so if we need an item we don’t have to feel bad. He also gets taken into any strange realms the crew is taken into but I felt that was fair and didn’t cost us anything. That's it! No full split of the loot or anything. Oh yeah, he also intends to Tier up if he can, so he might even prove useful!”

Given that they were still early Tier 29s themselves and that Gan Le wasn’t too far from being able to break through, she wasn’t wrong.

If they weren’t afraid of opening Aster’s spirit space on the sky bridge, Matt would have already let Gan Le take the lead instead of himself and Liz.

The news did make him reconsider Gan Le begging Aster to escape. If he was willing to agree to such a lopsided deal, he might have been that desperate.

Poking her through their bond only earned him a return jab but Matt didn’t push any more than that, knowing Aster could protect herself. Not every immortal remained permanently monogamous as mortals often did, but he knew she wanted what she wanted.

Gan Le wasn’t that bad of a friend so long as they didn’t meet on the battlefield.

Matt was sure Aster could reliably capture Gan Le now that they knew his biggest weakness, but the thought made him question how the two had become such close friends when he had seen nearly all of their interactions.

Following that thought, Matt returned to their private chat and asked, “How do you even talk to each other? There is no way the normal messaging system would work without everyone knowing you two were in contact."

Aster's laugh was far more devious as she responded, “Gan Le has asked the same question many times and I’ll tell you what I tell him. I am all powerful! In reality, I’ve bypassed most of the security checks and set up a system to only send the messages when it's clear to do so. We don’t talk that much and we don’t talk about anything we don’t care about getting seen. As for non-digital things, well, I can’t share everything now, can I?”

“So you have Allie teleport them in?”

Aster immediately blew out a raspberry. “Wrong! Don’t bother guessing again. You’ll only remain wrong or get more wronger.”

Normally Matt would have interpreted that as her admitting to the method but through their still fully open bond, he could feel she wasn’t.

Poking the bond to make sure she wasn’t using an illusion to trick him, he found only smug satisfaction as she caught him checking.

Reaching out and grabbing Aster, he pulled her into a one armed hug. “Don’t get hurt.”

Instead of a flippant answer she sighed. “I wish I could find the person who could really hurt me.”

Matt let the topic fade, instead listening to Rah as he gave Evander and his group a rundown on how to cross sky bridges.

Evander, still covered in blood, took up a rear defense for the less resilient mages in the middle. He nodded along to everything Rah said like a chicken rather than a dignified and celebrated explorer.

Having already heard everything Rah was sharing and more, Matt looked over their five members of the Unsparing’s crew, ensuring none of them had any lingering issues. While bloody, they had all made it through alive, and magical healing could fix everything else once they were off the sky bridge.

Evander’s crew was larger than theirs but everyone was still alive. They didn’t even look mad for getting them into the sticky situation, which was a bonus.

Any deaths might have changed their stance, and he would have had a hard time arguing. Things had worked out, but it had been closer than any of them intended and that was how people died.

Thankfully the second half of the sky bridge was a relative walk in the park. While he wasn’t used to spending hours walking between planets, he could see how useful this would be to people who would have otherwise been trapped in a single universe or star system.

A two hour jog meant little within that frame of reference.

Matt had never doubted Rah’s information, but now they weren’t in danger, he decided to test things. Varying his own speed, he found what Rah said about ‘resistance’ to hold true. The faster he ran, the less he sped up.

What Rah hadn’t said, was that the effect seemed to be Tier agnostic. All of them moved at roughly the same speeds, but the seven Tier 29s had a relatively easier time moving than the Tier 30s who should have been less restricted, not more.

Running through a spatial tunnel, there was little in the way of distance, but he was pretty sure they were now moving no faster than a Tier 5 would be able to on a typical planet at a dead sprint. Earlier, they had proven they could go faster, but the effort expended was orders of magnitude higher.

That went over a dozen interesting implications if he was correct, but none of them mattered as they jogged, so he kept his thoughts to himself. They’d be more relevant to Allie anyway and he already knew how full her plate was.

Almost before he knew it, they were done. Exiting the sky bridge was nothing like entering it had been.

Reality seemed to unpack itself around them as they walked forward, one fold at a time. That disorienting effect lasted until they were standing on the ground next to a near picturesque glen. The valley was mottled with lush, untouched grasses and clusters of trees huddled together as if for protection.

Ruining the atmosphere, a pack of Tier 12 kobolds noticed them and attacked on sight.

A flick of Aster’s fingers turned them into sculptures, along with the rift itself.

