Limbs and guts now fell onto the square as the last of the creatures dropped. A wave of air reached them. She looked at the three survivors and pointed in the direction of their group. “Team up and move to the harbor.” She crouched, and jumped, landing on a nearby house before she ran and vanished from their view.

“Stroke of good luck for once,” John said and motioned for them to move, waving at the adventurers. Veron saw the last of the separated limbs fall and blinked, looking up to try and spot their expedition leader.

“Gold team, the Honored Few,” John greeted.

“Gold team, no name. Move to the harbor?” The man wore heavy plate, torn near his stomach and left leg, bandages visible below. Blonde hair peeked out of his helmet.

“Yes, who will take lead?” John asked.

“You,” the runic mage said with an exhausted voice. “We lost most of our unit.”

“Much of ours is gone too. The way back is crowded. Let’s hope some of the Platinum ranks made it to the harbor.” John said.

When they passed the square and a few more alleys, Veron could see the airship hovering in the distance, arrows and spells flying down from it.

“That’s the direction of the harbor,” Silvie said. She sounded anxious.

“It is,” John said. “Stay focused, move quietly. It’s not far.”

Veron tried to ignore the hundreds of corpses they walked past, the faraway shouts and screams he occasionally heard, the pressure of the curse, and the smell of death all around. Grounding with his earth magic helped, but even then, he was reminded that everything was poisoned and cursed. He felt scared, for himself, and for the others. For Silvie, Reka, and Hayden. After everything that happened, he didn’t want it to end here, not for himself, and not for them.

Focus. One step at a time. You’ll get out of this, and then we leave this fucking chaos to people like Silea Mera.

Slowly, they advanced towards the harbor, trying not to attract any of the creatures stalking the buildings and alleyways. He could see the ships now, some of them drifting without anyone to steer them, a few smaller boats washed up against the stone foundation of the harbor. A breeze moved past, the winds more present here, and yet the lake itself looked almost smooth.

They crossed a last street and reached the harbor. The expedition forces had set up a perimeter, with stone walls, wagons, and carts, adventurers manning the defenses and pushing back against the creatures rushing them.

A team of gold ranked fighters rushed towards them as they approached, healers checking for injuries before they ushered them to climb over the defenses.

“They were waiting in many of the houses, some groups counting as many as twenty. The central division was almost wiped out,” one of the healers shouted over the sounds of battle. “We have orders to regroup at the harbor and evacuate anyone below gold rank in the cover of the command ship. Most of the local vessels were left untouched, though some contained chaos beasts as well.”

Veron looked up when a lance flew up and struck the airship. It wobbled slightly but stayed in the air. Another lance was stopped by magic. He focused and climbed over the large wagon that was part of the defensive perimeter, using the rope someone threw him.

The harbor was littered with the dead. It looked like many of the monsters weren't willing to engage the organized group, but more of them were rushing through the dark and towards them, dodging arrows and bolts before they hid away again.

Veron and their group were hurried onto a more traditional ship, a crew setting up the sails. A gold team was waiting on board, as were dozens of iron and silver adventurers, all in a mixed state of shock and injury.

“The back lines were overrun. They picked off smaller groups and then amassed to cut off our retreat,” the gold team leader said. “The river bridges are covered in them. We'll be going east and make for Anvakar while the higher leveled Paths hold them off and join us on foot.”

A loud crash came from the square on the harbor, a near three meter tall humanoid monster had broken through a stone wall protecting the adventurers. It shrugged off arrows and blood magic bolts, swatting aside a plate armored warrior who charged it. More of the creatures were rushing in through the opening.

A large chunk of rock flew up from somewhere in the city, slowed by magic but still striking the airship and making it veer to the side.

“We're going to die,” one of the nearby adventurers said.

“We're preparing to leave! Take anyone with us who can join!” the leader shouted.

The large monster was advancing, arms as broad as trees, a single horn growing out of a disfigured skull.

What the hell is that.

A single figure in black scale armor advanced through the battling chaos and crashed into the massive being, dodging its blows and striking back with punches of all things.

Veron looked down into the water and saw some of the monsters swimming towards their boat. He called out but others were already shouting, the sails now catching wind as the gold team leader called for those fighting on the harbor to come onto the ship.

“They're climbing up!” One of the others shouted.

“Get in formation!” John shouted and raised his sword.

Many of the others joined him, some stayed frozen or curled up on the deck of the ship.

Veron could see a horde of the creatures advance through the main road leading to the harbor.

We never had a chance.

He glanced at the others of his team, bit his lip, and readied his mace. Arrows, bolts, and his stone blades cut Into the monsters that jumped on board, the creatures upon them with fast steps and lithe movements. Claws cut through steel and thrown bricks dented in armor. Chains and runic magic slowed and stopped the creatures while the others attacked.

Veron screamed and struck the closest creature with his mace, blood splattering onto his face, someone else stabbing the creature through its skull. He blocked a hit coming from his left, the claws cutting through his wooden shield before the force ripped it away. He watched chains catching the creature, wolves rushing its legs before a bolt slammed its head to the left.

Another monster rushed past and tackled the adventurer next to him. Veron rushed forward and tackled it away, managing to divert its blow before he was on top of it, a sword stabbing into its skull as claws cut into his armored arms. He ripped himself free and staggered back, barely holding onto his mace as he breathed heavily, a silver rank stabbing into the monster he had downed.

The others were killing the last of the beasts, gold ranks charging left and right, blood lances and explosions staggering the remaining monsters.

The ship creaked as it pulled out of the harbor and onto the Terrom lake.

Veron could barely stand up straight when the last creature fell, breathing hard as he looked for another enemy. He fell down to one knee, his mace clattering to the wooden floor. The harbor was already fifty meters away, and they were pulling away fast, past the stranded ships.

He could see that the battle was still raging, watching with ragged breaths. There were so many of the creatures and only few remained of their own. The airship was pulling away, flying northwards as more rocks and debris were thrown up towards it.

Many of the others checked the outside of their ship, giving the all clear some few minutes later. By now, they could no longer hear the fighting at the harbor, the city of Perrion looking more and more quiet in the green tinged distance overcast by black clouds.

Veron felt his vision blur. He stumbled to the railings and puked into the lake. He wasn't the only one. The expedition had failed. They wouldn't make it to Lyrie, nor to Leiveen. Not that he had a lot of hope left for those cities now that he had seen what had happened to Perrion.

Cursed and dead. Humans changed and mutated… is that what it was? Is that what the spell did?

“Bring the injured to us!” one of the adventurers called out. A man clad in battered steel armor. They were collecting the dead monsters for extraction as well.

Veron found his team and walked over, seeing the corpses on the deck, people screaming or crying next to the dead, now that no monsters were pursuing them anymore. The Silver Wolves were alive, and for that, he was grateful.

He fell into a hug from Silvie, wincing at the pain in his arms.

“Let me see if I have enough left in me to take care of that,” Hayden said.

“You should focus on those with worse injuries,” Veron said. His voice sounded flat.

“There are no more of them left,” Reka said in a sober voice. “What have we walked into… what were those creatures. They took out gold ranks as if they were foot soldiers.”

“I can't believe we made it out,” Silvie murmured. “Lyrie…”

“There’s nothing we can do to help. Let’s hope the walls did something,” Reka said, but the bitterness she felt was obvious. Most likely, Lyrie had fallen.

Hayden cleaned the deep cuts in Veron’s arms. He’d been lucky no major arteries had been hit. “I’ll find you a corpse to extract, if there are any left.”

There were, and Veron laid one of them to rest.

The wounds healed but he felt little relief. His head was pounding at this point. The deck of the ship was chaos, all the order and organization they had shown back before Perrion was gone. It was a wonder the ship was sailing, some few more experienced fighters keeping it together to make sure they stayed on the right course.

By now, the walls of Perrion were no longer visible. Their group was sitting on the deck and close to each other, blood covered and exhausted. Veron blinked his eyes, closing them to try and push away the weight of the magic in the air but it only made it worse. He felt itchy and disgusting, and he didn't know if it was the magic or everything else.

“Do you think the magic turned them into those beasts?” he asked, blinking his eyes as he remembered the burnt smell back at the first inn they cleared.

“I'm thinking that's what happened. Either that or the creatures were summoned or created by the magic. If they amass and attack Anvakar…” Reka murmured.

“Can we stop talking about them?” Silvie said. “Let's just focus on getting back.”

They were quiet, the winds out here on the lake more present than back in the forest, but it was dark despite the early hour. Looking south, Veron narrowed his eyes when he saw a flash of green light. He hoped it wasn't more curse magic making its way towards them, but nothing happened and a few minutes later, he focused back on the rocking boat and the creaking sounds of wooden masts.

Connecting to the winds was difficult, and it felt as if they were pulling him anywhere but here.

They sailed for hours, the various remaining team leaders discussing where to land, finally deciding on a nondescript strip of shore between Perrion and Karlsbrugg. The roads would lead them northwards and they hoped the creatures weren't hunting in the forests.

Veron felt numb. He thought back to the conversation they had about joining the expedition, thought back to the grand words of Silea Mera, the confidence he’d felt, to be joining these people in a fight. It felt ridiculous now, having seen the monsters left behind by this curse, and yet they hadn't known.

We even took a few of them down. Lady Mera cut through them with such ease. Maybe if they had planned a different approach, had tried to lure the creatures out.

That line of thinking isn't going to help. We lost. Most of the expedition is dead.

He breathed in deep, hoping that they could make it through the forest, and out of these forsaken lands.

The first Expedition.

We should have stayed in Anvakar.
