It was interesting that my perception got high enough to see which personalized AI was making my statuses. That being said, the Hybridized Sentinel lost in its mental war, so it banged its chest with its spear. A vast echo rippled across the landscape as mana flooded through its tear in dimensions. Like Lehesion before him, a sacrificial ritual empowered this being beyond its limits, and it radiated with energy.

Rearing back its spear, it let out a swipe that launched out a dimensional wave. It tore across the blue core's defenses, leaving cracks in the hexagonal barrier. Before it swiped again, I propelled myself towards the attack. Reaching out a hand, the slice snapped against my palm, unable to harm me. I gripped the slicing energy, draining it. The Sentinel leaned back from my presence, and I glared at the poor sap stuck in that armor.

It telepathically linked to me, speaking on conversational terms,

"Ah, it's you again. The so-called Harbinger."

It was someone I wasn't familiar with, but that didn't matter. Staring them down, I roared back, "You're going to die here...You know it. That meat puppet can feel it."

The Sentinel they controlled trembled, but its psionic controllers repressed its urge to run. My armor grinned, "I cannot wait until after I'm able to reach you all."

The voice replied, "You will never be able to find us."

I shot a mental bombardment it's way, just a raw burst of will. The mind's resolve wavered as I gripped my hands into fists harder than iron,

"I will, and when I do, there'll be nowhere left to run."

It feigned confidence, but I pressed on,

"Have you ever thought about how fragile you are? One pulse of so many different forces, and you die. It's a miracle you can even survive, but you still chose to make me your enemy."

It replied, "We've made far greater enemies than you, like Schema."

I narrowed my eyes, "Schema hides on an unseen planet while I fight on the frontlines, and I do so without fear of death or failure. I can walk across stars without burning, and I can drift across the cosmos without breathing. They do me no harm, not them nor the monsters you wield."

"Those monsters will be the death of you and your guild."

"But they are only monsters to you. See, unlike Schema, I need not hide, for I can face anyone in battle. Unlike Elysium, I need no puppets, for the body I wield is invulnerable."

Event Horizon crept towards the creature as I seethed,

"You, you may bide your time, but know that I am eternal."

The runes across my armor shined crimson,

"And I will find you."
