Dismissing her people with a wave of her hand, Li Song remains rooted in place and chews her lower lip. If I’m being honest, it’s super hot, but I can’t afford to think like that, not while I hold all the power. Knowing why she stayed behind, I hand Mama Bun and Pong Pong over and smile as she nuzzles the confused and sleepy Mama Bun, who gives her new handler a sniff before going back to sleep. Unwilling to be separated from his adopted mommy, Blackjack hops off of my head and lands lightly atop Li Song’s, his tiny body barely sinking into her silken brown hair.

So young and already Lightening, truly not all animals are equal.

Also, stop having weird thoughts about Li Song. I thought I had things figured out between us. She’s my Martial Aunt who sometimes misunderstands my actions and intentions, but that’s okay. We were usually cool so long as I kept my distance, but now, things are different. Even though I’ve been wearing Li Song’s chain for an entire week, it still feels heavy around my neck, a mental burden and overwhelming responsibility I wasn’t ready for. What I want to know the most is, what changed her mind? Why did she all of a sudden decide she could trust me? Did she overcome her fear of me on her own or was it something I said and/or did? If it’s the latter, what was it so I don’t fuck this up?

“A word of advice?” Li Song’s request interrupts my pensive indecision and I idly note yet another change in our dynamic. She never used to ask for permission, but recently she’s been more cautious about speaking. After I nod for her to continue, she grimaces and says, “It’s about our manner of address. I have been pondering the matter for some days now, and have decided it is not in your best interests to continue in this informal manner.” Her nose wrinkled in displeasure, Li Song spits the word out like she finds it offensive. “In public, you should not address me as ‘Martial Aunt’. It sets a poor precedent for morale and discipline. The soldiers must adhere to the chain of command and addressing me as your senior may cause unnecessary confusion.”

She spent days pondering this? That’s... so... cute! Clearing my throat to keep from laughing, I reply, “Okay. So what should I call you in public?”

“By military regulation, I am a team leader and you are the commanding officer, so I think it’s best if we addressed each other as such.”

“Sounds good, Team Leader Song. May I still call you Martial Aunt in private?”

Her ears aflutter, Li Song solemnly grants me permission with a stately nod. “If that is all Commander, then this Team Leader shall depart.”

Ah fuck it. Just say it. “Ah, one more thing.” Though her back is already ramrod straight, she somehow straightens up even more, her eyes widening ever so slightly in alarm. Too late to abort now. “I’ve noticed Dragon Squad has never taken the second night shift. Why is that?”

“Ah.” Obviously nervous, Li Song shifts and places Mama Bun directly between us before answering, “This Team Leader took it upon herself to arrange things so. As the commanding officer, I thought it would be best if you remained as well-rested as possible.”

“The sentiment is appreciated, but unnecessary.” Stopping myself before I pat her arm, I awkwardly lower my hand and continue, “I wouldn’t ask my soldiers to do anything I’m not willing to do.”

Blinking in surprise, Li Song slowly nods and says, “Yes... You wouldn’t.”

After a few seconds of agonizing silence, I cough and scratch my neck while carefully choosing my words. If only I could destroy the chain and Li Song’s Oath along with it, but that would only tie us together permanently. “Er, that’s all I have to say. I should get to supervising.” Perfect. No commands or demands at all, leaving her free to do whatever she wants.

“Yes Commander.” As she marches off, I realize I’m staring at her butt and avert my gaze, but the sight has already been engraved in memory. Less peach and more pear, her curvy posterior sits nicely atop two shapely thighs, an enchanting sight if I ever saw one. With her striking green eyes, long, braided ponytail, flawless, olive skin, and ample bosom, Li Song is a stunning beauty and exactly the type of woman I used to dream about. While Lin, Mila, Yan, and Luo-Luo are all beautiful in their own way, and I love the first three with all my heart, if we’re talking physical appearance and nothing else, Li Song is the only person I know who checks all my boxes.

Tall, leggy, toned, and busty. Perfection...

...

Well... Akanai and Yuzhen also fit the bill, but that’s it.

...

Dammit, Alsantset is also exactly my type, as well as Tanaraq and Tursinai, but I could never see any of them like that. Especially Tursinai, she’s too cheery and sociable for us to ever have a relationship. Plus, she’s married. And more than a little crazy.

...

Now that I think about it, Zian’s mom is also my type. For a human woman, she’s really kept things together. She’s older than Zian’s uncle, but when they stand next to each other, they look more like father and daughter than brother and sister. It would never happen, but wouldn’t it be funny if we got hitched? I’d be Zian’s step-father and Jia Yang’s brother-in-law. God, it might be worth it just to see the looks on their faces when I tell them the good news...

A piercing whistle puts an end to my indecent daydreaming as I track the source, a modified, blunted arrow used by the scouts to provide advanced warning to the camp. A clever piece of work if I say so myself, though it was harder to craft a working prototype than I thought. I should send word to Charok when we get back to SuiHua, I’m sure he’ll have plenty of advice to offer -

Focus, idiot. We’re under attack. A big one too, or else Jorani – no, Erkin wouldn’t bother waking the entire camp. Finally, a real challenge. Maybe this time, there’ll even be a decent Champion to test my skills against. Oh, and I should also practice my Beyblade Aura, and maybe even shoot someone with Unity. So many things to practice and so few targets, trials and tribulations abound.

Chapter Meme
