Spinning from the ocean, the Citizen met Rain’s gaze. “Citizen Halfstone, who has made the treaty her whole personality despite it having been signed hundreds of years before she was born by someone she isn’t even related to other than by the legacy of her Mantle, would like me to tell you that section five, subsection three, paragraph eighteen of the treaty states,” Barstone paused to breathe, “‘Henceforth, while the signatories are not unconditionally bound by this document to an arrangement of mutual defense as defined in section two, subsection two, any signatory engaged in conflict with any non-signatory power or individual is entitled to the non-interference of other signatories regarding the furtherance of that conflict. This non-interference prohibits denial of free travel; as defined in section two, subsection seven; granting fugitive asylum to the conflicting party; as defined in section two, subsection eighteen; suspension of basic hospitality and shelter rights; as defined in section two, subsection four; so on and so forth, blah, blah, blah; and withholding of information or resources pertinent to the aforementioned conflict when such withholding does not meaningfully endanger the signatory not engaged in said conflict.’”

The Citizen looked up again at the ocean, then spread his arms wide. “Happy?”

Rain grimaced, unsure how to respond to that. Unfortunately, despite trying, he’d yet to locate an actual copy of the treaty. He only knew as much as most Guilders, the essential parts being spread through word of mouth.

Barstone stepped forward, his eyes still fixed on Rain as he waved a hand. “In this instance, the ship that you claim to have captured from the Empire of Adamant clearly falls within the definition of ‘information or resources pertinent to the aforementioned conflict.’ Thus, you, as a signatory in your capacity as a member of the Guild, and again in your capacity as a Custodian of the Watch, must turn the ship over to the DKE as demanded by the non-interference provision of the treaty.”

“If I could just—“ Rain began, but Barstone cut him off with an angry slash of his hand.

“The right to appeal any interpretation of the treaty is only granted to those of similar standing within the internal structure of a signatory organization. That means not you. Halgrave the Golem, as a goldplate of the Adventurers’ Guild, would have the right to tender such an appeal, and thus it was he to whom I wished to speak.” He raised a single finger. “Until, of course, you were so kind as to confirm that he has no interest in this matter.” His eyes rose to a point over Rain’s right shoulder. “No, Halfstone, I don’t need to tell him what ‘team’ means according to section two. Stop talking, or I will close the connection.“

His eyes shifted left further. “Yes, Kepar, I mean it.”

...

“You get her to shut up then.”

...

“Yes, I know this is important, and I wouldn’t be talking to you at all if I wasn’t so concerned about—

...

“Well, why don’t you just teleport over here and talk to them yourselves?” Barstone spun away, waving his hands as he continued. “Just because your city is on the front line—”

[Rain, we have another problem,] Ameliah sent, dragging Rain’s focus away from the ranting Citizen. [Nails says V is awake and listening to all this. She is NOT happy.]

Rain only just managed to stop himself from swearing aloud. Filth!

[Citizen ⟬filth⟭!]

[Behave, Dozer!]

“Um,” an unexpected voice said, and Officer Sana stepped forward. Dozer jiggled fiercely in her arms, intent on Barstone and bristling with hostility.

“Oh, what do you want?” Barstone snapped.

Rain listened with half an ear as Sana started arguing with the Citizen on his behalf, more concerned with what Ameliah had just told him.

If I can’t get Barstone to leave, Velika might attack, and then we’re boned. That line he quoted from the treaty specifically mentioned harboring fugitives. We’re in violation. Should we hand her over? If we don’t—

[V has Mahria by the neck, now,] Ameliah said. [She’s threatening to kill everyone on board if you turn her in. Halgrave just took out his hammer. Nails is going to wake Tallheart. We have to do something before this blows up.]

Frantically, Rain double-checked his spell settings, confirming that Force Ward was configured with Ethereal Aura. It was, but there was a lot of metal between him and where he sensed Velika below, and the skill wasn’t maxed. Besides, it was Velika.

Samson had joined the argument now, citing some precedent from some war Rain had never heard of, Vanna standing beside him. Tarny, meanwhile, hovered anxiously at Rain’s elbow, his hand resting on the pommel of a sword that he barely knew how to use.

“ALL OF YOU, STOP!”

Rain was almost as surprised as everyone else to realize that he’d been the one to shout.

Citizen Barstone turned to him slowly, seeming almost amused. “Oh? You have something to say, Captain?”

“Just because you’re strong, it doesn’t mean you can just take what you want!” Rain screamed, marching forward and shoving a finger in Barstone’s face. “Treaty this, treaty that... You’re just a bully! You think you can just intimidate people? Push them around? Threaten to kill them if they don’t comply? I won’t allow it!”

Barstone snorted, slapping Rain’s finger away. “I don’t recall threatening to kill anyone, but okay. You won’t allow it? You? A silver? Ha. Tell me, how do you intend to stop me from taking exactly what I want?”

Rain continued, furious, his tirade directed as much at Velika as to the Citizen before him. “We are not your enemies! We are allies against the Empire! Can’t you see that? Ascension took out two Incarns, for crying out loud! You should be thanking us, not trying to steal our shit like a petty thief! While we were fighting the Empire, where were you? Sitting on a cushion in your palace!?” Well past caring, Rain looked straight down through the deck at Velika. “You’d likely be DEAD if not for me! Did you forget that?! Where is your fucking gratitude?!”

Rain stopped, panting.

Everyone was staring at him, expressions ranging from outraged to mortified. Ameliah’s face was unreadable behind her visor, but from the feel of her soul and something in her bearing...

She’s...proud?

[Fight time!] Dozer sent, then vanished from Sana’s arms.

Citizen Barstone, disturbingly, began to laugh. “I love Guilders,” he said, spreading his arms wide. “How do the craziest ones always end up in command?” There was a flash, and then he was armored in full platemail, enameled green and elaborately decorated, with an odd, open-faced helm shaped to resemble a screaming owl. His eyes shone from within—not from any skill Rain recognized, but merely from mana use.

There was another flash, and an enormous axe flickered into being, resting across the Citizen’s shoulders. Its wicked half-moon blade was fully the length of a man’s torso, its shape settling any questions as to the origin of Barstone’s symbol.

[Don’t hold back,] Ameliah said, setting an arrow to her bow as the constables scrambled for the gangplank. [Be careful, though. If we kill a Citizen, we won’t live very long to brag about it.]

“I’m glad one of us is confident,” Rain muttered, watching as the space around the three of them cleared. Tarny ran to join Samson and the others, all of them retreating behind Ameliah as she approached.

“No, I will not hold on a damn second!” Barstone shouted, clearly arguing with his peers again. “This is my city! My honor to defend!”

Seeing a glimmer of hope, Rain hurriedly moved to appeal to the other Citizens, but before he could, Barstone slashed a hand diagonally across his chest.

“That’s it!” he shouted. “Thanks to you, nobody else gets to see the show. Goodbye!” He raised his axe over his head, the silvery blade brightening until it was almost pure white. He returned his focus to Rain, his smile growing to mirror his weapon. “I always enjoy teaching this lesson.”

So much for that.

Rain armed his macro, the same one he’d written to slaughter the Adamant soldiers in Three Cliffs—something he still hadn’t come to terms with. Right now, though, it was precisely what he needed, so he prepared himself to unleash hell, making a few adjustments to account for his armor’s interference. Ameliah had moved beside him at this point, an arrow nocked and ready to be drawn at a moment’s notice.

Suddenly, and without any sign of movement from the Citizen, there was a deafening screech, like metal being torn apart.

Rain didn’t hesitate. He activated his macro—

Or tried to. He couldn’t remember how.

What?!

Barstone screamed, dropping his axe and clutching at his head. Rain’s stomach twisted as a wave of wrongness washed over him, his mental hiccup swiftly forgotten. The metallic screech had ended, but Barstone’s scream continued, only to be joined by a cracking, tearing sound as black threads of lightning began spreading outward from his temples.

Is this... Is someone breaking the damage limit? Who...?

Rain vomited, hot bile forcing itself out through his visor as he fell to his knees. Purify responded to his call where his other magic had failed, wiping the coffee-flavored sick away in short order, but it did nothing for the horrible sensation twisting his guts. It seemed as if all of reality was trying to come apart. Ameliah’s hand found his, and he looked at her, seeing that she was struggling just as much as he was. Clinging to her for dear life, he looked back at the Citizen, who’d fallen to his knees.

It ended as suddenly as it had begun.

With a sharp click, the dark lightning vanished as reality snapped back together. Rain found himself sprawled on the ground, and ignoring his body’s protests, he swiftly pushed himself back up, offering a hand to Ameliah.

Barstone, too, sat up swiftly, bending at the waist as if nothing had happened. He climbed to his feet, abandoning his axe and dusting himself off. “There, that’s better,” he said, and something about his voice seemed subtly different.

Rain watched in stunned silence as Barstone walked over to the edge of the iceberg. Reaching down, the Citizen extended an arm, and when he straightened, he pulled another figure up with him. It was an old woman, tiny in stature, her face crinkled with age. There was no pressure from her soul, nothing to suggest she was even awakened, and yet...

The woman smiled as she turned to face them, and when she spoke, Rain realized what had changed in Barstone’s voice. It was the accent. It was the same as hers.

“I received your report, Custodian,” Warden Vatreece said. “I think it’s time you and I have a little chat.”
