“But... but...” Barbi tried to speak.

“I'm not mad at you.” Ren said. “I can't hold you responsible for this.”

“R-Ren, I...” Barbi's arms eased around his back and held on.

“I've suffered a lot when people I thought I knew, did something to hurt me.” Ren said. “You know I have.”

Barbi nodded, and Ren leaned back to sit up straight and left his hands on her shoulders.

“My guards even vetted them beforehand, and it wasn't their fault that the camera man was replaced at the last minute.”

“But... but...”

“It's not your fault, either.” Ren said and leaned back down to give her a kiss. It was soft and tender, and Barbi didn't think she deserved it. He felt her stiffen slightly, and he leaned back. “I'm sorry, I thought you wanted me to...”

“I do, but... I... I don't deserve it. Not after a mistake like that.” Barbi said through her tears.

Ren smiled and gave her shoulders a squeeze. “That's why you do deserve it.” He said and gave her a brief kiss. “The guards know how to do their jobs. They should track down where the other camera man is and hopefully we can get this sorted out.”

“You... you don't think that...”

“No, they wouldn't kill him.” Ren said. “All they would have to do is not tell him about the last minute interview.”

Barbi sighed in relief and Ren let her shoulders go, then he sat back in the wheelchair and looked at Elise.

“Is there enough security camera footage in here for a good interview? Trisha said she had enough information to make a good story.”

Elise shook her head. “I'll have the guards try and get something from that camera the guy had, but I doubt it'll have anything even close to what we would need.”

“Well, damn.” Ren said. “Barbi, is there any chance you can salvage any of this? The fans are going to expect something.”

“I... I don't...”

Ren touched the side of her face and rubbed her cheek with a thumb. “You might not have good video, but the audio should be perfectly usable.” He said, and her eyes widened. “Elise will give you a hand retrieving it from the secured server and you can edit it into an appropriate info dump for the website.”

“That... that's a great idea.” Barbi said. “I can cut out Trisha's questions and either type them up and have people click the answer, or dub in my own voice asking them.”

“Now you're thinking.” Ren smiled and let her face go. “After Elise checks it for sensitive information, you can post it where you think it'll get the most views and shares.”

Barbi nodded. “I'll start it right away.”

“If that's not enough to get more people interested in what's going on, maybe we can have a draw for a set of figures before they hit the stores.” Ren said.

“That's a great idea.” Elise said. “Lisa, how many sets came in the crates?”

“There were two sets per crate and six crates.” Lisa said. “I took mine and the special figure, so there's eleven left.”

“Barbi, grab a set and bring it to the office. We'll take pictures of it and pack it up in a box, then after you release the interview and the teaser trailer for the next episode, we'll announce the draw will be made in a week.”

Barbi nodded again and stood up, then wiped her eyes with the backs of her hands. “Ren, I... I just... thank you.” She said, leaned down and cupped the sides of his face, then gave him as tender of a kiss as he had given her mere moments before. She didn't say anything else as she stood and let his face go, then she quickly left the room.

“How long do you think it'll take her to remember to get the security video from you?” Ren asked.

“At least until she sits down at her desk.” Elise said, and everyone chuckled.
