When my body doubles activate and spread out in all directions, there is a clear difference between the real me and the nine other copies that burst outward.

After this recent skill upgrade, the number of doubles has increased, and instead of being a pure mana clone, each one carries dense Primordial Aura as well.

The clear difference in mine is that the copies do not carry corruption, nor any high-quality ether.

However, they do all carry a strange echo of my High Royal Vibrations carried through the Primordial Aura that is infused within them. With that, purple divine threads keep the entire mana-based structure rooted in reality.

The same exact pattern follows with Maria. Copies of her disperse all throughout the forest, paired up with versions of myself. Yet, none of hers carry any source resin in their bodies, and the swords that are replicated appear as bright blue rather than the diamond one in her real body's hands.

When we blip away from the three daggers, they collide with a pair of our doubles instead.

Very similar to how they make our glyphs shatter like glass, the three rainbow weapons tear holes through our body doubles like papier-mâché. In fact, the small holes that are torn through them grow in size like lit tissue paper once they come out the other side.

I can experience the sensation through the doubles' eyes without being in any danger, and it's quite horrifying. The advanced version of Primordial Aura that was on the outer barrier of this domain, and that surrounds this demon; that is what spreads through the doubles.

It feels like it's canceling out the Primordial Aura and pure mana that make up this manifestation. There isn't even any resistance, the power difference between auras is too large. Yet, I'm certain it's not pure raw power that makes the gap. There is something very strange about this energy.

Even when it destroys a fragment of my consciousness and forces it to rejoin with my main body and mind, I still get the sense of elegance and beauty. It looks and feels like the three daggers were meant to tear through that double all along.

I can't understand this feeling, but it begins to show up over and over again.

Moments after our first pair of doubles is killed, another is targeted and obliterated on the spot.

They aren't as fast as our real bodies because there are no glyphs enhancing all of their movements, yet each double is playing their part.

Using Shadowsteps only, the lag time between activations does not give us enough time to react to the fast-moving daggers. However, the instantaneous shift using the Instant Transfer perk between double doubles is much faster.

There is no need to set up defensive arrays or even mentally prepare for each transfer. We can wait until the last moments before impact to swap our bodies out for the doubles that are quadrillions of kilometers away.

Each blow does cause my mental fatigue to grow worse, but it's temporarily solved our speed problem.

In fact, it's solved other problems too.

Not only can these conscious blobs of mana and Primordial Aura be used as meat shields, but they can also influence the Primordial Trees.

The strength of each of their auras is not as strong as our real bodies either, but when they make physical contact with a Primordial Tree, it gets added to my links of loyalty, even if it's killed the moment it touches a tree.

In addition to this, large amounts of the ambient Primordial Aura disconnect from the body doubles the moment they're killed. While the physical body is deleted from existence, it leaves an invisible cloud behind, and other doubles can lock onto the aura and make it their own.

These doubles all Shadowstep to the best spots they can while they're not being targeted by the daggers, to give us even better options to Instant Transfer to, as well as contacting more trees.

Instantly, the thin ring around the tree's stump lights up with energy as there's over ten times as much movement and chaos happening. At the same time, my Linked Worlds rises quickly too, easily surpassing 94 billion in the first few seconds.

"Primordial-grade body doubles too? But that would mean you're over level two million. That cannot be right..." echoes through our ears.

This time, the Demon's tone is different.

It sounds like he's genuinely confused. At the same time, I feel his pacing slow down, and the aura around him get denser, like this Royal Family Head is thinking about something very hard.

It feels like the temperature inside this domain rises slightly as he does, and my movement speed even takes a few extra million glyphs per action to keep the same rate of motion. The gravity definitely increased, and the general thickness of Primordial Aura in the air increases.

I don't react at all, and only stay focused, watching my Linked Worlds surpass 95 billion.

Maria and I both have to re-summon all nine of our body doubles tens of times, and our Primordial Aura is starting to deplete faster than it's regenerating, but we're getting so close.

Over a thousand of the Primordial Trees in this domain have submitted their loyalty to us, and in the back of my mind, more and more patches of outer settlement domains are starting to get the word.

It's risen from just a few to now dozens, and they're starting to spread in a crescent shape, beginning the pattern of what must be an enormous circle around the Primordial Garden.

The pressure in the air rises again. Our movement speed becomes even tougher to maintain. The daggers stay moving at the same speed, but our doubles do not have the glyphs to keep up, half of the doubles we spawn now are destroyed before even touching a single Primordial Tree.

"That's it. One of you must have a power-stealing skill. I've read an Originator text about someone like you..."

The Demon's words echo in my mind with a sharpness none of his other words have ever made before. He even stops pacing entirely and turns his head to lock onto our real bodies.

All I can see are his bright purple eyes layered with glyphs infused with Primordial Aura. They shift back and forth between us, like he's looking for something in particular but can't find it.

No matter how many times we Instant Transfer to safe positions in the forest, his eyes still track us with ease.

Before there was only pure intrigue and a playful attitude. This is the first time I feel as though he's looking at us like prey, and a sliver of killing intent pours out from his aura.
