The disruption shattered the fraught peace surrounding the miniature mountain. Vast amounts of Void Energy came rushing in, and the streams of energy turned into C-grade Rivers. One of the rivers faltered as it passed, its strength stolen by the nondescript mountain gate. Things calmed down within a few minutes, at which point Fuxi’s runes faded from his mind.

Zac dusted off his robes and flew back toward the platform with a satisfied smile. He would never grow tired of the sight. If all else failed, he would at least leave the mirror realm with a well-fed Void Treasure. He hadn’t found any C-grade Void Treasures so far, but each session by the mountain provided nearly as much energy.

It was a win-win solution where Zac benefited by taking on some of the faith mountain’s burden. Consequently, the mountain’s faith had been growing stronger over time. It didn’t help Zac, but he figured sowing some good Karma couldn’t hurt—especially when the mountain represented the final piece in the puzzle.

The mountain was hollow, yet there was no entrance. Zac had tried everything he could think of to get inside, including digging a tunnel from below. The reason was simple. The artificial death didn’t appear out of thin air. The mountain, or something installed inside it, was directly connected to the Primo’s treasure, leading to occasional spillover because of its weakened state. The flickers of chaos were further proof; Ogras had sensed the same thing where Tavza disappeared.

If setting out into the vast nothingness of Ninth Hell was his backup plan, then the miniature mountain’s daily eruptions were his main goal. So long as he could get inside the mountain, he just needed to wait for the next eruption to reach the Primo’s Treasure. And it all circled back to Fuxi’s mantra. The Faith-attuned scripts covering the small mountain were different from the rest. Zac had already found some similarities to Fuxi’s runes and the artificial Death.

A little more, and he’d find a trapdoor or weakness. He’d already sent over the patterns to his other side for another set of eyes on the problem. Meanwhile, he had helpers working hard elsewhere. Zac stepped into the Faith-attuned dome and took out his communicator. It was a happy surprise to find out that the mountain was a small hotspot with signal in the Void Realm.

“How are things on your end?” Zac asked.

‘Same old,’ Ogras answered. ‘I managed to track down another missing link, but it’s nothing exciting. Tavza discussed crop cycles of some forgotten region with one of the wandering ghosts. It almost feels like she’s messing with us. Do you want me to read the transcript?’

“Sure, it might spark something,” Zac said.

Zac still believed there were clues hidden in Tavza’s actions preceding her disappearance. He found it highly unlikely that she’d jumped through the dimensional tear blind. As a skilled Formations Master, Archaeologist, and descendant of a top-tier Faction, she had likely pieced together a solution without relying on Fuxi’s mantra. If he could uncover those clues, they might be enough to fill in the blanks of his own equation.

Ten minutes later, Zac couldn’t help but agree with Ogras. It really seemed like Tavza was messing with them.

‘Did it help?’ Ogras asked, not bothering to mask his complete lack of faith.

“… Not right now,” Zac admitted. “It might be part of the pattern; I just can’t wrap my head around how.”

‘I’m afraid this was the last of my clues. I can keep looking if you want, but I don’t think it’ll make much of a difference. I think you’re on your own on this one, buddy,’ Ogras said. ‘How long will it take you to deduce a path?’

“At least another month unless I make a major discovery,” Zac sighed. “Maybe more. It’s hard to tell with these unfamiliar concepts.”

‘Too slow. We don’t know what’s keeping that girl occupied, but our position grows worse with every passing day,’ Ogras said. ‘The goal is to break through a barrier of Faith, right? I think it’s time you had a talk with that patient of yours.’

Zac looked in the direction of Fuxi’s statue before nodding thought. “I think you’re right.”
