The man laughed and slapped him on the shoulder. “I’ll go with you wherever. It’s fine! It’s fine! We’re all in this together now, right?”

He was staring down at the water and breathing hard.

Alden tried to muster some sympathy for the guy. Meeting him when Lexi was yelling at him hadn’t been the best first impression.

“That’s right,” he said, shifting targets regretfully. “Let’s go.”

He would’ve preferred to take any of the others. He would’ve preferred to take several of the others at the same time. But Haoyu staying meant Lexi was staying. Kon wanted to reconnect with the class and he wasn’t leaving Lexi. Mehdi said he wasn’t a coward…whatever that meant. And Dee felt obligated to see the students to safety in Instructor Klein’s absence.

They were less than a kilometer from the end of the bridge. At least Alden would be getting this person out of their hair and lightening Maricel’s load a little in the event that they needed her for the final stretch.

Always accept teleportation away from bad situations when it’s offered, you guys, thought Alden, gripping a frozen Mr. Dandelion as the timer approached zero. Always. Don’t hesitate.

Sometimes, the chance for an exit didn’t come your way again for a long, long time.

It was a confusing teleport.

Alden exhaled, and the bridge disappeared. Then, he was standing in a teleportation bay at the TC, arms tightly wrapped around one heavy passenger. He had only a second to see the space and take it in. The symbols covering the arched ceiling and floor were burning so white that they hurt his eyes. The air was stingingly frosty, and the floor was covered in a layer of water with actual shards of ice floating in it. People were calling out what sounded like orders to each other from beyond the metal door.

He inhaled and smelled a very faint mildewy smell. Like an Artonan jungle?

Then he was stumbling out of a completely different teleportation alcove.

He’d expected to end up on top of a tall building, in some kind of anti-chaos bunker, or possibly back at Celena North. Instead, he wondered if he might have left the planet entirely.

He was in a long, rectangular room lined with windows on three sides. All of them were covered from the outside by heavy wooden shutters. The air was warm, and the space was pierced by sharp shadows thanks to the unusual lighting; chubby glass lamps were evenly spaced along the floor beneath spiky potted plants. A pair of double doors carved with a logogram that meant “welcome” stood near the teleportation alcove. And the floor of the room was a dizzying puzzle of wooden stars and diamonds all pieced together, each one a slightly different shade for a muted rainbow effect.

“System, did you send me to one of the Triplanets?” Alden asked.

The System was too busy for boring questions like that, though. Which, on its own, was enough to tell him he was still on Earth. The other Systems would be functioning like usual.

He wondered if Earth was even listening to him right now. That teleportation bay had looked like it was in distress.

Did it accidentally bring the ice in from somewhere or does the equipment freeze over if it’s being used a lot?

He let Mr. Dandelion go, and the man came to life at once.

“Whoa!” he said, staring around. “Just that fast. And…holy…this is the Artonan Ambassador’s residence!”

“It is?”

“Yeah!” He laughed. “They dragged us all the way here to see the floor when I was a kid. For a school trip. Wouldn’t let us go any further inside, but we got a lesson about all the different kinds of wood they’d built this place out of while we ate wevvi popsicles and listened to some weird music. I picked the right guy to hang out with!”

You didn’t really pick me. I was just convenient for you.

“So we’re in F?” Alden asked.

“No. This place is in Punta de la Luna. Apex.”

Then why are you excited?

“Didn’t you want to go to F?” Alden reminded him. “To find your girlfriend?”

“…yeah. That would be better. But we’ll be safe here, won’t we? I bet the Artonans built it to survive anything!” The man was walking confidently toward the double doors. “Are you someone really important? Big news S-rank?”

I wonder if the girlfriend really exists.

“I’m a B-rank Rabbit. Hold on. I need you to entrust me with this bag.” Kon’s teeth were in there. He needed to re-preserve it all thanks to the target swap he’d had to do to get this guy here.

“Some wizard’s favorite Rabbit, eh?” The man grinned. “Good for you!”

Before he could touch the doors, one of them swung open and an Artonan carrying a tray covered in handleless mugs stepped through. He had dark purple hair so long his braid almost brushed the floor, and his eyebrows had an arch to them that made him look a little worried even though his expression was neutral.

He frowned at Mr. Dandelion, eyes flicking up and down, then turned to Alden.

“Alden Ryeh-b’t.” He bowed low. “I am very honored to meet you. I am very sorry for the nature of the occasion. The Ambassador sends his wishes for your long life and invites you to use one of our escape flyers until this perturbation has ended.”

He held out the tray.

“Before you go, I have prepared a selection of many teas for you!”
