Maricel’s power was stronger if she was close to the thing she was shaping, so they crossed the highway again and ran along the eastern edge of the bridge. Alden was out in front now; Dee was at the back. They were both trying to make sure Maricel could run without worrying about impediments. The countertop was soaring along beside them like a magic carpet, occasionally shooting forward rapidly then stopping as Maricel tried to find a rhythm that would be easier on her.

If the bridge so much as quivered, she would pull it back in and they would climb aboard.

[Disaster Update: Oceanic anomalies resulting from spill of a magical contaminant at Matadero continue.]

Alden kicked an abandoned backpack out of their path. Rain slid off of his poncho. He kept preserving it and unpreserving it, trying to get the shape right for running.

[Observed effects include: forced submersion—usually but not always of elementally defined objects, rapid motion of submerged materials, sudden influxes of water in limited coastal areas]

His timer hit the three minute mark. He whipped his head around, trying to see through the rapidly thickening white mist. He felt like he was running through a humidifier. There were no more motorcycles or mopeds going by anymore. That was a good thing, since it lessened the risk of them being mowed down, but at the same time, it made the bridge feel deader.

Almost there. We have to be getting closer.

“Listen!” he shouted back to the others. “I’m getting teleported out soon. Before we hit the end of the bridge. Should I—?”

Haoyu.

Alden suddenly realized he was very nearby now. Still up ahead but not far. To the left a little.

“Haoyu!” he called.

He should be way ahead of us. Why isn’t he?

“Haoyu!”

“Alden?”

A moment after Haoyu’s reply came toward him, there was a thump as a pair of feet landed on the roof of a car two lanes over. Mehdi. His coat was gone, and the thin black t-shirt he’d been wearing underneath was starting to sag at the neck from its own sodden weight.

“Is Klein with you?” he demanded.

Alden was relieved to see any member of the class looking unharmed. “No! He’s gone. Teleported!”

Mehdi groaned.

“Why aren’t you moving forward?” Dee shouted.

“There was a kind of traffic pileup. We only just sorted it out. By the way, if we break some things doing a good deed how much trouble do we get in?”

******

Alden ran up on a scene so superheroical that he might have stopped to stare at it on another day. Crunched vehicles were in a pile against the barrier. A compact car had been sliced in thirds, then the thirds had been moved. Mehdi’s coat was draped over one of them. Another car with a crushed side, deployed airbags, and the driver door ripped off was sitting in the road.

There was Haoyu, crawling out of one of the wrecked cars and handing a purse to a short lady with gray hair and a pair of infogear glasses hanging from a beaded loop around her neck. She patted his arm and said something in a language Alden didn’t recognize, but it was probably some version of “What a nice young man, you are!”

There was Lexi with one sleeve of his shirt torn, standing in the rain with Writher blazing around him, sizzling whenever a drop touched it.

And there was Kon, blood pouring from his nose and mouth as he looked down at something in his palm.

Well, that last one doesn’t quite fit in. And Lexi would cut a more traditional heroic figure if he wasn’t yelling at that dude in the baggy pants

“I wouldn’t care if your girlfriend was giving birth right this second. That’s not my problem, it doesn’t make you special, and we’re not obligated to take you anywhere. My brother almost died helping you already! Now get lost.”

“Kon almost died?!” Alden exclaimed. And someone was having a baby? And it looked like Lexi had been chopping things with Writher.

Apparently this section of the bridge had been more exciting than most.

“Kon hit himself in the face with a car, but he didn’t even pass out,” Mehdi said. Then he went on trying to explain to Dee that a massive sphere of water had swallowed a truck and then slammed it at an angle across all four lanes of traffic, causing the mess in front of them now.

“We were a little farther along when all of the water came. We saw it happen, and some people who’d been in their cars were trapped, so we ran back—”

“Alden!” Kon exclaimed. “Maricel!”

More blood spilled down his lower lip and joined the diluted rivulets of it pouring down his chin onto his shirt.

He had a goose egg on his forehead, too.

Before Alden could ask how a person could hit themselves in the face with a car even if they were engaging in rescue efforts, Haoyu, Kon, and Lexi were all surrounding him.

“I’m so glad you’re all right!” Haoyu said. “The water—!”

“Alden, I had a breakthrough with my powers!” Kon was beaming.

“Kon, give him those right away! Maybe they can be put back.” Lexi tried to pry open his brother’s fist. Writher had phased out and gone back to its short, inactive mode in an instant.

“What?” said Kon, blinking at Lexi. “Hey! That’s right! He can do his…would you hold these for me, Alden?”

Alden stuck an arm through one of the poncho sleeve holes just in time to receive the offering. He almost wished he hadn’t.

“These are teeth!”

To his credit, he didn’t drop the two bloody incisors.

Kon opened his mouth. There was a big gap at the top of his smile. “I was reading one of the wheels on a car that was pinning the others, and I decided to go for it! Not a repair job—moving it back into its original position. It’s all about getting the read right with my skill. Once I did it, my spell dragged the whole car with it even though I was only casting on the wheel! Faster than I expected, but—”

“Why are you giving me your teeth?” Alden interrupted.

“So that you can keep them safe until we get him to a healer!” Lexi shouted.

Haoyu snorted at the look on Alden’s face. “He means with your skill.”

“Oh!” Duh. Of course that’s what they want. “Nobody’s ever handed me teeth before. That came at me kind of fast. Sorry.”

I guess I stick them in the bag and then get Haoyu to re-entrust it all?

“Don’t lose them.” Lexi was glaring like he thought Alden might just toss the teeth into the next convenient trashcan he found.

“I’ll do my best…”

“Miss? Miss, are you a Shaper?” said a voice. “Can you take me to F-city on that?”

The speaker was the man Lexi had just been yelling at. He looked like he was around Dee’s age, and he was wearing a tanktop that said Club Dandelion on the front. He’d hurried over to them to point at Maricel’s hovering countertop.

“Oh,” she said. “I’m so sorry. But we’re going to—”

“I’m a Shaper, too! I’m only a D-rank, but my timer’s over an hour for some reason! My girlfriend’s in F, and she’s pregnant.”

Lexi rolled his eyes. “He keeps bringing that up like it’s a spell that will force us to carry him seven kilometers across a possibly sinking bridge! Go back to Apex! We already saved you!”

“This guy was trapped in his car by the pileup,” Haoyu explained. “We got him out, but he’s trying to get to F.”

“I’m not talking to you!” the man spat at Lexi. “The lady can make up her own mind—”

“No,” Dee said, stepping between the man and Maricel. “Maricel. Boys. Can’t remember everyone’s name, sorry. But we’re all heading straight to Apex. Right now. Stay together. If you get way ahead of me for some reason, don’t stop to wait and don’t stop to deal with anything else.”

The man looked pissed off.

“You ought to be running to Apex, too. We’re almost there. You’re being unreasonable, but that’s fine with me,” Dee said to him. “As long as you’re not bothering the kids.”

“They’re high ranks.”

“They haven’t even been Avowed for a year. I’m a high rank. And I’m not escorting you across The Span in the wrong direction either.”

Lexi grabbed Kon by the hand and dragged him forward. They all chased after him. Dee lingered behind.

“That old lady we helped is as fast as us,” Mehdi said. “Look at her run.”

“I feel kind of bad for that man,” Maricel muttered, sending the countertop ahead of them a short ways, stopping it, then sending it ahead again in what she seemed to have decided was a good rhythm for her.

“Don’t,” said Lexi. “He’s had more than enough time to make it back to Apex. He didn’t use it. Some people make their own problems.”

“Probably thought he’d get teleported out early,” said Mehdi.

“I think a lot of people thought that,” Haoyu answered. “Did you hear some of them yelling about it? They were assuming the System would use Apex rescue priority numbers. It’s like they all forgot the System doesn’t work for Anesidora or follow our rules. And if it was a normal day, it would probably have burned through the ET allotment it gives us in seconds and nobody would be getting transported. It’s working according to its own—”

“Guys, about the teleport,” Alden interrupted. “I’m leaving.”

“What’s your time?” Haoyu asked, looking over at him. “Don’t worry about it. We’ll be hitting the end of the bridge really soon. If not for all this fog, we’d be able to see it. We can head up to the top of a sturdy building or—”

“I’m teleporting out in just over a minute,” Alden said quickly. “Should I take some of you with me? I can usually hold people through teleports with my skill, so I don’t see why I wouldn’t be able to now.”

“What do you mean a minute?” Mehdi exclaimed. “No you’re not!”

“Is it really a minute?” Lexi demanded.

“Why would I lie about a timer?” Alden said. Lexi was so tense he was making Alden feel calm by comparison.

He needs Peace of Mind.

“Why are you teleporting out before the S-ranks?” Mehdi protested.

“I’m staying. Mom’s in Apex,” said Haoyu. “I’m really hoping I’ll run into her, and you don’t know where the System is going to put you. It could be a safe location down in F.”

“Take Kon.”

“No! Lexi, I’m missing teeth not feet. I want to join up with the others and help!”

“You have a head injury.”

“You’re freaking out about nothing. It’s just a tiny lump. And my own timer’s shorter than the rest of yours any—”

“The water’s getting higher!” Maricel said suddenly. “Everybody—”

They didn’t need telling twice. The second she lowered the countertop, they were all scrambling onto it. Haoyu hooked a leg through the hole that had been cut for some unfortunate homeowner’s kitchen sink and grabbed onto one of Alden’s ankles and one of Lexi’s elbows as they all crowded together. Maricel, sitting in the center of the counter herself, lifted them.

Alden didn’t complain about the strength of his roommate’s grip. If Maricel shaped just a little wrong, and they tipped…

Actually I wouldn’t fall very far right now.

She was keeping them just a couple of feet above the water on the bridge.

“It’s the same thing as last time.” Kon’s voice was strained as he watched the ocean build up on the roadway, the side rails, the lampposts. “Maybe whatever Plopstar is doing isn’t helping?”

“Someone’s ordered her to fight the ocean. Give her time,” said Mehdi.

“Maricel, how long can you hold this much weight?” Haoyu asked.

“It’s fine,” she answered. “I’m sure I could get us all the way to the end of the bridge like this. But…I would rather not carry anyone else if I don’t have to. Just in case.”

There was a groaning, crackling sound from somewhere behind them.

It could have been anything, but Alden’s imagination conjured visions of The Span—put under pressures that even the most creative magical engineers probably hadn’t anticipated—beginning to snap into pieces.

“You’d better take us higher,” Lexi said quietly. “Before someone runs up and decides to invite themselves on board. Anyone who sees us is going to see a lifeboat with plenty of room, and they won’t listen to you when you try to tell them there’s a limit.”

As if the illustrate his point, Dee’s voice called, “Room for two more!?” just then. The man who’d been trying to get help crossing the bridge was with her. The water was piling higher this time than it had before. It was well past their knees.

Alden’s heart raced watching it, wondering when it was going to start pulling the bridge down, and then…it just went back to being normal water suddenly. Like it had changed its mind.

There was another thunderous crash as the water fell away from The Span and back into the Pacific. Seaspray filled the air.

“Whew!” shouted Dee, wading toward them. “That’s a relief, but let’s not trust it too much. I got this gentleman to agree that Apex wouldn’t be so bad after all.”

“Dee,” said Lexi, “Maricel’s not sure—”

“Of course there will be room!” Maricel’s voice was higher than usual. She looked at Lexi and lowered her voice. “I can make it work.”

“You won’t have to,” Alden said, staring at his timer. “I’ll be disappearing, and I can take people with me. Two or three at least.”

[Teleportation Priority Assigned: 23 s]

“Dee!” he called, whipping his length of paracord out of his bag and thrusting it toward Haoyu. Since he was heading toward safety, the others might get more use out of it. “I’m teleporting out in twenty seconds! Does anyone want to come?”

“ME!” shouted the man in the Club Dandelion shirt. “Take me, man!”

He practically threw himself on top of Alden.

“I don’t know if I’m going to F,” Alden warned. “I don’t know where I’m going at all.”

