The assailant backed up until he struck the wall, resting next to the window he’d come crashing through, defiant to the end as he sputtered and coughed. Yo Ling stood back, with no expectations for the man to survive, but it was always pleasant to see the moment of defeat in a man’s eyes, especially one so skilled and resolute. Composing himself, he cleared his throat and fell back into his practised, noble accent. “Speaking frankly, I’m in awe of your skills. You killed my Wraith guards rather easily. None of my captains even noticed your work.”

Teeth bared in a grin, the assailant’s lips moved, and to Yo Ling’s great surprise, a whisper escaped. “Worthless trash.”

“Can’t say I disagree.” He laughed in surprise, delighted by the man’s physical and mental fortitude. Here he lay, back broken, legs useless, and throat torn, yet still defiant to the end. “With skills like yours, I’m surprised you’ve remained nameless. You here to play nursemaid for the Undying Savage?”

A hiss of laughter followed by a cough. “No. Here to kill you and earn fame.”

“Well, it was a good effort, son.” This one would make a fine addition to his brethren if he could be made to see the light, a true warrior down to the core. He even had his own Spirits already, though they were rendered helpless by his foolhardy obstinance. “You almost had me with your second thrust, though it was more luck than anything. Shoddy workmanship, that chair. What’s your name, boy?”

“No need for a dead man to know my name.” Something in his tone warned Yo Ling and he dove aside. Arrows pierced through the air where he’d been standing, crashing through the other wall and sailing out into the city, a testament to the power behind them. In the chaos, the assailant rolled out the broken wall and tumbled down the roof, escaping from Yo Ling’s grasp by the barest of margins. Chuckling, he watched as group of warriors came out of the shadows and caught the assailant. Striking like lightning, they cut a swathe through his Butchers, escaping over the rooftops with ease in a matter of seconds.

Turning to the awestruck Nazier, Yo Ling sighed. His Butcher’s flaws were all the clearer when compared to true warriors. Did all the Bekhai specialize in healing? Less than a minute to heal a torn throat back to working order, how long would it take for him to recover fully? Two, maybe three days judging by the ridiculous speed. How intriguing. “Spread the word, we attack the bridge at midnight. No more waiting.” His poor Transcendents wouldn’t last the week with that Paragon picking them off from the shadows.

Now that he’d met one of the Bekhai, Yo Ling could hardly wait to meet the Devourer. If some nameless warrior could be this strong, then perhaps the Undying Savage Falling Rain truly deserved his reputation. A young, impressionable mind already encroaching upon the truth, perhaps another talent could be added to the ranks of Yo Ling’s Butchers.

Truly, this was a matter of new waves overtaking the old.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Dabbing the sweat from his forehead, Chao Yong peered out the window of his barge, ignoring the jeers and refuse raining down upon him. Last night, he’d taken a tonic to help him sleep, and this morning had woken to find all his carefully laid plans gone to shit. A crowd of peasants sat outside every city gate, including the river gate he’d intended to use for his stealthy exit. It should have been a simple enough matter to resolve. After sending word to Sovanna of the disturbance, he waited for the hulking giantess and her ‘bullies’ to disperse the crowds. Hours later, the crowds were larger than ever, panic overtaking the worthless rabble as they sought escape from the city. Lazy ingrates are what they were, he had a mind to send his guards to cut a path through them, but those worthless fools were too cowardly to obey. Shrimp soldiers and paper tigers the lot of them, unable to even stand against untrained peasants, but they were all he had.

Day turned to night as the situation worsened, and he could wait no longer. Since leaving quietly was no longer an option, he would leave openly, ordering his barges to set out for the gate. What did the opinion of the unwashed masses matter? So what if word spread of his actions? By taking all his wealth away, he denied those resources to the Enemy, almost heroic if one thought about it. They were merely jealous of his resourcefulness, wishing they too were important enough to warrant rescue.

Unfortunately, Sergeant Yimu reneged on their deal, refusing to open the gates or even respond to Yong's guards. Turtled inside his gatehouse, the bastard ignored the pleas of the peasants and threats from Yong’s guards, laughing from his safe perch as Yong sat here, exposed and helpless with all his wealth in the open. Worst of all, his guards were busy fighting off peasants trying to board his barges, so taking the gates by force was but a dream.

Opening his window, he shouted to his guard. “Send word to the Sergeant, I will triple my offer if he opens the gates immediately. Should he refuse, I will bring the full fury of the Eastern Prosperity Alliance upon the gates and see him and his loved ones dead before I go.”

Minutes passed without change and Yong fumed in impotence, wracking his brain for ideas. Perhaps cooperation with another councilman was in order, but who? Alone, he lacked the forces to take the gates, but with help...

The sluice gate groaned as the chains turned, slowly lifting out of the water. Thank the Mother and curse that greedy Sergeant, a clean death would be too kind. As he instructed his guards to kill the Sergeant slowly, the words froze on his lips. The ponderous gate rose to reveal a flotilla of rafts and ships waiting just outside the city. Smaller ships glided into the city as its fearsome occupants seized Yong’s barges with ease, clearing the channel so their brethren could enter unimpeded.

Shutting the window, Yong ran to the door and bolted it shut before returning to his cot and throwing a blanket over his head. Teeth chattering and body quivering, he fought the urge to vomit as he prayed for deliverance.

It was too late. The Defiled were all around him. There was no escape.

Chapter Meme
