"Quite particular, isn't it, sister?” I mentally send a message to Ilia across our domains.

Peering through the barrier that separates our existence from the world below, we both watch the anomaly reunite with its family.

I instantly receive a reply. “It has been a while since I watched the mortals below. Apparently, I’m quite popular.” Her voice, followed by a long laugh, directly enters my mind. “They seem to think praying to me grants them a longer life, what foolish things.”

“Indeed, it appears most have forgotten our roles in our silence. Most prayers directed to me are filled with hate, hoping I bring vengeance on their behalf or asking me to spare someone; it is quite disappointing. Adversity in life is your domain, sister, one aspect I don’t wish to deal with.”

Ilia continues to laugh over our connection. “Sweet Ebeon, always trying to bring peace to mortal’s souls, yet always misunderstood by them. Even the anomaly feared you when you tried to defend it against my pressure.”

I don’t respond to her taunts, mealy sending a pulse of displeasure through our communication.

“I’m happy such a toy unlocked one of our skills,” the light coming off of Ilia’s nebula flares up with her excitement. Beings like us don't require such arcane things as bodies; we are pure energy.

“Does that mean you intend to watch it grow?” I ask my sister. “Your avatar had to hold itself back from killing it.”

“It was cursing everything that’s happened to it, to insult me like that. Life is meant to be challenging, to face adversity, and eventually loose. To struggle is a mortal's very purpose; that is the meaning of life." My sister starts to rant, so I decide to look closer at the anomaly's memories my avatar brought back. I know everything that's happened to the anomaly. Still, it's difficult for me to interpret a mortal's feelings and motivations, especially one who's previously lived in a different plane of existence.

Either way, I’ve never seen a mortal’s memories of experiencing death before. It chose to sacrifice itself for a friend, interesting.

“Now that you know about the anomaly, will you interfere with its fate?” I ask my sister, interrupting her speech on the joys of watching mortals suffer through their lives.

As a goddess of life, it is up to her how she harvests her divinity from the mortals below. I harvest my divinity through the release a soul obtains upon their death, which I use to help them on their way to the River of Rebirth. My sister chooses to draw her energy from the lives the mortals live and the obstacles they overcome or succumb to.

"There is no need for me to interfere with the anomaly. I've already checked its fate and how it interacts with those around it. The anomaly is destined to face adversity; I merely have to watch. What about you? Are you interested in it as well?"

"I am curious how it lives its life and how that life will end. I'll watch with you, sister, and prepare for the time I need to escort it to the River of Rebirth." Through our connection, I feel the joy emanating from my sister.

"Then let us watch the anomaly and see what happens. If it uses the skill it gained, you might miss out on your chance to help it.”

“She won’t use the skill like that,” I inform my sister.

“Oh, and how do you know that?” My sister challenges.

“Just a hunch,” I tell her. “Mortals have them all the time.”

"Then, like a mortal, you'd be wrong."

Instantly, our energies clash with one another as our wills battle over our connection. Storms of our divine power start to eat away at the barrier connecting us to the mortal world. We're forced to stop when our clashing power is about to harm the systems we have in place to govern the souls below, less we want to waste even more energy fixing them.

“Let’s watch and see who’s right,” my sister sends through our connection, confident she is right.

"Indeed, let's," I respond.

I once more turn my attention to the anomaly and watch how its consoled by its family. Mortals can be so very weak, but not this one.

Don't disappoint me, Aaliyah.
