“Using the skill, you can absorb souls of the nearly departed for their experience and life force if you so choose. But, at a price. Sister, would you like to take over?"

I watch with a growing sense of fear as the avatar of Ebeon walks up to me and joins her sister. Just her standing in front of me feels like a blade is hanging over my neck.

“The job of managing the souls of this world belongs to my sister and me. Those who feed off of souls may never die, but each soul they absorb will twist them. If you experience death after partaking in souls, it will be true death. Your soul will dissipate and never enter the River of Rebirth. That is the fate of those who hold the skill Soul Devourer.” Ebon explains in a warning tone.

I once again slowly raise my hand, hoping I'll have my question answered.

When neither goddess says anything after I hold my hand up for a long time, I decide that might be Ebeon’s go-ahead to ask my question.

“Great and powerful goddesses, I mean no disrespect, but is it possible for you to take the skill back?” I hesitantly ask.

I feel the emotions coming off of the avatars start to shift to incomprehension. "You wish to give up your skill. Why?" Ebeon asks in what sounds like disbelief. “You could live many times your own life. Even the longest of lived mortal races crave such a skill.”

I softly shake my head. “I do wish to live a long life, but not at the cost of turning into a monster. I’d rather live my life and enter the River of Rebirth when my time comes.” I honestly reply to the goddess of death. Though her aura is more off-putting, I, for some reason, find her more comfortable to deal with than Ilia.

"Then, it all depends on your greed," Ilia tells me, and I can imagine a smile forming on her faceless avatar.

Ebeon must understand my confused look because she explains. "The skills primary use is to absorb the experience that would normally dissipate into the surroundings. Your predecessor started only using the skill for such but eventually started devouring his victims' whole souls to extend his lifespan beyond normal mortals. If you only use the skill to gather experience, you won't turn into a monster, and you'll be able to enter the River of Rebirth."

"That's if you don't give in to the temptation fist. Not many mortals give up on life when it's so retally available." The self-righteous aura coming off of Ilia is stifling, so I try to ignore her politely.

If Ebeon is to be believed, the skill itself won’t harm me if I don’t use it to its full potential.

The memories of before I was dragged into my soul surface in my mind, and I'm reminded of how crazed I was when I first obtained the skill. Can I handle the temptation?

“So, what will it be?” Ilia doesn’t give me much time to think over my options before demanding an answer.

I glance at the avatar of Ebeon, but other than a deathly calmness radiating off of her, I can't sense anything else.

Do I take the double-bladed sword, useful in the right hands, but one misstep and I'll harm myself?

I grit my teeth and steady my nerves. “I’ll keep the skill,” I proclaim.

“That’s a wise choice,” Ilia says in a musical voice that sets me on edge. “We don’t have the power to remove a skill from a mortal in this state. If we acknowledged your request, we would’ve had to kill you.”

What the fuck, I curse in my head. What is wrong with…

I immediately stop my train of thought as I slowly feel the pressure emitted by Ilia’s avatar start to turn sinister. Can they read my thoughts?!

I start to panic inside a little.

"We can't read your mind, but don't forget where we are, mortal. Your hidden emotions are as plain as day while we're here, and I can dive back into your memories if I wish to know what you were thinking about us. Keep thinking negative thoughts about me, and I'll help you remove your skill like you previously wished," the avatar of light threatens. The same kind of weight I felt from Ebon descends on me, sending me sprawled out on the ground.

“It’s time to go, sister. We’ve fulfilled our purpose.” Ebeon saves me from being crushed under her sister’s pressure by calling out to her.

“Fine, being confined in such a small soul is stifling anyways.”

The two avatars of flames start to hover and rise higher back to where the eyes are located in the sky. Damn it, I have so many more questions, but I don’t dare call out to the leaving deities.

Their pressure doesn't dissipate until they're quite far away from my soul. The night sky that usually envelops my soul slowly reforms, and I'm left looking up at the familiar two moons in the sky.

With the source of the pressure on my soul gone, I collapse into the fetal position on the ground. I don't know how long I stayed curled up, but I wait like that until my nerves calm down.

I try to process what just happened, but it all seems impossible to me.

I met not one but two gods, and they couldn’t care less about me. They looked at me like a child looks at a colorful bug. Thankful, they decided to leave me alone instead of squashing me or taking me home in a glass jar.

From facing the soul eater to meeting actual deities, my mind feels utterly taxed.

I can't sleep in my soul, but zoning out helps me a little to settle my mind.

Ever so slowly, I start to relax until I'm able to sit up.

Now that I'm slightly feeling better, I think I need to pull up my status page. When I feel a small chunk of my soul move to materialize my status page, I use Sense Soul, as usual, to make it more readable, but I can instantly feel a difference as I sort through the information.

Not only am I better at organizing the data, but I notice the vast amount of experience I gained.

LV: 72 Experience: 774,374/ 911,219

Health: 2,120/2,120

Stamina 1,423/1,423

Mana: 1,020/1,020

Vitality: 212.00

Endurance: 80.27

Strength: 135.09

Dexterity: 128.11

Senses: 62.31

Mind: 65.07

Magic: 102.46

Clarity: 78.55

Status Points: 80

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV78), Running (LV74), Blacksmithing (LV69), Hammer Skills (LV57), Axe Skills (LV55), Cleaning (LV51), Chanting (LV50), Mining (LV48), Drawing (LV46), Trading (LV42), Cooking (LV39), Dagger Skills (LV31), Wood Carving (LV31), Acting (LV31), Sword Skills (LV31), Sewing (LV24), Pugilist Skills (LV4), Spear Skills (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV79), Double Step (LV61), Charm (LV50), Measurement (LV46), Hammer Arts (LV41), Axe Arts (LV36), Writing (LV32), Intimidating Shout (LV31), Mathematics (LV30), Lower Price (LV20), Increase Price (LV17), Steady Hands (LV16), Dagger Arts (LV12), Sword Arts (LV14), Gourmet (LV7), Marching (LV5), Shout of Valor (LV1),

Tier 3:

Expel Mana (LV61), Mana Manipulation (LV58), Precise Strike (LV40), Double Strike (LV40), Weighted Strike (LV37), Flash Step (LV21), Contract (LV5)

Tier 4:

Mental Resistance (LV53), Mana Skin (LV52), Inject Mana (LV52), Extract Mana (LV30), Magic Blacksmithing (LV25), Empowered Spell (LV7)

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV37), Soul Manipulation (LV4)

Tier 6:

Soul Devourer (LV2)

Increased Skill Levels

Blacksmithing (LV68-69) 6,850exp

Hammer Skills (LV56-57) 5,650exp

Chanting (LV49-50) 4,950exp

Trading (LV42) 2,100exp

Cooking (LV39) 1,950exp

Sword Skills (LV29-31) 4,500exp

Sense Mana (LV79) 7,900exp

Hammer Arts (LV41) 4,100exp

Sword Arts (LV12-14) 3,900exp

Steady Hands (LV11-16) 8,100exp

Expel Mana (LV61) 9,150exp

Mana Manipulation (LV56-58) 25,650exp

Precise Strike (LV38-40) 17,550exp

Double Strike (LV36-40) 28,500exp

Weighted Strike (LV28-37) 48,750exp

Flash Step (LV20-21) 6,150exp

Mana Skin (LV52) 13,000exp

Inject Mana (LV51-52) 25,750exp

Mental Resistance (LV49-53) 63,750exp

Extract Mana (LV29-30) 14,750exp

Magic Blacksmithing (LV21-25) 28,750exp

Empowered Spell (LV8-9) 4,250exp

Sense Soul (LV34-37) 71,000exp

Soul Manipulation (LV1-4) 5,000exp

Soul Devourer (LV1-2) 3,000exp

Skill Experience: 415,000exp

Crafting Experience: 131,944exp

Fighting Experience: 5,775,835exp

Total experience Gained: 6,322,779exp

“Oh, gods!” I scream out as I look at my updated status page.

I cringe as soon as I say the words and look up at the moons floating overhead in fear; I might be smited at any moment.

When my soul isn’t obliterated, I figure the peeping deities are truly gone.

The fear of the god's retaliation distracted me for a second, but I'm soon back to freaking out over my stats.

"I gained eight levels," I say in between my heavy breathing. This isn't even my real body, and I feel like I'm hyperventilating.

Scanning my soul reveals, the total amount of experience I’ve gained since I was reborn has almost doubled. Killing the soul eater and absorbing a fraction of its experience was equivalent to me going from level 1 to level 63 all over again!

Usually, I would be freaking out about how much experience I got for making the general's arrow. Still, it's utterly incomparable to my skill level increases, and that's ignoring the experience I got from the soul eater.

But my level and experience aren't the only shocking thing.

Not only did Ilia heal the damage to my soul and Vitality, but whatever she did boosted my mental stats as well. I gained a few free stat points in Mind, Senses, and Clarity. Coupled with most of my skills rising multiple levels, especially those I used for forging the arrow and fighting the soul eater, my gains are so numerous that it's mindboggling.

Mental Resistance and Sense Soul alone accounts for 33% of the experience I gained from my skills, both jumping up five and four levels respectably.

I want to jump for joy, but my enthusiasm is blunted by my Heath, Mana, and Stamina values. Why are they all full? Did Ilia heal my physical body along with my mana as well?

Somehow, I doubt the goddess of life is that generous. Either something is wrong with my status page, or something happened to my body in the real world!

How long have I been in my soul!?

I leap to my feet and take off into the forest.

I need to get out of here now. Who knows how long my body has been unattended in the woods!

While I'm making my way to my sea of memories, I start to notice the subtle differences around me. The trees look more realistic, and I'm confident the forest has expanded a great deal. But even though everything looks more like the forest back home, I can better feel my skills and experience that make up my surroundings.

I glance at a tree I’m running past and see how it’s woven from different parts of my tier 1 and 2 skills.

At one point, I need to run around a tree, so I quickly round the trunk and push off with my hands to regain my speed. In the split-second, my hands pressed up against the tree, I felt it indent like it was made out of rubber and fling me forward.

“What the hell? What was that?” The only skill that’s worked in here is Sense Soul. Could this be from Soul Manipulation?

As I'm running, I stick my hands out and touch the trees I pass. If I focus, I can move and stretch the trees' parts like they're made of clay. I want to stop and experiment with my new skill, but I don't have time.

I keep running until I reach the rocky part of my soul, but I'm forced to slow down when I see what’s happened to the section of my soul that separates the forest from my sea of memories.

What was once an area covered in rocks and hills is now a mountain, towering into the sky.

I don’t have time for a leisurely hike.

I start sprinting up the mountain, making footholds for myself by manipulating the terrain underneath my feet using my new skill. As long as I focus, nothing in my soul can obstruct me.

As soon as I reach the ledge that leads to my memories, I dive over the cliff without a thought.

I sink into my memories, and I notice another change. I can see the general contents of the memories I'm floating past. Most are meaningless, but I spot a few memories from my previous life I wouldn't mind experiencing again.

No, I can’t do that right now. I dodge the memories that I’m about to sink into and head deeper into my soul.

"Come on, come on!" I look over my shoulder at the two moons hanging overhead.

After meeting the goddess, I think I’ve realized what the moons are. Neither of the deities knew of my existence, but they came into my soul through the eyes hidden inside the moons. Ilia said they control the laws governing the world, so the eyes must be a defense system, the two put in place to guard people's souls, including my own.

My skills counter the defense, but if I go deep enough, they grow stronger and eject me from my soul.

Like I hoped, as I move deeper into my soul, the moons quickly change their appearance and focus on me.

Typically when I'm forced into and out of my soul, it's instantaneous, but this time, I feel the eyes trying to eject me from my soul. I don't resist and let the two eyes do their job.

I feel my consciousness being pushed out of my soul and snap back into my body.

“SSSSSS,” I hiss through my teeth as I once again feel the sensations of my reel body. I’m not sore, but everything feels stiff.

I groan as I open my eyes.

Instead of being surrounded by trees in the forest, I'm wrapped in a rough blanket in someone's house. Well, at least that means someone found me.

Sense Mana flares to life as I scan my surroundings.

I quickly recognize where I am; I'm in Anastasia's clinic. The healer herself is resting in a chair nearby. Judging by the amount of mana in her body, she's almost tapped dry.

I try to call out to the resting woman, but I can only softly grunt because of my dry mouth.

I slowly move my right hand to the frame of the bed I'm on and start knocking. I practically have to smash the bedpost before Anastasia starts to rouse.

"What? The door is open; you don't have to keep knocking!” She yells with her eyes closed, thinking someone is at her front door.

