I continue knocking until she growls and stands up in anger. Anastasia makes it halfway to her door before she realizes the knocking is coming from inside her house.

I'm the only patient here, so our eyes quickly meet.

"Oh, thank Ilia, you're awake!" I want to cringe when I hear her call out to a cerein goddess of life, but my body doesn't move as I want it to, making me feel like a fish out of water.

“Are you hurting anywhere? I can’t use any more of my magic, but I have a weak potion from the headman if you need it?" Anastasia asks as she walks over to the side of my bed.

"Water," I gasp out.

“What?” Anastasia can’t hear me.

I grasp at my throat, hoping she understands.

“You can’t breathe!?” She panics and tries to pry my mouth open.

I shake my head back and forth before she can stick her fingers in my mouth.

She stops when I start to thrash. “What’s wrong?” Anastasia doesn’t understand what I want.

I quickly scan the room again and notice a jug of water on a table across the room. I slowly raise my hand in its direction until Anastasia follows where I’m pointing.

"Oh, water," she dashes across the room and pours me a cup. Anastasia brings the water over to me and helps me drink. I feel my body starting to respond more, but everything still feels heavy.

After I drink every drop of water she gives me; I manage to ask, "what happened?"

"The village broke out in a panic after your mother started asking everyone where you were. Arash and Hayk said they saw you running around the village, but you soon disappeared after they talked to you.” Anastasia explains.

I was right; the soul eater already had me in its grasp long before I saw its doll.

“Almost every hunter was sent out to find you, but at some point, your tracks became hard to follow. The hunters said they felt a giant rush of energy and found you unconscious in a place they swore they already checked. You were brought to me, but you weren't harmed as much as everybody thought. But for some reason, no matter what I did, you wouldn't wake up. That was five days ago.”

“Five days!?” I exclaim.

Anastasia nods her head. “I’ve been keeping you healthy with my magic.”

“I guess I owe you twice now,” I say in a self-deprecating voice.

"You don't owe me anything," Anastasia tells me. "I might not interact with many people, but I know everything you've done for the village. Almost everyone stopped by at one point, asking how you were. I had to kick everybody out, including your mother, after she refused to leave your side for a moment." Anastasia makes a sour face; I'm sure mother didn't go quietly.

“I should go grab your parents now that you’re awake. Are you ok by yourself for a little bit?”

"My body is a little stiff, but it's slowly getting better," I tell her.

"That's to be expected; stay in bed and try not to move too quickly. I’ll be right back.” Anastasia grabs a coat and leaves her house.

“Five days unconscious, and everybody came to see me,” I repeat to myself.

All hell is going to break loose once Anastasia gets to my parents' house. I quickly pull up a part of my status page and distribute my points; I need to be ready for the flood of people coming to see me.

LV: 72 Experience: 774,374/ 911,219

Health: 2,400/2,400

Stamina 1,633/1,633

Mana: 1,020/1,020

Vitality: 240.00

Endurance: 100.00

Strength: 150.00

Dexterity: 145.00

Senses: 62.31

Mind: 65.07

Magic: 102.46

Clarity: 78.55

Status Points: 0

First, I put 28 points into Vitality and then 20 into Endurance, seeing how much I've come close to death recently. Then I put 15 points into Strength and 17 points into Dexterity to finish off my remaining Status Points.

My soul erupts in bright colors, nourishing my body. My limbs that just felt like they were made of lead feel light as feathers. My skin brightens as my Endurance rises by 25%, and my skin glows even more brightly with the extra Vitality.

I quickly become able to sit up as I start to feel better than ever.

Parts of my skin begin to flake and fall off onto my sheets, and the calluses on my hands start to soften. I want to cast magic to clean myself, but I can already hear villagers' voices coming closer.

I double-check my clothes to make sure I'm in decent shape. Mother must have brought me another pair of clothes because they're different than what I was wearing when I killed the soul eater.

I need to look presentable for the villagers. Everyone already knows I have a high level, and with all the rumors floating around about the people who disappeared, I need to assure them everything is ok.

I swing my legs over the side of my bed and carefully stand up. It's weird going from a body that doesn't want to respond to you to a faster and stronger body than you're used to.

I can hear more people gathering outside so let’s give them a show.

I make my way over to a spot where people will be able to see me once Anastasia’s door opens. Stretching, I tell myself, any minute now.

I’m bending over and touching my toes when I hear the door in front of me being flung open.

“Aaliyah!”

I look up and ignore the dozens of people watching me from behind my mother in the doorway.

"Sorry for worrying you, mom, but I'm all better now." I give mom a dazzling smile.

She rushes over to me and wraps me in a hug.

"Move out of the way! Let me through, or next time you're hurt, I won't heal you!" I hear Anastasia forcing her way through the crowd. "What are you doing up?" She yells at me when she finally makes it to her front door.

“I’m feeling a lot better,” I send Anastasia a look that says play along before shifting my gaze to the growing crowd outside.

Unlike with the water, this time, she catches on quick. "Fine, but I need you to stay here for a little longer. The rest of you, scram," Anastasia turns on the villagers outside.

Mother keeps me wrapped in a hug until father makes it here. Then they sandwich me with love.

Soon after, Camden arrives with Sarette and master.

Camden politely asks the remaining villagers who didn’t fear Anastasia’s wrath to disperse so we can have a private talk.

“You’re kicking me out of my own house!?” Anastasia shrieks at Camden when he asks her for some privacy.

"I do apologize, but I'm sure you understand." Camden may be using polite words, but his gaze is firm.

Anastasia flinches back and reluctantly agrees, sending Camden a venomous look as she walks out her own front door.

As soon as the six of us are alone, every pair of eyes turns on me. Everyone looks like they have a million questions, but no one wants to start.

It's finally Camden who breaks the ice. "You're looking radiant; I take it you leveled?"

I cast my eyes down, mentally deciding what I should tell everyone.

“We don’t have to do this now. We can talk about it after Aaliyah has a chance to go home.” Mother notices the awkward look on my face and steps in to defend me.

"If we must…" Camden is about to agree with mother, but I cough into my hands, signaling I have something to say.

“No, it’s ok,” I tell everyone in the room.

“Are you sure?” Mother asks me.

I nod my head at her before looking at Camden, “I’m guessing you want to ask me if it was the creature that’s been praying on the other villages.”

Camden's face quickly becomes serious, much like everyone else in the room.

“Everything that happened to you matched the reports from the other villages. Did you notice and chase after a magical creature on your run?” Camden asks.

I fold my arms in front of me and start nervously rubbing them. “I didn’t chase anything; I was lured out of the village.”

“How is that possible?” Camden questions me in disbelief.

“The creature was able to use mental manipulation. I didn’t realize anything was wrong until I was deep in the woods.” Everyone pales as I explain how I encountered and fought the creature. I left out the part about it eating souls and how I tried sacrificing my Vitality to kill it. I also left out the fact that I unlocked a tier 6 skill and met two goddesses.

“How were you able to notice something was wrong?” Sarette asks me once I finish my story.

I calmly look at her and glance around the others in the room. "I can't say, "I tell everyone in a flat tone. Camden and Sarette look disappointed by my answer, but my parents and master look like they understand what happened.

It falls silent between us for a moment before I ask a question of my own, "I heard the hunters found me, was there anything unusual about where they found me?"

"That's what I was going to ask you," Camden answers me. "The spot the hunters found you has turned into a jungle over the last few days. I asked for it to be kept a secret, but all the hunters are curious."

“Really, a jungle?” I repeat, not sure how I’m supposed to answer him.

“How many levels did you gain?” Master Del asks, Stepping forward.

“Why does that matter?” Camden turns towards Del.

“There are stories Stone Kin tell their children, tails of great beasts who were slain in the past. When a high leveled creature or person dies, the life force they emit is so great everything spontaneously grows around the spot they collapse. I'm curious how many levels you gained for slaying such a beast?" By the time master is finished talking, everyone is staring at me again.

I clear my throat, "I gained eight levels; I'm level 72 now." Everyone, including master, sucks in a deep breath of air.

Mother is the first to recover and quickly asks me, “Is that why you’re all better?”

I nod my head, “I distributed my points after Anastasia left to get you. I’m stronger than ever,” I happily proclaim with a smile. I even show off the muscles on my arm for good measure, trying to distract everyone from how I almost died again.

“That’s impossible,” Camden has a hard time accepting the truth. “Killing a creature with such a level is unheard of!”

"I got lucky," I tell him, remembering my conversation with Ilia. "It couldn't move once I saw it, and it took everything I had along with sacrificing my sword to do any damage to the thing. It was pure luck I was able to counter the monster.” I try to laugh it off.

I look around the room and notice everybody is giving me worried looks. “Really, I’m fine,” I try to tell everyone.

"I think your mother is right; you should go home and rest," Camden tells me, everyone nods in approval.

“I said I’m fine. I need to get back to work with master.” I start walking towards the door until Master Del steps in front of me and puts his hand on my shoulder.

"Go home; you can come to see me tomorrow," Del's says with a concerned look on his face.

Mother walks up behind me and grabs my arm, giving me a pleading look. “Fine, I’ll go home,” I give in.

“I’ll take care of the villagers outside,” Camden walks past me and opens Anastasia’s front door. Mother leads me out after him without letting go of my arm.

"All right, everyone, make some room. Aaliyah is up, and she's going home with her family. Give her some space." Camden shouts at the crowd waiting outside.

I was prepared for there to be a small group waiting to see me, but damn, I think a third of the village is here. Mother continues to lead me forward, and the crowd respectfully parts for us. I look behind us and see dad following close by. Out of the corner of my eye, I watch master break through the crowd and head home.

Many people call out to me and try to ask me questions, but I ignore them and give a polite wave instead.

We don’t get a moment of peace until we're through our front door. Mother, father, and I are all standing together in the entryway, trying to change our shoes at once. I notice father is a little dirty, and mom's closes look a little tattered as well.

I doubt they've had an easy time the last five days. The least I can do is clean everyone. "Hey, mom, dad, hold still a minute."

I haven’t had a chance to show them this yet. I activate my cleaning spell and empower it so it will cover the three of us.

“Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

Both my parents cringe when the spell I usually use expands well past my body and envelops all of us. Mother and father stare at their limbs as the white light covers their bodies, and many black flakes fall off the three of us. I guess I was pretty dirty myself from being unconscious for so long.

I kick off my shoes and dust the remaining black flakes off before walking over to our kitchen. Whatever magic Anastasia used to keep me healthy must not have included food because I can eat anything right now. I grab some jerky, two biscuits, some dried fruit, and stuff everything into my mouth.

"Tastes so good," I give a little moan as I turn back to face my parents. Both look sparkly clean now, but they both stand together, giving me looks of worry. "Is there something on my face?" I ask as I finish the food in my arms.

Mother walks over to me and pulls me into a hug. I can feel her trembling. I start rubbing her back, “Mom, I’m…”

“Stop saying that,” she snaps at me with tears in her eyes. "There is no way you can be fine; we almost lost you again."

I want to tell her the opposite to reassure her everything will be ok but now that I'm home, the dam breaks loose, and everything I've been through comes flooding out in the form of me sobbing. All the fear I felt facing the soul eater and the goddesses are too much to hold back. Mixed with all of that is the joy of finally being home and knowing it's over.

Father comes over and holds the two of us in his big arms, looking just as unsteady as mom.

I tried to stay strong for them and the village, but it's too much to take.

I release everything I’ve been holding back and cry with my parents.

Happy that I’m still alive.

**********

Goddess Ebeon’s Point of View:

