However, she’d known those three wouldn’t be back in time for dinner. It was Mila's absence which caused Akanai such worry, the little red-head missing despite her complete and utter lack of responsibilities. So strange, Mila had always been full of ambition and enthusiasm, always seeking her Mama or Papa out for new tasks to carry out, but ever since returning from Sanshu, she’d been abnormally sullen and dispirited. Gone was the eager young woman hungry for advancement, replaced by a scowling little firebrand whose eyes lit up in fury every time Akanai suggested she resume training.

Mother above, she would rather face a dozen Demons naked and unarmed than risk sweet Mila’s ire. Akanai almost suspected Mila had been replaced by an imposter, someone who merely looked and sounded exactly like her. The girl had always been a difficult child but oh so sweet, eager to pursue strength and knowledge no matter how difficult or painful her training became. Even when Akanai was in the wrong, sweet Mila never held it against her, happily forgiving her Mama without question, but now? That same, sweet Mila idled away her time in bed or lazed around town, ignoring the Defiled threat knocking on the Empire’s doorstep. True anger simmered beneath the surface of her surly distemper and even if Akanai were a hundred times braver, she dared not receive it.

Who would have thought that she, Akanai, Lieutenant General of the Imperial Defence Forces, Chief Provost of the Sentinels, Hero of the Empire, and Herald of the Storm, would one day balk at the thought of confronting a mopey, sullen, teenaged woman?

What brought about this change in temperament? Perhaps it was Song. Though Mila had begged all her life for a little sister, Akanai found it difficult to balance her duties while raising one child, much less two. Now that they’d formally adopted Song into the family, could it be Mila found the reality less pleasant than imagined?

Or maybe it was the boy’s absence as little Lin suggested. A girl’s first love was a complicated beast, capable of swinging her mood from surging affection to raging jealousy at the drop of a pin. After many months in close quarters, to be so readily abandoned couldn’t be siting well with Mila. Prodigious though her strength might be, it was of little use defending her against heartache.

Another possible culprit was Zian, though Mila should know better than to take the sparring losses to heart. Evidenced by his need to use Aura to achieve victory, the arrogant young man was only superior to Mila in age. That disgrace could make a spectacle all he wanted, but anyone with eyes could see Mila was the more talented of the pair. Still, this was a perfect opportunity to use Zian as a whetstone, honing her Martial skills against an admittedly formidable opponent, yet the silly girl ended today’s spar in a handful of moves. How foolish could she be? Mila had nothing to lose and everything to gain by making the match last as long as possible. Why Zian continued to challenge her at the cost of face, Akanai could not say, but she knew better than to look a gift horse in the mouth.

Letting loose with a heavy sigh, Akanai sipped a spoonful of soup and grimaced. She’d waited too long and the food had gone cold. Enough, she decided leaving the meal uneaten as she left the room. No more agonizing over what might be and letting sleeping bears lie as her husband would have it. Time to damn the consequences and face Mila head on.

After all, she was a reasonable and sensible girl who could never hate her loving Mama.

Right?

The ride to the boy’s lodgings felt like the longest journey Akanai had ever taken, perspiring in spite of the cold autumn wind. Knocking to announce her arrival, she waited a full three seconds before striding in, just in time to catch the full force of sweet Mila’s glare, delivered while lying in Rain’s bed. Sweet Mother, is the boy’s absence truly responsible for her foul mood? Perhaps she should order him back and have him train his people in town. Resisting the urge to wince, Akanai pretended to study Rain’s lodgings, surprised by how warm the interior was even without a fire. The temperature made her feel like she was sweating buckets, it was absurd. “You missed dinner,” Akanai began, immediately regretting her choice. Too accusatory, as if blaming the girl. “I have yet to eat, shall we dine at a restaurant?” Better, not perfect, but better.

“No,” Mila replied, her tone dull and listless as she settled into the blankets. “I’m not hungry.”

Choking back a sigh, Akanai patted sweet Atir as she greeted her patriarch, aged Kankin still fussing over his brood as he groomed her fur. If only people were so simple.

...

Well, why couldn’t they be?

Sitting on the boy’s bed, she stroked Mila’s hair and asked, “Daughter, what troubles you so? Be honest, Mama is here for you.”

And so, with a single question, Mila’s walls came crumbling down. “Mama,” she asked, her tearful voice no louder than a whisper. “I don’t know what to do anymore.”

It hurt to see Mila so miserable and wretched, but as Mila explained her internal struggle, Akanai couldn’t help but laugh out loud. “Oh sweet foolish daughter, this is why you’ve been in a foul mood? Because the Emperor abandoned the Western Province?” Soothing Mila’s hurt look with a gesture of apology, she smiled and Sent, “Hear me, my sweet, silly daughter. I was much like you once, hungering for fame and glory. I too wished to be a Hero of the Empire, and like you, I discovered the title worth less than a mouse’s fart. Over fifty years ago, I was summoned to the Central Province to receive a medal denoting me as a Hero of the Empire.”

“YOU TOLD ME ALL ABOUT THIS, MEETING THE EMPEROR’S REPRESENTATIVE WHO BESTOWED UPON YOU A TITLE.”

“All true, but now I will tell you the parts I left out. That trip was supposed to be my first step towards fame and an illustrious career, but instead, it caused me to abandon my dreams and withdraw from the Empire.” Sighing, Akanai gathered her thoughts before continuing. “I was so excited to receive my title, to stand beside other great warriors of the nation. The Emperor’s representative presented me the title, Herald of the Storms, for wherever I appeared, a storm of arrows would fall and silence my enemies.” Looking Mila in the eye, Akanai said, “Think about it child. What problem do you see?”

“...NOTHING MAMA.”

“Silly girl. The Empire holds the bow in contempt, the weapon of a peasant and coward. The title was given to mock me and accompanied by a chorus of laughter and derision. Never mind how I turned back 50,000 Defiled with a mere 3,000 archers and 9,000 soldiers, the results mattered little. All those puffed up nobles cared about was face and it irked them to have a ‘filthy half-beast savage’ outranking so many ‘real’ talents. They couldn’t take my rank away, the Emperor had already spoken, so instead, they mocked and marginalized my achievements. They called me a liar and claimed I exaggerated my deeds for fame and glory. To make matters worse, they sent warriors to kill me on the journey home, and though I returned with my life intact, many of my comrades did not, comrades who fought and survived against the Defiled. In my anger, I rejected the Empire for it rejected me, abandoning plans for fame and fortune in favour of a quiet life at home with family and friends. To put it lightly, it was not a popular decision.”

“THEN WHY DO YOU STILL FIGHT MAMA?”

Smiling at her beautiful, freckled daughter, Akanai answered, “Because the pup still thirsts for glory and bloodshed. Because your betrothed has a penchant for getting into trouble. Because for the first time in history, the Father’s minions have banded together to destroy us all.” Gesturing for Mila to sit up, Akanai wrapped her in a hearty hug before speaking aloud. “Never once have I forced you along the Martial Path, for it is a thankless pursuit. The Emperor abandons the West as one severs a rotting limb, sacrificing the few for the sake of the many, and I believe the decision correct. Should the Defiled break through here then there is no doubt in my mind we would share the West’s fate. Such is life my daughter, trials and tribulations, a struggle without end. How you meet the struggle, with spear and shield, hammer and anvil, or what have you, is your choice.”

Mila’s brow furrowed in thought and Akanai’s heart ached. So young to make this decision, but these were dark times. Abandoning the West left a sour taste on her lips, but who’s to say the Western Bridge wasn’t taken through treachery like Sanshu almost was? Or worse, what if there’d been a breach in the Treaty? If the greatest servants of the Mother and Father clashed in battle, they would lay waste to the world around them. If the worst came to pass, then Akanai could only pray the damage be contained to the Western Province.

No matter what, the West was lost. May their souls rest in the arms of the Mother.

“Mama.” Mila’s voice brought Akanai out of her thoughts, seeing her daughter with clear eyes and pursed lips. Nodding once, Mila declared, “I still want both. I will be a Peerless Warrior like Mama and a Divine Blacksmith like Papa. It doesn’t matter if I never find fame or glory, but I will defend the People and my family with my life, as you would.” Wiping her eyes, Mila took Akanai’s hand and gestured towards the door. “Sorry for making you worry Mama. Let’s eat dinner, I’m starving.”

Chest swelling with pride, Akanai followed Mila out into the streets, happy to have her cheery daughter back with the fires of ambition burning bright once more. “I've good news,” she Sent, keeping her smile in check. “The first shipment of Spiritual Hearts will arrive tomorrow afternoon. Your Papa is hard at work preparing to receive them. I wager he'll have plenty for you to do in the days to come, but I'll not ease up on your training.” Seeing Mila's eyes light up with greed and desire made all the years of hard work and sacrifice seem like nothing in comparison.

Despite all her lofty titles, the one Akanai took the most pride in was Mother of Sumila and Li Song.

Chapter Meme
