Travelling by rickshaw was an exhilarating new experience for Song. Though she’d seen them many times in her travels, she’d never been allowed to ride one, usually forced to choke on dust and dirt while following behind on foot. Never in all her dreams did she imagine such a simple method of travel could be so breathtaking and intoxicating. Sitting high above the ground, she watched the autumnal hues blend together as the quin-drawn carriage zipped along the road. The cushioned seat and spring-fastened carriage absorbed every bump and jolt while the wind coursed through her hair, lending a sublime atmosphere to the journey as if she were a deity from on high travelling through this mortal realm.

How many simple pleasures were hiding in plain sight, formerly denied her due to her status?

The chubby bear cubs shared Song’s enthusiasm, heads hanging over the sides of the carriage with tongues and scarves flapping in the wind, parsing through and enjoying the myriad of scents. Likewise, Lady Mei Lin leaned so far over the side Song worried she’d tumble to her death below, hanging onto the hare-girl’s scarf and belt with an iron grip. Neat braids and furred-ears trailing behind her, the elegantly dressed young lady lifted her hands in the air and shrieked with laughter, hollering with such joy for life it filled Song with both cheer and worry. So pure and innocent, there was something about Lady Mei Lin which made Song want to steal her away and safeguard her from this world’s sin and corruption.

Breathless from laughter, Lady Mei Lin fell back into her seat and squeezed Song in an embrace. “Thank you Li-Li,” she said after regaining her breath. “That was so much fun! Daddy never lets me do that, he’s always worried I’ll fall and crack my head.”

Blinking in bewilderment, Song nodded and wondered if she should keep Lady Mei Lin inside the carriage from now on, struggling to choose between her new Master’s bliss and well-being. Unaware of her inner conflict, Lady Mei Lin grinned and fixed her hair and clothes, shifting and twisting in her seat to a silent rhythm, too happy to sit still. “And thanks for coming along. Even though Tanna is there waiting for me, Daddy doesn’t want me travelling alone. This is gonna be so much fun, after we finish the errand we can go shopping!”

Though still unsure what this mission entailed, Song replied, “This one is at your command, Master.”

The rote reply earned her a pout. “Not this one, but Li-Li, and not Master, but Lin-Lin.”

“Yes Lin-Lin, Li-Li obeys.”

The pout deepened and was joined by a crinkled nose and puffed cheeks, Lady Mei Lin expressing displeasure at Song’s conduct. Far from worrying her, the sight warmed Song’s heart, charmed by this most adorable of masters. “Hmm... so tricky,” Lady Mei Lin muttered, rubbing her head on Song’s arm. “It’s so difficult not to give orders... Okay, ignore the last order. You can call me whatever you want Li-Li, but I’d be really, really, really happy if you called me Lin-Lin. All the time, even after I give Mi-Mi back your necklace, ya?”

Unable to refuse her pleading eyes, Song nodded and answered, “Yes, Lin-Lin.” It was a small thing which brought Lady Mei Lin great joy, though Song couldn’t understand why she insisted on using childish pet names.

Though without an order, Song couldn't bear to refer to herself as 'Li-Li'.

“Thank you Li-Li.” After another hug, Lady Mei Lin pulled out Song’s chain and sighed, studying the necklace and its shimmering purple gemstone in the light. “So pretty but so terrible too. How can someone bear to force such an ugly Oath?” Tucking the chain away, she smiled and reached up to pat Song’s head. “Don’t worry Li-Li, you’re with us now, ya? You’re Mi-Mi’s real sister and since Mi-Mi and me are like sisters, it means you’re my sister too. We won’t let anything bad happen to you ever again.”

Naive, but well-intentioned, so Song merely nodded instead of pointing out her fallacy. So long as the chain existed, it could be taken away. The Bekhai had already done so much, Song couldn’t possibly ask them to permanently burden themselves with her existence. No, she would have to earn it, like she earned her place in Mama Akanai’s family.

Which was now Li Song’s family. The thought was enough to fill her with warmth.

It still felt so surreal to have a mother and a master who was also a sister. Mama Akanai treated Song so well it made her feel guilty and undeserving, working extra hard so not to disappoint her new family. At today’s lunch, Song had been so uncomfortable watching Master set the table, only Mama Akanai’s warm but firm hug keeping her in her seat. Master seemed in such a foul mood of late, waking later than normal and grumbling more often than not, and Song was at a loss to help her.

It was all that damnable Zian’s fault, brazenly using Master to hone his martial skills before humiliating her time and time again, shamelessly declaring victory in their spars despite his obvious inferiority. The difference in martial skill would be soon forgotten and the world would only remember Situ Jia Zian’s eight consecutive victories over Sumila of the Bekhai. There was nothing Master could do in reply short of throwing aside all face and asking someone with an Aura to shield her during their spars. Were it not for Master’s explicit orders to stay out of it, Song would have damned the consequences and set fire to the arrogant princeling’s quarters in his sleep.

At worst, Mama Akanai could turn over Song’s chain to face justice, where she would freely admit the crimes were done of her own volition. Death was a small price to pay for this last blissful week filled with familial love and affection. Even Papa Husolt, frightening as he appeared, was a kind and gentle soul, though she still felt uncomfortable in his presence.

Her mind knew he wasn’t at fault, but she still couldn’t help it. Men with power over her made her nervous, such was life.

Their journey soon came to an end as the quins slowed to a stop. At the side of the road, a multitude of tents and pavilions stood where a bustling impromptu marketplace sprang up every night. Though the rickshaw was eye-catching and expensive, none but bravest of thieves would even think of stealing it away. Well-groomed and well-dressed in their blue silk shirts, the two wagon-quins made for an endearing sight until they bared their teeth and flashed their claws at anyone who strayed too close. Compounding the threat was Song’s naked quin Erdene, wiggling in the grass to cool down after the long run, carrying five-hundred kilos of wildcat in her cart all by herself.

Perhaps later Song could purchase a shirt for Erdene and something for the wildcats and bears. Rain was too miserly, providing nothing but scarves for his pets despite all his newfound wealth. Jimjam would look darling in a tiny vest and hat, and even though he hated wearing them, he’d come around to it in time.

Giving the temperamental wildcat a vigorous scratching to distract him from his scarf, Song followed Lady Mei Lin deeper into the forest and the busy marketplace, the crowd giving way for Jimjam and Sarankho. All manner of items were on display to be sold, from expensive bolts of silk to bales of hay worth a fraction of a copper, while men and women haggled and bargained to make the most of their coin. In light of the outbreak at Sanshu, measures were taken to guard against Defiled infiltration, meaning any unrelated persons were barred from approaching within five kilometres of the Wall. Thus, a group of enterprising individuals organized this roadside bazaar here at the edge of the boundary, catering to the needs of every common labourer or highborn aristocrat still stationed at the Wall.

Keeping an eye on the unsavoury elements hidden in every shadow, Song fondled her saber’s hilt, daring the thieves and pickpockets to test her. Eager to try out Mama Akanai’s personal suggestions and corrections, Song was willing to lower herself to fighting crooks if need be, but Jimjam and Sarankho were reason enough to scare the scavengers away. A shame, but it made Song’s task easier. While bold and adventurous, Lady Mei Lin displayed no evidence of martial training.

Not to say Lady Mei Lin was a helpless damsel, no far from it. Though her talents lay in hunting and healing as opposed to fighting, her skills in archery, herbalism, and Lightening could easily be turned towards darker uses, like tracking down escaped prisoners or firing poisoned arrows from on high before escaping across the treetops. Each person tread their own way upon the Martial Path, so who was Song to say Lady Mei Lin’s approach was incorrect?

The thought of the delightful Mei Lin working as an assassin or bounty hunter put a smile on Song’s lips, an absurd and nonsensical fancy. She was the daughter and student of Medical Saint Taduk, what cause would she have to risk her life so foolishly? Even so, Song admired Lady Mei Lin's tenacity and courage, the pampered girl’s sweet smile never slipping even under threat of death, whether it be at the hands of Society or Defiled. Difficult to do for one untrained in combat, she’d won Song’s respect within days of their meeting.

“Tanna,” Lady Mei Lin called, easily hopping twice her height to see above the crowd. “Tanna, over here!” In flawless coordination, the crowd parted before them, unwilling to get between the wildcats and their destination. Tanaraq grinned as Lady Mei Lin dashed into her arms, sharing a sweet greeting as if parted for years instead of mere days.

“Little imp, your hubby is a harsh taskmaster,” Tanaraq declared, flashing Song a warm smile. Though they weren’t too familiar, Song knew Tanaraq from the journey home from the Society. Having just lost her husband, the former Khishig still had the presence of mind to treat Song warmly. “I agreed to run his school and orphanage but he’s running me ragged with all his errands and assignments.”

“Sorry Tanna,” Lin replied, head buried in the older woman’s chest. “It’s just for a little longer, we’re still trying to figure out who we can trust. You can come back to the Bridge after we find someone, ya? Rainy didn’t know there’d be a travel ban so we had no choice but to start  this second school out here. There’s lots of orphans whose parents used to be soldiers or labourers, it's not right to let them freeze and starve.”

“Silly girl, don’t take my words to heart. I’m just venting off steam, I’m happy to help. Gives me something to do besides sit around on my ass all day. Come, let me show you what we’ve done.” After a short walk, Tanaraq straightened her back and gestured into a clearing, her voice filled with pride. “This is the start of something wonderful. Eighty wayward souls and more to come, so you tell your hubby to hurry and send more shelters. Clothes aren’t a problem, we’ve more than enough coin to buy all we need, but three teachers and guards aren’t enough. I’ll need more helpers as the crooks are sniffing around, thinking us an easy mark. I have a list of things which...”

As Tanaraq and Lady Mei Lin worked out the details, Song stayed close and studied the clearing. Men, women and children were all scattered throughout the clearing, busy with chores and games. Most were injured, with bandages and splints aplenty, wounds taken either in the line of duty or while evacuating the Bridge. The curious bear cubs ambled about, followed closely by their protector Jimjam. The inhabitants skirted away whenever the animals approached and seeking to allay their nerves, Song recalled the animals with a whistle before treating them to a snack, apples for the bears and jerky for the wildcats.

A scrawny boy of perhaps ten years approached, feigning bravery even as his knees trembled. “Can I pet him?” he asked, eyes never leaving Jimjam’s prone form. “Is it safe?”

Song nodded. “Yes.” Safe as can be at least. They were still wild animals and prone to irrational actions, but Rain was oddly adept at correcting unwanted behaviours like resource guarding. “Come, crouch in full view of Jimjam. Make no sudden movements and extend your hand slowly, stopping short to allow him to examine you. If he ignores you, then wait, lest he thinks you’re here to steal his treat.”

It took several minutes of patience, but after finishing his jerky, Jimjam sniffed the boy’s palm and chuffed once before glancing away. “Go ahead,” Song said, watching the wildcat carefully. Lady Mei Lin would be unhappy to see one of her charges mauled and truth be told, so would Song. Gingerly stretching his arm as far as he could, the boy ran his fingertips through Jimjam’s fur, his cautious apprehension slowly melting into a smile.

Seeing the young boy’s success, other children slowly gathered to pet the animals under Song’s careful instruction. Though the bears were happy to run and play, Jimjam closed his eyes and tolerated the children’s attentions while Sarankho avoided them whenever she could. Next time, it would be better to bring Aurie here, the wildcat runt much friendlier than his siblings. These children deserved a little happiness.

“Ah, it’s good to see you smile child.” Tanaraq’s voice shook Song from her stupor, turning to see the older woman grinning with delight. “Was worried you’d forgotten how.” Blushing, Song glanced around in search of Lady Mei Lin, but Tanaraq gestured for Song to follow. “Come sit, little Lin is gonna be here awhile, there are injuries to treat, documents to look over, and coin to manage. All this charity work isn’t cheap, especially since Rain seems intent on ending slavery by buying every last slave in the North. Madness I say, but the boy has kind intentions.”

The smile on Song’s face grew a little wider as she sat next to Tanaraq, listening as the former Sentinel introduced the children one by one. For all his faults and vices, Rain was a kind, generous man, seeking to help those less fortunate than he.

It was almost enough to balance out his many other flaws.

Almost.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Glancing around the empty suite, Akanai felt a twinge of unhappiness. During lunch, the room had been full of life and laughter as they shared their meal, yet now she sat alone in the gloom, eating dinner with no one to keep her company. Her husband was hard at work helping repair the defences while Song and Lin were still out doing errands for the boy. One a newly adopted daughter and the other the closest thing to one, they both held a place in her heart.

