Kal’Duresh was a white-walled mountain oasis in the orange lands of the Crystal Forest, with walls thirty meters tall. The city covered an area twice as large as Spur. One thing Erick liked about the place was that each building and tower and residence on that mountain enjoyed a view of the land beyond, instead of a view of their neighbors.

‘Kal’Duresh’ was also a castle up at the very top of the mountain made of white stone and tiers and twisting trees. It looked more like a work of airy art than a true residence, especially from Erick’s angle down in the gardens right in front of the Castle, while sunset painted it all in golds and reds.

Erick was currently in the stone gazebo, located in a garden with boxy rows of bushes that barely came up to his thigh. He had been here before, so it was a semi-comfortable location. Plum tea steamed up from cups in front of him, while Zago sat to his right, Poi stood just outside the stone gazebo, and Baroness Pirazel Xelxex, the bright magenta incani who basically owned all of Kal’Duresh, sat across from him, sipping her own plum tea. She wore a red wraparound dress, and red-stone jewelry on her uneven horns. If they were enchanted gems, they had leaked out their light long ago.

Thick air flickered here and there in the garden, and over the Castle, and everywhere else.

Introductions and pleasantries had already happened, as well as smaller talk of what Erick was going to do with his magic, exactly. Or rather, what Ophiel was going to do, before five of the [Familiar]s went and did it.

Five Ophiel had each conjured their own [Teleporting Platform], that they each wrapped in a low-grade [Prismatic Ward] to fill the whole of the hovering stone. With their Restful spots prepared, each Ophiel had taken their positions in the center of the platform, and began casting [Domain of the Withering Slime]. White spheres had sprung up around the winged [Familiar]s, smaller than the diameter of the platform.

Erick then sent those five Ophiel across the city, making sure that they got the whole place. After checking through each Ophiel to make sure the entire city was covered, Erick had conjured a sixth to fill in the occasional gap that appeared between Domains; Kal’Duresh was a large city, with an underground aspect to it that ate up a lot of Ophiel’s range, and besides, overlapping Domains was a good idea in a land of tangled stone and water.

Shadowolf notifications had poured in, like barely-there blue box raindrops. Erick mostly didn’t care about those notifications, though, so they stayed out of his sight while he waited for something unexpected to show.

While he waited for the unexpected, the pleasantries wound down, and an Ophiel passed overhead. The [Familiar] rode his platform like he was a miniature version of the planet Saturn, flying through the skies of Kal’Duresh, guiding a galaxy of thick air. That same air strummed with full-powered violin music flavored with guitar accents. It sounded… nice.

Or a certain version of ‘nice’, anyway.

Xelxex also watched the Ophiel fly overhead, barreling forward like he was the head of an illusionary tsunami. She sipped her plum tea. She continued with the pleasantries, “Your [Familiar] certainly does seem to be enjoying himself.” She paused to watch a pseudopod the size of a large apartment building swipe through the gardens around them with little more disturbance to the peace than a soft breeze. Her eyes went a little wide, as she looked to the sky again, but she controlled her reaction to almost nothing. As the thick air and violin-wind passed, she said, “Though that song is somewhat disconcerting.”

Erick said, “I can have him tone down his song. A lot of people don’t seem to like that.”

Xelxex shook her head the faintest, proper amount, saying, “Nonsense. I just mention it because it proves the depth of your commitment to your summons.” She smiled professionally, saying, “One would think you were a Summoner, and not the herald of some new magic that the world has never seen before.”

“I’ve always tried to treat him well.” Erick said, “I understand most people don’t do that.”

Xelxex said, “No. They do not. Usually they are nothing more than expendable troops, sent out to perish to the benefit of their casters.” She added, “I have never studied too deeply the summoner’s arts, but I have heard some say that any mannerisms witnessed are the simple nuances of a million small lessons taught to them as they are raised. But starting off with a good base is just as important.”

Erick smiled. He changed the topic away from Ophiel, saying, “I’ve been meaning to apologize for the rudeness of the imaging I used upon your city. I just did it, but I really should have gone through your proper channels. Sorry about that.”

“It was good to dispose of hunter trash, and we are all in the rough and tumble business of quick decisions and fast actions out here in the Crystal Forest, especially when attackers like the Red Dot mage are involved.” She got a stern look on her face, as she said, “But some magics are not—”

A notification appeared. Erick snapped his gaze toward the blue box.

You have slain Shadowcat A!

95% Participation

+302,202 exp

Xelxex waited for Erick to speak, her pleasantness a mask upon her face.

Erick said, “Shadowcat A.”

Xelxex dropped the mask, revealing strictly contained rage. She halfway turned to the guard standing behind her, outside of the gazebo. She ordered, “Find it.”

Erick offered, “I might could find it, too, if you would care for another imaging of your city?” He added, “It won’t work underground, tho—” Two more shadowcat notifications popped out of the blue box rainstorm to the sides of Erick’s vision. “Two more shadowcats.”

“No.” Xelxex declared, “I don’t approve of blood magic. Not to put too fine a point on it, but if I ever find that spell near my lands again, I will press charges against both you and Spur. In the unlikely event of another Red Dot attack, and the ‘necessity’ of further imaging, I will still press charges.”

Erick paused, struck between asking ‘Who would oversee that lawsuit’ because the answer was ‘no one’, for there wasn’t an overarching government of the Crystal Forest that Erick knew of, and ‘What the heck? Blood magic?’ So he just drawled out, “Oookaay.”

Zago raised her eyebrows at Erick’s tone, but she said nothing. She had mostly gone silent after introductions. Erick held no illusions that Zago wasn’t in league with the Baroness in some long-term capacity, but Zago was still a part of Spur, first and foremost, according to everything Erick understood.

But Xelxex certainly made a point of noticing Erick’s long ‘okay’. She frowned at Erick, then paused, herself. She set her glass down, speaking with resigned understanding, “It’s not blood magic. You don’t know what souls are, either, so I suppose that makes a crude sort of sense.” She asked, “So what is your imaging, if not blood magic?”

He almost asked, ‘How do you know I don’t know about souls’ before the answer became obvious. She was the baroness of a major city. She had spies, of course. One of those spies might even be sitting right beside him, and named ‘Zago’. Erick did not look the guildmaster’s way, as he said, “All I know is that I have no idea what blood magic is, exactly.” He added, “So they’re probably not the same.”

Xelxex sipped her tea. Pleasantness returned to her voice, but only enough to cover the hard iron below, “In that case, I wish to formally hire you, to bring you over to the Kingdoms. To grant you a title of nobility and land, and win you over to the Wasteland.”

Without a second thought, Erick said, “No thank you. I won’t put myself in a position to choose a side in the Quiet War.”

“I will accept that answer in the short term, but in time, I think you will change your mind.”

“… I don’t think I will?”

What little comfortableness there was to the conversation, vanished, utterly and entirely.

“You will, and it will have very little to do with the Quiet War.” Her pleasant tone vanished, and out came the Baroness, in full. “Due to the arrival of Candlepoint, there’s going to be a real war in the Crystal Forest. Months off; maybe less. Not until we fully understand what they're trying to accomplish. It will be a coalition of interested nations, and since Candlepoint is so near the Kingdoms, my people are going to be at the center of that war. Our nation will endure this storm and bring peace back to the Crystal Forest, but others will take the opportunity to weaken us however they are able. The Converter Angel might have already been summoned.”

Zago gasped, “Already?!”

“Where?” Erick asked, “How do you know?”

The Baroness said, “We haven’t even gotten direct confirmation, but there is a guildhouse in Candlepoint. There is even a questing board in there, overseen by enthusiastic shadelings. On that board are quests to kill all sorts of monsters. From wyrms, worth one darkchip, to unicorns and Ancient Stone Elementals to Toxic Hydras to Monster Mimics to Singing Colpers, worth three to eight chips, to the Converter Angel in question, worth 10 chips.” She said, “We believe they are true listings, because of an example already shown to be true.

“We haven’t had a single Singing Colper sighting in a decade. But yesterday, the listing was not there, and today it was, and the lake where they usually surface was suddenly disturbed by ten meter tall waves and a piercing wail that drove the investigators off. Hours later, the adventurers came in and killed the beast, netting themselves eight chips, and enough to buy one of those 5% Reduction Beads. That 5% bead is real, too, by the way.

“We think the Converter Angel is real, as well.

“In fact, we think almost everything on offer in that city is real, at the moment.

“And so, there will be a war, soon. Either with Candlepoint, or with the Greensoil Republic over control of that city.” The Baroness asked, “What would it take to convince you that being impartial in the face of the coming atrocity would be the wrong move? What would it take for you to choose to help and protect those who need protecting? Money and power are obviously not your wants, but if you wish to be left alone to help others, or granted a leadership position in the Magisterium, we are prepared to offer such, and much more.” She stressed, “Archmage Flatt. Erick. Our entire nation, over three million souls, is still trying to recover from the last time a Converter Angel was loosed upon our lands. We need your help.”

Erick did not expect his meeting with the Baroness to turn so heavy. Maybe he should have.

She continued, “I have more than enough power to assure you that you would never be used as a wartime asset. Defensive measures only. But if you are worried of being human in a land of incani, in a few years, you might be able to gain an incani [Polymorph] form in the natural, non-hunter way, of living with us, and experiencing the beauty of our land and our people.” She added, “But you have power, Archmage Flatt. Power never before seen—”

“In months, Particle Mage will be open in the Script. So will [Call Lightning], and [Exalted Storm Aura]. And [Withering]. You don’t need me. I am not going to be a part of your war.”

Zago said, “You assured me that you would be there to help against the Converter Angel. Did you lie?”

Erick turned and stared at Zago, completely unprepared for her to say such a thing.

The Baroness said, “I doubt any of your spells would be released in the Script how you think they will.”

Erick turned back to the Baroness. “… What?”

“Your Class, Erick. That thing to which all else is attached.”

“We are not on a first name basis, Baroness.”

Zago looked away.

The Baroness continued, undeterred, “We doubt more than a handful of people will ever be able to gain Particle Mage.” She added, “Powerful Classes always have some sort of strange unlocking requirement. Witch, for Curse Magic. Spellthief, for Copy Magic. Dread Warrior. Fel Cutter. Time Mage. Rightful Heir, for those who would be Ruler. All of those are dangerous Classes, that if part of the Open Script, would spell doom for many people.

“Particle Mage would no doubt become one of these special, hidden Classes.” She looked at Erick, and said, “You might be the only Particle Mage to ever exist. Therefore, your [Exalted Storm Aura] might be the only one to ever exist.” She looked up as Ophiel flew overhead, dragging with him a lake of thick air. She continued, “Your [Withering] will be lost, forever, if you do not teach people this magic; if you do not help others to gain this Class. And I don’t mean just one apprentice. I mean a school of your own, where you take the kids when they are young and you instruct them in your magic, and hopefully we can cleanse every single city on Veird of monsters, before moving on to the wilder, darker spaces of this world.

“I can make that happen for you.” She said, “If you want to support children gaining power, knowing that they will use that power properly, then let me sponsor you, so that you can do what is right and good for the world, without worrying about the safety of the children in a rough city like Spur—”

“I know I am spied upon quite a bit, but this is a bit much.”

The Baroness sat straight, and said, “War is coming. The time for subtlety and hiding the full extent of one’s power is quickly coming to a close.”

