As the tree burned from the top and bottom, and Edgar, Derek, and Avery wailed on it at center-mass, the attacks from it lessened greatly. The green mist that had begun gathering and floating down was no more. As soon as Silvi’s flame broke through, the mist had caught fire and exploded. It seemed that whatever it was, was very flammable.

As the attacks from the tree lessened, so too did its screeches and echoes. Alanah almost felt bad for the thing as it wailed… almost. Derek had gathered the perfect people for this fight—she was glad she brought him. And even though she wasn’t able to do much, she basked in the heat generated by the burning tree. Her job was done—Tyron was no longer in any danger. Any root or vine that tried to get at him was intercepted and burned down by Rocky, or just didn’t make it through his area attack. With the momentum the smith had, there was no stopping him. He was like a metallic juggernaut—perfectly built to fight immobile enemies.

Soon, the smith made it all the way to the trunk of the tree. There, he placed his metallic covered hand on the trunk and lava once more shot up out of the ground—this time, it pooled around the base of the tree—finally burning more than just the roots.

Along with that, the fire from above had slowed in its burning. The Dragon Flame was so strong that the canopy of the tree was no longer there. All that was left was the main stem, or trunk, of the tree. Most of the limbs and branches had burned or were in the process of burning and falling. The thing’s wailing got deeper as it burned.

Finally, it also began to pale in the middle some—where the others were. Then, with a boom that sounded more intense than any thunder Alanah had ever heard, the top half of the tree began to fall over. The tree slowly crashed into the ground—leaving a giant crater and devastation in its wake. Once the dust settled, Alanah looked up.

Derek, Avery, and Edgar were all standing on what was now the top of a giant stump. Derek held his glaive forward, digging it into the tree and seemingly eating away at it. Moments later, Alanah received the notification.
