No, I’ll leave the armor on. I’m not sure I can get back into it without help. He sighed and shook his head. Right, I have one overnight recovery potion, three regular stamina potions, maybe five days of food, and unlimited water. How much training can I do in that time?

He glanced at his adaptation panel again. He’d gotten three points in strength tolerance from hiking around the lair. That wasn’t much, and with his synchronization only at 24%, that was closer to one point in terms of actual effect.

I can do a bit better than that, even before I throw in the stamina potions. Say I can manage five points a day. That’s 25 points. Vigor tolerance should get better, too, and faster stamina regen means faster training, right? The real limit is food, I suppose. How much protein do I need to eat, and how much is in a ration bar?

He paused. No, I can’t think of it like regular strength training. I’m not really improving my body per se. This is soul training. Completely different. If I do nothing but push my tolerance for five days, I wind up with 43, meaning…12.72 effective. Humm.

What if I go the other way and focus on synchronization? If I set the buff low, and just work on sync, I might be able to get two percentage points a day. Seems reasonable. I got a whole point of sync for Vigor yesterday, and I wasn’t even trying. My Strength sync is awful, so it should improve quickly, right? So if it’s five days, that’s ten percent. My effective Strength would only go up to…9.52. Not as good.

Now, what if I do a bit of both? Each point of tolerance that I have makes each point of sync more valuable. Let’s see here. Fifty-fifty gets me… 11.745 effective. Oh well. Pure Tolerance training it is. I’ll just have to hope that just under 13 Strength is enough.

He stopped pacing and sat down, switching from Purify to Winter. Purify wasn’t free, especially at the level required to use it for light. He tilted his head, then pinged for torches, coming up with nothing in the room. He’d lost his in the Tunnel. Damn. What happened to all of them? Wait a minute, are monsters going to spawn in here?

After a moment of panic, he relaxed. They’d only be slimes. Ha, I might welcome the company. Honestly, someone will probably come long before I even get going on this crazy plan.

He rested his head in his hands.

Am I really doing this?

He thought for a moment. Yeah, I guess I am. Let’s call it plan C. Plan A is yelling really loud and hoping someone comes with a pickax. On that note.

“HEY! I’M TRAPPED DOWN HERE! CAN ANYONE HEAR ME?!”

His voice echoed slightly in the stone room, but though he listened, there was no response. Oh well. I’ll keep trying. Plan B…I haven’t thought of yet. I’m sure it’s better than Plan C, though. Anyway, might as well get started. Not like there’s much else to do.

He pulled the adaptation panel back in front of him and played with it for a minute.

Adaptation

Effective

Total

Base

Sync

Buff

Tolerance

Strength

6.72

48

10

24%

38

18

Recovery

7.38

38

10

41%

28

8

Endurance

5.1

37

10

30%

27

7

Vigor

10

45

10

40%

35

15

Focus

10

10

10

100%

0

49

Clarity

225

225

200

100%

25

61

Current

Tolerance

Enchantment Stat Boosts

153

133

Enchantment Resistances

0

Unknown

Happy with the settings, he left the window open, just moving it off to the side and out of the way. He’d decided on twenty over the limit in all physical stats, with the remainder in Clarity to work on his general tolerance. He wasn’t planning on leaving it like that, but starting off with things relatively even would give him a good baseline.

Rain moved into position, placing his hands at shoulder width and doing his best to straighten out his back. He lowered himself down, then pushed himself back up. One. A perfect pushup. Two. Three. Four…

He smiled faintly, thinking of one of the only shows that had managed to make him laugh during some of the darkest days of his depression.

One hundred push-ups, one hundred sit-ups, then one hundred squats. Cap that all off with a ten-kilometer run. Every. Single. Day.

He lowered himself again, marveling about how easy it was. The ring already had him feeling like a superhero. The Vigor boost, in particular, was utterly absurd from a physics perspective. The energy to move his body had to come from somewhere, but according to Melka, that wouldn’t be an issue as long as he balanced it with Endurance. The energy came from his soul. But where did his soul get it from?

He smiled and shook his head. Video game logic.

Thinking about old TV shows and video games helped. The alternative was to think about all of the dead bodies waiting on the other side of the wall.

Damn you, Velika. No, not just Velika. Damn all of them. Westbridge, the DKE, the Empire, and their stupid war.

He kept doing pushups, not even bothering to count anymore. He’d stop when he couldn’t continue, then drink a potion and continue anyway.

I need to be stronger.

Mlemlek Ko-Latti was having a bad day, though perhaps ‘day’ was the wrong word. He really had no idea what time it was. The bells that typically announced the hour had gone wild the night before. That had been the lookouts sounding the alert in response to the Empire’s attack. All that it had really accomplished was to give him a headache. It wasn’t like there was anything that anyone could do about the army outside the barrier, not with Citizen Sadanis unreachable within the lair.

Mercifully, the constant ringing had stopped after a half-hour. However, the normal schedule had not resumed. Something else must have happened, but he wasn’t sure what exactly that could be. It wasn’t like he could go check right now.

He couldn’t even make a guess at the time by looking at the sky, as another blizzard was raging outside of the dome. It could be midnight for all he knew. It felt like it was dawn, but he’d yet to receive his progress report to confirm that. All he knew for sure was that he should have been in bed hours ago.

Mlem sighed, resting his head in his hands. Lots of storms lately. Did the Adamants summon this one, or is it just a coincidence? He looked up with one bleary eye. Another shower of fire had struck the barrier, casting a wave of ruddy light over the city before the darkness returned. They sure are persistent.

The bombardment had been continuing on-and-off for hours. Mlem had been concerned at first, but now he was used to it. The initial salvo had been absolutely terrifying, but the barrier had blocked it without showing any sign of weakness. The Adamants had since slowed down. They were now launching magic in waves, likely to give them time to recover their mana in between. From what he’d heard, the army was digging in for a long siege. The message from the Majistraal still listed the barrier’s integrity as ‘fair,’ meaning that the Adamants weren’t making much progress, if any at all.

Mlem smiled. The dominus in charge of this mess must be spitting blood. I wonder if he’s told the potentate about his failure yet. Still, how did they get here? They couldn’t have known about the barrier… Or maybe they did know but just underestimated it. From the outside, it must look like this is something the DKE did, not the work of some ancient Majistraal artifact. It’s not like those are just lying around.

Mlem smoothed his mustache, idly. He believed that he’d finally puzzled out the reason why so few Majistraal ruins were ever found. Anything capable of breaching a barrier like this one would have also been capable of wiping the city from the map. Simply by the fact that the Majistraal civil war had ended with their total destruction, their offensive magic was clearly up to the task. In that light, it made sense for most of their cities to have been erased. It wasn’t a perfect theory, though. Fel Sadanis was on relatively flat land. He would have expected there to be a crater or something. It was indeed a mystery, one that smarter people than him had spent their entire lives trying to solve.

He sighed, rubbing at his temples, then looked at the building behind him. He was sitting on a crate outside of the small warehouse that he had rented, near the western edge of the city. The warehouse contained all the food that he‘d purchased in preparation for the scarcity that was sure to strike. He was out here to guard it.

He’d sold most of his other goods and spent all of the coin he had on this little gamble. He wasn’t about to let anyone take it from him. It wasn’t much, especially when compared to the fortune that he had commanded in the past, but it was all he had. Once the prices rose, he would make quite the profit, if he lived that long.

Another volley of magic struck the barrier, arcane lightning this time. The city was colored in violet as the bolts glanced off of the magical dome. It was really quite beautiful. The lack of sound made it seem more like a color show in Xiugaaraa, rather than high-tier siege magic.

He sighed again, thinking of the riots that had broken out across the city. Idiots. The barrier would hold, he was sure. If it hadn’t even weakened by now, then it wasn’t going to. He contemplated adding a new rule, something along the lines of, ‘Trust the Majistraal,’ but he was too tired to figure out a more appropriate phrasing. He’d set Ava to the task when she woke up. She was surprisingly good at it. Almost as good as her mother had been.

He held his breath, listening. He could hear his daughter’s soft breathing from inside the warehouse, thanks to the hearing accolade that he had attuned. It was comforting to his tired mind. What was less comforting was the sound of footsteps headed his way, growing louder by the moment.

“Rotten hulls,” Mlem muttered and hopped off of his crate. How do I always find myself in these situations? He drew his scimitar, then readied himself to face the oncoming band of looters. They just don’t learn.

Carten’s footsteps were muffled by the luxuriant carpeting as he walked along the hallway. He wasn’t carrying his shields or wearing his helmet—both were back in the room that Velika had set aside for him. Instead, he had a leather backpack slung over one shoulder, the contents clinking softly as he walked.

He came to a stop outside Velika’s door and nodded to the woman guarding it. He liked this particular guard. Bre-something, he thought her name was. But then again, he liked anyone who was smart enough to use a shield.

“Is she awake?” Carten asked, gesturing at the door.

The woman shrugged. “I think so. Is that what she asked for?”

Carten nodded. “Alls I could find. The nobles say they ain’t got much, but I squeezed a few out of them. Most of this is from those two weirdos who run the shop by the south wall.”

The guard nodded. “You’d better go on in, then.”

“How is she?” Carten asked, apprehensively. “Bad?”

“Bad,” the woman replied. “I know I wouldn’t want to go in there right now. She almost killed the servant who tried bringing her breakfast.”

Carten grinned to hide how concerned he was for the Citizen’s mental state. “I’ll be fine. I’m too pretty to kill.” He ran a hand through his bushy black beard.

The woman snorted, motioning to the door. “Get in there. The sooner she gets those potions, the better.”

Carten nodded. “Just wish I’d’ve found some of them scrolls. You think her hair’ll grow back?”

The woman just shook her head. “I don’t know. I think it’s her leg that—”

“FUCK YOU, WESTBRIDGE! ANSWER ME! I KNOW YOU CAN HEAR ME!”

Both Carten and the guard winced as Velika’s voice boomed through the hallway. The pressure was enough to send dust falling from the ceiling.

“Shit,” said the guard, rubbing at her ears. “I hate it when she does that.”

Carten frowned. He knocked twice, then pushed open the door and stepped inside. The potions would be enough. They had to be. He hated to see anyone like this, let alone someone who was so beautiful and strong. The sooner that Velika recovered, the better.
