Even though Gongsun Qi was able to block and even Deflect the cannonball aimed at his body, the Defiled soldiers behind him were not fortunate enough to escape death. While the point of impact is barely larger than the cannonball is wide, the projectile’s momentum carried it far through the packed Enemy lines. Wherever it passed, death followed soon after as brawn and Runic Armour proved no match for dense iron and unmatched velocity, the cannonball bouncing down the line and pulping flesh and bone until its momentum was finally spent. Difficult to say how many it killed, given what little remains of those who stood in its path, but the number easily ranks in the dozens, if not the hundreds at a minimum.

And being the Number One Runesmith of the North, OuYang Yuhuan did not stop after making one, singular cannon.

Woodsman Yelu Shi. Radiant Fist Wugang. Daxian the Virtuous. Bastard Liu Gan. Each of them carry a cannon which they use to similar results, their concentrated fire wiping out an entire section of the Defiled army in the blink of an eye. Then, before the horror of what I’ve unleashed has yet to take root, they load a second cannonball into each of their weapons and fire again, and again, and again, slowed only by the need to load their cannons for another shot. A mundane cannon takes minutes to reload, to pack the gunpower, set the charges, and whatever else a regular cannon needs, but with a Runic Cannon, the cannonball only needs to roll down the length of the barrel and reach the base of the cannon before it is ready to be fired. Imperials stand frozen in shock and awe as five men kill thousands without blinking, racking up kills as easily as breathing and sending the once fearless Defiled fleeing in panicked droves. Lei Gong and Liu Gan even have wide smiles stretched across their rugged faces, the former luxuriating in the satisfaction of finally living up to his thunderous name while the latter relishes in his vengeance which was long since coming.

I didn’t even know the former leader of the Crossbone Corsairs had joined up with GangShu’s Azure Ascendants, but beneath his sadistically gleeful expression, I can feel his pain and resentment bubbling up. This is a man who hates the Empire almost as much as Gongsun Qi, but the difference is, Liu Gan hates the Defiled even more, which is why he killed his younger brother, Yo Ling. He saw what Defilement did to the only family he had left, and he chose to take a stand against it, even if it cost him everything he held dear.

Unable to spare the effort to kill me any longer, Gongsun Qi retreats and tries to rally an effective defence and maybe take out the cannon-bearing Warriors, but it seems Zhen Shi has already given up the fight and withdrawn all his Spectres, Demons, and Demonic Warriors. My part is done here, so I retreat under close guard to find Yan, hold her close to soothe my shaking nerves, and bear witness to what I have wrought. Men and women die in droves and countless Demons are formed in the aftermath, a horrific nightmare which shakes me to my Core, but even more frightening is how so many Demons are still unable to clear away the carpet of corpses forming on the ground. These efforts do deny me the ability to Devour the recently released Spectres and easily replenish my spent reserves of usable Heavenly Energy, and I have to wonder if this is coincidental or by ingenious design. How much does Zhen Shi truly know? Is he able to create Demons at will? How else will he deny me the power I require?

Within minutes, the booming roars of the Runic Cannons and the whistling howls of their deadly payloads are no longer able to drown out the screams of the dying, and I shudder to think what might happen once others uncover the secrets of cannon creation and start utilizing them en masse. I survived for almost an entire second against Gongsun Qi and the Empire has won the battle today, but at what cost? Only time will tell, and I fear history will not look kindly upon me once the implications become clear. Today, I have forever changed the face of war, and not for the better. No longer do Peak Experts represent the pinnacle of strength, their position taken away by cold iron etched with indecipherable inscriptions, which is both good and bad at the same time. I don’t know if the world is ready for this, but the outer provinces might well have been doomed without it, so I guess there’s no point arguing about my intent. Not that it even matters, as the road to hell is paved with good intentions, and I cannot help but wonder if I’ve taken yet another step down the wrong Path, the same path men like Yo Ling and Gongsun Qi sought to pursue. One which I know can only end in pain and suffering, but then again, isn’t that just life?

Suffering without end.

Woooo. Victoryyyy...

Chapter Meme

- End of Volume 38 -
