Introspective matters for another day, however, as right now, I have a battle to stop. The soldiers of Central are exhausted but not yet spent, their heads high and weapons in hand as I leave Yan and step off the balcony to meet my foe face to face. Grandpa Du is first to Send his objections, followed by Yan, Naaran, Hongji, and a whole host of others including even Shuai Jiao from afar, but I will not hide from my foe, not while he stands in plain sight. Fancy clothes, embossed armour, and honking big glaive aside, Gongsun Qi is not an imposing man, slim of build but broad of shoulder with the airs of a man who works with his hands. Not a scholar, not a soldier, but a craftsman and labourer, that’s the impression I get from him at first glance, one that is as far from the truth as humanly possible. The Prince of Barbarity is a superlative Warrior and tactical genius who is not to be underestimated, but as Zhen Shi was so kind to remind me, Gongsun Qi does not kill and slaughter for his own perverse pleasures.

Everything the Lord of Martial Peace does has been in pursuit of a goal, order and prosperity for his people. The internecine warfare in the Western Province cost him all his family and friends, and he has worked his entire life to ensure this would not happen to others, only for the worst to pass as the Defiled broke through and the Emperor abandoned his people. No, Gongsun Qi is not a monster by birth, but by circumstance and good intentions, a just and honourable man who walks his Path of Necessary Sacrifice with the firm conviction of a true believer.

Which is why I’m pretty sure he won’t kill me out of hand while we chat, but just to be safe, I pick out a spot on top of the gate-house where I reunited with Yan to stand while we chat. Cloud-Stepping slowly in that direction, I scan the surroundings for Concealed Wraiths or Demons, but it comes up clean, if not entirely safe. At only seventy metres or so away from the Lord of Martial Peace, we might as well be just slightly out of arm’s length given how quickly we both can move, but Imperial morale could use a boost, and what better way than to show them I am stronger than ever before. Slow, even steps bring me across the empty air in a calm, casual manner, and I spot more than one soldier’s gaze is filled with admiration or disbelief, both of which foster hope and jubilation amidst this grand trial and tribulation, one which has left many a soldier in despair.

If only I knew how I was doing this, then I too could share in that hope and jubilation...

Thankfully, this last thought strikes me as I land lightly atop the battlements, because if I think too much about Cloud-Stepping, there’s a good chance I could plummet from the skies. Every since refining my body into a Spiritual Heart, I’ve found that Chi is more responsive in every way shape and form, so I need to be careful about letting my thoughts stray. There’s no need to share with the entire class just how tenuous my grasp of Chi skills really are or the other downsides I’ve thus far discovered, so all this will have to remain as my little secret for now. According to Naaran, even though I have the raw power and ability to be considered a Peak Expert and perhaps even a Half-Step Divinity, my lacking comprehension means we’re not entirely sure where I sit on the scale of Martial Strength. Which is fine really. Strength isn’t the goal of cultivating the Dao, merely a side-effect that comes with it, so while my prowess cannot be measured through conventional means, I at least have enough strength to preserve my life and escape to safety if it should come to that.

It won’t though, because like I said, Gongsun Qi is still a man of honour, and he will hear me out before we clash again. “You think me insolent?” I begin, offering him a cursory salute of respect and receiving a polite nod in return, which was really more than I expected. “Is it insolent to speak the truth and say that you have over-reached and can no longer claim undisputed victory in this battle? The brave soldiers of Central stood firm and delayed your advance, while reinforcements from North and South will arrive within a matter of hours, hundreds of thousands of fresh and eager troops, while your soldiers are already flagging.” Not entirely true, as he still has plenty of Demons and weird, Demon-wearing power rangers on his side, as well as a large contingent of somewhat rested cavalry to contend with, but who knows. Maybe he forgot.

“To say this be true is a stretch, and even if it were, still insolent none the less.” Putting on the airs of an elder, Gongsun Qi sniffs and says, “A proper gentleman would not be so blunt.”

“Well, I’ve been called many things, but never ‘gentleman’, so you may be right about my insolence.” Give and take, establish a bit of banter so that he might consider my words that much more carefully. “That being said, there is nothing to be won here, not anymore. Either you stay and fight until my allies arrive to overrun you, or you withdraw and I hinder your retreat until my archers and lancers move into place and run roughshod over what’s left of your army. Those are two options left to us, but there is still a third: surrender now, and I will allow your army to leave untouched until such a time as we meet on the field of battle once more.”

Shoulders shifting as if thoroughly amused, Gongsun Qi shakes his head and smiles. “Even a single hour is enough for this grand army of Chosen to reduce your Citadel to ruins, much less the half-day afforded to us before Imperial reinforcements arrive. A bold child you be, but this Prince was no less bold in his youth, so out of appreciation for your Talents, he makes this offer but once; Join me, Falling Rain, for you have seen the Truth, and this Prince would be honoured to fight by your side.”

That... is actually a lot nicer than I expected from the Prince of Barbarity, and though I have no intention of actually accepting, I can’t help but wonder why he wants to recruit me as well. Zhen Shi tried very hard to bring me over to his side, whether it was as a Defiled, Chosen, or Demon, and while Goujian did his very best to kill me, Monk Vyakhya spoke like he wanted me captured alive. Now I’m getting offers from the Lord of Martial Peace, which really begs the question: why?

Reading me like an open book, Gongsun Qi smiles and Sends, “Fear not, Falling Rain. Though this Prince’s allies harbour malice and ulterior motives when making this same offer, my appreciation for you stems not from your talents, but your character. Rest assured, accept, and this Prince will guarantee your safety, for we be kindred spirits of like mind.” Going back to speaking out loud, his booming voice echoes over the Bulwark walls. “The Empire’s greatest woes stem not from the Defiled, but from the dog Emperor himself. You have seen the rot pervading the very roots of our society, a sickness you seek to treat and eliminate, but though your efforts and intentions are noble, there be a time when half-measures do more harm than good. There is no saving this rotten Empire, so we must destroy it and rebuild from the ashes, for only then can we set a foundation for a better society in which men of all stations are beholden to duty before all else, instead of reaping the rewards while those beneath them pay the ultimate price.”

That is the dream, but to hear it from Gongsun Qi only fills me with sorrow. Where did this man of noble spirit and lawful intent go wrong? What he’s describing is a world in which people of authority are held liable for their actions, before matters spiral too far out of control. Checks and balances for people in government positions essentially, which is hardly unreasonable given the rampant abuse and corruption, and it’s easy to imagine why he would want this. Battling rampant corruption and nepotism is how Gongsun Qi first rose to fame, in open combat against the local Magistrate of his home town. The Magistrate overstepped the bounds of his authority and lost himself to Defiled degeneracy, which eventually led to a full-blown rebellion and Defiled incursion in one. Had there been measures in place to oversee his actions, the Magistrate would have been removed and replaced long before matters spiralled out of control, but instead, Bai Qi was forced to help oversee the Purge which claimed the lives of everyone he knew and loved, including the parents who raised him.

Yet another tragedy borne of the Empire’s folly, one which does not need Zhen Shi’s meddling to garner my sympathy, but that doesn’t mean I’m ready to give up on humanity just yet. Choosing my words carefully so as not to say anything that might be construed as treason or rebellion, I reply, “Though your words are those of a man who serves a noble cause, you have chosen ignoble allies to help you achieve your goals. Rebellion is not the answer, nor is widespread genocide, for suffering can only beget more suffering. I can make no offers in the name of the Emperor, but should you surrender yourself to my authority, then I will do everything within my power to see you given a fair trial.”

One that will inevitably end with a quick drop and a short stop, which Gongsun Qi knows as well as I do. “This Prince’s allies claim that if left unchecked, you will grow into a force to be reckoned with, a carp destined to leap over the dragon gate, but you be no dragon yet. So pray tell, from where does your confidence stem? The pacifist monks of the Penitent Brotherhood? Even if they be daring enough to go against their Dao, their strength and numbers be far from enough to tip the scales of balance here. The rooster and tiger? Curious beasts both, but nothing this Prince and his allies cannot overcome with ease. Does your confidence stem from your Concealed Divinity backers? Ones who even now continue to deploy their Domains in subtle threat? Perhaps. Here in this Citadel, you have the most to lose in a clash between Divinities, yet are also most liable to wager it all, the shortsightedness of youth before the tempering of age, but know this; this Prince would welcome such mutual destruction, for doing so would only hasten the start of a new era, one without the Emperor’s boot resting on humanity’s neck.” Somehow appearing to loom above me despite remaining rooted in place, Gongsun Qi’s presence magnifies several-fold to appear more real and substantial, emanating threat and menace with little more than a snort and a raised eyebrow. “Then again, perhaps this Prince underestimated your hubris, and you truly think you alone are enough to threaten me. Oh, such arrogance is befitting of a man of your talents, but this Prince be more than happy to teach you humility.”

Pot, meet kettle. Shaking off Gongsun Qi’s oppressive presence with ease, I smile and say, “You are correct. The monks of the Brotherhood will not fight, nor will the rooster and tiger. I myself am far from enough to secure victory on my own, but I knew all this before setting out from the monastery.” Spreading my arms to either side in a muted flourish, I add, “Which is why I made sure not to come alone.”

At least one of the Divinities has a flair for theatrics, because as soon as the words are spoken, the deployed Domain Gongsun Qi spoke of dissipates into nothingness to reveal a veritable army of Peak Experts, ones who made their way here under a cloak of Concealment. Martial Warriors constitute one percent of humanity, and Peak Experts only one percent of Martial Warriors. With billions of citizens and millions of Martial Warriors in existence, the tens of thousands of Peak Experts seem rare and uncommon when scattered across the outer provinces, but at least fifty-percent of them now stand here in the heart of Central’s Citadel, in what might well be the largest gathering of Peak Experts in history.

So many familiar faces stand out from the crowd, like Mom and Dad moving in as close to me as they can, with Akanai and Husolt right behind them. Gerel is here too, looking more like the hero than I ever will, resplendent in his silver and black armour complete with a winged helm which leaves room to show off his magnificently manly hair-do which has grown so much longer since I last saw him. Other Peak Experts of the People are gathered around too, dependable shoulders who have held up the Heavens all this time, their comforting presence spoiled only by the familiar faces missing from their ranks. Ghurda and Yaruq are the only other former bannermen present, the rest either dead or not strong enough to make the cut into this army of Peak Experts, but there are others to make up for the absence. Dour and dependable Naaran, mischievous and nervous Argat and Jochi, jovial and light-hearted Vichear, these are but a handful of the Peak Experts hailing from the People, of which there are many more.

