One of these days, I will learn to think before I speak and never make a fool of myself again.

Hopefully before I literally die of shame and embarrassment. Much as I love obsessing over plans for every conceivable possibility, the moment I find myself without one, I tend to go all out on the improvisation, which rarely ever ends well. Learning to Heal is the only reason I’m still alive after making so many bad decisions while under the gun, and I feel like I’ve made another. Demanding an Enemy surrender was ballsy enough as is, but now it sounds like I’m intentionally mocking them, when in fact I would very much like to put a diplomatic end to the hostilities here and now. I doubt it’ll actually happen, but I’ll never know unless I try, and I’m off to a terrible start. Ridicule is hardly the best way to convince my foes that it’s in everyone’s best interests to take a step back, but my foot’s already firmly ensconced in my mouth so there’s nothing to do except talk around it.

It would’ve been nice to have more time to think things through, but after Taduk finally remembered to tell us that the Central Citadel was under heavy attack, I’ve been running on all cylinders with no time to breathe much less consider all the angles. Time waits for no man, and much as I would love a week or two to rest and recuperate before diving right back into the thick of things, the calamity is upon us here and now. It’s time to nut up or shut up, but I’m not great at either of those things, so I gotta do what I gotta do.

The stifling silence does little to ease my humiliation, but at least it means the fighting has stopped, if only so everyone in the Citadel can collectively wince in second-degree shame. Yan’s muffled laughter doesn’t help either, but I love the sound of her throaty chuckle and the heat of her body pressed against mine, so I’d say it’s totally worth. It feels like an eternity since I’ve held her in my arms, and I am so grateful to have her in my life, much less be married to such an amazing woman. Yan was the first to notice I was hiding within my fugue state, but rather than out me and try to force me back to consciousness, she quietly let me know in no uncertain terms that she knew I was there, but would wait for as long as it took. Her tender love and quiet support showed me the foolishness of my ways and gave me the kick in the pants I needed to get over my fears and move on. I’m still terrified that everyone I know and love will one day learn I am a fraud, and only slightly less terrified that everything I’m currently experiencing is merely an illusion crafted by Zhen Shi, but Yan’s patience and love showed me just how stupid my behaviour was, hiding from everyone and everything just because I was afraid to lose any more. As if that weren’t enough, she’s also set me on the path towards understanding that I am neither my past nor my present, not a pretender or intruder, but someone who is neither and also both, Rayne and Rain combined, a person I have yet to truly figure out, and there’s nothing wrong with that.

What I do know is that I love Yan with all my heart, and cannot imagine a life without her. The same goes for Mila and Lin-Lin, even Li-Li and maybe Luo-Luo, though I’m still not sure where I stand with either one of them, but one thing is certain: I am a lucky man when it comes to love.

Everything else, not so much, but them’s the breaks, right?

“So, the infamous Legate Falling Rain finally sees fit to reveal his lofty presence, and his first call be to demand this Prince’s surrender. You be bold and insolent as rumours say. Very well. This Prince accepts your invitation to discussion, and hopes the Legate will not disappoint.” Speaking in a slow, ambling drawl that makes him sound cordially folksy, the Lord of Martial Peace reveals his presence atop the roof of the banquet hall, the same one the Legate used for his banquet way back when. Actually, now that I think about it, that wasn’t so far back, but it feels like an eternity has passed since I had to justify my continued existence before the Legate and all of the outer provinces. Most believed I was of more use dead than alive, a fondly remembered hero and martyr rather than a crippled eyesore with more authority than Martial power. I still don’t understand why everyone thinks a person who spends all their time learning how to hit people harder would make for a good administrator or commander, but I’ve long since given up on trying to find sense in oh so many of the decisions people make.

That being said, Gongsun Qi would appear to be the exception to the rule, brilliant tactician, outstanding Warrior, and able minister wrapped up in one. Though his methods are more brutal and merciless than I can stomach, one cannot argue against results seeing how he single-handedly put a stop to the cyclical rebellions of the West, saving Heavens knows how many lives in the process. What would I have done in his place? I’m not entirely sure, but considering the woes the West faced since inception, I’m not sure I could’ve done any better than the infamous Lord of Martial Peace. It wasn’t just a lack of food and water that caused strife in the West, but rather the need to conserve what they did have in order to prepare for the worst. It’s one thing to look down at a spreadsheet and calculate how we need to cut back to half-rations in order to survive, and another all-together to tell a man with starving children that they’ll have to eat even less than the meagre share they were already provided so that the vast majority of people could survive the next few months.

How many half-measures did he have to enact to save the lives of the many at the cost of a few? How many times did he dispatch soldiers to defend precious food and water from starving civilians who were sick and tired of watching their children go to bed hungry? The Prince of Barbarity, they called him, when in fact, the Emperor was the barbaric one, limiting the resources of an entire province it so desperately needed in order to secure a better price on precious ores. Small wonder Gongsun Qi turned against the Empire after having given so much of his life to the cause. I cannot imagine how he felt when the Emperor closed the borders not even a day after the Defiled broke through. Decades of hardship and sacrifice rewarded by bitter betrayal and abandonment, the fight given up without even making an attempt to save the West.

Then again, what else could the Emperor have done, aside from going back in time and being a better ruler to his people? What would I have done if I were in his place, having learned the Defiled had broken through into the outer provinces? I’m not sure. When the West fell, North and South were still reeling from months of uninterrupted assaults upon their respective Border Walls, and Central was so fractured that appointing a single Colonel General to command all their armies would’ve resulted in civil war. There was no way to send aid to the West without further weakening the remaining outer provinces, so the Emperor chose to sever a limb and cauterize the wound rather than fester or bleed out. Sure, things turned out better than expected since then, but only through a series of near miracles and unfortunate events, and though the outer provinces are finally united under one commander, that’s more of a fluke than anything else. Hideo’s betrayal and the death of the Southern Colonel General are the only reasons Shuai Jiao was able to snag the title of Commander General with minimal concessions. If Mitsue Juichi had never stepped down, Ryo Dae Jung would not have been left alone to bear the full weight of Shuai Jiao’s attentions. As for the North and South, Nian Zu was never one to covet power and authority, so he would’ve always acted in the best interests of the Empire, but Marshal Quyen Huong had to make concessions since his highest ranking officer fell in battle, making his entire province seem the weakest of the three.

Given how well things turned out for him, my gut tells me that the ascetic wannabe monk turned Commander General cannot be trusted. Despite his efforts to serve the people, Shuai Jiao has shown his true colours as a man of ambition and opportunity, something I should’ve already known. No one could have risen to his lofty heights without support aplenty, especially in the cutthroat political world of Central, so I’m sure Shuai Jiao has plenty of plans in place to ensure he keeps his lofty powers even after the Defiled threat is gone and he renounces his military rank as promised. Especially now that there’s no Ryo Dae Jung to stand in his way, the people of Central might even beg Shuai Jiao to keep his mantle of Commander General, or at least ‘step down’ and become the sole remaining Colonel General of Central, which might well have been his goal all along.

Ryo Dae Jung seemed like a good man, one who loved his wife and children dearly. A political animal, sure, but he never used his daughter to pressure me, even though I’m sure Ryo Da’in could’ve beat me black and blue any time she pleased, nor did he renounce me after my unfortunate crippling. For his loyalty, the Sword King was rewarded with an early, untimely demise, and I can only offer a quiet prayer for this good man and curse myself for not making it here a day earlier.

How much time did I waste, locked away in the Void? How much further would I be, had I not tried to run and hide from all my problems like the coward I am? I told the Abbot there can be no ‘wrong’ steps along the Martial Path, because regardless of our mistakes, they are still capable of altering our perception and perspective, but there are times when it feels like I failed and faltered a whole lot more than I should’ve. Who’s to say I won’t screw up again and get everyone in the Citadel killed? Despite my lofty title, I am no commander of soldiers or even an able administrator, just a child with the good fortune to be surrounded by people of talent and good conscience.

...Excuse me, inner monologue, but ‘child’? Ahem. No. I am old as fuck. Okay, not really, but never in all my years here in the Azure Empire, have I ever, considered myself a ‘child’.

Fucking Zhen Shi. How does he do it? How is he always whispering in my ear? No, not even whispers, because he only rarely feeds me direct lines like he just did. Instead, he silently tugs at my heartstrings and leads me deeper into the pits of self-loathing and despair before offering me that one final push to try and tip me over the edge. Such a loathsome and insidious foe is difficult to guard against, if not impossible, and I find it surprising he hasn’t turned more Imperial Officers to his cause. Maybe they’re more steadfast in their determination or I’m just weak and impressionable, but I keep falling for the same damn tricks time and time again. A sympathetic foe here, a sprinkle of doubt and uncertainty there, followed up with a big helping of contempt and general derision directed inwards, and bam, we got a stew cooking.

Is he here right now, hiding somewhere in the crowd, watching me even as he whispers lies into my ears? How much does he know about me and who I really am? Clearly, he doesn’t know about my past life’s memories, or at least doesn’t realize I identify myself as a transmigrator first rather than a native of these lands, else I’d have to imagine he’d take a wildly different approach. How easy would it be to drive a wedge between myself and the people of the Azure Empire? All he’d have to do is remind me of how different our morals and sensibilities really are and he’d have all the ammunition he’d need to turn me against them. Many of the people under him have been lured by the false promise of doing harm in the name of good. Gen, Yo Ling, Mao Jianghong, Goujian, and Gongsun Qi to name but a few, and I could easily see myself trying to conquer the Empire if given the right motivations. Or rather, if someone put the right spin on the right motivations to cloud my perspective and draw me deeper into sin until I had no choice but to stay true to my Path lest I be consumed by doubt and contrition.

That’s Zhen Shi’s Modus Operandi after all. When you stop and think about what he’s done, he doesn’t really seem all that scary. I even told him as much to his face, that I’d figured out his tricks and they would no longer work, but he just took a short breather until I let my guard down so he could hit me with the same damn moves to similar success. The worst part is, I have no one to blame but myself, because at the end of the day, Zhen Shi is neither a mind-reader or mind-controller, just an emotionally abusive and manipulative son of a bitch who knows how to get the reaction he wants. It’s so... normal and mundane, yet also almost impossible for me to defend against except by remaining ever vigilant against my own melancholic nature, which is easier said than done. I can’t just stop being gloomy and start being upbeat, because I’m just built different from the rest. The best I can do is surround myself with good people and hope I go before they do, because I fear for the day when Falling Rain has nothing left to lose, because it means I’ll also have nothing left to protect.

