A formidable group by any measure, yet still lacking compared to the countless Demons and Peak Experts standing on the Enemy’s side, but my people are not the only ones to show up for this fight. The Warriors of the North are here in full force, and while I do not recognize most of their faces, I can still pick out more than I can name in one breath. The Society of Heaven and Earth are the most familiar to me, from Situ Matriarch Jia Ying and her brother Jia Yang, Han Patriarch BoDing standing as far from his estranged brother BoHai as possible, and three elder half-beasts whom I recognize as the true power behind the Leader of the Harmonious Unity Sect. Even the former Patriarch Situ Rang Min is here, with the few cronies who left with him, all being kept under the carefully concealed watch of the ever-vigilant MuYang. With him are the Templar Aspirants, the militant wing of Goujian’s former organization and a group who make Wraiths seem harmless and meek by comparison. Exarch Eriene and her husband Bralton, Fung’s father Tong Da Hai, Major General Man Giao of Shen Huo, Brigadier Xue Chang, Magistrate Chu Tongzu, and a whole host of other familiar faces stand out from the crowd, but none stand out more than Colonel General Nian Zu, perched atop the highest tower of the Bulwark and flanked by his loyal Famed Fifty.

A rare sight, to see all these distinguished Warriors in one place, though by my count they’re a few short of fifty. Noticing my attentions, gruff and contrary Binesi doesn’t miss the opportunity to shoot me a scowl, as if blaming me for having to come all this way when Luo-Luo and Liu Xuande were the ones who hatched this plan the moment they learned the Central Citadel had come under siege. Seeing opportunity in calamity, they brought their idea to Nian Zu who approved it at once, for this was a chance to catch the Enemy off-guard and deal a devastating blow which they would need years to recover from. Though the Defiled and Chosen handily outnumbered the Imperial army, the Enemy elites are generally lacking compared to their Imperial counterparts, generally reliant upon Demons to compete at the higher end of Martial strength. For this reason, Zhen Shi went to great lengths to preserve his Demons and keep them from harm, which Liu Xuande noticed and thought to take advantage of. With so many Demons and Peak Experts deployed to take the Central Citadel, the Imperial Scion wanted to make use of this opportunity to cripple the Enemy’s strength and slaughter as many of said Demons as possible.

A bold and costly gambit, one which would have failed miserably if Marshal Quyen Huong didn’t keep up his end of the deal.

Seated atop the biggest elephant I’ve ever seen, it’s clear the Southern Marshal is more than a mere penny-pinching bean-counter, even without the scintillating armour, honking big sabre, and even longer pike to really bring the point home. Though the banner flying proudly behind him bears his name and makes it easy to identify who he is, I would’ve recognized him even without it because I’ve seen his son Dienne riding that same elephant a few times over the last year. I once said Quyen Huong ruled the Southern Province like a King commanding his vassals, and seeing the army of Peak Experts standing vigil around him only cements the comparison in mind. Aside from Major General Inthavong and Broken Blade Pichai, I don’t really recognize any of the South’s elites, but it’s easy to see they handily outnumber the elites of the North by at least a third, which goes to show just how eager the Southern Province is to take vengeance for their fallen Colonel General.

Joined by their peers from Central, the gathered Peak Experts of the Empire unleash their Aura in a single, unstoppable wave, a basic expression of courage and defiance, but one so powerful it speaks to every man, woman, and child present. These Warriors have come from all across the outer provinces and Cloud-Stepped the last leg of the journey to be here, and like a sword drawn from its sheath, they are ready to draw blood. There is no mercy in them, no intention to give quarter, not until their boundless thirst for vengeance is slaked by the blood of the Enemy, a futile effort if there ever was one. I offered Gongsun Qi a chance to surrender, but I’m not sure if Nian Zu, Shuai Jiao, and Quyen Huong would’ve obeyed any order to stand down, not when they see this as a golden opportunity before them. These Peak Experts left the bulk of their forces behind and exposed themselves to the possibility of ambush and joining a losing battle of attrition to be here, because they believed it was well worth the risk. Though we’re all working with the same numbers and information, they like the odds more than I do and believe the Imperial Army will not only emerge triumphant in battle here today, but in doing so, will finally seize the upper hand in their endless crusade against the Enemy.

Me? I believe the same, that the Empire will emerge victorious in this battle here today, but at what cost? One I would not care to bear upon my shoulders, because I do not believe it is worth it. Even if we kill Gongsun Qi, Mataram YuGan and YuChun, and every Demon and Demonic Warrior present alongside the vast bulk of their army, all we will have done is expend our finite strength to delay the inevitable. More armies are gathering in the West, and I know Zhen Shi has yet to wholly commit to the war effort because he has yet to take direct control, instead leaving Gongsun Qi to fight this war for him. In Zhen Shi’s eyes, this is all still the prelude, for his true battle is against the Imperial Clan, and the outer provinces are merely a whetstone upon which to hone his forces. To make matters worse, if the Defiled are forced into retreat, then the outer provinces might see this as a reprieve and fall back into old habits, becoming segregated factions once again instead of working together as one part of a whole. The strength we have gathered here today is only possible because the outer provinces have an Enemy to unite them as one, and once the looming threat fades away, I fear that unity will be disrupted.

Better to let this army leave intact to keep steady pressure upon this brittle alliance of provinces, so that I might have time to forge it into something stronger, an unbreakable bond of humanity which we will use to defeat the Enemy once and for all.

Again, this wasn’t so much of a plan as instinctive direction, one I only realized just now. Turning back to Gongsun Qi, my smile slips from my face as I consider what might happen if he lets hubris overcome good judgment. I can see him doing the calculations now, measuring his strength against ours in a myriad of different ways to see if he can eke out the advantage and still win the day, but I cannot tell how he feels about his chances. What I do know is that he is conflicted, unsure of his next course of action and possibly under Zhen Shi’s influence, but I know there is nothing else I can say or do to sway his decision.

“Bold indeed,” Gongsun Qi eventually says, offering me another small nod of respect. “But perhaps not so insolent after all. There be a fine line between confidence and arrogance, so let this Prince gauge where you stand.” Slowly raising his left hand, he holds it high overhead for a single second, one that stretches into eternity as I realize what he intends, but it’s already too late to do anything about it. “All forces. Attack.”

And with that, the Lord of Martial Peace and Prince of Barbarity is upon me, and there is no more time to think.

There is no retreat, so I dive forward instead, knowing my protectors are but a step away, a step which might as well be a mile considering the circumstances. Unity lances out to pierce through empty air as Gongsun Qi casually avoids the counter thrust while landing atop the gatehouse and delivering a powerful slash which hurtles unerring towards my neck. Blocking is not an option, so I continue forward and slip to the side, or try to as my foe pivots to keep me locked in his sights. A quarter circle is all I can manage before this maneuver is no longer of use, because if I slow down long enough to continue circling around him, Gongsun Qi’s attack will arrive to separate my head from my shoulders. It’s a matter of angles, and he currently holds the advantage, so I dive upwards into the air in an effort to avoid this killing blow. Anticipating my actions even before I’ve decided upon them, he Cloud-Steps up over me to retain our difference in height, our feet so even we might as well be standing on solid ground.

But we aren’t, which is important, because so much of a Martial Warrior’s strength comes from contact with the ground beneath them.

I’ve used this effect many a time, pushing with my feet and rotating my hips to put more power into a swing, and while Gongsun Qi’s movements are unparalleled and wholly without a flaw, now that his feet are no longer touching the ground, the amount of power he can add to the swing is limited to what he can output with his upper torso combined with Amplification. Still a significant amount, but not something I cannot match through clever use of the Mountain Collapsing Stomp, which I unleash through Peace, drawing it from its sheath after releasing Unity instead of recovering from my failed counter.

Sword meets glaive in a crashing exchange. Muscles tear and bones crack as I come out on the losing end, but not so badly as to die from the first hit. Rather than resist even more, I go with the flow and Cloud Step away from the strike, bleeding and injured from a single exchange, but still alive and in the fight. Broke my hand, fractured my arm, tore my bicep and triceps both, and that’s just the worst of my injuries, which goes to show how greatly I am outmatched. My version of the Mountain Collapsing Stomp is nowhere near equal to Mitsue Juichi’s, but it’s still capable of amplifying my strikes to ridiculous levels, and yet my foe is still able to easily overpower my greatest hit with almost laughable ease. To make matters worse, it’s much easier to attack than defend, and unlike my earlier clash with the eyebrowed monk, Gongsun Qi has no protege to protect or weakness for me to exploit.

None of which is enough to make me admit defeat.

Feigning weakness and disorientation until the very last moment, I dodge and Deflect the hasty follow-up attack, one less than half as powerful as the initial strike due to the complications of aerial combat. Few Martial Warriors care to practice such maneuvers, which is why I chose to bring our match here, because any shared disadvantage lessens the disparity in our strengths. Reaching out as my foe’s glaive whizzes harmlessly by me, I loop three fingers around one of the nine rings inserted into the back of the blade, the bottom-most one closest to the base. Exhaling to release any and all tension, I give in to momentum and let the glaive carry me away from my foe even as he tries to grab my throat with a free hand. Releasing the ring at the apex of the swing, I Cloud Step down and away while flipping about, only to change directions and bolt back towards the safety of my allies with the Lord of Martial Peace hot on my heels.

Our minor exchange took place within the blink of an eye, so quickly most of the audience would’ve missed it, but my dependable grandmother slash Mother-in-Law is even quicker. Glaive and halberd collide in a thundering crash, one that is repeated more times than I can count in the span of a second, but then a series of deafening roars drown out all else, and my close brush with death comes to an end as the recently renewed hostilities come to a standstill once more.

Blood sprays and bodies fly in the silent aftermath, a high-pitched ring the only thing I can hear from being so close to the explosion. Even in the throes of Enlightenment, my eyes were not able to track what happened even though mentally I know it could only be one thing. A few steps away, a cloud of smoke dissipates to reveal none other than the Lord of Thunder, Lei Gong, his dishevelled beard standing on end as he cackles at the destruction he just unleashed. In his arms sits a massive bronze tube that is the source of his awe, sealed at one end, open at the other, and moulded in the shape of a sinuous, menacing dragon spitting hot fiery death at his foes. An appropriate look for a Runic Cannon, and I can see that the scales, claws, eyes, and even the nostrils all serve some sort of purpose in the myriad array of runes carved into the cannon’s frame, enabling the magical weapon to unleash a twenty kilogram projectile at close to half the speed of sound. All of this was only possible with OuYang Yuhuan’s genius efforts, my poached bell-maker’s attention to detail, and Luo-Luo’s uncanny ability to smuggle people and goods to anywhere she needs them. The Runic Cannon was to be her weapon of last resort, one she intended to use to defend the Districts, but upon seeing how dire the Central Citadel’s situation had become, she committed her hidden card to the battle out of fear and desperation, a decision I’m glad I didn’t have to make.

For in doing so, she has unleashed death and destruction on a scale few in this world have ever experienced before.

