Abby's first response to this attack is to send as many full-powered spears of earth at the chain's links that are still white, but this area shrinks as more blue light gets closer to Lucian's chest.

All of the attacks she throws are instantly eaten up by the invisible force that easily pierced through her defensive arrays without even making a ripple or distortion in them.

Even the pressure in the air starts getting too intense. Her physical body is not being hurt, but her mind is fully aware of the strength radiating outward. Abby tries to send attacks at the Demon himself, but without Seraphel attacking with her, the prebuilt ether commands above this city make his movement speed too fast to hit.

Abby watches Seraphel's soul drip all the way through the chain and touch Lucian's chest as he yells out, dominating the sky.

"I will accept this prize for ruining my good standing with the Imperials. You've made a fool of me for breaking into my Zone when we were about to seal it. The last Wyvern and his Legacy will do just fine as an apology!"

Abby's mind is split, taking in all of the strange sensations of this Dryad's Legacy, while simultaneously feeling Seraphel's soul bond being altered, and in turn, she is beginning to be suppressed as well.

Lucian's strength is overwhelming, and the chain linking their souls appears to be permanent.

Abby has instinctively gained a massive amount of complex array and glyph manipulation knowledge from her staff. Despite not knowing what the invisible weight around it is, she can tell that this chain is permanent, and will not disappear until one of them is dominated entirely.

She pulls a full 5% of borrowed stats from over 7 billion worlds and yells back at Lucian, piercing through Seraphel's roars.

"That will not happen. Lucian, the Destroyer of Lesser Races... today you will die. We will reclaim the energy you stole to the Lower Realm, and protect those left in it from the Demons!"

The vines all over her Immortal Healer's form glow brighter, and sparkle with a shimmering light that makes her aura gain this invisible weight, only around the leaves wrapping around her arms and legs.

Abby does not notice these effects; her gaze is held only on Lucian and Seraphel's struggle.

The air pressure shifts again, and Abby starts to charge up a spear of earth with vines growing down her palms to wrap around the attack. However, Seraphel speaks through their telepathy link in an urgent tone, "I've got this... focus on what is behind you..."

The Blue Wyvern's stats have been synced with Abby's the instant this power rushes into her; they rush into Seraphel as well. His Celestial Body stops shrinking. In fact, the blue soul in the chain begins moving backward, and he starts growing again.

With a spear aimed at the chain, ready to fire, Abby trusts his words and turns around. Another roar fills the skies.

A bright cyan-colored Dragon, over a million kilometers long, comes soaring in from the direction of the grand palace peeking out of the clouds on the other side of the zone. It has hundreds of High Noble Demons surrounding it on every side. The instant Abby turns, a beam of pure cyan threads rockets out from its mouth, but with far more gravity than they should.

She releases her special spear directly into the beam of energy, and Lucian yells down at Seraphel.

"What do you think you're doing? A Wyvern... defying the will of a Royal Family Head. I can understand if a lingering Dryad was looking to reclaim the throne, but your race was never meant to be in the Overseer's seat in the first place! You must not know what really happened if you still can hold on with this much pride!"

The Demon and Wyvern's eyes are locked on each other, and the chain begins to glow white again near the demon's chest as Seraphel has pulled his soul out of Lucian's body.

Seraphel's will has gained a massive boost, and his aura clashing with this Demon's shows that. But the fact that a so-called lesser race has bested him in a feat of soul strength only angers and pushes him further.

The whole sky becomes dented and distorted in Royal Vibrations clashing, and swirls of foreign energies.

Above it, even further, a spear of earth covered in vines slices through a Celestial Dragon's strongest attack imbued with Primordial Aura.

It is split down the middle, and the vines on Abby's spear erupt outward to begin draining away all of the excess energy from the explosions in the blast.

It is not just the extremely compact divine threads, but the potent invisible Primordial Aura as well.

Many of the High Noble Demons surrounding this Dragon are caught up in the blast, and as Abby's vines burst through them, they seem to just be green holographic leaves; for a moment on impact, the Demon's look unaffected, just tinted green.

However, when they try to move, their bodies dissolve, and all of their Celestial Energy, divine threads, and even vibrations are siphoned back into Abby's aura. Even their Demonic Energy dissolves and disappears in a glistening white and yellow flash as if it is being cleaned.

The Demonic Dragon wears a crown over its forehead, covering its brain and horns, but it activates millions of spinning white ether commands the moment Abby's attack gets too close to it.

The Dragon's eyes widen, and it changes its course, spinning out of the way just in time for her spear to miss its head. It does pierce through the Dragon's wing, leaving a massive clean hole before the spear explodes behind it and erupts with thousands of vines like a net.

The shockwave kills all of the High Nobles remaining in the sky and tangles the Dragon's wings as it roars and screeches while its crown glows brighter and brighter white.

Seraphel yells back to Lucian as he pulls his soul over halfway back through the chain, and instead of it being entirely white on Lucian's side, a light purple essence starts to bleed into the strange artifact.

"What do you mean we were never meant to be Overseers? The Wyverns fought to the top like any other race. Anyone that makes it there deserves to be king. The fact I can inherit a Royal Wyvern's Legacy is proof of that!"

Lucian laughs even though his soul begins leaving his body, and his Royal Form is shrinking.

"That is where you're wrong! The Wyverns never made it past the Cyan Zone. This was always their final resting point. A certain traitor used your race to give the elves more time... and delay our attempts at the seal. It nearly worked too."

Lucian grins wide and activates a series of ether commands above the Cyan city, making the dome of protection he created vibrate, and every tower lining the streets below glow and pulse with white light.

"I never found any proper use for these weaklings until now. All of my experiments to create the perfect Royal to work under me never came to fruition. Maybe I should have just been using them to create a perfect version of myself instead. It will all be worth it to kill the last Wyvern!"

Streams of white ether commands start sinking down from all over Lucian's body, and tendrils of white light start to seep upward from the topmost part of the Cyan City's dome.

Down below, inside the many towers, on crowded streets, millions of Noble Demons feel their Celestial Energy, Divine Threads, Demonic Essence, and life force itself draining from their bodies.

It all drifts upward slowly, pouring into this Royal Demon's unsealed form as he stares into Seraphel's eyes.

The speed the purple energy leaves his body slows, and Demons start falling dead on the street in the Cyan City below.
