Just then, however, a heavy weight settled on him. It crashed down like a building avalanche, and the Deathless was forced down to his knees. For a beat, he thought that Veronica had unleashed another attack on him, but then he realized she was barely standing as well, as were the wardens and the other Avatars. Everyone had been affected.

An anomalous pressure clung to the atmosphere, and with every passing second, the weight crushing Shiv only grew. He followed the sensation back and realized it had originated from the nuclear reactor. It was spinning faster than ever now, turning at such a velocity he couldn't count its revolutions.

Then, from above, he heard a loud, cackling laugh. "I got it! I got it!" Five called out to everyone below. "I..." And the wolf-man suddenly realized how dire the circumstances were. He made eye contact with Shiv, and after a beat, slinked back over the edge and began to flee along the upper walkway. Usually, Shiv would be quite annoyed with people abandoning him in dire circumstances. Right now, he couldn't blame Five at all.

It looked like everyone except Five was bound. One after another, Kura's golden shadows vanished, extinguished by the magic-suppressing presence of the fully-activated nuclear core. Yet, the Ascendants didn't rush forward, didn't sweep through all the prisoners trying to hold on for a last stand.

The wardens didn't sprint into battle, either. Instead, everyone struggled. Everyone tried to recover. It felt like the very mana within them had been unbalanced—sapped.

Shiv guessed it was because of a readjustment in the ambient available mana in the world. It felt like there was less of everything: less of himself, less of reality, less of the System itself. A notification flickered before his eyes, but it blinked out before he could read what it had to say.

Kathereine’s faint form revealed itself once more, but she snarled as she struggled to maintain herself as the mana-suppressing effect of the reactor fully triggered. The other Ascendants reacted poorly to the sudden suppression as well. Daughter, turning visible just behind the automaton containing Maiden, burst apart with an echoing cry. A towering lighthouse of an Ascendant faded into glowing smoke and embers. The darkness trying to push through from the outside and the doorway leading into the nuclear reactor chamber all but vanished as well.

Cripple hadn't been lying, but it had understated the effects. It said that this would become a veil against the Ascendants, that it would be a functional barrier to them being able to easily track where Shiv and the others fled. What it actually felt like was a bottleneck, something that choked the flow of magic to a halt entirely, and something that thickened inside Shiv’s veins like plaque.

Even so, Shiv could deal with discomfort, and he still had a bit of mana inside him. With a snarl of frustration and effort, he forced himself back to his feet. Faint vectors glided across his body, and even though he couldn't use his Legendary skill to the fullest, it was still enough to grant him might and leverage.

He used it to launch himself through the stunned wardens, at the woman who caused him so much pain. Shiv’s fist collided with Veronica’s jaw in a loud pop. In that moment, they were both less than who they were. He crashed down the moment he struck her. Her head snapped back, and she let out a pitched cry as she nearly collapsed.

Anthony caught her. He thrust down with his dagger—and stabbed nothing as an arrow impacted the edge of his blade. Adam burst through and dragged Shiv back across in an instant.

But their escape was a short one. As soon as Adam emerged with Shiv from his collapsing tunnel, a cry sounded through the air. "Stop and fall!"

Shiv resisted Veronica’s command for the merest of moments, and then his skill failed again. He slammed down on the ground as both of his legs broke beneath him. Adam folded over right beside him, and Kura screamed with him as they both went down. A ragged cry of exhaustion came from Shiv, but by now, he was beyond the point of caring. He began crawling toward the Councilwoman, but he didn't manage to get close to her at all before he was pinned in place by the Vanguards. Though weary and deprived of mana themselves, they didn't hesitate to throw their bodies on top of his to lock him down. Something pulled at one of his broken legs, and Shiv clenched his teeth, trying not to scream.

Veronica looked down and was about to say something when she suddenly twisted right. An arrow tore past her and slammed into Hawgrave's chest with a resounding squeal of inertia. Adam was still fighting as well, still firing even as he was compelled to lie upon the ground. As Hawgrave staggered forward with every step, struggling against the mana-suppressing field emitted by the reactor, another two arrows hit her in the chest.

Something tugged hard on Shiv once more. In an instant, he slid out from underneath all the Vanguards, and they were too sapped to respond in time.

"Come on, Insul, come on," Bonk gasped, groping blindly across Shiv's stomach. The Deathless let out a hiss as the orc picked him up. A Vanguard tried to stab Bonk, but a fast-moving ball of golden-green death tore into his throat, giving the orc time to retreat with Shiv. “We’re not done here yet. Don’t—”

Veronica pointed at Bonk. "Split."

Her voice hit him, yet its magic was ultimately reduced.

That didn’t make a difference.

A diminished Legend was still far more than a Hero.

Bonk was shredded down the middle in an eruption of blood and shattering mana. The orc didn’t get a chance to do anything as the left and right sides of his body fell in opposite directions. Shiv toppled between them, splashing upon a carpet of gore. As wetness soaked his face and chest, Shiv felt something inside him explode. “BONK!”

“BREAK!” Veronica cried again.

Gone screamed this time, something inside her shattering in tandem with her Magical Resistance.

“Paralyze!”

Shiv turned, roaring with incoherent rage—only for his spine to shatter into fragments. Darkness burst behind his eyes, and he crashed face-first back down upon Bonk’s ropey insides. “F-fuck…”

Before Veronica could say anything else, Adam's Righteous Dawn blazed to life once more. It grew ever brighter, and its flames of burning radiance were used offensively against the approaching wardens and Avatars. Already drained by the nuclear reactor, Adam's azure dawn sapped their souls further, and the first row of wardens promptly toppled over, absolutely spent of energy. Hundreds crashed down upon the ground, and a small hill was made. The Avatars held up better, and Hawgrave merely doubled over before continuing on. Yet they were affected as well.

Adam's sun grew brighter with every passing second.

Shiv had no idea how the Gate Lord was pushing through the effects of the nuclear reactor, but he was glad that Adam could.

Yet, as Adam’s Righteous Dawn flared, it began to fissure and crack. Shiv's eyes widened as he wondered if Adam was pushing himself too far, but then a rush of strength hit him, and suddenly Shiv didn't feel so weak anymore either. He consumed his physical wounds using his Biomancy field, and in the next moment, he was back on his feet as his Shapeless Tides returned.

“VERONICA! I’M GOING TO FUCK YOUR CORPSE WITH MY KNIFE!”

He wasn't the only one. More golden shadows reappeared, forming a stampeding herd. They stomped down with bladed legs, shredding through the gaps between the downed wardens' armor. Blood spurted as they lifted their feet, and they cut down any in their path, any who failed to resist, who were far too weak to survive. Then the golden shadows crashed against the Avatars proper. The battle resumed.

Veronica teleported away, and in her place, something flashed. It was a dense construct, infused with Dynamancy, and it blasted outward in a massive wave, preparing to swallow everyone within the chamber. Shiv slammed shoulder-first against it. He didn't know how long his Legendary Skill would stay functional, so he used every bit of strength he had to throw the blast off at an angle.

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides > [Error]

Inertial Overdrive > [Error]

Strider of the Unbending Path > [Error]

It was difficult, far more difficult than anything he'd done with the skill before, yet he managed. His Frictionless Vector worked, and the Dynamancy blast cleaved out at a 45-degree angle to his left. It tore a chunk of the other walkways away and ripped one of the walls open as if it was a piece of paper.

Before the Avatars could respond, Shiv swung his mana hydra into them again, and the detonation of bright red mana swallowed the edge of the room. Arrows flew from Adam, crashing into the Avatars. One arrow became two, and two became four. The wardens tried to mount an offense, but Gone tore through their frontline, and several Pathbearers disintegrated into puffs of bloody mist outright.

"Shiv!" Cripple's voice filled the room. The automaton ascendant sounded strained and distracted. "If you can hear me, run now. Do whatever you can. Run, now! Flee!”

But there was nowhere to run by this point. The Avatars were beginning to advance through the bombardment, while all around Shiv was a crawling sprawl of black static. Veronica’s power was still spreading faster than he could keep up with. Soon, even with the reactor’s effects, she would have this entire room under her control.

But before Shiv could fully despair, another divine being spoke within him.

The voice was faint, but it was clear and true.

"Shiv," it whispered, "I need you to reach Adam for me. I need you to make contact with his being. Please. It may be your only chance.”

Shiv's eyes widened in disbelief. "C-Composer?"
