Any exploration groups willing to risk a run through a bubble would pay handsomely for the information. Doubly so for the higher-Tier groups that were entering the proper second layer of chaotic space, where they sought to find the greater concentration of worlds blown in from the third.

It also calmed Gervásio down. Seeing the formation in use explained why they were willing to share it so freely. Sharing the lesser versions openly removed a massive target off ascender Ra’thala’s back, while their quick exit ensured no one was able to pressure them outside of settled space.

Some of the idiots seemed angry enough to try, which could only end badly as people inevitably chose a side.

Looking at their blueprints, they might be able to reconnect the tether with the better formation, but that was the last thing on Gervásio’s mind.

Using his limited control over his Talent’s target, he found the general group’s best option was to take this reward back to settled space as quickly as possible. But the moment he entered himself into its calculations, it pointed deeper into the breach.

Sharing Chosen Legion’s message with his husband, Gervásio watched as Felipe smiled, paled, then fully blanched.

Skipping the positives he privately asked, “What's wrong?”

Gervásio wanted to avoid this, but knew this was best done quickly. “You all need to return to settled space. Get working on this. There is something I need to do inside.”

“What do you mean? This windfall is massive. How can there be something more important?”

Felipe’s response was clipped and sharp, but there was a mountain of concern in his words.

Meeting Felipe's eyes, Gervásio spoke as a leader and not a spouse. “My Talent is telling me I need to enter. Alone. That’s my best shot at whatever it is it wants me to do.”

Felipe glared at him and Gervásio understood it was his husband doing so and not his second in command.

Silently, Gervásio hoped they wouldn’t fight but suspected it might be inevitable.

He knew it was a foolish risk when they had such a lucrative opportunity at their fingertips, but his Talent insisted there was an even greater opportunity still waiting in the breach.

The best course of action was to go back home. He wanted the crew to go back. He’d make his own way back even if he had to hitch a ride and pay through the nose for the effort. Any theoretical loss would more than be made up for by the early mover’s advantage, but he couldn’t.

Gervásio’s Talent told him deep within the bubble was a personal opportunity even larger than the sky bridge stabilizer design.

There was a pivotal moment for his development ahead if he could seize it.

He couldn’t pass that up, but neither could he ask the crew to risk a surefire reward for his foolishness. Not even Felipe, though he desperately wished he could have his assistance.

His husband was second in command and this was a sacrifice both of them had already long agreed on, even if they didn’t like it.

Reaching out and grabbing Felipe’s hand, he squeezed slightly as he grinned. “I’ll make it up to you.”

Tapping his crown, he winked, but the normally successful maneuver fell flat.

“Don’t die. I have a bad feeling about this.” Felipe’s response was hard but his eyes were filled with warmth and Gervásio knew what he was really saying was ‘be careful’ but neither would utter such words in deep chaotic space.

“I won't. I never do.”

Seeing his husband leave with everyone else he hoped he could live up to that promise.

Preparing himself, he settled down to wait out the remaining year.

He wasn’t about to risk sharing the Tier 25 stabilizer, and the Tier 20 wasn’t strong enough to work this soon.

Through his Talent, he could feel this was going to be a dangerous breach, and he knew better than to blindly trust it to get him through safely.

He had to do that himself.

***

Tessa smiled as Remi walked away, having seen through his ploy to get her to join him in a hunt. And, though he never said it, the possible killing of the two Legend teams.

Pretending to be a loose Sects cultivator being in deep cover, she smiled as she told him she’d help if she could.

She even got to play the part of the zealous Sects cultivator and spout some nonsense about the honor of Gan Le.

Remi, the arrogant little shit that he was, smirked as if she was an idiot but she didn’t call him out on it.

With her current orders, even seriously wounding a Legend was worth blowing her cover, and such a mission would be much easier if she could infiltrate the irate pinnacle elite’s band of idiots.

So would killing him in fact.

Before this body left settled space she had been updated by her handler and Remi himself was a valid target.

If she could use his anger to latch onto him that would put her in a position to do both so she put up with it.

He was trying to use her so it was only fair that she used him in return.

His reaction to his fight with the Legend seemed exaggerated, possibly fabricated, but she wasn’t sure. Outwardly he seemed genuinely angry at the Legend but only time would tell if it was a deliberate play the wolf put on or true hate.

Either way, she found it a useful cover. Few true idiots made it to their level being so obtuse, but his anger was pushing him to play a very dangerous game.

So was Tessa, but this body was ultimately disposable, and its loss was minor if she could strike out at such a high-value target.

If worse came to worse, she could ensure one of the Republic’s pinnacle elites died, giving the Clans a small advantage when the war undoubtedly rekindled after the breach.

If her body was examined within a few minutes of its death, people would see the ghostly brands that kept the possessed body alive, but they would fade beyond detectability after that.

So long as there was no definitive proof, nothing would be able to be pinned on her this far from settled space.

Ideally, she would reabsorb the brand so she could use it on a new body, but its loss was perfectly acceptable.

Comparing her orders with the amount of latitude she’d been given by sheer necessity for such a deployment completely out of communication, her priorities were clear.

Cause as much chaos as she could, but if she couldn’t kill any of the Legends, she should kill Remi.

The old dog Vana was very protective of his descendants, and her pre-mission briefing  contained information that implied Remi was on track to promote his bloodline to Rank 3. Taking him out was of high strategic interest, and her second highest priority.

What none of the snooping she had done could tell her was why the wolf was taking the fight with the Empire Legends so personally.

There was endless speculation, but no one had come upon anything that held water. So upon joining his little camp, she started digging.

Being a Clans spy, she had learned many skills and easily subverted several of his subordinates' external devices.

She almost immediately found paydirt, which was obviously suspicious, though she passed the information along by piggy backing a Clan Ship’s AI. The hidden data packet would send itself once the ship or any Clan ship it communicated with returned to settled space.

According to the chat messages, Vana had given Remi an artifact of incredible power and their leader wanted to establish his prestige with it.

Tessa didn’t believe that excuse at all, but she didn’t dare dig any deeper. Not yet at least.

Instead, she helped Remi fester discontent about the Empire in general and the Legends in particular.

Their efforts were stymied slightly by the goodwill the Legends had earned, but thankfully, she and a few others in the lower Tier 30s were able to start a few fights. Nothing escalated too far, but it still fomented discord in the lower Tier groups especially.

The remaining Sects leadership deliberately pushed for further escalation, but Tessa wasn’t willing to step forward and start killing, as some of the higher Tiers tried to encourage.

No one else was either, knowing it would most likely end up with their own death, so things mostly settled down.

The new ascender Ra’thala had made his entrance into their Realm with a splash.

Tessa knew enough to know the Tier 0 skill creation method used strange principles, yet she had never put too much credit on them being from a lower Realm. But now, she reconsidered her stance.

Sadly, she doubted she’d ever get the chance to sit down and talk to the man. Or at least, she hoped not.

Instead of fighting, most groups started trying to create the new formations.

Only passable herself with enchanting and even less so in formations, Tessa could only watch on as even the higher Tier teams dedicated enchanters else struggled to learn the new style of formation.

Most groups either tried to convert the formation into something more standard and easier to create, while the rest tried to brute force the creation method.

Using various methods, she pried into each group's progress and updated her information packets.

She could almost feel their giddiness at the advantage the Clan’s would receive going forward having aggregated everyone's initial efforts with the stabilizer.

Instead of mulling over such things, she pushed herself deeper into her role, agitating things whenever possible without singling herself out too much and getting crushed.

Their meddling was eventually halted by a Tier 36 who nearly beat a Tier 35 to death when a fight broke out next to their camp.

After that, no one dared to do anything but exchange harsh words on the planet and no one was willing to lose their claimed spot to go to space and settle things with a fight.

While they waited, Tessa worked on hacking into any exploration groups’ logs who seemed to be making progress with the tether stabilizer.

Days turned into months, and with the formations still unable to form a stable connection, resentment started to build even without any deliberate prodding, which Remi gloated about vulgarly.

Thousands of the best exploration groups had been forced to watch as some of the lowest-Tier competitors waltzed in and blew everyone's plans up. For some, each passing hour started to feel like a personal torture session.

Finally, with everyone’s focused efforts, a group was able to get one of the Tier 20 formations working.

It didn’t immediately solve their issues, but its presence finally let everyone relax.

Two months later, almost four months after the Legends incident, one of the original stabilizer designs snapped fully into place.

Like hungry hyenas, thousands rushed forward, salivating over worlds they normally would never be able to explore.

Tessa couldn’t help but feel that this was going to be fun.

For her at least.
