“I say all this because we were in an equilibrium before you disrupted the world. People died. People thrived. Veird was stable. Now we have Particle Magic, and you continue to speak of new magics that likely do exist. I have heard of others developing lightward spells like never before, but I had not linked that to your influence until that aborted lecture that began with 'Four Fundamental Forces'.

“But back to Quintlan. The Tragedy of Quintlan happened for a million small reasons, but the one that started it all was something very similar to your [Exalted Storm Aura]. An archmage created the spell [Create Food and Water], and they were hailed as a hero as their spell became part of the open Script. Personally, I believe that this spell was not a major problem, but it exacerbated the separation between the rich and the poor. Those who could make excellent food were snatched up with promises of gold and good lives. Those who couldn’t, were relegated to porridge and squalor, and the divide spread. Eventually, many rulers outlawed lavish feasts of [Create Food and Water], except for their own personal uses.

“I still remember the carvings on the walls of Koyatle, and Merum, and Herol, rallying the people to accept the beauty of porridge, and to throw the gleaming feasts of the nobility into the mud.” The Headmaster added, “That was a plot by those same kings and queens, just so you know. It backfired on them, spectacularly.

“If that was all that happened, they might have had some smaller wars and eventually stabilized in a new configuration, but there was a problem growing too large to ignore. Atunir was about to die. She was about to transform into the Dark Goddess of Unending Hunger.

“A vote of Relevant Entities was held. [Create Food and Water] was moved to Registrar-Only over a period of one month. People were refunded that point and were offered the chance to get [Grow] for free. [Grow] was already widely used in the rest of the world, but Quintlan did not like the spell. As a result of this decision, three kingdoms the size of the Wasteland Kingdoms fell practically overnight to their neighbors. It gets more complicated from there.

“I say all this, because back then, Oceanside and I were not able to stop the Tragedy of Quintlan. We were not able to untangle that nest of oozes, or cut to the heart of any problem, for every time we saw a problem ended, five more sprung up in their place. But we are strong, now. Strong enough and wise enough to see a problem before it becomes a problem.

“But when I look at you, I see a giant question mark. You are neither the enemy, nor a savior, though you have already gathered both titles from many different people. Whatever the case, right now, you are an asset, but equilibrium has been shattered. Nations move at your unintended magic.

“Odaali was killed because someone weaponized Dead Air, which before now was impossible, because no one understood that they were working from a fundamentally flawed worldview.

“I have no doubt, that if we ever find the people who killed Messalina’s town, that whatever happened there would have been because of Particle Magic.

The Headmaster looked to Erick, saying, “I wish for you to remain an asset. But know that you are moving nations, right now. If you should become a problem, then I will remove you. But it is much more likely that you are a boon.

“Because I feel you are a boon, I want to help you create this [Particle Scan] spell, because very soon, the Ancients of the world will start to move. Ar’Kendrithyst is gearing up for something large. The Greensoil Republic is no doubt planning on creating a Converter Angel and unleashing it somewhere. A [Scan] that can see through all of that will put you in the center of all of this, as well as allow me to see the fights before they happen.

“Because if you do manage to make this unknown magic, then I want to be the one to wield it; to find the center of these knots before they can strangle the rest of all life on Veird.

He added, “You can live wherever you wish. I am no jailer, and I never want to be. I am also rather confident that I can work with Spur to ensure your safety, if you wish to continue to live so openly. But know that if you walk out of Oceanside with this spell and without my help, that you will be killed within a week.”

The sun dipped to the horizon by the time the Headmaster finished speaking of Quintlan, and of what he wanted out of Erick. Erick had stopped channeling magic through Ophiel to Spur a while ago. The rains were done. Now he was just thinking. There was quite a lot on his mind, but foremost, once he got over his own private terror, he thought about this [Particle Scan]. Everyone seemed to want this new magic, but he had no idea where to really begin. He certainly knew it wouldn’t be safe if he actually managed to make such a thing —he didn’t need the Headmaster to remind him of that fact, either— but he had truly given up safety when he decided to kill the Shades, hadn’t he? Walking this path might be a lot tougher than he thought.

But he was still going to walk it, for sure.

Erick began bargaining, “I don’t want to be used as bait ever again. And you should not have done that to Poi.”

“Accepted. If such a thing should ever happen again, I will pursue your consent beforehand. Your guardsman and his Mind Mage acquaintances will likely have their own private discussion on this matter as soon as you tell your people of this conversation. For what it’s worth: I have already been admonished for demanding this particular help from my Mind Mage contacts.”

“I won’t use this potential spell— Ya know? It’s really weird to talk about potential magic. I was sure I could figure out [Gate], but that never happened. But. I won’t use this spell to help you find dragons.” Erick said, “Murderers, monsters. Whatever may come. Those are all fine. But no dragons, unless they actually are part of the previous categories, and even then, I won’t like it and I’ll likely say ‘no’, anyway. I don’t want to be a part of any of your society either.”

The Headmaster said, “Those that threaten me are none of your concern. I will strive to ensure that you are not targeted by other dragons.”

“There’s a dragon in Spur. I don’t know who they are, but I won’t help you find them. If it turns out I’m already friends with them, I would like nothing to ever come of that.”

The Headmaster frowned. He said, “There are many like that one, hiding out across the world, doing nothing more than dominating their own private kingdoms. I will accept this clause, but you should know that if a dragon comes for me then I will have no choice but to kill. If they run, then...” The Headmaster seemed to force himself to say, “I will make that be enough.”

“Why?” Erick asked, “Why is dragon essence so fragile? Why is it so unlike all the others?”

The Headmaster said, “Because Melemizargo committed several unfathomable acts of highest Wizardry while the rest of us were creating the Script, in an attempt to abort this land before we could save what was left of our Old Cosmology. One of those horrific acts was the creation of Dragon Essence; the Cursed Blood. He thought to tear Veird apart with the surviving dragons rending continents apart in their battles for domination, but all he did was drive us deeper into hiding, where the strongest of us silently murdered the smallest of us, we divided the world, and all of us accepted that we would never again be as powerful as we once were. This was the cost of us winning that war in spite of Melemizargo's mutation of the natural order; the cost of surviving in this new universe.” The Headmaster added, “In the end, that Dark Dragon still claimed a kind of victory. He’s the only one of us whose very existence is not tied to the Cursed Blood.”

There was a lot there. Erick boggled trying to ask his next question. What came out was, “Melemizargo is a wizard?”

“Yes.”

“Okay.” Erick wasn’t sure what else he could possibly say to that information. Then he asked, “Does everyone know that?”

“I haven’t told you a single thing that isn’t common knowledge in some circle, or another.” The Headmaster added, “Though some of those circles are smaller than you might imagine.”

As the sun dipped down below the horizon and purple twilight took hold of the sky, Erick asked, “I’d also appreciate it if you could stop with the threats.”

“Would you prefer me to keep quiet while you go changing the world, and to quietly end you when you have gone too far? Or would you prefer to know what outcomes lie ahead of the paths you choose?”

“… the second one.”

The Headmaster nodded. He said, “I would appreciate it if you kept these four fundamental forces of your universe to yourself. There has already been enough magical upheaval for one century.” He looked back to Windy Manor. “Your apprentice is fine, as are your guards, I suppose. But you truly should be more circumspect with your dissemination of truths. Being an archmage carries a lot of responsibility. One of those responsibilities is knowing who to trust regarding your magic.”

Erick glanced toward the Manor alongside the Headmaster. Poi was inside the house, sitting on the couch and pointedly reading a book. Kiri moved around in the kitchen, making some sort of dessert on the kitchen counter with bread, sugar, and cinnamon; dinner must be over already. Teressa was sitting on the other couch, on the other side of Poi, doing nothing; probably training her Mana Sense. Rats was… Somewhere. Maybe still at the hospital. He was there a lot more than usual ever since the anti-parasiters left for the Crystal Forest. Erick turned back toward the Headmaster. They had run out of coftea a while ago. Their mugs sat cold and empty on the garden table.

Erick said, “They’re good people.”

“I agree, which gives merit to your own disposition.” The Headmaster asked, “Do you have any other questions?”

“What does [Polymorph] do? Exactly?”

“A surface casting of the spell is to change your body into the form of another. A deeper casting of the spell is to become another being, like you were born in that form. A generalist mage who does not care for the intricacies of their alternate forms will cast this spell with a shallow understanding, and thus the Script does all the heavy lifting. Such a mage will be unable to achieve the deeper aspects of their alternate forms; like instincts, the ability to sense when it is time to migrate, or the mating calls of whatever species they happen to be.

“A person truly focused on becoming an other being, either through thought, or action, or circumstance, will cast [Polymorph] in a deeper, more profound way. They might experience the deeper aspects I mentioned before. It is at this point that conventional tracking will fail, and even unconventional tracking with a Sin Seeker or a Mind Mage or a Necromancer searching for a specific soul will also run into problems.

“For those with a low Willpower who attempt this deeper change, or even those who take on too many Familiar Forms, they will soon find that one of their inner monsters has taken over—”

Erick felt a twinge of panic for Jane.

The Headmaster noticed. He said, “I believe Jane is going to be fine. From what I have heard, she was able to complete the transfiguration of a slime into an ooze, and she has raised her Willpower to a more than acceptable level. This bodes well for her mastery of [Polymorph]. Though, if she keeps going around killing Ancients she will run into different problems which will have nothing to do with [Polymorph], and have everything to do with the monsters of Veird.”

Erick resumed breathing, as an unknown worry settled onto his shoulders.

The Headmaster continued, “Conventional tracking fails when it comes to a truly deep and expertly done [Polymorph] because this sort of magic will change who a person is, at their core.” He added, “[Polymorph] is one of the most fascinating magics ever created. I will have Krigea get you some tomes on the subject, but what I have said should give you a guide regarding further research.” He asked, “Are you still interested in this ‘Lessons for the Archmage’ Class? I am still willing to teach you.”

Erick had felt like he was at a crossroads this entire conversation, but then the Headmaster brought it all to a point by asking that question. On one hand, Erick did not want to be anywhere near the Headmaster, but on the other, good relations with Oceanside would go a long way to paving the way to a future without Shades, or these ‘Ancients’. With that in mind, there was only one answer that Erick could reasonably give.

He said, “I’m going to work on this light dungeon, then I would like help with this [Scan] spell, and if that works out, and if I can get Messalina out of my backyard by pointing her vengeance in a specific direction, then I am going to do that, too. Classes with you can come later, but I am open to the idea.”

The Headmaster paused for a long while.

Erick watched him think, as he gently touched Ophiel, who was still silently sitting on his lap.

Eventually, the Headmaster said, “If that is enough for her… If she goes back to her jungle after she has taken her vengeance, then this might be an acceptable outcome.” He added, “She will likely try to kill you on the way out.”

“… She hasn’t directly killed anyone so far?” Erick added, “That she hasn’t re-bodied, anyway. So she doesn’t consider that murder, does she? But you guys murdered the people she killed on the way to Eidolon.”

“I did not enjoy issuing that order, but two of them had already become monsterized. Eidolon saw what was happening and killed the rest.” The Headmaster said, “This is her version of playing nice, Erick. This is what she does. And when people in power like her play nice, that’s when you know they’re up to something.”

“… Does that statement apply to you, too?”

The Headmaster laughed. He asked, “Does that statement apply to you, too?”

- - - -

Erick walked into the Manor carrying empty mugs and the empty pot of coftea, with Ophiel calmly twittering in violins on his shoulder. The Headmaster had left minutes ago.

Kiri had half of a tray of cinnamon rolls sitting out on the kitchen counter. White frosting absolutely covered them; soaking into the layered bread and forming a small pool on the plate. Kiri just stood by the counter, watching Erick. Teressa sat at the table, sipping a beer.

Poi remained on the couch. He shut his book and asked, “We’re okay, for now?”

Erick said, “We’re good.”

Kiri said, “I kept dinner warm.”

