Gaze upon her, all ye wicked, and despair, for you have driven her to wrath.- Book of Future Echoes, Part 8, Section 17 by Tol’zerath, The Seer of Divergent Paths (New Elorthian Edition).

Lirasia smiled softly to herself as she slipped out of the heartwood of the World Tree and into the forest, shedding her trance like shedding autumn leaves.

Kerrin had most certainly advanced from the infusion of mana and sap, but, as usual, the first Tree Meld took a lot out of those who chose to undergo its potential for accelerated learning. It would take a while for her to fully recover, but she’d be back to her usual, eager self in no time.

And she had most certainly felt Aliandra’s domain react to the change.

Speaking of Aliandra, where is she? Time and awareness passed differently as a tree, and somewhere during the Tree Meld, she had lost track of her.

Lirasia projected her awareness outward like a rippling wave through her domain, her mind filling with the rich sensations of life and growth. She reeled just a little at the dizzying scope of perception available to her with her new class and tier. Sensations from across the continent were drawn to her by the sap and mana that flowed like rivers through her roots – and when they came, it was with a phenomenal depth and intimacy of knowing that threatened to overwhelm her understanding.

She withdrew a little, instinctually filtering through the information. I will have to take this slowly Now, where is she?

Far and wide she searched, but of Aliandra, there was no sign. All she found was the scene of battle, and Malika struggling with the Lich, while she was buried under a deluge of rapidly reconstituting oozes. That’s novel – Naia? I need to understand more. From her roots down in that cavern, she sprouted swathes of wildflowers pulsing with overlapping restoration auras and wisps to help ward off the withering decay, and immediately felt Malika and the oozes steady.

Her heart tightened as she cast about, searching with increasing desperation. Already, she had heard the Realm notifications for Cycle of Rebirth, and the prickling of apprehension crawled under her bark. She swirled through Aalion, finding it empty. Next, she swept through the strange deserts and forest realm of Zulkora but found only the gargantuan ripples of a passing Sandwyrm.

It was in the Spirit Realm that Lira finally found her. She didn’t actually find Aliandra directly, but with her awareness spanning the veil with the roots she had grown into the realm of images and echoes, she suddenly heard the resonant peals of a fresh realm notification.

[Realm] Aliandra Amariel [Defiance of the Meek] has created a legendary item.

A sudden burst of demonic energy surged through the Spirit Realm on the heels of the echoes of the notification, and she clutched her hands to her chest as a deep sense of foreboding and dread crashed down upon her. A darkening and ominous pulsation began to affect the mana of the domain.

Oh, Aliandra! What have you done?

But while Lirasia had come to trust her instincts and premonitions over the years, she never let them take control. Her magic surged, and she merged back into the World Tree and then stepped out of the small oak Aliandra had so thoughtfully planted in the center of the guild hall for just such an occasion.

The hall was busy, but filled only with those too low-level to be effective against the undead horde pressing against the walls. They ran to and fro like a disturbed termite mound, carrying trays of potions and scrolls in an endless scramble of errands, but despite the bustle, she instantly spied the person she had meant to find.

“Old troll,” she said. Though she disliked the harsh language of the trolls, her command of it was impeccable, trained by Tol’zerath himself, several ages past, and it would serve to underscore the urgency of her request, “I have need of you.”

Val’korr’s head snapped up from the tome he was studying, staring at her for a moment in surprise. “What is it, Great Mother?”

“I fear Aliandra may have done something ... desperate.”

“Oh, no! I’m coming,” he said, leaping to his feet without even bothering to summon his walking stick, for once not indulging his pompous need to argue everything to death.

Malika could move, even bound as she was by Nevyn Eld’s empowered Decrepify and his Gaze of the Shattered Soul. It required an exorbitant expenditure of stamina fed to her Divine Step, but even this advantage was nullified by the sheer impenetrability of his Aegis of Absolution.

She gave up a little more stamina to overcharge Perfect Body, boosting her attributes a bit more against the inexorable drain and healed herself again. Nearly eighty percent. Her skills cost next to nothing to power after so long in battle, and yet, she was going to run out of stamina soon. No more than a couple of minutes, and it would all be over.

Perfect Body could boost all her attributes, but the increase was relatively small. For endurance, dexterity, and wisdom, her skill had an enormous percentage boost, which got larger the more she overcharged the skill, but for all other attributes, she had to heal against the drain. Mantra of the Ancestors might have been able to keep pace if she’d had several months to hone it, to level up the skill with focused training, but as it stood, she fed nearly all of her power into healing her vitality only, and she was slowly losing ground.

How the fuck does he have so much mana? The Lich appeared in her Soul Sight as a dark, bottomless well of power.

Void sizzled as a fresh ooze leaked out of wherever Naia had spawned it, and it dropped on top of the Lich with a loud squelch. It slid down the Aegis of Absolution, making the Decrepify beam flicker momentarily as it sliced through the ooze. Not one to let a good thing go to waste, Malika shoved more stamina into Mantra of the Ancients and reclaimed another point of vitality while she shifted sideways to hopefully avoid more, but the Lich blasted the ooze away with a discharged corona of necromancy and bore down on her with even more intensity.

I don’t have much longer. While Naia would be throwing another wave at the Lich soon, her deluge of oozes was showing signs of the long battle. There were fewer of them, and they were coming slower now. And Ali…

Malika glanced sideways at Ali, but suddenly, her friend flickered, reappearing behind Nevyn Eld with an expression of such intense focus and determination that Malika’s heart froze for just an instant at the sight.

What? How did she teleport? Did she also break the spell? But that was clearly not the case – after so long, Malika knew the shape of her friend’s teleportation spell like the back of her own hand, and Cael’s spatial suppression still weighed heavily on the grove. Whatever she’d just done, it wasn’t that.

Wait, what happened to your arm? Ali’s left arm was held outstretched toward the Lich, her fingertips reaching toward the sphere of his Aegis. But Malika recoiled from the cursed energy that blazed from that arm. A demonic corruption that twisted and warped the energy within her blazed across her Soul Sight, and Malika’s plight and struggles against the Lich’s Decrepify paled into insignificance at the sheer enormity of what radiated from that tiny Fae arm.

Oh no, Ali! What’s that monstrosity you’ve created?

Those serious amber eyes flickered to meet hers in the instant before Ali froze under the power of Nevyn Eld’s magic. An iron band of tightness clamped around Malika’s chest as her heavy heart began to quail at Ali’s plight. How well she knew the face of desperation. For years, in the mirror she had seen that girl, that soul-consuming despair etched in her gaze.

But it was not exactly despair she saw in Ali’s amber gaze this time. There was a steel determination in those eyes, the likes of which Malika had not seen before. And… hope?

Wait… Malika’s attention flickered to the horrible tattoo displayed on Ali’s arm. The flicker of movement that put her right behind the Lich. Why would Ali go to all that trouble, just to throw it all away by tripping into Nevyn Eld’s Gaze of the Shattered Soul? Ali would never have missed something so obvious. Which meant…

She’s counting on me! And there was one thing she could do. Ali had seen it. She had included it in her plan.

Malika still had enough stamina.

For now.

Power blazed from her eyes, rippling outward towards the Lich. She had earned this skill the hard way, and her understanding was complete. Martial Disruption, combined with her own Gaze, tore into Nevyn Eld’s skill like a rhinoceros trampling through reeds, and his Gaze of the Shattered Soul wavered and burst, splintering into a thousand pieces for just a moment.

It was not enough, but Malika had no more in her. Already, she could see the Lich gathering the threads of his spell and weaving them back together.

Ali’s wings buzzed loudly in her ears as she rushed across the clearing, shooting past the gray image of Malika’s frozen struggle, and placed herself right behind Nevyn Eld. She reached out with her trembling left arm to touch the echo of the Aegis, took a deep breath to steady her nerves. Dark blood leaked steadily from the demonic runes, staining the tattered remains of her sleeve and dripping from the threads onto the ground. She cast several buffs in succession and then dispelled her witch doctor’s Spirit Banishment.

Malika… She glanced at her friend, wishing she could tell her.

As color bloomed into her world, she readied her weapon, still clinging to the irrational hope that she would have a slight window of opportunity, but to her dismay, her breath froze in her throat as her body and mana seized up, caught instantly in the grasp of the debilitating martial suppression magic. Not even her incredible mind- and spell-haste was sufficient to get off even a puff of magic. As her body stiffened up into a rigid board, her eyes caught Malika’s with her last moments of freedom.

Malika… Then, she surrendered. I trust you.

But Malika would never hear her words or understand her purpose. Doubt slammed into her heart, now that she’d flung herself intentionally into his clutches. What if she doesn’t… Her actions must surely look like a miscalculation to anyone, at least from the outside. How naïve she must seem to hope that the Lich’s ‘eye’ magic would work only in front of him. Especially when he had walked the world so long wearing his crimson blindfold that it had become synonymous with his evil clutches. He possessed a universal sphere of perception, just like Malika’s Soul Sight, and he was obviously using that to deploy his technique. She had learned he was once Ahn Khen from talking with Rezan Jin and Malika, and she had even witnessed his unerring accuracy fighting against Lyeneru above the Temple of Aman Rak, but would Malika remember she knew?

Naia’s oozes continued to wobble and writhe as they dragged themselves across the clearing, and across the thick layer of sludge that was all that remained of their predecessors, throwing themselves ceaselessly against the Lich’s defenses.

Ali would have cried tears of frustration if she could have. All that work, the struggling of her friends, the dreams people had placed in her care, the faces of those who dared to hope…

But Malika’s mouth twitched up at the corners. To her amazement, a ghost of a grin found even through the torment and pain etched upon her face. Then her eyes blazed from azure to a zenith of pure white with new power; power Ali could feel prickling along her neck, and yet not see. Power that rippled through the clearing like a purifying breeze, blowing away the cloying smoke.

A blaze of hope surged within her heart with an intensity to match the radiant power shining forth from Malika’s eyes.

An immense gong sounded, and Ali’s body shuddered, and suddenly, she stumbled forward, catching herself with her fingertips on Nevyn Eld’s Aegis of Absolution. She left a smeared handprint of dark blood. It was like touching nothing at all, and yet, in all its tactile invisibility, it still blocked her fall with an unyielding wall of force.

But… she was free.

Thank you…

She could not guess how much time Malika had bought her with that heroic effort, so, before she even gasped for her first breath, she gathered her mana. Feeding it one of her two remaining points of Authority, Ali fired Chaos Brand, The Corrupted Coil.

Mana seared through her flesh as it raced through the runic inscriptions forged into her arm. A tearing roar split the air as a cone of golden sparkles blasted outward from her fingertips, but it was a spell unlike any Arcane Mana Burn she had ever witnessed. Unlike the skill wielded by her Eye of Agnor demons, this was no longer a spell of pure arcane affinity. Every single enchantment she had inscribed acted as a direct support for the Arcane Mana Burn. When she unleashed it, every rune blazed with a singular purpose. The cone of gold rippled with reality-warping flickers of void and holy magic, and tendrils of power tugged on her soul like an ethereal gravity well pulling her very essence in.

She gritted her teeth against the pain as the magic cascaded off Nevyn Eld’s Aegis. And within it, he slowly turned toward her.

“Is that the best you can do?”

No. No it’s not.

The Void Nullification skittered across the surface of the Aegis, eroding the exposed formations of mana around the martial skill portions, leaving it pitted and rough. But it wasn’t enough on its own.

Ali, for all that she had disliked his methods and manner, had studied Nathaniel Sunstrider’s magic extensively. A broad array of runes flickered along her other arm, and she cast his most powerful spell: Time Stop.

It had been one of her favorite projects, dissecting the genius of the Archmage and making it her own, but it ranked third in her list of powerful control spells. First was her own Arcane Recall, with its unparalleled freedom. Second was the twins’ time puzzle – the most flexible, provided she could do her work in that exact spot. Third were the five minutes granted by the Archmage’s spell.

She reached for Domain Mastery.

World Walker applied to Aliandra Amariel.Elite Domain Enhancement applied to Aliandra Amariel.Amplify Skill (Arcane Insight) applied. Domain Enhancement complete.Your reserved mana has increased by +3450.

She skipped Domain Respawn – not that it was compatible with World Walker anyway. Unlike Nevyn Eld’s dungeons, she did not have an external source to generate her domain – if she died, the domain would die with her. There would be nothing left to respawn her, and even if it could work, she wasn’t certain the respawn would even be her. Minion ego only worked on minions, after all.

