With her Arcane Mana Burn tearing at his mana shield, she summoned magic from her right arm.

Instantaneous Cast. Spell Power Infusion. Spell Penetration.

The metamagic skills blossomed into rings of golden runic magic adorning her arm like glowing bangles, and then she unleashed Arcane Insight’s Dismantle, burning her final point of Authority. Her golden darts flickered out, crawling along the Aegis of Absolution as her will directed them to seek out every sliver of soul magic that held the shield together.

The magic arced across the shield, seeking purchase while the Lich remained within, frozen in the act of laughing at her in his sinister rasping voice.

She pressed her lips together firmly and poured more and more mana through her spells, her body shaking from the sheer force she was channeling. This was what she had finally realized about the Aegis of Absolution. It was a Mana Shield. The reason she struggled to break it was that he kept repairing it faster than she could destroy it. Only with the affinity of void magic and the signature Void Nullification of Azryet’s scions had she made even a detectable scratch.

Safely separated from the Lich’s responses by the potency of Nathaniel Sunstrider’s Time Stop, she fed her magic relentlessly into his barrier, taking the entire remainder of her subjective five-minute window.

Time Stop ended. The Lich’s laughter rang out, a sinister sound that left shivers along the back of Ali’s neck.

Crack!

A tiny fracture shot along the curvature of the black, glittering shield. Barely longer than an Elven silver penny and finer than the width of a sheet of paper. But that was all it took. The torrent of gold and black pouring from her throbbing left arm seeped into the crack, and it began to burn. An acrid stench tore at her nostrils as the magic began to dissolve, filling the inside of the sphere with curling white smoke. And the bigger the hole grew, the more purchase her magic gained, ripping and tearing at it, eating away at the structures like acid. Then the gold and black burst through, filling the interior of the shield with a maelstrom of destruction.

But above the roar of her magic torrent, the throbbing of her arm, and the ringing in her ears, she could still hear the rasping laughter of the Lich.

“Well done, Aliandra. You never disappoint. Your logic is as impeccable as your skill with magic is prodigious, just as I had hoped. A fitting replacement for your mother.”

The dark chill of premonition slid down her spine.

“You made but one error. One which you could never have foreseen – but fear not, I will enlighten you… after I raise your corpse and claim your magic.”

The Lich stretched his free hand toward her, and a surge of mana rippled outward as a vast formation condensed. Pain lanced through Ali’s mind immediately, for a moment overwhelming the disorientation and pain from her cursed tattoo. A pain that was all too familiar.

Dungeon rage.

She had felt it from him before. It had happened the moment he’d destroyed her Divine Archon. There had been a brief flicker earlier when he took out her Pit Lord so easily.

And when he tried to kill Naia.

“How is that possible?” she had wondered, and once that idea was in her head, all the pieces had begun to tumble into place, an inevitable avalanche of knowledge that had culminated in her fleeing to the Infinite Maze. From the eyes of her minions within the throne room of the Crypt of Kings, she studied the very same Aegis of Absolution guarding his Phylactery.

And his Phylactery was bound to his soul. In a very real sense, it was his soul.

Within the confines of the Aegis shielding Artur’s immense dragon form and the altar, she had seen the Mana Siphon enchantment – the same one that powered her shrine. At the time, she had noted it was a little off, but she had assumed it was enchanted upon the Domain Artifact hovering nearby. But no…

It’s on his Phylactery. She’d misunderstood only because the phylactery had been placed right beside the domain artifact and spelled into invisibility.

In that dreadful instant, she had realized precisely how he had withstood so much damage to his mana shield and still seemed to have unlimited access to his spells and magic. She was fighting against the ocean of mana that was the Crypt of Kings. The entirety of a dungeon.

Nevyn Eld is domain-bound. Like she had just bound herself. Likely, his phylactery was bound directly to the domain, and only his Avatar could leave without withdrawal, but that was hardly a limitation for the Lich.

“You must realize it by now. You cannot win. You can never win. Your only choice is to submit to me – now,” Nevyn Eld declared.

She did realize it.

Malika was dying right beside her. She had held the attribute drain at bay for so long by boosting her own attributes with her growing stamina again and again, with her relentless healing, but there was a limit to even her resilience. Especially against a foe who couldn’t run out of mana.

Calen and Mato were dying in the Crypt of Kings. The Fire Amplification was stacking up higher and higher, and they had no way to break the Aegis of Absolution.

Ali would run out of mana long before she made the slightest dent in Nevyn Eld’s infinite reserves of mana.

I should give up. It is only logical. But she couldn’t. She wouldn’t.

While her black-flecked golden torrent poured unabated into the Aegis, the gap that she’d torn through the legendary defensive spell began to shrink. Inch by excruciating inch.

There was a soft splat from above, an ozone-scented sizzle, and a void-affinity ooze spilled down the side of the spherical shield. It reached the hole and poured itself inside. At once, the oozes surged forward, arriving from all directions in thick, fluid swarms of protoplasm. Arcane oozes, puddles of darkness, and flickering things formed from warped space itself. Every last one of them shoved themselves through the hole.

“Are you sure, Naia?” Ali whispered. “I’m going to blast him.”

“I’m sure, Ali-friend. Together. You’ll see,” the nearby rock answered.

It was impossible. An impenetrable shield blocked their raid group. And nothing and nobody could face the entire mana pool of a dungeon.

Nobody… except another dungeon.

Ali conjured another wreath of runes that flickered into existence, this time around her throbbing left arm. A simple translation of her shrine magic turned into an arcane metamagic skill.

Mana Siphon.

A thin, howling wind began to blow through the cavern as mana was drawn from her domain and through the ring of runic magic, feeding her Arcane Mana Burn.

More…

The thin howl grew louder and louder as she drew upon her domain, and from the far reaches of her dungeon, her mana stirred. A ripple crossed the pristine surface of the Well of Divinity, high above the Sea of Fractured Dreams. Ancient mana of exquisite power seeped out, spilling over into her domain. In the heart of New Ciradyl, the Well of Souls stirred. The still waters splashed.

“Your efforts are futile. I have attained a far higher level than you,” Nevyn sneered.

Ali ignored him. I need far more…

All around her, slimes oozed through the barrier, squashing themselves through the tiny hole, heedless of the corrosive stream of arcane, void, holy, and soul magic Ali poured in. Strips of ooze were disintegrated into vapor, but still Naia poured in.

Suddenly, Ali felt an immense surge of nature mana pouring into her domain from the World Tree. Nature magic that carried with it a familiar resonance, the scent of home.

Lira! She’s with me!

A few moments later, there was an answering surge from the Abyssal Realm with the unmistakable signature of Azryet’s holy and void.

The Lich simply laughed at her. “You cannot hurt me with that.” And the draining power tearing at Malika’s heart pulsed more powerfully, and she finally began to scream.

Ali’s heart screamed in concert.

She reached blindly for the Malevolent Oak at the far end of the clearing, still guarding the entrance to the Library. She had made it long ago as a backup for emergencies – for when she needed a vitality boost, and she used it now. Her health skyrocketed in an instant, as her perception suddenly dimmed. She called her witch doctor down from the Spirit Realm and fed herself temporary vitality.

As the deluge of the mana gift granted her by the ancient Wells and the two gods hit the cavern, Ali began to spend her life. Tiny golden motes floated to the surface of her skin, passing through and rising into the air like golden fireflies. She pressed the entirety of her will into her skills, channeling the rising tsunami of mana that ripped through the cavern with a sound like a demonic dragon’s roar, threatening to wash her away.

But she stood firm.

Her jaw ached from crushing her teeth together. The taste of blood filled her mouth. And her life energy – the tiny motes of herself – mingled with the power rushing through her arm, multiplying it exponentially. Trees snapped from the sudden maelstrom. Her arm shattered. Flesh split from the bone as her body failed to contain the sheer concentrated power rushing through her runes, void and arcane magic tearing it apart from within, while the holy magic restored it. The blood of Azryet bound it together, barely.

Ali shrieked as her deepest being began to unravel under the unendurable strain of two fundamentally conflicting magic systems. No flesh could bear this. No soul could endure.

But she didn’t let up. Never! I must end this!

Within the wreckage of the melting Aegis of Absolution, Nevyn Eld finally began to howl and convulse in agony. The dark beam draining Malika guttered and abruptly failed, dropping her onto the ground in a broken, smoking heap.

Dimly, she realized that Naia was calling her – perhaps, several times before she responded. “Uh…”

“Ali-friend. Hole, look,” Naia urged.

“Where?” she gasped.

“I’ll show you,” Naia said. And one of her oozes within the Aegis began to shrink.

Ali would have gasped in shock if she weren’t already so wrung out. The ooze slithered down an almost invisible thread of mana, like an infinitely long straw, drawn away by powers that she could not even fathom. How does she see a mana tether as a … hole? But the ooze was nearly gone.

“I can’t do that, Naia,” Ali puzzled.

“No problem. I’ll make a hole for you, too,” Naia declared. “Space magic ooze. Wobbling Wormhole.”

“Oh. Naia, you are a genius!” Ali exclaimed. Once she’d heard the explanation, she saw the plan as plain as day. One half of Naia’s space magic ooze was gone, journeying to the other end of the tether, but within the Aegis, the other end began to open like the maw of an eldritch monster.

Far away in the throne room of the Crypt of Kings, a kobold mage turned to Calen.

“Get ready,” Mirianth said. An odd-looking ooze plopped out onto the throne.

Calen blinked. “Eh?”

Ali twisted her mana using the Domain Architect skill Azryet had taught her, making it just permeable enough to pass into Nevyn Eld’s domain, and fired it through the living portal Naia had created. Like a blight, the golden sparkles and twisted void burst through to tear at the far-away shield in the heart of the Crypt of Kings from within. The Aegis of Absolution protecting the Phylactery flickered and dimmed as the domain mana of an entire dungeon faltered like a candle blown in the wind, and as the shield broke, Ali’s mana exploded outward, tearing through the domain like a ravenous beast.

A great gong accompanied her achievement.

[Realm] Aliandra Amariel [Defiance of the Meek] has cast the legendary spell: A Requiem for Mana’s Final Extinction

You have gained Reputation.+3 Authority.

The tremendous thundering in Ali’s ears died down. She was not sure if it was fading or if she simply couldn’t hear anymore. She gazed in wonder at the cloud of golden motes sparkling around her.

So pretty.

Mom… I wish...

You have empowered magic using Life Channeling.-100% to maximum health.

And then her world slowly faded into darkness.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
