The beasts and soldier roared and smashed their legs as one into the ground, causing a landslide that filled in the chasm.

The chasm attempted to tunnel under this assault—and instead met marble and steel, the sturdy elements holding firm.

The chasm made the land quake as it thrashed and spasmed, trying to force its way into the grasslands… and yet…

It couldn’t.

The Patriarch should have been able to crush them. He was a full realm above them and bore the will of four hundred cultivators upon his back. He should have been able to cast all eight aside, like a cultivator casts aside a mortal. Yet even the weakest of them, his legs trembling slightly, stood firm.

Eight cultivators stood before the Patriarch of the Grand Ravine Sect.

And matched him. Stalemated him.

“Very well then.” The Patriarch’s voice was as grim as his face. “If you think us alike, tell me how, Cai Xiulan.”

Her face still hidden behind her fan, Cai Xiulan spoke. “We are indeed alike; for we both carry on some of Honoured Ancestor Chengis Altan’s will.”

The Patriarch staggered. The Ravine snapped out of existence, taking all of the damage with it. Tarkhan’s jaw dropped.

An outsider knew their most honored ancestor. She knew him by his true name.

An outsider said she carried on his will.

Such a thing should have warranted death.

Yet Tarkhan was forced to acknowledge that this woman… she thought she was telling the truth.

“This is the reason why I called upon all the sects. This is why we all have gathered. Like you say: The Earth Speaks. I have listened, and now I ask you to listen,” she stated, her voice reverberating around the plaza.

The Patriarch stared at the sheer audacity of this woman. And then, instead of striking her down… he took a breath and nodded. “The Grand Ravine Sect will listen.”

Xiulan closed her fan and graced them all with a smile. “Shall we continue this meeting elsewhere? It's impolite to stand around blocking the roads.”

“It is indeed impolite. Allow this old man to escort you, for all the trouble he has caused.”

They fell in beside each other as they made their way towards the Dueling Peaks and towards the dumbfounded spectators.

Tarkhan took some solace in the fact that they looked just as utterly befuddled as he felt.
