I grinned and rubbed my hands together. “In that case, how about this? You all get the chance to join us and earn a lot of easy experience taking on all the low and mid-leveled Kadren. Meanwhile, my group and I will take on the leaders and high-leveled ones and keep them engaged.”

“Suicide.” Jaggor spat.

“Not at all. I know exactly how we’re doing it. Because we are going to take over that scout tower. Once we have it, we’ll defend it, and keep them distracted for however long we need.”  I told him and the entire crowd. Laid out the general details of our plan and told them how we’d survive, and make sure that we’d keep them all occupied.

For a while, there was complete silence. A hundred people of various races, most of them hard-boiled professionals or desperados who’d stab you soon as help you. A braying laughter was the only distraction. Fucking Lure seemed to think this was the funniest thing that ever happened.

Just a few days ago, our plan would’ve fallen flat on its face. We didn’t have the levels to make an impact, nobody knew who we were. But in as tiny a community as this, news travelled fast. And our recent accomplishments, probably retold and inflated to a ridiculous degree, weren’t anything to scoff at. Surviving the Ghastling horde. Taking down monsters left and right. Killing one pissed-off untouchable? It’d be hard for anybody to deny that we were swinging hard in the local dick-measuring contest.

Except, right this moment, I didn’t need to convince the entire crowd. Somehow, whoever this Jaggor was, he’d turned into the face of reason, those who knew what they were doing. If I was able to swing him to agree with us, the rest would follow his example. I just knew it.

His dour face, weathered as the rest of his armor, dulled from a hundred battles, betrayed none of his actual emotions. His voice was hoarse and matter-of-fact as he sneered. “Still sounds like suicide.” The verdict was delivered with finality, like there was no doubt about it. Then the ugly bastard’s face split and he grinned, displaying a set of stained teeth with a few missing to one side. “But suicide for you. For me, it sounds like easy killing. I like easy killing. Count me in.”
