hing intently with teeth bared in a grin.   Frustration and anger was clouding Tian Yi's judgment, each wound adding to it, as if being spit at. He needed to calmly approach the fight, use his advantage of Chi, corner the boy and the fight would end, but instead he was wildly swinging away, with no thought, unable to find Balance. Even then, a single strike would end the fight, the difference in physique evident. Boy and man breathed heavily, both taxed physically and mentally in this match. An erroneously timed charge from Tian Yi left a gash in his shoulder as the boy circled away.   “Enough!” Bellowing in rage, Tian Yi twirled his saber about his body. Oriole Form, Raising the Winds. His blade lashing about him, he threw a barrage of fatal attacks aimed at the boy, who desperately weaved and blocked. For several seconds he resisted, before finally succumbing to the onslaught of strikes, a bloody furrow left from shoulder to hip as he staggered to the ground, falling to one knee. Tian Yi tiredly raised his sword a final time for a fatal blow.   “Stop!” Xue Chang commanded, and the city guard rushed forward to block the fatal strike with their weapons. A resounding clang reverberated through the room, their weapons bent under the force of the strike, a roar and a wave of the sword sending them tumbling back. Tian Yi raised his saber once more.   And stood there. The boys sword stuck out of his chest. It had perforated his armor and punctured a lung. Deer Form, Pierce the Horizon. Beautifully performed. His sword falling from his fingers, clanging to the floor, Tian Yi fell to his knees, blood dribbling from his mouth, eyes wide in disbelief. The boy stood, panting, as he tore the weapon out of his opponent, spraying his face and clothes red with blood.   “Take him to the healers, then throw him in the dungeon, where he is to await a Justicar.” Xue Chang ordered. “Combatant DuGu Tian Yi is disqualified for attempting to kill a fallen opponent, and placed under arrest for assaulting the City Watch. I declare the match winner to be Rain. This challenge is won in favor of Tong Da Hai.” While technically the boy lost, with the decision an extremely loose interpretation of the rules, it helps to have befriended the referee. The Magistrate smiled, hearing no objections forthcoming. They were all still too shocked by the events of the match. No wonder the Herald was so confident.   The boy walked out of the square slowly, a garish grinning specter. Settling down in front of Medical Saint Taduk, who immediately began treating him. The boy's eyes closed in meditation, his face relaxing, once again seeming timid and gentle. Such focus and skill, to be so calm after battle, an incredible young man, Tong Da Hai knew that the story of this match would be told over and over again in the coming weeks, exaggerated in each retelling. He grinned inwardly, delighted in the outcome. While Tian Yi could not be executed, he would likely lose his status as Warrant Officer, greatly reducing his influence and authority within the city. The DuGu Family was dealt an almost irreparable blow. The boy would have to be rewarded well, kept close, and The Herald even more so. He chuckled inwardly, while remaining dignified and solemn on the outside. His son had a keen eye for friends.   Xue Chang turned to kneel before the Magistrate, the city guards kneeling with him, token presented in both hands. “As there are no more challengers, by the authority given to me by The Divine Emperor, I appoint Tong Da Hai to the position of Imperial Magistrate of Shen Huo city, the position to be held by him and his family for the next 100 years.”   There was a cacophony of applause, from those who supported him, and those defeated as well. All were eager to have the challenge forgotten, their attempts to overthrow him forgiven. We will not hold it against them, The Magistrate decided. It is only natural for them to covet our position. He smiled and waved at the nobles and guards of his city. A weight had been lifted from his shoulders. His future, and his children's futures had been secured. All thanks to the Herald.
