Seth stepped confidently into the center of the runic circle, and his body was yanked away far more firmly than he was expecting. Perhaps it was a sense of the great distance it took him, or maybe that was just in his mind. After all, he knew roughly where it would dump him out after his last conversation with Ali. The Fangs of the Frost Wyrm.

He shivered, drawing his cloak close around his shoulders to ward off the sudden blast of frigid air, and glanced about, finding himself virtually entombed in a small ice cavern with faint blue light percolating through the darkly translucent walls. Only a narrow crack let out to somewhere beyond. Stepping carefully on the treacherous ground, he made his way forward and slipped through the jagged opening.

He emerged into a howling, icy gale that drove sleet sideways across a hazy alpine snowscape. Towering peaks of fang-like jagged mountains rose up on all sides. It was about as inhospitable a place as he had ever seen, and he had experienced some nasty dungeons firsthand. A tiny trace of mana drew his attention to an inconspicuous stretch of ice-encrusted cliffside.

Death affinity.

It was not just any kind of death mana. Instead, it was the kind that always hovered around the undead. He should know. Still, Death Knights were not the reason he was here, surprisingly enough. He downed his elixir, warding himself against the bitter cold, and made his way down the steep slope leading away from the hidden entrance Ali had cautioned him to avoid. Only when he was far enough from the deadly Crypt of Kings did he spill the bones and corpses from his storage ring out onto the soft snow.

“Ok, my pretties,” he murmured, surveying the remains of the best flying monster corpses Ali could provide. “Time to get to work.”

“Arise,” he commanded, waving his fingers in a vaguely menacing flourish. Devan enjoyed teasing him about how ‘chill’ he was, something she claimed was unfitting for a necromancer. So, he’d commissioned a horrific-looking bone chest plate from Tarek, Thuli’s bone smith apprentice. It had ribs protruding from the sides, for goodness’ sake. He’d also practiced several monologues, stances, and gestures to make him look more like a stereotypical necromancer from some of the less realistic stories. It had all been worth it for the laughs he’d provoked.

The bones strewn across the snow shivered, drawing together like a twitching pile of sticks. The corpses jerked, convulsing before slowly rising.

“Now, where are those Frost Dragons?” he murmured, turning his eyes toward the highest peaks as the icy wind snatched his words from his lips. A good necromancer always had his ear to the ground for powerful new minions with interesting abilities or affinities, and he had the advantage of a dungeon for a mentor. Ali would happily manufacture as many as he needed. All he needed to do was collect them.

Ali knew the Eternal Reverie would be an incredible herbal reagent, probably sought after by any herbalist or alchemist of high enough level to work with it. Unprocessed, its nectar had granted her a powerful mind-warding effect, and she could only imagine what someone like Morwynne or Eliyen could achieve with access to a steady supply. Besides, she had never heard of a mind-magic plant, much less one that was over level two hundred – not that she could make them that high, yet.

Soon, though. She was getting closer.

Ali took a deep breath and examined her work carefully, searching for any way she might improve it. Hovering in the air above her jungle trees, she couldn’t see anything she wanted to change. The spirit realm typically had very little color, but many of her more esoteric plants grew quite well, able to thrive here in full color, thanks to her mana and its ability to cross realms. Her eyes scanned the cavern walls with satisfaction, enjoying the burning sea of steady azure fire wherever she’d planted clumps of the Eternal Reverie flowers. They soaked her domain mana up like sponges, but she studied them closely until they had their fill, and finally she saw what she was hoping for.

First one patch and then the rest in a rippling cascade that felt like a sigh, each filled flower began to emit a soft, clear haze of mind mana.

There we go. The mana filtered back into her domain, joining the complex weave as the flowers contributed their affinity to her dungeon.

I wonder how long it will take for someone to find these? She had hidden them away in the spirit realm on purpose, and with the higher-level bosses she’d left in the jungle, it would be quite a challenge. But if the adventurers were able to fly and reach the spirit realm, they would be greeted with the incredible sight of these rare flowers flourishing in abundance.

She hadn’t been completely mean, though. She had planted a single Eternal Reverie flower in Basil’s flower garden in the forest cavern, anchored in plain sight in the real world. That had taken some doing, given that the phantasmal flower very much preferred to fade over to the spirit realm if left to its own devices, but a simple runic array to anchor it and binding it to her domain had done the trick. She smiled at the thought of Basil finding it and what he was going to think.

Now I just need to leave him a note to come get it.

“She said it should be in here,” Basil said, glancing at Aiden as he pulled his ice-enchanted blade from the corpse of a fungus monster. “Somewhere.”

His eyes glanced once again at the note Ali had left for him with the Guild Administrator. Mieriel had been smiling when she handed him the note, so he had been certain she had inside knowledge, but no amount of questioning had revealed any more details.

The note was written in Aliandra’s elegantly flowing handwriting, with an ink that sparkled gold and green upon the parchment.

Hi, Basil,I hope you’re doing well. I left a little something for you in your favorite flower garden – I hope you like it.-- Ali

There was a tiny, hand-drawn picture of a smiling face under Ali’s name. There was no mana signature; the ink was more than sufficient to prove her identity.

He smiled at the note and turned his attention finally to the flower garden. It was now substantially larger than when he had first made it, and featured an enormous variety of exotic flowers, all elegantly arranged, if he did say so himself. Even though the garden had been greatly expanded, his initial influence on its arrangement was still clearly visible.

Despite that, he saw it instantly.

Nestled up against a rock, surrounded by a sea of Arc Lilies in full bloom, a blossom of azure flame blazed forth. It was a flower of such striking beauty that he was left speechless for several long moments.

“Basil?” Aiden said, poking him in the ribs.

“Uh, yes,” he grunted, wincing at the impact while collecting his wits. “Ali did something ridiculous again, I can tell.”

“Well, of course,” Aiden said. “But what kind of ridiculous this time? Should I assemble the guild?”

“I don’t think that will be necessary,” he said, carefully approaching and crouching down to examine the flower. “Now… what are you?”

Eternal Reverie – Phantom, Wildflower – level 185 (Mind)

“What the heck is that?” Aiden asked, as the rest of his group gathered around to gawk at the blazing flower. “And what level is it?”

“That flower is a higher level than you,” Devan chuckled.

“A mind magic flower,” Basil said. It gave off no heat, but it was most definitely flame, and the phantom nature of the flower meant it was incorporeal, a fact made obvious by his ability to see through its leaves and petals. Deep within the center of the azure bloom nestled a small drop of nectar, but he didn’t dare touch it, much less taste it, especially given the ridiculously high level of the flower. “Its level is one eighty-five.”

His comment earned several gasps.

“A lot higher than you,” Devan said, elbowing Aiden in the ribs, and Basil was gratified to note that the warrior flinched slightly.

The Eternal Reverie flower was almost too high level for him to harvest, and it was only with his dungeon herbalism skills that he was even able to identify it. I should be able to manage it. Careful to avoid disturbing the obscure runic lattice around the flower, he retrieved his tools and set out a spelled sample bag, and began to work. Immediately, several notifications blossomed in his mind:

Domain Cultivation has reached level 49 (+2).Dungeon Flora has reached level 73 (+4).Adventurous Collector has reached level 81 (+3).

Wow, that’s a lot, he thought as he stored the bag in his ring. It wasn’t that much of a surprise, he guessed. It was his first time working with such a high-level flower, by quite a large margin. I hope Eliyen knows what this is, because I sure don’t.

Ali sat quietly at her favorite library table beside Ryn, watching the rapid interplay of mana in her eyes as she carefully scanned through the modest pile of age-worn books retrieved from the Spellsage’s hidden library in the Crypt of Kings. Clarence rested quietly beside her on the table, for once not trying to convince her to play fetch.

Two nights spent sleeping under the watchful boughs of Mato’s Tree Form had done wonders for her peace of mind. Resting in her own bed for a change, while the flickering holy fire of his Sanctuary aura had permeated her modest apartment in the residential district of Dal’mohra’s upper level, had worked wonders to accelerate the recovery of her maximum health. Health spent to power her barrier against the destructive power of Kryostria’s breath and save her friends.

It had grown much quieter in the underground residential district since most of the elves had moved above ground and into the grove of Ciradyl trees nestled beside the town’s southern walls, but there were still some stubborn folks who preferred to live deeper in the protection offered by her dungeon. From speaking with them, many were still recovering from deep trauma, and Mieriel had agreed to offer her services to those who wished for help of a magical sort.

It didn’t help that she was woken without fail by one of those eerie crimson eldritch eyes, spawned even deep within her domain somehow through the conduit of her cursed title. So far, none of the nearby residents had been exposed to one, but it may be a matter of time. At least, the constant presence of at least one of her friends and a pair of evolved ice trolls she had following her around everywhere made short work of the eyes.

Another Death Knight had breached the town walls yesterday, but her newly summoned Elite guards had easily repelled the attack. Those, she reflected, had been an interesting choice. Aiden had requested she skip summoning some of the nastier demons, or monsters with substantial area attacks, if possible, and so she had summoned Sallis and Vernon Bell’s imprints. She was well past freaking the townsfolk out with her monsters, and the half-elf archer and human shadow priest, formerly of the Heroes of the Crimson Blade, had proven to be exceptional guards and early-warning scouts for the northwestern quarter of the town. She still had several Sentinel demons atop the walls, a compromise Aiden had agreed to after the second incursion.

I just hope they don’t attack in a bigger group. She frowned. That was always a possibility, but she would deal with that when it happened. With monsters as powerful as Devastation Knights, there was no way to guarantee there would be no fallout, no matter what she did.

Ryn gently shut the final book and looked up with sparkles in her eyes – the literal sparkles of her arcane and divination magic, and also the sparkles that told of excitement bursting out from within her. “Ali, this is incredible! There is so much of the lost history in here! You have no idea how important a find this is! This is a seismic shift in the understanding of the events surrounding the Breaking and the Necromancer wars. And, these are not just peripheral observers either, so much is written with the peerless authority of Eldorien Spellsage himself!”

Ali smiled at Ryn’s obvious excitement.

At the next table over, Val’korr’s weathered ears twitched, and his grizzly troll face turned to stare, not even bothering to hide his eavesdropping. The aged Seeker had had a few suggestions regarding her affliction, but so far, nothing had succeeded in fending off her eldritch haunting.

“Anything we can use to help find the last of the ancient wells?” Ali asked, her thoughts immediately turning practical rather than dwelling upon the great boon the books represented to the world’s historians. The furthering of historical accuracy was something that could be had simply by duplicating the tomes and adding them to the soaring shelves of her rapidly growing library.

“Yes!” Ryn exclaimed. “There are hints about ancient customs, and recorded observations of the disturbance in the ambient mana when Mi’ir Valdanis and Aalion were lost.”

Ali’s nascent hope dissipated like mist in a morning breeze. The hints were nice and all, but she really needed something much more concrete – like, how to purify the Well of Souls after it had been corrupted by Nevyn Eld. Or directions – preferably a map – to the lost Well of Divinity in the vanished city of Aalion.

Ryn’s excitement faded as she saw Ali’s reaction. “We should visit Tiraza. If I cross-reference this information with Azryet’s library, I think we might be able to come up with something more practical. How does that sound, Ali?”

“Actually, that’s a great idea,” Ali said. “Are you free to go now?” She had several outstanding questions for Azryet, and she didn’t want to put it off for much longer.

With a muffled pop of Ryn’s beautiful magic, she traded her Grand Library Arcana for Azryet’s Draconic Sanctum. Surrounded by the massive book-laden shelves and the majestic white stone pillars and soaring vaulted ceilings, Ali was astounded yet again at how different a library could look simply because it was designed for dragons. She was certain that Azryet himself could easily fly down some of these passages without his wings even coming close to clipping the bookshelves on either side.

“Greetings, Ryn. Welcome back, Aliandra.” The melodious sounds of Tiraza’s voice rumbled through the chamber, greeting them with warmth and power.

“Hi, Tiraza,” Ryn said, zipping over with a buzz of wings and mana to hover before the giant golden dragon. “Look at this! Ali found these books, and they cover the details of the Breaking! Isn’t it incredible, see here…” She already had three of the books open and floating in the air as she gestured excitedly for the dragoness to read the passage she had found.

