Ali met Tiraza’s gaze over the headlong dash Ryn had made to share the books, seeing a spark of amusement kindled in the great draconic eyes. She had the impression that the aged creature saw them more as impulsive children, as a source of amusement and no small delight. “Azryet will be along shortly, Aliandra. Make yourself at home.”

Ali nodded her thanks to Tiraza and picked out a nearby book at random, paging through it with moderate curiosity while she waited. Surprisingly, it was written in some form of infernal demonic language, but her Sage of Learning helpfully taught her the language in real time.

As she began to read, the familiar touch of eldritch insanity wormed its way inside her mind; the chilling knowing that something horrifying was watching her. She shuddered, snapping around to find a dark eldritch orb floating high above her. Instantly, she summoned a golden barrier. With a wet ripping sound, the lids peeled back to reveal the glowing red eye within, and as its eldritch gaze locked onto her, her mind was filled with whispers that clawed and grasped, hunting for her secrets and dreams.

A marble of utter darkness suddenly appeared like a hole to a dimension that had never known light. It expanded rapidly, sizzling briefly as it consumed the eye, and the library was filled with mind screams of twisted hate and frustration before they were suddenly silenced. The void hole vanished with a bright pop, leaving only the brief flickering of holy fire and a little smoke.

“You bring strange visitors, Aliandra.”

Ali turned around to regard the giant form of Azryet, his head lowering as he peered down at her.

“Not by choice,” she said. “In fact, that was one of the reasons I wished to talk to you.”

He glanced over at Tiraza and the books floating around Ryn, now ignored as they both stared at the aftermath of the unexpected explosion.

“It seems much has transpired,” Azryet rumbled. “Why don’t you start at the beginning?”

“Calen tracked Nevyn Eld’s soul to his phylactery,” Ali said. Azryet’s enormous eyes narrowed at the blithe statement of an achievement of such significance, but he withheld comment for now. “When we went there, we found not only his dungeon, the Crypt of Kings, but also the lost ruins of the great Night Elf city, Mi’ir Valdanis. We failed to retrieve his phylactery because the way was blocked by a dracolich named Kryostria.”

“Kryostria is a dracolich now?” Azryet growled, wisps of void spilling from his bared fangs. Ali briefly winced at the enormous pressure of his rage, but he mastered his emotions before any harm ensued.

“You know her?”

“Yes, she was always a haughty, arrogant whelp. It does not surprise me that she sought the Lich’s transformation, although I am surprised that she allowed herself to become the servant of another. That is not the way of the dragonkind.”

“She is a third-tier champion boss in his dungeon, and quite difficult to beat,” Ali said. Even with her pair of second-tier skills, her high level, and her advanced minions, she had been no match for the dracolich. She would need significantly more growth before she could consider a rematch. “Not all was lost, though. Mi’ir Valdanis still contains the Well of Eternity, and we were able to gain access to it.”

Saying this, she summoned one of the vials to her hand and held it out to Azryet.

“Aah, excellent. That is indeed a worthy achievement, you and your friends have done well,” he exclaimed, eyes swirling with enigmatic patterns of black and white mana that seemed to bore right into her. “But that doesn’t explain the taint of eldritch magic I see upon you, nor that foul intruder.”

“The well has an eldritch guardian. Baaoht Yll’shuum. We successfully defeated it, even though its mind and death magic were challenging,” Ali said. She didn’t exactly want to admit her mistake, but she didn’t have much choice, not if she wanted his help. “I made the mistake of deconstructing it.”

“Aah,” Azryet said. A syllable laden with meaning. “What kind of affliction is it that you come seeking my aid?”

Ali simply shared it.

The Eternal NightmareY̴͎̕ơ̶̛̺͇͖̓u̵͇̇̎̐ ̷̦̤͍͌̈a̴̫̔͂ͅr̵̘̃͌̚e̴͔͌ ̵̢̹͛̀̚b̶̥̩̊̓͘͜e̷̘̜̹͂̾i̶̺̲̎͋n̸̻͖͑̄͝g̴̫̉ ̷̟̎̑w̴͕̿̏͝a̷̤̤̓̋͝t̴̛̮̓͆c̸̳̦̀͗͠ĥ̵̻̼ȅ̴͍̜̥d̴͇̤͕̽͠.̴͔͎̀͜Cursed Title

Azryet remained silent for longer than Ali could comfortably bear, but eventually he took a deep breath, letting out a thin stream of void that curled up from his nostrils like a wisp of smoke. “I hope you claimed more than one vial from the Well of Eternity.”

“Of course,” Ali said, producing two others.

“Good, because the only way I know of to cure that, for certain, is by using the same potion you’re going to need for the Acorn.”

“Ok,” Ali answered, her heart sinking into her slippers. Surely, there had to be something a little easier? More immediate? Something like his breath of True Healing that had restored her wings, but she had also feared that there might be no cure, and she would be forced to bear this terrible title forever. At least now she knew that she could heal herself with the wells, too, a quest she was already committed to.

“I only suggest the Elixir because you are committed to making it for Lirasia already. It is a shame because it is to her that I would have turned for advice on your affliction. For someone like you, however, there might be an easier option,” Azryet said.

“I’m all ears,” Ali said, trying to tamp down on the hope that threatened to bubble up.

“I have never seen anything like this cursed title before, but incomprehensible magic is hardly unusual for eldritch beings. Nevyn Eld must have scoured the depths to find a creature like that. However, I can see the tendrils of its nature woven into the formation, and if you were to destroy this Baaoht Yll’shuum permanently, I am certain that the title would be unusable. It may even unravel on its own in time.”

“You’re saying I just need to get strong enough to wipe out the Crypt of Kings and I can rest easy once more?” Ali asked, trying and failing to keep a touch of irony out of her voice.

“Yes,” Azryet said, eyes blazing fiercely. Clearly, he meant his response as a challenge. Perhaps Dragons knew no other way?

“Oh, right. I thought it would be a difficult task. I guess I have no excuses, now,” Ali grumbled.

“You jest, little one. However, is this not the path you have chosen?”

“It is,” Ali said, sighing.

“Do not forget that you have friends and allies, Aliandra,” Azryet rumbled, his eyes, despite burning upon her, appearing unexpectedly gentle. So many centuries of life. It must be a lonely existence, she felt – having outlived perhaps most creatures he had known. She herself had lost everything and everyone she knew, but at least her millennia in stasis had spared her this. “I find myself in your debt once more.”

“What do you mean?” she asked, racking her brains for something she might have accidentally done for him.

“For looking after my dearest paladin,” he said. “And for building the church and permitting him to consecrate it within your domain. The reputation gained from that has already nearly matched that of Kavé, the smith, and her Holy Avenger swords. I finally have enough to begin developing new minions again.”

“How does it work?” Ali asked, curiosity getting the better of her. “Consecrating the church, I mean. What exactly did I agree to?” It had been done in a moment of dire peril, and she had sort of glossed over the fine print, so to speak.

“Consecration is a way to channel a deity’s power into an area, through the conduit of a follower. It confers certain persistent benefits to the patron and the followers while within the area,” he explained. The words all made sense, but somehow conveyed very little.

“And it requires permission?” Ali asked. She recalled her surprise when Lamyndra asked permission, too.

“Yes,” he said. “Havok believed you owned the church you had built, and your domain provided a real claim to the land. It was sufficient to create the conduit for my power.”

“Is it anything like the Consecration spell Havok and Mato both have?” Ali asked.

“It is based on similar principles. The spell is a fixed, simpler version that channels only holy fire. Consecrating the church is far more flexible.”

“What does that mean in practical terms? I felt the dungeon rage when you blessed Havok. Is that part of your dungeon now?” Ali asked. She could feel the blazing power of his mana like a bonfire in the center of her domain. “And why did consecrating the temple of Lunaré not cause dungeon rage?”

“In a way, yes,” Azryet answered. “Lunaré is not a dungeon; her consecration does not work the same way. That church you built now contains a portion of my domain that is limited by the conduit used to create it.”

“Havok?”

“Yes, his level and power,” Azryet said. “The conduit can be grown like a living thing. As his level grows and the number of followers who congregate there expands, it will become denser and more powerful. Mato is of a higher level, and if he performs an important action to contribute to the consecration, it will also grow. Several rituals can help, and I can teach them to those who show aptitude.”

“What does it allow you to do?” Ali asked. She had unwittingly invited a four-mark creature to set down permanent roots in the center of town. She trusted Azryet, but it seemed rather important that she should understand what exactly might happen.

“It remains of insufficient power for me to manifest there, personally, nor can I summon monsters great enough to intimidate the local population into following me. However, it was sufficient to allow me to spend Authority to grant a small buff to help Havok.”

A small buff? He thinks a world boss is a small buff? But she didn’t say anything; it was clear that deities had extraordinary abilities, especially when powered by Authority. If this was a small thing to him, it was no wonder he was so grateful for even the tiny amounts he received for their actions.

Still, it seemed he had some misguided ideas about people that she needed to address. “How long have you been out of touch with the mortal realm?” Ali asked, attempting to be diplomatic.

“More centuries than I care to recall,” Azryet said.

“I think you’ve lost touch with the workings of the mortal minds,” Ali said, her diplomatic approach cracking already.

“That… is a possibility,” Azryet admitted, much to her surprise.

“Would you be open to a suggestion?” Ali asked.

He inclined his great head magnanimously.

“Instead of intimidating people with terrifying monsters, do you have any minions like these?” she asked, holding up a hand and calling one of the Glitter Dragonets she’d brought along with her. It swooped down and alighted on her forearm.

“I’ve not summoned anything so weak since I was a dragonet myself,” Azryet said, eyeing it dubiously. “It’s barely a dragon.”

“But you can?”

He waved a talon perfunctorily, and a flight of black-scaled dragonets appeared, the spitting images of Scions of Azryet, only these were the same size as her Glitter Dragonet. They screeched and burst into swooping rolls and dives to avoid each other.

“Perfect!” she exclaimed. Trust someone like Azryet to summon tiny, cute dragonets that could disintegrate your fingers without thinking. However, they were delightful, which was what she needed, and Ali grinned happily at the sight of their antics.

“I fail to see how something so weak could intimidate anyone, or dispense my wrath,” Azryet said with a profound look of puzzlement crossing his brow.

“It’s about showing your softer side,” Ali said. “These dragonets are cute. People will love them.”

“Cute?” he snorted.

“Yes,” Ali said, having begun to duck but realizing belatedly that he had restrained his power very carefully. He could probably sneeze Myrin’s Keep out of existence, after all. “Trust me, make some of these for the church, and maybe a few holy ones. People will come by just to see them. You might even find kids trying to feed them. Reserve your true power for when they’re strong enough to understand it.”

“I… see,” he said. “I will consider your words.” But Ali could already see the tiny holy and void dragons appearing in the cathedral back in Myrin’s Keep and taking off to circle inside the huge domed area.

“I’ll make them some spots to roost,” she said, grinning at the face he made at being found out so quickly. Right then, an idea sprang fully formed into her mind. It was not a big thing, but it was at least a thing.

“Would you like a Gate?” Ali asked.

“A Gate?” he asked, glancing at her with a little surprise.

“I could make a Gate linking the church in Myrin’s Keep with, say, the cathedral area where I first met you. It would leak my domain into your dungeon, but if you’re ok with that, it would allow visitors to your church to come visit your domain directly. That might add some legitimacy to the church and convince more people that you’re a powerful deity worth following. You could put some more… intimidating guardians there. Impressive ones.”

His eyes whirled with sparks of mana for a while, and she realized she had rendered him momentarily speechless again. You can’t keep doing this, Ali, she told herself, he is a god after all.

“It seems I will be going deeper into your debt, Aliandra. That is a most excellent idea, I would definitely like a Gate to Havok’s church.”

“No problem,” she said, noting that she would need to go thank Cael again soon. “I can make one right now.”

I can’t wait to let Havok know…

“Morning, Mister Thriftpenny,” Basil said, walking up to the elegantly dressed Weldin, who seemed to be busy dusting the already gleaming and glowing swords on display at the front of his store. He had no idea if these were good swords, only that they looked rather impressive.

“Aah, Basil,” Weldin said, immediately looking up and giving him all his attention. “What can I do for you today?”

“Can I get an appraisal for this?” he asked, producing a flask of his new azure concoction, the making of which had earned him three class levels under the strict tutelage of Eliyen and several consultations with Morwynne Fizzlebang. Everything related to that Eternal Reverie flower had produced obscene amounts of experience for him, and Eliyen assured him that there were endless other possibilities to make from the essences and tinctures she’d shown him, should he be able to secure just a few more samples.

