He puffed out his cheeks and sighed. Calm down already. “Please?”

“Elixir of Mental Fortitude?” Weldin said, squinting his good eye at the small crate of flasks. “Well, now, there’s a thing. I do hope you’re going to tell me you have more, Basil?”

For the reserved Gnome to make a comment like that, it had to be impressive. “I have six. I just need to know how much to list them for,” he grinned. Eliyen had said they should be worth at least six or seven gold, which, for a single potion, was rather ridiculous.

“The normal price for something of this rarity and level is in the range of thirty to thirty-three gold,” Weldin said, his tone entirely serious.

“Thirty-three gold for six elixirs?” he gasped, trying not to redden too badly. He failed.

“Each,” Weldin corrected, making him gasp second time. “These are of extraordinarily high quality, but the most marketable feature is how high the level is. I’ve never seen elixirs quite this good, but adventurers seek out protection like this when hunting high-level mind flayers, banshees, and mind demons.”

“I see.” But his mind was reeling from the sheer amount of gold Weldin was talking about.

“They are also effective against the fear auras from many greater undead. Given the current situation at Southport, you could probably get about fifty for them,” Weldin finished.

Basil picked his jaw up off the floor. Fifty gold? Each?

“If I may be so bold, where did you get these?” Weldin asked, his eyes glittering at the prospect of a profitable deal.

“I made them,” Basil managed, pointing at his mana signature with a shaking finger.

“You can make this?” Weldin said, grinning from ear to ear. Apparently, he and Weldin were about to become the very best of friends, Basil deduced.

“Yes, Ali found a new flower,” he said. “Although, I only know the location of a single spawn.” The nectar gathered from the single flower, and the extraction process used on the petals had produced a surprisingly large yield, even by his standards.

“Aah, Aliandra,” Weldin said, nodding knowingly. “Very resourceful, that girl. There is absolutely no way she planted just one. I suggest you ask her where she planted the rest.”

“I can do that,” Basil said, still feeling more than a little shellshocked.

“Please don’t!”

Both he and Weldin spun about to find Willow staring at them with an intense expression in her eyes, while her wolf, Cami, flopped beside her with her tongue lolling out as if grinning.

“Why… why not?” Basil asked. She looked a little mad. Upset-mad, not insane. He felt like the clarification was warranted, given the nature of the potions he was holding.

“Sorry for eavesdropping,” Willow said, a touch of red rising in her cheeks. “But if you have found an important flower in Ali’s dungeon and need someone to find it, please make a quest and I will take it.” She paused, glancing about a little awkwardly. “I didn’t have good enough stealth skills to be picked for Calen’s critical scouting mission, and I really need the chance to level my tracking and scouting skills. I also have Herb Gathering leveled up – uh, quite high. Hopefully high enough?”

“Um, ok,” Basil said. “But I don’t have much gold.” He had just spent most of his savings on the supplies and specialized equipment he needed to work with the incorporeal mind magic flower, and he was rather broke. Posting a quest would require him to front the gold to the guild in escrow.

“How about I take these off your hands for forty-five gold each,” Weldin offered, tapping one of the elixirs with a finger. “I’ll display them for a few days and advertise for you, and then sell them on the Auction House if nobody buys them. You can use the gold to put up your quest. I believe we should be able to drum up some healthy interest in purchasing any that you decide to make, and –” he winked broadly, “– I sense that prices may exhibit continued healthiness if you build a reputation for producing potions of such quality and rarity.”

“Uh, ok,” Basil said.

It took barely a few minutes sitting down with Ryn to post his quest, and he left a hundred and fifty gold as a deposit for the guild to collect the flowers on his behalf.

Eternal ReverieQuest Giver: Basil.Rank: Platinum.Category: Gathering.Reward: 5 gold per flower.Aliandra has planted a new flower called Eternal Reverie somewhere in her dungeon. It is an incorporeal flower which blazes with azure flame petals and has the mind-affinity.

“Perfect!” Willow said, touching her guild ring to the mana signature on his quest the instant it appeared on the board, transferring the details to her quest tracker. Before he could even say a word, she was dashing off toward the stairs in the direction of the dungeon teleporter.

“She seems eager,” Basil muttered.

“Told you there would be a strong demand,” Weldin said. “Nice girl, eh?”

Basil bolted out the door, calling hastily, “Things to do!”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
