My mana burned as the pull-on gravity strengthened. Althea’s cloud form came together, her normal form integrating from the air. Once Althea turned back into a person, she balled herself up into fetal position. Letting her go, I smiled. Pacing up to her, I put my hands on my hips,

“Counter achieved. Take that you cloud monster.”

Althea sprawled out onto the ground. She pulled herself out and gasped, “What…how did you do that?”

I raised hand, forming a gravity well above her. The pull straightened out her back, removing the slouch. She frowned, “What the hell?”

I grinned, “I finally learned how to use gravity.”

She looked up, “Woah…Cool.”

I nodded, my hand relaxing. I created another well right above her. Taking my cue, Althea reached up her hand to the center of the well. She pulled herself up with it. Once up, I strengthened the gravity well. I lifted my hand, lifting her in the process. She glanced at me, her feet waving through the air,

“You can do this?”

I laughed, “Hah, Apparently I can. Let me see…”

I moved her around, jerking her through the air. I tried shifting her liked a rollercoaster, causing Althea to scream with laughter. Shifting her wasn’t like using telekinesis. telekinesis pulled on me, shifting gravity didn’t. Besides for that, it took zero effort to throw Althea around with the power.

After a few minutes of messing around with the skill, I could chain the wells to accelerate her to swift speeds. The range was limited though. As I made the fields further away from me, they grew weaker for the same amount of effort. As I made them closer, they became stronger. To combat this, I kept Althea turning into a circle around me. Once I got her going too fast, she yelled,

“Please let me down now. I’m getting nauseous.”

“Oh…Sorry about that. Got caught up playing with the new toy.”

I slowed her down with a few wells before catching her as she fell. I set her back onto her feet, holding her steady by her shoulders,

“There yah go. Hope it wasn’t too bad.”

She shook her head, smiling, “Honestly…it was pretty fun.”

I let her go once she quite wobbling. I stepped back, “Do you mind if I try some stuff out with the gravity magic for a bit?”

Althea’s eyes narrowed, “As long as you don’t send me in circles again.”

I shrugged, lifting my left hand and sending her off the ground with a gravity well, “Eh, who knows. We’ll have to see how it pans out.”

She threw her fists at me, smiling despite my teasing. I laughed a bit before trying to create a gravity well with as much pull as she had. After a bit of tweaking, Althea floated through the air, nigh weightless. She waved her hands, giggling like crazy at the new sensation. She waved her hands,

“This is amazing.”

I grinned, “Yeah, it’s pretty damn awesome.”

Unlike telekinesis, gravity moved like I wanted it to. Molding it wasn’t some hellish undertaking. It was as natural and easy as blinking or breathing. Figuring out a few of the intricacies of it might take a while, but making the gravity wells took little to no effort.

With that in mind, I dispersed the field holding Althea. Instead of pinning her at the center tightly, she weighed back down to the ground slowly. With a bit of effort, I compacted the field of gravity. Althea jerked back up to the center, holding there tightly. Dispersing would only be useful for extending the outer reaches of gravity’s effects, not for much else.

I kept condensing the field before the familiar pull of burning mana started. A second later, Althea shouted out. I stopped the field before she landed on her feet. She shook her head,

“What did you do then? It felt like I was in a trash compacter.”

I frowned, “Sorry about that. I was trying to see how much I could condense. It seems like a pretty solid amount.”

She narrowed her eyes, pointing at me, “Test that on something like rocks. Keep the fun stuff for me.”

I nodded, “Sure thing. Want to try out the game again?”

She grinned, “Yeah, I think I have something new to try out.”

She disappeared from sight. I blinked, not believing my eyes. A second later she appeared beside me with a knife dagger against my throat,

“Told you. I can learn too.”

I raised my eyebrow, “Damn girl. You’ll be outdoing me here soon.”

She put her hands on her hips, smiling from ear to ear, "I researched animals on your planet, and I found something called a cuttlefish. It's an octopus that changes color. With a few tweaks, I can do the same thing. With it, I'll be able to beat the crap out of you soon."

I jerked up both my hands, waving my fingers, “That is, if you can even stay on the ground.”

She reached towards me, but it was too late. She frowned before forming wings on her back. With a mighty flap, she pushed against the gravity well. Another flap, and she resisted even more. On her third flap, I canceled the first well and created another one in the direction she was flapping towards. She shot forward, stumbling across the ground a few feet.

I busted into laughter. Her expression soured, “Thanks a lot.” She dug her hand into the ground. A tentacle wrapped around me leg before pulling me backward. I slammed into the ground, echoing a loud boom before she stood up while laughing back at me.

“Hah! Not so fun is it?”

I pushed myself off the rock floor, chips of stone falling from my shoulders,

“Eh, I had that one coming. Another round?”

She nodded, giving me time to heighten my senses. The fluctuations of gravity became apparent once more. Althea’s pull came into focus, but more so, a set of breathing sounded off in the distance. I turned, seeing one of the tunnels beaming light from the outside. Someone in a gas mask with red tinted lenses starred at me in the distance.

At its sides two hooks were hanging. A cape draped down its slender shoulders, ragged and covered in holes. It tilted its head, curious instead of threatening. It raised a hand towards me, feathers covering its arm. With a talon at the end of its finger, it squawked at me. I raised an eyebrow. The thing lowered its arm, standing still.

Data Upload…Ancient Language detected. Reviving dormant directories…Message received and decoded.

“Come.”
