“It all worked out, didn't it?” She said and chuckled. “Who's this you've brought with you?”

“Ma'am, this is Ma'am.” Ren said, and turned to Ereka. “Ma'am, this is Ma'am.” He said and turned back to the Librarian.

Both the Librarian and Ereka looked at him with identical surprised expressions, and then they burst out laughing.

“Oh... oh... by the gods...” The Librarian said. “That... that sounded so...”

“...outrageously stupid!” Ereka finished for her, and they laughed as Ren stood there and grinned at them.

“Hey, I didn't make up the rules.” Ren said and laughed. “Plus, I don't even know your name.” He said to the Librarian, then held up a hand. “I'm not asking for it.” He said quickly, before she could get the wrong idea.

“He's always so careful.” The Librarian said, then turned to Ereka with a hand extended. “Hi, I'm Dorhaline.”

“I'm Ereka.” Ereka responded, and shook the offered hand. “It's nice to meet you.”

“Likewise.” The Librarian said. “What can I do for you?”

“I've got the Main House closed in with windows finally; so I figure before I built shelves for books, I better have her...” He indicated Ereka. “...meet you and find out what books she'd need, besides copies of the laws and codes needed to run the place.”

The Librarian nodded. “You're in luck. I'm running a special on stuffy books this week.”

Ren chuckled. “If I can get a volume discount, that would be nice.”

The Librarian chuckled, too. “Like you'd need that.” She said, then turned to Ereka. “He made a huge donation to the Library... after building all of these shelves for it.”

“Really?” Ereka said and looked at Ren. “That's... very interesting.”

“I think that's my cue to run an errand while you two discuss what books are needed for the Main House.” Ren smiled. “I'll want a couple of copies of my own books, too.”

“Y-y-you're own books?” Ereka asked, surprised.

Ren nodded slightly and turned to the Librarian. “Don't limit her choices to just the stuffy books. She'll want some kind of reading material while she's there.”

“That would depend on her Library Card.”

Ereka grinned and took out her card. “My mother gave that to me when I had to leave the House.”

The Librarian looked at it and grinned. “It's a real pleasure to meet you, Ereka.”

“I'm not even going to ask what her rating is.” Ren snorted a laugh. “I'll be back in a little while.”

*

The Librarian waved at him absently and took Ereka over to the desk by the stairs. “The only other person I've seen in here is his fiance.” She pointed a thumb at Ren, who had just left through the door.

“I'm actually surprised she lets him out of her sight.” Ereka said, then leaned forward to whisper. “I'm having a hard time keeping my hands off of him.” She shook her head. “He's just so... so...”

“Ideal?” The Librarian offered.

Ereka nodded slightly. “Yes! There's just something about him...”

“I'm not fighting the feeling too hard, as you clearly saw.” The Librarian smiled. “I know nothing will happen, though.” She sighed. “I'm just a little too old for him. His fiance is over 10 years younger than me.”

Ereka smiled. “If that's the case, then I'm way too young for him. His fiance is almost 10 years older than me.”

“Well, then!” The Librarian chuckled. “We can indulge a little bit and not have to worry.”

Ereka shook her head. “I can't. I haven't even gone for training yet.” She said. “I wouldn't even know how to tease him.”

“I can give you a few pointers while making copies of the books.” The Librarian said, conspiratorially. “The first thing you can do is wear something really suggestive.”

Ereka looked at her and blushed slightly. “Actually, something like that happened this morning.”

“Oh! Do tell!” The Librarian said and grinned. “I'm always in the mood to hear something like that!”

*

Ren went to the cart and asked the two men in the back if they wanted to wait here, or go with him to the stables. They voted to stay and climbed out with a bit of relief on their faces. Ren climbed into the driver's seat and left them standing beside the Library. It didn't take long to get to the stables from there and Ren pretended to tie Princess to a post outside.

“I'll just be a minute.” Ren said to her and pat her neck. She huffed and he went inside to try and hire a few carts. He knocked on the office door and she told him to come in without looking up.

“Your Highness!” The female dwarf exclaimed when he opened the door to her office and she glanced up to see who it was. “What can I do for you?”

“I'd like to hire some carts and extra workers.” Ren said. “That is, assuming you have any available.”

She took in a deep breath and let it out. “I'm sorry, but they're all out at the moment.”

Ren raised a single eyebrow and she chuckled. “Apparently, someone had been monopolizing all of the free carts that were available for rent. Suddenly a bunch of carts became available and they were snatched up faster than copper coins dropped in the middle of a group of kids.”

Ren laughed for a moment, then spoke. “I'm glad you weren't stuck with them just sitting here.”

She nodded. “Thank you.” She said. “Now I feel bad that I don't have anything for you.”

“You don't have to feel bad about that.” He smiled. “I could still use the extra workers, though.”

“Really? Even without the carts?”

Ren nodded slightly. “I still need someone to shovel the silt.”

“Hold on, I'll get the list.” She said and rummaged through her desk and came out with a list. “How many of them do you need?”

“A dozen should do.” Ren said. “I might need more if I change the setup I have slightly.” He looked at the list. “Is one of them the woman that sewed sacks for me the last time?”

“I don't know.” She said. “Can you describe her?” Ren told her what the woman looked like and she smiled. “That's Dorathy. I'll see if she's available to work.”

“Normally, I'd want them there today; but it's a bit too late for them to get any work done.”

“It's not even noon yet.” She said, slightly surprised.

“By the time I went around and gathered them all, then brought them back to House Neram to work, they'd only have a few hours before I'd have to gather them up and take them back home again.”

She opened her mouth to say something, then changed what she wanted to say. “I guess that's true.”

Ren smiled. “I'll go around and pick them up in the morning, right after breakfast.”

“That would be great, Your Highness.”

Ren bid her a good day, left the office, and went to Princess. “Let's go to Barnar's.” He climbed up to the driver's seat and Princess took him to Barnar's Stoneworks. He left Princess at the side of the road because he didn't want her exposed to all the stone dust or noise inside.

“REN!” Barnar yelled and ran over to him. He took Ren into a one-arm hug and grinned. “You beat the Council! I couldn't believe it.” He said and shook his head. “Then you beat House Lodur's Champion, too!”

“I don't know about that.” Ren said and grinned back. “He beat me up pretty good.”

“Haha!” Barnar guffawed. “You won, that's what matters!”

Ren nodded slightly and Barnar let him out of the hug.

“What can I do for you?”

“I want to order another 2000 stone bricks.”

Barnar smiled. “I'd hoped you'd be back to get them.” He said and led Ren out back to a stack of bricks that covered a good portion of the room behind the building.

“You didn't stop gathering them even after the work stoppage order.” Ren said, surprised.

“Of course I didn't.” Barnar said. “Even if they upheld their decision to screw us all over, you'd be back to buy them eventually.”

“Thanks, Barnar.”

Barnar waved the thanks away and Ren paid for the bricks. Barnar tried to refuse the money; but his own values stopped him from giving the bricks away. Ren filled several inventory slots with them and asked for the rest to be delivered later.

“They'll be beside your workshop tomorrow.” Barnar said.

Ren looked around and saw that the mold part of the shop that was only in a small corner, was now nearly half of the shop's available space.

“What's going on?” Ren asked and motioned to all of the activity.

“The word's gotten around about what House Neram looks like.” Barnar said. “We're all working harder than ever before.”

“I don't know if I should congratulate you, or feel sorry that you have to work so hard.” Ren said, then smiled.

“Both!” Barnar said and clapped Ren on the shoulder. “Your ideas are spreading, my friend.”

Ren nodded slightly and bid him farewell, then left the building. He gathered Princess and went back to the Library. The two messengers were still standing there and Ren pulled over next to them.

“You can get back in.” Ren said. “We should be leaving in a minute.”

They climbed into the back and Ren went into the Library. There was no sign of the two women when he entered the building, though.

Teepo. Ren thought. Let's assume they're upstairs.

“Gotcha.” Teepo said and took off flying, and zipped up the stairway. “Yeah, they're at a table reading a book.”

Thanks. Ren walked over to the stairs and made more noise than he normally would.

“There he is!” The Librarian said when she saw Ren's head appear on the second floor as he came up the stairs. “We were wondering where you'd run off to.”

“I went to rent some carts at the stables, but they didn't have any.” Ren said. “So I went to pick up some stone bricks.”

The Librarian put one of the bookmarks Ren had made into the book she was reading and closed it. Ereka did the same, and held the book to her chest. Ren recognized the silver lettering of a copy of his book.

“Did you get everything you need?” Ren asked and looked around. “I don't see any extra books or boxes.”

Ereka nodded slightly. “They're downstairs.” She said. “They were too heavy to bring up here, only to have them brought back down again.”

The Librarian took her book and slid it onto a nearby shelf and walked down the stairs. Ren motioned for Ereka to go ahead of him, and he followed them both down the stairs.

“There they are.” The Librarian said. “Good luck carrying them out. They're blasted heavy.” She chuckled. “I had a hard time fitting the thick volumes into so few boxes.”

Six large boxes were behind her desk and Ren stored them easily.

“How much were they?” Ren asked.

“Ereka already paid for them.” The Librarian said, and Ren nodded slightly.

“Ready to go?” He said to Ereka, and she nodded slightly. Ren took the Librarian's hand and bent over it, then walked ahead of Ereka towards the door. She frowned a little, until he got to the door and held it open for her. Ereka smiled at him as she passed by, then she turned to wave at the Librarian. Ren helped Ereka climb into the back of the cart, then he got in the driver's seat.

“Let's go home.” He said, and Princess took off. They made it back to House Neram Keep several minutes later and Ren helped Ereka climb down. The two men jumped down and practically kissed the road. Ereka chuckled and turned to Ren.

“I thought I was going back to the Main House to work?” Ereka asked.

“You are.” Ren said. “We just have to talk to Lady Neram first.”

Wohrum opened the gate for them, and Ren turned to the messengers.

“We'll be right back.”

The two men nodded and Ren led Ereka inside and into the house.

“Nathalia?” Ren spoke into the main room.

“We're in the kitchen.” She responded, and they went through the main room and into the kitchen. Ren inhaled a breath through his nose and smiled.

“Is that pastries I smell?” He said, and walked over to Nathalia and gave her a kiss on the cheek. He reached for one and she slapped his hand.

“No touching!” Nathalia said. “They're for dessert.”

Ren stood behind her and slipped his arms around her waist. “What if I had another idea for dessert?” He asked, and nibbled on her earlobe. Nathalia leaned back against him and sighed.

“Ren.” Narhilda said. “We have company.”

“Hm?” Ren stopped kissing Nathalia's earlobe, then turned his head to Ereka. He saw she was blushing slightly, and he let Nathalia go. “My apologies.” Ren said, then bowed slightly to Ereka, who gasped. “I forgot where I was for a minute.”

“It's okay, dear.” Narhilda said to Ereka. “I stopped him in time.” She chuckled. “He usually has my daughter practically laying on the counter by now.”

“Mother!” Nathalia said, then turned to Ereka. “That's not true.”

“I remember coming in here and seeing exactly that.” Narhilda chuckled as her daughter blushed. “I have to admit it was only once, though.”

Ren chuckled and shook his head. “Don't mind her.” He said to Ereka. “She has an odd sense of humor.”

“Is this why you wanted to come in here and talk to her?” Ereka asked.

Ren grinned. “Although that's a good reason, that's not why.” He said. “My Lady, that thing I mentioned this morning?”

“What? Oh, right.” Narhilda said. “We were thinking of hiring a permanent healer, maybe two, and want to build a medical building for them. How would we go about doing that?”

Ereka looked at her in surprise. “My Lady, none of the other Houses have dedicated healers.”

“We know.”

“Would they have to be bonded with the Guild, or will anyone with the ability do?”

“Anyone with the ability, assuming we aren't stealing them from somewhere else.” Ren said. “Once they get settled, we'll pay the fees to get them registered in the Guild if it's necessary.”

“R-really?” Ereka asked, surprised. “You'd really do that?”

“Of course.” Ren said. “This is all new for us here.” He waved his hand to include everyone. “We're building everything almost from scratch. There's going to be growing pains.”

“I'd ask you where you're getting all the money, but I don't know if I want to know.” Ereka said. “This all seems too good to be true.”

Narhilda and Nathalia laughed. “You don't have to tell us that!” They said together, and Ereka laughed as well.

“You're going to be handling a lot of the money, so knowing where it comes from is okay; as long as you don't tell anyone about it.” Ren said.

Ereka nodded and Ren took out the first diamond he ever had Dorcot cut. It was only worth 10 platinum, but Ren held it out to her.

“By the gods! I've never seen a diamond that big before!” Ereka said, then looked at it with an odd expression. “It's only worth 10 platinum, though.” She said, perplexed. “You spent more than that just today.”

