Ren woke up that morning and was pretty happy with the way things turned out. He actually got a good night's sleep despite not being in bed the whole time. Maybe snuggling with two nearly identical women was growing on him. He wasn't sure if that was a good thing or not and chuckled mentally; but, he wasn't going to complain about it. He was tempted to see if Narhilda was just as ticklish as Nathalia, but he figured it was better if he didn't know. Being as it was morning, his body reacted the way that any man's body does when they wake up; Little Ren made an appearance and could potentially make a nuisance of himself if Ren wasn't careful.

Good morning, Teepo. Ren thought. Anything happen?

“No, everything is good.” Teepo said from the hallway.

Thanks for always looking out for me.

“It's what I do.” Teepo said and chittered in laughter. “You apparently need someone to do it.”

Boy, do I! Ren thought in amusement.

The blanket had moved down enough that Ren noticed it was Narhilda that he had snuggled in behind, and not his fiance Nathalia. He wasn't sure if he could do anything about that, considering they were all huddled so closely together anyways. It was mostly his fault for not checking properly before getting into bed; but he shrugged, as it didn't really matter much. Ren loved them both, and had agreed to comfort Narhilda if she needed it. He eased his hand away from Nathalia's grasp over her abdomen, and she stirred slightly.

“It's time to get up.” Ren said to the two sleeping beauties.

“Just five more minutes.” Nathalia whispered.

“Mmm... yes... five more minutes... Thern.” Narhilda said as she wiggled slightly against Ren, who froze. Now he really didn't know what to do. If Narhilda thought he was her dead husband, then Ren wasn't sure what else she would do with him so close; but, then he remembered the last time this happened and took Teepo's advice again.

I hope this works. Ren thought, then stroked Narhilda's neck and she giggled.

“Don't do... that.” Narhilda said, still half-asleep. “We can't... do anything... with our daughter... in the bed.”

“Then you better get up and make breakfast.” Ren whispered in her ear. “Or I'll keep going.”

Narhilda moaned appreciatively. “It's... really tempting... but we agreed we wouldn't... until she got her own room...”

Ren slid back away from her, giving her space to move. Narhilda turned to him with her eyes still partially closed, and gave him a quick kiss on the lips.

“Keep the bed... warm for me... sweetheart.” She said, then rolled away and climbed over her daughter and out of the bed. Narhilda stumbled to the door of the bedroom. “I really could use... a few more minutes of sleep...” She said as she opened the bedroom door, then turned back to the bed, bleary-eyed and blinked a few times. “The food will be ready... in half an hour.” She said and left the room.

That was close. Ren thought, then slid across the empty space to spoon behind Nathalia. She grabbed onto his arm again, and held him close. He kissed the back of her neck and she turned her head to him with her eyes still partially closed, just like her mother's had been.

“We can't... mom... in bed...” Nathalia whispered.

“She's making breakfast.” Ren said. “We've got half an hour.”

“That's not enough time.” Nathalia smiled as she opened her eyes.

“It's enough to please you... I think.” He said. “I may have to skip a few steps, though.”

Nathalia chuckled as she woke up fully. “I believe I can deal with my disappointment.”

Half an hour later, they went out to eat breakfast and saw Narhilda as she stretched and yawned. Ren and Nathalia sat down with her mother and enjoyed another great meal. Ren thanked Narhilda for going through all the trouble of making meals all the time, and she laughed.

“I enjoy it, dear.” Narhilda said. “It's my passion. If you weren't here, I'd be making it all regardless.”

“Well, my stomach and I want to thank you anyways.” Ren said, and grinned. She laughed, and Nathalia joined her. After a minute, she turned to Ren.

“What are you going to do today?”

“I've got to work on the Keep for a few hours, but I'm nearly out of cement powder.” Ren said. “I wonder if I can hire the carts again?”

Nathalia smiled. “Now that the edict has been canceled, I'm sure there's a few businesses that will jump at the chance to earn some more money from you.”

Ren's eyes widened. “Oh, I should get those windows first!” He said and stood up. “If I can finish the Main House today, Ereka will have a nice place to work.”

“Ren, just get Ereka to order them.” Narhilda said.

“How?” He asked.

She opened her mouth to speak, then closed it. “You're right. We'll need to hire a couple of messengers.”

Ren smiled. “You'd better look into getting a healer or two as well. Find out what their requirements are, and I'll have a medical building built beside the Main House.”

Narhilda sighed. “Ren, you've taken on a lot more than only one person can handle.”

He smiled and walked over to her. “That's why I'm really glad that I found such wonderful women to take care of me.” He gave her a kiss on the cheek. “I can drop these little ideas of mine off on you and I don't have to worry about it anymore.”

Narhilda snorted a laugh as Ren went to Nathalia and knelt by her to give her a kiss on the lips. “I'll be back with the windows soon.”

“I'll go out and feed Princess if you want.” She offered.

“That's okay.” Ren said. “It'll just take me a minute.” He said and gathered up some food. He kissed her again, and left the kitchen. He noticed the little stone pen he'd made for the baby fire elemental on the small table in the main room and went over to it. He took out several small scraps of cloth, deactivated the fire runes, and dropped the cloth inside. The fire elemental barely had the cloth inside itself and it was gone.

“A little too easy for you to eat, was it?” Ren asked and it's color changed slightly. He took out a scrap piece of spider silk cloth that he still had, cut it into little squares, and dropped one into the pen. The baby fire elemental picked it up and shoved it inside its body and nothing happened. It hunkered down and burned really bright for a moment, and the square was a little smaller. It repeated this several times and eventually the square disappeared.

“How was that?” Ren asked. “Tasty?”

The fire elemental's color changed slightly and Ren sprinkled a pile of squares around the pen.

“Don't try to eat them all at once.” Ren cautioned. “If you had that much trouble with a single square...” He shook his head. “...take your time with them.” He activated one of the bricks so that there would still be fire inside the pen, but it didn't cover the whole area. “Have fun.” Ren said and left the house with Teepo flying over his shoulder.

*

“I had another dream about your father.” Narhilda said when Ren closed the front door.

“Really?” Nathalia asked. “That's the second or third time now, isn't it?”

Narhilda nodded. “This one felt even more real than the last one.” She said. “When I got up, I could have sworn I kissed him good morning.”

“The poor pillow!” Nathalia said and laughed. “I bet you slobbered all over it!”

Narhilda threw a dish towel at her daughter and laughed, too.

*

Ren took a deep breath and smiled. I think this is going to be a great day! He thought and went into the stable to feed Princess. Once that was done, he went to the gate and opened it. Teepo had already told him it was just Wohrum standing guard.

“Good morning, sir.” He said.

“Morning.” Ren responded and shut the gate behind him. “Can I ask why you're here so early, and alone?”

Wohrum chuckled. “Of course, sir. Since there's 4 of us, we broke up the shifts into three 8 hour ones, then each man gets every second day off.”

“So...” Ren started. “...there will always be someone on guard duty, but also always under-strength.”

Wohrum's face froze as he realized what Ren was saying. “Sir, we thought that as long as someone was here...”

Ren shook his head. “We'll just have to hire more people to make up the difference.” He said. “There shouldn't be any more trouble; but, I don't want only a single guard here to deal with anything that might come up, if it's necessary.”

“Sorry, sir.” Wohrum said. “We should have consulted you before changing things.”

“Don't worry about it for now.” Ren said. “Keep the 3 shifts, but change them to 7am to 3pm, 3pm to 11pm, and 11pm to 7am... assuming those aren't the times you already have.”

“It will be done, sir.”

Ren nodded slightly and took off running. Teepo flew beside him until his Stamina started to drain, then he landed to let it recharge, and took off again.

Are you getting anything by doing that? Ren asked his friend as they got to the main part of the city.

“Yeah, my Strength and Endurance have increased a point each already.” Teepo said. “I'm not really sure how that works, considering this is just an astral projection; but, it's working so I'm not going to complain about it.”

“I had the same thought when I woke up in bed with Nathalia and her mother.” Ren chuckled. “I mean, about it working and not complaining, not the astral projection part.”

Teepo chittered in laughter. “Waking up in bed with 2 women is definitely better than alone, that's for sure.”

Ren raised an eyebrow. Teepo! That sounds like experience talking.

“I was the Prince of my people, Ren. I had a staff that handled how many women I could have every night.” Teepo said. “They took shifts.”

Ren snorted a laugh. And here I am, with Stella calling me 'little stud'! If she only knew who the real little stud was!

Teepo chittered in delight. Ren arrived at the window making place and they had the windows he had ordered before ready for him to pick them up. He paid for them and stored them, and no one questioned his ability to do it, or were surprised when it happened. He stopped by the lumberyard and picked up a bunch of lumber from them, paid for it, and stored as much as he could. He had them deliver the rest, and increased his order. He met the foreman and asked him about building more houses, and possibly a medical building. The foreman mentioned that since no one was trying to stop Ren from building things, he really should make a place of worship for his subjects to attend if they wished.

“You know, that's actually a really good idea.” Ren said. “How much is that going to cost?”

“A few platinum.” The foreman said. “The windows are the expensive part.”

Ren frowned. “No, no. That won't do.” He said. “Do you happen to have the plans for one?”

The foreman chuckled. “I heard you like to ask stupid questions.”

Ren's eyes widened. “You know the clerk in the Hall of Records, don't you?”

“I should.” He said. “She's my wife's sister.”

Ren smiled. “I bet you hear a lot of interesting things.”

The foreman chuckled. “Like about some fool that fought and killed the Deathgore? Or bought half the countryside on the other side of the city? Stuff like that?”

Ren laughed. “Yeah, things like that.”

“Nope, she doesn't say a word.” He said and grinned. “Come out back to my workbench. I've got the plans there.”

“Thanks.” Ren said, and spent about half an hour redesigning the Church to fit what Ren thought the layout should be like. Once he allowed for each of the elements he knew of from enchanting, the Church was nearly double in size, and had certain rooms set aside for worshipers. The foreman shook his head as he saw what Ren intended.

“You're going to have a lot of unhappy people, I think.”

“Why's that?”

“What if they want to worship different deities at the same time?”

“That's what the main room is for.” Ren said and pointed. “If they just have general prayers, they can go there. If they have anything specific, they can go here.” He pointed to a room with 9 doors, one for each element. “It's not like there's going to be a line or anything.”

The foreman chuckled. “That's true.” He said. “There's barely anyone showing up at the Main Keep to worship anymore.”

“The Main Keep is the Church inside the city?”

The foreman nodded. “The lines to get in there are too long to just go and worship anymore.”

Ren frowned again. “Okay, then. Double this in size.”

“W-what?!?”

“Once word gets around that they don't have to wait in line to worship at House Neram, I think there's going to be a lot of visitors that will want to just come and see it.”

The foreman nodded slightly again. “You've got a point.”

“How long to get this built?”

“If I take all three crews that I have, 1 heavy and 2 normal, we could have it done in about three days.” He said. “The windows, though...”

“I've got the dimensions, so I'll worry about the windows.” Ren said. “Get on this right away.” He said and handed the foreman 10 platinum. “If it comes out to more than that, let me know.”

“With this much, we might have it done in two days.” The foreman said and laughed.

Ren left him and went back to the Minor House that made windows. They told Ren it would be a week for each window, and since Ren needed 20 of them, that was not a good deal at all.

“I'll be back.” Ren said, and ran all the way to House Neram to get Ruck's help. They ran over to the Main House and Ren gave Ruck the windows for the upper floor, and he installed the ones on the lower floor. They were finished barely 10 minutes later.

“Good job, Ruck!” Ren said and gave him a high-five. “Can you install the windows for the barracks for me? I have to go and get Ereka and see what kind of office she wants.”

Ruck gave an 'okay' gesture and Ren gave him the windows, then ran over to the housing development. Ren looked at the different houses and smiled. 5 of them were lived in and he remembered Croggart saying his was next to Golir's. Ren approached and got a popup stating that Croggart and Ereka were the current occupants. He smiled, went to the door, and knocked. Several minutes passed and then the door opened. Ereka stood there in a thin white slip, and the sun caught her shoulder-length flowing blonde hair at just the right angle, and it looked like her hair was on fire.

“Wow.” Ren said, before he could help himself. “Your hair looks like it's made of fire.”

Ereka's face flushed slightly red, and she smiled. “T-thank you, your highness.” She said. “I've never heard that kind of compliment before.” She tilted her head slightly. “It was a compliment, wasn't it?”

