Ren smiled and moved over beside the kitchen table and took out one of the crates of diamonds Dorcot had cut for him, and opened it for Ereka to look inside. Nathalia and Narhilda came over to look inside as well, and they all froze in shock. It was filled with diamonds of various sizes and cuts. More than any of them had ever heard of, let alone seen with their own eyes.

“By the gods...” Ereka whispered. “There's... there's thousands of platinum coins worth here!”

“In this crate, yes.” Ren said. “They're all different sizes, though.” He took out another crate of the biggest diamonds he'd had cut, and opened it for them to look inside.

“I... I need... to sit down.” Ereka said, and pulled out a chair from the table to sit down. Nathalia and Narhilda sat down a moment later themselves. “How... how did you...”

“That doesn't matter.” Ren said. “I have them, and 18 crates of uncut ones.”

“Eighteen crates!” The three women said at the same time.

Ren nodded slightly. “I've got 3 cut ones and 18 uncut. It comes out to be a little less than that, since the crystals lose some of the mass when they're cut. That's not counting the one up at the workshop. I really should change it out for a fresh one.” He said. “I'm sure Dorcot finished it the other day.”

“If... if people knew...” Ereka said.

Ren nodded slightly. “That's why I don't tell people.” He looked through the odd-sized crate and picked out a diamond oval half of the size as the one he wore. “You're going to want one of these.”

Ereka shook her head. “No, sir.” She said. “I don't want a diamond that big.”

Ren chuckled. “I'm not giving it to you.” He said and enchanted it with the House Neram crest. “I'm giving a House representative a badge of office.”

“Sir!” Ereka said and stood up to receive it.

“I can mount it like a pendant.” Ren said. “Or as a locket. I don't know the plans for any other kind of jewelry.”

“Would... would a brooch do?” Ereka said and took out her family's brooch. It wasn't an heirloom; it was just really old. Ren's eyes widened as he took it from her gently. He used Enchanted Eyes on it, but didn't see any enchantments. He examined it closely and didn't wince when he saw the size of the pin on the back. He got the plans for it and smiled.

“Thank you.” Ren said, then looked at Ereka. “I know it's really old and you might want to keep it that way; but, I can repair it if you want.”

“Could you?” Ereka asked. “I've been meaning to get it fixed for a while, but with everything that happened...”

Ren smiled. “It would be an honor to restore it.” He said and took out his blacksmith's hammer and poured Mana into it. “Repair.”

The brooch glowed brightly for a few moments, and when the glow faded, Ereka gasped at the gleaming golden brooch.

“Oh, sir!” She exclaimed and hopped out of the chair and took Ren into a hug, then gave him several kisses on the cheek. “Thank you!” *kiss* “Thank you!” *kiss* “Thank you!” *kiss*

Ren's eyes widened slightly as she held on tightly. “It was no trouble.”

Ereka let the hug go and grinned. “No trouble, he says!” She turned to the two women that still sat at the table. “Is he always like this?”

Both women nodded and smiled. Ren handed the brooch to Ereka and turned to Lady Neram.

“We should give one of the Sending Stones to her.” Ren said. “That way, if anyone needs anything, they can contact the other.”

“That's a great idea.” Narhilda said. “I'll go and get it.”

“You're giving me a Sending Stone?” Ereka asked, surprised.

“You'll need to stay in contact with anyone here, if there's no one there with you.” Ren said. “Plus, you're going to have the messengers stationed at the Main House. If anyone here needs to send a message anywhere, it'll be through you.”

Narhilda came back out with the pair and handed one of the stones to Ereka. “You know how these work, right?”

Ereka nodded slightly. “Touch it and think of who you're sending to, and the mate glows and they hear you.”

Narhilda nodded. “Right. We might call you for something, or you might call here to set up appointments and things.” She said. “It'll come in handy.”

“I'm sure it will.” Ereka said. “I better get to it, then.”

Ren nodded slightly, closed up the crates, and stored them again. “I'll have your House brooch done soon.”

“That would be great, sir!” Ereka said enthusiastically, and beamed a smile at him. “Shall we go?”

Ren raised a single eyebrow and she chuckled. He turned to Nathalia and her mother.

“I'm heading to the mines for a minute, then into the city to where the windows are made.” Ren said. “They said it'll take a week for a stained glass window. I can't wait 20 weeks for the Church windows.”

“Did you say 'Church'?” Nathalia asked.

Ren nodded. “I'm having one built across the road from the Main House.”

“For which god?” Narhilda asked and frowned. “You didn't even consult me about it.”

Ren walked over to her and knelt. “My Lady, I wouldn't insult you, or the god you worship, like that.” He said and took her hand. “It's a Church for all 9 of them.”

“A-a-all of them?” Narhilda asked, shocked. “You're building a Church for all of them?”

“Don't worry.” Ren chuckled. “It's still a single building; but it's huge and each god has their own designated worship area.”

Narhilda got over the initial shock, then smiled. “You really are a sweet and considerate man, dear.”

Ren stood up and kissed her cheek. “Thank you, My Lady.” He turned and bent over to kiss Nathalia on the lips. “I'll be back as soon as I can; but, it'll probably be around suppertime.”

“Go ahead and take a pastry then.” Nathalia said and gave him a hug. “I can't make you wait that long to taste it.”

“I already tasted the dessert I really wanted.” He said and kissed her other ear. She blushed slightly and then spoke as she let him go.

“See you soon, My Love.”

“Bye, My Love.”

Ren left the house and held the door for Ereka.

“I could get used to that.” She said as she passed him.

“I wouldn't if I were you.” Ren said and chuckled. “You might not be seeing a lot of me for a while.”

“Why? Are you going somewhere?” Ereka asked.

Ren shook his head. “No, but I've got a lot of work to do.”

She smiled. “There's always work to do, if you're not careful.”

He chuckled. “I've been pretty darn careless, then.”

Ereka grinned as they walked through the gate. “And I've been way too careful this last year.”

“I guess that means we balance each other out.” Ren said, helped her get in the back of the cart, then turned to the two messengers. “We're just going 2 miles down the road to the Main House.” He said. “You can ride or you can run.”

“Run.” They said together, and Ren laughed as he climbed into the driver's seat.

“Let's go.” He said to Princess, and they took off.

A minute later, Ren dropped off Ereka and the boxes of books, in her office. As he built 2 cabinet shelves, he told Ereka that he wanted a huge pile of lumber ordered; and also 20,000 paving stones to start. He put the cabinet shelves next to the wall as the two messengers came into the lobby.

“Are the books in order?” Ren asked as he opened one of the boxes.

“That's all right.” Ereka said. “I'll get them up on the shelves and sorted.”

“Okay.” Ren said. “Let me know if you need any more shelves built.”

“I will.” She said. “Thank you.”

He nodded slightly and went out to the lobby to the two messengers. He made 2 comfy chairs for them and they sat down.

“Don't get too comfortable.” Ren said and smiled. “She's got a couple of errands for you to run.” He said. “I'll have a room built for you by tomorrow.”

“That's not necessary, sir.” One said. “We shouldn't be here long enough to need our own space.”

Ren shrugged. “You'll have it anyways.” He said then left the Main House. “Okay, Princess. You've been constrained for far too long by only running short distances.” Ren said and climbed into the driver's seat. “We're going to the mines.”
