“Most definitely.” Ren said and thought about his daughter. The happiness showed on his face as he continued. “I've spent some time around a lot of fire recently, and your hair reminds me of my time there.”

Ereka's face blushed a deep red, as she saw both admiration and happiness in Ren's smile. “Is... is there something I can help you with, your highness?”

“I'm sorry to bother you so early.” Ren said, apologetically. “I just installed the windows in the Main House and I need your input for what kind of office you want.”

Ereka's face lit up. “The Main House is ready?” She said and stepped out onto her step. “Let's go!”

Ren glanced down at her thin slip and smiled; it left almost nothing to the imagination because it clung to her body like a second skin, and made it seem like it was see-through. He quickly looked back at her face, however; and didn't examine the slip closely to see if it was actually see-through or not.

“You might want to consider putting on some clothing first.” Ren chuckled. “I know you're in a rush to get to work, but still...”

Ereka looked down at herself and blushed so hard, Ren thought she was going to faint. He took her hand in one of his, and braced her back with the other.

“Are you all right?” Ren asked, concerned. “You look like you might faint.”

“Y-y-yes, I'm f-f-fine.” Ereka stammered, and shook slightly. “I just... I'm... I'm practically naked in front of a strange man, that I've only just met!”

Ren chuckled. “Being called strange is a new one for me; people usually just call me crazy.”

Ereka got a shocked look on her face. “I'm sorry, your highness!” She said and tried to bow, but with Ren so close and holding her hand, it came off as only a slight twisting motion. “I didn't mean it like that!”

“That's quite all right.” Ren smiled. “I was making a joke.” He said and turned Ereka around to face her front door. “I'll wait right here while you get dressed.”

“Yes! Right! I need to get dressed!” Ereka said, then scrambled into the house and left the front door open. Ren reached in and closed the door, so she wouldn't be embarrassed about leaving it open. She came back to the door a few minutes later, and opened it. She froze when she realized what she'd done, but it wasn't what Ren had thought.

“I'm so sorry!” Ereka exclaimed. “I should have invited you in, and not made you wait on the front step!”

“That's okay. I've done my fair share of waiting for things.” He said, and saw she had on a conservative skirt of red cloth and a white blouse. Her white slip could be clearly seen under it.

“But... but you're a Lord!” Ereka said. “You shouldn't have to wait for anything!”

“If only that were true.” Ren chuckled. “Shall we go? It's only a short walk.”

Ereka nodded and they walked down the dirt road of the housing subdivision to get to the main road. Ren noticed she was shivering slightly. “Are you cold?” He asked, concerned.

She shook her head. “No, I'm still embarrassed about being seen in only my slip.” Ereka blushed slightly.

“I know it wasn't completely my fault.” Ren said and smiled. “I am sorry to have put you in that situation, though. Is there anything I can do to make it up to you?”

Ereka stopped walking and looked at him. “You can say my name.”

“Excuse me?” Ren stopped as well, and turned to her.

“If you say my name, I won't be all nervous about you seeing me like that.”

“I can't do that.” He said. “If I say your name in public, then I'll be declaring my intent to court you formally.”

Ereka shook her head. “Not if I agree that it's only so we'll get to know each other better.”

Ren raised a single eyebrow at her, and she smiled crookedly.

“I didn't know you could agree that the use of a woman's formal name wasn't a declaration of intent.” He said.

“Most people don't hold with it.” Ereka said. “It's one of the older laws.”

“So, no doing it in public where anyone else can hear. Got it.” Ren said, and Ereka held out her hand. He took it, and bent over it formally. “It's a pleasure to meet you, Ereka.”

She blushed a deep red and shook slightly.

“Are you okay?” Ren asked. “I'm pretty sure I did that right.”

Ereka nodded slightly. “It was perfect.” She said and let his hand go. “Having a Lord bend over my hand like that is just a little hard to handle.”

Ren chuckled. “Being regarded as a Lord is only a recent development.” He said. “Sometimes I don't know my own strength.”

Ereka laughed and they kept walking. After a short time, they arrived at the Main House and Ren took her inside.

“It's so empty.” She said. “I thought you said it was done?”

Ren grinned. “You said it was done; I said I finally put the windows in.”

Ereka opened her mouth to say something, then she smiled. “Okay, what do you want me to do?”

Ren took out the Main House plans and showed her the way it was normally set up. “I don't like how everything is so closed off.” He said. “I'll leave the reception desk where it is, so they can see out the front door; but the offices crowd everything out. What do you think about moving this here, and this here?”

Ren had pointed to two of the offices that were supposed to be right off the main lobby, and put them at the back of the room instead.

“That would give you lots of room here.” Ereka said and pointed to the lobby. “But what about Lady Neram? Shouldn't her office be right there?” She pointed to the spot right behind the reception desk. “If you move that, where will she run everything?”

Ren smiled. “If she decides to come here to work, which I doubt, she'll have a good portion of the top floor to herself.”

“W-w-what?” Ereka asked, surprised. “What about the meeting and living rooms?”

Ren pointed to the space around the staircases. “The living room can be in the open area here in the large hallway, to make things less formal; and the meeting room fits right here next to her office.”

“That's quite the departure from how thing are supposed to look.” Ereka said.

Ren nodded slightly. “I don't want things to be like they should be.” He explained. “I want them to work better than that.”

She smiled. “I think I'm really going to like working here.”

“You better.” Ren said and grinned. “You're going to be ordering everything to fill the place.”

Ereka chuckled. “Then where's my office?”

“Pick one.” Ren said. “Or better yet, I'm building the walls anyways; just tell me what you want.”

“You're building the walls?” She asked with her eyes widened.

Ren nodded slightly. “It's quicker this way.” He said. “We don't have to wait for a work crew or anything.”

“Then I want this whole corner.” She said jokingly, and pointed to the back left of the bottom floor.

“Okay.” Ren said. “Do you want a single door, or a double door?”

“Wh-what?”

“That's a lot of space. I assume you're going to need the room for filing things, and perhaps a nice couch.” He said. “I should move the document storage here, then.” He pointed to a spot by the corner she'd indicated. “I'll add another door there so you'll have easy access, instead of going into the hallway.”

“Y-you're crazy!”

Ren grinned. “See? I told you that's what people usually called me.”

Ereka looked at him for a moment, and then laughed. “I was kidding about needing the whole corner.”

“I'm not.” Ren said. “You're going to be spending a lot of time here, I think. I want you to be comfortable.”

She nodded slightly and smiled. “Then I'm definitely going to like it here.”

Ren built the walls to her office and to the document storage area, then added the connecting doors. Ereka stood there and watched him work the entire time. When he was finished, he got a popop.

Stat Change!

Woodworking Level 2 (Intermediate 0%)

Nailing Level 1 (Intermediate 0%)

“This should be enough for you to get started.” Ren said as he turned to her. “How big do you want your desk? How many drawers? What color? What kind of chair?”

“Wait. Wait!” Ereka exclaimed. “Don't I have to order it?”

“You can if you want to...” Ren said. “...but I can make you a custom desk right now, instead of waiting a week or so.”

Her mouth dropped open and she stared at him. “Are... are you serious?”

Ren nodded slightly. “I've done enough woodworking now that I can make things pretty fast.”

“Can you show me the design?”

Ren smiled and took out a blank piece of parchment and drew out a basic desk while holding the parchment against the wall. “Normally, I just do all of this in my head.” He said, then added several drawers on the side, and one across the middle. “I made a sitting table once, and I adapt that design as I need it.”

“That's amazing!” Ereka said, then she looked at him. “Hold on! You made a sitting table?”

Ren nodded slightly. “Nice big mirror on the back of it, a comfy stool, and several drawers.”

“Oh, I really want one of those!” She said, then sighed. “I could never afford one, though.”

“Don't worry about that.” Ren said. “You're not going to have to worry about money ever again.”

“W-w-what?” Ereka asked, surprised.

Ren grinned. “You didn't think we'd have you working for free, did you?”

“I... I didn't think about it, actually.” Ereka said, and blushed slightly. “I was so happy that I could work, that it never even crossed my mind.”

“There's another reason why I liked you right from the start.” Ren chuckled. “Do you have a coin pouch?”

Ereka shook her head, and Ren held several out to her and let her pick a color. She took a red one and equipped it. He gave her several platinum coins, and she didn't even blink as she put them in the pouch. They finished designing the desk and Ren had it built about 20 minutes later. He made a nice comfy chair for her to sit in and put it behind the desk.

“I've got to go back into the city for a while.” Ren said. “I'm not sure where to hire messengers from, though.”

“There's a Guild downtown.” Ereka said. “I know a few people there.”

“I don't remember anything about a messenger's guild on the map of the city.”

Ereka chuckled. “That's because it's under the Shipper's Guild.”

“Let me guess why.” Ren said. “Because they ship information.”

“Exactly.” Ereka said, and chuckled. “They got a lock on the market a hundred years ago after they hired a bunch of kids to run errands.”

Ren nodded slightly. “Do you feel up for a trip to town?” He asked. “I'm tempted to stop in there by myself; but, you're going to be the one using them.”

Ereka looked around for a moment. “Don't you want me to stay here and work?”

“It'll be hard for you to order things without someone here to carry out those orders.” Ren said. “Plus, I want people to know that it's you handling things here for us.”

“Why?”

“Everyone should know that House Lodur made a huge mistake letting someone like you go.” Ren said and grinned as Ereka's face flushed a little red at the compliment. “So, come on.” He ushered her out of the Main House. “Show these people what you're made of.”

They walked over to House Neram, and Wohrum opened the gate. Ren hooked Princess up to the cart, then helped Ereka climb into the back. He told her to hold on and led Princess out to the road.

“You know the drill.” He told Princess. “Easy at first.” She huffed, and Ren climbed into the driver's seat. “Okay.”

Princess trotted for about 30 seconds and then took off like a bolt from a crossbow. Teepo chittered in delight, and Ren could hear Ereka laughing in the back.

Stat Change!

Cart Driving Level 4 (Beginner 0%)

Ren had Princess come to a stop at the main street and turned around to look at Ereka.

“First stop! Shipper's Guild.”

“That was the most uncomfortable, comfortable ride I've ever had.” She laughed and shook her head. “I'm not even going to ask how you did that.”

Ren grinned and hopped down. “She is pretty special.” He said and pat Princess. “I'll wait here for you.” He helped Ereka climb down out of the back of the cart.

“Thank you.” She said. “I shouldn't be long.”

She was back out a few minutes later with 2 young men. Both were about 4 feet 5 inches tall, thin as rails, and barely had beards started. Ren helped Ereka climb into the back of the cart and the 2 men climbed in with her. They sat down near the middle and she chuckled.

“You'd better hold onto the sides or something.” Ereka said. “Or you'll be kissing the street in a minute.”

The two young men shrugged and didn't take her advice. Ren smiled and walked around to the front of the cart.

“You've been challenged.” He whispered to Princess. “Just a short burst.” Ren said and she nodded. He climbed up into the driver's seat. “Okay.”

She took off like a shot for a second, and then stopped at the end of the street. Ren turned around and saw Ereka was alone in the back of the cart; and she was laughing so hard she was crying. The two young men were sitting on the ground in front of the Shipper's Guild and had confused looks on their faces. Ren chuckled and passed Ereka a piece of scrap cloth to wipe her face.

“T-t-thank y-you.” She dabbed at the tears on her face. “By the gods that was funny!” She said between laughs. “The looks on their faces!”

Ren waved them forward and the two young men ran over to the cart and climbed in.

“The Library.” Ren said to Princess, and she took off at a more leisurely pace. They arrived there a few minutes later and Ren climbed down and walked to the back to hold a hand out for Ereka. “Ma'am, there's someone I'd like you to meet.”

She had a surprised look on her face for a moment, then nodded slightly and took Ren's hand as he helped her down to the ground.

“We'll be right back.” Ren said to the two messengers and he led Ereka inside the Library.

“What is this place?” Ereka asked when Ren held the door for her, and she froze as she saw all of the shelves of books before her. “NO WAY!” She shouted. “It's a LIBRARY!?!”

“Who's making all that noise inside my Libra-YOUR HIGHNESS!” The Librarian exclaimed as she caught sight of Ren. He braced for the impact as she ran towards him, and caught her as she threw herself at him. She gave him a big hug and Ren chuckled as he gave her a hug back.

“You're lucky I'm wearing only my clothes today.” Ren said.

“You're not wearing your armor.” The female dwarf said. “I knew I wouldn't hurt myself like the last time.”

“Did you even notice if I had armor on today before you started running?” Ren asked, then smiled as he saw her eyes widen. “I didn't think so.”

