“Thanks for the warning, Aliandra,” Vivian said.

“Yes, I thought it was better to be safe,” Ali said, taking her leave from Vivian’s office and returning to the guild hall. At least she took me seriously. She had no idea what she would do if her minions accidentally killed one of the novices. I hope they take it seriously too. She would hate to have to unsummon her first boss because she had been over-enthusiastic and unthinkingly selected ‘raid enhancement’ believing that made it the best one.

Best? That’s relative. The problem is I need strong bosses, but not too strong. Right. The challenge of balancing her defense needs against the needs of the guild and the limitations of the pre-bronze novices churned constantly in the back of her mind. She had very limited resources and she had to make every one of them count. At least she had warned the guild now and, hopefully, that meant her Kobold warrior would not be painting the sewer with the blood of the enthusiastic faces she saw clustered around the guild hall enjoying snacks or engaged in animated conversations.

That just leaves my mana situation. Now that her dungeon had monsters, she had barely more than a thousand mana free, and that included all her bonuses from her Empowered Summoner skill and her domain itself. In fact, mana was so tight that if she let her Acolyte get out of range of her skill, her maximum mana would drop below her current reservation from the loss of her wisdom buff, and that would surely be a disaster. There was a time when that much mana would have seemed a luxury, but as she leveled up, all her skills demanded more and more to fuel the growing potency of their effects. Right now, she would struggle to manage in even a halfway-serious fight.

Her best option, of course, was to simply level up – but that required time, her friends, and – the real kicker – enough mana to do something. Another option would be to hunt for a higher-level, wisdom-dominant monster to learn, but she had already asked Ryn to help with research and they had not turned up any particularly good leads so far.

I may have to unsummon some minions, she thought, frowning. It would be counterproductive, drastically reducing the coverage of her domain, but she needed to make more bosses and she did not have the mana to support them. If she wanted to get serious about her defenses, she couldn’t be making level-ten Kobold bosses either – she needed higher-level monsters that could stand up to serious invaders or assassins.

Still deep in thought, Ali nodded to a few adventurers as she passed the jobs board and found herself stepping into the guild store.

“Good morning, Aliandra.”

“Hi, Weldin,” she greeted the always-elegant Gnome who was sorting trinkets perched high up on a tall chair in front of the main display table. “How are you?”

“Good, good,” he said absently, running his forefinger along the text on a tan scroll set before him.

He seems busy, but maybe…

“Hey, Weldin, do you have anything that might increase my mana pool?” she asked.

At the hint of a potential sale, the Gnome’s head snapped up and he fixed her with an intent gaze. “Mana? Regeneration? Or wisdom? I assume you want to keep that fancy new tailored outfit for your body armor slot?”

“I get some powerful bonuses for wisdom from this,” Ali confirmed, running her fingers across the sleeves, “so that would be best.”

“Yes, Lydia’s work is exceptional. Hmm…” he inspected her for a moment, rubbing his chin thoughtfully. “Oh, I think I may have the perfect item for you. Donella sent it over a few days ago – a sample of what she can make with that Magicite you found. Now, where did I put it… brain isn’t what it used to be, you know.”

Ali watched him rummage around in some drawers and boxes, curious as to the nature of what Donella had crafted.

“Here we are – what do you think of this? It’s an off-hand mage bauble that takes the place of a shield slot. You have to hold it – which can be inconvenient – but it comes with this handy adjustable leather strap to attach it to your wrist. She suggested I try and sell it to a priest, or a nature magic druid, but you can have it if it works better for you.”

The item he placed before her was a short silvery metal shaft with a green sphere of glass firmly attached to the end by an oversized clawed jewelry clasp. As he had pointed out, there was a sturdy-looking adjustable strap that could be used to attach it to her wrist so she didn’t accidentally drop it. With her mana sight, she could make out the intricate runework etched into the handle, and the minuscule shard of nature-affinity magicite suspended in the glass orb, giving it a soft inner glow. The craftsmanship seemed decent, but the exquisite runework and elegant tracery of mana really caught Ali’s attention.

“She put a tiny piece of magicite in there to create the mana-battery effect,” he added. “It’s nature affinity, so it should be quite efficient to recharge it with your mana.”

Orb of Mana – level 35Resistance: 252+27 Wisdom.Mana: Recharge the mana storage. Mana may be withdrawn to pay for skills or costs. 251/500Requirements: Wisdom 123Created by Donella NovasparkOff Hand – Orb

“That looks great, Weldin, can I try it out?” It was better than great, she hadn’t been looking for additional resistance, but any additional amount would be most welcome the next time she faced any magic users. The mana battery wasn’t something she would normally need, but being so short on mana right now, she could see the attraction.

“Of course,” he answered. “But if you break it, you bought it,” he added with a chuckle.

She smiled at him and picked up the Orb of Mana. “Oh, it’s heavier than it looks.”

“Yes, but not unwieldy,” Weldin said.

Ali hefted the object a few times, deciding that the Gnome was right and even with it, she would never develop biceps to rival Mato. “I could get used to this,” she observed. She looped the strap around her wrist, adjusting the length to fit comfortably, and then examined her mana. Well, that’s much better, she decided, eyeing the whopping eight hundred and ten increase. Several calculations later, she decided it was more than worth it. Empowered Summoner’s reservation was ten percent of her total mana pool, so it had increased somewhat, but the bulk of the increase accrued to her free mana, putting to rest a lot of her concerns.

“How much does it cost?” It wasn’t nearly enough mana for her to go wild with high-level bosses, but it was a big step in the right direction. And I can study the runework. It was great to see the kind of crafting that was possible with her magicite and that just made her more excited about the orb.

“The magicite makes it a little on the expensive side,” he said, shrugging apologetically. “But I can let you have it for eleven gold and thirty-seven silver.”

“Done,” she answered, pulling out the coins from her ring. It was expensive, but she didn’t want to be caught without enough mana to defend herself.

“You’re supposed to haggle,” Weldin said with an exasperated sigh, and she realized she had just ruined his fun and excitement.

“Oh, oops?” she answered, but she was already happy with her purchase and wasn’t exactly all that sorry. Malika would probably be just as frustrated, she thought.

“Here, I’ll give you a two-gold discount if you promise to find me more of that magicite. Malika told me it was you who found it, and Donella left a standing order to buy all I could lay my hands on. I just hope there’s more of it wherever you found it.”

“Oh, there’s more,” she said, catching herself before she admitted she could make it. She wasn’t lying though; the remains of the condensers still lay in the ruins.

Is it really that valuable? If there was an open order from the Novaspark Academy of Magic, she wouldn’t need to worry about the money Ryn was spending on library memberships and might even have a really easy way to fund the cost of teleportation services to get her a couple of new ones. She would just need to be careful not to bankrupt the academy and draw the wrath of Hadrik Goldbeard by flooding the market. But if she produced a constant trickle, she should have plenty of money, and if this was the quality of items Donella was producing with her raw materials, it would be an excellent result for everyone.

With a happy grin, she took the two coins Weldin offered, and the deal was done.

Malika’s awareness slowly returned to her body. Hard stone pressed into the tingling numbness of her legs. Her ears reacquainted themselves with the continuous background roar of the waterfall. The chill mist caressed her skin, freezing on the ground around her. An incandescent pillar of circulating energy sat before her. I can see. Malika took a deep breath of the thin, icy air and opened her eyes, finding Rezan studying her with glowing blue eyes and a surprisingly open and caring expression on his weathered face.

“You are fully healed,” he said.

“Thank you, Elder,” she said, dipping her head respectfully. It was as he said – the last of the damage inflicted by her bloodline had faded during her meditation exercises and she could feel – and see – her energy circulating smoothly within her body, a pale echo of the power she saw from Rezan, but clean and healthy for the first time since she had earned her sight.

Healed.

For the duration of their frantic, barely remembered journey, Malika had feared dying – and for weeks after, she had been terrified that she would never recover fully. But under the Elder’s patient tutelage and care, she had recovered – and more importantly, she had learned and grown.

When he had initially offered formal mentorship, she had been reluctant to trust him – a stranger, known only by reputation and his authority as an Elder – but, over the weeks of her convalescence in Kezda, she had come to appreciate his consistency, care, and commitment to her recovery and the growth of his students. More important than traits and skills, she had grown to admire and respect the essence of who he was and the open and free way he shared his experience. As a role model and a mentor, she could think of nobody more suited to take over where her parents had left off. His refusal to push her on the question of being his student, when it so obviously meant something important to him, had left a surprisingly powerful impression on her.

She took another deep breath. “Elder Rezan, I have considered your offer of mentorship. If you still consider me worthy to be your student, I’d be honored to accept.” As the words left her lips, she was suddenly plagued by doubts. What if he changed his mind?

He regarded her for a while before breaking the silence. “You honor me with your trust, Malika,” he said, bowing to her. “I gladly accept you as my student, and I vow to guide you to reach your fullest potential, to the best of my abilities.”

“Thank you,” she said, her inner insecurities flipping to relief in an instant.

“You are ready to return home whenever you choose,” Rezan continued, “You have more than enough to work on, but I’d like you to stop by every few months – or when you hit level or skill breakpoints – for further training.”

Malika nodded. She had already noticed she was reaching saturation and she needed time to implement the training she had received. But there was something else that weighed heavily on her mind.

“Teacher,” she said formally, using the Ahn Khen word for a respected teacher or mentor – one of the few words in the ancient language she knew. “My family was killed at Bakahn. Before I return, may I ask you to complete the Rite of Awakening and grant me an Ancestral Name?”

Without her family, she didn’t know who else she could turn to, and she lived in Myrin’s Keep, far from the ancestral villages of her people. While she no longer prayed to the ancestors, she felt that without her Naming, the awakening of her bloodline would be left incomplete somehow. Unfinished. Perhaps it was not the biggest thing, but it… mattered to her, she decided. A warrior could be no other than who she was, no more and no less.

“It would be my honor,” he answered, a small flicker of surprise crossing his face. He fell silent, eyes focused inward for some time. “You have demonstrated great bravery, tenacity, and determination, and yet your energy is gentle and filled with kindness. I, Elder Rezan Jin, would be greatly honored if you would accept the Ancestral Name of Malika Yu.”

How… did he know her? A storm of emotions flooded through Malika. Whether he had done it on purpose, or it had been a pure coincidence, Rezan had chosen her mother’s Ancestral Name for her.

Trembling from the unexpected rush of old grief and happy memories, she fell back on the formal response she had heard so many times, “Thank you, Elder. I will do my best to bear the name of the Ancestor and to bring honor to the Ahn Khen bloodline which has been awakened within me.” She took a deep breath to steady herself and then added, “And to honor my mother who carried the name before me.”

As she uttered the last part, a flicker of surprise crossed Rezan’s face, and somehow that felt right. The fact that he hadn’t known sat better with Malika – almost as if it were meant to be. Even though – she reminded herself – she put no stock in fate and portents.

I have a name. She tentatively explored her feelings. Ancestral Names were chosen to offer homage to the most powerful ancestors and, with only a limited number of them being available, sharing one with someone you knew wasn’t uncommon. Still, it was an undeniably powerful connection to her past, and her family.

Malika Yu.

She tried her new name out in her mind, getting used to how it sounded. A sense of pride slowly rose within her as her Ancestral Name settled, like it had always belonged. It would carry more than the usual responsibility, but she would live up to it. The relief that she had not died in the process of earning it slowly faded, replaced by a fresh resolve to honor them. She just wished her parents could have been here to see this – they would have been so happy to see her growing.

“Yay!” Hala exclaimed, causing her to startle.

“Congratulations,” Basir said, slapping her on the shoulder with a hand heavy enough to unbalance her.

“Ok, I’m ready,” she said. It would be a long hike back down the mountain from the waterfall, but she was eager to return home and see her friends again.

“Very well, let us return,” Rezan said, leading them to the narrow rocky path down the mountain.

