“Teacher, if you change your mind about Aliandra’s shrine, you can contact her through Vivian Ross at the Adventurers Guild in Myrin’s Keep.” It was nearly impossible to emulate Rezan’s patience. Still, she managed to hold back on trying to push him on this, reminding herself frequently that it was his patience with her accepting his mentorship that had worked for her. She just hoped it might have the same effect on him.

“I will consider your suggestion,” he answered, but this time she noticed he wasn’t frowning. Hopefully, it was a real shift and not just her wishes for him to change his mind.

I have a name. A new skill, an awakened bloodline, new friends, and the mentorship of an Elder. So much had changed since she had come to Kezda. I can’t wait to share this with my friends.

Friends.

After a moment, she touched her eyes. Once, she had vowed she would never cry again. Maybe this, too, was growth?

Ali smiled at the sight of the brightly gleaming new sign hanging over the great doors to Thuli’s smithy. Gone was the decrepit old sign, lending the smithy tucked away at the end of the cul-de-sac an air of quality and craftsmanship.

I bet that’s Kavé’s magic, Ali thought as she stopped on the step to examine the beautifully lettered sign wrought in steel. Elegantly embossed script proudly proclaimed, ‘Thuli’s Steelworks’ for all to see in Common, Dwarven, Elvish, and even – ambitiously – Draconic.

Nice, Ali nodded and approached the door, instructing her Kobold bodyguards to open it for her. The note Thuli had left for her with Mieriel had been characteristically sparse on details, saying only, “Please stop by whenever ya have a moment. Totally not urgent.” Ali could easily imagine the burly Dwarf saying it exactly like that and, seeing as she was in town already, she decided to pay him a visit and see what he needed.

It’ll be nice to catch up with Kavé too. I hope her apprenticeship is still going well.

The big doors to the smithy swung open under the chirping ministrations of her Kobolds, and Ali had to take a moment to let herself acclimate to the reverberating clamor of ringing crashes and bangs and intense wave of heat that assaulted her as soon as she entered the busy blacksmith shop.

Phew! She blinked. How could people stand so much clamor all day long? Give her a cozy nook in a quiet library any day!

“Greetings, Aliandra. This one wonders if you have come to practice your Draconic?” Kavé asked, glancing up from the bench upon which she was sorting various steel arrowheads and packing them in boxes. She spoke Draconic, but she wore the strange tight-lipped expression that Ali had come to recognize as the girl’s attempt to smile without terrifying people by showing her sharp teeth.

She’d look so pretty if she’d just smile naturally, Ali mused, but that was a far longer project than her learning to speak Draconic. “Hi, Kavé! Thuli left a note at the guild for me to stop by,” she answered, automatically shifting to the Dragonkin’s preferred language, trying to emulate her pronunciation, but she still struggled, substituting Kobold chirps for what should be growls, hisses, or, more correctly, one of the several intricate conjugations of roars.

“That one is busy, he will join us shortly,” she answered. “Your Draconic is improving, but it still sounds like a Kobold.”

“Sorry.”

Ali found a seat near Kavé, dodging the racks of spears and swords, boxes filled with equipment ready for shipping, and the various plate and chainmail armor sets that were spread out on all available surfaces. It was, to her mind, a phenomenal transformation from the dimly lit, dusty, cold room she had found on her first trip here.

Blacksmith – Dragonkin – level 14 (Steel)

“You’re making great progress, Kavé,” Ali exclaimed, coughing as the attempted growl tickled her throat. The new Blacksmith, by all accounts, was advancing phenomenally quickly under the skilled tutelage of her Dwarven mentor, and, with her obvious disposition for hard work, Ali expected her growth to continue unabated for some time.

Those in the trades advance so slowly. Seems unfair, somehow.

Kavé nodded, stoically, but Ali saw the flicker of a smile and knew the Dragonkin girl was happy.

Ali passed the time waiting for Thuli to finish, happily catching up with all the details of Kavé’s apprenticeship and taking feedback on her spoken Draconic skills. Sage of Learning had long since helped her achieve fluency with the language, and it only occasionally reacted to something Kavé said – an unusual turn of phrase or an unfamiliar or uncommon expression. But there were still some important growls and snarls that, without being born with any Draconic heritage, she struggled to emulate sufficiently accurately to live up to Kavé’s strict standards.

“There ya are, lassie!” Thuli exclaimed, stomping into the antechamber, the smithy having fallen silent finally. He dunked his head in a barrel of water, smeared the soot around getting most of it off, and then pulsed his fascinating ember-affinity magic a little, causing his skin and hair to dry instantaneously. Ali studied the brief flurry of tiny flecks of ash floating down to the ground as his unusual mana faded.

“I got your message,” Ali said, “but before we get to that, I brought you some axes.” Knowing she’d be visiting the Blacksmith today, she had created an assortment of axes sampling the entire spread of variants she had learned. Her collection made a surprisingly large pile on the broad wooden table.

Thuli let out a long whistle of appreciation as he picked up a heavy two-handed axe and examined the craftsmanship. “This is a fine axe.” He tested the sharpness of the blade with a broad thumb and then handed it to the curious Kavé so she could study it too.

“You guys look quite busy now,” Ali remarked, indicating the racks of reddish, burnished steel weapons on display, and the boxes and crates stacked up high to the side up against the wall.

“Aye,” Thuli answered. “Commander Brand wanted a lot o’ weapons after the Goblin siege and the undead, and he was quite excited about my new Fireforged Steel. Even some adventurers from out of town wanted to buy some swords and daggers.”

“That must be good for business,” Ali offered.

“It is,” Thuli said, but then he sighed melodramatically and threw up his hands. Ali recognized it as a typical Dwarven affectation and just let him take his time to get to the point.

“I think I’m stuck,” he said, eyeing her intently. “I haven’t been able ta unravel the final steps in the creation of Eimuuran steel. After that farce of a Town Council trial, I know you found the ruins of Dal’mohra, and I understand why you would want to keep something that big a secret.”

Ali grimaced. It had been necessary at the time, but secrets were not good for building trust – a fact she was well acquainted with. She had slowly come to appreciate Thuli for his blunt honesty and extraordinary workmanship, but early on, she had not known who she could trust. “Would you like to see it?” Ali asked, by way of consolation. Or perhaps as a salve on her conscience.

“No, lass, I am no adventurer. Crawling through ruins and fighting off monsters is for you combat people,” Thuli said, grinning. “I’m more than happy with these,” he declared, lifting a halberd in one hand like a feather.

Huh? I would have sworn he’d be falling over himself to see the Dwarven ruins. This much was a surprise, given that he had explicitly stated that finding the lost city was the personal quest he had devoted his life to. However, Ali still detected distress on his face and in his body language, and knowing he was at his wits end she waited, giving him the space to share his thoughts.

“But… if ya find any signs of the Great Forge… that I would give my right arm to see,” Thuli said, a faraway look coming to his eye.

“You need that arm to use the forge,” Kavé said in an admonishing tone, taking Thuli’s hyperbole literally in a way that caused him to snap out of his reverie and made Ali laugh.

“I… obviously, I dinna mean that literally,” he said glaring at her with an expression that was half amusement and half exasperation. “But there must be a missing piece, something I don’t understand in the forging of the steel. I hoped that if I could just see the Great Anvil or the Forge of Thovir, I might find inspiration. Maybe I’m asking too much.”

“I haven’t found the forge yet, but I know where it is,” Ali said. “Or at least, where it should be, I guess. When I was younger, I took a trip down into the mines and saw the forge. I even witnessed Thovir Emberforge working his magic there, but back then I did not have the ability to appreciate his skill with mana. I don’t know if it still exists, but if it does, it would be below the old farming level of the city, somewhere through the mines.” The only problem was it would be behind the jungle and the spawning pools, and by her reckoning, the entrance would be buried under a mountain of rubble fallen from the upper city levels.

“If you can find it – anything – I would dearly love to see it,” Thuli said, reverence filling his voice. “Or even just the Emberforge Mines – if you find any essences, ore, or metals – anything might help.”

“Very well, I will ask my friends to help clear the way there,” she said. There were plenty of monsters in that jungle, but she knew at least one bear Beastkin that would be eager for the challenge.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
