Dragging herself onto the beach, Ping Ping is clearly exhausted from her harrowing brush with death. I can’t blame her, she just fought off a dozen sharks and came out on top. I didn’t even fight and I’m exhausted, my spirits drained and mind in disarray as I come to grips with the reality of our situation.

Out in the Azure Sea, there’s something so terrifying that giant fucking sharks are too scared to travel alone.

I hate this world.

“Little brother!” Swept up in a whirlwind of muscle and hair, I grit my teeth and ride out Alsantset’s bone-crushing hug, reminding myself that the pain is because she cares. “Are you hurt?”

“Wasn’t until just now,” I retort, smiling to show I’m mostly joking. Seriously, her hugs hurt even without Reinforcement. I have an itching suspicion that Charok would understand my issues with Mila’s... unbridled affections, and I’d ask him about a possible solution but I’m 100% sure I’d shrivel up and die from sheer humiliation.

I mean... how would I even bring it up? ‘Oh ouch, stubbed my toe there. Speaking of pain, does Alsantset ever break your bones while in the throes of passion?’

...I miss Mila.

Glancing around for my sweet wifey, I find her crying in her daddy’s embrace. I don’t mind, me being in danger is par for the course but it’s not often her daddy finds himself in mortal danger. I’m still blown away by Taduk’s air-jumping skills. Seriously, why am I only finding out about this now? He says it wasn’t a big secret, but I’m almost certain that’s a lie. He didn’t want me to know about his skills and I have no idea why.

It doesn’t matter though. He’s still my sweet, goofy albeit also bad-ass Teacher/future Father-in-law. Whatever his reasons, he can tell me when he’s ready.

Giving Guan Suo a nod, I do my best not to make eye contact or upset him while checking Ping Ping for injuries. This grumpiest of red pandas has me feeling a little afraid for my safety. I don’t know how he exploded the water and I’m too afraid to ask, but I do know he’s not my biggest fan and I have a pretty solid grasp on what would happen if he used that attack on me.

There’s a pun in here with my name and raining blood and gore, but I’m too scared to think.

After some minor first aid, I have a new appreciation for how tough the old gal really is. Ping Ping’s legs and neck are covered in ineffective bite marks with no less than three dozen shark teeth embedded in her leathery skin after failing to pierce through. Her black, spiky shell shows no sign of damage nor does she appear frightened or anxious in any way, merely beaming her little turtle grin while I give her plenty of praise and attention. She’s not the cutest of pets, but by god is she one of the sweetest.

I won’t trick you again. I’m sorry big girl. Welcome to the family.

Giving her big beak a hug, I plop down beside her to rest and recuperate, idly watching as Alsantset takes charge to claim our rightful reward from the arduous battle: a whole school of dead, exploded sharks. Supposedly, their skin makes great armour and as our horde of quins drag the massive, battered corpses onto the sand, Charok sets to cooking up a pot of shark-fin soup, a delicacy I am eager to try. There’s something especially satisfying about eating something that tried to eat you, the penultimate insult to a defeated foe.

The ultimate insult? Pooping their remains out the morning after.

...I wonder if this is why Defiled are cannibals? Now there’s a disconcerting thought...

“Rainy?” Returning from his expedition to see the sharks, Tate presses his chubby cheek against my arm, hugs me tight, and opens his eyes wide as he can as he asks, “What was the battle like?”

Well, it’s official: my weaknesses are big eyes and chubby cheeks. No wonder I love Lin so much.

Plopping my manipulative nephew into my lap, I hold him close and tell the story. “So there I was floating in the water and minding my own business when...” Once I get to the part where I first see the sharks, I falter as something occurs to me for the first time. “I saw... I saw clouds of blood... The sharks were already eating, already in a feeding frenzy before they saw us.”

After reviewing my memory a few more times, I’m almost positive there’s something fishy about the whole situation. There wasn’t a lot of it, but I swear I saw blood in their path. The sharks were eating something and following a trail of bloody bread crumbs which led them right to us.

Leaving an upset Tate with his papa, I rush over to the biggest intact shark I can find with sweet Ping Ping following on my heels. Drawing Peace, I cut deep into the shark’s belly and slit it open from chin to tail, almost ten meters in total. A putrid stench invades my nostrils and sets me to gagging, but after dry heaving for a bit, I persevere and return to my search. Digging through the shark’s innards, I’m covered in guts and blood by the time I find its stomach. Ripping the lining apart, I sift through the acidic, gooey mess and soon find more than I bargained for: a mangled, and almost unrecognizable human foot.

God dammit, I was expecting like a goat or cow or something. Someone chummed the waters with human flesh and lured these sharks into the bay, which means someone made a deliberate attempt on our lives and wanted it to look like an accident.

But who would do this?

It’s not the Defiled. They wouldn’t bother with all this scheming nonsense. Maybe it’s the Canston Trading Group taking revenge for the ruined merchant house, or one of the families of the twenty-eight people Baledagh and I beat up. It could also be the Society, the rest of them arrived a few days ago and the Ouyang Clan and Baiji Sect have yet to take revenge for their dead young masters. Oh, and let’s not forget all the miscellaneous clansmen too. Who knows what relations they had?

Man... I have a lot of enemies. I should ask the Legate for help...

Glancing at Ping Ping chilling in the surf, an errant thought crosses my mind.

Could it be...

Does the Legate want her dead? Is that why Ping Ping didn’t like him? Because she sensed his intentions? The death of the Divine Guardian could be the rallying cry he needs to kick off the First Imperial Grand Conference... or something? I don’t know...

God dammit. I hate politics.

Chapter Meme
