---“Night cycle purchased! Each island now has its own unique time of day!”“Sea bottom purchased! Large trenches will be formed as bottomless holes!”“Ebb and Flow tides purchased! Occasional paths between the islands will be open depending on the time of day rather than each island’s challenge.”Delta hummed merrily as she purchased a couple more islands, filling the vast ocean with more landmasses and interesting shapes. There was a moon-shaped island, a star, a sword… and one island that looked like a doughnut with a bite taken out of it.As well as an island that looked like a splatter of jam.The fun thing about the fourth floor was the stairs from the third spiraled down into the middle of the floor, so there was no real ‘end’ to the level. Delta was coming up with a grand idea of what she wanted this floor to do.Floor one was a simple path with some choices. The second was all about open-ended exploration. The third was an invasion-style tour. So, she wanted the fourth to be closer to a treasure hunt, but didn’t want it to feel too similar to the second floor, which is where most of her thoughts now laid.Pondering this, she tapped her chin and tried to recall what made water levels good… and what made water levels bad in her experience. She had flashes of a blue temple… water needing to be drained… filled… platforms that rose…she twitched for a moment before sealing those sinister memories away under ‘traumatic childhood moments.’Oh, hey… she was getting pieces of her childhood back.Back on track, she reckoned the bad things were narrow spaces, filling and draining puzzles, inability to use your cool powers in the water, air gauges… and stuff like that. Also the occasional unkillable sea monster.The good was the exploration, the feeling of a lot to discover, and the experience of a new sort of world.It took her a moment to notice she was ocean-walking again, a new habit for her since she made the fourth floor. Something about being in the water was soothing… as long as Delta knew exactly what was in the water with her.Tales of sea serpents or massive lake monsters always gave her the shivers. She did not like unseen threats… but oddly, the dark didn’t bother her in the same way.What lurked below could remain below in her opinion.At that thought, she paused to blink down at the lapping water.“What lurks below?” she repeated as an idea occurred to her in a burst of inspiration.If she found being under water soothing, why not others?She quickly brought up her menus and began to swipe through different purchases and upgrades until she found what she wanted.“Subterranean tunnels that connect the islands to a single point below. These tunnels can be made out of

