The guy was dead, and yet, the guy would return from his fishing trip a changed man, but it wouldn’t be the guy at all. It would be Erick. The guy’s big change of heart was a big story that had inspired Erick, and now Erick would be his own inspiration, though he wouldn’t know that for a very long time; not until today.

If Erick hadn’t stepped in, and just let the guy be dead, then the guy’s money would have gone into ten different organizations, each of which were poised to fuck over the world in a myriad of ways, mostly through funding rather evil lobbying efforts against equality and a bunch of hate groups that had been a part of the billionaire’s whole life. And that wasn’t going to happen. Not on Erick’s watch.

And so Erick had stepped into the billionaire’s life.

That old asshole was both dead and feeding the fishes due to his own bad luck. The bastard didn’t deserve the good public memory that Erick was going to give him, but he was going to get that good public memory anyway.

The lawyer said, “I don’t believe that you actually want this, though, sir. Perhaps we should wait a month and see if you—”

“You can stop right there.” Erick said, “I am quite alright. And yes, I do want to fund those cancer and disease research programs. Take all the money out of that propagandist news fund and move it around, and if you cannot do that, then perhaps I should be getting new lawyers. Let’s defund those lobbying efforts, too. Redistribute that toward solar power and other stuff like that.”

Erick might not have been this guy, but he was still the Apparent King, and it was rather easy to adjust his countenance to quell all opposition. The lawyer and the financial guy both started sweating.

“At— at once, sir—”

The doors banged open and in strode a man in his 60s —the billionaire’s son— roaring, “What the fuck are you doing, father?! That’s my company you’re fucking over!”

Erick said, “I am doing the right thing, and I don’t give a fuck about your company, because I’ve seen what your company does, and it is horrible. Now sit your ass down, and if you can adjust yourself to doing good in this world and you can prove that you’d actually do those things, then I’ll keep you in the will.”

The billionaire’s son glared, saying, “I have worked hard for…”

The son explained himself, all the while displaying a lot of anger and fury.

Erick listened.

And then Erick did what he wanted to do, anyway. Over the next few days, Erick did some politicking and dynasty shaping, casting down the firstborn and raising up a few daughters and sons that were further down the inheritance line, but who had much better morals. The firstborn would come around eventually, but it would take a while. Erick was changing the world in a deep, fundamental way, into what it had been changed into during Erick’s own timeline.

Erick was saving a lot of people, left, right, and center…

But some guys didn’t deserve saving.

At least not yet.

Those people went into the bigger plans, that Erick would eventually get around to.

- - - -

1998, January 20th:

Young Erick was having a birthday party with some friends, but his mind was still on Margaret, so when George arrived at the party, Erick was not prepared to welcome him. Rapidly, out of Erick’s sight, people started talking about how George had HIV. Erick had not been able to step in in time, to tell people to stop being jerks. The party died as an HIV scare went through the entire group. George left. Everyone left.

And then Erick sat on a stool in his room. A cake with candles held to the side, on a foldout table. The candles remained unlit. The booze was unopened.

It was, perhaps, his worst birthday party ever.

It was also Jane’s birthday, but Young Erick didn’t know that.

- -

Erick was in ‘his’ office, signing papers, only a fraction of his attention on his surroundings, on the opulence of his view of Central Park, and on the secretaries and otherwise outside his office, rearranging everything to suit their boss’s new needs. Soon, the shareholders would be on him, and then the government would be coming after him, too. He was changing too much, moving too much around. And yet, Erick could and would outmaneuver them all, using a fraction of his true power.

Mostly, he was watching Young Erick have a crisis, and also Margaret in a hospital on the other side of the country, for Jane was being born at that very moment, the Malevolence in Margaret flowing into—

The world began to thin.

A Future Erick walked into his office without preamble, saying, “Hey. I’ll take over from here. You should watch that stuff more closely and then do what you need to do.”

Current Erick had already expected to need to show up personally to the birth of his daughter at some point in time, and it appeared that he would finally get to do that. Erick stood from his desk, and said, “Thanks.”

Future Erick looked like he had a whole lot he wanted to say, but he chose not to say it. He simply nodded.

Erick decided to leave that as it was.

He Stepped away and the Future Erick shifted into the shape of the billionaire.

The billionaire’s secretary walked into the open doorway just in time to see the Older Erick looking like her boss. She paused, then said, “Sorry. I thought I heard… Nevermind.”

Older Erick said, “I’m going to do another shakeup. Call the lawyers, and my niece Deborah; the really weird one. I believe she has that Witch Coven group happening this weekend, and I want to attend.”

The secretary had absolutely no fucking clue what to make of that, but her ever-more-eccentric boss was just being his usual self, and so she said, “At once.”

- - - -

At a hospital in California, Erick stepped out of a janitor’s closet, pulling a cart of cleaning supplies. The smells of hospitals hadn’t really changed in Erick’s entire lifetime. The air was clean and smelled of disinfectant, and it was cold; all the better to inhibit bacteria development. In this part of the hospital, the air was also filled with the sounds of babies wailing and mothers grunting and doctors fussing. Some woman was about to die three doors down, about two hours after giving birth, because she was having a massive internal bleed that no one caught, and that no one would catch. Erick fixed that complication as he walked down the hall.

He fixed about 387 complications while he was there, and then he focused on the reason he was here.

The delivery center was two walls beyond his right side. Erick saw everything happening over there, as it was happening. Margaret was on the table, dilated wide, the doctor telling her to push. Margaret screamed—

The world thinned, as Another Erick stepped out from behind a counter on the other side of Jane’s birthing room, outside of the room. A lot of things happened, including several more Ericks stepping out of the walls here and there, some of them yelling, trying to stop the Erick closest to Jane from interfering, but other Ericks stepped in the way of those yelling ones, and shut them up, telling them to stop it.

Erick wasn’t sure what was going on, but he solidified the space around Jane’s birth, just like the Other Erick closest to her was doing. The multitude of Erick’s fighting to interfere or stop the interference faded away, back to whenever they came from. What were they trying to stop? Erick wasn’t sure, but he saw what he would have done in this moment, where his Lightning Path flickered in ten million different directions. He would have erased the Malevolence happening between mother and dying daughter, to save them both. But he wasn’t in position to do that. Future Erick was, and Future Erick probably knew more about what needed to be done than Current Erick.

Jane’s soul was barely there.

She was going to be born dead if she wasn’t born and saved soon.

Erick watched as Future Erick stepped into the light near the doctor, near Margaret, and, unseen and unfelt by all the people there, he reached out, and he waited for the moment to act.

Jane came out in a flush of body fluids. Margaret screamed and then cried in relief. The doctor cheered. Erick barely heard that; he only had eyes for Jane’s tiny, shriveled purple body. He only had ears, listening to the absence of breath and cry. But he sensed the thread of Malevolence that connected her to Margaret, through the umbilical cord. That thread held Jane’s soul together. It was the only thing holding her soul together.

And then the doctor said, “A beautiful baby girl!”

Margaret, half lulled into relief, suddenly gasped, her eyes going wide, her mouth turning into a deep frown as she yelled, “A girl?! It can’t be a girl! Not a girl!”

The other people in the room thought the mother was hysterical and worried and not really meaning what she was saying. Margaret meant every word, and a million more hateful words besides. Margaret was too tired to know that she should not be speaking so openly, though. She was too tired to see the doctor’s frown behind his mask, to see how the nurses who took Jane, trying to wake her up, had no idea what to make of Margaret, but they did not like her at all.

None of them saw how Margaret’s words echoed in her Malevolent soul, causing a cascading failure-to-thrive to shoot down Jane’s umbilical cord, into her body. Margaret had made a curse without meaning to, and then the doctor cut the cord, sealing the curse into Jane like a Malevolent tumor, her entire, barely-there soul turning Malevolent, and Red.

That Red curse became Jane’s entire soul.

And then Future Erick was there.

While the nurses fussed over Jane, trying to wake her up, Other Erick wove magic, but it was not Benevolence at all. Jane was Jane, and also Malevolence, and Benevolence would have killed her. So Future Erick’s Benevolence turned from iridescent white to shadowy, sparking Red, and it began to touch Jane, to pull at the threads of Malevolence in her soul, to undo the curse while it was still young—

Current Erick almost rushed the man. He almost stopped him. He wanted to, but he didn’t know enough, and—

—Jane’s tiny soul flexed to strength, the Red clearing away like a clot falling apart, revealing a simple soul of dust and light, like everyone else in the room.

Future Erick locked eyes with Current Erick, three walls away, and said, “Good luck learning how to do that. The Red will try to worm into you. Don’t let it.”

Future Erick stepped away.

Erick, as the janitor, stood in the hall outside of the delivery rooms, listening to the cries of Jane for a little while longer, while trying to ignore the cries of Margaret, and her soft, hate-filled words about how her father wouldn’t accept a girl granddaughter. By now, the doctor and nurses actually believed her when she said she didn’t want a girl. It was wrong. It was evil of her.

But the nurses and doctor had seen similar things in their life. Perhaps not as bad as with Margaret, who had come into the hospital alone to give birth. But they had seen some shit.

Shit like that was just a part of humanity.

Young Erick, bemoaning his bad birthday party half a country away, didn’t know it at the time, but Margaret’s job that she had taken and gotten fired from was a job from her very rich father, not some cousin’s simple boss, and that as soon as he found out Margaret was pregnant, he had given her some ultimatums. None of that excused anything she had done, but she was just a young woman in a bad situation, trying to do what was best for herself, without knowing how to do that without hurting others.

Young Erick never blamed Margaret for her decisions except for at his darkest points, and those were still years away.

What mattered to Current Erick, and what would always matter to Erick, was that Jane was alive. She was whole. She had soul damage, but it would heal.

And that was good enough.

Erick stepped away, casting himself through time.

He needed to learn how to do whatever Future Erick had done to save Jane.

- - - -

Erick Flatt, [75-ish] [Current Location: Layer 99,081; Earth, year 1541]

It took Erick three days to find a large collection of Malevolence upon Earth, in this year where most of his actions wouldn’t be affecting anyone at all in the future. He was also a good infinity of slices of layers away from Erick’s Earth, so whatever he did here probably wouldn’t affect there, at all.

… It probably would affect Young Erick’s slice of Infinity, considering Malevolence wormed through Infinity all the time, but Erick needed to take that risk. Even aside from Jane being born with Malevolence problems, it was quite possible that Erick’s experiments with the Red stuff would allow Jane to exist in the first place. And once he figured out this shit, then it would be easier to undo it later.

Probably.

That was Erick’s rationale for touching this shit, anyway.

The collection of separated Malevolence he found was on a tiny island shaped like a fishhook, when seen from high, high above. It was the island of Bermuda, though it would only be called that next century, and a slice of Infinity away. This particular part of Infinity was nearly completely devoid of people, so it made this version of Earth a good place to begin.

Erick stepped out onto a sandy beach and plucked a dirty glass bottle out of the waves, where it had been half-buried in the surf. The bottle was corked and waxed, but it was also adorned with barnacles and the insides were blackened mush. Whatever letters existed inside did not exist anymore, but Malevolence still clung to the putrid contents of the bottle like a Red poison.

Erick wondered if the letter was from some person tainted with Malevolence, or if it was from Nothanganathor himself, sent to Erick through Establishment. A lot of people passed Malevolence around like a curse, because it was easy for them to do so, because Malevolence didn’t dissipate in a manaless atmosphere like most mana did.

Which had some implications that Erick was following in Nothanganathor’s footsteps again.

Which was. You know. Ick.

Assuming no direct Nothaganathor involvement… Was this letter from someone who strongly cursed someone else, and they wanted this letter to get to them, to curse that person? Or was it the other way around, and the person who the letter was to didn’t want to receive the letter, so it got waylaid onto Bermuda? Erick suspected the second was most likely. He had some good guesses as to how Malevolence worked when outside of Nothanganathor’s control, but he hadn’t done any actual experiments himself.

