That decision in that dark room, while holding a gun and baby Jane screamed at the top of her little lungs because there were no more diapers and Erick had no money to buy anything else, and it was either go out and rob that convenience store or to try something else. Anything else.

Young Erick was a dumbass, but he was also plagued by Malevolence.

Erick crumpled the list in his hands, saying, “Not while I’m around.”

- - - -

1997, not much later:

Erick lay in bed, staring at the posters on his wall, feeling so weird. Like the world was fake and everything was wrong. He had failed his midterms in biology, and he was now on academic probation. Everything had been going so well, too… Well. No. Everything was going wrong. Everything in his life was a horror and a failure. He was a failure. Tears crowded his eyes and he sobbed, alone, in the twisted covers of his bed. How much money did he have left to pay the bills of even going to college, anyway? He had saved up some, but it all went away too fast and he had no scholarships and he had just been fired from his part-time job—

The door knocked.

Erick breathed deep and steadied himself, saying, “One moment!”

Someone said something on the other side, and Erick had no idea who it was. Maybe a man’s voice? Erick got up and put on his nightshirt. Boxers were good enough to answer the door, so that’s what he did. “Hel— George? What’s wrong?”

George was a big guy. Muscular and very gay, though only a few people really knew that last part. Best friend to all at the gym, too, and willing to raise fists against the bigots at that same gym. He had beaten up and kicked out more than a few assholes since Erick had known him. George had been feeling under the weather for a little while, though, so Erick hadn’t seen him in a few weeks. Right now he looked like a beaten dog as he stood outside of Erick’s room. With dark circles under his eyes, George was looking skinny even though he wasn’t skinny at all.

George softly said, “I need to come inside and tell you something important.”

Erick stepped back.

George came in.

And without waiting for anything else to happen, George started to tell Erick how he needed to go get tested, and how he and his boyfriend were both Positive.

Erick’s world crashed down on him for the second time in as many days. And then Erick held George, and told him that they had new antivirals out, and that everything was going to be okay. George sobbed hard, telling Erick not to touch him, not to be near him at all, because he could catch it. But Erick held on, saying that Princess Diana touched Positive people all the time, and nothing happened. George could still hug people, and Erick could still hug him right back.

George sobbed onto Erick’s shoulders.

- -

Erick watched from a lab in London, and then he got back to work on the next generation of HIV antivirals, which was mostly just getting the right people into the right places. Erick wasn’t great at this particular kind of science, and he didn’t feel the desire to learn that much, because it wasn’t important for him to learn this stuff, anyway. It was important for the people of Earth to learn this stuff.

These particular antivirals wouldn’t come out for a decade or more. It wouldn’t be fast enough to save George or his boyfriend, or the millions of other people who suffered from that hated disease, or all the other viruses on Earth.

But Erick had a plan to save everyone, anyway, in other ways.

- - - -

1997, later:

Erick laughed as he got out of the shower, saying, “You shouldn’t worry so much about it, Margaret!”

Margaret followed him, soon ruffling her towel all over herself as she said, “It’s a big deal, Erick! This internship might be more important for me than college. I might just need to take it!”

“Then you should take it,” Erick said, smiling as he watched his girlfriend put on clothes. “College is for getting a good job, right? Take the connection with your cousin’s boss and just do it.”

Margaret paused… and then she pulled her shirt down and looked at Erick. “It means I’ll leave college. I’ll leave you.”

Erick nodded. “Yup. And when I graduate, maybe I’ll look you up, and we can get back together, for real. Maybe your cousin’s boss will have an opening for a business major. You said he was like, some big shot with 10,000 employees, right? What’s one more.”

Margaret’s eyes went wide and her lips stretched into the most wonderful of smiles. “Really?!”

“Yeah. Let’s make a plan for it.”

“Oh my god, Erick,” Margaret started to cry tears of joy.

Erick chuckled a little, and then he hugged the love of his life, and then they did a lot more than hugging.

- -

Erick downed half a bottle of whiskey from his office as he watched Young Erick and Margaret get to making Jane. The office was a pretty good office. It was a Social Services office in Detroit, not too far away from Erick and Margaret.

The Malevolence in Margaret’s body sparked Red and powerful as it mutated what was to come, turning Jane into an ectopic pregnancy. Margaret would die rather than get an abortion, even when she knew it was killing her, and by the time she went and got it done, it was too late. Or at least that’s what Erick foresaw.

The world almost did a Big Rip right then and there, or rather, over the next few days, when the sperm actually met the egg in the completely wrong place.

But Erick meddled.

He might not be able to cast invasive magics on Young Erick himself, but Erick could certainly create a successful pregnancy in Margaret, instead of death.

Jane would happen, exactly as she had happened.

Erick finished off the bottle of whiskey in his office of Social Services, and then he rapidly stuffed the bottle into the drawer, acting like a kid who had been caught—

The door to his office slammed open, and Erick’s boss, Manfield, stared down at him. He sniffed the air. “I smelled whiskey, Kevin. I know I did.”

Manfield had some Malevolence inside him, too. A lot of the world did. Half of Erick’s accepted job right now was cleaning it up and setting the stage for good things to come, and whooooh boy, did Erick need to set stages. Erick had messed up more than once when confronting Malevolence on Earth, and he had needed to redo things here and there, but the Malevolence here on Earth didn’t seem to have any sort of consciousness behind it, so that was great. It made confrontations with the stuff… easier. Even so, Erick suspected he would be redoing this confrontation with Manfield several times while he worked here.

Manfield would actually be the man who saved Erick, when Erick walked into these offices a year from now, begging for any kind of real help he could get. Young Erick wouldn’t start at Detroit, but he would end up here, when all the other Social Services offices hinted that they might need to take Jane away from him if he couldn’t hack it as a single father. Manfield would be the man who helped when no others could.

But right now, Erick needed to save Manfield, first. Manfield was at his wits; end with his alcoholism, and he was furious at everyone who dared to drink around him for whatever reason. And drinking on the job? Right out.

Erick breathed out, and then said, “I had a rough day.” He pulled open his desk drawer, and pulled out the empty bottle. Manfield’s eyes went wide at the offensive thing, but his pupils dilated, and he almost licked his lips. Erick said, “A woman I’ve been sleeping with is pregnant and she won’t let me know anything about the kid, or anything at all. She ran away to her family and I’m not wanted. She wants to keep it, and cut me out of her life. I thought we were going to get married.”

Manfield’s entire demeanor changed, but he still looked at the bottle. He grabbed the bottle, saying, “I’m throwing this away, and then I’ll be right back.”

Erick nodded.

Manfield took the bottle out of Erick’s sight. He stared at the container for a long minute, moving it back and forth, watching the drops of golden liquid at the bottom of the container move around. And then he shuddered and opened the window at the south side of the building. The open dumpster was just one story down. He held the empty out, and then dropped it. It clattered into broken glass inside the dumpster, and Manfield shut the window.

Walking back into Erick’s office, Manfield sat down with Erick, saying, “Tell me about it.”

Erick wove together a few different stories of his own time working in offices like this one, but he didn’t give Manfield anything to actually work with. In the end, Manfield left feeling like he wanted to help, but he had no way to help, because Erick wasn’t allowing it. They both knew it, too. Manfield would try to work on Erick, to get him to open up, but Erick would shut those attempts down.

Erick stayed in those Social Services offices for a month, and then he left without a word to anyone.

He did not move on, though. He just changed his face, and his position in the world, and how he helped people. Sometimes he was closer to that social services office, and sometimes he was rather far away.

Some days he was a helping hand at a church. Some days he was a janitor, telling someone that he didn’t know that the mole on their neck was suspicious because he ‘had a cousin like that; turned out to be cancer’. And sometimes Erick just gave people extra money in their wallets, or pockets.

Manfield was on his way to healing from his own demons inside of 4 months.

- - - -

1998, January 5th:

Erick lay on his bed, phone in his hand, twirling the coiled cord in his fingers as he smiled and said, “Margaret! How’s your new job?”

Margaret was in California, in one of her father’s rental houses, holding the enormity of her belly as she pretended everything was okay, her voice full of false cheer as she said, “It’s going great, Erick. I’m just working the mail room right now. Sorting stuff for the guys upstairs.” She touched a pink slip beside her on the table and ignored the tears falling from her face. They had been falling for a while. “Soon I’ll be moving up to secretary for this one big lawyer, or at least that’s the talk around the room— Say. Uh. Do you want to get married? How about on the 15th? In ten days? Before your birthday on the 20th.”

Erick breathed deep. He sat up. He chuckled, and then asked, “That’s a pretty weird thing to ask over the phone, but heck yeah! I love you, Margaret. But. Uh.” He dropped his voice a little, trying to be playful-serious, even though his heart was beating a thousand times a second, “You’re gonna have to let me get on my knees in front of you and get you a ring, though.”

Erick hadn’t been sure about his feelings until he had said them, but yeah.

Yeah.

He loved Margaret, and yeah.

Marriage!

Yeah.

Erick could upend his life. College wasn’t going that great, but he had a few years under him, and maybe he could complete it later? Yeah. That would work. He could go back to doing… anything at all, really? Maybe something in the mailroom of Margaret’s work. She was doing well, and they’d need to put someone into her current position, wouldn’t they?

Yeah.

This could work!

Margaret giggled on the other end of the phone and wiped away a tear, saying, “I’m joking, but I’m glad to know where you stand.”

From the highest highs, to sudden, abyssal lows, Erick soared and then fell.

Splat.

Erick’s eyes watered, but he blew off that emotion like it wasn’t real, “Okay. Well… Of course I knew you were joking! Ha! Ha… right.”

“How do you feel about kids?”

Like punches coming from every direction, Erick had no idea how to move, or even what to do.

So he was honest.

“Uh. Kids? Yeah. I kinda want kids. I’m probably gonna die of genetic-based cancer or some shit like my sister and mom did, though, so maybe I shouldn’t be making babies. Dad is not doing hot, either, but at least I got him to go to the doctor. Hopefully it turns out to be nothing. How do you feel about adoption?” Erick smiled. “We could get a pair or trio of—”

Margaret hung up.

“… Margaret?”

Erick stared at the phone in his hands. There was no dial tone, so maybe she was still there?

He held up the phone again, softly asking, “… Margaret? Are you—”

The phone started whining.

Erick hung up.

He laid in the bed, unsure of anything anymore.

- -

Erick watched Young Erick from four states over—

“Sir?” asked Erick’s lawyer. “If you don’t want to do this, then we shouldn’t do this.”

Erick looked at his lawyer, and focused on himself, and his own plans, as he said, “I had a scare the other day. Even the press is talking about it. I was asleep before now, but I woke up. I don’t want to go to hell so I’m changing my ways.”

Erick was currently pretending to be a billionaire that died... Well. More like ‘been murdered’. It certainly wasn’t how Erick remembered this happening, but he had only ever heard the story from the press. Now, he was an insider to the tale, and he knew a lot more than anyone else would ever know.

Once upon a time, Young Erick had read about a billionaire that changed his ways after a close call with death in the Bahamas. That story had inspired Young Erick to know that people can change. And so, Current Erick went to go see the incident that had once inspired him.

Under the waters of the Bahamas, the billionaire went fishing with a harpoon, aiming to kill and fry up some angelfish, just because some locals had told them they were too beautiful to hunt and that they didn’t taste good anyway. That harpoon had failed in his hands and ended up somehow backfiring, right into the billionaire’s air tubes. The guy had died drowning to a few cupfulls of water.

The people on scene didn’t even notice he was dead. They weren’t looking. They hated their boss, and for good reason. Oh, sure, they’d check on him soon, but until then, Erick had a decision to make that he never expected to have to make.

To Erick’s perspective, Malevolence had flickered Red under the water, causing the malfunction in the first place. Sometimes Malevolence just did that. It just killed people.

Most of the time, Erick stopped it.

Sometimes he stepped backward in time and stopped it more easily.

Erick didn’t stop the Red this time, because he could already See what was going to happen.

If the guy went back home after experiencing nothing wrong with this trip, nothing would change. If Erick saved the guy after he started drowning, then he would fire some maintenance crew and then sue a few different people into oblivion.

But if Erick stepped into this vacancy of life…

