The old Erick would have tried to reconstruct the letter, to figure out what it had said, and where it was going to. Erick didn’t care for that impetus right now. Nothanganathor was corruptive, even if he wasn’t actually corruptive, and so there was no point in reading this letter. So Erick gripped the Malevolent contents of the bottle and held onto them, pulling them out of the glass—

The Malevolence struggled and almost dissipated, but Erick flowed resons through his aura, into the Malevolence, to hold it there, to tell it that he wanted to learn how to use it.

The Malevolence struggled harder to get away.

At least it wasn’t Nothanganthor’s direct Malevolence. If that were the case, then it would have tried to meld with Erick directly, to influence him in whatever ways Nothanganathor desired. But, no; it tried to escape… Hmm. Erick had a thought. Was it trying to escape because it realized that Erick would try to use it against Nothanganathor?

No.

That was overthinking it.

Erick commanded the Malevolence, “You will bend to my will.”

The bunch of Red Sparks stilled, and then they sunk into Erick’s aura—

Erick almost vomited, such was his first metaphysical taste of Malevolence. It was like swallowing pure putrescence. Like Erick was human again, and seeing a mirror in a dark room and seeing a terrible reflection of himself, and feeling a rising heat that made him want to kill, kill, kill the impostor. It was like watching Margaret hate Jane, the moment she was born, and feeling an overriding need to hurt Margaret in order to make her feel the pain she was making others feel—

No.

That hadn’t happened.

The Red had infected him that fast, eh?

Erick pushed away at the Red and his soul cleared from the center outward.

Red splashed into the world all around him as Erick expelled a small nova of the stuff. It had already infected him that badly, in that little amount of time, that now all the world around Erick was filled with Red, and now the Red rained down upon everything.

Erick blasted the land with Benevolence and got rid of most of the problem, but some of it managed to get away, into Elsewhere, because of course it did. That shit spread like poison.

“Fuck,” Erick said, scowling at the blasted sand and trees. The ocean rapidly refilled the hole Erick had made, and Erick floated over to the part of the beach that was still existent. He settled down and grabbed a Red-infused rock, telling the rock, “Don’t do that again.”

Now that Erick understood Malevolence a little, when it slipped into his soul and he felt it try to do its thing, Erick pushed back on those feelings, cordoning the Red to the rim of his power. Once that was achieved, Erick began playing around with the stuff. He started, as always, with the basics, twisting his aura into a packet of power that would deliver a strike against a distant target.

[Malevolence Bolt].

A bright Red strike of lightning arced from his aura, impacting a tree. The initial damage was almost nothing at all, but the Malevolence did not dissipate like normal. It sank into the tree, into the very heartwood at the center, where it infected the fruiting bodies at the top. This was some sort of berry tree, and those berries turned Red with Malevolence, as they swelled to fullness. It was not a [Grow] spell, but it acted sort of like that…

“Are those fucking strawberries?”

It was a goddamned strawberry tree, which Erick was absolutely certain did not exist in this year of our lord, 1541, on this here island chain of Bermuda, in the middle of the Atlantic-fucking-ocean. But… Erick liked strawberries? So the tree made strawberries? Maybe?

With a new theory in hand, Erick thought of coconuts and shot another [Malevolence Bolt] at the tree.

The strawberries turned into coconuts.

“Holy shit. No wonder people were drawn to use Malevolence all the fucking time. What the fuck??”

Erick threw another [Malevolence Bolt] at the tree, thinking about cheesecake—

The tree started spilling out complex fats and carbs from holes in its upper branches, like some sort of white pus falling out of the places where the fruits had been, and then the tree died. It died fast, almost shriveling in front of Erick, and then it actually did shrivel and curl, dropping its leaves to the ground in a rush of fallen life. It had tried to do more than it was capable of doing, and so, it had perished.

Erick felt dirty about that, and yet, this was fine? Sure, this was fine. Malevolence looked to be truly use… ful...

Erick looked into his soul, and found the Malevolence trying to infiltrate again. Erick had somehow dulled his Benevolence sense to allow himself to work with Malevolence, and that had allowed another infection. Once again, Erick pulsed with power, throwing the Malevolence out of his body, and then cleansing the land of everything he could before the Red got away.

He continued to experiment with Malevolence, but he was even more careful as he went forward with animal trials, and then cursing trials, and then mother-child propagation trials of Malevolence, to see if he could replicate what happened with Jane’s birth. After 5 months of constant vigilance and more than one eruption of Red, Erick managed to replicate the cursing circumstances of Jane’s birth with some bats and with some insects.

A Red-infected bat gave birth to a bat that was fully Red.

A Red-infected spider carried babies on its back that became Red like the mother.

Erick’s first attempt to clean up the Red in the newborn bat was one of Benevolence, to simply wipe out the Red. This, predictably, killed the newborn bat. He had to use Malevolence to undo the curse, obviously. It took Erick another 4 attempts to accomplish that, and by then he was more than done with Malevolence, and Erick had learned how to Erase things with the stuff, too.

He never wanted to touch the stuff ever again…

But there was one more use for it.

Erick stepped back into a certain hospital, and this time he—

Another Erick was there, diverting Current Erick into his current spot, outside of the birthing room, and not into the actual position to do something with Jane’s birth. He was half a room over, still in the shadows and light, and Another Erick held him back, saying he wasn’t ready.

Ah. So. It appeared Erick was one of those Ericks that had tried to do something and then failed, so he was stopping himself. Still, though… Erick argued, “I can do it. Out of my way.”

“Nope. Can’t let that happen. Go do some more research. You have time.”

Erick stepped away so as not to strain the space any more than he already was. He was already half-sure that most of those Ericks out there in the crowd were more phantom reflections of possible Nows, and not really real versions of himself.

- - - -

Finally, Erick appeared where he needed to appear.

It was time to save his daughter.

With a twist of Malevolence, Erick pulled apart the curse laid upon his daughter at the moment of her birth, at the moment of her own mother cursing her existence. There were scars upon Jane’s baby soul, of course. They would heal with time.

Perhaps a powerful enough god, so inclined to see, might notice the Red-shaped scars upon her. Perhaps, in a moment of lucidity, brought on by a song from another land, sung by the father of the daughter, such a god might spare the oddities he saw before him, and then eventually try to make Jane one of his paladins.

But no one would ever know that Jane was born to the Red, except for Erick.

And he would keep that secret to his grave.

- - - -

That had taken way too long.

Erick stepped into the billionaire’s office, having just saved his daughter and spent way too long touching Malevolence, so he was kinda curt as he told his past self, “Hey. I’ll take over from here. You should watch that stuff more closely and then do what you need to do.”

The Erick-pretending-to-be-the-billionaire eventually left.

Erick didn’t have the heart to tell him it would take the guy 4 more years before he was ready to save Jane; it was best that he did not know that right now. Erick was here, now, and he was ready to get a move on. First things first, though! Erick transformed into the billionaire.

The billionaire’s secretary walked into the open doorway just in time to see Erick looking like her boss. She paused, then said, “Sorry. I thought I heard… Nevermind.”

Erick said, “I’m going to do another shakeup. Call the lawyers, and my niece Deborah; the really weird one. I believe she has that Witch Coven group happening this weekend, and I want to attend.”

The secretary had absolutely no fucking clue what to make of that, but she assumed her ever-more-eccentric boss was just being his usual self, and so she said, “At once.”

And so, Erick made plans for removing all the Malevolence out there.

He had spent 3 years learning how to work that magic, and more than once he had needed to use his Mark of Benevolence to fully purge himself of that shit, because that shit had started to infect him too deeply. When he was finally done learning how to use it, Erick had spent the next year removing all the Malevolence he found on Earth. It didn’t work that well.

No matter how much he tried, when he checked on the world just a few years after he declared it fully cleansed, the Malevolence was back. He even did a Day of Clouds in the 1670s. It was a small world-wide [Benevolent Cleanse] compared to what happened on Veird, and it was very targeted, only disrupting Malevolence itself, but it was still a Day of Clouds.

Erick spotted Malevolence a decade later, in ten different spots on Earth.

Obviously, his solution was not going to work, and he needed to do something more. Something bigger.

Earth didn’t have any hidden magical societies (or at least none that were out and about and doing magic) so Erick decided he needed to make one, to do all that he could not. It would act in the shadows and be a part of this timeline, and they would be there to stop Nothanganathor from fucking up Earth in the years between Erick’s departure to Veird, and whatever happened before 2047. He did claim to be responsible for removing the magic on Earth in 2047, but Erick doubted it would be that simple. Perhaps, when Erick won the war with Nothanganathor, that sort of confrontation simply wouldn’t happen between the leviathan and Earth. That would be the better outcome.

Whatever happened there, Earth needed some sort of magical society, though. In 30 years, such a society would be ingrained enough to be able to bring Earth into Infinity, with as little disruption as possible.

It seemed like a good idea.

Much better than making a moon base and watching the world panic from afar.

So Erick got to work, laying the foundation for a House Bene— No. Benevolence was too out in the open. As soon as Erick was done with hiding, he’d allow his Wizard’s Clarity to let his mana go, to expand outward and seed the universe with good fortunes for all it touched. But for now, Erick’s Benevolence was hidden, so he wouldn’t make a House Benevolence here on Earth.

A House of... Secrets?

House of Mana… No—

“Ah!” Erick said, “A House of Reason, but with some wordplay reserved for the people-in-the-know.”

- - - -

1998, May:

Erick sat in a dark room. It was not his college apartment. He and Jane had lived in Dad’s house for a while, but not anymore. The two of them lived on the wrong side of town, now, and Erick had no money for diapers, or formula.

But he had a gun.

The convenience store down the road was a good target. They saw him looking at the formula on the wall, at the prices, and they chased him out, knowing he was thinking of simply stealing it. Erick had gotten the gun from his father’s estate, which was just about the only thing he had left of his father. Collections had taken everything else of Dad’s, ever since his hospital bills had climbed high. This gun was all Erick had managed to take, and only because he had stolen it while the officers were kicking him and Jane out of that house, because it wasn’t Dad’s house anymore.

And now Erick was here, in the dark, looking at that sleek grey metal, touching the bullets, and the safety.

He could rob a place.

He really could.

The darkness of the room swirled hard, like void black ink. Cars drove outside, their headlights flashing across Erick’s vision like eyes in the night, their light casting squares of illumination into the gloom of the room.

Jane cried in the other room. She had stopped crying an hour ago, but now she was back to wailing. She was probably dirty again. Erick glanced over to the empty plastic of the diaper bag. There was nothing left in there. Jane had gone through the last one already.

Erick cried in the dark, joining his daughter in her pain.

And then he stared at his gun…

“Fuck. No. I can’t…” Erick set the gun down. He cried some more, but then he stopped crying and he went to Jane and held her close. “I’m so sorry, Jane. Things will get better, I promise. We can try one more Social Services office… and then… And then I’ll make some bad decisions, and you’ll be okay.”

Erick held her, and Jane eventually stopped crying. He used an old shirt and some papers for a makeshift diaper and Jane cried again, hungry, but Erick was sure he was out of formula. He went looking into the bag for formula, anyway, into the can, which he had thought to be empty.

There was maybe one scoop of formula left, and Erick almost broke down in tears of relief for that little bit of bounty.

- -

Erick watched Young Erick contemplate horrors in the dark.

And then he saw Jane cry, her wail like a pierce of steel through Young Erick’s heart. In that moment, as Young Erick glanced toward the other room with Jane wailing away inside, something bloomed inside Young Erick, even as tears poured from his eyes. He wanted more. He needed to be more. He stared at the gun, and then the Darkness twisted. Possibilities grew. The world turned thin as Young Erick’s soul fractured and came back together, without doing any of those things at all.

Erick pulled back from watching too closely, for to watch Young Erick too closely was to thin the world, just like it usually thinned when multiple Ericks from the same timeline got close together. This, then, was Erick’s Ignition to Wizardry, blossoming from the Dark and coalescing in a decision… to wait one more day. To try the Good Path once more.

At least once more.

Young Erick set down the gun and went to Jane and Jane calmed down, for she felt something ephemeral and calming spill out from her father, into the world, washing away her own soul damage. Young Erick had just become a Wizard, though he wouldn’t know it for a very long time.

