Erick stepped onto the stony shore of Lake Michigan. The air was cold and the waters dark. A storm held on the horizon, blowing waves Erick’s way, the wind catching on the crests of waves and sending droplets onto his face, and hiking clothes. It had taken him two weeks to get there, but it wasn’t like it was a destination or anything like that. It was just part of the journey, and Erick had been testing out his life and his power and the world around him the entire time. Mostly, he was helping people without them knowing how much he was helping them. There was that one time that he gave that kid a sandwich, two sodas, and a talk, and told him to go back home, as well as a few other incidents that would remain for-life memories in the minds of those he helped. But mostly, people got help without knowing it.

Earth was filled with problems.

Erick had his own problems. Every time he interacted with people, changing the world in a small, good way, he felt a little tear. That tear was Young Erick getting knocked off course on his trip to Veird. And then the tear would heal… or something like that, and Young Erick would go back to being on the right path to Veird. Erick wasn’t sure exactly what was going on, but he was trying to find out.

Perhaps Erick was strengthening his own history by tearing at it a little, like how a muscle grew bigger and stronger through exercise?

Who knew.

The little rips had first happened when he prevented that kid from getting his eye poked out, but then it kept happening, because Erick kept helping people. Every time Erick helped people, the gap between Young Erick and him would tear, but then it healed soon after. Actions done further away from Young Erick seemed to tear less, though. Erick’s initial idea to go all the way to Australia for a while was probably an instinctive desire to get away from his own past, to prevent any big tears.

Erick was absolutely sure that if he changed the world a whole lot, then that tear would truly rip, and there was no putting that genie back in that bottle.

… Should he test that theory? Maybe. Maybe, if he did rip this past from his own past, he could also go back and change that rip, and undo whatever he had done to majorly change the world?

Erick stared at the waters ahead of him...

“Let’s test that theory.”

Erick raised a finger and pointed at Lake Michigan—

Another Erick stepped to his side, and gently put a hand on Erick’s outstretched arm. “Nope. That breaks the timeline for sure. Big rip. Unrepairable, except by me doing this right now and stopping you.”

Other Erick wore the same clothes as Erick did right now, so he couldn’t have actually lived enough of a life here on post-incident Earth to really check things out… And yet, Erick believed Other Erick. Mostly.

Erick asked, “You didn’t try and check to see if it was actually unrepairable?”

Other Erick smiled a little. “Nope. I felt it, though. I saw enough. And so I came back and stopped it. Also! Can you feel it now? The weakening of the world? With two of us here, infinity starts to spiral and we create an even larger nexus event than we already are, changing the world to make it revolve around us.” Other Erick stepped back from where he stood. “So let’s not make a Big Rip.”

Erick considered…

The world was kinda… thin right now. It was hard to explain, but yeah, this was the start of a nexus event, though Erick himself was already a walking nexus event, so… Hmm.

Other Erick nodded, and then gestured at the ground where he had been standing; where he put his arm on top of Erick’s, to stop nuclear explosion magic from detonating off the coast of Michigan.

Erick didn’t need to hear more. He nodded, and then he stepped just to the right of the spot where Other Erick had stood, and then Erick stepped through time, directly onto the spot where Other Erick had stood. Into the near past.

The first Erick was where Erick had been, and now Erick put a hand onto that Erick’s arm, saying, “Nope. That breaks the timeline for sure. Big rip. Unrepairable, except by me doing this right now and stopping you.”

The first Erick looked Erick up and down, and said, “You didn’t try and check to see if it was actually unrepairable?”

Erick smiled softly.

And then he went through the whole event from the older perspective, and then the other Erick went back in time, and Erick wondered if there had ever been a version of him that dropped an atomic bomb on Lake Michigan, to see what would happen. Did he need to go forward with that experiment, anyway?

… Nah.

Erick stepped further down the beach, continuing on his walk, practicing his slang.

“G’day mate. G’day matey… What’sa bloke gotta do to get a beer? … No. That’s not Australian…”

The further Erick got from Younger Erick, the easier it was to do good for others without twinging on the fabric of reality that made this Earth Erick’s past, so Erick was going to be far away, and yet, he saw that he needed to remain close, to ensure that this world remained, and that Erick kept his life exactly as it had been. So maybe Erick would try to help the world through intermediaries, instead of directly? Maybe he could do the same for Young Erick, too.

Maybe he should stick around to figure out whatever happened between 2019 and 2047, that removed all the magic on Earth, but he certainly wouldn’t be living any of that life chronologically.

Mostly, Erick was waiting for the other shoe to drop.

Gods were extra-chronological entities, operating outside of time when they wanted, after all, and in some ways, they determined how time actually worked. In the Old Cosmology, the gods did exactly that, ensuring that their guarded worlds were all a part of the same time frame.

So while Melemizargo was (maybe) the God of Magic of the Dark right now, Nothanganathor was also the God of Magic of the Dark, too. He’d be showing up… maybe.

Erick considered the tiny Dark Mark in his own soul, as he walked the stony beach, and stepped over some driftwood. Should he ‘get rid’ of his Dark Mark? Hand it over to Young Erick right now? Would either of those scenarios be absolutely ruinous? How ruinous, though?

At least there were no magical societies on Earth. That’d probably end up as a whole thing if Erick stumbled into one of those. He was ready to get back to Veird…

Mostly.

Erick pulled a soda out of his backpack, which was connected to Benevolence Itself, his gate space. Figuring out a ‘bag of holding’ had been easy, and Jane had been right about how nice it was to have easy access to sodas and beers and fruits and meats and all sorts of food, whenever he wanted, without having to make them himself, or haul them around directly. Enjoying his powers and the taste of fizzy orange drink, Erick walked the stony beach—

Erick’s Lightning Path flickered hard, pointing back the way he had come. Back to the community college. Back to Young Erick.

Erick ignored the idea of being quiet and unassuming and turned to light to Step all the way back to the college, just in time to see Young Erick almost die due to a series of events, like he had stepped into a Rube Goldberg killing machine that looked nothing like a killing machine at all.

Erick had entered the scene on the far side of a street.

On the other side of the street, Young Erick walked on the sidewalk with some girl, beside a park. Malevolence flickered beside a squirrel up a tree. The squirrel flipped the fuck out, falling out of the tree and onto the ground, where it then ran across the road. Some grandpa, driving his car, panicked at the sight of the squirrel and turned off the road, aiming right for Young Erick and that girl. That grandpa pressed on the accelerator instead of the brakes. Young Erick and the girl didn’t notice the car speeding at them for the car was only 5 yards away when the driver decided he didn’t know how to drive. Young Erick and the girl noticed as fast as humanly possible, though.

Young Erick pushed the girl out of the way.

Erick had arrived right when the car was about to crash into Young Erick.

And then Another Erick waved from his seat on a nearby bench. He flickered some magic underneath Young Erick’s feet, and Young Erick did the only thing he could do, which was to leap up. Young Erick leapt, and then he crashed right onto the car’s hood and windshield. That was when the driver realized he should press the brake instead of the gas.

Young Erick skidded off of the car, into the grass.

Erick’s heart had been in his throat the whole time. It was like watching one’s own life flash before their eyes, but in a disconnected sort of way that made Erick sweat anyway.

What followed after the crash was Young Erick getting out of the ordeal with a few scrapes and a ‘wicked tale’ to tell, according to him, as he smiled and told the apologetic and very-worried driver that nothing was broken. ‘Everything was fine!’ he said. The girl thought Young Erick was amazing, though she had gotten a few scrapes from when he pushed her. The driver had no insurance, and as soon as he saw that Young Erick wanted to play off this whole thing as nothing, the driver quickly worried over his own driver’s license being taken away, so he got in his car and left the scene. The girl with Young Erick was too young to realize what was happening, while Young Erick himself merely thought he truly was fine, so he shouldn’t press charges or anything like that.

None of them thought about getting the old guy off the road, because he clearly wasn’t fit for driving anymore.

In the course of several more years, that old man would get into several more accidents, and end up killing a family driving to church. He shouldn’t be driving, but he also had no one in his life to help him with anything, so he had to drive to get around. Erick would do something about that, later. Maybe get him to move to a bigger city where he wouldn’t need a car.

But for now...

The fabric of the world was thin; what with two Fae Erick and Young Erick all together. The older Fae Erick vanished behind a tree, leaving Erick to go back in time and do exactly what he had done to save Young Erick’s life.

So Erick did that.

As Erick cast a tiny spell that pushed against the soles of Young Erick’s feet, helping him get some air, he felt Infinity spread wide, like a loose sweater. Erick casting magic upon Young Erick was the culprit. The world relaxed back down to a normal Path when the magic was done and Young Erick was profusely telling the old man he was fine. All Erick really learned in that moment was that directly helping Young Erick was off the table.

Soon enough, Erick waved at himself, across the road, and then he stepped away behind a tree, and stepped out where the Older Erick had vanished from, neatly closing a loop.

And apparently Young Erick’s life was still fine, though he would be feeling this crash for a while. That had fucking hurt.

Current Erick remembered that close-call. He remembered leaping up when the car had come for him. He also remembered how much pain he had actually been in, and the gnarly bruise across his back and left leg that he never got treated for. He remembered blowing off the girl whom he had saved, too, because he was in too much pain to have sex.

Erick hadn’t recalled it at first because it was a long time ago and he had partied way too hard back then, but yeah, that had happened.

… Erick spent the next few hours sitting on a bench by a lake near the college —the one he had fed the ducks on— thinking about what parts of his life he was going to interfere with, that his Lightning Path pointed toward, telling him that interference was necessary. Most of the time Erick would stay away, but…

Erick began writing on a piece of paper to organize his thoughts better, and to plumb the depths of memory that was already riddled with holes, thanks to drugs and booze, women and men, and not nearly enough schoolwork. A short while later, the list of possible deaths turned out to be a long list.

129 incidents.

31 were solid ‘this needs to not happen’ sort of things. The rest were iffy.

Did Nothanganathor do this?

Some of them, yes. Like that squirrel incident. That was not Nothanganathor’s direct working, though. Not really. That was an Establishment, cast from the future. Nothanganathor was trying to kill Erick from the future. Erick was literally on the other end of Establishment Magic right now, and he could see how the world was altering in the past to bring about an event an uncountable number of lightyears and 98,292 Layers away.

Erick was in the middle of the Wizard War, and though he was —for the first time!— in an advantageous position, he couldn’t see nearly enough of what was to come, and Erick was absolutely sure that when he started to foil enough of these little Red Plots, that the Red would start to act in side-directions. Not only that, but Erick’s eventual return to Veird and all of that was cloudy; obscured by whatever events would unfold when they unfolded. Right now, the war was rather slow and imprecise, and Erick would likely bounce around a lot through time…

But he’d also stick around, having a bit of a slow life for a while. He had earned that. Maybe he’d go back to some other slice of Earth, in some early year, or something, and play around in the Gardens of Babylon, or see what being a real cowboy was like, or… Or do something besides race around and save his own dumb ass from death.

Erick looked at the list, and knew that most of these incidents were just normal human stupidity.

Young Erick was a dumbass.

Erick set the list aside and looked out across the lake in front of him, muttering to himself, “Did I really have that many close calls? Shit. I almost die when I fall through that floor in a month, too, right next to that broken pipe. Then there’s the leaf fall incident, where I jump into that pile of leaves and narrowly miss braining myself on that fire hydrant. Even when I was 38, with that one gangster who was always waving that gun around and it went off, missing my leg by inches...” He paused. He looked at the list again. “I think I relate to Jane a whole lot more.”

And then there were the bad incidents. The ones that Erick didn’t write down at all.

It was amazing that Erick didn’t catch HIV like George and his boyfriend, both of whom died in 5 years. It was amazing that Erick didn’t die from those random drugs at that one party in two weeks, where those same drugs had killed a girl. A hiking incident in two years involving a rabid bear, or something like that; Erick had never found out. Boating trouble in 10, when that engine exploded and the boat sank off the coast of Florida, and Erick swam to shore with three other guys, and all of them were bleeding.

