Erick pulled away, far away, and he knew that he would not need to watch over every part of Young Erick’s coming life. He was starting to save himself.

Erick did give his younger self a bit more formula in the can, though. Just a little bit. Erick remembered how he had felt when he found that little bit of extra formula, and Young Erick reacted just as Erick had.

- - - -

1998, May, later:

Dark circles marked Erick’s eyes as he sat down in the social worker’s office. The nameplate read Manfield, and Erick had heard good things about him, but if this didn’t work, then… Then he wasn’t sure what he was going to do.

Manfield sat down behind his desk. “So Mister Flatt. I read some of your file. Where is Jane right now?”

“With a sitter I cannot afford to pay anymore.”

Manfield nodded. “Tell me why you’re here.”

Erick breathed deep. He was at his wits' end—

The tears flowed hard, but Erick managed to say, “A woman who I thought I was going to marry turned out to hate me, and she didn’t even tell me that she had a kid— my kid! She named the girl ‘Jane’, as in ‘Jane Doe’, as in she doesn’t even fucking care about the girl at all— But I care! But I can’t do shit for her. I’m poor as fuck and I dropped out of college— I went back to get a degree but that’s not happening— And now I got a kid! I could work, but I can’t get any daycare that I can afford— Everything is falling apart.” Erick sobbed hard, once, and then he said, “And dad died. He got to see Jane on his hospital bed, and then he died, and we were living in his house but then the collectors took it and I don’t know what to do anymore.”

Erick grabbed for the tissues on Manfield’s desk, and he tried to act strong, but he wasn't strong anymore.

Manfield waited till Erick calmed, and then he began with, “A hard question: You want to keep her? Or do we need to talk to Child Services?”

“I want her more than I have wanted anything else in my whole life.” Erick said, “If you talk more about CPS then I’m walking, and I can find another way to make this work.”

Erick had walked out of these sorts of offices before.

He had even almost punched a guy who started to call CPS right in front of him.

Manfield nodded. He said, “So, Mister Flatt. I said I read some of your file, but I did more than that because it seems you already had something of a work history before you left for college. I already took the liberty of calling a few places. There’s home programs for single mothers up north, but they can take in a single father. It’ll be awkward —downright uncomfortable for you, because those women are going to distrust you a lot— but it’ll work. You’ll have to move to make it work, but the program has public housing. And then there’s the question of actual work. You need a good job; you can’t stay in college. That’s done with. You can go back later. Right now you gotta take care of Jane, and that means you need money. I got a factory job in that same town lined up for people who can cut it, and who really need it. A lot of those single mothers do the same thing, but they’ll be secretaries. You get shit janitor work, and it’s only part time, but that’s just the starter option. They also have a construction company wing that is always looking for men. When you get there, you can make some choices, but not a whole lot. You have a lot of rough years ahead of you, Mister Flatt, no matter what choices you make. So how about it? Does this option sound like something you’re interested in?”

Erick felt a weight fall from his shoulders. “Yes.”

“Good.” Manfield said, “Then let’s talk specifics…”

- -

Erick smiled a little as he remembered his first meeting with Manfield. He was the first social worker who actually tried to help Erick and Jane, instead of trying to take Jane away. Of course, looking back on it from his new perspective, Erick saw how much Manfield struggled to keep CPS off of Young Erick’s case, and how much the man truly did work behind the scenes to get Young Erick into those programs. This year was only the first of Young Erick’s hard years, though. It’d take 8 years of moving and opportunities given and taken away before Young Erick actually managed to settle into a place, with a good community of people who helped him just as much as he would help them.

But that was his life, now.

He was a Wizard, and the world was bending for him just as much as it was throwing shit at him. He would be saving himself from now on.

Erick had other people to save.

Deborah, the billionaire’s rebel granddaughter, looked up at her grandpa with concern, as they hiked in the woods of Washington state. Erick spent a few more moments thinking about the past, and then he came to the present, and allowed himself to fully enjoy the smell of wet earth and cool forest. Deborah looked over her grandpa, at how he walked so surely and had no trouble keeping up with her on her hike into the woods, and she hated him, but she said nothing. She showed nothing.

Or at least she tried.

She had been very pissy about Erick getting involved in her life the first time, with a whole lot of shit said in anger and then in fury, as Erick butted in to her ‘seances’ and ‘coven work’ that first weekend. This was outing #7, though, and Deborah had come to accept that whatever her grandfather was doing, she couldn’t do a damned thing to stop it, because if she tried then he would just buy out all her friends and have them simply drop this whole wiccan belief system.

Erick had already done that to 4 of her friends, because they were unsuitable for what was to come, for they would erode the system he was trying to build and they were just using Deborah, anyway. The thing was that Deborah knew that they were using her, and she didn’t really mind. She wanted anything that wasn’t the life her billionaire grandfather had demanded of her, and being friends with criminals and users was acceptable.

Deborah had developed those feelings about her grandfather because her grandfather had been her grandfather, though. She didn’t know what to make of this person who walked beside her, in these woods, and who actively seemed to be trying to get to know her, for her.

She was a good ‘kid’. She was 23, though; she wasn’t a kid. Her friends, Nancy and Lilly, and even the guy in the group, Joshua, were all good kids, too. They could stay in Deborah’s circle.

But right now, it was just Erick and Deborah walking in the woods, and for good reason.

The air was cool and comfortable, so Deborah wore her normal black eyeliner and some of her other goth gear; the silver trinkets in her ears and on her hands and wrists. Little ankhs and Stars of David and scales and crosses and otherwise. Normally, she would be wearing all black, too, but they were hiking and she wasn’t crazy. She was 23 and just out of college with a degree in business, because that was the only way that she was ever going to get an inheritance, according to the original grandfather’s proclamations, made 10 years ago when he was still alive.

Deborah was a little bit magical, though, so she was never going to end up like her real grandfather wanted. He always thought her some sort of satanist, but Deborah specifically didn’t wear any inverted crosses or any satanist jewelry, so when her grandfather had called her a satanist she had been hurt; more hurt than he would ever get to know. Her personal beliefs were more of the ‘the world is alive and we must cherish it’ sort, which Erick thought was great.

Erick watched her without watching her. He saw how she stepped onto the forest trail, and the slickness in a patch of slime turned solid at her footfall, so she didn’t slip. He saw how she casually touched poison oak climbing up a tree, and the irritants from the itchy vine didn’t touch her. Her makeup didn’t run, even though mist filled the air and got everything damp. Deborah was a bit kooky, but it was a pleasant kind of kookiness.

Deborah hummed a little, and then she asked the air, “Do you think Grandpa will actually tell me what he’s doing in my life today?”

Erick smiled a little, knowing that question was not for him. It was for the forest, and Deborah was getting her answer in the form of a butterfly flapping across the hiking path. It was a little light-colored moth this time, out here in the middle of the day. It was close enough to an answer, for Deborah.

Deborah muttered to herself, “Thank all the gods that the mystery of my grandpa is finally coming to a close.”

Erick knew what Deborah was doing, but he asked anyway, like a grandpa-trying-to-understand would, “The light colored butterflies mean a ‘yes’, right?”

Deborah’s eyes went wide. “… You actually listened to me when I said that last month?”

“I did.”

Silence, as they hiked.

Deborah said, “If it had been a grey-ish butterfly, then you would have been telling me more half-truths, and a dark one is a straight-up lie.” She looked at Erick, saying, “It’s usually a dark one when I ask the world about you.”

Ah.

Deborah was getting into full-confrontation mode again. She had been building up to that for a while, ever since her last big confrontation with him a month ago.

Well.

Sure.

It was time, and they were probably far enough away from civilization…

Erick decided it was time. He transformed the land up ahead, just out of view, into a trailside rest area, with solid and primitive stone seats around a boulder of a table.

Erick said, “So you ask the world a question about me, and you get a dark butterfly. Doesn’t that just mean that the answer is a ‘no’?”

Deborah frowned. “… Maybe.”

“So you aren’t even in the ballpark of a correct question. Of course your Butterfly Prognostication is going to say ‘no’.”

Silence.

Several steps later, they came upon the clearing.

Erick walked right to the table, saying, “Let’s sit down and talk.”

Deborah was stuck at the edge of the clearing, though, due to her own volition. She stared at the open space, and at the clear blue sky framed by massive trees and overhanging branches. She glared at her grandfather. “Did you mess with this trail? This is my favorite trail, grandpa!”

Erick smiled as he sat down on one of the stone chairs and a white butterfly flew across the clearing, directly between Erick and Deborah. Deborah noticed it especially because the butterfly was massive, easily a foot across, and it glittered with a touch of white Benevolence. She didn’t know what Benevolence was, though, so all she saw was the big white glowing butterfly.

And that both scared and thrilled her, and then she went back to being scared as she looked at ‘her grandfather’.

“Smart girl.” Erick asked, “How do you think I did it?” He gestured around. “This is a good ten yards of open space, with a giant boulder in the middle and I don’t see any construction work, and you were out here last week. Surely you would have noticed such a change to your favorite trail. We’re so far deep into the trail, too, and the forest is so dense. How would I get construction equipment out here?”

Deborah was wary. She stepped into the clearing, her eyes darting to the side, to look for more butterflies. And then she focused on Erick. “You could have used helicopters. Rip the trees out of the ground and then have some people come in on the ground and clean it all up.”

A black butterfly flitted through the air. This one was void dark, and made that way through some more Illusion magic and an inversion of light, though all Deborah really saw was the blackness.

Deborah noticed.

Erick said, “Possible.” He pointed to some ferns and such growing to the sides of the clearing, and to the trees overhead. “But those ferns look like they’ve been growing there for years, and those trees have branches extending out into the open. Surely any trees uprooted would have messed with the local ambiance.”

Deborah narrowed her eyes. “The workers I mentioned earlier. It's not hard to plant plants.”

She was in denial.

Another black butterfly fluttered across the clearing. This time Deborah noticed the butterfly, and how it came out of the woods, fluttered across, and then went back into the woods on the other side of the clearing. The path it took was a bouncing, yet mostly straight line from one side to the other.

Butterflies, especially giant ones which shouldn’t exist at all, should not be flying like that.

Deborah’s heart raced.

Erick said, “Try again.”

Deborah, mouth dry and eyes wide, stared at Erick, sitting on the stone chair in the clearing. She whispered, “My grandfather is dead, and you are not him.”

Erick held up a hand and let a white butterfly go. It fluttered around the clearing like a fluttering beacon of light. Deborah’s entire body broke out into a sweat and her heart beat harder than it ever had in her entire life.

Erick spoke, “The universe is so much larger than you will ever be able to know, Deborah, and yeah, your grandpa is dead. I watched him die on that trip to the Bahamas, due to an accidental harpoon malfunction, while he was trying to kill a beautiful angelfish. Perhaps the angelfish did something. Perhaps the universe hated him. Perhaps it was just a thing that happens sometimes. All I know is that I watched a man die and I saw how much damage he would do if he died like he did, and so I stepped in to take over, to make his legacy into something better.”

Deborah’s pale face had gone paler, her breath shallow as she looked down at the man who she knew was not her grandfather at all. She whispered, “Who are you?”

“You wouldn’t believe me if I told you right now, and I’m not going to tell you the full truth anyway. Not yet. Probably not ever. You can rest assured that I am not Satan or God or anything like that. Gods are much more limited in what they can do.” Erick gestured to the stone table, and suddenly a checkered red and white tablecloth appeared, along with a picnic basket stuffed with goodies. “Let’s talk about the future and changing this small world for the better.”

Deborah was a smart girl. Erick saw her thinking a lot, in a short amount of time. And then she focused on Erick and asked, “Did you kill my grandpa?”

“Nope. But I am profiting from his death.”

Deborah strode forward and sat down, saying, “That’s really fucking morbid.”

Erick smiled. “It was either me profiting, or a whole bunch of hate groups profiting, and I chose myself. I’m also choosing you.”

“Why?”

