They all saw so much wrong with the world, but they did nothing magical to influence events, though they did participate in the world as normal people. Their real powers were not to be used against others, but for others, and they all knew that.

Deborah ran her organization well.

They were not prepared to battle all of what might come, though they certainly tried to be prepared in the ways they expected to be prepared. Perhaps they might be useful in the future in that way, but Erick was unsure. He told them as much, once or twice, but when they asked about the real threats, he never showed them what sorts of threats they might actually face. This was by design.

Some people hated that.

The organization split twice.

All three branches were great, in Erick’s mind.

They were all different starting points for magic to be introduced to Earth, when it could be introduced.

Congressmen. Military. CEOs and all the way down to the social workers and community organizers. Not many people in the House of Reason knew about the whole thing, and even fewer had actual magic, but enough did. That would be more than enough for a soft exposure, years and years from now.

Hopefully they would never see real war.

- - - -

The year was 2019, and Erick hadn’t been checking in on the House but once every month for the past 5 years. It was time.

Deborah sat on a bench in front of a cliff overlooking the Pacific Ocean. She was in Hawaii, and flowers grew all around her. Butterflies floated on the air.

Erick stepped out of the air, onto the paving stones near the flowers. “Hello, Deborah.”

Deborah smiled a little as she looked up at him… And then her face fell. Erick was wearing the finest white and black mage robes he had ever worn, which were a match for the ones that he had worn when he attended Deborah’s wedding to her childhood friend and lover, Joshua, who had been there since the beginning. Deborah had remarked at the time that she loved seeing ‘the Founder’ wear something truly nice for a change, when all Erick usually wore was simple grey robes.

And now, here he was, wearing something fancy again.

Deborah already knew what was coming. She had known what was coming for a long while. But now that event was here, and her heart filled with sorrow.

Quietly, she said, “You’re leaving.”

Little white butterflies floated closer, on their way to other flowers.

Erick nodded. “Yeah. I’ll be back eventually, but the universe awaits, and I did what I needed to do.”

“It wasn’t the Houses of Reason, was it. What you needed to do. You were here for something else, and you chose to do…” She waved her arm around. “To do all this on a whim.”

Erick smiled softly as little grey butterflies floated on the air. “You were half of my reason for being here; the reason I chose myself. Please always remember that. Thank you for never asking about my other reasons for being here, until now. I know that wasn’t easy. I know how that very same question fractured the House twice, and it looks to be fracturing again next year. I’m sorry about that.”

Deborah shuddered. Her plate was full, and now Erick was piling on more problems. She sighed. She asked, “Will you tell me the original reason? Please?”

“No,” Erick said, “As for what should be your concern: Hopefully I win the war, and it never touches Earth.”

Deborah suddenly screamed hatred at Erick, saying things she didn’t mean, and then she instantly took it back. She cried. She tried to punch Erick, but all she did was fall into a hug. With her head against Erick’s chest, she said, “I’ll miss you, grandpa.”

She had eventually settled on calling Erick ‘grandpa’, which was what most people called him. Some called him ‘Founder’, or ‘Grey Robes’. Erick never told them his real name.

“I love you, too. I’ll be back, when and if I can.” Erick held her.

For a while, that is all that happened.

Erick asked, “Hey? Want to see something amazing, that you really shouldn’t tell anyone about? It won’t be a lie. You shouldn’t try analyzing it, though, because you might come out with a wrong answer. It will just be something for you to see, and know.”

Deborah stopped sobbing, but tears still fell even as she chuckled. She shook her head a little bit. With a hint of well-worn frustration, she half let go and asked, “Show me?”

Erick stepped backward, becoming light and then utter dark, billowing away from Deborah and into the sky.

He showed his true draconic self, all 10 kilometers tall of it, and 15 wide, his wings blotting out the sun, as he hovered just off the coast of Hawaii. Anyone outside of Deborah’s little slice of the world would have seen a cloud. But Deborah saw Erick, as he was, perhaps for the first time.

Erick rumbled like a storm, “See you later.”

Deborah stayed on that bench by the flowers, by the cliff, for a long while, just staring at the clouds in the sky that rapidly stopped resembling a giant black dragon. Her heart had pulsed for a while after seeing Erick’s ‘true form’, just like it had in that conversation in that clearing, more than 20 years ago. But eventually, her heart calmed. She breathed.

Eventually, her phone rang and she needed to answer it, but until then, she sat on that bench, among the flowers, by the cliff, and stared at the sky.

It was a beautiful sky.

Lots of fluffy white clouds.

- - - -

In another part of America, in early 2019:

Erick lightened his grip on the steering wheel. “All I’m saying is that you can call more often. I missed you at college, and this life you’ve chosen won’t be easy.” A moment passed in silence. Trees whizzed by, but no cars. Theirs was the only vehicle on the highway. “You’re going to be—”

“Dad,” Jane stressed. “Come on. We’ve gone over every bit of this already, including the danger. I’m going into the CIA, and that’s that.” She added, half-whispered, “If they’ll have me.”

Streetlamps pooled yellow glows onto the road, like ponds of light in a 4:00 am mist…

- -

Erick watched from above as Infinity twisted upon itself on that highway down below, and Jane’s car gradually vanished, as though it was filtering through a fog of invisibility. The lights of the vehicle went first, and then the actual car vanished. Soon, they were gone.

A tension vanished from the world, like the release of an arrow, followed by the unstringing of the bow. All of the danger had passed. Something like certainty settled into Erick, and Erick breathed out a sigh of relief. His past was safe. His past was solid. Nothing was ever going to change this past, because Erick was here to make it happen exactly as it happened, and now that he had been here, he would always have been here.

Erick had become a fae, in truth.

‘Young Erick’ was on Veird and Jane was with him.

Earth was poised to accept magic as real in the near future. Maybe a decade or two. Hopefully they would never meet Nothanganathor, and Earth could have a relatively peaceful time joining the universe, and Erick could enact some other plans he had begun to set down when he arrived, back in 1997. That would be the best possible outcome.

Erick smiled, and then he Stepped away from Earth.

If anyone had been watching him they would not see him vanish in an invisible fog, to pass down a tunnel of Infinity to his destined destination, like some planar. Erick was more than a planar flowing along in universal conversations, these days. He made his own moves.

Erick flashed with light, and then he was gone.

Back through Infinity, back to Veird.

- - - -

- - - -

- - - -

- - - -

Jane watched, horrified, from the command center of the Blue Corps.

Erick had been up in the sky, getting ready to direct the next attempt at Fenrir, when something had sparked in the air, ripping at the Edge of the Script. That ‘something’ had resolved into a giant fish-mouth that reached through and seemingly materialized its mouth directly around Erick, like ten million fangs all surrounding him and then swallowing him.

Atunir had been there, and so had Rozeta. None of that had made a difference. Atunir had been ripped in half and Rozeta was tossed away in the great chomping of that giant, silver piranha. Atunir rapidly reformed, of course. She was just an avatar in that form, but she was also a goddess. While Atunir was reforming, Rozeta acted to clear away the threat before her, opening a portal and dragging forth a brilliant, white Sitnakov, who launched at the fish like a fishmonger, slicing the offensive beast to sashimi.

And there was no Erick.

He was gone.

Was the fish an application of Malevolence?

No. Jane didn’t think so. She had never touched the stuff, but she had seen people who had, and ‘fish manifestation’ was not one of the indicators of Malevolence. Or at least not one of the known ones.

There had been no Red, anyway.

It had been something else.

Evan held onto the screen in front of him, quietly asking, “Where is he? Where is dad?”

Jane paled.

Erick was gone.

Killzone stood at her side, in the center of the Blue Corps, like he used to stand at the center of Spur’s Army, back when such a thing was necessary to guard against the Shades of Ar’Kendrithyst. He spoke the only words that needed to be spoken, “Erick has left the battlefield. I am sure he will return when he can. I believe he was going to say ‘Plan Surround and Consume’. We should proceed to enact that plan. Backup casters of [Seeds of Atunir] are needed—” Killzone rapidly rotated to the side— he stopped. “Oh. Maybe not.”

All of the entire command center turned to look to the left of Jane, between her and Killzone, because something was coming out of that air. Jane felt it, more than she saw it. It certainly didn’t seem like something dangerous… or at least not to Jane. Not to the people here. But this was a warzone and something weird happening in the air next to her was cause for concern.

In the fraction of a second that Killzone identified the new threat, to Jane recognizing the threat, Jane had already lined up a special series of organs in her body, mutating herself and transforming her insides and her left arm into a producer of some of the universe’s strongest magical acids. It took her less than a fraction of a second. The thing was still coming through the ai—

A familiar face, as though appearing out of a flash of light.

A familiar feeling filling the world, like one of power that sang that everything would be alright.

It was dad.

Dad stood in the control center, smiling wide, saying, “Sorry about the interruption of plans.”

Evan yelled, “Dammit, dad! Where the FUCK did you go— Oh fuck I don’t care I’m so ha— oomph!”

Dad grabbed Evan in a big hug, saying, “I missed you, too.”

Evan froze, but then he patted dad’s back, saying, “Uh… You weren’t gone that long?”

“We’ll talk about all that later.” Erick let go, and then he went to Jane and hugged her super tight, too. “Missed you, too.”

… Jane patted her father’s back, but she kept her poison organs. “You’re acting weird.”

“We’ll talk about all that later. So! I believe I was on Plan Surround and Consume until I was so rudely interrupted. Seems like Killzone was about to authorize that continuance, and so let’s get to that. Backup casters are a go, and I will remain here. What did it look like to you guys?”

The guys in the command center rapidly got to work talking through [Telepathy] and more solid communication networks of various kinds.

Killzone narrowed his white eyes at Erick, saying, “Big fish materialized through the Edge. Likely Establishment Wizardry. Went chomp on you. You vanished.” Killzone studied Erick. “… And you changed?”

“A big fish? Weird! Yeah. That sounds like Establishment. There was no fish until there was, and you all only recognized it as ‘a fish’ because it needed to be recognized as something in order to make any amount of sense at all.” Erick thought for a second, and then he looked at everyone. “So much to talk about. We’ll talk later!” And then Erick looked at Killzone and went over and hugged the big guy, saying, “Missed you, too.” Erick let go and then went and hugged Rozeta, who had shown up sometime in the last half second. Rozeta’s normal-sized human body practically vanished under Erick’s large arms and immaculately fancy robe. “Missed you, too.”

“Erick,” Rozeta said, tapping Erick’s arms. “Erick. What happened?”

Erick smiled and let the goddess go. “You deserve explanations, but those explanations aren’t relevant. The short version is that I learned real Time Magic, so let’s go win this time war!”
