“I have given my own reasons for my own actions. As for bringing you into it? Because you’re an outsider and you want to stay that way, and so you shall.” Erick added, “And you already have some magical power of your own, so it wouldn’t be too disruptive to give you more, and then train you how to use it properly. I’d expect you to train your friends, too, if they should decide to partake in the Truth of the Universe, and in 30 years when the war comes, you’ll either be ready for that war, or the war won’t happen at all. Personally, I’m hoping that I can make the war not happen at all. You and whoever you train are more of the backup plan. If the war never happens, then you’re to make Earth ready to accept magic on a grander scale than what I have shown you, but on a timescale that isn’t too disruptive to Earth.”

Deborah stared.

And then she opened up the picnic basket, her eyes going wide for a moment, before she pulled out a six-pack of the artisanal beer she loved. She pulled the beer can out of the cardboard, decomposable ring container, and then she cracked one open for herself. She set the rest in front of Erick. She did not drink hers yet.

She stared at Erick, and her eyes glancing at the beer cans.

Erick smiled a little as he pulled off a beer for himself, opened it, and waterfalled the whole thing. He held out his hand and the empty can floated for a moment, Deborah watching fully, and then Erick telekinetically crushed the can into a perfect sphere of aluminum, smaller than his pinky nail. Drops of beer splattered into the air where they held, floating, as the plastics and otherwise of the actual can disintegrated in a burst of flame. Erick set the remaining dot of aluminum onto a white square of the tablecloth in front of Deborah.

The world was silent for a while, as Deborah considered what had just happened.

Deborah asked, “You adjusted this entire little sit-down place right before we got here, didn’t you? Are you some sort of fairy?”

“I was originally human, and still consider myself to be human, and that’s about the only answer you’re getting in that direction… For now.”

Deborah stared at the drink in her hand and the picnic basket, contemplating a lot. And then she took a sip… She took another sip. “Tastes normal? I still feel like I shouldn’t be drinking this.”

Erick nodded. “As a rule of thumb, you don’t want to go accepting drinks and food from strangers, but as another rule of thumb, you must accept the food and such given to you by stronger powers, because they could just kill you if you don’t accept that offering. Accepting that offering allows for some rules of hospitality to apply. The whole idea of ‘rules of hospitality’ is a lie, though, but like most lies, a lie becomes a truth if told strongly enough.

“Hospitality Magic is an actual school of power in some parts of the universe; a codified thing, not so dependent on the whims of morality and individuals. In those cultures, all the noble houses have one or two of what you might think of as a ‘hospitalier’ or perhaps a ‘castellan’ or even just a ‘head maid’ or ‘butler’. Those magics they create when they offer temporary housing to people are a sort of social-magic that binds every partaker with certain rules. Basically Warder work, but by a specific name.” Erick conjured a notebook out of thin air and set it in front of Deborah, saying, “If you want to take any notes. Magic is magical, but it is also grounded in rather easy-to-understand rules which mostly cleave with cultural understandings and physical actions that exist separate from cultures. Your own Butterfly Prognostication is more like Witch Magic, which is a whole nuanced discussion, but which boils down to ‘you make the magic work how you think it should, because you’re kinda kooky with your understanding of the world’.”

Deborah stared hard at the man who wasn’t her grandpa as he spoke, and then she stared hard at the notebook that suddenly appeared before her. She gasped a little bit here and there, as she heard his words, and especially when she opened up the notebook. “… There’s stuff written here already?”

“A primer on mana, yeah. Not your own Witch Magic. You’ll have to explore your Witch Magic on your own; I can’t do anything to help you with that besides some general pointers. Right now you can’t do anything with the stuff in that notebook because you have no mana-making capabilities, but this is stuff you need to know anyway for a multitude of reasons, and also because I will eventually grant you mana-making abilities in addition to your Witch Magic.”

Deborah stared at the notebook, reading not a whole lot. She skimmed a few pages, her eyes glittering with wonder. She looked back up at Erick. “… I’m a witch?”

“You’re a witch.”

“Awesome.”

And then Erick transformed into his ‘usual’ 2-meter tall self, in some grey mage robes. He didn’t have his horns out, or even his usual face. He had gone for a blond guy with bright green eyes, which was near enough of a weird combination that it would be sticking into Deborah’s mind as ‘the real him’ for a long time.

Deborah stared at Erick, her voice an octave higher and a little more awed, “Awesome!” Deborah never liked her grandfather very much, which was not surprising, so it wasn’t too surprising that she was completely on-board with him being gone. Instead of asking about all of that, though, she asked, “How much of the wiccan stuff is true?”

Now Erick was the one caught off guard.

He knew that Deborah was the right choice for this… But she was still only 23.

She’d grow into who she needed to be.

“… Uh? Like that bloody gold ceremony that you did last week with your friends to gather gold to yourselves? Or rather, wealth?”

Deborah squealed a little. “Yes!”

And so, Erick began a discussion of stuff that he wasn’t sure about, by saying, “I don’t know about all of that at all. Honestly, I’m not a very god-leaning sort of guy, though I do work with them on occasion. The impor—”

“You work with them?! Who do you work with?! Odin? Or the Goddess? Mother Earth?!”

“… I have just now decided to cut out a portion of the planned conversation and never touch it again, but I can tell you that I don’t… Uh. I don’t know about any of those, uh, gods.”

Deborah was completely undiminished in her enthusiasm. “What about...”

- -

A little of semi-uncomfortable topics later, Deborah asked, “You said something about granting me power? Uh… Do I have to accept your power?”

“Nope. Not at all. You could be a witch if you want, and only a witch. Based on what we’ve spoken about regarding resons and infinity and the power of this universe, you should be able to gain a semblance of true power now that you know how it works.” Erick pointed upward and released a silent tendril of lightning that cascaded into an open sky. Within seconds, the world turned dark with black rain clouds that unleashed a torrent that broke upon a [Weather Ward] that stood just yards from their little meeting, here at the sides of the hiking trail. Rain splashed down in sheets and gusts, and water flowed around them. And then Erick twisted his hand, and the storm vanished. “The hand gestures were completely unnecessary, but they helped to bring your eyes where they needed to go, to see some of what I was doing.”

Deborah stared in open wonder at the newly-drenched world all around them, and then she looked at Erick. “That’s what actual power looks like?”

“... Hmm. Uh. No. Sorry. Not at all. That was… very small, actually.” Erick seriously said, “I hope you never get to see a display larger than anything I ever do, Deborah. And I mean that. Earth needs heroes, and for very real reasons. I hope I can win against those very real reasons, far away from this land, but even so, Earth still needs people who know about this stuff. Big things are coming, one way or another.”

Deborah had skirted around the big questions, purposefully not engaging with Erick’s attempts to bring up the future because she was afraid of it. Of the things Erick had hinted at. But Erick wouldn’t let her hide from the reasons he was doing this; not anymore.

Deborah centered herself, and asked one of her big questions, “Why are you doing this for humanity? You claim to be human, but I doubt that. Perhaps you started off that way, but you aren’t human anymore. So why do this for any of us? Why prepare us for anything at all?”

Erick said, “Because civilization is what we make of it, and I want to make one for the good of all and every individual, for all always.”

Deborah seemed a little relieved at that sort of answer, though she would be mulling over those words for the rest of her life. And then she asked, “What happens in the year 2000? Something big, right?”

The year 2000?!

Ha!

Erick almost actually laughed, but instead he pulled that emotion back to a simple, mirthful scoff, because he could see that Deborah was actually really concerned about that. “Ah. Yeah. Uh. You think something happens in 2000. It’s in the news now, isn’t it. I had completely forgotten about that. Uh… The computer guys work hard to fix some problems in some code and then nothing happens—” Erick paused. He reoriented. “Actually. That’s a good point. All of Earth right now sees that collective problem coming for their asses, and it’s a hard problem, so they work hard to fix that problem, and then the problem doesn’t happen.” Erick said, “You gotta keep up that energy for the rest of your life, Deborah, and it’s gonna be tough, because as soon as you solve one problem another problem appears, and a lot of the problems coming for Earth have much softer deadlines than some date in a computer. The problems start coming for Earth and they never stop, and they’re only gonna get bigger, and the responses you need to come up with will need to be better. Over and over and over again.”

Deborah was tense as she accepted that answer.

Several moments passed.

Deborah made up her mind, and then said, “I want the real power.”

Erick smiled and stood up, vanishing the picnic tablecloth and the debris of their little meeting, as he said, “And so you shall have some real power, in like a week or two, after you have some time to really think about all of this, and to accept that this is really happening.” Erick shrunk back down into the shape of the billionaire. “It’s a bit of a hike back, so let’s get walking.”

Deborah looked at the clean table and then at Erick. Erick had left behind the little aluminum ball from the beer can he had crushed, but Deborah picked it up and put it in her pocket, saying, “I’m not calling you grandpa anymore, but you still haven’t told me your real name.”

“And I won’t. Call me what you want; whatever will make you seem not-crazy. I have carefully curated the knowledge I have given you in order to make you a powerhouse, but also not targeted by my own enemies. If you had my name, then you would be in danger.” Erick said, “You have time to prepare, Deborah, but not a lot. Become strong in the way that people are strong on Earth, but also in forms of strength that do not exist here, in this culture you were raised in. It’ll be hard to prepare for what you cannot prepare for, but you’ll need to do it anyway.”

Deborah nodded, seriously.

They hiked back into town, with Deborah silent the whole time.

They parted ways.

Erick visited Deborah twice more. Once, she was furious and angry, and the next she was contemplative and serious. She was young, and this was big shit, so Erick let her have her emotions, and then they got to talking again about much more solid topics.

About what would happen, and what they would do about it.

Two weeks later, Erick thought about handing Deborah a bit of the Fractal Diamond that the Fractal Fairy had given him, but he didn’t know what that power did, and he wasn’t willing to do that. Instead, he went with his initial plan. He plucked out a small bit of his own soul, his own Mark of Benevolence, and gifted it to Deborah.

It was, perhaps, the ‘truest’ form of Benevolence that Erick had ever done, in that he directly gave away some of his power to another, installing it within Deborah like it was a Dark Mark, but different. Erick didn’t seem diminished at all; in fact, he felt stronger than ever, just by raising someone else up. And Deborah’s soul blossomed with iridescent white mana that was much more controlled than normal mana; her Benevolence stayed inside of her, instead of flowing away. It seemed she had inherited Erick’s Wizard’s Clarity. That was good.

Months after raising Deborah to strength, he and Deborah founded the House of Reason as a corporation, with all the attendant documents and rules thereof. They specialized in charity work and Erick used it as a tax write off to start with, but it would become more than that in the long term.

Soon, the House of Reason gained several new members, and Deborah was quite accomplished at Butterfly Reading, easily directing the entire organization on her own. She and Erick found more people, and Erick gifted them with tiny Marks of Benevolence, which granted them mana production that seemed to grow as they gained apprentices and businesses of their own, and as they rose to power, when they used that power to raise up even more people. Erick’s own Mark of Benevolence grew, too, but he kept his influence on the organization small; only Deborah and the ‘Inner Council’ of the House of Reason knew about him at all.

Two years later, Erick condemned his billionaire persona to a plane-crash grave in the Indian ocean. Deborah and two other people of the House of Reason were on the plane with him, and all of them ‘died’ in the public eye. In reality, Erick gave them all new bodies. In Deborah’s case, she got the body of her own successor in the House of Reason, which was a persona she had already been playing for the last year, in preparation for today. Others went off the map entirely.

The years of smartphones were rapidly approaching, and so was the spying capability of the government, so the Inner Council inside the House of Reason had to get good at everything, and fast. Luckily, Benevolence worked very well for giving its users a knack for getting out of the true sight of various alphabet agencies, while also allowing them to gain power and organizations of their own. They stayed out of trouble, which was their purpose, and they grew, which was another purpose.

