The following two months passed in a blur, as in his free time he either delivered food or laid in bed with a fresh piece of sod he slowly but methodically plucked every strand of grass from.

During that time, he was tempted to buy other skill proficiencies, but he always refrained, knowing his best money-maker would be the alchemy, and if it worked at all like his herb harvesting skill, the separate skills would have considerable bleed over when he did Tier up.

What truly saved him from months more of grinding was a lucky drop. It wasn’t a growth item or anything so useful, but a Tier 1 sharpness-enchanted dagger that was considered one of the more common rare drops of the rift.

They typically sold for a whopping seven thousand credits, and after a little back and forth, Tim got slightly more than five thousand.

Part of him wanted to buy several skills. But, seeing the money in his bank account, he struggled to do so, instead choosing to only unlock the alchemy skill.

They were starting to recognize him at the bank and give him odd looks, but he hardly cared, the thousand credit coins vanishing into nothing as his Talent did whatever it was that it did with the money.

Beginner Alchemy(Light Potion | Variant Calafor): 0/100 Proficiency — Stir miso soup.

Realizing he couldn’t keep buying equipment with his current accommodations, he changed his apartment to a slightly larger unit in a better part of town. It cost a hundred and twenty credits a week, double his last accommodations, but it was worth every penny, as it had a kitchen.

Tim needed to find a recipe for a miso soup, as he had never cooked it before, but each five rotations of the ladle in the pot resulted in a staggering 0.2 proficiency.

His good mood vanished when, wanting to get more proficiency, he kept stirring and therefore cooking the soup. But once it started to break down into mush, he stopped getting proficiency.

Having learned from his weed experiment, Tim tested just how small of a pot he could make and still get proficiency.

In the end, he used a coffee cup with one tiny piece of tofu, two chunks of green onion, a dab of miso paste, and a small splash of miso soup stock into boiling water, which was just enough to count when he stirred it with a spoon.

Tim got some weird looks stirring a travel mug on his deliveries or sitting on a bench at a park, but he hardly cared. This would make his life easier, and if other people couldn’t recognize that, it wasn’t his fault. His breaks to pick some grass wasn’t laziness, it was saving money on sod in between delves.

After two days of cooking and most importantly, stirring, miso soup, Tim felt the pulse as his Talent sent information into him as he crossed into novice alchemy. He quickly ran to the store to buy the third ingredient and used his harvested herbs to make a potion.

It wasn’t effortless, and while he knew what to do, he lacked familiarity with the equipment, which hurt the final product. But even his first batch was technically a success. It glowed after all.

The potions would only sell for two or three credits, but he didn’t care and made a full twenty batches, each one becoming better and better as his experience was more fully utilized each round. By the end, his potions looked like someone who had been making potions for a decade had made them, instead of someone whose first potion was made two hours before.

Now it was just about getting to Tier 2, where he could not only make more money per delve, but make potions that actually sold well.

Following that train of thought, he bought a single set of the ingredients for a body strengthening potion, just to see how much it would cost.

Beginner Alchemy(Body Strengthening | Variant Calafor): 0/100 Proficiency — Unlock Cost: 20,000 Credits.

It was surprisingly cheap for a potion that sold well on the open Calafor market, and he knew that once he raised his proficiency and practiced a little, he could sell above the standard market rate.

Following that same vein of thought, he checked out some of the other lower-level potions, buying a single set of ingredients each time to test it. While the prices varied, all of his math indicated that it would just be better and more profitable to buy a second delve slot and delve for advancement twice as fast, rather than trying to mess around with the lower-Tier alchemy potions that were mostly net zero or losses.

It took almost another two year of work to get to Tier 2. And during that time, he leveled up his novice footwork to journeyman, which flooded him with a century worth of experience. It was so profound, he almost felt like he could walk through a thunderstorm and never let a drop of water touch him.

That gave him unparalleled safety in the rifts, though he didn’t let that get to his head and always took the fights exactly as the guide and experience told him was the safest method.

He did, however, stop doing his deliveries, as the one million proficiency to finish apprentice footwork would take him over a century to earn at his current pace, and things were good enough at the journeyman level that he wasn’t willing to push himself even harder when the proficiency would come naturally.

He also cut down on his miso soup stirring when he hit the same hurdle. It just was just too much work for how little he got out of it, and he was going to pull his hair out if he needed to smell the soup for another day.

Scrimping and saving, he managed to buy the body strengthening entry, but he ran into an unexpected roadblock. His bank simply didn’t carry more than five thousand credits in cash on hand, and so his money needed to be ordered several days in advance. But after absorbing the money, he was finally able to see his reward for the last year of hard work.

Beginner Alchemy(Body Strengthening | Variant Calafor): 0/100 Proficiency — Stir vegetable soup.

Seeing that it wasn’t an onerous requirement, he repeated his actions with the miso soup, stirring small pots of soup as he did other things until he reached novice proficiency. He didn’t even walk or pluck grass during that time, simply trying to grind out the proficiency as much as possible.

Once he reached novice, he immediately made ten batches of the body strengthening potion.

Not having his Tier 2 rift slot where he could harvest the main ingredient yet, he had to buy the ingredients. If he had to buy everything he needed every time, it would cut into his profit, but four hundred credits for ten batches of attempts wasn’t an onerous expense for him anymore, and he decided it was worth it.

As it turned out, it was the right choice to get the extra sets as he nearly ruined the first batch, even with his proficiency, thanks to his unfamiliarity with the more complicated alchemical process. The efficacy of that first batch of potions was ruined, leading to a product that, while technically a potion, would be impossible to give away, let alone sell.

The only reason it wasn't a true failure was that it technically had the strengthening effect, which meant he got a decent burst of proficiency.

He still poured it into the neutralization jar for failed experiments, knowing no reputable shop would buy such a product, and he wasn’t going to use something so trashy himself.

The second batch was much better, and while the potions weren’t excellent, they reached what he considered a sellable standard. They were at least comparable to the cheapest ones sold near the rifts or in the local shops.

Unlike the light potion, the strengthening potions vials were actually quite small, only as long and thick as his pinky, which meant he got four potions per batch, which was standard for the recipe, and with an estimated duration of roughly an hour apiece. People much smaller or larger would have a correspondingly longer or shorter effect, but an hour was typically more than enough for most delvers at their Tier to plan around.

At forty credits per batch of ingredients, that meant each potion cost ten credits to make. Potions of that quality typically sold for twenty credits apiece, and the sellers bought them at roughly fifteen credits, leaving a profit of five credits per potion or twenty credits per batch if he didn’t want to sell them to delvers himself.

It didn’t seem like a lot, but the strengthening potion was common enough, it was sold everywhere, and the batch had only taken him forty minutes to create.

Checking himself, Tim realized that his main limiter would be his mana reserves, as he had spent close to thirty of his two hundred mana on the attempt, meaning he could only make seven batches a day, every other day, given his regeneration rate.

He hadn’t realized that would be such a limiting factor, and so had done an even fifty-fifty split between his physical and magical cultivation instead of a more typical mage or melee seventy-thirty split. The light potion was more of a chemical effect rather than a magical one, and so didn’t need mana added when it was being made.

Cursing his past self, he accepted the misstep and decided to rectify it going forward. He didn’t exactly have spells to cast, but if he could gather a hundred-twenty thousand credits, he could make one, which was exactly his next goal.

There was always the option to buy mana to refill his pool, but after the conversion losses and expensive equipment to convert the mana to something that was safe to absorb into himself, Tim decided to just rely on his own natural mana generation.

Finishing the next eight batches, his skills improved with each one until the final three batches were closer to something a large alchemy company would produce with trained and possibly Talented crafters.

Those potions, because of their quality and therefore effectiveness, sold to the shop for an astronomical thirty credits, netting him four times the expected profit per batch.

Back at his apartment, Tim did the math and stared at the results.

At his current proficiency level, he made twenty credits per potion after the cost of buying all of the ingredients, for a net profit of eighty credits per batch. At three batches a day, he made two hundred and forty credits of profit. More than enough to live comfortably.

For three hours of work.

The rest of the days he wasn’t delving, he could just relax, having pushed himself so much in the previous months. If he could find a more profitable potion— he had been eyeing the healing potions for their higher costs but higher profits— he could increase that even further.

He would also start to earn more as he Tiered up and got both more mana and mana regeneration, which would let him unlock some of the cheaper proficiencies that would be nice to have, but out of his range currently.

Tim felt himself grinning as the path ahead of him started to look not just bright, but incredibly promising.
