Knowing he needed to bite the bolt and get it over with, he opened his page and tried to buy the jumping skill, it being one of the cheapest ones, but nothing happened when he mentally clicked on it.

Theorizing he might need to get actual, physical credits, he got up and took a trip to the nearest branch of his local bank. After listening to and accepting the warnings about how physical currency wasn’t digital and so couldn't be retrieved in the event of a scam, he was given his credits.

Four one-hundred credits took up nearly no room in his pocket, as the coins were small, but he felt their weight like they were bricks.

Having gotten more credits out than he initially planned, Tim found a cheaper hotel room for rent-by-the-week and rented it for sixty credits, which were immediately deducted from his digital account, making him wince. It was a shitty, hole-in-the-wall single room without even a private toilet or shower, but it would work for what he needed, which was a place to sleep.

Sitting on the bed with his credits in hand, Tim clicked on the beginner footwork.

Jumping had been cheaper, but he felt footwork was more useful both in and out of a rift, and it wasn’t that much more expensive.

When Tim clicked the skill with the credits in hand, he felt something in his spirit flex and shift as the credit coins vanished into nothingness.

Instead of letting that distract him, he instead watched his Talent display as it updated.

Beginner Footwork: 0/100 Proficiency — Walk to gain proficiency.

Blinking, Tim looked at the words in disbelief.

Getting up, he paced around his room and, after thirty steps, the display changed to 0.1/100.

Some quick math later, he realized he would need to walk about fifteen miles to reach full proficiency.

That wasn’t all, though. Even with just that little bit of proficiency, he had an instinctive idea of how he could walk better. It was more a vague notion than anything concrete, but it was a sign that his Talent might be even more powerful than he realized.

Knowledge Talents were inscrutable, so there wasn’t much he had been able to learn about them when preparing.

Thankfully, walking was on his list of things to do.

One of his plans for short-term employment was to do deliveries for establishments. Normally, they were done on bikes, or by people with speed Talents or the like, to maximize profit, but there was no rule against walking other than smaller or no tips.

He’d both earn a little money and be able to fill his proficiency at the same time.

Seeing he still had a few hours of daylight left, he decided to grab something to eat.

On his way, he tried running to see if that counted but, as expected, he made no gain on his proficiency at all. He also learned that he could walk quickly— but not too quickly— or once more his proficiency gain dried up.

Two days of work and thirty credits richer from his deliveries, he took his final step and his Talent updated.

Novice Footwork: 0/10,000 Proficiency — Walk to gain proficiency.

At the same time, a stream of knowledge rushed into him. It felt like he had spent a decade practicing his martial footwork skills. He had always been light on his feet, but now he felt like he could dance. Walking through a busy street, he felt himself weaving between people as if he were some kind of movie thief.

A gust of wind in between the slow moving pedestrians who were like trees to flow around.

Tim’s mouth went dry as he absorbed just how incredible his Talent was and its potential.

If simple footwork was so powerful, what would something like the skill creation method be like once he ranked its proficiency up?

He might become a master of the craft in just a few weeks.

Rushing back to his apartment, he realized that while his footwork was amazing, it didn’t make walking effortless or anything of the sort. If anything, it made dancing around so easy that he inadvertently tired himself out. Bounding around people was more work than it felt like in the moment.

He had his answer but he just couldn't afford it.

Beginner Muscular Endurance(Legs): 0/100 Proficiency — Unlock Cost: 4,000 Credits.

An unlock during his marathon of walking over the last few days.

Still, with just over a thousand credits left to his name, Tim decided he needed to enact the second phase of his plan, now that he knew how powerful his Talent really was.

Calafor, being a Tier 5 world, had a plethora of Tier 1 rifts, which made the slots cheap, but Tim had a very particular set of criteria for his first rift.

First was a weak enemy, preferably humanoid.

Second was a harvestable resource of some kind.

Such things were more common in Tier 2 and higher rifts, but they weren't impossible to find in Tier 1 rifts.

His original choice of a rift with open iron veins in the cave walls had already had its last rift slots bought out, but he quickly found a rift that had two of the types of herbs used in a Tier 1 brightness potion, even if its monsters weren’t humanoid.

The potion wasn’t exactly valuable, with little in the way of resale value, but the rift having most of a potion available made it semi-popular with people trying to learn alchemy on the side.

Once he reached Tier 2, he would be able to start delving a much more valuable rift that had the main ingredient of a body strengthening potion, which did sell for quite a bit. The potion was considered fairly advanced for Tier 2, but the light potion was deemed a good starting step.

The real question would be if his Talent considered alchemy as one entire skill or individual skills. From seeing the Tier 0 skills as separate entries, he believed it would be the latter, but if it was the former, a lot of his plans would be ruined, as there was no way he would be able to ever afford the costs of unlocking such a thing.

He had tried to just read about the potions, hoping to unlock the entries that way, but his Talent refused to make them appear.

After getting some leather armor from Garrett's family— he received a small but much appreciated discount— and arming himself with a mace, a shield, and a dagger, Tim bought his first rift slot.

It cost a thousand credits for a once every nine days slot, but it was a first and important step.

He was terrified; but as he predicted and hoped, his footwork proficiency made fighting off the giant spiders, if not easy, safe enough.

The rift’s layout being a path through a forest ensured that, so long as the delver didn’t overextend, they would only ever fight two or three spiders at most at a time. Thankfully, they weren’t venomous, nor did they have the ability to shoot webs or anything which might trip him up.

They just had way too many appendages and teeth that could bite through an unarmored arm or leg, if given a few seconds to clamp down properly.

The boss, though, was just plain old terrifying.

The video guide he watched showed it was big, but the thing was nearly the size of a pony, and with its many limbs, was faster than any monster he had encountered before.

Tim was equally as fast, given his novice footwork, and after a harrowing few opening blows, he managed to disable its legs one-by-one and then finish it off while it was injured.

He had been hoping to get an unlock for essence absorption or the like, but he wasn’t so lucky or hadn’t done it enough to unlock the proficiency quite yet.

However, he did unlock both a dodge and shield proficiency during his delve, though they cost over ten thousand credits each, and were out of his price range.

With bated breath, Tim fumbled around with his spiritual perception until he figured out how to dispel the rift reward to see four mana stones fall out of the rift.

It wasn’t the best reward he could have gotten, but it was still four hundred credits. More than enough to pay for a much better room for two weeks. He wouldn’t be doing anything so frivolous until he had a more reliable source of income, but it was a start and was a weight off his chest.

Sadly, he was fairly sure he was about to be spending them. Walking over to the massive spider, he pulled out pliers and a short work-knife from his bag. With great effort, he carved the pincers out of the boss’s mouth.

It was bloody, messy work, but the set sold for fifty credits. The smaller spiders’ pincers only sold for two credits apiece, but there were about thirty spiders to harvest, and so it was more than worth his time.

He also got the skill he was hoping for.

Beginner Monster Harvesting(Arachnid): 0/100 Proficiency — Unlock Cost: 4,000 Credits.

It was a bit more expensive than he’d prefer, but it was about what he had come to expect.

Instead, his hopes were on the final remaining thing to harvest in the rift.

The herbs.

Checking the rift guide a few times as a reference, he found the blue and purple-speckled mushrooms growing on the roots of some of the trees and carefully cut the caps off without hitting the stems, which would have ruined their alchemical properties.

After three harvests, he felt a familiar ping and quickly checked the entry.

Beginner Herb Harvesting(Common): 0/100 Proficiency — Unlock Cost: 300 Credits.

He didn’t know what was considered ‘Common’ but hoped it was as self explanatory as it sounded so he wouldn't have to buy another entry too soon.

Still holding the mana stones, Tim tried to click on the entry but found nothing happened.

Pushing with his will and trying to connect his Talent to the mana stones, he just gave himself a headache from straining.

Grumbling about his Talent’s pickiness and wasted proficiency, and kicking himself for not taking a little bit of cash with him into the rift, he harvested the second ingredient for the light potion, a particular four bladed leaf off a particular bush, before leaving with his bag stuffed.

The guards outside the rift directed him to the area where he was able to sell all of his plunder, and while he was tempted to sell it himself knowing they paid the minimum for everything but the mana stones, Tim didn’t feel like dealing with the hassle for a few credits. That time would be better spent delivering a few food orders, both earning money and proficiency.

A quick trip to a shop saw him the owner of a secondhand portable alchemy setup and the final ingredient for the light potion.

It was only then, when he read the instructions and was able to concoct his first potion, that the entry appeared, but he let out a breath of relief he didn’t realize he was holding.

Beginner Alchemy(Light Potion | Variant Calafor): 0/100 Proficiency — Unlock Cost: 3,000 Credits.

Tim had been hoping it would be cheaper, but three thousand credits was within his ability to save up for.

Instead of trying to make the potion, he immediately went and sold all the ingredients for thirty credits. He made a loss of the third ingredient, but they would only remain fresh for a few days without proper storage. He wouldn’t be able to delve again for eight more days, and definitely wouldn’t have saved up three thousand credits in that time.

He knew could have tried to learn without his Talent, but he’d much rather have the credits now rather than practice for a non-useful potion.

Instead, he went to the bank once more and took out another three hundred credits which he absorbed and immediately spent on unlocking the herb harvesting ability.

Beginner Herb Harvesting(Common): 0/100 Proficiency — Pick weeds to gain proficiency.

Tim was bemused but dutifully found a public flowerbed that had some weeds in it and started pulling them.

After ten weeds, he felt a familiar pulse as he gained 0.1 proficiency. Unfortunately, clearing out the entire flower bed only gained him 0.7 proficiency.

While it was undoubtedly easier than harvesting herbs, he didn’t know where he would find so many weeds. But then he stopped.

What was a weed?

A weed was typically just an unwanted plant growth; so by that logic, wasn’t anything unwanted a weed?

Finding the closest public park, he pulled out ten blades of grass while concentrating on the idea of them being unwanted.

To his delight, he felt a familiar pulse and smiled manically.

Wiping his hands off on his pants, he stood up and accepted another delivery.

Eight days later, once he was in the rift and had killed all of the spiders, he started to pluck everything.

It was in that process that he also learned that harvesting actual herbs also gave proficiency to his entry, and while it was more efficient per item harvested, giving 3 proficiency, his method was faster.

Everything that was smaller than a bush, he pulled out of the ground. The size didn’t matter, only the amount seemed to factor into the proficiency. Sweating, dirty, and exhausted, he exited the rift after five hours with a smile.

Novice Herb Harvesting(Common): 0/10,000 Proficiency — Pick weeds to gain proficiency.

When he crossed the threshold, he immediately felt as if he understood how to harvest the mushrooms and leaves much better. It was as if he had been doing it every day for a decade. What he found interesting was how his knowledge differed from the book he had learned from. It wasn’t that the book was wrong, but he now knew that if he cut the leaves slightly higher on the stem, they would last for longer without storage. And if he wanted to, he could harvest the entire mushroom so long as he covered them with a dark cloth first.

Interestingly, he didn’t get such information about other herbs. But when he went to a store that sold them, he only needed to see and interact with the herbs to pick up on their harvesting particularities to a similar level as the first two.

Best of all, even ignoring the advice of his new knowledge and its altered method, his general skill at harvesting became better. His cuts were cleaner, which led to higher yields, which resulted in premium payments for his herbs.

