They filled the corridor. Thousands of them, trying to scuttle on top of each other, small ones, large ones—the offspring of centuries of breeding in the darkness. They could overwhelm a city. The giant ones in the pit might be able to cut a tower in two in a single bite. But the Gold-rank adventurers took not one step back.
No one had said retreat. No one had suggested it. The corridor was right next to the nest, but it was the perfect place to hold. And they were adventurers. They might not have faced this threat before, but they were equal to it.
“I’m wading through spiders here! We need to push!”
Jelaqua shouted as she moved forwards. Her flail was striking hard and fast, but the spiders were literally flooding the corridor. Piling up on each other. Soon, they’d be too thick to crush, and if that happened, she would be born down. Her armor might allow her to survive that, but the other adventurers wouldn’t.
“Typhenous!”
“My trump card?”
The white-haired mage turned to Halrac, his staff aglow with magic. Halrac shook his head.
“Fireballs first! Give me five! I’ll hit them with burst arrows!”
Typhenous nodded. He raised his staff, and Halrac selected a Lightningstrike Arrow from his quiver. He aimed, waited. A [Fireball] flashed from the tip of Typhenous’ staff. Revi covered her eyes, and Jelaqua turned, sensing the movement. The fireball struck the mass of spiders in front of her.
Halrac felt the kick in his chest. He heard a roar, saw pieces of Shield Spiders fountain upwards in flame and smoke. He aimed past the explosion and loosed. His arrow sped past Jelaqua and hit another clump of spiders.
Lightning boomed. Revi, Moore, Seborn, all couldn’t hear it. The ringing in their ears remained at the same pitch. But they saw the spiders blast apart. Jelaqua had been hit by the blast too. She staggered, shook her head, and shouted though no one could hear her.
“Dead gods that’s loud!”
Neither the flames nor electricity had touched her through the enchantment. She saw another fireball flash towards her and flinched reflexively. But as it landed among another group of Shield Spiders, she felt only the slightest nudge that knocked her back a step. Another arrow blew the Shield Spiders to bits.
“Forwards! Forwards!”
Jelaqua turned her head. She couldn’t hear Halrac, but she could see him pointing. She grinned and charged.
The Shield Spiders were limitless. They were ravenous. But they were not fearless. Nor were they stupid. As three more fireballs and arrows blew the oncoming horde to bits, the Shield Spiders retreated. The noise, the heat, the death was too much. And the flaming Selphid that charged them was invincible! They retreated back into the pit. And the adventurers pressed forwards.
“Revi, Seborn—kill the ones at our backs!”
“Dead gods, this is disgusting!”
The Stitch-Girl hung back, blasting the Shield Spiders that had survived the blasts with her wand as her summons covered the Gold-rank adventurers’ backs. Halrac, Typhenous, and Moore pushed forwards. Halrac kicked a Shield Spider aside as he ran towards Jelaqua. She was knocking Shield Spiders off the ledge, her flail moving.
“Jelaqua! Jelaqua!”
The Selphid spun as the other approached. She raised one hand to her ear.
“What? I’m deaf! I think the blasts damaged my ears!”
Halrac cursed as he realized the problem. The other Gold-rank adventurers had paused to pour healing potion down their ears which had helped them regain their hearing. But Jelaqua’s body was dead.
“Stand back!”
He motioned, and Jelaqua sprang back. Halrac stepped away as her flaming armor nearly struck him. Jelaqua shouted.
“I can repair the eardrums! But I need a minute!”
“Okay!”
“What?”
Halrac turned his back on her. The Shield Spiders were swarming back down the tunnel, but he could see giant ones crawling up from below. The mother spiders weren’t as afraid of fire, and they were coming up, squashing their offspring. He didn’t know if they could widen the dungeon corridor with brute strength. And he didn’t intend to find out.
“We’ve got them pushed back. Typhenous, Moore. I’ll shoot down any spider coming up. Give me your best spells. Typhenous, use your trump card.”
The old [Mage] grinned as Halrac began shooting spiders down from the ledge. He raised his staff, and the crystal on top began to glow brightly. He looked up at Moore.
“Do you have a Tier 5 spell, Moore?”
“No. I can use [Thorn Spray] to clear out the spiders.”
“Do that, then. Halrac could use the help. I will prepare my opus.”
The half-Giant nodded. He pointed his staff down, and a rain of wooden thorns as large as Typhenous’ hand shot downwards like hail. They perforated the first rank of spiders that swarmed up the ledge. The second shower was equally devastating.
Typhenous ignored the violence below. He raised his staff which shone even brighter. The Spiders rushed upwards, and a giant one three times as large as Moore approached, ignoring the thorns and Halrac’s arrows alike. It did not seem to realize the danger.
Typhenous’ eyes began to glow as the magic energy in him reached a critical point. He pointed his staff down, and a gentle smile crossed his face. The grandfatherly mage stared down at the spiders and whispered the name of his spell.
“[Valmira’s Comet Storm].”
In the dark shaft, there was light. Not the faint glow of a [Light] spell, but true light. Searing. Intense. The Shield Spiders far below looked up as something fell from above. Something bright which burned and hurled the first giant spider downwards. Vaporizing, crushing. It fell, a bright nova which burned through the darkness.
A comet. It struck one of the giant spiders, crushing its front two legs. The giant behemoth tried to hold onto the wall, but the impact and flash of magic knocked it off. It fell, taking thousands of the smaller spiders with it. The crunch as it landed on the floor was like thunder; the spiders around it swarmed the giant, devouring it, ignoring the twitching legs. The rest of the spiders still headed up. They did not realize what was happening. But then the second comet fell.
Jelaqua was still. Motionless. She looked like she’d passed out on her feet, but that wasn’t true. It was just that her body, her real body was in the head of her vessel, busily trying to repair the shattered eardrums. It wasn’t easy. True, she had a lot of material to work with since the body was fresh, but repairs weren’t something she liked to rush. Still, hearing was important, so as soon as she thought she’d restored most of her hearing, she reconnected herself to her body’s nerves.
Just in time to see the flash and hear the explosion. Jelaqua raised her flail instinctively and saw that it was damaged. The spiked heads of her two-handed flail were horribly dented, and the chain linking them to her handle looked like it was fatigued. It would break. Swearing, she tossed it aside and reached into her bag of holding.
“I need a damn enchanted flail! At least I have spares.”
She pulled out another one and strode forwards. Moore, Halrac, and Typhenous were standing at the edge of the pit. But none of them were moving. Jelaqua reached forwards and realized she was still on fire. She quietly hissed, and the flames on her armor went out.
“What’s going—”
She stopped as she saw a comet fall. The burning, blazing ball of light was magic, blue and green and red and purple surrounding a white core. It had weight, though. It fell and blew apart a group of Shield Spiders retreating down the cavern. Typhenous’ eyes blazed as he conjured another comet and hurled it down. This time, it struck one of the mother spiders. Jelaqua saw the mother’s face vanish, and the dead spider fell, curling up reflexively before it struck the ground.
“Dead gods.”
The Selphid whispered as Typhenous continued to call comet after comet out of the air. The attacks were slow, but where they struck, the Shield Spiders just…vanished. Halrac nodded. He reached for a stamina potion and drank half roughly before handing it to Jelaqua. She accepted it and drank. The [Scout] watched her hurl the bottle into the pit.
“That’s his trump card. We used to use it against Griffin flights when outnumbered.”
“It’s Tier 5?”
“Tier 5. His best spell. One of the reasons why Ulrien and I wanted to hire him so badly. As Tier 5 spells go, it’s apparently one of the better ones in the world.”
“I’d believe that. Tier 5. Moore doesn’t know a single one. Where’d he get the spellbook that taught him that?”
The next flash illuminated Halrac’s face. He glanced at Typhenous—the [Mage] didn’t hear him or Jelaqua. His eyes were glowing with magic as he shaped each comet.
“He never said.”
“Could have used that on the moths.”
Jelaqua leaned against the wall. Halrac shook his head.
“No. They’d swarm him because of the light. He has to form each comet close to him. And they could probably dodge some of the attacks. They’re slow.”
“Moths like light. But I get your point. How do you get it to work on Griffins, then?”
“Trade secret.”
Jelaqua left it at that. She felt the adrenaline running through her host body and adjusted the glands to stop it. The battle was over. She began checking the Drake body she was inhabiting for stress fractures, damaged muscles, and so on. Moore sighed heavily and leaned on his staff. Sweat and spider blood covered his face.
“How long will Typhenous’ spell last, Halrac?”
“A few more shots. He might be able to cast a few spells after that.”
Halrac watched Typhenous, keeping an eye on the pit. After a while, Revi and Seborn came over.
“He’s doing the spell? We got them?”
“We’ve cleaned up the Shield Spiders here. A few small ones might have escaped.”
Halrac nodded. Typhenous gasped as the last comet flew downwards. He sagged, and both Halrac and Revi caught him.
“Easy, Typhenous.”
Revi offered him two potions, a stamina potion and a mana potion. Typhenous reached for the mana potion first. His hands shook a bit with fatigue. All the Gold-rank adventurers congratulated him. Jelaqua slapped Typhenous on the back.
“For an old guy, you’ve got spirit! Wish we could contribute like that!”
“Your armor really let us cut those damn spiders off. As for the threat—”
Halrac glanced into the pit. Typhenous’ comets had wrought havoc among the spiders. But there were far, far too many hiding below for his comfort. He grimaced.
“We’ve pushed them back. I doubt they’ll make an attempt for the top for a while. But there’s no way we’ll be able to descend without clearing them out.”
“Not a task I’d relish performing alone.”
Typhenous grimaced as he took a swig from the mana potion. Seborn nodded as he gazed down.
“Clearing them out will be a difficult task. We could try poison. But the important part is making sure the spiders don’t escape up here. We’ll have to seal the entrance.”
“That’s our job. Moore can shift dirt, and we can use the caved in part of the dungeon. Excavate some stone, seal it up.”
Jelaqua flexed her arms, and the other Gold-rank adventurers nodded. Typhenous took a few deep breaths.
“All worthy tasks. Still, we do have a captive audience. I feel as though I could hurl a few more fireballs down there.”
“Don’t tax yourself. Depleting a monster nest isn’t an overnight job. And now that we know there’s one shaft like this…I’d bet that if we tried another route into the dungeon, we’d run into another shaft. The one the Face-Eater Moths came from, perhaps.”
Revi made a disgusted face.
“You think that’s the way the dungeon is set up? Horde style?”
“It makes sense. How else do you explain two mutually antagonistic monster populations thriving down here? They have to be separated from each other. Not to mention fed somehow.”
Halrac looked at the others and got reluctant nods. Jelaqua’s tail twisted through the Shield Spider blood and remains.
“Wonderful. But hey, we did it! Not much to salvage here with all the bits, but—”
She turned and gave the others a wide, toothy Drake grin. Revi’s scowl turned into a reluctant smile, and even Halrac had to nod.
“We did do it. The Adventurer’s Guild owes us a bounty, I think.”
“Our first mass-slaying bounty for clearing the dungeon. Think they even know what that is?”
“We’ll explain it to them repeatedly.”
The others laughed at Revi’s comment. All the tension they’d been feeling drained, and they took another look into the pit. Revi stared dreamily at the huge Shield Spiders clustered at the bottom out of range of any further comets.
“Look at those huge spiders. If we could poison one and somehow get to it with the body intact—Typhenous, I could summon one of them! The mana cost would be insane, but just think of it! Halrac, Typhenous, do you think…?”
“Anything for you, my dear.”
Typhenous stroked his beard. He tapped his staff, and a fireball appeared.
“But let’s save collecting monsters until we’ve thinned the nest a bit more, shall we? Not that it appears we need to do more work. There’s far fewer of them left than I thought—my comets must have been aimed well!”
Moore looked up.
“I’m receiving multiple [Message] spells from the Mage’s Guild in Liscor. They want to know how many spiders are down there. They’re threatening to cut the bridge if we don’t respond.”
“Hah. They’re probably panicking. Let them know it’s alright, Moore. I don’t fancy swimming back to Liscor.”
Jelaqua was inspecting her damaged flail to see if it was worth hauling back to be reforged. Halrac was still staring into the dark pit. His eyes narrowed.
“Hold on. Someone pass me a torch.”
“Here.”
Seborn pulled a torch out of his bag of holding, and Halrac lit it on the fireball Typhenous had conjured. He hurled the torch down into the pit. The flame became a speck that none of the other adventurers could see as it landed among the spiders. But Halrac’s eyes picked out something, and he cursed.
“Moore! Send a [Message]!”
The half-Giant had a finger to his temple. He looked up sharply.
“To the Mage’s Guild?”
“To the Silver-rank team if you know their [Mage]! If not, have the Mage’s Guild relay it! And tell the Silver Swords the same thing! We didn’t kill nearly as many Shield Spiders as we thought. They fled. Into the dungeon!”
“Aw, heck.”
Jelaqua grimaced. The other Gold-rank adventurers looked at each other and shook their heads. They’d stirred the nest and subdued it, but the cost was agitating the Shield Spiders. They’d fled Typhenous’ comets, and now they were flooding into the dungeon. They might run into other monsters and traps and that would be good. But there were adventurers down there. Halrac looked at the others. True to his nickname, his face was grim and resigned.
