They could. The Redfang Warriors tried running, vaulting over tables, punching each other. All of these actions were possible and it wasn’t as if they were slowed, but everything took more energy. Headscratcher couldn’t put all of his strength into his hands. He glanced at Erin, impressed. Fighting in her inn would be dangerous! And then he saw Lyonette.
The [Barmaid]—or rather, former [Barmaid]—was standing in front of Erin, looking a bit pained. In her arms, Mrsha was squirming uncomfortably and whining. Lyonette took a deep breath and closed her eyes. She did nothing visible either, but when she opened her eyes, they had that same, focused look. And something changed.
Headscratcher could see her body relax as the invisible pressure dissipated around her and the Gnoll. But only around them. Amazed, he tried to copy her, but he had no idea what she’d done. Erin glanced at Lyonette and smiled.
“Cool. Okay, I’ll be Ilvriss and you be me. Do you want to put Mrsha down?”
“She’ll be fine.”
Lyonette held Mrsha confidently. Erin nodded and frowned harder. Headscratcher felt the weight on his shoulders increase. He sensed something in the air around Erin, a localized disturbance as her aura grew stronger. It concentrated on Lyonette. But the [Barmaid] didn’t move. She met Erin’s eyes and stood tall. Erin stared at her, and Headscratcher felt the aura in the inn, her will pushing at Lyonette. But the young woman refused to give in.
The two locked gazes and something clashed in the air between them. The Redfang Warriors watched, holding their breaths as the silent battle went on for seconds, and then minutes. The pressure Erin was exuding was powerful. But it seemed that whatever she tried, she was unable to pressure Lyonette like the others. The young woman stood before Erin, not backing down. And at last, Erin had to admit defeat.
“You’re good! Whew!”
The intensity in the air vanished, and the sense of conflict evaporated as she sat at a table. Lyonette sat with her, and Mrsha hopped out of her arms. The two young women shared a glance. They’d fought, not physically but in another sense. Erin got up and fetched cups for the two of them. She offered Lyonette some wine, and the [Princess] accepted. Erin poured her a glass, and Lyonette raised it. They touched glasses and smiled.
“Thanks.”
“The experience helped me too. I’ve never done that against anyone before. Not successfully, anyways.”
Lyonette sipped from her cup and shooed a curious Mrsha and Apista away. Erin nodded. She was about to ask Lyonette for more tips—could she use her aura to turn her hair golden and make it stand up, for instance? And then the door to Liscor burst open.
“Erin!”
Drassi stood in the doorway, breathless, panting. She was covered in rain—she wasn’t wearing her cloak! Erin turned, and her sense of calm vanished.
“What?”
“Griffon Hunt and the Halfseekers have found a Shield Spider nest in the dungeon! There are tens of thousands—hundreds of thousands! They’re attacking!”
“Oh no. No, not again!”
Lyonette gasped in horror. She rose as Erin leapt to her feet. The Redfang Goblins instantly rose.
“Are they hurt? Are they retreating?”
“I don’t know. That was the first [Message] that came through. I ran to get you—the guild sent a Street Runner to summon Watch Captain Zevara and Olesm!”
Erin strode towards Drassi and hesitated. She turned.
“Shield Spiders. A nest. You mean like the Face-Eater Moths?”
“Yes! What do we do? Are we going to be under attack again?”
Lyonette had grabbed Mrsha. She looked frightened. Erin felt terrified. But beneath her sudden panic, a cooler part of her took charge. She glanced out her windows, looked through the door to Liscor at the rainy streets, and shook her head.
“No. This won’t be the same. Lyonette?”
“Yes?”
“Get to Bird. Tell him what’s going on. Then open the door to Celum. Warn Octavia, tell Wesle, and send a Street Runner to let Celum’s Council know what’s going on. And then get back here.”
“Should we leave Mrsha in Octavia’s shop?”
Erin didn’t have to think.
“No. She’ll be okay here. But warn everyone just in case. Tell Pallass too. Headscratcher—”
She whirled. The Redfang Goblins had grabbed the weapons they’d stolen from the Raskghar. Shorthilt had his sharpened blade at the ready. Erin nodded.
“Stay here. I’ll come back if there’s more trouble or we need you. For now, secure the inn with Bird. Got that?”
They nodded. Rabbiteater rushed down the basement stairs to grab Numbtongue. Erin turned towards Lyonette.
“It’ll be fine this time.”
“You’re sure?”
“Pretty sure. I’ll go to the Mage’s Guild. You let everyone know, but don’t start evacuating. The threat’s not to us. It’s to the adventurers.”
So saying, Erin looked at Drassi. The Drake didn’t need an invitation. She turned and pelted through the streets, Erin following at a run. The Drake ran as fast as she could, but she didn’t exactly have Ryoka’s training. And she kept babbling worriedly.
“Oh Ancestors, what are we going to do, Erin? It’ll be the Face-Eater Moths all over again! Do you think Pallass will send reinforcements? What about Celum? Why are there so many monsters?”
“We’ll be fine, Drassi!”
Erin had to slow or wipe out on the slippery cobblestones. She slowed to a jog as Drassi ran just in front of her. The Drake wailed.
“How do you know?”
“Because we’ve done this before.”
Erin answered with confidence. She felt it. There was a certainty now in her chest. Drassi stared at her side-long as they ran.
“Really? That’s it?”
“Yes. We’ve survived one disaster. And we have experience.”
Experience. That was the key. Erin had survived Skinner. She’d survived fighting Regrika, Gazi, the moths, and Goblins. Each time she’d learned something more. She was no [Tactician], but she’d fortified her inn. Bought healing potions and other alchemical weapons. She pointed up.
“It’s raining. Liscor is flooded. The Shield Spiders have only one way into the city, and that’s over a bridge that can be cut. They’ll never reach the inn or Liscor’s walls. Maybe they can build webs and float? Either way, it won’t be the same as last time. The adventurers in the dungeon, though, are in danger. How long has it been since they reported the attack?”
Drassi gasped for air as she slowed further.
“Six—eight minutes? I ran here the instant I heard the [Message] come in! Like you told me!”
Erin nodded. She’d offered Drassi the chance to sit in the Mage’s Guild and gossip all day long in case an adventurer sent a [Message] in. She ran towards the Mage’s Guild and saw Drakes running through the street towards the Guild as well. Zevara, Olesm, Ilvriss—Erin let them go in first.
It wasn’t the same. Liscor couldn’t fall to the same disaster twice. Each time something bad happened, each time there was an attack, they grew. Erin grew. That was the point of leveling. And this time, Erin swore, she’d do all she could to bring back her friends safely. But that was only assuming they were still alive. She raced into the Mage’s Guild, while rain poured down from above. And below there were spiders.
 
——
 
“Fall back! Fall back!”
Halrac shouted the order as Shield Spiders poured out of the massive shaft that had been converted into their nest. The mile-deep vertical drop was filled with their nests and the spiders, sensing light and life above, swarmed upwards in an unending torrent, intent on consuming all that lay above.
It was a trap. Halrac cursed and loosed two arrows that exploded, sending the first wave of spiders fleeing in burning agony. But more came after. He nearly ran into Jelaqua as she charged forwards.
“Back! We need to form a barrier!”
He roared at her. Jelaqua hesitated, but then raced backwards as Moore and Typhenous reversed direction. Revi sprinted past them, screaming and swearing, and Seborn flickered into view, a moving shadow.
“There’s hundreds of thousands!”
“Dead gods!”
“Typhenous, Moore, put up a barrier! Buy us a minute. Revi—”
“Give me time!”
The [Summoner] was already raising the instruments of her trade. Pieces of fallen monsters encased in amber and more precious, ornate talismans manufactured from fallen Stitch-People. Ghostly warriors appeared behind her as Revi summoned them one by one. But the Shield Spiders were already pouring up the corridor full of destroyed statues. Halrac loosed another arrow, watching the explosion barely faze the spider horde.
“Typhenous?”
The [Scout] glanced over his shoulder. Typhenous’ face was concentrated. The spiders were closing. Ten feet, five feet—Jelaqua whirled her flail, and Seborn braced. Then the [Mage] pointed his stave. A loud booming voice spoke at the same time he did.
“[Barrier of Thorns]!”
“[Flame Wall]!”
Moore and Typhenous cast the spells almost at the same time. A wall of thorns erupted from the ground as the first Shield Spiders scuttled forwards. The dense brambles engulfed the first group of spiders, making the second wave crash into the branches. Surprised, the spiders tried to climb for a second—before a burning wall of flames burst into life. It ignited the thorns, the spiders, and made the living ones screech. Halrac heard and saw the spiders crash against Moore’s barrier, but it held.
Three living Shield Spiders had been quick enough to escape being caught in the wall of thorns. They were all about the size of sheep, huge, horribly large spiders with armored carapaces and terribly sharp pincers. One reared up to bite. A pair of glowing daggers sliced its head off. The other two dashed forwards, and Halrac’s arrow went straight through the first at close range. A pair of spiked flail heads crushed the other in a single blow. The spiders twitched and fell still.
“We have a minute at best before the barrier fails.”
None of the Gold-rank adventurers wasted time exclaiming. Moore peered at his flaming wall of thorns, glancing back at Typhenous.
“Good spell. I thought you were doing webs?”
“Not against spiders.”
Typhenous grinned. Halrac stared past the flaming barrier. The Spiders were attacking it despite the intense flames. He looked around. At times like this, everything slowed. The idle banter, the sound of the spiders cracking the sturdy brambles, the feel of the bow in his hand—all of it crystallized. He looked around and saw the other Gold-rank adventurers were in the same state of mind. They didn’t speak normally, but in a rush that merged together, somehow making sense.
“We saw hundreds of thousands—”
“Big nest?”
“Illusory barrier. Lost my Corusdeer—”
“Send a [Message] spell to Liscor warning them.”
“Already on it. Plan of attack?”
“Has to be me. My armor—”
“Containment’s key. Can you hold if they rush you? If they knock you off—”
“I’ll cover her with arrows if larger ones appear. We need to narrow the corridor. Killing field.”
“Push them back to the pit. What about creating barriers? More walls of fire?”
“Do that. Revi, your summons will screen Jelaqua.”
“How do we want to do this? Push with warriors? I can use my trump spell—”
“Hold it, Typhenous. Don’t exhaust yourself. Smaller spells until we push them into the pit. Moore—”
“My staff will do the work.”
“Leave the big ones to me. Seborn, guard Jelaqua.”
“Got it.”
“Alright. Go!”
The conference had taken about thirty seconds. The Shield Spiders were already breaking down the flaming barrier when it vanished. A huge spider nearly as wide as the corridor reared up, surprised. Halrac aimed and loosed. The Phoenixflame Arrow he’d chosen was expensive. The flaming head penetrated the Shield Spider’s body and then the enchantment activated. Like a phoenix, the arrow exploded into flames bursting the spider’s body like a bubble of soap. The adventurers charged with a roar as the Shield Spiders rushed forwards.
“Here we go!”
Jelaqua was first into the waves of Shield Spiders. Her body was wreathed in flame, her flail swinging. The spiders were all around her, but the Selphid’s flail tore through them, smashing spiders, spinning, hitting and striking in every direction countless times per second. The Heartflame Armor burned as the Shield Spiders tried to bite Jelaqua. But their mandibles and legs glanced harmlessly off of her fiery body. Not off of an object, but deflected by the magical flames themselves. Jelaqua spun, her flail bashing a spider’s head, tearing another one’s eyes away. Strike, strike, strike, strike, strike—
“Contain them!”
The corridor was wide. Too wide for Jelaqua to hold it alone. Her flail couldn’t even stop all of the ones trying to push past her. But the adventurers were equal to that. Another barrier of thorns burst out of the walls beside Jelaqua, halving the corridor’s width. Moore grunted as he swept his staff like a broom, sending a wave of spiders flying back over Jelaqua’s head. Typhenous set both barriers alight and then there was a choke point. And behind Jelaqua, Seborn and Revi held the line.
“Go! Kill the damn spiders!”
Revi shouted at her summoned Stitch-Warriors as she shot glowing missiles of light from her wand. Her spells were weak—they sent a few Shield Spiders reeling backwards as the magical arrows cracked their armor or burnt their eyes away, but their armored carapaces usually deflected her spells. The summoned warriors were a different matter, however.
Eight glowing figures formed a line of steel and magic behind Jelaqua, cutting off both ends of the flaming barrier Moore and Typhenous had set up. They did not flinch from the flames and moved in tandem. They cut, sliced, kicked, and stabbed every Shield Spider that got past Jelaqua, moving tirelessly, holding the line.
And behind them, a shadow flickered between the gaps, slicing any Shield Spider that managed to pass the summoned warriors. Seborn had neither Jelaqua’s reach nor spells, but his blades were sharp enough to slice a Shield Spider in two, and he attacked from the shadows, always catching the spiders by surprise.
“[Light] spells.”
Halrac grunted as he shot an arrow past Jelaqua, catching a Shield Spider as tall as she was and piercing its small brain. Typhenous threw a ball of light up, illuminating the dark corridor. Halrac nodded. He didn’t need the light, but the warriors did. Now the Gold-rank adventurers could see each of their foes. They moved forwards, Jelaqua the tip of their spear. And the Shield Spiders began to be pushed back.
