He glanced meaningfully at Ceria, and she nodded reluctantly. It was true. Neither team got along well. They stepped on each other’s toes, argued…and she could tell that Ylawes was willing to admit that, if nothing else. The [Knight] looked frustrated. Dawil stroked his beard and then grinned before bringing up a final point.
“Plus, two half-Elves is worse than one. Stands to reason we’re not getting anything done. We barely functioned as a team with one pointy-eared git holding down the team. With two…let’s call it a day, lad. We can work out a way to solve things over a hot meal.”
He gestured back the way he’d come. This time, Falene was the only one who glared. Ceria just laughed. Dawil shot her a sideways grin, and Ylawes nodded, resigned.
“If that is how it must be, I suppose we have little choice. I had intended to make great progress, but—”
He broke off, shaking his head. In silence, the two teams trooped back down the corridor, passing by the patrol of enchanted armor they’d destroyed. Dawil paused to kick at one of the helmets.
“Not bad steel here. We could use a bag of holding. Claim the bounties on the moth and ghouls too. Worth a bit of coin.”
“Yeah. There’s that at least. You can have the bounty on the armor and moth. We’ll take the ghouls since Pisces snapped all their necks.”
Ylawes frowned.
“We should split it equally. We are a team, if in name alone.”
The headache that Ceria thought was fading sprang back into her head. She glared at Ylawes.
“Yes, but we didn’t do anything for the armor.”
“But as a team—”
Yvlon groaned, and Pisces rubbed at his eyes tiredly as the two began arguing again. Ksmvr, watching the discussion and the way Falene slid herself into the conversation, tilted his head. His antennae twitched a few times, and he turned. He clicked his mandibles a few times and raised his voice.
“Ah. I believe we are in danger.”
All the other adventurers spun. They readied their weapons but heard nothing. Saw nothing in the darkness. Ceria looked at Ksmvr.
“You’re sure?”
“I detect vibrations down this tunnel. Something is approaching.”
Ksmvr paused.
“Many somethings. At speed.”
Soon, the other adventurers heard it. Ceria swallowed as she felt the vibration in the stone walls.
“Tree crap. We should retreat for the entrance.”
“And be cornered? Whatever it is moves fast. We should hold our ground. See what we’re facing.”
Again, Ceria felt a severe disconnect as Ylawes planted his feet on the ground and raised his shield. Dawil raised his hammer, grunting.
“I’m with you there, lad. I don’t fancy being the last one in a race for the exit.”
“You may retreat behind us. We will wait here.”
Falene glanced at Ceria. The younger half-Elf glared back at her. She looked at Pisces, Yvlon, and Ksmvr.
“Let’s see what it is. Pisces, can you send a skeleton forwards?”
“On it.”
The [Necromancer] pointed, and the remaining pair of skeletons rushed into the darkness. They were unarmed, but the Raskghar made for imposing skeletons nevertheless. Ksmvr raised his shortbow, and Yvlon raised her shield, taking the other half of the corridor. Ceria and Pisces lined up. She saw his eyes flickering as his skeletons rushed forwards and then he groaned.
“Spiders.”
“Spiders? You mean, the ones Halrac and the others warned us about?”
Ceria breathed a sigh of relief. She’d been concerned when they’d received the message about Shield Spiders, but if the Silver Swords were good at anything, it was a standup fight. But Pisces’ pale face made her think twice.
“It’s not one or two Shield Spiders. It’s a—a wall of them. They are coming down the passage. Tens of thousands. I recommend we flee. Now.”
“A wall?”
The other stared at Pisces. He took a step back and pointed.
“Did you hear me? I said, run.”
“From Shield Spiders? Even in number, they’re not a threat.”
Ylawes looked dismissive. Pisces colored and then shouted.
“And if there are enough to bury you alive, you incompetent fool? I said there is a wall of them coming! Enough spiders to flood this tunnel from bottom to ceiling!”
He pointed up to the twelve-foot high ceiling above. Ylawes stared up.
“Ah.”
“That’s a lot of spiders. How fast’re they coming?”
Dawil looked ahead uneasily. The rumbling sound was getting louder fast. Pisces turned.
“Quickly.”
He began to run. The other adventurers looked at the fleeing [Necromancer] and then sprinted after him. Ceria felt the rumbling behind her enter her bones. She chanced a look over her shoulder. The light from her [Light] spell didn’t reach far back, but if she stared far into the distance, she could see a lot of rapidly moving shapes…
“[Light].”
Falene flung an orb backwards as she ran. The glowing yellow ball of light illuminated the corridor, passed the broken pieces of armor and then—
“Oh dead gods, run!”
Ceria saw the spiders. They crawled over each other, a torrent, a sea of skittering legs, staring eyes. Small ones crawled forwards, crushed by larger members. And behind them pushed a massive spider as large as the corridor. It was rushing forwards like a bull. Ceria imagined tripping, being covered by the tiny spiders as they bit her before the larger one simply crushed her with its weight. There were so many. They could bury her alive just with their numbers. There was nowhere safe. Like Pisces said, they went from floor to ceiling.
And they were fast. Ceria picked up the pace and passed by Ylawes and Dawil and Yvlon. Falene was lagging at the rear while Ksmvr and Pisces and Ceria took the front. But only Pisces was outdistancing the Shield Spiders with his [Flash Step]. The rest were falling behind.
“We’ll never make it!”
Falene shouted at the others. They were four corridors away from the burial chamber, but it was too far. She spun, her robes flashing with magical symbols and planted her staff.
“We need not flee. I will use a barrier spell!”
“Falene!”
Instantly, the other two Silver Swords halted and ran back towards her. For an agonizing moment, Ceria turned and saw Yvlon staring back at her brother. Then she halted.
“Pisces! Ksmvr!”
The two turned. Ksmvr immediately ran back, but Ceria saw Pisces hesitate. He looked back at the spiders and at her, and she met his eyes. Pisces whirled—and ran back.
“A spell?”
“Yes. Do not interrupt me. I will cast a barrier across the tunnel. It will hold the spiders.”
Falene was sweating as she raised her staff. She glanced over her shoulder at Pisces and Ceria.
“I would…appreciate any assistance you could give me.”
That was almost a plea coming from her. Ceria bit her lip. She wasn’t an expert with Tier 4 or Tier 5 spells at her disposal! She had one good spell, though. Ceria concentrated, drawing her wand and pointing it at the ground in front of her.
“[Ice Wall]!”
A wall of shimmering ice grew out of the ground. It stretched towards the ceiling, thin as a roll of parchment at first, then thickening as Ceria poured her magic into the spell. She saw Pisces raise his hands and point. A whirling mass of air formed in front of her wall, and then bones began to rise behind it, forming a crisscross pattern.
“[Wind Shield]. [Bone Wall]. This isn’t going to work.”
“Don’t tell me that now!”
Ceria poured her magic into the spell. Pisces bit his lip as the temporary bones he’d summoned out of the ground thickened. The ice and bones mixed into a solid mass. Ceria eyed it hopefully as the wave of spiders approached.
“It can hold! It’ll be four feet thick! Six!”
“That’s not enough. Falene’s spell will not hold either. The spiders are moving too fast, and they are too heavy.”
Pisces snapped back at Ceria. She saw the fear in his eyes and wavered. Falene cast a glance over her shoulders. It was full of pride, of scorn, and, Ceria’s heart lurched, beneath it all, uncertainty.
“I am a Gold-rank [Mage]. My [Force Barrier] spell will hold. I will pour all of my mana into it.”
She pointed. Behind the ice and bone, the air twisted as a barrier appeared. [Force Wall], a Tier 4 spell. Ceria stared at it hopefully. Pisces took one look and shook his head.
“Keep running. We have bought ourselves seconds at the price of minutes! We could attempt to go down that passageway there—find an escape.”
He urged the others down the corridor. There was a split ahead, a T-junction. Ceria gritted her teeth.
“We can’t go down that corridor! We’ll run right into a trap!”
“Then run back to the entrance! Hurry!”
“I am pouring my mana into the barrier. It will hold.”
Falene spoke in a half-trance. She refused to budge. Pisces swore and turned.
“Die if you wish! The rest of you, follow me!”
He turned and ran. Ceria hesitated for only a moment. But Pisces was right. And if there was any expert on spells she trusted—no, she trusted his cowardly instincts more.
“Go!”
Ksmvr and Yvlon dashed after Pisces. Ceria saw Ylawes and Dawil exchange glances. Dawil grunted.
“You keep doing your spell, Falene. Don’t mind us.”
He grabbed Falene’s arms, and Ylawes grabbed her legs. The half-Elf barely reacted as they ran, Dawil carrying her over his head and Ylawes supporting her legs. The half-Elf spoke slowly. She was putting all she had into the spell.
“It will hold. Do not run. We will be safe. We will—”
The adventurers slowed as they passed the T-intersection. To the left, Ceria saw the dungeon stretching beyond. Unknown. She chanced a look, but it was too dangerous. She halted as she saw Pisces had stopped. Ksmvr was rummaging around in his pack.
“I will endeavor to help as best I can.”
“Too late.”
The [Necromancer] stared back to the triple-layered barrier. Ceria turned and looked too as Ylawes, Dawil, and Falene skidded to a stop. She knew they should keep running. But she couldn’t help it.
The mass of Shield Spiders came down the tunnel like a breaking wave. The spiders were insane with fear and anger. They didn’t care that there was a wall in the way. They smelled living things. And they were moving too fast. They hit Pisces’ spinning barrier of air, hit the wall of ice and bone, and hit Falene’s [Force Barrier] spell with a collision that made the ground shake.
Ceria felt her magic shatter as the wall broke. She cried out—from shock more than anything else. But she had only cast the spell. She hadn’t tied herself to it. Ahead of her, she saw Falene’s eyes go wide. The half-Elf convulsed as bone and ice splintered down the corridor. Ceria saw spider chitin flying like shrapnel, saw a confusing mess of body parts, and then saw the spiders.
They were still moving. Thousands had been crushed by the impact, but the giant spider behind them was intact. And as more poured forwards, they regained their momentum. The spider wave began charging again. Straight at the adventurers.
“Falene? Falene!”
Ylawes was shaking Falene. The half-Elf was bleeding profusely from both nostrils, and she’d bitten through her lip. Dawil cursed and fumbled for a health potion.
“She’s suffering backlash! We need to—”
“Drop her and get ready! They’re coming!”
Yvlon snapped at the two males. The Silver Swords turned. The giant Shield Spider pushed its smaller brethren as they charged. Down the corridor. There was only the corridor to the left now. But even if they ran, they wouldn’t make it. Ceria raised a trembling hand. She could cast a spell. An overcharged [Ice Spear] like last time. But even if she did—
“Everyone, it’s been an honor.”
Yvlon raised her shield. Her sword was steady as she eyed the oncoming spiders from beneath her helmet. Ksmvr was still fumbling in his pack, as if they had anything that would stop that many spiders. A [Fireball] wouldn’t do it. Five fireballs—they should have been shooting them from the start, not blocking!
Another error. If she’d been thinking, she would have come up with it. Ceria closed her eyes. She looked at Pisces. He was standing still, his eyes on the spiders. He hadn’t drawn his rapier. It wouldn’t do much good anyways.
“You can still run.”
She looked at him. Pisces met her gaze. He had [Flash Step]. He could outdistance the spiders. Leave them behind. He glanced over his shoulder, back at her.
“That is true.”
He didn’t move. The spiders rolled towards them, and Ceria raised her skeletal hand. How had it gone? Maybe if she put everything she had into it. Maybe—
“Ah. I have found it. It is true that it is always in the last place I look.”
Ksmvr lifted something triumphantly. Ceria looked at him and wanted to laugh.
“Oh Ksmvr—”
He had a small, leather ball in his hands. A toy. It looked like one of Mrsha’s toys. Pisces’ eyes widened while Ceria turned away. At least Ksmvr tried. She saw the Antinium stride forwards.
“Allow me to help!”
“Ksmvr come back! Come—”
Yvlon shouted at him. Ksmvr was approaching the spider horde without fear. The Antinium tossed the little ball. Ceria watched it fly. Not towards the spiders. Left. Down the corridor. She heard it land softly, somehow, between the roar of the oncoming spiders. And then she heard the most terrifying, startling, horrendous shrieking sound she’d ever heard in her life. It was terrible, louder than the spiders, a sound designed to cause physical pain upon hearing!
And she had heard it once before. Ceria clapped her hands to her ears and saw Ksmvr run backwards, waving his three hands delightedly. The effect on the Shield Spiders was immediate. They stopped, slowed, rearing up, some rolling over, agonizing as the piercing sound reached them. It was coming from the little leather ball. The enchanted leather ball. The very one Ryoka had brought back from Invrisil.
An adventurer’s trick for luring monsters. The shrieking little ball rolled down the corridor. Instantly, the Shield Spiders turned to chase it. Ceria watched, mouth agape, as the living flood of spiders turned left and abandoned their pursuit of her team. Only a handful of spiders continued onwards, to be crushed by Dawil’s hammer and cut by Yvlon and Ylawes’ swords. The rest of the spiders chased the little ball as it shrieked and rolled forwards rapidly.
And then? And then the sound was muffled. The rumbling continued. But the spiders couldn’t turn back on their momentum. They flooded past the stunned adventurers, heading down the corridor into the distance. And then the rumbling was faint. And then it was distant.
And then there was silence. Ceria stood in the darkness, her heart pounding, drenched in sweat. She only closed her mouth when a tiny spider crawled into it. She spat and then looked at Ksmvr. He stood proudly in front of his team, in front of the Silver Swords and the comatose Falene. He looked hopefully at Ceria.
“Did I help adequately, Captain Ceria?”
 
——
 
