The one in armor feared to approach again lest he be caught by Gemhammer’s rope tricks. And the Raskghar archers were losing the duel of arrows for all they outnumbered The Pride of Kelia. Their stone arrows and cruder bows were no match for Gnollish recurves and composites. And the Gnolls could heal anything but a mortal wound with potions.
But the longer the fight wore on, the more the Silver-rank teams would be at a disadvantage. The only thing that gave them the edge were the healing potions. And Erin’s Scale Soup, which had allowed them to survive the Raskghar’s primitive arrows. Earlia looked at Nailren and got a nod. She tapped the man in front of her, and he moved forwards. She shouted as Gemhammer pushed towards the Raskghar clustered down the tunnel in front of them.
“Advance! We need that armor or that bow! Don’t let them escape!”
Boldness. The Raskghar expected them to hold in face of their numbers. But the Silver-rank adventurers wanted that armor and that bow. Earlia led the charge and heard the Raskghar howling as they fell back. She saw the one in armor point and then smaller shapes with glowing red eyes filled the space between them. Earlia cursed.
“They’re sending the Goblins forward!”
The small Cave Goblins were fast, far weaker than the Raskghar, but deadly in numbers. Earlia swung her warhammer and felt the tip crunch into a Goblin’s head. She halted as her team began to cut into the Goblins’ ranks.
“Damn, there are a lot of them!”
“Watch for arrows!”
The masked adventurer danced past Earlia, her blade cutting through the air. She beheaded a Goblin, turned, slashed another one across the chest, and speared a third through the neck. She was quick! Earlia was a master of brutal, powerful blows. This stranger used light, swift cuts and relied only on her grace to survive. The two women cut a path through the terrified Goblins. Until Earlia heard a warning call from behind.
“Captain! The Raskghar are retreating!”
“What!?”
It was true. The Raskghar had taken the opportunity given to them by the Cave Goblins to move back. She saw them turn and run as the Cave Goblins broke, fleeing before the adventurers and leaving scores of their dead behind.
“Why would they do that?”
It wasn’t like they were losing that badly. The not-Gnolls were bloodthirsty as any monsters Earlia had ever seen. Mystified, she looked at Nailren. The Silver-rank Gnoll Captain frowned.
“I hear howls of retreat. Of…of danger? I cannot tell. The Raskghar do not sound as we do. But they are retreating.”
“From us? You’re pulling my leg.”
“I am not, no. There is something else at work here.”
Earlia frowned. Her instincts were singing that this wasn’t good, but she wasn’t sure why. She looked back at her team and then at the bodies.
“I’m of the mind to pursue, but I don’t want to run into a trap. There’s a bounty on Raskghar. Let’s collect some heads first. Unless you object?”
“Not at all.”
Nailren grinned savagely. Earlia turned.
“Alright, set a guard and let’s get to collecting bounties!”
She saw the other adventurers in her team groan. They didn’t enjoy the gruesome task of hacking monsters apart to collect trophies they could turn into the Adventurer Guilds. The Gnolls just set to work with grim purpose, finishing off any monsters that moved.
“Miss Adventurer, care to join us? We’d be honored to share the bounty.”
The masked woman hadn’t moved since the Goblins and Raskghar had fled. She was staring into the dungeon. She jumped—literally jumped—when Earlia addressed her. She spun, warily. Earlia paused and gave her a friendly smile.
“How long have you been down here, Miss? We heard rumors there was someone in the dungeon. Are you part of the guild? We’re Gemhammer. That group of Gnolls is The Pride of Kelia.”
The adventurer tilted her head left to right, staring at Earlia. She didn’t respond. Her mask had neither breathing holes nor a place for her mouth. It looked crude, patchwork. But something shone in the eye sockets. A purple glow. An enchantment? Earlia hesitated. She felt…afraid. Just as quickly, the light vanished and Earlia’s nervousness vanished.
Had that been an enchantment? A Skill? Earlia bit her lip. Good form was to introduce oneself, but you got all kinds of strange adventurers in the higher ranks. In the lower ones too, but they tended to die off quick. She’d heard of Named Adventurers that acted like this. Could this woman be that good? No, she was probably Silver or Gold-rank. If she had survived down here, Gold-rank for certain.
“Will you join us? We’re collecting bounties.”
Again, the masked woman didn’t respond. Earlia wondered if she even understood. The Captain of Gemhammer knelt by a Goblin body, and the masked woman knelt with her.
“Are you hurt? Do you need a potion?”
No response. Then the woman slowly shook her head. Earlia nodded encouragingly. She could work with this! She tried to chat as she got to the dirty work in front of her.
“I hate this part of the job. Collecting heads. Ears. At least they let us do ears for the Goblins. It’s not worth hauling around a bunch of heads—unless you have a bag of holding. And I don’t have the coin to buy one for my team yet. You know?”
The masked woman shook her head again. Earlia laughed.
“Close enough!”
Back to work. Earlia grunted as she knelt by a Goblin and fished a dagger out. Goblin ears weren’t worth much, but every bit counted when you were saving. She began to saw, cursing at the blood, when she heard something. Earlia looked up.
“What’s that sound?”
She listened as the other adventurers looked up. Nailren, who’d already been frowning, shook his head.
“Not just sound. It’s a vibration. Something—”
Someone grabbed Earlia’s wrist. She shouted in alarm. The Goblin wasn’t dead! Earlia raised the dagger, but the Goblin wasn’t trying to attack her. Its lips were moving. It gurgled a sound at her. Earlia paused.
“What?”
The Goblin repeated the word. It was in its tongue. Earlia shook her head.
“What’s that? Mercy? Sorry. I’ll make this quick.”
The Goblin twitched. It said another word. This one sounded like common. Earlia frowned.
“What was that? Say it again.”
“Wave.”
She looked up. Nailren was standing over her. He looked at the Goblin. Earlia felt a jolt of surprise as she realized it had died as she’d looked away. The Gnoll frowned as he bent over it.
“It said ‘wave’.”
“Wave?”
Someone laughed. But Earlia frowned. Wave? That was a strange word, especially for a Goblin to use. Especially one in a cave. It couldn’t have seen the ocean. The ocean was hundreds of miles from Liscor, and the Floodplains had no tidal action, for all it was underwater. So how—
The masked woman had readied her sword when the Goblin moved. She had frozen when it spoke, but all of Earlia’s attention had been on the strange word the Goblin was repeating. But as Earlia spoke the word, she reacted. She backed away from the Goblins and waved her hands. The other adventurers stared at her.
“What is it? What’s wrong?”
The masked woman was suddenly panicked. She waved her hands, pointed up at the ceiling, and then pointed frantically with her arms down a tunnel. Earlia tried to make sense of it.
“Wait! Slow down. What do you want us to do? Follow you? It’s too dangerous!”
The masked woman stared at her. She looked over her shoulder, at the Goblins, and then ran. She waved her arms frantically as she sprinted down a tunnel. All without a sound. Earlia ran after her.
“Wait! Don’t go! What do you—”
Too late. The masked woman vanished into the darkness. Earlia stopped, bewildered. What was that about? She turned to look back at the other adventurers. They were just as confused. But now they were afraid. The masked woman knew something they didn’t. Earlia saw one of the Gnolls glance up and perk his ears up. He glanced at his Captain and murmured softly.
“Nailren. The rumbling. It is growing louder.”
One of the Gnolls called out uneasily. Earlia looked up. The distant rumbling was growing louder. And she could feel it now, too. In her bones. A distant vibration. She felt uneasy and shifted. This was like an earthquake underground. She saw the rest of Gemhammer reacting the same way.
“You think this is why the Raskghar cleared out?”
“It must be. But what does the wave mean?”
Nailren looked around. He sniffed the air and then turned. The rumbling sound kept growing louder and louder. Earlia gestured.
“Team, form up. Whatever’s coming, I want to be ready.”
The adventurers abandoned collecting trophies. They formed a wall in three directions, their back to the rift leading up. Earlia stared into the darkness. Now the rumbling was a physical sound. She felt her heart pounding. What was this? What was—
Nailren saw it first. He sucked in his breath and made a very un-warrior like whimpering sound. Earlia turned to him.
“What is it?”
“Spiders.”
He whispered the word. Earlia stared at him. She turned to the [Gem Mage] who’d received the [Message] and then to Nailren, uncomprehending.
“Spid—”
Then she saw it. In the distance, the black dungeon corridor suddenly turned into a rushing torrent of motion. A huge Shield Spider charged out of the darkness, pushing—being pushed by—a wall of spiders. They surged forwards, climbing on top of each other, scuttling forwards, crushing, devouring, burying everything in their way.
A wave.
The Silver-rank teams stared in horror for one second. Then Earlia moved.
“Up, up! Climb for your lives!”
The adventurers ran for the rift. But the wave was closing, and they didn’t have time to scale the rocky walls! The spiders were closing on them. A hundred feet, fifty feet—
 
——
 
“You are terrible at this. I’m trying to be nice, but I can’t explain it any other way.”
Ceria glared at the Silver Swords. She was this close to firing an [Ice Spike] at Ylawes. She pointed angrily at the dented and battered suit of armor lying on the ground. Half of the visor was melted off, and a huge gaping hole had been torn into its chest. The enchanted suit of armor was dead. Inanimate, rather. And the Silver Swords had done the killing.
Ceria was furious. She stood around the downed suit of armor, shaking with frustration as Yvlon backed her up. The Silver Swords stood on the other side while Pisces and Ksmvr hung back. Pisces was interpreting the tense scene for Ksmvr, who, as usual, was at a loss. She raged at the Silver Swords, trying not to shout in the confined dungeon.
“I thought you were going to help us! Instead, your team is a liability!”
“Watch your mouth.”
Falene frowned at Ceria. The older half-Elf looked peeved; her ears were twitching angrily. Ceria didn’t care.
“Watch my mouth? I’m speaking the truth!”
“Miss Springwalker, we are a Gold-rank team, and we’ve been together for eight years. I would appreciate a bit of civility. We are not amateurs.”
It was hard to tell who was more annoyed, Ylawes, Ceria, or Falene. The [Knight] looked angrily at his sister.
“Yvlon, your Captain believes we are inept. Please talk some sense into her.”
Yvlon folded her arms and sighed.
“I agree with Ceria.”
The Silver Swords stared at her. Ceria grabbed at her hair. She stood in the dungeon’s corridors, not five turns from where they’d begun. They had made almost no progress in an hour. For one reason.
“See? We’re trying to tell you the truth!”
“Sister, your tone is beyond insolent. I do not wish to be lectured by—”
Falene’s sharp voice was cut off by a rumble from Dawil. He raised his hammer and banged it on the ground loudly.
“Oh shut up, you stinking half-Elf. Not you. Our half-Elf. Although both of you smell.”
Both half-Elves glared at the Dwarf. Dawil appeared not to notice. He looked at Ceria.
“Go on.”
Ceria took a deep breath and tried to be diplomatic. She failed.
“Okay, listen. Your team is Gold-rank. You’re good at fighting monsters. No one’s denying that. Dead gods, you might even be better than Griffon Hunt or the Halfseekers in a straight up fight.”
“Hah. I like how this is starting.”
Dawil grinned. Ylawes and Falene just kept frowning. Ceria sighed.
“But. You’re not a good team for a dungeon. You might be the worst team I’ve ever seen for dungeon diving, and that includes Bronze-rank teams!”
The Silver Swords gave each other incredulous looks. Ylawes coughed into his gauntleted hand.
“You’re exaggerating, surely.”
“Am I?”
Ceria pointed at Ylawes with a trembling finger.
“Every time you see a monster, you attack it! Or challenge it to a duel! In a dungeon filled with traps! You think the best way to get rid of traps is to walk onto them and hope you survive it!”
The [Knight] blushed a bit. Ceria pointed at Falene next.
“As for you—you think that [Detect Magic] is all you need to check for spells! And you won’t shut up when we’re supposed to be quiet! And you always have a snide comment! Even Pisces shuts up sometimes!”
“Why thank you, Ceria.”
Falene sniffed.
“I resent the comparison.”
Ceria nearly screamed.
“That’s what I’m talking about! As for you—”
She pointed at Dawil. The Dwarf blinked at her accusatory finger.
“Why does an [Axe Champion] have a hammer instead of an axe!?”
A moment of silence followed Ceria’s last shout. She colored as she realized she didn’t really have anything bad to say about Dawil. But it had been bugging her. Dawil chewed on his beard for a moment and then fished at his belt.
“I’ve got an axe. Here.”
He raised an ornate throwing axe. Ceria stared at it. Dawil tossed it up and down casually and shrugged.
“I got my class because I won a throwing competition. Drunk. Got crowned as champion and got the class. I don’t like axes as much as hammers. I’ve got one good throwing Skill. That satisfy you, Miss Nosy half-Elf?”
“Yes.”
Ceria rubbed at her head. Dawil nodded.
“Then I think it’s time we headed back.”
Ylawes and Falene looked at him in shock. Ylawes protested.
“You can’t be serious, Dawil! You agree with her?”
The Dwarf nodded calmly. He looked at the other adventurers and rumbled.
“She has a point. Lots of good points, actually. We’ve never cleared a dungeon anywhere near as dangerous as this before.”
“We made good progress. We killed the suit of armor. And the Face-Eater Moth we found. And the pack of ghouls.”
“And nearly walked over an exploding rune trap. And the other one that took out half of my skeletons.”
Pisces sniffed. Ylawes paused, glanced at him, and then away. Dawil nodded.
“Face it, Ylawes. The only thing that kept us from walking on traps were all the [Necromancer]’s little toys that did it for us. None of us have trap finding Skills. More importantly, we don’t do well as a team.”
