“Warn them. That’s all we can do. They’ll have to handle it. We need to seal this entrance off. Let’s get to work.”
The Gold-rank teams nodded. They allowed themselves a moment longer to enjoy their victory, and then they got to work. They could hear the spiders moving far below, a vast rustling sound as the ones capable of squeezing into the tunnels drained out of their nest and into the dungeon.
 
——
 
The mood in the Mage’s Guild of Liscor was tense. Erin stood behind a gaggle of Drakes besieging the front desk. The nervous [Mage] on duty was not ready to have Watch Captain Zevara, Olesm, and Ilvriss demanding answers of him from all sides. Especially when he didn’t have any to give.
“I’ve cast the spell eighteen times, Wall Lord, Watch Captain! The mages must be busy!”
“Request another status update.”
Ilvriss glared at the shrinking Drake.
“Wall Lord, I did—”
“They can at least spare the energy to tell us whether they’re retreating or whether the spiders are moving out of the dungeon!”
“Wall Lord, I cannot force the [Mages] to respond. I only know what they’ve said.”
The Wall Lord stared at the [Mage] and then turned.
“Very well. Watch Captain, what is Liscor’s status?”
“Prepared, Wall Lord. I have already given orders to my men on the walls, and I’ve concentrated everyone on the north and eastern walls. We’re ready to cut the water bridges the instant we see Shield Spiders.”
Zevara didn’t blink. She folded her arms, and Ilvriss backed down slightly. From her position at the back, Erin thought she could feel him pull back his aura. Yes, now that Lyonette had mentioned it, she thought she could feel the Wall Lord trying to use it to take command! But Zevara was equal to the pressure because she didn’t blink.
“I have command of the walls, and Olesm assures me an assault on Liscor will fail, even if twice as many Shield Spiders crawl out of the dungeon than the moths. There is too much water. And Shield Spiders don’t swim.”
“Then we must simply worry about what will happen when the rain stops.”
Zevara nodded slightly. Olesm looked between the two and coughed nervously.
“I think the Gold-rank teams can hold them off. It’s rare that lower-level monsters can overwhelm a good team, and there are two currently fighting.”
“Understrength teams. Both have lost members. Although I agree with Swifttail’s appraisal. But they have not responded. Mage, tell them that I am requesting a report—”
Erin heard pounding footsteps and turned. She saw the Mage’s Guild doors flung open. Embria and two of her [Captains] strode into the room. The Wing Commander looked furious.
“Why was my command not informed about an attack on Liscor?”
The other Drakes stared at her. Erin saw Zevara turn her head. Olesm closed his eyes. She audibly heard Zevara whisper.
“Festering scale sores, I forgot.”
Embria advanced, and the Drakes in front of her cleared out of the way. She nodded curtly at Ilvriss and then Zevara. But it was Olesm she looked at.
“What is the situation, [Strategist]?”
Olesm straightened and saluted. His tail wagged nervously, although it wasn’t visible to anyone but Erin and Drassi, who were watching from the side.
“Two Gold-rank teams report a massive infestation of Shield Spiders in the dungeon, Wing Commander! They claim they’ve discovered an artificial nest containing hundreds of thousands of them! Large Shield Spider mothers similar to the Face-Eater Moth colony that assaulted Liscor. They speculate that the dungeon is a horde-style vengeance dungeon!”
“Horde style? Vengeance dungeon? I’m unfamiliar with these terms.”
Embria glanced uncertainly at her [Captains]. Olesm bobbed his head.
“These are adventurer terms, Wing Commander. It refers to a dungeon constructed solely to eradicate trespassers and damage intruders, rather than test them or safeguard treasures. It is considered the most malignant dungeon type. Horde style dungeons rely on massive monster nests rather than advanced traps or other features, although they may have multiple forms of protection.”
“I see. In that case, I will instruct my men to deploy to the walls in case the spiders breach the dungeon.”
Embria raised a claw, and Zevara spoke up.
“Not necessary, Wing Commander. I already have my people on the walls. I would appreciate your soldiers holding back until called for.”
Embria paused. She locked gazes with Zevara.
“My [Soldiers] would bolster your Watch, Captain Zevara.”
“I have no doubt, Wing Commander Embria. But this is my city.”
Zevara held her gaze until Embria nodded reluctantly. Erin whistled under her breath. She felt bad for the Watch Captain; Zevara had to deal with both Ilvriss and Embria all the time. She thought Embria was about to ask another question when the forgotten [Mage] gasped. Instantly, all eyes turned back to him.
“They’ve done it! Moore of the Halfseekers reports that the Shield Spiders failed to push back their teams! They halted the advance and greatly damaged the nest with a Tier 5 spell! They’ve taken no casualties and are preparing to seal the nest until they can return to it!”
A sigh rose around the Mage’s Guild. Erin felt the tension in her chest ease and saw Drassi’s eyes sparkling. The news would spread around the city the instant the Drake left the Guild. Ilvriss nodded.
“Adequate. Ask them for an estimate of the spiders and—”
“Wait.”
The [Mage] interrupted the Wall Lord. Her eyes flicked rapidly as she held one purple-scaled claw to her brow. Then her eyes widened.
“We have an immediate request! Someone send a [Message] spell to Gemhammer’s [Mage] or The Pride of Kelia’s [Shaman]! The Shield Spiders are retreating into the dungeon, and it is Halrac the Grim’s assessment that the other teams may come under threat!”
Some of the other [Mages] on duty immediately raised claws to their temples. Ilvriss looked around, frowning.
“A threat to the other teams? But not to Liscor?”
“Doubtful. The only other entrance we know of is through the underwater rift. We’re still safe.”
“What about Liscor’s Hive?”
“What about it?”
Olesm cringed as the others stared at him.
“Well, they did suffer an attack when the Face-Eater Moths attacked Liscor. It may be that their Hive will be assaulted again.”
Ilvriss dismissed this with a flick of his claws.
“A few Shield Spiders burrowing through the walls of their Hive isn’t a threat worth informing the Antinium over. Let them be.”
“Yes, Wall Lord.”
“As for the other teams—well, their survival is to be hoped for. But it seems this crisis has passed.”
“It does. For us. I’ll request a meeting with both Gold-rank teams when they return.”
Watch Captain Zevara adjusted her belt, looking visibly more relaxed. Erin watched both her and Ilvriss leave the Mage’s Guild. She didn’t feel any less tense. And when a [Mage] looked up and gasped, it was Erin who pushed her way through the crowd.
“The Pride of Kelia’s [Shaman] has replied! They have received the warning but cannot currently retreat! They are under attack!”
“From spiders?”
Everyone’s mind leapt to the same conclusion. But the Drake was shaking his head.
“No. A smaller group of monsters—”
“Where? And what monsters?”
Erin interrupted the gaggle of Drakes. The [Mage] looked irritated, but he replied.
“Not Shield Spiders—no. They’ve been engaged with a band of Raskghar for the last hour! Apparently, they’ve been fighting just below the rift. They do not intend to retreat, but they claim the enemy has magical armaments. I’m awaiting another update.”
“The Raskghar have magical weapons? That makes them a lot more dangerous. They’re intelligent, and I have every reason to believe they’ve been hunting adventurers. Guildmistress Tekshia should be warned about this threat.”
Olesm muttered to himself as he scribbled on a piece of parchment. The other Drakes weren’t really listening. The threat to the adventuring teams was a low priority, and most of the crowd had dissipated to relax now the crisis was over. Embria stormed out of the Mage’s Guild growling about being kept out of the loop. Olesm’s mind was still racing, though.
“I wonder if the Silver-rank teams can handle them. And why weren’t the Silver Swords and the Horns of Hammerad warned? Wait—they didn’t go into either entrance. Do you think they’d be willing to comment on these new developments for me, Erin?”
The Drake waited for a response, but none came. After a moment he looked up.
“Erin?”
She was already gone.
 
——
 
“Captain! Liscor says there’s a Shield Spider nest being stirred up somewhere in the dungeon!”
“What? Who the fuck cares about a nest! Tell them we’re a little busy over here!”
An arrow flew over Earlia’s head, nearly grazing her helmet. She ducked and shouted at her group’s [Gem Mage]. The man was hiding behind a shield and wasting his time on [Message] spells. She pointed.
“Stop chatting with the Drakes and cast some magic!”
She saw the man in front of the mage holding the shield stagger. Nothing had struck his shield. Nothing visible at any rate. But Earlia knew from the burning pain in her shoulder that the invisible arrows the Raskghar with the bow were firing were powerful indeed. Another arrow struck the shield bearer in front of her from the side, and she saw an arrow sprout from his leg. He screamed and nearly dropped his shield.
“Don’t you dare lower that shield! Shield your faces!”
Earlia screamed at her team, grabbing another healing potion. She yanked the arrow out of Timgal’s leg and heard him scream. Ruthlessly, Earlia poured the healing potion onto his leg. The potion was a good one—it would neutralize the poison as well as heal the wound.
“Not barbed. Thank the cities.”
“Do not falter! Take cover if you are wounded! Focus on the one with the enchanted bow!”
Nailren bellowed as he tossed another explosive vial of alchemist’s oil at the Raskghar. The flames made them howl in fear and panic and pull back despite the urging of their leaders. Earlia spotted the huge Gnoll in armor waving a maul and pointed at him. Then she saw a flash. The slim [Swordswoman] who’d joined the fight raced into a pack of Raskghar. She heard them howl in pain and saw them fleeing. Earlia grunted.
“Who the hell is that?”
“Whomever it is, they have a death wish. There are too many Raskghar out there!”
The Gnoll Captain followed the masked woman as she dodged and wove among the Raskghar. His prediction of death didn’t come true; the mysterious fighter was adept at striking the Raskghar and fleeing or dodging backwards before they could follow.
With her skirmishing in the shadows, they could divide the enemy’s attention. Nailren shot another arrow at a Raskghar threatening to club down the strange ally from behind and then spun as he heard a roar. He growled, and Earlia pointed. The armored Gnoll was charging!
“He’s coming! Ready the ropes!”
The huge Raskghar bounded forwards, the magical armor he was wearing shining as the Gnolls tried to hit his unguarded face. But the Raskghar was clever enough to shield his face with a gauntleted hand. With the other, he charged the Humans with shields. He would have shattered them with his maul, but Earlia raced forwards with three of her companions. They tossed something at the Raskghar.
Rope. Just plain, sturdy rope. But it was attached to grappling hooks or looped. The Raskghar grunted in surprise as the adventurers split up. They ran past him, the ropes dragging around the giant beast. Too late, he realized what they were doing. Entangling him! Trying to tie him up!
The Raskghar immediately swung his maul, forcing one of the adventurers with rope to roll away. But then Earlia was charging him.
“Let’s see you dodge this!”
She swung her warhammer with a roar. If she’d still been able to use her [Hammer Blow] Skill, she would have. The Raskghar blocked the blow with an arm and howled. Earlia felt the impact run all the way back down her warhammer. It hadn’t broken the armor, but it had to have hurt to block. Tearing at the ropes, the Raskghar swung at her.
“Hold him steady!”
Earlia wanted to swing again, but the Raskghar tore free of the other two adventurers and stumbled backwards. The other axe and club-wielding Raskghar who’d come forwards with him fell back, and the Gnolls who’d showered them with arrows before meeting them in a brutal melee fell back.
“Anyone wounded?”
“Cuska lost her thumb! The Raskghar bit it off!”
Nailren saw one of the Gnolls howling over a bloody appendage. He snarled and raised his bow. One of the Raskghar fell as it retreated. Nailren would have shot again, but his instincts made him duck behind the shield one of Gemhammer’s [Warriors] was holding. The invisible arrow glanced off the shield.
“Stalemate. Everyone, heal any injuries! Captain Earlia, we must break this situation before reinforcements arrive!”
“You’re reading my mind!”
Earlia took cover and downed a stamina potion, feeling the rush of energy fill her limbs. She glanced over the shield she was hiding behind. They’d been fighting for over an hour here, right at the entrance to the dungeon. It had mostly been an archer’s duel with a few bloody skirmishes. And so far, it felt like they were winning.
“Miss Swordswoman! Over here!”
In the sudden lull, Earlia took the opportunity to shout at the woman who’d appeared in the middle of the fighting. The slim figure turned, her sword wet with blood. She tilted her head slightly as Earlia waved to her frantically. She strode towards them, ignoring the arrows flying past her.
“Dead gods, you must be insane! Are you Gold-rank? What’s your team? How long have you been down here?”
Earlia grabbed for the stranger, dragging her behind the wall of adventurers. She received a shock—the stranger was light as a feather! The masked adventurer didn’t respond. She nodded at Earlia, pointed at the Raskghar, and made a slicing motion across her neck. Earlia stared. Then she laughed.
“Works for us! Stick with our groups. We’re making a push!”
The woman nodded. Earlia looked around. They had the upper hand now.
The Raskghar were numerous. Strong. But they lacked magic. With two exceptions, they were simply strong [Warriors], and both Silver-rank teams had the Skills and magical gear to even the odds. The real trouble was the Raskghar wearing armor who was difficult to kill and the one with the invisible arrows and enchanted bow. But so far, Earlia’s team had beaten them back.
