“It is easier if we are not both seen missing from the party.”
The other figure paused.
“I had to know. How did it go?”
Pisces smiled with genuine satisfaction.
“Extremely well. They all paid close attention to the prompts I gave them. They are doubly suspicious of the Antinium motives. I believe some urgent communications are going out to the Walled Cities now. Which is why I shall be sending [Message] spells with my valuable information as soon as I have the opportunity. Is that to your satisfaction?”
He waited as Ceria brushed water out of her eyes. The half-Elf glanced at Pisces and nodded.
“It is. Are you planning on selling the secret of the Antinium entrances to all the Walled Cities?”
“The Walled Cities—all except Oteslia perhaps, since they seldom spend money on purchasing secrets. And the information will be public knowledge among those privy to it soon enough. But yes, the Walled Cities and a select list of nobles in northern Izril.”
Ceria eyed Pisces.
“You have a list? Really?”
“Springwalker, I bought a list of those who might in turn purchase secrets from me. Secrets are valuable wherever one travels, and there are those who pay well for any advantage over their competitors. By this time tomorrow, everyone will know that the Antinium want something out of Liscor’s dungeon.”
“Yeah. Treasure maybe. Or strategic advantage.”
Ceria shivered in the rain. Pisces nodded.
“I suspect more adventurers will flood into Liscor soon. Far more. And if the Walled Cities do not immediately fund an expedition, well, I would be stunned.”
“Which means there’ll be a lot of competition. A lot more bodies entering the dungeon. The other teams would kill us if they knew we were doing this.”
“Or at the very least, not sharing the profits.”
Pisces hefted the bag of gold. He offered it to Ceria. She swore.
“He gave you that much for talking?”
“He assumed I was going behind all of your backs, so yes. A Wall Lord knows to be generous, especially to backstabbing Humans.”
Pisces watched Ceria half-open the bag and then close it. His old friend closed her eyes, looking pained.
“I know how much trouble this is going to cause. I know. And the other teams deserve to have the first shot at the dungeon. But—”
She looked helplessly at Pisces.
“Do you think they’d understand?”
“We do.”
Yvlon and Ksmvr stepped out of the shadows. Pisces sighed.
“You do know that a sheet over one’s head is not a disguise, Ksmvr?”
“It is not a disguise. I am keeping the rain off of myself and Yvlon.”
“Ah. Carry on.”
The two other Horns of Hammerad joined Pisces and Ceria. Yvlon wiped water out of her hair. Pisces resolved to use a flame spell to dry their clothes before returning to the party. And come up with a suitably unbelievable excuse that hinted at something innocuous. One of them had to be professional about all of this.
“We all talked it over, Ceria. We all agreed. We can’t search that dungeon alone. We’re not qualified. If there is any chance at someone finding Calruz—”
“It’s with everyone fighting to be first into that dungeon. I know. I came up with the idea with what Ksmvr told me.”
Ceria leaned against the wall. She looked at Ksmvr.
“You’re alright with all this, Ksmvr?”
“Yes, for the eighteenth time, Captain Ceria. I am not betraying my Hive.”
Ksmvr stood proudly. He’d acted his part out well. The Shield Spiders had not been part of it, nor had the Silver Swords’ incompetence, but all had worked out in the end. He nodded at his team.
“The knowledge of the dungeon’s entrances will not inconvenience my Hive. I am sure of that.”
Pisces was not, but he watched Ceria pat Ksmvr on the shoulder and the Antinium stand taller without comment. He looked at his team. Fellow conspirators all. He would never have expected this kind of plan from them, but they were always surprising him. Pisces smiled.
“Well, it seems you’ve finally begun taking advantage of my varied and extraordinary skill set, Springwalker, Miss Byres. I hope you will at least enjoy the next phase.”
“Next phase? I thought the next part was that we didn’t talk about this ever again.”
Yvlon eyed Pisces with deep distrust. He sighed.
“Of course, that is part of our design. But we are allowed a bit of enjoyment. Please consider how amusing it will be.”
“What will be?”
The [Necromancer] smiled.
“Why, everything that follows of course.”
He smiled. Above the dungeon, adventurers celebrated and grand plots were spun, the outcomes of which only he could guess at. And below, the dungeon waited. It had failed to claim the adventurers who had begun to wake it. But there was always more dungeon. And there was always next time.
