Not all of Vithar’s allies felt the same it would appear, a minority of the whole yet no small number altogether, and their heresy was swiftly punished. The blasphemers broke the silence with tortured screams of furious denial and unfettered agony as they turned against one another, the disbelievers culling themselves out of some twisted sense of righteous justice. They rejected the Uniter’s glory and in doing so rejected reality itself, their minds broken and souls mangled by their stubborn unwillingness to comply. The disbelievers died swiftly as they fought without rationality, culled in an instant once the Transcendents took action, and their corpses melted away same as the rest. For a moment, Vithar felt a pang of fear and outrage, only to be replaced by envy of their good fortune for having joined the Transcendents so that they might serve the Uniter in death after their refusal to serve him in life.

How euphoric it must be to serve the Uniter for all eternity, a being who transcended mortality and touched upon the Divine.

Do You Desire Strength?

The question was asked and answered in an instant, as Vithar had no need to even consider the implications of anything the Uniter might demand of him, for he served in body, mind, and soul. As reward for his reverence, Vithar was amongst the first to benefit from the Uniter’s blessings as his body swelled with power and his mind filled with the answers to questions he had not even thought to ask. The path forward was clearer than ever as his bone axe came to life in his hands, its barbed haft biting deep into his flesh to drink of his blood and share in the strength bestowed upon him by the Uniter above. Vithar claimed this battle-axe from his father before him, who claimed this prize from a rival Chieftain he slew in battle before setting forth to lead his own tribe, but that was the sum total of what he knew about this bone axe of his. Though he’d carried it for years and saw it as his most trusted companion in battle, one he relied on more than the garo beneath him or Asmani beside him, it was only today that he realized there was something lurking within, a feral, voracious spirit of slaughter and mayhem which Vithar connected with on a base level.

This Spirit’s voice was different from the distant and sometimes conflicting advice of the Ancestors, wherein their goals were separate and distinct from Vithar’s own and sometimes even contrary to his well-being. No, this was a union of partners, of equals in all ways, an intertwining of their fate and existence into one inextricable thread. He was the Axe and the Axe was he, a melding of man and weapon that went beyond what he’d experienced before. Though the axe had always felt like a part of him, their previous connection was a shallow one that never went beyond physical familiarity. He wielded the weapon in body, but now he would wield it with mind and soul as well, guided by none other than the spirit residing within, one which was as ferocious in death as it had been in life.

With his partner leading the way, Vithar transcended the limits of his frail mortal body to become more than just man and weapon, but both as one in harmonious unity. The barbed spikes dug deep into his flesh and bone, but there was no pain, only the thrill of advancement as power surged through those barbs and into his body to transform and empower it to better suit their needs. The pangs of hunger overwhelmed him in an instant and Vithar lashed out at the closest food source at hand, the garo beneath him. An unthinkable betrayal in times past, for even in the hardest of times, his mount was more boon than burden in the wastelands of the North, but Vithar no longer needed it anymore, for he had his axe to replace it.

The garo’s rough leathery hide and tough, resilient flesh gave way as Vithar bit down upon the base of its neck, paralyzing the creature without killing it so that he might indulge in its panicked terror. The stupid garo had yet to understand what just happened, and it died in ignorance as Vithar tore into its body with tooth and nail to partake of its flesh. The beast alone was far from enough to sate his hunger, but when only bones remained, he looked up to see a Transcendent offering itself to him, a feast in this time of famine presented to him by the Uniter himself. Rather than tooth and nail, this time Vithar utilized his battle-axe, which bit deep into the Transcendent with a spray of Ichor which was so tantalizing to his senses. Without even thinking of the consequences, he brought his lips to the gushing wound and drank deeply of its lifeblood. Rather than the burning pain one might expect, he experienced a heady rush as the sweet nectar brought him to new heights of pleasure and strength.

Even the pain of his transformation was pleasant and alluring in its own way, a change of pace that made him relish the pleasure that much more. His body was not the only thing to benefit, as his battle-axe partook alongside him, its barbs anchored to his bones and organs to connect them as one. On the surface, the changes were even more apparent as the battle-axe melded itself to his skin, covering him from head to foot in solid, interconnected plates of yellowed ivory. The axe itself had not changed, but the spirit inside was no longer confined to its physical vessel, freed from its prison by Vithar’s hand and eager to join him in the physical world once again. To this end, it took hold of the garo’s skeletal remains and breathed new life into its carcass, using the lifesblood of the Transcendent to fuel its vision. The skeletal mount swelled in size and grew thick and supple until it looked like a living garo once more, except rather than flesh and blood, this was a creature of chitin and Ichor, a Transcendent in all but name. It was not the Spirit which commanded it alone, but Vithar as well, a melding of man, weapon, and now, mount that made him stronger than he ever dared dream.

When the first Transcendent was drained and devoured, Vithar found a second waiting for him to consume, and he finished a third before he felt the pleasant discomfort of complete satiation. Letting loose with a triumphant roar, he relished this heady achievement and took it all in, going over the process in memory once more if only to experience it a second time. For his loyalty, the Uniter had rewarded him, and now Vithar was finally strong enough to take his place as the true Chieftain of Chieftains and rule over his people as the most powerful tribesman alive, one in dedicated service to the Uniter.

Reeling from the fast-fading waves of pleasure and fond memories burned into mind, Vithar staggered about in an effort to find his new bearings and discovered a whole new world of possibilities before him. It was more than just strength of body, but strength of mind and soul as well, a truth he only uncovered after the fact as he took in everything around him. He was not the only tribesman to be graced by the Uniter’s blessing, nor were the Chosen left out in any way, shape or form. Not all had been gifted with a Transcendent either, which explained why this army of millions had been cut down in size, for the strong thrived while the weak died to fuel another’s transformation. That and the fact that not all of them had stopped to heed the Uniter’s initial command. In fact, the vast majority had continued fleeing, except Vithar’s senses had been too weak to pick up on it before, and a good number of those cowards had been his own tribesmen and allies. Gargeera led them now, riding fast through the desert sands almost a kilometre away, yet Vithar knew he could catch up to them in a matter of seconds and claim the life of the once superior Chieftain with little more than a wave of his axe.

Not worth the effort. Let the traitors run. Their time would come soon enough, after Shi Bei was razed to the ground and the Central Province brought to ruins beneath the Uniter’s heels.

Turning his attention to himself, he preened at the sight of his formidable form, the Chieftain of Chieftains seated upon a Chieftain of garos worthy of his magnificence. That’s how it would appear to others, but only Vithar and the Uniter knew that this was not so, and he looked forward to surprising his Imperial foes in battle. Aside from himself, there were others who’d Transcended alongside him, Chieftains of cunning and strength who appeared at his side to offer their fealty to the Uniter’s Champion. The Chosen themselves had also undergone similar transformations, with the bulk of them becoming Half-Demons while a select few might consider themselves Vithar’s close peers, but there were only two who surpassed in raw, unfettered strength.

And not by a small margin either. Where Vithar’s transformation had been fuelled by three Transcendents, Mao Jianghong had already consumed four and was working on a fifth, the only one on the battlefield still yet to complete his Transcendence. His translucent blue armour was a sight to behold, shimmering and radiant like the shiny rocks these southerners so loved to adorn themselves with. The armour grew before Vithar’s eyes, encasing him in a crystalline shell that shimmered in the afternoon sun and emitted a haze that made it seem as if a portion of reality was fluid and fast melting. Even from a distance, he could feel the chill emanating from the Ice-Blessed south-lander, a bleak and bitter bite that reminded Vithar of the cold and inhospitable nights back home. As the fifth Transcendent died and withered away, Mao Jianghong’s figured swelled until it seemed ready to burst before contracting back into his slender, whiplike figure, one which was slowly revealed as his armour melted away until only a skin-like layer remained. Clear blue clothes appeared about him, cut and embroidered in the style of the south-landers Vithar was most familiar with, and the same clothes he’d seen worn by the young boy they called the Legate.

This was Mao Jianghong in his most natural form, almost no different from before save for an almost translucent, blueish cast to his skin and clothing that cast his human features in an eerie light. There was no reaction from the man as he underwent his Transcendence, no sign of pain or delight to be seen at all, nothing save for a focused intensity that was almost inhuman to behold. Vithar had never seen a man so determined, and only now did he realize that Mao Jianghong had not been content to stop at his limits, but had pushed past them in his bid for even more. This man was not stronger or more talented than any other on the battlefield, merely more determined, so much so that he would stop at nothing to obtain that which he desired more than anything in the world.

Vengeance.

The former Guard Captain’s Transcendence completed without fanfare, but he stood so still and expressionless that Vithar wasn’t entirely sure if the man had succeeded or if he’d Transcended in truth to become yet another of the Uniter’s puppets. Then, without warning, Jianghong’s head turned to Vithar and his blue, unblinking eyes fixated upon him as if peering into the depths of his soul. So transfixed by this stare, he almost failed to notice the amber-eyed Warrior appear alongside them, his familiar form similarly enhanced and empowered as he radiated even more threat than Mao Jianghong. Even with his enhanced perceptions, Vithar had failed to take note of this mysterious Warrior’s Transcendence, yet there could be no doubt of his strength as he radiated quiet threat by virtue of existence alone, as if the world itself was ready to crumble apart if he should so choose to destroy it. This one was no leader however, and he fell in line readily beside Vithar without so much as a word, his amber eyes fixated on Shi Bei as Transcended human and half-beasts fell into formation around them.

“Come,” Jianghong Sent, turning about as two icy swords formed in his hands with little to no effort at all, twin to the swords he wielded in life save for the icy cast to their steel. “The Sovereign calls us.”

And we must obey. That was the unspoken implication to Jianghong’s statement, and for a moment, Vithar resisted the urge to go along, for he was Chieftain of Chieftains and no dog to be ordered about. Then, the urge died away and was replaced by mild bemusement, for it was his good fortune to serve one so Divine as the Uniter. This newfangled strength was merely the beginning, a reward for his loyalty thus far, and there would be more to come in the battles ahead, more to kill and consume.

To the victors go the spoils, and no mortal could stand against the Uniter. No one.

Chapter Meme
