Dire though the circumstances might be, Taduk’s heart leapt with joy at the prospect of having yet another Ascension to study, marking this the third he’d been blessed enough to witness firsthand.

The first was almost two decades ago, when little Lin-Lin transformed from a Cloud Chaser Hare into the most darling and adorable daughter in the world. Not only was this his most cherished moment in history, it was also the most enlightening experience he’d ever encountered. Until now at least, for Zhen Shi’s Ascension was equally enlightening, but only because he’d seen Lin-Lin’s and Vyakhya’s first. If not, he would have no basis for comparison and nothing to contrast this unprecedented event against. Where Lin-Lin’s Ascension was organic and natural, Vyakhya’s was unnatural and forced, an affront to the Heavens which resisted his efforts to Ascend every step along the way. For all the strife and struggle the Heavens threw his way, the Demonic Divinity still succeeded in spite of it, and Zhen Shi’s Ascension was similar in this manner, yet wholly different as well, both familiar and unrecognizable like a song played in reverse with half the notes played out of tune.

The process was more or less the same for all three Ascensions, though the means and methods differed greatly. Essentially, to become a Divinity, one first had to be reborn and baptized anew by the Energy of the Heavens. As far as Taduk could tell, the Manifested Domain served a similar purpose to a woman’s womb, wherein it was used to nurture and refine the subject’s body, mind, and soul in order to endure the stress that comes with Shattering the Void and the deluge of Heavenly Energy alongside it. He knew now that this was the Refinement process, though Taduk suspected that undergoing this step so late was a mistake given how Spiritual Beasts began the process much earlier on, resulting in the formation of Spiritual Hearts. Yes, Hearts, as in multiple, for as far as he could tell, Pong Pong’s entire body and organs were all technically Spiritual Hearts, making him a teensy tiny treasure trove for any Warriors under twenty centimetres tall. Granted, Lin-Lin’s progress as a Cloud Chaser Hare had not been so far advanced, lacking quite a bit in comparison to the most Divine of turtles, but the theory was still sound. Despite Pong Pong’s success however, there was still something missing considering the fact that even a Divine Beast such as he was not yet ready to wholly Shatter the Void and ascend to a new plane, but thus far, all signs indicated that the Refinement and unification of the body, mind, and soul were all pivotal to success.

A suspicion proven quite readily by Zhen Shi himself, who went through this same process as he Shattered the Void outright, though not without all the fuss of what others called the foul gaze of the Father Above. Taduk had long since theorized that this was merely a Manifested Domain containing Laws which should not be present in this world, a bending of the rules as such. That’s why Demonic Transformations always felt wrong and unsettling, whereas Lin-Lin’s Ascension was beautiful and pure, the beauty of birth without all the mess of blood and other fluids, only the raw, unfiltered Energies of the Heavens themselves. There could be other reasons for this disparity, such as the direction the process took, in that an Ancestral Beast was a creature of the physical world with roots extending into the metaphysical, whereas a Demon was the reverse, but Taduk didn’t know enough about the subject to really comment on the matter, much less come up with a possible theory. This one belonged to Rainy boy in fact, which was mostly based on wild conjecture, so while it made enough sense to seem plausible for now, they lacked the means to prove or disprove the theory just yet.

Right up until Zhen Shi started and finished his own Ascension in a matter of seconds, and Taduk witnessed two ostensibly parallel and divergent Paths come together to form a complete whole, a process which drew upon the Void even as it drew upon him.

How irksome. Zhen Shi understood simply from watching Vyakhya’s Ascension to a Demonic Divinity, but Taduk needed the answers presented to him in complete form. Well, perhaps not entirely complete, for though Zhen Shi’s Ascension was less flawed than most, Taduk would still hesitate to call it a True Ascension to Divinity, for he was still mortal yet. Powerful yes, with a presence that outstripped even the Demonic Divinity and continued to soar as the old wolf took the fight to his foe, but it was far too soon to act. Rainy boy’s fault for getting ahead of himself instead of waiting to see things through. No matter, for he was young and impulsive, while the old wolf had no such excuse as he followed suit without thinking and landed himself in hot soup. Though the ‘foul gaze of the Father’ had fallen off, this was no regular Demonic transformation, so the unnatural Laws were only necessary for part of the process and there was still more to go. The Energy of the Heavens continued to surge into Zhen Shi, remaking and reforging his very existence, the power of Creation and Destruction both building him up to something greater than what he was, and for the first time in Taduk’s long life, he was finally able to catch a glimpse of what the Dao might look like in its entirety.

Rainy boy likened his pursuit of the Dao as trying to put together a puzzle without knowing what it should look like or having all the pieces in hand, as apt a comparison as any. Taduk saw things the same way, except now, he knew enough to not only put together most of the pieces he had in hand, but also make an educated guess regarding the pieces he was still missing. In short, as Zhen Shi fended off the old wolf’s attacks with the effortless ease of one bolstered by the Energy of the Heavens remaking his physical and metaphysical form, Taduk watched it all come together like the weaving of a tapestry controlled by ten-thousand different hands, a most fitting description Rainy boy once used which Taduk could never get enough of. This was not the mere movement of needle and thread, but rather the creation of reality itself, and though it appeared as if it violated Rainy boy’s law of conservation of mass, this was only because there were energies in play that Taduk was unable to perceive much less identify.

It was so easily seen once both Paths converged, for it had long since been theorized that Imperials and Defiled were but two sides of the same coin. After putting them both together however, the interaction between the two Paths showed that there were clearly still more powers at work, not just Creation and Destruction, but something even more profound and ineffable interwoven between them to complete the union of two Paths. It wasn’t something so fundamental as the glue that held it all together, but Taduk could see that without it, this Ascension would be no different from what he saw from Lin-Lin or Vyakhya, an ultimately flawed process that resulted in something less than a True Divinity and little better than your standard Ancestral Beast or Human Divinity. It was part and parcel of the whole, yet not required for the process at all, a curious and almost conflicting circumstance indeed, like building a wooden bridge and placing every other plank aside, resulting in something that was still serviceable, but not quite as sturdy. At least that was how Taduk saw it, for this unknown energy seeped into the cracks and crevices of Zhen Shi’s tapestry, the concrete to the rebar frames to put it into better perspective, or perhaps even taking it one step further to add crushed cobble to the mix and further add to the wall’s tensile strength.

All of which was only apparent due to the negative ‘space’ Zhen Shi’s efforts left behind, for try as he might, Taduk was unable to see or sense any other energies at work despite knowing they must be present.

It was something of an abstract concept, like negative numbers except even more so. It was impossible to possess a negative amount of anything, but such concepts were necessary to denote incurred debts. This unknown energy was the same, in that it wasn’t exactly present, but the absence its presence left behind was telling and significant in a way Taduk didn’t entirely understand. There was power there to be sure, power drawn from this perfect Balance of Creation and Destruction, positive and negative, physical and metaphysical, and more, but he was at a complete loss as to how it might come into play, save to state that it most surely existed.

Bah. If only Taduk had been three steps quicker to catch Ping Ping’s ascension and see how it played out from start to finish, then he might well have had all the answers he needed here today. How could one harness the twin powers of Creation and Destruction in perfect Balance without them cancelling one another out to result in a stalemate? Why did Spiritual Beasts turn into humanoid Ancestral Beasts instead of bestial Divine Beasts like Pong Pong? In what direction should he take his next steps along his own personal Path? What was this newfangled energy and did it have something to do with why the old wolf was old and why humans only lived for a hundred and twenty years while demi-humans lived for five-hundred? There was so much to learn and study, Taduk could almost dance with glee if not for the fact that he was now standing before the most powerful foe he’d ever seen and might well not make it out of here alive.

That would truly be a shame, to have come so close to a proper answer only to die before he could put it all together, but alas, such was life.

Keeping an eye on things through Scrying so that he could review it all again later, Taduk looked down at his sweet daughter and hugged her close. At first, she hugged him back on mere reflex, until she sensed something off about him and squeezed him even tighter. Though he wished nothing more than to hold her for forever and a day, he saw that the old wolf was outmatched and would need help soon enough, especially seeing how the likes of Zhu Chanzui, Mataram YuKon, and the other Enemy Divinities were getting ready to act. Pulling back from his daughter’s embrace, he tried to stay strong as she clung to his hand and peered up with her big, brown eyes, like limpid autumn pools threatening to overflow with tears for fear of what would come next. “Don’t cry now, my brave and beautiful Lin-Lin,” he crooned, pinching her soft cheeks before breaking eye contact for fear of spilling tears of his own. “Give Daddy a smile or else I’ll be too worried to concentrate.” Giving Blackjack a little nuzzle as he kissed Lin-Lin’s head goodbye, he took a moment to commit her teary smile to memory before flashing her a smile of his own, and praying she didn’t see the tears streaming down his cheeks, for he feared he might not make it out of this mess alive.

Much as he would love to bid Rainy boy farewell too, he was engrossed in controlling his flying sword and studying Zhen Shi’s Ascension, so he was best left undisturbed lest he miss out on some vital piece of information. There was something about the way he saw things that made it oh so applicable to the Dao, though Taduk had no earthly idea how or where the boy came up with all his wild notions and theories. No matter though, for even if Taduk died here today, Rainy boy was beloved by the Heavens and would likely make it out alive, hopefully with Lin-Lin and a few others at his side.

This was no longer his fight, but a battle between Divinities, and Taduk was unwilling to give up even if it meant breaking the Treaty in its entirety.

The old wolf had given it his all in the seconds since the battle began, but Zhen Shi had hardly paid him any mind, anchored in place whilst unravelling the mysteries of the Dao as the Energy of the Heavens remade him in body, mind, and soul. As noted before, there was more to it than just Heavenly Energy, and not all of it was unrecognizable, leading Taduk to reaffirm his conviction that Imperials were missing out on so much by disregarding the Defiled branch of the Martial Path. An obvious conclusion to make, given how Balance was so pivotal to the Dao, but even then it was difficult to understand how a Path of medians and a Path of extremes could come together so perfectly in Zhen Shi’s Ascension. Alas, the time for contemplation was over and done with, and now it was time to fight, but Taduk was not the first Divinity to step forth and support the old wolf in his fight.

That honour went to sweet and somewhat crazed Ling Lu, a fine woman and Ancestral Deer who’d made it her mission to bed Taduk for the sole purpose of one-upping Hua Lie. Though beautiful and shapely, she was little more than a girl in his eyes despite her centuries of life, so he never was too too tempted by her advances, but he was more tempted than ever upon seeing her courage and determination here today. Amongst all the gathered Divinities, she was the youngest and weakest save for Lin-Lin, yet she did not hesitate to put herself in harms way to save the man she saw as her father. The old wolf was a gruff and unsociable sort, but deep, deep, deep down, hidden under all his disdain and hurtful comments, was a soft heart that loved his people so. Only a select few were ever able to worm their way into his good graces, and Ling Lu was most certainly one of the most favoured, a spoiled girl who ran rampant throughout the province because she knew her adopted father would protect her without fail.

