A headstrong girl, though she could hardly be faulted for turning the Ancestral Stag Ba Khe Zhu against them. They’d been friends once, or at least as friendly as two Divinities could be, but now Ba Khe Zhu was racing forward in an eager bid to take the old wolf’s head instead of standing side by side on the battlefield. Theirs was a rivalry older even than Taduk, which made Ba Khe Zhu’s interest in Ling Lu all the more distasteful, but much like how stupid Hua Lie refused to acknowledge the difference between rabbits and hares, the Ancestral Stag was convinced that a union with Ling Lu would result in a viable and suitable heir. It wouldn’t. Though she was a deer and he a stag, that was only in name, as Ling Lu’s ancestry hearkened back to a breed of ungulates common to North, while Ba Khe Zhu was from a long extinct breed that originated from the Central Plains. They were as different as lions and tigers, both from the same family but not the same breed, which had long since been proven to be an unviable pairing between Divinities. An experiment Da Hui had not been pleased about mind you, though he happily bedded the Ancestral Black Bear despite being a Grizzly himself, but even if Ling Lu and Ba Khe Zhu were able to have children together, then he should at least wait until she was willing.

Which meant it came as no surprise when the Ancestral Stag’s attack on the old wolf was revealed as a feint, one made only so that he could get closer to Ling Lu and capture her. Though helpless to defend herself against him, she flashed a smile at her assailant as her protective ‘older brother’ struck Ba Khe Zhu down and sent him crashing to the sands below. Whirling his staff about faster than Taduk’s eyes could follow, the golden-furred WuKong smashed the Ancestral Stag time and time again while shouting all manner of meaningless drivel, revealing his true strength for the first time in centuries and earning himself a place alongside his Mentor and father figure, the old wolf. Already, the old wolf had shown that his fangs had not dulled, and now the world would know that his mind was keen as ever, for there was no Divinity alive who’d raised more promising Disciples than he, whether it be Peak Experts or Divinities alike.

A shame the ornery old mutt refused to teach Taduk anything of value, but to be fair, he didn’t teach Hua Lie either and she was powerful enough to rival him. The Ancestral Rabbit was true to her nature as she charged headlong into the fray, embodying the same reckless and foolhardy tactics as her flea-bitten vermin cousins. At least she didn’t strike with her head, though she might as well have for all the good it did her, a punch containing more force than Taduk could ever hope to match blocked by little more than a wave of Zhen Shi’s hand. Perhaps it had to do with metaphysical mass, another of Rainy boy’s theories that made too much sense to ignore, but not enough to understand the picture as a whole. With the Energy of the Heavens still surging through him, Zhen Shi possessed far more mass and presence than any two Divinities combined, and it was only growing with each passing second.

Which was why Taduk was unwilling to delay any longer to build up a more powerful strike, and instead unleashed the power of the Explosive Wind upon his foe, a move he spent the last few hours practicing in order to use here now.

A terrible name which put him in mind of a fart, and it had much the same effect, a loud noise but no real lasting harm as Zhen Shi continued to ignore his surroundings. That had to be aggravating for the old wolf, and it irked Taduk no small amount either, to be dismissed out of hand as if no threat at all. In fact, the only attacks Zhen Shi truly paid heed to were Rainy boy’s, as the Uniter pivoted about to keep an eye on the flying sword and catch it every time it came close. Why though? How was it possible for Rainy boy’s sword to pose more of a threat than Hua Lie or old wolf’s domineering attacks? The latter had even gone so far as to disregard the Treaty and was unleashing his full strength while manifesting his Domain to suppress Heaven’s Wrath, yet Zhen Shi allowed those attacks to land on bare skin and moved not a single step from where he stood.

Until he did, staggering back with a brief look of shock and rancour directed at none other than the Abbot.

Pursing his lips in what Lin-Lin would call a pout but was most certainly not, Taduk set a portion of his mind to unravelling the mysteries of the Abbot’s attack and Rainy boy’s sword while simultaneously picking out a target from amongst the Enemy Divinities, who’d finally arrived to support the Uniter. The Abbot wielded empty hands as he waved his arms about, yet Zhen Shi retreated as if the old monk was hurling flaming poop about and could not bear to be dirtied or set aflame. Was this the same unseen and unsensed energy from Zhen Shi’s Ascension? If so, then why had the Abbot not undergone a more complete Ascension as well? Strange that, but battle was hardly conducive to study of the Dao, and he had to focus on the enemy before him.

With matters quickly spiralling out of hand, it was all up to Rainy boy and the old wolf to prevent the worst-case scenario, but things were not looking bright. All it would take was one errant strike to set off an explosion of Divinity-level attacks, and miracle-maker though Rainy boy might be, even Taduk had no faith in his beloved student and son-in-law to prevent Shi Bei from going up in flames. Much as he would love to run off with Lin-Lin and Rainy boy, the cold, harsh truth of the matter was that if they didn’t stop Zhen Shi here and now, then there might no longer be anywhere safe left to run to. Such a shame, but Taduk would fight tooth and nail to keep this calamity from taking place as he unleashed the full force of his Blessing of Cloud to call forth a storm powerful enough to hamper even the Divinities before him, or possibly unleash Heaven’s Wrath to clear them all away.

For Taduk was of the illustrious lineage of a Cloud Chaser Hare, and it was his right as King of the Skies to go out on his own terms.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

“Halt.”

A single word with the weight of a mountain behind it, a compelling command Vithar dared not disobey. More accurate to claim that the thought of disregarding this command never once entered into mind, the urge to comply so natural and instinctive that he only realized it after he turned his garo about and headed back towards Shi Bei. The world stood still as Vithar’s tribesmen and so-called allies did the same, a chaotic rout of millions stopped in an instant. There’d been no fear in his heart as he rode away from the city, only an eager determination to return to Asmani’s side, but all that was gone now as the command took over his every thought and instinct and left him no recourse but to obey.

The Ancestors had fallen suspiciously silent, a deafening stillness disturbed only by the wafting wind blowing over the hot desert sands. Though they’d gone quiet before, their silence this time was not from a lull in their whispers, but from their complete and utter absence, one which left an emptiness inside him and left him yearning for their familiar presence. He couldn’t remember a time when he didn’t have the Ancestors with him, whether it be to guide his steps or annoy him with their incessant blathering in the background, but now their voices were no more and their whereabouts unknown. Their absence left him dazed and dismayed as if poised just over the precipice of a steep cliff, and as he gazed down into the darkness below, it rose up to swallow him whole and engulf him in empty isolation. Here amidst the greatest horde this world had ever seen, Vithar experienced true solitude and silence for the first time in living memory.

And it terrified him like nothing he’d ever faced before.

The silence unmade him and he yearned to move or speak, do something, anything, if only to remind himself that he was alive and well instead of trapped in a noiseless and lifeless prison of nothingness, a murky abyss devoid of anything and everything. The harsh light and scorching heat of the afternoon sun failed to reach him here in the darkness, so distant and remote it might as well not exist, and though a small part of him knew that not even a full second had passed since he turned about-face, it felt like he’d been trapped here for an eternity and a day. The silence was crushing and suffocating, an oppressive weight pushing in from all sides even as it left him aimless and adrift in a sea of nothingness that stretched beyond the horizon and back again. Though still seated on his garo with the sand below and skies above, Vithar was lost in a moment and frozen with fear as he gazed upon perfection itself.

For rising up over the city itself was none other than the true Commander of this fleeing army, one who had finally taken the field to lead them all to glory and victory. There he stood in the skies above Shi Bei, the Uniter in all his naked, radiant glory, so calm and composed as he fended off a foe faster than Vithar’s eyes could follow without shifting a single step. He’d seen the Uniter once before, briefly during his conquest of the Northern Wastelands, a seemingly decrepit, aging old man affixed to a six-legged, spear-tailed Transcendent. At first glance, the Uniter’s appearance had left Vithar sorely disappointed, for he appeared weak and frail with only a few years left to live, but the Ancestors whispered their warnings and shared what secrets they could while cautioning him to be wary. He could sense their fear and trepidation, emotions he thought beyond the grasp of those shadows of the dead, and it was most infectious indeed, leading Vithar no choice but to bend the knee to a foe so overwhelming he could barely even perceive the threat.

A good thing too, for those who would not kneel were slaughtered and fed to the Transcendents, a sight which became all-too-common as the northern wastelands gathered under the Uniter’s banner.

So much had changed in time since, for that was months before Vithar led his tribe south to the city of Sanshu, then back North over the Wall to take an even longer journey all the way around to the Western Province. The Uniter’s presence had been felt over the course of that arduous march, maintaining discipline with an iron fist to keep the tribes of the North in line, yet neither Vithar nor any Chieftains he spoke to ever saw the Uniter again. Instead, all his messages had come through his Transcendent mouthpieces, delivered in the same harrowing and agonizing manner as always. When Bai Qi took over as Commander General, the Uniter all but disappeared, leading Vithar and many others like him to question their allegiance to a cause not their own, for through the Western deserts were not the most hospitable of climes, it was a paradise compared to the cold, bleak darkness of the Northern Wastelands. That’s why Vithar and his favoured Chieftains were amongst the first to retreat from Shi Bei, moving even before Bai Qi’s corpse settled into the sands, for despite the Ancestors’ insistence that they fight on to the last breath, this was not a battle worth winning, much less one worth dying for.

Now, the old, decrepit Uniter was no more, and in his place a creature of sublime perfection, the sight of which filled Vithar with overwhelming adoration. It wasn’t lust or desire which drove him so, the hungry fascination which accompanied the temptations of the flesh, but a yearning to submit and devote himself to this most flawless of beings, one whose presence and appearance went beyond mere beauty of form and into the realm of divine fascination. To kneel was but the sane and rational response to seeing this Divine being before them, the same way a garo submitted to its pack leader or a tribesman his Chieftain. Strength above all else, and the Uniter’s newfangled form possessed strength aplenty, so powerful and overwhelming there was no need to even question it.

This yearning to serve billowed up from within, Vithar’s own aspirations given voice in the ensuing silence left behind by the Ancestors’ absence, and it filled him with purpose and contentment unlike anything else. All he’d done was obey a single command and he’d been rewarded with unrestrained bliss, a euphoric joy that overshadowed even the happiest of memories he possessed and left him aching for more. This was a sensation greater than the pleasure of lust, the gratification of gluttony, and the thrill of wrath combined, the pinnacle of indulgence made possible through compliance, for the Uniter’s voice alone demanded reverence and submission to say nothing of his sublime form itself. There was no call to surrender like with the Ancestors urging him to comply, no insistence he take heed and do as they command, yet Vithar found himself fast falling under the Uniter’s compulsion and eager to hear his next order so that he might display his obedience once more.

