Spaces with faster time acted as shops that advertised their services to help procrastinators. Areas with slower time had signs about how short the wait could be for the next big thing, given someone pays a price. Lesser gravitation had jumping parks and higher gravity held gyms for those trying to build muscle.

It left a smile on my face seeing how deftly people adapted to the harsh circumstances. My optimism faded at around the three G's of gravity mark. A no man's land formed here, one where few people tread. Trails cut through these harsh conditions, and people avoided the severe alterations entirely. I cut us through the spaces, not wanting to shove us into the tiny walkways. Once again, people stared.

I frowned.

"I thought they'd be busier here."

Althea sighed.

"We might as well get used to it. Come on. Let's have some fun."

I raised a brow. Using her choker's magic, Althea leaped around in elegant circles. A gravitational dancer, she wielded the force with a deft hand, balancing it and herself through acrobatic displays. I followed suit, throwing myself around and trying to keep up. As I did, I experienced the way she moved, and it left me stunned.

She jerked and pulled herself around as if made of cloth, every piece of her body bending to whatever force coursed over her. Through her. Around her. She was a sharpened blade that bent and snapped at anything nearby and light sheened off her glossy hair. I followed in her stead, a dull hunk of metal struggling to emulate her grace.

She smiled at me while upside down.

"You learn fast."

I flipped through the air.

"Well, I have a good teacher."

We danced and somersaulted through the spatial distortions, my wake leaving us protected. After passing a dozen floating islands, the air of the Shattered Spires thickened. An opening appeared in the city with no skyscrapers in sight. I flipped under Althea before she hopped on my back. I peered down at the patch of green.

"So...That's Central Park."

Althea jumped up.

"It's, uh...Not quite what I've read up on."

"Huh. Me neither."

A colossal rupture in the earth cut through the remains of Central Park, and it held monsters and men alike. Against walls of black stone, insectoids scrambled along the rift's outer surface, each bug the size of a large truck. Bipedal and humanoid, their broad shoulders held arms that ended in serrated claws. Their elbows ended with familiar black, chitinous blades.

I nodded.

"That's where the swords came from."

One of the insects sliced sideways, its arm rupturing spacetime. The insect hopped through its own portal seconds after. I blinked while Althea pointed.

"And there's the portals."

These insects skittered about, each of them driven by an intense sense of purpose. Their hurried movements yielded the strange coordination of a hive. I couldn't discern what they jerked around for, but their colony impressed me in other ways outside of transportation.

The species had an overwhelmingly vast network of dungeons below, the breadth rivaling the endless expanse of the Grand Canyon. The pit of the dungeon descended for miles below, an endless abyss that capped itself with a pit of gray fog. From the center of the bottomless expanse, an enormous droplet rushed upwards past it all. That dimensional dollop glided upward before colliding with the sky.

A huge plume of gray, dimensional mist expanded out of the falling droplet. A spatial ripple coursed over everyone; no one was affected but me. I staggered as space wobbled around me from all sides. It was Deja Vu from the time when Eonoth saved Lehesion from a Spatial Fortress but far less overwhelming.

Althea grabbed my arm, helping stop me from falling. The ground under her feet cracked.

"You ok?"

I pulled myself upright.

"Yeah...That's happened one other time."

"When?"

"The gala that Obolis threw for Giess's glassing. It was whenever the Spatial Fortress exploded."

Althea frowned.

"You became a puddle, right? So, uhm, are you ok?"

I looked up at the dispersing cloud.

"I am. This was nothing compared to that."

She watched the fog siphon into the tree.

"That's what's keeping this situation the way it is. It looks like we're getting a lot of answers here, huh?"

I looked up at the tree's roots.

"Yeah, but we've got even more questions now."

Above, some of the dimensional dollop diffused into the surrounding sky, keeping the Shattered Spires encapsulated within a rift. Althea turned to me, and a portion of her faded into another plane. She smiled.

"How about I get us some more answers?"

I squeezed my hands to fists.

"Sounds good, but we should probably try diplomacy first...But we have to find the guild's headquarters. Where to start? Hmmm."

Althea raised a brow.

"It's in that big building over there where the tree's sprouting out."

I crossed my arms.

"Oh really? What makes you so sure?"

She drew a sideways eight with her hand.

"The giant infinity symbol over it."

I frowned.

"Well...I thought it was advertising."

She tapped the side of my head, and it rang out like a bell full of water.

"You can be so dense."

I gestured at the tree.

"It just seems too obvious, doesn't it?"

Althea laughed while I smiled. We darted through the Shattered Spires, each of us jumping from island to island like the residents. In the distance, a flow of those people coordinated like bees in a hive. A man in orange armor misplaced a foot before stumbling off a rock. He fell fifty feet and landed hard on the stone below.

He raised a thumbs-up, his voice cracking.

"I'm...I'm good."

It was a perfect transportation system.

We passed the enormous split in the earth, finding people exploring different dungeons near the surface. Closer to the depths, the insectoids ruled the roost, and nothing approached them. I analyzed one of them.

Malformed Eldritch | Lvl 9,000~ | Status: Unknown | - This malformed eldritch isn't a consistent creature, lacking the uniformity of other monsters found in dungeons. Originally an insectoid variant, this bipedal, intelligent species has many adaptations to survive within a larger body than most insects.

Those adjustments gave way to strange mutations. Organs within its body produce constant streams of primordial mana, and they ooze outward in every direction. This allows groups of these malformed eldritch to construct different realities given enough of them.

They also wield the primordial mana within blades across their bodies, allowing them to manipulate different forces of nature with strange precision. Combine their general physical abilities alongside their spatial prowest, and they are a devastating foe for most.

It would be recommended to eliminate this variant immediately.

I furrowed my brow.

"They seem dangerous."

Althea tilted her head at them.

"And weird. Portals aren't something eldritch usually throw around like that."

I pulled my wake over the space, and it carried a strange weight to it.

"That and spatial magic as well. Hell, I think they're manipulating time, too."

Althea sighed.

"It looks like we have another dungeon to clear on our to-do list."

After passing the rest of the gap, we reached the source of the colossal tree. I looked up at it.

"The Empire State Building...Schema has a thing for landmarks."

Althea jumped from one island to another.

"I remember talking to Torix about that. He said it was because Schema knew the resident species would search out those places. It was predictable too. It makes the worst rifts less likely to go unseen or something like that."

I marveled at the immense trunk of the surveillance tree.

"That's...A good idea, actually. I guess Schema does get it right from time to time."

We reached the beginning of a line of people waiting to go into the massive building. By now, we stared down at the rest of the city, well above the tops of most buildings. The thin air aside, the view was incredible. I turned to Althea.

"How did you guys figure out that Marcella was an avatar anyway?"

Althea tapped her chin with a single finger.

"We guessed. According to the rumors, she's unbeatable for a bunch of reasons, but the big sell was that she had a blue aura."

I gazed at the enormous skyscraper. It radiated with a subtle, primordial mana.

"What made it different from someone using normal mana?"

Althea put her hands on her hips.

"Hers could be moved and manipulated a lot, kind of like Lehesion. She was also considered immortal and couldn't be killed either."

"Immortality, huh? It could just be rumors."

She pointed at the building, the infinity insignia, and the hundreds of cappers protecting it.

"Those don't look like rumors to me."

I remembered the truth behind Yawm, Lehesion, and Valgus.

"Well, looks can be deceiving. Sometimes, at least."

We waited in line, and even when standing twenty feet tall, the Empire State Building towered over us with ease. The monolithic structure reminded me of humanity's prosperous past, and so did the people pacing out of it.

When walking in, these people were beaten down, scarred, and lost. Life put them in its jaws, chewed them to a mush, and spit them out. When walking out, they stood with confidence, their postures tall and formidable. In fact, they were over a head taller, reminding me of my legacy and my ring's effects.

A subtle aura permeated them, and whenever I grazed their minds, they locked themselves away from me. None of their eyes darted from my gaze, and their stares carried a weight to them. Unlike the normal citizens here, they held an awareness of who and what we were, not simply ogling like star-struck fans.

This created an unspoken tension, one where they squeezed their brandished blades tight when passing me. I frowned.

"She's doing something to their minds, implanting them like Elysium does."

Althea shivered.

"Ugh. I hate these kinds of enemies. Why can't we fight a big brute or something?"

Remembering Valgus, I shrugged.

"It can be more difficult than you'd think."

An hour later, we reached the outskirts of the monument. The guards stood in an intimidating formation, around a hundred guarding the entrance alone. They waved us over. Once close, Althea walked into the primordial aura. I could not.

It waved around me, pushing me away with more than enough force to hurl me backward. But I wasn't only my own weight. I held the momentum of several anchoring dimensions, and they carried me through the sheer blowback. The primordial aura stretched for a moment while I reached out a hand. One of the guards yelled.

"Hey, what are you doing there? Stop that."

I lowered my arm, taking a step backward. As I did, the primordial ether bent and bowed like an old home's floor giving way. It pried open, cracking in a cataclysmic splintering of mana, and shards fell away from where I stood. The rupture spread across the building's entrance until it faded to nothing, only a memory of something that was.

At least it lingered across the rest of the building. As the cracks spread, that reprieve faded as quickly as the rest of the building's protection. As it crumbled into nothing, I coughed into a hand.

"So...That was more fragile than I thought. My bad, guys."
