This Vice Peak Master is a first level foundation establishment cultivator, with a perfected mortal grade physique, but I can’t get a proper read on him.

There are small tells that show up on the edges of his soul, but it needs to be in response to something significant. In casual conversation, his confidence and calmness even surpasses the 6th level foundation establishment Mu and Wang patriarchs.

Given the mid stage tier 2 flying vessel he’s borrowed, he most likely has more foundational talismans or protective artifacts on him. The vibrant Azure Cloud Sect emblem on his robe glows with a faint light, tethering to his entire Vice Peak Master Robe confirming that this is at least one.

His temperament has naturally been forged to stay firm under any circumstances over the decades in his position.

Even if there is confusion or hesitance beneath his gaze, he cannot show it, for he would be revealing a weakness in the upper ranks of the sect. He carries the responsibility of their prestige too.

The man backs up and motions toward the flying vessel keeping his calm smile, and the sharp killing intent in his aura dies down.

We follow and I think to myself about his last words.

The Feng Clan was a late-stage qi refining clan, one quite loyal to the Sect, but the instant they betrayed a stronger ally, they were all ruthlessly dealt with. With this attitude, it makes sense that he believes I would act the same if he wronged me. He does not want to make enemies with potentially strong forces, and wishes to show that if I tie myself closer to the sect he will support me.

While stepping onto the flying vessel I reply, “Well then I thank you for taking care of those traitors. As for my spirit fields? It is no slight. My backing is not known in these parts, and I would like to keep it that way. I actually enjoy the plot you granted me. It is simple and out of the way.”

Lan Xin’s soul races with curiosity as I speak with the Vice Peak Master.

She knows I have strange artifacts, and a secret heirloom hidden realm, but where these all come from is a complete mystery to her too. Any words on this topic pique her interest.

The passive shielding array on the ship shrinks inward and concentrates on the ship itself, creating a wind-blocking array over the deck.

“Understood. I’ll have this mess cleaned up, none of it will reach the public eye.”

We fly away, but his grey wolf stays on guard at the back of the vessel, staring down at the battlefield as it disappears from sight.

The creature is a 1st level foundation establishment spirit beast. It keeps most of its aura inside its body like its master, but there is still a very dense killing intent present if I ever get closer than 3 meters or so.

I stay outside this range, but still glance over at the beast occasionally to admire and study its strength.

Last time I managed to get a glance at this wolf and his master, I was not as attuned with my spiritual senses as I am now.

I vaguely remember this Vice Peak Master was taken back from the front lines of the war early, after suffering a minor soul fracture from an illusory demon. Yet now, when I scan both of them, the outside portion of their visible souls are very calm with no signs of stress fractures.

The sect must have compensated him, or possibly, he’s capable of healing smaller soul injuries naturally just like Lan Xin.

Kang Yelang speaks again while I’m deep in thought. “If you recall, before this I wanted to grant you a reward for adding prestige to the Azure Cloud Sect during the wedding conflict. Though, at this point, I believe you see through my past words. I wish to grant you a higher position of authority, to make it clear we wish to place more trust in you within the Outer Sect’s Beast Mastery Domain.”

The man gauges my reaction, but I only show a thin smile.

There is a subtle fluctuation in his extremely strong soul, enough to make me aware there is some kind of catch.

“I wished to grant you an Official Named Disciple Position, but the Outer Sect rules state you must achieve a series of major public feats comparable to other named disciples. Only having some above average war merits, or using the Mu Clan’s shield in a single battle with blood demons will be highly questioned by members of our beast mastery peak wishing to claim the same position but with more impressive resumes. Other peaks will also question our prestige for naming a 3rd level qi refiner from connections alone.”

He pauses and turns to me, “My father is the only one capable of officially granting named positions. However, I do have a special allowance to grant one disciple of the outer sect an authority token. It will act similarly to a named disciple position until you can earn the official right. Your name will be updated in the official ledger once we return to the sect, and it may caution enemies from attacking you so blatantly in the future, as doing so would be a direct challenge to my own influence.”

My gaze tightens, as whatever this is, it is being framed as a benefit, even a favor to me, however it has far more strings attached.

To gain this permanent position in the future, I’ll need to increase my cultivation, and succeed in a large public feat in the name of the sect. He’s implying that if I want an opportunity to achieve this faster, tying my name closer to his will open up this path.

“What are the perks?”

“It would grant you the rights to hire out a much larger workforce of stewards to manage larger plots, and allow you to set your own farming quotas in the quest hall. I can top up your contribution points to help you get started there. You’ll be given a flying vessel to borrow from the Beast Mastery Peak, and be granted far more extended leave from the sect with no questions asked. Also, a personal gift, I would be happy to waive the first year of taxes your new shop in Lingshi City will owe soon.”

I think for almost half a minute, “I’ll accept this authority token, as a matter of extra protection. Many of the other perks will not be necessary right now. My stewards need work to do and far more practice before I’d like to hire more or expand my rice farm. I would need a trustworthy manager for each plot. So, I'd like to transfer the quota drop-off responsibility to a certain steward of mine, Shen Dehai, and the 3-month deadline should be waived. They should be able to hand in the necessary rice whenever it’s matured, and build up contribution points for me on their own. Also, I’d like to pay taxes for my new shop like everyone else in Lingshi City, too much special treatment is what got my fields attacked in the first place.”

Kang Yelang nods along and agrees with this simple ask, but the outer edges of his soul are slightly disturbed that I did not bite at the opportunity to take more.

“Though, I will accept the flying vessel from the sect.”

I turn my head to the woman sitting on the edge of the deck, watching the mountains pass by below us.

“Make that two vessels actually, since Lan Xin broke hers and needs another.”

I sift through my storage, intending to give him something of value, but nothing looks appealing at first.

The only item that stands out is the pile of shattered pale blue tusks I found in Jiang Duo’s high grade storage ring after the wedding. I quickly skim over the Vice Peak Master’s system secret, and pull out one of the small blue bone shards to satisfy a hunch.

The edges of his soul begin to stir with a potent warm pressure of surprise the instant he lays eyes on it.

I grin and toss it over.

At the bottom of Kang Yelang’s system scan, his secret mentioned that blue flower ivory is one of the many ingredients he needs for some kind of important pill.

Just like my system mentioned the tier 2 fire stone when I was thinking of a proper gift to give Lan Xin, it targeted something in my system storage again.

This blue shard of bone seemed to fit the description, but I wasn’t certain of it until now.

“I heard you were looking for this. I’m not very fond of accepting gifts with nothing in return, so how about we just make the exchange. I hope you’ll accept my kindness.”

His expression stays unmoved, but there is a growing confusion rippling through this older man’s soul that is no longer just at the edges.

After a sharp breath, his soul stabilizes and returns to an unreadable state. “Very well. We’ll call it an even trade then. It seems I also need to tighten up my connections in the markets if you were able to find this out. It is true. Blue Flower Ivory has become hard to find even for me in the Hidden Mist after the Black Marsh County began to limit its supply. I can’t bring myself to refuse…” he lets out a sigh and pulls the shard of bone into his ring.

Lan Xin tosses a small storage ring from far across the vessel’s deck to the Vice Peak Master next.

“There. Ten foundational crystals. I don’t mind being grouped into your deal for a new vessel, but I still wish to pay for breaking the old one. It’s sect policy. I don’t want to build up any unnecessary debt.”

Kang Yelang catches the ring and looks inside.

Lan Xin looks away, hiding her amusement, sitting at the back of the ship with her chin to the sky.

I simply smile and turn away to continue examining the subtle killing intent coming off the foundational spirit beast on the deck.

The Vice Peak Master accepts the crystals and steps back to man the ship's control disk.

His eyes stay straight ahead on course back to the sect, but his spiritual senses stay locked on the two strange junior disciples riding this ship without any nervous fluctuations in their qi auras.