Distracted, she gazed forward at a dark gathering of energy, a harrowing vortex of hatred and blood thirst, setting her skin to tingling in anticipation. An aura so malevolent, it sent waves of revulsion through her body and she suppressed the urge to vomit, to cleanse herself of the filth that had so tainted her. The birth of a foul Demon, felt from so far away, she would see it dead before it could kill too many of her soldiers. Rallying the Sentinels about her, she led them forward through the Defiled lines, slaughtering all those in her path in an effort to reach the new threat, their quins moving in short bursts of speed, her Vanguard doing their job with renewed vigor, clearing the chaff from her way, allowing her to save her strength for the coming battle.

They were her elites, her most skilled warriors, 300 strong, humans and demi-humans alike, veterans all, each personally chosen by her for a situation exactly like this. Former Bannermen, reformed bandits, disillusioned soldiers, these warriors were the core fighting strength behind the Sentinels, and with them at her side, Akanai was confident in facing any threat short of the Emperor's armies. Smiling to herself as she moved through the carnage, she prepared herself for the coming battle.

A freshly born Demon, yet able to let off such a terrible aura, enough that she could feel it tearing into the world from kilometers away, should it be given time to adjust, it would be a fearsome opponent indeed. A powerful Demon, inhabiting a suitable host, likely the leader of this group, or close to it, she sensed that this would be an opponent worth fighting, a glorious battle to be had.

Cresting the hilltop, her vanguard froze almost all at the same spot, the ones who followed and made contact freezing as well, and Akanai soon saw why. A massive Demon of white, covered in red gore as it ripped apart soldier after soldier, all of them motionless and slacked faced, as if their bodies were frozen in place, The Demon feasted upon them, growing as it consumed their bodies, already more than four meters tall, a hulking beast of bone blades and spikes, humanoid in shape. It reached out, and grabbed a soldier in each hand, its massive mouth stretching wide open, the sound of flesh and bone being crunched and ground as it placed its victims within its maw, the soldiers faces showing no pain or fear.

“Fall back, all of you.” Akanai quickly ordered the Sentinels not under sway, and they backed off, leaving the influenced behind. Even the quins were frozen in place, all of them locked in some mental binding, some power belonging to this new-born Demon. A fearsome power, to manipulate the minds of those around it, showing its victims hallucinations ranging from terror to bliss, locking them within their minds. It was something rarely seen, but not wholly unheard of. For it to control so many, hundreds of soldiers, with seemingly little strain, so soon after its descent, this was a formidable foe indeed.

Dismounting from Kankin and sending him away, she quickly made her preparations to fight the creature before her, centering herself and protecting her mind from the creatures machinations. She began to step forward but paused almost immediately, cocking her head at the sight in front of her, the Demons latest victim familiar to her. The Brigadier Cho Jin Kai was being devoured, with a silly, idiotic smile pasted upon his face. Bothersome, the sight had brought her too much joy, hindering her preparations to kill the creature. Taking a deep breath, she renewed her preparations once more as she watched the Brigadier die, stepping forward to fight once he had been consumed whole, and Balance had been found.

At least that was one problem she would no longer have to deal with.

Bursting forwards, her lance penetrated deep into the Demon's shoulder, the impact rocking the creature back. The mental assault rolled off her as she pressed onward, her mind in total Balance, unable to be affected by her emotions. She struck it half a dozen more times, each seeming to cause great injury, but all the damage she caused quickly healed, the Demon not even bleeding from her attacks.

Troublesome. Her strength was not endless, nor was her mind impervious to its attempts to enslave her, the distraction keeping her from utilizing her full strength. Time worked against her in this fight, and if she were unable to kill it quickly, she would join the other dead within its belly, succumbing to its mental onslaught. To make matters worse, the Demon began to strike back physically, a sword of bone emerging from its arm, swinging it about with consummate skill, solidifying her guess that it had been a warrior of some skill. A good base for a Demon to build upon, unlike most who formed their bodies from creatures and objects.

Steeling her resolve, she continued to fight, trading crashing blows with the creature, each one capable of ending her life, dancing atop the hill beneath the moonlight, knowing that with each second passing, her death came closer as her mental defense began to crumble.

She grinned to herself, accepting the challenge, ready to die for her people and the Empire.

Such was life, tribulations without end.
