"Neither. Those are criminals, and they are not here voluntarily," Applebaum said. "I'm talking about an actual commission that comes with good pay and excellent benefits." He hesitated, as if trying to decide how much to say. "Things are going to get harder before they get easier out there. The people upstairs know it, too. When that happens, this country is going to need people with real ability who are placed where it counts."

Thomas felt the urge to help. He really did. But he was burning his healing mana by watching living beings in different multi-colors come and go, so he had firm control over it.

Though he understood what Applebaum was saying and sympathized, he had never seriously entertained military service.

"I appreciate the offer, really, but I'm not interested." He looked hard at Applebaum. "Or... Is this something where I'm able to say no?"

There was a long moment of silence before Applebaum answered. "For now, yes. And trust me, I will do everything in my power to make sure it stays that way. An involuntary force is an unstable force." He shook his head, letting a little frustration show through. "Those ankle monitors... they're much more trouble than they're worth. In any case..."

He pressed a button and a printer to the side whirred to life. The office was so small that Applebaum just had to stretch his hand to grab the fresh page. Then he slid it across the desk. It was labeled Gift Affidavit: Sworn Statement.

"Read it," Applebaum said. "This is your moment to change anything. Once you sign it, the 30-day amendment window closes. Then, as far as the federal government is concerned, this is the absolute truth of your Gift, forever."

Thomas read every line. Applebaum had added that his Gift of Senses had the ability to see living beings outside of dungeons. It was hopefully bland enough to keep him unnoticed, except for the little issue of the Living Architecture skill.

"Let your friend Zach know, too, not to play games," Applebaum said.

"I will." Thomas signed the bottom.

Applebaum stamped it, and was filling out his portion on the bottom when another knock came at the door.

"Come in," he called.

The guard who had escorted Thomas to the office returned, carrying a gray strongbox. Something was thumping around inside.

Thomas's Health Sight showed nothing living in the box, but he had a bad feeling he knew what it was.

Also, there was a label on the box with Thomas's name and Social Security number, the whole thing just out there for everybody to see. Thanks for that, National Guard.

"Is that what I think it is?" Thomas asked tiredly.

"Yes, the second reason your file was flagged." Applebaum stamped the finished form with a second stamp and snorted. "This was removed from your custody in error, and we're returning it."

"I don't want it."

Applebaum glanced up at him. "Did your senses tell you what it is?"

A high-whinny echoed out from the box.

"It's a wild guess," Thomas said. "I don't need a murderous unicorn toy, and I really don't want to pay you back for it."

The man snorted. "I don't think the government is looking repayment, but testing has confirmed that it is actually a bound object. It's useless to us."

"Excuse me?" he said.

"It is somehow bound to you," Applebaum repeated. "These toys are quickly growing into a big problem to the point we've submitted paperwork to have that dungeon restricted."

Most of what he had said washed over Thomas. He was still stuck on the 'bound object' thing.

"It took a chunk out of me in the dungeon," Thomas said. "It hates me."

Applebaum's upper lip twitched like he was trying not to smile. "Well, from what I understand, you have a way to heal the damage."

At that point, Thomas got the impression that if he had accepted the officer's commission, this would not be an issue, but Applebaum wasn't going to go out of his way to be helpful right now.

The box rattled and Thomas looked at it warily. "I thought you guys were going to destroy it."

"What makes you think that we haven't tried?" the second guard muttered.

Oh, that was nice.

"Take it, it's your responsibility," Applebaum said. "And Mr. Coldstrike..."

Thomas looked at him, wondering what other shoe was going to drop.

Applebaum smiled. "You're free to go."

____

Holding the box containing the psychotic unicorn toy, Thomas made his way out of the marketplace. Once through the doors, he stood outside and breathed in the scent of pine in the air. It smelled like freedom.

He went to his car and shoved the whole box containing the toy into his backpack. Apparently, the backpack had a muffling ability or something, because the unicorn went silent and he couldn't even feel the thing throwing itself around.

Then he checked his phone. Zach had sent a text.

Zach: dude, the flea market here is awesome!!! You have to see this!!!1!!

Thomas stared at the screen for a second. Then he grabbed his backpack, put it on, and stepped out of the car.

Thomas: Get me out of here.

He started to count to ten. At eight, Zach suddenly appeared out of nothing, grinning.

"You sure you can take me?" Thomas asked, hefting his bag meaningfully. Zach had mentioned it was harder to teleport someone when they were carrying around mana crystals.

Zach's grin widened. "I got a few good jumps in me, but you've got to check this out."

He put his hand on Thomas's shoulder.

A heartbeat after that, Thomas was not standing in the parking lot of the National Guard marketplace.

The air around him was a lot warmer and smelled faintly of exhaust.

Looking around, he stopped and blinked as he caught sight of the massive city below and the iconic Hollywood sign.

"This isn't San Francisco," Thomas said.

"Nah, I got myself registered, then I heard all the cool things happening down in SoCal." Zach gestured to the side, and Thomas turned his gaze away from the sign and the vista of downtown L.A. spread below to really look around.

It took him a second before he recognized where he was: Griffith Park. He was at the top, where the observatory sat. Spread out along the green lawn was a huge, vibrant fair.

Several signs proclaimed: GIFT MARKET. Best flea market on the West Coast.

"They've got everything here," Zach enthused, then dropped the real reason for teleporting all this way. "And we can sell everything, too."

Quick admin note that Applebaum's rank was upped to 'Colonel' as several people pointed out sergeant wouldn't do for him being in charge of so many people.
