David turned the small steel plate in his hands, letting his eyes flow across its surface at the same pace his thoughts did.

They always came back to the same basic question: why did engraving work? How was it that when mana was given a specific shape, in the form of runes, an effect was created?

His immediate answer was the same that most people accepted; runes were a primordial type of language, the one that the world spoke. For the longest time, he'd accepted it, but recently, especially after being involved with Niala's methods, it felt incomplete.

He was somehow certain that he had every part of the puzzle, but he couldn't see how they fit together, no matter how many times he flipped the piece of metal in his hands.

Maybe banging his head against it wouldn't work this time.

He snorted. Yeah, he really was all about the direct, punch-his-way-through approach. Setting the metal plate down on the table, he then retrieved a notebook and pencil, opened it before him, and began listing what he knew, just like Niala did each time she was digging at the unknown.

Mana is the energy that powers life.

He stopped and frowned. Was that true? Kevin, the mana-less fairy, was very much alive, wasn't she? But she wasn't actually mana-less, right? She just had an inverted mana cycle, acting as a sort of natural siphon through which mana returned to the aetheric sea.

She'd said that caused her mana to be unsigned, or unkeyed to her pathways, eroding them, and would kill her before she reached forty.

Hmmm...

He crossed the line and wrote a new one.

Mana pathways are necessary for life.

Tilting his head, he read and re-read it a few times. This felt... truer. He added what he knew about pathways.

Pathways are connected to the aetheric sea.

They pull pure mana and harmonize it, creating signed mana, unique to every individual.

Pathways are physical things that some people can extend from their bodies and connect with others.

In normal cases, mixing signed mana within a body causes mana poisoning, which is extremely deadly.

He tapped the pencil at the dot of that line a few times. Why was it deadly? Everybody knew that it was, but why?

Maybe because... The two types of manas would interfere with each other's harmonization? When two waves met, they merged to become a new one that was neither. But, then what?

He stared at the page, waiting for an answer to jump at him, but his patience failed him. He put the pencil down, got up, and went to look for Marshalla.

The scholar woman lifted an eyebrow at David's question. “The exact reason why mana poisoning kills? Sure, I can explain it, but what brought this on?”

He held her gaze for a few seconds, a nearly imperceptible blush gaining on his cheeks. “I'm trying to figure out something.”

The corner of her lips lifted in a smirk. “I get that, David, but what, exactly? Please, I'm only curious! You never seemed the sort for academic ventures.”

And yet you and your wife are an infinite well of research potential. Come on, spill the beans. Blow my mind again.

He ran a hand through his hair, looking away. “I think there's a link between enchantment, imbuing, and alchemy.”

She pulled her head back and blinked. “Ah? Well, there certainly is one between enchanting and imbuing. In fact, there is a significant overlap in the runes used.” Narrowing her eyes, she leaned forward. “That said, what makes you think alchemy is linked to runes?”

“It's... Niala's discovery of transient compounds. It makes me think of poly-runes and echo-runes.”

Marshalla slowly nodded, then a bit quicker, then her eyes widened. “Ah... Oh! Yes, your mention of that led Niala to figure out where the Old Woman drink's effect originated.”

She tapped a finger against her cheek. “And you are positing that it is not a mere resemblance, but that they would share a common root... An interesting theory- one I would very much like to assist you with, if you would let me! It, however, does not answer my initial question. What does any of this have to do with mana poisoning?”

He took in a deep breath, then let it out. “I was trying Niala's method of writing everything I knew down. I got stopped at the first line.”

She smiled. “Because what you thought you knew sounded wrong, somehow?”

He nodded.

Marshalla lightly clapped her hand. “David, it does seem that you have either been hiding a scholar's mind inside your head, or your wife has had a bigger influence than I thought!” She flopped a hand at him as he narrowed his eyes. “Please, no need to make that face! I am praising you!” She said with a white smile before getting up and patting her robe.

She looked up at him. “Now, then, would you accept leading me to your laboratory? I very much would enjoy assisting with this new discovery.”

“It's just a hunch,” he countered.

“I guess we'll find out?” She said.

David quirked a brow; the scholar woman sounded awfully confident that it wasn't just a hunch.

As they sat in David's enchanting workshop, Marshalla confirmed that he had been on the right track; mana poisoning was dangerous because it created a new mana frequency that easily propagated, just like his water wave analogy. The new frequency clashed with the pathways' own, with both acting like differently-keyed gear wheels that kept trying to engage with each other.

The mana and pathways ended up shredding each other, which very quickly led to death.

To David, this seemed to support his initial theory that pathways were the important parts for life. Marshalla happily revealed that he had arrived at the second, though less popular, main theory of mana.

Destroyed mana pathways led to death, and there were no questions about it. There was much debate over whether it was because the body was unable to pull mana from the aetheric sea, or because the pathways themselves were intrinsic to life.

She agreed with David that Kevin's case seemed to support the second theory, since the fairy wasn't pulling or signing any mana from the aetheric realm, and yet was still alive, though with a reduced lifespan.

The scholar congratulated David as one did a bright student, and offered to let him continue his thought process. She would remain and answer questions, but didn't want to influence him with further knowledge.

“My own gut feeling is that you really are onto something.” She'd teased.

He sighed, tried suppressing the warmth he was feeling crawling up his cheeks, and returned his attention to his notebook.

Mana poisoning is deadly because it shreds mana pathways.

If it is the loss of the mana pathways that lead to death, then why?

He left the pencil at the question mark as he scrunched his lips. Why indeed? This felt... important.

He looked up at the scholar. “Marshalla, has anyone ever examined a mana pathway from really close?”

“Hmm? With a micromagnifier, you mean?”

He nodded.

“Well, yes, why?”

“Do you have a picture of what they look like?”

As a matter of fact, she did, and went to retrieve it from her shelves.

She returned a few minutes later, handing David a good-sized leather-backed book. The title read. “How Mana Travels: Exploratory dissection and observation of mana pathways.”

Exactly the sort of literature he'd keep at his bedside, to help him fall asleep. He flipped it open, ignored the text, and sought the drawings, pictures and diagrams.

He made it through a third of the tome before one particular figure halted him. It was a 50x magnified image of a pathway's interior wall. It sort of looked like a corral bank, filled with random shapes.

Staring at it for a few more minutes, he frowned and looked at Marshalla. “The pattern isn't random, is it?”

She smiled. “Well spotted. No, it is not. It repeats, though it's somewhat hard to see in that image. Turn to the indexes; there's a larger print of that figure.”

He did, and saw what she meant. There was a fold-open spread that showed the full length of the pathway, and there it was evident that there was a sequence that repeated.

She confirmed that this sequence of shapes was what was believed to harmonize the mana, acting as little tuning forks when mana passed through them.

However, the more he looked at it, the more he was certain there was something missing. The shapes, to him, ended too abruptly, as if they were meant to extend further.

He got up and turned toward the door.

Marshalla called after him. “Are we done?”

David shook his head. “No, I'm going to get Niala. If I'm right, she won't forgive me for not being here.”

He left, and Marshalla felt her heart speed up.

Oh. Oh! He really is onto something! Oh, David, Niala, you beautiful freaks of nature, what madness will you reveal this time?!

Niala did, in fact, absolutely want to be present. Even as David explained his thought process so far and what he had determined, she couldn't stop glancing at him with more pride than a mother watching her baby take its first steps.

Ears tall, tail wagging, she sidled up to him, sitting on a stool close enough that she was squeezing herself into his arm. “So! So! What did you discover?!”

“It's, well. Take a look at this image.” He said, showing her the pathway image from the book.

She locked onto it, her bright amethyst eyes scanning the smallest details. “...it kind of looks incomplete.”

He hiccuped and let his head hang. Of course she'd spot it right away, but...

His head lifted back up with a smile on it. This meant that he wasn't crazy. He pointed at one particular curve. “Right, see this part? Let me show you something.”

He went and retrieved the imbuement tome he had received from his family, opening it to one of the echo-runes near the back of the book, where the most complicated ones were, and put it beside the pathways book.

Niala looked between the two, her tail slowing down until only the tip swayed, with the rest of her body going still. Her voice was flat when she finally spoke, “The form on the pathway looks like half of that rune, cut at a weird angle.”

Marshalla's chair crashed backward as she bolted out of it, crashing on David's other wise and squishing her face to look at both images. Eyes wide, she darted from the room and returned a few minutes later, trailing a roll of tracing paper.

She pulled both books away and used the see-through paper to confirm what all three of them had seen. Holding the trace against the light, a huge toothy smile took over her face. “It's true. By the founding gods, it's true! It's the same rune! Part of the same rune!”

The manic-eyed scholar stared at them. “Do you know what this means? Pits, forget that, I don't know what it means! But it means something! Something big! Something huge!”

She began hyperventilating. “Oh! Oooh! I need to- I need to write this down! Theories! So many theories!”

Before David or Niala could ask if she was feeling alright, the dark-skinned woman had run out of the room, the tracing paper held high and flapping behind her like a banner.

The couple looked at each other.

Niala flapped her ears. “Should I go check on her?”

David looked at the door, then back at Niala. “I think she'll be fine. Stay with me and help me figure the rest of this out?”

Her face lit up like a blooming sun. “Yes!”

He smiled back, put the two volumes aside, placed his notebook before him, and kept writing his thoughts. Only, this time, Niala would offer her own ideas, or ask him questions that helped him along.

The rest of the pieces fell into place quickly; the pathway runes were incomplete, but they still affected the mana flowing through them.

That mana was then harmonized with the pathways.

This probably meant that the mana, somehow, flowed in just the right way to complete the runes, forming and powering an incredibly potent imbuement that affected the entire body.

And if pathways were lined with runes- incredibly complex ones- then it made sense that anything that had pathways was, in fact...

Well...

He turned his head toward her. “Are we flesh golems?”