“Oh, so you know Tallheart, do you?” the woman in the cell adjacent to Ameliah’s said, her voice dripping with skepticism as the other prisoners muttered to each other. “I find that unlikely. What is this, really? Some new mind game? Some trick?”

“No tricks except the one I played on your captors,” Ameliah said, glancing again at the child in the cell diagonal from her. The little boy was clutching his mother’s hand through the bars that separated them.

Raising her bound arm to free it from the sling, she turned again to the hostile woman, who’d been the one berating the guard for water earlier.

“Your trick was getting captured?”

Ameliah nodded. “Like I said, I’m friends with Tallheart. I have a letter from him that you can read once we’re out of here. I left it with Rush—who’s alive, by the way—and Dawnlight and Heartwood, too.”

There were a few intakes of breath from the others, particularly from the child, whose face had lit up with hope when Heartwood’s name had been mentioned.

Ameliah kept her focus on the woman beside her, meanwhile unwrapping the bloody strip of cloth binding her arm to the splint. “What’s your name?”

The woman paused for a long moment before she replied. “I am called Stoneriver.”

“Stoneriver,” Ameliah echoed with a nod. Tired of fighting the wrappings, she ripped the remaining cloth away with one mighty tug, letting the tree-branch splint fall to the dusty planks with a thunk. Metal clinked as she straightened her arm, the ten rings looped around her fingers shifting as she opened her fist, revealing her Magewell Amulet.

“What is that?” the man in the cell beyond Stoneriver’s asked. “River, what is happening? I cannot see from here.”

Slipping the amulet on, Ameliah flexed her hand, stiff from its confinement, then began transferring the extra rings to her bare fingers.

“Jewelry...” Stoneriver said slowly. “I think—“ She inhaled sharply as Ameliah summoned her gauntlets—or tried to, anyway. Only one had appeared.

“Blast,” she said, shaking her right hand to jostle the rings. After a few more tries, the stubborn piece of armor appeared, a sharp clink sounding as the troublesome rings were forced into place. I’m getting better, but this skill is just too damn picky.

“That armor,” Stoneriver said, licking her lips. “It’s the wrong color, but how do you have her—?”

Ameliah interrupted her with the sound of tearing cloth as she ripped the remains of her cloak free. She then did a little hop, getting her bare heels clear of the dusty floorboards and summoning the rest of the set, other than the helmet. She met Stoneriver’s eyes. “There’s going to be a light, but it’s just a cleaning spell, so don’t freak out.” She waited a moment for her and the others to process, then activated Purify and Lunar Orb at the same time.

“Who are you?” Stoneriver breathed after recovering from her shock as the cleansing mist washed over her.

“How many times do I need to say it before you believe me?” Ameliah asked, letting Purify fall as soon as its work was done. Her boots clunked as she strode toward the cell door, then bent to peer into the keyhole. A little noise wasn’t an issue, but simply tearing the door off its hinges might alert the entire house if her magic use hadn’t already. Fortunately, the mechanism didn’t even appear to be a proper lock, merely a latch that could be manipulated by any sufficiently thin and pointy object.

She had just the thing.

She extended her arm to the side, palm open, and one of Tallheart’s needle arrows dropped into it.

“Are Tallheart and Snowlilly with you?” another of the cervidians asked, a gray-haired man, perhaps fifty years old.

“No,” Ameliah replied with a tight expression, working the latch. It clicked, and carefully, very carefully, she pushed the door open, wincing as the hinges squeaked. It was a long staircase, but still. She didn’t know what level of Perception the jailers had. Slipping through the gap, she picked up the flat-bladed key she’d spotted lying on a chair set in the middle of the hallway.

“Let me out,” Stoneriver said, but Ameliah moved first to the woman’s cell across from her, who quickly disengaged herself from her son and rushed to the door.

“Quietly,” Ameliah said, unlocking the latch and tugging gently on the door. This one’s hinges didn’t squeak nearly so loudly, and when the gap was wide enough, the slim woman squeezed herself through. Ameliah passed her the key, then got out of the way, leaving her to rush to free her son. In the meantime, she gave her arrow to the old man, then summoned another, crossing the aisle again to give it to Stoneriver, who jammed it into the lock with enthusiasm. Ameliah moved on to the last occupied cell, and in short order, everyone was free. They stared at her in the white light of Lunar Orb, tinted green by the lair behind them.

“Now what?” the old man asked.

“Now, we leave,” Ameliah replied, looking at him. He was gripping the arrow she’d given him like it was a knife.

“By stealth, or by violence?” the other man asked.

“As much violence as fucking possible,” Stoneriver growled, her knuckles white as she squeezed an arrow of her own. “I have stabbing to do. Is this adamant?”

“Keep your voice down,” Ameliah said warningly.

“Can you fight them?” the old man asked.

Ameliah grimaced. “I need information before I can answer that. Why don’t we start with the rest of your names so I have something to call you?”

“I am Ander, father of Proudrock,” the old man said, bowing formally.

Ameliah blinked. Oh. I suppose I did know he had family.

“You have already met my eldest daughter,” Ander continued, gesturing to Stoneriver, then to the other woman, who was standing with her arms wrapped around her son’s shoulders. “This is my third eldest, Camaya, and her eldest, Greenbriar.”

As their names were spoken, mother and son bowed. Stoneriver hadn’t so much as inclined her head. Ameliah bowed back, then rose, looking at the final man. He was young, perhaps even younger than Rush.

“I am Skymoon, son of Skymoon,” the man said with a bow.

“We don’t have time for this,” Stoneriver hissed as Ameliah returned the formal greeting with yet another bow.

“Hmm,” Ander rumbled in mixed agreement, the sound not nearly so deep as when Tallheart did it. “What is the situation on the surface, Ameliah, friend of Tallheart? Did you see the rest of our people?”

“I counted seventy-one prisoners upstairs. With the five of you, plus Rush and his family, that just leaves one person missing.” She grimaced. “Is—“

“Our brother is dead,” Stoneriver said flatly, wrapping an arm around her sister, who’d closed her eyes and looked away. “They sawed off his antlers while we watched, then left him to bleed his life into the dirt.”

Ameliah cursed. Cervidian antlers weren’t like deer’s in anything but appearance. Losing one was equal to losing an arm. Worse, even. She shook her head, knowing she’d been foolish to hope. “Okay, before we break out, are there more than seven of the guards with the reddish cloaks?”

“There are nineteen Rustcloaks in total,” Skymoon said. “We counted.”

“More than I thought,” Ameliah said with a grimace. Rustcloaks? Damn mercenaries. “Do you know their levels? They’re all awakened, right?”

“Below level five, we believe,” Ander replied. “My son killed three before they and the Menoviks subdued him. He was not even wearing his armor.”

”They attacked without warning,” Camaya supplied.

“The Menoviks are the nobles?” Ameliah asked.

Ander nodded. “They are Fire Mages. The woman has Divination magic as well, while her brother is able to fly. We do not know of any additional abilities that the elder may possess. He was not present during the attack, but he is assuredly a Fire Mage as well.”

“What makes you so sure?” Ameliah asked.

Ander blinked slowly. “Menovik is the clan of Citizen North Harbor.”

“Oh,” Ameliah said. “Shit.”

“Why did you tell her that?” Stoneriver demanded, rounding on Ander. “What if she won’t fight them now?”

“It’s fine,” Ameliah interjected. “You won’t have gotten the news in here, but Lightbreaker attacked North Harbor—North Harbor the city, destroying it, basically—and then the Warden mind-controlled the Citizens to strike at the Empire. If Citizen North Harbor is alive, he’s in no position to help his kin.”

“What?!” Camaya asked, while the others similarly reacted with slack-jawed shock.

Ameliah waved a hand. “I’m not about to back down, no matter who they are. I mean to get you out, and that’s what I’m going to do. Are there any other guards? Servants or other unawakened? Anyone I shouldn’t kill?”

Stoneriver scoffed. “Every human here deserves a thousand deaths.” She tilted her head. “Excluding you, perhaps, if you perform as you have promised.”

“River,” Ander warned before looking back at Ameliah. “I have seen two different servants, but there may be more. I do not know.”

Ameliah raised a hand sharply, though not in response to anything he’d said. “Someone’s coming,” she said, tracking the Mark in her mind. “One of the nobles. The Diviner.”

Just as she said this, her ears picked up the distant sound of the door opening.

“What do we do?” Camaya asked in a frantic whisper, wrapping her arms around Greenbriar protectively.

“Stay behind me and keep quiet,” Ameliah said, moving to place herself between the cervidians and the bottom of the stairs. “Hide behind something if you can find space.” She dismissed her light, plunging the cellar back into green-tinted gloom, then summoned her helmet and bow. The door slammed in the distance.

Listening as hard as she could, Ameliah detected only a single set of footsteps descending the stairs, though it was tough to tell over the loud and angry muttering. “...Telling me to drink my tea. I’ll show him. Oh, what our mother would say if she knew he’s being so stupid! Just because he popped out first, he thinks he knows best, but how can that be when he’s not worried about such an obvious spy!? ‘Just a hunter,’ he says. ‘All in your head,’ he says. Bah! Why, I...”

Ameliah continued listening as the diatribe grew louder and louder, sure now that the noblewoman was alone and quite unhinged. She was also paranoid, clearly, but not paranoid enough. Whether that came down to confidence or overconfidence, the next few seconds would tell.

Candlelight spilled out from the stairs into the cellar, and Ameliah drew.

“...I’ll interrogate the woman first, and if those fucking deer don’t stay quiet, I’ll—UFFF!“

Ameliah’s arrow punched into the center of the woman’s chest the moment it appeared below the door frame. There was no flare of defensive magic, which told her that the fight might already be over, but it didn’t stop her from releasing her next shot. The shaft curved to seek the noblewoman’s skull, striking between her eyes as she slipped and fell against the stairs. The Mark vanished from Ameliah’s mind a moment later, and light glinted from perhaps a dozen accolades as they tumbled to the ground. She nevertheless loosed a third time, then a fourth, the projectiles pounding into the corpse one after the other.

“Nice,” Stoneriver said as Ameliah summoned her light. “Snowlilly taught you, didn’t she? Is your bow the same as hers too?”

Ameliah didn’t answer, not wanting to risk a repeat of what had happened when she’d told Dawnlight of Lilly’s death. Stalking forward, she didn’t lower her weapon until she saw the pencil-thin hole between the noblewoman’s eyes. Only one arrow remained visibly lodged in the corpse, sunken deep into its heart. The others, unslowed by the barrier of the noblewoman’s health, must have passed clean through flesh and floor both, burrowing deep into the earth.

Overconfidence it is.

“She’s...dead?” Camaya asked. “Just like that?”

Ameliah nodded to her, noting again that the two sisters were very different people. “Pick up the accolades and bind whichever you can,” she said, stepping over the corpse and peering up the stairwell. “If there are any that boost health, let me know so I can heal you back to full. Try to spread them around so everyone has at least one.”

“Truly?” Skymoon asked.

“Quickly, now,” Ameliah said.

“Can I...?” a high voice asked. It was Greenbriar.

Ameliah glanced over her shoulder to see the child clutching a metal plate, then smiled. “Go on.”

“But—“

“Really, it’s fine,” she interrupted, looking up the stairs again. “You all need them more than I do.”

There was a long pause, then Greenbriar spoke again. “Okay, but...how?”

“Oh, right.” Ameliah turned, reasonably confident now that the guard wasn’t coming. “Don’t worry, it’s easy. It’s about intent.”

The next few minutes saw the accolades portioned out and bound. Some of the plates were as high as rank two, and the fact that the cervidians could bind those proved Ameliah’s guess that they’d been awakened. They’d likely been forced to level as quickly as they could, and likewise forced to take useless skills. She’d ask them later, delicately. For now, she merely healed them as needed, then conjured a fresh batch of arrows for them to use when the first batch vanished.

“Should we stay here?” Ander asked Ameliah after she had indicated it was time to continue.

She shook her head, sending her Lunar Orb to hover by his shoulder and tethering it there. “Once the alarm is raised, some of them might rush to secure the lair. You’re safer with me. Stay ten steps below me until I’ve dealt with the guard.”

Ander nodded, and Ameliah began her ascent, less creeping and more simply climbing. To make her footsteps sound more like the noblewoman’s, she dismissed her boots, and when she neared the door, a voice spoke from the other side.

“Done already?”

Moving onto the landing and not trusting her ability to imitate the noblewoman’s shrill voice, she rattled the knob instead, then, remembering that it opened outward, planted her feet and drew back on her bow.

“Hold on, hold on,” the guard said, doing a lousy job of keeping the annoyance from his voice. After some rattling from the key, the door opened, and Ameliah loosed. Another Mark vanished from her mind.

This might be easier than I thought.

