Rushing forward as the body crumpled, Ameliah burst out into the hallway, resummoning her boots and looking around, finding the coast clear for the moment. As with the noblewoman, her arrow had passed through the Rustcloak’s skull so quickly and cleanly that there was barely any gore. A hole in the wooden paneling behind where he’d stood told of its continued flight through the building, though it had made barely more than a quiet thunk as it drilled through who-knew-how-many walls. Piercing Shot and the ultra-dense needle arrows made for some terrifying penetrative power against mundane materials.

Did anyone notice that, or—?

Ameliah’s thought was interrupted by a muffled exclamation from the direction of the arrow’s passage.

Yeah, someone noticed that. Sand’s falling fast now.

Urgently, she beckoned to the cervidians, waiting in agonized impatience as they climbed the final steps to join her. She pointed to the Rustcloak’s sword, then left without waiting to see who would take it, headed back for the foyer. There were two Marks there. Before long, they or someone else would come to investigate, and besides that, one of the Marks was Nicho’s.

Stepping boldly out into the open space, Ameliah found her target. Nicho was speaking to the man who’d carried her down to the cellar, plus a third she didn’t recognize, standing with his back to her. He was directly between her and her preferred target, which was unfortunate for him and convenient for her. Her arrow slipped neatly through the unknown man’s skull on its way to Nicho’s weaselly face before punching through that as well, then the wall beyond.

Not just low health, but low resistances too, the both of them. Why am I not surprised?

The last Rustcloak managed a surprised grunt before her next arrow silenced him. The startled shout of the servant on the landing, though, made that small victory largely irrelevant. Ameliah only just stopped herself from reflexively planting her next shot through his skull.

Depths, that’s done it now.

Hoping the servant was wise enough to head for the hills with speed, she sprinted across the room for the door. She slammed into the heavy wood with her shoulder, blasting it off its hinges and revealing that the rain had picked up again despite the fact that the clouds should have run out of water days ago. Without even looking for her next targets, Ameliah pointed her bow straight up at the dreary sky and loosed three arrows, one after another. Seeker Shot normally wouldn’t activate if you weren’t looking at your target, but Mark removed that restriction.

“Go!” Ameliah shouted, stepping aside to clear the doorway.

Other than the three Rustcloaks near the pen—who’d drawn their swords, unaware that they were already dead—there was only one more in sight, standing near the wall. Shock of shocks, the man was holding something other than a sharpened bit of metal. His bow didn’t do him much good, though, as her next arrow found his heart before he’d even nocked one of his own. At about the same time, the first arrow she’d sent streaking into the sky hammered straight down into the nearest Swordsman’s skull. Its descent having been effectively vertical, it punched clear through his body and into the earth below without any risk of hitting anyone else. The two after it fell with brutal inevitability, snuffing out the remaining Rustcloaks’ lives one after the other.

Two Marked enemies remained—Mett, outside the palisade by almost a kilometer, and Lord Deadsoon Menovik, whose real first name Ameliah couldn’t be bothered to remember. The latter Mark was in the building behind her and was starting to move in their direction.

That was unacceptable.

With Airwalk, Ameliah stepped up into the air to hover protectively over her charges as they fled toward their friends and family. She snapped off a Seeker Shot at a Rustcloak as he popped out of one of the other buildings, then drew again, looking for threats more immediate than the one in her mind. Seeing none and finding no more reason to wait, she loosed.

Plenty of people were yelling now—mostly the cervidians behind her, some crying out Snowlilly’s name as they mistook her for their fallen hero. The fast-growing cacophony was easily cut through by a yowl of surprise—surprise, but not pain.

Crap. He’s got defenses.

Ameliah loosed again, drawing arrows from nowhere with practiced haste and unloading shaft after shaft into the manor. If anyone was unfortunate enough to be caught between her and her prey, so be it. She’d have a hard time forgiving herself if she inadvertently killed a bystander, but this was war. She had to consider the cost. Should she fail to kill the nobles, and quickly, the cervidians could all die. As could she.

By the time she released the sixth arrow, she was beginning to grow quite worried. Muttering a curse, she stopped in the middle of shot seven to change targets, seeing that the gate on the far side of the palisade had opened. Six Rustcloaks charged through, their number dropping to five before they even spotted her. That was followed by a moment of confusion as they realized she was flying and they had no way to get to her. Another died before the rest turned and dove for cover, but not before she’d Marked them all for later.

A colossal detonation shook the air, and Ameliah whipped her head back around to see the manor’s roof explode outward. Worries of any collateral damage SHE might have caused fled from her mind as burning shingles and shattered beams rained down around her. Following the guidance of the Mark, she finally spotted the figure of the nobleman as he was spat out of the flaming plume rising from the building. Instead of falling, he slowed to hover in the air, staring in her direction.

Gotta keep him focused on me.

She resumed her barrage, jumping up and to the side to place her out of the direct line to the prisoners in case of a counterattack. And a counterattack there was, a Triplicate Fireball homing after her, trailing a plume of steam. Meanwhile, the manor exploded again. From the wreckage rose a translucent dragon made entirely out of fire.

Guess I woke up Grandpa. What skill is THAT, though? Is he a Summoner or something?

Ignoring the dragon for now—and the Triplicate Fireball as it splashed harmlessly against her armor—Ameliah kept shooting, barely even looking at the younger noble as she unloaded arrow after arrow in his direction, adding Multishot to the mix when he proved himself somewhat adept at dodging. Occasionally, she launched a shot straight up, targeting one of the Rustcloaks she’d Marked before, less to pick them off, and more to ensure that they kept their heads down. Mostly, though, her attention went toward searching for the Summoner.

This...could be going better.

Dodging a plume from the dragon, she crashed through another Triplicate Fireball, but then felt something grab her. Burning chains had wrapped themselves around her limbs, lashing her to the ground and trying to pull her out of the sky. It took a good bit of strength to fight through the restriction, but she managed it, keeping up her unending barrage. Soon enough, it became easy again as the chains shattered, their mana sapped by her armor.

The vanishment of the Mark on the nobleman was so abrupt that it came as a shock. She turned to see the man she’d never even gotten a proper look at falling from the sky, his flame extinguished. The Stacked Multishot she’d been about to send in his direction she instead sent after the final Marked Rustcloak in range. Arrows wouldn’t do much against the dragon, she guessed. For that, a different approach was needed.

Skidding to a stop in midair, Ameliah reversed direction, raindrops pelting against her visor as she launched herself directly at the flaming construct. It opened its mouth, unleashing a blinding plume of fire that boiled the water coating her armor to steam, but she didn’t slow, charging back along the path of the flames until she plunged through the dragon’s open mouth.

Its translucent form had no substance, it turned out, and she had to stop herself with Airwalk before she emerged on the other side. The dragon was moving, of course, so she quickly started moving with it, doing her best to stay right where its heart would have been had it been a beast of flesh and blood. Her eyes were watering from keeping them open against the intensity of the light, even through her mirrored visor, but inside her armor, she was comfortably cool.

Ten seconds passed, Ameliah holding her breath as the dragon roared and thrashed, oddly lifelike in its attempts to dislodge the adamant intruder poisoning it from within. Finally, the construct broke apart, not by exploding, but by dissolving into a harmless cloud of shimmering red energy. Through the light show, the steam, and the continuing downpour, Ameliah finally spotted the Summoner responsible.

Mark

It was an old man, staring up at her in his nightgown as he stood amidst the flaming wreckage of his bedroom. A cloak of fire surrounded him, and as she watched, another wave of chains sprung from his outstretched hands to bind her. She dodged, unsurprised when the burning chains curved to strike her anyway, their ends instantly shooting down and burrowing into the ground. Powering through the restriction as before, she released an arrow, which was batted harmlessly aside by a twist of fire.

That’s not Shrouded by Flame, or if it is, he’s got some metamagic I’ve never heard of. This REALLY could be going better.

Worried for the cervidians after not having checked on them for a while, Ameliah glanced away, to her relief, finding them still unharmed. When she looked back, though, she saw that the old nobleman had followed her gaze.

No!

She dismissed her bow and dove at the old man, kicking against the air with even more force than she’d used when diving for the dragon. Too late, he looked back at her, and yet he still almost managed to dodge. Moving with him, Ameliah hammered into him like a metallic comet, wood splintering as she drove the two of them down through the building and into the dirt. Before he could escape, she wrapped her arms behind his back, then began to squeeze, ignoring the detonation of yet another spell she didn’t recognize.

It didn’t matter. He was a Mage, and Mages did not fare well in close quarters. She had him.

Rearing back, Ameliah whipped her head forward, slamming her armored forehead against the old nobleman’s nose with all her strength. It felt like headbutting the side of a mountain, but the flaming cloak didn’t react, likewise not stopping her as she did her best to crush the life out of him. Again and again, she slammed her face into his, so violently that she lost health even with the Forceweave lining her helmet. Only when accolades clinked off the back of her armor did she relent, releasing the bloody and broken corpse. Noting that her armor was approaching full saturation, she triggered Mana Vent, then scrubbed herself clean with Purify before shooting back into the sky.

Besides the rain, visibility was also low thanks to the steam and smoke that now choked the air, but Ameliah could still see the cervidians bunched up near one of the gates, constrained by the narrow passage from leaving the compound. She leapt higher to get a better view past the wall, spotting yet another group of Rustcloaks rapidly bearing down on them from the trees.

She resummoned her bow, and the lead Rustcloak fell seconds later, impaled through the heart. He went down in a heap, tripping up his companions. Two more fell before any of them thought to look up, but the cry of warning from the one who’d spotted her made no difference. Ameliah drew again, relentless. Stoneriver was charging toward the Rustcloaks now, her looted sword held overhead in a reckless two-handed grip. Ameliah couldn’t risk allowing the furious woman a chance to get her vengeance, so she saw to it that the last of the Rustcloaks died to an arrow through the skull long before she reached them.

Thinking back, Ameliah counted how many Rustcloaks she’d seen, coming up with a total of eighteen. One still lived, though not here.

Mett.

The one who’d first ‘captured’ her. The one who’d held her as she’d been violated, then done nothing as his friends had beaten her for the crime of trying to defend herself. The one who, like his fellows, thought farming people was okay.

Steadying herself in midair, Ameliah raised her bow. The woven adamant string inched inexorably backward, Sniper Shot preventing her from drawing straight to her ear, and she took a deep breath, closing her eyes to focus fully on the Mark. Seeker Shot wouldn’t work at this kind of distance. Her aim had to be perfect. She didn’t have time to chase an asshole through the trees.

As Sniper Shot’s channel finished, her fingers twitched, the skill pushing her with an almost overpowering instinct to release. She resisted, however, exhaling and timing it between the rapid beatings of her heart.

There was a crack like thunder, a barely noticeable delay, and then the final Mark was gone.
