“Through institution,” the curator’s voice was rich with amusement. “I called a Senator who oversaw the State Department, who called someone higher up. They were rightfully informed of the embarrassment Mr Kiritani would cause when his story hit the international circuit next week. The State's Bureau of Consular Affairs apologised profusely. They informed our Senator that, due to involuntary renunciation, Mr Kiritani never lost his citizenship. A new certificate was promptly produced, and other related documents were FedExed on a midnight flight to the Met. I then informed our Senator that his name would be proudly presented to the JACL, and that the present Administration would be… praised. These are the levers, dear. The ones you forsook.”

Eppie sucked in a breath of cold air. This… was what she had given up in choosing to do good on an artisanal basis.

“Thank you, Juliana,” Eppie didn’t know what else to say.

“Speaking of the Japanese-American Citizens League,” the curator’s smugness continued. “I am genuinely surprised none of us had even thought about it. I called the reporter you recommended, Lafitte?”

“Yes?” Eppie’s ears, assuming she was an actual cat, perked up. “Can it be done?”

“She says it can,” Vaughan sounded excited as well. “Assuming the survivors are hardy, like Kiritani-sensei. You know this Tanaka is going to be seventy, right?”

“It’s a long shot, I know…” Eppie shared the same excitement. “I won’t tell him anything, of course. I wouldn’t want to disappoint him.”

“No,” Vaughan’s voice returned to its usual instructional cadence. “You do not.”

The phone fell silent for a few seconds.

“See you in March,” she said. “The donors have made their pledges. This is going to be big, Eppie. And it’s all because of you.”

“So SOON?!” Eppie was genuinely shocked. Usually, it took years to free up a gallery for a special exhibition.

“You do realise Kiritani-sensei is 87…”

“Ah…” Eppie apologised. “Do I need to sing?” she asked in jest.

“Would you like to?” Vaughan’s question was rhetorical.

“Er…” Eppie really couldn’t fathom the idea of a blonde-haired, blue-eyed guitarist belting out a Japanese camp song at the end of the exhibition. If she insisted, not only would Kiritani-sensei collapse from the cringe, the JACL might just have her lynched. “No….?”

Her would-be teacher laughed. “See you in March. I’ll send you the date when it's settled. Good luck, my girl. Be careful when you venture into the pines.”

The call ended. Eppie looked at the shimmering slip of a dress on her hotel bed.

It was time.

The private Times Square venue was exactly what it sounded like—a room, with windows, above the crowd, where you could see the ball without becoming part of the situation below. Sony’s corporate stakeholders arrived in ones and twos through the evening. Glasses were poured. Music played from somewhere. Kellie, Lucia, Katrisha, Ellake, and a dozen more had all come and gone to share their well-wishes, more so to Curon than herself.

At eleven fifty-nine, the music died.

The crowd below was enormous, cold, and very loud. The ball descended with its ten shards of light, and New York City counted down in the specific register of a city that knew itself to be the beating heart of the known world.

Ten. Nine. Eight.

The voice of the city was enough to make the windows vibrate. Her adopted father stood beside her at the window. He had both hands on the rail, and she had a hand on the small of his back.

Three. Two. One.

The sound of popping champagne filled the back rooms. The noise that rose from the street was immense and intimate; it filled their chest with the vitality of a city that had found the passing year wanting, but that was no matter now. As the ball fell, they reached out with hope, the hope that tomorrow, they would run faster, their arms would reach further, that in the great sea of their collective American Dream, some might make it.

"Happy New Year, kid," Curon’s face grew illuminated by the fireworks.

Eppie looked at the city blazing below. Somewhere in the Four Seasons, Henry Kiritani was in room 612, asleep or drawing, spending his first NYE indoors since Tule Lake, then she looked at this strange, irrational man who had flown across the country to watch a crippled kid sing Que Sera Sera.

For some reason, her vision grew blurry.

“Happy New Year… Rick.”

The missing beat needed not be said. She held the man’s hand, and he gripped her tiny fingers. The world was a blazing circus of fire, but in this moment, for what it's worth, for what they’ve done to make it a little better, a little more hopeful, it was enough.
