The King of Destruction approached apprehensively. Teres showed him the picture of him, eyes half-closed, fake smile on his face. Flos stared. And then he burst out laughing. He guffawed, slapping his chest, staring wide-eyed, and then choking, trying to hold it in, silently laughing until it burst out of him again. He had to take a few steps back until he was slapping one leg, bracing himself against the table.
The King of Destruction’s hilarity took Teres off-guard. She’d expected him to laugh, but this? It was so infectious that she began giggling, and then laughing herself. Their voices made the servant’s door open, and the [Servants] stared at their [King]. Then they began laughing themselves.
There was no malice in it. But the laughter was long-overdue. Like a pressure cooker, the King of Destruction’s naturally good mood suddenly reflated. And he laughed.
It changed the mood of the room. The quiet silence broke. And the entire castle seemed to light up. Maybe that was how it felt. Or maybe that was just his presence. Even the rain seemed to lessen. But regardless, the King of Destruction left his room, Teres in tow. He held up the iPhone, still chuckling, and went down the hall. And every single person he met in the hall had to see the image of him.
It wasn’t funny. It really wasn’t. Teres stopped laughing after the first four times. But Flos kept laughing, and to her surprise, everyone who saw it started laughing as well. It was like she’d somehow trapped comedy in a single picture.
For a while Teres didn’t understand—until she realized the picture on her iPhone was the clearest photo most people in this world had ever seen. Flos Reimarch himself had probably seen himself only a few times, and then only in a mirror, or with magic. Not like this.
But there he went, holding her iPhone. Laughing. And for a moment he’d forgotten about Tiqr. And Reim, like its [King], laughed for a moment in the rain.
 
——
 
Trey Atwood heard the laughter first. It was a booming laugh, but everything about the King of Destruction was large. And love him or hate him—and there were things to hate, for all Trey admired him at times—he was easy to like. And the half-Gazer woman who looked up from her lesson in Trey’s quarters with a bunch of magical scrolls and a textbook smiled. Because she loved him.
Gazi Pathseeker looked up as the door to Trey’s room burst open. Flos, the King of Destruction strode into the room. He was holding Teres’ iPhone in one hand. And on his face was a look of mirth Trey hadn’t seen for over a month.
“Gazi! Gazi, come see this! Could you ever imagine me making such a face?”
Flos thrust the iPhone at Gazi. She blinked, staring at the device. Then she focused on the image on the screen. It took her a second. But then she grinned. Her sharp teeth and four smaller eyes focused around the large, shut eye in her head. The half-Gazer stared at the image of Flos.
And then she laughed. It was quiet, and instantly drowned out by Flos’ bellow of laughter. Trey saw Teres standing behind Flos. She waved at him, grinning and mouthing something. He nodded.
She’d done it. And Flos was laughing. Gazi looked at Flos, shaking her head.
“You look ridiculous, my lord.”
“I know! What a sight! It’s one of these pictures! Teres took one—Trey! You didn’t tell me these devices were capable of such things!”
“They can do a lot more than that. That’s just a bad picture, Your Majesty.”
“What? It’s fantastic! It needs to be kept forever! Can I somehow duplicate this? Is that—where’d it go?”
The screen had timed out and turned dark. Flos looked alarmed. Teres took the smartphone back.
“It’s still here. The screen just went dark. I don’t think there’s a printer in this world, but it’s saved. Maybe an [Artist] can copy this? I told you these can do a lot more than you could imagine.”
“I believe it. But you were so delighted yesterday—by all means, show me one of these devices from your world! And everyone walks around with them?”
“Most people. I told you Earth’s technology was advanced.”
“Yes, but this is astounding! It’s one thing to hear of it, the other to see. Very well, show me something else. I still maintain that magic can work wonders your world lacks. Like creating water. How do you manage in droughts?”
Flos handed the iPhone back. Teres unlocked it and then gave Trey a look he knew all too well.
“Well, we have photos—and video—and all kinds of useful stuff like calculators and so on. But we also have games.”
Trey groaned.
“Teres, maybe—”
She elbowed him, hard. Gazi looked at them with one eye; another was fixed on Flos, the other two looking at the people clustered in the doorway, trying not to peek. They vanished as they saw Gazi looking at them. Flos frowned.
“Games?”
Teres grinned wickedly. She was going to try to take Flos down a peg. Trey groaned. Then he groaned louder when he saw where she was going.
“You tap on the screen, like so, see? And that makes the phone do all sorts of things.”
“I see, I see. Not hard at all! Look! I’ve taken a photo!”
“Of my arm. Okay, you can do that later. But look! I have one of the games people play in my world. It’s a competitive game, actually…want to try?”
“Certainly. I enjoy games. But how will it fit on such a small thing, I wonder? No—wait—just show me. I can’t wait.”
Flos smiled. Trey watched with a dull incredulity. She was actually doing it. Teres tapped on the app with a wicked grin that escaped only Flos in the room. She opened the app and the King of Destruction read the name.
“Flappy Bird? Is that a…bird?”
Trey covered his face. Teres smiled wickedly.
“It’s one of the easiest games. All you do is tap on the screen, see? And the bird goes up—”
“What are those green things? Is that…supposed to be the sky behind it? And that is a bird? It looks nothing like—well, I suppose some fish—”
Flos objected as he tried to grasp the game. Teres tried to explain the nature of warp pipes and artificial games to Flos. Trey just watched. Soon, Flos was watching Teres tap on the screen. She had a high score of eighty-three, a personal best.
Trey hated that stupid game so much. He didn’t know why she’d kept it on her iPhone. But it was topical to their world, and Flos was fascinated.
“And you play that game to receive the highest score? That is fun! Simple, yes. A children’s game?”
“Oh no. Adults play it too. It’s just for passing the time.”
“I see, I see. How convenient. Well, allow me to try.”
“Go ahead!”
Teres gave it to Flos with the sweetest of smiles. She’d gotten to nine in her little demonstration, but Flos hadn’t missed the number at the top of the screen. He stroked his beard.
“Eighty-three? Fascinating. Even your words resemble ours so much. But enough of such questions. This is your best. Well, I will tap to play and—”
The little bird went up. Flos tapped, copying Teres.
“Up, and up, and—ah!”
It ran into the pipe. Not the second pipe, the first one. Flos’ face fell. Teres’ smile grew wider.
“What a fragile bird. Can’t it move properly?”
Flos muttered. The [King] stared at the screen.
“You can start over. See?”
“Of course! A second attempt! Are there penalties for…?”
“Nope. Keep playing!”
He did. Flos tapped, and this time the bird got past the first pipe. The second, the third—it hit the sixth. Flos’ brows furrowed together.
“Hold on. This little bird—”
“Harder than it looks, right?”
Teres asked innocently. The King of Destruction looked up from the phone. This time he saw Trey’s expression and her face. But he stubbornly tapped her iPhone.
“It’s a matter of timing. I’ve played far harder games. Orthenon tried to interest me in chess—this is—”
Tap, tap, tap. Gazi was watching her [King], the ruler of Reim and the man who’d conquered all of Chandrar, tap on the phone and watch his little bird die. Flos made it to thirteen. And then eighteen. And then four. He just didn’t have the rhythm down.
“Move down, you little pest! Why does it always move like—can’t it fly properly? What’s the point of this?”
“To win. And the bird always moves like that. It’s a challenge.”
Teres replied sweetly. She was enjoying Flos’ frustration to no end. The King of Destruction looked up with a huge scowl.
“I’m beginning to think you’ve played some trick on me, Teres.”
“Me? It’s just my iPhone. Nothing special. As simple as magic, right?”
The [King] narrowed his eyes. Then he turned.
“Magic? I never learned to cast it. On the other hand—Gazi, would you like a try with this infernal game?”
“If Your Majesty wishes.”
Gazi smiled slightly. Trey looked at her. She took the iPhone cautiously—both she and Flos handled it as if it were glass, which it did look like. And Gazi tapped the screen.
“It’s easy. All you do is tap—”
Teres’ smug voice was cut off as Gazi swiveled one eye to look at her. The half-Gazer gave her a sharp-toothed grin.
“I have seen.”
She began to tap. Her pace was measured, deliberate. She was copying Teres! And unlike Flos, Gazi didn’t get excited. One of her eyes focused on the screen while the other three went roaming. Trey watched. Gazi tapped, tapped, tapped—and hit a pipe.
“Oops! Well done, though, Gazi.”
Flos smiled good-naturedly. The half-Gazer only shrugged. She met Teres’ smile with her own.
“If you’ll allow me to try again, Your Majesty?”
“Very well.”
Flos waved a hand. This time Gazi focused two eyes on the screen. She began tapping. And her bird died again.
On pipe twelve. And it had missed the edge of the pipe by an invisible pixel. Gazi paused, blinked down at the screen. Then Trey saw three of her four eyes focus on the screen. Teres stopped grinning.
The third time she got to thirty nine but ran into a pipe by tapping too fast. Gazi paused, flexed her hand—her fingers were different from a regular Human’s; there were only four, for one thing, and her orange-brown skin was another feature of her mixed heritage. And the eyes, obviously.
“I think I understand. Now.”
She began tapping. And Teres’ smile faded. Flos watched, nodding to himself and smiling. Trey was just incredulous. Because Gazi started tapping and the bird moved through the pipes perfectly.
Tap, tap, tap. Gazi focused three eyes, then two, and then one. She was counting the score. She passed eighty-three. And then a hundred. And then two hundred. Teres threw up her hands.
“How—”
“Shh! She’s beating your score, Teres!”
She glared at him. Trey watched, delightedly, as did Flos, but Gazi’s intent focus began to waver. She began glancing at the screen with one of her eyes, not even watching with that one.
After a score of three hundred and fifteen, the bird ran into a pipe. Not, Trey thought, because Gazi had made a mistake. She’d just gotten bored. She handed the iPhone back to her [King]. Teres was still in a state of shock.
“How did you—but—that’s not fair! You’ve never even played it before! Trey, did you give her your phone?”
“I don’t even have that stupid game!”
Gazi just shrugged, her rust-colored armor moving on her shoulders. She gave Trey her small smile.
“Skills. It’s a game about seeing ahead. And timing. My lord, I don’t think there’s much to it besides an idle moment’s relaxation.”
“You might be right. But I have to at least break a hundred! If you can do it, a [King] should do no less! Thirty, at least!”
Flos began tapping the screen. But he didn’t have Gazi’s incredible sense of timing or patience. He’d tap too fast, or expect the bird to, well, not, move like it did. The twins saw Flos’ brow furrowing, his expression getting more annoyed by the second. Gazi gave Teres another long stare with one eye.
“Uh, Your Majesty. There are other things you can do—”
“I must reach at least thirty! No, forty!”
Flos snapped at Trey. Teres began to look as though she was regretting her prank.
“It’s just a game. And it’s my phone. Here—”
She tried to reach for it, but Flos simply lifted the phone above her reach as he continued to tap and scowl.
“No, Teres. You have thrown down the gauntlet. I must satisfy my pride or I won’t be able to dwell on anything else!”
“See what you’ve done?”
“Shut it! It was funny!”
It was, Trey had to admit. But Teres had misjudged her audience. Flos hated losing. And he began getting more and more frustrated by the comical sound effects and the bird. He started tapping harder, and losing more quickly, despite Teres trying to give him tips so he’d break thirty and stop playing.
“Just stop tapping so hard!”
“I’m not tapping hard. This bird refuses to move properly!”
Flos growled back. Trey saw him stab at the screen to retry. And then it happened.
Tap, tap, crack. Trey froze when he heard the sound. He looked up and saw the iPhone’s screen crack around Flos’ finger. He paused and Teres shouted in horror.
“My phone!”
“What happened? I didn’t tap it too—”
“You shattered it!”
Trey was amazed. He’d seen iPhones break, but never by someone tapping it so hard. But Flos was insanely strong—no, as the King of Destruction lowered the iPhone, Trey saw the metal was slightly bent from where he’d been holding it!
“It’s so weak! What metal is this?”
“I don’t know! How’d you break it?”
“We can fix it. Teres, Ulyse managed to [Repair] it. He can fix the phone. Right?”
Teres was nearly in tears. It was her smartphone, and the screen was shattered. One of her few possessions from earth besides her clothes. Flos took one look at her face and whirled.
“[Repair] fixes most objects. And Ulyse is a master. Gazi, summon Ulyse at once! Run!”
Trey stared in surprise. But the half-Gazer didn’t wait for a second question. She took a running start, ran past Flos, and jumped out Trey’s window.
“Gazi!”
The young man ran to the window. He saw Gazi hit the ground—four stories down. She landed in a crouch, and then sprinted forwards. She was headed towards the streets. Flos was at Trey’s back.
“Ulyse must be down there. Come! We’ll meet him. Make way!”
He suited action to words. He was running down the hallway, holding the iPhone like a broken bird. Servants leapt out of the way, some shouting an alarm. The King of Destruction just bellowed for them to clear the hall and they did. Trey and Teres ran after him, more confused than anything.
Ulyse met Flos at the palace’s entrance. He was panting; he must have sprinted through the city! Gazi pointed and he strode towards Flos.
“Your Majesty, what is the issue?”
“This device. I’ve broken it. Can you repair it with a spell?”
“The phone?”
Ulyse looked alarmed as Flos showed him the cracks and dents. He inspected it.
