Teres raised an eyebrow, but she went over and pulled over a chair. Flos blinked and Teres blushed; she was dragging it through what was this world’s equivalent of a Persian rug. He didn’t seem to really care, but Teres hurriedly lifted the chair up and carried it over to him. She sat and looked out the window. After a moment she coughed.
“It’s been raining. For days. Is it that rare in Reim?”
“Out of season? Unheard of. It’s a beautiful sight, no matter how many times I see it.”
Flos was unmoved by her lack of awe. He watched it rain. After a moment, Teres lifted the pot.
“Look at this.”
The King of Destruction stared at the little pot. It was clay, fired from some oven and given some carvings along the bottom. Not a fine work; some apprentice’s piece. It was also filled with dirt. Something green was poking out of the top. A broad-headed leaf. Flos eyed it.
“Is that a Yellat stalk?”
“Yup. Want to see how big it is?”
Flos hesitated, but Teres was tempting him. He paused, then pulled at the stalk. It came up and both he and Teres exclaimed at the large, fat Yellat. The spicy-tasting, vaguely tubular roots were usually long and narrow, but this one hadn’t been able to grow in the pot, so it had curled up on itself.
“What an unusual shape!”
The [King] was highly amused. He shook dirt off the Yellat, onto the aforementioned rich carpet and stone floor. Teres winced, but the [Servants] could probably get it out. And Flos’ laugh was worth the dirt. He stared at it, bemused.
“Are you attempting to be a [Gardener], Teres? There’s little potential for war in the [Gardener] class, I’ll have you know. Although my [Gardener], Tottenval, could grow the most wondrous of plants. Ah, but if he’d been here, Reim would be blooming eternally.”
He sighed. Teres hurriedly pointed to the Yellat to keep him from backsliding into gloom.
“I planted this seven days ago in my room. I watered it, but I didn’t do anything other than put it by my window. Look how big it is.”
“Yes indeed. Quite tasty. I have a mind to eat it. But of course, Yellats taste horrible raw. I’ll hand it to one of my [Chefs] and have it for dinner. Or a snack.”
Flos good-naturedly tossed it back into the bowl. Teres cleared her throat meaningfully.
“It grew in seven days. Don’t Yellats take…longer?”
“Seventy days. It’s just as well our growing seasons are so long. And that Chandrar has little to no winter. But they don’t take much water. What of it?”
Teres folded her arms. Flos paused.
“Oh, well, I told you. I issued an Edict. The [Edict of Bloom]. Hence…that.”
Flos waved a lazy hand. Teres stared out the window. She knew what Edicts were. A [King]’s order that could encompass a kingdom. But she hadn’t thought it would be this powerful.
“Is that why it’s still raining?”
“Most likely, most likely. It’s a happy surprise. It saves my [Farmers] the issue of watering. Their only complaint is that it’s too wet for some crops to grow. Happily, Yellats only get fatter with water. They’re harvesting quickly! They have Skills on top of their natural abilities, Teres. I dare say their Yellats might be as long as my leg!”
He laughed at the thought, then frowned.
“The [Edict of Bloom] will fill Reim’s storehouses. But we must be careful not to overstretch. The soil’s lost some of its potency from all this growing. The [Farmers] are telling Orthenon they must switch crops after this next harvest. I don’t suppose you recall anything more of this crop rotation? My [Farmers] say they have a good system—and of course, some have Skills that replenish the dirt, but…”
He looked at Teres. She could only shrug unhelpfully.
“Sorry. I never grew anything back home.”
“Ah, well. The rain is good enough. I’m glad we could collect so much water as well; it will help for the dry seasons and campaigns.”
The King of Destruction looked pleased. Teres just raised an eyebrow.
“About that. I thought the [Edict of Bloom] only affected plants. That’s what Trey told me you said to him.”
Flos laughed.
“So did I! But the last time I used it was…ah, twenty levels ago. As I said, Teres. Edicts wear at a kingdom. I try not to use them unless I have need for them. I suppose I’ve become a stronger [King] since then.”
“Wait. So last time you used it, you only got plants to grow faster?”
“And babies to be born quicker. Better harvests. Hm. Energized citizens. Yes, that was what happened last time. No rain.”
“So leveling up gives your edict more power?”
“Only naturally.”
Flos looked like he was explaining why the ground was the ground to a child. Teres stared at him. He elaborated.
“Come now, I’ve taught you about Skills and classes, haven’t I? Why is it a surprise that your level affects the strength of your Skills? Have you ever seen a [Lady] use [Deft Hand]? Well, most of them fled Reim when I entered my slumber. I’ll try to find one and have them show you an example.”
“What can a [Lady] do?”
Teres watched Flos perch the cup with dirt in it by the edge of the table. He flicked his wrist at it. The cup didn’t move.
“See that? [Deft Hand] lets you reach out and touch something. At low levels, say, Level 10, you can knock over something like that cup, or stop one from falling. Useful, in…tea circles, but not for most other things, correct?”
Teres nodded dutifully. Flos leaned back; the poor cup nearly fell over on its own as he nudged the table.
“However, I have heard that during war, high-level [Ladies] can divert a shower of arrows, even change the direction of a cavalry charge. At least, if someone like Orthenon isn’t leading them or Maresar isn’t shooting the arrows.”
“Really?”
“Of course. Have you seen the [Warriors] practicing with [Power Strike]? Ask Mars to do the same and stand back! Strength lies in your level, Teres. Why do you think half the world is so afraid of me and my little kingdom? Then again, strength is also in magical items. Spells. Sheer numbers. Gold.”
Flos sighed again. Teres bit her lip. He was thinking of Tiqr again.
He’d promised not to go to war. Unless a nation gave Reim just cause, the King of Destruction would not make war without reason. That was what Flos had promised, but that had led to other nations declaring war on Tiqr, one of the few countries even remotely sympathetic towards him. It had been nearly a month and Flos hadn’t gone to Tiqr’s aid.
He wanted to. Teres and Trey could see it in every line of his being, the way he hung on reports from Tiqr and discussed strategy with Gazi and Orthenon when he returned from managing Hellios on occasion. But he couldn’t intervene, not without breaking his promise. And that might lead to every nation in Chandrar attacking Reim.
Teres was about to suggest Flos eat the Yellat, or show her one of his Skills, but the King of Destruction had turned to look out the window. She expected him to make some other rain-related comment, but suddenly, he sat up and pointed.
“Look. My people are returning.”
The King of Destruction stood as Teres turned. In the distance, buffeted by the rain, she could see…Teres had to squint. Her eyes weren’t nearly as good as Flos’, but she saw a thin line through the drizzle at last.
“Another group?”
“It looks that way. They’re coming from the north. They must be exhausted.”
“The patrols probably already spotted them.”
Teres was sure of it; no one would have made it this far without being seen, but the King of Destruction was already turning. He clapped his hands once.
“Your Majesty?”
The door instantly opened and a [Servant] appeared. Flos turned.
“…Mizzi?”
“Yes, Your Majesty!”
The woman beamed. Flos nodded, smiling.
“Send someone to escort my people into the city. [Healers] should ride out—and [Riders] with wagons to carry them if there are young or old amongst them. Have the [Chefs] prepare food! Oh, and cook this, will you? I want to eat it.”
“At once, sire!”
The [Servant] didn’t even look twice at the Yellat that Flos handed her, although she did notice Teres’ dirty cup. But she rushed out, and another [Servant] replaced her.
“Will there be anything else, Your Majesty? Shall I send someone to remove the dirt or cup…?”
“Leave the dirt for later. Do you want your cup back, Teres?”
“Take it.”
The [Servant] bowed. Teres found herself alone with the King of Destruction once more. He sat back down; already, someone was riding out from Reim’s gates towards the group of refugees.
“From all across Chandrar they are coming, Teres. It almost makes the news of Tiqr easier to swallow. This is my peace. My people return to me. Do you see?”
Teres nodded. It was one of hundreds of such caravans that had come to Reim this month, and many had numbers in the thousands. Flos’ subjects, all those who still thought well of the King of Destruction, had left their homes and made the long journey to Reim. Many were still coming; they were sheltered by his proclamation of peace.
“So you have an army.”
“I have a kingdom. Some will fight. But many will simply settle in Reim, Germina, or Hellios. My nation was worn away by my slumber; this will return it to its glory.”
Flos corrected Teres, smiling. Then he paused again.
“Tiqr will fall tomorrow. So I feel. Nsiia is cornered in her capital. I have been to Oliphant. Unless it has changed drastically, it will not last long.”
Teres sighed. Flos was worse than a dog with a bone. She fished around in her pocket. She hadn’t wanted to use her trump card just yet, but it was time. Slowly, she pulled out a smooth, rectangular object.
“Your people are nearing the city. Are you going to greet them?”
“In a moment.”
“Well, then why don’t I take a picture? Of your citizens?”
“Take a what? Oh!”
Flos turned. His eyes widened as he saw Teres holding her iPhone. She held it up, the little camera light shining. Teres smiled triumphantly as the King of Destruction did a double-take, looking towards the balcony.
“Your phone! Does it still have its energy?”
“Smartphone. And yes, it does. I told you, it’s got hours left. Ever since Ulyse recharged it.”
Teres held the smartphone up, grinning with pure pleasure at the look on Flos’ face. Of course, she’d had her iPhone from the beginning, like Trey. But both their phones had run out of battery within two days of them arriving in this world. They’d only lasted long enough for a very strange chat message with other people from Earth and then gone dead.
The twins had assumed it would be forever, but one of the [Mages] who had recently come to Reim, Ulyse, leader of the [Mage]-group, Parasol Stroll, had tried to fix Trey’s iPhone. And—miracle of miracles—a simple [Repair] spell had charged the smartphones back to full strength! Teres was still amazed; she’d spent all of yesterday on her iPhone, just…playing with it. She’d listened to all her music, looked at all her pictures—
The ones of her family hurt her most. Her family, and friends. She’d tried not to linger on them and it didn’t bother her now. She was focused on Flos’ expression. He’d seen her and Trey waving the smartphones about, but they’d barely been able to explain them to the [King], so excited they’d been. Now he peered at the glowing screen, frowning.
“You showed me the camera when we first met. And you explained the pictures—similar to a [Mage]-image. This little thing can make one?”
“It can take one. Of you, or your people. Anything I want. See? Look—I’m going to take a picture—”
“Yes, yes. And the little picture is what this camera sees. Fascinating. Very disconcerting, too. You’re going to take a picture of my people returning? That’s very appropriate. Worthy of a…picture.”
Flos peered at the image of the world through the screen. Teres nodded.
“If you’ll just let me—”
She held up the iPhone, trying to get the best resolution. It was hard because the image kept refocusing; Flos was excitedly peering at the lens, then stalking around to watch Teres take the picture. He kept shaking his head as she tapped the iPhone, trying to center the shot and zoom in.
“Incredible. A simple spell gives it its…energy back? No, wait. Electricity. Charge. You explained it to me. But you told me it was harnessed lightning, not magic!”
“I don’t know why either. Ulyse just cast [Repair] and it worked. Flos, your face is in the way.”
He pulled it out of the way hurriedly.
“Fascinating. And you can take however many you want? Far more efficient than [Artists] or [Mages]!”
“That’s right. Okay, I have a good image.”
The people were getting closer to the city and Teres had framed the balcony, the city, and them. It was fairly good, if she said so herself. She held up the iPhone and then looked at Flos. He was not-quite-subtly standing next to her view of the people in the distance.
“Do you want to be in it?”
“They are my people. And I am a [King]. Shouldn’t I be?”
Teres rolled her eyes, but didn’t debate the point. It was working.
“Alright then! Get ready!”
She refrained from saying, ‘say cheese!’ because it would take too long to explain. To her surprise, Flos immediately stiffened up. He adopted a straight-backed posture, hands at his side, and an almost expressionless face, chin slightly tilted to the open window. It was so—uncharacteristic that Teres had to grin. Flos paused, seeing it.
“What?”
“Why are you standing like that?”
He looked like the very same people captured in old photographs from her world. Not someone taking a selfie or just—posing for a picture. Teres tried to explain, but the King of Destruction didn’t understand what was so funny. He frowned.
“Smile? Pose?”
“Yes! Be more natural! You look far too…serious!”
“The picture is a recollection, a historical marker. Should I be irreverent?”
“Well, I think it would look better. Try smiling, or pointing at them!”
Teres urged the King of Destruction. He hesitated uncertainly, one of the few times she’d ever seen him thusly. Then he tried to take her advice. Flos turned to face the camera, adjusted his posture so he was at a slight angle towards the balcony. Then he held one hand out, as if gesturing at the influx of people in the distance. He gave the camera the fakest smile Teres had ever seen him make.
She paused, staring through the camera. Flos hesitated, and then spoke through his teeth.
“Is it done?”
“No. One second—”
She hit the camera button and Flos blinked in the flash. That just made the picture…well, not worse—it was already a work of art in the hall of failure. Teres shook her head.
“I take it back. You were right. That’s awful. Come and see what you look like!”
