The Siren whirled. Her fury subsided a bit. She looked around. And the flash of fear across her face made the [Bandit Lady]’s heart skip her own beat. The King of Destruction was going to give Tiqr his strength? Revine chewed one fingernail.
“Tell them to pull back! And get me every [Pirate Captain] in a week’s sailing distance! Call them in! All the armadas! The Sandwave Fleet, the Bloodtear Pirates—and get everyone on alert! I want my ship ready to go in case of—get my ship stocked and loaded!”
She looked around. And then she whirled back to the slave-[Mage].
“Tell Urele I want the Empress of Beasts dead! Forget capturing her! If she comes out—kill her! Understand?”
 
——
 
The sky was dark, and Femithain had been roused from his sleep. He strode through Nerrhavia’s camp, followed by his [Armsmaster], Dellic. But despite having slept little, he was wide awake.
As was all of the camp. Nerrhavian [Soldiers] were racing back and forth, and teams of [Diggers] were excavating the ground. The camp was in a flurry of activity, and Femithain saw the locus of it. General Thelican looked like he’d barely had any sleep before being woken. He was standing in the center of his camp, shouting orders at his [Strategists], the [Mages] bearing urgent messages for him and the [Commanders] of other nations.
He’d pulled back Nerrhavia’s army nearly six hundred paces from Oliphant! And more—Femithain had seen Nerrhavia’s encirclement breaking. Thelican was recalling them, pulling them back around his personal command. He’d gotten the same news that chilled Femithain’s blood.
The Empress of Beasts had courted the King of Destruction’s aid. He might unleash his Dreamers of Reim and his [Army of the King] through her. Femithain had gotten that straight from Archmage Viltach. He hadn’t questioned it. And neither, it seemed, had anyone else.
The armies surrounding Oliphant were moving closer together, almost huddling next to the protective bulk of Nerrhavia’s army. Thelican was changing the distribution of his camps, creating fortifications. Suddenly, it looked like his army was the one being besieged. Femithain strode past staggered ranks of foot-soldiers digging trenches and fashioning palisades in the night.
He reached the center of the commotion. This time no one saw him—until one of his personal Golems strode forwards. Then they backed away from the huge metal giant. Femithain walked past the press, straight towards Thelican.
General Thelican was sweating, his silk-turned-flesh skin gleaming palely. He was shouting at a [Mage].
“Are you sure? Tell Yisame that I’m not taking chances! That’s the information I was told—ask them! I’m busy! Tell her I’m fortifying my position! The armies stay where I say they do!”
“I’m not taking a charge on the front lines! Move your soldiers in front of mine!”
Another [General] was bellowing at Thelican. General Heic of Deimos. Thelican whirled on him.
“Your soldiers have armor! You’ll hold the left flank or I’ll break your army myself!”
“If we’re attacked—”
“Femithain!”
Thelican spotted Femithain. He strode over.
“Did you hear? I just got a communication spell from—”
“I heard.”
“It’s the most dire news. Who would have thought? The treachery of it! And we can’t even retreat, damn them! It could be a ruse or—Yisame, my beloved damned [Queen], has ordered me to hold! I need your Golems on the front. They’ll be invaluable. Put your troops with mine. We’ll hold the center.”
“I agree.”
“Good, good. Someone has a spine! Move them up. I’ll show you where—”
Thelican shouted for maps. Femithain waited, seeing Heic turn to him. He felt someone touch his arm and turned. Dellic was insistent, pointing back towards Illivere’s army, which had broken camp.
“Magus-Crafter, we must evacuate you as well. You cannot be endangered! You should retreat with your personal Golems. I will send some of our elites as an escort. Allow me command of the Golems.”
“No. My responsibility keeps me at the front.”
Femithain cut Dellic off flatly. The man inhaled, his face pale—and General Heic pushed his way forwards.
“Magus-Crafter! A word! This can’t be serious. We’re running about as if we’re about to fight a battle for our lives! And my soldiers are on the front! Thelican’s put his entire army between him and Oliphant—is the man terrified for his life or—”
Femithain grabbed Heic. Thelican had been accosted by a [Strategist], but panic or not, Heic’s words were a deadly insult. And the String-people of Nerrhavia paid insults with blood.
“General Heic, silence. Dellic, with me. Move the army forwards. Golems to the front!”
He practically towed Heic out of the circle of command. Heic spluttered, but fell silent. Femithain strode with him towards the front.
“This can’t be serious. My [King] just sent me a [Message] spell—the King of Destruction? Aiding Tiqr? Now? Is this a serious threat?”
“I heard the same, General Heic. And I take it quite seriously. It is an act of desperation. And consequential—but there is reason for it.”
“But we’ve ten armies! She’s got barely—”
Femithain whirled, out of patience for once. Dellic returned at a trot. The Magus-Crafter looked at both men.
“Have you ever seen the Dreamers of Reim, Armsmaster Dellic? General Heic?”
Deimos’ [General] shook his head uneasily. So did Dellic. Femithain pursed his lips.
“I have. Or rather, I’ve seen their aftermath. They are the strongest of the King of Destruction’s personal units. It is an unbreakable force, who bear the dreams of their fallen comrades. Every Dreamer fights with the strength of their cause, their fallen comrades, friends, and loved ones giving them power. They become faster, harder to kill, and more deadly the stronger their conviction.”
Heic opened his mouth, paling. Femithain spoke over him.
“It was said that when the King of Destruction led them, they could walk through a hail of ordinary arrows without falling. They could shatter stone with their fists and fight for a day without rest!”
“Golems can do that too, Magus-Crafter.”
Dellic gritted his teeth. Femithain looked at him.
“Yes they can, Armsmaster. But we have hundreds of Golems. In theory, we could be fighting six hundred thousand Dreamers, if the King of Destruction’s Skill works on all of them at once.”
The two men fell silent. Femithain looked at them.
“The Dreamers of Reim follow a great cause; once, it was the King of Destruction’s will to unite Chandrar, and the world. The desire of Tiqr’s people to follow their [Empress] into battle might be even stronger at this moment.”
“Then why are we not retreating?”
General Heic finally understood the danger. He looked back at his own force, far to the left. Femithain watched as his Golems marched forwards, giants of stone, sand, and wood.
“Because we are committed, General Heic. And because the Dreamers are not invincible. We can win this battle. The second Unit that I was informed might appear are the Sorcelled Blades. Another of the King of Destruction’s unique forces.”
“He has two?”
Dellic started. He was too young to remember the King of Destruction’s first campaign. Probably just a boy, then. Femithain had lived those times and corrected him.
“Three. I doubt he can form the Mirage of Chandrar, however. The Sorcelled Blades are a weaker unit as a whole. More conventional than an army that cannot be broken. But elites. All of their blades are enchanted and they reinforce each other. They can copy each other’s enchantments, even combine the two. Blades that pierce armor will also freeze those they cut. Nsiia could form a group of warriors with weapons all nearly as powerful as her personal relic.”
“Dead gods.”
“They can be broken as well. This army is one of trained [Soldiers]. Tiqr’s citizens lack levels. They can be killed.”
And if he uses the [Army of the King]? Femithain paused. He looked at the two men.
“Flos Reimarch is not invincible. His Seven made him terrifying and unassailable. And yes, the King of Destruction is fearsome on his own. He can win any one battle even against terrible, terrible odds. Where he loses is when he fights on multiple fronts, when he is outflanked, worn down. A hammer can only strike one spot. But if this is the hammer it is weak. Flawed. We are an anvil. So long as we do not break, Tiqr’s forces will shatter.”
“You need not be here, Magus-Crafter.”
Dellic’s voice was all that was left in the silence. Femithain knew it was true. But he just looked at his [Armsmaster], at Heic as he returned to the safety of Nerrhavia’s lines and shook his head.
“Armsmaster Dellic. I have participated in Tiqr’s destruction. I declared war on Empress Nsiia and broke her kingdom to pieces until she was pushed to this last. For good or ill. I do not leave my tasks undone.”
The man hesitated. But then he looked at Femithain and nodded. He clasped one hand to his shoulder and metal rang.
“Yes, Magus-Crafter. Then let us see it together. I’ve always wondered whether the King of Destruction’s legend matched the truth.”
Femithain smiled bitterly.
“Ill wishes, Armsmaster. Come.”
He turned. And then he raised a finger. He put it to his temple and frowned. A [Message] struck him, a spell from afar. Femithain accepted it as Dellic looked at him. His eyes flickered. And he sighed.
“Ah. I see.”
 
——
 
“A [Message]!”
Archmage Feor was sending [Message] spells and speaking into a scrying orb to a [Queen] on her throne. He held up a hand, cutting off Queen Yisame.
“From the King of Destruction?”
One of the [Mages] doing the same looked up. Teura shook her head. She was monitoring the flurry of [Messages] going out around Oliphant, recording them for analysis later. Even in this situation, Wistram stood to benefit. But one had caught her eye.
“No—to Magus-Crafter Femithain, Archmage! From the Empress of Beasts! It says—”
Archmage Feor snatched the paper from her and read. Teura looked at him. The Archmage dropped the paper and looked out the window. It was dawn. The sun was rising. And if it was rising here—he turned.
Archmage Nailihuaile and Viltach looked up as Feor burst into the room where they were writing Wistram’s declaration. He pointed at them as they turned.
“Send the declaration! Alert General Thelican and the coalition leaders to brace for an attack!”
“Why? Did Flos send something?”
Naili looked up, eyes wide in alarm. Feor shook his head. He brandished the paper.
“This is a message from Empress Nsiia to Magus-Crafter Femithain. It says—”
Viltach snatched the paper. Naili slithered around him, trying to see. Viltach dropped it and turned. He looked at Naili.
“Send it now. We’ll have to scry the battle!”
“What? How do you know? Why are you certain? What did she say?”
The shorter Lamia was snatching at the floating paper in frustration. Viltach paused at the door; Feor was already moving for their scrying room. He looked back at Naili, who was reading Nsiia’s words to Femithain. Viltach pointed at the paper.
“She told him to run.”
 
——
 
Empress Nsiia walked down the steps from her palace. Her head felt light. And her shoulders were thrown back, her spine straight. She walked past her soldiers. They waited. General Vasraf stood down the central street. And her people, an army, waited at the gates.
“General Vasraf.”
Nsiia paused once before him. He bowed slightly. There were tears in his eyes. But he didn’t try to stop her. They had spoken all the words that needed to be said. Nsiia reached out and they clasped arms. She looked at him, trying to put words to the emotions in her chest.
“I only wish that I had not been the last [Empress] of Tiqr. I wish to have been a better ruler.”
He shook his head, eyes bright.
“My Empress. It has been a pleasure to serve. From all of us.”
The [Soldiers] bowed. They knelt as Nsiia looked around. She felt her eyes sting. And she bowed her head. She wanted to remember this moment forever. But dawn beckoned. And her people waited. So Nsiia paused. She looked at Vasraf, her army, her city. And then she reached up. With one hand she lifted the Tusk of Tiqr. The other rose to her headdress.
She plucked the Roc’s feather. Vasraf stepped back. And Nsiia looked down at the feather, the last gift of her father. And it shimmered and faded away in her hand. Her headband glowed.
And Nsiia grew. She felt her clothes and spear growing with her. Tall. Taller. She rose over the heads of her soldiers, who looked up, kneeling. Nsiia saw the rooftops moving towards her. She turned, nearly stumbling, as her feet grew.
And then she stopped. She stood as tall as one of her Grand Elephants, the eighteen still armored for war. They blew their trumpets, seeing their Empress. The Empress of Beasts took a tentative step.
Tall. A giant. She looked at her spear, now longer than even a Grand Elephant’s tusk. She stared down at her people and they looked up at her. They screamed her name. Nsiia walked forwards, leaving Vasraf behind, moving towards the southern gates.
Her enemy waited there. They had formed a wall, a semicircle around Oliphant. Even now she could see them, fortifying their position. They looked tiny all of a sudden. She smiled bitterly. Then she walked forwards. Her people moved out of the way and Nsiia took each step carefully.
Was this what Thef had felt like, towering over everyone? It was lonely. She wished he was here, to see her as tall as he was. Her dearest friend. Her wild half. Thef. She looked towards the gates.
“The King of Destruction has given me his answer. Now tremble. People of Tiqr. My subjects! Come with me.”
The citizens looked up. In silence, they followed Nsiia as she ducked under the gates. She strode out of Oliphant. Leaving her city for the last time. But she knew she would remember it in her heart for as long as she lived.
 
——
 
He saw her coming out of the gates. Femithain stood in the dirt. She was distant, but he could see how tall she was. As tall as her elephants. And behind her came—
An army. The people of Tiqr, wearing scavenged armor, holding weapons they weren’t familiar with. But an army nonetheless. They poured out of the gates, outnumbering the army behind Femithain.
“Magus-Crafter?”
Dellic’s voice was tight. Femithain could see the front ranks of Nerrhavia’s soldiers moving back. They’d all heard now. And they saw her.
The Empress of Beasts. Here she came, striding slowly, the ground filling with bodies behind her. From his command in the center of his army, Thelican shuddered. He looked around, searching for the Named Adventurer.
“Can you hit her from this range?”
