“The relic?” Hayden asked as he walked over and helped her stand.

She leaned into him slightly, wiping her mouth. “Yeah. Fuck.” She sobbed once. “I should’ve used it earlier… should’ve…”

“None of that. We’re here, she’s alive.”

“She’ll never-“ Reka started, then pinched her nose. “You’re right. Focus. Veron, how are you?”

He kept a hold of Silvie. “Shaken, confused, scared, and angry. So, pretty good I suppose. Walk and I follow.”

She chuckled, the sound hollow. “Alright. Then let’s get out of here. Don’t show more weakness than is obvious. Plenty of vultures around. If we see someone we know… no, the risk is too high.”

Hayden growled. “Yeah. You got a route in mind?”

“I do,” Reka said.

“Then catch your breath, and we leave.”

Hayden helped secure Silvie onto Veron’s back, using the rope to tie her to him. “You’re confident you can carry her?”

“I’m good,” Veron said.

Hayden now carried Reka, the four of them climbing over the basecamp wall before making their way to the chains leading up to the Crypts. There were a few dozen adventurers around, most of them leaving as well. Many looked injured and tired but everyone kept to their own teams, looking around with suspicion.

“Damn fucking ants,” Hayden murmured. “Can you hold on?”

“I can,” Reka reassured him.

He grabbed one of the chains and started climbing.

Veron did the same, checking once again that the rope was secure. He trusted the knot that Hayden made, and started climbing. He was even more thankful now that he had gotten his Path upgrade two days prior. The climb was hard, but doable. Veron took it slow and steady, stepping out from the pipes above and into the Crypts where several teams were waiting.

One of them flashed a Silver Guild badge, a tall man wearing plate armor. “I’m Edward, leader of the Fanged Griffons. We’ll be cutting back through the red tunnels.” One of his companions was supporting another, a robed man with obvious pain on his face, blood marred his abdomen. “Safety in numbers. Anyone who wants to join, join now. We leave in five minutes.”

“Do you know them?” Reka asked. She now stood next to Hayden but he still supported her weight.

Hayden nodded. “I think so. They’ve been around a while. Third layer. Haven’t heard a bad thing. Should we risk it?”

A few other teams seemed to have similar discussions. One of them agreed, then another.

“It would make things easier. Just be vigilant,” Reka said.

They joined the growing group, and left some minutes later, only two teams choosing to remain behind. Around twenty five adventurers now walked through the crypts together. Many were covered in mud, many of them injured. They supported each other, some now walking around and sharing food and water, wet cloths, and bandages.

Their team refused to eat and drink, Reka warning them against it. Others weren’t so cautious, but nobody slumped down or died from obvious poison.

Veron soon felt his tension replaced by exhaustion. It took everything to keep walking, to keep Silvie stable on his shoulder.

Any creatures they encountered were decimated, overwhelmed by spells, bolts, arrows, hammer, and shield. The Silver Wolves didn’t participate in the fighting. And Veron watched the Silver badge team, their movements faster, their blows ripping through the critters of the Crypt with an ease that made him think of Ivera, and his time with her back in the woods around Eyra.

Veron stabilized his hold on Silvie, and kept walking.

Edward wielded a two handed mace but his movements with the large weapon were as quick as Hayden’s, if not faster. A Devotion mace wielder, or something like that. The second silver adventurer that fought by Edward’s side and didn’t support the injured one was a muscular woman with black hair bound in a single braid, wrapped to prevent someone from grabbing it.

She wore black leather armor covered here and there with steel plating, or perhaps bone. Her face was half covered in blood as she cut through the vermin of the first layer with a broad two bladed axe larger than herself.

Veron was glad they were here.

Edward swung wide and steady, grounding the entire lose formation of adventurers around himself as he shouted, enhancing the others with his spells. He charged forward with heavy steps, never far in front or behind those near him.

He’s so aware of the space around him, and everyone there.

The axe wielder by his side fought with a frenzy, jumping above the skeletons and rats that faced them and twirling in the air like some kind of acrobat, her heavy axe swinging in wide arcs and sometimes even finishing entire spins as she used the weight of her axe to counter that of her body. It looked like a dance, her movements speeding up from time to time as she must’ve used her magic. A Blood Path? Or is she using relics like Reka’s?

And the rest of their team isn’t even fighting, he thought, looking at the three robed and armored figures following behind. Two of them looked injured, one of them needing support with walking.

Had they been surprised by the ants as well? Or did they get injured in the third layer or below?

Veron watched some of the others too. There was an elemental path using bursts of fire, some of their spells exploding in bright flashes amongst the monsters they faced. He wondered at what level their Harmony was at, and their Path. Most of the fighters seemed Devotion types, using bows, shields, maces, axes, and swords. Perhaps he would’ve seen more relics and spells in action if they were uninjured, rested, and pushing together through the Gutter, but here in the Crypts, they did not face a true challenge.

The weight of Silvie on his shoulder felt lighter by now. The memory of the ants and robbers nagged on him but what he saw here inspired him instead. To get better with his own magic, to be able to fight like that, to be able to be part of a group like this, or even lead one like Edward.

He wondered what a true expedition was like, one that went deeper, or explored some ruin in distant lands, with people like these, or ones even more experienced. Ian had talked about adventurers like that. The reality that Veron had experienced was a lot more grounded, but seeing the silver team fight made him think that some of the stories may not have been exaggerated.

It was the fastest they had traversed the Crypts so far, the monster groups they encountered entirely overwhelmed.

Veron sighed in relief when they stepped out into the open pit of Anvakar, the afternoon light of the winter sun illuminating the top third of its length.

They’d been robbed of some of their gear and silver. Silvie had lost more. Veron felt tired, spent, and angry.

He kept Silvie stable.

But I’m still alive. Still moving.
