Finding an address in Helock was not as easy as counting street numbers. First, most streets had no name. Second, if they had a name, it was called the three whores alley or the stiff pisser lane. As Viv found out, one of the places had those two names at the same time, depending on who you asked. It would have been easy enough to find a house in a richer part of town. Find the closest major estate then walk in the indicated direction, asking staff or reading names.

Sonagi didn’t live in a nice part of town.

“Are you sure it’s the right way?” Viv asked her guide.

The street boy’s face turned into a rictus of abject terror. Viv immediately felt like shit.

“It is ma’am, am not lost, swear on my mother, I do. Just two more turns. Two more turns! Please!”

“It’s fine, calm down. I am… merely surprised.”

“Oh. Yes, weird place for a mighty mage, beg your pardon. It’s old Gyrna’s slum. Cheap but clean and ordered. She got sons and those got cudgels. It’s the best for those who are down on their luck. You still need to pay on time. Or else, cudgels.”

“Huh.”

Surrounded by dilapidated houses, Gyrna’s ‘pension’ was a high-walled compound made by blocking off three of the four ways of some backstreet crossroad. The brick and cement partitions looked amateurish yet sturdy. Someone had made a token effort to paint one side, at least. A pair of thuggish guards only a few evolutionary stages below sapience watched them approach. They were clean in rough cotton clothes and wore the cudgels she’d been warned about. After tipping the urchin since she could find her way back by herself, she stopped by them and removed her hood, giving them time to understand who, or what, she was.

While the pair exchanged their lone neuron back and forth by means of bovine glares, Viv inspected the place. Gyrna and her brood had turned the center of the crossroad into a garden with a couple of sickly trees and bushes, now denuded of their leaves. Someone had swept the ground recently. It wasn’t filled with detritus like the rest of the street.

The two thugs were at the stage where they were looking at each other in alarm. Viv decided they were ready enough for communication.

“I am here to see Sonagi. Kindly lead me to him,” she said.

After two seconds of delay, the first grasped his cudgel in a death grip and tried a reply.

“No killing on property grounds.”

“If I were here to kill, I would not be waiting for you to guide me. Now, you, please lead me to Sonagi. I am with his employer.”

“Uh? Ah, alright. Then. Yeah. You stay there, Nug. I’m going.”

The guard walked resolutely towards the back of the property. It was silent in the late morning as, she suspected, most of the dwellers were actually working. Sonagi’s quarters were at the back on the ground floor, sharing this side of the block with a frowning, veiled woman who squinted at Viv as she passed. The first thing that struck the witch as she passed by was the smell.

While the rest of the compound smelled as fresh as possible for something stuck in a filthy metropolis that engaged in fishing, the stench of rancid booze and the reek of those who digested it permeated the air. Viv undid the half-decent ward on the door without much issue, then she opened. Then she took a step back.

A veritable cloud of alcoholic sweat almost made her gag. It was dark here, the light of the sun reflecting on a crystalline landscape of empty bottles. Some still hid dregs of potent liquor. A shape was sleeping in the cot, the only furniture besides a broken wardrobe held upright by some violation of the laws of gravity. Viv approached, then reconsidered.

“Is there water here?” she asked the thug.

The man smiled and nodded. They had a well in a corner with a wooden sign warning that releasing wastes within would be punished with instant expulsion. Viv started to draw water but the thug stepped in, voluntarily filling and carrying the load for her. She only picked it back up at their destination. After asking the thug to step back a bit, she upended the entire thing on the sleeping man’s form.

“Arg! You asshole, I’ll fucking kill youuuuuuu!”

“Wakey wakey motherfucker,” Viv greeted congenially.

“You bitch. If it’s money you want, I don’t got any. Now… fuck off!”

Viv felt a kinetic spell latch on her chest and push. It would have smashed her out of the door if she had not coated herself in mana beforehand.

Viv was starting to suspect the thug had helped her to see at least one haughty fucker brought low. Fortunately for Viv, she had been brought low before and came prepared.

The man’s control despite the circumstances spoke of great skill backed by effort. His eyes cleared a bit.

“Ah. Fuck.”

He sat down and waited for her to speak.

With some light on his features, Viv finally got to see the man who would cover her back. In theory. He had a soft, almost dreamy face with large brown eyes that would have made him cute in another life, but the ravages of poor living were obvious. His eyes were bloodshot, his skin yellow and pallid, drawn taut over hollow cheeks and topped by a dirty bird nest of light brown hair. The stained shirt falling from his gaunt frame revealed a skeletal shoulder blotched by sores and a bruise. He stank to high heaven.

“So… has the council finally decided to finish me off? I see no guards.”

“I’m here about a job. A common acquaintance led me to you.”

“A job? Oh. Oh! Shit, you’re one of his girls! Of course. My bad I… Let me just get. Urgh.”

Viv watched him blearily sort through trousers and shirts she would not use to soak piss off street paving.

“Would you mind waiting outside?” he asked “I got to take a dump and I drank my fill yesterday so… you know. Gonna smell worse.”

Viv slammed the door shut behind her.

There was perhaps four days left before the attack.

There… might be a problem.
