“Even the idioms?” Viv asked with fake surprise. “The important events as well? Cultural references?”

“Give it here,” the man replied in a tired voice.

Viv waited for a few minutes while Elunath leafed through the first of the collections Solfis had prepared. He moved faster than any scholar could, thanks to stats fuckery, but Viv could still tell when he stopped longer than usual after finding an insightful translation. He also had a quick glance at the primitive runes dictionary.

“Nine months for the Harrakan one, but only because it will allow me to use the ancient human translator to its utmost. I will admit… it is a tremendous find. I will give you twelve years for that, as there are some precious northern texts I can cross-reference… hmmm. Yes. In any case, congratulations. Sixty years and six months. Do you have anything else?”

Viv showed the core. As soon as it cleared the bag, Elunath’s eyes widened with envy.

“Ah, what a magnificent specimen. Necrarch, yes? An old one?”

“Very old.”

“Yes. What an extraordinary find. It is almost a waste… but no, this will guarantee the success of the operation. It is worth twenty years, as I said before. You have just saved me quite a bit of time and expenses. And proven yourself immensely resourceful. Well done.”

Elunath extended his hands, but Viv declined the request.

“I’ll hold onto it. For now.”

She saw a hint of fury in the man’s eyes for the tiniest moment, an instant so fleeting she might as well have imagined it. It was as if the overwhelming presence he emanated had solidified and she was hitting a wall. Yet, his composure never broke.

“Very well, it is your right. The end result will be the same in any case… unless you lose it.”

“Very few people know I have it at all, and I trust all of them to keep it secret,” Viv replied politely.

The two stared at each other, hidden behind their smiles.

“If you think this is best. Anything else?” Elunath asked.

Viv turned up a few precious resources, including necrarch claws and a few mana-saturated ingots of precious metal. They would have value for a smith and she supposed Elunath might find an interest in them. In the end, her time was reduced to thirty-seven years.

It was much better than she anticipated.

“That’s all for me,” she finished with as much calm as she could.

“Very well. My turn then?”

“Hm, yes?”

“Yes? Or yes.”

Viv resisted the urge to roll her eyes. She hoped there would not be any time left on their contract, or the servant contract would make her life… difficult.

“Yes, you may begin,” Viv replied.

Elunath swallowed his anger once more. It occurred to Viv that she should really try to control herself. There was no need to provoke every authority figure she came across. Just half would be fine.

“I seem to recall that you would not be adverse to some covert activity, so long as it remains righteous. Am I correct?”

“Yes, although I would prefer to learn more before agreeing to anything.”

“Naturally,” Elunath smiled. “It so happens that the Skaima family has been gaining a lot of influence recently. Now, I do not begrudge lesser clans the drive to improve their lot. Helock depends on a healthy competition to ensure the wiliest and most capable politicians of each generation rise to the top. Unfortunately, the Skaima’s ruling couple has been resorting to… shortcuts. Several of their opponents have disappeared recently, assassinated by a fairly competent mage. After careful observations, I have determined that the Skaima have been relying on something called a hidden branch. Are you familiar with the term?”

“You mean a secret group?”

“No. The expression is Helockian. It refers to a hidden branch of the family tree, a talented mage trained in secret so that they may follow a path of both mage and infiltrator. Someone tries this every few generations. It seldom ends well. Can you guess why?”

“I assume they are not treated very well.”

“Precisely. In order to maintain the cover, they must be pariahs with little official talent. The discrepancy between their usefulness to the family and the recognition they get in return always leads to disaster. Either they take revenge on the leaders or they make mistakes. Grow too cocky. I have identified the man whose status and attitude do not match as Jin Skaima. You will intercept his carriage as it returns from a nearby village and attack it, posing as highwaymen. Your mission is to get him to demonstrate his magical abilities in front of the other occupants, nothing more.”

“You mentioned highwaymen, plural?”

“Indeed. You will render assistance… oh, let me be perfectly honest. Your role is to manage young Sonagi while he holds Jin Skaima back. You certainly have the ability to manage Skaima yourself. Unfortunately, your brand of sorcery is too specific and you will easily be recognized. Sonagi has an even distribution of several elements he uses rather well. You need to handle everything else for this operation.”

“Can I bring outside talent in? I don’t have experience in brigantry.”

“You may use all the resources you deem fit so long as the job gets done. Oh, and another thing. Should you or your allies be compromised…”

Elunath let her finish the sentence.

“You will deny all knowledge of our actions?”

“No, I will kill you in your cell.”

“Ah. Well.”

“This will grant you another ten years. If you succeed.”

“I accept but I have a question. What if Jin Skaima decides to kill the other passengers and blame it on us. Remove the witnesses?”

Elunath huffed a little laugh.

“It did not take you long to figure that out. The other passengers will be a noble family, a local one. If Jin dares kill them, I will… strongly advise the bereaved to investigate him. He will fall, no matter what. As long as you get him to use his power. Rob him of all his belongings. If necessary, humiliate him. People like him are very sensitive to humiliation by someone they consider their lesser.”

“I understand.”

“Good. This file contains the details on the operation, itinerary, schedule, patrols, all you need. Do not take too long with the robbery or you may have pursuers. Oh, and contact Sonagi quickly. He needs time to… get ready.”

“What’s the issue with him?”

“He will tell you himself if he feels like it, though as for the symptoms, you shall notice them rather quickly. Off you go then, I have another appointment.”

Viv left without a word. Lani was waiting in the antechamber. One of Elunath’s servants, Lani was a blue mana mage with very pale skin. She always wore blue robes whenever Viv had met her.

“You should avoid provoking him,” she whispered once they were far enough away.

“You were eavesdropping?” Viv asked back. The door had been closed.

“No but we have grown with him as adults and mages so we are more sensitive to his mood. Elunath tends to keep score. Your service will be easier if he has a better opinion of you. Although, no matter what, make sure it is short.”

“Is there something you’d like to tell me?” Viv asked after a short moment of silence.

“I would be some alderman’s wife latching an eighth child to my teat now if he had not found me, not a respected scholar of the arcane. He rescued us from a mediocre life. All of us. But you are different. You are prideful. Probably noble-born. Taking orders will not come naturally to you, and you are too old and stubborn to be molded. If it only takes a few years, you can endure it.”

Viv watched Lani as she walked but the woman averted her gaze, her spine ramrod straight. They passed by another woman Viv had not met. This one was tall and tan with a powerful brown aura. A sari-like cloth covered her lithe body. She was taller than Viv. The woman sneered at Lani on the way. Viv waited until they were close to the entrance to ask her next question.

“How long is your contract for?” she asked.

“Another twenty-three years.”

“By the gods! This is horrible…”

Lani smiled a bitter rictus that never reached her eyes.

“We do not all have the luxury to choose. Even as a servant here, I have more freedom and power than any woman from the village. My skin is not dry from the salty wind and my hands are free of calluses. My room does not stink of fish gut and unwashed bodies. I am one of the privileged few. This is the world you live in now, Viviane the Outlander. Never forget that.”

The door closed on Viv.

“This isn’t my Harrak,” Viv replied to the thick pane.

“This isn’t the world I’ll build.”

***

Viv returned to the hospital in the afternoon and stayed there until late at night. As expected, there was a wave of new amputees to take care of. She worked relentlessly, only stopping to have the priest heal the scars on her hand, the result of the necrarch’s spell. The witch was not beyond some cosmetic surgery. They also smoothed the dragon scar on her arm, the one Arthur had given her with her first fire. Viv thought it looked super cool and it had an emotional value as well. The next day, she returned to the five fishes inn where Solfis was waiting alongside his second, Lim the fell-handed. She had her arm in a sling.

“Your doing?” Viv asked as they sat around a table.

//Lim has recently faced some challenges to her management.

//Fortunately, she has managed to outlive enough of the competition to stay ahead.

//I have provided a permanent solution to most issues upon my return.

//You may consider the situation resolved and our position in Helock strengthened.

“Ok good, because I need to commit highway banditry.”

//Are we diversifying, Your Grace?

“It’s for Elunath.”

Lim the fell-handed went over the plan Elunath had proposed and delivered her verdict immediately.

“It is completely retarded,” she uttered in broken Enorian. “Made by a man with a swine for a father.”

“Can you elaborate?”

“This place, good, but no tree. Plan says put tree on the road. No tree around. Have to fell tree then drag it. This place has traffic. You are seen long before the carriage can be stopped. It is bullshit stupid.”

“What do you propose then?”

“You will have mage, yes? Have mage use brown mana, make ground soft and sticky. They all know this spell. It stops the carriage. Then we come out.”

“We?” Viv asked.

Lim shook her head, frizzy hair drifting with the movement.

“You are stupid. Highwaymen are always at least five or six. You need eyes on the victims and someone to grab the valuables. Any less, guards suspicious. Who is the target?”

“Jin Skaima.”

“No,” Lim insisted. “The target is the nobles and their gold. We are here for the gold. We have a minor talent mage with us. The target reveals he is a mage. We poison him, run. They go back. He is caught.”

“Oh, misdirection. I like that. And you said we would poison him?”

In lieu of an answer, the dark-skinned woman produced a needle from thin air. A single drop of transparent poison dripped down its length, landing on her ink-soaked nail.

“I poison.”

“Why didn’t you try it on me?” Viv asked, suddenly suspicious.

When Viv had first met Lim, she had been after the kidnapped Arthur. Lim had guided her through the Helockian underground without resisting.

“I see you cut assassin above you like meat on the market square. You blocked his knife with a steel shield. Always have dark armor around you. Always look at me. Never too close. I checked. No safe opening.”

“Huh.”

“It was well done. Very smart for a caster. I approve. Now, when we stop the nobles, I poison Jin. That way, he cannot fight when he wants to fight.”

//Lim’s path allows her to activate the poison she injects as she desires.

//Increasing or halting its effects.

“What fucked up path needs to manage poison?”

//Lim is a blackmailer.

//Her entire path is dedicated to forcing people into doing things they do not wish to do.

//By any means necessary.

Lim smiled. It wasn’t Viv’s first time fighting with assholes on her side but Lim certainly took the cake.

“We will have to train first,” Lim said with conviction. “You are not highwayman material.”

“Well, thanks I guess.”

“No. I do not mean the mind, or the guilt. I mean that you walk wrong. Talk wrong.”

Lim tsked softly before reclining in her chair. She stared at Viv with a strange intensity that Viv found unsettling when compared to her otherwise plain appearance. Lim cultivated that plainness like a careful garden. She was dressed in a low level clerk robe, didn’t wear jewelry besides a simple ring, and held her black hair back with a simple band. No makeup smoothed the harsh lines of her face. Viv could have walked by her a hundred times without thinking much about it. Only now, in the recess of the tavern’s secret room, did she look like the predatory mind she was.

“You walk like war mage. You look at men or things when you want. You do not move around groups that might hurt you. You do not look at a powerful man and think, must I bow? How deep? There is no fear in your head and no bend in your back. This is wrong. Highwaymen are scared. They must always run. If you wait for too long, mounted guards find you, you die. You sell to the wrong person, you die. Your share is too big, or too small, you die with a knife in your ribs. Except, you are a woman. So you are raped first. Then, you die. You want to be a highwayman? You need to be very afraid and a little crazy. I can show you. But you cannot be you.”

“Alright. Fine, whatever. We can practice a bit while we wait for the carriage. Please arrange the details and find me men, I need to go fetch our mage.”

//I shall send an urchin to help you.

***

