It was about the Goblins. Some of the people in Liscor spoke up.
“I saw them fighting. Those five Goblins were at the Human’s inn for over a month! They saved our people from the Raskghar!”
“They’re all the same kind. They’re Goblins.”
“It was Goblins who defended Liscor.”
“It was Goblins who attacked it.”
“Thanks to the Humans!”
“Goblins killed my daughter in the Second Antinium War.”
“Goblins slaughtered my family. I will never, ever—”
“I didn’t know a Goblin could cry.”
“I didn’t know Goblins could speak.”
Arguments. Fighting. Zevara stood in her office in the barracks and listened to her city boiling. For some reason, it didn’t bother her. It was familiar.
“Watch Captain, requesting permission to call in off-duty officers and Embria’s [Soldiers]. Some are already keeping the peace, but we are understaffed.”
Klbkch stood behind her. Zevera turned.
“It’s familiar.”
He paused.
“What is?”
“This. You know, after the Second Antinium War—before you lot were in the city—the same thing happened. I was just a new [Guardswoman]. But I remember the same thing happening.”
“People drowning each other in the bathhouse?”
Zevara smiled.
“Riots. Fights. Half the city fought the other half. Argued about the Antinium.”
Klbkch was silent for a moment.
“I see. About the reserves. May I call them?”
“Yes.”
“Very well. Also, Watch Captain, I realize this is not the moment. But when you have a chance—I have a proposal. I would like to place more Antinium in the City Watch.”
Zevara looked up, surprised. Below, someone crashed into a desk as a fight began in the ranks. From the impact, it sounded like Relc had started it.
“Antinium? But you’re the only Prognugator. That means you’d want to put Workers or Soldiers in the Watch.”
“Yes.”
“Would they be the…special ones?”
Klbkch paused.
“Not necessarily.”
“So you want to put Antinium in the Watch. Workers aren’t equipped for a fight, and they have no names. And Soldiers can’t speak.”
“That is correct.”
She mulled it over.
“Granted.”
Klbkch nodded. Zevara turned back to watching the chaos. She kept watching as she saw a group of Drakes fighting with an equally large group of Gnolls before Klbkch led fifteen of her people into the fight. It was chaos. But just what she’d expected, really. And in her head, a Hobgoblin turned to her.
“What did we do?”
And Zevara wondered. She looked to the eastern gates. And she closed her eyes. She thought.
That was all.
 
——
 
Numbtongue didn’t know what to think after they made him go back to the inn. Erin was—better. Or maybe she had just stopped crying. She was hugging Mrsha. And speaking. And he was still empty. The anger had guttered out sometime on his long walk. Now he was just tired.
But there was something he had to do. So he got up as the adventurers argued and talked to Erin. After all, they weren’t his friends. Not really. If he had any friend, it was Erin. And she…wasn’t so much a friend as something else.
“Lyonette.”
She jumped. It was the first time Numbtongue had said her name. But the Hob was full of firsts. He asked for her sword. She hesitated and then handed it to him.
“Wait—”
They tried to stop him at the door. But Numbtongue ignored them, and none of them could stop him. Not without killing him. He walked out into the Floodplains alone.
It was muddy. There were undead. Numbtongue walked past them. Sometimes, he had to fight, but they were zombies. A few Ghouls roamed around. But the adventurers had come out of the inn and handled them. And Numbtongue walked further.
He stopped as he spotted a tall undead among the others. A huge, hulking Hobgoblin, shuffling around lifelessly. Numbtongue stared up at him.
“Eater of Spears.”
The zombie did not react to the name. It turned. Numbtongue stared up at him. It hurt. Not just to see him. But to see what a waste it was. A zombie. If Eater of Spears could have seen himself in death, he would have been offended. At least be a Ghoul! Or a Draug. He would have been pleased to be a Draug, surely. And what a monster of destruction he would have been. But as he was, he was just a zombie. Practically harmless. Numbtongue walked past him as Eater of Spears looked around sightlessly.
He had never met Eater of Spears. He had never talked with him. But somehow, Numbtongue knew what he would have said. Somehow…
It was further up. Past the Floodplains, towards the mountains. Numbtongue climbed, legs trembling despite the food Erin had made him eat. He climbed higher, choosing the surest footholds.
A memory. A Goblin thing. It was a thing of Chieftains. A power of their people. Or a curse. Because a Goblin could remember all the failures, all the triumphs of the past. All the grief.
There he was. Up the hillside, slumped in place. Numbtongue climbed higher. A zombie tripped and tumbled past him. The Hobgoblin gasped with the effort. He could sense the adventurers following him. But for now, he was alone.
He reached the place, panting, propping himself up on his sword. He looked down.
A Goblin had died here. A Hobgoblin. One among many. But not the same as the rest. Unlike the others, who had died with their backs to the sky, he was lying on his. He stared up at the sky, a smile on his face. Rot had yet to consume him, but had started.
And he was dead. Pyrite’s chest had been torn open. Fire had burned him. Numbtongue looked down and recalled the face in his dream. He tried to connect it to the face he saw below him. But there was nothing that matched.
Slowly, Numbtongue sat. He looked around, but the battleaxe that Pyrite had wielded was gone. Numbtongue shrugged and reached for something. He fished at Pyrite’s side and pulled at a rough hemp sack. Then he hesitated and reached for the Hobgoblin’s head.
Pyrite’s jaws were closed. It was hard to open them, but Numbtongue saw what he knew was there in the back of Pyrite’s mouth. A glowing blue gemstone. Numbtongue plucked it out and put it in the sack. Then he just sat, watching the adventurers climb towards him.
A memory. He looked down at his hand and felt the warmth. Pyrite stared up at the sky, still smiling. And Numbtongue looked over.
“You did it. Good job.”
Then he looked up. A Ghoul leapt at him. Numbtongue rolled and slashed. The Ghoul staggered as Numbtongue’s sword slashed deep into his shoulder. The [Bard] turned. He saw the Ghoul’s body tense. Something in it told him it would lunge—here. Numbtongue dodged, and the teeth snapped down inches away from his arm. He swung his sword in an arc, and the Ghoul collapsed.
“Thanks.”
Numbtongue looked down at Pyrite. Then he stood. He tried to lift the Hob, then just gave up and cut off his head.
 
——
 
He buried him with the others. There were five graves on a hill across from the inn. Numbtongue dug the sixth. He said no prayers, spoke no words when he placed the head in the ground and covered it with soil. When it was done, he looked at the markers.
Garen. Noears. Headscratcher. Shorthilt. Reiss. And Pyrite. There were others, but these were the ones he’d found. He looked out and saw Eater of Spears wandering about. No one had dared end him yet.
Graves. The dead. Liscor. And Erin. Numbtongue sat down. He laid his head back, against Headscratcher’s cairn. As he did, he noticed a small yellow flower lay on his grave and Shorthilt’s. Numbtongue looked down at it. And he saw a small white Gnoll tending flowers in his mind.
For some reason, that made him smile. He closed his eyes. As he did, he rummaged in the sack he’d taken. He pulled something out.
The blue gemstone. Numbtongue felt at it with his claws, then shrugged and put it in his mouth. He bit down, feeling the hard stone resisting his teeth. Hard, harder…
Crack.
Numbtongue opened his eyes. He blinked, took the stone out, and spat out two broken pieces of tooth.
“Ow.”
 
He put the gemstone back in the bag. Maybe he needed to practice. And he needed a pickaxe. Numbtongue closed his eyes again.
 
[Miner Class Obtained!]
[Miner Level 1!]
[Skill – Durable Picks obtained!]
 
The Hobgoblin opened one eye. Level 1. And he’d only thought about it. But it was enough. He didn’t need the class. He had a memory.
How to spot a vein in the mountain. Which spots contained the best gemstones. How to spot a dangerously loose shelf of rock. How to fight. How to dig up grubs.
Knowledge. Numbtongue’s hand twitched. The dirt on Pyrite’s grave blew a bit as the wind picked up. The Hobgoblin looked over at it. He closed his eyes and tried to dream again. But the dream was gone. Only the memories remained. A gift.
Numbtongue closed his eyes, covered his face, and began to cry.
