Was everyone gone? Surely not. Octavia cracked open the door a bit wider. She stepped into the inn, half-closing the door to her shop behind her. She looked around, heart beating a bit fast. Where was everyone? Normally, the inn would be full of life. True, given what had happened, Octavia didn’t expect that, but she’d assumed someone would be—
Click.
Octavia heard the gentle sounds of nails clicking on the hardwood floor. She spun. A small, white shape had crept up on her from behind. Two bright eyes stared up at Octavia. The [Alchemist] nearly jumped out of her stitches. Then she recognized the creature who’d appeared. Not an animal, but a person. A child.
“Mrsha?”
The white Gnoll looked up at Octavia. She lowered herself and sat cross-legged on the ground, staring up at the Stitch-girl. Octavia passed a hand over her forehead.
“You scared the—hello! How’s my favorite match-seller doing? Ah, is anyone around? Are you alone?”
Mrsha didn’t respond. She just gazed up silently at Octavia. That wasn’t unusual in itself; Mrsha couldn’t speak. But Octavia noted the stillness of Mrsha’s form. Normally, she’d be full of energy. Her tail, usually wagging, was still. She just sat and looked up at Octavia, a world of unspoken words waiting behind her eyes.
“Um—”
A creak. Octavia turned again and saw someone walk out of the kitchen. Lyonette, a girl with red hair, paused as she walked out of the kitchen holding a saucer and smaller candle. She reached for something at her side the instant she saw Octavia—then relaxed. But her voice wasn’t too friendly as she walked over.
“Octavia? What are you doing here? The inn’s closed. If you’re here to sell something—”
“What, me? No! Never! I mean, not right now!”
Octavia raised her hands and protested. She looked from Lyonette to Mrsha. Neither one was smiling. Both looked…quiet was the only word for it. Not just in words, but in action. They stood together, in the dark common room, staring at Octavia. She already felt like an intruder.
“I, uh, was just coming over to say hi. And to check on how things were—were doing.”
“There’s nothing for you here. And don’t bother trying to get to Liscor; we’re not changing the magical door, and I’ve barred the front door.”
Lyonette put her candle on the table and crossed her arms. Octavia winced. Why did everyone think she only thought about money? Oh, right. Well, she wasn’t thinking of it in this case!
“I don’t want to sell anything. Honest. I’m just here to see—is Erin here?”
The word made Lyonette’s expression flicker. Mrsha looked from her to Octavia.
“Erin’s upstairs. She’s alive.”
Not the most reassuring of words. Octavia looked around and saw the staircase.
“I—I mean, I won’t if it’s not a good time, but I could say hi. Is she—how’s she doing?”
Lyonette hesitated. She looked at Octavia suspiciously, as if still suspecting that Octavia was here to make a deal or bargain for something. Then she shook her head.
“She’s not doing well.”
“Still?”
The two young women looked at each other. Lyonette nodded and moved to sit at a table. Mrsha crawled onto a chair next to her and leaned on her. Quiet. Octavia shifted from foot to foot, but she didn’t sit down. It felt empty in here. Empty and silent, like a graveyard.
Or a wake.
“She’s upstairs. Crying. I check on her a few times every day. She’s…it’s been six days, and she hasn’t done anything.”
“I…I know that. I checked in on the second day. When, uh—six days? It feels shorter than that. I mean, I just heard about all of it. The door only came back when it was over. Obviously. And I was relieved to hear—I mean, I didn’t know until—”
Octavia babbled a bit. Lyonette just looked up at her. The [Alchemist] stopped.
“How bad was it?”
She hadn’t gotten a chance to ask before. Lyonette paused. She seemed to search for words.
“We were in the city. That was all. We didn’t see any of the fighting. We just saw the aftermath.”
“And was—”
The Stitch-girl got no further. The look in Lyonette’s eyes—in both hers and Mrsha’s eyes—was enough. They stared at Octavia in silence. The [Alchemist] paused. She looked around the empty inn silently for a minute. She chose her next words carefully.
“I heard—in Celum, that is—that people were complaining that the Players of Celum weren’t putting on performances. Er, does that mean the inn’s…?”
“No one’s putting on performances. Erin told Wesle that. And there’s no point anyways. No one’s coming here.”
“No one at all?”
Part of Octavia wasn’t surprised. But it had been six days. She would have expected someone to stop by, if only for Erin. But she hadn’t understood what Lyonette meant.
“No one can enter the inn. It’s impossible for anyone in Liscor to come here, aside from the Horns, the Halfseekers…and me and Mrsha.”
“What? You mean the door’s locked?”
The [Alchemist] was confused. Lyonette shook her head as Mrsha reached out and tipped the candle, staring at the wax as it ran down one side.
“No. I mean, they cannot enter. Most can’t even leave the city if they want to get to the inn. Erin’s not letting them.”
“You mean—with a Skill?”
Lyonette nodded. Octavia blinked. She could do that? Of course, Octavia knew of Skills that could affect a shop’s popularity—like [Shopper’s Stop] or [Discerning Clientele], which could affect which customers you got or how much business came to you, but physically preventing someone from reaching the inn? That went way beyond what most Skills were capable of. Spells as well.
And no one? Lyonette just nodded when Octavia asked about that.
“No one. No one who was in Liscor. Or on the walls. Even people like Halrac or Typhenous can’t enter. And the rest…definitely not.”
“You mean, the ones who were there. Who watched and didn’t…”
“Yeah.”
The ones who’d watched the last battle of the Goblin Lord. Six days ago, two armies had fought here. Three, if you wanted to count the last part of the battle. Four if you included Liscor. But the two armies that had fought, one to defend Liscor and the other to take it, had been Goblins.
The Goblin Lord’s army had advanced on Liscor, forced into the action by Lord Tyrion Veltras and an army of Humans intent on using the battle as a pretext to claim Liscor. They had been stopped and Tyrion’s plans foiled—by an army of Goblins who’d appeared to defend Liscor. Cave Goblins, a tribe opposing the Goblin Lord, the famous Redfangs of the High Passes, and the five Hobgoblins staying at Erin’s inn.
They had fought, placing themselves in the Goblin Lord’s way against impossible odds. For an [Innkeeper]. At her request. They had fought. And they had won.
And they had died. That was all Octavia knew. But it was enough. Enough, because she had seen the five Hobgoblins in Erin’s inn. Seen them and known that Erin treated Goblins like people. And those people had been wiped out to the last. Not just by Tyrion Veltras, who had attacked both armies when he realized his plan would fail, but by Liscor itself. They had fled towards the city and been cut down. Repulsed by the city they had fought for.
It wasn’t something you heard about. All the [Criers] and [Messages] going back and forth were about the outcome of the battle. Tyrion Veltras challenging the Drakes to combat at the Blood Fields, the political fallout in the north thanks to Magnolia Reinhart. Little about the Goblins.
But here, in this inn, the Goblins were all that mattered. And Erin—Octavia shifted in her chair. No wonder no one from Liscor could come through. They’d watched the battle happen and given only a little aid to the Goblins’ side. And at the end…
“How come I can get through? I didn’t have a problem.”
She pointed that out to Lyonette. The young woman shrugged.
“Erin probably didn’t think of you.”
She elaborated at the hurt look on Octavia’s face.
“There wasn’t anything you could have done. The door to Celum was closed. But everyone else—”
“They really can’t get close?”
Octavia looked towards the door. It was shut, and the lock bar was in place. Windows closed…she wished that Lyonette would have at least opened a few windows. Maybe she was worried about crime at night? Or it could be chilly, true, but she could at least light a fire. It was too dark like this.
Lyonette didn’t seem to share the same opinion. She shook her head.
“They can’t get near. They can’t even get up the hill. Olesm tried for three hours yesterday. He couldn’t so much as take a step. I think Wall Lord Ilvriss could, or maybe Relc or Klbkch or one of the Gold-ranks—but they won’t try.”
“Wow.”
That was all Octavia could say. She watched Mrsha carving at the candle with one claw. Quietus.
“So Erin’s…”
“Upstairs.”
“Should I…?”
“If you want. I don’t think it’ll do anything. But I won’t stop you. You want to try?”
Octavia hesitated. But she had come this far, and this was the reason she’d come to begin with. So she nodded. Lyonette stood up abruptly. She took the candle from Mrsha and nodded to the stairs.
“She’s in my old room. Mine and Mrsha’s.”
She led the way up the stairs. Octavia followed her, expecting the floorboards to creak. But they didn’t. They were new. She waited for sound. Movement. Anything. But the inn was so quiet it pressed down on her. Lyonette stopped before the first door she came to and knocked on it.
“Erin? Octavia’s here. She’d like to speak to you.”
There was no response. Lyonette knocked again and then silently pushed the door open. Octavia peeked into the room and saw her.
A young woman was curled up on the floor. Her light brown hair was an untidy mess. She was facing away from them, towards a wall.
“Erin?”
Octavia’s voice quavered uncertainly as Lyonette stood to one side. The [Innkeeper] didn’t reply. Octavia coughed, and then she raised her voice brightly.
“Hey! Sorry to bother you, but, uh, I was just in the area—you know, magic door—and I thought I’d say hi. I haven’t seen you in a while. It’s…I heard about what happened. I’m…sorry. But I came by to say that if there’s anything I could do—anything at all? I’m not asking for money. I just came by to say—I—I thought I’d just…”
Her voice trailed off. Octavia stared at the young woman’s back. She didn’t move. She didn’t seem to breathe until Octavia saw her chest move slightly from behind. She walked forwards.
“Erin? Are you asleep? Can you—”
Octavia stopped. She saw Erin’s face. The girl’s eyes were open. Her hazel eyes stared ahead. Tears ran from her eyes. They dripped down her face. Ran onto her clothing. Erin didn’t move. She didn’t look at Octavia.
It had been six days since the attack of the Goblin Lord. Six days since the final siege of Liscor. Six days since all the death.
“Erin? I…”
“Erin? Octavia’s here for you. Mrsha’s wondering if you’ll get up.”
“Erin? I’m so sorry. Can I do anything?”
“We’re waiting for you. No one can enter the inn. Erin? Please say something.”
“Erin?”
She didn’t move. She didn’t speak. Not even when Octavia shook her. She blinked and breathed, and that was all. Salt and water ran from her eyes. And there was little else there.
The tears wouldn’t stop. They would never stop. Erin curled up in her room and didn’t move. Eventually, Lyonette gave up her entreaties. She looked at Octavia, and the two retreated.
“I didn’t know. I thought after six days she’d be at least—”
Octavia trailed off. Lyonette shook her head.
“I thought so too. She barely eats. She only eats because Mrsha stopped eating when she did. After six days—she’s lost friends before. But this time…they fought for her.”
“I know. No one’s talking about that. They just say the Goblins had a civil war. Or that they fought each other. No one’s talking about the fact that it was her.”
The two stared back into the room. Erin lay there. Mrsha padded into the room. She circled Erin. She reached out and stroked Erin’s hair. Then she lay next to Erin, silent. Lyonette watched Mrsha. After a few minutes, the Gnoll child got up and walked back towards them. She reached up, and Lyonette lifted her up, hugging her. Octavia watched the two silently. Jealous for a second as she saw Mrsha bury her face into Lyonette’s chest and hug her back.
“Let’s leave her alone.”
Lyonette closed the door. She looked at Octavia as they walked back down the stairs. For some reason, she glanced towards the far end of the hall before she walked down. But she said nothing of it.
“She’ll move in a bit. She always does. But until then, I can’t get her to do anything. Anyways, she shouldn’t really be up for this. It’s nearly time.”
“Time for what?”
Octavia was still trying to process Erin’s grief. But then she noticed Lyonette reaching for the thing at her side. Octavia stopped when Lyonette put Mrsha down in the common room and drew her sword.
It was a straight, steel blade. Unadorned and unremarkable. The kind you could get from any [Blacksmith]. But Lyonette held it as if she meant to use it. Her eyes fixed on the door, then she slowly moved towards a table. She placed the sword on the table and pulled up a chair. Then she looked at Octavia.
“They’re coming.”
“Who?”
The [Alchemist] looked at the sword, bewildered. But then she heard a sound. A faint shuffling. A bump. Steps from outside. And then a dull, quiet thump against the door. She jumped.
“What was that?”
Lyonette had just said that no one could come to the inn! So who was that? Octavia stared at the door, but Lyonette made no move to open it. She heard the thump again, louder. Something—someone was bumping against it. Insistently. And then there was another thump, this time from a window to the right of the door. And then another bump. Another.
Something was outside the inn. Somethings. Someone. And they were…colliding with the inn. Striking the shutters. Then Octavia heard a sigh and the sound of something hitting the door with a dull, fleshy impact. And it clicked. She backed up, eyes wide.
“The undead.”
Lyonette nodded. She stared at the door as Mrsha huddled next to her. The Gnoll’s hair was standing up, but she didn’t look too afraid. She’d seen this before. Octavia was terrified. Her breath caught, and her eyes grew round as she stepped backwards, towards the door to her shop.
“Don’t worry, they can’t get in.”
“But the undead—”
