Watch Captain Zevara was speaking with Ilvriss. The Wall Lord was nodding as Olesm quietly wrote down the tallies of last night’s undead suppression by the adventurers and City Watch. Embria was absent; she was still out in the Floodplains, exterminating the zombies and gathering corpses to be burned with her soldiers.
“We have no choice. As for the smell—I know the residents are unhappy, but again, this is a priority task. We’re over halfway done as it stands.”
“That was my opinion as well. There’s not much to do other than rotate the [Mages] and tell the people we’re working as hard as we can.”
Ilvriss nodded.
“These things happen. Cleanup after a battle is never popular, Watch Captain. But I think any level-headed citizen will understand the need.”
“If I find any, I’ll be sure to appreciate that fact.”
The two shared a quiet chuckle. Olesm looked up and then back down at his work. Ilvriss paused and glanced at the door.
“Ah. Shieldscale. Come in.”
A Drake saluted at the entrance to the meeting room. She strode into the room, walking with military posture. Olesm glanced up at her. Zevara noted the pair of wings on the Drake. She was unfamiliar. Her scales were a bright, almost too-bright blue. She was clearly a soldier and was armed as such. More importantly, Zevara noticed the acrid tang in the air as she drew closer.
If she was right, this Drake had the ability to breathe some kind of weapon—probably acid. That made her an Oldblood Drake with both wings and a breath weapon. The rarest of all combinations. Zevara couldn’t help but stand a bit straighter as this Drake saluted her and Ilvriss.
“Watch Captain. Wall Lord. I have the official reports from the Walled Cities about the engagement at the Blood Fields. For your perusal.”
She offered a report, copied twice, to Zevara and Ilvriss. They read theirs as the Drake went over and gave Olesm a copy. Ilvriss read with distaste and then shook his head.
“Disgusting. Of course the Humans are calling it a victory. These numbers—and they’re claiming this is the official report? They’ve shaved off numbers.”
“You’re sure?”
Zevara studied the report with dismay. Reading it, you could infer that the losses weren’t that bad. But Ilvriss just looked disgusted.
“I read Salazsar’s report of the battle. We can count. In numbers alone, that damned Veltras won. We pulled back too many of our elites when it was clear Liscor wasn’t in danger. I told them that was a mistake. We sent three [Generals]—good ones, but hardly our best—and paid for it. His soldiers were more elite, and with the nobility and officers he brought—disgusting. And this is what we’re claiming? A ‘partial victory’?”
He tossed his report onto the table. Zevara sighed as she did likewise. She nodded to the Drake, who’d assumed a patient posture, hands folded behind her back.
“Thank you, um…Captain?”
Zevara had to guess since the Drake wasn’t wearing her military insignia. Ilvriss looked up.
“Ah, that would be Major Shieldscale, Watch Captain Zevara. I think I mentioned her to you?”
Zevara vaguely recalled this particular Drake popping up in conversation a few days ago. Ilvriss nodded.
“As I said, her lineage is a long-time friend of the family. She’ll be serving as my aide in a more…combative role than my other adjutants.”
“Where are you from, Major Shieldscale?”
“Salazsar, Watch Captain. Born and raised in the gemstone capital.”
Ilvriss winced slightly as the Major replied. Zevara nodded. That was Salazsar for you. She looked at the Wall Lord, and he cleared his throat.
“Asrira here came with a detachment bound for Liscor. When the siege was lifted, she elected to continue on alone while the rest of her unit was recalled. I needed support, and Major Shieldscale is an accomplished warrior who’s served with distinction for over half a decade.”
To Zevara’s knowledge, Ilvriss already had nearly a dozen helpers. But she nodded. Wall Lords loved their retinues.
“Does that mean your sojourn in Liscor is coming to a close, Wall Lord Ilvriss?”
She couldn’t think of any other reason he’d be requesting reinforcements. Ilvriss nodded. And Zevara felt a pang. She might actually miss him. For all he had been difficult to work with at the start, it had been very reassuring to have a Wall Lord on her side.
“That’s correct, Watch Captain. I’ve stayed here far too long as it is. Not that there wasn’t need—but I am of Salazsar, and I’ve been away from home for too long.”
“It’s a long way from here to Salazsar, though. Will you be travelling via Pallass?”
“If it can be arranged. They’re still denying me entry, which I have every right to—but I’ll lean on them as much as I need to.”
Ilvriss grimaced.
“At this point, I’m almost tempted to make the trip on foot rather than keep negotiating with Pallass. But the Blood Fields have just been fed, which makes a journey south quite unwise.”
“Indeed. Um, I expect the Council will insist on celebrating you before you go. You might want to give them the heads up—or leave before they can arrange anything.”
Ilvriss stroked his chin.
“I could hardly be so rude. And it occurs to me that a funded celebration would do Liscor good. What with…all that has occurred. Things are finally looking up, aren’t they?”
“It seems that way.”
The two Drakes fell silent. Major Shieldscale waited as Olesm continued to work. They looked out across Zevara’s city. And she agreed largely with what Ilvriss had said.
The siege of Liscor was over. Before it had begun, really. But all the stress and fear that had gripped the city was gone, and that was a relief in itself. She’d been preparing to fight to the last to hold Liscor. Now—well, the eastern gate was still destroyed, and there were cracks in the wall that would have to be repaired and fortified before the spring rains came again, not to mention the undead still roaming about the Floodplains and the risk of so many bodies rotting…
But it was over. Liscor was safe. And its people were happy.
There had even been a celebration. A small one, but it reflected the mood of the city, and that was one of relief. Yes, everything was looking up. Zevara thought about smiling. But it didn’t seem to quite come onto her face when she willed it.
Ilvriss looked speculative rather than in a good mood. He stared across the city as the sun rose, illuminating the bright rooftops.
“Only a few issues left, I should imagine. One of them being the trial. I assume your prisoner hasn’t given you any trouble?”
Trial? It took Zevara a second to remember what Ilvriss meant. Her brows darkened, and her tail curled up a bit.
“Oh, the Minotaur? No trouble out of him. We’re preparing for the trial—we’d have done it earlier, but the witnesses needed time to rest and what with the Goblins…but we’ll start the proceedings soon.”
And that would be that. Zevara still had to deal with the dungeon, but she swore to herself that the Raskghar would never trouble the walls again. Nor would they ever reach them, not with the waters gone. In the mud, they’d have as much chance of taking the city—even in the daytime with the gates open—as Zevara had of flying.
“Good, good. I doubt I’ll be there for the trial unless I’m truly delayed, but I’ll provide any written testimony should it be necessary. As for the rest…it only remains…I suppose it’s just the inn.”
Zevara looked up. The quiet scratching of Olesm’s quill went silent for a second. Major Shieldscale kept staring ahead. But the other three Drakes paused. Ilvriss cleared his throat. He turned his gaze and looked east. The Wandering Inn wasn’t visible from here. But he looked nonetheless. And his tone was…different.
“I don’t suppose there’s been any word from the inn, has there? The doors are…?”
“It’s still closed.”
Olesm replied flatly. Ilvriss glanced at him. He nodded slowly. Cleared his throat again.
“It’s not that I mind, but she does have the one working door to Pallass. And I gather that these plays have attracted a good deal of interest from Liscor’s citizenry, especially now we’re no longer operating in a crisis. There’s talk of enlisting in the, ah, acting troupe. It could be a new form of entertainment and revenue for Liscor, which is always to be desired.”
“That would be helpful.”
Zevara glanced at Olesm. But he was working again. She stared at the eastern wall. The inn was closed. Erin Solstice hadn’t been spotted in a week now, and no one could so much as get near her inn. And it wasn’t that Zevara wanted to see her. Her life was far, far easier when she didn’t see that blasted Human. And yet—
Seven days had passed. The city was upbeat, it really was. People were getting back to work, they were enthusiastic about the sun, relieved not to be dead or under siege—it was all great. But rather than call the mood jubilant, Zevara felt the same sensation that seemed to have gripped the city. That of…waiting.
Waiting. What they wanted, what a lot of Liscor wanted, was just to see the doors open. To hear that annoying voice saying something inane, see a bright smile. But the inn was silent. The doors did not open, no matter how long anyone waited.
Yes, Goblins had died. But in a way, they’d saved the day. And yes, bad things had happened. But Liscor had triumphed. It was good, in the end. It was a victory. Everyone knew it. The Human, that crazy [Innkeeper], Erin, would be sad. She might be angry, and she had every right to be. She could be depressed, grieve, but in time, she would return to normal. Liscor had triumphed. All would be well. And everyone knew that.
They were just waiting for her to confirm it.
 
——
 
On the eighth day, Numbtongue looked up. He reached out and picked up the broken guitar. He looked down at it. Then he tossed it aside and stood up.
He didn’t feel any better. He still felt dead. A ghost. And he still dreamed that he’d see Headscratcher poke his head down from above and tell him to get moving. Hear Shorthilt stomp on the floorboards or hear the chatter of Cave Goblins. But time had passed. And part of Numbtongue couldn’t even believe in that lie anymore.
It still hurt too. With every passing second, Numbtongue thought the tears in his heart would open up and swallow him whole. They hurt more than his wounds. But still, he stood.
It wasn’t that he was better. It was just that he couldn’t sit any longer. Eight days he’d sat. It was enough. The pain wasn’t going away from sitting. It never would.
So Numbtongue stumbled forwards. He kicked something by accident, nearly slipped. The plate of food. It overturned, and Numbtongue looked at it. He bent to pick it up and nearly fell over. He was dizzy. He hadn’t eaten in…
It didn’t matter. Numbtongue picked up the dishes. He wasn’t hungry. He slowly walked towards the stairs and trapdoor. He could hear voices from above. For a second, he paused and hoped. But they weren’t the right ones. Goblins didn’t speak that much, anyways.
“—just disgusting work. It feels like I’m working in a suppression company in Baleros again. Why can’t you get your undead minions to handle all of it, Pisces? Or do that neck-snapping thing and settle things that way.”
Jelaqua was talking to Pisces as she slumped over her table. Lyonette was quietly serving breakfast. The adventuring teams—the Horns of Hammerad and the Halfseekers—were eating quietly. They were subdued. Even Jelaqua, normally energetic, was only partly invested in her conversation. The [Necromancer] she was addressing, Pisces, paused in dabbing his mouth with his sleeve.
“Two reasons. Firstly, because my undead cannot function long without consuming a great deal of mana. They are quite limited in number as well. Secondly, even if I broke the necks of every zombie out there, they would continue to rise. Breaking the bones of the undead stops them for a short time, but nothing short of immolation or pure destruction will—”
“I get it. I was just asking.”
Jelaqua sighed. She tried to smile at Mrsha. The Gnoll cub was eating breakfast quietly.
“Hey there. Sleepy, Mrsha? You’re not racing about.”
The Gnoll looked up and shook her head. Jelaqua’s grin faltered.
“Maybe we should let you run about in Celum?”
No response. Mrsha just went back to eating. Jelaqua looked around. Moore and Seborn, sitting at her table, gave her slow shakes of the head. The Selphid let it drop.
At the other table, Ceria looked at her companions. Yvlon, Ksmvr, Pisces…they were all quiet. A night of fighting had made them tired, but this wasn’t like them. But she couldn’t tell them to snap out of it. It didn’t feel right.
And yet they hadn’t grieved. Not like Erin was. Ceria hadn’t shed more than a few tears. She couldn’t, though she’d known the Goblins. And yet, she couldn’t smile either.
Ceria tried. Yvlon looked up to see Ceria’s attempt at a smile. She stopped eating. Ceria gave up. She looked around, but Erin hadn’t come down for breakfast again. Maybe today was the day to give her a kick and some tough love. She had to snap out of this eventually. How long was she going to be like this? She had to—
The trap door opened. Ceria turned. Her fork fell from her fingers. It clattered on the table. Pisces looked up. Then he turned as well.
The room fell silent. Numbtongue paused as he pushed the trap door up. He stared around. Slowly, he climbed up into the inn. He placed the plate and bowl on the table and looked around.
A red scar stood out on his chest. Half of his body looked…paler. The remnants of lightning. Aside from that, he looked like he always had. Numbtongue. But it was Numbtongue. And the others were…
Numbtongue stopped as he stepped out into the light. He had been prepared for something. But this was worse.
It was the stares. All of them, adventurers, Lyonette, Mrsha—they all stared at Numbtongue. They froze and gazed at him like they’d seen a ghost. That was painful, but it was the second look that cut deeper. Pity. He saw it reflected in their eyes. And he hated them for it.
Pity was even worse.
“Morning.”
Numbtongue could have laughed at the way their expressions changed. He almost did, but he didn’t. He looked to Lyonette.
“Here.”
He offered her the plates and bowl. Lyonette noticed the spilled food.
“Oh. Didn’t you like—”
“Tripped. Not hungry.”
“I can get you something else if you’d—”
“No.”
Numbtongue hated it. The awkward conversation, the painful misunderstandings and imprecise words. That was why he didn’t speak. And the way Lyonette clearly seemed to regret asking about breakfast. As if she should have said something about—about—
