BELLHARBOUR

The Eternal Vigilance set down at the Bellharbour airport. Under the shadow of the black-and-silver Wardenfel ship, the ground crew moved just a bit faster, as if trying to avoid the judgment of the noble family's staring skull emblem adorning the ship's hull.

A few minutes later, under the shouts of the airmen busy mooring the vessel down, the boarding ramp was deployed, and Angeline, flanked by her husband Isaac, marched down.

The corner of her mouth curled up as he walked half a step after her. At first, after their marriage, Isaac had been in front, if only to keep up long-ingrained traditions. Invariably, they always found themselves in the reverse order, with her in front, and him following.

Apparently, their subconscious knew better. After a while, they simply accepted it was the natural order of things.

Behind the couple stampeded a small army of house guards, agents, and clerks.

This wasn't a social visit; her sister's message had tipped her that something strange was going on with the local nobles, and it had mirrored similar events they had encountered in their own investigations.

The rot seemed to be more widespread than they knew. Where better to start churning the ground and bring it to the surface than this remote, less important town?

While it meant she didn't have many contacts or favours to call upon, it also allowed her to use more expeditious manners, and she was thoroughly looking forward to watching the insects squirm while her troops rolled over the rocks they were hiding under.

She didn't notice Isaac swallow as he spotted her face-splitting grin.

Sammie, Sybil and Anna watched as Lord and Lady Wardenfel flipped through the pages they had handed them. The two exchanged a few words now and then, sharing a page or two or bringing attention to a specific line.

After less time than it felt, Angeline looked up with a smile. “Very well done. I see that my sister has found very capable help. I'll make certain to remind her to compensate you three properly.”

She paused and quirked a brow as they exchanged looks. “What is it?”

Sammie shrugged. “We're kinda already being overpaid. More importantly, I think we're being cherished, and that's hard to put a price on.”

Angeline blinked, then hid her grin behind a hand. “Yes, that's very much like my sister.”

She shook her head and stilled her expression. “Now, from what I can see, you've uncovered a ring of money laundering involving about a fourth of the local nobles, and a fair number of merchants? And you say that all this came from... orphans?”

Sybil nodded. “Yes.”

Angeline waited for more, eventually clearing her throat. “Right, well. Again, good job in uncovering all of this. Now that we have their tracks, it's time to hunt them down, I do believe.”

She turned her head toward her husband. “What do you think, dear? A silent chase, or a massed assault?”

Isaac frowned, crossing his arms. “It's a small town. They'll notice us going after any one of their number, and the rest will scatter.”

Angeline smiled. “My thoughts exactly,” she said, looking back at Niala's three retainers. “Would you like to partici-”

“YES!” Sybil exclaimed.

Sammie sighed as Lady Wardenfel blinked with wide eyes.

SALMONT MANOUR

Alton, third of his name, and current head of the family in Bellharbour, was having an enjoyable, silent dinner with his first wife and four children when his majordomo walked into the room, spoiling the atmosphere with his hurried footsteps.

The noble looked up to the older man in annoyance, but waited to hear what he had to say before berating him. He was a loyal servant, and knew his lord's dinner was not to be interrupted except for the most dire circumstances.

The servant walked up to him, bent, and whispered his message.

Alton's eyes went wide, then narrowed as he pushed back his chair, dropped his utensils with a clatter and marched out of the room, followed by the majordomo, the rest of his family swivelling their head to watch him leave.

Outside, once out of earshot, he talked over his shoulder while heading to his study. “Simon, how certain are you about this?”

“I would stake my life, my Lord. I was leaving Lady Beaurevoir's residence when I encountered the Wardenfel liveried troops marching in. I raced here ahead of them, I believe, but they won't be long.”

Alton cursed. “Very well. Find runners. Send one to the bank with the forged documents to replace the official ones, and the same for the merchant's guild. Once that's done, grab whoever is trustworthy and meet me in my study; we have some papers to-”

At the far end of the corridor, the door slammed open. The lord's face scrunched in anger at the disruption before blanching as he recognized the man and woman stepping in.

Every noble in the kingdom knew them. The wedding of the century: Angeline and Isaac Wardenfel.

A bead of sweat rolled down his brow. Why were they here in person?

And why was the tall blonde woman smiling like a wolf who had found a rabbit stuck in a thicket?

The “hunt” was going exceptionally well. The ground had been expertly prepared by some very efficient bloodhounds, after all. There was no reason for it to have gone otherwise.

As the boxes of documents piled up around them inside the Eternal Vigilance, each one clearly labelled with its provenance, and the originating group given an official notice of appropriation, Angeline walked around the room, observing the clerks, and her husband, pore over them.

He knew he didn't have to; that was why she'd requisitioned half the Wardenfel's bookkeeping staff, but it was also why she fell a little more in love with him every day.

Isaac was genuine. Honest, dedicated, loyal. More than that, he wasn't those things because he was trying to be; he didn't even ascribe those qualities to himself.

Were he to be asked, he'd say something silly like “The burden of rule starts where the hands work.”

He was so cute and lovable. She'd reward him profusely the next time they shared an intimate moment.

She must have been smiling despite herself, because she spotted him blushing when he looked up at her.

Such a weakness, to have a person toward whom she couldn't fully control her expression! Such joy, to make that weakness part of herself, wholly and intrinsically!

She let those thoughts flow to the back of her mind. Right now, there were more pressing matters at hand.

As fun as it had been to watch the pests put up a despondent, protesting face even while they scurried desperate for a hole to hide in, the things they were uncovering were cause for concern.

Her sister's agents had found quite a lot of evidence, but the incriminating proofs were piling up, and the links to the rest of the kingdom were becoming apparent.

This was the tip of a very large iceberg, and more than a few of the complicit families from other towns were also known to her, under a different plot altogether; the Pakag clans' involvement in securing the employ of mercenary and militant elements.

Her instincts were telling her that the two were linked, somehow. None of the documents so far said so, beyond some nobles being especially despicable by being involved in both money laundering and rebellious actions. Still, she was certain there was something hidden here.

With a shrug, she motioned for a messenger. Retrieving a piece of paper and a quill, she jotted down a quick note, handing it to the young man along with a small clinking pouch, and sent him off with a simple job: Go put up a private posting at the Courier Board.

She knew just who to call to help in the investigation and ferret out the hidden link.

The scouring of the town's elite continued for a week. Whether this scheme involved the Pakag or not didn't matter for the moment; the money laundering was a plague on this town's well-being. The rich had obviously targeted smaller concerns and public offices, ones that either didn't have the resources to fight back, or could be stamped down and kept quiet by corrupted officials.

The orphanage was only one such institution; several other social services had their funds eroded, and many of the smaller guilds had received illegal taxes that their members had been burdened with.

Individually, small amounts, but when everything was tallied up, about seven hundred gold princes were being wrung through the process each seasonal.

A sandglass had also been turned now; news of the Bellharbour crackdown was going to spread to nearby towns. They already had a few names who were probably involved, but she knew that rats were never alone. There would be more, and they'd start hiding the evidence.

Not nearly well enough that her dear husband wouldn't be able to find it, but it would take time.

If time was involved, then more forceful measures were needed. A special clause in the kingdom's charter, one that hadn't been used in close to a hundred years.

One that needed a majority vote from the House of nobles to pass, something which mostly only ever happened when the kingdom was at war, or if the majority found a way to gain from the floored proposal.

Or, in this case, maybe a majority of called-in favours...

The room went silent over the next minute as the clerks and scribes noticed the predatory smile on Lady Wardenfel's face.

AMBEROSE, ROYAL PALACE, A FEW DAYS LATER.

King Isadore was slumped on his throne, without appearing slumped. A skill he had developed and refined over the innumerable courts of rule he had held over his reign.

Some noble was whining that another noble had overstepped their bounds and poached a promising craftswoman from his territory, or something like that. He was going to rule in favour of the whiny noble because his family was due some honey, but he would have to give the other one some compensation too... maybe a few horses from his stables? Their patriarch liked horses.

Wait, was he still alive? He'd have to ask his seneschal...

The door behind him opened with a quiet click, still loud enough to stop the conversation and attract everyone's attention.

Willard Haggleman stepped into the room and up to the king, bending down and whispering into his ear. Isadore frowned and looked at his chancellor. “An emergency session of the House of nobles?”

Haggleman nodded. “Yes, Sire. Called and approved already. They are only waiting for you to open the floor.”

The king shrugged and got up, waving a hand at the two bickering nobles before him. “Kind sirs, I must away.”

The younger of the two took a step forward. “But, Sire! My grievance!”

“Just... flip a coin. Have the girl call head or tail.” Isadore offered, ending in a tone that said the matter was closed.

As he turned and left the courtroom, his mind tuned out the baffled faces of the two solicitors, already busy trying to figure out what could have made the nobles assemble so quickly. What kind of calamity had suddenly befallen his kingdom?

The king arrived at the grand hall a bell later. His presence was required to officially begin the session, though he wasn't voting himself. The House of Nobles was mainly used by the nobles to offer the king a consensus, letting him know what the majority of the voting families wanted.

The crown usually accepted whatever passed, often with some caveats or counter-proposals. Although it was entirely within his right to ignore the results of these votes, he could only do so by spending a lot of political capital.

Sometimes, the floored proposal even came from the royal family, and in those cases, the inverse was true; proceeding without the majority vote meant he was going against the flow.

There were a few specific votes which were binding, mostly those surrounding natural catastrophe or kingdom-wide events, such as wars.

As far as he knew, neither was true right now, which is why he was quite surprised to learn that the motion being proposed was a general mobilization of all government officials, to be activated as auxiliary support troops in the Royal Army.

And he was incredibly flabbergasted when the vote was resolved immediately upon the opening of the session, and with a one hundred percent rate of support.

Just what in the founding gods' name...?