“Ren, the High Elf is coming over.” Artemis said, and Ren turned to face him.

“Hey, Billy.” Ren said, and saw Jennifer beside him. “Hi, Jennifer.”

Billy walked right up to him, made a fist, and leaned down to punch Ren in the face in one smooth motion. The sound of breaking bones was loud in the silence that followed.

“ARGH!” Billy yelled and gripped his severely damaged hand.

“BILLY!” Jennifer yelled as Billy dropped to his knees. “What did you do that for?”

“He had sex with you!” Billy said.

“Oh, Billy.” Jennifer said. “I have sex with lots of people, and you don't try to punch them in the face.”

“They never satisfy you, though!” Billy said. “Having sex with them doesn't matter!”

“Billy...” Jennifer tried to speak and he shook his head.

“You told me how good he made you feel!” Billy said. “You said it was the best sex you've ever had!”

“It was.” Jennifer admitted.

“How am I supposed to compete with that?” Billy asked.

“It's not a competition.” Ren said, and everyone looked at him. Several of them had disapproving looks, and he could feel that they didn't like him very much. “Do you want to know what I did?”

“Hell, no!” Billy said. “I don't want details about how much better in bed you are!”

“Ha ha!” Ren laughed, and he felt everyone start to hate him a little. “I wouldn't do that if my life depended on it.” He said. “Even Jennifer won't tell you specifics.”

“That's... true.” Jennifer said, and her face went a little red.

“Then what...”

“All I did was give her what she wanted.” Ren said. “Nothing more, nothing less.”

“But...”

Ren took a step forward and everyone tensed up, including Billy, and he felt that they all expected him to punch Billy back. “Billy, you know what she likes, right?” He asked and put a hand on Billy's shoulder instead, much to everyone's surprise... including Billy's.

Billy didn't say anything in response and ducked his head.

“Making yourself twice as big didn't help, did it?” Ren asked, after an educated guess about why Billy had chosen the High Elf race, besides the obvious Dexterity and Agility bonuses to his Archery skills.

Billy thought about not answering again, then shook his head.

“That's because it's not what she wants.” Ren said. “I don't know how long you've been together, and it's none of my business.” He said and gave Billy's shoulder a little squeeze. “I can only assume that she told you what she wants, so all you have to do to make her happy, is to do that sometimes.”

“I... I can't.” Billy said. “I love her, but I... I just can't.”

“Is that why you're angry at me?” Ren asked, and Billy looked at him with wide eyes. “Because I can?”

“Yes, dammit.” Billy said and ducked his head again. “I hate that you can please her like that, and I... I can't even...” He sighed. “I don't even like being in her work room.”

“Then I'm more sorry about that than you know.” Ren said and let Billy's shoulder go. “What I'm not sorry about is that she had legitimately won the first dance at the club from me, quite handily I might add; or that I had sex with her.” He said. “It was just sex; but, it was also fun for the both of us and we both enjoyed it a lot.”

“That's the problem!” Billy said and tried to point, but his hand was still broken and he winced instead.

“No it isn't, Billy.” Ren said. “I can heal that if you want.”

“I don't want your help!” Billy almost yelled, and Ren sighed.

“You need it healed quickly, or it's going to stay that way.” Ren warned him.

Billy gritted his teeth, then held his hand out. The fingers were mangled, and it reminded Ren of when he had hurt that alchemist in the dwarf lands. Ren took extra care as he examined the damaged hand and used a Major Healing wand to heal it. Several people were surprised by this, and Ren dismissed the Running Quest Update popup for showing people what he could do.

Billy made a fist with his hand and stood up, then turned away from Ren. Jennifer caught his arm and stopped him from leaving.

“Billy...” Jennifer started to say.

“I know, I know.” Billy said. “He's right.” He looked down at her. “I've tried to do things your way remember?”

“I'm sorry, Billy.”

“So am I.” Billy said. “Now I'm stuck like this.”

“I can make you smaller, too.” Ren said, and Billy and Jennifer looked at him. “Just like Hank, you keep the race traits, but you don't have to keep the size.”

“Won't I lose my Dexterity and Agility bonuses because I'm not as tall?”

Ren shook his head. “The only downsize is you'll be a lot lighter than you used to be.”

“Do it.” Billy said.

Ren took out the other wand and reduced Billy to his normal height.

“Thanks.” Billy said and looked at Jennifer. “You and I need to talk.”

Jennifer nodded and they walked off to be alone.
