Erick sent a telepathic pulse to Nosier, including the location of the second map. “Here.”

Nosier turned around to face northwest. “Ah! That is a big one. Are you going to kill it?”

Erick said, “I’m going to kill it now.”

And then he did, cracking the sky with light, pouring [Vivid Gloom] onto that faraway part of the Forest, gradually and yet quickly turning trees covered in gore and a central spire of fake bone, blood, and rotten flesh, into burned shrooms. The Forest caught on fire, briefly. The Forest fought back, briefly.

The Forest lost, completely.

For anyone else, fighting the adult Deathsoul Shroom would have been an act of heroism. A trial of a life, a hero fighting against a monster that was in fact a thousand monsters, each linked to each other and each pulling on the soul of anyone who tried to attempt its destruction. A man or woman fighting on the ground would have been stripped to their bare self, like an exposed nerve of a tooth, trying as they might to hold themselves together as they hacked and slashed and burned through suddenly appearing ghosts of everyone who had fallen to the Shroom before then.

Ghosts, in most cases, but also ‘flesh’ horrors that would not appear until later, after the ghosts had failed to eat the hero. Monsters of not-meat and not-bone would have pulled themselves from the piles, organizing themselves around fragmented souls, and the desire to hunt and add real flesh to their piles, or to spawn, and lay their spore in fertile flesh.

For even if the hero succeeded, they would likely be marked by the shroom; a latent infection, to come out in dreams and germinate at the base of the brain. That hero would then walk around their town, dripping slime that would become tiny piles of gore, to start the process all over again.

But for Erick, a few thousand kilometers away from the adult and casting spells through [Familiar]s that flew high in the sky, clearing out an adult infestation was as simple and as necessary as desiring such a thing. This was the power of an archmage, and it was not fair, though it was necessary.

Places like Treehome, and Spur, and many other places, would simply not exist if not for people like Erick. The monsters were too strong. They were too populous.

After the course of today and the following week, no doubt, some of those monster populations would be less populous, though, and that was good.

Erick cast a few more [Vivid Gloom]s, shaping them to be airy, clinging things, to seek out Erick’s targets and to drag those targets into its darkest, brightest, burning depths.

First, came the kill notifications, pouring in like sudden rain. Deathsoul Shrooms died by the hundreds of thousands, with not a single one being more than level 40 according to Erick’s focused Perception. They were colony monsters, after all. They probably shared in each monster they killed.

And then another blue box appeared, dominating the rest.

Vivid Gloom Ooze, instant + 1 minute, super long range, 1000 MP

Chaotic radiance grows to become a super large ooze under your control, dealing <damage> every second to all consumed. <Various effects of direct exposure include, but are not limited to, Cancer, Blindness, Magic Failure, Immolation, Boiling, and other Decay-like effects.> Spell lasts <1 hour> after conjuring is complete. Effects last longer.

Particle Mage Only.

Erick felt a twitch in his soul as something slid some odd kinda way, almost like another muscle spasm. He dismissed the blue box, knowing it as useful. He hadn’t been trying for a new spell; not exactly. But he was happy with the one he had gotten. He kinda liked ooze and slime magic. It was always useful.

He looked up at Nosier and Bloodwoo, saying, “Thanks for this.” He added, “And about the music player, it just works off of recording the vibrations in the air. For my next version, I’m going to try something involving isolating individual sounds and then playing them all together on a few record players at once. Like, one for the deep sounds, another for the middle, another for the high. That sort of thing.”

Nosier said, “A good idea.” He crushed the sphere in his hands, annihilating the small amount of dead Shroom and glass, all at once, in a rather impressive, tiny display of power. And then he went on as if he hadn’t displayed such power, speaking like a nosy neighbor, or perhaps like an enthusiastic coworker, saying, “I have a method for reproducing song crystals from song crystals, but the fidelity fails around the third re-recording. And then there’s the problem of all magic items: they naturally decay. Yet another issue when it comes to recording from recordings.” He gestured away, saying, “But we can talk about that another time. Do you require some more Soul Palm Balm? Syllea might have her connections, but I also have connections too, you know.”

Erick said, “I would love a cup of tea before we begin the day’s events. I am feeling rather disconcerted after experiencing that soul attack; yes.” He glanced to Poi. “Do you want some, too?”

Poi shook his head.

Nosier gestured toward the door, saying, “I’ll meet you there. Bloodwoo can show you.”

And then he vanished in a sparkle of green.

Bloodwoo said, “This way,” as he walked out of the Deathsoul Shroom room.

Erick felt a whole lot better as he stepped out of that gory place. As he looked to Poi and saw the sapphire-scaled man visibly relax, he knew he had not been alone with his primal fear.

- - - -

Erick sat down for a spot of tea in a small room that was more like an extended balcony. Sunlight glittered above, falling through Nosier’s canopy, but barely reached down into this cool, comfortable place. Wardlights provided most of the illumination, while nice wooden chairs with cushions and high backs made Erick feel like a kid sitting at a high table.

… A lot of this entire building was like that.

Nosier set out a pot of tea atop the table, along with a small tray of three bricks of Soul Palm Balm. Of course, for Nosier, ‘small’ was the size of a fingernail, but one of Nosier’s fingernails was the size of Erick’s whole hand. Erick eyed the absolute bricks of Soul Palm Balm, and wondered at how ludicrously expensive they were.

Without asking or consideration, Nosier set a brick of the white, sugary, oil-like Soul Palm Balm into a small teacup that was actually a massive mug, already filled with boiling water. He set that mug in front of Erick, saying, “Drink as much as you want. Despite doctor instructions, there is no overdosing on this stuff, but a soul can only heal so much so fast. Any excess past that natural limit turns to smokey Shroud that rubs off rather fast but which will insulate you against further soul damage as long as that excess exists. We can do this later, when it is time for actual Shroom scanning, after we’re done with the Reachers.” He immediately went into, “Now about this Particle Magic nonsense.”

Erick glanced down at the sludge of a sugary drink that Nosier had made, and asked, “So this stuff can insulate me? Why not bring that up first?” He mumbled, “Would have been good to have before I went in there.” He shivered a bit, then put his hands on the warm mug. The day seemed a bit brighter as he felt the warmth seep into his palms. “I had some of this stuff from Syllea. I didn’t know it could do that. I would have prepared better.”

“You didn’t know?” Nosier waved Erick off, saying, “That’s not important. You know now, and that is all that matters. So why did you have the idea to take vibrations in the air and turn them into physical records? Is this a Particle Magic thing? In retrospect, this is an obvious solution. But the quality is much less than a Song Crystal, and thus the end product is not that great. Do you know the difference between a song crystal and a normal recording?”

Erick breathed deep, then spoke when he guessed it was his turn. “Not really.”

“You’ll figure it out. So have you done any more enchanting? You’ve revolutionized the field of Stat enchanting and I’ve been trying to replicate the silver coating but…”

Erick sipped his tea, and endured. Time spent with Nosier was a mentally taxing affair of questions regarding Particle Magic and the overt implication that Erick was rather dumb. Or at least uneducated.

Which… Was true, from a certain perspective.

… From most perspectives, actually.

When it was over, Erick wasn’t quite sure if he liked Nosier, if any of the Arbor’s complaints were valid, or if the tree was just like that. Bloodwoo certainly seemed like that, too. Not quite rude, but altogether rather caustic.

The tea was great, though.

Next time, Erick would definitely fight back a bit with his own caustic words, just to see what happened.

- - - -

Erick stood on one of three platforms around the central platform, out of the way from most other people, but surrounded by his own. Jane was at his right, Teressa was on his left. Kiri and Poi stood behind. All around, on the henges and the obelisks and the platforms, red crystals strained to fly into the sky, but failed to do so because of the heavy chains that held them tight. Red streams in the manasphere flowed around crystal and stone, while the only Ophiel in the area sat upon Erick’s shoulder, and Sunnys floated around wherever they were wont.

Tacticians, organizers, and Team Leaders, organized 200 teams of 5 people each, all across the mountainside. A thousand warriors and mages, each ready to loose their power against enemies that had plagued Treehome for as long as anyone could remember. Some of them were Mind Mages, ready to defend themselves and their people from the [Thought Fog]s of the Reachers. Most wore mental magic blockers around their skulls, like iron crowns. Almost all of them stood loose and cool, but slowly, and then quickly, the time approached for war. Tension rose.

Without warning, for everyone was waiting for just such a thing to happen, Warchief Koropo Ikabobbi moved away from the [Viewing Screen]s and took the center stage. His armor was blood-red that shone in the mid-morning light. It was real armor, made of real metal. Erick could tell that much, though he couldn’t tell what kind of metal it was, exactly. All he could truly tell was that it was very magical and also layered over with Force; a casting of [Envelop Item], no doubt.

Warriors, mages, and everyone else, looked up. Slight disorganization turned to perfect wartime harmony. Extraneous voices cut off. Everyone watched. The very air seemed to calm, as though giving the blood-red warrior the floor.

Koropo’s voice boomed across the mountain, “We gather for what is Right! We gather to honor the fallen, and to honor those yet to come! We gather for pride in ourselves and our country and our people! Today, we will end the monstrous threat laid against us! Today, the Tribes of Treehome go to war!”

The crowd boomed,

“HOOO RAAAH!”

Koropo nodded, repeating, “Hoo rah,” then stepped off the stage.

People started shouting orders.

Erick’s maps were already out there, in the Forest, waiting with their thousands and thousands of blue dots, with more blue dots appearing as every second passed.

Mages began moving people around. Erick spotted several people with blue and brown badges on their chests; the mark of the Wayfarer’s Guild. He spotted even more with Adventurer’s Guild badges. He saw Kordon, as Kordon waved to Jane, smiling, and Jane just frowned at him. Kordon laughed as he blipped away with his team. Jane just huffed.

Jane hadn’t been invited to any hunting team, even though she had wanted to go. Erick would have to find a way to get her out there on her own, for she was perfectly capable of taking out Reachers without anyone else’s help. But, for now, she held back.

And then instructions and questions and shifts in his maps were demanded. Erick complied.

He watched.

Maps all across the Forest showed the locations of enemies who sought nothing more than the pain and the deaths of every living thing besides themselves. Maybe the Deathsoul Shrooms weren’t malicious about it; Erick didn’t know. But the Moon Reachers certainly acted to cause the most pain possible.

And so, Erick watched.

And when necessary, he helped.

- - - -

In the deep Forest, where spirits roamed and monsters consumed, and animals were just as vicious as all the rest, there was a camp. You wouldn’t know it was a camp unless you had some mental protections, for all anyone normally saw were shaggy grey trees, or boulders, or splayed out silver grasses, looking like minor hills in the sunlight. Maybe laying down on that hill over there, in the sun, was a good idea? It certainly looked comfortable enough.

But for those who could see, they saw sleeping Moon Reachers.

A trio of mages and a pair of warriors descended on the camp.

They won.

They took gold from fingers and spat on the shaggy silver corpses when they were done. The Forest would reclaim those bodies fast enough. Some of that fresh meat was already being eaten; the parasites and bugs that lived on the Moon Reachers were all too happy to consume their dead hosts, now that their meat was wholly undefended.

That team went on to the next target. They needed no help, and so Erick gave them none.

- - - -

200 teams of high-powered soldiers, adventurers, and mages, had vacated the fields around the Red Henge in a matter of minutes. They blipped into the Forest, positioning themselves according to their handlers, who watched from [Viewing Screen]s all around the sacred site.

When a team didn’t run into trouble, it took ten minutes for one team to take down one group of Moon Reachers. That was just the average, though. And that average was concerning.

For as the maps populated and the full extent of the problem came into view, the numbers were reevaluated.

The Forest of Glaquin was roughly 14,000 kilometers long from east to west, and half of that from north to south. The total area of the place was well over a hundred million square kilometers.

Six Africas. Seven North Americas. Almost 4 Asias. No matter how you cut it, the Forest was massive, with hundreds of thousands of separate ecosystems and billions upon billions of places to hide.

Erick’s map, at its largest setting, covered over 3 million square kilometers. In ideal conditions, he could Image the whole of the Forest in 33 maps. Erick had sat down and done the math with Kiri before today, but here, at the event, the pure ability to do such a thing, at all, boggled, just a bit. The Elders were certainly impressed.

