But Erick could not Image at the largest setting, because the trees of the Forest, the monsters therein, or the power of the land, was not easily penetrated. Or maybe it was just the nature of the beast, and there was nothing magical at all in that deep, dark place.

Yeah right.

But the fact was, that every map placed next to every other map would make both maps useless, as they interfered with each other way too much to ever produce a useful result.

Erick knew this, though. He did not suggest maps every thousand kilometers in a square pattern. Koropo asked for such a thing, and Erick complied just to show it wasn’t possible. So he switched to an ‘every other’ square of Forest Imaging pattern; a checkerboard pattern.

It was then that the true numbers came into focus. Or at least half of them.

Even Erick did not believe that all of those blue dots were real targets. He was soon proven right. Blue dots appeared where there were no Reachers.

And so, Erick dropped down to half-max resolution, with maps placed two thousand kilometers away from each other. There was no interference then, and the blue dots organized themselves in a much nicer way. More intelligible. But also…

More terrifying.

Reorganization and reevaluating did not take long; maybe twenty minutes. And all the teams were out on targets anyway; there was no interruption to the actual Culling.

But the numbers had to be reevaluated.

The Elders were displeased.

Bloodwoo said, “My new estimate is 120,000 Moon Reachers.”

Koropo said, “The Prognosticators are telling me 100,000.”

Yura O’kabil said, “My own people are saying 150,000.”

Erick looked across a vast distance, briefly, at the active maps in the 30 million square kilometers nearest Treehome. Each one counted thousands upon thousands of Moon Reachers. Erick dropped an Ophiel close to one of the unassigned targets.

That blue dot was a place of filth and rot, where Moon Reachers basked in the sun, and a pair of Reacher children played with the corpses of a man and a deer, ramming the deer’s horns into the dead man’s chest.

He almost called everything off, right then and there.

It was horrible, sure, but it was also ‘child’ playing with a ‘toy’, too.

And then he realized that he was having a stupid thought. He banished all ideas that the Moon Reachers were ‘people’. He focused on the job. He did what he needed to do. He came back to himself. He found his throat rather dry, as he spoke to the gathered Elders, “We’re going to need more teams.”

Jane mumbled to herself, “We’re gonna need a bigger boat.”

Erick would have laughed in any other scenario. But not right now. He just… couldn’t. So he forced himself to smile, and to think of all the horrible things that Moon Reachers did every single year to every single person they got their hands on.

And as the teams went into their second missions, their thirds, and their fourths, he saw what Koropo had spoken of; he saw Moon Reachers playing at being people. He saw Reachers who were awake, who saw their deaths approaching and laughed and tried to pluck off arms. He saw rings from dozens of victims stuck on long, silver fingers. He saw adventurers, mages, people from all walks of life, go up against those silver furred monsters, and he saw them win, and then he saw them happy beyond belief.

As people returned, taking breaks or whatnot, someone spoke of how they lost their mother to Reachers, and that they were grateful to belong to this historic event. Another person spoke of how they lost their brother. Another spoke of a dead sister. Another spoke of a long-dead father, and a son. Another spoke of a lost tribe. Many spoke of lost tribes.

Many spoke of how much safer the Forest would be.

Everyone was happy, and Moon Reachers died.

Erick was happy to help, too. He was happy to be there. He was happy.

He hoped no one would ever ask him if he was actually happy. For he would have to lie.

… He really shouldn’t have a problem with what they were doing. He got mad at himself. So what if the monsters looked like people? Big fucking deal! Looking like people was obviously a tactic engineered by the people who made the Moon Reachers in order for those Moon Reachers to produce more victims! Not a single one of the monsters here, or anywhere else, were not manufactured by someone! Every single one of them was created in order to produce the most harm!

And it was working!

Erick was harming himself by constantly seeing a touch of sapience, or at least sentience, in every single monster out there. Did some of those monsters deserve such compassion? Sure! Maybe!

But big fucking deal!

And now Erick was making himself furious, watching Moon Reachers act like people.

How dare Melemizargo for allowing these things to exist?! How dare the people of Brightwater for creating them! For making something with the sole purpose to harm others!

Koropo updated the numbers after the first hour.

He spoke to the gathered Elders.

“New estimates of total Moon Reachers have now reached 230,000. In addition to the new numbers revealing a problem none of us ever suspected, we are learning a few new things about them that we never knew before. We thought they grouped in 5 to 6, but most groups are composed of 3 to 5 individuals with 2 to 3 juvenile Reachers in those groups. There are also a surprising number of lone hunters out there. Maybe 30%. Those lone hunters are giving our people a hard time, because not only is every single one of them awake and active and jumpy, but they also seem to display abnormally strong abilities. Each one of them is abnormally clean, too. We’re not sure what that’s about.

“In addition to that, there are the normal groups of 5 to 6 Reachers, as expected.

“Instead of needing 21,000 hunts for 120,000 Reachers, and each hunt taking about 15 minutes, which would put our 200 teams at 27 hours of work, or four days of seven hours of hunting per day.” Koropo said, “Our new numbers put us at 50,000 hunts. This is going to take seven days, at minimum. And that’s just for the Moon Reachers. Estimates for the Deathsoul Shrooms are still coming in, because every single one of those hunts is going to take a lot more care than the Reachers.” He added, “I request permission to gather more teams, or at least activate the Adventurer’s Guild and the Mage Guild.”

Peron, Yura, and Bloodwoo, thought for a moment.

Bloodwoo said, “Assaulting Reachers is a simple affair, but ending the Deathsoul Shrooms will be difficult. Miss Flamecrash is particularly adept at clearing targets. I put forth that we could look into hiring similarly adept Summoners for the second half of this task. Though I disagree on the need for activating more teams or the Guilds for this first hunt. We can just take more breaks with the forces we already have.”

“Hiring Summoners?” Yura frowned. “I have never seen a Summoner as adept as Archmage Flatt or Miss Flamecrash, and they aren’t even Classed Summoners. No. We will not be doing that. This must be a properly run hunt, and I will not abide the inclusion of people who are less than capable. We do not want a single casualty, and lowering our standards will cause that.”

Koropo asked, “Perhaps we should see about calling in the Summoners we have tagged? We do have some in our armies.”

Yura sarcastically said, “With less diplomatic words, I repeat: Are they, though?” She turned toward Kiri. “Seeing what we see now, it is a wonder that anyone I have ever known even qualified for ‘Summoner’, and it’s my understanding that young Flamecrash isn’t even Classed yet.”

Everyone turned toward Kiri. The young greenscale reclined on a [Scry]ing chair set up next to Erick’s [Scry]ing chair. She was a team unto herself, assigned to the tougher targets. Each one took her about 3 minutes. She was mowing down Reachers as fast as her handlers could guide her to her targets. Erick suspected that she would not stop even when everyone else stopped for the day, for she could do what she was doing from anywhere.

Erick was not hunting targets, himself, because he had a larger obligation.

Yura turned back toward the small gathering, saying, “If there is a reprisal from the Forest, then our mages, archmages, and even our ‘lesser’ Summoners will have their mana occupied with defending Treehome. We will not be using them for the Reacher threat. We will consider using ‘only mages’ for the Shroom threat, though. When we get to those, we can switch the warriors we have out there back to the defense of Treehome. That, I will approve.”

Koropo breathed in, and said nothing.

“We are doing enough.” Peron said, “Continue as ordered and planned.”

Koropo looked to Bloodwoo.

Bloodwoo said, “I have nothing to add; I agree with my fellow Elders.”

“The problem with that is that someone is going to mess up. We have a harder schedule ahead of us than originally thought, and I would like to see this done as bloodlessly as possible.” Koropo said to the Elders, “In my professional opinion, we could use some assistance. Have you considered my request for aid from the Headmaster? He has offered—”

Yura immediately said, “Heard and denied, Warchief. He asks for too much, for we all know there are dragons out there in the green. I will not accept the outcome of him accidentally hearing of other dragons out there, and, gods forbid, should he actually meet one. No. We can do this ourselves. It will just take longer than we thought.”

Bloodwoo said, “Proceed as planned. Take more breaks.” He turned toward Erick. “Can you Image for the Deathsoul Shrooms, again? I would like to see that problem on a larger Imaging. I have a ticking feeling that we are woefully underestimating that task, as well.”

Erick had a strange thought pop into his head. He knew of another summoner like himself, who might actually have become a Classed Summoner since the last time he spoke to her. Erick would talk to her when the next break began, but for now, he said, “Of course, Bloodwoo.”

Koropo said, “At the next break.”

“Agreed.” Bloodwoo said, “On the next break.”

- - - -

Hours passed. A fraction of a fraction of the Moon Reachers of the Forest of Glaquin met their end.

More would follow.

But for now, a thousand orcols, both warrior and mage alike, sat around the mountainside, on break. Refreshments were served because it was the comfortable thing to do, and though no one was truly tired, this was a marathon, not a sprint. Breaks were required.

Some laughed at their hunts. Some rejoiced at the novelty of ‘taking breaks’. Some reviewed the new numbers, and balked, but others doubled down on finally being able to eradicate an existential threat from the Forest. Some did not want to waste the mana to come back to the Red Henge; they would wait out their break in the Forest. Erick offered those groups an Ophiel for transport but few took him up on that offer. They’d wait out there till it was time to ‘port to the next target.

While all that was happening, Erick also spoke to someone he hadn’t spoken to in a long while.

‘Hello, Sizzi!’ Erick sent, ‘Are you busy?’

Sizzi hadn’t picked up right away, but she responded quickly enough, sending, ‘Archmage Flatt! Hello. I am not that busy at the moment. To what do I owe the honor?’

Erick smiled at the woman’s voice. He was pretty sure that Sizzi’s mother, Guildmaster Zago, was probably right beside her, telling her to be polite. He had told Sizzi to call him ‘Erick’ last time they spoke, for sure, so why call him ‘Archmage’? Maybe Sirocco was listening in?

‘I have a proposal for you.’ Erick sent, ‘We’re clearing out the Moon Reachers and Deathsoul Shrooms from the Forest of Glaquin. I was wondering if you would be able to assist. The job is looking a lot larger than anyone suspected, and if your summons are up for the task, we could use you. I don’t know how much Treehome would be willing to pay you, but the task would certainly go easier with more summons as good as Ophiel. I also haven’t cleared this with them, and they seem reluctant to accept any professional outside help. But your help would be appreciated, I’m sure, if they actually allow such a thing.’

There was a pause. That pause went on for a while.

Erick looked over to the [Viewing Screen]s one platform over, where Bloodwoo, Koropo, and a few unmet Elders all went over the images of the maps Erick had adjusted; they now showed Deathsoul Shroom markers. Those white maps were rather blue. No one liked what they saw.

Sizzi’s voice came back, ‘Ah. Yes. Uh. Well. Yes.’

Another pause.

Erick sent, ‘If you—’

‘How many— Sorry. Go ahead?’

‘What were you saying, Sizzi?’

‘Uh… Well. I can do this. How big is the job?’ She paused, then, with much enthusiasm, immediately sent, ‘I’m sorry! I was just in the middle of— It doesn’t matter. This task you have would mean a lot to a lot of people, wouldn’t it. Yes. I want to be involved. My mother wishes to come to Treehome as well, to participate. She won’t be able to remain, but she wishes to be there for a little while.’

Erick smirked. ‘Good to hear. I’m sure we can find places for both of you, but the current time table has us at a minimum of 15 days of clearing out these two problem monsters from the Forest, and maybe more than that. What sort of spells can you operate through your summons? Have you actually Classed-up, yet?’

‘I just got [Grand Lightning] but I have been comfortable with my ability to take out most targets at range for a while. I have never tackled a Deathsoul Shroom… But that shouldn’t be a problem? I’ve read about those. And yes, I have Classed into Summoner.’ With a happy voice, Sizzi said, ‘All because of you, Archmage Flatt. So for you, I would do this free of charge. But Treehome will need to pay.’

Erick laughed. ‘I’m sure you’re worth it! After they’ve seen what Kiri and I can do with our summons, they’re looking to expand their Summoning program. Don’t be caught blindsided when they try to poach you from Spur.’

‘Ha! Little chance of that happening. My mother would disown me.’

‘Do you need me to [Teleport] you and your mother up here? Or would you prefer to find your own way?’ Erick rapidly added, ‘It might be easier if I brought you here and introduced you, actually.’

Pause.

She was probably speaking to her mother about plans and timing.

‘Yes. We will accept your help getting there. Just… Give us an hour?’

‘I’m sure that will be fine. Ophiel will come to you, then. See you soon.’

‘See you soon!’

Erick ended the call.

