He went over to the gathered Elders and Koropo. Koropo saw him coming, and then so did everyone else. The crowd parted just a bit, allowing him entry into the gathering.

Erick asked, “What’s the new Shroom estimate?”

Koropo said, “Somewhere between 15,000 to 17,000 major Deathsoul Shroom hunts.”

Many Elders grumbled at that, and Erick sighed a bit.

Koropo said, “Some of the targets require slashing and burning for a dozen kilometers in every direction. Others would be smaller, and only slightly less dangerous. We estimate it would take a person of your power half an hour per large infestation. If you were working alone, according to the math, it would take you, personally, an entire year of hunting and burning—” A few grumbles from the audience caused Koropo to speak louder, over the group of gathered Elders, “For anyone with less than a well-made Super Large Area spell of incineration or other burning or decay magic, we’re looking at—” He breathed in. He let it out there, “10 hours per Adult. 7000 days of clearing—”

A few Elders almost spoke up, objecting.

“—or double that since we won’t burn at night—”

Most everyone groaned at that.

“— I know, I know! It’s not what you want to hear.” Koropo continued, “But a full day per adult is historically accurate, and also the best case scenario. No one expected this many Adult Deathsoul Shrooms. This Imaging has revealed the insides of trees as Adults, the insides of some wyrms as Adults. This Imaging has revealed entire new life cycles that we never knew. And so, the problem is larger than we ever knew. If we do this wrong, we risk spreading the shrooms, which is why we will do this right the first time.”

Elder Erod from Icebrand said, “The Shrooms are deadly, yes, but if we kill 99% of every infestation, then that should be enough, right?”

Elder Juli from Firebrand said, “The Forest eats small lives all the time, and tiny Shroom colonies would be no different.”

There were many objections to that. No one wanted a half-assed Culling.

But Bloodwoo objected the loudest, saying, “We will do this right. Failure will not be our goal.”

Erick spoke up, “No one expected it to be easy, did they?”

An Elder from Steel-Branch, Elder Moro, said, “We expected that finding them would be the hard part. Usually, you only run into these damned things when you’re trying to run from something else and you get deathly unlucky. We did not expect the problem to be this large.” He complained to Koropo, “Your numbers cannot be accurate.”

Koropo glared at Elder Moro, then he blinked, breathed, and broke off his harsh look.

“Everyone always underestimates the time it takes to make something good,” said Elder Fara Home, diplomatically.

Chieftain Ro-Uki Rottundra, said, “Yet another reason to just melt it all down. We can even throw up large stone walls as breaks—”

Yura said, “That plan is still with the Prognosticators. Speak no more of that plan. It is tiring.”

Before anyone else could speak up—

Erick said, “Anyway! I might have another good Summoner coming, if you want them. They helped me to make my Ophiel, and I helped them to make their own summons. They’re a proper Summoner, too. Classed, and everything. I suspect she will be much better at clearing out targets than even my apprentice, Kiri. If you want her?” He added, “You’re going to have to pay her, too, of course. I don’t know what she’ll charge.”

Everyone looked down at Erick.

Yura was the first to speak. “Not an agent of the Headmaster, I hope?”

“Or a shadeling!” Peron said.

A few Elders nodded at that.

“Nope; neither of those.” Erick said, “She’s the daughter of the Mage Guildmaster of Spur. Sizzi Zago.”

Yura spoke first, “I have no objection.”

With a gleam in his eye, Bloodwoo said, “Nosier happily accepts. Yes. Bring her in.”

Elder Moro asked, “How good is she?”

“We’ll find out together.” Erick said, “But she has [Grand Lightning], so she should be fine.”

Erick didn’t know what [Grand Lightning] was, exactly, but he could guess it was something like [Grand Fireball], and thus suitably impressive.

Chieftain Ro-Uki Rottundra asked, “Is she as good as your Miss Flamecrash?” He looked to Koropo. “Give me some numbers based on that estimate.”

“[Grand Lightning] is a fine spell.” Bloodwoo said, “This Summoner’s assistance in clearing the adults would be enough to let us kill the lesser infestations much more safely.”

Peron frowned. A few other Elders frowned. But none of them said anything. They all knew how dangerous a Deathsoul Shroom could be.

Erick said, “I’m pretty sure Sizzi has at least 20 summons, too. I have 10. Kiri has 10. I am not comfortable doing this with just us three, but if it’s just the adults, then we can probably do that. Juvenile cleanup would take the most time… Maybe?” He added, “But anyway: No offense meant, Koropo, but I think you’ve vastly overestimated how long it will take to kill an Adult. For me, anyway.”

What he didn’t say, was that it would likely be the work of a minute to find the thing, and then a moment to cast his new [Vivid Gloom Ooze]. Boom boom; dead shroom!

Some Elders seemed to reassess Erick, but most looked to Koropo for the numbers.

Koropo said, “If she’s as good as Miss Flamecrash… Who I think can tackle a Deathsoul Shroom Adult just fine for an estimate on par with Archmage Flatt’s timetable, which I am now moving to 10 minutes per infestation… This means we’re looking at cutting the task down to a fortieth of what it was before. But maybe only go with 35, for each caster will only have most of their summons out there. 17,000 hunts, which means… 170,000 minutes, cut by 35, means 4900 minutes per summon, cut by 60, means 80 hours per summon, means three and a half days for each summon out there, to end every Adult Deathsoul Shroom in the Forest.” He looked to Erick. “Can you do that? Does that sound reasonable?”

Everyone looked to Erick.

Erick said, “I’m not running 24 hours a day. None of us are. But we can certainly do a lot from the comfort of a hotel room.”

Every Elder, Chieftain, soldier, and [Viewing Screen] clerk within earshot, seemed to brighten up a bit. A tension in the air seemed to relax. A lot of people were listening in on the conversation, it seemed.

Koropo said, “I know it wasn’t what we originally planned on, but this is good.”

Yura said, “We will have to see about increasing your pay.”

A few laughed at that.

Erick smiled, saying, “But first, the Reachers.”

“Yes; the Moon Reachers.” Bloodwoo said, “They are a much more manageable problem.”

Another Elder said, “Still gonna take days.”

“And days and days.” Another Elder said, “But it will be done, and then the only Reacher you’ll see would be stuffed, in a museum.”

Elder Juli Firebrand said, “Once we cull most of them from this world, all the stragglers would have a hard time finding each other, so even if we got 99% of them, then the rest would die out in a generation.”

“And good riddance!”

As Elders and Chieftains began to separate, to walk their own ways, to talk to their own people, Koropo asked Erick to switch the maps back to the Moon Reachers. Erick obliged.
