Erick heard the inflection between ‘light’ and ‘Light’ and knew he probably had a dumb look on his face, for Bloodwood looked down at him, and smiled. Erick was about to speak when the elevator stopped, and Bloodwoo wordlessly stepped out into a hallway.

Erick followed, saying, “So… You… Uh. Imaging is Particle Mage only, though.”

“Of course it is.” Bloodwoo said, “And I’m trying to raise up some good Particle Mages myself for just that reason. We’ve got a whole class of them studying those new Particle Spells you’ve made, but I doubt a single one will actually acquire the Class. If a single one of them gets [Cascade Imaging] I will qualify the whole affair as a success. Nosier is hoping for [Control Weather] or possibly [Call Lightning].”

“Ah. Ha.” Erick said, “[Call Lightning] should be up in a few weeks.”

“13 days.”

“… 13 days?” Erick thought back to last year. “That can’t be right.”

“13 days,” Bloodwoo repeated.

“… But?”

“I don’t know what to tell you.” Bloodwoo walked through an archway made of stone and roots, to a room lined with glass boxes each a meter across, saying “That’s the number I heard from multiple sources, including Rozeta.”

While that number now loomed over Erick’s head, he peered into the glass boxes of the room and briefly forgot about his new deadline, for every single box was filled with rotten meat. Bones and sinew. Guts and cartilage. There was no smell, for the room itself was perfectly clean and normal, made of thick stone and filled with the dense, green Domain of Nosier. But that Domain was even thicker near the gore in the glass boxes, like it was holding something back. Erick instantly had the Ophiel on his shoulder turn on [Soul Sight].

Each pile of gore was absolutely awash in the Shroud of some large soul.

“Are these all… Are these all Deathsoul Shrooms?” Erick asked, suddenly aware that this was a very dangerous room, and while that glass looked thick and warded, he still felt a tingle of fear crawl down the back of his neck. It was almost the same fear as standing in front of a Shade for the first time, but Erick knew that these things were almost worse than Shades, for they played no games. They just consumed, and sought to consume even more. “And Nosier…?” His voice trailed off.

“Nosier holds them down, preventing them from continuing to grow. It is a good method for strengthening his own soul defenses.” Bloodwoo said, “Every Arbor does this. You would need to do this with your Yggdrasil, eventually.”

“… Oh.” Erick looked to the piles of gore, whispering, “They look a lot like the book said, but not quite.”

A new person stepped out of the air, into the center of the room, saying, “They are juveniles.”

Erick instantly recognized the man as the humanoid-form of Nosier, for his soul and everything else about him resembled O’kabil’s orcol-body form. His stature, though, was closer to Bloodwoo’s; very tall, and rather skinny. But instead of wearing normal robes, like his chieftain, Nosier wore robes of emerald light, the same color as the Domain all around them.

Bloodwoo said, “The gore is but a disguise of the child spore, designed to lure in new hosts. It usually succeeds. Adult Deathsoul Shrooms do not have to resemble this form, but the Adults usually have juveniles around them at all points in time, so this form is rather what people think of when they think of Deathsoul Shrooms.”

Nosier gazed down at Erick. “That deal about ‘telling us how close we are’; How close are we to [Cascade Imaging]?”

Erick deflected toward the Shrooms, saying, “I need some dead spore for a sample.”

“How dead?” Nosier asked, “Ash? Would ash work?”

Another ploy for information.

Erick saw a way around that, saying, “Ash would never work for Blood Magic.”

“So it is Blood Magic?”

Erick doubled down, “I need an inert sample for [Cascade Imaging].”

“How would you go about obtaining such a thing?”

“How would you?”

Nosier eyed Erick, saying, “Lock it in a [Ward]ed space and investigate it as needed with an Elemental Body of appropriate make. [Greater Lightwalk] or the Shadow variant would be my first choices. Touching it with your skin is even more dangerous than touching it with your soul, so don’t ever touch it.”

“Really?” Erick said, “Would that even work?”

Bloodwoo said, “Deathsoul Shrooms are particularly deadly to mages, for Health is one of the best ways to withstand soul and body attacks. Your inflated Health due to your rings might allow you a brief window in which to touch the actual spore and not become infected, but I would not chance it.”

Nosier said, “Most healthy people and almost every animal out there focuses on Strength and Vitality, and can fend off a Deathsoul Shroom infestation, but not always. Pass by a large enough clump of them and they can [Soul Burn] you into submission and then latch on.” He gestured to the glass cages, saying, “These ones are tiny and relatively safe compared to a real infestation, but even they would be striking you right this moment if not for my overriding soul. Have you ever had anti-soul-manipulation training?”

“I have not had much experience with soul attacks; no.” Erick frowned, saying, “And as you can see, I am not in that great of a shape for such training.”

“Yes. I can see that. So do you want to try holding a [Ward]ed glass sphere of Shroom, anyway?” Nosier said, “It would be nothing to prepare one of these for you. I often prepare them for others so that they can experience soul attacks to learn to defend from them, but if you need one for Scanning purposes then you need one, and I can give you one. I will, of course, keep an eye on your soul if you wish to Image from a room I have in here; I keep many [Scry] rooms active and pleasant, as would any proper host of mages.” He barreled on ahead, saying, “If O’kabil isn’t treating you right, I certainly will.”

“Thank you for the offer of hospitality, but I don’t feel like moving my stuff; no offense.”

Nosier hummed.

Erick said, “I will take you up on your offer of some soul watching help, and that orb, but I will be Imaging from that platform they have set up for me back at the monument, or whatever it’s called. Hopefully I only need the one exposure.”

Nosier nodded. “You still haven’t explained your Imaging for that extra 5% take.”

“… I don’t need that 5%.”

“We have books!” Nosier said, slightly pleading, and then he instantly calmed. He offered, “Many, varied books, full of magical knowledge. More than you. Almost as much as the Headmaster. Just tell me how the spell works over such a long range and I will open my libraries to you.”

Erick almost shut Nosier down again, but he considered what he knew, and what he knew was that Treehome was full of good people, even if they had been rather harsh on the shadelings, and on the Cultists. Erick didn’t have much personal interaction with Nosier so far, but he suspected that they would have a lot more interactions going forward. If anyone should have some information about [Cascade Imaging], then it should be Nosier, right?

Erick asked, “You can keep secrets?”

Nosier almost looked offended for half a second, then he lost the attitude, and said, “Of course.”

“… A hint, then, and that is all, for this touches upon something I don’t want to reveal yet.” Erick said, “[Cascade Imaging] doesn’t Image at the site. It Images at the cascading orb in the air. All of the magic of the spell is contained in that orb.”

Nosier suddenly breathed deep. Bloodwoo narrowed his eyes at nothing in particular.

Nosier glared, but there was no fire behind his gaze. “Another 5% for a better hint.”

“Nope. Sorry.” Erick said, “Cannot do. I have obligations to more than just you.”

Bloodwoo said, “We already suspected this, but to know is a boon.”

Nosier glared at Bloodwoo for a moment, then said, “Fine. It qualifies. 15% of the day’s declared take.” He added, “You were right about treasure not finding its way to us. We suspect we’ll lose out on over half of what is actually recovered. These are acceptable losses considering the gain.”

“I knew Moon Reachers and Deathsoul Shrooms were bad, but I didn’t know they were quite as bad as Koropo told me.” Erick said, “That man knows a lot.”

Bloodwoo said, “It is his job and place to know the numbers. This is expected.”

Nosier nodded, then casually reached over to one of the glass boxes of gore. With a twist of his green Domain, a small section of bone and gore snapped off of the pile inside and floated upward. The break left behind did not look like the rotten meat that it seemed to be, instead, it was like a cross section of a loaf of bread; airy and bubbly. The entire pile of gore truly was fake; a facade to fool anyone interested in an easy meal, to fool them into getting close and taking a bite.

If the spore in their mouth didn’t get them, the spores flowing up from the new break in the gore’s surface would have.

Erick switched on [Blood Sight], and saw the pile of gore as completely false. It was a living organism made of fake bones and fake blood and fake meat.

Wrapped in Nosier’s emerald Domain, that broken piece of the Deathsoul Shroom floated upward and toward the wall of the enclosure. With another twist of magic, Nosier plucked the sample into a bubble in the thick glass, and then out away from the enclosure. He picked the sample out of the air, holding it between a thumb and a forefinger that were each as big as Erick’s own forearm. The glass bubble was the size of Erick’s own fist; tiny, compared to the person holding it, and even smaller than that, when considering that the ‘person’ was actually the mana construct of a kilometers-wide Arbor.

Erick wondered, briefly, if the Script Second still applied to Arbors, or if they did all their casting manually, like the Shades.

Nosier cast several small spells over the glass sphere all in under a second, confirming what Erick had already suspected. He handed the sample to Erick, saying, “It will attack you when you touch the sphere with your lightform. Don’t let it get a foothold.”

Erick steeled himself, and took the sphere with a lightform tendril.

The distancing of the tendril did not work as well as Erick had hoped. As he touched the sphere, a cold fear ran up his spine. He breathed deeper, which was probably a method for the Deathsoul Shrooms to further invade a potential intruder. He calmed, even as his heart raced. He thought, even as his stomach quivered and his feet told him to run away and seek the safety of others.

He mumbled, “Which is yet another way it gets you to spread it…” He said, “These things are insidious, aren’t they—”

Nosier snatched the sphere from Erick’s lightform, saying, “That’s enough. That was rougher than I thought it would be.”

Erick glanced at his own soul and saw it was more or less the same. Still, he shivered as though he had just come out of the cold. “That was slightly disconcerting.” He breathed, shallow and controlled, then had an Ophiel that was already outside, move into the air directly over the center of Treehome.

Nosier cocked his head, just a bit, turning his eyes toward the center sky of the city.

Erick held his hand and his light out, saying, “Again. This time with Imaging.”

Nosier plopped the sphere down onto Erick’s waiting light.

Cold crawled across Erick’s back, into his chest, into his soul, as he flowed mana through his light and into the Deathsoul Shroom spores. Quick as a wink, he cast through that sample, searching for DNA at Ophiel’s resolving map, in the center of Treehome’s sky.

And then his lightform did something strange.

It crushed down onto the Deathsoul Shroom’s container, like a muscle out of control; a twitch, and a shatter. Glass broke. Ophiel squawked. False-gore splat—

Nosier locked down the very air, containing everything that should not have been broken in the first place. With a shove like a god tipping him backward, Erick landed two meters away from the broken sphere, falling into Poi’s arms. The shards of glass hovered back together, reforming their container around the now very dead Deathsoul Shroom.

Sweat rolled down Erick’s face as Bloodwoo looked down upon him, a look on his face as though he had been proven right about something.

Nosier’s body briefly turned translucent.

Poi righted Erick, then shivered himself. Erick stopped hyperventilating; when had he even started? Ah. Shit. That was scary. And then Erick laughed. Poi sighed.

Erick said, “Ah! Shit! That was terrifying!”

Bloodwoo sighed. “Quite.”

Poi shivered, again.

Nosier came back to his false body, and said, “A dangerous thing, that.” He glanced away, toward where Erick’s map lay, hovering and populating above Treehome. “But I think it worked.”

Erick turned his attention away from his own mortality, as he turned his eyes toward the Ophiel at the new map in the center of Treehome. The map came together with little blue dots exactly where Erick, Poi, and Bloodwoo stood; inside Nosier.

Erick relaxed a little, as he said, “So I guess that works.” With a small instruction, he sent a sunform Ophiel lightstepping deep into the Forest to the north, putting Ophiel far enough out that a second [Cascade Imaging] wouldn’t interfere with the first. And then he cast from memory, searching for Deathsoul Shrooms. While that second map populated, he asked, “So my Ophiel is beginning to get a Shroud. Any idea if he’d be subject to a Deathsoul Shroom?”

Nosier looked to the bundle of fluff and eyes on Erick’s shoulder, and said, “Impossible to know unless you try. I assume they’re all the same [Familiar]? You’d have to dismiss all of him if he gets infected to clear out any soul infection, but I don’t see that being a problem.”

Erick glanced out to the second map, saw all the blue, then came back, wide-eyed, asking, “How many instances of these monsters do you expect to find today?”

“50,000 Moon Reachers. Several hundred square kilometers of Deathsoul Shrooms.” Bloodwoo said, “Conservative estimates.”

Nosier said, “I’m guessing 65,000 Reachers and 1,200 square kilometers of juvenile Shrooms, with at least a few hundred adult varieties. 350, probably.”

With Ophiel’s eyes glancing down upon something rather terrifying in the middle of the Forest, far away, Erick came back to himself, and said, “Ah. Yes. Adult Shrooms. Of course.” He breathed. He said, “I didn’t expect them to be that big. You know, you read about something, but then you see it. And. Well.”

“Oh!” Nosier asked, “Where?” He looked away. “Not near the city?”

