marker_1: thrasts_ass_is_grass [3061 Seedlings 18 11:44]

marker_2: tc_office_hour [3061 Seedlings 20 12:45]

Span: 2.0 days

Skills

Essence Well: +42,381 exp, 12 -> 15 (+3)

Winter: +3,840 exp, 10 -> 11 (+1)

Aura Compression: +29,571 exp

Mana Manipulation: +84 exp

Prismatic Intent: +1 exp

Hmph. Not bad. Filling everyone’s mana got me something, at least. Also, what the hell? Aura Compression didn’t level? How much is even left?

Aura Compression (14/15) Exp: 73,592/73,600

Compress aura output, reducing range to boost intensity

Increase intensity by 2.8% per meter of compression

...Really? Eight experience? Come on!

Rain thought for a moment, then selected Suppression and tuned it up to the max, using all of his modifiers while compressing it down to zero range. Used as a Singularity and while excluding himself with IFF, the spell did literally nothing except drink mana like crazy. The spell card, though, gave Rain pause, brilliant blue in the darkness from Aura Focus.

Suppression (14/15) Exp: 19,235/73,600

Increase mana costs for all entities by 586063 mp (fcs)

Range: 0 meters

Cost: 1792 mp/s

That’s a damn big number, and my combat macros aren’t even on!

He let the spell end after only a few seconds. Suppression wasn’t exempt from the damage limit, so the biggest cost increase anyone could possibly be slapped with was 9,999 mp, but it was still an absurd level of power to contemplate.

As his senses returned, he came to a related realization, then winced and looked around. His rapid mana use just then would have had his eyes shining gently with Arcane power for all to see. Fortunately, it appeared that no one had noticed. He breathed a sigh of relief before sheepishly scratching at his beard.

I need to be careful if I’m not wearing my helmet. Close my eyes first, at the very least. Or, you know, show some bloody restraint or something.

Rain snorted, then generated himself another progress report.

Progress Report

marker_1: tc_office_hour [3061 Seedlings 20 12:45]

marker_2: tc_office_hour2 [3061 Seedlings 20 12:46]

Span: 1 minute

Skills

Aura Compression: +8 exp, 14 -> 15 (+1)

Suppression: +4,480 exp

That’s better. He closed the window with a careless swipe of one hand. I’ll get Suppression to fifteen later. Again, he glanced at the clock. Still ten minutes to go. I might as well work on Prismatic Intent.

Reaching through his link to his rings, Rain removed two hundred points from Focus, then applied them to Clarity as a debuff, remembering to close his eyes this time. A shiver of overmana washed through him, and his mind sharpened, showing him every embarrassing thing he’d ever done all at once. Fortunately, the effect was short-lived, and he was left only with the horrible hollow feeling that using his new rings in this way generated.

Sucking in a breath through his teeth, Rain opened his eyes. The new rings let him reduce his Clarity for the dual purposes of stilling his mana and dealing with his scattered thoughts. Technically, he could use the rings to reduce any of his stats, but in addition to there being no reason for him to do so, bringing an attribute below ten by any means was a game of diminishing returns. It took a one-point reduction to bring a stat from eleven to ten, but getting it to nine took a further ten points of debuff. It was then one hundred more points of debuff to get to eight, a thousand more to get to seven, and so forth. On down to one, at which point the formula likely changed again. Getting to zero was said to be impossible, let alone pushing a stat negative.

Turning his focus inward, Rain concentrated on Arcane Ward, which was a nice, safe spell with no visible effect unless it was triggered. He began casting it over and over again, doing his best with Mana Manipulation to address the various, vaguely-felt issues. Unless they had Mana Sight, nobody would know what he was working on, and even if they did, he supposed he didn’t care.

Arcane Ward

Arcane Ward

Arcane Ward

He paused, simply watching the slowly flowing mana as it waited for any Arcane damage that would push it into action.

If I can just...figure this out...I’ll be able to keep all my wards up all the time. So many things to do, though. There’s Prismatic Intent training, getting the rest of my regular skills to fifteen, working on my synchronizations and tolerances, unlocking tier four, and now exploring soulspace and learning about this new soul sense of mine. Speaking of, why the heck does it only work on silverplates, anyway? Is it because only they’re strong enough for me to feel, or is there something actually different about their souls? Some sort of qualitative difference? From a sample size of two—three if you count me—all silvers seem to have cores, whether they know about them or not. Does that have something to do with it?

...

Rain sighed, letting Arcane Ward fade, realizing he’d been completely derailed from his practice after only a handful of cycles.

Bah, even with my Clarity sapped, I get distracted. I guess that overmana pulse hasn’t worn off yet, after all. Might as well just...go with it until it does. I was only killing time anyway.

Rain chuckled to himself, releasing his grip on his thoughts and letting them run wild.

What am I going to work on tonight? I’ll have plenty of essence to play with at my paling by then. Finishing the patch would be the responsible thing, but it’s just more drudgery. I want to experiment! Having system access in there is such a game-changer. I can finally justify some real time to work on my interface, and I should even be able to do aura training while I’m asleep! Even Prismatic training, maybe. If that works...hot damn. Regardless, even if I can’t get it to level soon, I don’t really need it. Thanks to Channel Mastery’s new thing, I could basically just do hyper-threading. Sure, the total power output would be less than true Prismatic, but looking at Suppression just now, I don’t really need power, do I? I just need to fix my scripts to set that up. But then... With Prismatic Intent AND Channel Mastery... I could use LITERALLY ALL OF THE THINGS! Silverplate power is INSANE! And I don’t even know what’s waiting for me in tier four! Ameliah said she’d check for me if I asked her to... Should I ask her to? Heck, she might have already done it and just not told me. I did say I didn’t want to be tempted, after all, but...

Someone cleared their throat, and Rain jumped. He looked up to see a young, pale, short-haired man in a dark jacket staring at him with a resolved expression. He stood with the same easy discipline as Samson, looking like he was at parade rest or something.

Damn it, brain! What if he was hostile? Is he awakened? Shit.

“Sorry,” Rain said, grabbing ahold of himself and glancing at his clock. He gestured to one of the chairs. “Hello. I’m Rain, Captain of Ascension, but you probably knew that. How can I help you?”

“I do not know,” the man said in a curious accent. He slowly sat in the indicated chair, sitting up straightly and meeting Rain’s gaze without wavering. “I can only hope that you will.”

Confused by this statement, Rain tilted his head. “You’re a Guilder?” he guessed, despite the lack of a plate around the man’s neck.

“I am not,” the man replied. “My name is Fechton Stone.” He hesitated for an almost imperceptible moment. “I have come to surrender.”

“Surrender?” Rain asked, though a cold certainty had settled into his thoughts the moment he’d heard the man’s name. “You’re...” he lowered his voice, “You aren’t...an imperial, are you?”

“I am,” Fechton said with a curt nod. “I served as first starguide on the Fist of Progress.”

“Holy shit!” Rain shouted, activating Force Ward and reflexively reaching for his helmet.

Fechton tensed but made no move to leave his chair. “If you choose to execute me, I will not resist. I am not Called. Even if I were, I now realize that I could no more stand against you than I could against the Vileheart, nor against the one that clove what could not be cloven. In defeat, I have seen the lie. From that sight and from the doubt it has stirred in my heart, my life is already forfeit. And so I hope that you are as you claim to be. I hope that you will uphold the equality promised in your declaration. I have killed no one and have committed no crime upon your list within the city.”

“Keep your voice down,” Rain said urgently, lowering his own and glancing around as caution warred with excitement. This is an opportunity. He sat his helmet back on the table deliberately, though he yearned to slip it on his head instead. “Will you answer questions about the Empire?”

“I will do whatever you ask of me, provided that you spare my life and protect me from the Vileheart and those who have hunted my fellows,” the soldier replied, obligingly lowering his voice to a whisper. “I fear that I am the only remaining survivor. To admit such is shame, but I do not wish to die.”

Rain did his best to control his expression as he hunched forward. “Who’s the—” he began, but he was brought to a sudden stop.

A hooded figure in a tattered brown cloak stepped into view, pulling out the second chair and sitting beside Fechton without invitation. Rain’s blood froze even before he caught a glimpse of the eyes within the deep cowl. His soul was suddenly screaming at him, and his mind joined it a heartbeat later as recognition took hold.

No...

“Get lost, whoever you are,” Velika said through the scarf veiling her face, sparing a dismissive glance for Fechton. Her dark eyes locked onto Rain’s, skewering him to his chair. “I have business with the captain.”
