“Anabelle? Do you have a list of the orders and deliveries for, say, the last month?” Ren asked.

“Of course.” Anabelle said and reached under the counter to get them. “Here you go.”

“Thanks.” Ren said and skimmed over them. He picked out 6 times Gretchen had ordered things from the shop, and they had been delivered to the same address. “Just out of curiosity, do you know of any other women the delivery man has slept with?”

“Excuse me?” Anabelle asked. “Did you just ask me... no, he didn't... he wouldn't... oh, that idiot!”

“Katie?” Ren asked because he had seen her blush. “You knew, didn't you?”

Katie shook her head back and forth, but didn't say anything.

“Katie! You knew?” Anabelle asked.

“No, I... I mean, he mentioned something the other day, but...” Katie sighed. “I thought he was just teasing me about sleeping with a Lady while we were... well...” Her blush deepened and she stopped speaking.

“He is so fired.” Anabelle said. “My Lord, I am so sorry this has happened.”

“So am I.” Ren said. “I just hope it was only the one woman. I've told her she wouldn't be getting any more special deliveries from him, not from this shop, anyways.”

Anabelle knelt in front of Ren. “Can you ever forgive me?”

Ren cupped the side of her face. “There's nothing to forgive.” He said and gave her a kiss. “I don't think he would be able to conceal it for much longer, if he's telling people he's doing it.”

“But, it's my job to make sure that...”

“You can't police people's personal time.” Ren said. “It's that the fool did it while he was working that's the problem for me.” He said, then looked at Anabelle. “Did you-”

“NO!” Anabelle yelled. “I'm yours, and no one else will touch me.”

“Did he try?” Ren asked, and Anabelle nodded. “Katie? It worked on you, but did he try or succeed with Holly or Carly?”

“I...” Katie blushed again. “Yes. He tried with both, but it worked on Holly, too.”

“That's me!” Holly said. She had just come in the front door. “What worked on me?”

“The delivery man.” Anabelle said and stood up.

“Oh, yeah! He's a handful!” Holly said and laughed. “He's got this trick he does with his-”

“HOLLY!” Anabelle yelled to interrupt her.

“Yeah?”

“Is he sleeping with anyone else?”

“Sure.” Holly said. “Katie, The Minister of Trade's wife Gretchen, the horse lady Ms. Abernathy, the secretary in the mansion, Rebekka I think, and one of the kitchen staff there. Alina or whatever her name is.” She said and grinned at them. “Or so he says.”

Ren glanced over the list again, and sighed. “Well, at least that's only two customers, and it wasn't a regular thing for one of them.”

“His regular thing is Gretchen.” Holly said. “He said she takes up more of his time than anyone else.”

Ren nodded. “Like I was telling Anabelle, I can't fault him for sleeping around; but, I can't have it associated with this shop.”

“You're gonna fire him?”

“Yes.”

“He's not gonna like that.” Holly said. “He really likes this job.”

“He didn't like it enough to not sleep with the customers while he was working.” Ren said. “He's supposed to be paid for making deliveries, not having sex.”

“He's not going to see the difference.”

“It doesn't matter.” Ren said. “He's gone as of right now.”

“Am I?” A man said and came into the shop. The guy was 6 foot 2 inches tall and muscular, wore thick leather armor, and had two swords hooked to his belt. He had short black hair and wore a mean expression.

“Hi, sweetums!” Holly said and hugged his arm. “I told you to wait outside.” She said. “Now everyone knows why you didn't work today.”

Ren opened the business menu and deleted the man's name from the Delivery Man job slot without even looking at it.

“I'm not going to repeat myself.” Ren said. “You're fired.”

The man's face turned even meaner. “Look, you... you might think you're a big man for firing me over a trivial little thing; but, that's not real power. I could pick you up and break you over my knee!”

“Ha.” Ren said. “No, you can't.”

“Are you challenging me?” The man asked.

“Normally I hate having unnecessary fights; but, I think you need to be taught not to use someone's legitimate business for your own sexual gratification.”

“Ooo, a fight! I haven't seen one in a while!” Holly said and clapped her hands several times. “The winner can have me!”

Ren looked at her. “I'm sorry, but a woman shouldn't be a prize that can be so easily won.”

“Wait, what?” Holly blinked her eyes in confusion.

“He said it would be too easy to win you like that.” Anabelle said. “You're worth more than that.”

“Oh.” Holly said, let the man's arm go, and smiled at Ren. “I like you even more now.”

“Hey!” The man said, and Holly looked at him.

“What?”

“I thought you were on my side!”

Holly laughed. “He's my boss and super-rich, and said I was worth more to him than being a prize.” She said and smiled sweetly at the man. “Even you have to admit it's flattering.”

“Whatever.” The man said and looked at Ren. “So, are we doing this or what?”

“That depends.” Ren said. “Your spawn point was reset from here to the last place you made it.” He said. “Are you okay with showing up there in 6 hours?”

“You're really cocky for a little shit.” The man said and Anabelle laughed. “What's so funny?”

“He's very cocky.” Anabelle said and grinned.

The man looked at her for a moment longer, then started at Ren. “Yeah, I'm fine with my spawn point.”

“Good.” Ren said. “I'll be right back. I have to check mine.” He said and went out the back of the shop and up the stairs to the third floor, then went into the bedroom to set his spawn point officially. He took out some wood and made a crate, then filled it with all the items he had in inventory that he didn't want to drop or lose.

Teepo, I'm tempted to put your ring in here, too. Ren thought.

“I won't be able to help you, though.” Teepo said. “You're going to need my help, I think.”

Have I bitten off more than I can chew? Ren asked his friend.

“No, but he's not going to be a pushover, either.” Teepo said. “He might look mean; but, I believe he actually is mean.”

Ren nodded and stored the crate, then went downstairs to face a foe that he didn't have the slightest clue about.
