<Alex, Real - Initial Opponent Selection Process>

Alex looked at the spread of creatures before him, feeling a bit overwhelmed.

Still, he apparently had to choose; he thought that he at least understood that much.

He looked back to the prompt, the heading overarching this madness:

It’s time to Choose Your Apocalypse(Apology Tutorial):Choose a type of creature as your ‘Initial Tutorial Opponent’ in your introduction to the System.

Alex had read enough fiction—and played enough games—to know that the wording of that prompt was important.

It wasn’t the type of creature he would like to be able to kill, nor what type of creature he wanted to be specialized against. It didn’t even mean the creature he’d be fighting more often. He was going to be choosing what he would be fighting first…

Because apparently that was a thing now. The world ended, and I’m going to be fighting things.

It was that, or this was the craziest, most realistic dream he’d ever experienced. The first option was terrifying. The second was amazing, even if he’d never really had any dream like it before. In either case, this choice would really matter. It might actually be the most important choice he made.

The first potential enemy he spotted was, of course, a dragon. Alright, so there are dragons now…

That was cool in a certain terrifying sense. But… did he want to fight them? More importantly, did he want to fight one as his initial opponent of this Tutorial? He found himself imagining just that.

<Alex, Internal Assessment - Dragons?>

Alex crept through the under-mountain tunnels, closing in on the hoard of the ancient wyrm.

This new reality was amazing, and these last few days had been eye opening in the extreme.

He had so many tools, skills, and spells, and they’d all led him to this moment.

His silent footsteps didn’t betray him as he finally entered the treasure chamber.

His eyes widened as he beheld literal mountains of gold, gems, magical equipment, and other loot in this underground fastness. Glowing jewels and items of various kinds sparkled within the windfall, giving light to the otherwise pitch black space.

Alex had two long breaths to marvel at what he had found before a head the size of a school bus came down faster than an ICBM, jaws snapping closed around him.

<Alex, Real - Initial Opponent Selection Process>

Alex shook his head, coming back from his momentary, System enhanced reverie.

Yeah… no. I don’t want to be fighting dragons regularly, certainly not right out of the gate.

That, of course, precluded hydras.

“Why would I want to fight a dragon with more means to bite me?”

Those were out. As were all the other variations of dragon.

So many ways to die…

Next, he saw creatures that seemed to be created of different elements.

Oh, that’s cool.

Then, he imagined fighting them. It only took a moment before Alex shook his head, grimacing.

No elementals.

The next option he noticed was—of all things—an elf.

Wait, why would I be fighting against elves?

<Alex, Internal Assessment - Elves?>

Alex had loved working with Findelfwin over the last months, getting to know her and these enchanted woods.

She was the picture of beauty, feminine in every way he could imagine, even if he didn’t think of her in that way. He simply loved being with her, and he was glad that they could be friends.

At the moment, they were sitting atop one of the branches of the great tree that put the skyscrapers of old earth to shame.

Findelfwin was clearly distraught, and so, being a good friend, Alex asked her what the matter was.

She sighed, “I told my father about us.”

Alex blinked. The king already knew that Findelfwin had been helping him get to know this new world. He frowned, feeling like he was missing something. “What do you mean?”

Findelfwin sighed again, “He said that no son of his would marry a human. He wouldn’t listen to reason, and I fear that I was… belligerent. I am afraid that he will be seeking to kill you now.”

Alex’s head spun. “Wait, I’m confused. Son? Marry? I don’t understand.”

“Hush, my sweet. We only have minutes before the first assassin is sure to strike. Let’s not spoil the moment.”

<Alex, Real - Initial Opponent Selection Process>

Alex jerked from that little fantasy.

Speculation… Definitely not a fantasy… even though it has fantasy elements.

He shook his head to clear it.

No, that’s not how it would happen. It was far more likely that he’d pee on the wrong tree, and the elves would take umbrage with the act.

No royalty would ever fall in love with him.

Or… does it mean that I would be evil? That I would try to kill elves?

There were also dark elves available, but he just shuddered at that. He was not going to be constantly afraid of the dark and the hidden knives therein.

He saw dwarves off in the distance, and that got him thinking… Do I really want to be on the side of orcs?

It only took a moment for him to shake his head, removing that option.

He noticed another icon of the zeitgeist, ninjas.

<Alex, Internal Assessment - Ninjas?>

Alex was walking down a busy nighttime street when he died, never having seen his attacker.

<Alex, Real - Initial Opponent Selection Process>

“Ha ha, because I would never see them.” His own imagination wasn’t always his friend. Apparently that hadn't been changed by the System's temporary augmentation. “No ninjas.”

He saw creatures that looked like angels and dismissed them too.

Not only did he feel a bit uncomfortable fighting those who were, in theory, agents of god, or God, or the gods, but he didn’t particularly want to fight powerful creatures who could fly.

That brought demons and devils to the front of his thoughts, making him shudder.

While he might feel some moral justification in killing demons or devils, he didn’t particularly want to tangle regularly with creatures whose job it was to torment souls… at least in theory.

Many could also fly.

Nope!

He honestly didn’t particularly want to kill humans or standard human-like, potential sapient beings. Who would, if given the choice?

He would defend himself or others if he had to, but he didn’t want people to be his main opponents, or even just his first.

Helpfully, he finally received another prompt:

Would you like to activate intelligent sorting?

Oh! That might be quite helpful. Yes, please.

Suddenly, the fields of potential enemies began to rotate and swirl.

Removing ‘Faen’ creatures from potential ‘Initial Tutorial Opponent’Removing ‘Sapient’ creatures from potential ‘Initial Tutorial Opponent’Removing ‘Mythical’ creatures from potential ‘Initial Tutorial Opponent’Removing ‘Draconic’ creatures from potential ‘Initial Tutorial Opponent’Removing ‘Incorporeal’ creatures from potential ‘Initial Tutorial Opponent’Removing ‘Titan Class’ creatures from potential ‘Initial Tutorial Opponent’

When the field settled back down, it was far more sparsely populated.

Alright, let’s see what’s left.

The next option that came to him was… a specific young deer?

No, that was trademarked. This was just a baby deer.

There is no way I’m joining a fantasy world and basically just hunting, even if there might be some ways to make that fun.

Removing ‘Ungulates’ from potential ‘Initial Tutorial Opponents’

Thank you. That’s better.

Then, he saw what looked like a flock of birds. “Just… birds?”

He frowned, then remembered the horror story of that name. Did he really want to try to fight huge flights of such creatures?

Little bodies slamming into him, spending their life to open one more wound upon his flesh.

“Nope!”

Monkeys?

“Hmmm… if I remember right, they are actually stronger than people, and if they’re aggressive they can be brutal. No, thank you,” he murmured out loud.

Snakes?

“What is with these choices? NO.”

Leeches?

“Oh…oh, please no. What is wrong with you people? Why would anyone choose leeches?”

Spiders?

“Gah! NO!”

Then, he saw the first of the slimes.

“NOPE!”

Removing ‘Gelatinous’ creatures from potential ‘Initial Tutorial Opponents’

Removing ‘Mundane Animal Variant' creatures from potential ‘Initial Tutorial Opponents’

That left things… sparse.

There were a group of oddly colored lights, which Alex somehow felt were magical.

Will-o-the-wisps?

<Alex, Internal Assessment - Will-o-the-Wisps?>

Alex wandered through swampland and—

“Alex.”

What was that?

“Alex!”

He looked around, seeing a lantern bobbying in the distance.

Okay, that’s clearly a will-o-the-wisp. I’m not so dumb that I—

“Hey, Listen!”

Something deep within his soul rose up. He had to find that thing and kill it.

<Alex, Real - Initial Opponent Selection Process>

“That’s marginally terrifying… not to mention annoying. No, thank you.”

Removing creatures ‘Capable of Human Speech’ from potential ‘Initial Tutorial Opponents’

What else was there… what else… was there?

What… else… What? Oh! That’s a classic bad guy. Maybe I could kill them?

Skeletons. What would it be like to fight skeletons?

<Alex, Internal Assessment - Skeletons?>

Alex ran through the catacombs, until he simply couldn’t run any more.

He collapsed to the floor, and the skeletons drew close.

The one in front reached for Alex, its voice sounding like the rattle of chains across a grave even as the System translated its words, “Come with me, brother. Be free.”

Alex was about to ask what he meant, when his arm seemed to split open, his own skeleton reaching out toward the enemy, Alex’s flesh falling away.

What the actual cheese puffs?

A moment later, Alex’s skeleton was standing over his fleshy pile, looking down, its voice a harsh mockery of Alex’s own, “You will no longer hold me back.”

Alex died in impotent, twitching agony.

<Alex, Real - Initial Opponent Selection Process>

“My imagination is a bit… terrifying. That’s probably not how they work… but why risk it?” He frowned. “Also, ‘What the actual cheese puffs?’ Is the System even censoring my imagination?” That was both terrifying and sort of hilarious.

Regardless, Alex dismissed skeletons as an option.

The opponent that caught his attention most firmly now was… a zombie.

Well, there were several kinds of zombies, but he immediately mentally dismissed the two that were clearly an ultra fast version and a more undead-flesh-golem version of a zombie, respectively.

“Honestly, who would ever pick most of these?”

He hadn’t been expecting a response, but he was pleasantly surprised when one came anyway.

Through this Apology Tutorial, the System strives to offer a tailored experience to the aggrieved, regardless of common views on the wisdom of the choices.Some wish to ‘die with style’ rather than face a new, foreign existence.Judgment is not ours to make.

“Oh… thank you? Any advice?”

He waited for a long minute.

“Nothing?”

He waited a bit longer.

“Alright. Um…. Come on, Alex, what would get an answer?”

The System will answer any relevant question that does not unduly influence the choices beyond the level which is unavoidable by providing any information at all.

“That is… very helpful. Thank you.”

Alright, then. He wouldn’t be getting advice.

“How long do I have to choose?”

You are currently held in a state of reverse stasis.No matter how long you take with your choices, no time will have passed from the perspective of others upon your exit.This is only possible within select sections of the Choose Your Apocalypse, Apology Tutorial.

“Oh, that’s really good to know. Thank you.”

So, he had time to think. He had to choose what he’d be fighting. Currently up for consideration: Zombies.

Did he really want to fight zombies?

Classically, they were slow. They were already dead, so there shouldn’t be any moral issue there. On the cons side, they were relentless, and there was the problem of becoming a zombie from minor wounds. So, if he chose zombies, it would be easier to avoid injury overall, but any single injury would be far worse.

Zombie fiction was filled with everyday people finding ways to survive after the apocalypse. The only issue was surviving the initial waves of unexpected turnings.

If he was going into a place where zombies already existed, and he just had to kill them?

He could do that. Moreover, he could come in and help others. That would be fantastic if he could manage it.

He’d always wanted to help other people. That was actually what he’d enjoyed the most about his job. Alex shrugged. “That sounds pretty nice, actually.”

Have you made your selection?

“Yes, thank you. I want to fight slow, shambling zombies.”

Acknowledged.‘Initial Tutorial Opponent’ set to slow, shambling zombie.Decision Rating: Generally well reasoned, marginally based upon fears and low opinion of selfNext selection to be queued.

He almost argued with the assessment of his decision making, but then he sighed. That’s… fair.

The world around him seemed to dim for a moment before the void of this odd place shifted once more, this time filling with a truly staggering array of means of destruction. An instant later, another notification popped up.

Choose Your Apocalypse: Apology TutorialPlease select ‘Initial Means of Damage’ for your Tutorial.

Alex felt himself smile. “Alright. Let’s see what we can do in this new world.”

There were so, so many options around him, and he found himself caring less and less that he was being kept from panicking by this System. After all, there were weapons to consider.

His immediate thought was for a gun of some variety.

<Alex, Internal Assessment - Guns?>

Alex took precise shot after precise shot, blasting one shambling zombie’s skull apart after another. None were even getting close to him or the beautiful women and innocent children who were sheltering behind him.

It seems no one can defeat me. I weep: it’s all so easy!

CLICK

“What’s wrong?” One of the women—Ivanca—asked.

Alex felt himself whimper. He was out of ammo. He was going to die, followed closely by those he was trying to protect. “I feel a bit… queasy.”

The zombies kept coming, shambling in by the thousands.

He began hitting them with the butt of his guns, but that was too slow.

Less than a minute after his last shot rang out, he was driven to the ground by the inexorable press of the undead, torn apart by hungering jaws.

<Alex, Real - Initial Damage Selection Process>

Alex shuddered. “Nope! It did say ‘Initial’ means of damage. I would be a fool to think I’d be provided with anywhere close to enough ammo to deal with all comers.”

So, guns and other complex ammo based weaponry were out.

He sighed sadly as various bazookas and RPGs vanished from his selection void, along with all the smaller and medium firearms.

He also saw several vehicles vanish based on his preferences.

As amazing as it would be to strafe the undead hordes from the air with an A-10 Warthog or Apache helicopter, those took fuel, ammo, and skilled crews to keep going, all things that he did not have and didn’t want to have to count on.

“I mean… maybe a mini-gun fuelled blaze of glory would be fun?” He sighed. “Yeah, that would be fun for about… five minutes.” But what a glorious five minutes they would be.

He’d already dismissed firearms. He wouldn’t go back on that decision.

He sighed. He felt like he didn’t really have a good foundation for this decision. After all, it had been far too long since he’d played video or tabletop games.

Work had just been too all consuming of late…

For the last few years…

Alright, for the last half-decade or so, but he was getting distracted from the matter at hand.

Work was forever done, and he had to pick a weapon.

What about a garrote?

Alex grimaced. That was ridiculous.

As he considered things, it was possible that his choice of opponent wasn’t ideal either.

Still… he didn’t relish anything else killing him. So, it was likely just the number of times he’d imagined himself dying to zombies that was the issue.

Focus, Alex. He had a weapon to choose.

Battery Acid was… oddly specific and hardly useful against zombies.

Nanobots were just smaller zombies that could zombify anything. So… “Nope!”

What’s this?

In the current image, it was him… talking with a zombie? Then just walking past it.

How was that doing damage?

…then he saw himself fighting humans alongside the zombies.

“NOPE!” He had no interest in joining the zombies, nor in controlling them.

Next, he dismissed fighting with what looked like familiars of various kinds.

There was an oddly muscular ostrich-hawk looking thing, and he had the feeling that it would happily eat him if he wasn’t careful.

“Probably shouldn’t tarry on that option. No, thank you.”

The next thing he was presented with was himself, wielding various magics.

He felt momentarily elated. “I can… I can use magic!?”

But, isn’t magic just slowly refilling bullets with a bit more variety? Magic was basically a gun that slowly reloaded itself between fights… if there was time.

Still. Magic.

“It did say ‘initial.’ I doubt it will be very powerful at first, but it could grow…” He scratched behind his right ear. “System, if I don’t select magic now, can I get it later?”

All means of damage—both those offered and those not offered—can be learned or acquired throughout the myriad worlds of the System.

“How hard is it to learn magic if I don’t select it now?”

Skills that are earnestly sought can always be earned if the price is deemed worthwhile to you.

“That’s… fair, I guess. A little ominous too, but fair. Thank you.”

He dismissed magic for this initial selection. He didn’t want to be a glass cannon, and magic type characters were notoriously squishy at early levels.

Levels…

“System, will there be levels? Or is there some other… system?”

There is no other system, just the System.Levels are earned with Experience.Experience is awarded based upon:Deeds accomplishedSkills improvedEnemies slainQuests fulfilledOther as appropriate

“That’s vague but helpful. Thank you.”

He supposed that he’d have to pick something else to use.

“Hmm… maybe I should ask some more clarifying questions.”

Alex was a bit irritated, but it couldn’t really be helped. If he was guessing correctly, he shouldn’t choose magic. But he really wanted magic.

It’s okay. It seems like you can learn it later if you want to, Alex. Now, focus. What do you want to use first?

He had a brief fantasy of a flamethrower, but it had the same ammunition issues as guns and early magic.

A bow would be a bit better.

Arrows were reasonably easy to make or find… in theory. There were at least fewer types of arrows than there were types of bullets. He knew at least that much.

He was pretty sure.

He sighed.

The very fact that he wasn’t absolutely sure, meant that he probably shouldn’t pick a bow and arrows.

“Wait… I was expecting to somehow know magic, but not how to make arrows?” He shook his head. “I might be an idiot. Excuse me, System? What will this selection actually mean? Will it just be equipment or will I somehow… be taught?”

You will gain a basic proficiency in the Skill or Skills required to enable whatever you select.If required, you will also be granted basic equipment for use with the provided Skill(s).You will not be immediately granted understanding in supporting Skills such as any variation on ammunition creation.

“Once again, that is very helpful. Thank you.”

So, he’d know how to use a bow, receive a bow and likely some arrows, but he’d not know how to make a bow or arrows.

Arrows—or bolts for that matter—could be recovered and used more than once, unlike bullets, but there would still be an inherent shortage of ammunition.

“What about a sci-fi gun? A blaster or the like? A plasma sword?”

Such weaponry is not considered entry level equipment, and therefore not provided as an option for your ‘Initial Means of Damage.’

Alex grunted. “Understood. Thank you.”

Then he hesitated.

“Wait… that means they exist.” He grinned broadly. “I’m very much going to try to find a plasma sword. And a gun that can blast massive holes into things.” He nodded to himself. “This will be.”

If that was going to be a goal of his, he should pick a sword to start, especially since guns had already been ruled out.

That wasn’t a bad idea, actually… except most swords were designed to kill through soft-tissue or organ damage. That was easy and effective on an unarmored human, but a zombie?

Soft-tissue damage would likely be virtually useless.

That meant knives were out, too. Knives were just swords with a shorter range. He also remembered something from his martial arts days. ‘In a knife fight, everyone gets cut.’

In a knife fight against zombies, that would translate to being bit.

“No, thank you.”

He could use a club or warhammer of some kind. That would be effective.

“Hey, that might actually be… good?” But any idiot could use a blunt object effectively. He would be magically learning how to do something that any idiot could do.

He sighed.

So, he wanted a weapon that was effective, essentially unlimited in use, not so exotic that it would be impossible to replace if it broke, and something that was enough based on skill that it was worth using a magical impartment of knowledge in order to get.

That was a heavy burden. Weapons that fulfilled those requirements would make a very short list.

A halberd would be great for keeping distance, but in a tangle of bodies, it would be hard to keep control and remain effective.

A katana could work, but while they were iconic weapons, they suffered from the same issue as most other swords. They were primarily designed to do soft-tissue damage. True, they could cut bone, but they weren’t specifically designed for it. Additionally, they were mainly a pull-cutting weapon, which limited their use in crowd scenarios… he thought… probably?

He continued to oscillate back and forth between blade and bludgeoning. Then, he glanced down at his hands.

Nothing would ever be as close to him as his own body. He could never drop his limbs, and if they tangled up with an opponent, he’d have amazing leverage to work them free.

…but that would be putting him very up close and personal with zombies. That seemed like a very, very bad plan.

Finally, he remembered a weapon he’d always been fascinated with but never learned how to use. When he’d asked his instructor about it, he was told that it wasn’t a useful self-defense weapon, because it was designed as an infantry weapon for heavy duty hacking and slashing.

The dadao.

It was essentially a large machete that had been redesigned for war, and it could be used in one or two hands. The damage profile was closer to an ax, with an expanded striking area. He'd seen videos of the weapon being used to cleave through whole cow carcasses, breaking through bone as easily as it sliced flesh.

He looked around at the remaining options, the dadao was not among them.

“Excuse me, but would a dadao be an acceptable choice?”

Analyzing…Analyzing…Analyzing…Yes. The dadao is included within the Skill: Great Blade Basics, CommonAnalyzing…Analyzing…Analyzing…As an exotic variant, a more limited Skill would be granted for its use at the starting level:Great-Blades Basics - Dadao, Common

To offset the limited nature of the specialized Skill—and in keeping with the original use of the weapon—a second Skill would be granted at the starting level:Advanced Kinesthetics, Common

Is this acceptable?

Alex frowned.

It sounded like he’d be getting a highly specialized weapons Skill, and a secondary, broadly useful but not explicitly combat Skill.

…and he had no idea what that actually meant. It sounded like an amazing plan, but would he be crippling himself in some way that he didn't understand?

“I appreciate this offer, but… I don’t know enough. You said that I’d get basic equipment, but would a weapon such as this be provided, or will I have to find one? How fragile will it be? Will there be ways to upgrade, repair, or replace a blade like this?”

Analyzing inquiry…Analyzing…Analyzing…Potential influencing information detected.Escalating request.Please hold, and you will be assisted by the next available Watcher.Your inquiry is important to us, and we appreciate your patience.

Alex couldn’t help himself, he huffed a laugh. “That’s comfortingly familiar, in an alien sort of way.”

A moment later, another System box appeared.”

Alex, rewards are granted with a fair degree of regularity within the Apology Tutorial in one form or another.Those rewards are tailored to the needs of the recipient, or the recipient may select them directly.Our goal is not your death specifically– though many do die, and some even choose death outright.If you are due a reward, and there is a reward that will help you, it will generally be granted.No more can be said at this time.Thank you for your inquiry.

“Thank you,” he said genuinely.

The… Watcher had just given him a lot of information.

He almost reconsidered the firearms, as it seemed like these rewards might be often enough to keep him topped up on ammo, but…no.

He shook his head.

Even if he could count on his equipment being updated or replaced with some regularity, anything with as limited a usage as ammo would be in short supply or—in the best case scenario—he’d be stuck carrying a massive amount of it around.

He sighed, coming back to the same answer. “I choose the dadao.”

Acknowledged.

Choose Your Apocalypse: Apology Tutorial‘Initial Means of Damage’ set to ‘Dadao’Decision Rating: Shaky reasoning, based mostly upon childhood desires and guess work.Next stage to be queued.

“Oh… well, that’s not encouraging…” His decision was based on shaky reasoning?

The black void vanished from around him, and he was suddenly standing at the dead end of a long hallway.

Some hundred feet away was a simple door to exit the odd passage.

He felt an instinctive need to pass through the door.

Unfortunately, halfway between him and that door stood a zombie, clearly long dead, hunched with decay, looking the other way.

He felt a weight suddenly pull against his right hand, but before he could look down, another System box appeared.

Quest [The Hallway]:Please exit the hallway in whatever method you see fit.

Reward:Your Race Rank will be determined and level 1 will be granted.Your starter Skills will be granted.

Prepayment:Your starting weapon has been granted.

Tutorial Addendum:Good luck.

Alex glanced down at the dadao in his hand and almost laughed.

I’m glad I didn’t select something like magic. He could only imagine what he’d do if he had been ‘granted’ magic, without any Skill with which to use it.

…no, he actually couldn’t imagine that. He didn’t have the first clue about how magic actually worked in the System.

Alex took a moment to look around the odd, dead-end hallway.

It was five feet wide with a smooth—not slick—surface. There was no ceiling that he could see, the walls just continuing up to the point that he couldn’t perceive them any longer.

I bet I could brace off the walls and climb if I had to…

At the far end was the door out: his goal.

He let out a long sigh; he needed to focus on the moment.

His eyes instantly widened, and he squeaked involuntarily in fright. His sigh had apparently been loud enough for the zombie to hear it.

The thing was now looking over its shoulder at him with one undead eye.

And, apparently, Alex had been allowed to feel fear once again.

That was just excellent.

“Well, Alex, pull yourself together. We’re in it now.”

Alex stared back, meeting the gaze of the one undead eye.

Well… he assumed that he was. There wasn’t actually a pupil, so Alex was guessing.

The zombie head was continuing to twist toward him, seeming to be turning both horizontally and vertically at the same time to get a look at him.

It was an utterly inhuman movement.

Alex glanced down at the dadao in his hand and almost laughed. He was so hopped up on nervousness and fear that he could hardly think.

His entire body trembled.

The suppressive effects of the System were just gone all of a sudden, and it felt like all the stress and terror he should have been feeling up to that point were crashing down on him all at once.

The zombie let out what could have been a grunt, but it also sounded like a hungry wheeze. It fell down, twisting at the waist so it landed on its chest, while its backside hit the ground as well. Its spine gave out a series of cracks and pops that would make any chiropractor proud.

Alex did bark a laugh, then. That was what he had been afraid of?

It just fell over.

Then… it started to scrabble toward him.

The hands were clawing at the ground, dragging it forward, even as the legs bent and kicked, trying to drive it at him.

Alex squealed in horror once again.

Even starting some fifty feet away, the undead thing began to cover the distance between them with terrifying speed, even if it might still have been called slow from a non-terror-filled perspective.

Alex took a step back and bumped into a solid wall behind him. Something deep within him rebelled at that.

If he fought boxed in, he’d have no options.

He needed to go forth and meet it. That way, if things went badly, he could retreat. Before he could talk himself out of it, he stumbled forward.

His gait firmed, and his steps became more solid after the first couple foot falls.

He was committed.

He knew what he had to do.

<Alex, Internal Assessment - The Plan!>

Alex sprinted down the hallway.

At the last moment, he juked to the side, stepping around the questing arms, planting one foot before stamping down his other on the creature’s back.

His stomp-kick slammed the monster to the floor with an audible crunch.

Then, with a powerful, two-handed, downward blow, he drove his dadao into the back of the creature’s head, ending its life just like that.

He braced his shoe on the skull beside the blade and pulled it free before turning and striding casually to his goal.

“Where’s my button?” When one didn’t appear, he smiled and slapped the wall regardless, “That was easy.”

And it had been.

If this is what it took to succeed in the tutorial, he was going to be just fine.

<Alex, Real - Hallway Zombie Fight>

Alex smiled to himself as he took the last step before his attack.

Just as he’d imagined, he juked to the side around the grasping fingers, planting his left foot firmly on the floor before stomping down with his right.

As it turned out, however, rotting corpses did not make great footing.

He sucked in a startled breath as the flesh on the thing’s back shifted and moved like a rug on an oiled floor. Alex’s foot went out from under him, forcing him into a partial split even as he slammed down onto the undead creature.

Fortunately, his weight was enough that he still broke many of the bones in its upper torso.

Unfortunately, that didn’t seem to affect the thing overmuch.

Its arms reached back, ignoring the common movement restrictions that had undoubtedly affected its shoulders in life, and it grabbed onto him even as the head bobbled around, mouth opening to bite him.

NOT LIKE THIS!

Alex flailed, striking out blindly and unskillfully with his weapon. Still he had enough thought and control that his dadao slammed between the zombie’s teeth, driving the head back against the ground.

What? Worthless blade, why won’t it cut?

He looked at his weapon and… He’d hit the thing with the back of the blade.

Son of a motherless goat…

The zombie scrambled at him with its arms, trying to pull him toward its face, or at least hurt him.

Oddly, he saw a red bar appear in the upper right corner of his vision. There are health bars, here?

That was… convenient?

Concerning?

A bit of both, actually. Yet, it was hardly the time to be contemplating that.

The little health tracker had ticked down about ten percent already, and there almost seemed to be an odd discoloration growing within it.

He frantically pushed back with his left arm while keeping his right firmly pressing down on the hilt of his sword.

He managed to overpower the corpse, which—now that he thought about it—should have been easier. I am in really awful shape…

As he stood back up, he ripped his sword free—even popping out a few undead teeth—and then struck down with both hands on the hilt and the blade facing the right way.

It was just like his internal assessment then, except the splatter… The splatter that went straight into his mouth.

“Gah!”

He spat repeatedly, scraping his tongue on his teeth and trying to banish the horrific taste.

It wouldn’t leave.

He ignored the System panes that tried to enter his vision.

He noticed, but ignored his health bar seemingly beginning to turn a necrotic gray-black even faster than before, the odd coloration he thought that he’d noticed earlier filling in over the previously healthy red.

There was a second System notice that was green, which was almost enough to garner his attention, but the taste just wouldn’t go away, and that was surely more important… right?

In fact, the taste seemed to be spreading through his mouth and even down his throat.

It also felt like his arms and back could taste it too… where the zombie had scratched and damaged him.

He groaned, stumbling backward before turning to face the doorway.

Then, he collapsed, unable to move, unable to even think.