The tide can only be diverted for so long.

“Grim Company.” Harker bent his knees, his hands going to the knives across his chest. “I thought they just sent two of you after us.”

The man lowered his long, rangy body, a faint clicking rattling the air. “.”

“Wore the same cloak.” Harker backed up a step, adjusting his stance in the rush of cold water. “Looks like a duck, walks like a duck—”

He threw.

Clawed hands struck his knives out of the air. The hood lifted, and crimson eyes gleamed above a mouthful of wicked teeth.

Stillwater gripped Harker’s hair. “Not a duck!”

Harker took off.

The lanky man followed, ragged breath almost louder than the water around them. Harker splashed through the ankle-deep flows, Talent pulsing rapidly to secure his path. Even so, he couldn’t avoid some of the worst mud and rocks—but neither could his pursuer.

The wall! Harker could feel it ahead. The rain wore it down. I can—!

“Faster, human!” Stillwater hissed.

He ignored the advice and slid to a stop. He hefted a large stone from the path. The strange mercenary cackled, closing the distance in a few short strides. “Still too weak!”

“Like that matters.” Harker heaved the stone sideways—into the wall.

Worn rock dislodged, and a powerful gout of thick runoff sluiced into the mercenary. They hit the ground, feet swept out from under them, but Harker was already moving. He snatched a lead from the tall man, but not for long. With preternatural grace, the merc bound back to his hands and feet before chasing after.

On all fours.

Harker crashed through a heavy waterfall, the shock of cold driving the breath from his lungs even as his legs burned. An outcropping of stone loomed ahead where the trail turned, and he dropped to his knees, sliding through the thin water and nearly losing his pack in the process.

“Careful!” Stillwater shouted, claws snatching at Harker’s hair. “That thing isn’t stopping, either.”

“Do something then!” Harker risked a look back as he stumbled back into a run. The mercenary loped ahead on all fours, its hands covered in mud, metal, and what looked like fur sleeves.

Not sleeves.

It darted under the outcropping with little effort, but the white cloak snagged on the stone. It tore free.

Not sleeves at all.

Sovereign Sight pulsed, spending more of his Water as he tightened his focus. Easier than ever, details sank into Harker’s awareness. Scraps of clothing draped around its shoulders and hips, but all the rest was stitched with thick swathes of black fur—save where thick, chitinous armor clung to its chest, neck, and thighs. Eyes of crimson burned above a wolf’s snout marred by the thick rattle of mandibles.

“Now Muir has you!”

“Torpor!”

A triple-bladed axe smashed down onto the monster's back, slamming the stitched abomination into the ground. Blue-green light soaked into its body as Torpor took effect. Adhira spun on a heel, Water surging up to follow her dragging left foot. "Bulwark!"

A wall lifted up, arcing slantwise over the creature and trapping it beneath.

Adhira turned, seizing Harker's frock coat. "Keep moving!"

She bolted, half-dragging Harker behind her. The pair fled down the trail, through thinning streams and surer footing.

"What in the Abyss was that?"

Harker didn't risk a look back. "It's not a mercenary,"

“I gathered as much—Tides!” She cursed, drawing up short and stopping Harker with a hard palm on his chest.

He grunted, only belatedly realizing she’d saved him from a fatal, final step. “Depths.”

A powerful waterfall poured down across the trail, and the thunder of its passage had torn through the cliff itself. A massive stretch of rock and dirt had eroded, exposing a wide gap at least a hundred feet across. Harker cautiously peered over the edge. The falls were a blur of white water and mist—he couldn’t even see the bottom, but it had to be hundreds of feet below.

"We need a bridge." Adhira slid her hand across the jagged edge, painting the ground with blue-green Water. “Bulwark.”

Hardened earth stretched out for six long feet, bridging the empty gap before the falls started. The very tip hit the water—the moment it did, the punishing force of it ripped her Bulwark into pieces.

“Abyss!”

Harker flared Sovereign Sight, hunting for some other way past. There was a gap behind the waterfall, though it was narrow. They could climb, perhaps with his vine and dagger, but if they even touched the waterfall they were going to get ripped free. No matter their handholds, Harker doubted anything could hold out against that much pressure.

A foul smell like wet dog and rotting citrus wafted past, clinging to his senses like a snare. “Get back!”

He threw himself aside, yanking Adhira with him—just as a boulder larger than both of them howled past them. It crashed into the waterfall and was ripped downward.

"You've been hiding your tracks. Your scent is so much cleaner now."

The creature stood less than thirty feet away, its form stretched unnaturally tall, like a dog on its hind legs. It was at least seven feet from ears to toes, and in the mounting light of dawn, Harker could better make out where the head of the wolf had been mashed inelegantly atop a man's mutilated form.

"Muir," Harker whispered.

“In the stolen flesh.” The wolf thing bowed, crimson eyes never leaving Harker's face. "You've grown, thief.”

“You’re…hairier.”

“A consequence of limited options.” Big wolf teeth gnashed into something approaching a smile. “Muir's own supplies were spoiled by unclean hands.”

“Something is wrong with it,” Stillwater muttered. “Like it’s about to fall apart.”

Harker spotted the signs. The thing was moving strangely, its limbs shuddering even as it stood still. It looked nothing like Muir had back in Vale, but those eyes…Harker couldn’t deny the dark intelligence that lay behind them.

Yet it isn’t him. Harker recalled the man speaking through his Illwrought before. Is that what we face now?

"You took people." Harker bared his teeth. "You stole their flesh to make this…puppet."

“The dead need no vessel, boy. And your tiny isle has little to offer other than wolves.” It's frozen grin tilted, as it considered him. "A weak showing of Muir's Talents, but enough to catch you."

"Catch him?” Adhira put herself between Harker and the creature. "He has nothing you need, butcher."

It gave a rough chuckle. "She knows so little.”

Adhira adjusted the grip on her axe, her stance widening on the firm ground. “I know that you need to be put down.”

"Ah yes,” the creature purred, “the Dual Talent. She told Muir all about you."

Adhira stilled. “Who.”

“Young. Inexperienced. Wrathful.”

Adhira snarled and shot forward. For the first time, Harker’s senses caught her movement as more than a blur—he watched her kick off the earth, scattering small stones behind her, and tucked her axe back into a low sweep. Her muscles bunched, creaking like wooden roots. Water threaded through the deep grooves of the axe heads, the scent of salt overpowering the rotting beast.

The Stitcher’s puppet didn’t wait for her to close the distance. It loped toward her and with a rangy bound, leapt through her swing. The air bent, billowing its scraps of clothing in a mantle of dissipating puffs from every limb. It twisted with a chilling grace, spinning midair and lashing out. A clawed foot slashed into Adhira’s back, knocking her off balance, and the puppet thrust two clawed hands toward Harker.

No words. Talent manifested silently and a fierce gust knocked Harker’s leg out from under him. He twisted, catching himself on a single knee—enough to shoving himself sideways to evade a pair of raking slashes.

“Crag!”

A stone-clad axe smashed into the monster’s legs, drawing a pained yelp from the puppet. Wind mantle surged, flinging the abomination up into the air and rebuffing Adhira’s axe.

“You’re fast, girl.”

The puppet stretched, its too-long limbs seizing the weight that hung from its back. Harker lost track of its arm for a second—it went from bent to extended in an instant, a studded steel club clutched in its grip. Adhira shouted, taking the blow across her lifted vambrace. She slid backward, blue-green radiance gushing from the grooves of her armor.

“Bulwark!” A dirt wall erupted beneath her heels, hurling herself forward and into the Stitcher's puppet. Her axe came to bear, flashing into a flurry of brutal swings—and the stitched abomination countered each strike, its claws slapping away her axe with savage strength.

She didn’t need to cut to harm him.

"Torpor!”

Her shout was flat against the roar of the waterfall, but her Talent was piercing. It ripped into the puppet two times in quick succession, markedly slowing the creature's body.

"Heirloom artifacts and Dual Talents!” It laughed. “You are not worthy to bear them!”

Her axe sank deep into its hand, splitting its palm open in a spray of ichor. “Take them from me if you can, butcher!”

Its fingers clenched, securing around the axe blades. “Muir accepts.”

Adhira was pulled off her feet with a startled shout, yanked past the abomination just as it brought its metal club down with a chittering howl. The strike smashed into her back, driving a spray of blood out of Adhira’s mouth—but her armor was not to be underestimated. It flared, releasing a wave that hurled the club from the puppet’s hands and off the side of the cliff.

“Impressive armor!” The puppet seized her breastplate. “Imagine what a worthy mind could do with such gifts.”

Fur and flesh rippled as Water gushed between palm and armor. Unlike the air Talent it had been using, this was brackish and dark. Tainted. The waves carved into her armor’s surface filled with blue-green, but the dark Water cut straight through it.

Adhira screamed. Blood flowed outward, a spray from each shoulder and the wound at her hip.

"Now we find out what you're made of—"

A steel dart flecked with silver sank into the creature’s wrist. It screamed and the dark Water oozing from its hand dried up, disrupting its vile Talent.

“Saltsteel!” It whipped its head toward the waterfall. Toward Harker. “You.”

Three knives were already most of the way toward the abomination, but they were caught up in a rush of wind and were sent sideways off the cliff’s edge.

“Clever.” The Stitcher puppet threw Adhira to the ground and lunged forward.

Harker threw another pair of knives, and the puppet pounced up onto the vertical face of the cliff. It scrambled across the rock like a spider, all too quick and twice as unnerving. Harker turned, hands seizing his last two saltsteel darts—just as the abomination’s throat distended like a frog’s. It spat, and the air congealed into three separate spears that thrust toward Harker.

Stillwater pummeled his shoulders. “Get out of the way!”

Harker ignored the Gilken—Sovereign Sight was speaking. Lines etched between puppet and man, track marks of indelible sensation, and Harker turned his body so he touched none of them. Less than an instant later, the air spears struck. They blasted holes into the trail, cracking stone and fountaining water.

I…I can see his attacks before they hit!

Between the dissipating fury of hardened air, Harker seized his moment. He threw.

“Predictable!” The saltsteel dart pinged wildly off the cliff as the puppet dodged.

Directly into Harker’s second shot.

“Treacherous!”

The air mantle howled against it, but the saltsteel wasn’t so much as nudged away—its silver-flecked length darkened as the Talent was dissipated. The eight inch dart punched straight through the meat of its forearm and into its shoulder, pinning its arm against itself. The flesh sizzled and withered rapidly, fur sloughing away and skin bubbling. The creature fell back against the wall, scrambling to remove the weapon between chittering howls.

“Quiet!” Adhira swept her axe across the ground in an upward arc. “JET!”

Water propelled out of the rear blade, propelling her axe through its arc at immense speed. It crashed into the abomination's back, hurling it forward. The puppet flew, its lone arm grasping weakly at the stone to stop itself. It shot over the edge, its feet nearly hitting the waterfall before its mantle flared, sending it skidding across the remnants of Adhira’s Bulwark.

“You’ve got some bite, pup.” The Stitcher seized the saltsteel dart in its maw and wrenched it free with a spray of ichor. It spat it out, over the edge.

“Meal’s not done yet,” Adhira said through heavy breaths.

“Oh but you’re wrong. It’s already over.” The puppet’s throat expanded with dark radiance and its head thrust forward.

Same as before, Harker could feel it all. Lines all but glowed in his vision, marking out where the monster’s attack was headed: straight for Adhira’s throat.

He seized the vine dagger at his waist and hurled. It sheared across the puppet’s jaw, leaving a bloody furrow and forcing its head upward. It spat, the Talent discharging harmlessly into the air.

Stillwater tried to push off Harker’s pack. “Let go of the—”

The Stitcher’s puppet grabbed the vine and hauled back. Before Harker could let go, he was thrown forward, pulled from his feet and over the edge. Air spears cut forward, and Harker managed a final twist—but only able to avoid the first two. The last struck, tearing through his left shoulder…and his pack strap.

“HARKER!”

Stillwater tumbled loose, ripping the rest of the pack free of Harker’s back.

For a moment, the two of them hung weightlessly in the air—before Stillwater hit the waterfall and was ripped downward, a thousand feet into the mist.