“I thought about making a traditional sentient crossbow; but, the design was too restrictive, even after I tried to add arms and legs to it.” Ren said. “Plus, once I discovered a way to replace the traditional bolts with Mana, there was no point in keeping the original shape, anyway.”

“I suppose that's true.” Rosie said and waved Ren closer. Ren stepped up into the air and leaned over the reception desk and she whispered in his ear. “Did you have to make her so pretty?”

“Her face is actually an unintentional composite of three women I know.” Ren whispered back. “It just turned out that it worked.”

“Have... have you...”

“No, and I won't.” Ren whispered.

“You won't?” Rosie asked.

“I haven't even...” Ren pressed his lips to hers briefly. “...kissed her.”

Rosie took in a deep breath and let it out. Ren felt her relax, and knew his tactic was successful. He leaned back and stepped down to the floor and smiled.

“I just stopped by to see if you have any building plans for a city.” Ren said. “Any that I'm missing in this city, preferably.”

“Oh... well, I'll have to go in the back and take a look.”

“I'd appreciate that.” Ren said.

Rosie stood up and waved to someone, and a woman walked over to the desk to take her place.

“Hello, My Lord.” The woman said.

“Ma'am.” Ren said and smiled at her. “I see you found the place.”

The woman chuckled. “Once you told Rosie I should be added as the backup Librarian, she came right to me.”

“I'm sorry I didn't tell you directly.” Ren said. “I was...”

“...much too busy. I know.” She said.

“How do you like it here?”

“It's wonderful.” The woman said. “Free housing, free food and clothing, and a well-paid job.” She smiled. “With all the basic necessities being provided, the money we make is all just spending money.”

“I'm glad.” Ren said. “Is everyone else getting settled as well?”

“Yes, we've all moved into our own houses now.” The woman said, happily. “I kind of miss staying at the Refugee Center; but, I wouldn't trade what I have to go back there!”

Ren chuckled, and Rosie came out from the back room with several large scrolls of parchment. He rushed over to help her, and they laid them out on the closest table.

“These are what I could find in the archive for architect's buildings.” Rosie said.

“Thanks, Rosie.” Ren said and unrolled the first large scroll. Inside was a nice administration building, and he copied the plans. The next two were for a medical building that he already had the plans for, and for the mansion back in Aurora. “Is there a mansion like this in all the larger cities?” He asked as he stored the plans for it, even though he didn't know if he would ever use them.

“Some take the time to make it, or something similar.” Rosie said and handed him the last scroll. It was for a combination barracks and stable, and Ren could adapt it for the Barracks that he already had.

“Well, I guess that means I do have all the building plans I need if I want to build a city model.” Ren said and took Rosie's hand. “Thank you very much for your help.” He said and bent over it and kissed the back of it.

“You're welcome, Ren.” Rosie's face went a little red and she giggled.

“I'll see you later.” Ren said, and she nodded. He went over to the women he had left by the reception desk and said goodbye to the other Librarian. She waved, and Ren led Xuunah, Officer Holly, and Artemis out of the Library and back up the street.
