250 mana ripped out of Erick. Out of 750, 250 was nothing, but it still felt awful. Mog caught him as he went to one knee. Poi jabbed him with a rod of [Treat Wounds]. He felt much better as a set of familiar boxes appeared. Some free points from Rozeta, thankfully, as well as the spell description, which showed that he had accomplished what he set out to accomplish.

Stillness 1, instant, 1 hour per level, super long range, 250 mana.

Drop all <sound> to the level of a <speaking voice> in a super large area for 1 hour.

No ‘Particle Mage Only’, either!

Erick laughed, painfully, as he showed Mog the box, and said, “Thank you, Poi.”

Poi just nodded, then stepped back.

Mog smiled as she held Erick and [Stillness]’s blue box, saying, “That’s gonna take some of the wind from their sails.”

Silverite looked down from atop the temple. “Please stop helping, Erick,” She gazed south, and frowned. “You made her mad.”

Mog complained, “She’s already said her piece, Silverite. You know what always comes next.”

Silverite grumbled, steeling her gaze at the Dead City.

The rain rained itself out, but the air still held some strange solidness. Seven miles away, Tania’s great mouth opened wide. Sound poured out like a bomb, rolling across the land, only to hit thick air, striking with a force that transformed into huge pops of white light, a chain of detonations cascading across the edge of [Stillness]. Tania’s voice was much quieter than before.

“Take that down this instant!”

Silverite yelled, “Fuck you, Tania,” producing her own sonoluminescence reaction; like pops of brief light all around her. She whipped her hands through the air, trying and failing to brush the popping light away.

Erick would have laughed if not for what the shadowman in the fields said next.

“Prepare for bombardment, foolish mortals.”

He vanished in a puff of black.

Silverite said, “Preamble done. Erick. Don’t do anything unless it’s to— Ah. [Withering] that, please.”

Mog saw what Erick could not. “Oh yeah." She pointed. "That needs a [Withering].”

Erick stepped up the temple steps to get a better view. Mog guided him up the stairs, but he hadn’t created a big spell; he was more or less okay. He was not okay when he saw what Mog was pointing at.

A section of Ar’Kendrithyst’s walls, a very tiny portion near the bottom, had opened.

Correction. Three tiny holes had opened. Darkness swamped out to cover the Crystal Forest. From this distance, those ‘tiny holes’ had to be hundreds of feet tall. Whatever was coming out, was the same size as those doors, but along with those monsters came a thin blanket of black, churning up dust as it raced forward, ahead of its larger fellow dark soldiers.

Shaped [Withering].

Shaped [Withering].

Erick dropped two five-foot tall sections of death across the land, covering much of the seven miles separating Spur from the Dead City, the area of effect extending well outside of the direct path from there to Spur. But mostly, he concentrated on covering all the land directly outside of the portals.

Kill notifications started rolling in. Crystal Mimics, of course, as well as other monsters.

Tania started laughing again, which was only slightly confusing; she was an obviously unhinged megalomaniac who could see that her monsters were dying and her noisy attack was nullified. What was highly confusing, was what she did next. Pinpricks of black dropped from the tops of the walls, scattering into the advancing horde, blowing them up like confetti scattered to the wind.

She was killing her own army?

“What the fuck is she doing?” Mog asked.

Good thing Erick wasn’t the only one confused.

Silverite answered, “This wasn’t about us. It never was. She turned on Bulgan.” She leapt down from the temple roof. “What kill notifications are you getting, Erick?”

Thousands of notifications burned across his eyes, but he focused on one, then another, then dismissed the rest, and said, “Wolves. Mimics. There’s one cat.” Another notification popped. “And… Giant?”

Mog said, “Those would be the big ones.”

“She’s clearing out Bulgan’s amassed forces.” Silverite said, “Wolves are easy to control with a few cats and cats attach themselves to Shades like ticks. Giants come next; they’re just a show of power away from winning them to your side.”

Tania, or her people, rained destruction down upon the tide of darkness leaving the city.

And Erick couldn’t see a damned thing. All he saw was a general impression of darkness across the land. Where was Zago when you needed her? Wait! Jane had [Scry]!

Erick turned to Jane, “What do you see, Jane? With [Scry]?”

She said, “Wolves. Some very tall monsters; Giants. So glad we’re not fighting those. I can’t see any cats. They must have run? All I see are… The monsters are just… dying. Thousands of them. Running forward and dying, drying out into husks that are then trampled by the ones still to come, who then die themselves. Where’s Bulgan?”

Silverite said. “Killzone is informing me that Bulgan is attacking Frontier right now.”

Erick immediately said, “I need to help them. I have [Teleport].”

“We already are helping them.” Silverite said, “But. You’re right.” She turned to Mog. “Take him to a good spot in the sky, drop a [Withering], and get out.” She looked to the air, “I’ve just informed their leadership that help is coming and to prepare [Weather Ward]s.”

Mog held out her hand. “Ready? In and out. Turn on your flight aura, we’re popping into the sky.”

Everything was happening so fast. Erick took a moment to think. He didn’t think long. He activated his Handy Aura and took Mog’s thumb; her hand wrapped completely around his.

The world shifted.

Erick and Mog popped into the air high, high above a stone city much like Spur, but smaller, with no farms. The buildings were taller, too. The walls—

Darkness was inside the city; black dots in the streets were attacking other dots wearing brighter clothes. Blots of color bloomed here and there as the defenders sought to destroy the monstrous tide with [Fireball]s and [Force Crash]es and other bright spells. But the place was infested; like fleas in a catlady’s house, or poppy seeds on a bagel, and rat turds in the attic. Here and there, there were dark giants, ripping apart buildings with their bare hands, kicking in walls with their feet, burying people in debris. [Ward]s popped, and people died.

Erick looked toward Ar’Kendrithyst; streamers of monsters poured in from the north. The walls of the Dead City looked much the same from this angle, but there was no face on this side, instead, there was a dark wind, between the human city and Ar’Kendrithyst, heading for Frontier, and also the size of Frontier.

The dark wind was racing, hellbent on destruction, kicking up showers of sand, thumping the air with the sound of massive footsteps, running forward with three giants inside the windy darkness, each of them smaller than the dark figure in the center of the attack formation.

Erick had to help. But…

There’s no way Frontier was ready with [Weather Ward]s.

Mog said, “Bulgan has seen us. Cast your spell where you feel is best. We need to leave.”

The dark wind on the path to Frontier was the same size as Frontier, and it was racing closer. A whistling sliced the air; Mog yanked Erick a hundred yards left, just in time to avoid a non-existent blot on reality a hundred feet wide. Like an invisible meteor, the attack missed Erick and Mog, but the air it displaced still made a sound like a close call with death. If Mog wasn’t here, Erick would have died.

Erick breathed. In and out. He breathed hard. He decided.

Shaped [Withering].

A twenty foot tall [Withering] occupied the city, and some of the lands beyond, covering up to the second story of most houses and a little bit beyond.

Shaped [Withering].

A ten foot layer of death stretched over the invading forces, and all of Bulgan’s path, clipping into the dark, monstrous wind. Giants tripped, Bulgan yelled, a blast of force—

The world shifted again, and Erick was on the temple steps. Desert winds had pushed aside the last remnants of his [Exalted Storm Aura], revealing green fields and an entranced audience.

Ahead of him, Tania destroyed Bulgan’s forces, while Spur watched.

A hundred miles away, monsters died.

Erick prayed his [Withering] didn’t kill anyone it wasn’t supposed to kill. But when a notification for Human A, 1% Participation, came rolling in, he couldn’t do anything but stare at the fleeting clouds. When Human B, 1%, came in, he was already numb to the world.

Silverite was beside him. Mog and Jane, too. Jane sat holding Erick, and he was glad for her company. Jane and Mog and Silverite talked, but Erick couldn’t hear their words, all he could do was stare at the kill boxes for Human A, and Human B.

A and B! How about that. Not even a name.

How…

How awful.

After a while, twenty minutes, maybe an hour, long after Tania finished off the rest of Bulgan’s forces and yelled some inane threat, Silverite’s voice carried on the air, “Spur has repelled the attack, and Frontier has routed their horde. Bulgan flees back to Ar’Kendrithyst.” White bubbles popped around her face.

The farmers, and all of Spur had been watching this entire time; from behind walls, from under [Ward]s. Now, they cheered, and the sound was still subject to Erick’s [Stillness]. Popping bubbles of light filled the land like tiny firecrackers. He would have laughed, but instead he just dismissed the spell, and the sounds of a cheering city rolled across the land.

Erick tried to feel good about the battle, but he couldn’t.

“A few monsters got through Erick’s [Withering] and Tania’s cleanup,” Mog said. She had been directing the adventurer response from Erick’s side all this while. “But my kids killed them all. A few hundred wolves and three giants. Nothing much.”

“Dad.” Jane put a hand on Erick’s shoulder. “Talk to me.”

“Two humans dead, Jane. I did that. I murdered them.”

Jane moved her hands in front of Erick’s eyes. “Put them away, Dad. Now.”

Erick willed the boxes away, but he knew he would pick them up again later.

He asked Silverite. “Is Frontier saying anything?”

Silverite stood strong, and said, “Frontier was already infested with shadowcats; they’re lucky they didn’t get routed in the first minutes of the fight. The final death counts will come in the following days, but they lost thousands. They would have lost one hundred thousand, if you didn’t drop that [Withering] on the city. 2 people dead is a tactical loss that any commander would be happy to hear, Archmage Flatt.” She looked out across the Crystal Forest. “I expected at least a thousand deaths in Spur whenever Bulgan got it into his foul head to attack, but you’re incredible. You turned back two tides of darkness, and even nullified a Shade’s [Force wave].” She stared at Erick. “Prepare yourself. You’re our new deterrent.”

“Ohhh.” Erick felt something break inside. “Don’t… Don’t say that.”
