“Everyone wears a mask,” Erick said. “To me, the Mind Mages seem more like a persecuted people who turned hard. They project the image of strong and secure, but in the background, they are ruthless toward those who would make them appear as anything less than honorable. This is their survival strategy, and it only seems suspicious because they can communicate with each other to ensure compliance. This seems fine to me. I’d rather not deal with people messing with my mind.”

Jane looked at her father. He was holding something back. She said, “You know something else.”

Erick sighed. “No I don’t.”

Teressa looked at Erick. “Yes you do.”

“Okay. Yes. I do.” Erick said, “But I doubt either of you two would ever have to deal with what I know, so I’m not going to put those bad thoughts out there. I’m sure if I was Poi I would literally be itching from all the bad thoughts I know must be out there.”

Jane said, “Okay. Fine. I’m going to speculate, and you stay right there dad, so I can read your face.”

Erick forced his face and his shoulders to go slack. His voice was so even-keeled and forcefully pitched deep that it was almost comical. “Give me your best shot.”

Jane smirked, then she narrowed her eyes, playing her part, too, as she tried, “They’re all secretly cannibals who get their Mind Mage powers from eating the brains of children.”

“What the fuck, Jane,” Erick said, his mask readily breaking.

Jane laughed. She had won!

Teressa eyed Jane, then chuckled. “What the fuck.”

“I’m spitballing, here.” Jane said, “And that one was mostly a joke, but Unicorns and Moon Reachers get their powers from eating brains. So. How about this: They control the minds of everyone to make them believe that they’re harmless.”

“I’m pretty sure that’s the exact opposite of what they do,” Erick said.

“Okay. But they have to erase people, for sure.” Jane said, “Teressa?”

“I don’t know about that.” Teressa said, “But I’ve heard that as soon as a Mind Mage puts a [Mind Control] on a person, the controller gets labeled a Slaver and the controlee gets the Kill Quest for that Slaver.” She asked, “Is that what you’re talking about?”

“No. But… Go on.”

Erick’s eyes went a bit wide. “No. That’s not what I was thinking… That happens with Mind Magic? The Slaver and Slave sub-Classes?”

“Really rare; but yeah.” Teressa said, “I’ve read those case files. Rogue Mind Mages that try to control people usually end up dead when the controllee gets the automatic rescue from Slavery. Those automatically-rescued people are readily found by other Mind Mages, and then the actual Mind Mages come down hard on any mind controllers. People don’t always rescue themselves, though. Any middling Mind Mage will know enough to have their controlled person deny that Quest.” She said, “Guardmaster Merit had me read some of those case files as part of the oddities I needed to look out for, but they were under the ‘almost never happens’ part of that workload. I was told the Mind Mages try to keep that sort of thing quiet, but you can try asking Poi if he’s ever caught any people like that. I doubt he’d tell you, but I’m pretty sure that one of the things he routinely ‘listens’ for is for the presence of the Class: Slave.”

“Well that’s interesting.” Jane listened, filed away those thoughts, then changed the subject, “So. Teressa. How much have you done with [Future Sight]’s combat applications?”

The large woman shrugged, saying, “A lot. But also not nearly enough. I’ve no teacher for that sort of thing, and I’m more focused on viewing the past, anyway. [Future Sight] isn’t much use for detective work.”

“Oh reeaaaally?” Jane said, “But what about scanning the future for a time when you solve the murder, say ten days from then, but then you use that scan to solve the murder on that very same day? Does that work?”

“Doesn’t work.” Teressa said, “Looking at the future changes the future. Looking at your own future changes that future more than most other glances. And like… This has been my experience with [Future Sight]: I’m lucky to see an hour ahead of time, and only if I really try, and only if I don’t interact with that timeline at all. As soon as I touch that timeline with any sort of actual force, then it moves. Most every future teller I have ever met always speaks in riddles because of this reason. I have literally no idea how Redarrow was able to do what he did, but even he got it wrong. And man! That meeting… That was a revelation on so many levels. A lot of things make sense, now.” She smirked, adding, “Now I know why I could never get any good reading on Erick. No one can.”

Jane smiled at that.

… And then she wondered if the same was true for her.

“His paper list had a few riddles on it… I was wondering why the riddles.” Erick said, “So. Back to [Future Sight]. There is this Shade that survived the Feast. Her name is Goldie. The Shade of Assassination. I told you about her, yeah? She does what I think you’re thinking of, Jane, and that ties into what you’re talking about Teressa. Goldie can see the near future, rather perfectly, for five minutes out. She got the drop on Tania because of it. Of course, Tania shrugged that blow off, but Goldie was still able to strike her through her core. This means that Goldie is both able to see her own near-future and then plan around that future.

“Goldie can also casually read the far-future. She told me that Yggdrasil will be able to plant roots on other planets, eventually. My other source confirmed this as well.” Erick asked, “But can you see that? A hundred years out? Seems like a massive, massive event. It should be visible in the manasphere. Theoretically.”

Jane sat back in her chair, stunned. And then she smiled. She had heard of Goldie from her father, of course, but maybe she hadn’t listened. Well Jane was certainly listening now! Apparently, you could warp [Future Sight] into some sort of [Prescience]! That was almost even more awesome than a winged dragonkin that was actually a tree.

… Winged dragonkin were rather awesome, though.

There were so many awesome things about this Worldly Path! Sure, there might have been some deaths, and Kiri was having a bad day, but there was also a lot of good, too! And her father was actually out of the house and exploring, and Jane was there with him! All good things.

Teressa brought Jane back to the moment, smiling, and saying, “I’m glad you think so much of me, sir, but I am not that good at this. The most I’ve ever noticed about what you’re describing are certain inevitable things that ‘color’ the background of a [Witness], like the sun rising or falling; you can’t ever see the sun, but you can see its effects on everything else. Eclipses are rather powerful events, too. There’s one coming up, I think. But… If I were a guessing person, I’d guess that you’d need some sort of far, far ranging [Witness] in order to see an event like Yggdrasil becoming a real being. Or you’d at least have to be on-location.” She added, “Even then, you’d need a wide sight in order to see the larger events.”

“Oh. That’s a very good point. If it doesn’t happen in the mana, then you can’t see it happen.” Erick decided something, then nodded. “My soul is almost healed, so I’m going to try and figure out all of those spells as soon as I can. Maybe do that before traipsing into the Forest.”

“Let’s not have another week of down-time.” Jane said, “You can make magic in the Forest, too.”

“Yeah. But… What if I need it before then?”

Jane shrugged. “How much need is there for new magic when you can blast out fifty [Shadow Beam]s and a hundred [Shadow Bolt]s all at once?”

“But that’s so… Crude. I’m right, right? That’s crude.”

Teressa smirked. “Yes. That is crude.”

“It works!” Jane said.

“Doesn’t get you any closer to a Domain,” Erick countered.

“… Fair.”

Teressa spoke up, “So. Sir. I would like to take you up on that offer of [Lightwalk] from the Headmaster’s dungeon.” As Erick brightened, Teressa went ahead, saying, “Eventually. Not right now, and maybe not for a while. But. Eventually.”

“Of course, Teressa!” Erick said, “Of course.”

- - - -

Dinner was great.

Erick made it a whole big thing to see Kiri off, but she was having none of it. She kept the evening subdued, saying that she’d be back if he needed her; all he had to do was send the word. Erick nodded politely, and knew that he wouldn’t be calling her back.

She had been flustered, quite a lot, by the revelation that she had been mind-warped by some oversized power, all while directly under Redarrow. She didn’t say so, but Erick got the distinct impression that her opinion of the Arbors of Treehome had soured, quite a lot. It didn’t help that Redarrow didn’t seem broken up about what had happened.

Jane unhelpfully suggested that maybe Redarrow had done something to Kiri, and that by letting them know that something had been done, he was throwing out ‘red herrings’ for them to chase.

It was a poor joke. Kiri didn’t get it. All she got was fire-spitting angry.

Jane apologized as soon as she could, but the damage had been done.

Kiri accepted the apology, but Erick knew she didn’t really.

Erick saw Kiri off right as the sun was beginning to set. He held her tight for a long moment, and said, “I’m sorry this happened to you. I’m always here if you want to talk.”

Kiri hugged him a bit tighter, then let go. She smiled, even though tears had rolled down her face. “Thank you, Erick. Good luck with the trip into the Forest.”

Kiri blipped away.

Erick sent an Ophiel ahead to Spur, to watch as Kiri arrived. She didn’t arrive till twenty minutes later. She did not look as if she had been crying, and that was likely why she took so long to get back to Spur. She was only 20, but she was professional, through and through, as she walked up the tall Courthouse steps, to meet with whoever she was meeting. Silverite, probably.

- - - -

Late at night, and unable to sleep, Erick sat up in his bed.

He couldn’t do anything for Kiri that he hadn’t already done. She would be fine, in time. They would find out who did that to her, and why, and what, exactly, had been done. From the [Witness]es Teressa had taken, it seemed as though all Kiri and the Mystery Person did was talk.

...Kiri was fine.

Erick couldn’t sleep, though, so he decided to try out a spell. He held up his hand and listened to the sound of [Healing Word]. It was a staccato beat overlaid and an ethereal romance for the body; a love born of wholeness and purpose. Erick easily separated that beat from the whole.

A blue box appeared.

Quick Spell, instant, self, 10 mana

You may cast your next Quick Spell right away.

He smiled, as he compared [Quick Spell] to [Healing Word].

Healing Word X, instant, medium range, 10 MP

Speak, and heal a target for 25 + ½ WIL.

You may cast your next Healing Word right away.

That second line was the same in both spells. His first attempt at [Quick Spell] had different, and probably lesser, wording.

He channeled mana through [Quick Spell], and to make sure he was hearing what he was hearing, he had Ophiel repeat the sounds coming out of his mana. Ophiel twittered in a ‘Pip-pip-pip-pip-pip’ like a machine-gun, firing almost too fast to hear, but this was exactly what Erick was already hearing.

He smiled, again.

Erick combined [Quick Spell] with [Force Wall], producing a new spell.

Quick Wall, instant, medium range, 50 mana

Create a stable, stationary wall of hardened mana. Absorbs 500 damage before breaking. Lasts 10 minutes.

You may cast your next Quick Wall right away.

Erick’s eyes went wide. Except for the duration, which was 1/10th of the original, his [Quick Wall] was just as good as [Force Wall].

Force Wall X, instant, medium range, 50 MP

Create a stable, stationary wall of hardened mana. Absorbs 500 damage before breaking. Lasts 10 minutes per level.

Erick wondered…

He flicked his lightform through the air, manually casting [Force Wall] after [Force Wall], one right after the other, only half a Script Second apart. They were small, thin things, and Erick stopped after four walls. He didn’t put too much effort into making any of them, so they would probably collapse under their own metaphysical stresses in under 10 minutes.

Ah. So.

[Quick Spell] was an inherent part of an Elemental Bodies’ ability to cast as fast as the user could shape their magic.

Apart from that minor revelation, Erick looked at himself with Ophiel’s [Soul Sight].

His soul was healed.

He dismissed the walls of light hanging in the air and laid back in bed. Today had been a day of trials, but none of them were what he had expected. He had expected nuclear bombs and other horrors, even if Atomic Magic had been Banned; he still expected it. There had been no eruptions of Particle Spells, anywhere. No stray [Call Lightning]s over Candlepoint. No odd weather patterns that he, himself, had not put in the sky over Spur. No [Withering]s, but for non-monsters, rolling through Treehome, or Portal, or Kal’Duresh, or Frontier. No [Red Dot]s, or similar magics.

No reports from Caizoa about the Converter Angel.

No… Nothing.

No major tragedies at all.

… There had been one major, minor tragedy, but Kiri would be okay.

Eventually.

Erick closed his eyes, and hoped tomorrow would be more of the same, or even easier. If it was calm, then he’d seek out Tenebrae, maybe talk to Syllea about some Gates, do some magic, and then? It was off to the Forest, to hunt through what might have been a grand civilization at the dawn of the New Cosmology, but which fell to the Death of all Halves only 25 years into Veird’s new existence.

From what he had seen already, he’d likely have to dig through mountains of trees and canyons of monsters to reach anywhere near any old, forgotten Gates. Everyone talked like there were ruins sitting out in the open out there, but throughout all his Imaging of the Forest of the last two weeks, Erick hadn’t seen any old buildings or otherwise.

Just… Thousands upon thousands of kilometers of green.
