He did have something of a theory about Melemizargo considering everyone fake, but it was not complete. He decided to answer Redarrow in a manner which would likely demand more information.

Erick said, “Because he’s a Prognosticator even more powerful than you.”

“Close. But rather far from the truth. And now we’re back to my written answers.” Redarrow smiled, and said, “It’s the concept of time, itself. Gods live beyond time; they are timeless. But also… Not. They see this New Cosmology like we would read a book. Some of the best Prognosticators are barely able to read a paragraph ahead. Some can read the title. Very, very few are able to see the synopsis, and lo! What a skill that is! Once in a millennium Prognosticator! Even I am not that good. Even I have never met someone like that. Back when the Grand Eye walked the world, I was but an idea in my creator’s mind. He took up after her in order to create me, but I never got to meet her.

“But that is a tangent, and unimportant for the Now. Back to time. Back to gods. Back to Melemizargo and his idea of a fake world.

“You see: Gods live among the library. They can see every book and read every variable copy.

“This is a simplification.

“And it was not always this way.” Redarrow said, “I understand that in the Old Cosmology, time flowed differently. It was more subjective. People could control their own time, to a certain degree. Gods controlled time the best. Where they tread, everyone lived at the same time. It had to have been awfully confusing compared to what we have today, for though I have heard of how it worked —second hand and through many different sources— I still cannot quite wrap my head around it all.

“But to Melemizargo, this world must seem rather false. Perhaps he is too close to the library. Perhaps he is too close to a simple reader, passing through. Or perhaps he has read every single book there has ever been written. Gods can deal with this level of simplification, I think; they can deal with living in a smaller world where things seem simple. If they were not able to do this they would have gone insane and killed us all, just like Melemizargo, therefore, they have some way to mitigate this tendency toward insanity because all they have to play in is the single sandbox with all the pieces of sand already counted. Melemizargo, however, sees everything around him from both his draconic eyes, and godly eyes. He cannot shut off his ability to See, and it drives him insane reading the same damn thing all the time.

“I am lucky in that I am not a god. I imagine I would get bored rather fast.” Redarrow smiled. “But you, Erick… You, and even Jane there. You are moving targets, more so than most. You are not simple. You are chaos, and your Particle Magic is even more chaos. Perhaps, even Chaos. I gotta tell you, it’s making this Telling quite a chore. I have had to revise my conversation with you a hundred different times since we started, and I am still getting it wrong, even now.”

Erick started, “—

“HOWEVER.” Redarrow spoke over him, “I am going to call it quits, here. I am not Melemizargo. I don’t take pleasure in not knowing what comes next. I imagine this is because I am technically mortal. If I was multi-millennium old, I would likely be the other way— Ah.” He glanced away. His eyes brightened, then dimmed. He looked back to Erick. “Just checking. Yes. You haven’t changed that future. Good to know some things remain true even in the face of Chaos. Now be off with you. You have your answers. You have gotten more than most… Wait.” He stared down into his basin of steaming water. “Okay.” He looked up. “One more question. Make it good, and before you ask, know that knowing a version of the answers rarely lets you avoid the pitfalls.”

Erick instantly asked, “Who shot that antirhine missile at Syllea?”

“Another surprise!” Redarrow laughed, then said, “Cultists. Syllea came here a week ago and asked after that very same thing. I believe the man’s name was ‘Edolphis’. He’s dead now. Unmarked Forest grave. He was injured by stray spells when you and Syllea fought, only to succumb to his wounds afterward. We raided the man’s hideout before you started on the Moon Reachers.

“And to answer the question you should have asked: Search the Wyrmridge west of the Firemaw volcanoes. It is there where you will find Tenebrae.”

“… Thank you.” Erick looked to his answer sheet, then said, “This helps, a lot.”

“I know it does. It was the easiest way for me to set you upon the proper trajectory.” Redarrow said, “Please go, now. I was hoping that we could be best friends, but I really do not like what Fate does when you’re around. Think of me when you’re off your Worldly Path. And no: the Path should have made your Fate even more solid. You should be easier to read. Not harder. I have no idea what’s up with the Angel and I am not getting involved with that. Thanks for not asking me. Anyway! I’m always happy to answer questions of the past for allied archmages. Just… Not for you, and not right now. Goodbye, Erick. And don’t tell people that I’m a Prognosticator. I prefer when they discover that for themselves. It makes for more correct Readings.”

Redarrow’s words felt final.

So Erick left it at that.

Erick nodded, saying, “Goodbye, Redarrow.”

He turned, and left. Kiri, Poi, Teressa, and Jane, bowed toward Redarrow, then followed Erick out of there.

- - - -

At first, Jane had been transfixed that Redarrow was a dragonkin like Apogee, the former Guildmaster of the Wayfarer’s Guild, back in Spur.

BUT WITH WINGS!

How awesome would it be to have wings all the time? And they folded down like a cape! How fricken’ cool was that?

(Jane had tried that with her [Polymorph] but wings on a human body were either decorative, stressful on her back, or really awkward to use; not very pleasant. But she hadn’t tried bat-wings! She would try that, later.)

And then the Arbor started talking like he knew things. And then he did know things. He was the Prognosticator for Treehome! He likely had a whole slew of other people who he worked with, but he had to be the main one. Sure, the reveal that Kiri had been fucked with was rather awful—

Jane glanced over to Kiri, as they walked down through the volcanic innards of Arbor Redarrow’s obsidian glass buildings. The greenscale seemed a bit more green than usual. Erick whispered after her feelings. Kiri spat fire, literally, then stopped herself. Poi glared at her. Erick just went with the flow, talking about how, ‘You’re walking around, and you feel fine, don’t you? Then you’re fine. Poi. Tell her she’s fine.’

Those were not his words, and Poi’s resulting words were similarly not the ones he said. Their words didn’t matter, for Kiri was having none of any of it. She was angry. She was furious, really. And she was also beyond hurt.

Erick tried to help Kiri, for of course he tried to help.

But so what if Kiri had been messed with? She was fine, wasn’t she? Jane wasn’t about to step onto that landmine of a conversation, so she stayed out of it.

Her mind was on the events of the last ten minutes.

And then she thought of her current future. There had been three things on her list of necessities. Getting a mana sense, getting a Domain, and getting [Greater Prismatic Body].

[Greater Prismatic Body] was a matter of pushing her [Prismatic Body] further, and that would come with time. A Domain would likely come with time, too. Jane had considered making a variable Domain; something she could switch at a whim, to whatever Element she was using at the time. A Prismatic Domain would likely cost way too much. She suspected that [Greater Prismatic Body] was already going to cost a base of 50 mana every second, and that was a lot.

But now, seeing Redarrow, and knowing that [Future Sight] came from unlocking the sight spells with a competent mana sense…

Jane moved ‘attain mana sense’ to the top of her list.

She would work on that later tonight.

… As long as nothing exploded.

Jane smiled, thinking of using [Future Sight] in a fight. How awesome would that be!

Kiri spat, “Why are you smiling at my misfortune!”

Jane left her thoughts and came to the Now. They were walking through an exhibit for some dead city state or something, and Kiri was glaring at her. Jane said, “I was considering how awesome it would be to use [Future Sight] in a battle. It had nothing to do with you.”

Kiri frowned, her rage turning to something lesser. Something more internal.

Teressa said, “Using [Future Sight] in battle is extremely difficult. I’ve tried.”

Kiri startled. She stared at Teressa; her own issues temporarily forgotten.

“Oh!” Jane said, “What are the complications? How does it work? Dad just got it, but he hasn’t even used it yet.”

Erick looked to Teressa. “I didn’t know you had [Future Sight], too.”

“Yeah... You were talking about all the Sights last week and one thing led to another.” Teressa shrugged. “I worked all the way up to [True Sight] while you were Cleansing the Forest. But I’ve had [Future Sight] for a while. It’s not all that great because I’m not good at it. Soon as you act upon any divergent path you see, it all changes. The more you include others in your vision, the more that path diverges.” She said, “I have no idea how the Prognosticators do it.”

Jane said, “I’m interested more in the battle applications. Ten seconds out. That sort of thing.”

“[Future Sight] is a variable cast time—”

“Teressa?” Kiri yanked the conversation away from Jane, as she asked, “Could you please [Witness] this area?” She asked Erick, “Did you find anything, yet?”

Jane would ask more questions later, when they weren’t busy with Kiri’s trauma.

Jane was not making light of what had happened to Kiri, and she probably should have waited till after the current drama to talk about [Future Sight] with Teressa. But she knew that [Witness] wasn’t going to find anything; nothing was going to get solved right now. Trauma did not heal through revelation; only with time.

Jane’s unspoken prediction turned out true.

Erick was the first to fail. He hadn’t had much experience with [Witness], and that inexperience proved itself in how much he was able to see, which was nothing. He could barely see to a day ago, after all, and Kiri’s mind-fucking —for that’s what it had to be, in Poi’s opinion— had happened almost two weeks ago.

Teressa had more luck, and skill.

The orcol woman said, “I see Kiri walking through the exhibit, looking at things. Someone is there, beside her. But…” She shook her head. “There’s nothing. The presence has been erased and filled in, almost perfectly. The blank space is not blank. Hmm. No one else around Kiri and the assailant are reacting to the presence next to Kiri. They’re not even reacting to Kiri. I don’t think anyone sees either of you. This is very high-level magic. I have never seen this level of mana-stitching before.” She added, “Other people might have. Here.”

Jane, and everyone else in the group, received a telepathic packet; an image.

Kiri was looking at a map of a land in the middle of the rise to empire. Beside her was a scratchy blot on the manasphere, barely different than all the rest. Jane knew she would have missed the discrepancy if Teressa hadn’t spoken of it, first.

What followed next was Erick searching for DNA, finding none that was not contaminated by multiple sources —this was a highly active museum, after all— Kiri growing ever more despondent, and Jane wondering, privately, what was for dinner. The museum staff got involved when Erick started casting spells inside the museum, but their sudden worry turned to sudden acquiescence once more than just museum security got involved. An hour later, Kiri’s despondency had become something less depression-like. It wasn’t long till Jane saw the exact moment when the woman decided on some hard choice.

Good for her, Jane thought. This sort of thing was never easy.

Kiri stood taller. Her eyes focused.

Ten minutes later, after ‘one more [Witness] attempt’ from Erick to see if he could see what Teressa had seen so easily, Kiri called it off.

“We’re done.” Kiri said, “Thanks for trying, Teressa. Erick.” She looked to Poi, and seemed to solidify her decision from earlier. “I’m taking that Ability, Poi.”

Poi frowned, then nodded. “There will be consequences, but you probably should.”

Jane didn’t know what that was about, and she’d likely never know. Kiri and Poi switched to telepathic conversation after that. Sending messages between themselves was a rather rude thing to do, considering they were in a group setting, but no one blamed them. Jane guessed Kiri was talking about some Mind Mage Ability that had shown up when Kiri got her Class. Kiri had a history with the Mind Mages, after all, but Jane didn’t know much more than that.

She said her guesses to her father, later, when they were mostly alone and killing time while Poi and Kiri went off somewhere else. Teressa was in her room, cleaning up her stuff.

Erick agreed with Jane’s guess, but he wouldn’t get involved with that. “She probably has to give up something if she’s taking a mental Class Ability.”

“But what, though?” Jane said, “I don’t really understand how they enforce their Mind Mage society, either. You know anything about that?”

“Nope.” Erick said, “But I can guess that they don’t enforce it with much mental controls. Otherwise there’d be no rogue Mind Mage users at all, out there.”

“Maybe there are, but then there aren’t.”

“… Erasing mental abilities from a person if they cross a line? That seems… That seems reasonable. Much easier to wipe the offending memories of a few than the existence of a person.”

“Maybe it’s easy to erase people.” Jane said, “I want to say this whole Mind Mage faction thing seems very 1984 to me, but I don’t know enough about the Mind Mages to say that.”

“What’s that book about, again?”

Jane recounted what she remembered about ‘Unpersons’ and ‘Thought Police’ and the systematic denouncement of anyone who was not of ‘The Party’.

Teressa had joined them somewhere around the beginning of Jane’s recounting. When Jane was done, Teressa said, “The Mind Mages aren’t like that, at all. They’re always the Solid Man in the plays and books I’ve read. Poi is the perfect example of a normal Mind Mage.”

“That’s a look they purposefully cultivate,” Jane said. “You’ve heard Poi talk about propaganda in books and such before. There’s absolutely no way he doesn’t know the image he puts out there into the world.”

