With a glint of something joyful in her eyes, Teressa said, “We’re going to need all the help we can get.”

Kiri winced. Jane smirked.

They had to navigate the crowds a little, but they reached the ODEC and walked inside. Erick introduced himself to the receptionists, weathered a bevy of disbelieving stares and words, then someone who knew what was going on came out from the back. After a few profuse apologies from the staff, for the Chieftain was out, and after being given a few instructions to follow when meeting with Arbor Redarrow, Erick stepped up an obsidian staircase, headed toward an audience with Redarrow.

Jane, Kiri, Teressa, and Poi, followed.

- - - -

Under the Arbor, at the top of the building, in a place both familiar to Erick, and not, they met. Instead of craggy black teeth rimming the land, there were grey arbors. Instead of nothing in the flat caldera of this recreation of the volcanic crater of the gods, there was a shallow pool of unnaturally clear waters. Instead of mists filling the air, steam curled here and there.

A path of dry volcanic stone led from the edge of that pool, toward the center. At the center was a raised basin of water, barely shorter than Erick, that overflowed with clear waters. Steam rolled away from that fountain, across the stone and obscuring a man who was not a man at all.

Their guide had pointed Erick toward the staircase, but that guide was all the way back at the bottom. The only ones in this sacred, steamy and yet cool place, were Erick and his people.

Erick proceeded. Others followed.

A wind blew from the side. Steam cleared. The person in the center of the surrounding Arbor was not an orcol, but a dragonkin, and also not. Their soul was as diffuse as the steam in the air, while their body was a construction of intent, without any blood. Redarrow lifted his head, flicked his tail, and Erick almost stopped, in shock.

The man was a bright scarlet dragonkin with a tail, a muzzle, and a triplicate set of horns that surrounded his head like broken halos made of twisted spears. He stepped to the side. He had legs like a bird’s, with the talons to match. And he was large. Not as large as Nosier, at least not by body-height. Maybe he was only most of the way to being orcol-sized. But by another metric, he was much larger.

Wings lifted from Redarrow’s back. Large, massive wings, each at least three meters across, each as brilliant a red as a sunset, stretched out across the small spit of land around the man. Steam curled as he moved. He was stretching. He had likely been staring into that basin for a long time. His wings relaxed, then wrapped down around his shoulders to act like some sort of bat-wing cape. The only thing he seemed to be wearing was a simple pair of tan shorts. Those shorts were clean and stylish, and kinda at odds with his whole dragon-ness.

“Greetings!” Redarrow extended a hand down and out, his claws open and inviting, as he called out, “Did y’all come for a reading?”

Erick kept walking forward, but his stride broke as he heard the slight twang in Redarrow’s voice. A reading? What was that about? He kept going, though, as he had been instructed to lay his problems out there as fast as possible and to let whatever happens, happen. Erick said, “We seek a Gate of Old Dragonkin make, out in the Forest, if you’ve anywhere to look.” He added, “And to know of anything else you might wish for us to know, perhaps with regard to Yggdrasil.”

Redarrow’s head bounced as he said, “Oh! Okay okay okay!” He lifted both hands out from below his wing-cape, extending his open claws to both sides of his water basin. He closed his eyes and breathed in the steam— He stopped, suddenly.

Erick stopped on the edge of Redarrow’s somewhat-dry spot of land, in the center of the not-caldera, where his basin flowed steam and waters that flowed into the air and splashed atop the black, glassy ground.

Redarrow opened his ruby-red eyes and stared at Erick. He had no pupils; just light. “You’re Erick Flatt! Right. I knew that. You’ve been in Treehome for a while. We just did some readings for you two weeks ago.” He looked away. The light of his eyes flickered strong, then dimmed back to a low heat, as he turned back to Erick. “That seems to have gone well. Moon Reachers Dead. Deathsoul Shrooms dead. A thousand other, smaller targets of opportunity… also dead. Some stragglers in the mountains that might make themselves known in decades to come. But that’s acceptable. I will warn the appropriate... people… Hmm.” He looked to Erick, his eyes turning brighter once again.

Erick would have been lost if he hadn't been warned that Redarrow liked to go off on tangents if he deemed them more important than the petitioner’s questions, but what Erick had not been told, was that Redarrow was obviously some sort of prognosticator; those people had been mentioned more than a few times while Erick had been helping to clear out the Forest.

He did not actually know who the Prognosticators were, until this moment, for he hadn’t asked, partially because he doubted he would have been told, but mostly because once he had been told, he knew that he would seek these elusive people out… And then he’d set his magic back weeks, or more, attempting to figure out exactly how ‘prognostication’ worked.

Erick almost jumped for joy at having this piece of the puzzle of Treehome finally fall in his lap. He had expected to talk to Redarrow about a trip out to the Forest, possibly involving logistics or whatnot. He had not expected to actually find one of Treehome’s elusive future-tellers.

… The guide back there, at the bottom of the stairs, had never given this away. Erick had assumed this would be a normal meeting.

Erick smiled.

His joy was short-lived.

With bright red eyes, Redarrow’s words came out stilted, “What has...” He glanced to the side, at Kiri. His face fell. He sighed. He said, “You were touched by a powerful force, and recently. When did it...” He looked to Poi, then glanced over everyone else. “No one else…” He looked to Kiri again. “It happened right below— What! Right below? How... When you visited that exhibit that was on display, when you first came to Treehome.” He narrowed his bright red eyes. He was angry. “They come into my home and…” He focused on Kiri. “I cannot see which power messed with your winding thread, but it did happen, and it was the work of a complete professional. I have rarely ever encountered someone who has been so smoothly fate-fucked, and possibly mind-fucked. I am only guessing at the second occurrence; Mind Magic is not my field.”

Erick’s eyebrows went up as he smiled, disbelieving what he was hearing. Then he asked everyone, but mostly Redarrow, “... What?” He had even more questions, now, as his smile left him, he realized there was no joke, and he focused on the most important part of what he had just heard. He looked to Kiri. “Is she safe?”

Kiri’s eyes were wide, her face pale. Jane angled toward the greenscale, while Poi jolted, and Teressa looked like she wanted to take a half a step away from Kiri, but then she thought better of that. Teressa remained where she was, at Kiri’s side.

Redarrow forestalled any immediate issue, saying, “I barely saw what had been done to your apprentice until just now, and only because I looked further and deeper than I usually do, and only because something unexpected has occurred.” He leveled his burning eyes at the young greenscale, saying, “Your fate was tied to Erick’s rather tightly until today. Today, you begin what others might call a divergence, but what I would call a shadow cast by the light. An echo of what has come before; similar, yet different. For your future, I tell you this: Boldness has always served you well, but if you falter, you will falter hard. Good luck.”

Erick almost spoke up again, but Redarrow was not done.

The large, winged dragonkin turned to Erick. “By your feats of prowess and your power, you have earned two readings. One has been chosen for you, for you would not have picked the correct reading. I will allow you to choose your second.”

Erick rapidly thought, then said, “I did not come for any readings, but to talk of events and logistics and to ask—”

“Oh! I see. I see.” Redarrow said, “My mistake. You want directions to a Gate? Trying to recreate that network? Ah. Yes. I see. I will help with this…” He glanced away, his eyes brightening, before he turned back. “If Tenebrae accompanies you, he will die. If he does not, others will die. Hmm. What is the value of a life? A pinprick of light upon the background of reality? A beacon in the darkness; a lighthouse, perhaps. What is the value of a life, when comparing bonfires to candles?” He added, “All of that is barely-there misty Fate. Choose as you will and already have. Maybe Tenebrae will simply be humbled. Maybe everyone will live. The chances of either are rather low. But! What I see does not always come to pass, while what comes to pass, is always seen before it arrives.”

The man sat down onto a small bench Erick was sure had not been there before now. His wing unfolded from his shoulders, to lay behind him, as he leaned over his bird-bath of bubbling waters. He stared into the steam. He said nothing else.

Erick got out, “Red—”

Redarrow interrupted him, “The Arrow of Time is done. Please come again another da—”

“I have one boon left.”

“Bah!” Redarrow’s eyes glowed bright. “I have given you two! We are quits! No more quest—”

“I can interrupt, too. I can be a bastard, too.” Erick said, “You answered me without me asking the question. In such a case, how can it be that you have answered anything I asked of you, at all?”

Redarrow paused. He looked at Erick. Then he grabbed a piece of paper out of the air and folded it up a few times. When he was done and the paper was not directly readable, he said, “Go ahead. Ask your questions.”

Erick nodded, then said, “So what’s that supposed to be? A list of—”

“Gods dammit.” Redarrow unfolded the paper. “You were supposed to ask the questions I already wrote out! Not just jump right to demanding to know what this damned thing is!” He crumpled the paper and threw it at Erick. It sailed five meters and bounced off a sheet of light, then landed in a grip of Erick’s light. Redarrow said, “Read it at your leisure!”

Erick held up the paper. It was absolutely filled with tiny text.

Ah. He understood. Redarrow had written this out with the plan of showing that he already knew everything that Erick was going to ask, for he had written down all the answers ahead of time.

Erick began reading,

“Erick: What is the purpose of life?

“Redarrow: What you make of it! Ask me a real one.

“Erick: Where is the Gate?

“Redarrow: Where Tenebrae says it is.

“Erick: What happened to Kiri?” Erick paused his reading, then said, “Really? You thought I was going to wait till question three to ask after her? And I already know the purpose of life. I would have gotten to Kiri at question one. Two, at the very least.”

Kiri softly said, "Erick."

Erick glanced at her. Kiri was stiff, and silent, and obviously did not want to be the focus of anything right now. So Erick let that issue go, for the moment.

“The future is not always a sure thing.” Redarrow nodded at the paper in Erick’s hands, saying, “That is the answer to question ten, and also question twenty five, by the way, as it deals in teaching you prognostication, which is questions and answers twenty through thirty four.” He said, “I will admit, though, that what is happening right now is something I failed to predict.” His eyes glittered red as he stared at Erick, saying, “And that is interesting.”

“W—”

“It’s interesting because this rarely happens. Questions forty and forty one. The answers are thus: Most people are simple. I am not disparaging them. They simply are simple. They work routines. They have dreams they attempt to achieve. This applies to everyone from peasant to emperor. Adventurers are a bit tougher. This is bec—” He stopped. He flinched. He asked, “Why do you think this is?” And then, finding his question correct, he nodded. “Yes. I should ask you why you think this is. Tell me?”

Erick glanced to the paper in his hands. It certainly did hold a lot of answers to a lot of questions Erick had thought to ask. He read and understood each of them with just a glance, and then he looked to Redarrow, and said, “The reason I’m messing up your future-telling has something to do with Spatial Magic.”

“… You’re rather sure of that. How interesting. I see my written answers are not good enough. I will explain.” Redarrow said, “There is something to be said for Spatial Magic’s influence on Fate, since there is a lot more overlap between those two schools of magic than most would guess. Personally, and according to all the history I have ever experienced, Spatial Mages and Prognosticators get along just fine; both schools of magic don’t unduly affect the other. I have even met other planars, so the bubbling idea you were about to ask me about if your planar-ness is messing up my prognostication? That might account for some variance in my foreseen futures, simply due to the fact that you have come to Veird from a very, very long way. But this does not account for all of my problems reading you. Not by a [Long Bolt].” He added, “Do you know why Melemizargo considers us all to be fake people?”

Several questions Erick had barely thought to ask, came to the forefront of his mind. Chief among them were, ‘Is Melemizargo right about Veird being fake?’ and as a corollary to that, came another: ‘Am I actually on my deathbed in some hospital back on Earth, out of my gourd and imagining all of this?’. Both were unprovable either way, so Erick mostly ignored those every-so-often nagging notions.

He focused instead on the ideas of Spatial Magic.

All Spatial Spells, from [Blink] to [Teleport] worked on the idea of a person temporarily inhabiting a different present, and then fully inhabiting that different present; in effect, ‘teleporting’ from one place to another.

This, obviously, must have something to do with future-telling. But Redarrow did not seem to think that Erick’s long distance ‘Teleport’, or more appropriately, the [Gate]-ish event that brought him and Jane to Veird, was a wrench in Redarrow’s ability to Prognosticate.

And now he was talking of Melemizargo’s thoughts that this world was fake?

Erick could roll with the conversation, though he seemed to be rolling a bit further than usual.

