What is that? By all accounts, the last several attacks should have finished her off, and yet, against all odds, she was still standing. Still bleeding. Still struggling. She barely had enough attention to face both Kobolds and their vicious blades; there was no chance she could spare the focus to figure out what was happening to her.

Suddenly, her vision flared with pure white, and she was filled with a surge of energy so powerful she almost dropped her sword. Her wounds instantly closed. The bleeding stopped, and her health skyrocketed. And a sudden clarity of recognition descended upon her like a hammer blow.

The Dwarf healed me… in combat?

She had seldom experienced healing in the middle of a fight, and never without her needing to beg for it. In addition, her Tenacious aptitude had triggered in response to being healed while below half health. She raised her head and saw the Dwarf downing a mana potion, sweat beading his brow. His chin was so set his beard jutted out nearly at right-angles to his chest. His hands were glowing with holy light and his previously terrified eyes held nothing but pure focus and concentration as they looked intently her way.

Sudden hope bloomed within her. Theon had always preferred killing the monsters with his hammer, reserving his heal spell for after combat. This dwarf had just saved her life, healing her while she faced the overwhelming threat of two raid-level monsters simultaneously. And he looked like he wasn’t about to let up.

I can’t let these Kobolds get to him, she thought. She drew in a deep breath and shouted again, her magic rippling through the air and the two Kobolds in front of her, kicking up a blast of brick fragments and dust. That’s right, I’m here! Attack me! she thought, lashing out with her sword.

It seemed like she had been blocking and striking forever. Her focus remained locked on her two opponents, challenging them, again and again, to destroy her while she pestered them with small cuts, slices, and shield slams whenever the opportunity presented itself. As she battled, an unspoken bond formed with the unnamed dwarven priest, as if they got to know each other through action and reaction. He responded to her damage and injuries, learning how much she could take before she needed his healing magic. She knew the exact instant when he realized she had the Tenacious aptitude. And when he realized precisely at what percentage it triggered. After that, he always let her dip below half before landing an enormous heal that filled her almost completely. For her part, she learned to trust him, even when her health dipped. He had her covered, and all she had to do was block so that the rogue couldn’t land critical strike damage, and make sure that the two Kobolds never took their eyes, claws, and weapons off her.

By the time Malise appeared with her gleaming ice daggers and ecstatic grin, and Cai began laying into the rogue with his flame-wreathed quarterstaff, Sabri had finally identified the feeling growing deep inside her. Beneath the layer of heart-pounding anxiety, and the pain of the constant stabs and slashes, Sabri knew with certainty that she mattered. Even if it was only to one Dwarf.

The Kobold warrior finally collapsed on the ground, as the full force of their raid turned on it, and the sound of several chimes echoed within her mind – contrasting starkly against the deafening silence of the chamber.

Your group has defeated Acolyte – Kobold – level 10.Your group has defeated Fire Mage – Kobold – level 10.Your group has defeated Dagger Rogue – Kobold – level 10.Your group has defeated Warrior – Kobold – level 10.Soul Defender has reached level 12 (+3)+30 attribute points.

Sabri’s momentary excitement at the notifications faded as her eyes were drawn away from the scaled corpses of the Kobolds to the lifeless form of Theon lying sprawled on the mossy brick of the sewer.

Brena was bent over him, checking in vain for signs of life.

“I saw it happen,” one of the archers spoke from nearby. “He took a fireball, and the rogue took advantage of it to stealth and Ambush him from behind. If he had been up against the wall, and using a shield to block, he wouldn’t have taken the critical damage. Stabbed him right in the throat.”

The chilling truth cut through her like a knife. Why didn’t I insist that he use the shield? Why did I just let him tell me it’s stupid? Sabri’s heart writhed in turmoil. She hadn’t liked Theon and knew he would only have ridiculed her further, but she always backed off when he overrode her opinion. She always felt weak, but she had never thought her opinion mattered. Certainly not compared to his power and confidence. And now he was dead, and she had had the answer before it happened. She had simply been unable to insist. I should have told Brena, she would have made him use it.

She looked up at the sense of someone approaching, surprised by the tears running down her face. In front of her stood the Dwarf in his dusty brown acolyte robes.

“Maybe a bad time?” he asked gently.

Sabri shook her head, trying to wipe the tears away, embarrassed that he would see her in such a state.

“I’m Belmar,” he said. “Thank you for saving my life.”

“You… you’re welcome,” Sabri managed. “I couldn’t have done it without you.” Why is he thanking me? He is the one who healed me the whole time. But her heart couldn’t deny the genuine gratitude and honesty in his face and voice, nor the kinship of two people who had just faced certain death together and yet had somehow, inexplicably, survived.

His grin was so big, it threatened to split his impressive beard in half. He said, “You are a phenomenal tank. Anytime you need a healer, just let me know.”

She stared after him as he walked away, her gaze eventually lowering to Theon’s corpse once again, unable to think, or even process her own feelings.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
