The Troll vanished. In his wake, he left glowing trails – remnants of the mana that had powered his spell behind him. Mana that Calen could now see, lit up like tracks for Explorer to follow. He knew precisely where the witch doctor had gone – in fact, he could actually see the ghostly swimming outline of the witch doctor looking back at him from the Spirit Realm. But there was something more from his skill – the part he hadn’t truly understood when he had read his Explorer advancement. If I’m right about this… He reached toward the magical trail left by the witch doctor’s Spirit Walk movement skill, and suddenly he was there.

The gray world of the Spirit Realm descended like a flickering and shifting veil. The now-solid witch doctor stood calmly gazing at him, but he was not the only source of color this time. Calen’s own body seemed to be perfectly normal here. A hidden benefit of Realm Hunter? He could immediately tell he would no longer need Ghost Mushrooms to operate here, and with a thought, he teleported back, switching places with a Mote of Light on the other side.

“How did you do that?” Ali exclaimed when he returned. “It’s like you made an echo of the Spirit Walk skill? With the wrong mana affinity. And you don’t even have the skill.”

“I can hook into the remnants of the movement skill, and somehow Explorer lets me duplicate it again later. I’m not sure how long the trail remains fresh enough to use, but it seems very useful,” Calen explained. It would take a lot of getting used to, but it was most certainly a powerful upgrade for his tracking skill. A lot of testing, too. I’m going to need Ali’s help – and probably the Guild. It was fortunate he had access to so many different movement skills to experiment on.

“That’s impressive,” Ali said, looking at him with naked hunger in her mana-filled eyes.

“Yes,” Calen said, grinning back. “How about you provide all the different movement skills you can make, and I’ll let you study it as much as you want?”

“Yay!” Ali whooped, jumping up and down, a mannerism that looked surprisingly Naia-like.

“So, that was a bit intense,” Calen said, sitting down. He still felt nauseated by the strange gray shifting haloes – the echoes that overlaid reality from the Spirit Realm. Echoes that he could now see. That was another thing that would take some adjustment, but his friends were curious right now, so he began to share all the changes.

Malika glanced at him inquiringly as he knuckled his temples, and then she pulsed a glowing sphere of soul mana that rippled outward from the center of her chest.

You have gained Clarity.

Yeah, quite the day. Smiling gratefully at her, he said, “Ok, here’s all my changes.” Then he shared his extended status sheet.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
