“Have I ever bragged about being a jeweler before?” Master continues after he notices my uncomprehending expression. “Making engraving pens is done by jewelers not blacksmiths. I know how they’re made but my skills won’t do these materials justice.”

“But you have made one before, right?”

…..

When master doesn’t answer me, I become nervous. “You’ve never made an engraving pen before!? What if you ruin it?!” I accuse master.

“I know how it works… in theory. By all means, you can go to Drey and spend another gold and a half having a professional craft you one. I’m only making you one for free.” Master Del sends me a challenging look.

If I went to Drey and commissioned an engraving pen people would take notice and master knows that. Del looks at me like he wants an apology.

“I know, I know. Thank you for helping me master. I know you can do it!” That last part held a little bit of sarcasm but I am praying he doesn’t ruin what amounts to my lifetime of savings so far.

“You don’t have to worry my dear apprentice; it might not look pretty but I’ll make you a workable engraving pen.” Master puffs out his chest looking confident about his claim.

“Ok, what do we do first?” I ask.

“Hand me the gem.” I hand master the small magical gem and follow him over to our workbench.

“Come over here and look at this.” Master motions me over to his side. “It’s a good thing the sun is out today.” Master holds the lumpy stone up to the light. “Your merchant friend brought you a small but good gem. I’ve only cut a few stones back when I lived in Truset but I can show you the basics. The hardest part with gems is spotting the inclusions either on its surface or on the inside of the gem itself. Just like microfractures in our work, these imperfections can destroy the gem if you aren’t careful.”

I stare at the gem in the sunlight and look for any imperfections in its structure. Hold on, if it’s the same concept as microfractures then couldn’t I use Sense Mana to check its structure just like I do when I forge something?

I focus on using Sense Mana on the small gem. The storm of mana is as beautiful as I saw it yesterday but the constantly shifting mass of mana makes inspecting the gem’s structure hard.

Master lowers the gem and starts walking over to our grinder. “Wait, master.” Master freezes and looks back at me. “Can I see the gem for a second? I’m trying to use my skills to see if there are any imperfections in the gem.”

“Oh? I didn’t consider that.” Master hands me the gem.

I intently study the unpolished gem in my hand. If we make a mistake with this magic gem, I’ll have to beg Kervin to procure me another one before he leaves tomorrow and it won’t be cheap.

I watch the storm inside the gem shift around and study the structure in the small gaps that naturally form in the mana. I work my way up from the bottom of the gem stopping the longest at the center of the gem where the mana naturally accumulates the most.

As I travel up the structure of the gem, I think the gem might be a piece of white quartz. When I asked for a magic gem, I pictured a diamond in my head. I hope this will be strong enough to engrave with?

I’m almost finished inspecting the white quartz when I stop near the top of the gem. It’s less than half a millimeter long and thin enough even master couldn’t see it with his stats but that’s definitely a microfracture in the gem.

“Master, I found a microfracture in the gem. Does that make the gem unusable?” I look worriedly at Del.

“Where’s the fracture located, is it in the center of the gem?”

“No, the fracture is at the top of the gem and goes down half a millimeter.” I point out the area where the imperfection lies.

“Oh, that’s good. You had me worried there. Come over here and watch me polish it.” I walk with master over to our grinder we use to sharpen blades.

“Grab a bucket of water for me with a ladle.” I follow master’s orders and grab the supplies he needs.

When I have everything ready and come back to master, I see him changing the grinding stone to a rougher grit.

“Where exactly does the imperfection stop?” I point master to the area directly below the microfracture.

“In the future, you’ll need to make a connection with a jeweler to supply you with the magic gems you’ll need, but for now I’ll show you the basics. First, you need to splash a little water on the grinding stone as it’s moving. You want to keep it damp but not covered in water. Before you grind anything away you need to have a firm idea of the shape you're trying to work the gem into.”

“Luckily for us, we only need one end of the gem to be a fine point the rest doesn’t matter much. The bottom half of the gem will be used for engraving while the rest of the gem will be hidden inside the pen. Watch how I grind it.” Master pumps away on the grinder's foot-peddle and gently rubs the area the fracture starts against the grinder.

“We can grind away the part of the gem that has the imperfection. We’ll turn its diamond shape into more of a triangle. Then we’ll sharpen the bottom point.” Master carefully grinds away the excess material while I silently stand off to the side.

Watching master work is always a treat but I have questions I need answered. “Master?” I softly call out to him to avoid making him mess up.

“Yes?” He asks without looking away from the grinder.

“Are you able to answer some of my questions or do you want me to wait until you’re finished?”

“This isn’t all that difficult so you don’t have to worry. What are you curious about?”

“You said that I would need to make a connection with a jeweler in the future. I know your mining hats don’t use a magic gem but is it different for weapons? Am I going to need a lot of magic gems when I practice enchanting?”

Master flips the gem around in his hands, examining his work. Once content, he starts grinding again and answers my question. “You don’t need to use magic gems in your enchantments when you start off, but eventually you’ll need to work with them. Magic gems help hold and regulate mana injected into an enchantment. Most enchanted weapons have a magic gem and a basic rune embedded in the handle of the weapon. Like the small onyx in the handle of my pickaxe though the way you push your mana into my pickaxe disregards the need for the gem. Normally, a magic gem and what is known as a magic conducting rune are used together to absorb the mana from people using the Expel Mana skill. The magic conducting rune can technically work with the Expel Mana skill without a magic gem but it will make using the enchanted weapon harder to use and less desirable.” Master explains while grinding down the quartz into the shape he wants.

“I see. I assume I’ll need to match the gems with the correct type of enchantment as well.” I can probably cut cheaper stones in the future but I’ll need to find an expert jeweler if I ever want to make something truly amazing.

I watch as the magic gem in master’s hands is slowly whittled down. As the gem gets smaller the storm inside is compressed. “Master, how is something you can grind away like that suitable for engraving?” I can’t imagine this little piece of quartz being able to scratch steel.

“As is, it wouldn’t be,” Master adds a little bit more water onto his grinding stone. “As they are, gems and their magical siblings don’t make great cutting tools unless you're dealing with diamonds or a few other rarer specimens. If you use your engraving pen wrong you could break it with little strength.”

“Then how do I use it properly?” I question master.

“Magic gems have a unique property to them when they channel excess mana. The gems coat themselves with the excess mana making them incredibly durable depending on the quantity of mana they’re channeling. The harder the surface you’re trying to enchant the more mana you’ll need to use as to not destroy your engraving pen.” Master gets up from his seat and moves over to our workbench.

Master Del grabs one of the higher grit sanding blocks and moves over to his favorite bench. A little water on the block and he’s back to polishing the gem. What once was an uncut rock now looks like a gem you might see in a wedding ring just a little lumpier.

Master takes his time until he finishes working with the magic gem. Master carefully places the finished gem back in the box it came in and swaps it with the ingot of mithril.

“What’s next, master?” I ask as I follow him over to our forge.

“The hard part.” Master boldly claims. “We need to work this mithril with some steel to make the body of your pen.”

“You want me to prepare the crucible then?” I offer to help master.

“If only working with mithril was that easy. Remember when I told you mithril binds with other substances really easy? What do you think will happen if we put the mithril inside the crucible and heat it up?”

I shrug my shoulders and master snickers at me. “The mithril will bond with the ceramic.” I can’t believe what I just heard. “Don’t underestimate mithril, using different methods people have bonded mithril with clothes, bone, and even paper. To get the mithril to bond with the steel we’ll have to do it a different way.”

Master moves over to the forge which already has a small fire going from before I got here this morning.

“To get mithril to bond properly with any metal you need heat it up in a forge that’s at a very specific temperature and mana concentration.” Master starts putting logs we don’t usually use into the forge. The wood master is using doesn’t burn that hot.

“The fire can’t be so hot that the mithril melts.” In a circle around the logs, master starts putting chunks of magicite into the forge. “We use the wood to heat up the mithril and the magicite to charge the mana in the forge so the mithril bonds with the steel properly.”

Master uses his tongs to place the ingot of mithril in the flames. Instead of the metal turning its usual red color the mithril turns a light shade of blue as the metal gets hotter and hotter. Master grabs a small chunk of steel that was left over from my previous work and places it alongside the mithril.

“How are you supposed to weld the two metals together properly if the steel won’t get hot enough with the temperature this low?” I stare into the forge while questioning master.

“Magic,” Master states in a matter of fact tone.

Master Del grabs the two chunks of metal and moves them over to his anvil. The soft mithril is easily pounded around the chunk of steel just like you would stick something in clay. “How is that supposed to…?”

“Wait and see.” Master cuts me off before I can finish my question.

The abomination of metal is placed back into the fire. “I haven’t seen this in a long time.” Master smiles into his forge.

I’m about to ask him what he means by that when my mouth falls open. Inside the forge, the mithril covered steel is moving! The hotter the metal becomes the more the metal comes alive!

The steel slowly absorbs the mithril and grows in size. My mana sense shows me that the mana in the mithril is being sucked into the steel and then being rearranged into a new structure. What was once two mashed together metals are now a single lump of magic steel. The mithril has lost some of its bluish tint now that’s it's diluted with the steel.

“What was that!?” I yell at master.

Master laughs at my shocked expression and ignores my outburst in favor to put the rest of the magicite into the forge. Master leaves the new metal in the forge to heat up and turns to me.

“That’s how mithril bonds with other metals. You need to be careful when you try this in the future. Once it’s fused with something, you’ll need to make sure your forge has enough mana in its flames to work your new metal. For example, now that the mithril has fused with the steel the fire needs to be hot enough to work steel but also have enough mana in the forge like you are working mithril. You also need to remember though the mithril has taken on the heat requirements of steel it’s much weaker. That’s why you should never use more than 15% mithril in any weapon you make.” I nod my head in understanding.

“Alright, let's finish this pen.” Master focuses back on his forge. It’s hard for me to judge whether the bluish metal is ready to be pulled out now that I can’t recognize the color anymore.

I take note of the hue of blue the metal has when master moves it over to his anvil. As master said the metal is much softer than steel making it easy for him to work the metal very quickly. First, master gets the lump of fused metal into a familiar ingot shape before he cuts a little piece off the end.

Next, master flattens the metal into a rectangle which he then proceeds to curl into a shape of a pipe. “Grab the magic gem.” Master orders as he moves the new 10-inch blue pen back into the forge.

I fetch the gem and hand it to master. He once again removes the metal from the forge and over to his anvil. Master switches to a smaller and more precise hammer and sets the gem into one of the pen’s sides.

Master isn’t finished yet, though. He threads the other side of the new pen and sets the whole thing aside. Then master puts the smaller piece he cut off earlier into the forge and waits for it to heat up.

When the metal is ready, he beautifully shapes it into a cap that can screw onto the top of the pen.

Master waits for everything to cool and picks both of the pieces up. The cap perfectly fits onto the pen without a hitch.

