“What?”

You’re not supposed to say things like that! Now there are definitely going to be weird complications!

“...Normally I’d say that’s just superstition, but the rest of my experience with you so far has indicated otherwise, sooo… Oops?”

When the envoy from the mainland arrived, an assortment of some of the most powerful people in Elyria waited to greet them. The king himself was not present, but the crown prince was, sitting at the head of the meeting table. To his right sat the Royal Advisor, a wizened old archmage who looked so frail and kindly it was hard to believe he originally got famous as the Demon of the Battlefield. On his left was Duke Arnold Montague, who at 70 was still one of the most imposing figures in the room, measuring every bit of seven feet tall and shoulders at least three times as broad as everyone else in the room.

Next to the advisor and the duke were the leaders of the dwarven and elven kingdoms. They were visibly disgruntled about not having seats at the head of the table, but neither dared voice their complaints. It was only due to the human king’s generosity that they were able to maintain their independence after the war half a century prior, and it was too soon to rock the boat.

The next person down the table from the elven queen was a woman who looked completely out of place at the gathering. She was fairly short and slight of stature, and had a face so plain it was easy to gloss over her. Her clothes, a set of plain gray robes, did nothing to help her stand out. If not for her position near the head of the table, one might have assumed that she was a maid, or some ordinary passerby who had accidentally wandered into the wrong room.

This woman was Arianne Fenn, the current head of the Elyrian branch of the Adventurer’s Guild, and arguably the most important person in the room. She was certainly one of the most powerful in terms of level. Many in the world dismissed the stories of her career as an Adventurer for being too far-fetched, but those at the table knew that every one of them was true. Despite her plain appearance and kind smile, very few were brave enough to make eye contact with her. The only one who sought it out was the Royal Advisor, whose eyes were filled with fiery ambition. He wanted to fight her. She simply smiled placidly at him in response.

The rest of the room was filled with nobles, merchants, and guild leaders of various levels of importance, numbering twenty one in total. They all had some business with current negotiations with the mainland. On the surface, they were all working to establish a trade route and a mutually beneficial treaty regarding tariffs and maritime security, but beneath that, each person at the table had an agenda of their own. Arianne was no different.

When the envoy walked in, she took note of each person entering, her eyes lingering on one in particular. Among the envoys, the chiefs of some of the more important beastperson tribes were there, and one in particular was the Felinid chief, Fabio. The Felinids were not the most powerful tribe, or the wealthiest, but Arianne was interested in them for a different reason.

As the head of the Adventurer’s Guild, she was privy to rumors that many of the others at the table missed out on, including one that had piqued her interest. On the far west coast in the small city of Riverfork, a strange new Adventurer had registered recently. A new Adventurer being rated anywhere near Platinum at their first evaluation wasn’t common, but what really caught her attention was this woman’s race. It was a felinid beastwoman. On the west coast of Elyria. And she had apparently slain two Named monsters.

Arianne almost laughed it off as a joke when she first read the report until she saw who had sent it. She wasn’t exactly close with Pike, but she knew him well enough to know that he wouldn’t have filed a frivolous report. The source and the content pushed the story up to the top of her list of interesting stories, and the recent news that the very same felinid had now taken out a third Named monster—and a Disaster, no less—pushed it to the forefront of her mind.

The meeting passed surprisingly smoothly. Not all the details were sorted out, but they had gotten nearly everyone present to agree to a general baseline for the trade negotiations before adjourning. The rest of the small details and particulars would likely be sorted out behind closed doors over drinks over the course of the next few weeks.

After the meeting, Arianne briefly met with the guildmasters from the mainland to set up a time to discuss the state of the world. Evidently, the unusual Named monster spawns were not a problem unique to Elyria, and it was concerning enough that a serious meeting needed to be had. One of the mainland guildmasters even brought up the idea of calling in the Founder. A couple of the others said it wasn’t necessary, but Arianne had a hunch that whatever was going on wouldn’t blow over so easily without the Founder’s intervention.

Once she got that sorted out, she quickly rushed toward the door where the beastperson tribe leaders were preparing to leave.

“Lord Fabio!” she called.

The felinid man turned toward her, an expression of bewilderment on his face.

“Ah, yes,” he said uncertainly. “Forgive me, but I do not recall your name.”

“Arianne Fenn,” she said. “Guildmaster of the Elyrian Adventurer’s Guild.”

“Ah, yes, my apologies. Did you have something you wished to discuss with me?”

“Yes, yes I did,” said Arianne with a smile. “It’s not overly important, but I think that you might find it… interesting.”

Fabio looked like a fish out of water. While an important man, he was not the kind of man that the guildmaster would normally have business with. He glanced at a few of the other tribe leaders, who shrugged. He hesitated a moment longer before speaking again.

“Well, I suppose I can make time,” he said.

“Are you free tonight?”

“Tonight? Well…”

“There’s a restaurant run by a 7th tier chef nearby. They make the most divine seafood I have ever had.”

Fabio maintained an uninterested expression, but the twitching of his tail and the dilation of his pupils belied his underlying feelings.

“Well, I was going to have a peaceful night in to recover from the journey…” he started. “But if you’re offering to treat me, I see no reason to refuse.”

“Excellent!” said Arianne. “I have concluded my business here, and it seems that you have as well. Shall we?”

She held out her arm, and Fabio gracefully locked his elbow with hers.

“We shall.”
