The darkness feels both warm and inviting, but also filled with a cold pressure.

It is kind of like a pure mass of Advanced Primordial Aura, but from here, I can't sense any conscious mind controlling it. It feels like it is just existing on its own, like somehow the atmosphere itself is made of pure primordial aura.

My blade stops moving downward after a certain point, as it feels like there is too much resistance. Cutting through the fabric of the purple zone more would put unnecessary strain on my soul.

The cracks that spread off this tear in space's edges explode outward too. If I were to break it open any wider, the entire zone might collapse and bend itself inside out.

I hold my blade steady, and mentally nod once more at Maria.

The strange nature of this dark aura is not threatening at all, but it does not give off a good-natured feeling either. I can feel that Ember's soul tie is somewhere inside it, but the instant I try to pinpoint a location, all sense of logical direction becomes unusable data.

So, Maria interlocks her arm with mine and channels her Primordial Aura into my energy flow.

There is a visible red and blue point where our Origin bodies connect.

We jump upward, allowing the dark pull of this false void to pull us in.

My blade stays lodged in the bottom of the tear in space until we make it all the way through. Then, the moment I release the pressure and pull my sword in with us, the crack that peers down into the purple zone heals up just as fast as I sliced it.

The last thing I see is the ground in the middle of the new central domain breaking open.

Then, the sensation of total darkness and zero gravity surrounds me.

–

In the Purple Zone, the tear completely heals, and all of the fracturing cracks that threatened to rip apart the sky all close up instantly as well.

Without two enormous masses of gravity in the center of the zone, there is far less pressure in general, causing the physical integrity of reality to be under so much stress. At least, not threatening to break out of the Upper Realm construct.

There is still pressure pushing upward from the zones below.

The moment that the most oppressive force of gravity is gone, pure green branches and lush leaves break through the floor of the purple zone.

Dark blue Divine Threads try to flow upward, but instead, every bit of Abby's Primordial Aura manifestation is soaked with far denser purple threads.

Instead of pouring all the way down through every crack in the zone barriers, the majority of these purple threads stop right when they hit the two slowly spinning white arrays in the center of the domain. A small amount still streams straight down into Abby's Dark Blue Core, enough to trigger a shift in density, and instantly break her through to hold the strongest Divine True Core in the Upper Realm.

As the branches of this tree grow further upward, many of the glyphs in these two arrays latch onto the central points of the tree's mass. It helps it grow in even patterns under the immense pressure of the new zone, but also limits the nutrient flow, not allowing harmful energy to seep down into other zones.

The arrays that pulse out of the anchors in the center of every zone begin filtering divine threads in this fashion as well.

No green threads are able to break down into the Lower Realm; however, the ends of all of the highways reforming start to link up to the roots of the new Primordial Tree.

The ancient arrays left behind where the source once stood spin and anchor this manifestation to its center of gravity. Just like the arrays in the Purple Zone, these in the Lower Realm are built from dialects of the Originators language, as well as the Dryad's contribution leftover much later.

They sync perfectly with Abby's legacy and form a perfect flowing wave of white light streaming from the Lower to Upper Realm.

All of the highways flicker with a faint green aura, and from an outsider looking in, it is as though these link pathways of high-quality glyphs are the tree's roots themselves.

The physical roots stop expanding once they've found their endpoint, and the enormous crude cracks in the zone begin sealing up to make atmosphere-tight seals around the Primordial Tree that breaks through.

The same occurs in the Green Zone, as it is preserved in the center of the tree's trunk, and the anchor at the bottom of the grand citadel reacts with the glyphs left behind in the fortress. Every single silver array left behind spins and links to hundreds of thousands of pathways that lead down into the Lower Realm and upward, following the tree's growth into the Ravine.

Every single pedestal left standing in the Ravine lights up with bright white glyphs and pulses, tethering to the pathways of least resistance within Abby's Primordial Tree, shooting upward to connect with the anchor point in the center of the Cyan Zone where Lucian's Demonic Civilization once stood.

Now, there is a human floating in the center of the zone, with a bright Dryad's Immortal form, redistributing the same promises a figure of the past once did using this exact technique.

All of these pathways have begun branching out into physical branches and leaves in this zone, sprouting into the Blue Zone. However, now that all of the base energy has been absorbed, the shattered layers of the Cyan and Blue Zone can start to heal.

The pressure is brought back to a natural state, and the divine threads separate back to the pure cyan density in the layer of the Upper Realm where Abby floats.

Seraphel flies within the thick branches of the stabilizing Blue Zone, yet both of their cores are now bright purple. Dense layers of Advanced Primordial Aura are strong enough to keep them from disrupting the zones around them. In fact, following the pathways within her tree, it feels like Abby can flow to any zone she wishes, and exit with her physical body without even denting the atmosphere.

The final zone's barrier to heal up is the divide between the Blue and Purple Zone.

It only fully seals up the cracks once the final sprouting branches and leaves fill up the dome in the center of the zone that the Rising Emperor left in place before disappearing through a tear in space.

Many of the leaves touch up against the outer edges of this dome over a quintillion kilometers high.

Each of them links with arrays left behind, and the pathways that flow from the Lower Realm finally find their final resting point, linking them to the Primordial Garden.

There is a moment of peaceful silence flowing through every living being in the Lower and Upper Realm as this enormous construct finally finishes its reconfiguration and clicks back into place.
