And yes, Jake was certain the Northpeak Wyvern sought to become a True Dragon. Wyverns didn’t need to become dragons, but could even stay wyverns or evolve into monsters within the same lizard-like species. However, based on the Northpeak Wyvern’s aura and the fact that he’d received a Divine Blessing from a significant figure from a Dragonflight, there really was no doubt he would either become a True Dragon or stay a peak C-grade wyvern forever.

“I thank the Chosen for his recognition,” the wyvern bowed even deeper before turning to Miranda. “I also owe your witch, and have agreed to assist her in the upcoming event.”

“Oh, please, you’re looking for any opportunity to become a True Dragon,” Miranda waved off the wyvern.

“That’s something I can’t deny,” the Northpeak Wyvern chuckled, Jake just nodding in approval.

From his dragon-hunting preparations, he knew that True Dragons that managed to evolve from lesser variants tended to be pretty damn talented and powerful, even amongst other True Dragons. That’s why Villy said that Jake trying to hunt down a True Dragon that had evolved from a wyvern would have been a great way to commit suicide.

Jake still wasn’t sure they could trust this particular wyvern, and the guy hadn’t made the best first impression, but again, he trusted Miranda and her judgment.

“I wish you good luck whenever you get to it,” Jake smiled. “And try to evolve all of you, okay? Being B-grade is pretty awesome, and I can definitely recommend it.”

“We all plan to, don’t worry,” Miranda shook her head. “As for whether we’ll succeed, only time will tell. We shouldn’t be surprised if the evolution to B-grade becomes a serious barrier many never overcome.”

“True,” Jake acknowledged. “But they should still try.”

With those words, Jake started walking out of the meeting room, only briefly stopping to throw the Northpeak Wyvern a look. “You’d better be a True Dragon next time we meet.”

He didn’t give the overgrown lizard any time to respond before he was out of the room. Jake quickly made his way over to Arnold’s place, which had pretty much just turned into a vetting area for his moon base teleporter, with only a few basic things remaining.

The mad scientist was waiting there in front of the teleporter, sitting with his usual tablet that Jake couldn’t even see the screen of when he entered the room. From his point of view, it was just an unnaturally black color.

“You’re here,” Arnold acknowledged his presence. “I simply wished to inform you that I should have the equipment ready within the next hundred days. I advise you to pick it up before leaving for the system event. All products are mostly completed, and as last time, I’ve made legguards and chest armor.”

“Great,” Jake nodded with a smile. “Do also say if I can do anything for you.”

Arnold looked at Jake for a moment. “Since you asked and seemingly have some downtime before it’s your turn to play a role during the system event, there is something you could do. Through scanning the solar system, there appears to be an irregular number of powerful beings, and while most are of no concern due to the distance between our planet and theirs, the same cannot be said about the two within closest proximity. Orbital patterns have shifted significantly, creating a far more consistent distance, so the travel time isn’t that long between Earth and these two planets. While I have sent drones towards Mars for scouting and potentially establishing a temporary outpost, any attempts to enter the atmosphere of Venus have been thwarted so far; hence, I’m proposing you-“

“Yes,” Jake didn’t even need to hear more. Fuck yeah, he agreed. Jake had already wanted to pay Venus a little visit, giving him time to exercise a little before it was time to face what the system event had to throw at him.
