Baledagh smacked the spear aside with his staff, and with a crack, the wood shattered, the metal tip wailing as it sailed away through the air, over the crowd and into the woods. Without missing a step, he poked Gen in the throat with his staff and continued onward, a sneer on his face. “Don't presume to give orders here, whelp. Point a weapon at me again and I'll skin you alive.” Gen's mouth gaped like a fish as he stared at his broken weapon, his free hand touching his neck. Baledagh didn't hurt him, only warning the overconfident and brash young man. She struggled not to burst into laughter, giddy from fear and relief. Glancing back at Gen, Baledagh remarked, “You look about the right size. Run home and ready a pair of pants for me. Clean ones, mind you, I don't want to find any shit stains on them.”

The other hunter's stirred at the provocation but an upraised hand from the Chief stalled them. “Gen, do as Warrior Baledagh asks, and have your mother prepare tea. My apologies Great Warrior, he is my son, a child with more courage than sense.”

“Alcohol.” Baledagh chimed in before refocusing on his walk. “And snacks. No fish.”

“As he says, get to it boy.”

Qing-Qing's head was light as she moved in a daze. The arrogance and confidence he displayed was a heady rush, and before she knew it, she sat at the table in the Chief's home, a large, wood and brick affair. If not for Gen, she could have grown up here with them, and though she was accustomed to her life, it stung to see the niceties she lived without, like decorations and furniture. The Chief brought plenty to the village, risking much to do so, and in return, the village took care of him. It shouldn't have come a surprise learning Bei wanted to marry Gen, but it hurt her to know her friend had set her sights so low. They were supposed to escape this drudgery together, but instead, she'd only been pushing Qing-Qing towards death.

Well Bei could have that controlling, jealous bastard, they deserved each other. Let them live their lives out here in this dreary village, while Qing-Qing followed Baledagh away to a better life inside PingYao.

Gen served the alcohol and snacks, placing a clean shirt and pants next to them before standing off to one side with his father. Baledagh ate and drank, relishing the dried meat with a foolish smile on his face. She filled his cup every time he emptied it with a sound of delight, ignoring the Chief's growing impatience and frustration. It was almost refreshing to see Baledagh toying with him like a cat plays with a mouse, until she realized the other hunters were likely waiting outside, ready to charge in at a moments notice should things go wrong. As impressive as Baledagh was, he was still heavily injured. If need be, the villagers would band together and bury his body and their secret deep. Nothing brought people together quicker than threat of mutual destruction.

After cleaning off the plate and drinking the jar dry, Baledagh waved the Chief over. “Send the little shit outside and tell your men to piss off.” Burping loudly, he added, “If I want to kill you, they won't be any help.”

Gen exchanged a worried look with his father but the Chief shook his head. “Do as Warrior Baledagh says. Now. Don't make the honoured guest ask twice.”

“But father --”

“Oh, yes, please, argue with him. I don't much like your attitude.” Baledagh's smile sent shivers down her spine, and evidently did the same to the Chief.

“Go!” His voice hoarse as he roared at his son, he gripped his shoulder for a moment before shoving him towards the door, a touching gesture to spare his son. Qing-Qing's head hung low at the sight, ashamed for taking delight in all of this. To them, Baledagh was a powerful warrior who held their lives in the palm of his hands. It wasn't right for her to enjoy his tormenting them, watching a good man ready himself for death.

Still, Mother help her, she couldn't stop smiling. A good man he may be, he'd done nothing to stop Gen from harassing her.

Once they were alone, Baledagh threw a gold bar on the table, yawning as the Chief's eyes widened at the sight. “This is yours. In return, I expect food, meat, rice, spices and wine. What your family eats each day, I need at least three times as much. Worry not about giving me too much, only if it is not enough.”

His mouth working furiously, the Chief stammered, “Great Warrior, this is too much coin for what you are asking, we are but humble villagers with no way to gather enough to pay back what's owed.” Still, his hands reached out to clutch the gold, holding it close to his chest as if afraid Baledagh would take it back.

“No need, this is a mere pittance. Provide me with food and I will be gone as soon, the gold yours to keep. I don't care if you share, do as you see fit.” Qing-Qing gawked at the words, understanding his plan. Greed wouldn't be their problem, it would be the Chief's. “I'll also need a pair of horses and travel clothes. Boots, a spear, a bow and arrows too, the best you have.” Gesturing for more wine, he shouted out as the Chief scurried away to provide for his generous patron. “Also, have someone pick up the laundry every morning and fix my benefactor's roof, it leaks when it rains.” Winking at her, he smiled devilishly as he settled back in his chair, smug and self-satisfied.

So strong and confident, like a wild stallion running roughshod over all in his path. Before today, the Chief had seemed like an unshakable presence, speaking amicably with bandits and paying their protection fees without batting an eye, but now, he poured wine and tied his tongue in knots trying to fawn over Baledagh.

The Mother provided, and Qing-Qing was grateful for Her bounty. Glancing over at Baledagh, she saw him in a new light, her heartbeat racing as she pondered her future. Beneath the blindfold and scars, he was a handsome man, his eyes a striking colour of golden brown, his easy smile making him seem young and impish. He obviously fancied her, with all his blushing and stammering, and although she felt some tender feelings for him while he slept, for the first time, she wondered what it would be like to be his woman.

Ai Qing, wife of Falling Rain, hero of the Bekhai.

It sounded heavenly.

Chapter Meme
