The brat tensed in his grip and HuoLong pretended not to notice, walking past a pair of shivering twins. As the brat relaxed, he paused for a long second, letting the despair sink in before stepping back to stare at the twins. “My my, I always wanted have a run at twins.”

The brat struggled uselessly and roared, “Keep your hands off them you filthy bastard!”

This was almost too easy. “You sweet on both of em? Damn boy, yer eyes are too big for yer stomach.” Throwing the brat aside, HuoLong lazily reached for the girls, savouring the fear in their eyes. “You wouldn’t know what to do with fine women like th--”

The world erupted into pain and shot past him, his breath emptying from his lungs as he crashed into to the ground. Staring up at the endless sky, he heard weapons clanging and people shouting, but no matter how hard he tried, his body refused to obey, hands clutching his chest as he wheezed in agony, fighting to draw breath. What’d happened to his Aura? He had to rekindle his Aura and protect his people. Drawing on the power within, he willed his emotions into existence and felt them explode, an intangible wave of gut-wrenching terror and paralyzing panic rippling outwards from his body.

Only to crash into an unmoving wall, solid as a mountain, snuffing his Aura out like a sputtering candle.

The sounds of battle quieted and HuoLong lay prone and helpless, dread and apprehension welling within, his head spinning and lungs burning with effort. A shadow fell over him and he looked up into the yellow, hate-filled eyes of the Young Wolf, grinning darkly as he slowly lifted his massive boot. The boot stomped down towards HuoLong’s face and an involuntary scream slipped from his lips. The world exploded into pain once again, teeth rattling inside his mouth and tasting of metal as a high-pitched ringing set in his ears.

Even in his disoriented state, HuoLong fought to remain conscious, unwilling to surrender to the darkness. A massive man appeared in his vision, dwarfing the burly Young Wolf. “Enough, nephew mine.” Where the fuck did this bulky bastard come from? He hadn’t been in the crowd...

“Uncle Kalil, when did you get so strong?” The Young Wolf leaned into the large warrior, looking like a child in his embrace. “Why didn’t you act sooner?”

“How are you expecting me to save you while this coward holds blade to your throat? Your Ma’ll beat me senseless if you came home with a mark on you, so you best get to healing now.” Sighing as he shook his head, Kalil prodded HuoLong with his foot. “If this is what amounts to a Dragon around these parts, then I’m sorely disappointed.”

“He’s mine, Uncle.” The Young Wolf’s glower set HuoLong’s body to shivering. “He killed Jaga.”

“No, boy.” Kalil patted the Young Wolf’s head. “It’s a harsh truth, but you must hear it: your actions cost Jaga his life. You let your lust for battle overwhelm you and rushed ahead without aid. You knew Laughing Dragon might be here and took no precautions. Not to mention, what sort of half-assed plan is ‘move in and kill them all’? You can do better than that, you need to do better. I won’t always be here to guard you. Temper your blood lust and learn to unleash it at the proper time, or it won’t just be your quin who pays the price. Would Rain have attacked so heedlessly? Perhaps he would, but Rain condensed his Aura and can handle a worthless bandit like this.”

“Worthless?” HuoLong croaked. “Do you know who I am?”

“I do, I’ve seen your type hundreds of times before. You’re a coward.” Another prod from Kalil sent waves of pain through his body, his ribs broken cleanly. “You condensed your Aura – no, you cheated your way into obtaining a facsimile of Aura through the Father’s sacrilegious powers, and since then you’ve harboured delusions of grandeur. You’re a bully and like all bullies, you pick on the weak and are terrified of a fair fight. A narcissist too, considering your crafted ‘heroic’ persona. You make me sick, so shut your mouth before I shut it for you.”

Unable to help himself, HuoLong quivered before Kalil’s oppressive Aura, unable to resist it for more than a heartbeat. “I still want to kill him,” the Young Wolf said. “We have enough prisoners for the Marshall.”

“I said no. Regardless of his true nature, this bastard is the public figurehead of the Defiled incursion and the Major will have questions for him. Besides,” Kalil added, “you forget who rides at the Major’s side. A fate worse than you can imagine awaits him once we hand him over to the Shrike.”

An impotent wail burst from his throat at the mention of the Sanguine Priestess and HuoLong finally lost his nerve. “Malang! You bastard, save me!” He repeated the cry until another boot to the head granted him the merciful oblivion of slumber.

Please, no, it can’t end like this...

Chapter Meme
