His explanation left her even more agape. But it did give him the idea that perhaps speed casting was something he could look into. After all, the faster he could cast a spell, the more he could cast overall. It also gave him some ideas for potential improvements. Elemental Living Enchantment—which was his current best method of punching well above his weight—had the side effect of destroying large portions of his body whenever he used it in tandem with an exceptionally powerful skill such as Smite of Abrupt Deliverance. And the problem with that was that he needed to reform the enchantment within himself after each use.

But if he had speed casting… couldn’t he reform the enchantment at a far faster rate? What if he not only acquired the skill, but then also trained it to the point where he could re-weave elemental enchantments within his limbs in-between each blow? Hells… what if if he could even weave defensive enchantments into his own flesh which helped maintain the durability of his body?

Although the zealot had been weakened, even as a Transcendent Orodan had fought above his level and slain the Prophet. Almyra couldn’t have managed it, no other looper could have. It was a victory earned through the sweat and blood of hard work combined with the sheer utility of Elemental Living Enchantment.

Certainly, Orodan was no shirker of hard work. He would not neglect the physical training of his body and martial abilities at base. But if he honed the basics and then developed speed casting and Elemental Living Enchanting on top? Perhaps he could even hope to beat an Administrator in a straight fight when they had their Mantle.

And so it began.

Just as Wainroach was furiously meditating and then casting Fireballs whenever her mana pool was full, so too did Orodan join her in forcing his mana reserve into absolute stillness and then utterly exploding with speed.

Zukelmux was just outside the walls contending with the horde itself and doing his best to survive, and Edrosic and Aliya were atop the walls engaging in combat against certain monsters that were allowed up for the recruits to fight. With the caveat that Orodan would from time to time randomly throw either or both of them down to where Zukelmux was, and they would then have to fight their way back up to the walls and safety.

Parthus didn’t like that at all, but it was good training and his fellow militia man was visibly getting stronger by the day. In truth, it was no secret that the militia man from Ogdenborough was struggling. The looks of inferiority and insecurity were apparent whenever the man looked at Zukelmux or even Aliya who was a prodigious Staff-wielder who enjoyed combat and adventure. Atop the walls he’d heard mutters from the soldiers and mages as to why Edrosic was even chosen for such tutelage. These mutters had been immediately silenced via a glare from Orodan himself, but not before the easygoing man had heard them.

Orodan continued his own training while supervising the progress of his students, and time went on. His mana pool was explosively brought forth over and over, and Wainroach, Edrosic, Aliya and Zukelmux were pushed to their limits repeatedly, over and over. For the first hour things were normal, and then, Orodan began demanding they work other skills during their rest periods too.

The training was rightfully intense.

Academies might encourage students to train hard, and in class they certainly did. But few academies truly drove their students into the ground over and over like he was doing to them. Rest? There was no true rest. Much like Adeltaj had worked him to the bone once upon a time, so too were these four utterly oppressed by his demands.

Whenever Wainroach meditated, Orodan now also forced her to bear small but dense rocks upon her back. He had also borrowed paintings from the libraries and vaults of Anthus and made her watch these and give him an explanation on what her thoughts were. Zaessythra still couldn’t understand how he spoke to the cockroach, but Orodan assured her that warriors just knew how to speak to one another without words.

Aliya? Forced to perform the basic exercises which aspiring mages did upon admission to a magic academy, all while reading up on her books for early school. Edrosic? Given yarn and sewing needle to work upon. And Zukelmux? That goblin hadn’t even needed a break yet so Orodan was happy to let that combat-happy student of his fight for as long as he desired.

Aliya was frowning at being forced to slow down and study. But Edrosic? The man was humming to himself as the stress from his face had all but faded. Not only that, but he was weaving the yarn in a way Orodan hadn’t seen before.

“You’re a lot better at that than I thought…” Orodan muttered while still casting Draconic Fireballs out into the horde.

The horde had practically evaporated by now, and even the Master-level leaders had run for the hills or moved to assaulting the other walls of Anthus. The west wall, was the quietest it had ever been. And the landscape in front of it was a charred canvas of craters and devastation. And that was despite Orodan keeping the power of the Draconic Fireball low.

“And I always thought you hated mages,” Edrosic replied, letting out deep breaths as he recovered from all the fighting, but not at all distressed now that he had something to focus on. “But I suppose you don’t really know everything about someone unless you get to know them, eh?”

“Well… I did hate mages for a long time,” Orodan admitted, exploding out with another Draconic Fireball down at the far edges where a few monsters were still murderously looking at Anthus. “But time and education tend to instil a certain respect for the magical arts into someone. Plus… chronomancy is useful.”

And as he spoke, he channeled a bit of soul energy towards Time Reversal, and Edrosic gaped like a fish as the charred landscape outside the west wall of Anthus slowly rewound in time, and was soon back to a pristine state before his calamitious spellfire had touched it.

“You really were made for this Orodan. Right from when I saw you fight for the first time in basic I knew you were getting somewhere in life. These time loops are for you, not someone like me. Don’t know why you pulled lazy Parthus Edrosic along for the ride,” the man said, avoiding his gaze as he simply wove the yarn into a sublime pattern which was quite pleasing to the eye.

“Why not? Did I perhaps interrupt you from a very important life goal you were in the midst of achieving?” Orodan jested. “Did Parthus Edrosic have anything better to do?”

“Damn it, you know that’s not what I meant Orodan,” his fellow private asked. “All of… this. Even with the memories of this other time where my mother and father died, I don’t think I’m cut out for it. I’ll never be cut out for it. Not like Aliya, definitely not like Zukelmux or hells, even like Wainroach has been managing. And I’ll certainly never be like you. I’m just a militia man who signed on to avoid joining my father’s carpentry business. Why me? What the hells did you see in me that made you decide to drag some hapless middle of the pack private along? Who am I to you?”

“A friend, Edrosic. A friend,” Orodan replied shutting him up. “You called yourself that when I was about to leave for somewhere in a loop of mine. Of course, add the guilt from me screwing up and creating an alternate timeline where your parents were slain… and it’s a rather obvious choice isn’t it?”

“You…! You took pity on me! That’s all this is?!”

“Pity? Far from it. If anything, the determination I saw in the eyes of that broken man whose parents were slain made me think there was something worth cultivating. Plus… if I’m being entirely honest… it’s nice to have a student who’s average,” Orodan admitted.

“So you admit it! That I’m nothing compared to the others!” Parthus shouted, looking more than a little hurt. “What use am I-”

“Parthus,” Orodan uttered, his voice putting an end to the tirade. “I don’t teach anyone because they’re useful to me. I teach them because I want to and because it improves my Teaching skill. In that regard, teaching you is a lot better for the skill than teaching those two.”

“In other words… I’m the only non-fighter among a group of battle maniacs, how reassuring,” Parthus replied, though the earlier accusation in his tone was noticeable absent. “So I suppose I am useful to you then.”

“Not that I go around evaluating my friends and those close to me for their usefulness, but if that’s how you wish to see it, I won’t stop you,” Orodan allowed. “Besides, you have yet to meet Fenton Penny. Once I go around to getting him back, you won’t be the only one of my students who’s not too keen on fighting. Not that he couldn’t, but without preparation, he’d likely lose to Zukelmux quite handily in a straight battle.”

“He’s that enchanter you spoke about, right? Hard to imagine someone so good at Enchanting that he made an orb capable of transferring memories…” Edrosic muttered, already looking far less troubled by his place among Orodan’s students.

“Don’t get me wrong, the orb is impressive, but Fenton’s made far more impressive things than that.”

In particular, the pillars of purification which outright drained Eldritch-infected world cores and even severely weakened the Prophet. Without Fenton, Orodan wouldn’t have won that fight in the end. Not in that loop.

“But you’re talking too much. Seems you’ve had enough rest, back to the fight with you, Edrosic.”

The man laughed and moved to get up, but not before handing Orodan a few pages of paper. What were these?

“Alright, alright. But here, maybe replace those atrocious paintings you have Wainroach looking at with these… those are giving me an eyesore,” the man said, getting up, suddenly not looking troubled at the prospect of whatever had been bothering him before.

He visibly felt Wainroach’s soul glow brighter. These drawings… they were…

“Beautiful…” Orodan muttered as he looked through the pages.

And on the last one, a picture of him casting a Draconic Fireball. It was no common picture either. Orodan was drawn like a true brute. Not that his proportions were off or he was exaggerated, but he could almost feel the sheer aura of violence roiling off of him in waves.

Then… had Edrosic seen this side of him already and just… accepted it?

And what was this part of the drawing? It perfectly encapsulated the stillness of Orodan’s mana pool moments before the explosion of Draconic Fireball. A stillness that was almost like a coiled spring. An exceedingly violent one.

Something in his head clicked. He clamped down upon his mana pool with extreme force. Not just to make it still, but to tighten and load it up… like a beast coiled and ready to surge forth.

[Draconic Fireball 82 → Draconic Fireball 83]

[Draconic Mana Channeling 69 → Draconic Mana Channeling 70]

[New Skill → Burst Casting 6 (Exquisite)]

The Draconic Fireball formed and flew out with such furious suddenness that even Orodan nearly failed to react. It was only a sudden upward twitch of his casting arm that saved the wall they were upon from suffering severe damage.

The magic projectile carried on, blasting right through the cloud layer before he willed it explode high in the sky. The dazzling explosion caused many of the mages present to gasp and mutter in awed whispers, and the shockwave could be felt even here far below on the ground many miles away.

Powerful. He hadn’t even overcharged it, but it was as though the extra explosive momentum within his mana pool allowed each spell to hit harder and do more for the same amount of mana.

He had studied at Bluefire and knew that Speed Casting, a skill typically trained and honed in the Eastern Kingdoms, was a Rare-rarity skill. So for this Burst Casting to be a step above that? He must’ve done something right.

And by him, he really meant Edrosic.

That sneaky little… he had already jumped off the walls to fight back-to-back with Zukelmux too.

#

“Orodan, why are you sulking at me like that?”

Could Orodan truly be blamed for his foul mood? For once, he thought he’d truly found an average and untalented student to teach. But no. Edrosic had to go and upend his expectations by being some freak savant at drawing.

What sort of silly skill was that to be talented in? Almost as rubbish as Orodan being unfathomably good at cleaning.

“You rascal… you somehow conned me this entire time into not realizing you were some prodigious artist!”

“How am I to blame for that? And I’m not even prodigious! I just started drawing a year ago!”

This monster… it was some cruel joke by the System, or fate… or something. It had to be.

Aliya and Zukelmux? Talented at fighting. Fenton? Talented at Enchanting. And now Parthus was quite prodigious at drawing. It was all one big joke.

“Parthus… you started drawing a few months ago and are already an Apprentice. Do you understand how improbable that is?” Orodan asked.

“No? I suppose I have a knack for sketching some doodles but that’s no different from you being good at fighting, right? That nobleman’s son was the only one who even came close to matching you in spars during basic. and even he ate dirt.”

“And probably ensured I remain posted in Ogdenborough after that,” Orodan replied, recalling the blue-blooded bastard who’d had an all too smug look upon his face despite losing regularly to him. “Anyhow, the question remains as to where you shall remain posted.”

“You mean I can finally leave Oxhead and maybe join Elmswith?!” Edrosic asked, excited.

