Burst Casting was… exhilarating. The only physical equivalent he could compare it to would be remaining at rest and then, with extreme suddenness and violence, jabbing one’s hand out. The combination of Combat Mastery, Physical Fitness and Body Tempering meant that Orodan’s reaction time was astounding. Yet with Burst Casting, he was casting the individual spell at a speed and with such instinctive explosiveness that he couldn’t react to stop his own magic.

Which meant that practicing it was quite hazardous for anyone around him. Anyone besides Destartes that was. The triple-Grandmaster mage had agreed to train with him until he could master the skill. It was particularly volatile however, and would take time to perfect.

The problem, was that Orodan was naturally a very violent and explosive individual in combat. Naturally, this in tandem with how energetic his soul was meant that any sudden burst of the mana pool portion of his soul was cataclysmically fast. And with just how much mana he had, it was akin to a mountain suddenly moving at the speed of sound. Lightning Bolt had a set amount of mana which it used by default, but when Burst Casting Orodan sometimes used over a third of his mana pool due to the sheer momentum of energy as he violently cast.

Destartes had immediately banned the usage of any spell besides Lightning Bolt. The wizard had outright said that Orodan was likely to kill him if Draconic Fireball went awry when used with Burst Casting. And even with these lightning bolts the danger was increasing as Orodan’s skills improved.

“Right… I apologize. Shall we go again?”

“Ugh… a dozen more times and no more beyond that. I’ll need to bring enchanted items and additional safeguards if I’m to keep training you like this,” Destartes said with a groan. “Yes, you’re in a time loop, but I don’t quite feel like getting turned to ash alongside half the county.”

He would have liked to say that he would do no such thing. But with Burst Casting being as volatile and beyond his speed of reaction as it was, Orodan could make no such guarantees.

He practiced the Lightning Bolt in tandem with Burst Casting a dozen more times as promised, and then they ceased as Destartes grew tired of funneling such large amounts of energy elsewhere via spatiomancy. It was good practice for the old wizard, and given how the triple-Grandmaster looked determined and excited, he must have thought so too.

Still, this session was the final one of many that they’d engaged in during this loop.

And by the looks of it, it was time for everyone to begin filing into the chamber they were in. The one beneath Mount Castarian.

The first to arrive were his students. Aliya and Zukelmux looked more than a little nervous. Edrosic looked quite calm, as did Wainroach. Understandable since the latter two had been through the process of the orb’s memory transference and ‘reawakening’ in the next loop already.

Following them, Old Man Hannegan came in, accompanied by the Lieutenant-General of Anthus and Adeltaj Simarji.

Here, beneath Mount Castarian, within the main control chamber for the ancient machine, everyone of note was assembled.

“Quite the gathering you’ve arranged here Mister Wainwright,” Tegin Carrotfoot spoke. “I believe that is everyone who is in the loop. And no, I shall not apologize for that miserable play on words.”

“Tegin, you’ll be joining then?” Destartes asked.

“Oh heavens no. Knowing that everything will be reset despite my efforts would swiftly crush my morale,” the halfling immediately answered, self-removing himself from being a target of Fenton’s orb. “To that end, Master, I shall leave it to you.”

“I’ve not known you to shirk responsibility before my dear student,” Destartes said, raising his brow, but his tone non-judgemental.

“Indeed. But here the responsibility for the Republic’s liberation from the divine and the protection of our fair world can be left to Mister Wainwright. In you, I see the hope for a better future,” the halfling commander explained. “Seeking greater power or station has never been my desire in life. Even my accolades during the Liberation War were borne of a sense of duty and necessity rather than personal ambition. One day when you complete your final loop, find me a nice house in Anthus where I can retire. Perhaps with one of those fancy immortality pills from this other world you spoke of. I should quite like to spend my ageless days reading all sorts of indulgent fiction from across the cosmos.”

“Hah! Granted,” Orodan agreed with a smile. He had always thought this halfling was a truly honest person. Even in the last loop where they’d worked together to overthrow the divine, Tegin Carrotfoot had simply resumed his position at Anthus instead of chasing any further political appointment or power. “If that’s all you want, I’m more than happy to see that made reality.”

“I suppose ferrying critical information and developments back to you will not be a problem,” Destartes agreed, smiling at the halfling. “Now, before we get to work in putting this machine together, Adeltaj… what has the council said?”

“What else can they say? The Cathedral’s holdouts were not about to refuse us access to the machine. Not when the council seats of your faction were more than happy to agree,” Adeltaj spoke, relaying what he’d seen in the High Spire. “We’re as free as we’ll be to tamper with this giant hunk of metal. Especially if the loop will end soon as you say, Orodan.”

“It will. I sense them… they’re getting closer and closer. Less than a day until they properly narrow down my position.”

“Which just means we’ll have to make this a decent attempt at fixing this thing up,” Old Man Hannegan spoke.

With that said, the work began in earnest.

The ancient machine. It was a device created by the Custodian himself, left within the roots of Mount Castarian so that Orodan could potentially fix it up and gain passage to the very bowels of the System itself. To that strange place where the Eldritch Boundless One fueling the entire System resided. Where the time loop mechanism was.

He had grown up in Ogdenborough, and consequently the machine was located under the mountain nearest to him. It was all ordained; as he knew from when the Custodian had outright said it was he who chose Orodan Wainwright for the time loops as a last ditch measure.

Needless to say, the construct was important. For while Orodan had been in the bowels of System space, this machine, he suspected, could take him directly into the cage where the Boundless One itself resided. All it would need was a slight alteration of its targeting and enough raw power.

Power which he had plenty of.

Destartes was a big help, his magic smoothing out various parts of the re-enchanting and artificing process. And oddly enough, so was Edrosic, whose diagram of the current state of the machine was incredibly detailed and helped Orodan consider the thing from an angle he hadn’t before. And the Lieutenant-General of Anthus worked some sort of social skill which had Edrosic and Destartes working at peak capacity the entire time. Doubtlessly one related to military command.

But most important of all… was Old Man Hannegan.

“No! You’re doing it wrong! Start enchanting from that pauldron and then end at the slope of the elbow!” the old foreman barked. “Can’t you see that if you do it your way the workflow will be askew?!”

It wasn’t that the old supervisor knew the intricacies of Enchanting, Engineering or Artificing, all three of which were critical to rebuilding this thing. But rather, the man’s ability to direct the workflow and see the bigger picture was practically supernatural. Under Old Man Hannegan’s guidance, the team’s productivity soared and certain minor errors and imperfections which would have come from an erroneous workflow were avoided entirely.

Who knew that doing things in a particular order could make such a difference? Why, he’d never worked on the ancient machine so fast in all his loops! The construction supervisor of Ogdenborough was worth far more than his weight in gold.

Still, it was a laborious effort. One which took more than twelve hours. And by the end of it Destartes was exhausted, Old Man Hannegan’s hair was dishevelled from having to constantly redirect them to more efficient work sequences, Tegin Carrotfoot’s voice was hoarse and Edrosic’s hand was sore from drawing and re-drawing sketches of the machine’s current state as they worked.

Yes, Destartes could have used illusory spells, but Edrosic had volunteered to draw in order to improve his skill, and the militia man’s sketches were incredibly intricate in a way even a life-like projection of magic could not achieve. Furthermore, before they made a change or moved onto a critical step, a corresponding drawing of the possible result really did wonders in helping the crew avoid mistakes.

“Damn… I think that should be it. I don’t think I’ve ever drawn so many variations and alterations of a single thing in my life…” Parthus muttered, clenching and unclenching his right hand.

“I will not lie Parthus… I am impressed. I thought Drawing a mere hobby for you, but for it to go so far? Profound,” Orodan genuinely praised. “Thank you for all your help.”

“What are you thanking me for? Aren’t we going to be doing this in every loop from now on? I doubt you’re strong enough to deal with whatever’s on the other side. And these Embodiers you talk about sound really tough,” Parthus spoke. “So my work’s far from over.”

The man didn’t sound annoyed by that fact though.

But the labor had been a gainful one. He had gained levels in Artificing, Engineering, Laboring and even one more in Enchanting. This was all a welcome boon, but Orodan still felt he had a long way to go. Particularly since he felt his work on the machine wasn’t as good as that of some other people he knew.

“I’m not sure it’ll work this time,” Orodan honestly admitted. “I’m but an Adept Engineer and merely a Master-level Enchanter. This still doesn’t match up to my memories of the completed version made by the Custodian.”

“Expecting to succeed in such a monumental undertaking on the first try is a bit much Mister Wainwright,” Tegin Carrotfoot spoke up. “Even then, these are some of the most profound enchantments I have ever seen in my life. I did not know three-dimensional enchanting could look like that.”

“Four dimensional in fact. The etchings also bear the dimension of time to them. Much like System glyphs do,” Orodan explained. “But I’m no prodigy of Enchanting, that would be Fenton. And I’m not about to drag him from his world and into one where he’ll be on the brink of war at the end of every two week period.”

Clyburn Anderthorn too. That man’s acumen for Engineering and Artificing was top notch.

While Orodan intended to become capable of rebuilding this machine the right way with his own hand, he needed expert consultation in order to learn how to go about that.

“Then, it should be a goal of yours to create that world of peace which he can come to, no?” Tegin suggested, and Orodan agreed. Until he was capable of protecting his world from the oncoming threat, he felt it poor manners to just drag Fenton over. “Well, before we evacuate the chamber and possibly the county so that you can activate the machine, perhaps we should have the final debrief. Mister Edrosic, if you would?”

Parthus nodded, pulling out a very large war map sized scroll of paper and unfurling it upon an Earthen Construct raised by Destartes. On the canvas was an intricately detailed chart of names, associated portraits of people, and lines going from one to another. It also had detailed Statuses of everyone. Even Orodan’s, from when he’d used the observer orb in the barracks.

“You drew all this Parthus?” Orodan asked, bewildered at the intricacy.

“Just a side project which took no more than an hour and a bit of nudging from the General,” the man replied, pride in his voice.

“Quite. With Mister Edrosic’s profound knack for detail I’ve put together a chart detailing the current goals of your group and how to best go about achieving things,” the halfling explained. “For starters, Misters Zukelmux and Edrosic and Miss Aliya. How goes the academy?”

“Unchallenging…” the goblin muttered.

“Better nowadays,” Edrosic said.

“Fun!” Aliya exclaimed.

“Well, that’s good to hear,” Orodan responded. “Zukelmux. Next loop, you’re going to Bluefire. No sense in having you waste your time at Oxhead any longer. Edrosic, you’ll continue at Oxhead until you can best the strongest student there. And Aliya, the same goes for you.”

“Ugh… must I Orodan? The woman’s a high-Adept and put me in the dirt until Zukelmux stepped in and beat her black and blue in recompense,” Edrosic groaned.

Aliya didn’t look too happy about having to redo school each time either.

“Don’t give me those faces. Until you can fairly prove yourselves the top of the academy like Zukelmux has, there’s no point to advancing elsewhere. Earn your way out of the drudgery if you dislike it so much,” Orodan lectured. “Shortcuts and slacking will not get you anywhere.”

They discussed a few things further where the faces of those two lifted at the prospect of additional Calligraphy and drawing training for Edrosic and magical training for Aliya. And of course, Orodan intended to drag them to the depths starting from next loop.

“Now as for you… Wainroach,” Orodan said, focusing on her.

