Destartes shielded Tegin and Adeltaj brought his halberd out to protect himself. It wasn’t necessary, but he couldn’t fault them for it when the waves of reality-bending power were emanating off of his broom like a tornado.

Orodan’s eyes blazed white as Cleanliness moved to see his vision brought to reality.

He had done this feat once before, purging the influence of certain Gods from Alastaia entirely. But the difference between then and now was that he had a concept which bent to his will complicating matters. Perhaps the regular Embodier wouldn’t have faced this issue; hells even the Custodian would not have. But for Orodan whose raw power outstripped all of them?

For other Embodiments, their grand visions to alter reality were limited by power. For him, who had too much of it, the concept could do some terrible damage if his mind wasn’t focused and careful.

Like the dense stuff at the heart of a star, Orodan’s mind was unyielding. He was exceedingly careful to prevent his grudge against certain divinities from coloring his intentions.

And even then Cleanliness tried deviating just a slight bit. Why not purge the wicked Gods themselves if he was already wiping out all of their Blessings across Alastaia?

To that, Orodan simply responded with a fierce uppercut which buried itself in Cleanliness’s gut and knocked the air right out of it. His mind turned violent, brutal. The desire to utterly ravage this silly concept until it obeyed and ceased causing him issues.

How he could punch a concept, Orodan still didn’t know. And by the absurd and utterly horrified looks Adeltaj and Destartes were giving him, they didn’t either. But it worked.

The gut punch knocked some sense into the concept and it bowed to his will.

The broom touched the ground… and a wave of power went out.

Starting at Anthus, it swept farther and farther outwards until it carried across all Alastaia before making the round trip across the world and coming back to him.

And with it…

…the foul taint of Agorhiku, Agathor, Eximus and Ilyatana were purged from all corners of the earth.

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 172 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 173]

[Combat Mastery 140 → Combat Mastery 141]

[Reality Alteration 85 → Reality Alteration 86]

“A light beating, but it’s done,” Orodan spoke.

Frankly, he longed for the day where he could just sidestep the hassle of these concepts and become the sole guide of his own skills. He didn’t understand why Embodiers fought so hard over these damned things when all they did was cause problems.

But Adeltaj and Destartes were both pale-faced, staring at him as though he was something very wrong.

“What in the hells was that?” Adeltaj asked sharply. “You… you just punched…”

“I just punched a concept, that was all,” Orodan answered, a little confused himself. “I’ve explained this to you before old man. Why are you so surprised?”

“Because Mister Wainwright…” Destartes said, calming himself by taking a deep breath. “That looked entirely unnatural. And I don’t mean in the sense that you bent reality, but in the sense that you became something else. Something very… terrifying.”

Orodan’s brow furrowed as he looked himself up and down. He used Vision of Purity, he even walked towards a nearby dressing mirror and closely inspected himself from head to toe.

“I see absolutely no difference… what did you see?”

“I… I cannot put it into words. You just… you…”

Destartes’s mutters were cut off as the Lieutenant-General of Anthus collapsed to the ground, shaking like a leaf in the wind. That wasn’t right. The halfling was a battle-hardened warrior who had seen plenty of bloodshed during the Liberation War. Why had he just collapsed?

“Lieutenant-General…” Orodan said as he slowly approached. “What’s the matt-”

“Away! Do not approach me!”

Destartes who was protective of the halfling seemed most hesitant to step between him and Orodan. It wasn’t respect, it wasn’t the knowledge that Orodan meant no harm. No… it was fear.

Even Adeltaj who had memories of a loop and implicitly trusted him looked afraid.

“I… what in the hells did you all see? What did I do? I simply punched the concept until it obeyed me,” Orodan tried to explain as he backed away from the terrified halfling.

“Orodan… logically, reasonably… I understand that it is still you. But please do not do that in anyone’s presence again if you can help it,” Adeltaj spoke up. “It was as though you were something brutal and horrible in the shape of… of you. My eyes told me it was you, certainly you didn’t change visually at all. But… that feeling… it was as though the savagery of thousands of battlefields was pressing down upon my mind, body and soul.”

Had it truly?

Orodan hadn’t even known that tapping into that strange ability related to Combat Mastery could do such a thing. He certainly didn’t feel any different when doing so. All he felt was the overwhelming violence from within that he’d always possessed even before the loops.

What was wrong with that?

“I don’t think I’m feeling it from my position either, Orodan. Your soul must shield me from it somehow,” Zaessythra spoke up. “But… I don’t think Combat Mastery at the level you have it should be capable of doing what you do.”

Then again, many things he routinely did he shouldn’t have been capable of doing. Nobody should have been.

Just what the hells was he stepping into with this notion of violence that he was embracing?

#

It had taken some time and coaxing, but the Lieutenant-General had been most mortified and apologetic about his reaction. It helped ease Orodan’s guilt about terrifying the halfling and assured him that the mental side effects upon bystanders weren’t permanent.

In the last loop where he’d brought the notion of violence to bear, nobody besides the Eldritch Boundless One had been around. And following his success, that foreign sadistic Boundless One had breached System space and ended his life shortly after.

Still, while Adeltaj had gone back to normal and as had Destartes, the Lieutenant-General remained just slightly wary. And if their descriptors of his presence were true, then Orodan couldn’t exactly blame the halfling.

In any case, the event had been revelatory.

Was Orodan touching upon something more when he tapped into the notion of violence? Was it a concept? It wasn’t unprecedented for someone incredibly talented to touch a concept prior to Embodiment. He had done so himself when empowering the time loops; the concept of Infinity had nearly overwhelmed him and he was still a Transcendent then.

He was all but certain then that this thing he was tapping into was also a concept. But the question remained: why hadn’t he been overwhelmed or faced any loss of control with it? Yes, Orodan was by now used to dealing with concepts, but he wasn’t arrogant enough to think he would face no struggle whatsoever when tapping into one for the first time.

It was a matter which merited further investigation. Although whether he sought answers or not, with the pace at which he was gaining skill levels and attaining insights, the truth of it would become revealed to him regardless. Combat Mastery was approaching the Embodiment-level, as was Incipience of Infinity.

Orodan hadn’t been around any Embodiers long enough to ask questions about how multiple Embodiment-level skills looked. Based off of the relative power of certain Embodiment-level beings versus others he was almost certain that they had more than one. The dwarf who had fought the Prophet for a while, as well as Talasgan the Warrior himself, Orodan felt were Embodiers in more than one skill.

But did any of them have three or more? If Orodan continued course, that was where he was headed.

In any case, for now avoiding the usage of the concept of violence while around any hapless bystanders was done easily enough. Much like cleaning, the concept didn’t seem to manifest when doing low-level feats. But something absurd like punching Cleanliness or wrestling with Infinity? That would cause problems.

“Causing problems and dealing with them is practically your way of life at this point,” Zaessythra joked. “Where would you be without constant conflict shaping you?”

Not wrong.

And even if he was constrained from using the concept of violence freely while in the presence of others,, there were still numerous other methods of training. Such as slinging spells from atop the walls of Anthus.

Destartes and Tegin Carrotfoot were understandably busy making moves and consolidating power after Orodan’s feat of purging the influence and Blessings of three of the Prime Five from Alastaia. Guzuhar, while he hadn’t checked in on them, was likely experiencing much reprieve since Agorhiku’s exorcism from the world. Which meant that Orodan and his students were now within Anthus, getting in some good training.

“Focus, Wainroach,” Orodan instructed as his student was sat upon his shoulder. “When casting a spell do not simply hurl it like a cheap brick at a window. Your body’s movements matter as much as the casting of the spell does. You also take a while to fully gather the Fireball, which is understandable given how much proportionally larger it is in comparison to you, but we shall train you until you can form and cast it just as fast as any pyromancer can theirs.”

Orodan wasn’t sure when she’d done it, but the cockroach had learned how to cast the Fireball spell too. Perhaps she’d seen one of the mages upon the wall doing so and had mimicked them? In any case, if she utilized four-fifths of her mana pool, she was capable of casting a Fireball which could kill even an Apprentice-level monster in a single direct hit.

It was a serious jump in her combat power, but the mana cost for the proportionally tiny cockroach was tremendous. And Orodan had no intentions of allowing her to rely upon the crutch that was his Blessing. Whenever she would run out of mana he would stringently demand she meditate, hasten the pace of her breathing and attempt to consciously increase her mana generation.

Furthermore, Orodan had gone a step further and even used Domain of Perfect Cleaning to scrub the world energy away from her and Zukelmux. There would be no relying on the abundance of the energy well. They would train to recover under their own power and determination.

Needless to say, it was an exceptionally difficult ordeal for her. Her soul wasn’t as complex as that of a human. And consequently, the amount of mana she generated was a lot less than someone like Zukelmux, Aliya or even Edrosic could naturally produce. But this too, Orodan felt could be rectified through study, exposure to life experiences, good food and art.

Wainroach’s current problem however, was that her aim was quite shoddy. Not that good aim mattered much when hurling a volatile sphere of flame into a horde assailing the walls. But it was the principle of the matter. Orodan’s eyesight was good enough to track where her eyes went and his combat instincts refined enough to tell what her intent was.

Yet the Fireball often went many feet wide, and for each of these casts Orodan pronounced the result inadequate and forced her to go again. Certainly, his student was fighting an uphill battle, being a cockroach who was unused to aiming when using projectile magic. Furthermore, the Fireballs she produced were the size of a grown man’s torso, which meant they completely obscured her vision when casting them from her forelegs. But this was something she needed to overcome and hone through rigorous training.

It was now the third failure in a row, and it was better to show her what he meant than simply spout words.

Orodan’s eyes closed as he carefully primed his mana pool. Instead of casting right away, he forced the mana within him to remain as still as possible. Orodan wasn’t a magical prodigy, but he was a physical one. And if his familiarity with the physical pursuits and martial arts had taught him anything it was that muscles exploded far faster when primed from a position of stillness and rest.

It wasn’t easy when one had as much mana and a soul constantly producing power like his did, but he was able to briefly force his mana pool to be perfectly still. And in that moment where his energy pool was in utter stasis… he let loose.

[Draconic Fireball 81 → Draconic Fireball 82]

[Draconic Mana Channeling 68 → Draconic Mana Channeling 69]

The Draconic Fireball formed incredibly fast. Quick enough that a normal mage would have lost control and had the spell explode in their own face. Thankfully he had quick reflexes, but even for him it was a close thing as it was his own sudden flexion of mana that he had to react to.

The fireball the size of a castle soared forth, formed quicker than he’d ever managed before. And with no loss of power either. It struck the braying hordes outside the west wall of Anthus with a titanic boom.

Wainroach rubbed her legs in glee as she understood what he meant now. And to the side, many of the city’s battlemages were looking at him agape, having perhaps assumed him the martial sort until now.

“A speed caster… like the mages of the Eastern Kingdoms…” one of them muttered.

Orodan looked at the woman and shook his head.

“I don’t have the speed casting skill. This was just me utilizing my mana pool as explosively as possible so that I could impart to my student here how to quickly form a high-power spell.”

