“Of course, and ah… I suppose it bears mentioning that posters bearing your likeness have been sighted across Volarbury County. The county militia for there have asked Exerston County to keep a look out as well,” Gerace informed. “For what? I do not know. But I did have them ignore that instruction once Gregory here came to me and revealed t’was you who came by my quarry.”

Why would the militia of Volarbury County be looking for him?

Orodan needed to think for only a moment before he recalled that he’d absently used the observer orb in Sergeant Woodgard’s office.

#

[Recycling 21 → Recycling 22]

[Maintenance 35 → Maintenance 36]

The used and worn out ink inscription had been cleaned off with a cloth soaked in special solution and Orodan had then smoothed the parchment out, rolled it back up carefully and then tucked it into a scroll case. That was the thirtieth one he’d successfully recycled and maintained too.

Not bad. Perhaps the Calligrapher’s Association was good for more sources of training than just Calligraphy.

The message he’d received an hour ago was a welcome one too, as Orodan recalled it.

[New Skill → Calligraphy 11]

The instructor had been utterly frightened at the savage and violent writing he’d displayed. Hells, even Aliya, Zukelmux and Wainroach seemed uneasy when looking at the art. Edrosic however, had simply looked at it assessingly and then nodded in approval. Orodan thought the man’s natural knack for drawing had let him see something in it.

Parthus had swiftly been taken elsewhere after impressing the calligraphers. Apparently his fellow militia man’s smooth ability to draw also extended to Calligraphy as well. If anything, it was Orodan who wasn’t as talented. They’d offered him special training too—out of respect no doubt—but he refused, insisting that he would only go along with Edrosic once he’d earned the privilege of it with his own work.

Calligraphy was a trickier art than he’d expected. The intent behind the quill or the brush mattered just as much as technique did. In fact, Orodan wasn’t bad at all: he had acquired eleven levels in the skill right off the bat, with it currently sitting at level 13 after some additional practice. But he had only gained such levels due to the fact that his Sword Mastery was at the Master-level. The usage of a sword, it seemed, had some strange transference with Calligraphy. As did his usage of the club, but to a vastly lesser degree. Unarmed Combat Mastery and oddly enough… Wrestling, provided some insights too. But the sword in particular was what helped him secure the initial eleven levels.

And for someone who was quite decent with a sword, it was embarrassing that he’d only gotten eleven levels.

He had a hunch that it was due to his brutish swordfighting style. While he’d received formal insruction in swordsmanship during militia basic training, it was nothing elegant or fanciful. He’d seen dexterous and refined sword users, and Orodan was certainly not one of them. Extremely aggressive and brutally swift, he’d moved upwards from the basics but never gone to any formal swordsmanship class. Hells, even in Bluefire his sparring with Arvayne Firesword was more focused on elevating him as a warrior.

And Orodan was alright with that. His style would always be that of a berserker, lacking the soft grace and elegance of a more calculated fighter. But what he needed was to synergize these combat insights of his and apply them to Calligraphy, which was easier said than done.

“You seem dissatisfied sire,” the supply clerk, an Adept-level calligrapher, noted as Orodan dropped off the recycled scrolls. “We can have you working purely on calligraphy if you’d like! Lord Gerace was adamant that we cater to your needs on demand.”

“That will not be necessary. This sort of work is what I need,” Orodan said, picking up a scroll, brush and ink and sitting down to work.

This was the standard arrangement for students of the craft. If they put in the work in helping with scroll recycling, maintenance and other chores, they could use supplies and inscribe scrolls at no cost. It wasn’t only that Orodan disliked taking advantage of the association, but also that the manual labor of recycling scrolls was excellent training. Furthermore, recycling spell scrolls meant he had to clean the worn out ink off of them, which meant he got to take a good look at them and study the designs and mistakes to see where things had failed.

Regular ink was for practice, drawing and beautiful aesthetic calligraphy. But spell scrolls used magical ink, an alchemical product which saw crushed mana crystals added into the ink mixture. The lower grades of magical ink weren’t really costly, and instead of mana crystals, cheaper natural gemstones could be pulverized and added to the ink-making process. But the higher grades? Costly. The expenditure made the crafting of high-level spell scrolls not worth the cost.

And throughout recycling all these spell scrolls Orodan often saw that the parchment wasn’t the point of failure, but the ink was. Specifically, the brushing of the ink. Sometimes the ink was too light in certain spots yet too dense in others. Other times the stroke wasn’t smooth at all and the edges jagged, which caused an energy overload at certain points and caused the inscription to burn out. All in all, it really emphasized how important the basics of Calligraphy were when it came to inscribing spell scrolls.

And the very method of making spell scrolls was quite interesting. It was essentially a form of Enchanting, but not using a script. Instead the pathways were clearly demarcated for specific functions. Akin to a very simplified and two-dimensional version of dwarven runic script. Orodan decided then and there that no matter what these people told themselves, this was definitely a different yet very esoteric method of enchanting. One which used quills and brushes instead of chisels and the crystalline enchanting quills he was ordinarily used to.

Certainly, there was no such skill called spell-scribing. Instead, these folk used the Calligraphy skill to great effect. And Orodan had to wonder which skill was intruding upon the domain of which.

Were these Calligraphers Enchanting? Or was it that all Enchanters were in fact Calligraphing?

He didn’t know. But what he did know was that the medium of spell-scroll scribing wasn’t too dissimilar to what a regular two-dimensional enchanter might do. Indeed, his hand was steady and the ink flowed well.

Which made it a surprise when the completed scroll of Fireball blew right up in his face.

How? He’d done everything right…

“I see you are an enchanter Mister Wainwright,” the master of the association called out as he walked into the room, Edrosic accompanying him. “We have a number of enchanters who also cross-train with us during slow periods of the season. But you are making the same mistake they all do by trying to make the enchantment as sound as possible.”

“Should I not?”

“Look upon the material you’re using. That’s not wood, metal or stone. That’s parchment. Common cowskin treated and processed to make parchment. The inscription you wrote was excellent in its technical workings, but utterly atrocious for the limitations of material we work with,” the master spoke. “You must pour your intent into the writing. Less rigid technicality, more… meaning. More spirit.”

It sounded utterly flowery and nonsensical on the surface, but Orodan had done something like this before. Immediately, he pulled out one more scroll and brought his brush to the parchment.

Instead of fanciful inscriptions, instead of a technically sound diagram… he instead brought his mind and soul to bear upon the canvas with one goal.

To scrawl… chicken scratch.

The master of the association looked on agape, but Edrosic hummed in approval and consideration as he watched Orodan work. His brush strokes weren’t exactly good, and his technique subpar… but the intent? The intent practically rolled off him in waves.

And he demanded the chicken scratch produce a scroll of Fireball.

[Calligraphy 13 → Calligraphy 15]

And it did. His force of will pressed down upon the parchment, and the end product was magnificent despite its apparent flaws. Edrosic was also looking at it quite approvingly.

Of course, it then exploded.

Orodan’s palm contained the blast of fire even as Edrosic leapt for cover and the calligraphy master stumbled backwards.

“Hmm… not quite…” he muttered.

“Damn it Orodan! Be careful when you’re drawing like that!” Parthus scolded.

“Apologies… still, I gained two levels in Calligraphy just from that. Adequate progress for a singular day of work,” Orodan spoke.

“Indeed. Then you’ll be quite proud to hear that your student hear is nearing the Apprentice-level as a calligrapher.”

“H-hey! You weren’t supposed to tell him that…!” Edrosic protested.

And Orodan realized despite his advances, he had plenty of work to do. And a student whose progress would be a good motivator.

Magical training with Destartes, training in the crafts, and his regular martial training with Adeltaj and his students. He had perhaps a week left before his rival Embodiers and the Custodian came for him, and Orodan fully intended to get as much training in as possible until the time came for the loop to end.

#

“Did you know that they had an emergency council meeting at the High Spire of Karilsgard today?”

“I imagine they should have many such meetings since three of the Prime Five have all but vanished from Alastaia.”

“Well yes… but this emergency meeting was about an odd set of observer orb readings. Your readings,” Adeltaj spoke, a wry grin on his face.

Right, he’d nearly forgotten about that.

“Ugh… my apologies for causing you a headache old man. I’ll remember not to use the observer orb again moving forward.”

“Do you jest? I haven’t been so amused in ages. I Particularly enjoyed it when the Aeronsul representative’s face got progressively paler and paler as your Status kept going on and on,” Adeltaj revealed with a happy smile. “You should have seen Houses Altamari and Aeronsul frothing at the mouth trying to understand what a Celestial-rarity skill was. Some argued you were a God walking among them, and others correctly pointed the finger at you as being the one responsible for the Republic’s current state of affairs. Most entertaining.”

What was this state of affairs? The peaceful transfer of power from the Cathedral-aligned houses of the Republic to the people of course.

Unlike last time where he’d besieged Karilsgard and dramatically purged the influence of all the tyrant three, this time there was no such spectacle. No siege, no grand military mobilization and no need for overt threats from the Time Wind dragon flight. Without any Blessings from the tyrant three, Halor had quickly realized his weakened position and agreed to take a backstep into a more supportive position. The forces loyal to the Cathedral had a severe decrease in battle power with the loss of most of their Blessings, Favored, Chosen and Avatars, and the Lieutenant-General of Anthus needed to only tour the major towns and cities alongside dedicated propaganda unit to reassure people that nothing had changed.

It was as smooth a transition as anyone could have hoped for, helped by the fact that the dissidents who were still on the Republic’s council had seen his observer orb readings. They might not have known what a Celestial skill or Embodiment was, but they certainly knew what it meant when someone had as many Mythical and Legendary skills as he did. They feared him intervening against any attempted uprising attempts, which was true. He was all too happy to execute any diehard lackeys of Agathor, Eximus and Ilyatana.

The Cathedral of the Prime Five had three of its statues torn down and life in the Republic had measurably improved with Halor and Malzim stepping in to provide Blessings of their own. At some point Orodan intended on adding his own Blessings to that mix, but in a more selective manner and only to those whose character wasn’t in question.

It had been a week, and Orodan felt that his pursuers drew nearer. The concept of Cleanliness rippled, challenges who contested him drawing closer and closer.

Still, the loop had gone well and his constant training of himself and his students had borne fruit, with his Teaching being one level away from the Master-level. On the martial side, his skill levels with spears, clubs, halberds and oddly enough the sword, had increased. That last one he chalked up to the transference from Calligraphy, which had also gained levels.

Stonecutting and Mining had made excellent gains as well, although Orodan had been so focused on those that he’d put acquiring Masonry to the wayside. But that could be done next loop.

His magic however, specifically Burst Casting, was really powerful. And he did mean really. As evidenced by the roaring Lightning Bolt which shot out towards Destartes, even while Orodan spoke to Adeltaj on the side.

[Burst Casting 17 → Burst Casting 18]

[Lightning Bolt 30 → Lightning Bolt 31]

[Lightning Magic Mastery 8 → Lightning Magic Mastery 9]

Destartes had a shimmering suit of spatial armor across his form already. If the wizard didn’t… Orodan didn’t think it would have been a pretty aftermath. Especially with how the lightning practically zoomed out quicker than his own reflexes could follow.

“Careful! What have I told you about keeping the power down? You’re practicing how to bring your mana pool to bear faster, keeping control over it even as you cast explosively is important,” the mage chided. He was right of course. “Do not allow more than the intended amount of mana for the spell to explode forth.”

