More than just the mortal races coveted energy wells. Monsters, flora and fauna did so as well. Which meant that Anthus, a city built around one, was subject to round-the-clock assault by all manner of creature seeking a spot of residence within such a prized habitat. By all accounts, it was a noisy affair.

Or… it should have been a noisy affair. The current lack of monsters near the city’s west wall and the shocked silence which followed Orodan’s very straightforward proclamation were entirely abnormal.

And it didn’t take long for the shocked mutters to start popping up.

“A… a time loop?”

“Overthrowing the Republic? Is master Destartes a traitor?”

“H-how does this man know?”

Needless to say, operational secrecy was paramount for the conspirators. And not every rank-and-file soldier upon the walls who’d heard his booming voice knew of the hidden plot. But among those that had… some were privy to what Lieutenant-General Tegin Carrotfoot of Anthus was planning, and their faces were paler than chalk.

“Order! We are soldiers of the Republic and defenders of Anthus! Back to your posts!” the wall commander—an angry-looking woman—roared. She then “And you, identify yourself stranger! All who approach the walls of this city must make themselves and their intentions known. Your Status lists you as Orodan Wainwright. And you are a… Wainwrighting Apprentice? Is this some manner of joke? I have never seen such a title and your combat prowess does not match such a glib title.”

“It’s no glib title, but the product of hard work put towards mending and building carts,” Orodan clarified. “But that is besides the point. My students and I have come to seek tutelage from the mage, Destartes. And we’re willing to help overthrow the Gods of the Republic as compensation.”

“W-we are?” Edrosic squeaked in a terrified voice. “O-orodan…! What heretical battles have you signed me up for?!”

“Have heart Parthus, fighting an Avatar or two will be good training.”

“…!”

Edrosic could only remain shocked in place. Aliya seemed confused and bewildered while Zukelmux and Wainroach seemed giddy with excitement.

In his opinion the offer was a straightforward and generous one, although the wall commander who looked as though she was on the verge of having a conniption didn’t think so. Perhaps Orodan had come across too strong?

To no one’s surprise, the woman’s communication amulet flared and an alarm was sent out.

And almost immediately, the space before Orodan roiled as someone teleported before him. A familiar white flowing beard, a wizard’s staff and the tell-tale robes of a mage. This was Destartes.

“There you are. Did you have a chance to hear my offer?”

“Who are you?” the triple-Grandmaster wizard asked, his tone deathly serious as his hands were thrumming with magic.

One wrong answer, and this entire situation was likely to go sideways as Orodan and his students would be stuck outside the city and fighting all of its defenders in an entrenched position.

Which, coincidentally, was exactly what he wanted.

“I see your hands remain ready to cast magic at the twitch of a finger. Good,” Orodan said with a grin as his own hands lit up. “I find that people understand one another best after they’ve had a good fight. Your spellfire against mine, let’s spar. Watch closely Wainroach, I’ll be casting plenty of fire magic.”

His cockroach student could only wiggle her antennae in excitement.

And Destartes? The deluge of responding elemental spellfire was the only answer Orodan received from the old spellcaster.

The battle was on, and a volley of ranged and artillery magic immediately sailed towards Orodan at the same time as Destartes’ spells did. But he wasn’t the only target, his students off to the side, were too.

“Focus Zukelmux. A shield can block artillery and spellfire just as easily as it can blades and arrows,” Orodan instructed. “A true bulwark of the shield should be capable of defending not just himself, but those who require his protection behind. Stand, and take not a single step back!”

[Teaching 88 → Teaching 89]

And the goblin did not. A volley of horrid spellfire and amplified artillery came his students’ way, and Edrosic was already praying to the Gods when Zukelmux’s shield whirred out with power.

The strongest of the attacks, Master-level, nearly buckled the goblin’s arm. In fact, Orodan was certain he heard the sound of a shoulder breaking. But against all odds… the spear-and-shield wielding warrior held his ground. Defiant and death-sworn to defend Aliya, Edrosic and Wainroach.

Orodan felt pride surge within him at the sight as he barked out a laugh.

“Excellent! Now that’s some real spirit,” Orodan praised. “Hold strong and heal yourself quickly Zukelmux! They fire again!”

Any further instruction for his students was put on hold for a moment as Orodan’s own magic surged forth to meet the barrage coming for him.

Destartes’ spells reached first.

During the last loop in which he’d trained under the old mage, Orodan had granted the man his Blessing. And while this might have led to the assumption that his natural mana pool was weak, that couldn’t be further from the truth. Destartes had as monstrous of a mana pool that a human could possess. In fact, Orodan had never seen a mortal mage with more raw mana upon Alastaia, even among the elves.

This was felt in the form of spells of every sort of element, coming in from all angles. A deluge meant to overwhelm even the most nimble rogue and prevent evasion, and a variety meant to find a weakness in the defenses and equipment of even the hardiest warrior.

And while Orodan’s current might was more than enough to disregard all of it, that wasn’t the aim.

Training was. He fully intended to match the mage spell-for-spell.

[Galewind 33 → Galewind 34]

The closest spells were three inbound walls of fire, and they met three swift casts of an explosive Galewind spell which ignited and blew them backwards.

The many miniature but volatile fireballs following that?

[Waterstream 26 → Waterstream 28]

Ten waterstream spells shot forth from Orodan’s fingers, each one colliding with multiple fireballs in its path.

[Earthen Construct 29 → Earthen Construct 30]

[Draconic Fireball 80 → Draconic Fireball 81]

And numerous Earthen Constructs rose from the ground to meet the lances of lightning aimed at his head, and a mighty Draconic Fireball shattered the magically formed glacier above him into steam.

And at last…

…a tornado charging at him met the fury of lightning from his hands.

[Lightning Bolt 24 → Lightning Bolt 26]

[Lightning Magic Mastery 3 → Lightning Magic Mastery 4]

In less than a second, every single elemental spell Destartes sent towards him in that exchange had been dealt with and nullified.

And the barrage of attacks from Anthus’s defenders? Orodan’s shield lashed out and shattered all the attacks before they could so much as kick up the dust beneath his feet.

“Tch! Whoever taught you magic did well, warrior,” Destartes grudgingly praised, his demeanor now exceedingly wary. “You have a counterspell ready for every one of mine.”

“The mage I face right now is the one who taught me.”

Destartes’ brows furrowed in confusion.

“Your words do not add up. The only one you face is I, yet I’ve never met you.”

“You haven’t met me… in this loop,” Orodan said as his hands roiled with magical prowess. “Now come. Elemental magic isn’t even your strongest specialty. You’re still holding back, and I want to see the greatest spatiomancer of Inuan ply his trade.”

[Flash Freeze 40 → Flash Freeze 41]

[Light Beam 37 → Light Beam 38]

The spells he cast weren’t grossly overcharged with his typical power, but they were strong enough to give Destartes pause. The wizard was forced to get truly serious as the Light Beam the width of a house and the mana of a Flash Freeze capable of icing a castle reached him.

The Light Beam was stopped by an oddly absorptive orb of darkness which soaked the light up like a sponge—though it quivered as though on the verge of shattering. And a shimmering film of spatiomancy covered Destartes, causing the mana of the Flash Freeze to be sent right back towards Orodan himself.

His existing Ice Resistance nullified the returned spell, and he got the feeling that those countermeasures could have been overpowered with brute force… but that wasn’t the purpose of this duel.

Measuring how far his creative problem solving had come was.

To the side, Zukelmux was still holding on, with Wainroach of all people helping the goblin weather the storm by pulling copious amounts of power from Orodan’s Blessing in order to launch mighty gouts of flame towards incoming attacks.

And Destartes, while looking as though he’d expended a decent amount of mana, was no worse for the wear.

“Spatiomantic armor? That’s a new one… never knew you had that trick up your sleeve,” Orodan muttered.

“I have not needed to use that particular skill in centuries. Typically, even a dragon cannot overpower my mana pool to Flash Freeze me directly. But you… what are you? And my previous question of who you are still remains,” the old wizard spoke, although the magic in his hands had dimmed a bit. “I get the feeling that if you wanted me dead, I would be dead. You aren’t here to kill me, which means you want something.”

“Correct. I wish for you to take me under your tutelage once more,” Orodan said with a happy grin.

“Once more? This does not add up. We have never met before,” the old wizard spoke. “Are you a reincarnator who I’ve taught in the past? With your current level of raw power and spell variety I may not have much to even impart.”

“Given that space magic trick you pulled, I suspect I’ll be learning from you for a long time, old Destartes. The variety of magic I possess? I honed under you,” Orodan spoke. “And you call me a reincarnator? That couldn’t be farther from the truth in fact I… am in-”

“A time loop,” the voice of a familiar halberdier called out as the old man walked onto the field of battle. “We get it. With how often you say it, half the Republic might as well know.”

It was Adeltaj Simarji. And the man had a far deadlier aura about him than usual.

“Old man, I thought I told you to get some rest,” Orodan chided. “That Mythical skill of yours took a lot out of you. As did the spar.”

And it had been a truly brutal one in which Orodan he reversed time over and over until Adeltaj hit the right insights and mindset to acquire the correct skill. It was similar to when the old man had driven him into the ground long ago and caused him to acquire Eternal Soul Reactor.

“And miss the fun? Given how these four are getting bombarded by artillery fire, it seems you’ve caused quite the stir.”

That was certainly an understatement. And Destartes recognized the old Simarji and lowered his hands.

“Adeltaj? You know of this madness?”

“I do. Now, if you would be so kind as to tell the defenders to stop firing upon those hapless students of his, we might go inside and speak?”

#

“This is absurd…”

“I am inclined to agree with that assessment, Tegin,” Destartes affirmed, though he didn’t seem unbelieving of the tale.

“It is only absurd if you hear it at face value Lieutenant-General,” Adeltaj countered. “But with the ability to transfer your memories from one loop to the next… it will be as though you are part of the time loops yourself.”

“Grandmaster Adeltaj, while your words are sensible, for myself and my master Destartes, we have not experienced any time loops, nor have we had our memories from another time transferred to us like your group has,” the halfling spoke. “These time loops, your journeys across the wider cosmos… they sound fantastical and well-beyond anything we have had to deal with in our day-to-day lives. But it does not change our course of action.”

Tegin Carrotfoot, the Lieutenant-General of Anthus, war hero of the Republic of Aden, and co-leader of the conspiracy to overthrow the Prime Five and restore the Republic to secular rule… was in disbelief.

Orodan, Adeltaj, Destartes and Tegin Carrotfoot were sat within the war room of Anthus and the explanation for the loops was naturally causing some level of shock. Were they refusing to believe them? Not at all. In fact, discounting his personal prowess, it had simply taken Orodan pointing out which military commanders and noble houses were in league with the conspiracy in order to get the halfling to take him seriously.

The Lieutenant-General of Anthus was no fool who would stubbornly mire himself in disbelief. Once Orodan had proven his knowledge, the halfling had certainly believed him and was now eyeing him as though he were a tactical asset who could change everything.

The current disagreement was with how things would be carried out.

“We cannot just assail Karilsgard and eradicate the Gods,” Tegin Carrotfoot denied. “Not only would the lives of my soldiers be at great risk, but the Cathedral’s tendrils reach deep… very deep. They have many Blessed in all echelons of our society and any assault we make would have to be a cautious and multi-layered one. For as long as the Gods have faithful, we cannot just… er… Mister Wainwright? Why are you pulling out a broom?”

To the side, Adeltaj could only sigh and shake his head. The old halberdier knew what was coming.

“Try not to have me erased from existence this time, yes?”

“I have it under control now,” Orodan promised. “And if you say the Gods’ Blessed are the problem… then it’s just one I shall eliminate.”

