A picture of Orodan’s fist meeting the spiked gauntlet of that adventurer from Greenvale. A simple picture, yet so intricately detailed. And in it, unlike in the real world, it was a picture where Orodan was the weaker force meeting a stronger foe. His attack pitiful. Logically, it should have failed.

Yet Parthus’s drawing had captured the essence perfectly. Of the impossible notion of something weaker meeting something stronger and making… balance.

[Burst Casting 21 → Burst Casting 22]

[Elemental Living Enchanting 19 → Elemental Living Enchanting 20]

[New Skill → Balance Maker 15 (Mythical)]

It was utter impossibility. His Smite of Abrupt Deliverance, empowered by a Living Elemental Enchantment of Draconic Fireball in his right arm, via a Burst Cast, met her staff. By all logic his strike was weaker, it should have lost. There was no way he could have won.

And he certainly didn’t win.

But what he did do, was stalemate the attack.

It was as though the goat-woman Embodier had run into an unshakeable and unmoveable brick wall. She hadn’t lost, but the sheer backlash of the collision caused decent damage to her far frailer body.

Unfortunately for Orodan, he too suffered. Greatly.

There was a price to be paid for forcing a balance in a lopsided exchange. A severe one for his body, and an even greater one for his soul.

He felt his soul violently tremble and shake under the raw power of the backlash. The price paid in full at his expense.

“H-how?!” the animal-hybrid alien demanded, blood leaking from her mouth. “You are weaker! Not a high-level Embodier like I! How can you match me?!”

“By forcing a balance. No matter the gap.”

That was the truth of how this new skill operated. Certainly, the odds of him outright dying if he forced a balance between attacks too far in power were high. But since when did Orodan care about death?

While the machine had survived, the surrounding rock of the mountain had not. And it had all been blown away exposing the metallic skeleton of the ancient machine. A construct which Orodan was now standing very near.

“I apologize… and it stings me at core to do so… but I must depart. Any more fighting and all the work my comrades and I have put into this machine will be for nil. While I’d love to die fighting you, I do also need to see whether this machine works as intended. I’ll definitely resume this battle next time.”

And with those final words, Orodan’s hand laid upon the control orb of the ancient machine and he poured power into the control sequence.

As expected, the refurbished machine—with its target altered to aim for the depths of System space itself—cost a lot more power than usual. But such energy constraints did not even faze him by this point. The machine whirred to life, a dimensional opening tore wide in the void of space, and immediately a deluge of Eldritch energy began pouring out.

An incredibly dense and concentrated form of it. As though it was coming right from the source of it all itself.

“Y-you fool! You have doomed us all by breaching the cage!” his former opponent shrieked as she began fleeing.

Orodan didn’t see the big deal. This had been his target all along. Instead of the bowels of the System, he intended to directly enter the cage containing the Boundless One itself. This would be needed if he was to eventually enact his grand ambition of purifying the System and offering his own in its stead.

And as he stepped through the dimensional opening and out to the other side, he realized that it had only been a partial success.

The cage was unfathomably strong, and whatever alterations he made to the ancient machine weren’t enough to fully breach it. Now standing in the bowels of System space he saw one immediate reaction.

The Custodian.

Who was charging at him, death and fury in the Arch-Devil’s eyes. Breaching the cage had not earned him its goodwill.

But the real problem was the Boundless One within the cage. And it was more than a little displeased at the prospect of its liberation given the colossal beam of boundless Eldritch power rushing towards him.

And in the final moments of the loop Orodan had a singular mad idea.

What if he tried using Balance Maker against a Boundless One?

[Balance Maker 15 → Balance Maker 49]

#

A sharp sensation roused the being to alertness.

What was the being? What were these odd sounds?

These strange scenes it beheld? The two long and sturdy appendages it could move around… what were they? What was it?

It took many, many units of a measure of time some small voice told him were hours, before it began to recollect the basics of what it was.

And from there, he needed many more hours of introspection and soul repair before Orodan finally remembered who he was.

[Incipience of Infinity 148 → Incipience of Infinity 149]

As Orodan finally finished healing his soul, his System and bringing the shattered parts of himself together, he admitted that using Balance Maker against the full force of a Boundless One was perhaps a bad idea.

Although…

…it was some excellent training.

And he had many more loops of this to get through alongside much training of his students before he could surmount the difference.
