“Her abilities in pyromancy have truly soared under your and Destartes’s tutelage,” Tegin remarked, pointing to the canvas. “Perhaps futher focus on that is warranted? I’ve never seen a cockroach cast Fireballs the way she does.”

“Indeed. You shall continue your Fire Resistance training alongside your pyromancy. But we shall also strengthen your physical form. I will have you contending against Death Roaches in melee soon enough,” Orodan solemnly declared, causing even the normally eager Wainroach to shrink a bit at the prospect of it. “We will also begin putting you in early school to learn your letters and numbers like Aliya is. No, do not give me that look. You will learn, and you will be giving me essays on your progress once you can read and write. An enhanced intellect and exposure to culture, art and life experiences will make your soul stronger, which is currently one of your biggest limitations. A stronger soul means a larger mana pool and more regeneration of it.”

That certainly helped sell the cockroach on the idea.

“And now… for you you two,” Orodan said looking at Adeltaj Simarji and Destartes.

“Us? You mean to teach us as well?” Destartes asked. “I admit, it will be quite nice to expand my understanding of magic even further.”

“Quite. Alastaia has no native-born Transcendents, and the one who is closest to achieving that is on Eldiron,” Orodan explained. “You of all people should be more than capable of matching that. Next loop, I will be taking you and Adeltaj along for some training in the void. Perhaps we will even explore the moon.”

There was also a certain dimensional phase spider he needed to make contact with next loop, and perhaps even draw into the fold. Talricto would be an excellent tutor for not just Orodan, but Destartes as well. It was something that had fallen to the wayside on this loop, but he fully intended to bring that haughty eight-legged fool along.

“I profess… ever have I dreamed of exploring the void in my youth. I thought I might die a natural death as my lifespan ended before seeing it realized,” Destartes spoke. “I shall look forward to this. Or, the me of the next loop certainly will at least.”

“Testing this new Mythical skill of mine in proper combat shall be exciting,” Adeltaj added. “Perhaps my first opponent can be a True Vampire?”

A vein on Orodan’s head throbbed at the old halberdier’s joke, but he ignored it and swept his gaze across everyone.

“Then that resolves almost everything. That is… besides the remaining matter.”

And as he spoke, he gingerly placed a tome upon the canvas. It was precious to him, exceedingly so. For although Orodan had memorized the entirety of its contents, he still did not wish to lose it.

It was the tome Almyra had given him. A sort of journal which contained her thoughts, theories and conjectures on many topics. Chief among them being true soul genesis.

“I have asked headmaster Arlin Colton at Bluefire, but he was quite clear that he’d never seen such concepts during his life and tenure,” Destartes commented. “If even the head of the department of soul magic at Bluefire does not know… then perhaps Eldiron might be of better help?”

“That or Guzuhar… those are the two places that extensively use spirit magic,” Adeltaj added.

One of the theories Almyra had regarding true soul genesis, was studying the birth and formation of elementals. Spirit mages called upon them from the elemental planes, but these were still living beings. They had souls, they had access to the System. And unless Orodan wanted to carefully study the intimate affairs of random couples in town—an act which would be as honorless as it would be unreliable—his best bet was to study the emergence of elementals.

In studying how a soul formed, he would be better positioned to help rebuild Zaessythra’s soul from the ground up.

The tome also had another secret, the prospect of replicating clones like Almyra had. But for that, he would need to still study elementals and perhaps learn under the drow for a while as their methods of enchanting were a solid contender for what he wanted to do.

Almyra had her own methods for making clones, but Orodan found the technique of mirroring the soul to be inefficient. Each clone simply wouldn’t have the same power that he normally did, and for him that was unacceptable.

But with all that out of the way… the only thing left to do was activate the machine.

Although Edrosic looked as though he wanted to give him something.

A drawing?

#

It was quite near to the time now.

Orodan’s mind was steady and his sight set upon the machine. He had extensively studied the series of enchantments he would need in order to re-direct where the ancient machine’s dimensional pathway led to. The Custodian had built the machine to reach into the bowels of the System, but during his time with Fenton upon Lonvoron, Orodan had studied, theorized and brainstormed alongside his student in order to come up with a minor re-direction.

And in the interest of not getting Alastaia caught up in the crossfire of his battles against these incoming cosmic foes, Orodan knew that he needed to move the ancient machine elsewhere. Especially if he intended on testing himself against the rival Embodiers who came for him.

But the machine was gigantic. Its pipes and limbs ran through the entire mountain itself! A Spatial Fold would cause more than a bit of damage, either to the machine or to Ogdenborough. Certainly, Orodan had the raw power for Teleportation, which could work. But sometimes it was better to practice skills he hadn’t used in a while.

[Spatial Shift 27 → Spatial Shift 30]

What would have been a difficult endeavor in the past was now quite casual. Yes, he was shifting something hundreds of thousands of miles away, but it wasn’t an entire city full of complex beings and items like Novar’s Peak had been. And there was far less need for finesse and concentration when he was dealing with just rock and metal. But chiefly, his Space Mastery was higher now than it had been then.

With a flexion of power, not the machine, but Mount Castarian itself… shifted.

In but a moment, the entire mountain vanished, leaving an gigantic hollow in the ground which suddenly dropped into the wild depths. It was exceedingly odd, and any bystanders would consider it a divine event no doubt.

Orodan stepped along with the spatial shift and found himself and the entire mountain deep in the void of space, many star systems away from Alastaia. He stepped out of one of the tunnels, and instead of it leading deep into the depths, it now directly led to the desolate void between stars. A feeling most odd as the entire mountain floated through the expanse.

And as expected, the moment he stepped out, something noticed him. Or rather, the things which had been after him all this time were now able to locate him far easier, near enough as they were.

Space tore, gravity condensed inwards yanking Orodan towards a singularity, and the first thing to emerge from it was a humanoid being. Some sort of animal-woman hybrid with goat legs, furry arms and wielding a staff. Around her, vines, insects and animals thrived. The lifeless rocks of space? They began suddenly growing an ecosystem. The very void around them? It began sprouting odd but tough creatures which seemed well-adapted to the resource-starved and airless environment.

An aura of… life. No… it was purity. The purity of life itself as natural living things began sprouting up. The cleanliness… of nature.

Orodan had encountered this goat-woman. Not directly, but when she had tried competing against him for control of the concept of Cleanliness. And she was not happy.

“You stole my power. GIve it back. Now.”

“Make me,” Orodan replied, defiance in his voice.

If she thought he was the type to roll over, then she had another thing coming. But the problem remained that this foe seemed quite out of Orodan’s reach. The shift in gravity that he felt wasn’t her, not directly.

It was the procession of planets following behind her through the spatial tunnel she’d entered through. Planets which were teeming with life and a diverse array of flora and fauna. Life which bent to her every whim.

“You will not defeat me in open battle thief. Where you have come from and who you are, I do not know. But you shall return my power lest I end your life here and now,” she threatened, throwing an entire planet at him.

It was a probing strike. It had to be.

Orodan would have loved to smash the planet to smithereens, but with how much innocent life and the number of fledgling civilizations he sensed upon its surface, that was out of the question. This wicked Embodier didn’t seem to care for them at all.

[Dimensional Step 38 → Dimensional Step 39]

Orodan tore through the dimensional boundary to reappear right in front of this annoying goat, only to receive something quite new and unexpected.

Disease and plague.

Still, the effectiveness of it wasn’t as bad as he thought it would be.

“Irksome. Your body is structured most strangely and only the flesh eating bacterium has any effect,” she spoke, annoyed by his resilience.

“Do you not care for the people on these worlds you’re dragging along? What if I had smashed them apart?” Orodan pointedly asked attempting to close the distance while she nimbly kept moving away.

Swarms of insects, giant mushrooms with arms, and moon-sized masses of vines and plant matter. She put all of these between her and him in an attempt to prevent him closing the distance in melee.

“Life and death. Destruction and rebirth. Such is the natural cycle of the universe. The purest expression of existence,” she lectured.

“Given that your stupid outlook didn’t avail you much against me in our conceptual duel, perhaps you ought to reevaluate that,” Orodan spat, beginning a very violent and brutal massacre of the legions of chaff she was sending against him.

The bugs tried swarming his mouth, he simply bit down and made them a meal. They tried piercing his eyes and he simply blinked hard enough to smash them between his eyelids. They tried entering his nose and he simply snorted to murder them all. The mushrooms attempted to slug it out with him and he splattered them across the void. And he simply began squashing the gigantic masses of plant life down to an impossibly compressed ball between his palms

“Ruthless and brutal. Are you sure you’re an Embodiment of Cleaning?” the goat-woman asked and then raised her staff. “I had thought to take you alive to study what makes you tick. But dead and my power returned is acceptable as well.”

Embodiers were strong. The Living Crystal he’d fought a while ago was proof of that, as was Alagameth.

Orodan was reminded of this fact via a titanic staff strike to his skull. The nearest star system in the direction of that attack was utterly vaporized, and the nearest four were shattered. He himself was reduced to a handful of cells.

Frankly, he’d been entirely lucky to have not died instantly.

His opponent, blazing with life energy, followed after his remains, possessing some method of sensing even the smallest cell. And he then realized he would need to give his all as this foe was stronger than even the de-powered Prophet had been.

He reformed immediately, and her next attack, poised to end his life, was met with a Smite of Abrupt Deliverance. One for which he’d hastily empowered his arm with a Draconic Fireball fueled Elemental Living Enchantment.

[Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 91 → Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 92]

[Burst Casting 18 → Burst Casting 21]

[Draconic Fireball 83 → Draconic Fireball 84]

[Elemental Living Enchanting 17 → Elemental Living Enchanting 19]

It was pure apocalypse. Orodan had used this combination before in order to finish the vastly weakened Prophet off, but the difference between then and now was absurd. Before, his mana pool had been entirely emptied, but via a normal cast. But now?

He was forced to throw the Smite of Abrupt Deliverance almost immediately lest he die on the spot. It was as though the effective power of his mana pool had been multiplied due to the burst of momentum within the energy. Frankly, if his soul wasn’t strong, Orodan suspected he’d suffer soul damage using this skill the way he did.

And even then… it wasn’t enough.

His opponent’s staff had won the clash of power yet again, but not by a terribly wide margin either. The goat woman looked astonished that he could bridge so much of the gap. Frankly, he was astounded by the power output as well.

It was only the backlash and impact of his own strike which saved him by hurling him away from his foe. And he found himself near the floating Mount Castarian once more.

“Incredible… so weak in combat yet capable of hitting so far above your weight. And you do not even use the full extent of the power of Cleaning,” the goat-woman spoke. “I freely admit, you are a true prodigy. If anyone deserves to wield the concept of Purity, it is you. But I will not underestimate you again.”

From the looks of it, she was winding up for her strongest possible attack. And if he’d already lost the direct clash against the previous blow… what hope did he have now?

Orodan was on the verge of considering this loop ended when realization hit him.

This was a familiar situation.

The clash against the adventurer in Greenvale. The matching of blows against Adeltaj Simarji. All his loops thus far where he’d fought uphill battles against stronger foes.

He was made for this. Fighting against the impossible was all he did, even from as far back as his street rat days.

And what finally clicked… was that drawing Edrosic had given him just before everyone else had evacuated from Mount Castarian.

