Truthfully, the man was underselling himself. Having a Drawing skill good enough that it steered Orodan towards an insight was just ridiculous. Edrosic’s confidence had already been low—the man content to accept his lot in life as a squarely middle-of-the-pack fighter—but training alongside the other three had really done a number on it. Seeing Zukelmux utterly squash all the students and instructors at Oxhead was one thing, but to then see Aliya actually win against some of the weaker first years at her young age?

The man had consigned himself to being low-level and mundane. Yet this was far from the case when that Drawing skill was taken into account. Based off of that alone, Edrosic was an easy candidate for Bluefire. Potentially even worthy of a scholarship, though the man was a little older than Orodan himself and might have to enter through different channels.

In any case, Parthus’s worries about not being useful, in hindsight, were now utterly stupid. Allowing him to acquire insights just by looking at a well-drawn picture of himself? While Orodan did not take on students so that they could be useful, in a way the diffident militia man was shaping up to be just as valuable as Fenton had been.

But as for Edrosic’s earlier question…

“No.”

“W-what?” the man asked, looking utterly deflated “But I’m not even good at-”

“Good at fighting? So what?” Orodan asked. “You will not be shirking your education at Oxhead.”

“Now hold on a moment. Didn’t you recount to me that you didn’t mind the God of Death being a non-combatant who avoided fighting? Why am I being forced into this?” the man asked.

“Because you’re my student, Parthus. And good at Drawing as you are, it would be a stain upon my honor if any student of Orodan Wainwright’s did not know how to fight properly,” he replied. “Besides, I don’t mind if you refuse to enter battle or don’t care for the martial ways. But fighting and violence are the most base form of communication anywhere you go. Even if you choose to become a pacifist, as your teacher it’s my duty to inculcate within you an adequate level of skill.”

“But Oxhead is so… demoralizing. I barely passed the physical portion of the qualification exam. I’d do far better at a crafting academy.”

“Indeed. And you will,” Orodan said, and then raised his hand at Edrosic’s confused face. “What? Did you think I would have you attend Oxhead forever? I admit, the short time frame we’re on is quite inefficient, and having to continue your education from where you left off each loop can be a bit irritating. But it’s important that you take a few loops to actually finish your education there. And once that’s done? You’re free to enter whatever other academy you wish.”

“Hmm… I suppose that doesn’t sound so bad…” the man muttered.

With Edrosic visibly looking cheerier now, the two of them caught up with the other three students who had gone further up. Frankly, with the gains Parthus had made during his training at Anthus, Orodan had no doubt that the militia man could now give a far better showing at Oxhead.

“Teacher!” Zukelmux greeted, Wainroach upon the goblin’s shoulder also wriggling her forelegs in a wave. “Have you imparted hidden wisdom upon Parthus?”

“It’s hardly a secret…” Edrosic muttered as the man began recounting what the conversation was about.

Aliya, beside him, was looking as jubilant as always at the prospect of getting to visit new places. Ahead of them, a town he’d visited a few loops ago. A bastion of civilization in the wilds of an otherwise untamed county.

“Greenvale! I’ve always wanted to visit, but mother and father kept telling me how dangerous Exerston County is,” the girl spoke. “The wilds aren’t even that bad!”

“Easy to say when traveling in a party of combat-capable individuals. That Adept-level bear you fought earlier wouldn’t have been so easily dealt with alone,” Orodan replied. “Until you learn some manner of self-healing or basic healing, it can be dangerous to venture into the wilds alone and without support.”

A lesson Orodan had learned early in his street rat days when trying to venture out of town and running into a wolf. He’d thankfully fought hard enough and gouged its eye, causing the opportunistic beast to retreat rather than risk more injury. But he’d also gotten a chunk torn out of his arm and had barely managed to make it to the orphanage before collapsing. Prior to acquiring all the self-healing skills that he had, fighting was a dirty affair and one needed to account for the injuries acquired even in victory.

If he’d gone just a bit deeper into the woods, he would’ve died. Though who knew if that might’ve started the loops then and there? Orodan the street rat starting each loop in the shoddy orphanage would have had quite the different life compared to the seventeen-year-old militia man who’d entered them.

In any case, Aliya seemed to take the warning seriously and the group strode into Greenvale. The Exerston County militia openly gawked at Zukelmux’s presence and even at the cockroach riding upon the goblin’s shoulder, but did nothing to stop them. It was either Old Man Hannegan’s work, or that of Adeltaj Simarji. It had been a few days since the goblin had started attendng Oxhead and he was the talk of the county and likely farther beyond.

Any attempts to discriminate against him either failed due to Zukelmux’s personal prowess, or Adeltaj and his house simply reminded people to shut their mouths. In theory, a friendly monster species wasn’t unheard of; dragons being the prime example. In practice, any noble house of the Republic harboring them would be seen with suspicion, though House Simarji’s roots in the Eastern Kingdom gave them slightly more leeway to claim it as a cultural practice.

Still, the gate guards of the militia gave them no issues as they walked into town. Although the citizenry and all passersby were gawking as though Zukelmux was an alien.

“Can you swing an axe? These trees need a good… a good… by the Gods, a goblin!” one recruiter exclaimed.

“Need gold? References? New skills? Join the… hey! It’s a monster!” a nearby adventurer recruiting for his company declared, raising his fists which bore spiked gauntlets. “Worry not good folk! We of the Unyielding Shield Adventurer’s Company will put down the menace here and now!”

Orodan remembered this arrogant fop. Even in the alternate timeline this man had been brash. It was heartening to know that some things never changed.

Zukelmux was about to step forward but Orodan held him back, instead surging forth to meet the adventurer himself.

The spiked gauntlet which was meant for Zukelmux’s head instead met Orodan’s fist.

He held his strength back, in fact, he carefully moderated his power so that the force of his blow was weaker. The adventurer was an Adept, and Orodan limited his strength to the Apprentice-level.

Just like before, as he’d tried in the alternate timeline, as he’d attempted with Adeltaj, he was endeavoring the madness of overpowering a stronger blow with a weaker one. Logically, it made no sense.

And just as before, Orodan’s blow was overpowered but the adventurer flew into a wall from the backlash of striking his durable fist.

“Disappointing…” he muttered while looking down at his fist. There was something to be found there, he knew this.

Even Zaessythra, who thought him a bit mad, agreed that she was beginning to see a certain deranged logic to the repeated attempts at pitting a weaker blow against a stronger one and expecting results.

Zukelmux, Aliya and Wainroach simply cheered, laughed or wriggled with amusement at the beating he dispensed. But Edrosic? He was looking at the scene with intense focus. What was that about?

“Nothing else to see here. Let’s move on before the guards think to harass you too Zukelmux. Don’t want to keep the old man waiting.”

Although he’d technically failed in what he’d intended, Orodan’s feat of sending an Adept flying into a wall had shocked and awed most of the bystanders and militia. A fight between two martials was a violent and sudden thing and most people weren’t ready for that level of brutality. Even the militia didn’t look like they wanted to intervene.

Which meant Orodan and his group were free to leave the scene and head for the Greenvale calligraphers’ association.

A brief walk along the streets where even more people gaped at Zukelmux finally brought them to the Greenvale Calligraphers’ Association, a building and organization owned primarily by House Stenguard. The building looked busy, which wasn’t normally the case, but that was understandable when the lord of the house was present.

Gerace Stenguard, lord of House Stenguard, a merchant house elevated to nobility and holding a seat on the council. From what he’d seen and heard, the man was no noble by birthright, but instead one who had worked hard, acquired much wealth through hard work and done the Republic many boons by negotiating favorable trade deals. And while Orodan wasn’t all too familiar with trade practices and the economics of Inuan, he did know that Gerace was responsible for many of the current agreements between the Republic and the Eastern Kingdoms. The only reason the man’s house wasn’t of greater note was because it wasn’t a military one with high-level elders in it like Houses Firesword and Simarji.

He was the sort of noble Orodan could truly respect. A humble and self-made man. And it showed in the close friendship he had with Old Man Hannegan who was waving their group over.

“Took you long enough!” the old foreman barked. “Has this rockhead tortured you too much?”

Edrosic looked as though he wanted to whine about the injustices he’d suffered, but a swift kick to the shin from Aliya kept him quiet.

“Hardly. I simply put them through some good training,” Orodan said and then took the proffered hand of Gerace Stenguard. “I hope the old man hasn’t been imposing on you too much.”

“Imposing on me? After what you did at the quarry owned by my house in Scarmorrow I owe you a great debt. A monetary one worth a few thousand gold coins to be exact,” the man spoke. “Orodan Wainwright, I am Gerace Stenguard. It’s a pleasure to meet you at last. This old codger here couldn’t stop singing your praises. Which, coming from Gregory, is like pulling teeth.”

“Quit spouting nonsense Gerace! I did no such thing!” Old Man Hannegan denied, though the lie was obvious. Orodan remained quiet and decided not to poke at how soft the old graybeard had gotten.

“Regardless of how much gold I’ve made you, I’ll be imposing upon your calligraphers to learn Calligraphy,” Orodan said, clapping Parthus on the shoulder. “And to help train my student here.”

Orodan was good at fighting. and it wouldn’t have been arrogant to say that nobody on Alastaia was better suited to teaching Edrosic about martial combat than he was. But when it came to helping hone the man’s Drawing skill? He was self-aware enough to admit that the formal instruction needed to come from elsewhere. Oxhead, a martial academy, wouldn’t do. Which necessitated coming here, to the calligrapher’s association where a number of the instructors on-hand knew not just Calligraphy, but drawing too.

“Whatever you need, my house will provide Mister Wainwright. Hopefully in time we can convince you that working exclusively with us is in your best interests rather than seeking out… third parties,” the man said, though his smile turned forced near the end.

“What Gerace here means to say is that he hates Esgarius’s guts,” Old Man Hannegan helpfully supplied, causing Gerace Stenguard to choke on his spit and deny it. “Oh don’t try to hide it. He’s swooped in and stolen how many deals out from under you now?”

“Tch! That is a matter for another time and I would not wish to throw my woes upon my most gracious benefactor,” the merchant lord said. “But to keep it short, Esgarius is a shrewd and cunning businessman. Despite my wish to call him conniving, I cannot, but that does not change the fact that he is a rival merchant and the source of a great deal of my troubles.”

“Well you need not worry. I’m only working with him as an enchanter while he funds the tuition of this lot.”

“Tuition? Why I can arrange for that as easily as-”

“Thank you. But Esgarius will suffice. Greedy as he may be, he has kept his word without fail in every dealing I have had with him,” Orodan clarified. “And while I have no intentions of helping him harm your business interests, my partnership with him will not change.”

Esgarius of Trumbetton was exceedingly greedy, perhaps even beyond certain moral lines. But Orodan had never once seen the treasure-dealer of Trumbetton scam, con or swindle anyone. He also paid his employees well and looked after the families of any fallen workers of his. Unless the merchant began committing evil deeds… Orodan didn’t see any issue with him being excessively covetous of gold. The business between Gerace and Esgarius was their own; fair competition on the battlefield of markets.

“That is all I could ask anyhow. Esgarius is not so bad as long as he remains squarely in the domain of dealing in adventurer’s gear. A high-value market, but I suppose I should be grateful he has not thought to expand into resource extraction and more like my house has,” Gerace replied. “Now then, shall we head inside? I’m told you not only wished to practice your Calligraphy, but also participate in other aspects of the production pipeline? An odd request… but I suppose we can help.”

“Thank you, might we start now?”

