“Among those of the highest cultivation, birth is always somewhat fraught for the child,” Meizhen said carefully. “The moment the soul cord is severed, they become their own beings.”

“Indeed. However, it remains strange,” Cai Renxiang said, watching the curls of steam rising from the brewing tea. “Head Physician Liao was sufficient for me.”

A brief and uncomfortable silence passed over the table. Ling Qi cracked an awkward smile. “Well, the Duchess knows more than any of us, particularly about herself. Perhaps she sensed some irregularity?”

“Perhaps,” Cai Renxiang allowed.

“Whatever the matter is, it is surely resolved given the expertise at hand,” Meizhen said as Ling Qi began to pour the tea. “Speaking of irregularities, however…” Bai Meizhen gave Ling Qi a hard look. “Did you somehow manage to strain yourself between the morning and now, Ling Qi? Surely the physicians informed you to avoid overexerting yourself.”

Ling Qi shot her friend a frown. She felt Cai Renxiang look her way with a faint frown, studying her. “I’ve run into a little problem,” Ling Qi admitted, filling the cups. “A matter came up, and I found myself unable to fully resolve it. I think I have found a flaw in my cultivation base.”

Despite herself, Ling Qi’s eyes drifted to Zhengui where he, Hanyi and Cui were having their own little ‘tea party.’ Their party somehow involved the corpse of a huge mountain beast she didn’t immediately recognize. Where had that even come from?

“Ah,” Meizhen acknowledged. “Do not be too disheartened. Most everyone encounters a heart demon or two on their way.”

“Heart Demon?” Ling Qi asked, unable to suppress a snigger. What an overwrought term.

Faint color dusted her friend’s cheeks at the sound of her laughter. “It is the proper term. Honestly, the term has been used for millennia. You are so uncultured at times, Ling Qi.”

“I’m sorry,” Ling Qi chuckled. Laughing felt good. “I’m not sure I’d call it a demon, but yeah, there's… I don’t know if I’d call it a contradiction, but it is a conflict at least.”

She carefully passed out the tea in the silence that followed.

“I was being serious,” Meizhen added as she received her cup. “I resolved such a conflict myself not too long ago. You will be able to find your resolve and the Way forward, I am sure.”

Ling Qi looked to her friend in surprise, but thinking about it, Meizhen had changed in recent months. Grown more confident, more daring, and friendlier, at least to a select few.

“How about you, Lady Cai?” she asked, placing a cup in front of her liege. “Any advice on maintaining a perfect path?”

Cai Renxiang gathered the cup in her hands but did not answer immediately. “I completed the cultivation of one of my mother's arts just yesterday. I found no insight in it.”

Ling Qi stared at the girl. Oh. That would certainly explain things.
