Kibby stood straighter and lifted her chin. “As your first Instructor, I berate you. You will shame my name if you do not become the best Avowed.”

Huh?

“Is this a friendly joke?” he asked hesitantly.

She stared at him. “If yours was not a joke, then mine is not a joke. You will be the best Avowed.”

“Kibby, I’m not that great. I think maybe you should lower your—”

“You will be the best Avowed.”

#

Instructor Kivb-ee conked out right after their exercise session. Alden was still wide awake.

He stood in the shower, letting the water blast him. It was running cold in a lot of places now, or not running at all, but the shower near the vault was still blazing hot.

He’d overdone it today. He’d tired himself. He could feel the askewness creeping in.

The chaos was like filthy fingers pressing and pressing against him, breaking through at the edges of his existence.

Mostly the new edges.

His authority had grown. And the fresh authority he’d earned through the many hours of practice with Kibby felt a little softer and more vulnerable than the rest.

It was also beautiful.

So much more beautiful and dear to him than the massive portion of his authority that was dedicated to his skill and trait. He cherished it partly because for a long while now he’d been aware of himself earning it and developing it through hard work. But more than that, he enjoyed it because it was free.

Free to become anything and everything. Free to reshape the world in any way Alden chose and knew the spell for.

Casting a spell—casting it with intention and full awareness of your own power—was awesome. In the original sense of the word. Heavy emphasis on the awe.

It was like Alden became more in some profound way every time he did.

He wouldn’t be surprised if wizards were all addicted to it. He was, and he could only perform a handful of spells intended for children.

And he could only do them with the free authority.

Alden had told Joe he thought an Avowed’s authority must be bound up with their skills and other talents, so that it was easy to use. And Joe had been impressed that he was right.

But I wasn’t right, was I? he thought, resting his back against the shower wall. I was just saying things without understanding them. Back then I couldn’t have understood them. I didn’t even have the words.

The skill was like a machine. It wasn’t a great simile, but it was good enough.

Alden contained within him a powerful, startlingly complex, rock solid machine made of pure authority. He thought if the chaos ever became too much and he started to lose himself, the skill would be the last bastion that held him together. The very last thing to go.

He could sense that about it—its fundamental strength.

And one day, if Alden finally found his way back to a world with a System on it, all of his beautiful free authority would eventually be crammed into a permanent functional shape, too. Something useful. A new skill if he wanted one. Or the mysterious alternate path Joe had advised him to follow for Let Me Take Your Luggage. A few points in Agility. Some mental processing. A spell impression. Some speed.

Whatever he was allowed to choose.

I wonder how many levels I’ve earned.

Three maybe? Or four? He didn’t know how the System kept track. He was just guessing, but it had to be more than it should have been.

His authority—both bound and free—was growing so much faster now that he was consciously using it all the time.

The System will give me a lot of options when the time comes. I should be fine with that. A few months ago, I was just a guy bombing Hamlet quizzes. The skill is strong and useful. I should be grateful. I’ll have choices.

But…not the one I really want.

Joe had said Avowed died if their free authority grew too large and unbalanced their fixed talents. So Alden couldn’t just keep it.

The professor hadn’t been wrong when he advised Alden not to try learning wizardry.

If he’d never done it, he wouldn’t have known the profound joy of it. He wouldn’t have felt the rush of swinging your power at the universe and making things happen. He would never have learned how to feel his skill.

And so he wouldn’t have known that, although his Avowed powers were indeed a gift for someone who wouldn’t have been able to do magic if his life had taken any course but this, they were also a set of chains.

The more Alden mastered his own authority, the more clearly he felt them.

And they were really, really heavy.
