“Humm, curious,” Jamus said. “Anyway, go on, Rain. We’ll be right behind you.”

Rain took a deep breath, held it, then stepped through the barrier. The magic was cold against his skin, but fortunately the barrier wasn’t very thick. He stepped out into a small room with an arched stone ceiling around three meters overhead. Before he could register much more than that, a strange sensation pressed against his mind. He felt something give way, and a new panel appeared in front of him in a burst of static.

Unnamed Lair e492c91f

Rank 5

100%

Party

Ameliah

Health: 100%

Stamina: 99%

Mana: 99%

Val

Health: 100%

Stamina: 90%

Mana: 95%

What the heck was that pressure?

Rain decided not to dwell on it, quickly resizing the window so it didn’t fill his entire view. He’d customize it to be a bit more unobtrusive once he took stock of his surroundings; getting it out of the way was enough for now. Jamus and Carten came through the barrier as Rain looked around the room. Their names were added to the party menu as they entered.

Ameliah and Val were standing on the far side near a tunnel leading into the darkness. Other than the tunnel and the barrier, there was nothing very exciting to look at. The floor and walls were made of the same black tiles as the hallway outside had been, and there were no defining features to hint at the room’s purpose beyond being an entrance.

What’s with the name of the lair? That looks like hexadecimal…Again with the computer theme. I haven’t done any programming since I dropped out, and yet… Well, I suppose it makes more sense than everything being blueprints or something. It wasn’t like I was in charge of designing the buildings, just putting them together. Wait, I’m making an assumption here.

“Can I ask a question?” Rain said, looking at Ameliah.

“You just did,” Carten pointed out unhelpfully. Ameliah rolled her eyes and nodded.

“Does anyone else see the name of the lair as ‘Unnamed Lair e492c91f’?”

“I do now,” Jamus said. “Odd. The bit on the end wasn’t there before.”

“It means that we’re the first ones here,” Ameliah said. “The name of a lair isn’t set until it’s been discovered. We get to name it. Not that it matters, as we’ll be destroying it when we’re done.”

“Ooh! Dark…Mine!” Carten said. “The Dark Mine! That’s a good name.”

As Carten said this, Rain watched the heading of the new panel fuzz and change, spelling out the title Carten had selected.

“Don’t you think that’s a bit too on the nose, Carten?” Jamus said. “How about something like, ‘Everdeep Fortress’ or ‘The Glooming City’?”

“Humm, the first one’s not bad,” Val said. The title on the panel fuzzed again, changing to match.

“What? No! I liked mine better,” Carten said. “Change it back!”

“Enough,” Ameliah said. “What did I say? Stay focused.”

“No, this is important,” Carten protested.

“Be quiet, or I’ll bend you over my knee,” Ameliah said with a knowing smirk.

“Oh my,” Jamus said. “I believe she heard you, Carten. I guess the barrier doesn’t block sound.”

Rain laughed as Carten turned beet red and looked down at the floor, swearing under his breath.

“Ok, enough screwing around,” Ameliah said. “Carten in front, be ready for anything. Check for traps. The rest of you, stay a little ways back and be ready to fight if something comes. Remember to conserve your mana and stamina.” She looked back at Carten. “And stay quiet.”

Carten grimaced and moved to the front, waiting for the others to get into position before he started to creep down the tunnel, shields held at the ready. Val sent his orb floating in front of him, the light revealing the unadorned black stone of the passage. Jamus went next and Rain followed, carrying his staff lifted off the ground to avoid the sound of the wood striking the stone as he walked.

Belatedly, Rain realized that he was still using Purify. The skill was barely visible. Rather than shining with its own light as usual, the effect was subdued, only appearing as a barely perceptible mist that faded to invisibility outside the range of the two Lunar Orbs.

I guess that’s the effect of the lair’s dark aspect.

Rain deactivated the skill and switched back to Winter, seeing that a few of his companions could do with the mana. He messed around with the new panel, removing the blue background and converting his companions’ vitals into bars like his own. He shrunk them down and arranged them on the left side of his field of view where they wouldn’t get in the way. The lair info got the same treatment. He broke it away from the party information and moved it over to the bottom right.

He darkened all of the elements of his HUD, decreasing the brightness and transparency until they didn’t distract from his gloomy surroundings. The interface didn’t light his environment at all, but it was perfectly capable of destroying his night vision. His eyes slowly reacclimated to the darkness in the absence of the brilliant blue panel.

The lair was dead silent as they moved down the tunnel, only the sound of Carten’s metal shod boots breaking the oppressive stillness. Suddenly, Carten came to a halt, motioning for the others to wait. “Val, Ameliah, kill the lights,” he whispered, staring into the darkness. The orb above Ameliah’s head winked out, followed by Val’s after a few seconds, plunging the tunnel into complete darkness. Rain gulped. He couldn’t see a single thing.

“Thought I saw somethin’ ahead,” Carten whispered. “Eyes. In the darkness.”

“Rain, do you sense anything?”

Berating himself for not doing so already, Rain triggered a pulse of his Detection aura, searching for monsters. Immediately, he got a fuzzy signal coming from the tunnel in front of them. It was amorphous and difficult to localize, like smoke. “Something there,” he whispered, boosting the power and trying again. The signal was a bit clearer the second time, but he still couldn’t get an exact lock on it. “I think it’s blocking my skill somehow. I can tell it’s there, but not how far away it is.”

“Shh. I see it,” Jamus said, from somewhere to the left. Rain moved his head to the side, trying to see past Carten’s invisible bulk. As he did so, he found himself looking into two red eyes staring back at him out of the darkness.

“I see it,” Val said softly. “Watch your eyes.”

Rain blinked as a bright flash of white light lit the tunnel. There was a startled yelp, followed by the thump of a body collapsing to the ground.

“Got it. Easy,” Val said smugly. He re-summoned his light and started walking down the tunnel, but Carten stopped him with a hand.

“Stick to the plan. There could be more,” the big man said. His tone was serious in contrast to how he had been speaking before. It seemed that the reality of the situation was finally starting to get through to him. He resumed his slow progress down the tunnel. Quickly, Rain checked his notification log as he followed.

Your party has defeated [Dark Hound], Level 4

Your Contribution: 0%

0 Experience Earned

Huh. Zero contribution? Either one of the others got the credit for spotting it, or the rules are different in here. I didn’t do shit against the Musk Wolf and it still gave me ‘<1%’. Wait a minute…

Something had been bothering him for quite a while now, but he hadn’t been able to put his finger on it. Thinking of the battle with the Musk Wolf had shaken the thought loose from his subconscious and brought it out into the open.

That fight was way too easy. Hegar and the others killed that thing with only a few hits despite the fact that it was level 18 and an essence monster to boot. I’d accept that their skills did way more damage than they seemed to, but still…That wolf must have had tons of health. How the hell did they kill it so easily?

Carten held up a hand to signal the party once more as the light of Val’s orb revealed the downed Dark Hound. Carten stepped over it, then planted his shields in the ground. “Rain, do the thing,” he said, looking over his shoulder. Rain nodded and activated purify, keeping the intensity at a low level. He wanted the time to ask a question.

“Ameliah, something’s bothering me,” he said quietly.

“What?” she asked. “Did you sense something?”

“No, it’s sort-of unrelated. Something doesn’t add up.”

“Fine. Make it quick,” she said softly. Rain glanced at the slowly evaporating Dark Hound before continuing. The effect of his aura seemed undiminished, even if it no longer generated light.

“When I first got here, Hegar and the others killed that huge Musk Wolf in only a few hits. Why was it so easy?”

“Monsters aren’t like us,” Ameliah said. “They can’t survive without enough mana in the air. Something like that wolf would have been weakened immensely on the surface. It would probably have died on its own eventually.”

“Oh,” Rain said. “That makes sense I suppose. So then those Kin…”

“Shh. Stop stalling,” she said. Rain thought she looked a little uneasy in the dim light, but she quickly controlled her expression. “I know your aura is stronger than that. Hurry up and finish. Ask your questions later.”

Chagrined, Rain increased the power until the Dark Hound disappeared completely, leaving a single Tel glinting on the ground. He picked it up and added it to the others in the bag before re-fastening it on his belt. “Ready,” he said, switching back to Winter.

The group continued down the tunnel until they came to a black stone door barring their path. Carten walked up to it, setting one shield down and reaching for the door. Ameliah hissed at him, and he paused with his hand hovering just above the handle.

“What?” he asked, turning to look at her.

“Check for traps,” she said.

“I am checkin’ for traps,” he said, grasping the handle firmly. There was a sudden rushing sound and a bolt of dark lightning flashed from the handle, tracing arcing patterns across Carten’s armor as it shot through him. Rain jumped back in alarm, but the lightning stopped after only a few seconds. The man’s health had barely budged according to the party window.

“There, trap dealt with,” Carten said with a grin.

“And if it had dropped you into a bottomless pit instead?” Jamus asked.

“Oh. Hadn’t thought of that,” Carten said. He paused for a second, then shrugged.

“Wait, can that happen?” Val asked. “It seems a little unfair.”

“I told you, don’t underestimate anything in here,” Ameliah said to Carten before glancing at Val. “And since when is life fair?”

“Good point,” Val conceded.

Carten pulled the door open with an ominous creak, revealing a low-ceilinged passage made of the same dark tiles. The door was set into one of the walls of the new tunnel, the darkness extending in both directions. There was a faint sound of water dripping in the distance.

“Left or right?” Carten asked, stepping out into the tunnel. Rain activated Detection again, but he didn’t feel anything in either direction. “Left,” he said with a shrug.

“You sense something?” Jamus asked.

Rain shook his head. “No, it’s just that left is always right.”

“Huh?” Carten said, blinking at Rain in the darkness.

“Sorry, it makes more sense in English. The word for ‘right’ also means ‘correct’, so when I said…oh, never mind. I’ll explain it later.”

“Well, why not? Left it is,” Jamus said, motioning for Carten to lead the way.

“Rain,” Ameliah said, laying a hand on his shoulder.

“Yeah?”

“Pretend I’m not here. You’re last, so watch out behind the party and warn them if something comes.”

“Got it,” Rain said nervously. The dark passage behind him stretched on ominously, and he thought he felt a slight breeze blowing. It could just have been his imagination. He used Detection again, the total lack of a response doing little to soothe his growing unease. He walked backward, following the others and keeping a lookout behind them. Ameliah moved into the center of the group, but left her light trailing behind them, an action for which Rain was immeasurably grateful.

“Another intersection,” Jamus whispered from behind him. “Left again, Carten.”

Rain looked over his shoulder, making sure not to lose the others as he crept down the tunnel after them. The darkness and the silence were oppressive, pressing in against the light, as well as his sanity. Somehow, the lack of monsters was even worse than the eyes glowing in the darkness had been.

I don’t like this. I reeeeally don’t like this.

Reaching the intersection, he edged around the corner, sticking as close to it as he could. The darkness down the other tunnel was impenetrable, concealing unknown horrors in the murky blackness where their lights didn’t reach. Ameliah’s orb soon rounded the corner, following Rain as he scuttled backward. He kept pinging with Detection, faster than he needed to based on the speed at which they were moving. Still, there was nothing, only the darkness and the silence. The sound of the dripping water had stopped, and the air felt like it was getting colder. Rain shivered, clutching his staff tightly.

“That’s odd,” Jamus said softly. Rain looked over his shoulder just in time to avoid bumping into him. Val’s light revealed another intersection in front of them. “Which way now?” Jamus asked. “Left should be a dead end. There weren’t any doors on the side of the first passage.”

“Let’s check it,” Carten said, turning left and moving down the tunnel. Rain repeated his action from before, edging around the corner and trying to watch both tunnels at once. He winced as the metal of his chain shirt clinked against the stone. They continued on for a few minutes before Val spoke, breaking the silence.

“I don’t understand. We should have hit the end by now. We turned left three times, so this tunnel should intersect with the wall of the first one, but…”

“Yes, it’s been too long,” Jamus said.

“Keep going,” Val said. “It must be just ahead.”

They continued in silence for a few more minutes, but the tunnel didn’t end or come to another intersection. Rain was struggling to control his imagination as he stared into the darkness beyond their feeble pool of light. “Guys, I think something is very wrong here,” he said.

“Back the way we came?” Carten asked.

“Might as well test it,” Jamus said.

The group turned around, Carten moving past Rain and leading the way back down the tunnel. Rain let Val take the rear, following closely in the shadow of the hulking form of Carten. He needed to give his nerves a rest in the relative safety of the center of the group. Though he kept trying, Detection still revealed nothing.

