The party of adventurers peered through the hole in the shattered wall at the bottom of the mine. The soft light of the two magical orbs stopped barely a meter into the opening. Val sent his orb through the hole, revealing a tunnel built from square bricks of some dark stone. There was a burned-out torch lying on the floor, just on the other side of the hole.

“Well, here we are. Shall we?” asked Jamus.

“Yup,” Carten said, jumping down into the tunnel and landing on the tiled floor with a clank.

Val shot Rain a look. “You sure you don’t want to take that physical defense aura?”

Rain shook his head. “That would be a mistake. I can only use one aura at a time, and the percentage isn’t high enough. Even if I boosted it, I’m betting the efficiency would take a hit. No, it’s much better to just not get hit in the first place. This is why I wanted to wait a day or two. I’ll be okay, though. I’ve got my armor.” Rain knocked his hand against the side of his metal helmet to demonstrate.

“That’s the spirit,” Val clapped him on the shoulder and jumped down. Rain went next, dropping the quarter-meter to the floor of the tunnel and looking both ways. Detection revealed nothing, but he was wary of trusting it after Jamus’s warning. Ameliah followed, then she and Val sent their lights zipping down the tunnels. They split off in opposite directions, leaving the group in momentary darkness.

The tunnel to the right stopped after a short distance, ending in a collapsed pile of rubble. The other direction appeared clear, however. The stalwart pool of light from the Lunar Orb looked tiny as it fought its way further into the oppressive darkness.

“What’s the range on that thing?” Carten asked, looking at Ameliah as the orb continued down the tunnel.

“A thousand stride,” Val answered. He nodded down the tunnel. “That one’s mine.”

Rain blinked and looked at the tiny light in the distance. Tallheart said he was about 3 stride tall. I’d put him at around 220cm, therefore a ‘stride’ is like 3/4 of a meter, more or less. So 750 meters at least for that spell. That’s…wow.

“Not that I don’t believe you, but that seems excessive,” Jamus said. He was staring down at something in his hand, making a page-turning motion.

What’s that about? Is he using his interface? Why does it look like he’s turning the pages of an invisible book?

“It has its uses,” Ameliah said. “The spell has limited autonomy. You can assign it to follow someone, for example.”

“Oh, I see,” Jamus said. “Here it is. Lunar Orb: Summon a biddable light spirit, low mana cost, extreme range,” he summarized, staring at his empty palm.

Yup, that’s his interface alright. He closed the book when he was done and everything. Why am I not surprised?

“Ooh, hit a wall,” Val said, staring into the blackness. Rain couldn’t make out anything more than a faint glow of the Lunar Orb, now far in the distance.

“How can ya tell?” Carten asked.

“I can feel where the orb is. It can’t go through stuff, so I know there’s something there if it stops.”

“Humm. Maybe it’s not so useless after all,” Carten said. “Well, let’s get going then. Rain, Velocity.”

“Don’t waste mana,” Ameliah said, shaking her head.

“Aww, but I wanna get ta the good part!” Carten whined.

The group set off toward the light in the distance. Val brought his orb back and kept it at around 20 meters in front of them so they could have a little warning if anything was coming. Ameliah’s orb was slowly orbiting above her head. The tunnel ceiling was high but still within the range of the light. Rain was periodically canvassing it for slimes as Carten led the way down the passage.

Can’t forget to look up.

The group crept on like this for quite a while in silence. The darkness was really starting to weigh on Rain’s nerves. If the others were affected by the atmosphere at all, they didn’t show it. Val in particular just looked eager to reach the lair.

“Oi, there it is,” Carten said abruptly, pointing ahead.

Rain followed his finger to see that the light of the orb in front of them had stopped at a dark, translucent barrier blocking the tunnel. The output of the Lunar Orb seemed to fight against it, fizzing into gray smoke as it met the magical barrier.

“That’s the lair?” Rain asked.

“Yes. Clearly dark aspect,” Jamus said.

“How do we get through the barrier?”

Jamus paused to consider. “From what I’m told, you just walk through.”

“From what you were told?” Rain said, incredulous. “You’ve never been in a lair before? I know I’m not one to talk, but…”

“I had my awakening in the Badlands,” Jamus said with a shrug. “I’ve heard all about them from Staavo, though.”

“Same,” Carten said. “The Badlands bit, anyway. No idea what a ‘Staavo’ is.”

“Staavo is a ‘who’, Carten, not a ‘what’.”

Carten laughed. “That’s the joke, Jamus.”

“Are we going in, or not?” Val said, cutting off Jamus’s response.

“Wait,” Ameliah said. The group turned to look at her.

“If none of you have been in a lair before, there are some things you should know.”

“I think we can figure it out,” Val said.

“No, Val. Just no. Go ahead, Ameliah,” Rain said. He was getting a little tired of the man’s overconfidence. Someone was finally going to explain something to him ahead of time for once, and he wanted to hear what she had to say.

“Rain is right. You should listen to me if you want to stay alive,” she said.

“Bah, we know what we’re about,” groused Carten. “I don’t need someone telling me how to walk through a shimmery wall. What makes you an’ expert, anyway? Sure, you’ve got a good grip, but…”

Carten trailed off as Ameliah wordlessly pulled out her Adventurers’ Guild plate, letting it fall outside of her tunic. The silver metal looked almost white in the pale magical light.

“Oh,” Carten managed, staring at the plate.

Jamus whistled. “You’re a silverplate. I had no idea.”

“No more interruptions,” Ameliah said. “I’m here to teach Rain to not make the same mistakes as most adventurers. That means you. If I can correct some of your faults, all the better.”

Oh shit! Rain thought, suppressing a smile. I think they pissed her off. I haven’t seen that expression on her face since we were with Hegar’s party.

“This,” she indicated the dark wall of magic, “is the barrier. Once we go past here, we’ll be in the lair. The first thing you’ll notice is the party display. You’ll be able to see the Health, Stamina, and Mana of your party members.” She held up a hand to forestall Jamus, who looked like he was about to ask a question.

“Not the actual number, just how much they have relative to their cap. You’ll still be able to see it, even if you get split up. If someone’s name disappears, it means they left the lair. If someone’s health drops to nothing, it does not mean they are dead. Do not make that mistake. It may still be possible to save them. If they are down, but still alive, don’t try to move them. Use a scroll or a potion.” She paused, turning her head. “Yes?”

Jamus lowered his hand. “No offense, but this is a low-rank area. Aren’t you being a little overcautious? Since you’re a silverplate, aren’t you more than strong enough to deal with anything we find in there?”

“Do not underestimate a lair,” Ameliah said. She placed her hand against the barrier, and Rain jumped as a dark purple glyph shimmered into existence. He recognized it as the very first number he had learned: a ‘5’, written in stylized common.

“This is the lair’s rank. Use it as a guide. Never enter a lair with a higher rank than the average level of your party, and never enter a lair alone. Don’t assume that the lair’s rank is that of the highest monster you can find inside. It is not. Watch your positioning and be careful about friendly fire. Use the environment to your—” Ameliah stopped and sighed. “What?”

Val lowered his hand. “How are you supposed to get stronger if you never take risks?”

“With hard work, caution, and preparation,” Ameliah said, annoyance clear in her tone.

“This all seems like overkill,” Val said. “It’s a dark lair, and I use light magic. I’ll blow them all away in one hit.”

“And when you run out of mana?” Jamus asked, raising an eyebrow.

“That’s what Rain’s for. Also, weren’t you on my side?”

“She’s convinced me, what can I say?” Jamus shrugged. “We do it by the book.”

“Fine,” Val said, with an enormous sigh. He looked at Ameliah. “We’ll do it your way. At least until we find a blue, that is. Then we do it my way. I get to fight it alone.”

Ameliah sighed. “You’re going to get yourself killed.”

“I’d rather die trying to be a legend than live to old age in mediocrity,” Val said, grinning.

“One thing,” Carten said, “I’m here for experience first and money second.” He looked at Ameliah. “I don’t want you takin’ all my experience.”

“I’ll hang back once we’re inside. I won’t intervene unless it looks like someone is going to die,” she said, glancing at Val. “Depending on how well you do, I might break off to scout ahead, but I’m not doing that until I know you can handle it.”

“Where’s your weapon at, anyway?” Carten asked. “You don’t look like a mage.”

“I fight with my whole body, as well as magic. I used to be a Jack, but now I’m something else.”

Sounds like a monk. Granted, I haven’t actually seen her fight. For all I know, she might transform into a werewolf or summon a giant flaming sword.

Rain brought his focus back as Ameliah started speaking again.

“A few more things. First, we don’t know what kind of lair this is, other than the aspect. I shouldn’t need to tell you this, but for Rain’s benefit, there are different kinds of lairs. Some are filled with traps that reset themselves, some contain hordes of monsters that come in waves, others are a maze. The possibilities are endless. Next, you see this?”

Looking where she was pointing, Rain saw a small bar underneath the large number floating in the middle of the barrier. He’d taken it for decorative scroll-work before.

“This shows the state of the lair. The bar is full, so we can expect heavy resistance. Depending on the type of the lair, it might recover after a day, or not for several weeks. It depends on the size of the lair and the density of the monsters inside.”

She removed her hand from the barrier and the purple glyph and bar faded away.

“Last, but not least, if we make it to the core, do not destroy it. We are here to farm the lair, not gamble for an uncertain reward. We’ll destroy it before we leave, but we might get three or four full runs in before we run out of supplies. I need everyone’s agreement on this. If someone breaks the core without consulting the others first, we’re going to have a problem.”

“Agreed.”

“I’m with ya’.”

“Yup.”

Ameliah turned to Rain, waiting.

Rain nodded. “I agree, but what is the core? You mentioned a reward?”

“Every lair has a core,” Jamus said. “Sometimes you might hear it called a ‘heart’, or a ‘nexus’. People have different names for it. The point is, breaking it will bring down the barrier and destroy the lair. The core will sometimes create an item when destroyed, or a mountain of Tel or Crysts. I’ve even heard stories of stranger things, like extra skill points and boosts to stats, but I’m not sure if those are just rumors.”

“No, that’s true,” Ameliah said. “It isn’t common, but it can happen.”

“Our very own lair!” Val smiled. “And nobody to stop us.”

“Now that’s just askin’ fer trouble,” Carten said. “Remember, Lavarro or Mahria might’ve reported it to the guild. We could get company.”

Rain had been nodding along, but stopped as he suddenly remembered Tallheart. “Shit, should we go back and warn Tallheart? I know we already mentioned it to him before we even left the city, but…”

“He’ll be fine,” Jamus said. “He should be able to deal with anyone who shows up. Nobody strong enough to be a problem for him would be interested in a low-rank lair like this.”

“Still, we should—”

“Oh, come on, Rain,” Val said. “Let’s go already!”

“No, Rain is right,” Ameliah said. “Message: Tallheart. We are entering the lair. Be careful. It is possible that another party of adventurers may know about the mine.”

Rain raised an eyebrow. As soon as she had said Tallheart’s name, her voice had taken on a strange, echoing quality, as if it was coming from a great distance down the tunnel.

“There,” she said, her voice back to normal. “I warned him.”

“You really have a lot of different skills,” Rain said. “Is that something to do with your class?”

“Yes,” she said, but didn’t explain further. “I’m going in. Give me thirty seconds to make sure it is safe, then follow. Once we’re inside, keep your mind on the task at hand. Tactical communication only. Chatter can wait until we are back at the camp.”

Man am I glad she’s here. She really seems to know what she’s doing, now that she finally took charge. Jamus, Carten, and Val look like amateurs by comparison. Ha, what’s that make me?

Ameliah stepped through the barrier and disappeared into the darkness. Carten turned to Jamus and laughed. “How do you keep finding these crazy women, Jamus? First you find me a job workin’ with Lavarro, and now her.”

“She’s nothing like Lavarro, Carten. Lavarro doesn’t explain anything. She just glares at you until you do what she wants.”

“Haha, yeah. You’re not wrong about that. Still, I’d love a woman who could bend me over her knee. It’s hot. Think I’ve got a shot?”

“Not a chance,” Val said, placing his hand against the barrier. The glowing purple number reappeared, but instead of the scrollwork bar below it, another glyph appeared, one Rain didn’t recognize.

Huh.

Val inspected the glyph for a second, then nodded and pushed through the barrier. As he passed through, the light from his spell winked out abruptly, leaving them in darkness. Thinking quickly, Rain activated Purify. The light was even dimmer than that of Lunar Orb, but it was better than nothing.

“You’re next, Rain,” Jamus said.

Rain steeled himself, then placed his hand on the barrier. To his surprise, instead of the common glyph for five, a stylized Arabic numeral formed instead, as well as a small circle with 100% written within it.

“The depths is that symbol?” said Carten, staring at the five.

“Just a number, Carten. Looks like the barrier adapts to the person. These are the glyphs we use in my language,” Rain said.

