Fine. The thought didn’t herald her decision to embrace Black Crow—she was far more vindictive than that. The instant the bear had locked onto her—the ‘weakest’ prey it saw—she had chosen flight. In all likelihood, even without her [Companion Bond], she would have chosen the same. But with her options expended, her terror became distant. If she was going to die, she would die hurting the beast that dared to kill her.

In a life-or-death struggle, she tended to stop worrying about what was possible. She had discovered new depths to her abilities in those moments. And she had witnessed elves dancing upon leaves in the wind.

Desperation made her attempt something that she had convinced herself was uniquely elven.

There were plenty of leaves in the air. Every stride the bear made shook the ground like a localized earthquake. Plus, trees were being felled in rapid succession, striking other branches and altering the canopy as they went. Even at the extreme speeds they were moving, leaves were still in the air—the far-reaching effects of the bear’s rampage adding to what the wind and Solareon’s wings tore free.

Had she been in less peril, she might have marveled at her ability to dance from leaf to leaf through the air.

Instead, she roared in fury as she spun to face her adversary. Her dance carried her farther away while she launched her knives with as much force as her stats and Skills could muster.

The bear raised itself up onto its hind legs to match her altitude. Which only made it an easier target. Void-empowered adamantium found resilient fur and hide. The bear’s vitality was difficult to predict, but for once her Void proved its value. Blood, fur, and scraps of meat were carved free of the powerful animal.

Not that the minor injuries even slowed it down.

Ranthia danced clear of another crushing burst of Sound, relying purely on [Divine Eyes in the Void]’s estimation of where the attack was aimed. The leaves gave her an entire dimension to evade in, and she used the trees as springboards to launch herself to more distant leaves.

[Adamant Commander] brought her knives back to her hands after every throw. She lacked the power to bury a blade deep in the bear—all she could do was inflict shallow wounds that were only making her adversary just a bit angrier. At least until she sliced a chunk off of its nose—that really pissed it off.

“There’s a clearing to the west!” Neyvern’s Skill-amplified voice finally provided something tactically relevant.

Not that she had the time—or enough visibility through the canopy—to try to orient herself.

“This way!” Fortunately, the elf seemed to anticipate as much.

Through a mixture of (once improbable) aerial acrobatics and several tactical shifts, Ranthia managed to follow his voice. Unfortunately, the bear was acclimating to her newest tactics rapidly. It soon returned to running on all four legs and took to trying to topple trees into her path—or on top of her, it wasn’t exactly picky. Its antics gave her more things to kick and dance off of, but it also made her journey far more fraught.

Before, a misstep would cost her armor and pain. With the entire battlefield reduced to a chaotic maelstrom of weighty wood, high-velocity splinters, and dense clusters of leaves, a single mistake could leave her pinned. And there was no reality where she could recover from that in time to escape certain death.

She struggled to find openings to launch (largely ineffectual, yet reassuring) attacks on the bear as she twirled and blurred through the arboreal carnage. Birds and small to mid-sized animals were still in many of the falling trees—creatures that were too low level to possibly escape before devastation found them. Unfortunately, the bear paid no heed to the buffet of appetizers that it unearthed. The damned thing was locked in on her.

And then Ranthia found herself in mid-air, beneath the sun’s warm radiance.

Without so much as a single petal to carry her next step.

Ranthia prided herself on her creativity when it came to curses. She had learned from some of the greatest foul-mouthed minds in Remus and honed the art to the best of her ability. She had a curse for every occasion.

“Freauckit!” was not on her list. There was no language on Pallos in which that was a valid curse.

She couldn’t even claim she gracelessly tumbled from the air. Her descent was perfectly graceful, no matter how she panicked. She even landed easily on her feet.

…Directly beneath the bear’s shadow. The monstrous animal was lunging through the air at her, triumphant.

Neyvern shouted something and Solareon let out one of her adorably squawky roars. Not that it mattered. Ranthia paid them no heed. Instead, she desperately launched her knives at the underside of the bear’s neck, then crossed her bracers over her face and threw herself backwards while she sent an image out. It was all she could do in the time allotted—the bear was just too large for her to dance or lunge clear in time.

The bear impacted her before she could even begin [Reflection of Reality]’s activation process. Its sheer weight drove her into the soft ground with enough force that she still felt bones break as her armor crumpled. Her bracers slammed into her teeth, smashing her jaw in the process, but [Higher Power] gave her just enough time to direct the bear’s claws a bit lower. Enough to make the blow merely a mortal wound—a significant improvement over killing her outright.

Ranthia still managed to activate [Reflections of Reality], even through her haze of shock and agony. After almost a century of relying on the Skill to save her ass every time she took horrific damage, it was almost an autonomous instinct. But even she was alarmed at one detail—a single point of pain that stood out amongst the litany of dire wounds:

The bear had punctured her adamantium. She could feel the claw in her flesh!

Somehow, she managed to shift before the bear could mush what was left of her or eat the top of her head (or any number of other terrible scenarios that would likely visit her nightmares in the coming months). She could feel her punctured adamantium tearing into her flesh, but she just willed the jagged bits to crumble back into sand and restore the bracer while she absorbed the scenario.

Neyvern looked ridiculous standing atop Solareon’s back while he strummed his instrument with everything he had, screaming lyrics at a volume where they almost lost all meaning. Solareon had joined her Sound to her Bond’s and the combined noise had a decidedly golden hue—likely the griffin’s Radiance—as it barraged the bear. But the true attack—Neyvern’s spikes of conjured metal—were having less of an effect than they had hoped. The vast majority of them were lying on the ground around the bear, with only two that found shallow purchase through the animal’s tough hide.

Still, their combined attacks stunned the bear for a few precious moments. Long enough for Ranthia to escape her predicament in one piece (well, after the shift, at least). Unfortunately, she couldn’t tell how much—if any—damage her knives had done due to the bear’s posture. Somehow, she wasn’t willing to hope that the bear was bleeding out and unable to breathe.

The bear abruptly raised its head and snarled, sending Solareon reeling in a flurry of feathers. Ranthia called her knives back to her hand at the same moment, as she embraced her rhythm to renew her struggle against the brutish monstrosity.

“Foul, loathsome beast!”

Anthelleon always had a way with words. The woman burst through the treeline, her weapon held over her head. Jagged wounds on her side left a crimson trail in her wake as she leapt through the air.

Wielding a cleaver-shaped pane of Brilliance, larger than she had ever used in any attack Ranthia witnessed from her.

The weapon came down with explosive force—empowered by Anthelleon’s [The Weight of a Mountain] Skill and backed by a significant portion of the woman’s mana pool. Every blow that Ranthia or Neyvern inflicted had been shallow, but Anthelleon’s greater strength and power proved its merit. Blood, meat, and even fragments of bone flew into the air as her strike slammed the bear back into the ground. She had cleaved through its shoulders in a single attack.

Yet the bear lived. With a sudden thunderclap, the lightning that had shimmered across the bear’s fur arced through the air and tore into the wounded woman.

“Hit it!” She screamed, her flesh charring.

Neyvern—in freefall—reacted first. He was still strumming his musical instrument as he shouted his song into the winds.

“Into the abyss! The four fought on. Into the abyss! Battle not yet won.”

As ridiculous as it was, there was a reason that he was carrying on. His Sound was essential to guide and accelerate the spikes that he had conjured. Each of the eight found purchase in the new, gaping wound Anthelleon had inflicted—piercing through the tempestuous winds and arcing lightning, completely unbothered by the bear’s defenses.

The localized Storm weakened. After another eight spikes joined the first set, it extinguished entirely.

Anthelleon wasted no time lunging forward and stabbing her weapon into the bear’s spine, forcing it to the ground. She could have never pulled off the feat if it hadn’t been weakened, but even with its enervation she was still visibly struggling to keep it down.

It was all the opening Ranthia needed. She caught her knives midway as she closed in, then activated [Void Edge] and [Echoes of Devastation] as she slammed them into the most vulnerable tissue she could find—the bear’s eyes.

[*ding!* Your party has slain a bear [Bear] (Sound, level 1494), [Bear] (Storm, level 1469), [Bear] (Gale, level 1296)!]
