A great cleaving strike whipped around catching Mato and her Blood Berserker simultaneously, and she felt her berserker’s last thread of life snap as the devastating blade bisected it from shoulder to rib. She was running out of minions to fight – without the berserker, only Malika remained of the entire melee force, and all her casters were either healing or defending against the growing swarm of Blood Thralls with Frost Nova and fireballs. By the scent of his blood, Ali knew that Tol’brekk was almost dead; a fact that filled her with dread – with this much rage, the longer the battle drew out, the more certain Mato’s chance of being killed with a single strike.

Without hesitation, she burned her last charge of Winter’s Desolate Celerity on an Ice Mage and commanded, “Kill Tol’brekk. Use everything!”

“At once, Seeker!” the mage said, ice mana accelerating within his veins. Even though the berserker was highly resistant to movement impairments, the sudden rush of high-velocity ice bolts slamming into him made his movement stutter. It was all Ali had to help Mato survive, and she desperately hoped it was enough.

“Faster!” Ali demanded as Mato charged sideways to get out from under the boss’s leap attack. He had to be trying to time his Critical Block recharge.

“Yes, Seeker,” the mage said, redoubling his efforts, but he was already casting three times faster than normal.

“All of you, Ice Bolts on the boss!” Ali screamed, and for the first time in the battle, she fired barrier shards at Tol’brekk as she desperately sought to make up the damage deficit from so many dead minions. But without their damage on the thralls, things were growing precarious.

“Ali?” Calen shouted.

“Boss – now! Mato can’t survive another hit!” she yelled.

It’s not enough!

But as Tol’brekk reached the apex of his enormous jump, the air nearby shimmered. Malika’s body appeared above the giant troll’s head, punching relentlessly with flickering and flashing fists. A brilliant volley of arrows pierced Tol’brekk’s chest, detonating with continuous explosions of hellfire and light that enveloped both him and Malika in a falling ball of flame.

The ground shuddered under the massive impact as the Giant Troll Death Knight struck the dirt. A pair of greataxes clanged as they cartwheeled away from the crater. As the inferno of hellfire and ice cleared, the form of a singed, smoking Malika was revealed, still riding the giant troll’s back, one fist gripping the leather of his armor and the other blurring as she hammered it against the back of his head.

A chime went off in Ali’s mind, and Malika froze. Silence reigned, marred only by a small chunk of rubble falling to the ground.

“I think he’s actually dead-dead this time,” Malika announced.

Your group has defeated Tol’brekk [The Crimson Blade of Carnage] – Giant Undead Troll – level 112 (Blood).

“Ali! Help me with these thralls!” Calen shouted.

“Oh, right,” Ali said, tearing her eyes away from the sight and gathering her mages.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
