Agonizing pangs spread through Tavza’s body, and her mind was filled with madness. She drowned the impulses telling her to capture Zac and extract his secrets. Tavza was willing to sacrifice much for the chance to explore the Peak of Chaos, but not her people’s future.

Her ancestor was right. Zac, or Arcaz, was the much-needed wind of change, a chance to overturn their state of decline. He might even be the one to realize the dream of the progenitors. Tavza had a chance to be part of such a critical time in history, and she wouldn’t ruin it with short-sighted greed. Her gaze turned to the grimoire in Naruk’s hands—the next clue to finding a stable model of Chaos.

----------

The storm rising from the depths of the Lower Planes left Zac no room to worry about Tavza, Ogras, or the fate of the Rosemore Sect. Intense madness threatened to overwhelm his mind while rampaging energies sought to assimilate his body into the chaotic mix. Tavza’s curtain of True Abyssal Death was rapidly running out of energy.

Zac delved deeper, following the thread of malice. He hadn’t reached the true threshold between realms. When Tavza’s protection expired, Zac switched to having [Void Zone]. It was even more effective, but the drain was immense. Thankfully, it didn’t take Zac long to reach his destination. This time, Zac was careful not to look at the world waiting on the other side. He couldn’t afford to attract the attention of whatever lurked on the other side.

Instead, Zac put his all into finding the hidden fold between realities. The task proved more difficult than the last time, when the gate was made of Pure Life. However, it wasn’t insurmountable. [Void Zone] exerted some pressure on the passage, and Hope Energy was a mottled mix of all seventeen Dao Peaks.

Zac followed the sense of danger and lashed out any time with [Void Mountain]’s Dao-annihilating sigil whenever he found an imperfection. It only took four tries before a familiar gash opened, exposing Mox’s unique flavor of evil. Zac had already taken out Roan’s Fertile Earth Token. It remained inert and unresponsive to Zac’s calls, forcing him to keep going.

He rushed into the closing passage before it was too late, and [Verun’s Bite] was replaced by a meter-long copper spike. It was the Law-imbued metal he’d excavated during his travels. Zac quickly put it into the tear, using the priceless treasure as a doorstopper. The metal was slowly being eroded, but it actually managed to hold the path open.

Zac believed the route needed to be open for any reinforcements to find the hidden realm, and he’d theorized that the Four Laws weren’t affected by the imperfections in the Dao Peaks. If the idea didn’t pan out, Zac was ready to use the [Fuxi Mountain Gate] or parts of his body to keep the path open.

The hidden realm was significantly larger than Ching’Ru’s hideout, and it wasn’t empty. There was a large platform in the center, and Zac immediately recognized the First People’s handiwork. Like the [Fuxi Mountain Gate], someone had repurposed a piece of the First People’s world-sized disk to serve as a foundation that could withstand the Void.

A ten-meter statue depicting a vaguely humanoid creature with eight arms was placed upon it. It looked something like an insectoid queen mixed with a primordial devil, veritably reeking of malice. Zac didn’t need to cross-reference [Ancients] to know it was a depiction of Mox. The statue embodied her evil perfectly, and his sense of danger pointed straight at it.

A thread extended from each of her hands. Spheres made from pure Mental Energy were connected at the other end, and looking at them filled Zac’s mind with the wails of countless souls. Millions of spirits had to be trapped inside the containers. It wasn’t hard to guess where they came from. The spheres were the price of hope. Every cultivator who’d accepted Mox’s tainted gift of Hope Energy had a sliver of their souls taken without noticing.

A spectral entity stood before one of the spheres, looking like a gardener tending his crop. Its eight arms made it look like a smaller version of the statue, though only four of them held soul-trapping spheres. Zac could tell it wasn’t actually Mox. Its aura was only a shallow copy of the bottomless evil coming from the statue, and its spheres were clearly just borrowing energy from the statue. Zac also recognized the spirit’s face.

It was Naruk, once more appearing to get in his way.

A clone? No, he completely lacked a physical form like the corrupted Garden Spirit. Had Naruk split his soul to create this avatar, similar to the method in [Thousand Lights Chapter]? If he had, he must’ve had a tremendously powerful soul before. It actually looked like he’d completely separated soul and body, which would explain why Zac couldn’t sense any spirituality on Naruk’s body outside.

The scene made it clear Zac had come to the right place, but it didn’t stop his heart from beating like a drum. His Danger Sense was approaching levels he’d never experienced before, and there was still no sign of Roan. Was the Empire actually expecting him to deal with the statue himself? Zac wasn’t even sure if he could get close without his mind breaking, and there was the spirit to worry about. Naruk’s soul lacked the pressure of an Inner World, but he was clearly much stronger than Ching’Ru.

Zac wasn’t given the time to figure things out. A monstrous will descended on the hidden realm, and the statue turned its head toward him. Zac couldn’t move, locked in place by an invisible force far beyond his understanding. The feeling was just like the brief moments when Sendor’s true personality peeked through his guise of a kindly senior.

The statue held the lofty coldness born from the vast, unfathomable power of someone at the top of the cosmic pyramid. Its gaze also contained a definite hunger, confirming Mox wasn’t only looking to deal with a threat to her plans. She wanted to devour him for his bloodline, and Zac’s mind almost shattered from her undivided attention.

Zac could even hear the sound of something breaking, and his horror mounted upon realizing it wasn’t his soul. Roan’s token had been destroyed beyond salvation, its Imperial Faith replaced with the promise of suffering.
