“There’s a whole mess of nested assumptions there. I don’t know if Black Crow even shows up for monsters or animals! Even if he does, wouldn’t it make more sense that he’s there for an immortal moment—a fraction of a second, at most—before he leaves for the next soul? White Dove was surprisingly patient with me, yes, but I can’t exactly expect to have someone on hand ready to accept an immortal’s curse every time I fight!

“If I was a disciple of Thanatos, instead of Xaoc, I might be more tempted. But this… I can’t fight a stronger foe while crippled. And you said yourself that the class can’t possibly maintain this quality. We could get locked into weaker options moving forward, and even at black quality, a level 768 class’ stats will fall off quickly.” Fuck, fuck, fuck, and—for emphasis—fuck.

How was it even fair to get a class like that?!

She had to refuse. Every single logical piece of her mind knew as much and agreed. The class was likely to get her killed, and Black Crow harvesting her did nothing after the System left her. [She who Dances with Death] indeed—it was a class that implicitly courted death!

Even with the stats, how many levels would it take to match elven potential? Sure, she might manage to physically rival some of the elves still on their first cycle, but she was already more than a match for them, no matter what their raw physicality might suggest. Strength without experience was clumsy and limited. The escalating boost based on proximity with Black Crow // White Dove would erase the gap, even with stronger, more experienced elves like Aegiomus or Avyna, but the requirement was out of her control.

And that was the crux of the issue. It was a class of borrowed strength, based on a sapient, spiteful source that she had no control over. She barely even had a relationship with Thanatos’ independent aspects—it was possible that White Dove had already forgotten her.

And she somehow doubted that either side of the aspect of death was willing to do her favors every time she found herself in a pinch.

“…Bring me other classes, please.” If nothing else, she had to know what her other options were.

“I just want to be up front about this: there was only one black quality class. Do not get your hopes up for a directly better option.” Her guide offered her an apologetic smile and even briefly reached over the counter to touch her arm. Then she went back to work and browsed the racks of jumbled swords.

Leaving Ranthia to stew in her regret for a brief while.

[Graceful Destroyer] was the next class, weighing in at a low purple. Which made it disappointing in comparison, but she tried to force her mind past that absurdity. She wasn’t getting another black class, so she needed to focus on what the classes she had access to truly offered. And much like the Mirror class she chose, this one made improvements across the board, but the big thing that it provided was a significant upgrade to [Void Edge]. The new Skill would function like the troll twin’s Void attacks had—a larger eruption of Void that reached beyond her weapons.

The mana demands would be a lot higher, but… well, she was getting to the point that she could afford that, even if her mana regeneration was falling a touch behind.

It wasn’t bad. It wasn’t a black quality class, but it wasn’t bad. She could start from there, especially since she had more classes to go.

[The Corruptive Chaos of the Void] “only” had a peak blue class quality, but it was still interesting. [Echoes of Devastation] would turn into a curse-type Skill, leaving fragments of Void energy in the wounds of whatever she cut. It was a powerful answer to regenerators—extremely difficult to heal through—while also making wounds steadily grow worse. The Void she left behind couldn’t last forever once it was cut off from her mana, but every wound she inflicted could be similarly infected if she chose. The effects would add up, no matter what she faced.

It wasn’t the type of class she had expected, but she tentatively planned to shortlist it.

The next blade with a purple-wrapped hilt was [Dancing Across the Darkest Sky]. The class leaned heavily into her ability to dance above the ground, offering her the ability to form discs of Void that she could touch safely—yet would be dangerous to anyone or anything else. Footholds in the air. Granted, it would be a new Skill, which meant that their durability would be… horrendous for her level. She’d have to rely fully on her dexterity and wouldn’t be able to kick off of them.

There weren’t any obvious drawbacks, but she wasn’t really feeling it either. It sounded fun, but she wasn’t sure if the ability to dance through the sky was so beneficial that she wanted to pivot to a class that focused on it.

[The Dancer Masked by the Void], an upper tier blue quality class. It was defensively focused, upgrading [Rhythmic Grace] and [Flowing Momentum] into a Skill that worked in close proximity to [Divine Eyes in the Void] to bring her evasive capabilities to an even greater tier. In addition, the armor Skill manifested in a Skill that reminded her of the [Costume of the Void] Skill that she had discarded when she was making [She who Dances with Chaos]—it would wreathe her in Void, making it that much harder for opponents to know exactly where she was. And as Void was wont to do, it would also try to delete anything that touched it. The mana drain would be tremendous though, given that it would cover a surface area larger than her body.

Still, she didn’t have to activate the Skill, it was just a failsafe that she could fall back on if the opponent outclassed her improved evasion. Shortlist.

Surprisingly, it wasn’t the only class that finally gave her an armor Skill. [A Passion for Chaos] bore a purple wrapping and also promised an armor Skill, albeit a more traditional and relatively weak one. It wouldn’t even extend to her weapons—not that she really needed it to, her [Priestess] class already handled them. It ‘just’ extended her vitality to her armor (whenever she finally had armor again, her old suit was unsalvageable) and clothes, based on a maximum total mass. Easy to level, at least.

But [A Passion for Chaos] wasn’t defined by its armor Skill. The class offered numerous general improvements—like most of the classes she had reviewed—and it offered a barrier Skill, of all things. Well, sort of. She would be able to manifest tiny dots of Void over her own body and move them as necessary to intercept attacks. It was a solid defense against precision, low-mass attacks like those the shimagu had often tried to use to assassinate her while she was busy fighting. Naturally, even if the Skill was described as a defense, the energy was still Void—there were a thousand and twenty-four offensive uses as well, at least in melee range.

Shortlist.

[Grace Incarnate] had the highest class quality among her options—the black class aside. A vibrant purple that stood out among the bluer hues on the counter. Unfortunately, stats aside, the class just didn’t change anything significant. Sure, there was always some merit to improving her stamina and warding off fatigue while she continued to dance, but the class felt more focused on the performance than combat.

And she wouldn’t live in the City of Arts forever. Already, she often felt the itch to just… get away and explore for a while—the local area was becoming a bit too familiar.

[The Dance of a Survivor], purple quality. The class toed the line of her request to avoid classes that specialized against specific opponents, but she understood why her guide had brought it. It was a class meant to help her fight against an army. With it, [Void Edge]’s successor would linger in the air for a few seconds, making it difficult for a mass of enemies to close in around her. It was a class that answered her fear of ending up trapped within a press of shimagu bodies and being worn down—it made both aspects of that fear far less likely.

If she was still at war, it would have probably been the class that she took. And to be fair, the class would benefit her while she hunted more foolhardy beasts that could be baited into running face-first into the lingering Void. But the class wanted her to fight in a war.

Something she hoped she would never find herself within ever again.

“Last one.” Her guide announced, as she set the blade down. Yet another blade with purple wrapping around its hilt—wait, why was she getting jaded to purple?! It was the second highest class quality for chaos’ sake!

“Thanks.” Ranthia forced herself to smile before she touched the blade.

[Dancing Mad] was almost the direct inverse of [The Dancer Masked by the Void], it was a class that accepted the simple truth of the world—Ranthia couldn’t evade everything. While she was injured, her mana regen rate would increase, and she’d gain escalating buffs to her strength and magic power, depending on the severity of her injuries. The logic was similar to [The Dancer Masked by the Void]’s trump card Skill: they both provided the means to survive and distance herself from a near death experience. But instead of giving her a powerful and expensive defense Skill, it gave her a boost in power to cut herself out of trouble or to hold out long enough for [Manifest Chaos] to transfer her to a fresh image.

That said, the class wasn’t without its risks. She knew herself too well—she knew that she’d be tempted to use the effect each and every time she fought an opponent with powerful defenses. “It’s just a little, to break their defense.” “Just for a few seconds longer.”

And then, before she knew it, she’d be cutting herself. Just to get a bit stronger.

“Okay, now to figure out which of these resonates with me the most.” Ranthia tried to reach for her early enthusiasm once again. But first, she needed to figure out which classes she’d be comparing.

“[Dancing Mad], no. [The Dance of the Survivor], no. [Grace Incarnate], no. [A Passion for Chaos], shortlist. [The Dancer Masked by Void], shortlist. [Dancing Across the Darkest Sky], no. [The Corruptive Chaos of the Void], shortlist. [Graceful Destroyer], shortlist. And…” She trailed off, watching her guide collect the blades she had refused.

Ranthia took one last look at the black class and allowed herself an absurd daydream. She invited White Dove over for tea, discussed what timing worked for her—she tried to work around death’s schedule, as if any aspect of that was even remotely possible. But no, that couldn’t be her path. And beyond that, she just wasn’t comfortable with the idea of being defined by something that she just happened to be the first person on Pallos to achieve. One-off achievements were easy. Gods and goddesses, she hadn’t even meant to dance with White Dove, she’d just been in the middle of a battle! And in the end, she would rather be known for what she honed and polished herself—intent was required for her to feel any measure of pride.

And every other class waiting on the counter qualified.

“Take it away.” She made her final choice. She would never be [She who Dances with Death].

[Graceful Destroyer] wasn’t exciting, but it was practical. The biggest thing it offered was a larger arc of Void as she attacked. Useful against both larger opponents and multiple opponents. She could probably even use it to counter incoming attacks more readily. It didn’t make her excited to play with any new abilities, but it was practical.

[The Corruptive Chaos of the Void] was in a similar vein. Sure, she had fought all of two regenerators in her life, but both of them were dangerous adversaries that could have worn her down. The curse-like damaging effects would also make her more effective against elvenoids supported by a [Healer] as well as massive beasts. …Again, it wasn’t exciting, but it was practical.

[The Dancer Masked by the Void] was exciting. Additional evasion was great, but its core Skill was the bigger draw. The ability to completely conceal herself within the Void would be a great way to throw off whatever was trying to kill her—it was another means to change the rhythm of battle to suit her. The biggest issue was her mana; the Skill would have her burning mana at a rate that might exceed constantly shifting. And she couldn’t even calculate its draw without taking the class and testing.

[A Passion for Chaos] was also exciting, though in a different way. The permanent—properly Passive—armor Skill would help to protect her new suit, just as soon as she leveled it far enough to apply it to the whole thing. But it wasn’t like she was planning to wear a full suit of terrasium plated armor or anything supermassive. The elven alloy at the top of her list was autumnal steel, due to its low weight. Beyond that, the pseudo-barrier Skill would provide additional protection and give her more combat options, including the ability to make her Bond-enhanced kicks even more potent.

Four options became two.

Except that was still wrong—she had made her choice. [The Dancer Masked by the Void] was exciting, yes, but it came with caveats. And there was nothing holding back her enthusiasm for [A Passion for Chaos].

Reverently, she unsheathed the blade that represented [She who Dances with Chaos].

“I forged this class myself, through the grace of Xaoc. It served me well and for so many years. It saw me through some of the darkest, roughest periods of my life. Thank you, old friend. You were everything I hoped you would be and more, one non-manifested Skill aside. But our time together is done, and I know [A Passion for Chaos] will carry me forward—along the same path you prepared for me.”

Passing the class that she built over and being rid of it was hard. But the class had taken her as far as it could, and the System—or Xaoc, or however that worked—hadn’t given her the opportunity to create its successor.

Not that she had a single complaint about [A Passion for Chaos].

Her guide accepted the blade with just as much reverence.

“I shall find a place of honor for it. I promise.” Her guide’s words helped.

“I’ll see you when [Adventuring Priestess of Chaos] finally caps. It might be a bit.” Ranthia admitted. She knew that she needed to focus on running services more often, but only a small portion of the elves bothered to show up without some gimmick drawing them in. Even the ones that liked feeling the connection to Xaoc were just too easily distracted.

“You forget—you are no longer alone.” Her guide chided, still holding the short sword that represented [She who Dances with Chaos].

