“And our current privacy is part of why I wanted to take off abruptly—my Warden escort is still in the city, just sitting down to a meal. My monkey brother and I both promise you, we won’t tell anyone that whoever owned that hair is still alive. But you really need to start reminiscing about them when you find any excuse to do so, otherwise more people are going to figure it out. It’s been long enough that your refusal to speak of them is starting to get a bit strange. If they’re important to you, and this deception is actually necessary, you don’t want to be the one to screw it up.”

Ranthia took a deep breath… and exhaled an unintended string of profanity.

“Gods and goddesses, what can I even say about Avyna? I still don’t even know what to think! Our love had felt so… vivid, but now that I know she was lying to me…” Ranthia chose to speak. He already knew, what harm could there be in confirming his suspicions?!

Yes, even her own tormented mind immediately provided a long list of possible harms and dangers, but she chose to trust the man anyway.

“I… Okay, look. Confession from me: I’m not exactly the very best at… well, at people. That’s fine, we all have our talents, and I definitely don’t tell myself this almost every single night when I get lonely. Anyway! I get that whatever you’re feeling is a lot. I’m no [Mind Healer], but let me give you a little Ranger-style advice:

“You get to choose what you believe is real. You’re the only one who can decide who to trust and what parts of them to trust. Someone you can trust one hundred percent? That’s rare. Most of the time we can only trust anyone we meet to a limited extent, and there are things you can never let them know or hold. But those hundred percenters? They start in that category too. And some of them even make mistakes that set them back a bit along the way.

“Choose for yourself which parts of this Avyna you want to trust. And the answer isn’t zero—you would have never bothered with your deception if that was the case. Search your memories, decide for yourself what aspects of her and your relationship were real to you. Cling to those. Work from there.

“Or disregard me entirely, it’s been nearly two thousand years since my last romance—and he tried to kill me when we ended things. He was no Lelethica, in retrospect. And not just because she would have killed me had she ever decided she had cause to. Goddess of apples, by the way, if you ever want to say hi to her. We’re still on good terms, believe it or not.

“So, uh, take care. I’ll show up here again in a decade or six!”

Ranthia tried to offer her gratitude to the man, but he was already gone. Xaoc willing, the wind carried her “thank you” to his ear, no matter how far he had already moved.
