Ranger’s words made a certain amount of sense, once she spent enough time with them to twist them into more familiar logic. ‘Impossible’ was a word she tried to keep out of her mind and off her tongue—sure, there were a few things that were truly impossible, but many bandied the word around for feats that they themselves were incapable of. As if that somehow meant anything to the wider world.

Yet life in Remus had taught Ranthia a few immutable truths about how she could interact with the world. Skills could… partially bend the rules, but there were numerous things that largely held true regardless of level. Stone was permeable, but solid—force was required to break or shear through it. Iron was dramatically more resilient than flesh. And she occupied a certain amount of space and could not pass through gaps significantly smaller than that space.

But life within Remus was hardly reflective of the greater truth of the world. In Remus, someone that reached level 221—as she did before she entered the Ranger Academy—often wore a lifetime of hard-earned achievements. Level 300 was the hallmark of a life lived both long and recklessly—the rarest of individuals. Paltry nonsense, it was a mere side-effect of living within the Dead Zone, where much of the experience one earned was consumed by a plant. The effect magnified itself as levels diminished for both humans and monsters; it became even harder to find worthy means of advancement.

And the rules that she had known had started to break down, even around the time she was forced to become Sentinel Grace. …Around the time she first met Avyna. Flesh could deflect even steel. Stone shattered readily. And she had moments where she slipped through gaps that should have been too small. Those basic ‘rules’ were no match for the tyranny of stats. Elves could dance upon petals in the wind. And Ranger’s eyeball could probably deflect attacks that would punch through her—armor and all.

That made sense.

But what Ranger was doing with those balls made no sense whatsoever.

How fast he threw the ball should have determined the power behind it. That just made sense—the faster something moved, the more force was behind it! Instead, the man could fling a fast ball that blurred through the sky and bounced off her harmlessly. Or he could make a gentle underhand toss that could take her head off if she was careless enough!

The ‘game’ they were playing was similar to how the Ranger Academy trained barrier [Mages]. Ranger would throw a ball at her, and she had to make a snap decision on how to respond. She could evade, ‘shield’ (take the hit on her adamantium), or catch it. And the only thing that prevented the game from having deadly consequences was Ranger’s raw speed—if she chose poorly, he would intercept the ball at the last moment.

[*ding!* [Fast Learner] has reached level 751!]

“You just have to feel the intent. Stop trying to use logic!” Ranger offered the exact same advice for the third time, his nose less than a few fingers’ width away from hers.

Seriously, how was that stupid leather ball still in one piece?!

Ranger was doing his best to not injure her, but she was still a bit battered by the time he finally called it a night. Strictly her own fault, of course—he caught his own dangerous throws, he just never moved a muscle to save her when she threw herself in a poorly chosen direction. After bidding her a fair night, he had vanished into the forest again, after reminding her one last time not to tell anyone about him.

Despite being a poorly socialized woodland creature, he was still a living legend.

Ranthia slipped through the minor entrance to the city and, somewhat grudgingly, made her way to the Lodge. She had a note from Ranger that she needed to slip to its owner and no matter how tired she was, she couldn’t quite shake her eagerness to find out if Anthelleon truly had forgiven her for her trespasses.

Sure, she was used to how… subdued the Lodge was compared to every other tavern she had ever set foot into, but it was so quiet when she first pulled the door open that she briefly feared that she was about to trigger another unexpected ‘surprise’ like the one she stumbled into during her first visit. But no, everyone was seated; the atmosphere was just that somber.

Right, she wasn’t the only one that was miserable. Many of the Hunters had lost friends or were stung by the betrayal of their comrades.

Ranthia wove her way past the tables, exchanging a handful of brief greetings until she arrived at the bar.

“Two mugs of our blackberry spirit.” It was hard to keep her voice chipper or optimistic—the miserable silence eroded her fragile mood. Still, she had enough presence of mind to surreptitiously place the folded paper onto the counter.

“She already beat you to it. Just go over there already, dumbass.” The barkeep rejected the order without budging from the support she was leaning against.

Though, at some point while Ranthia was looking at her, the note she’d left for the woman vanished. Gods and goddesses, she’d never even seen the woman move a single exquisite muscle!

“Right.” Not even she knew if she was responding to the barkeep or talking to herself. With that, she turned to face her usual table.

And there Anthelleon sat, surrounded by four mugs, watching Ranthia with a wry grin etched deep into her features.

“You have kept me waiting quite some time, my loathsome comrade!” It was hard to take the words as a complaint when they were delivered with a grin.

“Just like that, you’re no longer mad at me?” Yeah, no, those weren’t the words she meant to say. They just tumbled out instead of… whatever it was she was planning to say.

“Why would I be mad at you?” As improbable as the words seemed, Anthelleon’s confusion was undeniably genuine. She had her head tilted to the side and she wasn’t half that skilled at feigning her expression.

“…You never spoke to me once after I made that unthinking comment! You were so pissed off that you wouldn’t even look at me!” Relief and disbelief warred in her chest, stirring the embers of her overtaxed emotions. There was no way anyone—especially not an elf—would have forgotten such recent events. As much as she wanted to just accept Anthelleon’s apparent good will, it made no sense!

“Yes, these facts are true, except I am uncertain as to why you assumed that I was mad at you—let alone ‘pissed’. And will you sit already? You are making a scene.” The elf of a thousand scenes complained.

“Seriously?! You’re going to sit there and tell me that you can’t imagine how refusing to speak to—or even look at—someone for days on end—while they’re travelling together, no less—doesn’t convey anger?!” Ranthia chose to ignore her request.

“It merely reflected that I was in thought.” The elf nodded in agreement with her own wisdom.

“Can I have an exception so I can punch her? Just once?” Ranthia called over her shoulder.

“Sure. If you want to wake up battered, bruised, and banned.” The barkeep’s threat was delivered in a worryingly flat tone.

She was getting annoyed, crap.

Ranthia hurriedly sat down and took a deep breath while she tried to figure out what to say.

“Seriously, I was convinced that you were extremely mad at me—that was why I kept apologizing and trying to make you smile.” She kept her voice quieter as she tried to get through Anthelleon’s thick head.

“I suppose that would explain your own baffling antics. They were quite distracting, by the way.” The elf smirked. “But no, I was never so loathsome as to become angry at sound advice delivered from a trusted source. My silence was because I was repressing the desire to argue, my friend. You made excellent points, yet my immediate response was a burning need to debate. To explain why a similar… mistake from the deceased was ‘loathsome incompetence’ while my own was meritorious. I would have assumed you would have understood that. It’s only elv…en… Ah.”

Anthelleon finally passed one of the mugs over with that. In unison, they each took a deep drink of the tart liquor.

“To learning new things about one another?” Ranthia raised her mug belatedly.

“Quite.” Anthelleon gently pressed her own against Ranthia’s before they took another drink.

“Can I assume you had something in mind to address your ‘loathsome incompetence’?” Ranthia chose mischief.

“Rude! But yes, I have. I would show you, but the hour is late and the city would look unkindly on our attempts to demonstrate outdoors. The solution was… difficult to properly absorb. Yet I simply needed to steal a page from your book—to embrace a bit of your beloved chaos.” Anthelleon’s smile widened just a bit more.

“Aw, I’m finally rubbing off on you!” Ranthia playfully cooed, wiggling her hips suggestively.

“…I was about to joke that I could kiss you in gratitude, were you more masculine. But you have already made it weird!” The elf complained.

“Don’t worry, you’re just feminine enough for me.” Ranthia adopted her most reassuring tone—the one she often used while bathing Clover—before puckering her lips. Not that she was able to hold the pose for very long before the urge to giggle overwhelmed her.

Anthelleon was exceedingly uninterested in women, though it was always good to have friends that were strictly removed from her sex life. After all, it let her indulge in shades of her humor that she could never attempt with anyone that might take her up on the offer!

The blonde elf’s exaggerated expression of horror had also succumbed to her own tittering, though she recovered far more swiftly than Ranthia did. She simply returned to her drinks and waited for Ranthia’s recovery, before she resumed speaking.

“I do look forward to showing you what I have figured out on my own. I would… welcome the advice of an expert.” She was clearly trying to convince herself with those words. “And perhaps once I have mastered unpredictability, we can finally put an end to that loathsome bear, as we were planning!”

“Ah, about that. I might need a bit of… Huh?”

Ranthia needed to explain that she wouldn’t be available for… however long Ranger planned to stick around—without telling Anthelleon about him. But life decided to offer distractions. The tavern door opening was ordinary enough; Ranthia had ignored that. The barkeep’s “Oi, no animals allowed!” wasn’t entirely uncommon—a couple of Hunters had tried to sneak their Companion Bonds in before.

But it was the vlip that finally drew Ranthia’s attention. She turned just in time to catch Clover. Which finally drew her eyes to the two elves—members of the city’s token force of guards—that were entering the Lodge.

Ranthia clutched her whimpering Bond to her chest as she hurriedly found her feet, fixing the two with a glare.

“Bastalis, what in Xaoc’s name is going on here?!” Ranthia’s voice was already dangerously low. Clover was scared and she was being pursued by two guards—there were few explanations that wouldn’t invoke her wrath.

“The bunny was right, she is alive!” The less familiar guard directed his keen observation to Bastalis—one of the two guards that Ranthia had first… encountered when she arrived at the City of Arts.

“An eye as sharp as any diamond. What would we do without the protectors of our city?” Anthelleon sassed from Ranthia’s side—eliciting a few chuckles from the other Hunters.

There were exceptions on both sides, but on average the Hunters were considerably more powerful—and far more numerous—than the city’s volunteer guards. Guard duty provided few opportunities to level and less coin, which meant that it tended to attract elves that were more averse to risk or more eager to wield authority. It created a familiar tension.

Several of the Hunters were regarding the two ‘invaders’ with hostile glares. Others watched the show, more energized than they had been. Even the barkeep had fallen silent when they entered, choosing to watch what unfolded for the moment.

“Lady Ranthia. It is a relief to see you unharmed. I… believe it would be best if you accompany us back to the site of the mur—er, whatever this is.” Bastalis offered a strained mockery of a smile as he drew near, visibly struggling to keep his eyes from drifting toward the hostility that surrounded him.

Clover wasn’t scared of him; she’d ‘just’ gotten scared or worried. Ranthia took a moment to pet her Bond, before she nodded.

“Right, lead the way.”

Leaving her bed was such a mistake.

There was quite a crowd surrounding the workshop area by the time they arrived, but they made way for the guards, Ranthia, and Anthelleon (no one had invited her along, but no one had stopped her either). Litil was standing with the crowd, and she directed a relieved smile Ranthia’s way.

Past the crowd, an unfamiliar elf was arguing with the Maestro of Conducting.

“Elsynthene, I respect you greatly and I recognize your level, but I cannot in good conscience take your word for it and assume this is anything except exactly what it appears to be!” He announced, hugging his arms to his chest nervously. He wasn’t enjoying the debate, that was for sure.

[Warrior – Coral] level 899. [Mage – Arcanite] level 956. [Artisan – Void] level 955.

“You respect me so much you use my name in lieu of my title?” The scarred woman seemed to be more amused than anything, not that it stopped him from visibly recoiling with a stricken expression.

“Sir! The victim—er, the… witness?” The second guard—Louthar—announced, pointing at her.

Ranthia gently set Clover down as she stepped forward. Her Bond was… less upset, at least. Though she wasn’t enjoying the crowd or how much attention was being directed their way.

“I told you.” The Maestro smirked.

“Can someone actually tell me what is going on?!” Ranthia demanded, her patience already frayed. Honestly, crowds of gawkers and fragmental answers were not doing her mood any favors.

“I think it would be easier if you just enter for yourself.” The Maestro beckoned toward… Sunny’s workshop’s door.

“She can’t enter; this is an investigation!” The unfamiliar elf screeched.

“You have read far too many mystery novels, Advestis.” The Maestro countered with an amused expression.

The two kept bickering, so Ranthia just sent an image past them and activated [Reflections of Reality]. She had permission and whatever was going on involved one of her closest friends—there was no way she was going to just stand there trying to get peeks with [Divine Eyes in the Void]!

