"We were damn fools to miss that possibility," Adam replied. "We were so focused on Tulveg that we didn't consider why the top part of Academy Hospital's mana core would be so warded. It's an important place, but important enough to justify wards that can hold off a Legend for an extended period of time? That doesn't make any sense. But, Shiv, did you see anyone else inside when you breached through?"

"No," Shiv replied. "Didn't even have a chance. She hit me immediately. She was waiting to rip into anyone who stepped through. Guess it's a good thing it was me. Broken Moon, she hits godsdamned hard. Her damned sword is also bullshit. Costs me Overflow Tides to soak her magical damage—can’t keep track of her, either. She’s kicking my ass here.”

"We can't stay and fight her. Not now, not with Harlock coming, not with the Prismatic Guards certainly preparing to respond. We need to drive her back. We need to break contact and find a way out. I think we have two choices: having Tulveg and me dive into your cape after you avoid Jessica's attention for a while. Then you should bury yourself under some debris and put on that mask of yours. The second is my Veilpiercer. I can make a pathway, but I don't think I'm going to fire it back at the Coliseum. If things go wrong, our safehouse could be compromised, and everyone we're hiding would be exposed."

Shiv considered their options. "We need to get out of here first. Javelina and Vice 8 are also coming up, and I don't think we can fight both Jessica and what's probably two High Heroes at once. Hells, I don't think we're doing that good against Jessica right now. Can't keep track of her, and every time she manages to block one of my attacks, it's like she gets a free hit in."

The Sage of the Enkindled Heart chimed in to massage his wounded ego. “She's also just more experienced in fighting in general.”

“I've only managed to land a hit with my Non-Sequitur, and that barely did anythin—ah! Fuck!”

Pain, searing pain, spread through the base of Shiv's skull.

"Shiv, are you alright? Is it the Foresight?" Adam asked. His consciousness was stained with worry.

"Probably that, and the fact that I'm forcing my subconscious to do a bunch of different shit for me at the same time. Holy shit, it feels like my skull is on fire! Never mind that, though. I think I have something of an idea. You know the magical library on campus, right? Well, there are unmonitored spatial planes for magic experimentation there. And I've been building up one hell of an inertial discharge for a while."

"Oh, gods," Adam muttered.

"I'm gonna try to distract her. You go get Tulveg and see what support he can provide. Wait, where the fuck are the Morbomancers?”

“In her sword—she cut them out of existence and booted Tulveg through a wall after she sent you flying. I don't know where he is right now.”

“Fuck, I didn't even notice any of that. Alright. Find him. After that, we go into a plane, and we try to break contact. But I'm also going to leave a temporal echo here. I think that when we go across, you guys should get inside my cape. I'm going to blink back. I'm going to put on the mask. And then I'm going to pretend to be Marcus. Should be a good enough alibi to keep my cover. I hope. Godsdammmit, everything has gone to shit again! Again!”

"Betrayal is uncertainty," the Gate Lord replied. "They'll be bringing in Investigators, Hunters, people who are dedicated to tracking these things. Diviners. They'll be able to gain a trace of what you've done. They know what kind of Chronomancy you have. They are going to be thorough, and they're going to be paranoid."

"Yeah, well, Veronica and Cripple can cover for us. Best we can do right now."

"Alright, back into hell on three?" Adam asked.

Shiv sneered. "Three."
