He took a slow, steady breath and then held it as he snuck quickly around a big tree trunk that stank of wet rot and fungus. There, on the far side, he saw them. He shrank back quickly, cozying up to the tree trunk and the deeper shadows around it. There were five wolves in the pack, slowly stalking along a clear path, just like the group they had fought earlier. The larger Alpha walked in the center, head up and eyes alert, while the smaller Starving Wolves scouted the terrain, sniffing and searching for something.

He studied them carefully for a while. It was easy to tell that this slowly decaying underground cavern was not normal wolf territory, and yet he still couldn’t figure out if these were simply dungeon monsters, or if they had somehow found a way in and were hunting rats or something else in the darkness.

And if they are dungeon monsters…

The legendary Pathfinder’s warnings about the dangers of dungeons loomed larger in his mind.

With silent, practiced movements, he unslung his bow. He pulled an arrow from the quiver slung on his back beside his small pack and nocked it to the bowstring, drawing it all the way back to his cheek. He sighted along the shaft, aiming at the Alpha wolf – the biggest target. If he drew the Alpha into chasing him, the pack was certain to follow. He channeled a tiny sliver of mana into Arrows of Brilliance, imbuing his arrow with the power of his light affinity magic.

The arrow, still nocked on his bowstring, flared with intensely brilliant white light, a radiance that shone out, spilling across the slimy black fungus and tree trunks, and reflected off the heaps of gray-white bones.

The wolves all froze, their heads snapping around toward him. The howl of the Alpha wolf echoed in the sudden daylight.

Shit. Calen didn’t typically like swearing. He preferred retaining his composure. But he had just dispelled his own stealth, giving away his position with his ammunition enchantment skill. Amateur!

He hastily released the arrow, sending the bright shining light hurtling out into the darkness but thankfully, his magic startling the pack hadn’t wrecked his aim. His arrow lodged itself low in the Alpha wolf’s left shoulder as it sprang forward to charge him. More howls broke the silence, but Calen simply turned and fled.

Stamina bled from him as he pushed his body to its limit, suddenly immensely grateful he had decided to sacrifice the steep mana cost required to reserve Blessing of the Dawn and boost his dexterity.

With the howls and snarling of an angry pack of wolves breathing down his neck, he turned the corner into the clearing at a dead sprint. Malika stood at the ready, bouncing on the balls of her feet with Mato already in his Bear Form beside her. He hurtled across the clearing, releasing a Mote of Light into the air above Malika and Mato as he passed between them.

Only when he reached Aliandra, peering through her golden barrier with an expression of pure focused determination, did he stop and turn. His mote hovered above Malika tanking the Alpha and another Starving Wolf, shedding clear white radiance across the battlefield. Mato was roaring as he swiped at a third wolf. Out near the perimeter of his magical light, one wolf struggled against the thick roots binding it to the ground, while another snarled and snapped at Aliandra’s two summoned rats.

Calen took a deep breath, trying to steady his frantically pounding heart. When he had first met Ali, she had been on death’s door – with only a few measly scholarly skills. Struggling for their lives in that cave against that first wolf pack, he had been astonished at the outsized influence she had brought to bear on the battle with such ineffective tools. Now, with proper control skills, she was taking care of nearly half the wolf pack by herself, and still able to deal damage.

Beside him, golden flashes burst in a rapid staccato as a stream of magical bolts launched from Aliandra’s palm, arcing up and over her barrier to slam into the wolf that Mato was fighting.

Calen drew his bow, aiming for the same wolf. He used Arrows of Brilliance again, wincing at the intense flash of light as his arrow flew out, but the sudden clench in his gut eased as he realized all the wolves were properly controlled and he could unleash his magic freely. He fired several shots into the Starving Wolf before the combination of his arrows, Aliandra’s magical strikes, and Mato’s claws dropped it.

This would be much harder without our magic affinities.

Magical affinities were supposed to be fairly rare, with estimates ranging from five to ten percent of classes having one. People blessed with an affinity typically unlocked access to powerful specialized abilities and skills, just like his Eclipse and Arrows of Brilliance. His mother did not have an affinity, but somehow all four of them had received an affinity from the shrine.

That can’t be normal. What else might our little Fae friend be hiding?

Mato lunged forward, his paw lashing out with great power from within the red mist that was growing ominously dark and dense. The wolf peeled away from Malika, spinning about and snapped its jaws, tearing a deep bloody gash across Mato’s shoulder. Calen’s eyes narrowed as he suddenly realized he couldn’t see the telltale green flickering energy of Mato’s nature affinity.

“Mato! Use your heal!” he shouted.

The angry bear roared furiously and lashed out again with a brutal strike of his heavy forepaw, but Calen’s sharp eyes noted the little flicker of green as his claws struck. He breathed a sigh of palpable relief as the dense red mist began to slowly dim and he raised his bow, adding a stream of arrows to Aliandra’s magic.

It seems he will listen, Calen thought. If Mato could take guidance during the fight, then the situation with his berserker skill should be manageable. Maybe.

He did have to remind Mato to heal several times through the battle, but each time he responded by activating his healing magic and diminishing his powerful rage skill. By the time the last wolf died, much of Calen’s anxiety had faded. Mato had listened, and he had not attacked anyone. Nor had he rushed off on his own again.

As soon as the battle concluded, Calen headed out to hunt, trusting that the others would be ready by the time he returned.

They continued hunting wolves in this part of the cavern for several hours, each of them growing more used to working with the abilities and personalities of their teammates. To his great relief, there were no more issues or squabbles – and even Malika’s suppressed ire seemed to have faded.

He had to admit, though, that Mato’s skill was every bit as crazy as its reputation claimed. The power with which he unleashed his claws upon the monsters was unreal. When the red mist was dense, he was a force of nature, tearing through monsters like they were made from tissue.

With the unfortunate downside of messing with your mind. I could never pick a skill like that.

Although for Mato it hadn’t been a choice; it had been one of his first six class-assigned skills.

Weary, but tentatively happy, they returned to the now moss-covered shrine area and the clearing which Aliandra had explained was part of her domain. As he sat to recover, Calen checked the results of the day’s battles.

Your group has defeated Starving Wolf – level 3.…Your group has defeated Starving Alpha – Wolf – level 5.

It was a surprisingly long list of kill notifications. Calen browsed them all, studying them carefully. But then he reached the end and stared at the final set of messages.

I leveled up! Excellent!

Archer of Light has reached level 3 (+2).+20 attribute points.Radiant Archery has reached level 3 (+2).Arrows of Brilliance has reached level 2.Motes of Light has reached level 2.Blessing of the Dawn has reached level 2.Eclipse has reached level 3 (+2).

The gains for the day’s hunt were impressive. He had gained two levels and settled into a comfortable flow with the group. His biggest limitation seemed to be running out of mana and being forced to wait for it to regenerate. His class seemed to lack an effective mana-regeneration skill like Malika’s Meditation, or Ali’s Deconstruction.

I’ll put some of my points in wisdom, he decided, hoping the increased mana pool would offset the regeneration problem and the cost of reserving so much of his mana for Blessing of the Dawn. He pulled out his pen and notebook from his pack and began calculating the new costs and damage values for all his skills, given the level increases.

Apart from his mana issues, and the conflict between his light magic and his stealth, the biggest problem he could see was his defenses. His dodge rating now that he had reached level three had dropped from thirty percent to twelve-and-a-half. Technically, it hadn’t dropped – he still wore the same leather armor – but the effective dodge rating was relative to monsters his own level. And he was basically three times higher in level, now.

But he still noted that replacing his armor with something higher-level was an urgent priority.

And getting some mana potions.

***

Name: Calen AveryRace: Half-ElfActive Buffs: Blessing of the DawnClass: Archer of Light – level 3- Radiant Archery – level 3You are proficient with a bow and ranged combat.Stamina: Attack with your bow. Your damage and accuracy are increased by +80% [40 + skill + dexterity].Physical, Attack, Ranged, Dexterity- Arrows of Brilliance – level 2Mana: Imbue your arrow with additional Light damage.Light, Ranged, Intelligence- Motes of Light – level 2Mana: You can summon up to 1 [1 + skill / 10] motes that emit clear light and can dispel stealth effects. You can freely control the motes of light anywhere within your range. Duration: 12 minutes, Range: 530 feet.Light, Area, Intelligence- Explorer – level 4You have enhanced spatial perception and perfect recall for places you have explored. You can discern important details about the places you are exploring and the creatures that inhabit them.Stamina: Use your enhanced perception to track your prey.Knowledge, Identify, Scouting, Tracking, Perception- Blessing of the Dawn – level 2Mana: Your Dexterity, Perception, and Intelligence are increased by +43.7% [40 + skill + base intelligence / 10]. Reserve: 20%Light, Buff, Intelligence- Eclipse – level 3Mana: You have stealth in shadowy or dark places. (This effect ends when you take an action that draws attention to yourself.) Light, Stealth, Illusion, Intelligence- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]General Skills- Bowcraft – level 4- Wood Carving – level 3- Cartography – level 4Aptitudes- Languages: Common- Mana (Affinity): Light- Perceptive (Racial): +11 to Perception- Quick (Racial): +5 to Dexterity- Timing (Class): You have an innate sense of timingAttributes- Vitality: 14- Strength: 9- Endurance: 10- Dexterity: 37 (+11)- Perception: 40 (+12)- Intelligence: 24 (+7)- Wisdom: 12Equipment- Weapon: Bow – level 1- Body: Leather Vest – level 1Evasion: 12Dodge: 12.5%Health: 140/140Stamina: 100/100Mana: 96/120 (24 Reserved)

Even though he was struggling a little with mana and regeneration, Calen had still not turned off his Blessing of the Dawn since he had first earned his class. It was simply far too powerful to pass up the improvements to his primary attributes: dexterity, perception, and intelligence. Even though his blessing reserved a whopping twenty-four mana at this point, he knew it was far too good to ever turn off. Already he found himself regularly using the improved dexterity to outrun wolf packs and improve his accuracy with his bow.

Better than being bitten in the butt, right? He grinned to himself. Still, it did so much more than that. Dexterity improved his reaction speed and his damage too. Intelligence improved the damage he did with his Arrows of Brilliance light magic enchantment, and any improvements to his perception attribute fed directly into how sensitive all his senses were – and improved his Explorer skill.

Happy with his improvements today, he carefully laid out all the arrows he had retrieved on the moss in front of him, studying them carefully for damage, and settling in to repair the ones that needed some work. His general skill, Bowcraft, looked like it might just be his most financially savvy skill investment ever – certainly if he regularly needed to fire the sheer number of arrows he had today.

Aliandra

Ali sat on the moss with her companions at the end of a long, but surprisingly productive day hunting wolves. She had been careful to choose a relatively dry spot, hoping to avoid dirtying her awesome new brown pants and beige t-shirt. They were both clearly too large, but she didn’t care. Rolling up the legs a little and tying a knot in the shirt had worked perfectly.

And it helps that I didn’t get hit and bleed all over my new clothes for a change.

Initially, fighting the monsters had been just as terrifying as always. But after so many fights, her fear had finally accepted that Malika and Mato would prevent the wolves from eating her – and, for the ones they couldn’t catch, she had her roots and her rats. She had barely needed her barrier the entire day, and even when she had, it was mostly precautionary; a backup in case the rest of their team’s defenses proved shaky.

With the way the others had spoken of the town of Myrin’s Keep above their heads, Ali had been less than excited about visiting it, but now, as she was wearing the high-quality craftsmanship of her comfortable clothing, she had found a reason to go.

Calen’s mother made this? Simple as her outfit was, the fabric felt soft and yet strong to her touch. While her combat skills were progressing well, she sorely missed having her closet and clean clothes every day. With such a skilled tailor within reach, if she could secure a few more outfits, perhaps her life might return to something a little more normal. Maybe I can ask her to adjust these, so I don’t trip over the trouser seam while fighting wolves. Just the fact that such a thought might even cross her mind was still so unfamiliar, she might even call it shocking.

Grove Warden has reached level 5.+10 attribute points.Grasping Roots has reached level 5.Arcane Bolt has reached level 6.Barrier has reached level 6.Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 8.

Level five already! Sweet! When Armand had told her he had reached level seven in his warrior class, she had been impressed. And rightfully so – he had earned it quickly. But her progress, by comparison, was nothing short of unbelievable. She felt so much more capable today than she had been when she had first received her class – and there was no comparison to her weakness when she had been unclassed.

