Mato

Mato paced back and forth, his excitement growing by the moment, while Calen and Malika hashed out the details of their plan. He was going to test his skills in a real battle.

I can’t wait!

“So, Malika is our tank and healer, me and Mato are damage dealers, and Ali is our support mage?” Calen asked, confirming their final arrangement.

“Sounds right,” Malika answered. “I’ll go get us some wolves.” And with that, she sprinted off past a rather enormous pile of bones to where they had spotted the roaming pack.

Mato’s adrenaline surged at the piercing howl that echoed through the darkness and the sight of Malika sprinting back to where they waited with the entire pack of wolves bearing down on her. Quickly he switched forms, his body twisting and warping into the form of a wolf, pleased to find that he was larger and heavier than the oncoming Starving Wolves. Only the Alpha was bigger than him.

Starving Wolf – level 1-3 x4 (Hostile)Starving Alpha – Wolf – level 5 (Hostile)

With a creaking groan and a strong scent of fresh oak, thick, gnarled roots sprang from the ground, reaching for the paws of the smallest wolf bringing up the rear. As they tangled around its feet, the wolf yelped and was suddenly jerked to a painful halt. That’s a nice skill! He glanced approvingly at Ali.

Reaching a clear patch of ground, Malika stopped running, wheeled about, and confronted the remaining wolves, lashing out with punches and kicks that flickered with short bright flashes of light as they struck.

Rising battle fury surged, a near palpable emanation coming from Ali’s pair of Sewer Rats as they rushed across the mucky ground to separate a second wolf from the pack. Their intentions popped into his mind as clear as day: a complex combination of visible body language, direction of charge, scent, tone of hissing, and a strange extra-sensory perception for their emotional state that culminated in an intuition that had to be a blend of his Pack Tactics and the Beast Language aptitude provided by his Druidic Shapeshifter class.

Mato howled and charged. The plan called for him to pick a wolf, and Calen and Ali would help him take them down one at a time. But the wolf pack had already encircled Malika and they were darting in and out, chipping away at her whenever her back was turned, or she was flanked. They would weaken her slowly, taking advantage of their numbers and speed.

The strategy flowed naturally through his mind – an instinct like he had been born to it. His pack was stronger, and he would turn their strategy against them. Mato picked the weakest of the three right as it dodged back away from Malika and snapped at its hindquarters with his sharp teeth. Mana and stamina flowed through him in a rush as he wove Brutal Restoration into his Hamstring skill and ripped through flesh and tendons. The wolf yelped in sudden pain as warm wetness and the metallic taste of blood exploded into his mouth.

The wolf stumbled, its movements suddenly hampered, and Mato’s lip curled back in a savage grin as the rhythm of the wolf pack’s attacks began to crumble. The gentle slow pulse of soft spring warmth, new growth, and shoots reaching for life-giving sunshine filled his body as Brutal Restoration infused him with continuous healing.

But the rich flow of new senses pouring into his mind was not limited to his understanding of beasts or pack fighting. Mato’s mana flowed outward across the battlefield like an extension of himself, establishing his territory, his domain. It was small, barely more than ten feet in all directions, but through it, he could sense the life energy of Malika, the two rats nearby, and most of the wolves.

Arboreal Sanctuary. As the Alpha wolf lunged in, fangs bared, Mato knew it would strike. Malika was already forced to block the other two wolves, and their attacks had forced the opening. As the jaw snapped shut on Malika’s shoulder, Mato fed a tiny pulse of mana to his skill and substituted his life for hers. Like a ghostly apparition, unseen teeth tore through Mato’s shoulder, ripping through skin and muscle with ease and sending his blood fountaining outward to flow down his side and mat his fur.

Malika, however, was entirely unharmed.

As the pain of the stolen attack tore through Mato’s mind, a simultaneous rush of power and new energy surged within him.

He snarled, baring his fangs. Stupid wolves!

A dim red mist swirled around his face, coloring his vision, and he lunged forward to sink his fangs into the wounded wolf before him. Magic surged within him as he instinctively unleashed his skills, and bone snapped between his teeth with a satisfying crack. His enemy wheeled about and bit him instead of Malika, finally acknowledging his power and ripping another wound in his leg.

The soft pulse of his healing steadily knit the wounds together, slowing the flow of blood – and the thick red mist began to ebb along with the diminishing of the heady rush of power coursing through his body.

More! Eager for the rush, he stole the vicious bite that snapped down on Malika’s wrist. Again, pain and power surged through him as he bled on her behalf. He had no idea how it worked, nor did he care. He ignored the incessant buzzing of golden bolts and the annoyingly bright arrows shooting past his head and bit down savagely, eager to unleash his power and he gloated with fierce satisfaction at the sight of the weakling collapsing at his feet.

He growled, searching for fresh prey. He showed the rats what he wanted, and they moved, allowing him to flank the wolf they were fighting. This time, he stole an attack on the rat beside him, building his power. With a guttural snarl, he lunged in and bit using his Hamstring and Brutal Restoration combination to savage his foe. The annoying arrows and bolts followed him, slamming into the wolf struggling in his jaws.

Mine! My prey!

He snapped again, filling his mouth with the taste of blood, and took attacks from both Malika and the rat at the same time, eager to finish his enemy before the arrows stole his kill. In an intoxicating surge of power, he bit down on the wolf’s throat, reveling in the crunching and tearing of flesh.

Movement off to the side caught his attention, and out of the corner of his eye, he saw a solitary Sewer Rat wandering by, near a low pile of bones. Without a second thought, he dropped the dying wolf and bounded off, eager for more blood to satiate his need.

“Mato! Stop!”

Annoying! He ignored the shouted distraction, focusing his mind on the combat as the Sewer Rat appeared within the reddish haze. His mind roared with triumph as his teeth found his prey and blood spilled across his face. Bright arrows and the tiny golden bolts chased him like annoying gnats. He snapped at one.

Find your own. Mine!

His jaws finished the rat far too quickly and he wheeled about, searching for more.

The annoying girl stood alone facing the Alpha. The strongest of the pack. His rightful prey. Jealousy coursing through him like the power that spilled out as a red mist, he charged. His fangs tore into the larger wolf as he instinctively used his skills to flank it. Reveling in the rush as the wolf yelped in pain, he reached for more, transferring damage from Malika. He barely felt the pain as his power surged yet again.

Suddenly, she attacked him. An open hand slapped him on the shoulder. He snarled, snapping at it, but an intense rush of burning power tore through his body, stitching his wounds shut and staunching the flow of blood. The red mist diminished.

Why am I snapping at Malika? He could smell the anger emanating from her.

As his wounds closed, his power began to wane. Desperately, he transferred another bite to himself as fury rose unbounded within him. She’s weakening me! She wants the kill for herself! With his power suddenly rising once again, he unleashed his attacks, tearing repeatedly at the Alpha wolf until finally it collapsed before him, vanquished by his power.

His body twisted as he released his Wolf Form, and he stood there panting from exertion, red mist still seeping from his pores and clinging to his body.

“What the fuck were you thinking?” Malika yelled at him.

His anger flared at once, and he shouted back at her, “I was fighting and saving you by taking your damage.”

“You got another monster in the middle of the fight, that is risky and dangerous!” Malika stood her ground. “I even had to heal you.”

“Don’t heal me so much!” Mato roared. “It reduces my power! My Primal Rage needs damage.”

“Your skill makes you stupid,” Malika said quietly as she stepped up and, faster than he could react, she punched him in the stomach.

Mato felt the same burning rush of healing magic surging through his body and suddenly, his mind snapped clear, and the redness in his vision lifted.

“You stopped healing yourself halfway through the fight,” she finished. “You need to be more careful.”

Mato blinked in surprise as the truth of what she had said hit him like a brick.

“Let’s have Calen get the next group,” Malika suggested, her voice calm, but her eyes still hard and angry. “Mato, use your bear, you said it has armor, that should help. And make sure you’re always using your healing.”

Shaken by her words, and yet still trembling from the aftermath of his rage and anger, Mato turned away, checking his notifications.

Your group has defeated Starving Wolf – level 1-3 x4.Your group has defeated Sewer Rat – level 2.Your group has defeated Starving Wolf Alpha – level 5.Druidic Shapeshifter has reached level 2.+10 attribute points.Arboreal Sanctuary has reached level 2.Brutal Restoration has reached level 2.Wolf Form has reached level 2.Primal Rage has reached level 2.

Mato puffed out his cheeks. Decent. But… Calen’s words from earlier came back to haunt him. What if I really do lose control. What if I turn on my friends during battle?

Calen

Calen sat quietly with his back to a worn, half-buried boulder, waiting for his mana to regenerate before they continued onward. With nothing better to do, he watched Ali using her strange magic on the corpses of the wolves, turning them into tiny sparkles of light and mana that drifted away as they faded. But not even that display could distract him from wrestling with the implications of what had just happened.

It was worse than he had feared. Mato had become unreasonable and aggressive, and he had endangered himself and the entire group by attacking a passing monster in the middle of a big fight. A monster that, on its own, would likely have passed them by without getting involved. He had also forgotten to heal himself and he had even snapped at Malika.

This is not like him, he thought. Calen and Mato had been close friends for years. What had just happened was not normal. Mato had never lost control or endangered his friends in all the time Calen had known him – and that included many brawls. No, it was especially true when he was fighting. In fact, time and again he had witnessed Mato’s fierce loyalty and commitment to his friends and family coming before even his own health and happiness.

That was simply who Mato was.

He glanced up at the sound of footsteps and found Malika approaching, a frown creasing her forehead and a hard glint in her eyes. This was the second time she had gotten angry with Mato, and she was definitely not happy. Honestly, though, Calen could sympathize with her feelings.

“Your friend has a Berserker skill.” It wasn’t a question.

“Yes.”

He half expected Malika to yell at him too, after the scene he had witnessed, but she just sighed.

“Can you remind him to heal himself? I think he will be more likely to listen to you in the heat of battle than me.”

“You could heal him too, it snapped him right out of it,” Calen said.

“I can stay close to him during the fight and heal him if it gets out of hand, but my heal is touch range, and I’m tanking,” Malika said. “I can’t be chasing after him if he decides to run off again.”

“Thank you,” Calen said. Unfortunately, she was right, there were seldom opportunities for someone tanking to run around. “I’ll keep an eye on him too and remind him to be more cautious.”

“I hope he doesn’t get us all killed.”

Calen glanced over to find Mato sitting by himself staring at the ground. “He’s not normally like this.”

“You may need to get used to the new version,” Malika said soberly. “Unless something changes, that’s his skill. If he can’t learn to control it, he’s going to be a liability.”

Calen opened his mouth, needing to defend his friend, but he shut it without saying anything. Malika’s assessment was exactly what he had feared the moment Mato had shared Primal Rage with him. Berserker skills had a reputation for a reason.

Berserker skills were extremely powerful, and for that reason, some people were drawn to them. However, they were essentially skills that surrendered will and reason to the fury and rage, the call of battle. They were notoriously difficult to control and often caused ugly situations. Many groups, guilds, and organizations outright banned berserkers for exactly that reason – too many would inevitably lose control and hurt or kill their allies.

Having grown up with his father, Mato had never learned to fear the Berserker’s rage.

“When you’ve recovered enough mana, could you bring the next group of wolves here?” Malika said, breaking his dark thoughts. “This is a good open spot, and if we fight in the middle, we can probably avoid drawing any stray monster adds again.”

“Got it,” he answered, activating his Eclipse stealth skill. As he faded into the shadows, Malika turned and headed back to the others.

***

Calen placed his feet with deliberate care, following the tracks while trying not to breathe or make even a hint of a sound. His eyes darted back and forth, searching the decaying wood, rough boulders, and shadows for even the slightest hint of movement. Mana trickled slowly into his stealth skill, Eclipse. The shifting shadows that played across his body were quite a reassurance, working hard to make his form virtually impossible to see. But he was still walking around alone in the darkness of a dungeon, tracking monsters. The advice he had read so many times upon the pages of Lyeneru Silverleaf’s book lingered, never far from his mind. Stealth was not foolproof. If the wolves caught wind of his scent or heard his footsteps, his stealthy cloak of shadows would be worthless.

The pawprints led a meandering path around the dead wood and strewn bones. They were not exactly lit up by magic, but they may as well have been, given how clearly they stood out on the ground, lit up by his powerful new perception skills.

And they were fresh.

