Her barrier no longer cracked after a few good hits – if she even needed to use it. Arcane Bolt could burn down a Starving Wolf or a Sewer Rat so fast that they could easily take on groups of five or more monsters at a time.

Imprint: Starving Wolf completed.

She had known this notification waited for her simply by the pressure in her mind. It was with great joy and anticipation that she committed it to her Grimoire in the usual flurry of light and magic.

“Starving Wolf,” she said, answering the curious looks from her companions in reaction to the light show.

Given how the fights had gone, she decided she could ease up on vitality a little, so she divided her attribute points among wisdom and intelligence. Compared to the first couple of fights, Ali felt like she was in little to no danger now. Whether this was because they had four of them now, her skills growing, or simply more familiarity with combat, she wasn’t certain.

Probably a little of each.

Certainly, their teamwork seemed to be improving. Malika was every bit as strong as Ali had expected, taking a bit of a leadership role in their rag-tag band, and doing most of the tanking. It was incredible how tough she was. Despite being bitten and mauled by multiple wolves, she easily kept going.

Calen was definitely shy, even introverted. The Half-elf didn’t often speak his mind unless asked, but Ali could already tell he was remarkably smart. His magic archery was as beautiful as it was effective, and it was quite useful to not have to use her barrier magic merely for light. He seems quite brave too, she thought, recalling how he would leave to track through the darkness by himself, protected by nothing more than his speed and his stealth skill in a cavern full of monsters, coming back with an entire pack every time.

She glanced over at Mato who was sitting off by himself, looking a little subdued. Well, subdued compared to when she had first met him. He had seemed so excited about his class when they had started, but then there had been that little fight where Malika had yelled at him, and a lot of the life and energy had drained out of him.

Is he still upset about that? Worried? Did something happen up in town?

While she hadn’t known her companions longer than a couple of days, they were the only people she knew, and she found the lingering awkwardness bothered her much more than she expected.

“So, Mato…” she began. His head snapped up at the sound of her voice as if expecting a rebuke. He does feel bad. Ali suppressed a grin, trying hard to keep a straight face. “Where do your clothes go when you shift?”

“I…,” he started, trailing off as he looked surprised and confused all at the same time. “I have no idea?”

Suddenly, he chuckled, and as if it was a trigger, everyone started laughing at the absurdity of the question and the fact that none of them had any idea of the answer.

“Good thing you keep them, eh?” Malika teased.

Mato reddened. “Er, yes. Right.”

That’s better. Ali much preferred this mood to the prior one. “Do we have any food?” she asked after everyone quieted down again.

“I got you,” Mato said, upending his pack onto the moss, his mood seemingly much more relaxed now. Several apples, wrapped bundles of what looked like packed food items, and some equipment fell out, and suddenly Ali’s eyes widened in surprise. Tumbling out of his pack came a thick, green-bound book.

“You have a book!”

One of the things Ali truly missed, to the core of her being, was everyday access to her favorite books. Impressions and memories flitted through her mind – the pure joy of sitting down to read in one of those comfy recliners large enough to almost swallow her up, the smell of the library, leather-bound books, old ink, and the soft rustling sound when she turned the pages. The flights of imagination she might embark upon, carried by the words of the story, or the new knowledge she might uncover waiting for her within the covers …

“Mato? When did you get a book?” Calen asked, obviously surprised.

“Oh, yes,” Mato answered, “My mom gave me a book on Druidic magic as a gift for earning my class.”

“May I see it?” Ali asked excitedly. Her hands yearned to touch it, and her curiosity about what it contained was almost unbearable. It didn’t matter that it was a Druid book.

“Sure,” Mato replied easily, placing the large book on the moss in front of her.

She opened the cover, excitedly anticipating the words that might be revealed.

“Oh,” she exclaimed in dismay, looking forlornly at the unintelligible script on the pages. “I can’t read Common yet. That is Common, right?” Ali hadn’t had a chance to even try reading, and so her skills had not helped her learn it yet. The frustration of having a book right there in front of her and not being able to read was excruciating.

“It’s Common. Why don’t you read it for her, Mato?” Calen said, as he got up and walked over carrying another book. “Here, you can read this, too.”

Ali wanted to hug him, her heart immediately filled with the joy and excitement his suggestion had sparked. “Would you? Please?” she asked, trying to convince Mato despite the dubious expression on his face.

“Ok, sure,” Mato answered, “I’m not much of a reader, though. I never unlocked a specific skill for it or anything.” He sat his large frame down next to her, opened the book, and began to read, pointing at the words as he did so she could follow along.

He’s a big softie.

The words on the page slowly began to resolve into meaning as her memories – and her hard-working Sage of Learning skill – began to connect her understanding of the Common language to its written form. More and more words popped from the page as her mana drained to feed the disconcerting sensation of Sage riffling through her mind.

She had to ask for numerous clarifications, given the technical nature of the book, and Calen stepped in to explain usage and interpretations. However, to her surprise, Malika often had answers and further perspectives to offer. Despite being a Street Rat, she had clearly received a decent education at some point in her earlier life.

She expected that Mato would tire of reading after just a bit, but he didn’t. After what must have been nearly an hour, something within her mind seemed to click together and her notification chime sounded.

Sage of Learning has reached level 5.Your proficiency with the Common language has improved.

She glanced surreptitiously at Mato, but he seemed to be enjoying reading to her. She found she quite liked the low, peaceable rumbling of his voice, too, so she simply let him continue. Even though she could now read most of the page in a glance with her Reading skill.
