Or maybe she would, if he had lost his anger. That was one sure thing that Jane knew about her father: Erick could not maintain his anger while he was winning. But! She could be wrong. Her father had certainly killed a lot more terror troops than she had. He kept up the battle. He didn’t falter. As long as one red-armored soldier was on the streets of Songli, he would keep going. That made sense, for he had always fought with all of his strength for those who were in pain.

But when the fighting was over, and the time came to cleanse Terror Peaks from this world...

Her father would falter.

Jane sighed out into the putrid air as she checked her Status. She had recovered enough mana to continue, and continue she would. Terror Peaks seemed to be retreating, and she had not killed nearly enough of them.

She sent out her shadows to see—

Ah. Shit.

The world turned to white fire—

Jane reappeared in the plains east of Eralis; an emergency [Teleport] having saved her ass once again. Her right arm was still on fire but— Yup. There it goes; extinguished all on its own, taking her arm with it, and the sword, too. Even metal burned away into nothing. Jane was lucky for her [Perfect Body], though; other people just disintegrated.

White Bitch’s fire was painful and destructive as all fuck, and that fact made her practically unassailable. [Fireshape] didn’t even work against that white flame. Jane had made the mistake of trying to use [Fireshape] and [Fire Body] to attack that woman, and she had lost her legs for that impudence.

Maybe the fire was actually Decay that just looked like fire? Possible.

… Highly likely, now that Jane had seen the fire up close for the third time.

Jane flicked her stump in the air, breaking off the remnants of her former arm. Okay. It was time for a larger break than normal. Her ring was gone. She was down 30 stats in every category.

“And the sword is gone, too.” Jane let her anger flow, as she gently cursed, “Dammit.”

It was time to regroup with her father.

- - - -

For all of his power and his ability to affect the world, Erick felt small.

Ten Ophiel could do a lot. His own power was enormous.

But Eralis and the surrounding thousand kilometers were home to 24 million people. 24 million lives, each going their own way, most in sync with each other, but many divergent. Paths untold and never known. Each trying to live, to fight against the enemy. The ‘enemy’ changed occasionally for each one of those people, and most of the time their problems were comparatively small when contrasted against now, but right now, the enemy wore red armor, and fought to exterminate, and when it couldn’t exterminate, it went full scorched earth.

With ten Ophiel, Erick saw commoners giving their lives to fight red soldiers they had no hope of winning against. Every time, Erick came in halfway through the fight, to end it decisively in Songli’s favor. Every single place that the forces of Songli had yet to retake, and most of what he had retaken, was a charnel ground.

While the rain helped against the natural fires, the magical fires raged unchecked. Those fires cornered people too low level with too few resources to [Teleport] away, and all too often, Erick arrived on the scene too late.

Erick briefly made the mistake of thinking that those who did escape had found safety in a field like the one around himself. But he was only safe because he had put a [Sealed Privacy Ward] mostly around himself, leaving just a hand outside of the invisible space in order to communicate with his Ophiel.

The grasslands directly outside of Eralis were filled with bodies, for the prowling Hunters and killers outside the cities still existed. They hadn’t gone anywhere, and they wore varied clothes, so identification wasn’t easy like it was with the red troops inside the city.

Erick could have spent precious minutes helping those outside the cities, but...

Everywhere Ophiel went, there were targets, but if he flew over the prairie, the targets only came every thirty seconds, instead of constantly, always. It was simple math to stay in the cities and help there.

Erick’s heart broke for those he could not help.

Ophiel was practically on auto-pilot already, automatically [Luminous Beam]ing everyone that wore red armor after having learned what needed to be done. And yet, every three seconds, Ophiel asked him if the person they were seeing was a target, for ‘people in red armor’ wasn’t always easy to determine. There was a lot of blood upon Songli’s white troops, and on everyone else.

And then, as the sun set in the west, a change took place.

Erick only noticed the change because Ophiel was taking ten seconds to ask him to confirm a target, and then, a whole minute rolled by with no new Terror Peaks sightings.

Poi spoke up, “Terror Peaks is withdrawing.”

Erick looked at the man, unsure.

“And Jane is coming here,” Poi added.

Erick’s face cracked into a half smile. “Ah. Good.”

Jane appeared a hundred meters away, standing atop the prairie grasses. Her white armor was immaculate, though she held no swords or shields. Her head was on a swivel, looking out—

She spotted the [Sealed Privacy Ward] and pulled her helmet back, exposing black eyes. Her Shadow Spider eyes, no doubt.

Erick’s heart swelled with joy, flaking away a little bit of the baked-in horror that had soaked into his very being for the last ten hours. He stepped out into the open, saying, “Hey, Jane.”

Jane smiled. “Hey, dad.”

He ran to her, and she walked to him. They met in a hug. Her armor was solid under Erick’s grip, while her arms were loose around his chest. The two of them stood like that for a minute; she, letting him hold onto her, and him, holding onto her for his own sanity.

Erick whispered, “I’ve seen some shit today.”

“Me too.” Jane pulled back, saying, “I need another ring; mine was consumed in white fire. I also need to give you a description of several elites so that you can hunt them down.”

Erick instantly said, “Right, right, right.” He almost took the ring off of his own finger, but he stopped; that ring was truly All Stat. Instead, he stepped backward into his [Sealed Privacy Ward], which was also filled with dense air, and cast a [Duplicate] on his ring. A brand new, unenchanted ring appeared in his hand. He cast a lightmask into the air outside of the bubble, scratched an opening in the silver surface of the new ring, put the ring in, and channeled mana through Strength, Vitality, Willpower, and Focus. [Mend] sealed the manalight in. He took off his own ring and checked the new one. +32 to the four original Stats. He put his own ring back on and handed the new one to Jane, saying, “There you go.”

“Thank you.” Jane’s armor briefly turned translucent and ephemeral, allowing her to put her new ring onto her hand. And then she turned her armor back to solid. She looked to her father, saying, “There are four Elites I saw that need killing, for I barely escaped them with my life.”

Erick felt his hatred coalesce behind his eyes and in the clench of his jaw. He forced his jaw to relax, as he said, “Right. That. Please tell me about them.”

As they moved back under the [Sealed Privacy Ward], Jane informed her father of who had tried and almost succeeded in killing her. She left a lot out, but she gave succinct descriptions of form and items on the people, as seen through the [Life Sense] of her hidebound sneakeyes form, and through the [Magic Sight] of her shadow spider, and her own normal sight. She provided lightward images of all of the people she saw, and that helped, too.

As she talked, Erick felt his hatred go frozen-tundra cold. Jane left a lot out of her encounters, but she had told him enough. He hadn’t even noticed the white fire woman. The clans of Songli didn’t tell him about that one. Did they not know of that one?

Poi quickly confirmed, “I’m getting a ‘no’ on that. None of the people Jane saw are known to Songli. This is not that surprising, Erick. Much of the people in charge of the Highlands are dead. The usual communication network is in tatters.”

“I…” Erick said, “I know it’s not surprising. I’m still surprised.”

Poi nodded.

Teressa glanced their way, but kept a lookout on their surroundings. Jane sat in a chair, and for a little while she had tried to stay awake, but she had failed.

Maps switched all across Eralis.

And the targets weren’t there.

They had pulled out as the sun set. Did they not fight in the dark? Even with all the fires all around? How… Comical?

Erick almost opened up maps all across Nelboor, but…

For one, he would be going off on his own, and new talks with the High Clans were underway. Poi kept Erick abreast of the situation, but there was more than enough work to be done inside Eralis. He was putting out fires left and right with [Fireshape], rescuing people from downed buildings and roaming Hunters, and healing as much as he could. He restricted his actions to Eralis and the surrounding lands, for affecting the whole of the Songli Highlands was far, far beyond him.

Everywhere, there was work to be done. Everywhere, there were lives to be saved.

And though he was helping, and though he saw Songli soldiers and clansmen helping as much as they could, too...

Erick had never felt smaller in his entire life.

- - - -

As night came on in full, the talks with the High Clans ended outside of Erick’s purview, with them fully supporting everything he needed to do. They even managed to give him more targets.

So Erick decided to expand his net of Imaging. As the stars came out, maps populated across Songli, over the Tribulations, and even over Terror Peaks. Erick had expected some random red soldier to stop him from Imaging their cities, but all he got was some [Scry] eyes to view the maps he made.

Erick found the white fire woman in a normal house in Terror Peaks, surrounded by her children. He almost faltered at that, but he did not. A [Teleport Other] removed her from her human shields, placing her in the direct path of a [Luminous Beam].

Then there was the metal mage. That man had been immune to Jane’s attacks, and able to hurt her with impunity. Erick found the metal man resting in a burned out mansion in Alaralti, having returned sometime while Erick wasn’t watching. The offender managed to get three blips away, directly into the Imaging of other maps, before Ophiel tagged him with a counterspelling Blood Ooze. That man died under [Luminous Beam]s, too.

Finding the first Blood Mage of several had been easy. That one had been in the Tribulations. He and his entire squadron of soldiers had died before they had a chance to get away.

The second and third Blood Mage were caught assaulting shelters in Eralis, in a last ditch effort to kill as many civilians as possible.

An Air Mage of some sort, Jane didn’t know exactly, was found crying upon the open ground in the center of nowhere, between the Tribulations and Eralis. He didn’t put up a fight, so Erick gave him the same Crystal Star treatment he had given Raidu and a few others. He sent that man into a [Sealed Privacy Ward] into the middle of nowhere, to be dealt with later.

With those major elites dealt with, Erick went back to helping the people of Eralis.

Eventually, sometime around midnight, and after the High Clans started asking what he was doing with his new prisoners, Erick decided to talk to Raidu.

- - - -

The three moons hung high in the sky, while Erick stood outside of Raidu’s temporary prison.

The [Force Wall]s and [Draining Void] and even a [Merciful Ether] continued to suppress Scion Raidu Terror Peaks, while the ‘merciful’ part of the last magic kept the ethyl ether from killing him. Raidu still wore nothing more than a loincloth, but they were a copy of the clothes he had arrived in. Just like all the others he had contained, Erick stripped the man, copied his clothes, and then redressed him; he wasn’t about to let something like magical underwear into his temporary prisons.

Such a precaution had been rewarded on the last man Erick had imprisoned like this. That crying man in the center of the field had a minimally enchanted wire in his own loincloth. Erick didn’t know what it was, but he only noticed it after it had been removed from the man’s body. Perhaps a beacon of some sort? Something truly simple. Several people had potions in their underclothes, or even inside their skin. All of those were removed.

Even if one of these people managed to get a beacon off, they were all in different areas.

Erick spent another minute ensuring that all his prisoners were alive and safe, and then he turned to Raidu. With a casual dismissal, the [Merciful Ether] went away. A [Cleanse] stripped the remaining ether out of the man. A [Greater Treat Wounds], enacted by a very careful Ophiel who then instantly retracted back into his [Animadversion], was enough to rouse the killer.

Raidu grogged awake in a stumbling second. He slammed into the [Force Wall] containing him, then looked around and reflexively punched the invisible wall with enough force to break the first of several layered spells.

“Stop resisting, or your containment will become more violent,” Erick said.

Raidu startled then seemed to recall where he was, and what had happened to him. He looked around, and saw Erick, and then he sighed. He stepped away from the [Force Wall], to the center of his cell, where he sat down upon his knees and turned his eyes up toward Erick. He waited.

After a moment, Erick asked, “Terror Peaks has lost. They were always going to lose. Why fight?”

Raidu’s eyes focused upon Erick, as though he was seeing the man for the first time. Weeping came next. Raidu cried with more restraint than anyone else Erick had ever subjected to the Crystal Star. But he still cried.

Erick waited.

