Erick watched as children were spared, but only a few of those children went along with the [Teleport]s back to Songli. Songli left some people behind to care for the kids, but after the seventh carer was stabbed in the neck by the seventh nine year old, and that particular pattern of stabbing looked to continue, most of those people pulled back.

Two more days passed. Two days filled with putting out fires, and healing people who needed healing, and rescuing those who needed rescuing. Two days of stomping out the final remnants of a culture that had invaded Songli and fought to the last man and child standing.

Erick had not yet slept.

Two more days passed, nine days total from the start of the conflict. Erick still hadn’t gotten a chance to look at the soul spear, but all his prisoners had been taken and questioned and then imprisoned.

One odd thing to come out of that: Raidu did indeed have some sort of prepared block on his soul to prevent the Crystal Star’s Empathy from taking hold. Elder Arilitilo removed that block. With Erick’s Blessing able to fully take hold, Raidu collapsed into a weeping mess, and then he took his own life inside his cell. Right in front of his interrogators, too. Erick reviewed the [Witness] of that himself.

Raidu had simply reached into his own rib cage and ripped out his own heart.

Patriarch Xangu was still missing. The Mind Mages believed he escaped to the Underworld, but there was no way to know for sure.

Erick found four more soul spears. Each one looked the same. Exactly the same. He suspected they were all [Duplicate]s.

There were only a few possible explanations. Either an artifact that copied artifacts, which was on one end of the extreme, or there was an original soul spear out there that was capable of creating lesser copies of itself, which seemed more reasonable.

Or, someone made a base, unenchanted spear, and then they copied the unenchanted object to then enchant the copies. This was the most likely possibility, but that would mean that there was a rogue duplicator running around out there. If that were true, the Headmaster would have something to say about that.

The facility where they built those dirty bombs was uncovered and plundered.

The books of Terror Peaks were burned and the ashes scattered to the winds. That culture might survive in the minds of those who didn’t fight, for those were the only ones spared, but the base of the culture had been broken beyond repair. Whatever rose from the graveyard of Terror Peaks would not be Terror Peaks.

Erick had not slept yet, for there was always something more to be done.

On day ten, with the sun shining overhead and half an hour between emergencies, Erick collapsed from overwork.

- - - -

The sky was blue, the clouds were white.

Rozeta, in her human form, sat on a nearby cloud, faced to the side, typing at a laptop that floated on another tiny cloud.

Erick blinked, then startled, and said, “I have work to do! I can’t be here! Put me back!”

“You brought yourself here, Erick. I did no such thing, this time.” Rozeta said, “You’re delirious in a very dangerous way, and that has kicked your mind into odd spaces. Used to be, when a person did what you have done, that person went to higher realms, or odder realms. This was the one surefire way that a mortal could contact the divine whenever they wanted. Usually, people only did this to themselves because they had no other choice, and they needed answers, for there are so many risks to what you did that no one in their right mind would choose this path.”

“… I didn’t mean to come here.” Erick said, “Or to do this. Please send me back.”

“I can’t do that.” Rozeta said, “Not because I don’t want to, but because your body is desperately trying to heal itself, and thus, we are both forced to be here for a little while. This was one of the reasons that people would contact the higher realms in this way; the gods so contacted can’t simply send you back.” She said, “So sit back and relax, or, if you want to talk, I’m working but I can multitask.”

For a brief moment, Erick watched as Rozeta was both a human in a pantsuit, and also an impossibly long, sky-spanning dragon. And then she was back to being a human, sitting on a cloud, and typing on her laptop.

Tap-tap-tap-tap-tap.

Erick closed his eyes, feeling like shit. The sound of fingers striking computer keys was oddly soothing. It was just so… normal, compared to last week. Normal in an odd way that Erick hadn’t experienced in a long time, too. For a while, all Erick did was listen.

Rozeta didn’t interrupt his rest.

After several minutes, Erick asked, “Is that Jane’s laptop?”

The typing stopped.

Erick opened his eyes. The laptop was still there, and so was Rozeta, but she looked surprised at the laptop in front of her.

“Huh.” With a curious voice, Rozeta said, “I’m not sure where this thing came from. Is this how you see me?”

“… Aren’t we in your realm?”

“Technically, both yes, and no.” Rozeta looked at her fingers then started playfully poking at the laptop in front of her. Before, she had been expertly typing away, now she hunted and pecked. She was experimenting as though she had a new toy. “This is a dreamscape. You’ve overlapped your mind with my realm, and in doing so, you have control and influence over this space in ways normally impossible. It’s one of the marked benefits to this sort of technique. People usually die doing this, though, so extensive use of this technique is not advised.”

Erick hummed, noncommittal.

“Yes, you’re right. Likely not more dangerous than your usual activities. It’s barely worse than making a new Basic Tier sp— OH!” Rozeta had been poking at the computer, but she suddenly stopped as the screen changed. A cat meowed on the screen. The meows then shifted to something more choral, more music-like. Erick recognized the song. It was cats meowing to the tune of ‘Sound of Silence’. “Cat videos!” She smiled at Erick, then said, “Much more entertaining seeing cat videos in person, for sure.”

“Got any thoughts on this Songli mess?”

Rozeta turned to Erick. “Quite a few, but I won’t be influencing you with my thoughts. Mortals must as mortals must, and I must remain impartial to most uses of magic and all decisions made by others. The Script would not survive otherwise.”

Erick narrowed his eyes and frowned. “Are you actually Rozeta? You seem to be speaking a lot more openly than usual.”

“This dreaming technique does draw out some answers that would otherwise be hidden, but I can still obfuscate if I wish.” Rozeta said, “I haven’t yet felt the need to obfuscate.”

Erick asked, “Are Goldie and Queen working with Songli?”

Rozeta paused for a second. The ‘Meowing of Silence’ continued to play in the background, soft and ambient. Rozeta said, “Are they coordinating efforts with Songli in order to empower Songli? No. The people of Songli are not stupid. I will admit, though, that in a society that large there will always be dissenters and the foolish, so there are cultists in there. But they’re very rare. I wouldn’t have ordained the Void Walls if the Songli Highlands were a shadow upon Veird. But! Are Queen and Goldie conspiring for various outcomes all across Nelboor, of which Songli is a part of that conspiracy? Very much yes.” Rozeta said, “Shades rarely work directly upon the people or societies they wish to influence.”

“Okay. Well…” Erick filed that information away for later, asking, “Got any ideas how to solve this Nelboor problem?”

Rozeta had already turned back to her laptop, saying, “Here: this one is poignant. There’s a similar song that still plays in certain establishments across Nelboor, but that one is about 400 years old and a lot less punchy.” She clicked the video.

Cats started meowing to the tune of ‘We Didn’t Start the Fire’.

- - - -

Erick woke up.

The sun shone outside the window.

This was not their underground base.

Jane was suddenly there by his side, softly saying, “Morning, dad.”

Erick didn’t panic right away; he was too worn out for that, and when he sat up, he saw that the room seemed like a nice place. Much nicer than the underground bunker. This suite was practically palatial, with white marble-like flooring and vast ceilings and warm wooden furniture and gold accents—

“We’re in Holorulo?” Erick connected to his Ophiel, one of whom was sitting on his headboard, chirping and watching over him. Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye was sitting on the headboard, beside Ophiel. For a moment, Erick saw the world, and it was almost exactly as he left it, and yes, they were in Holorulo. Erick came back to himself and noticed the dense air all around them. He glanced at Ophiel again, and smiled as he said, “Putting up [Prismatic Ward]s on your own, now?”

Ophiel chirped in triumphant violin sounds.

Jane said, “Ophiel has been doing a lot while you were asleep. Very protective.”

Erick turned on a few of his spells he had let lapse… except for [Hunter’s Instincts]. He left that one off.

He sent to Jane, ‘Are we okay?’

‘We’ve been safe for a few days now, but you refused to rest.’ Jane said, “I’m glad to see that you’ve rested now. Doctors say you’re good to go; those that could get near enough to you, anyway. You’re still going to take it easy, for a day, though; Daughter’s orders.”

“How did I get here?”

“I talked Ophiel into it.”

“That would do it.”

Moments passed, with Erick feeling comfortable in his bed, but also needing to move and to work. And yet… He couldn’t. He didn’t want to face the horror right yet. Soon, though…

Soon.

Jane said, “They confirmed Elder Mirizo as the next Patriarch of Star Song while you were sleeping. Xue moved from the Loremasters back to the Enforcers, to take Mirizo’s place.”

Erick felt tears well, but he fought them off. “So it’s all official, then.” He asked, “Did Xue set a date for Sikali’s funeral, yet?”

“He said in a few days, but nothing solid.” Jane said, “So how about you get up, and we get some good food in you. A lot of people want to talk to you in person. I do want you to take it easy for a little while, dad. I… I was too hard on you back in that field. You did more than anyone. I’m sorry I spoke to you like that.”

“It’s fine, Jane.”

“It’s not fine. I should have… I should have trusted you more.”

Erick smiled, but it was a broken thing. “Yes you should have. Look at me: I trusted you to be safe out there, and you were!”

Jane snorted a laugh. “Yeah right. I wasn’t that safe, either. I had to be rescued.”

“Well. We all have things to work on.”

Moments passed.

Jane asked, “Are you going to get up?”

“… I just… I need a moment. The [Hunter’s Instincts] is done and the backlash is… Is still here.”

That was a minor lie. There was no backlash, Erick had slept through that, but he felt the need to retreat into himself for a little while longer.

Jane nodded. And then she reached over and hugged him.

Erick held on to his daughter for dear life.
