After a short while Raidu collected himself, and then he spoke with what might have been honesty, “Shades inhabit Songli, bending the people here to their Dark Purpose. To not fight would be to allow Shadows to spread. We died for the Great Goal; to rid the world of Darkness.”

Erick would address those words later. For now, he said, “The same feeling coursing through your body, that same Empathy you are now experiencing, was forced upon Queen and Goldie.” Erick asked, “Do you still believe that Goldie and Queen are filled with Dark Purpose, when they are no doubt feeling similar to how you are, right now?”

“Of course they are.” Raidu said, “They are bending your Curse into—”

“It’s a Blessing. Not a Curse.”

“They are bending your CURSE into their own Dark Purposes.” Raidu said, “For one, they are spreading the weakness of Songli upon the world. The prosperity of Songli? It looks like a good thing, but it is the furthest thing from Good! Songli is nothing more than the strong preying upon the weak in order to further their own selfish goals and keep the people weak. Their elites gain Stats from their initiates, and thus they are able to exert greater pressure on those below them, while those below lose parts of their souls in order to be allowed into the Clans of Songli!” He stared, saying, “Gain this Sight to see: if Songli is allowed to continue swallowing up Nelboor the monsters will overwhelm us all, for all it takes is one Grand Abomination or Dragon Fight or Wizard to expose the true weakness that Songli breeds in its people. 45 million people in all of Songli, and only 50,000 are worth their mana. 200,000 people in Terror Peaks, and we have laid Songli low by targeting those 50,000 and killing half of everyone who mattered in the first hour of combat.” With dry eyes, Raidu glared, saying, “If we had someone like you, we would have killed millions in the first hour of combat, and proven Songli as weak. We would have culled this destructive society from this world, and we would all have been better off for it!” He spat, “Wizard.”

“A compelling argument.” Erick said, “But the only part I can’t fault is the idea that this world will always need people to fight the monsters.”

“Then release me and help Terror Peaks to end the existential threat that is Songli!” Raidu said, “You could do it! Bring your light to this land of Darkness and destroy them all. Strengthen the world with the culling of a few million weaklings!”

Tears streamed from Raidu’s eyes as he spoke, but his voice never wavered, and he never devolved into voiceless crying. He was handling this Blessing rather well.

“We need people to fight monsters.” Erick said, “But not specifically you.”

“Then the Darkness truly has you.” Raidu said, “There truly is no talking to Wizards.”

Erick sighed, then he asked, “Why did Terror Peaks start this war?”

“For all the reasons previously stated,” Raidu answered, not missing a beat. “But mostly because Songli was going to start using antirhine against us all. Thus, we answered their existential threat with a coalition of powers.”

“Are those powers still backing you?”

Raidu said, “Of course they are!”

Obvious lie was obvious. For one, the Rain Mage and his wife were not on the battlefield. Erick wondered what had changed, exactly. Did his words have a real effect on that situation?

Erick moved right along, asking, “Where did that soul spear come from?”

“Gifted to us by nameless benefactors once they heard about us ending Songli’s existential threat.”

Not wholly a lie.

“Who?”

“I don’t know.”

Lie.

Eh. Moving right along.

Erick asked, “Why do you think I’m a Wizard?”

Raidu blinked, as though he had been asked a very stupid question. And then he said, “Because you are.”

“I don’t produce excess mana. I don’t have a core. I still use the Script.” Erick said, “By all the measures of Wizardry, I am not a Wizard.”

Raidu narrowed his eyes in disbelief, saying, “You brought a new magic to the world! You’re a Wizard!”

“Every single Basic Spell was made by someone at the start of the Script. The only ones the gods gave us are [Cleanse] and Healing Magic.” Erick said, “Your argument is flawed because all I did was follow in the steps of the first people to make magic on this world.”

“Lies.” Raidu said, “Magic was given to us by the gods in order to fight the Darkness. It is through strength of character and proven worthiness that we are allowed to unlock the higher tiers of spellwork. But you tricked your way forward, because you are a Wizard.”

Erick frowned. “… People make magic, and then Script formalizes it. This is how the Script works.”

“Were you hit on your head as a child? That is not how the Script works.”

Erick felt a terrible interest in derailing this conversation into whatever tangents Raidu felt like exploring, but he did not. He asked, “How do you see this war ending for your side?”

“With all of Songli dead!”

Erick already knew the man was delusional; this just confirmed it.

“And you’re comfortable killing these millions of people?”

Tears streamed as Raidu said, “It’s simple math! [Cleanse] the infection and work on regrowing the lost flesh after the poison is no longer killing the body!”

Erick was dumbfounded in multiple ways.

‘It was simple math’.

Erick had to pretend to be okay in the face of this awful man, because he was going to kill him if the man sensed weakness, or so much as sneered at him.

After a moment, Erick put his thoughts back on track.

Mostly.

Raidu was currently Blessed into Empathy, and he was obviously feeling bad about what he was doing, but he still thought it best to kill all of Songli. According to what Koyabez had said, Raidu wouldn’t be capable of killing anyone himself. He was therefore a perfect figurehead to delude others into killing for him.

Which is what he was already doing.

Raidu was the Scion of Terror Peaks. He might be an archwarrior, maybe, but he was more a public figure than anything else, wielding political power as much as his sword. Erick had no idea how their society actually worked over there, but this man would one day be the leader, or the taskmaster, or the guide to his whole society. If this man took over, then he would do what he said he wanted to do, and kill all of the people of Songli.

Erick felt even more dumbfounded.

Raidu was far past delusion. He believed the words he said.

There were more than a few implications here.

Erick went off on a tangent, to try and understand Raidu, at least a little. He asked, “How do you feel about your own people? If there were things you could change at home, what would you change?”

“I would change nothing. Terror Peaks will lead this world into a new age of power and light.” Raidu said, “We only have a short opportunity to capitalize on the mistake Melemizargo has made by killing his own Shades, and we are taking it, no matter the cost.”

“I saw a mother slice off her son’s hand when he reached for an apple on a cart. Is this the kind of society you think will truly lead the way into a new age of prosperity?”

“Prosperity!” Raidu spat. “Only fools and tyrants work toward prosperity. The Grand Goal has always been safety. Safety for the children, security in the walls, and power to the individual.”

“So you have nothing to say about the sliced hand I saw?”

“How about we speak instead of Songli’s hauling of the decrepit and the low-leveled to war. How about we speak of poverty in a world of plenty. How about we speak of clansmen routinely devouring the souls of those who look up to them, in order to increase their Stats!” Raidu said, “Whatever you saw was nothing compared to what Songli does all day, every day. And I know that kid got healed right after! Didn’t he! Yes, your face tells me he did. He learned a lesson in pain, and that lesson will serve him well while he grows up in an environment that will make him strong.”

… And now Erick was starting to believe the man about some of his points. Not all of them! No. Terror Peaks had a deep dogma to them, and those beliefs swung them against Songli. But in another life, Erick could see himself aligned with them.

And yet… Raidu seemed deeply dishonest. The lies sprinkled throughout his speech were proof enough of that dishonesty, but Erick could see himself falling for those comfortable lies, in another life. Especially if the man had been actively working against the Shades this whole time.

But Raidu was still a murderer.

And yet… all nations were killers when it came to war.

Erick decided: He was not going to judge this guy.

He cast a [Merciful Ether] into the prison.

Raidu’s eyes went wide as he saw the spell take hold, and then he relaxed. He breathed deep, as thick air flowed from his body. The ether started to build up, slowly at first, but increasingly fast as moments went on. Raidu resigned himself to his fate, and softly said, “There’s still time for you to pull back from this foolish alliance with Songli, for make no mistake: You are walking Dark paths, Erick.” He breathed deep, then again, and again. He blinked long, and then his eyes closed. He remained seated, with his hands on his thighs and his head slightly bowed; he did not fall over.

Erick pulled back from the lightform Ophiel he sent to oversee his talk with Raidu, and stood under a night sky a few thousand kilometers away. He had prepared for the man to have some trick, or some unknown skill, or power that would negate his capture. He had prepared to be attacked by the man.

But that didn’t happen.

Erick turned to Poi. “Tell them where Raidu is, and inform them that I believe he has a block on his soul, or something, that prevents the Blessing from fully taking hold. He might be feigning weakness for some unknown reason. But other than that…” Erick steeled himself, and said, “I’m ready to hear the end result of the main battle. What about Tadashi and his brother and the other Alchemists… And… Xue and Ari and all the rest.”

Jane woke up at the sudden noise of Erick’s voice; she had been exhausted, but she had also gotten enough sleep to be easily roused. Teressa turned her head Erick’s way, but said nothing.

Poi nodded, as he sent off messages. He asked, “What about the other people you captured?”

Erick had tried to speak to the rest of the people he Blessed, but Raidu was the only one who had been able to talk. All the rest just cried, openly and without restraint; weeping to the heavens. Even the assassin who was inside the spear, waiting to strike Erick down as soon as she found an opening, had just cried. He discovered more about her according to a [Witness] on the scene, than from her, herself. She had been waiting on that spear, in that courtyard, for an hour, before Erick found her. As for who put her there with the spear, or if she had put herself there, the [Witness] had been unclear; the power of the spear had erased that portion of the past from the manasphere.

“Inform Songli where those other people are, and tell them that those soldiers are Blessed into Empathy, just like the Shades were. They are unable to do much but weep, so I believe that their Blessing has fully taken hold.” Erick said, “I will not take their lives, and I suggest that Songli lets them go to repent as they are wont.” He stood straighter, and added, “Also inform them that I want to speak to Goldie or Queen, if they are in Songli.”

Poi involuntarily straightened, too, then he slowly nodded. He wordlessly sent off his messages.

Jane spoke up, “How are you doing, dad?”

“Horrible.” Erick sighed, then said, “[Hunter’s Instincts] is doing some heavy lifting, but Intelligence seems to be a soft counter to that usual sharpness and ruthlessness. I was close to blowing up their cities. I am thankful I did not.”

“You should have pulled that trigger.”

“Perhaps.” Erick said, “It would have been the rational thing to do. If the rest of this battle doesn’t go well, I will have zealots searching me out, trying to kill me. In ten years, the kids of today will become adults, and some of them will be raised on stories of Songli, and the archmage who— Ah. They’d call me a Wizard. Right.”

Jane said, “Which is why you should have pulled that trigger.”

Moments passed. Small bugs in the prairie chirped under the lights of the moons.

Erick tried a different tactic for countering his daughter’s ruthlessness, “That would be playing into their narrative.”

“Yes. So what?” Jane said, “This ‘high road’ bullshit is only good in a functioning civilization, and this shit here does not function.”

Erick calmly asked, “So I should kill children?”

“They killed children when they came over here to Songli.”

And there it was.

A truth Erick didn’t want to see, and yet he had seen all too often in the past 16 hours, and which he continued to see, as Ophiels still flitted about Eralis, helping out wherever they could. Erick spared a glance to an Ophiel currently excavating Redflood; he counted three small bodies and two larger ones. A family that had been killed by cutting magics similar to [Hermetic Shredder].

Erick tore his sight back to his own eyes. Tears fell, as he said, “I can’t do that, Jane.”

Jane looked to him, and said, “Okay.” She got up from her chair, stretched a little, and said, “They—” She stopped herself, as though pausing before she pressed a button she could not unpress. She looked away, then she turned back.

