She said, “They killed Sikali. She was dead before I could do a thing to stop it. It happened in our second encounter in the Alluvial District. She was sliced in half by that metal mage you already killed. Sikali died along with half of the other people who went with us to hunt monsters. Just last night, I was around a campfire with all of those people, sharing stories about monster fights. And now they’re all dead. In the following encounters, our entire group was fully hunted down and murdered by the elites. I barely escaped with my life. But I went back into the fight, because to not fight against people who want nothing less than extermination is to accept that extermination.”

Erick felt ice on his skin and cold death in his heart.

Jane continued, “Wabi is dead; Tadashi’s brother. He died defending Tadashi. Tadashi might not survive the night. Yorza Devouring Nightmare is dead. Hangzi’s mother is also dead. I learned this when I went back to Clan Star Song, to reconnect with those who I had been working with. That whole command structure is fucked. I was working under Sikali, under their Elder of Enforcement, Mirizo, but when they killed Sikali I was rapidly handed off to someone else because Mirizo needed to step up to the top position. Patriarch Zalindi is dead.

“The half-orcols are dead; their entire clan is gone. And you remember that nice guy I stabbed with the knife at the gathering? Name of Xorii. Dead. His whole family, gone, too. A lot of highly placed people are dead. Assassinated.”

Erick’s breath stopped.

Teressa whispered, “Jane.”

Jane ignored her, and continued, “Scion Red Ledger, the next in line for the Healing Houses of Songli? Dead. Entire clan was focus-fired first, or second. Hard to know. People are dying on the streets for lack of healing because there are no more organized Healers. Barely any of them survived. Loremaster Riri was the only one of her spidery who survived. All of her employees and spiders are gone. I saved her life while she was busy weeping over her dead friends and that dead spider of hers, Pearlchan.”

Erick’s skin hurt, like ice knives had been driven up and down his arms and chest.

Jane continued, “And Terror Peaks tried to kill me when they couldn’t get to you. An assassin appeared with one of those soul spears. I only survived that attack because Melemizargo intervened.”

Erick’s ears stopped working. An emotional pain flowed through him, as though his heart had been ripped out, and everything connected to it had died, in that same instant.

Jane said, “Right this moment, you are treating your power as a luxury when it is an obligation. Right now, these fake-zealots are coming at you, and me, and everyone here. I call them fake-zealots because if they wanted to, they would have assaulted Candlepoint and other Dark places of the world. They have [Gate] capabilities, so they could actually fight the Darkness. But no! Their actions betray their desires. They want all of Nelboor. They want the High Clans of Songli dead and they’re going to do everything it takes to get it. That ‘everything’ starts with the conquest and murder of 40 million highlanders.

“Make the gods-damned spell we talked about. Blow up Terror Peaks before they scatter and escape.

“End the threat.”

Moments passed in terrible, blessed silence.

Erick said, “I can’t.”

Jane breathed in. She exhaled. She said, “Okay. Then I am going to get together with the High Clans and offer my services on a more permanent basis. I cannot watch you harm yourself like this, so I will stay behind while you walk your Path. I will help cull that which needs culling, so we don’t have elites hunting us while we sleep.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. “Jane—”

“I am very angry, dad. You are who you are and I love you. But I need—”

“Just stop. Please. Stop. Let me speak, too. You had your turn.”

Jane waited.

Erick said, “I’m not going anywhere. Not until the fight is actually over. I am expecting there to be a lot of terrorist-like attacks after today is done, for many red soldiers have escaped, and they’re going to come back. At that time, I am expecting the High Clans and whoever to alert me of threats so that I can help end them. I won’t leave this land like this. I won’t leave these millions of people to die, just because—” Erick had so many thoughts, he had no idea where to go with them all, so he ignored them and skipped ahead to the end of the discussion. “Just because I won’t murder our shared enemies all in one spell does not mean that I’ll let enemies live. I recognize the threat.” He said to her, “Do not ever ask me to kill two hundred thousand people with a single action ever again.” Now, he was angry, too. “Never, ever ask that of me. This is too much, even for you.”

Jane raised her head a fraction and looked her father in the eyes. She said, “Okay.”

“… Okay? Just ‘okay’?”

“I’m sorry, dad. I... I didn’t mean for my words to be that harsh.” Jane said, “I’m just— I’m very angry right now, and I didn’t mean to take it out on you.”

“I get that… I get that anger.”

Words trailed off. No one said anything.

Teressa was pointedly looking away. So was Poi. Jane sat back down in her chair and turned to face the night. Erick’s heart hurt, but there was no time for sadness right now. There would be time later, but not now.

He asked Poi, “What about Goldie and Queen?”

Poi startled all over again, then said, “They’re not here, according to the people I’m talking to.”

“And what about according to the Mind Mages?”

“They’re not here.” Poi said, “If those Shades are here, then we don’t know about them, which is possible, but highly unlikely.”

Erick felt a tiny weight drop off of his chest. He said, “Okay. Good. I will be searching for them later, but until then...” He decided he didn’t need to hear the full account of deaths, yet; Jane had spoken enough and it had broken him to hear it. He couldn’t be broken right now, not when the red soldiers were surely coming back in the day. Erick switched to the next topic, “How can I help Songli? Have them place me somewhere, or on some task.”

Poi explained how Songli wished for Erick to help.

Erick did so.

- - - -

The day dawned with a sky full of smoke and dark clouds. The heavy rains were over, but the light rain had never stopped, for it still helped to put out fires here and there.

The Wanzhi River glowed with red lights as tiny fish swam up the river. It was a pretty sight, but no children appreciated the view today, and Erick barely paid any attention to the procession. The white bridge where Erick had first watched the red glows laid broken in the river.

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye came back to Erick, and Erick had a rough moment almost crying for having lost the big guy. Erick had no idea why the emotions hit him so hard at that specific moment, but they did. He kept Yggdrasil’s eye on his other shoulder, instead of trailing behind him, from then on. He’d have to recast Yggdrasil’s second body back into Spur’s lake, later, but for now, there was work to be done here in Songli.

Ophiels were but the smallest of helpers, carrying the largest of loads. [Cascade Imaging]s went up everywhere they could. The initial hunt for red soldiers was over. Now it was time to hunt for varied threats, and thanks to the close cooperation of Songli, Erick found them rather well.

They had set up a system. Soldiers supplied intel to higher-ups. When the higher-ups collected enough intel on a target, it was deemed ‘good to go’, and was then sent to Erick. Erick then populated the maps around Songli, and the South Central Tribulations, and even in the skies over Terror Peaks. Maps went down south, too, to the pirate-infested waters of Eralis Bay, and then further.

Erick lightly warned, “Some of these targets are around others who are not targets.”

The new Matriarch of High Clan Void Song, the former Grand Elder Lingxing, spoke with restrained anger in her voice, “Do as you see fit, Erick. I believe that all the pirates should die for their predations upon our shipping fleets and coastlines in this trying time, for they have taken advantage of the confusion of this war to strike at us directly. And besides that, you might not have noticed them with the main war happening all around us, but there is a secondary war of opportunism as well. These reports are clear: Terror Peaks is working with pirates.”

“… The targets are where they are on the maps. Do as you will.”

“We shall. Thank you for your assistance, Erick. Please come to Holorulo for a proper visit when this all quiets down.”

Maps appeared above the scattered Warlord Clans north of Songli, in the headwaters of the Wanzhi River.

Erick said, “It appears these warlords are working against Songli, too.”

The surviving Matriarch of High Clan Severing Crescent, the dragonkin Tipanri, said, “Not all of them, but some are, for sure; they always have. We can do surgical strikes, but if you could help with [Teleport Other], it would save us a lot of trouble, for we would prefer to keep our relations with the scattered tribes intact. We must look to the future, always.”

“… Acceptable. Done.”

“Please come to Alaralti when this is over. I wish to thank you for your assistance and would appreciate a talk in person. [Viewing Screen]s are proper, but they are too impersonal.”

Maps extended all the way into the Dry Prairie east of the Highlands, then into the South East Tribulation Mountains.

Erick said, “Easy targets. All of them are pockets of soldiers.”

The new Patriarch of High Clan Devouring Nightmare, Hangzi, said, “Please eliminate them for me, Erick. I am trying to hold together my Clan at the moment.”

“Done.”

The day ended with another three thousand kills to Erick’s count. His new total was 17,000. A far cry from the two hundred thousand it could have been. For all of his feelings of smallness, he had some of the greatest impact in this fight of any one person, reaping the lives of many of the elites of Terror Peaks and almost single-handedly breaking their offensive.

The counteroffensive began that night.

Songli hunted in Terror Peaks territory, but Terror Peaks ran for the mountains, and to the prairie, and to the Underworld, to hold up in hidden locations all over. Children were left behind in the care of those too old to fight. Searching the Underworld was a nigh-impossibility, so for now, Songli focused on the lowest hanging fruit.

The destruction of all of the resources of Terror Peaks.

In the Tribulations, and in the open spaces, Erick searched for ‘people’ and found them all. A quick [Scry] was all it took to check on those targets, to see if they were enemies. Half the time they were. The other half, Songli sent out missionaries to see what was going on there.

Specific tracking requests came in all the time, but less so than on the previous day. Erick found most of those targets.

Most of the time, after they had been found, those targets went right back to Eralis, or Alaralti, and in rare cases back to Holorulo, in order to use their death to kill as many people of Songli as possible. They usually succeeded for about four seconds, and then Erick, or someone else tasked with looking at his Imagings, found the target again and put an end to their wanton destruction.

The third day eventually ended.

Erick’s new total was 21,000 kills.

He had never stopped running [Hunter’s Instincts]. In the back of his mind, he worried over what would happen when he turned off that Skill, but in the forefront, he saw enemies, and he ended them. Three times, Jane brought back food. Erick [Duplicate]d it to get more, for there was not a lot to go around. This war had disrupted everything, and that included food supplies.

Day four and five were much the same as the previous two days, except Erick added some platinum rains to farmlands around Alaralti.

The second city of Songli was the breadbasket of the Highlands, and they had been hit hard. Nobles and merchants opened up the granaries that hadn’t been exploded or desecrated in order to supply food enough for everyone to at least live, but it was not enough. Platinum rain, both from Erick, and from the Church of Atunir, helped to bridge the gap.

People got fed.

The world turned.

When Poi was awake, he helped Erick coordinate. But when Poi slept, Erick worked instead with the Mind Mages of Eralis, directly. He didn’t know any of these new people except by their strange names and the feelings of their connections as somehow more solid than normal. There was Blue 81, and White 13, and Orange 108, and a host of other people, but while Poi slept, Blue, White, and Orange were the main voices inside Erick’s head.

Early on, when it appeared this would go on for a while, Erick made a bunker.

Their original bunker had been compromised almost immediately. When Jane went to get food she came back accidentally wearing a tracker spell, but Erick had noticed and was ready for the ambush. When that was taken care of, Erick moved them all to another location, and set up his defenses again. This second location remained strong.

In the five days following the dirty bomb attacks at Eralis’s Aluvial District, Songli had lost an estimated three million, four hundred thousand people. On day five, though, no one died to war, for there were no more attacks. The cities of Terror Peaks and a dozen smaller allies were broken and gone, and many of their hidden locations had been scoured from Veird.

