Ambassador Bai said, “Bring us Amasar to answer for his crimes, or throw away all the good works we have achieved these last two years.” He added, “You are a power among your people because of us. You are the head of a Clan because of us. Do not [Cleanse] that away as though it means nothing.”

“I see now that all you ever wanted was a boy to whip, to make me achieve your demands.” Niyazo said, “You are breaking hospitality. I ask you to leave one more time.”

Bai glared. “I’m not leaving without justice. We’re not leaving without the head of the man who killed three of mine. Comply, or have your head removed.” Bai’s face fell, as his voice strained, “Comply, dammit, Niyazo. You are outnumbered a thousand to one. I am just one man, but Songli is millions. You will not win this confrontation.”

“It would be a million to one, and I would still resist this.” Niyazo said, “It was you that helped me to see that words are meaningful, Bai. That the Compact has value. Now, you threaten to ruin what we have because some of your men are dead and my nephew is supposedly the culprit. But he will not run forever. He has family here. I will take care of this problem when he eventually shows. Why are you pushing so hard?”

Bai breathed out, settling himself for combat as he put a hand on the sword at his belt. “Old friend. Please see reason.”

Niyazo placed a hand upon his own sword at his side. He resigned himself. “Apparently not friend enough.”

Every single person in the room moved—

And ran into solid panes of force. [Quick Wall]s had gone up absolutely everywhere, and though some of the people broke through some of those walls, they did not break through the hundreds Erick had placed between both sides. Some people had the wherewithal to stare at the walls around them, unsure what had happened, but others quickly realized that a third party was involved. Some people tried to blip here or there, but Erick had already filled the space with [Spatial Denial], so those people barely got meters from their starting location. And since [Quick Wall]s were absolutely everywhere, including above and below, those people merely blipped to the edge of the translucent white Force, and stopped; unable to blip any further. Rapidly, other spells filled the space, from [Unmoving Fire] to all the rest. Erick decided he needed to make the Prismatic Version of that spell sooner rather than later. He’d do that after he cleared up the problem here.

The final touch was a [Draining Void] cast across everyone.

Some of the people screamed in sudden pain, but the pain of extraction would stop when they had no more Mana or Health. It was a simple end to a simple—

Ah. Some of them stopped screaming. Not a lot of mana then. Losing Health was more palatable than losing mana, it seemed. Soon enough, the room was silent. The two main guys continued to stream drops of Health into the air, but soon enough, even that stopped. They didn’t stop staring at each other from across a room full of [Quick Wall]s, though. Soon enough, groans of pain turned to words, turned to muttered curses directed at the other side; accusations almost came out. But before the conversation could start up again, Erick had Ophiel blip into a space he had already shaped for Ophiel to go; a space devoid of the spells he had cast across the land on the other side of the firepit.

Ophiel became a third party to the discussion.

Everyone turned Ophiel’s way, as Ophiel shaped the unimpeded light into Erick’s partially-feathered form. The delegation turned scared, then hopeful; but Erick could tell that the ‘hopeful’ was a lie. They were truly terrified. Niyazo had a much more honest reaction. First came wary terror, then came anger.

Niyazo yelled, “You are not welcome here, Archmage! I give you no leave to exert your will on my people!”

Erick countered, “Amasar is healing and in custody in Alaralti. He had a fortuitous encounter with me, and so I am here now. Sorry about the unkindness of my actions, but I’m pretty sure that the delegation in front of you is full of face stealers, so your involvement is merely an unfortunate side effect of capturing them.”

As he spoke, the delegation paled, but the leader steeled himself for the lies that were about to come out of his mouth.

Niyazo surprised them all, saying, “I know what they are!”

Erick startled.

Everyone turned to Niyazo, as the man said, “Amasar contacted me and told me everything.”

One of Niyazo’s men startled behind him. “You accepted a [Telepa—”

“I did not. It was a [Viewing Screen] from High Clan Matriarch Tipanri herself.” Niyazo glared at the offending pretenders across the translucent barrier, saying, “I was not willing to accept that Bai was dead, but I see now that my friend is gone. Bai would never do as this man has done.” He glared at the offending man, saying, “I had to be sure. I was prepared to sound the retreat the second the battle started for I trusted my men to last that long. I know face stealers are too dangerous to fight when outnumbered.”

A lie.

But only the part about ‘sounding the retreat’. Niyazo trusted himself to kill ‘Bai’, at least. Maybe he would have succeeded… But probably not.

Erick came back to himself momentarily, as Poi cleared his throat.

Poi said, “Matriarch Tipanri thanks you for your assistance, but your distortion spell has prevented her people from coming in and handling the situation. She wishes to apprehend the Hunters alive.”

Erick almost felt a pang of shame and smallness, as though he had been doing something he shouldn’t have. And then he got over that damned emotion right quick. He said, “Please tell her that I personally dislike Hunters, and thus when the situation revealed itself to me, I became invested. If she sees a way for me to assist without stepping on her toes, then I am willing to help in whatever way she wants, but I saw no indication that anything except a slaughter was about to happen.” He added, “I’m recasting the spells; they should be able to appear within the village in ten seconds, but I will keep these specific people locked down. They’re already all drained of Mana and Health.”

Poi nodded, and glanced away as he relayed the message.

Erick went back to Ophiel and did as he said he would.

In twenty seconds, a new batch of people in white blipped into the grass outside of the large yurt.

By this time, Erick’s various spells had washed across the land, and then been retracted, but people still noticed when their water and air spells had stopped working. The village was a land of at least three hundred people, and the women at the [Grow] section of the mobile settlement had noticed the disruption first, when their water spells stopped drawing liquid up from a well. Not to mention the various guards on the perimeters or the old women and men in the center all seeing that something was happening.

Absolutely everyone noticed the itchy feeling of a Shade in their presence, too. Some even screamed as much, openly praying as they raced for shelter and for their children.

Okay. Well. The side effects of [Spatial Denial] were not great, but it would have to be as it was, for now. It was just a small bit of panic, anyway. After the panic passed, people rallied to defend themselves.

Anyway.

After that first [Spatial Denial] came down, then left, leaving a new Denial molded to the main yurt, twenty five newcomers in white, a whole platoon of them, started speaking —yelling, really— at the perimeter guard, which was on super high alert. The reshaped spells allowed Erick to [Teleport Other] Niyazo out in front of the meeting yurt, though, which he did. The casual maneuver of Ophiel’s [Animadversion] shield in front of the Warlord prevented one of the young men from accidentally skewering his leader with a [Force Beam].

Niyazo rapidly reoriented and then yelled at the offending young man.

If that spell would have hit, Niyazo would not have had the benefit of Health to mitigate that killing spell. So Erick tapped the Warlord with a [Greater Treat Wounds] to help speed along his recovery of Health.

Things calmed down after that, with Erick mostly watching from a distance as Niyazo rapidly took control of the situation. He glared at Ophiel, who appeared to be big and hovering above the main yurt, but it was just an illusion; Ophiel was still small and covered in [Animadversion] and hovering near the warlord.

Other people in the village openly stared at the lightward Ophiel, and at the events unfolding before them. Things calmed down a lot when the [Teleport Lock] feeling went away. Only a few had been scared by that, anyway; only some of the people here knew what a Shade Lock felt like, but all of them were rapidly able to organize around those who had called out the problem and the supposed threat.

Erick watched as Niyazo invited some captain of Severing Crescent away from his platoon and into the village. That captain and several other people walked in to the Yurt with a quintet of collars among them. Erick helped the captain by taking away the spells that impeded entry, as well as removing the [Draining Void] surrounding the new prisoners.

The former delegation did not resist. Mostly.

When the [Draining Void] went down, one guy behind ‘Bai’ covertly broke a vial of blue potion that he had sewn into the skin of his leg, on the inner thigh. That he had such a backup plan was exactly the same as that one hunter who Erick killed when they first came to Songli. Erick was prepared for the blip, so when the man tried it, a [Harmonic Counterspell] shut him down.

Erick moved Ophiel near that guy, holding him down with [Harmonic Counterspell] twice more, saying, “This guy just tried to [Teleport] away. The potion in his leg helped him get back the mana needed to do that. I’m rather sure he’s a Hunter. Not sure about the rest, but they all exhibit signs of being one.” As everyone went from high-strung, to calm, to rapidly collaring the man Erick had shut down, Erick continued, “He’s the only one with a potion in his leg, though. The rest have potions on their person. Please keep me informed of what happens here, as I do not like Hunters; thus, the personal interest.”

The captain, Xuloo, and his people told Erick what he wanted to hear, but Erick was pretty sure that they were terrified of him, too. Erick knew he would have to deal with Tipanri if he wanted to keep abreast of whatever this nonsense was happening in this village.

The soldiers outside were building a temporary shelter of stone and dirt outside of the village’s protective lines. As Xuloo frog-marched the pretenders to their new cells, Niyazo watched ‘Bai’ vanish into that stone building, bereft of something intrinsic inside, something that he had held in his heart before the confrontation with Bai. And then, like a man who saw the world for what it was, Niyazo slumped momentarily, and then straightened, and got on with it.

Niyazo went to his clan, who had been watching, and began talking.

Erick got the full story then, or at least the one the warlord chose to tell his people. All in all, it was rather straightforward.

Niyazo said, “Nephew Amasar was successful in getting help from our contacts in Alaralti. He found Archmage Flatt. And now, it is revealed that Ambassador Bai and his people have been replaced by face stealers. At least one is confirmed. We will know more later.” He gestured toward an old woman in the crowd, who had three young women warriors surrounding her. “Aunt Yorila will be breaking [Telepathy] Silence and confirming that we have no more face stealers in our midst. Allow her to message you to confirm who you are.”

Aunt Yorila nodded, while some people in the crowd scowled at the old woman.

Niyazo declared, “It’s over, for now. The soldiers of Songli will set up nearby, but they will be gone within a day; I have been assured. Aunt Yorila will be calling upon our allies and telling them what has happened here, so that the call may go out wide and far. That is all.”

Other people scowled at that, with more than a few muttering how [Telepathy] was as unnatural as [Polymorph].

One man called out, “What about talks with Alaralti? What about becoming a Clan of Songli?”

The crowd refocused.

Niyazo spoke to the crowd, “We will get a new ambassador. Talks will resume. We will not support incorporating into Songli without an understanding of all that has happened today.”

“It’s only going to get worse!” called out a middle-aged woman, about Niyazo’s age. “It probably wasn’t face stealers at all! This is what they do to each other. They invent reasons to harm, and this is somehow a harm; just you wait! The malice of Songli will show in the end.”

A few people agreed with her, nodding along.

Niyazo glared at the offender, then calmly said, “Ibahka could be correct; we do not know. We do know that the Clans of Songli try to outdo each other all the time. They can afford to do so, since their bounty is so vast. But this is the final race now. Before, this plan of incorporation didn’t look possible. And now it is possible! Now, Terror Peaks is gone; the largest impediment to Songli is no more.” His tone turned darker, saying, “Now, the Face Stealers and the Shadows come out to play in one final bid to prevent Empire; to prevent power from forming in our hands. Gain the Sight to see: Songli is destined to take all of Nelboor and we have a choice to be one of those who rise to the top and take control of our own fates, to be empowered by Empire, or to be crushed under the foot of our fellow grass travelers, as Songli raises them up instead.” As the crowd fell silent, Niyazo belted out, “We will lead our people! Us! We will not give up our rights as Clan. We will not allow others to control our Fate, for make no mistake: the Shadow War is here, so [Ward] your hearts, and let us do what must be done.”

Niyazo finished.

People looked to Ibahka, and the woman nodded; satisfied. She walked off, with several nearby people following her. With her departure, the crowds dispersed.

Erick came back to himself, thinking…

He didn’t need to think for long.

