ars to the eight eyes of any spider that saw it.Quee crossed his human arms and glared at Mharia, who was staring at his very pretty features with shyness before she looked away, angry at herself.Delta translated the beauty of spider-word into less pretty English.‘What do you wish for us to do with the rude boney one?’“She needs a place to be a catty little rude thing but in a way she can pass it off as charming. She needs politics.” Delta said easily.“I’m not sure spiders can provide such... means,” Mharia scoffed and one of the spiders touched her wings before shaking its head.Two more shared whispers behind their legs.Quee puffed his chest up.“Your cheekbones are quite high,” he said smugly. Mharia stared at him before she clung to Delta.“You can’t leave me here,” she commanded a little desperately.Delta calmly took her and placed her on a nearby web, sticking her in place.“I’ll swing by later. The spiders are the most unbiased of my monsters if you observe their rules. Just work your way in and keep a cool head. You’ll be popular in no time,” she promised, fudging the truth just a tad.‘Popular’ was overselling it.“How many rules?” Mharia asked, her cherubic face pinched as she waved her hands.“Well... you just broke four there and insulted someone’s third leg in the same motions, so watch that,” Delta replied brightly.Muffet placed an elegant web hat on Mharia’s head.“Look. you’ve been given the ‘Forgive this one for her actions in future tidings as her knowledge is that of the unborn’ hat!” Delta exclaimed excitedly as the floppy hat settled on the lich-fairy’s head.Mharia eyed the hat.“It’s a nice hat,” she had to admit after being stuck with the same clothes for the last hundred years.“I shall instruct you as we have mostly similar arms and hands,” Quee said briskly, walking forward, long hair flowing. Mharia went quiet.“...kay,” she finally said, shrinking into her hat to avoid being seen.Delta eyed this with amusement.Ah, undeveloped mental personalities that got stuck at the mental age of early teens for a century. So easily flustered...Delta should have sent a dozen handsome spider-boys at Mharia, not hulking monstrosities.Hindsight was funny like that.
