The best way to tackle something was to take it one step at a time, so Delta did that. She had ample time to choose her next floor, confident she’d have a choice before long.“First order of business is...” Delta pointed to the simple door to the north.“The boss,” she said and it was like the entire floor tensed in excitement. Like all boss rooms, it was a simple empty round room, waiting for Delta to mould it into something.“First floor? Fran and Bacon, they offer direct combat and a sort of ‘give it your all’ vibe,” Delta mused aloud as she paced back and forth, finding it soothing to just be a Dungeon for the moment. Make a room, fill the room, use the room, then move on to the next room.“Second floor has Wyin, who is about challenging you after long trials and purposely being antagonistic towards adventurers and kidnapping one of them to cause panic,” Delta held up the other hand.So, her third boss should be something either tricky, gimmicky, or minion-using if she was going to keep things fresh.She pursed her lips.“Or all of the above?” she said slyly and pulled up her menus to go through them in search of important items.After a moment, she had a simple iron cauldron over flame as she began to drop things in.“One dragon skull, a Gutrot, a lich bone or two, and to make them cook so lovely... “ Delta held her hands up and a jug appeared before she poured the thick goop into the pot.“Troll soup,” she said with a grin.After a moment, nothing happened. Delta frowned before she went to the library and returned with a spare copy of Hungry Caterpillar.“I forgot some good taste,” she amended as she dropped the book in.The cauldron began to shake and shoot sparks into the air. Delta took three steps back, hands clasped together.“Come on, show me the horrors I made!” she beckoned.She’d show Nu who was 11…The pot exploded.---“I mean we have a job. We can’t exactly just ask for a promotion,” Dragon said gruffly.“We could,” Doctor countered, interested in what his boss form would be. Van opened his mouth, but an enormous explosion rocked the third floor and a terrible presence soon filled the boss room.“On second thought? I’m happy staying out here,” Dozer announced quickly.“I heard the sound of chaos,” Doctor sang and tried to glide towards the boss room but was held back by Van.“Best to wait until Delta screams or complains... then we’ll know,” he said gruffly, his muscles flexing as he crossed his arms.“Know what?” Dragon asked as he snorted out flames.“If our minds can handle what lies within,” Van responded quietly.They all waited.--Delta coughed, clearing the smoke from her vision as she looked to see what she made.On the ground in front of her a tiny draconian skull with two curly horns.Delta stared at the tiny skull.The skull stared back, empty eye sockets without expression.“You’re going to do something the moment I look away or drop my guard,” she accused and inside one of the eyes, a little green grub emerged, more slime than bug.It yawned, with black floating material inside forming its little beady eyes.Delta bent down.“I was trying to make a giant wave of bone and slime that would be a threat unless they did the right trick,” she admitted. The little slime eyed her and opened its mouth to reveal four little stubby nubs in each corner of its mouth that could have been teeth.“I don’t believe you,” Delta said with a smile and the creature blinked then smiled with a happy gurgle.She pulled up his notification.

Delta thought about it and the grub made its black eyes enlarge pathetically.“Oh... alright,” she said as if she was ever going to say no.Her bosses weren’t really about being bosses. They were about bringing a floor together and this guy was great.“Make boss,” she announced and booped the grub’s face, making it gurgle with delight.All that seemed to happen was on its dragon skull, a little golden crown appeared, making the grub applaud with delight.Her field was abruptly filled with screens and she barely had time to read them before another one appeared.

