Not because he’s better at shutting the Spectres out, which is how I dealt with their whispered lies. No, I can see them even now writhing about his soul, mind, and body all at once, changed but not gone. Constrained only by his physical and metaphysical mass while left free to run rampant within, the transformed Spectres continue spewing their hate-filled rhetoric and honeyed promises of power and pleasure aplenty. Rather than ignore or rise above them, Zhen Shi has embraced the Spectres as a whole and even indulges them to some extent, playing along with their fantasies of discord and depravity without ever losing sight of his true self. This goes beyond the realm of an iron will, beyond even that of steel, titanium, or any other hardy metal I could conceivably name, for Zhen Shi is but a man like any other, yet he refuses to waver even a single step despite revelling in all manner of debauched, murderous, or despondent thoughts at every second of every day.

The same condition can be seen in the empowered Defiled Ascending on the desert sands at this very moment, their very existence infested with unchecked Spectres yet somehow unaffected by this. How? Zhen Shi holding fast to Balance is one thing, but these are tribesmen and Chosen we’re talking about, people who have long since succumbed to their Spectres and not known for being the most resolute of people even on their best days. Even then, not a single one succumbs to true Demonification as they each complete their partial Ascendence in full success, resulting in well over a million Demon-Level threats emerging on the battlefield in a matter of seconds, one the Imperial Army behind me is ill-equipped to deal with.

And then it strikes me, the reason why I find this all so unsettling. It’s not the wrongness of their transformation or union which irks me so, but a sense of transgression taking place, an air of sin and violation unfolding before my eyes that I cannot put into words. It's in the way Zhen Shi’s Tainted Heavenly Energy surges in their bodies and the ominous manner in which it flows through them, an unpleasant pattern to behold as it takes root within which reminds me of the flow of Spectres within the golden robe Keystone Zhen Shi wore within his Natal Palace. It’s disconcerting, yet draws the eye and mind all the same, almost hypnotic and alluring in spite of the revulsion it inspires, like the morbid curiosity which drives us towards the unknown.

A series of ear-splitting explosions rock me out of my fugue and I break free of Zhen Shi’s massed mesmerizing magics just in time. My teacher Taddy inadvertently saved me as he brings the scuffle between Divinities to an all time high, shaking the world with a wave of his hand and unleashing Heavens knows how many Explosive Winds at Zhen Shi and his approaching Divinities. All this is by design, I know this to be true, though I cannot put into words how I know what I do, and I believe that he is utilizing the method he used to control Demons in order to control his newly Ascended Half-Demon army. Not entirely sure how, but it makes too much sense to ignore, for more reasons than one. Zhen Shi loves control, and I know his robes had something to do with how he controlled Spectres and Demons, so why not Half-Demons as well?

Something to keep in mind, because if he’s the sole puppet master, then I might be able to use this knowledge to my advantage. The method of Ascension is similar to how I helped Rustram Develop his Domain, but whereas I lent him a hand and left him to do all the hard work himself, Zhen Shi is hell-bent on showing his Defiled the Path to take and all but forcing them to adhere to his Path, though I suspect they each believe they are moving forward of their own free will. Maybe that’s why most are merely armoured humanoids, because they are still human yet and unwilling to let go of their physical forms and identities. This raises many questions regarding why Spiritual Beasts would become Ancestral Beasts with humanoid forms rather than Divine Beasts and keep the same general form, but that’s something for future me to deliberate about. Present me needs to focus on seeing and remembering everything and anything alongside surviving so there is a future me to bother, though I could really go without having to see Zhen Shi’s dong flopping around as he reels back from the Abbot’s invisible and imposing attack, one I can barely even perceive much less make sense of.

No doubt threatened by this close call, Zhen Shi smacks Peace out of the air yet again before finally focusing on the Divinities around him. A smug, self-satisfied sneer stretches across his plain, boring face, and as I struggle against the urge to shove my boot down his throat, I realize that he’s been distracted all this time because he was busy overseeing the Defiled Ascendancies over yonder. At least not all of the Defiled stopped to take part in his games, though I suspect it’s more due to a lack of resources than anything else, given how he had to slaughter most of the Defiled who did stop just to fuel the transformation of the rest. That being said, a million Demon-level combatants are more than what even the entirety of the Imperial Army can readily deal with, to say nothing of the ragged and weary Demon Slayers and Peak Experts of Shi Bei.

And as if this were not bad enough, Zhen Shi makes his first move in the battle between Divinities and brings the clash to a standstill. The Energy of the Heavens rage and roil as they resist his Will, yet they are drawn along to do his bidding regardless of their reluctance as his Domain billows out and Materializes all around him. Divinities on both sides retreat to watch it all unfold, with Grandpa Wolf leaning against my side while huffing and puffing for all he’s worth and Taduk appearing behind me as he strokes my head and Lin-Lin’s as well, who hasn’t left my side after helping me up from my collision with Bai Qi. Funny to think that only happened a few seconds ago, but a lot has happened in the time since, so all I can do is pray that she’s quick enough on her feet to get out if the Divinities really get out of hand.

That’s all the time I have for errant thought however as I lose myself in the details of Zhen Shi’s working, a powerful and complex process which rivals the storm I called forth in JiangHu. The skies do not darken, the clouds do not swirl, the earth does not shake, nor does the wind howl, yet the world dims nonetheless in a manner besides the physical, as if everything in and around Shi Bei was coated in an impossibly thin film of translucent grease. There is a wrongness about this which I cannot explain, as if this act was a transgression against Heaven and Earth itself, yet no matter how much the Energy of the Heavens bucks and heaves, it is unable to throw off Zhen Shi’s grip. The monster himself stands stock still with eyes closed and arms spread wide, his head tilted upwards to face the sun with his sneer still holding strong, and for a second, all of Shi Bei watches with bated breath as he seizes control of reality itself. There within his Domain, he holds absolute authority, but there are still worldly laws to abide by, laws which even he finds difficult to surpass. Difficult but not impossible, for the conservation of energy and mass seems but a mere suggestion as Zhen Shi braids strands of Heavenly Energy into a physical thread not once, not twice, but thousands upon thousands of times. Those threads are then woven together and a pattern soon emerges, revealing the familiar golden robes I’d seen him wearing before whilst ensconced in his Natal Palace, the immaterial made material as he brings his vision forth into reality, seemingly creating something out of nothing without violating the laws of physics, but bending them nonetheless.

Which is honestly kinda fascinating if I’m being honest. It’s one thing to use Heavenly Energy to bulk up your physique, since that’s really only stimulating natural growth and fuelling it with something besides diet and exercise, but this is something else altogether. Then again, I did this exact same thing, when I used Panacea to reforge Peace even after it was shattered and dusted. I am the Sword and the Sword is me, yet Zhen Shi has gone above and beyond this by weaving robes out of thin air, without even fuelling the process with his own blood and flesh like I did. While you could argue that the Energy of the Heavens is being converted into the ingredients needed to produce the threads, there’s a big difference between using what’s available in the physical world and transforming it into something else, to taking the immaterial Heavenly Energy and producing a physical object. I took my flesh and transformed it into the steel of my sword, whereas Zhen Shi is creating everything he needs from scratch, which once again shows just how vast the gulf between us truly is.

Because there’s more to this than Heavenly Energy, something I have yet to truly understand, but yet I recognize its presence all the same because I myself have touched upon it.

That being said, I note that my method was far more efficient, as I created a giant storm and guided three-thousand Irregulars to Core Formation while all Zhen Shi has done is make himself some fancy robes. Runic Robes, to be fair, but again, it probably would’ve been easier to hire an actual tailor to make the robes and engrave the Runes himself, assuming he knows how to. Efficiency is key, though Zhen Shi seems none too shy about using the power he has, which is bad news all around. Seeing how the Spectres are still active and cognizant of their surroundings, I’m guessing that his process of extracting ‘usable’ Heavenly Energy from them doesn’t erase them from existence the way Blobby does, though I doubt it’s without limit. Then again, there are always more Spectres to be had, especially if the Canston Trading Group is still active in the West and carrying out their Anathema production. Considering Zhen Shi has the power to direct their movements and keep them away from me, I have to assume he can call them over to himself as well, meaning so long as there are humans to create Spectres around, he has more or less an infinite supply of tainted but usable Heavenly Energy to draw upon to make all manner of Half-Demons and Runic robes.

Which honestly just isn’t fair at all. I can’t even crack him open and Devour his Spectres because they’re part and parcel of his soul now, meaning Blobby can’t Cleanse them either, so I guess we’re all fucked.

On the bright side, the androgynous baldie is no longer naked as he descends from the skies above, moving out to join with his Half-Demon army which Cloud-Stepped over in an instant. So fast they arrived before the returning Imperial cavalry, our forces are now split in two, but thankfully, Zhen Shi seems in a chatty mood and pays no mind to the troops before and behind him.

“Bear witness and tremble,” he intones, his voice both soothing and jarring to behold. The words send a sensual chill down my spine while simultaneously driving a spike deep into my brain, and judging by the reaction, the experience is not limited to me alone. The Imperial Army flinches as one, but to my delight, they all stand firm rather than give into despair despite their glorious victory having been snatched away before their very eyes. “For this Sovereign has surpassed the limits of mortality and will soon usher in a new age of humanity, an age of Immortals who shall one day rise up into the Heavens and slay the gods themselves.” Silence is all that greets him in response, and I can tell he doesn’t like that much as his smug sneer turns into a dissatisfied scowl. So simple a change in expression, yet I sense the courage and conviction of my Imperial allies shaking, a mere grimace enough to shake these hardened veterans and survivors. There’s more to it than just mere expression, some not-so-subtle working of Aura, something familiar yet different enough that I just know a regular Emotional Aura won’t be enough to counter it. It’s as if Zhen Shi’s emotions are speaking directly to all of us, his anger and dissatisfaction made real on a personal level, and there’s nothing I can do to stop him as he utters, “Kneel”, and the soldiers of Shi Bei fall to their knees.

There are a few exceptions of course, as I myself remain unaffected, as does Lin-Lin and the other Divinities, but everyone else from commoner to Peak Expert alike have no choice to obey, despite their unwillingness to do so. Restless growls and muted discontent ripples down the line as they try to make sense of the madness before them, an entire army brought to their knees by a single word from their foe, the infamous Uniter of the Enemy. “There now,” Zhen Shi croons, pleased as punch with the display before him. “See how easy it is to comply? This Sovereign seeks not your deaths, but to bring all of humanity to new heights, heights denied to you by the Imperial Clan and the Emperor himself.” Gesturing at the Half-Demon army gathered around him, Zhen Shi continues, “See for yourself the progress this Sovereign has already wrought, and envision what we could do with more time and resources. What’s more, even an Emperor requires his ministers to rule the Empire, so this Sovereign mercifully offers those gathered here today this one chance to make amends for your sins. Swear yourselves over to this Sovereign, and together, we will overthrow the true Enemy of mankind and reach the full potential which has so far been denied us.”

