Time freezes as Zhen Shi’s tantalizing offer sinks into the minds and hearts of the Imperial soldiers, and I fear it will not be long before they succumb to his Will. This is not an offer made in good faith, but one powered by the same seductive persuasion utilized by Spectres to turn good men and women into deranged and murderous psychopaths. First the stick, then the carrot, this is Zhen Shi’s chosen method of drawing soldiers over to his side, and as soon as the first Imperial voices his intent to bend the knee, you can be sure there will be hundreds, if not thousands to follow suit soon after. Such is the weakness of the human heart, especially in the face of such overwhelming strength, meaning the only way to prevent a complete and total collapse of morale is to show them that we can still fight back.

Peace appears in my hand, but I do not recall seeing it fly back into hand, a discrepancy I have no time to ponder just yet. The sword radiates thrill and excitement as it senses my Intent and is delighted to cut down so formidable a foe. The prospect of failure never once enters into the equation, for Peace is a sword, and a sword is a tool for killing, so kill it must to fulfill its purpose. Oddly enough, the mere thought of creating a sword spirit has unconsciously set the process into motion, as the Natal Soul in charge of Peace took it upon himself to leave the Call Centre of the Void to take up residence within the sword itself. When this happened, I can’t exactly say, for though my connection to the Natal Soul still remains, he has transformed too much for me to make sense of all his thoughts. I am the Sword and the Sword is me, the process now fully complete, and Peace hums with an eager energy once more as I raise it and ready to strike. The Energy of the Heavens surges through me, but where Zhen Shi seizes control and directs it with his Will alone, I harness its wild movements using my sword as both Keystone and focus. My Domain billows out through Peace, no longer a Domain that is mine and mine alone, but a Sword Domain within which I exert my Authority through my blade alone. I did this once before, but only now am I able to understand what took place, for this time, I utilize Peace as a Keystone to Materialize my Sword Domain without Blobby’s assistance and watch it all unfold step by careful step.

The eight fundamental Chi skills come together to form something new without so much as a thought from me, a process driven by the iconic representation of my sword itself. Unlike a puzzle with only a single solution, I acknowledge the Truth staring me right in the face, one I touched upon earlier but never wholly understood. This is Sword Force, but there are an infinite number of different ways to put the eight fundamental Chi Skills together to create an infinite number of resulting forces, the same way Carbon, Hydrogen, and Oxygen can form so many different compounds. These complex, manufactured forces are different from what we might encounter in nature. Spear Force, Sabre Force, Palm Force, and more, the result is dependent on more than just what weapon you use, but a defining factor in the means through which it damages your foe. The specifics escape me for now, though I can easily guess that Honing features prominently in Sword Force, for this was the clue Blobby first gave me all the way back in Sanshu, but only now am I able to perceive the vast complexities he was hinting at. This Sword Force is the reason why Zhen Shi didn’t risk taking my sword head on, because in combining the eight fundamental Chi Skills, I have created something which transcends the Natural Laws of this world, a higher order power with which I could challenge the Heavens themselves.

But for now, I will content myself with cutting down the arrogant and pretentious bastard before me.

My chosen Movement is undefined, a simple cursory swing of the sword which feels wholly natural and effortless, my body merely an extension of the weapon which I have become. I have one purpose, to kill, and I strike with this in mind, utilizing every muscle and Chi Skill available to me to eke out every iota of power available to me. The strike falls woefully short, for I still stand upon the battlements of Shi Bei while Zhen Shi is at least a quarter-kilometre away, yet while my physical form is unable to reach him, my Sword Force knows no bounds within my Sword Domain. Rather than stretch out in all directions, my Sword Domain converges upon my target with a sword comprised of Sword Force and Sword Domain alone, an immaterial blade with the power to sever reality and the Void itself. Zhen Shi’s diffuse and extended Domain is no match for mine as it cuts through all his metaphysical defenses with ease, but even if he focused all his efforts on a singular defense, it would do him no good. The Authority of my sword supersedes his even within the bounds of his Domain, for wherever my sword passes, so too does my Domain.

I am the Sword. The Sword is me. The sword cares not for laws, morals, or ethics, for those are human contrivances, and the sword is but a tool for killing.

And I will not be denied.

My attack slams into Zhen Shi’s golden robes and they part like wheat before the scythe. His flesh succumbs in a similar manner, cleaving clean through his chest with laughable ease before continuing onwards to exit out his back. From there, my Sword Force cuts through the sky and hurtles ever forward until my Domain can stretch no longer, at which point the attack is all but spent and I collect myself once again. All this happens in less time than it takes to blink an eye, my foe still yet to finish even uttering his last syllable before my sword carves through him in a spray of blood. Sagging in place where I stand, I take note of the exorbitant expenditure this singular attack cost me, for not only did it require a significant amount of Chi and Heavenly Energy, it also required something even more than that, something that has left me drained and enervated in ways I’ve never felt before. It’s not just life force like I theorized earlier, but perhaps even death force as well, the equal and opposing force which I believe is needed for life. There’s still more to this attack, more which I have spent and can only sense by noting a glaring absence of anything else, like knowing there is wind in the distance by noting the swirling sand, a deduction made in absence of all other evidence.

This is an attack made with my life on the line, this much I know, but even knowing it would cost me everything up to my last and final breath, I would still choose to attack once again.

Or maybe not, considering Zhen Shi doesn’t seem all that put off by the attack, aside from a modicum of blood and surprise as his robes mend to hide the bloody furrow across his chest, one which should have cleaved him in twain yet has hardly inconvenienced him.

…Should’ve gone for the head. C’mon man. How many times do I have to learn this same lesson?

Every eye in and around Shi Bei turns towards me, as if instinctively sensing that I was the one who unleashed the attack. All the attention compels me to speak despite knowing it’s probably better to keep my mouth shut, but I can’t stay silent in the face of Zhen Shi’s demands, because the kneeling Imperial soldiers are all looking to me for hope and direction. Like it or not, I lead here in Shi Bei, by virtue of being the only person under Divinity left standing, which means I need to set the right example for everyone else and tell Zhen Shi where to shove it. “Never before have I met a more pretentious prick,” I begin, my speech already getting off to a rocky start. “And believe me when I say that’s an impressive accomplishment. Kneel before you? I would not kneel even if the Father Himself were standing here before me, and you still bleed like any other mortal. I’ve no more patience for your deluded ramblings. There will be no surrender here in Shi Bei, none offered nor accepted, so whether you stand and fight or turn to flee, I will take your head here today.”

Not my best speech ever, but not the worst either. The results are surprising even to me as the Imperial soldiers find the strength to get back on their feet, though I’m not entirely sure if I can take credit for that. I think Zhen Shi’s Compulsion, for lack of a better word, was temporary rather than a binding command, and not so much a command as a strongly worded suggestion. Li-Li might’ve been able to resist if she had her Emotional Aura already defensively deployed, though I doubt that alone would’ve been enough. As far as I can tell, Zhen Shi pit his Will against the Wills of everyone gathered here in Shi Bei, but in individual matches rather than all of us against him, and it’s clear that he has Willpower in spades. What’s more, this was not an attack directed at the body or mind, but the soul itself, and most Martial Warriors have pitifully weak souls in comparison to the rest of their stats. This Compulsion is likely an advanced form of whatever Shen Zhen Wu used to bolster the crowd way back in Nan Ping, and similar to how Gen was able to entice so many others to his side through words alone.

That being said, my speech bought enough time for my allies to clear their heads and shake off their fright as they raise their voices in a defiant cheer. The odds are still stacked against us, especially with so many Half-Demons to contend with, but for the first time ever, we actually have numbers on our side. Not only that, but I’ve shown them that the Uniter bleeds, and if he bleeds, we can most definitely kill him.

Uttering a wordless snort, Zhen Shi meets my gaze and a brilliant idea strikes me as I witness the depths of hatred and fury buried deep within. As I noted before, this is a man who indulges in emotions yet never allows it to control him, but I am a man who excels at inducing nigh uncontrollable rage. Going with my instincts, I offer him my best smirk and add, “Come, little worm. Make your move, and this Legate shall teach you the true meaning of regret.”

And true to form, Zhen Shi lashes out in his rage with an attack that strikes me before I can even register any movement. Agony overwhelms me for an instant as my existence explodes into darkness and despair, and I watch as the world falls out from underneath me. Gone is the harsh sun and stifling heat of Shi Bei, replaced by the calm silence of the unending Void stretching out in all directions. “Such hubris,” Zhen Shi hisses as he slams into me like a truck, hurtling me out into the Void and away from the safety and sanctity offered by my body and mind. “To dare say that you will teach me? Oh there will be regret aplenty, but it will be this Sovereign who does the teaching.”

A flurry of attacks tear me apart from inside and out as I try to make sense of this madness, the world shifting around me to reveal all manner of illusions which I readily ignore. I don’t know how he managed it, but he somehow ripped my soul out of my Natal Palace and brought me here to do battle in the Void, but as I weather his storm of attacks and find my bearings once more, I realize this might not be so bad after all. I am still connected to my body and mind, able to find my way back to them the same way I could spin in circles for hours and still point at my Spiritual Weapons, but the thought of fleeing is the furthest thing from my mind. My body isn’t entirely defenseless, since one of my Natal Souls will no doubt step up to take charge, and here in the Void, I might actually stand a better chance against Zhen Shi than I would in reality. So long as I keep clear of Zhen Shi’s Natal Palace, then this is now a battle of Wills, and if my Natal Soul General could put up a fight, then I most certainly can as well.

Letting loose a roar of fury as I meet Zhen Shi head on, I grapple with him here in the Void and meet his eyes with a snarl. “You done fucked up now,” I exclaim, taking great delight in what comes next as I Visualize my Will and make all my dreams come true, “Because I’m exercising my right to bear arms!”

Seeing his surprise and confusion is almost as satisfying as smacking him across the face with a bear paw, one which rips and tears through his metaphysical mass without leaving any blood behind. Howling in unspoken glee, I follow up with a flurry of bear-enhanced blows that is everything I’d ever hoped it would be and more, for here in the Void, imagination is power, and I’ve spent the better part of two lifetimes preparing for this very fight.

For while others were out partying and having sex, I studied the meme.

Chapter Meme
