She nodded slowly. “A caustic revelation, that antimagic can reach the same depths as magic. As wizardry. The aether is the domain of the grandest of magics - it is how wizards enhance themselves beyond all others, and spells reinforced by aetheric constructs are superior to any other force.” She smiled privately. "Or so we believed."

Well, it’s nice to have a name for that place. I’ve been simply thinking of it as the “alternate plane” or whatever for too long.

Stella was looking back and forth between them. “The aether? How do I use it?”

Ushia was already shaking her head. “First, focus on reinforcing your spells with wizardry, and you will learn to manipulate it. It is the highest art of wizardry. It allows you to manipulate your own mana, to simulate skills."

Nathan’s gaze wandered as he thought. “But there’s another layer. Something beyond wizardry in the aether. Mana pools are formed of more than just wizardry. There are gaps I can sense, filled with something.”

Ushia shrugged. “My answer is that you are sensing Davrar itself. I do not know of any who can manipulate the tools of the world. If there are Insights to be found there, I cannot deliver them to you.”

He shook away the question. “Maybe we should fight without all of the wizardry, and see if there’s anything else you can teach me.”

The big Orkish woman seemed unsure, but after a moment she nodded. "I shall relish the chance to fight with martial skill alone. In most fights, I pull the skeins of fate and decision to guide a fight in my favor. My abilities build around that occurrence. We should fight, but mayhaps in a practice area more suited to it." She gestured around at the glass-enclosed room underneath a significant amount of water, and an even more significant number of sea monsters.

“What about me?” Stella asked, looking nervous.

Ushia looked at her and nodded. “I can help you identify your weaknesses. Let us go upstairs to a less dramatic setting.”

Stella was all too happy to agree to that, and they returned to the palace to find a venue more suited for sparring involving destructive magic.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 8

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 6

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 834

Bottomless Stamina : 84400/84400

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Spellslayer level 564

Regenerative Focus: 5740/5740

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Tranquility 3

Inspiration 8

Impulse 3

Mystical Discernment 4

Forewarning 2

Arcane Insight 4

Evasion 1

Mental Vault 5

Tutoring 9

Parkour 9

Visibility Control 5

High-tier Disguise 5

High-tier Battle Cry 3

Aura Control 5
