Truth be told, I don’t blame Guard Leader for wanting me gone. Akanai was wrong to stand up for me, she should’ve let them exile me and be done with it. She didn’t defend me because I was morally in the right, she stood up for me because in her eyes, even though I fucked up, we’re family and family sticks together. As much as I appreciate her support, my actions during the Purge almost brought disaster to the Bekhai’s doorstep. Worse, if given the same choice again, I don’t think I’d do things any differently. I understand the smart thing to do is to be like Zian and keep my head down, but I don’t think I could ever forgive myself if I did nothing while innocent people suffered right before my eyes.

All it takes for evil to triumph is for good people to do nothing, but what am I supposed to do if evil has already won?

Things aren’t even that easy. The Purge might very well be a necessary evil. A few thousand lives sacrificed to ‘protect’ millions more, simple arithmetic. This doesn’t mean the Emperor is evil, just a cold-hearted pragmatist. Who am I to say things should be different? If I had my way and the Purge was stopped, maybe the Spectres would take over everyone and leave nothing but death and ashes in their wake. Who can say?

Maybe it’s better if I give up and go full hermit mode for the rest of my life, but is that what I really want? As much as I hate people and travelling, I can’t live my life in self-imposed isolation. Right now I feel like hiding away from the world, but who knows what tomorrow will bring? Maybe I’ll want to go to the market with my wifey, or travel with Mila as she rises to glory, or even take my family on a pleasure trip to see a giant turtle. During these excursions, if I see something morally wrong, then I’ll most likely do something stupid and try to stop it regardless of the law or possible consequences. I’m not some paragon of justice, but I can’t turn a blind eye to abuse or suffering. In all likelihood, I’ll end up dying for a stupid reason, but that’s the life I want to live.

Unfettered and free to do whatever the fuck I feel like.

Which apparently means I need to be at least stronger than Nian Zu. I wish Zian had answered my last question. How strong do I need to be before I can tell the Emperor to mind his own god-damned business? Stronger than the Society obviously. Maybe there isn’t an answer. I’m not sure if the Emperor rules through personal strength or his massive armies, or maybe he commands obedience through Divine Right of Kings or something. Whatever. The Empire has survived this long, and while things are looking grim, we’re still not on the brink of outright extinction so they’ve got to be doing something right. Either way, matters of national security are above my pay grade. I’m just a small man with small dreams, who wants to live a long, happy, uneventful life with his family and friends. Is that really so much to ask for?

If past experience is anything to go by, then yes it is and how dare I demand such extravagance? Well fuck you Universe. I want it all and I’m gonna get it, with or without your help. I’ll show the Bekhai not exiling me was the best decision they ever made. I’ll collect all of Blobby’s friends and master the use of Heavenly Energy, becoming strong enough to not listen to some absentee ruler who doesn’t give a damn about the welfare of his people. I’m aiming for the pinnacle because I now realize the only way my loved ones will ever truly be safe is if we become strong enough to ensure our safety.

Even if it’s through the threat of mutual destruction.

...

Though I should probably hermit up for a year or five first. Just to be safe.

Chapter Meme
