r annoyance. It was the most subtle Caline had been so far which was odd.Argus was far away from her Dungeon entrance, but even from where Delta stood, she blinked at the gun-metal gray orb in his chest, replacing his heart. It still beat in a similar manner like a heart, making organs function and blood flow, but it also regulated Argus' mana.It felt familiar, like Delta had seen that exact orb somewhere.Unlike Deo's or Grim's orb, this one was producing an immense amount of mana, a surge compared to the trickle of the others."You will not, scout," someone said and the tide of silver parted as if some unseen order was given before a group of three people walking down from a teleport beam from the floating island. They all had badges with five-fingers on it, except the man in the middle who had no badge. The woman on the left looked like she dissected slow employees to figure out what was wrong with them, a mix of gray and green hair and glasses that looked sharp enough on the frame to cut through any lies in her way. The way she walked allowed her lab coat to move and Yattina nearby tensed up, but it seemed to be a mix of relief and concern.The man on the left looked like someone squished together every definition of 'berserker' and 'barbarian' in media together to form a seven-foot tall mountain of muscles that carried a minimum of three greatswords on his back. The strange thing was that while his seed was also torn like other Fairplay members, Delta couldn't actually see where his Seed-Weapon was, all his tools looked mundane if highly enchanted.Most of them seemed to actively work against the man, causing them to weigh more than they should or have an extremely dull edge. Delta even spotted a short sword on his hip that would heat up over time as the man held it.It all conveyed the idea that the man enjoyed a fight so much he needed to hamper himself to find any decent ones.The one leading the trio looked like a man that used to do a lot of hiking but let age slowly retire him to a CEO's chair to handle business. Short tidy hair and a white suit that made his tanned skin even darker. Despite looking like a normal man against the other two, the man had an aura that was unyielding like steel.He also didn't have a Seed-Weapon as his own was completely subdued by either the man's own will or some technique that he didn't share with others."Fath... Director Ripdoy," Argus said, saluting once as he caught his own words. Ripdoy stood there and Delta saw he was a lot older than he should be, but he had the marks of a Dungeon Contract on him, long faded and scarred like he pulled the bonds off himself in a frenzy. The damage was intense, but the man didn't let it slow him down."I have an impartial power of Fairplay to add to this court," the man said and stood aside to let a young woman walked into view, looking like she would outgrow Ruli one day with ten times the lack of patience, she wore a mix of dark brown and reds with a giant hammer on her back."Oh... oh no," Isanella whispered, seemingly to deflate without energy and become frail looking as she backed away "The Autumn Maiden of Fairplay shall oversee this farce. My name is Tu'mn and I will see justice done today," the girl warned darkly as she looked over the group and finally landed on Delta. The sudden surprise of sheer dislike, bordering on hatred, the girl had for Delta was concerning.Delta knew she had never met this girl so it had to involve another dungeon... still, it was upsetting that a potential student hated her out of the gate.The air between Yattina, Deo, Grim, and this new girl began to crackle and invisible threads of mana began to prickle between them but not Argus' sphere. The connection was strange and Delta stared as a mini-network began to form between the four spheres, mana and power being shared and caused the four to react and it was eerily familiar to the dungeon network."I decline, she looks like she has a ten-page back story that can be summed up as 'wah wah parent issues'," Grim snorted and his own orb was glowing in response as if trying to puff up, flashes of green and light filling his body, flickering down his feet, causing the grass to perk up."I will break your bones, little boy," Tu'mn warned as her dark red orb pulsed against Grim's green one, the two spheres on opposite side of the tiny network not having a direct 'line' to each other but able to sense one another."Just like you'll break the ground walking over it, I bet," Grim agreed and Tu'mn's nostrils flared as she seemed to see red."Spring and Autumn are in opposition," Isanella whispered as if she had witnessed this before and Delta didn't see summer and winter acting like this."We should just be happy and be friends, no need for a big event," Deo said and Yattina shook her head."I wanna see Caline with dirt on his face and with the bosses here, it's going be some real wet mud," she said and Deo blinked as if considering that image"I heard mud on the face can be good for your skin," he said, sounding thoughtful.Then again, Yattina was a literal adult and Deo was a teen, they were simply more likely to accept differences while Grim was..."Watch out for the Tumtum maiden! She's the autumn maiden because we celebrate spooky tales in the autumn! She looks the part!" Grim said as Tu'mn tried to reach him to behead, only for the giant man to hold her back with a finger.Grim was a real blooming onion."Enough," Wollom's voice called out, so heavy with authority that Delta felt like sitting down and getting on her with her class work before remembering she was an adult. "Grim of Durence, Kemy of the Truth, Zane of the Verluan, Japes of Durence, Tu'mn of Fairplay, and myself will oversee this unique case," Wollom began only for the CEO man, Ripdoy, to interject."That runs the risk of a tie. One more should be included to allow for an outcome that won't draw this out," he said and Wollom considered it then nodded."Then we have to find one more. Two of Durence, two of other gods, and two of official authority, " Wollom listed as if finding the balance also displeasing before speaking more, "we shall need a wildcard, someone with no loyalty to a god, king, village, or employer," he said with a hum."You're also of Durence," Caline said snidely and the man looked over at him and suddenly the sheer power of Wollom was briefly loosened, making the sky crackle with lightning and the earth to shake. Delta felt like Wollom could seriously take Delta in a Faith-off and come out winning."I will honor my position and will be impartial," he said before reigning it all back in. Caline stepped back, nodding as if he was too terrified to speak."To find someone with no prior history or biases in a short time will be tricky," Lawyergon said with a ripple of his blob-like body.Everyone turned as a bedraggled group of adventurers emerged from the woods, looking wide-eyed as they saw the event.Delta knew them!"The queue to the dungeon means we may have made a grave mistake coming here," the Necromancer said to the others."I swear to whatever god is listening, I will break your funny bone," the Gunsmith said with a dark tone before turning back to the gathering of people. "People are saying the Dungeon is an Abomination now? Is that true? We only ran it a week ago and it was fine," she asked and Wollom perked up.The saint walked over and stood before one of them."You, my son, have an aura that has no biases or issues. It's so clean it's like simple cotton or a slight-off shade of white, room temperature water, and plain bread!" he said, beaming at the Warrior."Thank you!" the man smiled back."Welcome to the most important event in the world right now!""...Thank you?"Delta was doomed.Doomed by basic.
