Regardless, when you dragged in a kill, you’d need help. And the help would be right there, waiting for you. Not for free, of course. Every single person would ask for part of the materials in payment for their services. You needed sinews removed and treated for bowstrings? Leather cured, treated and shaped into armor? Blood siphoned and bottled? Depending on the work needed, you could expect to lose up to three fourths of the material in the process.

Still, even if that recruiter had complained about their relative lack of Crafters, compared to the opposition, I found that there were quite a few offerings. People made armor, food, with and without attribute boosts, tents and more permanent structures. Oh, and weapons. So many different weapons. No actual smithies, though, weirdly. Given how magical swords were a staple in any fantasy story, that seemed off.

There even was a middle-aged woman with an explosive puff of orange-red hair who was apparently an honest-to-God alchemist. She sat cross-legged next to what I could only classify as a witches’ cauldron, only it seemed to be made from the chitin of some deer-sized insect. I dearly wanted to hear more about what she could create and how, but she was stoned out of her mind. She responded, but only in fragmented murmurs, in what could be Bible verses, portents of doom, or fortune cookie messages.

Eventually, I settled down at a large bonfire, along with at least a hundred others, sitting in small groups or alone, chatting, getting drunk on something vile and talking, boasting, and singing. There was a small wooden stage, where people took turns walking up to talk, sharing whatever advice they had to give.

Some stories concerned the system, skills gained, talent combinations that worked or did not work well. Some revolved around our surroundings, about monster clashes, dangerous or safe areas, good spots for collecting wood, plants and even possible metal or mineral deposits.

One tall man with a grave disposition got up and monologued about threats ‘out there in the shadows.’ He insisted that they were gathering, always watching and waiting, alluding to something without elaborating on it. Eventually, a girl started heckling him, and he strode off.

A few times, it was hard to listen. Along with everything else, people also went up to share those who’d died or been transported back through the portal to Portal Home on the Earth side. Then, they wrote the names onto a large leather scroll for posterity.

I imagined that, in an environment like this, where everything changed from one day to the other, this process was necessary. Not just in order to document who’d left or died, but in order to keep things afloat. You might think you had an arrangement with somebody to keep you company the day after, and collect materials with you. But if he lost his arm and left, and he had no friends – who would know?

All told, I really enjoyed the general vibe I was getting from the U-Nerds. It was messy, it was unorganized and not very efficient. But the mood, as a whole, was accepting and good-natured. We’d see if I thought the same if I survived meeting my group.
