“That’s their logo. Interesting. So that’s a group of Silverfangs up there. Warriors, judging by how much they’re carrying.”
Ysara turned her attention to the only other people crossing the Bloodfields. Given the relatively flat ground until you rode up towards the Floodplains of Liscor, another basin, the caravan could see the group of eighteen Gnolls ahead. They were making better time than the [Merchants]; they had ten horses. It looked like they were switching on and off, rather than riding the whole way, and they were as vigilant as the [Merchants].
One had waved at the [Caravan Guardmaster], but they’d not indicated they wanted to meet up—not here. Maybe tonight? Though Buleth had every intention of trying to get past the Bloodfields in a single day. It was about…four days to Liscor? A Runner could do it a bit faster, but once today was over, he’d sleep easy.
Aside from bandits. Would some be crazy enough to raid? Hectval’s alliance didn’t patrol around here—Buleth glanced at Ysara.
“How do you know they’re warriors? Could be just Plains Gnolls?”
She shook her head with calm authority.
“Plains Gnolls might go armed, but shortbows for their non-fighters at most. That lot? I see a [Shaman], long spears, longbows—they’re not going to raid us, Buleth. Don’t worry.”
“I never—”
He huffed and decided to give it up. Ysara knew trouble when she saw it. He sat back in his seat and decided he might try playing on the new chessboards he’d bought. He was going to try selling them; you had addicts all over Izril, and the game was new, if not as hot as when it came out. He had some lovely gemstone pieces he’d gotten from Salazsar for a song. His hope was a noble snapped up a board. Just one would recoup all costs.
Buleth was about to challenge Ysara to a game when the woman made a sound. She put a hand over her brow, squinted, and his heart leapt.
“Wait a second. Who’s that? Buleth, lend me your spyglass.”
“What? What?”
The Drake scrambled for his spyglass and tossed it at Ysara. She caught it, put it to one eye, and exclaimed.
“It looks like a Runner’s making the Bloodfields run!”
“Ancestor’s wrinkled tits, Ysara! Don’t give me a heart-attack!”
The Drake held a claw over his chest. He almost snapped at the Human woman, but Ysara didn’t give back the spyglass immediately.
“I’m—huh. That’s odd.”
Now that Buleth knew what to look for, he could see the distant, distant speck coming down the slopes that led to the Floodplains of Liscor. He grunted sourly.
“Not just one. Looks like four. At least—I think I see four.”
He swore he’d just seen three figures on the lip of the hill—but maybe not. Ysara swung the spyglass up, but missed them. She was focused on the Runner.
“Good speed on that Runner. Not horse-speed, but—City Runner for sure. She? Nice hips either way.”
Buleth brightened up a bit. He coughed to hide his reaction to that—Ysara sometimes made comments that the woman clearly didn’t realize a hot-blooded male Drake like he could take the wrong way. Or right way.
He was suddenly more interested in meeting this Human, but Ysara was frowning mightily.
“What’s so odd? Even Runners probably risk the Bloodfields run.”
“Yes…but she’s going straight down the center. Is she mad or did no one tell her—the Bloodfields can still be dangerous even in the cold!”
Then Buleth’s head snapped up. He saw the dot moving straight down the valley, and as Ysara said—the Runner was going straight down the center.
If she kept going, she’d end up in the Bloodfields. Ysara looked up at Buleth, and he cursed.
“No way a local Runner doesn’t know about the Bloodfields, Ysara. I bet this one will turn right or left.”
“Maybe. Or…maybe she’s from Celum. How well do you think the locals know the Bloodfields there? Maybe she’s on a big contract—where are the horses?”
Ysara looked around, and Buleth saw her striding off. She turned and tossed him the spyglass. He nearly pitched off his seat trying to grab it and called out after her.
“She has to know, Ysara! Don’t go racing off suddenly—the Bloodfields react to sound and movement!”
“It’s cold! And I won’t—as long as she swerves!”
The woman called back. Buleth shook his head as he put the spyglass to his eyes and watched the distant Human. He murmured to himself.
“Ooh. I see what Ysara means. She’s definitely not going to run through the Bloodfields, though.”
No one was that crazy. The Drake watched the Human running forwards. And then he glanced up.
“Four Runners? What are the odds?”
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin felt like someone was holding her hand and pulling her. Pulling her so hard she couldn’t help but stumble forwards. An inexorable rip-tide—and unlike a person, she couldn’t yank free of that pull.
She felt that if she didn’t run—she’d fall flat on her face. That kind of tugging. Only, it wasn’t physical, it was in her head.
A blind rush forwards, and a goal in the back of her mind. Three days. Three days of running since Esthelm. Or—four?
She didn’t know. She only knew that she slept, ate, peed, screamed murder at birds, blasted angry music through her earbuds—
And heard the voice.
Find the Necromancer. Find Az’kerash. Deliver the letter.
That was her task. That was her—what she had to do. No question. No doubt. Her pride as a Runner, her commitment to her promises—it was like taking that and adding a second layer of certainty to it.
I’ve been put under a spell.
She was aware…that the mysterious half-Elf [Mage] had made her do this. But so what? She didn’t care.
She had nothing left behind her. Only smoke from all her burned bridges and shame. That was what made her run faster.
Shame.
Four days, and Ryoka still felt the impact of punching Yvlon in the face. She still saw Ceria staring at her looking so—disappointed. It burned straight through her. She had never, ever felt this—
No. Ryoka Griffin slowed as she crested a hill of grass and saw something odd in front of her. A red stain spreading out in a vast valley of grass. Fall’s cold air whipped at her raven-black hair, and she brushed sweat from her forehead and took a drink of water. Then the magic and guilt and shame pushed her forwards.
It was a beautiful red stain that looked—wrong. The longer she stared, the more it unsettled the young woman. But she didn’t run away from it.
It was like her. It should have been beautiful—red grass and strange plants she wanted to stare at when she got closer. She knew it was dangerous—but the old mage had said it was where the Necromancer could be found. Here—no, along the mountainside, right?
It didn’t matter. The Bloodfields were a wretched stain on the earth, not something marvelously unique.
Like her. A disaster. It didn’t really belong—and Ryoka Griffin ran straight and narrow down the valley. It was a beautiful day, and the sky looked deep blue…or purplish in places. The few clouds there were had some kind of orange tint to the undersides.
A magical day. A magical world. But—
 
——
 
I am the same. It’s not them, it’s me.
I did it. I went to another world. I went to Narnia, like the Lion, Witch, and the Wardrobe. I got a magic quest. 
My parents? Gone. My past? Unknown. I could be anyone I wanted to be, and it’s happening again.
Disaster. People I’ve let down. As I run, I feel the pain in my lungs from pushing myself. My legs and arms are tired—and I keep running, keep pushing it.
I like the feeling of running, of giving it all up to the pumping of my arms and legs, the rush of blood. That’s pure. That’s—better than thinking.
But this time, I can’t escape it. My guilt.
I’ve done this before.
It falls in my head, louder than the voice telling me to find the Necromancer, louder than the screaming that I’m such a fool, louder—
Louder than the voice telling me to go back and apologize.
It’s not too late. Go back. Go back and apologize. Please. They were so good to you.
I know. I fucking know. Please stop. But the voices never stop. This is all me, of course. I’m just—separating them out. Perspectives.
Like warring demons in my chest. The first one is sad. Because—it knows, like I do, that this is all my fault.
I’ve done this before. I’ve had friends before this. Of course I have. Or were they ever my friends?
No, they weren’t. They just wanted to hang out with the senator’s daughter. State senator, comes from money, and they thought I was like them. Fuck them. Fuck Fals. And Garia. And Persua. AND PERSUA. And—
The Horns? I snap out of the fury filling me. That’s the third voice, I guess. Did my therapist—well, one of them—ever talk about that? My anger?
I’ve had a lot of therapists. A lot of therapy. Medications—and a lot of my parents pushing off my problems onto someone else to handle it. I—hate each and every one of them.
Hated? I’ll never see them again. I hope not. After all, the last one I think I literally threw a chair at. And hit.
My fault. Why did I do that? The poor woman wasn’t doing anything. She just wanted to help me.
Fuck her too with a rusted pickaxe.
The voices. I run faster, try to put more energy into my legs. I almost manage to drown them out—but I can’t sustain this pace. I’ve been drinking stamina and healing potions on and off—it helps me keep at max speed—but I don’t dare waste too many.
Why not? Why not pull out my ‘reward’ for doing all this? Not the gold, the wand of flames or whatever that guy gave me. Plus—a Potion of Haste?
Fire and speed. Sounds fun. The wand is supposed to be for the Bloodfields or self-defense? I’ve been tempted to try it out—and the potion. I want to. Imagine running even faster? I want to—but I need to save it.
So I just run, and the voices catch up. This time, it’s maudlin that sounds loudest. Maudlin guilt.
I’ve done it again. Why did I attack the Horns? 
Calruz was arrogant. That bastard.
They cured my leg. My leg. I would have never walked again with that leg. Why did I hit him in the balls and try to beat him to a pulp?
Yvlon was a smug bitch…
No, she wasn’t. Ceria told me the truth. She put everything on the line for me, and I punched her. Why did I do that?
Then—silence. Because I really don’t have a good reason.
No, that’s a lie too. I know exactly why. I’ve done this before. Why…why can’t I be a good person?
Because I don’t deserve nice things. Fuck me too. This is what I do. Another world won’t change it. I hate me. I hate everything.
And when I get to that, my thoughts are in agreement. I just wanted to run. Why did it have to be so complicated? Magnolia. This is all her fault. No, Persua. Fals.
Or me.
And there it is. I keep running, straight for the Bloodfields. Necromancer. Deliver it. Keep silent about the man in the High Passes.
I want to go back and say sorry. But I’ve never said sorry and meant it.
I mean it.
I’m sorry, Ceria. Why did I do that?
Yvlon made me angry.
I thought I was happy, lately. I really did. My eyes are stinging, and I’m trying not to cry. Because that would be stupid. What do I have to cry about? Or rather, why start?
I’d never stop.
It’s not my fault. I keep hearing that refrain, a thousand times. Magnolia. That damn [Assassin]. Persua. And I agree, even now. There are so many assholes.
—But it hits me. Like a blast of wind in the face. A bucket of cold water. A realization, so complete and so simple I can’t describe it. Perhaps I thought this before, but now I realize it with all my heart and soul.
There have always been good reasons. Explanations for why things went sideways or bad. Here I am, running south on what might be a suicide mission.
And I don’t really care about that. I’m—almost excited to see what this Bloodfields is like. But I can’t concentrate. Because I feel guilty. I almost want the Horns to never speak to me again. Yet I owe them. I owe them, and this is how I repaid them?
Magnolia. Persua. Fals. Calruz. Yvlon. There’s a common thread between them all. Maybe some of it was for the best. I don’t know. But here I am. How did I get here? I have no answers. Just observations. And what I see is…
It’s me.
It’s always been me.
 
——
 
It was written all over her face. She probably had no idea what her face looked like. Close to tears, stubbornly refusing to cry. But also—
As she ran down towards that blight in the world, the Bloodfields—her eyes focused on the strange trees. On the prickle down her spine like a [Dangersense] every person possessed. Her instincts telling her to turn around or run past it, not through it.
She still kept coming. Because those eyes were hungry. If she wasn’t stopped, she would have gone straight into the center of that place.
She was less than a thousand paces from where the grass began to change when the young woman finally seemed to hear Ysara shouting at her.
“Miss! Miss!”
In her defense—as the City Runner slowed, Ysara, panting and riding full-tilt on the snorting stallion, saw the Human woman pulling something out of her ears. A dangling bit of string? What kind of thing was that? Something to help her hear?
It certainly hadn’t done that. Half the [Merchants] had joined Ysara in shouting, standing up in their stirrups or on the wagons to shout—even the Gnolls that Ysara had just passed were howling long notes of warning.
“Huh? What? What?”
The first reaction of the young woman was pure surprise. It crossed her dusky features, and Ysara realized she really hadn’t heard. Incredible. But the second reaction was instant and surprising hostility.
The Silver Merchant, panting, slowed her horse to a canter and hesitated a second. She looked at Ryoka, then pointed a hand.
“The Bloodfields. You nearly ran straight into it.”
“Huh?”
It was clear that the young woman was coming back to earth after being miles, miles away. She focused her eyes on the red grass—which Ysara happened to know was sharp—and the young woman was barefoot!
Already a sign she was odd—if her features didn’t already mark her as distinctly Drathian. Which could explain it, but Ysara had heard Drathians had their own language. This young woman had a perfect command of the common tongue. And her look was changing into severe annoyance.
“The Bloodfields? I know it’s the Bloodfields. It’s…”
She stared across the vast expanse, and her eyes didn’t even reach the end of it, Ysara knew. Her caravan had camped at the safest distance from the Bloodfields last night, then set out. By evening, they were close to the end of it, but this young woman might be forced to camp next to this place.
And it was not that safe.
“You were about to run straight into it. That’s madness. You won’t survive. Didn’t anyone warn you?”
