Thankfully, there’s plenty of room left for Naaran and the Aspirant to Conceal themselves behind me, while Binesi and Kuang Biao visibly post themselves outside the doors. Smiling at Luo-Luo as I sink in beside her, we sit shoulder to shoulder despite there being more than enough room to spread out. It’s a small thing, but there was a time when she would’ve been so ready to pounce that I would’ve sat as far away as possible, not only to keep from succumbing to temptation, but also because she seemed so uncomfortably eager to have me there beside her. It sounds really dumb, but it’s weird being wanted, and I’m not used to such intense desire. I saw it as fake and manipulative, but now I understand that she just wanted to be accepted, and she thought sex was the best way to achieve this. She’s not wrong, but not only do I have hangups about forced intimacy, I’m also pretty sure that if I sleep with Luo-Luo before marrying Mila, then she’ll break both my legs.

And not in the fun way either...

With Roc in my lap and Luo-Luo at my side, I finally take a few moments to study the theatre itself. It’s not particularly large, which explains why Zian had so much trouble getting tickets, but it’s beautifully built, with many similar balconies spread out across the walls on all four levels above ground. Our balcony is on the highest level, and faces the stage directly, so I assume that makes them the best seats in the house, but I’d expect no less from the Legate. Opulent silk curtains hang from every beam and banister, and even the stage curtains have that gossamer sheen, meaning these tickets must have been very expensive even without accounting for the increased density of Imperial big-wigs in town. Two candles currently light our balcony, and a multitude of torches do the same on the ground floor, but even as I watch, ushers make their way down the aisles to shutter the lights one by one. Binesi Sends instructions telling me to put out the lights myself, but before I can get up, someone blows out the left most candle, and a few seconds later, the right one as well. “Thanks,” I call, knowing it had to be the nameless Aspirant, earning me another warning from Naaran to keep quiet about Concealed guards and a nudge from Luo-Luo indicating I should keep silent.

As the last light shutters close, the curtains open to reveal the stage, lit up by intensely bright paper lanterns holding something besides candles, made evident by the lack of tell-tale flickers of flame. Some painted idiot strides out onto stage, with his face powdered ghostly white save for his exaggerated black brows and fat red lips, and I cannot for the life of me take this seriously anymore. A silver circlet sits atop his snowy brow, with three, ridiculously long peacock-type feathers sticking out from the back which quiver comically as he bows before the audience, and it’s all I can do not to snicker. Flourishing his swords in a flashy but impractical manner, he strikes a pose and belts out the start to a horrendously high-pitched tune, which makes Roc’s squawking sound almost melodic. Were it not for his serious painted expression, I’d almost think his silly, exaggerated prancing was the start of a circus act, with his long, flappy sleeves snapping as he struts and sashays all about the stage with his swords turning and twirling this way and that.

A sword dance, using the Forms as their base, but it’s so... impractical. Those wide, exaggerated movements waste so much time, and he telegraphs his movements way too much. It takes skill to do what he does, sure, as well as timing and practice, but it’s hardly the enlightening experience Zian suggested it might be unless I wanted to learn how to dance. The only thing I can learn from this painted idiot is how to get myself killed, so I grit my teeth and coddle Roc close to soothe his nerves, while wondering if it’s too late to bring him back outside. Putting the music out of mind, I turn my attention to the lights instead. I wonder what they’re made from? Probably not electric, but they’re so bright and steady I have no idea what else it could be, and I can’t help but disturb Luo-Luo to ask. Frowning, she shakes her head and shrugs to indicate she doesn’t know, before turning her full attention back to the singing, dancing clown on stage, who now has a bunch of partners he’s pretending to fight.

I can’t believe the show got even worse. As if the Defiled would come at you in ones and twos when they’ve obviously got you surrounded. This is a giant waste of time.

Well, at least I might’ve discovered an alternative light source exists. Reading by candlelight strains my eyes, and there are probably a lot of other uses for it as well, so I should remember to ask someone when all this is over. Bored by the opera, I tune out the singing and sink back into my couch, while Roc relaxes against my chest and tucks his head under a wing for a snooze. Not the worst idea, so I stifle a yawn and close my eyes, just for a bit. I’ve been so stressed lately, I can barely sleep at night, and the lack of... release isn’t helping things. Am I addicted to sex and masturbation? Maybe, but I swear it’s not my fault. Martial Warriors probably produce a lot more hormones than your average person, which might explain what so many of us are angry, over-aggressive idiots. Whatever the reason, I’m exhausted beyond belief. Not the best condition to approach a possible death-trap, so I might as well sneak in a little shut eye before heading out to the tea-house of doom.

The world goes silent for all of second before a pointed elbow jostles me awake, and I bolt upright in my seat. “Sorry,” I whisper. “Was I snoring?”

Annoyed by the sudden movements, Roc lets loose with an ear-piercing mocking laugh to exclaim his displeasure, and my heart skips a beat from panic. Scrambling to keep him quiet, I stuff some jerky into his beak and soothe my sweet bird to silence before sheepishly peering over the balcony, only to find every shadowy head turned in my direction while Fung, BoShui, and Zian quietly and unsuccessfully stifle their laughter.

Worst of all? The painted idiot of a lead singer/dancer is also glaring at me from stage, and from the looks of things, he seems pretty damn pissed. Then again, it’s hard to tell if he’s actually angry or it’s just the comically exaggerated eyebrows and face-paint...

Baring a set of teeth whiter than his alabaster makeup, the dancer lets loose with a Chi-infused screech of, “You dare?!”

...Great. Just great. I guess today’s just one of those days.

Chapter Meme
