“No face will be lost, Lord Husband,” Luo-Luo explains, gently guiding me into leading her out of the store. “The mistake was his, and we merely capitalized on it, so if anything, we have gained face with our actions, for our actions speak of a keen eye. A shame the instrument will not fare well in the cold clime of the north, but the price was too good to pass up on.” Seeing my continued uncertainty, Luo-Luo sniffs and purses her pouty lips into a mesmerizing glower. “If you still feel like you’ve taken advantage, Lord Husband, then worry not. He grossly overcharged us for what he thought was a wutong wood instrument, so he’s lucky I mentioned the zither and flute at all.”

Yea, I don’t get face at all. Haggling is no good, but exploitation is fine? Underpaying for a mislabelled product feels scummy to me, but since Luo-Luo sees no reason to care, I default to her expertise and join Zian and Da’in outside, along with my mother and Zian’s who have become the best of friends and Jing Fei who looks lovely and miserable at the same time. Greeting me with a happy squeak, Ping Ping clambers to her feet and stretches her beak out for a nuzzle, so I hug the big girl as tight as I can. Another thing I don’t get. Cuddling rabbits, bears, and wildcats is embarrassing, but cuddling giant Ping Ping is perfectly alright, which is just crazy, but I’ve given up trying to understand the logic behind face and learned to just go with the flow. The more I learn, the more I understand. Face is ineffable, because it literally makes no sense. Some random person just arbitrarily decided action A is face positive and another decided action B is face negative without any collaboration whatsoever, and the rest of the world just went along with their decisions.

Probably because they were giving face.

I don’t think I’ll ever learn to mesh in with Imperial society, but maybe if I fake it long enough, then the act will become second nature. Mostly, I’ve stuck to keeping quiet, and it’s working for me so far, but I’ve barely made it through half the day and there’s still whatever opera show and tea-shop shenanigans the Legate has in store ahead of us, plus two more days before the banquet. Which is a dinner banquet, I might add, so there’s another day as well, and I can’t help but hope the Legate’s plans end there so I can beat a hasty retreat back home. All this vigilance and good behaviour is exhausting, and I’m already suffering from floof withdrawal. At least I’ve got Ping Ping, who is floofy in spirit, and Roc comes down every now and then for a treat and a skritch, so it’s still manageable. I’m just glad everyone else stayed at the manor, else I’d be out here playing with Lin-Lin’s hare ears or Mila’s floofy red-panda tail.

I swear on my life, with the Mother Above as my witness, I will return to Ping Yao and find that chubby chonker of a red-panda...

After a short, uneventful lunch, I say goodbye to mom because even though Da’in has enough extra opera tickets on hand, the Legate only gave me two, so I’m pretty sure he doesn’t want me bringing anyone besides Luo-Luo. I only invited Zian because Da’in suggested it, meaning the Legate suggested it, so being the good wingman I’m supposed to be, I left him no room to refuse. It has nothing to do with also dragging Vichear into the mix and feeling safer with more visible Martial Warriors around to defend me. “Be on your guard at the opera,” Mom Sends, adjusting my collar as all mothers are wont to do. “The Legate’s note implies the danger will be at the tea-house, but he is not all-knowing.”

“Yes Mom.” That’s really all I can say, because I still can’t Send, despite my near constant attempts during the last five days of travel. Aside from the incident with the Vast Distance and the attempted kidnapping and or murder of Luo-Luo and Song, not really much of note happened, aside from a few captured spies who all but committed suicide before we could catch them. A shame too, because one of those spies almost made it out with my folder of forged letters, but alas, the People are too good at what they do.

After a handful more Sent reminders, Mom finally heads off to scout out the tea-house and prepare for my arrival, leaving me free to join Zian and Da’in to head off to the opera. Magistrate Situ Jia Ying is likewise nowhere to be found, which is good because while she may well be the sexiest milf ever, she is also downright terrifying. I can almost feel the daggers boring into my heart when she glances in my direction, no doubt remembering those terrible things I said during my duel with Zian, and I do everything I can to remain invisible whilst standing in her presence. I’m not the only one who feels this way either, as gone is the silent and dutiful concubine Jing Fei, standing with head down two steps behind Zian’s mother. In her place is the bright and cheery ‘Fei-Fei’, as she so intimately calls herself, clinging so tightly to Zian’s arm she all but melts into him. “How cruel, oh husband mine,” she croons, her cheek pressed against his shoulder while staring up at his with doe eyes. “Why must you treat your Fei-Fei so coldly? I know mother-in-law is displeased with Fei-Fei, but must you be so cold as well?”

I’m ninety-nine percent sure the act is for Da’in’s benefit, showing her she has nothing to fear from Zian’s big-breasted, empty-headed twit of a concubine. Barren too, as the implication goes, because why else would a mother-in-law be displeased with her son’s child-less concubine? That’s also an act, I’m guessing, because Zian came to me in private to ask if Taduk could do anything about Jing Fei’s ‘condition’. Apparently, she thinks her infertility is due to the poisons she works with, and has since stopped using them in hopes of eventually bearing his children. She told Zian it would take time for the poisons to work their way out of her system, and while it makes sense on the surface, I think it’s all bullshit. Jing Fei learned her craft from her mother, the infamous Ong Ruo Mei, a master of poisons who bore three children from three different husbands, all of whom eventually died unexplained deaths and left everything to the lovely Ruo Mei. Since she obviously had no issues conceiving while working with poisons, that throws Jing Fei’s theory out the window, which leaves...

Well... I think Jing Fei is purposely avoiding pregnancy so her child doesn’t become a point of contention for Zian’s future wife. Usually, the eldest son of a legal wife inherits his father’s titles and properties, but not always, so an older son from a concubine would be a threat to guard against. Between this, Jing Fei’s feigned, harmless behaviour, and the way she’s been eyeing Da’in like a heifer for sale at market when she thinks no one is looking, I think Zian’s concubine is doing her best to set him up for a successful marriage with a prominent woman.

She loves him, and from the way he looked when he came to me for help, Zian obviously loves her too. It warms my heart knowing they’ve found each other, and gives me hope that my friend won’t one day choke to death on his tongue while fast asleep.

Not much hope since Jing Fei is almost as terrifying as her mother-in-law, but it’s better than nothing.

Oddly enough, Luo-Luo seems perfectly at ease chatting with both Jing Fei and Da’in, able to seamlessly natter on about nothing with one or both of the women with ease. In contrast, Zian and I mostly keep silent during our long stroll to the opera house, because that’s how friendships between men work. We don’t need to talk or share our feelings, we’re just friends who look out for one another, and despite their lively conversation, I get the feeling that Luo-Luo, Jing Fei, and Da’in are all still verbally fencing in an attempt to sound one another out.

It’s small things like this that makes me glad I transmigrated into a male body. Face is incomprehensible enough, but learning how to think like a woman? I doubt even Insight could help with that.

Once outside the opera house, I bid Ping Ping farewell, leaving Rustram’s lady love Sai Chou to guard the sweet turtle alongside my cumbersome Death Corps and army escorts. It’s an opera house, so I can hardly bring a hundred plus guards in with me, and after a couple rounds of silent jousting, Binesi, Kuang Biao, Naaran, and a nameless, mute Aspirant guard take their places at my sides, indicating that I have no choice but to bring them all along. Ignoring their silly games of pride, I let loose with a piercing whistle and look around until I spot Roc land overhead, perched on a rooftop to see what I want. Holding my arm out with a piece of snake jerky in hand, I entice Roc over and pray he follows the command, because now everyone is watching to see what I do. Honestly, it’s fifty-fifty when it comes to Roc, because he’s a free spirit who does what he pleases, but after thinking things through for the longest second of my life, he stretches his wings and sails over to land on my arm.

It’s easy to take for granted how effortless Roc makes flight look, but seeing him in action makes me appreciate how complex nature can be. With one single flap of his wings, Roc lifts off and sets himself on a direct course to land on my arm. He doesn’t meander about, but heads directly towards his target in a straight, unerring line, his wings fluttering ever so slightly to make minor corrections in his course. Then, as he swoops in to land, he flaps his wings to slow his descent, using the perfect amount of force to come to a complete stop just above my arm, and then gravity does the rest. To him, it’s as easy as a flick of his wings, all perfectly natural and instinctive despite a long winter’s rest, and I see within them the basis of the Movements of the Oriole Form. Raising the Winds, Gliding Wing, Fluttering Raindrops, Roc’s motions perfectly encapsulate the essence of the Movements, and it tickles a part of my brain which feels like this revelation is important, but I cannot for the life of me see how.

It’s impossible for me to emulate Roc’s movements perfectly, because I’m a person and he’s a bird. What’s more, he’s not using his Movements to fight, to him it’s just... natural. He doesn’t calculate angles, distance, and wind speed whilst in flight, he simply thinks ‘I want to fly there’, and he does it, the same way a baseball player sees a ball in flight and can approximate where it’ll eventually land. It’s complex mathematics done without any of the math, knowing without knowing, understanding without comprehending, and somehow, this feels...

Significant.

“Problem?” Moving to my side, Zian covertly scans our surroundings as he mistakenly believes I’ve spotted something important. I tried to keep my anti-Concealment eyesight quiet, but there can only be so many fortunate coincidences before people start seeing a pattern, and Zian has always been quick on the uptake.

“No, nothing like that.” Shrugging as I stroke Roc’s head, I hold him close and head inside the opera house so as not to leave the thieving bird unsupervised outside. “It’s just... It’s silly, but I was just thinking about the intricacies of flight. Roc here makes it look so easy, but it’s a complicated mechanical problem which has eluded human-kind for millennia, and I suspect will plague us for centuries ahead.”

Controlled flight at least. I could probably make a working hang-glider or something, but I always felt like that was falling with style, rather than actually flying.

After reiterating my whole ‘knowing without knowing’ bit, Zian smiles and Sends, “Such are the mysteries of the world.” Why he emphasized the last bit, I can’t say, but it feels... right, like it makes sense somehow, without knowing why. “Good to see you still making progress along the Martial Path, my friend. I look forward to hearing your thoughts on the opera later. I’ve heard rumours of the lead performer’s phenomenal skills, so perhaps you’ll see more of what you sensed in Roc.”

Refusing to explain what he means, we head up several flights of stairs and down a lush, carpeted hallway before arriving at our private balcony room. Inside, Da’in and Jing Fei await us, alongside Fung, Seoyoon, BoShui, Ji Yeon, and Vichear who arrived on their own. Rather than individual chairs, the roomy balcony has four love-seat sofas instead, and while Fung and Seoyoon seem quite comfortable together, BoShui and Ji Yeon are also getting along quite well. Naturally, I make a point to tease them both, and although they both go red in the face, their shared glances tell me they’re both pretty pleased with how the seating arrangements worked out.

Not as pleased as Zian though, who settles in beside Da’in and Jing Fei, while Vichear shamelessly sits cross-legged at the edge of the balcony with his chin resting atop the banister in child-like anticipation.

