You know how I know face is bullshit?

Because rich people aren’t allowed to haggle. How is this not bullshit?

Okay, allowed might be too strong of a word, but buying things without asking the price is apparently some big dick energy move, showing off how much money you have and how little you care about spending it. That’s some grade-A blasphemous bullshit if you ask me, because it is a verifiable fact that prices fluctuate based on the perceived wealth of the shopper. Now I don’t mind merchants trying to scam me by raising prices every time I walk through the door, but it’s infuriating to know I can’t haggle or walk away from a deal lest I ‘lose face’. As soon as I exhibit interest, I’m locked into buying whatever it is, because to do otherwise would imply I’m either a copper-pinching tight-wad or I’m borderline destitute as far as the rumour mills are concerned.

Which makes going to market a complete nightmare. Yea I have money, but I still don’t wanna buy things at full price, much less an inflated price meant to gouge me for all I’m worth. Who pays full price for anything? Face is the worst.

There are exceptions to the rule of course. When merchants sit down to discuss business, it’s bargaining, not haggling, and most wealthy people have servants to do their haggling for them. What’s more, many higher end stores, like the instrument shop I’m currently standing in while waiting for Luo-Luo to pick a replacement pipa, tend to have their rates and prices openly displayed, so as to show sincerity and assure their wealthy patrons that they’re not getting screwed. There are more workarounds I’ve yet to encounter, but it’s annoying going through all the familiar motions only to run afoul of unfamiliar customs. That’s the part that trips me up the most while trying to blend in, the ordinary turned foreign. Bizarre and exotic customs are generally easy to remember, because they’re new and different like all-white mourning clothes instead of black, but when something seems familiar, my brain just defaults to normal, like feigning interest in products so shopkeepers don’t kick me out for loitering.

Long story short, during this lengthy, two-hour trip to the market, I’ve spent a lot of money on things I don’t want, like complicated hair-pins, a big-ass shoulder bag, some ugly animal carvings, and the most uncomfortable looking belt I have ever laid eyes on. The expense won’t break the bank, and I can always gift this junk away, but I hate frivolous purchases with a vehement passion, and Mom keeps lecturing me on my poor spending habits through Sending, while also constantly asking if I need to borrow money. I’m starting to think the problem is on my end though, because every time I so much as look at something, the shop attendants rush over to extol its virtues and praise me for making such a fine purchase. On the other hand, Zian can pick something up, inspect it, and put it back down without being mobbed by greedy sales people, and it’s like fucking magic. I have no idea what I’m doing wrong, but I’m guessing it has to do with his cold air of casual disdain, or that slight, contemptuous sneer he wears all the time.

Still, he’s better dressed than I am, so why don’t the merchants bother him? I’m wearing standard Sentinel leathers over a plain shirt and pants, while he has fancy teal embroidery all over his fluttery white robes, not to mention an expensive decorative hair-clip that I will never see as anything besides the tiniest of shiny hats. The look suits him, but I’ll be damned if I ever wear robes like those or grow my hair long in Imperial fashion, no matter how many times Luo-Luo insinuates how nice it would look. My hair is already longer than I like, meaning I can see my bangs whenever I look up, but crew cuts are for soldiers who need to worry about lice, and I need to elevate my image to something beyond ‘just’ a mere warrior.

Whatever. I don’t care what anyone else thinks. Long hair is girly and will always be girly.

Things would be so much easier without my past life’s memories, and I wouldn’t be giving up much either. My preconceived notions are more likely to get in the way rather than offer any tangible benefits, though they are good for a laugh every now and then, even if I’m not entirely sure what I’m laughing at. Turning my attention to Zian and Da’in, I marvel at how easily they fall into their roles. Standing far enough apart so as not to seem scandalous, yet close enough to hint at a possible pairing, the two noble warriors make casual small-talk with effortless ease, while I stand a little off to the side like a silent third-wheel. They make noble life look so easy, and watching them handle the earlier public dispute was like watching a crash course on proper Noble decorum. It was a delight seeing Zian arrogantly dismiss his younger cousins and bait them into making a direct insult, which gave Da’in all the reason she needed to step in and handle things for him. Then once things looked like they were about to get out of hand, the so-called traitor to Clan and Society stepped forward to defend his idiot cousins, giving off the perfect impression of a dignified member of the older generation responsibly looking out for his juniors.

Such flawless cooperation and lively back and forth, with Da’in mentioning her little brother’s defeat to remind everyone that Zian was on par with the former co-leader of the Hwarang, and her blunt question regarding Zian’s motives setting him up for that perfect, nonchalant non-answer, it was just... sublime. Now in the eyes of the people, Zian appears humble and loyal, not only because he stood up for two idiot cousins who slandered him, but also because he refused to air his Clan’s dirty laundry out in public, unlike the aforementioned idiots. The story will be told and retold a thousand times before we sit down for lunch, and ten-thousand times over before it comes time for dinner, with each listener asking the same questions again and again.

This Situ Jia Zian is a dragon among men, so why was he stripped of his position as Young Patriarch?

Seriously, how does he make it look so easy? The more I learn about manners and politics, the more lost I get, but everything just comes so naturally to Zian. I’m just glad I went against my instincts and kept my mouth shut, else things might’ve escalated into a duel to the death. I have no idea why that might be the case, but it happens more often than not when I’m involved, so I can only assume the problem lies with me.

“Imperial Consort,” Da’in drawls, in that shy and almost seductive manner all women know too well. “If you keep staring at Da’in like that, then others might accuse you of ungentlemanly thoughts.”

“I’m not staring.” Don’t sound so defensive. Smile a bit too. “I’m monitoring the situation. My friend here has a reputation after all, and I’m just making sure nothing untoward takes place on my watch.” Sorry Zian. Just joking. He gets it, he’s smiling too, as much as he normally does. “Besides, it’s not as if you don’t have a reputation of your own, Lady Da’in. Mila and Yan told me all about your tea-time discussions.” Which I am incredibly grateful for, because they encouraged Mila’s methodical interest in bondage and emboldened Yan’s sexual curiosity. Fun times.

Our brief bout of banter buys me several more minutes of silence as Zian and Da’in pick up where they left off, and this time I make sure not to stare so much. Don’t get me wrong, Da’in is a lovely woman with an air of girlish maturity about her that gives off a ‘stern-but-sexy teacher’ vibe, but that’s not why I was staring. It sounds stupid, but until she showed up this morning with her Colonel General father in tow, it never crossed my mind that Ryo Da’in might be working for the Legate. I mean, I should’ve expected as much, because like Yong-Jin, the Legate’s prized pawn, Da’in also placed first in her age group during the Imperial Grand Conference. What’s more, she comes from a powerful family with two Peak Expert parents and two promising younger siblings, so why wouldn’t the Legate offer her the same deal he offered me?

Shit, if anything, she probably got a better offer...

With this in mind, it makes today’s events feel... manufactured in some way, as if the Legate had somehow deftly manipulated everything to fall perfectly into place. Not just my public appearance and predictably reckless spending, but I’m also reasonably certain he had something to do with Chiang and Shirong showing up to slander Zian in public. Why else would they pop up out of nowhere to make a big stink when the rest of the Situ Clan has gone quiet? And why else would Da’in be perfectly positioned to appear unnoticed just as Chiang overstepped himself? I’m guessing the Situ idiots were goaded into coming out, which wouldn’t have been too hard considering how much they hate me. Not only did I humiliate them both during the Society’s Contests, but I’m also responsible for the deaths of their fathers. I’ve looked into it, and it doesn’t make sense, because while Shirong’s dad was a low-ranking Warrior of no renown who was killed early on in our chaotic escape, Chiang’s father, Chi Lok, was a Guardian of the Clan, meaning he was a Peak Expert at the minimum.

Now, this was before I Formed a Natal Palace and had perfect memory, but I’m pretty sure I’d remember killing a Peak Expert. This means there’s something afoot with Chi Lok’s death, because there’s no way our little group could’ve quietly killed a Peak Expert without noticing, not unless we got super lucky with a bow-shot, and even that’s a stretch. Massed arrows can bring down even the strongest of Martial Warriors, but between Domain, Healing, and enhanced reflexes and coordination, I doubt any Peak Expert worth their salt would fall to a handful of arrows directed their way. Personally, my best guess is that Guardian Chi Lok died to some internal squabble, and the Bekhai took the blame, so if I can figure out who killed him, then I can clear our name and maybe even drive another wedge between Rang Min and his number two, Chi Lok’s revenge-hungry father Chi Gan.

So far, I’ve got nothing, but a man can hope...

Almost an eternity later, Luo-Luo finally makes her choice and I head over to pay far too much for an instrument that I will undoubtedly hate listening to. Upon hearing the price however, I stop and frown at the shop owner, who came out to scam me personally as a sign of respect. “Eighty five gold? That’s it?” I’d seen the fancy wooden placards sitting in front of the pipas, and this is much lower than expected. Turning to Luo-Luo, I take a look at the plain, wooden, pear-shaped instrument she holds lovingly in her arms and ask, “You sure that’s the one you want? There’s nothing...” More expensive that the shop owner can brag about, and thereby indirectly earn me more face? “Better?”

Honestly, I feel really bad about her almost getting kidnapped when she went out on a stroll with Song, so I would love to just... buy her forgiveness, if at all possible. Clutching the pipa close like a favoured pet, Luo-Luo’s actions do interesting things to the shape of her chest, but I resist the urge to stare and settle for a brief glance instead. “Absolutely, Lord Husband,” she says, with a pleading, wide-eyed stare. “This is the instrument for Luo-Luo, and no others will do.”

Before the owner can think to jack up the price, I count out nine gold bars and slap them into his waiting hand. Technically, I should get five gold back, but asking for change also results in a loss of face, and I’m all out of coins. Fucking bullshit face scams. “Alright, we’re done here,” I announce, speaking over the owner’s lengthy thanks. “Done shopping in fact. We have just enough time for a light lunch before the opera show, so let’s head on out.”

And not a moment too soon either. There is nothing worse than following women around while they shop, except when they stop to ask for your opinion on two identical articles of clothing...

“Thank you Lord Husband,” Luo-Luo says, taking her place at my side once more. Plucking lightly at the strings, she stares lovingly at her new pipa and says, “You hear the soft tones and echoing vibrations? That’s the sound you get from baitong wood, marking this as truly a marvellous find.”

“Baitong wood?” All but shrieking the words, the shop owner rushes over to examine the pipa, but stops short of ripping it right out of Luo-Luo’s hands. “The appraiser told me it was made of wutong wood!”

“Then you should find yourself a new appraiser, good sir,” Luo-Luo replies, beaming beautifully at having pulled one over on him. “For he cost you a fair amount of coin today, as this instrument is worth almost ten times what you charged us. As thanks, Luo-Luo suggests you have someone come in to appraise the zither over there too, as well as the pan flute behind the counter you’re using as a decorative piece.”

Bolting away to remove the price tag from the aforementioned zither, the shop owner shouts a belated apology for not seeing us out, but I’m hesitant to turn around and leave. Lowering my voice to a whisper, I lean closer to Luo-Luo, ignore how nice her perfume smells, and ask, “Is this... okay? I mean, if the instrument is worth ten times more, then shouldn’t we...” God, I can’t believe I’m saying this. “Pay him what it’s worth? You know, so I don’t lose face?”

