[DEMON: GAL’METH, SOVEREIGN OF SOULS]

Level: ???

HP: OVERFLOW

Great. How great.

Now we’re facing a monster whose stats the System can’t even interpret.

“Are all demons like this?” I asked, staring at Gal’Meth’s new cosmic form. The souls within his chest cavity swam through his body like sea creatures, drifting through what seemed to be a universe that appeared much too vast compared to the vessel containing it.

“Not that I know of,” Kaelor said. “Looks like we’re unlucky enough to pick a fight with one of the tougher demons.”

Meriel sighed. “Tougher seems to be an understatement. He must be one of the higher-ranking ones.”

“An archdemon?” Kaelor tried.

“No. A Sovereign,” Meriel guessed.

I nodded. “He’s the Sovereign of souls—or at least, that’s what it said after I analyzed him. What’s a Sovereign, anyway?”

Gal’Meth moved. We prepared for an attack, but he didn’t…

For now.

“A demon with the rank of Sovereign is a master of their craft,” he said, his voice smoother and clearer than before. “It is earned not by effort, but by recognition from the Demon King. And below that…”

“Are Lesser Demons, Demons, Greater Demons, and Archdemons,” Meriel said.

My eyes widened. “So he’s the highest rank possible?”

Gal’Meth smiled at me. “Right below the king, yes.”

My hands shot to my head in disbelief. “How are we supposed to defeat that?!”

“You won’t,” he said.

“I wouldn’t be so sure about that,” Kaelor argued, pointing above us. “Meriel’s Elven Tree is powerful enough to exist in such a deathly realm. I can feel it invigorating my body, giving us the strength we need to defeat you. We’re not handing over our souls to you that easily.”

Gal’Meth laughed. “Wouldn’t you prefer a peaceful death?”

Kaelor shrugged. “Death is death all the same. Father and Mother are waiting for me back at home. I’ll make sure their son returns to them.”

“Haven’t you had enough of trusting the ones closest to you?” he asked. “Your closest ally, Kthal, did kill Cessia, after all.”

Hearing that, Kaelor shot forward, bringing his dagger toward the demon’s throat, stopping it just before it went through. Gal’Meth didn’t flinch.

“How do you know about that…?” Kaelor said through gritted teeth.

“I hear everything,” Gal’Meth said. “So long as Allene carries the Soul Anchor ring close to her—even if it’s stuffed inside her void rift—I hear every conversation she has with all of you.”

I blinked. Every conversation…? Then doesn’t that mean…

Meriel and I looked at each other.

Everything we had talked about with tropes and the Narrative…

The demon heard all of it.

Yet, he didn’t say anything about it. He didn’t spare us a glance. His eyes were only locked on Kaelor.

Gal’Meth continued, “Betrayal is commonplace in many parts of the world. But don’t make the same mistake with your father and mother as you did with Kthal.”

Kaelor frowned. “You’re saying my own parents would betray me?”

“They could.”

“And why would they do that? You’re just spouting nonsense. You don’t even know them.”

“I don’t,” Gal’Meth said. “But back then, I thought the same way you do now. I was naive. And weak. My own family took advantage of my fragility and turned me into… this.”

He opened his hands, showing us his body.

“I wasn’t always a demon, but… they made me this way.”

I narrowed my eyes. “They turned you into a demon?”

Gal’Meth opened his mouth. After a moment of silence, he closed it again.

“If you weren’t originally a demon, then can you go back to the way you were?” Meriel asked.

His expression was darker than usual. “Enough questions.”

In a blink, he knocked the dagger out of Kaelor’s hand and charged in with so much force that he sent both Kaelor and himself flying across the realm. Before they could get too far, Meriel quickly made a gesture with her hands, causing the roots to sprout from the mist below and wrap around Gal’Meth’s body. Like last time, the roots flinched away whenever they made contact with him, but Meriel reinforced them with more mana than usual, strengthening the wood. This time, they were able to wrap around him, but I could see the strain on her face.

With Gal’Meth chained down, Kaelor regained his balance and rushed to pick up his dagger. Meanwhile, I sprinted past him and charged straight toward Gal’Meth.

Seeing that he was trapped, I subconsciously let my guard down. The demon didn’t let me attack without punishing me. Dozens of souls gushed out from the open cavity in his chest, charging straight at me like homing missiles. The moment I tried to deflect one, it exploded, injuring my entire arm. I cast a barrier around me with Starcaller before the souls could cause any more harm. The barrier tanked the rest of the explosions.

My injuries began healing immediately. I looked back. It wasn’t Meriel who was healing me. At least not directly.

It was the Elven Tree.

Kaelor flew right by me. With Gal’Meth still trapped by the roots, Kaelor managed to jab the dagger into his chest. Another root sprouted from the misty ground to follow up with Kaelor’s attack.

All the hits landed. All of them.

Yet, there was no reaction. It didn’t seem like Gal’Meth had suffered any injury. He remained completely still under the roots chaining him down.

Maybe Dawn Sunderer could take care of him. That had to be it—maybe he was only weak to divinity while being resistant to normal attacks in this form.

I decided to test my theory out and drove the divine sword straight through his chest. The sword reemerged on the other side. Another root followed up my attack, whipping him.

But there was no blood. No injury.

No reaction.

“You should have gone for the head,” Gal’Meth said.

I blinked. Why does that sound like a reference to a certain purple man who likes to snap his fingers…?

Okay wait, now’s not the time for this!

Just then, a particular soul emerged from Gal’Meth’s chest cavity—one that was far larger than the ones we had seen before. It exploded with a force a hundred times greater than the explosions we had seen before it. All the nearby roots burned away, releasing him.

Meanwhile, I focused all my efforts on the barrier around me. Meriel did the same for herself and Kaelor.

When the smoke settled, Gal’Meth was…

Gone.

I looked up, but he wasn’t there. I turned in every direction, but he was nowhere to be seen.

Then, the mist began to part in front of me as he reemerged from the ground. He was too close for me to react. Too quick.

Gal’Meth thrust his hand out. The barrier couldn’t block it. His hand shattered it completely before grabbing my throat and holding me high up in the air, choking me. Dawn Sunderer and Starcaller fell out of my hands.

“L… Let… go…!” I struggled, thrashing my feet. I tried digging my nails into the hand that was holding me up by my neck, but it didn’t look like he even felt it.

“You—!” Kaelor shouted from beside us.

But he couldn’t do anything. He knew that Gal’Meth could kill me right then and there.

The longer he held me up, the more I realized that something felt… wrong. My senses were going away. Was it a lack of oxygen? Because he was choking me?

No… it hasn’t been long enough for that to happen.

My arms suddenly went limp. I tried to look down, but his hand was holding my head up.

My mouth opened on its own. Something began to spill out of it. Something translucent and glowing.

“What… are you… doing?” I muttered.

Gal’Meth smiled.

“There it is. Your soul is… far more beautiful than most.”

My soul? He was taking my soul?

No… that can’t be!

Once enough of my soul had escaped my mouth, I lost all senses and control of my body.

…

…

…

It was… becoming… harder to… think.

…

…

…

Is this… really the end…?

…

…

…

[TROPE FAILED: CONTRACT WITH A DEMON]

Completion criteria: Fight Gal’Meth and emerge victorious.

Punishment: Your Narrative Weight has been reduced.

…

…

…

[TROPE INITIATED: THE PROTAGONIST’S OUT FOR THE COUNT]

Description: When the Protagonist can no longer continue, someone else must save them.

Completion criteria: The savior emerges victorious.