“My lord… The men. We’re starting to feel dizzy. And no one’s seen Aldous or Elson anywhere.”

“Yes, yes. I know. We’re going to see them now. Aren’t we,” he stated, staring at the back of the imp in front of them.

“Yes! We go!” it replied without bothering to turn around. Instead, it led the humans in a long circle. One that was far less direct than Hector would have preferred.

***

Seeing the lord approaching through Sovereign Eye, Kairon gave the trembling old man a shove. “Look up. Hey. Look.”

Shaky, terrified eyes met his gaze.

He pointed at the glowing medallion, then lowered his voice, speaking almost conspiratorially. “That medallion your lieutenant wore. It wasn’t just jewelry, was it?”

Kairon watched carefully for his reaction.

“W-what? The… The medallion?” Uncertainly, he studied it. “That… That's a Solari signet. Elson was a religious man…” he spoke quietly.

He had seconds to sell this. In times like this, less was more. Kairon needed to let the man come to his own conclusion. When it came to a cover up, you were your own worst enemy. The voice in your head telling you that what you saw was what you wanted it to be.

“Then I think you know what happened here.”

The demon let that sit, moments ticking away. Only when the look in Aldous’s gaze shifted from uncertainty to disbelief did the human speak.

“What… What are you implying?”

Instead of replying with words, Kairon did so with silence. With a slight flicker of the eyes, a subtle movement from Aldous, to pedestal, to sigil, and back to Aldous. Then, like it was the most natural thing in the world, Kairon rubbed a claw over his chest. Like he was scratching an itch.

Aldous breathed in sharply.

“Chest… Chest! That’s where the signet lies! On the pass… I thought I saw Elson tugging at his chest… Thought I saw a glow and a warmth and…”

Like watching a trap slam shut, Kairon gloated internally.

Finally, Aldous took the expression he was after. That disbelief went away. In its place, something more insidious dawned. Terror.

And that is how you convince a human they’ve seen the work of a divine power they’ve never imagined was actually real, only heard of.

Quietly, Kairon left the human to ponder. The demon needed to take his place.

It was showtime.
