Had he absorbed some kind of mana when she’d teleported in? He wasn’t sure what kind. He couldn’t even tell by checking his system. Whatever he’d gotten from it, it’d been too small for him to get a notification, but he could swear he’d felt the pulse of something entering his core. He needed to keep an eye on his mana values before she entered next time and see if there were any jumps.

“Just where do you go, anyways?” he asked the fluffy, burning canine, who flicked an ear in response.

“Yeah… you keep your secrets,” Markus harrumphed, going back to his glaive and the whole reason he’d started sifting through the rest of this in the first place.

He’d thought it’d need to be the first choice he made, and as it turned out, it’d wound up being the last. Maybe it was the pressure of spending something like a C Grade core like this. He was still scared it wouldn’t work out, that the blade would simply eat it and he wouldn’t get any substantial benefit.

Whelp, guess it was time to find out. Markus selected the prompt from before and allowed the core to be consumed, right after accepting his absorption notification and receiving a +150 to his Mana Capacity as a result, alongside another +5 in Strength and Constitution.

Damn, C Grade cores gave big buffs. Whelp, time to slot it in.

[C Grade Core consumed. Malichor Blade awakening.]

[...]

[F Grade Malichor Blade (Unawakened 9) has transformed into D Grade Malichor Blade (Tri Core 1). Blood absorption will advance this weapon’s core further.]

[Passive unlocked: Meld I.]

[Active Skill unlocked: Triple Strike I.]

[Active Skill unlocked: Detonate I.]

[Intensity I has evolved to Intensity II.]

[Core attribute unlocked. Placing points within Core increases weapon’s Mana Capacity and Generation.]

[All weapon stats increased by 10 (excluding Control and Core). 50 points awarded. You have 95 points available.]

Wait, shit, he could evolve this weapon’s core? Could he evolve his own cores?

Notably, the weapon had taken on a red glow around the handle, and any signs of strain around the handle from where it’d been recently bent had vanished.

Wait, or was it a blue glow?

Green?

It cycled between all three, and even the sensations as he held it changed ever-so-briefly too, if he paid attention. Hotter when it went red, colder at blue, and green made the whole thing feel a bit rougher than usual. It was extremely subtle though. He had to pay attention to realise it was even occurring.

Then there was the passives and skills the weapon had come with. That and the fact the weapon now had a mana bar.

[Malichor Blade (Tri Core 1): 95 points available.]

[Weapon Grade: D]

[Mana: 15/300]

[Sharpness: 35 (+20)]

[Affinity: 34 (+20)]

[Versatility: 15]

[Durability : 38 (+20) ]

[Control: 3]

[Core: 1]

More points, more choices…

Intensity II seemed to simply double the bonuses that Intensity I had given, and seeing as they were based on Markus’ Spirit and his Spirit was now 100, those were fuckhuge bonuses.

As for the 95 points he had to spend…

Sharpness was out. He gained so many points of it from his passives that he didn’t need to increase it. Durability seemed like it was fairly high already too.

He wanted to stick some points in Core and see what happened, and so he did so, bringing it to 10 and watching the weapon’s mana total increase to 570. Whoa, that was potent. He wondered if the increase that points in core gave was at all proportional to his Spirit.

86 points left. Versatility got buffed to 30 instantly, two skills required two slots after all. 71 left and he instantly dumped another 16 in Affinity, bringing it to 50 and unlocking yet another new option the second he did.

[New active skill unlocked: Acid Slash I.]

[Compound slot unlocked!]

[Forget existing skills Detonate I and Triple Strike I and forge a new Compound Skill? 95% chance of Common Compound Skill, 4% Rare, 0.9% Epic, 0.1% Legendary.]

[Forget existing skills Triple Strike I and Acid Slash I and forge a new Compound Skill? 75% chance of Common Compound Skill, 15% rare, 7% epic, 2.9% Legendary, 0.1% Transcendent.]

Okay, what the fuck was a compound skill?

[Compound skills are unlocked within a weapon when the user has the required Affinity and requisite abilities to unlock new skills of a certain type. User Arcana and Affinity are used as a means to measure the chances of the user learning a Compound Skill of lower or higher potency. Levels and Mastery in composite skills increase chances of rarer compounds being generated.]

Okay, so not something you necessarily wanted to do straight away unless you needed to or you were feeling really lucky. It was pretty final to give up your existing abilities like that, and if he was going to do so, it felt the only way that Markus would feel comfortable just taking a chance on something like that was if he either had a ton of excess abilities he needed to thin out or he had way better chances of getting something neat.

That being said, it could be that even common compound skills way outclassed regular ones. Was he willing to gamble on a whim just to find that out? Not yet. He hadn’t even read his new active skills, let alone tested them. He’d get to that point before he considered risking a potential sidegrade that might only reduce his options further.

Deciding to let that sit to the side for now, he dumped 24 points into Control, bringing it to 15 and his weapon points remaining to 31. He decided to hang onto those for now. He’d feed them into the weapon bit by bit as he went.

Speaking of which, only now was Markus realising that the seal was beginning to break, and mana was beginning to flow back into his body.

First thing’s first, could he put mana in the spear? Yes. Extremely easily, in fact. That being said, it generated its own, and unlike his body, it wasn’t capable of going over its capacity. As soon as it reached its limit of 570, it stopped generating its own mana completely.

Next, he grabbed his last remaining Essence Stone. Now, he couldn’t afford to put his Mystic Mana in there as it didn’t like to be in the stone with other Mana Types, so he instead poured some of the insane levels of D Grade Frost, Spirit, Caustic, and Flame Mana he’d absorbed from his last fight.

From what he could tell, the Essence Stone reached its capacity at somewhere around 5500 mana. Once he reached that point, it was completely full, and no amount of effort or force could manage to even attempt to slot more mana inside of the stone than what was already contained.

He also found that trying to put C Grade mana in there was a no-go. He’d never tried before, and now he understood that a D Grade essence stone was limited to D Grade in what level of mana it could contain at highest.

Apparently, Markus wasn’t, as he still had that A Grade Divine Mana inside of him.

Once all was said and done, Markus had thankfully not exploded but was still hovering at about 7000 mana, which was thankfully under 200% capacity for him now, what with his massive increases. His mana poisoning, however, hadn’t reduced to I, but to II. Apparently, cresting Mana Poisoning III was a bad thing, and his body didn’t want him being able to be rid of his ailments so easily.

Still, there was a good chance Markus might be able to reduce his poisoning further with that new Meditation skill he’d gotten. If not, he could at least use Frozen Tomb to reduce the Frost Mana in his body, but he’d rather not have to rely on just that.

Tired, aching, in more than fair need of respite, Markus began to meditate, hoping the activity would help to calm his frayed nerves.

His meditation was swiftly interrupted by a silly helldog licking his arm, but hey, she cured a massive scrape running down it in the process, so she more than earned a pat on the head for the effort.

Honestly, he needed to bottle her saliva or something. Come to think of it, could he use her to get more Flame Mana?

Not if it might hurt her, obviously. He needed to test with someone else first and make sure he knew what he was doing. He already knew he could drain a small amount of mana from someone without it hurting them too bad. Maybe Cyrus would be down to help him figure it out.

Whatever. Those were tomorrow’s concerns. For now, Markus wanted to get healed up enough to get back on his feet as soon as possible, and then, as soon as he did, he had a certain treacherous little imp he wanted to go and find.

He needed to test his new weapon, after all, and they were long overdue a reunion by now.
