“That sounds great, but my parents are going to be together this afternoon. I’m meeting up with them. It’s the first time I’m going to see Dad face to face since he left for Matadero.” He looked so excited. “I get to tell him all about you and Lute and the obstacle course and a hundred other things!”

“That’s more important than joyriding down to F,” Alden agreed.

Lexi looked concerned. “Are you allowed to just fly it all over the place?”

“I think so. He told me to take it wherever I wanted.” He was more worried about SkySea than Esh-erdi. But they might not even ask why he was flying the nonagon around anymore. The assumption would probably be that he was following Esh-erdi’s instructions.

Lexi hesitated. “I would appreciate it…”

“Do it,” said Haoyu, standing up from his seat. “Do it for all of us who are going to be so jealous that we didn’t get to ride a magic knight’s flying disc.”

“You called him a knight!” Alden exclaimed.

“That’s the English translation the Systems on the Triplanets usually give for them. I think it sounds more epic…unless he specifically told you to call him general. Then forget I said anything.”

“He’s informal. He told me to drop the title.”

“That’s epic, too.”

******

Outside, it was still sunny, and the bag lunches were being distributed by uni students. While the three of them waited in a short line to grab theirs, Alden kept turning his head to check on the nonagon.

“If you’re nervous, just move it,” Haoyu said. “It’ll be funny to watch their reactions anyway.”

“Nobody’s actually doing anything bad to it, though,” Alden answered.

Students kept hopping, climbing, and levitating themselves up the side of the building to look at it. A couple of faculty members were around, and Alden had expected them to put a stop to it. But none of the curious people were being overly risky with their power use, and very few of them were even trying to touch the nonagon.

“People aren’t stupid enough to really mess with an important wizard’s flying vehicle,” Lexi said.

You’d be surprised, thought Alden. “I have to move it anyway. I’m not going to leave it here all by itself while I go across campus to do the class meetings.”

An idea occurred to him. “Do you guys want to sit on it while we have lunch?”

Haoyu had been disappointed he couldn’t ride down to F this afternoon. This would make up for it.

“There’s no need to call attention to your—”

“Yes!” Haoyu exclaimed. “And then you’ll take us to class in style!”

Lexi shut his mouth.

A few minutes later, they were away from the crowd, jogging out to the track with bag lunches in hand. Distance from the audience was necessary if they didn’t want people inviting themselves to eat with them.

“Call it,” said Haoyu, when he noticed Alden stopping and staring at the driving ring. “Show us that alien sky limo.”

“Just a second, I don’t want to make a mistake and crash it.”

He pressed a logogram on the ring with his thumb and pointed his finger straight down. The green nonagon rose over the MPE building’s roofline. He let it get higher and then pointed it toward them.

“Faster,” Haoyu advised. “You know someone’s going to chase it.”

The second it reached them, they scrambled aboard, and Alden sent them skyward. He stopped them a few stories above the grassy field in the center of the track—high enough that nobody should feel invited to come up for a visit, low enough that he didn’t think he’d get another call from traffic control.

“Hey, it’s textured!” Haoyu was bending over near the edge, running his hand across the nonagon’s surface. He was clearly not even a little concerned about Alden’s driving.

In contrast, Lexi was sitting in the precise center with one hand on Writher’s handle.

“What would you actually do with the whip if you fell?” Alden asked.

Lexi blinked and looked down at his own hand before moving it away.

“You two, grab onto me if we crash. I’ll break your fall,” said Haoyu, still touching the nonagon. “It feels like a stroopwafel. Do you guys know what those are? They’re like a skinny waffle biscuit with caramel inside.”

“That checks out,” said Alden. “The poor son has already been called a cookie this morning.”

He sat down beside Lexi and opened his lunch bag. He’d expected the food to be crummy in the way mass-prepped, depersonalized stuff tended to be. But he was pleased to find that the wrap with the vegan “fried chicken” tasted pretty good.

They didn’t talk for a couple of minutes while Alden and Lexi chewed and Haoyu added the contents of condiment packets to his own turkey wrap.

Lexi even chews like he’s tense, Alden thought as he studied his roommate’s features. “I’m sorry about your family’s apartment.”

“Thanks.” Lexi spoke mechanically. But then he looked down at his food, slumped a little, and said, “I know a lot of people lost houses. It’s only stuff. Everyone keeps saying that. It’s true. I didn’t give a damn about home when everything was going wrong. Even after I heard Nilama was flooding. Being on the Span when it all started…the bridge dropping out from under us like that, water missiles flying around with trucks inside them…I thought things were even worse than they were. I thought, ‘It’s fine if the whole island’s obliterated. As long as my family is somehow safe.’”

He carefully set his food on the center of the piece of plastic wrap that it had come in, rolled it back up, and then wiped his hands on a napkin. “And they are safe. I’m so relieved. But…”

“But your house isn’t just stuff,” Haoyu finished for him. “It’s all the memories that go with it.”

“Kon’s in some kind of denial. He keeps saying, ‘Some of it’s probably fine.’ No. It’s not. It was completely underwater. We might salvage the dishes I guess? The plastic things? A little bit more if we can manage to find people with the right talents who aren’t already booked for the next decade.”

“What did you parents say?” asked Haoyu.

Lexi rubbed a hand over his eyes and sighed. “To leave the worrying to them. Obviously. What else would they have said? They’ve been telling me not to worry about anything for the past two years, even when a lot of it needs to be worried about.”

“Our parents are on slightly different tracks,” said Haoyu. “When my father took me out for dinner, right before he left for the cube, we talked about not adding to mom’s worries. Showing her that I could look out for myself here at school and not freaking out if I failed combat assessment. Which I thought I had for a few hours there.”

He squeezed the last drops out of a mayo packet. “Nothing that serious, just taking minor Haoyu business off her plate. I think he underestimates her capacity for micromanagement, though. I sent her a picture of me doing the laundry, and she called afterward to have a fifteen-minute talk about the amount of detergent I was using. More should be better, right?”

Alden vividly remembered having the same thought when he was around nine and trying to wash his own clothes. Only they’d been out of detergent, and he’d opted for dish soap. More had not been better.

They ate. Lexi texted Kon to tell him about the ride Alden had offered. Haoyu stood up and walked in a circle around the two of them, getting the three hundred sixty degree view of campus and the streets beyond.

“It’s a strange day, isn’t it? Everything’s so bad and so normal at the same time,” he said finally. “What do you think happens next?”

“Cleaning up. Building buildings,” said Lexi. “Years and years of people shouting at each other about what went wrong and whose fault it was. The countries that have been pushing to have their own permanent Avowed forces will use this as an excuse to say they should build miniature superhuman armies in case Anesidora ever gets wiped out, and the Council will probably try to make sure that doesn’t happen. And people will keep saying we should never have been allowed to become a self-governing country…like it was something they actually allowed instead of something the first generation pried away from them.”

He took a breath.

“And the Triplanets will do something or nothing. Honestly, who knows what in the nth dimension they think of all of this? I’m not sure if it’s even a big deal to them or if it’s a human hiccup.”

When he fell silent, Haoyu nodded. “That summed up about ten percent of it.”

“Yeah,” Lexi said. “I left out a lot of the petty drama. Since you two have been mysteriously absent for a significant amount of time—half the people in school just want to talk about who leveled, whose parents got haloed, and who the System loves best.”

“It’s Alden.” Haoyu batted his eyes at Alden. “The System loves Alden best.”

Alden snorted. “Shut up.”

“Just ask Mehdi. When you disappeared from Maricel’s flying countertop, he said, ‘Why him?’ About a dozen times in five minutes.”

“I offered to take some of you with me.”

“And it sounds like we missed a great time! Oh no…” Haoyu’s smile fell. “What about that guy you did take with you? Was he all right?”

“Marks. He was such a jerk,” said Alden. “I’m sure he’s fine. He left in a huff after screaming at me for being a Rabbit globie who didn’t care about how it was my duty as a high rank to die before him. That was what he was getting at anyway.”

“You didn’t want to die for that guy Lexi almost sliced up with Writher? I thought you were a better man.”

“He’s good enough for the Artonans, Haoyu,” said Lexi.

He said it in a light tone that fit in with the conversation. Very chummy by his standards.

Alden crumpled up his trash and laid his messenger bag on top of it so that it wouldn’t blow off the side of the platform. After a moment, he said, “Before Principal Saleh started speaking, you were asking me what the commendation was for.”

“I shouldn’t have,” Lexi replied. “I was surprised. But what you do on the Triplanets is your own business if you want it that way.”

“I do prefer that most of the time.”

Thegund already took too much. I’m ready for it to stop being something that hits me again and again. I’m ready for it to be like Body Drainer. I want distance from it. I want to be done.

“I don’t want to have to live up to the commendation right now. Like, if I just tell everyone I got stuck on an evil moon and then got rescued, of course they’re going to ask stuff.  But they mostly feel sorry for me and ask me if I’m all right. That’s easier to deal with than having them ask for specific details…which, if you’ve been commended of course they’re going to, aren’t they? ‘Oh you did things on the moon? Awesome Avowed things? What were they?’ And I’m not really up for having my actions microscoped by people who weren’t there.”

He recalled his interview and felt himself frown.

“I was dreading questions about what had happened on Thegund during the final admissions interview. Everyone talked about how personal and challenging it could get, and I was braced. I thought they might ask to hear the whole story and then do some kind of analysis? And tell me what I’d screwed up.

“And they’d say exactly the wrong thing, and I’d flip out and do something awful. Like hit Klein with a chair. Not that the hit would land…”

“You really don’t have to talk about this,” Lexi said hastily. “It’s fine if you never talk about it.”

Haoyu had sat down with them again. He nodded in agreement.

“It was always inevitable that the commendation would be public,” said Alden. “People did already know about it. The faculty, TC security, my counselors in intake—whoever I’ve shared my profile with and anyone they talked to. I was just hoping I’d have longer before it became common knowledge. I wanted to get to know you all first. I wanted to do well in gym and prove I fit in with the class.

“But at this point, it’s either tell the truth or make up a lie that will only last a little while longer before the truth comes out. The B-rank Rabbit disappearing before all the combat-talented higher ranks was noticeable. So I’ll tell our classmates I’ve got the commendation when they work themselves up to asking me directly. And…if they want details about how I got it, I’ll either say I don’t want to talk about it or summarize it briefly. I haven’t decided. It’s a decision in progress. A lot has happened.”

He drummed his fingers on the nonagon and looked out over the city. He could see North of North Gym from here. They’d already opened back up, with limited hours and services, according to an email he’d gotten this morning.

“I’ll tell you guys about it, though,” he said at last. “Really, even if I don’t summarize, it won’t take that long. It’s not like I fought a monster or used my skill in some special way. I just kept this kid named Kivb-ee alive. And she kept me alive. And then I went on a very, very long run.”

******

******

All the demon did was touch her leg. Just a touch. It cut her and rotted her and turned her flesh into something it wasn’t.

I carried her in my arms. I couldn’t even use my skill to help her because I was afraid to change targets. I’d never done it without the System, and I wasn’t sure I could.

She was the first person I saw the chaos hurt like that.  She died. They all died.

Except for the Avowed.

And the little girl.

Was it better at the lab?

It made surviving possible.

There were good things that reminded me more good things existed. In other places.

Like what?

Spiky strawberries. French braiding. Television.

