155

******

Alden bowed his head and stared down at his knuckles while the school observed a moment of silence for the dead.

Principal Saleh’s speech had started off with the expected sort of thing. Thanks for everyone who’d shown up in person and through interfaces. Eloquent sympathies for students who’d lost places or people they loved.

And now this.

The posture, the uniform, the sounds of a large group of humans breathing and quietly shifting in their seats—it called up a sliver of memory. The rare and precious kind.

A room full of bowed heads, their owners mostly unaware that they were being subjected to a child’s critical gaze. His mother’s hand tugging him back down into the pew beside her. Alden looking at her in protest, and the silent tilt of her head in return conveying a world of rules and manners.

He remembered feeling terribly misunderstood.

“I was helping!” he’d explained with righteous indignation when they’d gotten back home that afternoon. “I was making sure nobody was cheating.”

“At praying?” she asked while she examined a stain on the clip-on tie he’d been wearing. “Is this a grass stain? Sweetie, how did you get a grass stain on a necktie?”

“Some people had their eyes open,” Alden said darkly. “They were playing games on their phones.”

“But they weren’t bothering anybody, and you wouldn’t have known if you’d had your own eyes closed. Your shirt is clean. I don’t understand…just the tie?”

“I was helping.”

Warmth, an arm pulling him close…had she smiled? Kissed him?

Had his father been in the room?

What had they done after that?

He knew from experience that the answers wouldn’t come. Trying to force them would only build fantasies that might or might not have happened on that day.

And then the moment of silence was over, and Principal Saleh was talking again, her voice filling the gym. As her tone turned businesslike, the mood shifted away from the somber. It started to feel more like high school.

Classes were cancelled tomorrow. All of the ones that could resume on Wednesday would, but they should expect some changes. Alterations in scheduling or course structure were being left up to the individual instructors.

Alden was happy they’d be back in class soon. Judging by the number of people groaning dramatically and whispering complaints to their friends, he was in the minority.

“This meeting will end at eleven thirty,” Principal Saleh said. “Bag lunches will be available outside. Grab one if you’re hungry, then follow the schedules that have just been sent to you.”

Alden opened his with a thought. It was his regular class schedule, compressed into fifteen-minute periods, with a half hour long “personal advisement” meeting sandwiched in.

So we stop by each classroom and hear from the teachers in person about what we’ll be doing for the rest of term.

Before he finished reading, Principal Saleh was speaking again. She covered a lot of basic information. Campus dining was being restricted to specific locations and time windows until further notice. The domes on Celena Circle weren’t tourist destinations, and the people living there didn’t want thousands of curious students wandering through.

“Not even if you’re volunteering to help. The people living there don’t actually need any help you could provide. They just need a quiet place to stay until they can go back to their homes or until they have new ones. The only students who should be visiting the domes here, or anywhere else they’ve been put up, are those of you who have family staying there. The rest of you go around the perimeter of our new neighborhood.”

That command led into more discussion of housing. Some people had been letting family and friends stay in their dorm rooms.

“The government is organizing safe, comfortable housing for everyone who needs it. The domes are being provided by the Triplanets. Other facilities all over Anesidora are being outfitted as residences.” Her back was turned to Alden’s half of the gym now, so he was watching her on the projection. “You might have noticed, but your dorm rooms and apartments aren’t that big. Everyone needs a safe space and a community, especially in times like this, and our community is for our students. Your family may visit you here, but they can’t live with you.”

She covered a few more details, then finished off by saying, “Both Apex and F-city are currently being visited by many more wizards than usual, and the number will likely increase over the coming weeks. Talks about how involved the Triplanetary Government should be in our rebuilding process are ongoing. The CNU culture advisor will be laying out some simple guidelines for you to follow if you happen to run into wizards on campus. But before that, I wish to personally apologize to the entire school on behalf of the Talent Development Program.”

Alden sat up straighter. What did we do wrong?

He had an absurd worry that he had been unwittingly involved with whatever behavior was bad enough to prompt an apology.

“As I’m sure many of you have heard, a group of our students decided that a nationwide catastrophe was an ideal occasion for experimenting with their powers in a real-world setting. They chose to leave the safety of our campus shelter for an area that had already been evacuated. They thought flooded homes and businesses were their own personal training environment.”

More people like Liam? Seriously?

He had hoped that the Long siblings were unique in their madness.

“That behavior alone would be enough reason for me to apologize to you. But to make matters worse, a couple of these people chose to wear modified versions of their school uniforms while they gallivanted.”

She didn’t raise her voice, but there was a sharpness to it that was impossible to miss.

“We expect excellence from all of you, but those in our Talent Development Program should be even more responsible in their use of their abilities. Reporting to SkySea Guard that this group of CNH-trained students needed to be searched for because they had chosen to head toward Sānjiǎo Beach so that they could experiment and play was a low point in my career as an educator.”

Someone’s in trouble. And it sounds like they should be. What kind of selfish, immature—

“Do you think they’re going to expel all the B-ranks in the hero program?” one of the Arts students with the Anesidoran Forever wristbands whispered to the girl beside her.

Do you think what???

“I don’t think it was all of them, was it?”

“I heard it was.”

“What are they talking about?” Alden hissed at Haoyu. He pulled up his huntski lodge chat. [Was it B-ranks who did the bad thing?]

Haoyu looked intrigued. [I don’t knowing. I don’t have gossip. I want to knowing.]

[Alden: Lexi, do you know who’s in trouble?]

[Alden: Lexi?]

He looked over to see Lexi angry-typing again.

[Haoyu: I think he isn’t checking roommate chat.]

[Lute: Haoyu, don’t switch to finger texting. It makes you less funny.]

[Lute: Hey, Alden. You back at school?]

[Alden: Yes.]

[Lute: Sweet. I’m watching the speech thing from here. I swear my relatives are growing in number and obnoxiousness. It was torture yesterday, but it’s gotten a lot better.]

He sent a picture of himself sitting in a blanket fort. Emilija was beside him, wearing a t-shirt with a music note print. They were grinning and holding up crackers with meat and cheese.

[Haoyu: He didn’t even try to make it back to Apex.]

[Lute: I did! Just not since the company arrived.]

Alden suddenly realized that Emilija was in an awkward position. She’d been living in Apex but commuting to school at Franklin High. How is she going to handle that?

[Lute: A bunch of B’s and a few A’s are who she’s talking about. I think they were mostly second years. I don’t know all of them. One was that guy who wears the rings that sound like bells. And there was a girl who turned the school uniform into a cheerleader outfit and painted letter B’s on her stomach. And Ella-Clara Thomas.]

So it was them. The “viciously competitive” Beat List-obsessed second year B’s.

At first, Alden was relieved. He’d really enjoyed meeting his fellow B’s, but he didn’t know any of the second years well yet.

Wait…those lunatics are almost half the active members of my rank club. If they get themselves expelled do we lose access to the gym and Instructor Plim?

[Lute: I’ve known that Figurinist girl was trouble ever since she spent two weeks making that giant doll of hers run around campus on all fours. It got faster and faster. I tried to compose a song about how seeing it coming at me down the sidewalks made me feel, but I couldn’t hit the right level of creepiness.]

Alden gave the next speaker his attention. The university’s culture advisor was an animated woman with an elegant contract tattoo prominently displayed on the back of one hand.

“Another important thing to remember about our Artonan visitors is that they are here to work right now,” she was saying. “I’m sure most of you have seen or spoken to Anesidora’s wizard residents in the past when they were going about their regular lives. This is different. The people sent by the Triplanets to help with the Submerger crisis are here to convey the sense of responsibility the wizard class has toward us as Avowed and toward Earth as a resource world.”

“They are responsible,” a boy sitting on the level below Alden said quietly. “They made the thing and sent it to Earth right? It’s not like a human invented something that dangerous.”

The culture advisor was still talking. “The Artonans will see it as inappropriate to relax or conduct personal business when they’ve been charged with this purpose. So now isn’t the right time to try socializing with them.”

Lexi stopped typing and looked over at Alden.

Alden raised an eyebrow at him in return.

[Alden: She’s referring to people who go out of their way to bother unknown wizards they spot in the street, not me.]

“Some of you might also be tempted to make an appeal on behalf of yourselves or someone you know. To slip in a little showing off with your powers or a mention that you’ve always longed for a chance to serve as a listener for an elite study circle during a mission to the whispering villages on the World of the Yellow Smoke.”

That’s an extremely specific example.

[Haoyu: That was really specific.]

[Lute: One hundred argold says she finds a wizard to take her to the World of the Yellow Smoke before the country’s put back together.]

[Haoyu: I barely remember learning about the whispering villages in class. But the World of the Yellow Smoke’s out there. She’d be gone for months or years. And they’d probably prefer another species. I’ll take your bet.]

[Lute: I wasn’t serious.]

[Haoyu: You can’t take it back now.]

Alden couldn’t recall ever hearing about the whispering villages.

He texted Boe. It was so nice to be able to do that now. [I don’t think memorizing all the US state capitals and studying the history of Illinois prepared me well for my future.]

The culture advisor had finished, and someone from the campus health office had stepped forward to announce that counseling services were available to anyone who needed them, when Boe finally replied: [Same. I just watched a wizard summon what looked like every flying bug in the rainforest into a briefcase. Now I’m going to go look tragic in front of him and see if he sends me home.]

As the end of the assembly approached, the final speaker stood. She was wearing the school uniform with a silver Frisbee-looking weapon belted over her hip. Her nametag said she was the student council president.

She sailed through a speech about solidarity, responsibility, and the CNH spirit and then called for a vote about the uniforms. The student council thought that because of the present hardship, uniforms should be mandatory until the end of the quarter. As a show of unity. And for several other reasons she listed out so fast that Alden barely had time to hear them, much less decide if they were good ones, before the opportunity to vote was flashing in his eyes.

“Please make the decision selflessly and with the knowledge that you carry on your shoulders the legacy of all who have gone before you and the dreams of all the young people who imagine themselves here at Celena North one day,” she said in a forceful voice.

It was clear that she thought only irresponsible, school spiritless people would reject the idea.

Alden clicked “no.”

The uniform looked nice, but he personally believed that times of hardship called for soft, loosely-fitted clothing with ample pockets.

When the voting concluded, eighty percent of the school disagreed with him. He sighed.

“You didn’t vote yes?” Haoyu asked in a surprised voice.

“When the going gets tough, I want to wear sweatpants,” said Alden.

Haoyu looking him up and down pointedly.

“My outfit was chosen for me this morning. You voted yes?”

“It’s your fault. When I saw you climbing the bleachers earlier I thought you were dressed like that today to be solemn because of the people who’d died. I thought you were being mature and thoughtful, and I felt bad I hadn’t worn mine.”

The vote was the final item on the agenda. Around them, everyone was standing up.

“Lexi,” said Alden.

“What?” He’d never stopped jabbing air throughout the assembly.

“I can probably take you down to F. If you’re sure you want to go. I doubt I can do anything to get you back before classes start on Wednesday, though, so you’d have to take care of that yourself.”

Lexi looked over. “On the green platform?”

“The Nine-edged Son Whose Own Mother Forsakes Him. You can come, too, if you want, Haoyu. It’s fun to fly.”

