Yenu-pezth was walking close beside him. “That’s a fine admission for now. We will leave it for another meeting. But whenever you wake from these better dreams I am about to give you, ask yourself this again. And steep for as long as your day allows with the truth that guilt’s only gift to any of us is instruction. Often, it is an instructor with little sympathy for its student and a fog-cloaked view of the situation it was born in. If there is no lesson for you to learn from this guilt, then it has nothing else to offer you. A righteous scholarly exit from a useless instructor is the only choice sometimes.”

The healer’s use of the word for “righteous scholarly exit,” and the memory of Stuart using the same one to try to get him to abandon Instructor Rao’s class, was so amusing Alden had to laugh. But the laugh didn’t happen until the words had been fully absorbed. Which meant he giggled inappropriately right as he was being shown the injector that had been prepared just in case he had an awful reaction to any of the other injectors lined up on the wooden tray the attendant was holding out for him and the healer to see.

“He’s well,” Yenu-pezth said to the man. “I must have said something funny to him on the path.”

A while later, Alden was lying on a frameless bed that had been salubriously positioned under a gap in the branches. The room was quiet except for Yenu-pezth’s clothes rustling as she arranged a few of her personal tools.

“You’re not going to stab me with that, are you?” Alden asked, trying to keep himself light and calm as a nervous energy began to make itself known again.

She had just pulled a long pointy pin out of her sleeve.

“I certainly will,” she said. “Monitoring your pain response, comparing it to what you’re feeling in the dream, using it to adjust your fear more quickly and naturally…stabbing patients works well.” She placed a hand on his forehead while he blinked at her. “Don’t worry. By the time you wake up, the <<pinpricks>> will be healed so well you’ll have to search to notice them.”

Her hand was warm and dry.

I’m really doing this. He was ready to get knocked out now. Before he started thinking too much.

“Do you want Stu-art’h to be here?” she asked. “He will let himself in if either of us show him the corner of an invitation. It’s up to you. If you say yes, you may wake to find him glue-spelled to the wall as punishment for bothering me.”

Alden smiled at the image. He would have rejected the idea instantly if he’d been worried about crying or flailing around in his sleep, but he was getting drugged into stillness. A patient screaming or flinging an arm at the mind healer in the middle of treatment was uncool, so they headed that off.

“If he wants to, that’s fine,” he said. “But I won’t know either way, and I’m not afraid to be alone with you.”

“I am honored. And Stu will be thrilled.” She leaned closer. “The hardest part for the patient is deciding and trusting. You’ve done that. Now rest.”

But what if I accidentally show I have authority control? What if I—?

He felt the pinch of an injection against his arm.

Be still, Alden, he told himself. Be quiet in all the ways that matter.

“You were sneaky with that injector, Healer Yenu,” he tried to say.

But he wasn’t sure if he did or not. He opened his eyes and found himself standing in a seemingly endless plain of grass.

Thegund.

The nightmare had begun.

******
