Most of the residential clusters, if they could be called that, remained standing. They looked like enormous lungs, pulsating as they filled with air and then flattening as they breathed out. There were slaves in the streets as well. They huddled in the corners, glaring up, terrified, and shivered as if waiting for their final end. But that final end didn't come. The Giantsbane didn't seem interested in the butchery of the meek and innocent. No. In the short time it took for Shiv to arrive, she seemed to have slain all the most dangerous vampires and allowed the weaker ones to scuttle away like cockroaches squeezing through cracks in the walls.

Blood and other fluid oozed out from the megastructures that once dotted the skyline of the city, which was about nine or ten kilometers in diameter, if Shiv had to guess.

He collapsed his biological helmet and let the wind rustle his hair. Looking at the mutilated and gory state of the biological architecture that characterized the First Blood’s home, Shiv thought that the landscape seemed like a corpse rather than a ruin. In the far distance, along the eastern periphery of the town, Shiv could still see a few towers standing, but they were towers made from inorganic substances, shaped from stone, steel, and crystal.

Bursts of black static flashed from atop their spires in rapid intervals. Shiv suspected that the elites of the city, the few that could escape, were fleeing this place.

And Jessica just let them.

The Giantsbane, watching the people below with an impassive expression, rapped her fingers against Rusty’s hilt in a slow, rhythmic beat, like she was reminiscing of some song or another.

If Rusty took offense to her using it as a stool, the blade didn't say anything. In fact, Shiv felt a weird warmth in the atmosphere, like this was a common occurrence between the two, and all the death they wrought was like an afternoon stroll deepening their bond.

"Took you a while to get here,” Jessica said as he landed next to her, eyeing him with a faint hint of amusement. “Saw all those siege spells knocking you around a little bit. We need to work on your dodge, kid. Just taking everything on the chin… Don't care how hard-headed you are, if you can avoid getting hit, you should. Also, what's your favorite flavor of beans? Because I'm pretty partial to Jacobson's Mamba Hot Chilies.”

Shiv tried not to cringe. He failed. "Georges hated that brand. Thing’s practically 70% oil. He also claimed to have found roach bits in the cans."

Jessica nodded enthusiastically. "The insects, they like the hot taste, see? So they jump into the big industrial pots on their own. At least, that's what the manufacturer told me. Wrote them like a fan letter, and they sent me a year's supply of cans as a gift along with the reply. Even asked me to print my face on the cans for a limited edition wave, but I felt like that would ruin the magic, you know?”

Shiv stared blankly down at her, and she frowned. “Aren't you supposed to be a connoisseur of food? It's pretty judgmental, being disgusted by some insects."

"Look, that's not the problem here,” Shiv replied. “I don't have any issue with people eating insects or enjoying exotic delicacies. I'll even cook them myself if that's what they want. My problem is that the label on the back of every Jacobson’s can is clearly lying about the ingredients. And if you lie about your ingredients because you feel like you need to, then you're not cooking to feed people. You're just cooking for money."

"We're all doing something for mithril," Jessica said with a scoff.

"And there's another thing Georges used to say to me: 'If you want to make money, the easiest way to go about it is by being born rich. The second easiest way of getting rich is taking the money from someone else, either by marrying the poor bastard or literally robbing them.'"

"Hm. You know, that sounds about right." Jessica sighed. "Sorry he's dead, kid. Sorry we didn't get here in time. Didn't mean to open up fresh wounds."

"It's fine," Shiv grunted, trying not to think too much about his lost adoptive father. "He might just be gone for now. I'll do anything to find a way to bring him back. To bring everyone back."

"Uh-huh," Jessica said. Now there was more than a hint of doubt in her voice, and her body trembled in his perception. Her suspicions that his power of resurrection might be more limited than he'd led her to believe in their conversation in the Lusty Eunuch were rendered evident by his Gardener of Doubt skill, but she just shook her head and shifted the topic. "Anyhow. Let's get the hells out of here. The mana bom—"

Before she could finish her sentence, a series of massive explosions erupted along the west side of the city. Large hangars made from bone and covered in red membranes came apart in waves of destabilizing Biomancy. As the structures were frayed apart, flesh giving way to decay, the Court Leviathans inside withered down to nothing as well, bursting in sprays of horrific fluid and turning into pools of sludge.

"Shit," Jessica hissed. "I was trying to time that dramatically."

Shiv could only blink in response. Then he frowned. "Wait, you just got here. When did you place Biomancy bombs inside the hangars? Where did you even get them?"

"Oh, that." Jessica waved him off. "Stole the mana bombs from the vampires. They had a storage facility nearby. Works the same way for every military force. Doesn't matter if you're a group of vampires who grow or manipulate your own biology. You need to store supplies somewhere. Considering how many mages I just cut through? Yeah, a lot of potions, a lot of bombs, a lot of alchemical assistance. And all that got turned on their own staging grounds. Speaking of which, let's get the hells out of here for real now."
