“Holy shits, Erick,” Quilatalap said, grabbing Erick and picking him up, holding him close in a tight hug. “This is so much worse than I thought it would be.”

To say Erick was surprised by the sudden hug was an understatement of the emotions swirling inside of him.

He was mainly really fucking happy. Erick wrapped his arms around Quilatalap’s impressive everything, feeling a warmth in his heart and an airyness in his stomach. A few tears fell; out of joy, fear, and love.

“I thought you hated me.”

Quilatalap lowered to his knees, setting Erick down, and then he rose, and looked away, lost. Without turning back he said, “This is a time of change. Everyone is getting violated in ways they never should be violated. Me. You. The world. The gods and…” His voice trailed off. “I took a [Time Stop] and sat there in the emptiness for a few days after you left the room.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. “Okay? Uh—”

Quilatalap rolled over Erick’s attempt at words, saying, “I learned I missed you a lot. I think I might even love you. But I need a break from world events. I suppose you do, too, but you won’t walk away and I’m not asking you to. I know that whatever minor fight the fairy stopped back in that room would have caused major problems, if it had been allowed to happen, and I know that you stepped away because all of what truly happened was a conversation on how to save the Surface from societal collapse, and that needed to happen with as little war as possible.

“I still hate her utterly, but I am not naturally a hateful person, and I don’t want to be. I just don’t want to be around her at all, and since you will continue to be around her…” Quilatalap said, “I don’t know what I’m saying, Erick, except that I’m not moving into your house, and you’re not moving into mine. I would like it if everything else remained the same, except I won’t go out in the public eye anymore, and will be taking steps to ensure that no one can find me except you.”

Ah.

Not a break up?

Confusion swirled, and settled. Erick saw that Quilatalap’s words of ‘forgiveness’ for what Fairy Moon had done and what Erick had done in response were a shield for his own psyche, so that he could pretend that everything was okay. He still blamed Erick a lot, knew that it was wrong to blame him, did so anyway, while also knowing that the real problem was Fairy Moon, and she was never going to change.

Erick tried to get a grip on what he was seeing. All he could say, though, was, “So you’ll… hide in the library?”

“Or whatever dungeon Melemizargo saddles you with, if that is okay with you. I think he means to place the one downstairs in your care. I would take over that one.”

Erick saw a lot of Quilatalap in that moment. Too much, for all of Erick’s senses were working overtime, as his heart beat hard. He saw how he could talk Quilatalap out of this. He saw that Quilatalap both wanted to be talked out of this, and how he did not want to be talked out of this. The archlich was a mess, and yet he was as strong-willed as ever. He had come to his decision. It wasn’t a breakup, but the future wouldn’t be as easy as Erick wanted it to be.

There was only one thing Erick could do.

He asked, “Can I talk you out of this? Do you want to be talked out of this? Do you want to move in with me? Or me with you? Like we discussed? I know that you have made your decision, but… I would like to talk some.”

Quilatalap was silent for a moment. And then he said, “I’ll move into the dungeon. I’ll be your Caretaker, if you would have it. Melemizargo has already assured me that she can’t reach me there like she can out here. That was one of the main reasons I went into Ar’Kendrithyst in the first place, Erick. That safety.”

“… Okay. Then… I guess I’m getting that dungeon down there? And I’ll visit you, every night.”

Oh holy shit, did Erick actually want that?

… Sure.

He could try it, for now.

Quilatalap relaxed a fraction. “Thank you.”

Erick nodded, shoving his emotions in a box and leaving them there. He put on a small grin. “So I’m getting that dungeon? I feel we glossed over that?”

Quilatalap gave a sad little grin. “Yes. That’s your dungeon, now. I discovered that in the past few days but… It can take multiple dungeon masters, too. We can go in together later, if you want. That’s what I want, and I hope you do, too.”

“… Honestly, Quilatalap, this is too much for me right now. I’m not going into that dungeon right away. It’ll take me a while.”

Quilatalap didn’t mind that, saying, “That’s fine! I understand you don’t trust the Dark. Normally he’s not very trustworthy. But this is big and— Ah… Let’s just leave all that for another day, then.”

Erick forced a grin. “Yes. Let’s leave all that for another day.”

“So [Book Bolt]!” Quilatalap began, “You don’t have many Bolt spells at all, right?”

Erick looked up his magic, but he was already saying, “Yeah. Not many of those.”

Force Bolt X, instant, long range, 5 MP

A bolt of mana unerringly strikes a target 15 + ½ WIL

Pure Force Beam Bolt, instant, long range, 100 MP

A bolt of pure mana unerringly strikes a target for 250 + 3x WIL

Radiant Bolt, instant, long range, 8 mana

A bolt of Radiance unerringly strikes a target for 25 + WIL damage.

Blood Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana + Variable

A bolt of your power unerringly strikes a target for Variable damage.

True Plasma Bolt, instant, long range, 50 mana + Variable

A bolt of plasma inexorably strikes a target, imparting 2x Variable heat energy.

High Variables may lead to odd effects.

Inevitable Bolt, instant, long range, 15 mana

A bolt of inexorable Force eventually strikes a target for WIL damage.

Inevitable Bolts, instant, long range, 250 MP

Bolts of inexorable Force each eventually strike a target for WIL damage. 15 bolts.

Ethereal Force Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana

A bolt of ethereal mana unerringly strikes a target for WIL.

Ethereal Ooze Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana

A bolt of ethereal ooze inexorably slaps a target for 15 + WIL, and coats them for one minute.

Tangled Bloody Ooze Bolt, instant, long range, 25 + Variable mana

A bolt of ethereal bloody ooze inexorably slaps a target for 3x Variable, then deals constricting damage each second for one minute.

Mercy Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana.

A bolt of mercy inexorably strikes a target for 15 + WIL.

Air Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana.

A bolt of air inexorably strikes a target for 15 + WIL. May cause suffocation.

Slowing Bolt, instant, long range, 15 mana + Variable

An ethereal bolt of mist inexorably strikes a target, inflicting Slow for a Variable length of time.

Very high Variable costs may inflict Stop.

Extreme Light Bolt, instant, long range, 50 mana

A bolt of extreme light inexorably strikes a target, causing 2x WIL points of damage to magical structures.

Benevolence Jolt, instant, long range, 7 mana

An ethereal bolt of benevolence inexorably strikes a target for <5x WIL effect>. <Effect multiplies when acting on behalf of [][][][][][][][][].>

After looking over his options, Erick said, “Most mages at my level have Bolts of every flavor, right? I only have 15.”

“15?!” Quilatalap barked a laugh. “That’s about 50 fewer than I imagined you had.”

Erick studied Quilatalap in that moment, probably more than he should have if he wanted to remain secure in his own emotions, to let him do what he needed to do; to work. Quilatalap was both strong, and fragile, and the man hated that part about himself so, so much. Emotional vulnerability was one thing, and Quilatalap was wonderful in that way. But Fairy Moon made him physically vulnerable, and that made him jagged and dangerous.

The Archlich of Necromancy was trying very hard to be softer, right now.

His emotions were still all over the place.

Erick felt that Quilatalap would feel a lot better inside the dungeon, if it truly was as adjustable and protected as Fallopolis and Melemizargo and that black book suggested it would be…

Erick got his head in the game, asking, “So [Editing Bolt]? Mana Alter for Book, and [Force Bolt]? Anything special about the [Force Bolt]? Etherealness, inexorableness? Anything like that?”

Quilatalap nodded, saying, “You can do it either way. Include all of that, and have every [Editing Bolt] you throw have those inherent capabilities, no matter if your original Bolt spells do not. Or make your [Editing Bolt] basic, then mix and match Inexorable and Ethereal from your target combination spells, as needed. [Editing Bolt] is probably too complicated to go for the heightened descriptors, though. I would stick with the original descriptors.”

Erick thought. “There’re few scenarios I can think of where I would want something less powerful in my arsenal, but the basics are good to know, too.”

Quilatalap nodded.

Erick held up a hand and, since he had no Book spells, he channeled [Identify] through his palm. The sound of the most basic Book Magic spell was as complicated this time as the last time Erick had dipped his toes into this particular magic.

Eventually, Erick stopped and asked, “Got a Book spell I can listen to?”

Quilatalap held up his hand and produced a prominence of black magic that sounded like everything and nothing all at once. Like static, but also like a TV station playing in the other room. There were words but they were unintelligible.

“Different one?”

The flare of black magic switched.

Erick listened, then said, “You can put it away. Elemental Book sounds like a telepathic connection to a child— Oh. Is there Book Magic in [Telepathy]?”

“Yes. A minor amount. At its base effect, [Telepathy] is two minds connecting and sharing ideas and images, but there’s some Book Magic in there that allows for the reduction of all of that into words. This reduction vastly increases the mana-to-effect ratio of that magic.”

Erick had once channeled [Telepathy], so he knew what to expect a bit from this next experiment. It was still weird, though. Erick held up a hand, channeled [Telepathy], and listened to the emptiness of the throne room all around, along with a few of his own untempered thoughts, and the complete stillness of Quilatalap. The guy was very controlled right now, not allowing anything to slip out anywhere.

Weird.

[Telepathy] was weird.

Erick cut the spell and tried to use Ophiel to replicate the sounds he had heard, but the sounds were too complicated to copy. Ophiel ended up sounding like several record players playing at the same time, which was not the sound of Elemental Book at all.

He wasn’t getting anywhere with more tests, so Erick decided to just go for it. He took Mana Altering for Elemental Book, combined it with [Force Bolt], and injected the intent to be able to edit any and all of his other Bolt-based spells.

A flicker of power spat out of Erick’s hand and impacted the floor. A box appeared—

Editing Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana + Variable

A bolt of <variable other bolts> unerringly strikes a target for <variable effect>.

— but Erick was more focused on the spell that had just come out of his hand. Before the bolt had struck the ground, Erick saw that the Bolt was actually a swirl of white mana made up of the words ‘BOLT’, in multiple fonts and languages and sizes, from as small as hair, repeating a thousand times, and wrapped like a bundle of thread around itself, to a centimeter tall, and forming the main mana form of the Bolt. It was quite pretty, really.

Erick checked the recent past in the manasphere, to look at the spell more closely, and some of the words in the Bolt had transformed at various points in the spell’s lifespan. ‘Zoom’ was present in the tail section of the spell, while ‘Aim’ was in the front section. When the Bolt hit the ground, all the words had transformed into ‘bam’, along with a scattering of a few exclamation marks.

Erick came back to himself, saying, “It makes a Bolt of words?”

“Words of power, yes.” Quilatalap said, “To use Elemental Book is to view and categorize the world through its information. Remember when I said earlier that Elemental Book makes for crude transformations when used to cause an effect on an object? Well, since all magic is possibility given form, if you use Elemental Book in stationary, solid magics, like [Force Wall], you’ll actually strengthen the wall’s defensive properties, because to use Elemental Book is to solidly, surely, communicate your intent to the mana. Elemental Illusion and Mystical work very well with Book, for that specific reason… As long as you keep the resultant illusion simple and direct.”

More than 20 seconds had passed during Quilatalap’s speaking on Book, which meant another Script Second came around. For this next experiment Erick didn’t want to strike the floor of his throne room, though, so he had an Ophiel conjure a [Fairy Item]; a plain white boulder.

Erick mentally lined up two of his Bolt spells as he cast [Editing Bolt].

A shining star of brilliance rocketed out of Erick’s hand and slammed into the boulder. The boulder didn’t budge, and it didn’t break, either. The faintest scorch mark painted the white boulder, but that was it. There were no words in the Bolt Erick had just fired —he checked— like there had been with [Editing Bolt], and Erick didn’t get another blue box.

Erick hummed to himself, though, because the Bolts he chose to combine didn’t really prove the power of [Editing Bolt] at all.

Quilatalap asked, “What was that one?”

“A [Pure Force Beam Bolt] and a [Radiance Bolt].” Erick said, “Hard to tell the difference between an Edited version, and what would happen if I combined them normally, though. I think I might have to make some Bolt spells specifically for testing.”

It took him a minute, due to the time dilation of the Feast Barrier, but Erick eventually made a few different Bolts.

Fire Bolt, instant, long range, 7 mana

A bolt of fire unerringly strikes a target and splashes in a minor area, lingering on all surfaces for 5 seconds, causing 2x WIL damage per second.

Frozen Bolt, instant, long range, 7 mana

A bolt of frost unerringly strikes a target for 15 damage, inflicting a minor slow for 30 seconds.

Decay Bolt, instant, long range, 18 mana

A bolt of decay unerringly strikes a target and splashes in a minor area, lingering on all surfaces for 30 seconds, causing ½ WIL damage per second.

