Erick smiled as he saw the little angle-bracket messages, the second of which was clearly meant for him. He chuckled as he saw the refunded points that he had spent on the Slot Increase Quest, which felt like so long ago. Everything was going so crazy. Weird. Different. Too fast by half, for sure. As Erick shoved 50 points in both Willpower and Focus, for more mana and more throughput, he spared a glance at his new Status, and at a few older parts that he hadn’t looked at in a while.

Erick Flatt

Protean, age 0

Level 65, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 1.19e15/ 2.77e15

Class: 11/11

Points: 17

HP

14,400/14,400

51,840 per day

MP

29,178/35,160

51,840 per day

Strength

92

+48

[140]

Vitality

91

+48

[139]

Dexterity

92

+48

[140]

Constitution

91

+48

[139]

Perception

103

+48

[151]

Willpower

245

+48

[293]

Focus

245

+48

[293]

Intelligence

104

+48

[152]

Favored Spell Waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Particle Mage

Spend 100 mana to discover if a Particle spell is possible, greatly reducing the risk of Errors.

If you witness a Particle spell and you understand it, you may unlock that spell for free.

Major Mana Shaping applies to all Spells. Altering ongoing Auras is considerably easier.

Lesser World Warden

Mana Shield

Your ability to create new Particle Spells is Greatly Increased.

Quest Board

Blood Mana

Light Dedication

Force Savant

Gatemaster

Rozeta’s Recovery

The sum of your Health and Mana Regeneration now applies to both Health and Mana Regeneration.

Immune to Health Fatigue and Mana Exhaustion.

Lesser World Warden

Double resources. Double damage done.

He had three different ‘Rozeta’ Boons now and he was a ‘World Warden’, wasn’t he?

He supposed he was...

Erick was a guardian against… Well. Not ‘the Dark’, but surely against something bad. Wrongheaded decisions made by other people? The slow march of myriad monsters who would consume the world and everyone in it, if they were allowed to proliferate? The insanity of others? Sure. All of that sounded rather correct.

So let’s go fix the problems caused by others.

Hmm.

This is how Kromolok feels most of the time, isn’t it?

It probably was.

- - - -

Shadow’s Feast did not end in a war, or a fight, or any violence at all.

It ended in the collaboration of shadow and light and everything in between. A reincarnated administrator penned a plan for rapid Gate Network expansion across the world in a mad dash to replace the ubiquitous [Teleport]. A priest of the Dark and a Book Mage of metal came up with magics that would ensure the Gate Network remained secure. An archlich spoke with the Culler of Shades and got his own black book of dungeon mastering; he would be venturing inside the portal to House Benevolence’s official dungeon after the Feast was over.

And the Wizard of Benevolence made another few spells, all of which would ensure that what came next would be solid. Secure. Perhaps even better than it was before? Maybe. He still wasn’t comfortable enough with Book Magic to sing any songs to the mana, but that step proved unnecessary. Along with the help of Lapis, Aisha, and Quilatalap, and even a little bit of his new Gatemaster Class Ability, Erick was able to create [Gate Control].

Gate Control, instant, super long range, 5,000 mana

Summon a controlling anima that swallows a gate, allowing for control of a few aspects of that specific gate. Permanent enchantment.

It wasn’t perfect. But it was workable. When cast on a [Gate], Erick could freely flicker around both sides of the [Gate] at will. Erick could make a better version of [Gate Control] later, when the crisis of the loss of [Teleport] wasn’t nearly so immediate. For now, this was good enough.

Aisha was absolutely sure that, with a talk with Stratagold, that they could create a proper Gate Hub runic device that would allow for true Gate security.

As the night came to a close it was time for the gift giving, which ended up being all Erick, and no one else, for no one else had expected the Feast to actually get to this point. Mostly all Erick, anyway.

Fairy Moon announced, “I have given you the gift of no war! A Feast of futures and a time of no-troubles! Invite me again if you wish to repeat this revelry next year, but next year I will have the beginnings of a kingdom of my own kind to contend with, so I will not be offended if I am not offered an invitation. I likely won’t be able to accept, anyway.”

Everyone was perfectly fine with that.

And Erick handed out All-Stat mana-light rings to everyone; not All-Stat personally-enchanted rings. These ones would not work in Ar’Cosmos, but they would work everywhere else. It was a simple thing for Erick to make a whole bunch of those, thanks to [Duplicate], and so he did; In every size, and a lot more than he needed to make, too. The Cooks and servants all got a pair of them, granting them in total +50 to All Stats, but there were still a hundred silver-covered diamond rings left over when the giving was done.

Erick decided that Enforcement would get the extras.

They’d need them in the coming days. In the chaos and tragedy to come, as the whole of Veird changed, as every society, organization, and person, lost the ability to [Teleport]. At least the monsters should be slowly rushing into the dungeons that were already spawning across the world, but that was surely going to be yet another clusterfuck.

And yet...

Erick didn’t want to hope too much, or say too much, but he was secretly happy that the overall power-level of the world was decreasing. Was that a hypocritical thing to say? Well… Yes, it definitely was.

Erick needed power to keep the world together, but no one else needed the power to blow up mountains, or flicker across the world and assassinate whoever they wished. People should be safe in their homes, and not have to worry about blitz-wars, or all of the other shit that [Teleport] supported.

As for the other problem: If the dungeon cores and their experimental-Scripts eventually showed a way for there to be a softer system with less war, less horror, and more hope for a better future, then the cores were good for Veird, too.

- - - -

Erick stood with Quilatalap on the glass-dome roof of the throne room of House Benevolence. Others stood nearby, while most opted to stand on the other domed roofs of the other towers of the House. Outside of the Feast Barrier, the sun was about to crest the horizon. For a few minutes more, though, the sky around the House was a view of deep void and stars, brightness glittering in the darkness, and a depth that was deeper than it had any right to be—

And then the sky shifted.

Erick held Quilatalap’s hand, squeezing gently, and the big guy solidified the embrace, holding tight, both of them breathing deep in preparation for what was to come.

The darkness above began to fracture. The sky broke like the subtle cracking of a mirror. One great line of light suddenly shattered up from the east, where the horizon met the sun, the crack spreading upward and outward. Illusionary nebulae and distant universes broke under the breaking of the night. Erick’s constellations of Nodes broke, too, the false stars vanishing in the light.

And then, like so much broken magic, the darkness broke between the House and the sun, and then shattered completely. The dome of the Feast Barrier was gone.

The sky was twilight and gold as the sun crested the horizon.

A cold northern wind blew into the Gate District, from where shadows still hung in the air. But even those shadows were in retreat. All across the world, the distant sky, the very Edge of the Script, was turning clear again, as Melemizargo pulled his magic away—

Quilatalap suddenly said, “I love you Erick. Come find me when you need a break from the sun.”

And then he bent down and kissed Erick on the lips. The big man tried to pull away, to leave without lingering, but Erick’s hand went to Quilatalap’s face, gently, loving. They lingered in the sun for a moment, and then Quilatalap had to leave. Erick didn’t want him to leave, but they had had this talk, and Quilatalap was going.

Erick whispered, “Love you too, Quilatalap.”

Quilatalap chuckled, a happy, sad sort of sound.

And then he departed, vanishing in a step of shadows.

Erick stood alone on the roof of his throne room.

They’d meet again later. Eventually.

Soon.

But for now, Erick surveyed his land. The House itself was a mess of plants and extra balconies that were not there before, and a bunch of statues of Melemizargo. That was going to be a problem. He looked out into the Gate District. There was a lot of infrastructure out there that would need to change, and additions that would need to happen.

[Telepathy] messages began rolling in, hard and heavy. Demanding. Questioning. Some were furious, but they didn’t get a chance to be too mad directly toward Erick, for another voice rapidly corralled all the rest.

Poi sent, ‘Welcome back, Erick. The gods spoke to everyone out here already. I understand we’ve got a lot of work to do.’

‘That we do.’
