And slowly, wonderfully, Erick felt he was learning more magic, which was great, but also, Quilatalap was healing. Most of that healing had been done out of sight, which Erick understood, but still hurt. Things were not perfect between them. The future looked rocky. But there would be a future, and that was important. Everything could be made better, as long as there was something to be made better, after all, and that included relationships.

Somewhere between tests of Rift spellwork and tests of multiple [Gate]s and roughly-carved Gates that served as little more than anchors, Erick paused.

He turned to Quilatalap. “You said earlier that you might even love me, and I think I love you too. Just thought I should make that clear.”

Quilatalap chuckled, then looked away. He turned back, nodded, and then— He stood straighter. “Oh! You might need to make a tier 2 [Gate] spell that is specifically Editable. Just add some hooks to the base spell. And! You might also need to actually get Gatemaster.”

Erick chuckled. “All good ideas. How to add hooks, though?”

Quilatalap grinned. “I’d love to hear you sing again.”

Erick felt his face heat. “Maybe once I understand how Elemental Book works then I’ll sing a song, but blind creation seems like a bad idea.”

Quilatalap nodded, and the conversation moved on.

- - - -

Erick eventually decided to break from the magic talk, and from Book experiments. He had something he needed to do.

While Quilatalap went back downstairs to rejoin the groups and figure out where he wanted to be in this new world order, besides as a dungeon master, Erick took a moment and put up a Privacy.

It was time to go through some menus with the goal of selecting Gatemaster as one of his new Abilities.

The only problem was that he had to get rid of something else, first, and he wasn’t sure what, except that he didn’t want to get rid of anything at all. He had Phagar on call with the one Ability that didn’t seem too useful anymore, so even if he didn’t ask about Particle Magic spells, that Ability was still useful. The Quest Board was the next option on the chopping block, but that one would still allow him to check out what people were Questing for all around… Which was something Erick hadn’t done in a while, but which he would get to, soon enough.

Anyway!

There, in that private space, inside his throne room, Erick decided he wanted another talk with Rozeta.

It was time to get his boon.

“Hey, Rozeta,” Erick said to the Privacy-filled air. “I’d like to discuss that boon, now.”

Rozeta stepped into the throne room as a white wrought woman in a pantsuit. “This isn’t a safe space to talk, Erick.”

Erick was briefly surprised that she chose to appear in person, but he moved on. “Which interloper is the one to worry about?”

“All of them. Mostly my father, but the fairy is also listening in. Quilatalap’s eyes are acceptable, but I am not happy that all the Shades are also watching.”

“I guess that gets right to the heart of the other matter I wished to discuss… If you don’t trust them, how could you go along with this so fast? What happened to waiting?”

“He offered the universe, and we took it before he could retract his offer. Even if he changes his mind later, he doesn’t actually control the magic that makes these dungeon cores possible. This isn’t a shadeling-situation. This is a Mind Mage situation.”

“The Mind Mages were originally made to kill the world.”

“This is correct. There are ways that this dungeon core business could still go bad. But the Mind Mages were not truly under my father’s control, and neither are the dungeon cores. We believe we can control this situation. Our own meeting with my father started as soon as Fallopolis and the others stepped out of that Dungeon Gate downstairs, and all the world knew what my father had made. Ten months of subjective time, we spent going over this magic. We know the ins and outs of dungeons. The hazards to expect. The good that is possible. We know what we’re doing.”

For a long moment, Erick just thought.

He had some arguments. He had some counterpoints. Mainly, the dungeons all made gate spaces inside the Darkness itself, which Melemizargo still controlled. But there was no point.

“It’s as simple as that, eh?”

“As simple as that.” Rozeta added, “Also, while I’m here: I haven’t gone through all of the changes necessary to implement what you wrote about electromagnetism and magnetospheres and solar winds, but I’ve tested them on smaller scales. And they do work. With that knowledge, I believe I can boost the efficiency of the entire Script by half over. This is a greatness that is almost on level with your creation of Benevolence.

“Almost no one will notice the magnetosphere, though. It will have absolutely no effect on the daily lives of the average person, except for, perhaps, a few very observant astronomers. There might also be some auroras at the poles which will be completely new. I expect them to be pretty, and will likely mess with some controls to ensure as such.

“People will eventually notice those.

“And if they go looking, or if you go telling, people will find out what you have done there, too. You’ve improved the lives of every single person, from here unto eternity, yet again; as you have done before; as I am sure you will do again. I feel I should be surprised that you did this latest miracle through the use of electricity, but really… Looking back at all the connections of your paradoxical life, the connection between [Call Lightning] and Benevolence, this newest change is both surprising, and not surprising at all.” Rozeta said, “You have earned a second Great Boon for this contribution. If I could give you more than that, I would, but a customizable boon is the largest I can do, and now you have two of those waiting for you. Would you like to discuss the first one?”

… Erick had had a plan before he called Rozeta, to ask about his boon. That plan had changed a little now that he could get two boons, but first, he needed to ask some questions.

“Could I get a boon to make me immune to Elemental Fae?”

“Yes. And you should not take it.”

Completely expected. “Why, though?”

“Because then you couldn’t make a [Fairy Banishing] spell. Make that spell and put it in a charm which will automatically cast when you’re targeted by Fae Magic. That’s almost what Quilatalap does, and it would work in most scenarios, but the fairy has quite a lot of sway on him for what he has done and tried to do to Ar’Cosmos back in the Rage Wars.” Rozeta said, “And, those types of spells don’t work as well as they should, because there’s only one Band of Intent for Fairy right now, and the fairy has preeminence over her Element; all lesser Fae Magic breaks in her presence. It still works most of the time, though. Enough to give a Wizard some leverage, if necessary.”

Erick froze. “… That’s possible?”

Rozeta said, “It won’t really work on the one you’re worried about. But when the Bands open up and the worlds further open, we’ll get entirely new fae on Veird. Mostly, they will stay in Ar’Cosmos, and in Fairy. Mostly, the one you’re worried about will lord over all the rest of them, and be way too busy to meddle with mortals. And mostly, a [Fairy Banishing] will be a lot easier once there are multiple Bands of Intent for that Element. I suspect it will become a necessary spell for people like you in the future.

“For they’ll come for you, as you are an ally of that one fairy.

“If you are immune to Fae Magic, you won’t see them coming, and they will find you disgusting and try to end your life. On the other avenue, as an ally of that fairy, and if you are not immune to Fae Magic, all the rest will be utterly polite, as long as you act properly in return.”

“… I will need to work on that magic, then.” Erick moved on. “I’d like a few more Class Ability Slots, if I can get them?”

“I can give you around 10 more, but that’s the limit of what I can do, for I am not actually increasing anything.” Rozeta said, “For others, what you ask would be impossible, for 10 is near the limit a normal soul can handle, and the Script takes a lot of effort to make that possible; 10 points per increased Ability Slot, sort of effort. This bolstering is done to the soul clarity and purpose of a person, in order to increase their capacity for Abilities. For you, as a Wizard with a Truth and your own Element, I am actually removing a limitation to let you have power that is yours by right of might. When you gain multiple cores and eventually ascend to Full Wizard, I imagine that this particular Boon will add yet another 10-ish Class Ability slots, for I’ll make it a variable boon. That increase will happen without us needing to have a conversation about it. If this is what you want, I will make it happen.”

“Uh… You’re a lot more talkative than usual.”

“Timetables are speeding up. Not too fast, I hope. But they are speeding right along, as my father shows that he might have actually regained his sanity. I still cannot believe that the Relevant Entities believe him so easily, and especially Koyabez, but… I cannot become an enemy to all the rest of the Relevant Entities. I must remain impartial.”

That was a lot to take in, and yet completely expected, in hindsight.

Erick said, “I will take the Ability boon.”

“Done. The boon will take 24 hours to fully manifest, so by this time tomorrow you will have 10 more Class Ability Slots.”

Erick felt a tiny pinprick of heartburn in his core as some ephemeral golden fire flickered outward from some hidden, internal space. And then the fire settled down, and began to simply glow. Erick breathed. “Well okay then.”

“For your second Great Boon?”

“Not sure. Wasn’t expecting a second one. Got any suggestions?”

“Automagic accretion, purification, and implantation. Your core will never need to be maintained ever again, and if broken, it will heal. If you accidentally take in unwanted mana, then that will be gradually cleaned away. It will also allow you to make as many extra cores as you wish, and implant those cores with copies of whatever spellwork you wish to put inside of them.” Rozeta said, “This boon won’t accrete for you, but it will make the process near-painless. As a side note, if you give one of these extra cores to a dungeon master copy of yourself, then that dungeon master copy will have access to some of your spellwork.”

“… You want to make copies of me.”

“Absolutely. Yes. This is one of the main reasons that we agreed to the Dungeon Core program. Extra saints are always a good thing. You were only part of the consideration, though. For the Relevant Entities, we gain copies of people who will improve the world, while for my father, he gains people who know true magic, and who can spread that knowledge around.”

Erick had no idea how he felt about that.

“It cannot be as simple as that.”

“Correct. Only those that the Relevant Entities and my father approve of will be allowed to empower a dungeon master slime with a core. Right now that list is two people long: you and Quilatalap.”

“… So that means all the rest of them will remain fake people? And he’s okay with making fake people? Fake ‘mes’? Fake… archliches? Assuming I make copies of myself and don’t give them a core… I’m still having trouble with the idea of making more of me.”

“Most dungeon master slimes will be on the level of young [Familiar]s; acting out lives without actually having any. Any dungeon master slimes that gain a core through living long enough and growing enough will have, by definition of ‘real’, become a real person. Any you grant a core to will become real, instantly. This is the same process by which we eventually expect the random person characters to become real, and to then leave their dungeon and seek their lives in the real world.”

Erick scrunched his face. “Is the lack of a core the reason why he felt that everyone was fake, for so long?”

“One of a thousand thousand different reasons, most of which were contradictory with one another.”

“… I’ll take the accretion improvements, then, and…” Erick looked to Rozeta. “I hope you know what you’re doing, because this seems very fast to me.”

“There will be problems, Erick. I hope to have your assistance in solving them.”

“You have it.”

Rozeta smiled a little, full of warmth. “Glad to have it. The accretion boon will take place over the next hour. When you feel secure, try manifesting a core behind your belly button. That’s the general area where second-cores are manifested. Also, your first of 10 more Ability Slots have opened. Got a preference for an Ability?”

“Gatemaster. Got a list of what it actually does, though?”

“Double the effective range of your gate space. Minor improvements to everything gate related.”

“Haaaa.”

“I can give you guesses, but they wouldn’t be any more correct than what you have already received, for that Class Ability truly is unique for everyone who gains it. The ability for [Gate] to withstand movement is a common one, while coming back after being disturbed is another. Allowing for the casting of [Gate] outside of the Script Second is a high possibility, almost guaranteed, while something specific to Benevolence is also assured, but I know not what. I apologize for being quick about this, but is that all, Erick?”

“Yes. Appreciated.”

Rozeta said, “Thank you, Erick, for everything you have done. We are all surely in your debt.”

Rozeta vanished in a flicker of gold fire.

And blue boxes appeared.

Rozeta’s Abilities

Gain extra class ability slots based on your soul’s capacity. <Current capacity: 11>

Rozeta’s Accretion

Your core now passively repairs itself. Gaining extra cores is easier. All Script-gained spellwork can now be copied between your cores at will, providing a backup or the perfect fuel for core-magics. <Or a specific loadout for whatever reasons, such as going incognito, or donating sapience to another.>

+40 points

A refund for the points you spent on the Class Ability Slot Increase Quest.

+50 points

For your continued contributions to Veird.

May we benefit from your benevolence for a long time to come.

Unexpected!

