While he had done that, he and Quilatalap had spoken about basic spells, and how they all combined in weird ways under the influence of Book Magic, and how Book Magic was not ‘word magic’, though some people called it that. Erick asked about the tiny magics that he and Quilatalap never really spoke about, and Quilatalap happily spoke of Bolt and Wall and Bomb and Crash; all the various basic forms of Force Magic.

Erick shot out some weirdly-done [Editing Bolt]s at a target.

Soon, Erick was throwing truly strange combinations. Using his new spells, he managed to make a Bolt of white magic that impacted with the explosion of a tiny fire, spreading droplets of Decaying, freezing mist over a small area. In the very next use of [Editing Bolt], using the same input-Bolts, Erick made a spike of ice that partially turned to snow when it hit, and ignited into white fire.

Soon, Quilatalap said, “Looks like you’re getting the hang of it. Moving on to the Editing spell? If you don’t get it right, there’s the lesser version made with [Force Bomb], instead of [Force Wave]. That one is a lot more unwieldy, though. Some might even call it explosive!”

Erick laughed at the joke.

And Quilatalap smiled.

And then Erick rolled his shoulders, feeling the magic and listening to Elemental Book, sung by Ophiel as soon as Erick asked it to be sung. He listened, and heard nuanced noise. He lined up his full idea. [Force Wave], [Identify], Mana Altering for Elemental Book. All Force becomes Book, categorizing the world all around, but especially a Variable amount of targets, soaking into those items in particular, allowing Erick to move around attributes at will.

Erick had two Ophiel cast two different [Fairy Item] boulders onto the ground in front of him. Both were the same, except for their color. One was red on top, blue on bottom. The other was red on bottom, and blue on top. It would make for a good test.

Then Erick cast.

A pulse of power rolled out of him, suddenly and in every direction. That pulse washed over Ophiels and Quilatalap, and struck the boulders. In that soaking second, Erick saw and understood what he was looking at, and he also imposed his will on what he wanted to change.

The wave of power passed.

One boulder was full-red, the other full-blue.

Erick breathed out, tension passing, as he felt like he had passed a crucial worldly test. If he had needed to wait a day to try again then that would probably mean thousands dead, due to some Gates not going out—

A blue box appeared.

Editing, instant, medium range, 50 mana + Variable

Permanently edit the physical parameters of influenced items.

Erick showed the box to Quilatalap.

“Decent. More importantly, it’s workable. Aurify?”

Erick melded [Editing] with Mana Shaping’s Aurify, and the world turned strange. Everything was not made of words at all, and yet, if Erick focused on anything at all, his mind instantly dissected every little thing he knew about that. He looked at his own hand, and at first, he saw it made of the words ‘hand’, but then as a second passed, Erick saw ‘skin’ and ‘finger’. Another moment caused Erick to recognize his ‘thumb’, to differentiate that one from all the rest. As soon as Erick saw that ‘thumb’ difference, his other fingers changed, listing themselves as ‘index finger’ and all the rest, before Erick looked even closer and saw ‘fingernail’ and ‘cuticle’ and—

A big blue box appeared right in front of his sight.

He read the words, and saw it was the box for [Editing Aura]—

Editing Aura, instant, medium range, 50 mana + Variable per second

Sense reality in a different way, and then edit it, if you can.

— but he also saw, in that blue box, deeper words than he had ever known before. His fingers were labeled simply. But this blue box was bolded in some ineffable way, like someone had taken the very unreality of Erick’s Personal Reality and carved a small truth into the fabric of it all, and the words were all about the spell. [Editing Aura] was so much more than the words there on the box, but the box had done such a good job at describing what Erick was sensing, that he had no idea what he could possibly have done better.

On a whim, Erick opened up several other boxes.

They were all the same. They were all small truths, locked into blue backgrounds and white text, except, of course, the ones that were not blue and white. But even his special spells, like [Perfect Benevolence], with their white boxes, were the way they were due to what it would take to truly describe them.

Erick dismissed the blue boxes, promising himself that he would return to those later, and then he took in the two boulders sitting in front of him. Red on the left, blue on the right. Erick focused his [Editing Aura] focused on those boulders, and Erick understood them as stone and paint, though he knew they were not. They were [Fairy Item]. Erick learned another thing in that moment. [Fairy Item] was good enough to fool [Editing Aura], even when Erick knew what he was looking at.

Erick ignored that foible for the moment.

Erick saw the ‘red’ and the ‘blue’ parameters, like oil sitting atop the stone. With a flex of will, Erick popped that color to the surface. Words flowed through the air, from one rock to the other, like two schools of fish suddenly switching ponds. In a flashing second, the red rock was now blue, and the blue was red.

Erick flicked his power again, trying for something more complicated; for polka dots.

He smiled, as the red rock gained blue dots, and the blue rock gained red dots. The word ‘circle’ even demarcated those dots on both boulders now, like an extra descriptor added, pulled from the ether. He glanced at his mana, and knew that what he had done with the dots likely would have cost a thousand mana or more, but with his Intelligence, Erick barely noticed the 50 mana per second drain of the aura, or the cost of actually using the aura.

Erick blinked away the words of the world, ending his [Editing Aura]. It took a moment for him to come back to his proper mind, for words to stop appearing in his sight… But they weren’t really appearing in his ‘sight’ at all, were they?

“While active… It was like I was the center of a shifting part of the world. I think I defaulted to mana sense, instead of sight, but… hard to say.” Erick said to Quilatalap, “That was one of the trippiest situations I have ever experienced.”

Quilatalap smiled softly. “[Editing Aura] is a strange time, for sure. Did you see all the limitations, though?”

“What I saw was rather simple. Those boulders are [Fairy Item], but that wasn’t present at all. Is that what you mean?”

“Exactly. Book Magic is crude, but powerful in its crudeness. Moving around a [Gate] should be possible, though.”

“Just need to make a spell-eating spell that allows for control over the resultant spell, but not in a way that is a [Teleport Spell] sort of situation, because that’ll bloat the control schemes of the Gates about a hundred times over, considering what Tasar and Archmage’s Rest needed to do to make their t-stations work in the Dark.”

Quilatalap said, “At least you won’t have to worry about duration preservation when it comes to this theoretical spell. That would bloat the mechanisms of it all by a factor of Elemental Time.”

Erick smiled. “Or I could use [Renew]. Or better yet, have my Renew Network connect to them all.”

Quilatalap stood a fraction straighter. “Ah.” He grinned. “I suppose you could.”

“What other sorts of factors should we account for?”

Quilatalap nodded, then said, “Well… This is something I have been thinking about for a little while now, and now, speaking of [Renew], this is a good time to bring it up.

“I’m not sure this is even possible, but: If you want to use the sort of [Control Gate] spell we devise today offensively, as a more generic [Control Spell] spell, then having a backwards-flowing [Renew] might be useful.

“[Renew] doesn’t allow you to take over ownership of a spell, as far as I know, but if you attack the spell from the other direction, and have your [Control Spell] flicker at the target spell, and have your [Control Spell] adopt the mana signature of the target spell, then you could take over any spell you see. I’m rather sure that you wouldn’t gain near as much actual control over any ongoing magic with as much precision as the caster of that magic, but you could gain some modicum of control. Enough to cancel any magic you wished, at the very least. It would be Tricking Magic but on a much more general scale. [Ultimate Dispel], if you want to give it a name. One spell, 100 mana, cancel any magic out there.”

Erick stood rooted to the spot as he considered all of that.

“… Ah. That’s a problem, then?”

“Just another way to do magic, really.” Quilatalap shrugged. “Might not even work, but theoretically, it sounds like it should. I doubt anyone but a truly great Book Mage would be able to make that magic, though. Or a Wizard. The actual impact on the world will be minimal, but that might change in a good decade or so, when [Renew] goes Open Script and a bunch of people start considering this backwards-[Renew].”

“You’ve been thinking of this for a while?”

Quilatalap shrugged. “This recent foray into Book Magic has me thinking of how [Renew] will interact with that. Particle Magic, too. I’ve tested my own [Editing Aura] a little bit before today and I don’t see the ‘particles’ that I know to be there. It is quite possible that Book Magic is simply too crude to make this sort of [All Canceler] or [All Controller] [Renew]-based spell.” Quilatalap said, “I do know that Book Magic can be used to switch around active spells that you control, even though that is rather difficult… But controlling the spells of others is something else entirely, because the spellwork of others is very much not under your influence, because of the ‘everyone’s mana is different’ problem, but then you have [Renew], which solves that problem. But [Renew] doesn’t allow control of spellwork, either. [Renew] changes one’s own mana to match the mana in the targeted spell… So you’re going to have to do some odd stuff to get that to work backwards. Still. Might be possible.”

Erick thought. “… I’ll consider [All Controller] later. For now, I need [Gate Control] to work on my own [Gate]s.” Erick popped a pair of [Gate]s into the air, each one leading to the other, about a meter apart. For a moment, Erick had wondered if he could [Gate] inside the Feast, but he could; no problem. “Okay then! Let’s see if [Editing Aura] works like it should?”

Quilatalap nodded.

And Erick transformed the world into words.

A minute later, Erick retracted his ‘word sense’ and pondered aloud, “I don’t see anything to grab onto, to switch around the locations of the [Gate]s. Size, shape, location, destination; none of that is visible. All I can really see is a ring of the word ‘Benevolence’ and ‘link’ and ‘gate’ repeated over and over in the lightning ring. I am able to confirm that both [Gate]s are actually separate entities, though, since the specific spiraling of the words is different in both locations. Theoretically, I should be able to move one or the other, but… I don’t see anything to grab onto; to shift.” Erick asked, “What do you see?”

“About the same. This means you need to add some links, through some other method. You were going to put your [Gate]s into proper Gates anyway, so perhaps we can test to see if a Gate can serve as a proper ‘destination’.” Quilatalap said, “And yet… With this step, I think we might have discovered a cliff, and not a simple step— Ah. I know. Let’s pull back a fraction and you can try Editing some [Force Wall]s around. Those are always anchored properly. Put out a few of them and try moving them around. If you can’t see the anchors in them, then your [Gate] issue is more fundamental.”

Easy enough.

Erick cast another spell that he hadn’t used in a long time, and a lot faster than the current limitations of the Script Second would allow, too. Within a single second, a good ten [Quick Wall]s went up into the air, each of them Shaped into different numbers, 0 through 9. 20 seconds later, Erick was finally able to use [Editing Aura] again.

This time, unlike with [Gate], Erick saw some threads he could pull.

Each [Force Wall] held Force, of course, but here and there were Shapings upon those workings, like matrices of written words woven into the spellwork. With a flicker of intent, Erick shifted around the Shapings he had imposed onto the Walls, transforming one number to another, shifting around the 3 and the 7, and then the 4 and the 5. With a greater pulse of power, he switched everything back to how it had been before, and then another flicker reversed the order.

Extrapolating from his mana, with his bonuses to cost reduction, it took about 5000 base mana to do all that switching. Only took him 250.

He noticed a problem, though. Here and there the Force structure of the Walls was fraying.

“I think I’ve damaged the spells?”

Quilatalap smiled. “Yes. You have. The result of improper Editing is usually a reduced duration, or the destruction of the spell itself. This is fixable through learning how to better use [Editing], but you can simply fix the damaged spellwork with [Renew]…” He lost his smile. “Probably? Try it and see.”

With his [Editing Aura] still active, Erick had an Ophiel pump some [Renew] into the fraying numbers, and they were repaired fully. The altered Shapings took full hold in their assigned Walls, and the Force solidified once again.

Erick nodded. “A confirmed theory, then. You were worried that a mal-Edited spell wouldn’t be able to come back with [Renew]?”

“Yes. But… I suppose I shouldn’t have been worried about that. Hmm. You probably realize this, but you can’t actually repair spellwork through Book Magic. It’s been tried and failed millions of times before. What you just did with [Renew] continues to amaze.”

Erick smiled. “When I went looking into [Renew] I briefly looked at Book Magic, saw that people had tried this before, and then failed.”

“That’s why I didn’t suggest Book Magic to you at all, back when you asked last year. The Tears of Aloeth worked out, though?”

“It was a good direction to start.”

Quilatalap nodded, thinking.

Erick continued, “Any other suggestions for better learning Book Magic?”

“Quite a lot!”

Quilatalap spoke of spellwork. Erick did tests.

