Dominic shoved him forward and Yosef went from his crouch to an upright position, which gave him a better view of the jungle around them.

Roderic coughed as Dominic’s healing pulsed.

Fifteen seconds later, he was back on his feet, which was just in time for the man-sized panther to attack once more.

Feeling the lack of air movement, Yosef called out, “False!”

Roderic spun to the side just as Yosef felt the movement. Despite being a decade younger, the melee fighter was damn good at his job. Him getting his throat torn out had been the first time Yosef had seen the man get caught off guard like that in the year and a half they had been delving together.

Yosef raised his bulky rifle and caressed the trigger twice. Two chest-compressing thumps echoed through the opening as two energized streams of sand laced water arced out.

The first one missed and cut through three trees on its way deeper into the rift, but the second shot punched a hole right through the panther's chest. At the same time, Dominic reached out and clenched his fist, and Yosef felt his power over movement weaken as the healer's Domain tried to keep things still and preserved.

It felt wrong, like nails on a chalkboard to his own Concept, but the move was enough to let Roderic land a blow on the panther’s neck, nearly decapitating the beast.

Yosef shot the monster another time for good measure as it sprawled across the ground,  but it was already dead, with essence flowing out of it and thanks to their bracelets, redirected between them.

Being the boss of the rift, it was a fair bit of essence and Yosef let himself languish in the feeling of additional power.

Even after two decades of advancing, he found the power exhilarating.

Tif and Pam were finally released as the creature's shadow capture ability faded and they stumbled to the ground, gasping for air.

Dominic rushed over and checked them while Roderic and Yosef kept watch for any stray monsters.

The five of them were a fairly new team in Gavle’s Good Guilders, each from other teams who just didn’t have their level of dedication, which had allowed them to push into peak Tier 6 rifts as fresh Tier 6s. Well they had, after each of them had been cooling their heels in non-combat roles. Gavle’s, like most guilds, rotated members in and out of rifts on cycles to avoid both burnout and alienation via spending all of one's time in a rift.

It meant hard fights, but it was that honing which had allowed them to survive a rare mutated boss that had additional powers beyond what was recorded.

Once they were all up and ready, they carefully found the rift exit and the reward distortion.

Yosef dispelled the rift with a wave of his hand, just to freeze as a single blue gem fell out of the distortion.

A skill shard.

Pan whooped while Dominic started making what could be best described as excited puppy noises.

Getting a skill out of a Tier 6 rift was rare. At worst, if the skill was non combat or not very valuable, the guild would exchange the skill with a common Tier 8 skill, but if the skill was worth more than that, they would get whatever additional value was in the skill.

Together, they rushed out of the rift and Yosef couldn’t help but feel like he was a decade younger as he waited for the machine to examine the skill.

What had they gotten?

[Parry].

A fairly rare combat skill was worth quite a lot, and the bursar happily gave them credit for two common skills, one and a half uncommon skills, or credit to their accounts for the same value.

They were still deciding how they wanted to split it when Yosef got a message from his AI.

The implant had been part of his welcoming package, and it was undoubtedly the one that he would never give up.

It was beyond convenient, but at times like this, Yosef liked being able to pretend he hadn’t seen a message. But when the head of recruitment, a vice guild leader, called for him, he couldn’t do so.

Excusing himself, Yosef jogged through the compound until he arrived at the administrative section of the guild.

Gavle’s had treated him well in the last decade and so, while he was sure some shit was about to fall onto his lap, he would put up with it so long as it wasn’t too onerous.

Waved through the seating room by the secretary, Yosef entered the office just to find Jerry talking to someone else on his AI animatedly about some sort of contract.

Yosef was waved to a seat and the moment he sat down, a folder of paper was tossed at him. He was a little confused as to why they were using paper files instead of AI, but he started reading anyway.

His question wasn’t answered and instead, a dozen new ones were raised as he read a document about how Ascender Titan had unveiled Soerilia just two weeks ago.

Having been in the Empire proper for over a decade, he had a better understanding of not only Tier, but what Ascenders were, which made his attempt at shooting Ascender Legion feel all the more laughable. It also let him understand that if Ascender Titan had made a move, things might have been bad.

Reading on, things weren’t nearly as bad as he feared. Some idiot tried to kill an Ascender with mundane weapons, but the parts about the world governments still having been dragging their feet wasn’t surprising.

What he didn’t quite understand was why he was being brought in for this.

Gavle’s wanting to set up an outpost on Soerilia wasn’t surprising, but Yosef didn’t know what he had to do with that. He was a combat fighter, not an admin guilder who could or would deal with such things.

That didn’t mean he didn’t want to help his home world, but he understood that while a Tier 6 might seem strong and wealthy to the unawakened, he was nothing when compared to the truly strong. A stray thought from Ascender Titan or Legion would be enough to flatten the guild and their pocket change was probably enough to buy the guild outright, but even they were small when compared to Tier 40s.

If Yosef wanted to help Soerilia, he needed to be at least Tier 15. At that point, he would be immortal, and even casual delving would earn him enough to make an appreciable difference to Soerilia. Whereas now, even if he threw every mana stone he earned at Soerilia, he wouldn't make a difference.

Thankfully, his question was answered as Jerry finished his call. “Sorry about that, Yosef. You caught up?”

“I read the file but I’m not sure what it has to do with me? Do you want me to run that branch or something? I don’t th—”

“Nothing like that Yosef. We do want you to spend a year or so, at most five, acting as something of a mascot for the guild as well as a bit of a culture exchange expert. Technically you would be third in command, as everyone understands you don’t want day to day responsibility, but they will defer to you on all things during the set-up and related to cultural norms and such.” Yosef was about to explain that he only really knew the culture of one country out of dozens, but Jerry cut him off. “I know you don’t know everything about an entire planet, but you know more than any of us would about the things that really matter. The subtle things you don't find in books or reports. You can refuse, but you have said you wanted to help your home world. We are a good guild and are willing to set up a base there, which even for the kids who don’t leave the world, they will be better trained and equipped than otherwise. Just two years and we will ensure your team has top priority on all rifts until Tier 8.”

Yosef nodded. He would have done it without the extra reward because Gavle’s was a good guild that didn’t take advantage of people. It was half clubhouse and half extended family and people generally looked out for each other.

If Gavle’s went to Soerilia, they could not only set a good example for other guilds but establish the acceptable standards as it were.

Yosef didn’t want to pause his delving, having only just gotten back into rifts to start advancing, but he also knew that sometimes the wants of the few were overruled by the needs of the many.

He had done a lot of things he didn’t want to do, and he was, if not better, a more experienced man for those times. It was also a good way to show that he was a team player in the guild. Even if he didn’t want responsibility so soon after escaping it when he joined the guild, he had ideas for how to change some things, and showing that he was competent beyond what his relatively young age would suggest would be a useful stepping stone for advocating for those changes.

That he was considered young at almost sixty year old was always amusing to him, but considering his lifespan was just under three hundred years, he was relatively young for a Tier 6.

And he just wanted to help his home world. It had raised him into the man he was today. It had given him opportunity and strife, challenge and pleasure. It was a good place that could really use some of the things the Empire took for granted. There was so much they didn’t understand that he had picked up after being in the Empire proper for a decade. So many unique things they could be leveraging as a planet that he wasn’t sure most people would pick up on for years.

“When do I leave?”
