Except, it seemed that the normal weapons the Empire pushed were melee items. Maybe he should take the manufacturing arm of Briggs Inc. and start mass-producing weapons and armor. No, that would only work in the lowest levels, as Grady noted that the magical constructs called formations couldn’t be made by such processes, resulting in most higher-Tier equipment being handcrafted by what he could only call artisans.

No, that didn’t seem to be a valid method for his position.

Grady would rather find a way to sell these cultivation devices to the masses. No average worker could afford multi-million dollar expenses unless inflation was far worse than had been implied. But ultimately, price was simply a question of what was the cost of manufacture, overhead, and shipping.

A few quick searches showed Grady that there was some wiggle room.

Things like the bracelet were controlled by corporations, but the other items seemed to have expired patents, and he was able to see the manufacturing process on the designs.

Most took formations, making them impossible to mass produce, but a few of the items were said to be easy to create, and from what he was reading, Grady agreed.

There was a set of plates that when connected together through simple copper wire and powered by mana, could slowly draw in ambient essence. Someone with an awakened spirit would need to do the final bit of activating the formation, but that didn’t seem particularly onerous.

The operating costs seemed high, but Grady might just not understand costs in mana. The price for half an hour of run time seemed like a lot, but he could see a path forward where he created something like a country club where people could, for a nominal fee, get access to such formations, which would speed up their advancement.

Despite being a businessman at heart, he had an undergrad degree in engineering and he didn’t see anything wrong with the plans. Although, he also knew that anything publicly available probably had a better version hidden behind a patent or the like.

Still, while that was good, it wasn't enough.

Grady wanted to create something that would last. That could propel his family up to immortality, even if it took time.

That meant he needed to think bigger than country clubs, though he intended to do that after having the idea. Places for the wealthy to gather would be valuable for their connections, more so than any monetary value they could generate.

No, what he was looking for was a way to break into the largest markets, the average salaried worker. There were items that seemed targeted to them. Formations that seemed crude in comparison to the ones that cost millions. It was like comparing a modern car to a horse and buggy. They might both work, but there was a noticeable difference in comfort and performance.

He spent another few hours working on further refining his plans, and by the time he stopped, it was deep into the night and both his daughter and wife were asleep.

The next day, he did something he hadn’t wanted to do originally.

He went and got Awakened.

A bribe got him in front of the line first thing in the morning, and he went through the process.

Like the reports said, it was painless and quick. Similar to the reports, his Talent was also seemingly useless.

Tier 1 Talent determined: Air spells you cast are 10% cheaper. Earth spells you cast have their cooldowns increased by 10%.

From what he understood, most people couldn’t even get actual magic spells until they were Tier 7 or 8, and the items that mages used to let them cast spells before that frequently didn’t interact with Talents. He would probably never see his Talent affect anything, for good or ill, but that didn’t matter to his overall ambitions.

Instead, he used his company's resources to start testing the formation plates he had ordered. They weren’t great; the formation's efficiency was far below the reported numbers, but he proved that it worked and costs weren’t that high.

Between carving the plates with a CNC machine and inlaying the copper, the costs for a set had only barely crossed the fifty thousand credit mark at worst.

With a reasonable margin, that was no more expensive than a new higher-end car.

Most people wouldn’t be able to afford it, but it was within grasp for the average upper middle class family.

With further refinements of both the process and the materials, it was probably possible to reduce the cost by half.

Further testing would be required to check for things like longevity, but Grady thought he had a viable product.

The issue would be in ensuring he was able to capture the market before it was flooded with imitations and competitors.

If he had figured this all out in a matter of days, others surely would do the same before too long.

The formation part would be a stumbling block for some, but the Tier 1 formations were simple enough he suspected most engineer types could figure it out before too long. If his attempt at Tier 2 formations was anything to go by, it wouldn’t be as simple as having machines create the base formation plate and filling the copper in by hand. The book he bought recommended hand carving, and he suspected that was to better activate the magical aspect of the formation, but he needed more testing before confirming these results.

He also needed to talk to Baron Hastra and see if he could negotiate some kind of state sponsorship.

Grady took most of the six months he was allocated for his company's dissolution to settle his plans, but the time only confirmed his ideas.

Catering to delvers was a losing proposition for a company like his.

Instead, he bent his vast resources to creating cultivation parlors.

He wasn’t able to secure a partnership with Baron Hastra, but he did get a reduction of his company’s taxes so long as they met certain criteria. Mainly, it was keeping prices down and keeping production local, but Grady had no issues with those restrictions.

Even if he were to sell off-world, which seemed like it would be difficult at best in such a saturated market, he didn’t think the business would ever outgrow Soerilia. For all its flaws, Soerilia had a massive population when compared to their neighboring planets.

Just nine months after integration, Briggs Cultivation Inc. opened its first location.

The initial reaction was large, with many people coming to use their facilities, but cultivation wasn’t an ingrained habit for most Soerilians and most people never bothered to come back. Grady feared he might have misstepped but he persisted. It wouldn’t be his first failed venture, but it would be a painful one.

He pushed through, funding the company though his own accumulated wealth, and slowly but surely they started getting more repeat customers.

In the end it wasn’t the more affluent persons nearby, but delvers who kept his business afloat in the initial months.

Delving, for all its advantages, was dangerous, and no one knew that better than those who went into rifts. Rift slots also seemed to be as frequent as one a week or as infrequent as once a month, which meant the dedicated were either delving two rifts at a time which doubled the danger or they came to his cultivation parlor for a risk-free way to advance in their down time.

Pulling on that thread, Grady had his people start creating better but more expensive formations, which encouraged the stronger delvers to continue to come to his place.

Grady even partnered with an old college buddy who had Awakened a construction Talent and created similar cultivation-enhancing formations in the estates he was building. Grady didn’t want them spreading too far too soon, but he knew it was inevitable for upper class housing to come with such formations innately as formation experts started to become more commonplace.

Currently, they were the only ones able to create and repair such plates, but his eyes and ears were already tracking a half dozen competitors.

It took another two years to become solvent, but once they did, things seemed to rapidly turn around. They went from one location in Noricum to half a dozen in the next three years, and by the end of the decade, they had over a hundred locations scattered in most major population centers.

And of course because it would be terrible optics for his business if he didn’t, he also used his products and cultivated. It still took nearly a decade but he reached T3 well ahead of most people which made for fantastic advertising. Privately he had to admit that he quite enjoyed the increased vitality it gave him. Even pushing sixty he felt better than he had in his forties.

When he failed to notice anything that could be his Tier 3 Talent in his daily life, he decided to forgo getting it checked out. A decision he rapidly came to regret as his daughter started incessantly questioning him about it. After several months of her pestering he finally gave in and booked an appointment.

T3: Gain a supplemental mana pool that can only be used to cast air spells. This mana pool is based on your mana cultivation, but only fills while airborne, and rapidly depletes while in contact with the ground.

As he expected, and to daughter’s dismay, it was just as irrelevant as his Tier 1 Talent.

Instead of bemoaning the theoretical loss he focused on his business. A large part of their success came from wanting to round his business out. He got permission for the creation of an alchemy sub-branch that could grow magical herbs and turn them into cultivation aids. If they started making other products, they risked being broken up as his original business was, but so long as they kept to their lane, they would be fine according to his lawyers.

Those products were incredibly popular despite their higher costs, even surpassing the income from the rented rooms. Something about the ease of simply taking a pill to see improvements was inherently addictive, and many people who didn’t use their rooms bought their pills, powders, and potions instead.

Their largest issue and hamperment for growth was their limited Tier. Tier 1 materials were easy enough to create and work with, Tier 2 was harder but still possible, while Tier 3 materials were basically impossible for anyone not at Tier 3 to manufacture.

Some processes could and were automated, but they still needed higher-Tier people to do parts and there just weren't enough to fill the roles. As the younger generation was reaching the new age of majority, they were seeing an uptick in people interested in the magical professions like formations and alchemy which he took advantage of and started recruiting with incentives for people to Tier up via their products.

Grady wasn’t sentimental, but it was almost hard to believe that the Soerilia from just a decade ago had been what it was compared to its current form.

Things were hardly perfect. There were issues, but they seemed manageable enough.

Best of all, he and his family were doing better than he would have expected after getting the news that his company was being broken apart.

***

Alessia cursed as she rolled out of bed at the sound of her alarm, but struggled from her dreams knowing today was a big day.

It wasn’t any earlier than she had been waking up for school before Soerilia had been taken over by magic people from other worlds, but when the world ended she hadn’t expected to be back in school in just a week.

Just going back to school would have been annoying enough, but at the end of every school day they were forced to work out. It wasn’t like gym class, where anyone who didn’t want to participate was able to just sit off to the side. No, the exercise time was mandatory and strictly enforced by their trainers, Mr. Alto and Ms. Bakerswatch. They were off worlders who had magic at their fingertips, but instead of doing magic, or literally anything better with their time, they spent their evenings harassing a bunch of kids into working out.

A few kids had tried to fake injuries, but they were ignored and forced to keep up, Ms. Bakerswatch saying she would know if they were injured.

None of them had believed her until Alana took a slip trying to swing from one monkey bar to the next. In a case of bad luck, she had landed on her ankle wrong and it had snapped with an audible sound.

Everyone stopped except Mr. Alto, who pulled out a piece of paper which he stuck onto her floppy foot like a bandaid.

Alessia had inwardly sneered that a bandaid would do nothing, but Alana’s foot glowed and straightened out before bands of blue light held everything in place. She had heard rumors of such items before, flexi-casts used by first responders in bad cases. They had come out shortly after the nano-bot healing… Which Alessia just realized was probably actually magic instead of super advanced tech.

Mr. Alto then took out a bottle of something that looked an awful lot like a video game healing potion and sprayed the ankle. It must have had some numbing agent, as Alana even stopped crying long enough to proclaim her foot no longer hurt.

