Mr. Alto stood up and looked at everyone who had gathered around. “First things first. Gawking doesn't help anyone. Next time an accident happens, continue doing what you were doing if you can’t directly help. Second, since you are all here and watching, let me turn this into a teaching opportunity. Ms. Hren here suffered a closed fracture of her ankle with three breaks. The talisman I used to stabilize her ankle has a slow healing effect that would have, on its own, seen her recovered and able to walk in just two to three weeks.” Ignoring the murmurs of disbelief he raised his voice and continued. “In addition, I used part of a simple healing potion and sprayed the affected area with that additional healing. Ms. Hren will be fully healed in approximately a week. Good thing for her, as we are going to split into two groups with half of you starting to work on your hand eye coordination. It can be done sitting down, so in deference to Ms. Hern, we will all sit. Move! Move! Move!”

No one had dared complain or slack off after Alana was forced to go through the rest of the exercise period after breaking her foot.

Some other kids had speculated that he would be fired for not sending her to the hospital, but Alessia doubted it, and Mr. Alto was there the next day. He had even been correct about Alana being fully healed in just a little over a week.

Really, the physical exercise classes wouldn't have been that bad if they didn’t push her to the point of literal physical collapse… and weren’t right next to where the younger kids were just being guided in playing games.

Even nine hours of sleep didn’t seem like enough when she considered that school had been extended by two hours to account for the exercise time.

Teeth brushed and bags packed, she waited for her bus to pick her up. Rumor had it there would be new buses coming in a few years, but Alessia would graduate before she saw them and had to deal with the unflattering orange blobs they had always used.

Entering the school, she went to her homeroom class where, unlike before the integration, Mr. Ingad actually took attendance and asked if they needed any help with their homework or class work as they ate breakfast.

That had been a major change, but a welcome one. Breakfast, lunch, and dinner for those who wanted it were provided by local chefs, who had replaced their crappy school food with actual good food.

Rumor had it there had been an actual fight for the spots because of some kind of reward, but the result was that all the schools had actually good food. Gone were the rubbery eggs and pale mystery meat that they tried to pass off as sausage or cardboard pizza, reheated endlessly until it was hard enough to cause injury. It was a good thing too, because teenagers being expected to complete serious workouts for two hours every weekday, after an entire school day, were eating way more than normal. Her parents were already complaining at just how much she ate over the weekends compared to before, and she couldn’t imagine what they would do if she was this hungry and skipping the gross food they had served before.

As for the homework, no one really needed help. While there had been changes in classes, they had been fairly minor this first year, all except that homework was to be the exception instead of the rule. Well, that and the magic lessons.

Alessia actually really liked the magic stuff. Magic itself was just so cool, and even though their lessons were more like college lectures, with them practicing it in the assembly hall, they were the highlight of her day.

From what she had seen of the new curriculum that the younger kids would be going through, things were that different.

While they would only go through eight years of standardized schooling, it was a fairly aggressive course load comprising most of what she had learned. Math was nearly identical, simply compressed.

Science was very different. While the younger kids would be learning subjects like organic chemistry, chemical bonding and reactions, and things like weather cycles, the classes were more focused on how cultivation interacted with those systems, rather than the intricacies of the systems themselves beyond the basics like she had learned.

History was more focused on the Empire’s history, and while there seemed to be some time dedicated to Soerilian history, it was clearly a secondary priority, which is what everyone had feared and her parents lamented when they thought she couldn't hear them.

Writing and language arts were similar or identical to what she was used to, except done in Empire standard. Or it would be; the new government seemed to realize, or maybe just their new noble realized, the futility of having existing teachers trying to teach a language they didn’t speak themselves.

Word had it that during summer break, anyone who wanted to remain a teacher would be given a crash course in the Empire language, and they would be expected to teach in it as the younger generations started to learn it.

Today was, thankfully, an extra special day, with magical professions being introduced to the tenth graders like her who had just been Awakened and were looking for professions in this new world.

Tier 1 Primary Effect: Innate [Reinforce Metal].

Fortunately, the Talent reader let her get more information as to what that meant, because she barely understood half of it. Skills were… good, she was pretty sure. At least, her Talent said it was rated ‘Good.’ That was probably because most people didn’t get a skill until Tier 5 at the earliest, and they didn’t become broadly available until Tier… 8.

But she had a skill at Tier 1! That was good. And it was an Innate skill, which meant it was fifty percent ‘better’ than a core skill, whatever that meant, and it would be really easy to improve and modify. That was… also good. Or she thought it was. They hadn’t gone over skills as anything more than a mention in the cultivation lessons yet.

According to what she did remember about it being an innate skill, there was a decently high chance that it was different from ‘normal’ in some way, wrapped up in its fifty percent ‘betterness’. But she’d need to figure out what that meant herself.

The skill itself seemed a bit less impressive? The skill description she could access was a bit less than helpful, as it simply said that it could ‘strengthen metals’ in a very roundabout way. It was a favorite of smiths, because the change was permanent.

Okay, she could learn how to be a smith. How to smithy things. She hadn’t really considered being a smith, but anyone capable of arming people as they went into rifts was making money hand over fist, according to the news.

Alessia and her family weren’t poor, but they were closer to poor than to rich, and from what she had been able to look up on what was left of the internet, it said crafting was expensive to get into beyond the most basic levels.

Thankfully, the baron guy was investing in local crafters and was giving anyone who showed proficiency in any crafting skill resources to pursue the craft.

The entire athletic field behind the school was converted into an almost fair like atmosphere, and Alessia could see some of the younger kids trying to peek out the windows to get a look.

Her attention was, however, drawn to the section off to the side where the smiths were.

As she neared the location, the first thing she noticed was how quiet it was. The thumps of metal on metal were muted, like all the hammers were wrapped with cloth. Eyes scanning the instructors, Alessia was relieved to notice there was a fairly even split between men and women.

As she inspected a very tall woman making an arm band looking thing, she was noticed and waved over.

“You seem interested, kid, want to give it a try? The name’s Maribel.”

Alessia backed up slightly. “I wouldn't know where to start.”

Maribel smiled. “That's the idea. No one understands anything day one, unless understanding was their Talent. We do, however, intend to let you all get your hands dirty and see what happens.”

Seeing she had Alessia's attention, Maribel handed her a hammer and instructed her how and where to hit the arm band.

As much as she hated to admit it, the months of physical exercise was the only reason Alessia was able to swing the hammer more than a few times before being spent.

It took a few minutes, but she thoroughly enjoyed the rhythm she got into. The reverberations of the hammer were soothing as they flowed through her arm while watching the bracer take shape. Even the mistakes she made weren’t that big of a deal, as Maribel simply put the bracelet into the fire and instructed her on how to fix the issue.

Alessia was covered in sweat, with her shirt sticking to her in a way she knew was unflattering, when she finally finished.

The arm band wasn’t pretty, a few spots were thinner or thicker than their surroundings, but it was functional. Or it would be, once it was finished.

Riveting it to leather was actually kind of fun, but she didn’t realize just how into it she was getting until a particularly vigorous hammer-blow resonated in a way she didn’t have words for, and left her immensely drained afterwards.

Alessia paused to catch her breath, and realized as she looked at the dark metal that she must have used her Talent! How, she didn’t know, but there was a kind of subtle glimmer to the metal she was certain hadn’t been there a minute ago.

Maribel raised an eyebrow at the display, which caused Alessia to start to get scared.

People had talked about why the magical Talents were hidden and all of the conclusions they came to were negative.

“Relax, kid. Yeah, it’s a good practice to keep your Talent hidden, and I’m not telling anyone. Part of my job. A crafting-type skill will be tricky to keep hidden if you want to use it at all until you’ve got it either modified to the Clans and back, or have other skills to cast a bit of doubt with. But you could do it by only using it on personal projects.” She stroked her chin thoughtfully as she finished, “You could also use whatever it is as a pretty sure-fire way to secure an apprenticeship, and then only your master would know for sure what you’ve got. Or you can just spread the information to try and draw in customers, but that's generally not recommended. No need to let the competition know what your advantage is. Really, there are so many skills and such that most of the time it’s just impossible to outright know what a Talent is doing. There are a dozen ways to get a similar result and it can be basically impossible to differentiate them.”

Alessia swallowed but just nodded in confirmation.

Maribel winked at her. “The real question is, did you like that? Did you enjoy it? If you didn’t, you don’t have to use your Talent. Go and try the other crafts. See if one of them jibes with you more. Plenty of people ignore theirs, and others beat them every which way until they work for them. There’s a pretty popular legend about a kid who awoke an innate [Cheery Visage] and turned it into a personal healing skill. But, being a metalcrafter with a Talent in it means you’ll always be one step ahead of the competition.”

Alessia wasn’t sure if she wanted to hit metal for the rest of her life, as it didn’t seem very lady-like, but she remembered the prices she had seen when looking up weapons and armor.

Making up her mind, Alessia reached out to shake Maribel’s hand. “I accept.”

The older woman just laughed. “It won’t be with me, kid. I'm only Tier 4 myself. I can, however, introduce you to my Master.”

Flushing, Alessia tried to retreat into herself and ended up holding the arm band to her chest, hoping it could distract Maribel.

It didn’t, but she didn’t mention it and instead introduced Alessia to a middle aged man who looked exactly like a movie blacksmith.

Wanting to put her best foot forward, the moment Maribel finished the introduction Alessia stuck out her hand.

The offer seemed generous, but Master Tabin suggested she and her parents look it over, but she didn’t see why she wouldn’t accept.

It was an apprenticeship that came with the corresponding training up to journeyman, where she would be equipped to open her own business. Before that, she would be expected to assist Master Tabin with his business and craft, to give her best effort without subterfuge.

In return, she would get a small wage and a percentage of the items she made and sold under his tutelage. Even the wage was decent. A little less than what her parents made individually.

The prospective apprenticeship was expected to last from ten to fifteen years, and after that time, she should be ready to be self-sufficient.

The only negative she saw in the contract was that Master Tabin as her master would have the right to claim up to five percent of her profits for the first ten years of her practice. Normally, there would also be the option of a payback period of the material she used to learn, but that was being covered by the noble guy, so it was voided out.

Alessia genuinely couldn't see any real reason to decline, and later that night after talking to her parents, she sighed and pressed her thumb to the contract.

For better or worse, she was going all in for this crazy new world.

***

Yosef Yililk spat off to the side as he panted over the prone form of Roderic.

His hands moved to reload his gun even as his eyes scanned the room in front of them, watching for their hidden stalker.

As a Tier 6, his reactions were far better than they had ever been, but that advantage was blunted by the panther’s magic.

Dropping the charging handle back into place, Yosef slapped the side of his weapon, energizing the formation, which started building pressure in the main chamber even as it drained the embedded mana stone.

