Then came a long and predictable confession. One of Medjin’s known supporters approached the guards with tales of odious Harrakan arrogance, smoothing the wheels of scruples with some coin, then let them ‘accidentally’ damage the circle. None of this held now that Neriad’s merciless light had exposed the subterfuge for what it was: a shitty backstabbing by someone who’d lived a life free of consequences.

Outside, people partied. In the council room, Viv could have heard an ant fart.

“Let the Alliance note that Glastia’s military leader engaged in sabotage and conspiracy against a fellow member during a military operation,” Viv stated with detachment.

The inquisition standing as witness, this was the sort of stuff that could lead to a valid casus belli, not to mention religious ostracism. No one wanted to go to war with every last religious martial order on the opposite side of the conflict. Gods having a short fuse, that could end with entire bloodlines scorched in a sea of holy fire.

Viv sat back, and Sidjin stood instead.

“Considering the demise of the sinner, and our friendship with the great city of Glastia, Harrak will lay the matter to rest. We will not seek compensation on this day of triumph and celebration. Thank you.”

On the throne, the First Prince gave an indistinct nod.

Viv really thought the God King shtick was a crap way of governing, but she had the arcane monster version of awe going for her so… hard to criticize.

With a collective breath of relief, the council eagerly switched to another topic. Harrak had let the matter drop and now Glastia owed them. It was enough.

Viv gave Sidjin a look. The prince was still thoughtful. He seemed a bit bitter about the whole thing. Only after they left did he finally talk.

“I am done with this city. At first, I believed that Medjin was merely a rotten fruit in a besieged basket, but now, facing my father…”

Viv patiently waited for him to continue.

“I realize how much pain we have caused ourselves through the tolerance of cruelty and pettiness. I can no longer accept it. Let’s just leave. I need some time to… digest it all.”

“Is this about Medjin’s death?”

Sidjin nodded.

“I thought it would make me feel better. It has not. As if he had died after inflicting the most damage. How could I rejoice when the harm was already done?”

“I see. I’m…. sorry.”

“As I said, I only need some time.”

***

Before leaving, Viv made sure to pick up a recommendation and directions from Jaratalassi. She wanted her own general and she’d get him. The trip back was quick enough. Alas, all hopes that she could leave again were quickly dashed.

“YOU!” her valorous stand in screamed once Viv appeared in Kazar.

The Lady Azar cornered Viv, letting her know exactly what she thought about being left alone handling fifty thousand new clueless citizens, some of whom had never seen a book in their lives. Viv was drafted in the chores war despite her best efforts. Lady Azar threatened to quit if she didn’t and Viv was all out of experienced administrative leaders.

The first step was in Frostway, where the golems were done clearing up the demolished city. Artisans and artists were already back at work in the restored manufactories while others struggled to repair and expand facilities that had been abandoned for decades, sometimes more. The loss of know-how was just as harmful as the destruction of legacy tools.

“I’m not sure the capabilities to even build a replacement vat exists anywhere on the continent,” a foreman explained. “The original piece was custom-built in the workshops of the capital, back in the old days. Do you, perhaps, have ideas as to who may fill such an order?”

Viv was here to cast magic and cosplay as sexy Sauron. She had no idea who might be able to replace a crucible three meters across.

“Let me ask around.”

That was a great way to say she didn’t know shit and to shelve the project until something changed.

That wasn’t the only unfortunate news about Frostway. In his anger, the local archmage had frozen all the ships’ sails solid to prevent his dear leader from escaping by sea. Yeah, sails didn’t like that very much. They were done for now, not that they were in a great state to begin with. No one here remembered how to make new large sails since they’d just patched them up before, so Viv had ships and they wouldn’t be going anywhere any time soon. That also meant flying to a nearby island to open a portal to their iron mines, or risk the miners starving to death.

Not all was bleak, however. The initiative to distribute tools for free was wildly successful. Viv participated herself to let the people see her and remember her as a force for good. The extent of the misery in which she found some, and their gratitude, reminded her that it didn’t take that much effort to improve things for everybody sometimes. Of course, that was just the beginning. Tools broke. Villages needed trained smithies to repair them and forge new ones. Because there had been no demand, there were no candidates on that path so new ones had to be trained, another expensive and time-consuming endeavor.

It was a lot of work.

Viv spent the next three months opening portals, clearing fresh land, and basically just being all around useful.

***

//We are done, Your Majesty.

Viv glared at Solfis. As usual, it was a little difficult guessing what a being with no facial expression could be thinking but he didn’t sound remorseful at all.

“Good. Ok. Then I suppose you’ll get back to training engineers?”

//Yes.

//Arcane smiths and miners as well.

//The extraction and handling of silverite is a delicate process.

//I do not expect more than the creation of spare parts for at least a few decades.

//Fortunately, Ares brought many weapons back from the city.

//And we can handle some of the repairs ourselves.

“Looks like things are looking up.”

//And yet, I find myself sad.

Viv almost gasped at the mere mention of Solfis admitting any sort of vulnerability.

“Oh? Is it perhaps related to your bad experience after blatantly circumventing my orders, orders I gave you for your own good having correctly assessed the situation?”

//Of course not.

“Figures.”

//Although, I shall take your advice under deeper consideration next time.

“Orders are not advice!”

//No, I simply miss traveling with you.

//We could not spend two weeks before being assailed, provoked, attacked, insulted, or otherwise bothered in ways that led either to pain or humiliation.

//For the others, of course.

//Life here has been dreadfully bloodless.

//Is there perhaps a new god you have offended?

Viv’s jaw closed shut with an audible click.

//I knew it.

//I am missing all the fun.

//Ah, to be young again.

“Fret not, I’m sure my luck will eventually bring something only we can defeat.”

//Ah but see, there lies the issue.

//Things only we can defeat are rare.

//Better something that mistakenly believes it can defeat us.

“Don’t jinx it.”

***

Viv approached the grotto at a sedate pace to allow its dwellers time to sense her presence. Intentionally leaking mana and moving slowly was the draconic equivalent of knocking. She just didn’t enjoy it a lot. Leaking mana felt sloppy.

The answer came quickly.

Mother!

You are back.

Have you grown real wings yet?

“You know that’s just not going to happen overnight, right?”

I have high expectations of you.

Higher than I have for my brother…

HELLO, HUMAN.

Viv entered the cave which smelled a little rank. Could it be that teenage dragons stank too? It would be rather unfortunate, or maybe they just had a problem with hygiene. Arthur herself had struggled with baths at the beginning.

“I just came to see how everyone is doing.”

I am pleased to report that my debt portfolio has tripled while the risky assets exposure has remained below ten percent.

“I meant your brother’s promotion from fire hazard to valuable member of our evil empire.”

He has yet to understand the value of long term investment.

Viv found the two dragons lying comfortably on a bed of moss. The moss was clean but the brother was not. Viv could see filth coating his talons. That immediately pissed her off.

All those numbers are boring.

“If you burn down a village you get some buckets of fish, but if you help it instead, you get one bucket every year forever.”

The larger dragon lifted his head. His crimson eyes shone in the darkness.

Forever?

He scoffed.

“As long as the village is standing. Now you do this for ten villages and you don’t have to fish one day in your life ever again, unless you want to.”

Arthur nodded sagely. She was already rich now, so she hunted for sport.

Really?

“It’s a bit more effort at first for a lot more fish later.”

And the sauce?

“Obviously if you put in a lot of effort, there will be sauce as well. And the humans will cook and prepare it for you and thank you for the pleasure of doing it. You don’t even have to threaten them.”

Arthur nodded once again with all the wisdom her great intelligence afforded her.

You can tell them to sing and guard your den.

Very useful.

Humans are versatile.

And there are a lot of them!

Clearly Viv’s result-oriented approach was convincing, because the older dragon considered his options very carefully.

“Speaking of sauce, you’re seriously not eating with claws in that state, right? Arthur, tell me you’re not letting him show himself out like this?”

Arthur had the decency to look embarrassed.

I don’t want to force another dragon to wash.

‘Tis unseemly.

“Unseemly my ass, it’s disgusting.”

MY NAME IS RAVENOUS WINTER GALE OVER AN ENDLESS SEA.

AND I WILL NOT BE FORCED TO BATHE.

Winter gale stood as tall as the cavern allowed him, which honestly wasn’t much. He stretched his arms and wings to make himself look large. So sure he was the size of a minibus but Viv had seen Judgment and she wasn’t very impressed.

“You’d better get cleaned up like a proper grown up, mister, or I’ll call you flatulent puff over a fetid marsh.”

YOU DARE.

I WILL TORCH YOU ALIVE!

He was really angry now. Ravenous Winter Gale stomped towards Viv but all she could think of was the increasing smell of rank fish.

“I will have none of your attitude,” Viv said.

THEN PREPARE TO DIE.

Viv allowed her draconic intimidation to rise, this time buoyed by the title of dragonslayer. Gale was immediately cowed if only because the title had been won over his walloping. Viv knew he was being emotional but it didn’t matter. He was a young male dragon with the arrogance and territoriality to match. Either she got him to listen now or he would cross the line at the first opportunity.

Her anchors emerged with sinuous grace. Even with his maw within range of her face, Viv showed no fear. Her skills would warn her if he decided to act. And if they didn’t, then it wouldn’t matter.

“If you do go for me again, be sure to give it your all because I am seldom merciful, and then only once.”

Another aura rose behind Gale. This time, it was Arthur’s.

There was one thing to say about humans, it was that the presence of Nous really made a huge difference. Magic would empower creatures no matter the species. Nous made sure that this empowerment was optimized, maximized, and specialized and other manner of -ized for sapient races just so they would get an edge over the competition.

There was one thing to say about dragons: they didn’t need it. Viv had draconic intimidation as a skill. Arthur was intimidating. And also she was a dragon.

That was it, really, and when her daughter’s cold fury rose in the cave, even Viv pulled back.

Make sure you lose to mother.

Because mother kills quickly.

And I’d hate to have my time and energy wasted on an idiot.

It was entirely too much for Gale. He crashed on his moss bed, soon covering his head with a pair of despondent wings.

I want fish skewers.

“Wash your claws first, then let’s go for those skewers.”

Really?

Gale perked up at the offer.

Viv couldn’t believe the stick and carrot worked so well with that big oaf. If Arthur’s dramatic eye roll was any indication, she couldn’t either.

***

The harvest festival came and went. Viv’s projects to recruit a general and help the kark had to be postponed because there was simply too much work. Integrating the remnants had put a lot of stress on an already fragile system. Her only saving grace was that Harrak was doing well: that the harvest was once again exceptional and exports were booming. That meant tariffs and taxes flooded into the sorely empty Harrakan coffers, funding a new round of investments. Even then, many projects were still on hold. It was just taking time training and integrating new people into, well, everything. That was fine for Viv. She’d been running around a lot these past few months. Everyone needed to settle down for a spell, practice a bit, go to the temple every weekend to smile at ecstatic mothers waving their screaming crotch fruits in her nose. glibly informing her they’d been named ‘Bob’ after her. Viv found herself taking occasional refuge in the Hadal haven just so people wouldn’t talk to her or ask something for one fucking minute.

“Gods, why is having one’s own personal empire so time-consuming. They never show this shit in movies. It’s always some grand declaration about world conquest and not cereals tax rate harmonization.”

She mostly kept her thoughts to herself just in case the spark of luck was listening. Busy marketplaces were good. Plentiful harvests were good. Adventures were exciting. Exciting was generally bad, no matter what Solfis claimed. Viv would just hunker down and enjoy growth, prosperity, and a total lack of tension with her Enorian neighbors for as long as it lasted.

***

