Meanwhile, in Enoria.

The baron’s fingers gripped that damn parchment but no matter how hard he glared at them, the scribbled numbers refused to change.

Hard times.

He’d cut his life expenditure, even sold many of his horses. He’d reduced the number of servants. Maranor’s tits, he’d even given up on drinking and still, still! The barony was descending into bankruptcy.

“There must be some sort of mistake…” the baron said. “Ogor, tell me we are forgetting the profit from our orchards.”

“Alas, no sir. It has not been a great year. Reduced demand, you see?”

“And the brewery?”

“Terribly sorry sir. Competition from the north…”

“Those damn rebels are fucking me raw even after the war’s over. Gods dammit.”

He clenched his hands into fists.

Was there something he could do to raise more funds? Anything? He could not let go of any more soldiers without failing in his duties to the throne. Even then, his new recruits were poorly equipped with antique mail and basic pikes. What faced him was only the prospect of ever more debt, a spiral that would end with the sale of all his assets.

At least his father had died before seeing the fall of his noble family.

“Milord, I know someone in the city who might be able to assist,” his steward Ogor said with a kind smile.

“I know what sort of ‘help’ can be found in Reixa, Ogor. We will be bled dry even faster. No, I suppose I shall have to sell all that I possess save for the shirt off my back. Lean year indeed…”

Just then, a thump sounded from behind him. He turned away from his desk towards the large window that overlooked the rose garden. A scream of horror from one of the servants made him jump to his feet. An attack?

A burst of mana made Ogor bleat in terror. The baron grabbed his sword, unsheathing it in a smooth motion. His mind whispered that a death in battle would be the honorable out. He silenced it. He had a duty to his people.

Somehow, the window opened by itself, as if moved by an invisible hand. That was some impressive wizardry. What was even more impressive was the serpentine head snaking its way through the aperture.

It was coming a little short. Unfortunately, the office was on the second floor.

The baron paled. Meanwhile, Ogor fell on his ass.

“Dra … dra dra dra—”

Hello hello!

I apologize for the interruption.

I came here because I thought we could come to an agreement.

“You… you are…”

She Who Feasts and Collects.

I would say ‘at your service’ but we both know that would be a lie.

I have come to solve your money problems.

In return, you will grant me a license to operate on your land.

Fingers gripping his sword like a lifeline, the baron could do little but stutter.

‘What?”

The dragon sighed audibly,

Enorians.

I will make sure you are no longer poor.

In return, you will allow me to open a branch on your land.

“A branch?”

Of my bank!

Impossibly, a white-scaled arm moved through the window. Sharp black claws delicately placed a scroll on the ground.

The contract.

The baron was wondering if this was some strange stress induced fever dream. It felt more plausible than business discussions with an actual dragon.

Pick.

It.

“Yes, yes…”

The baron leaned forward, not daring to meet the malevolent crimson glare of an entity of legend. A dragon! Here! What was happening.

A dragon with a bank?

Should he be more or less terrified? With shaking fingers, the man pulled the scroll open.

It was a deceptively simple contract that gave the dragon the right to open and operate a bank in perpetuity with no tax. It was frankly abusive, but the return was a promise for information that would ‘immediately return the barony to the path of prosperity’.

“I find your offer vague and unconvincing,” the baron said with a shaky voice, but might as well play along.

“How can a single answer turn my loss into a profit? Surely, it will require more investments. That you intend to provide, of course.”

But the dragon shook her head in a gesture that was disturbingly human.

No.

No tricks.

You become rich again.

I lend money to your people, they become richer.

I become richer.

The Crown of Harrak increases its taxable base.

“What?”

That last part does not concern you.

The dragon smiled. Again, the gesture felt disturbingly human, especially when the ‘smile’ was just thin lips pulled over rows of razor-sharp fangs.

The baron wanted to believe the dragon. In fact… he had little choice.

Rich again with a single answer? That might be too good to be true, but the contract went both ways. Although…

“Who would arbitrate if we disagree on the contract?”

The dragon sighed again. Her breath made the temperature increase, and the papers on the baron’s desk threatened to fly.

You can decide if the answer was worth it or not.

I know you will be wise.

Just sign the damn thing.

Do not pretend as if you aren’t desperate.

He hoped he wasn’t making a mistake.

“There, I signed the damn contract. Now speak.”

Your steward’s daughter married the Brewers’ Guild’s Headmaster.

They are stealing from you.

Shamelessly.

All the bills of sale he’s presented to you have been forged.

The baron gasped. Dragon or not, how audacious!

“Ogor has been with my family for thirty years. You have some nerve to…”

But his retort died with the patter of his old mentor’s running feet. The traitor slammed the door shut behind him.

“I can’t believe my eyes.”

Are you going to catch him?

Because he knows where most of the stolen money is.

And he’s a witness.

“I’ve known him all my life!”

Yeeees?

“That piece of shit. I trusted him! Where’s my sword?”

Finally.

Arthur found the ensuing chase hilarious though short-lived. Her contract secure, she flew off to the nearest portal, soon appearing back in Kazar. Rather than returning to the bank, she flew on quick wings to the forest near the Hadal haven. A secluded meadow hid a tiny flower garden nestled against a brook. Arthur landed there and waited.

The woman didn’t show herself, but Arthur felt her all the same.

Hello, Thirteen.

“Did it work?” she whispered.

Yes.

I will leave your reward with your human husband after he returns from the scout meeting.

“Good. I can spy again, if you want.”

And I will reward you again if you do.

For valuable pieces of information.

“Good. I will return to my children now.”

She left.

It’s not insider trading.

As a dragon, I am necessarily an outsider in human affairs.

Satisfied, Arthur flew away with the sun at her back.
