Being leaderless and fratricidal didn’t stop the beastlings from being a threat to humans. In the orgy of violence that followed, the alliance armies were no less a target. The only saving grace was that they no longer had to push. They also no longer had to hold back.

Viv unleashed everything she had. Sidjin and Abe did the same. The air was soon filled with the most devastating spells in their arsenals, soon joined by bolts, arrows, jars of naphtha, fire bees, chlorine, and a few more experimental concoctions the yries had produced in the depths of their honey-fueled depravity. Those aberrants that survived were mercilessly cut down in a last push, everyone throwing everything they had into that last stand. The sea of bodies became a sea of corpses. Soon, there was nothing left near the Harrakans or their neighbors.

Most soldiers sat down where they were, at least those that didn’t collapse. Only the One Hundred remained standing as an enduring statement of stubborn resilience. Jaratalassi’s urgent pleas pushed Viv to fly away, to the west, where a large aberrant caused a lot of trouble. An hour later, nothing was left moving except for the Alliance’s forces. Those few survivors that remained had long fled, condemned to starve in the desert they’d created.

In the evening, the permanent cloud cover seemed to lift ever so slightly. Viv flew up, higher than she had since arriving here. The red light of the sun bathed the entire dead valley in smears of crimson, light mixing with congealing ichor to form a tapestry of reds, blacks, and browns. It was a ghastly show that perfectly matched the stench. And it would only get worse.

Up there, Viv looked south, back towards Glastia. The Alliance had left charnel trails a couple of leagues wide, several paths of death that converged towards the gore-drenched remains of the fortress in a circle of carnage. Black mana was visible in the distance as dark fumaroles, greedily eating at the feast now that the aberrants were dead. Viv felt that they fought off the dead god’s influence to replace unnatural life with entropy.

She felt it was necessary. This place… it was the site of a struggle. Nyil was trying to remove the cancer on its ‘skin’ by necrotizing the entire area. She dove, finding the clergy of Neriad near the tents of the wounded. She met the head physician inside. He was an old, quiet man with the gaze of someone who’d seen too much. No one stopped her when she barged in, finding him hard at work bandaging the stump of a panting heavy. The young woman was sweating and clearly in pain.

“You’ll help me regrow it? Right?” she asked when Viv approached. “Sorry, I meant, Your Majesty.”

“Of course. Free of charge as usual. We’ll get out of here first though,” the witch replied with a comforting smile. “Speaking of getting out of here, I have concerns of a religious nature,” she told the bishop.

He looked up with tired eyes.

“You may confess your countless sins later.”

“I’m more referring to a massive plains full of dead things emitting incalculable amounts of corrupt and dark mana, now both vying for domination in a contest that will make the deadlands feel like a nice seaside village.”

“That’s bad then?” the young heavy asked.

“I am done bandaging you, young lady. Please stay on the bed and drink water regularly, as well as anything we bring you. You must rest now.”

“Oh yes please.”

She was asleep in seconds, following which the Head Physician politely invited Viv to follow him.

“I am not an expert on theological matters, but I suspect you must be right. Your mana perception and your soul must feel the conflict at work more keenly than I ever could. I believe we should leave this place immediately, and call upon the churches to start purifying the land starting here.”

“Then I’ll need to set up portals so we can evacuate the wounded first. I’ll need to fly back for that.”

The man nodded, clearly not interested in the minutiae.

“Our casualties have been kept to a minimum so far. I shall make sure they live.”

Viv nodded. She left the tent and found that the camp had become a large sleeping pile. Actually, it wasn’t even a camp. No fortifications, not even raised tents. Heavies had fallen where they stood, sometimes even only a few steps away from bodies. Ban had finally dismissed the One Hundred. The older and meaner witchpact patrolled, eyes open and fingers on the triggers. Viv felt a tinge of worry. This wasn’t a good place to stop. She could feel it in her soul, as they’d said. She found Sidjin burning the remains of nearby aberrants though he was clearly running on fumes. As for Viv, the ‘Light that Never Dims’ title was carrying her through the day like a furnace that just kept getting hotter.

“Sidjin.”

“Huh?”

“You need to stop and rest.”

“I can keep going on.”

Viv rolled her eyes.

“You need to stop because we are going to get all of the armies out of here as soon as possible and replace them with enough priests to sanctify a grumpy necrarch. I’m going to fly back and reestablish the portal, then we’ll build a temporary Nexus. You’ll stay here until I do so, then set up your own portals. You’re in charge of Glastia and Baran.”

“Oh, yes. Baran too?”

“Look, let’s just say things are a little tense right now.”

“What about the Pure League?”

“Oh them I fully intend to be rude to. Anyway, warning Jaratalassi then I’m off.”

“Fly safely.”

***

The flight back took close to an hour. Viv couldn’t go very fast yet, and she regretted that Arthur was taking care of the bank and her brother.

Going over the wall and landing felt like taking a breath of fresh air after hours stuck in a rank room. Suddenly, the world had colors again. She landed in the secluded meadow where her circle was supposed to be, finding carts and Hadals waiting in plain view. Four guards in the red of Glastia struggled against the ropes that stuck them to nearby trees. So Sidjin had been right.

“We are sorry,” Irao said, emerging from the shadows. “My people didn’t realize what they were doing at first. We assumed they were here for the supplies.”

Viv waved his concerns aside.

“It’s my fault. I was naive, again. I should have posted guards and made it clear the circle wasn’t to be touched by anyone except our own mages.”

“Hm. Hm. I want to go now.”

“Yeah don’t worry.”

Viv set out to repair the circle. One of the trussed guards had the audacity to hail her.

“Hey! Release us, we’re citizens of Glastia! You have no right to hold us —”

Viv raised a finger, hitting him with the full strength of draconic intimidation.

She had not forgotten them, it said. They were on her shit list. It was just that her anger was a cold one, and she had other priorities. Keeping them alive was not one of them.

“Interrupt me while I work again and I’ll rip out your fucking tongue.”

It was enough to silence them. Only when the aperture turned dark and foreboding, and the stench of an entire field of death wafted through it did she turn to the guards. Behind her, carts full of wounded already rolled while the driver on the living side hurried to provide help.

“I’m not going to kill you,” she said.

The man who’d spoken breathed a sigh of relief. The idiot.

“Instead, I’m going to give you to the inquisition.”

“You can’t do that! Prince Medjin shall make you pay for this.”

“I can and I will. You pieces of shit endangered the expedition for the political gain of an asshole. When the inquisitors are done with you, you’ll wish I had killed you instead. Farewell.”

Viv walked through the portal, regretting the fact that she still had the need to breathe, then she flew off to the Enorian army for the next portal.

***

It took the remainder of the day, the entire night and then some of the following morning to bring everyone back. The novelty of the multi-portal experience meant that everything was a logistical mess of biblical proportions with the different paths not helping because people couldn’t manage transportation and their own egos at the same time. Fortunately, victory and the presence of Jaratalassi kept the fistfights to a bare minimum.

Viv and Sidjin’s tireless efforts had bought them some serious brownie points with the leadership of the various factions, especially with so many wounded who would’ve otherwise not survived the trip back. The fields around Glastia soon filled with civilians eager to help. There was a lot of crying, a lot of drinking, and overall a feeling of incredulous relief that yes, this was really over. The war was over. They’d won.

One of the great perils of mankind on the continent had been defeated with one last decisive blow.

Priests and bishops were already coming in from all over the continent to help with the aftermath, the clergy of Enttiku purifying remains while those devoted to Sardanal forced grass and small plants to bloom again, chasing away the encroaching black. It would take decades before this region recovered but at least now it had a chance. Jaratalassi requested that all leaders stay for another council but in the meantime the moment was one of celebration. It wasn’t every day that mankind had wins like that.

Viv made sure everyone was settled, then she walked through the various friendly encampments during some of the wildest festivities she’d ever seen. To her surprise, the Blue Duke found her to inquire about land for his people, an initiative Viv had no trouble encouraging. Rollo could certainly add more talented knights to his retinue provided they behaved, and there was always more land to farm. Once more, the Harrakans would return home with more people than when they’d started.

The Golden Order had stayed behind to pray so Viv purchased a few carts of fresh fruits and returned to the land beyond to drop them off to a grateful Order Master. All in all, she used the opportunity to make friends. She didn’t feel like drinking herself. This place wasn’t safe. There were still people out there who intended to fuck her over.

***

“Did you know this was a trap?” the angry nobleman spat.

Viv reclined in her chair, letting her anchors hover menacingly behind her, bladed tips lazily hanging behind the nervous backs of representatives. She tilted her head towards the accusatory Glastian. Grief twisted his traits into an expression of pain and rage. Jaratalassi frowned, but once again the wise general preferred to let people air their grievances before clamping down. Viv had no issues with that.

“Are you asking me if I knew the Beastlings would lay a trap at the fortress?”

“That’s what I said!”

“Of course I did,” Viv replied with a smile.

The nobleman turned red. His fury ignited to a great crescendo that left his fingers gripping the table.

“You admit it! Traitor! Traitor to mankind!”

“Was I expecting the beastlings to lay an ambush? Was I expecting those who’d dug tunnels to attack us from below, those manipulated by a malicious intelligence, those beastlings, to be up to something? Did I seriously think they had something prepared? Did I, who also faced a horde in battle before, expect beastlings to act in a devious manner?”

Viv smiled. There was nothing quite like drenching the truth in so much bullshit, it became a whole other truth.

“Did I expect a trap? Of course I fucking did. That’s why my people advanced cautiously, and that’s why we didn’t rush ahead like vainglorious hounds.”

“MY PEOPLE BLED!”

“Everyones. People. Bled,” Viv muttered, and this time she spoke backed by draconic intimidation.

The temperature dropped ever so slightly as the air grew cold, as did Viv’s heart. The skill was influencing her as she was calling upon it. A small price to pay to let the others know exactly what she believed about those accusations.

“Medjin pushed his soldiers ahead against the recommendation of our general. He left my left flank and the Enorian right exposed as a result. Children will soon learn of the death of parents because your general could not be bothered to follow orders,” she growled.

The nobleman simmered but Viv’s words were moved by her belief and the cold certainty of a draconic mind. Viv was no longer bullshitting. She was stating, and the power of her soul bared her belief for all to feel. She could feel it as well, the feedback. Her accuser had lost someone dear. He was blinded by the pain, the horror of tragedy on the eve of final success.

If they were friends, Viv would have comforted him instead.

But they were not friends.

“Medjin died because he was an imbecile consumed by petty hatred. The death of your people can solely be laid at the feet of the one who put him in charge.”

Gasps and whispers filled the hall. No one dared steal glances towards the throne standing at the end of the room. Tonight, the First Prince of Glastia was in attendance.

Viv met his eyes. He was an older, graver version of Sidjin, a stern yet distant figure that lacked the fallen prince’s melancholy.

“That is not all. There was indeed a traitor to mankind in our ranks. I shall now call upon the inquisition.”

More gasps, some of them outraged. Calling the hammer of the religious inquisition in a secular meeting was bound to make no friends, but Viv was confident she would pull ahead. There was a brief scuffle outside the doors. Viv’s soul sense picked up a flash of golden mana before a crying man entered, led forward by two heavily armored and rather grim inquisitors. One of them was Orkan, the apprentice now a full-fledged agent. He gave Viv a small nod.

The crying man was one of the guards who’d damaged her circle.

“I’m sorry! I’m sorry, I didn’t want to hurt all those people.”

“Tell them what you did,” one of the inquisitors said.

