Try to go around one disaster zone, find another one to go around in the process. At least the last time I was carrying a person on my back through hell, it didn’t involve constant “gotchas” from the environment.

Maybe later he’d be darkly amused that he’d found a way Anesidora was worse than Thegund. Way too many destroyed buildings for a proper death run. Too much decision-making and no sense of progress.

What the heck is that? Dirt? A wall? A wet wall?

He stopped.

It was water. Dirty water. Silent. Unmoving. Filling the entire street. Towering over his head.

“What’s it doing?”

He turned the light off, trying to see the water in a different way. The sky was just a little lighter, thanks to the storm clouds pulling back in places. Alden squinted and craned his neck.

He could see the scope of the problem, but at first, it didn't quite register.

He was near the perimeter of a massive water blob—the very thing he’d imagined earlier. What if the water all gathered around something that wasn’t small, like the high heel on the bridge, but humongous, like…

“A building," he breathed.

Or something just as big.

He walked backwards, gaping up. Based on the shape of the dark mass blotting out part of the sky, he thought the center of the blob was still up ahead and everything on this edge near him was just incidentally drowned.

Still in maze mouse mode, it took him whole seconds to realize this was not something he needed to worry about getting around.

It was something he had to get away from. Now.

“Shit!”

His feet launched him into a run. Suddenly, he couldn’t feel all the things that hurt. He wasn’t worried about the fact that he was backtracking south as fast as he could. It wasn’t nearly fast enough.

Hurry. Faster. FASTER. Why the fuck are you so slow?

The water could start to move any second. Or it could just pop.

How much water does it even take to make a mound like that? To cover multiple buildings? When the magic that called it here finally gives out…

It was going to crush everything.

It was going to swallow whole blocks.

******

******

A memory played in Haoyu Zhang-Demir’s mind, summoned up by the events of the night:

The first time you called me Bàba I gained five kilograms. All of it on my stomach. And it never went away. You overpowered my Formation in an instant. Children are very dangerous.

Mom said it didn’t happen all at once like that.

You mean you trust her more than me?!

Haoyu sighed and dropped his comic book onto his lap since it wasn’t doing a good job of distracting him. The escape shuttle was nearly full, but the conversations that were taking place were muted. Too many kids were present for the adults to talk loudly about their own fears.

He leaned around the edge of his seat to watch one of the Artonans who would be traveling with them escort the final passengers up the back ramp.

The Artonan was wearing a heavy coat and pink earmuffs. A few of the newcomers were rubbing their arms. Apparently the TC had gotten even colder.

It had been quite a while since Haoyu had arrived at the unexpectedly frosty Teleportation Complex and been directed to the hangar that held the shuttle.

That’s a good thing, right?

If they really thought this was the end of days, they’d be in more of a rush. It would be different. He hoped. This was way calmer than any of the planetary evacuation scenarios his parents had practiced with him over the years.

The flyer in the hidden security shed at home. Instant teleportation away from your desk at school to a half dozen different places on Anesidora. Or even off it.

You might just blink and find yourself on the Triplanets, Haoyu. Don’t be afraid if that happens. Be polite to everyone and wait. We’ll join you soon.

He swallowed.

You’d better join me, he thought. You’d better. You’d better. I’m doing what I always promised I would.

Finally, the last person boarded. The man took the seat across from Haoyu. They were packed in so close that their knees bumped.

Sonde, he thought. He’s a rare hyperbole sighting.

A couple of years ago, games of “who can spot a hyperbole first” had been a regular occurrence whenever he hung out with his classmates in the city.

The man was wearing glasses with dark blue lenses that didn’t perfectly hide the way he was staring.

“You’ve been very lucky,” said Sonde.

Are you reading me with your weird thing? Don’t do that.

Sonde claimed to “sense the shadows of a person’s potential pasts.” Which was pretty out-there even as far as U-types went.

“I know,” Haoyu said politely. He picked up his comic before the hyperbole could try talking to him again. He pretended to be engrossed in the pages.

It was a story about a boy who’d just become an older brother. Definitely written for children.

When Haoyu was little, he had looked at it until the pages were starting to break free of the binding. He had really wanted his parents to give him a younger brother or sister at the time, so he’d made a show of reading it conspicuously in front of them every chance he’d gotten while making not-so-subtle comments about how they had a spare bedroom.

Which had eventually prompted one of his father’s jokes about babies being too hazardous for his physique.

Haoyu had left the book here years ago in the small cubby that was set aside for children’s comfort toys. His name was written in the front cover, and an Artonan had given it to him as soon as he boarded.

I wonder if my parents didn’t want another kid because they were afraid of days like this one, he thought, staring at that little house where the happy family in the story lived.

A few minutes later, the escape shuttle lifted off.

He wouldn’t have known they were rising into the air at all if an Adjuster sitting across the aisle hadn’t cast a view-through spell on the patch of floor between them.

Anesidora fell away.

Apex looks wrong. Lights are missing.

In the dark, it looked like the whole western tip of the crescent had been chopped off. Is the power just out everywhere, or is it really gone?

He couldn’t even see spellflash or helicopters in that area. It must have been a waste of manpower to protect the fringes when everyone needed to be going inland anyway.

I hope everyone got out in time.

******

******

Alden ran for so long that he thought…maybe.

Maybe this was far enough. Maybe he was wasting his limited energy. Maybe it would be okay to turn aside here, go upstairs there. Stop and breathe.

It was like the cold night air didn’t have enough oxygen in it.

[Disaster Update: Probability of chaos exposure is now negligible. Chaos exposure updates will cease.]

Your timing, Alden thought, is the absolute worst.

A short while ago, that news would have lifted his spirits and given him hope. Now he couldn’t even enjoy it.

What about all the things I’m actually dealing with?

[Disaster Update: Tsunami-like incidents are increasingly likely in the following locations…]

The list wasn’t horribly long. It ended with Punta de la Luna and Sānjiǎo Beach. Two places that the System had ordered everyone to leave hours ago. Alden guessed it was nice that the System was still naming the dead zones at all.

Even though it wasn’t personalized, the update made him decide against stopping.

But I’m going the wrong way. I’m getting farther and farther from help.

I don’t know what to do.

He couldn’t imagine how far the water would spread if it burst. When it did. What would the force of the wave be like?

How many other things would turn into water magnets? Or missiles.

Three more blocks. Just three more.

Then I’ll look for a sturdy building.

He almost made it.

******

When it happened, it sounded like an explosion that wouldn’t end. Alden turned, thinking, I have to get off the street and up higher. Any place will do now.

He gripped Zeridee to his chest with arms that ached. He had half a thought about blowing open a door, and the auriad slid along his wrist in preparation.

The night roared.

Waist-deep water struck him like a battering ram.

He went down.

The physical violence of it was a shock. He was underwater. Things were slamming into him. He kicked his legs, but it was only the flailing of a frightened animal. He didn’t know where up was. He couldn’t possibly have kept his feet under him even if he’d managed to find the ground with them.

His eyes were closed. He was holding onto Zeridee.

He had told himself he would hold her, so he did. He could feel the water and all the things in the water beating against her. And against himself. He held her in that way, too.

They hit something. They hit something else.

Whatever it was, it didn’t give way. Alden was being pressed to it by the water. He needed to breathe.

He’d already been almost out of air from the run. He desperately needed to gasp.

When he finally did, he wasn’t sure if it was luck that the water was below his neck, or if his body had fired an inhale signal because it somehow knew an opportunity had come. As he pulled in another lungful and opened his eyes, he realized he was inside a building. Against a wall. He saw a dark, unidentifiable shape heading toward him fast, tumbled by the water as he had been.

Hiding his face behind Zeridee’s chest was reflex. The big thing hit them and then stayed, the lower half partially resting on top of Alden’s legs, the upper pressing against the wall right over his head.

At least it offered some protection from everything else in the water.

Alden clung to his burden, behind his mystery object, in the dark. He tried to figure out what was happening. Tried to go back to thinking instead of enduring.

There’s a wall at my back. I’m sitting against it. It’s standing. It’s not falling down.

One solid thought led to another.

I lost my flashlight, but I could still see something coming at me. My eyes are all right. And there was just enough light for me to make out a shape. I’m not far off the street. I’ve been shoved into a shop or something.

He was breathing so hard. His body was shaking.

I’m hurt.

He was sure he was hurt. It was so brutal. So cold. He’d felt his face hit asphalt. One of his cheeks stung. Lots of places stung.

His left hand hurt the worst. He was holding one of Zeridee’s shoulders with it at the moment. He couldn’t see it well enough to know what exactly was wrong with it, but it felt like something was stabbing him. Hesitantly, he moved the fingers of his right hand over the back of it, expecting to encounter a giant shard of glass or piece of wood.

Instead, he felt the warm slickness of his own blood, flowing freely.

Something stabbed me and then got pulled out? Or I banged it against something sharp?

In the dark, in the wake of what had just happened—what was still happening—even his own body was hard to figure out. Which was what prompted his next thought:

My fingers. Do I still have all my fingers? How will I cast spells if I’ve lost one?

Alden wiggled each of them individually even though it hurt like hell on the left hand, counting one by one.

That’s ten. Ten fingers. Everything’s okay.

The thought and the relief tinging it was so wrong that after it had passed through his mind he had to briefly ask himself if he had a serious head injury. He decided that he didn’t. He was just a dumbass.

People sitting up to their armpits in a flood laced with magical contaminants aren’t okay, Alden. You’re very close to dying in about a dozen different ways right now.

You need to get out of the water.

******

******
