And then the wind washed over him again, and that carried him into another memory. This one took place on the grounds of Phoenix Academy. He lay upon the grass, staring up at the sky. Though he'd wanted to spend the afternoon studying, Isabella convinced him to take some time off to enjoy nature by her side and simply watch the clouds, laughing at the strange shapes their minds conjured. Her giggles had a habit of devolving into pig-like snorts—and while she was conscious about it, Adam thought it was absolutely adorable. It was among the many things that drew him into her, despite the animosity between their families. She was a person. It was hard to explain: so many nobles had facades and pretenses. She didn’t. She was… genuine…

Being next to her made him comfortable. And that's probably why he managed to fall asleep on the grass. That's how bliss took him—a conspiracy between her laughter, the gentle winds, the soft soil, and…

Meditation 3 > 6

***

And the Young Lord was asleep.

A tired breath escaped him as the Culturist took in his potential savior and chosen victim-disciple. A continental maelstrom of details hammered against his mind, but he pushed them back, held them at bay. Even he couldn't process that much, and Adam's Awareness was still spreading out. The Culturist needed to find a way to curtail it or contain it, but it seemed like every little thing he noticed rebounded to something else. Instead of ending there, it fed his perception and only made it grow stronger, made it grow faster.

The Culturist felt a building ache in the back of his mind. Soon, it would be a searing agony.

There was something about these three children. The System had marked them, starting with the Deathless. Now they were gaining enough power to drown worlds, so much power so fast it left aged Legends seething with envy.

But they were all still so young. And still connected to Adam's mind and soul, the Culturist realized something about himself. He was old. Truly old. He had lived a long time, and yet, among the other orcs, it didn't feel that vast at all. They'd done this countless times. Their lives were an eternal present. Just a revolving day that kept going until you died, and then it started again. That's why the loop didn't bother him so much.

But with Adam, there were so many flavors that tasted fresh to him, so many feelings that were still precious and intense. The Culturist had missed that. This naivety. Just like he missed hitting Skill Evolutions. And at that, to his disbelief, a new level greeted his Multi-Tasking Skill.

Tabula Eternia 504 > 505

Part of him suspected it was the strain brought on by carrying the burdens of Adam's new Skill Evolution, but another part of him knew it was something more, something else.

He hummed thoughtfully. “The flame is spreading. It seems that you have burned me as well, dear boy.”

But Adam didn't reply. He was blissfully unconscious, nested in the cradle of a distant memory far away from here. And with the Itch still banished, another emotion rose, one that the Culturist hadn't felt before. Not in himself.

It took him a while to guess what it was: affection. It was something he'd felt in her. He'd felt it when they jokingly talked about raising a child, perhaps growing one through their shared biomass. They'd known it was likely an absurd dream, likely never to be made true. But their minds were drawn close by those rings, and he knew her yearning had been true. At the time, he'd thought himself incapable of such a thing. But here, stripped of the Itch, stripped of that overwhelming, pulsing desire to constantly hurt and break that had been with him since he first opened his eyes to behold the wretched wasteland his people called home, there came, other than everything else, a full spectrum of humanity.

And to the Culturist's disbelief, he cared. About the boy in front of him. About the child he'd infested, if only to provoke Valor.

He breathed in deeply, letting his unfettered emotions course through him. “I will see you free of this place, Young Arrow. I promise. To spite the mistress that rules here. To defy my maker. To honor my old nemesis. For what you have given me. And because you are… a righteous Pathbearer. Someone I had yearned to be, but didn’t believe I could ever become.”

Adam promptly flopped over on his side and pressed his face into the grass. The Culturist sighed. “Sleep deep, Little God-to-be. Sleep deep and dream big.”

And so, the orc watched over a young man burdened with too much, while outside, the winds grew louder as a certain dragon of nature adjusted its path toward the frigid realm of winter.
