“Ahem!” The captain cleared his throat. “Now that we've all been served... some in much better ways than others...” The captain said and looked at Ren. “...let's eat!”

With the silence and shock broken, everyone started to eat. Almost right away, there were declarations of excellent food and wondering what had changed to make it taste so good. Ren didn't say anything and ate quietly, slipping some of the meat into inventory. The meat was nice and tender, and the mashed potatoes were still nice and fluffy. He picked up the mug of dark liquid and sniffed it. It had a nice oaken smell and Ren tasted it. The flavor burst in his mouth and he took a couple of big swallows.

“Ah! That's good stuff!” Ren said loudly without thinking, and put the half empty mug down. Everyone fell silent again and stared at him. He felt something building in his belly and put a hand on it. Is this what I think- Ren's thought was interrupted as he opened his mouth.

*BUUUURRRRP!!!*

It was really loud in the quiet room and a moment later, there was a snicker a table away... and then a deluge of laughter covered everyone. Even Ren had to laugh.

“That was a good one!” Gausen said and followed Ren's burp with one of his own. Of course, this started a contest to see who could get as loud as Ren. No one could quite get to the same level, though.

Mead was continuously served as the meal went on, and then a large plate of food was served to each table. Everyone stared at the plates as if they didn't know what to do with them, and almost all of the dwarves looked to the captain, who picked up each french fry and ate it. Ren wasn't hungry, but he didn't want to insult Nathalia by not eating any, so he helped himself to them.

Everyone grabbed a fry and ate it, then their faces lit up just like Nathalia's did when she had tasted it the first time. They dug into the fries with declarations of masterpieces and food from the gods. Ren chuckled and let the dwarves at his table finish off the plate. If he had been counting, Gausen would have been the one to eat the most. Ren pushed his chair slightly back from the table and looked at the captain, who was already in that position. Soon everyone else had pushed back from the tables and the captain stood.

“I'd like to thank our passenger for the captain's gift of these delicious 'fries'.” He said and raised his mug to Ren, and everyone stared at him again.

Ren raised his mug as well and waited.

“I'd like to propose a toast. To good food! A great cook! And more MEAD!” The captain declared and took a drink.

Ren and everyone else took a drink as well. The gathering soon devolved into a simple drinking game, consisting of how much more you could drink than anyone else. Ren didn't quite play and stayed out of the main area where the heaviest drinkers were. A half an hour later, a dwarf approached him.

“You! You besmirched my House's name!” The dwarf said and swayed from side to side. The boat was in calm water so Ren knew that it was the alcohol and not the waves that made the dwarf sway.

“I...” *burp* “...demand you...” *hic* “...face me. I challen-” Another dwarf slapped a hand over the drunk dwarf's mouth to stop him from finishing what he wanted to say.

“He's a bit out of it, sir. Can you forgive him?” The second dwarf said and bowed slightly.

Ren bowed slightly himself and the dwarf had a happy face for a moment, then dragged his friend away.

“What did I tell you about biting off more than you can chew?” The second dwarf said to his friend and then led his friend out of the dining room.

“The captain, Ren.” Teepo said.

Thanks, Teepo.

“That was nice of you.” The captain said from beside him.

Ren nodded without turning around and took another mouthful of mead.

“I heard about the fight on the deck.” He said and sat in the chair beside Ren. “You could tear old Rugzak apart with those moves.”

Ren nodded again.

“You're not really into the whole drinking until you pass out thing, are you?” The captain asked.

Ren laughed and looked at him. “This is my first time drinking, actually.”

The captain's eyebrows rose. “You're handling your alcohol well, if that's the case.”

“I'm trying my best to not get falling down drunk.” Ren said. “I've seen enough of that from my father.”

The captain nodded. “Those 'fries' were great, by the way. I tried to thank you earlier, but you weren't in your cabin.”

Ren smiled. “Yeah, I've been all around the ship. It's my first time on one, you see.”

The captain laughed. “No point in saying that you're handling that quite well, either.”

Ren shook his head. “I told Nathalia that if I had a choice between enjoying it or being sick, I was choosing enjoyment.”

The captain winced when Ren said Nathalia's name.

“Sorry. I'm not used to all of your customs.” Ren said and looked at the captain. “I assume you're the member of the High House that was the witness?”

The captains eyes widened at that. “How did you... no, it's a logical deduction, isn't it? I wouldn't have the ship if I was of a lower House. I'd be working on it.”

Ren nodded.

“Well, I've got to get back to my cabin.” The captain said and stood. “Captain's business to deal with.”

Ren laughed and raised his mug. “If only all captain's business was as pleasant.”

The captain slapped a hand on Ren's shoulder and laughed hard. When he was done, he downed the last of his mead, nodded to Ren, and left the dining room with a smile on his face.

I better go, too. Ren thought and stood up. He downed the last of the mead in his mug and went over to the serving window. The kitchen was dark and Ren put the mug on a tray that would hold it still, and stop it from sliding if the boat rocked. He left the room, and avoided the dwarves that tried to stop him from going. Ren got to the hold and sat down on his bed. He was really glad that he wasn't feeling the effects of the alcohol that he'd drunk since supper, and handed Princess all the meat that he'd snuck off of his plate during the meal. She took her time chewing each piece and Ren felt peaceful, listening to her chew.

“I'm glad you all came along.” Ren said as he fed Princess the last piece of meat. “I'm going to sleep for a while.” He said and laid down on the bed. Then hopped up and pulled out the 4 concealing rocks that he still had, and then took out a stone brick, enchanted it with a glyph of 4 Terror runes, and placed the 5 of them around the little corner they were in. “Stay in here, please... until I come back, alright?” Ren lay back down on the bed. “Teepo, you're in charge. Keep a look out.” Ren said.

“Logout.”

********

Ren took off the VR headset and looked at a very happy Stella.

“You just can't keep your hands off the ladies, can you?” Stella said and laughed.

Ren snorted a laugh. “Hey, you saw what happened! I never touched her. Not even when she kissed me!” Ren said. “I actually didn't even think about doing it, to be honest.”

Stella grinned at him. “Yeah, I saw that little Ren didn't react.”

“Stella!”

She laughed and Ren got out of bed to use the bathroom. “Is there anything that you won't tease people about?”

She thought about that while Ren did his business and came back out and climbed in bed.

“No.”

Ren rolled his eyes and she smiled.

“You're just in time for supper.” Stella said. “I'll be right back with it.”

Ren pulled the rollaway table over, cleared the laptop off of it, and got it ready to receive the tray. Stella came into the room kind of sideways, carrying the tray in front of her. She shuffled like a crab over to the bed and Ren wondered what she was doing. When she stood beside the bed, she turned with the tray in her hands and Ren saw that there was ham, cut just like it was for the dwarf meal, white fluffy mashed potatoes, and a big mug of rootbeer. His jaw fell open.

“Stella...” Ren started to say, until he looked up at her.

She had a few pieces of paper taped together, with a crudely drawn set of gigantic boobs in a tight green dress and apron.

“Stella!” Ren exclaimed and smiled.

Stella started laughing, and put the tray down on the rollaway table, then kept laughing as Ren tried to grab the drawing.

“I was gonna thank you for going to all the trouble, too!” Ren said and grinned. He managed to hook the edge of the paper and pulled.

“Oh, Ren! You've ravaged me!” Stella said and put a hand to her chest. Ren bundled up the drawing and tossed it at her.

“Get out of here, you!” Ren shook his fist at her and laughed. “One of these days I'll get you back!”

Stella picked up the paper ball and laughed as she left Ren alone to eat. He took his time and finished everything, then slowly sipped the rootbeer. He didn't want to guzzle such a good drink.

Stella came in and saw Ren was nearly finished and watched the television while she waited. Normally she would have sat beside him while he ate, but she had teased him a bit too much this time and didn't want to keep pushing her luck.

It's just so much fun! She thought and smiled. Ren saw Stella smile and smiled himself. He always overacted his reactions to her little schemes, mainly because she seemed to like it so much. They enjoyed spending the next hour together, then the shift changed and Barbara came in. Stella stuck around a little longer than usual as Ren filled Barbara in on what had been happening and Stella added her bits to it as well. Barbara laughed as she heard the goings on and then laughed harder at Ren's mistaken courtship of the dwarf cook.

“Ren... you're just too good of a person!” Barbara said and ruffled his hair. “It's not your fault it's been taken as a marriage proposal.”

“See, Stella! I told you!” Ren said and Stella laughed.

“Sure, Loverboy. Keep telling yourself that!” Stella said and ruffled his hair, too. “I better go. Have a good night you, two.”

“Bye, Stella.” Ren and Barbara said together and they laughed again.

“You're definitely having quite the adventure, Ren.” Barbara said.

“I know! Who'd have thought that dwarves would own a ship!” Ren said. “Oh, I can show it to you!” Ren said and dug out the laptop. He pulled up the saved footage from that afternoon and queued up the right spot and turned the laptop so Barbara could see it.

“It's so small.” Barbara said. “Is it safe?”

Ren laughed. “It's actually a lot bigger than it looks.” He said. “I actually feel tall with them around.”

Barbara laughed. “I can see the appeal.”

Ren nodded. “If it wasn't for all the dominance fights, it would be a really nice place.”

Barbara smiled. “Everything has benefits and drawbacks, Ren.”

“I know.” Ren said. “I'm having fun so it's not too bad. That last fight I had... I think they won't challenge me much now.”

“I don't like fighting. I think it's both pointless and useless.” Barbara said.

“That's what I told them!” Ren said and grinned.

Barbara smiled. “At least you've used it to stop more fights.”

Ren nodded again. “I certainly hope so. I've only got one more to fight, assuming the Main House challenges my sitting at the head table above them.”

Barbara put a hand on Ren's arm. “If they don't come to their senses, don't hold back like you did with that other one.”

Ren's eyes widened. “Barbara...”

Barbara shook her head. “You're kind of trapped in this now. If it comes down to a fight, and even though I'd hate for it to happen, it probably will anyways... you make sure you win, Ren.”

Ren took her hand in his. “I... I'll make short work of them if I have to. I promise.”

“Good!” Barbara said, squeezed Ren's hand, and changed the subject. “I think we're missing Big Sister! Change the channel to 36.”

Ren chuckled and changed the channel. Barbara really loves her reality shows.

Big Sister actually was on, and they settled in to enjoy the show. They watched as the women competed for the top spot in the condo, and held hands the whole time.
