“You might enjoy those more if you took your time.” Ren said and Princess looked at him with about half of the big bowl's fries sticking out of her mouth. “Don't get mad at me, it's just a suggestion.”

She tried to huff and a pile of fries popped out of her mouth and back into the bowl. Ren laughed as Princess tried her best to get those fries back into her mouth before chewing what she had first. He waited until she finished the fries and then she licked the bowl clean.

“You didn't have to lick it clean. I was going to wash it anyways.” Ren said, and laughed at her stern look. “I'm going topside for a while. Now that we're actually going out to sea, I'm going out to see where we're going.” Ren smiled. “That sounded weird, even to me.” He said and chuckled. “I'll see you later, Princess. Do you want to come, Ruck?”

Ruck shook back and forth in a 'no' gesture. “Okay. See you later.”

Ren went up on deck and used his water ring to rinse out the bowl over the side of the ship. I'll give it a proper washing the next time I'm in the kitchen. Ren thought as he looked at the open water. He wondered how far he had to go in the ship to get to the dwarven city, then decided to go for a walk around the deck of the ship. He stayed out of everyone's way, until he came to one dwarf that looked like he needed help to secure a loose rope. He was straining to hold it and tie the end at the same time. Ren grabbed on and held it taut, and the dwarf looked at him like he was crazy, shrugged and tied a knot on the end. The dwarf nodded and Ren nodded back, then kept walking around the deck. He didn't see the other 2 dwarves that had come over to help, standing there staring at him as he walked away. Ren came around the main cabin area and saw a group of dwarves standing in a circle near the back of the main deck. They were hollering and goading the 2 dwarves that they surrounded. Ren approached the group and could easily see. Ren was 4 foot 7 inches; he pretty much towered over nearly every dwarf on the ship, since they ranged from 3 feet 6 inches tall to 4 feet 3 inches tall. They were all talking at once, but Ren picked up details here and there. One of the dwarfs had dipped a mop into the other dwarf's bucket that was supposed to be only for brushes.

Ren shook his head slightly and walked on. He climbed the few stairs to the back deck where the steering wheel was. The dwarf holding the wheel had watched Ren as he approached and Ren nodded. The dwarf's eyes widened slightly and nodded back. Ren walked to the very back of the ship and stared at the coastline as it drifted away. He smiled at how wrong that statement was. It was Ren that was drifting away from everything that he knew.

I hope this was a good decision. Ren thought.

“Of course it was.” Teepo said and Ren looked down over the back of the ship. Teepo was clinging to the side of the large rudder.

What the hell are you doing down there? Ren thought, flabbergasted.

Teepo chittered in laughter. “Just checking everything out.”

Ren shook his head. Geez, Teepo! What if you fell off?

“You'd save me.” Teepo said and crawled back onto the side of the ship.

Ren looked at his friend and smiled. Yeah, if I couldn't just summon you, I'd get you out of there somehow.

Teepo crawled all the way up the side of the ship then up Ren's arm to perch on the shoulder.

Explored the rest of the ship, have you?

“I did. There's a lot of spaces I haven't been in yet, but I found out where they all are.”

Ren smiled and looked at the receding land. Tell me about it.

Teepo filled Ren in on all the rooms he'd found, how many dwarves were on the ship, where the captain's cabin was, how to get to the rowing deck, and the engine room.

Did you say engine room?

“Yeah. It's right next to where I just was. I heard the dwarf that was cleaning the rowing deck say that they needed to get the oars ready for when they next get to a dock.”

They don't use the oars all the time?

Teepo chittered in laughter. “Dwarves rowing all the time? No, they just do that around the dock.”

Why?

“Why row when you can just let the water move you?”

Okay, this I have to see. Ren thought.

“I can take you there.” Teepo offered.

No, I think I'll go through 'official channels' for this. The last thing I need is to be kicked off the ship, or worse, prosecuted for stealing secrets.

“Oh. That would be bad.” Teepo said.

Ren nodded and turned around to walk down the other side of the ship, but only took three steps and stopped short when another dwarf stood in front of him. He had a short mohawk of black hair and the sides of his head and chin were shaved clean, except for the part around his mouth. He had a big bushy mustache connected to a large tuft of beard on the end of the chin. He had a wicked tattoo of a snake that started at his temple, ran around his ear, down his neck and shoulder, and around his bicep. He was both muscular and stocky; and pretty much naked, except for a loincloth and leather pouches on the sides of his hips. He also wore boots with thick soles.

“Can I help you?” Ren asked.

The dwarf didn't say anything. Ren stepped to the side to try and go around him and the dwarf stepped to the side as well. The group of dwarves that he'd passed on the lower deck slowly surrounded them, and started goading them.

“Don't do this.” Ren warned him.

“Your on my nice clean deck.” The dwarf said.

Ren didn't look down, as it was an invitation to get punched. Plus, he'd walked all along one side of the ship and from what he'd seen, the deck was anything but clean.

Notice!

You have entered PvNPC mode!

“I guess I don't have any choice in the matter.” Ren said and sighed. “At least I don't have to kill you.”

The dwarf's eyes widened at Ren's words, then closed as Ren's right hand fist struck the side of his face. The dwarf's head spun to the left, but his body didn't move at all. He spit out some blood and started to turn his head back. Ren hit the dwarf with his left fist, then the right again, kicked the dwarf in the gut, put a knee under the dwarf's face, then brought an elbow down on the back of the dwarf's head, smashing the head both in the front and in the back at the same time. Silence engulfed the onlookers as the dwarf Ren had beaten to a pulp, with almost no effort, slid to the deck and didn't move.

Notice!

PvNPC mode has ended.

Notice!

Congratulations! You have defeated your opponent in One-on-One combat.

Rewards: 500 XP

Fame Bonus: 17%

Notice!

You have defeated an opponent 15 levels higher than you.

Fame: +25

Notice!

You have unlocked a skill: Unarmed Combat

Ren dismissed the popups and looked at his hands. That actually worked. Ren thought. I figured using a weapon would probably be against the rules, but just using my hands... that was new. One of the dwarves stepped forward and Ren saw that it was Gausen.

“I tried to convince him not to do it.” Gausen said and laughed, and then everyone else broke into cheers. “Even after I told everyone what happened during your test, he still wanted to see how strong you were.”

“I assume you also told him how I hated useless fights.” Ren said.

Gausen nodded. “I did... but was this one useless?” He motioned to the spectators.

Ren saw that they were all discussing how he'd destroyed his opponent without even getting hit once. Some were even trying to duplicate his moves. Ren shook his head a little and Gausen stepped close.

“Where did you learn to fight like that?” Gausen asked and the crowd fell silent again.

“MMA.” Ren said without thinking. He'd watched shows about it a lot over the years, dreaming that someday he'd be well enough to try it.

“Ememay...” Gausen said, grabbed Ren's arm and lifted it into the air. “I give you the winner! Ren of House Ememay!”

“Wait!” Ren said, but it was too late. The dwarves swarmed him, patting him on the back and arms, congratulating him on a victory that his House could be proud of.

Oh, crap.

“What is it?” Teepo asked.

If I'm reading this situation right... and I'm sorry to say that I believe I'm right... I've just been declared a member of a Dwarven House

“Isn't that a good thing?”

Probably, except that the Dwarven House of Ememay doesn't actually exist.

“It does now.” Teepo said.

What?

“You've beaten a representative of another House in Honorable combat. It grants you the right to either join that House as the new representative, stay with your old House, or claim and establish another House.”

Teepo... how do you know all of this?

Teepo chittered in laughter. “Dwarves spend as much time in caves and dungeons as beetles do. We share the same living space most of the time. You tend to learn a few things about each other over time.”

Ren shook his head mentally. You and I are going to have a long talk later.

“About what?”

Sharing information.

Just then a bell rang twice, and after a moment rang twice more, and 2 of the dwarves picked up the one Ren fought and dragged him between them, laughing. The rest followed them and walked to the main cabin area.

“What are the bells for?” Ren asked.

“Supper.” Gausen said. “I hear we're having boar tonight!” He joined the flow of dwarves, and Ren followed him as they all went inside, down the hall, and into the dining room.

It's more like a cafeteria than a dining room. Ren thought as he entered. Except for the 6 waitresses at the front of the room.

Everyone started sitting down, but Ren didn't see any order or pattern as groups of dwarves sat together. He followed Gausen to the second table closest to the front of the room, near the serving window, and sat down on Gausen's left. Other dwarves sat down across from them and stared at Ren like he was crazy. The first table remained empty, however.

Ren quickly glanced at the dwarf sitting next to him on his left and saw the dwarf was staring daggers at him. Gausen noticed the stares of the others and followed their gaze to Ren, and his eyes widened.

“Why are you sitting there?” Gausen asked.

“I'm... waiting to get something to eat?” Ren said, perplexed.

Gausen started to say something, then changed it. “It's too late to move now.” He said and stood. Ren followed suit and so did all the other dwarves. The captain of the ship came into the room. He was the tallest dwarf Ren had seen yet, at a whopping 4 feet 5 inches. He wore the traditional captain's hat, a half cloak over one shoulder, and had a blonde dwarf on his arm. She was only 3 feet 8 inches tall, however... so, he was quite a bit taller and stockier in comparison.

As the couple passed each table, the dwarves nodded to the captain. When they passed the table Ren was at, he nodded to the captain as well. The captain noticed the change in seating arrangements and raised his eyebrows at Gausen, who shrugged slightly. It's not like you could miss seeing Ren, no matter where he sat. Gausen thought. He's even taller than the captain!

The captain and his companion sat at the front table and once they were settled, everyone else sat down. People started talking once the captain waved permission for the servers to begin handing out the plates of food. Gausen turned to Ren.

“You were supposed to sit at the visitor's table.” Gausen said and nodded to a small empty table at the back of the room.

“Oh. I'm sorry. I didn't know.” Ren said and tried to stand.

“Sit down.” Gausen said. “I told you that it was too late to move.”

Ren sat back down. “How badly did I mess up?”

Gausen sighed. “Normally, your declaration that your House is better than all the others, would be challenged by the lowest House first.”

Ren stared at him with wide eyes.

“But seeing as how you're only a visitor, and apparently don't know anything of our ways, perhaps just the Main House will need to be fought.” Gausen said.

The waitress put a plate of food in front of Gausen and she stopped when she saw Ren sitting in the next spot. She looked at the dwarf that was supposed to be sitting there, then back at Ren, then at the dwarf. Ren took the plate from her frozen hand and passed it to the dwarf that was supposed to get it first.

“Please continue serving the others.” Ren said to her. “I'll wait.”

Gasps could be heard from the next table as shock spread throughout the room.

“Did he just...”

“Why would he...”

“I think he's crazy...”

The waitress looked at Gausen, who nodded. she continued to serve everyone else at the table and went back to wait at the serving window.

“What did I do now?” Ren asked Gausen in a whisper.

Gausen sighed. “You declared you were the highest House by sitting here, and then you declared that your Honor was greater than everyone else's by forgoing being served before everyone else.”

“But... I was going to be served last before. Why is it different?”

“You chose it.” Gausen said. “If you'd sat at the end table, you deserved to be served last, as that was your station. After your declaration to be the best, then choosing to go last, means your Honor won't suffer for it.”

“Okay. That makes sense, I think.” Ren said.

Gausen put a hand to the top of his nose and shook his head. “What am I going to do with you?”

Another waitress served large mugs of a dark liquid to all of the dwarves and not to Ren.

4 to serve the food, 2 for drinks. Ren thought as he waited.

No one touched the food or the drinks. Once everyone was served both food and drink, Ren still hadn't been served and he looked around. Everyone had looks of disbelief on their faces, including the captain. Ren was going to ask what was going on when Nathalia came into the dining room carrying a plate of food and a mug of dark ale. She came over to his side of the table and stood beside him. Ren looked up at her and smiled. “Thank you, Nathalia.” He said and took the plate and mug from her and put it on the table. More gasps were heard and shock spread through the room as a deep red blush blossomed on Nathalia's face.

I'm not asking what I did wrong this time. Ren thought.

“You didn't do anything wrong.” Teepo said.

That's good to know. Ren relaxed for a moment.

“All you did was declare your intention to court her.”

W-w-w-what?!? Ren widened his eyes and stared at Nathalia.

“You used her given name in public, and in front of High House witnesses.”

Oh... crap.

No one said a word as Nathalia gave a slight nod and left the dining room.

Now what do I do? Ren thought.

“Once the captain gives permission, you can eat.” Teepo suggested.

That's not what I meant!

“I know!” Teepo said and chittered in laughter.

*(Author's Note: This is where I would have stopped the chapter. Carry on! LOL)*

