They mostly talked about everything that had happened on the farm, rather than any of their own exploits—they spoke of things like the Wandering Deer Caravan, having sampled vodka mixed with berries, and laughed about Wa Shi getting launched out of the toilet.

They also asked about Bi De, Ri Zu, and Yun Ren. They were told they were fine, but that it was a story for tomorrow.

After the meal, they had a bath; and for the second time today and the first in eight months, Xiulan got to feel the skilled fingers of Meiling, who tutted about the state of Xiulan’s back, even as she efficiently dismantled every knot and left Xiulan a pile of jelly.

And then, by that point, it was dark out, and Tigu had started yawning.

Xiulan was fading quite quickly too, so they decided that it would be better to sleep.

She went into her room. Her room, which previously she had called her borrowed room. It was again, a bit bigger. But everything she had left there had been lovingly kept and tended to. The clothes were clean and fresh. The images and seeds from Chun Ke she had kept on her desk had been left largely undisturbed, so that she could arrange them how she pleased later.

Xiulan changed into her sleepwear, which Meiling had put by the fire so it would be warm, and walked out onto the small balcony—another new addition for the rooms. And, in another moment of consideration, it was easier to get onto the roof from here.

She swung herself up. The roof itself was completely clear of snow, and she walked over to her normal place and sat down.

She sighed happily as she stared out at the winter-blanketed land, setting her hands on either side of herself… before pausing and glancing down.

…there were little circular divots in the roof tile—the perfect size to hold a cup of tea. Xiulan smiled slightly as she heard approaching footsteps.

Speak of Cao Cao, and he shall arrive.

“I thought I’d find you up here,” Jin said, carrying a tray. Meiling was right behind him. “Tea?”

What could Xiulan do but agree?

The tea was as warm and comforting as the two people who sat on either side of her.

Home. She was home.
