The others. Daly felt a lurch in his chest. It had been a week and a half of marching. They’d left the idyllic Lizardfolk village on the beach to march back through the jungle. North, towards one of the cities nearby. Quexa and the others had said it was a good place—peaceful, with opportunity to work. But the journey had taken longer than they’d thought.
No—they’d delayed too long. Too many days of stretching out on the beach, wasting money. And then they’d stopped at nice inns, not marched nearly as hard as they could. They were paying for it now. Quallet had insisted the Earthworlders and soldiers still with them pick up the pace, but the Humans from Earth hadn’t been able to muster the discipline, and none of the appointed leaders—Luan, Ken, or Geneva—had had the stomach to force the issue. Daly wished they had. Desperately, he counted the coins and tried to estimate how far they had to go.
“Look, if we all just eat rice—with some of that cheap meat the Lizardfolk sell, er, xelca, and we drink water, how much does it cost us each day?”
“Too much. I’ve done the math, Daly.”
Paige snapped at him. He knew she was just stressed. As the appointed treasurer of the United Nations company, she was already under pressure to save as many coins as they could. And that was before the issue in front of them—the Earthworlders were reluctant to give up the pay they’d earned and pool their funds, no matter how necessary it was, and the others weren’t about to do that at all.
The remnants of Gravetender’s Fist might have agreed to join the company, but they were still separate. Even Quexa and Quallet. And if there was no money to be had, they might up and vanish. And then how would the Earthworlders defend themselves?
“It’s too expensive. We’ve got too many mouths. Even rice and meat add up, Daly. We can’t always cook it ourselves, and it’s way more expensive if we’re paying for meals. That’s on top of paying for rooms, Geneva’s supplies, materials for the Dullahan’s armor, bug repellant, not to mention ink, parchment, [Repair] spells for the electronics…”
“Damn it. What do we do, then?”
Daly scrubbed at his hair. Paige shrugged.
“I’ve done all I can. I can only relay the bad news.”
Which she did. Every night, the leaders of the United Nations company gathered. In Quallet’s tent if they were camping, in a room in the inn if they were paying for lodging—six of them.
Paige, Daly, Ken, Luan, Geneva, and Quallet. The six of them were, each in their own way, leaders. Daly and Paige represented the Australians, who were the largest group of Earthworlders who’d survived to join the company. Paige kept the money, Daly had found himself keeping people in line. Stopping them from fighting on the road, wasting money, and so on. Ken was their diplomat, responsible for negotiating prices and more of the peacemaking. Luan was Luan. Geneva likewise. And Quallet was their link to the outside world and common sense.
It was that the [Mercenary Captain] threw at them now. They didn’t want to hear it, but he was insistent. He paced back and forth, looking angry and irritated.
“Companies always bleed coin. The way we earn it is constantly being on contract. Or by controlling and selling a resource of some kind. If we were responsible for guarding a town, for instance…but we’re not. We need to find work.”
“You mean, by taking a fight. Going out there and killing some other poor buggers.”
“Not necessarily. Companies get paid to menace an area or just patrol. We could take a job clearing pest monsters. Or even undead. Anything to get by. I thought that was why you formed this company.”
The man glared at Geneva and Luan. The two looked at each other. Luan spoke quietly.
“We don’t want to fight, Quallet. It’s too risky. People will die.”
“That’s what happens in a company.”
“It’s not what we want. This company is supposed to protect its members.”
“By letting them starve?”
“By protecting. Finding another way to earn gold. We’re not in this to start fights!”
Luan snapped at Quallet. The man ground his teeth together. Geneva looked up.
“I can do it. I’ll offer my services at a battlefield. If Quallet can get together some people to guard me, I’ll see if Calectus is willing to stay with us and guard me.”
“For free?”
Quallet was skeptical. He had every right to be. The Selphid, Calectus, was already thinking of leaving. He’d done his job guarding Geneva from everything without so much as asking for a copper coin—now he was hinting at leaving more and more with each passing day. He wanted to find some of his Selphid friends and bring them back to meet Geneva. He wouldn’t be happy to learn she was planning on going back to the battlefield.
Neither was anyone else. Ken protested immediately.
“Geneva, please reconsider. Doing something like working on the battlefield—it’s too dangerous, surely!”
The [Doctor] shook her head. Her hands moved restlessly on the table. Daly saw her left hand’s fingers moving, as if they had a mind of their own compared to the right. He shivered but kept silent.
“I’m no use here. I can at least earn money by saving lives on the battlefield.”
“That might be true. But we can’t protect you. When I said we should work as a company, I didn’t mean head to a battlefield as a third party. We should take small contracts. We don’t have the numbers or the punch to defend a target like you.”
Quallet looked at Geneva. She shrugged.
“Then I’ll go by myself.”
“This time, they’ll kill you straight off. They won’t risk what happened last time. Word got around. You destabilize a battlefield. No [Strategist] will let you interrupt their plans.”
The Italian woman’s eyes blazed.
“What’s the other solution? Let everyone else fight?”
“It’s not necessarily going to come to battle! I told you, companies aren’t always at war.”
“And if it does?”
“You were [Soldiers]. Mercenaries. You survived one battle, and did it well. Why can’t you do it again—”
“Enough!”
Ken interrupted the two as they argued. He forced himself between Geneva and Quallet, speaking desperately.
“Please! Friends, calm down. No one is going back to the battlefield. We could not convince our friends, I think. We must find another way.”
Quallet subsided. Geneva stepped back unwillingly. The [Mercenary] looked at Ken and modulated his tone, but barely.
“That doesn’t change the fact that the rest of us came with your group because we thought it would be an opportunity. The Last Light, your strange lot—we’re with you. We are. But we have to earn a living, and none of us have seen any coin.”
That was true. Quallet had funded them with his own money as well as their own. Daly looked down and gritted his teeth.
“We could fight. At least, do some patrolling. I’m sure at least half of us would sign up for it.”
He meant the Earthworlders. The Balerosian lot, Quexa included, were only too happy to act as a company. Quallet relaxed, but Geneva shook her head.
“I can’t let you do that, Daly. Not you or anyone else. At least two-thirds of the Earthworlders are suffering from symptoms of PTSD. I’m not a psychologist, but that’s my diagnosis. And it’s an easy one to make.”
She looked from face to face. Quallet looked blank. Luan shifted.
“A lot of us have nightmares. Flashbacks. They’re unstable.”
“They’re green. This was their first battle. They’ll toughen up. I’ll keep discipline.”
Quallet growled. Geneva sighed loudly. He didn’t understand what they were talking about.
Paige spoke up.
“They’re afraid. They don’t want to fight. We’re not warriors, Quallet. We don’t come from a place where people fight. At all.”
“Well then, you’d better learn. Because a company that doesn’t fight dies.”
That was the last the man said. The others looked at each other. Luan sighed.
“If we stop here and let some of us take jobs while the rest work as a company, can you earn money from tending to people, Geneva? Enough to put us on the road?”
Geneva’s nostrils went white as she inhaled painfully.
“From what patients? Who needs a [Doctor] when you have healing potions? Besides, there aren’t enough injuries. Unless I’m on a battlefield—”
The door burst open. Quallet turned, and Daly drew his axe in an instant. Dawson froze as he saw Daly turning towards him. Quallet seized Daly’s arm and brought the axe down.
“What the hell is it?”
He snapped at Dawson. Some of the color flooded back into Dawson’s face. The young man looked around the room.
“Caroline’s gone. Has anyone seen her?”
“No. Did she go outside?”
The others looked at each other. Dawson shook his head.
“We thought she was just somewhere else, but no one’s seen her all night. She was going out.”
“For a walk? I told you not to go out alone! Especially this late at night!”
“I don’t know if she did! But she’s missing.”
“Damn it. Let’s spread out and search. Daly, Paige, you follow me. The rest of you, stay here!”
Quallet cursed. He led the way out the door, and Daly followed, heart pounding. They searched for Caroline, asking about the inn, checking the forest. Shouting her name.
They never found her.
 
——
 
“It’s not going to work. We have to split up the company.”
Ken announced that fact to the group the next morning. Daly looked up. He was sleep-deprived, exhausted from a night of searching. Quallet jerked. He’d been half-asleep.
“What do you mean? It’s over?”
Luan and the others looked at Ken as well, in alarm. The young Japanese man hesitated.
“No. The company is not over. But—we cannot be together. Work under the same flag.”
He turned and bowed to Quallet.
“Captain Marshhand, it is clear to me that you wish to have a company that fights and operates as one. You have mercenaries and, I think, the will to earn a living that way, is that correct?”
Quallet nodded slowly.
“That’s right. I’m done with the suppression company work. I want a real company at my back, not new soldiers. And I’m willing to make your company into one.”
Ken nodded a few times.
“I understand that. But I think we have had a miscommunication. A terrible one. You see, Miss Geneva, Luan, and I—we are not trying to form a company that is for hire. We are forming a—a group that protects others like us. That finds other people from our home.”
“Earth. Your strange homeland. I understand that. What’s the problem? Larger companies control land, territory, and so on.”
Again Ken nodded.
“That is true. But this company is small. And those of us from Earth—we are not willing to fight. Some of us might to defend ourselves, but we do not wish to. And Geneva especially.”
Every eye turned to her. Geneva nodded.
“I can’t be part of fighting. Even if it’s just me tending to the wounded on one side—if anyone’s hurt, I have a duty to help them.”
“Well, that’s just great. A [Doctor] on our side is our one big asset. You’re telling me you want me to fight—without including Geneva or most of you lot?”
It looked as if Quallet would burst a vein. Ken shook his head.
“No, I think that would be unfair. And I think you and the others would be unwilling. So I am saying…we should split up. Captain Quallet, you should form your company and split with ours. We will earn money ourselves. Your company will be independent.”
The others gathered around the table froze. Daly looked up.
“Hold on, Ken! If we’re alone, what will we do to defend ourselves?”
The young man looked at him. His eyes were serious.
“I do not know, Daly. We must defend ourselves. But I think it is better to do this than have the others leave at once.”
“So we’re going to abandon each other? Just like that? We just made this company!”
“We did not think it through properly. And in truth, I think this is for the best. We can remain allies. But we are not working towards the same goals.”
Ken looked sideways at Quallet. The man rubbed at his face.
“That’s…true. I felt like that from the start. Damn it. I think you’re right. We’re not working towards the same goals, are we? I’m all for fighting, but you lot—aren’t.”
“So that’s it? We split up?”
Ken nodded.
“Anyone who wants to go with Quallet can. His company will earn money—work independently. I hope, I feel that we can keep strong ties. But he will not owe us anything. If he needs help, we can exchange help. Geneva can tend to the injured. I can negotiate on behalf of the company—but we must earn a living by ourselves. Without fighting.”
“Find jobs. Settle down somewhere. I’ll earn money as a Runner, if I can do it rowing. Geneva can work as a [Doctor]. Maybe in a bigger city?”
Luan folded his arms and looked at Geneva. The Italian woman scrubbed at her hair with her right hand and nodded shortly. Ken turned and gave an apologetic bow to Quallet.
“Captain Quallet, I am very sorry about this. But I hope your company will keep good relations with ours.”
The man looked embarrassed.
“It’s…the best way. I won’t say this isn’t disappointing, but it’s for the best. My company will keep ties with yours, of course. But you’re right. We’ll split. I’ll tell the others. I think they’ll all come with me. And we’ll be searching for work today.”
Daly watched as he sat down with Ken to work out how much each group would keep of the remaining funds. Quallet was generous. More than he had to be, really. But it didn’t change the fact that when he left, the room was a lot emptier than it had been. Paige looked around.
“So we’re alone. No more mercenaries, no more Quallet to help us.”
Luan looked troubled.
“They have to earn a living. So do we. And we’re not fighting.”
“So? Baleros isn’t safe.”
Paige shot back. She was still upset. They all were. Caroline had vanished. No one knew if she’d walked into the forest and gotten lost or if something had gotten her. Or if someone had. They couldn’t stay in the town.
It was hard breaking the news to the others. But in the end, the results were predictable. None of the Earthworlders wanted to go with Quallet. Not even Daly and the others who’d gained levels in the fighting. It was too much to face. His company prepared to part ways with theirs that evening. It was then that Quexa sought Daly out.
“Quexa?”
The Australian looked up. He saw the Lizardgirl fidgeting. She limped over on her pegleg prosthetic. Geneva hadn’t been able to get anyone to carve or make a better fit.
“Quexa, are you going?”
The Lizardgirl nodded. She took a breath and then spoke in a rush.
