“I am. It’s not that I don’t like you all—I do! But I wanted to be a mercenary, and I guess you guys don’t. So I’m going. And we’r,e um, not going to talk. I mean, we can talk if we see each other again! It’s just that I think you and me are—are—”
A hole opened up in Daly’s stomach. He looked at her. Quexa went on, talking even faster.
“I like you! But I was also really upset after I lost my foot—I mean, who wouldn’t be? And I’m not sure it’s a good idea to be together. Right now. Because we’re going our separate ways and I really thought you’d come with us, but you didn’t. But if you did­—but you won’t. Will you?”
She looked at Daly pleadingly. He hesitated and put his hand on the handle of his axe. Daly shuddered. He stood with Quexa for a while, head bowed.
Paige found him later. Daly was sitting, staring at the axe that Quallet had shown him how to use. He stood up as Paige came over.
“Daly? Are you alright? Quallet’s left. With the others.”
“Yeah. Yeah, I’m good.”
Daly didn’t look at Paige. She hesitated.
“You’re sure?”
There was no need for him to answer that. He just shook his head as he buckled the axe to his belt.
“Let’s just keep moving. It’s not safe here.”
 
——
 
“Keep moving.”
The present. Daly realized he was murmuring the words. He stopped. The others were glancing at him. Silently, Dawson changed their course, skirting a thick tree in the forest. Daly felt the weight of the axe at his side and the heavy weapon in his hands.
It was weighty. Wooden, smoothed by sanding, but not varnished or polished. A hunk of wood, really. But strong for all that. And there had been skill in making it. Hard effort. The result might have been crude, but the tool was deadly nonetheless. Daly ran his hands over it carefully, checking the string, making sure the trigger was ready for a quarrel to be loaded into it.
He was holding a crossbow. A big one, far bigger than the small hand crossbows or even the regular-sized ones you saw most people carrying. This was a beast, made almost entirely of wood, save for a few small parts like the screws, sliding mechanism, and part of the trigger. But the rest was wood.
The other five adventurers carried the same. They moved through the underbrush, careful not to get the crossbows tangled on anything. It was twenty more minutes of walking before they reached their destination. When Dawson stopped, Daly knew they’d reached their target. He peered ahead as his friend beckoned him forwards. That’s when he saw them.
Boars. Or rather, something that looked like boars, lying about in the forest. Huge, lumbering things, as big as pigs bred for slaughter in his world. And covered in armor. Their fronts were covered in a dull, matted metal, smeared with dirt and plants and so on, but still noticeably metallic. It was steel, which gave the boars an impression of wearing jagged masks. Their tusks, their faces, were all covered by the heavy metal.
It made them deadly when they charged and they were incredibly aggressive. Hence their name. Stelbore. And they had a high bounty on their heads not just for the steel armor, but because of how aggressive they could be. Stelbore would kill travellers on the road. They ate almost anything. Like pigs.
They were all asleep. Lying on their sides. Nine of them. Two were very big, three more were adults, but Daly thought only one was male. The other four were smaller. Piglets. Boarlets. Whatever. Daly held up a hand and circled with his fist.
Spread out. The others did at once. They didn’t go far—but they moved from tree to tree, hiding themselves. Peeking out. Their crossbows were prepared, strings pulled back and waiting for ammunition. Now, they pulled bolts from their quivers and dipped the heads into a little bottle each of them carried. Poison, bought from an [Alchemist]. It should work on Stelbore. It had worked on other animals, but these things were big. So Daly pointed at the boar and raised three fingers. Then he pointed at the—oh, the sow. That was it. The female Stelbore. He raised two fingers.
No one responded. But they’d gotten his message. Three of the team aimed their crossbows at the boar, the other two at the sow. Daly sighted on the boar as well. He waited, aiming slightly up from behind his tree, bracing the butt of the crossbow’s stock on his shoulder. In his head, he spoke.
Aim.
The Stelbore’s underbelly was vulnerable. Exposed. Daly sighted. He felt the crossbow’s trigger pressing against his finger. Waiting for him to pull hard. The stock of the crossbow was smooth. Not entirely so; it wasn’t a professional piece, but it was sturdy. Daly knew that.
He’d carved it himself.
 
——
 
“Hey, Paige. Money.”
The young woman looked up. She blinked as Daly set down seven silver coins and two copper ones. A day’s work. He smiled wearily at her. She looked at the coins and up at him.
“How’d work go?”
He shrugged and sat down in the chair next to her. It was hard, wicker, but to him, it was a heavenly thing. The little cottage they were renting was cramped, and air conditioning wasn’t a thing. The shutters were open to let a breeze in, but that just meant the hot, humid air was filling the room. Daly could feel sweat dripping down his body. Paige was perspiring a bit, even though she hadn’t been out in the sun.
“Not bad. I got worked hard. But it’s good work. My boss says I pick up stuff well—you know, for someone without the class. She’s looking forwards to seeing what Skill I get tonight.”
“So being a [Carpenter] suits you?”
Daly grinned wearily.
“Suits me and then some. I’m grateful. Didn’t think I’d ever land a job, but my boss is a Naga. You know? Has a big shop and decided to take a risk. It helped that I told her I admired her scales.”
“Ken’s trick?”
The young man nodded and leaned back, trying to find a comfortable spot in his chair. Ken had taught him and the others how to interact with some of Baleros’ races. They all had their peculiarities. For instance, you didn’t get handsy with Dullahans unless you were best friends. And even then it was rude. On the other hand, Lizardfolk loved contact and chatter. And one of their evolutionary forms, the Naga, was incredibly vain. They loved being complimented, hence Daly getting lucky.
“She gave me a trial run. I think she was impressed that I knew how to do some of the stuff she wanted already. You know, planing wood and so on? Apparently, she has to explain it all to most of her apprentices.”
“That’s great news.”
Paige smiled. She added Daly’s coins to the little belt pouch she carried at all times quickly. Then she reached for her side. Daly saw her pull out her smart phone and work on it. The screen flashed—but dimly. It was at the lowest brightness setting to conserve power. Paige entered a few numbers and sighed.
“We’re in the black at last. Geneva’s gotten some more customers, and Ken thinks he can talk the Dullahan into leasing us the apartments until we can find something more permanent.”
“Really? I put us over the edge?”
That brought a smile to Daly’s face. Paige nodded.
“You did. Between Luan’s income as a City Runner, Dawson and the others finding work as [Laborers], and so on—we’re good. We’ve bought Luan a boat and paddles, we’ve got some healing potions stored away, Geneva’s set for materials—we don’t have to worry about coins this week.”
“What about [Repair] spells?”
“Accounted for. So long as no one drops their damn tablet or laptop, we can afford to recharge our devices this week. Once. Anyone who runs out of power before then can go without.”
Paige scowled for a second. She brushed at her hair and sighed. Daly noticed she was hunched over. He sat up a bit.
“Anything wrong? How’d it go holding down the fort?”
Paige shrugged. She hadn’t worked all day like he had, but she still looked tired.
“I was managing people, you know. Getting the others to get jobs. I had to kick Sofie into getting out there. And Ben was holding back some of the money he made. Or rather, he spent it.”
“That fucker. Want me to talk to him?”
Daly sat up with a scowl. Paige looked at him.
“I already handled it.”
“Oh. Right. Sorry.”
He sat back. She shrugged.
“Don’t worry about it. I’m just tired. Plus, I had to explain to him why I wasn’t working myself.”
“Because you have to keep the rest of us from goofing off?”
“Exactly.”
Another smile. Paige sat up a bit.
“Anyways. I’ll deal with it, so you just get some rest. We’ll have dinner soon—I’ve bought more fruits.”
“Is it too expensive?”
She waved the phone at him as she turned the screen off.
“We’re in the black, remember? And Geneva insisted. We need a healthy diet. So no more rice and meat for us each night.”
“Aw, but I like eating rice and meat. It goes well with Ken and Aiko complaining about there not being any soy sauce.”
The two Australians laughed together for a second. And then Paige grew serious.
“About what we were talking about last night, Daly. I’ve been doing some sketches. Just—figuring things out, really.”
“And?”
Daly sat up, suddenly alert. Paige sighed. She opened her smartphone, this time to a drawing app, and showed him a few sketches. They were rough—they’d been done with a finger, but it beat paying for parchment and ink. Besides how annoying it was to write on parchment, saving coins had been a vital necessity these last two weeks. As Paige had said, until now they’d been bleeding money and barely scraping by. Daly didn’t want to spend a copper coin more than necessary until they had money saved up, and he hoped his new apprenticeship as a [Carpenter] would help bring in that much needed silver.
Luan was already rowing from town to town with his canoe, learning the routes and earning money delivering for the Runner’s Guild. At the same time, Geneva was trying to earn money as a [Healer] would and not finding much luck. The rest of the Earthworlders were doing what they could, even if that meant hauling goods from the docks all day. And Paige? She was working on doing more.
“I’m not an expert. I told you, I wanted to go into engineering, but in a completely different field.”
“Spaceships. Yeah. So do you have to be a rocket scientist to figure this out?”
She laughed tiredly.
“Better an engineer with actual experience in the workshop. Or someone who actually completed their degree. I’ve never built anything like this. I studied aerodynamics, not…look. I thought it over, and there’s no way I can make most of what we came up with.”
Daly’s smile faded.
“Damn. You sure?”
She nodded.
“I can’t make anything like a gun, Daly. Let alone something more complex. I mean, a gun’s doable, but gunpowder…I need sulfur, which is expensive. And I’d be making a matchlock. A gun you have to load by hand. You think that’d be useful?”
Daly thought about the Redcoats and how slow that was. He grimaced.
“Yeah. Not exactly great compared to a spell or a bow. What about an engine?”
She shrugged.
“Doable, I think, but a different problem. I know how some things work—like a steam engine, and I could experiment with making one. I’m sure I could make it in time, but I’d need specialized metalwork and lots of help. I’d need to hire a [Blacksmith], get high-quality steel, do experiments—none of which we can afford.”
“Right. Of course you do.”
It always came back to money. Daly sagged. Everything they needed, all the ideas the group had come up with to make something from their world that would earn them money—a steam engine to automate travel, a forge to produce high-quality steel, or just a gun—all of it required funds. Which they didn’t have yet.
“Hey. I’m not done yet. I did have one idea of something we could make. Or rather, I could make while you’re working.”
“Really? What?”
Daly opened his eyes. Paige swiped across the phone and showed him a picture. He took a second to realize what he was looking at.
“Is that a crossbow?”
“That’s right. They sell them in the markets. I visited a weapons supplier while I was buying dinner and checked one out. Apparently, not just anyone can make them. Normal [Blacksmiths] can’t. They can forge the parts, but a specialist [Carpenter] usually has to put it together at least. Usually a [Bowyer] who knows how crossbows work.”
“But you can figure it out?”
Paige shot Daly a smile.
“I got everything just from looking. And I took a picture when he wasn’t looking. See?”
She showed Daly an image of the crossbow. He swore.
“Don’t go showing your phone about in public! Remember what happened with Dawson?”
“I was careful. But I had to have an image. And all the parts make sense to me. If I can get a [Blacksmith] to sell me a few parts, the rest we can make with wood. I mean, if a certain someone can get ahold of wood.”
She waggled her eyebrows at him. Daly grinned.
“Wouldn’t know where to begin, but I’ll ask around. I’m sure my boss’ll let me have some if I ask her nicely. Or offer her some silver. It’s not like wood’s hard to get around here.”
“True. But I need it cut to very specific sizes so it’ll fit together. I’ll have the measurements for you tomorrow. Can you—figure out how to get the best cut of wood? The strongest variety?”
There was so much they didn’t know. Daly made a note to ask his Naga boss. That was easy—she liked chatting as she worked.
“No problem. Hell, she’s probably helped make crossbows herself. Won’t be a thing.”
“Thanks, Daly. And I think I can improve the design. Or at least, make it bigger. I’m going to try and make an almost all-wood crossbow to begin with. Something cheap we can manufacture quickly.”
“Think it’ll sell?”
Paige smirked.
“If it’s good, it will. This is Baleros. But I was thinking. Maybe I can make one of those advanced versions. You know, a compound bow?”
“Oh?”
Daly only vaguely recalled hearing about them. Paige showed him another blueprint that looked a lot less like a proper crossbow to Daly.
“I don’t know how they work, but the idea makes sense. Some of the Americans were telling me about them.”
The young [Axe Warrior] and soon-to-be [Carpenter] nodded slowly.
“Oh yeah. I remember them talking about that. Wishing they’d brought their pistols. Or a fucking rifle. As if they’d be walking around the airport with one of those.”
“Frankly, I wish they had carried one.”
Paige’s face was bleak. Daly couldn’t argue with that. He looked out the window at Baleros thoughtfully. A bug flew in through the window. Both Paige and Daly eyed it, but it didn’t look menacing. Just big. Daly took off his shoe and smashed it.
“If one of the security agents appeared here—”
“They’d be dead.”
