Paige looked different. Two and a half months ago, she’d still had something of a shell shocked look. She’d been dressed in her Earth clothing and wouldn’t let her smartphone out of her sight. Now, she had on the loose, light Balerosian dress. Her Earth clothes were safely stored away, as were Daly’s, for the most special of occasions only. And while she had her smartphone, it was as a tool now. Paige’s hands were callused from working with designs and models, and she had a different aura about her.
“Crossbows worked fine. So long as we hit the bellies. It wouldn’t have done a thing if they were charging us, though. We needed that poison.”
Paige nodded, but she still demanded Daly’s crossbow and gave it a quick inspection.
“No signs of fraying or cracks in the bow. Good.”
“I wasn’t worried.”
“You would be if you’d ever seen one of the bows snap. But it looks good. I’m working on getting steel bows made. And a mechanism for pulling the drawstring back. That way I can make the strings a lot heavier.”
“Sounds good to me.”
Daly sighed as he sat down in a chair. Kirana eyed the mud he was tracking in, but she didn’t say anything. She knew where he’d been, and the gold he placed on the table caught the light in a very pleasant way.
“Our pay. We had to use a bit of it to soothe some ruffled Dullahan nerves. But the rest’s here.”
Paige eyed the gold coins and silver. She took half and handed the rest back to Daly.
“You can keep it. Get some more gear for your team. I’ve got enough to keep us afloat.”
“You sure?”
Daly stowed the coins away in his belt pouch. It was something, that every coin wasn’t going to just paying for food and board. He still felt like they needed a lot more. Magical bolts, gear to fight monsters that actually got the drop on them—
But that was an issue for later. Right now, Daly just wanted a bath.
“We have enough tubs for all of us?”
“You’ll have to wait. Getting something like plumbing’s on my list of things to do. But for now—bathtubs. Don’t worry about water. Kirana and the girls hauled enough for all of you.”
“You’re the best.”
Daly smiled in relief. He stood up as Dawson tramped down the stairs, half-naked, shouting about leeches in his unmentionables. Some of the Earthworlders who’d come to greet them shouted obscenities—others just looked away. Daly laughed, found a tub, washed himself, and felt more alive.
There was no dinner with the others—they’d arrived back far too late. But there was hot food, courtesy again of Kirana, who’d taken over those duties from Paige. The Bushrangers ate like starving animals, and then they sat about for a while.
Daly’s finger was twitching. He covered it with one hand and looked at the others.
“I think we’ve earned some quality time with the computer. Anyone up for it?”
They looked up. Half of them were asleep on their feet, but they all nodded. Daly led them up the stairs.
“Hey, who’s got the movie laptop? We’ve got dibs! Give it here, and I swear, if anyone’s been draining the battery playing video games…”
His threat went unanswered. The laptop lay in one of the big sleeping rooms set up for multiple people. The Bushrangers found blankets or pillows and sat together as Daly fussed with the laptop. He looked over his shoulder as Siri sank onto the ground, looking completely different from the mud-covered adventurer with the crossbow. She looked like a girl he’d ask out if he saw her at the bar or in class now. An ordinary, young woman from Earth. He remembered her shooting a Stelbore from the cover of a tree. His finger twitched.
“Ah—what’re we watching this time? The Hobbit?”
“Only if you want me to fall asleep right now.”
Dawson groaned. Siri, who liked all things Lord of the Rings, elbowed him hard. He grunted. Another young woman looked up.
“Can we watch The Martian again?”
“Again?”
One of the other Bushranger groused, but without any real rancor. Kami, their best shot, stared at the glowing screen in the dark room.
“I just want to imagine somewhere cold. And see spaceships and computers and—”
And home. She broke off. No one said anything. Daly cleared his throat.
“The Martian it is. Subtitles?”
“Go to hell.”
Dawson threw a pillow at him. The others laughed. Daly left them on anyways.
A lot of the people who’d been transported from Earth had brought their electronics. But not all of them had survived the initial chaos. Even fewer had survived the fighting. And of what remained, the devices and gadgets were prized. Someone had kept a USB cable, and so every laptop had been given the same software. Much swearing had taken place when it became obvious that the Macs would not accept any kind of data transfer. So the laptops that ran Windows, and in one case, Linux, were prized and fought over.
Not just for the movies. For the music, video games—pictures of home. Daly started the movie and sat back as the movie’s grand sound was redirected through the poor speaker system. At least the quality was good—every time the laptop was [Repaired], it went back to perfect quality. Better, in fact, than it had been when Paige had first bought it.
The plot of The Martian was one Daly could recite by heart. Only a few movies had been kept across all the devices. The Bushrangers had all watched this particular movie at least sixteen times, even the newcomers like Siri and Tofte.
Daly had seen it twenty-three. Practically every night someone would be using the laptop, never mind that they’d have to get it charged up using a [Repair] spell. Even on lowest brightness, even sitting together, necks craned to see the small screen—it was worth it. It was one of the few things that kept them sane.
The others began falling asleep sometime around the point where Matt Damon began excavating crap out of the compost. Daly kept watching. His eyes began to blur. But then something exploded on screen and he leapt to his feet, reaching for his axe. He only realized it was a movie after a second.
Heart pounding, Daly sank back down again. He tried to sleep. And it closed back on him, but with dark edges. No matter how much Daly tried, he couldn’t stop his trigger finger from twitching. And when Daly closed his eyes, he could still hear Centaurs and Dullahans killing each other, and he raised his crossbow and fired. And pulled. And fired. And pulled. And—
And he dreamed of being home. It was the most fleeting, most wonderful of dreams. Daly slept. And his people, his family who had lost their homes, his company slept around him. The United Nations. The lost nations.
Dreaming of Earth.
