“Well, we’ll have another meeting tonight. Caroline can be our [Writer], and the rest of us can look for proper jobs once we head to another town.”
“Yeah. Definitely. We’ll make it.”
Paige smiled. But there was a bit of uncertainty in the smile. Daly could hear her turn up the music in her headphones. Luan looked around. And then he started.
“Oh. Look who’s coming.”
Every head turned. And the Humans grew still. Some sat up a bit. Walking across the beach came another figure that everyone recognized. Her steps were quick, her gait only a slight bit uneven, favoring her left side. But for all that, Geneva Scala was distinguished. Not just her bearing either. No one who saw her could forget. There walked Geneva, the [Doctor]. The Last Light of Baleros.
She had saved hundreds of lives on the battlefield before Ken and the others had found her. Alone, working in the jungle with nothing but scalpels, needles, and healing potions. To the people of this world, her skills were unique. She could do what no potion or spell could. She had brought people from the edge of death without rest.
And it showed. Of the people on the beach, Geneva was the only one who was clearly not smiling. She looked—restless.
“Ken. Luan. Aiko. Hello. What’s happening?”
Geneva paused before the others. Luan turned to her, smiling a bit.
“Geneva, come and look at this.”
He handed her the parchment before anyone could object. Geneva read quickly and then visibly paused. She frowned.
“This is…”
“It’s erotica. Caroline’s thinking of marketing it. You know, like a cheap romance novel?”
Geneva looked up. She didn’t smile. Her expression seemed to be a perpetual frown. No—more like a concentrated stare. And she was restless, as if she expected to be called upon at any moment. She considered the writing and then handed it back to Luan.
“That’s not the correct anatomy. But if it sells, why not? We need money. We need to leave this place soon.”
The smile faded from Luan’s face.
“Not just yet. We could stay a few more days, right?”
Geneva shook her head.
“We’re running out of money. Do you know how much we have left?”
Luan shifted uncomfortably.
“I do. But some of us are worn out, Geneva. We all need more of a break. You included.”
“I’ll be fine. But we can’t keep putting this off, Luan.”
Daly looked from Geneva to Luan and sat up a bit. The dark-skinned man hesitated. He looked at Ken, and no one else spoke. Of the Earthworlders, he and Geneva were the oldest, which wasn’t saying much. At last, he nodded.
“We can leave soon. We’ll talk it over tonight.”
“Are we going to be working as a suppression company again, Luan?”
Paige called out. Luan looked at them. His eyes flickered. Everyone grew quiet.
“If we have to. But Quallet’s on our side, and a lot of Gravetender’s Fist stuck with us. We don’t have to go from battlefield to battlefield. He was saying he wanted to form a proper company instead of a temporary suppression company. We could do stuff like…guarding places, right? Or we could get other jobs. We’ve got money. All we have to do is stick together.”
“Right. And we’ve got the Last Light of Baleros on our side and Luan the almighty [Rower]. We’ll be fine, right?”
Daly joked. He heard a few sparse laughs. Luan smiled, but it only revealed a bit of strain. Geneva turned.
“We’re having another meeting tonight? Okay. I’ll be there. We can’t stay here forever.”
She walked off. Quickly, not even glancing at the ocean. As if she was being pursued. The others were quiet as reality came back. Slowly, Daly shifted.
“Guess we’ve got to get back to work.”
He stood up, brushing sand from his legs—
 
——
 
Daly’s hand snatched a large bug crawling up his arm and hurled it off him. The biting thing flew off into the jungle. Daly rubbed at the bite. He made no sound. He heard Siri shift once, changing her stance. But neither she nor Daly sat down, despite their sore legs.
Sitting was a bad idea. Lots of things would crawl over them. And if they were unlucky enough to lie down on a nest of some kind—well, Daly had watched enough nature channels to know about army ants in the Amazon rainforests of his home. They were just a taste of the nasty things you could run into here. No. No sitting or sleeping. They didn’t intend on spending the entire night here, anyways.
“She was right. It really doesn’t look like that.”
Daly whispered to himself. He felt Siri shift, but he didn’t elaborate. He felt at his belt pouch again. The manuscript was longer. But it had never been finished to the author’s satisfaction. And it never would.
Caroline. Listening to her trying to come up with the right words and responding to their teasing each night had been so much fun. He’d really thought it would sell, too. Earn the money they needed. Until…
Daly felt his stomach gurgle. Not exactly in hunger. But it did remind him. He looked up.
“Siri. You eat anything?”
“Not hungry.”
Daly nodded. He wasn’t either. He’d eaten some dried jerky earlier, but he was too alert to settle for a real meal. Absently, he felt at his side. Let’s see. By his count, it had been an hour and a half. If they were any longer, he’d have to—
Rustling. The crunch of footsteps in the soil. Daly froze, then turned. He felt Siri jerk to attention. Neither Human moved. Slowly, Daly rose into a low crouch. He reached for his side. The worn handle of an axe fit into his hand as he drew it. Siri, invisible, readied herself. The two were tense. And then—
“Crikey, what was that?”
Someone muttered ahead of them. Daly relaxed. He lowered his axe and grinned.
“Think it was a croc, mate. How’d you lot do?”
The figures ahead of him relaxed. Daly heard shuffling, then the outlines of four people—two male and two female—appeared. Like Siri and Daly, they were covered in mud and bits of nature. And like them, they barely spoke. In fact, they’d navigated their way here in almost complete darkness.
Almost. As they scooted into the camp, Daly could see one of them held what looked like an oversized firefly in their hand. A [Light] spell, but so faint that it barely provided any illumination. Which was the point.
“Sorry we’re late, boss.”
One of the latecomers murmured. He and the others trooped into the small camp space they’d set up. There was rustling—Daly moved aside as someone passed him. He saw the light pass him, and then a face came into view.
Dawson was a friend from home. But covered in mud, only his eyes were visible. He looked horrific in his jungle makeup. Daly nodded.
“Did you run into anything?”
“No. We had a clear go of it. But the damn buggers moved two hundred paces west. We had to follow them.”
“Can you find them again?”
“Definitely. They’re already asleep. So we can go as soon as we’re ready.”
That was good. Daly breathed out slowly in relief. At the same time, though, he felt the tension racket up another notch.
“Give it twenty minutes. Anyone needs to eat? Get a mouthful in you. The rest of you—ready up.”
The others nodded. They shuffled around the camp, grabbing what supplies they’d left here. All in silence. Daly stretched. His legs were sore. Not only had he and the others set up camp here this morning, they’d spent all day tracking their quarry. They’d expected them to sleep later, but apparently it was lights out as soon as night fell. Well, it would speed up their job considerably. Daly didn’t want to wait another few hours like this.
“I’m gonna take a piss. I need a light.”
Someone muttered. The [Light] spell travelled to Daly’s left. He saw someone shuffle over. Male or female, it didn’t matter. They didn’t get far enough away for anyone to not hear the quiet pattering sound. No one commented. Better embarrassment here than wandering too far out. And light was essential. You never knew what was around you.
That done, the others went back to getting ready. Daly already had his rucksack dropped, and he checked his weapons. He couldn’t afford something breaking. They’d only get one shot at this. The six of them had spent too much time to waste it here. And failing would have more repercussions than just wasted time and effort. It was their reputations on the line here. After all, they were adventurers.
Adventurers. Daly breathed in and out slowly. His right index finger itched. It was an odd distinction. But adventurers were different from mercenaries in Baleros’ companies. They often fulfilled the same duties, but adventurers operated in smaller groups. They were hired for things like monster exterminations over fighting other people. Usually. It didn’t mean the job was all that much safer. Monsters were quite deadly.
But it beat killing people. There was that. Daly breathed in and out. String? Good. He loaded and unloaded the bulky weapon. He’d apply the poison at their destination. The [Alchemist] had told him it needed to be a fresh coat. He could hear the others doing the exact same check.
Silence. The minutes ticked by very, very slowly.
Aldenon, or Ald as he preferred to be called, sought Daly out as the others took a brief rest around the camp.
“Daly, I’ve got a bite. Something jumped up and got me on the way back.”
“Venomous?”
Daly was immediately alarmed. He looked down at his friend’s leg, but Ald shook his head.
“I don’t think so. It didn’t do much more than hurt. But it did bleed a bit. I didn’t want to use a healing potion until we could check it out. You know what Geneva said about venoms and potions.”
“Damn right. Let me see. Get that [Light] spell over here, Dawson.”
The light appeared again. Daly looked down and saw dried blood on a leg. He bent, squinted. Ald held still. Daly inspected the wound for eggs, discoloration, but saw nothing as he brushed at the mud and blood.
“Looks fine to me. Just a bit of blood. Not even deep.”
“That’s what I thought.”
Ald relaxed a bit. Daly nodded.
“It’s not gonna slow you down, although it might attract bugs. Already got one bugger in there. Let’s put a bandage over it. If it’s bad, Geneva’ll take care of it when she gets back.”
“I’ve got a roll right here. Let’s wrap him up and reapply the mud.”
Siri rummaged in her belt pouch. Daly nodded.
“Clean it first. Where’s the med kit Geneva worked up?”
“Here.”
One of the others tossed Daly a little rucksack. He opened it and fished out a canteen. The instant he uncorked it, a pungent smell rose from the bottle.
“It’s gonna sting, Ald.”
“Hah. I got bit by a Ghoul. Don’t worry about—fuck!”
Ald bit his tongue as Daly rubbed the blood and dirt away with a clean bit of cloth and then poured the alcohol over the wound. He kept silent as the bandage was swiftly applied and wrapped up. Daly slapped his knee gently.
“Good as new. Let us know if it starts feeling worse, got it?”
“Thanks, Daly.”
The operation had been very quiet, despite the swearing. Daly corked the canteen and stowed it again, resisting the urge to take a sip. The liquid within wasn’t for drinking, tempting as it might have been.
Medical kits didn’t exist for most companies. They had healing potions and little else. But the thing about having a [Doctor] in your company was that she insisted you be prepared. After all, healing potions couldn’t cover everything. Hence the bandages and other kit they’d brought with them. Antiseptic was especially important. Geneva had been tearing her hair out over the problem. She had a Skill, but she couldn’t be everywhere.
In lieu of rubbing alcohol or a proper antiseptic, Geneva had ordered them to bring whiskey or a hard grain liquor as a substitute. That was what Daly had poured on Ald’s leg. And the smell was distinct. Some of the bugs flew away at the odor. Some came closer to investigate. Daly heard a grunt.
“Pshaw. What’s that stuff you poured on Ald? That Firebreath Whiskey we bought? It stinks!”
“Yeah. We want to get rid of the smell before we’re on the move.”
Daly scowled. He shouldn’t have applied the stuff here. Sloppy. They had to be more careful. If this was a riskier mission or something had been nearby—
One of the others spoke up thoughtfully.
“You know, we might be able to make a Molotov out of that stuff. Good old-fashioned firebombs? Worth a shot?”
“Maybe…don’t think it’d do much damage against our targets this time. But it’d probably scare them. I don’t think it could start a fire in this wet. What do you think, Daly?”
Siri spoke up quietly. Daly gave it a moment’s thought.
“No. Not this time. We start throwing alcohol around and we’ll be in the red for this job. We’ve got poison. We’ll try that first, pull back and rethink if it doesn’t work. Remember, aim for the eyes or the side. No one speaks until we get there. Ready?”
The others gave a quiet affirmative. Daly nodded.
“Move out.”
They stood up. In silence, the six left their camp. Dawson took point, leading the way through the tropical rainforest he’d memorized. Daly walked in the middle, Siri keeping up the rear. The light spell was barely visible. The footsteps were loud in Daly’s ears, despite everyone keeping as quiet as possible. They were all listening for sounds that might indicate something lying in wait. They lugged their weapons with them, drawn, but not loaded. Not yet.
Bugs. Mud. Aching legs. There was only one reason for Daly to be out here, being eaten alive. And that was what motivated all adventurers.
Money. It always came back to money. Everything would be fine if they had enough coin. But they didn’t. And soon, they’d realized what that meant. Daly’s teeth ground together for a moment before he stopped it.
If they’d only realized how much it cost to run a company, they wouldn’t have pushed so far…
 
——
 
“We’re not going to make it.”
Daly looked up. Paige was counting their coins. Silver, coppers, gold—all of it was in Quallet’s personal bag of holding. And there wasn’t enough. He could see that. Even so, he asked, in case asking would change reality.
“Are you sure? How much do we have?”
“A hundred and eighteen gold coins.”
“That’s good, isn’t it?”
Paige shot him a glance. Daly winced. He scooted over and checked, but Paige had counted the coins into even piles of five. He held his breath. Luan and Geneva were not going to like this.
“We’re never going to get to Talenqual at this rate. We have to stop and earn money. Somehow.”
“Where?”
“I don’t know. Here. Another town? But we’ll starve long before we get there. And we’ll lose half our company before that. They’re already talking about needing to be paid. I’m surprised they haven’t brought it up until now.”
