This was how they fought. It was close to home. But different. Daly knelt in the dust and looked at a fallen Centaur. He felt his hands itch. But he made himself look. Then he checked if the Centaur was carrying any money…
 
——
 
The battle ended before Daly knew it. One second he was loading his crossbow, the next, he couldn’t find anything to shoot at. The Stelbore were lying on the ground. A few had fled, but they’d died quickly. Still, Daly emerged from cover first. He only signaled the others forwards when he was sure it was clear.
“Poison worked. Or it just bled out.”
Siri checked the boar they’d hit first. It was lying on its side, a huge tusk facing the sky. Daly nodded. He took a shuddering breath. They’d won. The jungle was filled with noise, awoken by the blood and violence. He took another breath.
“Right, let’s strip these bastards and get out of here. Half butcher, two on watch. Siri, Dawson?”
They got to work. Daly knelt and began the gruesome task of cutting the Stelbore’s distinctive armor off. He ignored the rest of their bodies—they were far too big to carry, and besides, the poison bolts made that an invalid option anyways. It was very hard to separate the steel armor from the boars’ heads, but they had time.
Bugs began descending on the corpses before Daly was done. He had to trade off with Siri and Dawson; his hands were numb. But they did it. After about an hour, the Stelbore were stripped of metal and Daly was working up a sled to carry the stuff.
“We’ll be a target. So we want two people in front until we get to the road. Then we’re straight back to Talenqual. Got it?”
They nodded. The team trooped back through the rainforest, three hauling the sled, one on point, the other two moving ahead in case something heard them. Still in silence. Daly had tried to recall all the knowledge he could about operating in hostile environments. All the stupid things you saw on TV, all the little facts—all of it became life-or-death stuff here. The team didn’t smile. They just put their backs into it until they got to the road. Then, muddy, tired, but alive, they headed back towards Talenqual, the city that had eventually become the home of the United Nations company.
Adventurers.
 
——
 
“Bushrangers reporting in. We’ve killed nine Stelbore on the contract, and we have their remains. I’m ready to claim our bounty, turn in the materials, and take a bath.”
The [Receptionist] at the Adventurer’s Guild was a young male Centaur. He stared at Daly and then at the bloody pile of Stelbore steel. He opened his mouth and blinked again. He must be new.
Daly knew he was a sight. Though he’d scraped off a lot of the mud and camouflage on the way back, he still had grime all over him. And bites. And he stank, to put it lightly. Still, that was true of most adventurers coming back from a job. Well, some didn’t look like they’d rolled in the mud.
“Wow.”
That was all the Centaur managed after a while. He gulped, looked down at the Stelbore armor, and then fiddled with the papers in front of him.
“You’re, uh, the Bushrangers? I’ve heard of you! It’s a pleasure to meet you. Did you say you killed nine Stelbore? By yourselves?”
“Only five adults. The rest were piglets. I assume we get paid the same either way?”
“Of course, of course. Stelbore are counted by the numbers—assuming the little ones had armor? They don’t count if they’re fresh. Litters and all that. Right, right. Let me just calculate—um, we’ll need to weigh the Stelbore armor. But you can leave it here and we’ll do the job! I just need you to sign—hold on…”
Flustered, the Centaur fumbled with his papers. Daly gave him a weary smile. The rest of his team was relaxing in the plain wooden chairs, practically dead on their feet.
“Don’t worry, mate, another minute won’t bother us.”
The smile did as much as the words. The Centaur relaxed.
“Thank you. You know, I really am glad to meet you. I heard about the all-Human team that popped up. You’re practically invisible on the job, or so I hear. Even some of the [Ranger] and [Rogue] teams are talking about it.”
“Hey, we’ve had some practice.”
Daly shrugged. He could sense eyes on his back, and not just because of the haul they’d brought in. It was true. His team was a rising name, and in a city like Talenqual, which had a fair number of adventuring teams, that was a pretty good feat. He glanced down as the Centaur presented him a form to sign.
“Right here, please. Name and team.”
Captain Daly, Bushrangers.
Daly had to smile a bit as he signed it. Bushrangers. Now there was a name that would call anyone from home who heard it. Anyone who knew basic history, that was. He’d chosen it for that reason, and also because it fit how his team operated.
The Bushrangers were a Silver-rank team by virtue of hard work more than impressive gear or high levels. They all carried crossbows and did mostly hunting jobs. They worked in stealth and didn’t get into melees unless they couldn’t help it. They played it safe and didn’t punch above their weight.
Even so, the work was hard. Daly was proud of his team, and so he didn’t spend time talking with the Centaur. He just collected their bounty, agreed to come back the next day for their payment for the Stelbore steel—or claim it after paying the guild’s tax on monster parts—and headed over to their team. Dawson was complaining as Daly came over.
“Fuck me, but did we have to wear all that mud? I get that it’s great camo—I can barely see myself sometimes. But did we need it against boars?”
Daly tilted his head and wondered if he should respond. But Siri, the Swedish girl they’d picked up three weeks back, responded. It had been her idea to use camouflage—that was how she and Tofte had survived after being transported to Baleros.
“It’s necessary, Dawson. It’s our edge. The one thing we’ve got over the other teams—over other companies and mercenaries—are our tactics and tools. They’ve got higher levels. They’re Dullahans in armor and Centaurs and so on. We can’t afford mistakes. If we have to wait for half a day for our targets, we do.”
“In silence.”
“It’s part of the job. Believe me, I’d outtalk you, Dawson. But if it means surviving another day, I’ll go without flapping my mouth. If it’s too much, we can rotate you onto a break.”
Daly interrupted the conversation, surprising Dawson. The burly Australian looked up and grimaced.
“Aw, I’m just talking shit, Daly. Don’t mind me. It’s better than killing zombies with a hammer or watching a fucking [Mage] vaporize half the forest.”
“Too right. So what say you we get out of here and get back to a real bath? Dawson can use the ocean.”
“Fuck off.”
That cheered up the others. They stood up, ready to get some well-deserved rest. Daly was leading them to the door when someone walked in front of him and barred his way. Several someones.
A group of Dullahans in metal armor—iron, not steel, but good iron—walked forwards. They were all carrying shields and maces or axes. They looked like a Silver-rank team that Daly had sometimes seen going in or out. He’d never exchanged words with them before. But it looked like today was the day. Daly stopped as their leader, a female Dullahan with blonde hair, darker skin, and a rather Grecian nose looked down at him.
“So this is the Bushrangers. Mud covered, filthy as well as arrogant. Which is to be expected of Humans, it appears. Thieves as well as vagabonds.”
The Bushrangers stopped. Some of the other adventurers who’d been gossiping looked around and fell silent. Daly saw the Centaur at the desk gulp and back up. He paused, forcing his hand not to move to his side. His team was tired, their crossbows were unstrung, and the Dullahans looked like they were spoiling for a fight. Why?
“I’m sorry, have we met?”
The Dullahan glared at him.
“I do not believe so. But one does not have to meet an enemy to know them? Or a thief who steals a rightful assignment. Is that not so?”
“No.”
The other Dullahans chorused together. Daly felt a rising urgency in his stomach. But he forced it down, forced himself to think.
“I’m sorry, but I still don’t know what you’re talking about. Thief? I don’t believe we’ve stolen anything. Those Stelbore were our kill.”
“They may have been killed by your team, but it was our team, the Rustless Guard, that deserved to hunt them down. We requested the assignment before you. And you took our quarry.”
The Dullahan adventurer snapped at Daly. He sucked in his breath. Uh oh. He hadn’t heard about another team taking on the Stelbore assignment. Requests to hunt down monsters were first-come-first-serve. But there was such a thing as politeness among adventurers. How much politeness depended on which team it was. But these were Dullahans, and it looked like they’d taken offense.
What should he do? Starting a fight wasn’t it. Daly’s mind raced. He fell back on a certainty. What were Ken’s rules for Dullahans?
Meet their eyes. Don’t give way, but be respectful. Talk to the Dullahan in the shiniest armor—the one who’s speaking. Make it clear what your rank is. Give and take in equal measure.
Daly looked the female Dullahan in the eyes. He bowed slightly, which surprised her and the others.
“First, pardon me. I’m Daly Sullivan, Captain of the Bushrangers. May I ask who I’m speaking to?”
The Dullahan hesitated. Then she slowly unfastened her head from her shoulders and held it up with one hand, the Dullahan version of a bow.
“You speak to Captain Eldima of the Rustless Guard.”
Daly gave her his best smile.
“Honored to meet you. Captain Eldima, let me be honest. If we stepped on your toes, it was unintentional. We had no idea someone else had the contract. We only saw the Stelbore contract yesterday and went out to collect it at once. Just like us hasty Humans, huh?”
His words provoked a chuckle from around the guild. As Humans, Daly and his team were in the minority. But being called ‘hasty’ was an insult Dullahans applied to Lizardfolk and Centaurs. A bit of humor went a long way. And one of the Dullahans behind Eldima cracked a smile before hiding it. Her lips twitched—a very good sign.
“You didn’t stop to inquire about the beast? My team had been preparing. We were in the guild, making our intentions clear.”
Daly spread his hands out.
“Again, we set off right away. We had poison pre-bought, so we didn’t linger. My sincere apologies. If we’d known, we would have let your team handle them.”
He saw two of the Dullahans shift. Eldima’s eyes flickered. Daly was giving them a good excuse, but there was something else Ken had said about Dullahans. They don’t like to be seen to have made a mistake. Always offer them an honorable out. As opposed to Centaurs, who need to always ‘win’ an encounter regardless of whether or not they actually do.
Daly thought quickly and then gestured towards the door.
“Tell you what, why don’t we buy you a round at the very least? Then we can tell you how miserable it was tracking down those damn Stelbore, and you can tell us how you would’ve hunted them. Because, frankly, next time I think I’ll let someone in armor take those freaky pigs down.”
His words provoked another laugh. And this time, Eldima actually joined in. She hesitated, put her head back on her shoulders, and then held out a gauntleted hand.
“I accept. There is a bar we frequent. Allow us to buy the second round.”
“I’d be honored.”
Gingerly, Daly shook Eldima’s hand so as not to dirty her spotless armor. He followed the Rustless Guard out and nudged Dawson on the way. On cue, the others in his team began striking up the Dullahans in conversation, and such was the change in mood that they even dragged a few other teams out for an impromptu drinking session.
 
——
 
An hour later, Daly and his team exited the bar a bit lower on coin, but higher on friends. They walked down the street, a tad unsteady for fatigue and alcohol, as Dawson burped. The cheap alcohol they’d bought was going through Daly as well, and he felt the increasing need to relieve himself—and take that bath.
“Captain, you’ve done it again. I thought for sure those Dullahans would try and mix it up.”
“That was impressive.”
Siri agreed. She looked at Daly, eyebrows raised. He only smiled.
“Wasn’t a thing, boys and girls. Just a bit of the Down Under charm. Learned it from the master himself. Ken would’ve had those guys buying us the next round if he were here. Speaking of which—let’s get back to base before we have to spend more money on angry adventurers.”
“I’ve only met Ken once. Do you think he’s back? With the [Doctor]?”
Tofte looked at Daly. The Australian frowned.
“Maybe. They were going from city to city, trying to find work for Geneva and some of the stuff she needs. All down the main roads—but they didn’t know when they’d be back. I hope they return soon. Them or Luan.”
He hadn’t seen the rower in a while. But Luan kept bringing gold back every time he returned. Daly only hoped all that money was going to good use. They were in the black and they had been for a while, but their company could use a lot more coin. For Luan as a Runner, for his team, for Paige…
And for their home. Daly slowed as he came to a large building. It was, in fact, two apartments, but they’d been bought, converted into one place, and now housed more bodies than it strictly should. The house was on the outer edges of the city, closer to the rice fields, in fact. Not far past it you’d get to the roads. But it had a nice wooden frontage, and Daly knew they’d been spotted because the doors opened and someone waved at him.
“Daly!”
He grinned up at a girl who smiled at him.
“Hey, Kirana. We’re back. Is Ken back? Geneva? Luan?”
“None of them. But Paige is here, and she told us to make you baths!”
That cheered up the Bushrangers considerably. They stormed up the stairs, fighting to be the first ones up. They pushed into the door, greeting Kirana, a girl from India, and some of the other Earthworlders who came to say hi to them. Daly let them precede him and then nodded to the girl who came to the door.
“Paige. We did it.”
“Never doubted it. How’d the bows work? Any problems?”
