So it’s about to start. Just like this. Max will try to time their forward pushes to drag Klein in at exactly the moment Galecourse stops…what do I take care of from here?

He confirmed that his shield was in good shape, grabbed his large zip bag full of dirt and pried it open with his teeth, checked on Haoyu’s return progress with a stiff-suited Mehdi…

Okay.

Beside him, Lexi was breathing so hard Alden could feel it on his face. The pressure had to be bad. Lexi wasn’t back in his groove within their own team, and that was with them all reassuring him that mistakes with his unruly death whip didn’t bother them. Being a part of an unanticipated battle that was important to the whole class…

If only one person screws up, everyone’s going to blame them.

“Hey, Lexi,” said Alden, “I wasn’t going to mention this until we were at the spa later, because I’m not a hundred percent sure and I wanted to check the footage—”

“You guys are going to the sauna again?”

“That’s where you and Haoyu go after every class?”

Alden talked over Kon and Everly. “I think you might have hurt one of Instructor Klein’s hands earlier. With Writher.”

Lexi frowned at him.

“I’m serious. He’s only been using one hand all class. It might be on purpose just to rile us up or give himself a challenge, but I noticed it after that first attack on us, and it hasn’t changed. Maybe you chopped off all his fingers or something.”

“I would know if I’d—”

“You were trying hard to hit the instructor then,” Everly pointed out. “Very hard.”

Lexi reddened.

“You don’t have time to be embarrassed,” Alden said. “I just wanted you to know I think you might already have dealt the biggest blow to Klein of anyone here today. So…just go do it again, right?”

He lifted their shield and stepped onto the floor with the others behind him.

******

******

“As far as how many teams we expect to succeed,” Torsten said in response to a question Hale had just asked, “there’s no set number. If some of them manage to put together a group that breezes through us all today, we might consider a more advanced challenge for them on Friday, but I don’t imagine that will happen.

“We have the usual mix of strong personalities and new-Avowed foibles in this class. Some of them still think they’re on their way to being invincible. A few are so nervous about their own strength that they can’t use it properly. Every single one of them had the ambition to try for this, and when that ambition meets a challenging reality, they respond in so many unpredictable ways. Teamwork isn’t easy, especially under those conditions.”

Aparna spoke from her desk by the window. “Maybe they’ll surprise us.”

“I wouldn’t mind that,” Torsten said with a nod. “I’d like it even more if some of them surprised themselves.”

******

******

So far, being a high rank was almost exactly like Ignacio’s parents and grandparents had told him it would be. He had plenty of examples in his family, and he’d had a lifetime to know it was probably coming. The things that surprised him weren’t small to him, but they were small enough that his older relatives hadn’t thought to warn him about them.

Like the way so many adults looked at him and listened to him when he wore his rank on his name tag, as if he were a more respectable person than he’d been just three months ago. How his slightly enhanced vision made those looks stand out. The profound thrill and loss he’d felt after throwing a knife for the first time as an Avowed and having it sink up to the hilt in a practice target he’d struggled to hit the day before.

His life had been split like the target, like his family had said it would be, like every Avowed’s was.

He’d gotten in a little throwing practice before his bedtime one night. Then he woke up hours later, having been selected for the duty that two species had decided before his birth would be his.

Ignacio had made a pre-affixation bucket list, but in the end, he’d only taken care of what he’d thought at the time were the most important wishes on it.

He’d hugged all the people he loved with his full strength, he’d played a round of every sport he enjoyed with his friends, and he’d had sex. A neighbor a year older than him had put the same item on her own list of things she wanted to try out before she received her powers.

He was still worried completing that last one as if it was a chore, with a casual acquaintance, hadn’t been the best choice for him. It was a more-enjoyable-than-not education, but it really hadn’t lived up to the romantic scenarios in his imagination. And maybe it was a small part of the reason he had affixed and applied to school without finishing the whole list.

Around that time, a long goodbye to his ordinary humanity had started to be more depressing than fun, and Ignacio had decided to look forward instead.

And now I’m here. And I’m this.

The wind had just stopped. They were already moving together—him, Febri, Tuyet, and Vandy—and it was like playing football with his friends on that last day before he affixed. The same rush, the same worry about letting the team down, the same focus on a goal.

Running was deceptive. His highest speed strained him in exactly the same way a sprint always had. It felt so similar to his mind and his muscles, and yet stationary objects flew past faster.

People who said they were the same person before and after becoming Avowed…maybe they were better than Ignacio somehow. He wondered about that every now and then. Mostly, he thought they were fake for trying to pretend they were too humble for the changes to really change them.

The body you inhabited and the things you could do with it affected who you were, didn’t they? Your first affixation didn’t make you a better or worse person, but it definitely made you different.

Be careful shaking peoples’ hands. Learn to pay attention to how you move through crowds. Accept that fact that everyone on Earth has an opinion about how Avowed should use their powers and every Avowed on Anesidora has one about how S’s should behave.

Throw knives in the Celena North High gym.

So many sharp things around right now. I’ll take them all.

He threw one of his knives to the right, past Febri’s back. Then he activated the Leading Knife skill with a whisper. He was trying to break the habit of that unnecessary whisper, but right now, he couldn’t afford to think about it. He let his weapon zip over a pile of debris, then recalled it.

He liked the way his Meister weapons occupied their own special place in his attention. With his eyes closed, he still would have known which direction his knife was coming from. Wrapping his hand around the hilt was so natural.

Throw it again before the following shards of metal, splinters of wood, and knives catch up. Keep them all in the air.

Ignacio had decided he would be a Meister three years ago.

He still remembered the first time he had answered someone too seriously when they asked him what he wanted to be one day. You were supposed to say a superhero. Or a celebrity. A politician or an athlete. You weren’t supposed to say what Ignacio had picked up from some of his relatives.

If I’m destined to be a machine of war, then I will try to be an excellent one.

The Artonans weren’t creating so many combat-capable Avowed on a whim. They were doing it, as they’d always said, because Earth or the Triplanets might one day need them. All the people who thought they could ignore that or avoid it were just thinking in the short term and hiding their heads in the sand.

Strong Avowed were valuable. Eventually, valuable resources got used.

That was what Ignacio’s family believed.

Maybe it wouldn’t be for a long time. Fifty years. A hundred. Ignacio still planned to be alive then.

But maybe for a hundred years, I get to be a superhero. And have a lot of fun with these new classmates of mine.

Vandy’s arms were up. Febri had run ahead, trying to time his arrival to match the other close-range fighters. Tuyet’s expression had shifted to that serious one she always wore when she threw. Instructor Klein had just reached Jeffy’s team.

I’ll help cut off his chance of escaping into the air.

The swarm that followed his blade was so thick that Klein would be lucky to fit a single hand between the shards.

******

******

Tuyet was tired, and she felt ungrounded. It had been the same ever since that horrible night.

She wished she could go back to the first week of school again—getting away from the stressors at home, feeling grown-up with Vandy and Everly in their new apartment. She had been stunned that she’d made it into school with them when so many of the others had been cut, even though she’d known that the S, the class, and all the practice she’d done should help. A few days after they’d moved in, they’d been laughing together, painting each other’s nails, and trying to get to know Maricel.

Having a new friend their age who didn’t know anything about Anesidora was exciting. For some reason, Maricel hadn’t explored much at all during her months in intake, so they had a list as long as the Span of everything she needed to see and do.

Now, a third of that list was ruined by the floods, and Maricel was gone all the time. A lot of it was publicity or working with Fragment, but Tuyet thought she was also training in private. Or she was just avoiding the apartment.

Last night, Tuyet had gone to visit the members of her family who were staying at her older sister’s place. She’d gotten back to campus late and had decided to wait up to see Maricel when she came in. But if her roommate had returned at all, it must have been sometime after two o’clock in the morning, when Tuyet fell asleep on the sofa, and before six, when she woke up thanks to a vague nightmare and a text message from her brother about the nightmare.

She was supposed to tell on him when he read her mind. But he couldn’t help himself, and if she told on him, they’d just rush their plans to stick him on a new residential ship even farther out at sea. Where he couldn’t check on the people he worried about when the panic was bad for him.

Right now, as uncomfortable as things were for everyone else, they were better for him. The government was quietly grateful to him. He was being allowed to spend time in Apex. The family had all eaten breakfast together one morning, and he’d made them coffee. And the Artonan general, the female one, had come to see him twice.

She had thanked him.

He’d been going through a difficult spell—listening hard and far, as usual—when he picked up the sound of one of the minds on the submerged boat. He was the reason the System had known the attack was going to happen just before it did. It was hard to say what those extra seconds had bought, but Tuyet knew they must have bought something.

Someone’s life. Someone’s home.

He finally gets to be the hero he always wanted to be. And he doesn’t get any credit for it.

His choice, her parents’ choice, and the government’s.

Unfair. Practical.

Telling Anesidora her brother had helped save them like that would make a few people accepting of him, maybe, but it would make a lot more angry.

It was the same reason Tuyet didn’t tell when he randomly texted her things like, “What are you scared of? Don’t think such unkind thoughts about yourself!” Or, “That person is lying to you. Stay away from them. Go home.”

Can I help? Watch out! Do you need me? Do you need me, Tuyet? If you need me, I’ll be there as fast as I can.

Nobody wanted to hear that a Sway who’d taken severe mind damage on one of his first ever jobs was quietly growing more and more powerful just offshore. Nobody wanted to believe that all he ever did was watch over the island and worry about the people he loved.

Nobody wanted a superhero like that. And they never would.

So they would get his little sister instead. She wouldn’t be as good; she knew that. He’d been charming and gentle, and even as a Sway, he’d been welcomed with open arms by the populace of a small city with a serious crime problem.

The idea of being famous made Tuyet so nervous she wanted to throw up, and the thought of everyone judging her performance and talking about her all the time made her feel like she needed resuscitation.

But she was going to become a superhero. She was believing it more every day.

She could feel it in the way her hands went steady when she plucked a dart from her gym case, the way her thoughts cleared when she selected her spell. Shrike’s Leading Knife wouldn’t be a problem. Her darts never followed it.

She ran nearly as fast as an A-rank speedster her age. She left all her anxiety behind her.

When she decided on a target, when she fixed her eyes on it, it never quite looked like what it was. It wasn’t Torsten Klein, breaking Max’s leg and twisting away from Lucille’s grab. Instead, it was the unregistered Sway who’d tortured her brother’s mind—faceless, cruel, and still at large.

She was going to find that person, that unregistered who must be so terrifyingly powerful to have ripped into a trained S-rank like that. And whoever they were, wherever they were, she wasn’t even going to give them the chance to see her coming.

No heroic speeches for a camera, no appeals to their humanity and offers of forgiveness if they came to Anesidora with her peacefully. One day, she was just going to be there in the shadows where they were hiding, and before they could blink, quicker than they could think…

Tuyet was going to bury every dart she had in their brain.

Her arm moved like a whip.

The first one flew.

*******

******

It was happening.

