Alden and Everly were crouching with his shield over their heads. They were trying to reduce their damageable surface area while still keeping good visibility and remaining mobile. Kon had just split off from them. He was running forward and to the right across a thin scattering of dirt. Alden had flung his whole bag full in the direction of Max’s team just to give himself a very small, very temporary patch of ground to work with now that all hell was about to break loose.

Kon had said he was getting a little closer “for corpse duty.” Alden was sure he just wanted to find an opening to throw the broken bicycle at their instructor. He was also sure that this meant he and Everly were going to end up corpse-dutying Kon back to the starting line in about ten seconds.

But, you know, good for him for trying. Gym has been so busy for the rest of us today, and he didn’t get to do much. Spiking a bike into Klein’s face is a noble goal.

There was a moment of something that sounded like quiet even though it wasn’t. No wind, just pounding feet as several teams dashed for the finish while the chosen people raced toward Alden and Everly’s position, and to the fight.

Reinhard was drawing his bow. Marsha’s glaive was starting its first swipe.

Alden wished he could see all of it at once so that he could admire the way this spur-of-the-moment attack came together from so many directions. It was going to be lethal to a lot of the wrong people. That was unavoidable under the circumstances. “Kill Klein no matter the cost,” wasn’t the kind of plan that would leave the attackers unscathed.

But he was still so impressed seeing them move. Febri looked like Klein himself, ducking under Marsha’s first magical strike, sliding across the floor beneath Writher to spring up toward the instructor’s face.

And at the same time, the ranged weapons were arriving. One of Shrike’s knives had picked up what must have been everything sharper than a thumbtack on its way in. It was dragging a spherical cloud of pointy danger in its wake.

Heloísa was throwing what was left of the washing machine. Mehdi was flying over Alden’s head…flying? Yes, flying.

He’d been hurled by Haoyu from back at the starting line. Alden didn’t have space to wonder if that was a mutual decision, or if Haoyu was adding some pizzaz of his own to the event.

Klein was already taking the washing machine on a shoulder, dodging Febri, swiping Mehdi the Missile out of the air with a leg. Nope—Mehdi was grabbing onto the leg. Mehdi was flying off the leg. Mehdi was catching himself against the floor with just his hands and redirecting his body back into the fray.

The Zhang-Demirs had already plucked Max and Lucille from the madness. Alden watched them both jump high to avoid Writher, which was awfully rigid. Everyone, including Klein, was just kind of limboing under it or hopping over it.

Lexi, thought Alden. Come on. Do it like you were earlier. So fast I can’t even see it. That’s what we really need.

Kon was almost—

A hand slapped Alden’s arm.

“Snake.” Everly’s voice was urgent. “Snake, Snake! Whose turn is it?”

At the other end of the gym, Instructor Waker was lifting some kind of heavy metal cage that could possibly have been a dog crate. For a very large, strong dog.

Whose turn? thought Alden. Oh…it might be…

Then, before he could finish realizing that the dog crate would probably be flying toward one of his own teammates, a person crossed his line of sight.

The person was very fast, and he was way out there, a few paces beyond the three-quarter mark.

Why the hell is Winston all the way up there instead of back here with us?

Briefly, Alden’s eyes flicked away from Big Snake and the cage, following the direction of Winston’s run. The speedster wasn’t aiming for the finish line. There was nothing in the direction he was heading except for Søren, lying on the floor between the barrier and a sandbag.

That piece of shit.

He wanted to be mad about it. To fix it. But his team’s fight was here, and he didn’t have the attention to spare.

******
