er. Part-time saints on limited contracts potentially have no limits' it read and this screen was new, a sort of soft pink. "You're new," she mused and the thing stoically didn't react, but Delta knew it was only time. She had practise at sharing the blessing of awareness to these sorts of things."How- Why... did you go Abomination?" Ruli hissed, looking torn between impressed and having the urge to scream in panic."I found religion," she corrected and Ruli blinked as Delta got a look at Durence for the first time and it was so quaint! Little houses, cobbled streets, and a homely vibe with a dozen or so knocked out infected soldiers of the Echo.Right... focus time."Which god would be crazy enough to help you?" Ruli asked, shaking her head as Quiss stared at her."This goddess," Delta said as she began walking to Alpha who was beginning to snarl like a sort of animal. "Oh, good. She became a goddess so she can wander outside. Normal stuff," Quiss hissed as he put his fire out which made Delta feel better. His fire was dangerous..."The taxman is going to kill us. Dungeon and Church tax is bad on their own, but together? Ouch," Delta heard Ruli mumble and she began to flex her hands, the natural powers of Amenstar rising."When they needed me the most, I vanished, but now I am back with the powers of an Avatar. Go! Elements!" Delta said as she let the magic flow and a mushroom poofed into existence by transmuting dead skin into spongy flesh which smacked Alpha in the face uselessly before hitting the ground."Ruli, how do I god?" Delta called back faintly."I'm not the person to ask," Ruli said back before Alpha flew at her with a feral hiss and one of his eyes was black. His speed was insane and he used some sort of technique to pin her to the ground as he tried to stab Amenstar's body with a sword which suddenly turned into a whip that bent uselessly against Delta's Avatar."Miss D! Alphie is acting sus, we should call an emergency meeting!" the whip cried and Delta felt her world spin at the voice."It's you," she whispered and Amenstar's eyes began to tear up."It's a me, Ma-" the whip joked before Alpha tossed it to one side, deciding to use his fingers to claw Amenstar's eyes out instead.The rage and hatred conflicted with Alpha's terrified normal eye and Delta felt a surge of hot rage. How dare this thing do this to Alpha. Delta only knew how to do one thing as a goddess so she was going to do that one thing very well.She crossed her arms, left arm held across her body before her right one raised up, bent at the elbow, forming a cross."ULTRA BLESS!" she cried and her arms began to rapid fire blessings onto Alpha in shockwaves of dazzling orange."Bless your hair! Bless your little nose! Bless that weird dimple you have! Bless your cows!" Delta chanted as the Echo inside Alpha began to scream."HE IS MINE!" it screamed."Go to heck!" Delta cursed and to her surprise, her blessing turned dark.'Curse of the Dark Drakes is not available to goddes-- Error. Goddess has access to this curse. Processing...' the pink screen returned. It began to play a damn spinning hourglass."PROCESS FASTER!" Delta screamed as Alpha began to blaze with black and orange lights, his skin cracking in places to show a burning inferno inside.'Solution found!' it proclaimed.What did that mean?Alpha began to belch out black smoke and slime before the Echo was whisked away in a flash of orange."Where did it go?" she asked the screen.'To the place you consider a place of damnation and mistakes. The Secret Garden between floors of your Dungeon.' it reported.Oh.Oh no.---The Echo spread out and burned. It needed a host. It needed a Seed.It looked up as dozens of mutant creatures made of pure mana stared down at it."Obey and behold! I am Tomt Tec-" it roared and something stepped on the Echo, ending his existence without noticing he was even there.His Echo ended in a whimper and then a sigh.Above, a giant monstrous rat with a crown scraped his back paw off on a rock in annoyance.
