“Such bright little eyes you have, wanderers, bound and tied to this realm by the company you keep.” The crone's eyes wandered over Sixiang and Kongyou, who both cringed back. “They struggle, even now. The Thunderer waxes, not in the little bands which rage naked in his name, but in the center. There are always those who dream of being kings, even if they’d not name it that in their hearts. Little brats are making things hard on an old woman.”

The crone smacked her lips, staring into the fire. “Struggle, you will. what with the two of you playing around the edges of old and ponderous things. Things so big are ever hateful of change, of Thieves and Seekers and Changers. Beware the Trampler. Beware whatever guise they wear in the land of dragons. The story they wish to tell will crush your little castle of sand if given half a chance. It is not a tale that can live in peace.”

Ling Qi’s thoughts drifted to the summit and to all who would be there. It was too much to hope for that there would not be those who opposed any understanding with the opposite side.

Xuan Shi surprised her by speaking up. “This one would hope we might gain some understanding of those who might make the matter difficult. Grandmother has said that they trouble her.”

“Aren’t you a sweet little man?” the crone cooed. “A dangerous morsel, I might keep you, but no, smart, smart little children.”

“We will not demand anything, of course,” Ling Qi said swiftly. “The limits of hospitality are yours to decide.”

“Greedy,” Grydja complained. “Your line runs true, whatever foolishness that stray snowflake got up to. You’ve entertained this lonely old woman, so I suppose you can have a tale. But only one, greedy little poppet, else I shall seek a price.”

“You are more than generous.”

The spirit cleared her throat, removing the now red hot poker from the fire. The metal twisted, becoming a long stirring spoon. There was a shrieking hiss all too much like a scream as it plunged into the contents of the cauldron.

“You wish to understand these children, child of winter. I’ll give you the tale of the Gates and their building, the heart and foundation of the nation. Many ‘why’s’ lie there. But,” the crone said slyly, “there’s another tale that might do you better in the now, and that tale is of the Iron King, the last one who was able to call himself Lord of All Winters in this land. Arrogant little popinjay he was, but his spirit burned many, that it did.”
