“Wait- wait!” Chiang quickly stood, spear in hand, palms forward, his clansmen echoing his sentiments. “Don't sho-” another arrow came whistling at him, faster than he could react, piercing him in the leg. The pain was excruciating, more than he could bear. Tears leaked from his eyes, disbelieving what just occurred. Holding his injury, he remained prone, until the runt barbarian approached him.

“Hello there.” The barbarian squatted next to him, handling Chiang's leg roughly. “I see that you're in terrible pain. That is truly a shame.” This insolent, audacious scoundrel, smirking at his suffering. “ Luckily, I have just the thing for that. A pill -”

“You dare to shoot at me!?” Chiang screeched at him, voice strained, spittle flying out. “I'll have you whipped and flayed! You are truly seeking death, attacking a favored son of the Great Situ Clan! I will have those women raped and beaten, you uneducated, shit-eating, horse-fucking -.” His rant was cut short, turning to a horrible scream as the runt ripped the arrow out of his knee, crimson blood spurting from the wound, leaving Chiang reeling in agony, black and white spots in his vision.

As his head struck the dirt, the last thing he heard before passing out was the runt speaking. “Ya, okay, I understand, not everyone is comfortable with pharmaceuticals. I can respect that.”

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These idiot young master types. It's like they don't understand the real world. Here they are, sneaking up on us to assault us, but we attack them first, and we're seeking death? C'mon son. I bandage the unconscious idiot up, and a search of his body comes up not only with his tag, but with a token as well, made of smooth white jade, 'OuYang' inscribed in gold. Ca-ching. Do we get to keep the tokens? I wonder how much one of them would sell for anyways. Flipping it around, I read the mission. Furs from a list of animals. This whole cluster-fuck is just a series of fetch quests. 2/10 theme-park gameplay, would not play again.

Moving along, I fix up the other fallen contestants and luckily, not only do they have all of the required furs, these mooks even have coins on them. Six pills sold, for an easy twelve gold. The pills are pretty easy to make, just some common plants that grow around the village, and a few hours of grinding per 20 pills. I have hundreds of them, from my practice in pill making. I thought they would make me money, but no one would buy them from me, not trusting my work. The pill was too complicated to make they said, requiring very strict amounts of each ingredient in the correct ratio, or else it could cause significant damage. It's made much easier with proper measuring tools, like Taduk has, rather than the favored 'eyeball' method that everyone else uses. You need to work under a respected pill master, marking the pill with some symbol to show it's yours, but Taduk won't let me use his mark, even after verifying my work. My symbol is the side profile of a bunny. It made me chuckle for some reason, but Taduk loved it. Luckily, I use them sometimes to get to sleep, so not only are they tested, I also had a lot on me. What was once a failed venture, is now a thriving business. I'm not even overcharging them, but I should. It's supply and demand. I have the supply, and I create the demand.

Chuckling to myself, I stand up from my last victim, pockets jingling, and inform my comrades of our great luck which is met with a cheer. Easy pickings. I didn't even have to fight, Adujan and Mei Lin are sharpshooters, taking everyone out with arrows to the knee. Guess these little young masters can't be adventurers anymore.

“Oh, ho ho, we meet again, children of the People.” Elder Ming lands softly, but I have no idea from where. I didn't see him float down, I just saw him appear and land. I want to learn how to do that. “Oh, Seven victims this time.” He looks them over. “Arrows, my my my, such skill and accuracy. Good, good.”

Clasping my hands and bowing, we leave the Situ idiots behind with him, strolling away as I carry Huushal. He grumbles a lot about it, but tough shit. What does he expect, Sumila to carry him? Actually that might not be a bad idea. He's heavy as hell, and Sumila is stronger than me. I open my mouth to suggest it, but before I can speak, someone interrupts me.

“You scoundrels! Stop right there! You have guts, assaulting my cousins and clansmen like that.” Putting Huushal down gently, I turn around to meet with the next band of idiots. Probably the remaining three we missed. Might as well pick up the spare. I'm greeted instead by at least fifteen angry-looking youths, brandishing some very heavy-looking clubs as they rush forward to surround us.

God damn it.

Author's Note: Some picture references, just in case I didn't do a very good job describing them. Also, they're adorable. I just grabbed them off google images, if anyone has issue with me using them, leave a comment or email me.  My inspiration, Binturongs, or the Asian Bearcat. Genus name Arctictis which is greek for Bear-Weasel. Yeah, not super imaginative naming, on anyone's part.

Another thing to add, Savage Divinity gained many new readers and reviews over the weekend. I'm pretty estatic about that, it feels incredible. Thanks for taking the time to read my work, for the reviews, the thumb-ups, for everything.  I'd just like to once again plead, if you find a spelling, or grammer, or whatever error, note it in the comments, please please please. Thanks for reading, and I hope you keep doing so.  -RuffWriter
