“You know what?” Produveral asked. “Sure. So, imagine instead of having a skill, you have a sort of law imbued inside of you. A law that you can use to replace an aspect of reality…”

***

While Produveral began a long and arduous dissertation filled with words about ontology and metaphysics, the body Shiv had left to guard the surface gateway turned and updated Roland about everything that was happening in real time.

Both the Starhawk and his Avatar were rendered utterly speechless, and as Maia arrived on the scene, she found herself gawking as well, unable to process Shiv’s ridiculous boast. “You did what?” she asked. “You made peace with whom?”

“Yeah, the Stranger's not gonna attack us for now,” Shiv said. “We still need to keep a guard posted in case he proves to be a backstabbing piece of shit, and I'm not putting him beyond that. From what I can tell, he's pretty tired of the fighting, and he doesn't want to gain any more levels. So for now, we don't need to worry about getting invaded by the fingerlings.”

A laugh of pure disbelief slipped out of Roland.

“Madness, absolute madness.” The Starhawk broke from his speechlessness and held Shiv in new—and higher—regard. “To think such a thing was possible at all… No, I was a fool for underestimating you. And you are more than her shadow. You are nearly equal in terms of persuasion when she was of the same age.”

“Kathereine or Veronica?” Shiv sighed.

“The Songbringer,” the Starhawk said. “And this would be a feat worthy of her legend.” And with that admission, a darkness followed, staining the god's heart with regret and animosity.

Shiv scowled. “Hey Starhawk, I can see you. I know what you're thinking and feeling. Don't insult me. I might be like her, but I'm not her.”

“So you say.” The Starhawk flickered, too deep in his own memories to accept Shiv’s claim. “But there was a time she would have made the same claim. There was a time she was as noble as you—no, nobler.”

“And again, the lesson returns to us,” the Harbinger whispered inside Shiv. “You shed your traumas and grow greater, but the others do not leave their burdens behind. They get stronger, but the mountain on their back grows heavier. You travel, you climb, and you reach a new summit. They hold summits over themselves, and they are weighed down because of it.”

Despite the fear and doubt lingering within the Starhawk, Shiv was willing to let matters die.

But he wasn't alone in this conversation. “Starhawk, do not dishonor Legend Shiv this way,” Roland intoned, speaking on Shiv’s behalf. “He deserves more than the discourtesy of being compared to her.”

And Shiv's surprise was doubled as the Educator joined in, in his defense as well. “Far more. You are decayed too, Matthew, for you have forgotten her nature—she wasn't some pure and noble soul at the start, though she was capable of purity and nobility. No, for every measure of goodness within her there was a measure of avarice and domination. She talked people into bending to her will for the sheer pleasure of doing so. She talked people into breaking their relationships, into sacrificing their love for brief moments of pleasure that she derived and then left them aside, scorned and unwanted.”

Shiv stared at the Educator, his eyes wide—his heart was genuinely touched.

And then Maia went about ruining it. “She is also nowhere near as daft and dense as he. Though he is a savant in certain ways, I fear that his genius is far more narrow, and his various expressions of stupidity, far more broad.”

“Thanks for keeping me humble, Maia,” Shiv said dryly. “Also, thanks for leaping to the Gate’s defense.”

“Oh, do shut up, boy. I need to repaint my borders to see the Young Lord protected—I simply trusted that you and Lord Arrow would see the more trifling matters resolved.”

The Starhawk's posture grew laden with awkwardness, and he turned away from Shiv as he mumbled an apology. “Forgive me, Deathless. My past has its teeth deep in me. I fight shadows, but not the shape of my true foe.”

Shiv waved him off—and struggled to hide how affected he was. He didn't expect Roland Arrow to defend him, even if their relationship was on the mend, sort of. Maia, though, was something else entirely. She was still prickly, but her defense was genuine as well, and she seemed more appreciative of him than Kathereine.

“Ah, away with the miseries of the past!” Marikos billowed nearby, holding his mace high in triumph. “And raise your voice in praise of the Deathless! Mighty of flesh, mighty of magic, mighty of heart and peace! Give praise!” Somehow, his scales and armor looked as pristine as ever, unblemished, unscratched, not even smeared.

His constant outpouring of support was appreciated, though. “Give praise,” Shiv agreed with a chuckle.

His laughter faded as a clench of pressure drew his attention. Hymn teleported beside him, the Headmaster’s expression a mask of disappointment, but also trepidation.

Shiv grinned. “Oh, hi, Hymn. Glad you got back so soon. I was planning to speak with you earlier.”

The elf’s face remained cool as stone, and his eyes gleamed with an inscrutable glow. “Why?”

“Why what?”

“Don’t play stupid with me,” Hymn spat. “That facade no longer works, and I am in no mood to indulge it now.”

“Oh, sorry to hear that. Well, I'm in no mood to treat you like a kid. You know why I did it. You know why I enacted peace. You heard what I said? Now you came back for one reason and one reason alone, because you hate the Stranger and you have your trauma and you want your revenge.”

Then Shiv looked down at Hymn’s core and tutted. “Shame that the monster which ruined your life and made you the way you are has got a terminal condition—it's turning into an individual. The thing you dreamed of killing? Yeah, it's probably going to be long dead before you ever get to killing it. But cutting all the way to the core of this bullshit, you're not looking for any of that. You're looking for an excuse to start a fight or get some kind of satisfaction, but this is life, and satisfaction isn't guaranteed. Revenge isn't guaranteed. You played at indifference before, but you clung to that a bit too hard. I see you now. I see how bad you wanted to hurt him. I see how bad you wanted me to break him so you could join in—and do what exactly? Fight a pointless war and struggle against him in this moment where we need peace? No, and you wouldn't have found satisfaction anyway. Again, the thing that hurt you isn't itself anymore. And whatever relief you're looking for is never going to come. You got to deal with that. I can only talk to you, but I can't give you any kind of resolution.”

As Shiv spoke, Hymn swallowed, seeming more emotionally compromised than ever before. His eyes leaked not with tears, but with enkindled flames, and his hands clenched and unclenched like a man struggling between the urge to perform an extremely unwise act of violence or to simply collapse as an adrenaline dump hit him in full force. Faint cracks formed across Hymn's body, but something deeper took shape inside of him.

Shiv felt a figment of himself take root inside the Headmaster. And so he tested his new feat. He spoke to him without even moving his mouth.

“I'm sorry, Hymn. I'm not trying to tear you down or hurt you or anything, but you're as obvious as the Stranger right now. That's the way you acted before: the indifference, the nonchalance. Yeah, I think that's you too, but this, this is too close. This is cutting you open, and you're bleeding in front of everyone. Get out of here. Don't be here right now. You're not ready for this kind of suffering. Most things bounce off of you. This hasn't. This is sinking in deep like a chisel. Get out of here.”

As he spoke to him through the Inland Embassy, the Headmaster's expression broke, and a look of pure dread overcame him—the emotion almost strong enough to push Shiv's skill over the edge.

“Hey, Hymn, can you be less scared? I want to fuse that one with Stea—”

Hymn reached out in a blur and seized Shiv by the throat. He froze as an arrow was pointed against his temple, manifested in a microsecond by Roland—and further empowered by the Starhawk.

The Educator and Marikos weren't idle either. The dragon drew close, his flames igniting, his growl shaking the world. Maia meanwhile held her brush up and frowned, waiting to see if Hymn would give her a reason to paint a new masterpiece.

“How did you get into my mind?” Hymn asked, his eyes burning with intensity, his flesh crawling with eldritch matter.

“Not your mind, Hymn,” Shiv said, tapping the man’s chest casually. “Your mind's powerful. But something else is broken inside of you, and when I found that gap, I built an embassy there. You want to talk about this? I'll be with you later, anytime you want, whenever you're ready. But right now, I think you should go take a walk… and maybe enjoy a pot sticker.”

And thus the previous dynamic shifted entirely. Hymn, who was once inscrutable, carefree, and utterly incomprehensible to Shiv, was now an open book: He was indifferent to most things, but made so by pure trauma, careless and crass as rejection against other authorities, but ultimately a man ruined by a higher power—a man ruined by the Stranger—who was beginning to realize that his revenge, whatever great story of retribution he'd told himself he was the lead of, would never come true.

He didn't release Shiv's throat as he retreated. Instead, he simply teleported, vanishing in a burst of static.

A testament to Roland's sheer Awareness, he somehow managed to track Hymn, shifting his bow in the direction of the Perch without any delay.

“Leave him be,” Shiv said. “He wasn't gonna hurt me. But he might just hurt himself or something right now. So keep an eye on him in case he does something silly like that.”

“How did you–”

“The Harbinger’s a pretty vicious skill. I'm beginning to see why it's restricted. I'm beginning to see in detail. No one comes out of life unscathed, and if a skill is specifically meant to tear into your leftover scars—”

A heart-shaking wail cut Shiv off. “THE BABY’S HEAD! I FEEL IT! I FEEL IT PROLAPSING OUT MY ORGANS.”

Shiv cringed and realized the crisis was actually far from over. “Right, you guys just pretend I said something profound. Let's deal with the male pregnancy problem.”

“I trust you all have this; I return to my higher tasks.” Maia teleported, abandoning the rest of them.

“Fucking chickenshit,” Shiv muttered. “Alright, Roland, Marikos, you ready to help a bunch of men deliver some babies?”

“No,” Roland answered with a scowl, sounding and looking far too much like Adam.

“Indeed!” Marikos shouted with vigor. “I will see these infants pushed out of them healthy and hale and—eh, friend Shiv, may you tell me why are men giving birth?”

“Because of an orc,” Shiv grumbled. “One we need to find and—”

Roland shifted his bow a few degrees and loosed an arrow imbued with Dimensionality and Pyromancy. A second passed, and then he nodded. “Done.”

Now, it was Shiv’s turn to be dumbstruck. “Done? Just like that?”

“Oh, yes, he was hiding in the water filtration plant, which tells me that he likely managed to induce these pregnancies by altering the properties of the water in the Gate, which also means that we likely want to avoid drinking it for a while. It seems that he gained some kind of skill that allowed him to blend with the fluid, but he made a mistake; the temperature of the reservoir he hid within didn't match the others. I boiled the water reservoir clean—and dealt a bit of soul damage as well. I don’t think he’ll be returning fully intact for a while.”

Shiv's jaw fell open wider. “Roland, that might be the most Adam-sounding thing—he pulled this shit back in Weave; he—he found serial killers and stuff.”

“No, Shiv.” Roland smirked. “That’s not me being like my boy, that’s my boy getting it from me.”

“Holy shit…”

“What is there to say, Deathless,” Roland hummed. “You have your tongue, but we Arrows still have our vision, our hearing, our touch, smell, and more.”
