That would happen as soon as F’lore felt any emotion too extreme. It was one of the reasons T’vela worked so hard to keep her calm now, and to distract her from the tragedy that had happened.

A’ruk stood nearby, silent, though it was clear in his expression that he was just as pained as the rest of them. He was healed, but the thought of a child being forced to become a villain was too much to bear for him. He had support, at least. It turned out he got along rather well with Damien when he wasn’t engulfed with pain, and he seemed to appreciate the dreadshade’s presence.

But still, there was the matter at hand.

“It’s best if it happens near... around where F’lora was originally selected to be the dark lady,” Cale said eventually. “That’s the closest I’ve ever gotten. We’ll draw a circle around you to symbolize the start of a ritual, and then T’vela, you need to make a wish. Something powerful and more desperate.”

T’vela closed her eyes. “That will not be difficult.”

“But the more powerful the wish, the more corruption it will create, and the harder it will be to fight,” Cale said quietly.

“I understand,” T’vela said. “But if there is even the smallest chance... A’ruk, will you...?”

She didn't state it explicitly, worried about upsetting her daughter, but A’ruk caught her meaning. He bowed his head. “Of course,” he whispered. “It is the least I could do.”

“Then let us begin.”

The circle had been drawn. T’vela held her daughter tight, then bid everyone else to leave; this was difficult enough to do without a crowd, and Cale suspected that the crowd had been part of what caused the last attempt to fail. Something he’d learned thanks to the Bitter Path: if symbolism mattered, then what most often caused the birth of a dark one was an overwhelming feeling of loneliness.

At least symbolically, the ritual had to reflect that, so none of them could be around to watch. Instead, they retreated into one of the nearby homes, keeping an eye out in case the atverians or their magic came to interfere. Thankfully, it seemed M’lori had done her duty: whatever she’d done, there was no sign of anyone on their way. The anchor feather he had quietly snuck into her pouch allowed him to keep an eye on her, and what he could sense suggested that rather than trying to convince anyone of anything, she had instead started some kind of riot.

Smart. Probably the best way to prevent them from being discovered in the short term. It surprised him a little, how quickly she had changed her mind—too often the others he met were set in their ways and did nothing to change, even when presented with evidence. All too easy to dismiss that evidence as false, he supposed, in a world of magic. If only it was easier to teach how to judge that evidence for oneself...

But he digressed. Something was still bothering him about all this.

The agaût-mortis blooms. Why were they there? It was a warning for other vinewalkers to stay away, but—

Cale blinked. Wait. Wall was F’lora’s biological father, according to T’vela. The vinewalkers had a means of helping atverians conceive. When he learned this he hadn’t thought much of it, but karmic bonds were a little behind, as far as social progress went. That karmic bond would be stronger if Wall had fathered F’lora...

His mind raced. “Thorn,” he said abruptly. “How do vinewalkers reproduce?”

“Uh,” Leo said. “Kind of an inappropriate time to ask that question, don’t you think?”

Thorn didn’t even flinch; he seemed entirely unperturbed. “A donation of a piece of the soul to a special flower we can bloom, the ulaût-vigor,” he said. “Many vinewalkers must come together to produce the flower. Once the soul is placed within the bloom, it will close, and when it opens again, a child will be born of the donor’s body and the vinewalker’s magic.”

Cale’s mind raced. “That means everyone in this village contributed to F'lora's birth?” he asked.

“Most likely,” Thorn agreed.

Karmic bonds were stronger when blood was shared on both sides of that bond, and it was clear that F’lora considered the whole village to be her family. If Wall had successfully saved his daughter and K’teri had left after, why had he wanted everyone to leave? If the spear had killed him instantly, how had he had the time to bloom those flowers? Thorn suggested that it was a slow process—any vinewalker immediately killed wouldn’t have had time to grow them.

Why was Wall frozen in place, rather than collapsing? Cale had assumed it was in some way an effect of F’lora’s wish, attempting to preserve him, but what if—

“You can predict when a dark one will appear, if you keep a close eye on the energies of the realm,” Cale said rapidly, beginning to pace. “You can predict where a dark lord will appear if you keep an eye on where the tensions of the realm are greatest. You. Was Wall a mage?”

The vinewalker he’d turned to looked startled. “He was the pride of our village,” she replied after a moment. “He was a very clever mage. And powerful. K’teri should not have been able to kill him.”

There it was. The piece he was missing. Cale cursed under his breath, then pulled the door open and started to run. If he was right about this, then K’teri hadn’t.

Wall had figured out before anyone what would happen, who the most likely target was to be transformed into the realm’s dark one—a little atverian girl, caught between two peoples. And like many powerful mages who wanted the best for their children, he had taken that fate into his own hands, but hadn’t bothered to tell anyone else about it.

Stupid self-sacrificial dads, Cale thought, almost snarling to himself. Can’t even warn anyone about—

He shut away the memories.

There was, theoretically, a way to kill a dark lord before their time. Karmic backlash could only hit if there was someone there to receive it. If the dark lord In question set things up to secure their own death the moment they acquired the role, there would be no one there to receive the backlash. Cale had dismissed the possibility because it seemed clear that K’teri killed him, but if she hadn’t—if he’d managed a spell that would put off his death, something to keep himself in stasis until the moment of his choosing—

The realm would be safe from the Dark for decades. Not the centuries they had between true cycles, but time. Time enough for a childhood, to grow and live, to be happy...

But the role would never go to someone so willing to discard it. Not unless it was transferred to them, and that would be even more difficult than what Cale was trying to do: the role would not transfer into someone already destined for death unless no other karmic bonds were available. Hence the agaût-mortis urging the other vinewalkers to leave—Wall had most likely set up the ritual to trigger once everyone else was out of range.

The magic ahead of him was increasing in density. Cale could feel the ritual tightening the bond between mother and daughter, ripples of karmic energy moving between them. The transfer was working.

There was a certain irony to that, he thought. The one time this plan might have succeeded, and he couldn’t allow it, because someone else had gotten there first.

He had to stop T’vela.
