She was dying. Lyonette du Marquin registered this fact with bitter acceptance. She lay in the snow and knew it.
She’d stopped moving. Lyonette knew she should keep moving, keep walking, but she was too tired. The biting, painful cold had stopped a while ago, and now she was feeling almost warm.
But she was still dying. It was hard to open her eyes, and Lyon knew when she closed them next, she would never open them. So. Death. The knowledge was bitter, but at least it would stop the pain.
What would be far worse, or so the girl felt, was that her death would be ignoble and untold. She would die like a dog, and that was worst of all.
They had done this. The mongrels and lizard folk. Lyonette clung to life for a few more seconds just so she could hate for a while longer.
Curse them. If she had one last wish, she would have sent fire and death to that city of monsters, Liscor. They had killed her. Her, a scion of the Marquin house, one of the Hundred Families of Terandria, Sixth Princess in line to the Eternal Throne of Calanfer.
And they hadn’t even the courage to kill her outright. Instead, she had been exiled, sent to wander through the snow until she collapsed. If she’d had her rings or cloak or any of her heirlooms—
But of course, they were out of power. Drained completely from overuse; their bindings broken. And the wretched creatures had taken the few that still had power.
Lyon snarled weakly. Taken. What was hers by right had been stolen. She had been betrayed. That was the only reason she’d met this end. All these peasants, refusing to recognize her superior nature. If she had only reached Magnolia Reinhart. Then—
The world was cold. Lyonette lay still on the ground. She looked up into the cold, grey sky and breathed out. Her eyes closed and—
Erin charged over the top of the hill and skidded down the side. She ran straight towards Lyon, but didn’t see the girl. Lyonette saw Erin approaching first with incredulity, then hope, and then alarm when she realized the girl wasn’t stopping.
“Where is she? Where is she? I can’t—whoa!”
Lyonette felt a foot slam into her stomach and then Erin landed on top of her. The young girl gasped as Erin flailed about frantically.
“What was that? What—oh.”
Death was preferable to life at the moment. Lyon curled up into a ball of pain and then felt something touching her. She jerked and flailed at it feebly, but then—warmth.
“Here. Hold still. Oh man, you’re so cold. Let me wrap this—”
A thick woolen blanket wrapped itself around Lyon as if by magic, the girl felt part of the chill on her lessening. And then she looked up and saw Erin.
The girl smiled down at Lyon with genuine kindness, warmth, and a bit of guilt.
“Um. Hi.”
Lyon blinked at her. Another human? Another girl? Her cold-addled brain struggled to work, and her mouth wasn’t helping.
“W-w-wha—?”
“I’m Erin Solstice. And you’re freezing. I have an inn nearby; can you stand?”
Instinctively, Lyon tried to move her legs, but they’d been stuck in one place for too long. Erin leaned forwards and Lyon got a good look at her face.
She was nothing special to look at. Part of Lyon thought that as it judged the other girl’s rough clothing, her unmannered appearance, speech, and conduct. But the other, larger part of Lyon looked at Erin and saw something shining.
Erin held out a hand and smiled. And she was like the sun. She melted the cold gripping Lyon.
“Come with me if you want to live. I’ve got crepes!”
The other girl’s hand reached out and took Erin’s. Lyon couldn’t help it. Erin lifted her to her feet easily. Lyon tried to move, and gasped in pain. Her legs were numb and painful at the same time.
“Here. Lean on me.”
Erin bent down and got under Lyon, helping the girl. Half-dragging, half-supporting the girl, she made her way back through the snow.
Lyon didn’t know what was happening. She didn’t really hear Erin as the other girl panted and tried to introduce herself and then gave up. She just knew she was being saved, and like a ship-wrecked survivor, she clung to hope.
The inn stood on the hilltop in the distance, promising shelter, warmth, and food. Lyon’s knees buckled at the sight, and Erin caught her.
“Come on. We’re nearly there!”
Lyon needed no encouragement. She fought for more strength as the two girls began to ascend the gentle slope. Suddenly, she began to believe she might actually live. The knowledge was sweet joy.
She took five more steps towards the inn, and began wondering how much coin Erin had, and whether the girl had a horse Lyon could take.
 
—-
 
“My name is Lyonette.”
That was how the girl introduced herself after Erin had stoked the fire, gathered as many blankets as possible, and made some hot soup. Lyonette sat in front of the fire, shivering, cold, and now, suddenly, imperious.
Lyon nodded regally at Erin, and gestured to her inn.
“We—I thank you for your assistance in my time of dire need. You will be handsomely rewarded when I am restored to my proper station, I promise you.”
Erin blinked. It was hard to take anything the girl said seriously. She looked like a multi-colored marshmallow with a tiny human head sticking out of it, so many blankets had Erin wrapped around her. Plus, her nose was drippy.
“Oh, it was no problem. I was happy to help. When I heard you were out in the cold, I couldn’t just let you die.”
“Just so.”
The girl looked around the inn and sniffed. Erin wondered if she had any tissues, when Lyonette looked back at her.
“I will stay at your inn for a while longer, perhaps a day or two. Then I will require assistance travelling north.”
Well, that seemed reason—hold on. Erin’s mind backtracked and focused on Lyon’s words. Somehow, she felt like the girl had missed a step. Or ten.
“What? Uh, no. No…I’m not sure what I said—I don’t think I said anything like that—but I’m not helping you travel. In fact, I was going to give you a job working here.”
“What?”
Now it was Lyon’s turn to pause and think. She stared at Erin in shock, and then fury.
“You would have me work here, like a peasant? I am grateful for your help, make no mistake, but I require help.”
Erin chose her words carefully.
“I think I am helping you. A lot, actually. And I’m willing to offer you a job working here. It wouldn’t be hard—well, it might be hard at first, but you’ll get used to it. And I’ll give you room and board, and even some money. I can’t pay much but—”
Lyonette stood up, shedding her blankets. She stared hard at Erin.
“I intend to go north as soon as possible. I will not stay another minute in this—this hellhole of abominations and freaks!”
Erin twitched at the word ‘abomination’. But she still kept her calm.
“If you want to do that, I won’t stop you. But I’m not going to help you.”
Lyon raised her chin and her eyes flashed.
“I order you to assist me!”
“No.”
The girl stared darkly at Erin for a few moments, and then, alarmingly, suddenly switched to placid calm. She sniffed, and looked back towards the fire.
“Very well. I will rest here instead.”
Erin didn’t need to be suspicious; she already was. But she modulated her tone to calm, friendliness.
“Okay, great! In that case I’ll wake you up at breakfast. You can rest today, but tomorrow I’ll show you the ropes. In a few days—”
Lyon frowned.
“I am not going to work. I said I would rest.”
“Yeah…but if you’re going to stay here, you’ve got to work.”
“Am I not your guest? And I am—weak. Why would you force me to work?”
Lyonette looked hurt and reproachful. Erin’s friendly smile didn’t waver.
“Well, you are a thief, aren’t you?”
Lyonette’s face went blank for a second and her eyes flicked to Erin and then away. Erin had a sneaking suspicion the shivering girl was trying to think up a lie.
“I know it’s you. You blew up…well, you destroyed my friend’s shop and robbed a lot of good people. But I didn’t want you to die out there, so I’m offering you a job.”
“I don’t want it. I will head north as soon as I am well.”
Erin took a deep breath. Her heart was pounding. She hated this kind of thing.
“Well, in that case, you won’t be staying here, then. Sorry.”
Lyon stared at Erin incredulously. Her eyes flicked towards the snowy landscape outside, and she wavered. Then a sly look flashed over her face for a second. The girl lightened her tone, looking at the door innocently.
“I suppose I shall simply have to set out myself, then. In the cold and snow. I fear my death will be on your conscience, but then, you wouldn’t let me go out without provisions, would you?”
Lyon’s obvious attempts to manipulate Erin angered her more than anything else the girl had done so far. Erin folded her arms.
“A coat, and five days’ worth of food.”
Lyon stared at Erin, caught off-guard.
“What?”
“That’s all I’m giving you. A coat, maybe some pants and boots, and food. You’ll need a bag to hold it, so I’ll give you that and point you to the main road.”
“But I will freeze long before I get to a city. You wouldn’t want that on your conscience, would you?”
“Not really, but I won’t give you any more help.”
Erin stared hard at Lyon. This was as bad as she’d feared. But she had to make herself clear.
“I’m giving you one chance, Lyonette. One. That’s all. Either work for me at this inn, or try to get to another city, but if you go, I won’t save you even if you die a foot outside my inn.”
Erin leaned forwards and Lyon leaned back. Erin’s gaze didn’t waver as she glared at Lyon.
“You only get one chance.”
The girl stepped back, rattled, and then moved away from the roaring fire. She looked at Erin and her expressions firmed.
“I am—”
The girl hesitated.
“—Of the aristocracy in Terandria. A minor House—the Clavalettes. I am distantly related to the royal family, and I will be treated with respect!”
“Really? Good for you. You’re still a thief. Take my offer, or you’ll be gone after dinner.”
Lyonette stared at Erin, her pleasant mask gone as well. Her brow and nose wrinkled and she hissed at Erin.
“Peon.”
Erin’s face went blank. She knew that peon was an insult, but she wasn’t exactly sure what the word meant.
“Well? Will you work here or not?”
“I will—under duress! I graciously accept your offer.”
Erin felt that last sentence should have been reworded, but she took it.
“Okay. Fine. Good. Now, I’ll let you stay here, but you can’t steal anything. And I’ll make sure of that, because I’m not alone.”
Lyon suddenly looked doubly wary, but she didn’t have time to move. Erin turned and called.
“Ceria? Do you want to introduce yourself?”
Ceria had been upstairs—the half-Elf had not enjoyed going searching for Erin, especially since the two had missed each other and she’d been outside longer than Erin by a good stretch. She descended the stairs and Lyon reacted by backing away.
“A half-breed? Here?”
She looked aghast. Erin frowned at her reaction and Ceria scowled.
“Oh great. She must be from one of the Human-only countries. Wonderful. That explains a lot.”
“What’s wrong? This is Ceria. She’s a half-Elf.”
“She’s a freak! An untrustworthy spy and troublemaker! I insist she leave at once!”
Lyonette stared with hostility at Ceria, who didn’t look that welcoming either. Erin opened her mouth, but Ceria put her good hand on Erin’s arm.
“I would watch your mouth, young Human. I’m a friendly half-Elf, but my kind isn’t always nice to people who offend us. I know you’ve heard the stories.”
Lyonette sneered at Ceria, but with a trace of fear.
“Children’s tales to frighten the simpleminded.”
“Oh, really? Well, not all stories are fake.”
Ceria slowly raised her other hand, and Lyon froze. Ceria had learned to manipulate her dead hand quite well, and the girl standing in front of her turned deathly white as Ceria brought it in front of the girl. Ceria raised her skeletal hand in front of Lyon’s face and flexed it slowly. The girl’s eyes fixed on the bleached bones in horror. Ceria leaned forwards, and Lyon shrank back.
“If you don’t want to find out which stories are true, I’d watch your mouth around here. And I’d tread carefully and obey every order as well.”
Lyonette backed away, nearly stepped in the fire, and screamed. Erin watched as she backed towards the corner of the room, turned, saw Toren standing there, and screamed again.
It wasn’t the first time Lyon had seen the skeleton. Erin had seen him come in earlier—from where? And introduced him, but each time Lyon saw him she screamed. Loudly.
It was almost funny, except that Lyonette had even less fondness for Erin’s skeleton, if that were possible.
“You consort with the dead? What kind of twisted monster are you? I defy your magic, [Necromancer]!”
“I’m not the necromancer. I just own Toren.”
Lyon stared at Erin, and then at Toren. She backed away from everyone, and only accepted some food from Erin at dinner. The rest of the time she spent in a far corner, glaring at everyone as she tore into her meal.
Erin and Ceria were discussing the problem with the Gnolls—and Ceria was adamant that there would be one—when Lyonette stood up. She left her clean plate and neatly arranged silverware on the table and stared at Erin, ignoring Ceria completely.
“I will rest now. I assume you have a bed prepared for me?”
“What? Yeah. Second room on the left. Do you want—?”
Lyon was up the stairs and out of earshot in an instant. Erin sighed exasperatedly, and Ceria shook her head.
“Regretting your choices? I don’t think she’s going to get any better, Erin.”
“She might.”
Ceria stared at Erin. The human girl looked down.
“Well, it’s possible.”
“And I might grow wings and dance naked in a grove, but that’s unlikely too. Look, it’s going to be a lot of work. Are you sure this is the decision you want to make?”
“I think so. I have to give her a shot, at least.”
Erin wasn’t sure. Not at all. But she had to try.
She had to try.
 
—-
 
The next day, Erin decided that yesterday had been a bad start. Yes, Lyonette had been rude, uncooperative, sneaky…the point was that tomorrow or rather, today, was a new day. Lyon could be different. She and Erin might really hit it off.
Buoyed up by what even she considered false optimism, Erin ascended the stairs and knocked on the girl’s door. Ceria had already left for the city; she always woke early for some reason. But Lyon had yet to rise, and it was already late morning.
“Lyon? Hello? Are you awake?”
There was no response. Erin frowned and knocked harder. No sound came from inside. Erin put her ear to the door and heard the snoring.
“Lyon.”
