“And I reject your prayer,” Adam spat back at the Challenger. "I reject all future prayers from you. I reject everything you want to give, everything you can give. I reject all you are and all you represent, and I castigate you!” Adam coughed, but he continued speaking, and as he turned to face the Challenger, his glare descended once more and he pointed at his foe. The light intensified, his soul swelled, burning ever brighter. For a moment, Adam's flesh appeared to dissolve, turning into a thing of swirling mist. The substance of that great hand that he called down replaced his shape, and only in the vagueness of the vapors could Shiv see any semblance of the man that was. “I castigate you not with a Curse, for such a thing is beneath me. I do not need to bludgeon or bully with my Tyranny, for my Tyranny is absolute, but I ask of you this: You have chosen cruelty, think it is your shape, but will you abide by my cruelty when the time comes that I leave you dreamless and unslaked in peace? As I leave you a warlord without a war to indulge in? Decide, Challenger. Decide your nature. I give you this one chance to repent, to redeem yourself. For the Heroism in me demands it despite how much the Tyranny in me despises it. Is this your story, Challenger, or the one the System forced upon you? Are you a beast of your own will, or are you just a candle lit by a higher force?”

And as sudden as it manifested, the palm that emerged from Adam vanished, returning his mortal flesh, yet staining him with a continued veil of vapors. The mists swirling about him didn't dissolve entirely anymore. Instead, they clung to him, swaying from him like a cloak. The cloak painted the realm around him in the most subtle aura of lashing peace, and though it passed through Roland without issue, it burned and sizzled against Shiv's flesh. It cleaved through his darkness like a blade greeting the shadows. Despite the pain he endured, he remained in place, for Adam still needed him, for Adam had sagged and succumbed, overwhelmed by his exhaustion and all that he faced as the azure band now fused to his skull flared bright—and grew ever tighter.

But a wretched gasp snatched Shiv’s attention back to the Challenger—and the Deathless felt himself run dry of both thoughts and words as a similar crown materialized around the Challenger’s skull. It manifested from Adam’s Divinity, and it tightened around the God of Strife just as the God of Strife had once inflicted a similar torment upon Adam.

The circle was made complete then. A festering enervation swept through the Tutorial as the Challenger clutched his head in incomprehension and pain as the azure band sank into him. But rather than bleed his flesh or shred his mind, it veiled him in a mist on semblance to that which consumed Adam, and the Tyranny of Heroism roasted the Challenger slowly, unceasingly, without any recourse.

The Challenger struggled and pried, but he failed to remove that which rooted itself to him, and in that continued suffering, a laugh of true joy left him—a pure laugh only a child or monster could muster. “So be it, Paragon! I accept your Blessing. I will begin my time of fasting, and I will emerge unchanged, so you know my Divinity is as true as yours.” The God of Strife trembled with excitement but also the first shivers of withdrawal, and he looked to Shiv. “Deathless. Hear me in the stead of your… friend. I have an offering for you and my orcs.”

“Fuck your offering,” Shiv snarled, unwilling to risk any more bargains.

“It is not something you can reject alone,” the Challenger continued, unimpressed. “Because it concerns my orcs—especially the ones who have seen my magnanimity toward the Culturist, and wish to experience what he has: to be spared the itch. To be… unrestrained, inversely from how I must now. I ask that you leave the gateway open, and receive those of my spawn who want to experience a new path. I ask that you leave the gateway open, for the coming period—until the end of my fast.”

The Challenger paused for a beat. “For when that time comes, any who have not submitted to your Paragon will share in your fate, as I will shatter this band and indulge in a feast most bloody after this vexing fast. And I will come for your Gate, Insul. I will see you lashed and crucified, dying again and again and again, made to witness the fates of your loved ones as I grant you my truest insights into the cruelest ways of war.”

Quest Update: Fend off the joint Vulteg, Compact, First Blood, Jotun, and orc invasion.

Rewards: +200 levels for a selected skill, +50 levels for 3 selected skills

Penalty: The Challenger himself breaches Gate Piety and merges it into the Tutorial after claiming the mana core.

“Really?” Shiv seethed. “You’re really going to pull this shit now?”

The Challenger made a one-handed, heart-shaped gesture at Shiv with his stolen twin hand. “Fight well and rebuff me, Deathless. Protect what you cherish well. I have high faith in you as well. And do handle that Tarrasque of yours as soon as possible—you really don’t want me and mine to get our hands on that. I have such ideas for… improvements. Now. The first testament of the Paragon’s faith is in motion; I bid you fortune for the path he has chosen, the path you share, and all that is to follow.”

The God of Strife ascended his scarred steps—or at least he tried to. As his body festered with the mists of Tyranny, the essence of Heroism smote that which was shaped from the purity of destruction, and the grotesque staircase the Challenger made from himself shattered beneath his weight—forcing him to humble himself through actual flight. And as the Challenger ascended back to his divine realm, he laughed with budding enthusiasm, like an old monster roused back into battle against a worthy Pathbearer who dared venture into his cavern.

The Deathless, meanwhile, was far less enthused.

“Shiv. Did you just get that Quest notification?” Uva asked, her mind quivering with horror.

“Yup.”

“Fuck!” she snarled.

“Yuuup,” Shiv agreed. “We need to get ready—figure things out. We have to close the gateway and—”

“No,” Adam whispered, shaking his head. He was roused from his stupor, and judging from the expression on his face, he wasn’t possessed anymore, but his determination endured. He pushed himself upright using Shiv and his father as he took in the world around them. “I need to stay. I need to… They need my light. They need to step into my light. I want to be here and witness… I need to be here… They’ll be my responsibility when it happens.”

“What?” Roland asked, not fully understanding what Adam meant.

But Shiv did, and as he turned, he swallowed.

Their shadows blotted out land and sky, for in their thousands and their millions they approached, from the bunkers and trenches, down from the clouds and from beyond the horizon, all without hesitation—with the certainty possessed by a race comprised of individualists that had lived for far too long. The Challenger’s sons moved, and it was like sections of the world moved with them.

Adam’s first pilgrims came as a living tide, and one after another, beasts born to war and nursed on blood and shadow cast themselves into a descending pillar of all-consuming light to set themselves afire with a new purpose.

“By the Ascendants,” Roland gasped.

“No,” Shiv said, staring worriedly at the mists that overflowed from within Adam. “By whatever the hells is inside your son.”
