Integration is littered with clashes of godhood and faith. Pantheons face pantheons in battles of dominance, as gods with symmetrical Domains try to consume one another with the goal of finally reigning alone, for no two absolutes can exist at the same time. Such is the law that sees gods of like-minded worshippers and similar natures driven into conflict, for there is only so much room given to a single concept in the mind of a mortal.

Think now, how much of yourself could you devote to a dozen separate Gods of Nature, whose scriptures are divergent only on the barest of margins, not in any way significant or meaningful? How many of them should you worship?

The answer is one. Always one. Even if you play the moderate and spend part of the time praying to one or another, there is always one you favor. Bias is in our nature; it is one of our most fundamental sins.

As certain gods gain more power, they evolve, going from Demigods to True Gods and then, potentially, to the head of a new pantheon. From this, existing branches of Divinity are sundered and sheared as members shift along the bounds of power, and thus it goes unto the annals of eternity.

But there is a specific kind of war that is performed by two gods who have deemed one another anathema, or perhaps two whole pantheons that are diametrically and metaphysically opposed to each other.

This is a true war of the divine, a Holy War, for though others can claim this in the lower case, this is the capital case and the truest form. A Holy War is a war of annihilation, one idea against another, one Domain directly opposed to another, a dialectic that will see both shattered and broken in different ways, and when they emerge, should there be two that emerge, irrevocably changed.

Gods of Nature and Destruction might go to war against each other and, by the end, instead of killing one another, be fused together into the shape of a being of absolute rebirth. Or perhaps the God of Nature will consume Destruction and become a God of Calamities, a cleansing, destructive force that sweeps realms clean and sows the seeds of new life. Or perhaps it would be the other way around: Destruction wiping away the last bit of green on the world, yet revealing itself to be destruction of a most healing variety. The cauterization, the mending, the purging of cancers, plagues, and unchecked greenery.

Holy Wars are foundational. Holy Wars are fundamental. Holy Wars bring forth new tomes of scripture. For what follows after is a metamorphosis of the divine, an evolution of an existing faith or an establishment of a new one. Holy Wars become the backbone of Divinity. For it takes struggle to cement a thing to believe, a common point of strife and torment and toil that a god or its religious icons must represent. The System will accept no less, and thus the divine, the divine-to-be, or that is becoming greater must perform no less. So it is, so it has been, so it will be, as god dashes against god, as Nature goes against Destruction, as Life stands against Death, as War rides into battle against Peace.

—Holy War, by Legend-Lictor Meete Krato

429

Holy War

When Peace came, War stood waiting.

Into the Challenger's realm Adam arrived, his incandescent vapors spreading and rising, powered with his fullest glory. And yet, he was but a candle flame in that wretched, war-scarred world. The Tutorial reeked of death, and its air was stained with the scents of fresh blood and exposed offal.

Shiv came first, standing as the vanguard to his party, and as he emerged from the gateway, he witnessed what the Challenger had laid for them as a bastardized carpet. His lip curled in disgust as he gazed upon tens of thousands of orcs who'd been butchered and massacred, yet not scattered incoherently, instead arranged in the shape of a grand walkway. A skin-made letter of congratulations was nailed to a post made of severed arms right outside the archway of the portal, addressing Adam Arrow, and praising him for his ascent to Legendary status.

The mists around Shiv grew thicker. The Domain of Tyranny pressed down on the Deathless, but the flames of Heroism that accompanied it fueled Shiv with a righteous flame. It didn't matter that the Challenger butchered his own. It was the fact that he was so wasteful and pretentious in his artistic play with life that offended Shiv so.

These were orcs. Psychotic brutes that delved into death and chased that high of cruelty, driven above all by the hunger to feast upon another's misery.

But they could be more. They exhibited so much more. They could still choose. Like Helix. Like Whisper. Like Mortar. Like Tequila.

As the Culturist before them.

They could choose to fight and struggle against their nature, against their basest aspects. And even if they were fated to lose, then at least for a time, they could still perform acts of good while their urges were slaked and sated.

This random bloodletting was unnecessary. Worse, it was a mockery that offended Adam. His left eye brightened, while his empty socket sputtered with fire and outrage. The dawn he carried rose upward from his crown, painting a new light within the Tutorial. The ink-black and rust-red clouds staining the firmament like festering smog were scattered as a radiant eye, brighter than any singular sun rising over the horizon, cast its light down upon the world. And so the orcs, alive and dead both, were drenched in Adam's glory, were bestowed a new radiance, were lit by his incandescence.

All around that ziggurat which once stood as the entranceway into the Tutorial, the Challenger's influence was purged. The air grew clear of harmful contamination and bitter tang. It did not become stale, however; it was inflamed with passion, with a need to defy that which remained here. It was the scent of fire that scoured wounds; it was the taste of retribution against the sickness that came before, and as it burned bright, a laughter greeted it in response.

The Challenger's voice caused his realm to tremble, and booming claps sounded to the accompaniment of thunder from beyond the bend of the horizon. In the trenches and fortifications of the orcs that criss-crossed the land as far as the eye could see, millions of grayskins stood gathered for this momentous occasion. All of the Challenger's spawn seemed to flock toward this place, their bodies gleaming bright in flickers of biology, vitality, and glints of divinity. Adam's power was pressing against them, but the ones further away were spared the fullness of his might, while the ones closest burned like wicks watered with gasoline.

Shiv stood at the forefront of their posse, followed closely by the Culturist, the prodigal son returned home to face his kindred and father with his back straight but expression tense.

But the Challenger did not note him in full, and no longer was Shiv the point of his interest either. A crushing presence from on high washed over the Culturist and Shiv like a passing glance, settling over the by far smallest member of the first three to arrive.

Howling winds arose and spun around the ziggurat, causing Adam's hair to whip about, but they subsided as soon as they came, and from the darkness above the parted clouds, a sharp, clicking sound arrived to replace the noise of the storm.

Before them, lightning-whipped steps forked themselves into existence from beyond the heavens, striking the ground a mere two dozen meters before them like harpoons piercing a whale's hide and branding reality like burn scars.

Shiv felt like the ground beneath them was pulled upward at the same time as the source of the clicking revealed itself as it descended the grand staircase of frozen bolts of crimson.

The Challenger had his arms folded behind his back as he strode down from his divine kingdom without hurry but with terrible purpose behind every step, and his heels struck the scarred firmament with a rhythmic, foreboding beat.

Shiv saw what the orc had done to himself, what the Red Rider had used to replace his missing right hand. Twin glinting limbs, entwined with each other like two serpents coiled around another, shone with the symbolism of retribution as much as a golden radiance. It was an arm stolen from another god, torn away from the Starhawk as a timely transplant, or perhaps to offer another edge of mockery.

As Shiv saw that limb, so too did Roland in the back, and Valor beside him, and Uva, whose tree of lightning quivered still. All of them felt the malicious intent ripping away from the Challenger in blasting tides. It was like standing before a monsoon, being hammered by buffeted walls of wind over and over again. They all tasted the stench, yet felt it burn away as Adam's Awareness poured down and glowed ever brighter.

To Shiv's disbelief, the Challenger did as Adam had foretold. As he walked down his scarred steps to arrive upon the grand walkway he'd constructed, he embraced Adam's Divinity, putting himself below it to look up into the Glare of Immolating Omniscience.

And the Challenger burned. He exposed himself in his totality. His divine flesh was wreathed in flame, and an azure glow simmered as it seared deep into his matter and mythology—for a god was more than but flesh. But as he was scorched, the Challenger began to laugh, his voice booming louder with every moment, his joy rising, his excitement lighting the air with a tangible electricity.

Actual flames rose in the distance, columns of fire tearing apart the earth and reaching for the sky, all quelled and held at bay as the Challenger embraced the light of his lesser yet recognized nemesis.

Adam looked upon his opposite, clenched his fists to keep the terror permeating his body at bay, and took two steps forward. Utter silence reigned as he strode past the Culturist and Shiv, and, with a glare of contempt marring his features, reached back and then cast the Crown of the Anti-Savior at its creator with all the strength he could muster.

A boom sounded as the melted circlet broke the sound barrier and seemed to strike the Challenger directly, quieting his laughter in an instant. Symbology followed symbology as the orc god’s form was enveloped in a blinding flash of light. Yet, as the incandescence faded, only an azure glow lingered in its aftermath. The rising columns of flame and destruction ringing the horizon stilled and dissipated. Instead of ending on a crescendo of devastation, it became a message of desolation. War cancelled out by Peace. A gesture for a gesture. A prayer against a prayer.

But as the light dissipated, it was revealed that rather than suffering the Paragon's might without recourse, the Challenger had reached out and caught. The twin arms of the Starhawk coiled about each other, clutching the melted circlet tight. As the fingers worked and kneaded at its texture, the Challenger lifted the crown high, observing the damage Adam had inflicted on his tool with a muted smile on his face. His theatrics died down as he gave the ruined construct a look of pure appreciation.

"Quite the thing you've done, Little God of Peace to be. Quite the thing you've done, indeed. It would take an act of absolute Tyranny, or perhaps paramount Heroism, to up and reject the cruelty I inflicted upon you. Look at this, look at this!" His voice rose again, carried by a rumble of thunder and lingering hatred. The Challenger's voice echoed and resounded, a cascade of volume and intensity that shook the realm. He was speaking to his children, but also from within them.

Before them, he held the crown high, and the sky above parted. Not far from Adam's Glare of Immolating Omniscience, there shone a second dawn. Yet it was a false dawn, a thing of manufactured light. The Challenger shaped a thing of crushing Pyromancy, greater than anything a mortal could muster. Using the flame and stealing the Paragon’s glow, he created an illusion that danced in the heavens above. With that, he projected that which he saw to all orcs across the dimension: the ruined crown that Adam returned.

"Witness the will of the small! Witness the strength of Tyranny and Heroism! Witness Peace to be!"

The Challenger looked upon Adam once more, but this time it wasn't even appreciation that remained. It was a measuring gaze, a judging gaze, as if he considered striking his foe down before he grew beyond his measure to contain. Shiv intercepted the Challenger's killing intent, as did the Culturist. They placed themselves in front of Adam again, the Deathless rising upon his Shapeless Tides to face the Challenger on equal elevation.

For the first time since they'd arrived, the Challenger's attention slipped away from his chosen rival to another object of historic affection. "Ah, Deathless. How fitting. You and he bound together, a Godling of light and his champion shadow; a dusk to guard the dawn."

The Challenger's words broke off into a resonant rumble, and then he briefly glanced at Uva, and thus did Shiv draw ever closer, threatened twice over compared to before. "I suppose that will make her the priestess, willing or not. But I see it in her, her desires and his separating. The divination of her future and the new nature of his Divinity are at odds, yet affectionately and emotionally so close together they remain. I fear you three may tear each other apart before I ever get to relish in inflicting my violence upon you, or perhaps that struggle will make you all stronger and only ever more delightful to test my soul against. So be it. The three of you will be the altar upon which I shed my blood and ruin. You will do. You will more than do."

