“Yeah, but can we say the same for you?" Shiv held his loathing in reserve as much as a hound facing an intruder with its lips pulled back to expose the teeth and gums did its bloodlust. He pulled his own leash tight, held the worst of his rage in control, but even his Harbinger was a coiled snake yearning to lunge forth and strike the Challenger, even if his strength was far inferior compared to that of the God of Strife. More importantly, a part of Shiv was called toward the Challenger to inherit his mantle.

He'd already seized the orc's right hand, and now he sought to return it in the most brutal fashion possible. A question was specifically posed: Could the God of Strife survive a strike from his own deprived limb?

A beast within Shiv was desperate to know. The wiser portion of him, however, denied that pleasure in favor of peace and control.

“Oh, Bruiser, it always pleases me to watch you struggle against your own nature.” The Challenger sighed mournfully. “But the answer is yes, and you know it. Otherwise, you would have found an easy portion of me to crack apart with that little psychological skill, fashioned to make ruined minds and broken hearts. You seek to temper yourself in abnormal quality, but in truth it will always be a flame at your base. It is not a tempering that you can achieve, but rather a channeling. It will always work for you, but not for him. No, he seeks to banish the flame entirely. He seeks to make the world a sea, drowning it until the very idea of fire is quenched forever and always. And so, Deathless, I'm going to tell you something. Think of it as a spoiler ahead of time. Somewhere down the line, perhaps far, far down, or perhaps earlier than any of us can ever expect, you might find yourself closer to me and further from him."

The Challenger's savage smile was all teeth—gleaming with brutal promise. “And before you deny me this possibility, listen to your Harbinger. It is a bad habit to pretend something isn't real. It damages the substance of your own being.”

Shiv poured his hate upon the Challenger, but his adversary only relished the attention. However, Adam's star of Awareness grew ever brighter, and from that gleaming eye he wielded like a blazing star, he focused on the orc god, and his broken voice cut through the air as he strode into the field—but not against the Challenger.

“You mistake your place, Challenger. You see too much. You have so much power. Yet you are impotent. Yet you're blind. Only a limb of my real enemy.” Adam's words came as near stammers, and his mind was scattered and frail. Uva actively held him together, and Shiv did what he could to buffer Adam's bravery. He watched his friend, worried that he might come asunder just from the sheer depravity and desolation that suffused this entire realm. Yet Adam continued to defy, for such was his legend: to struggle, to strain, to suffer, and to emerge, scarred yet undaunted, broken yet purposeful. “I will never name Shiv my champion. I will not enslave him to me, the same way the System has bound you to it. Oh, our legends are entwining..." Adam hesitated, and his eyes drifted. He lost track of himself, of his thoughts.

The Challenger leaned in expectantly, and Shiv struggled with a decision. Should he retreat? Should he carry Adam out of this place before his state got worse?

Uva shared his sentiments, and the mana of her Dreaming Storm grew denser on the other side of the gateway—prepared to explode forth and construct a temporary fortress to cover their escape. Yet Adam recovered once more—for how could he not after all he'd gone through? How could he be any other way?

“I am not here to name you my nemesis, Challenger,” Adam said, swallowing his spit and fear as his glare grew brighter and harder. He rose as well, ascending upward in Shiv’s shadow. “I do not name Shiv my champion. I do not name anything, for nothing here is mine to name. So long as we exist beneath a higher will, everything here is decided beyond our choice. I reject not you but that which you represent, Challenger—I reject the System itself for what it has inflicted upon us.”

Another act of symbology followed his words. His Glare of Immolating Omniscience curved away from Shiv and the Challenger, turned up instead of down, and rather than look upon the land, its blinding gaze was turned to the higher heavens. It shone forth into the void, and beyond even the Challenger’s tethered constellation of worlds. The gesture was grander and deeper than that: the divine star’s beam pierced the fabric of something that shouldn't be seen.

But as Adam willed it, Shiv saw it—the glistening fibers that made up the System's vitality, the chain which represented the existential structure of all existence under its yoke.

Adam managed to cast light on it, if only briefly. He set a flicker ablaze there before the System pushed back, before it rejected him. Yet it couldn't resist him completely. Something about his skill raged and warred against it, and that defiance that characterized the Paragon grew closer to literal rather than figurative truth.

Adam was different; whatever happened in that Delve broke him—but it also reforged him in ways Shiv could sense but not understand. Not yet.

In the physical realm, two forces gathered to face each other. With the Challenger were his orcs and the element of destruction. With Adam were his family, his advisers, mentors, friends, and companions. The Paragon’s side was lesser by far, but all eyes were on him, and everyone followed his finger as he pointed up into the heavens, at the point where his divine glare singed existence.

“You name me nemesis, Challenger. Well, I name something higher than you my true adversary. Someday I will pin the System beneath my palm. Someday, all that is will learn what it feels like to reside beneath my mist, to feel the tyranny of peace absolute. Peace does not exist alone. Peace is not the absence of violence, but the enforcement of order, the separation of destruction from the patterns of this world. My Peace will be a crushing one. My Tyranny will be Heroism of the most unjust quality. I will make a different world, but my battle then cannot be against you, miserable, wretched slave of my true foe.”

Adam rose higher, and Shiv followed, prepared to catch him before he could fall. The Paragon's wings were flickering. His mind and soul felt like they were on the verge of collapse even now, but he held himself through, and his integrity grew ever more solid as Shiv drew closer to support him. Then it became nigh unbreakable as his father followed suit, carrying Adam's other arm, while Uva bulwarked his mind, and the Culturist loomed only a step behind, staring cold hate into the face of his father and maker throughout.

“Up,” Adam said, his voice almost delirious. His movements and desires were possessed by something greater than himself. His voice sounded once more, and Shiv heard it. That divine, crushing quality was the accompaniment to his mists.

“Up,” the voice that swelled inside Adam echoed, but it wasn't Adam, not entirely. Something overtook him, and he became less god and more vessel for something older, ancient, antediluvian.

Roland and Shiv found themselves at an impasse. The Deathless and the Dread Horizon shared a look, but it was Shiv who broke that moment, that hesitation. "Up," he agreed. He didn't want to deny Adam this, even if something else had usurped him from within. If there was something wrong with Adam, they would deal with that on the other side instead of revealing such weakness before the Challenger.

And so they rose higher, and so juxtaposition came into form. Roland and Shiv held Adam aloft, and their bodies were enshrouded in the backdrop of blinding, divine light. The System then answered, bestowing something upon Adam, fueling him with more power, and his divinity only grew. His flames burned brighter, spilling out from him, turning blue, going from blinding to searing as the influence of the Challenger was pushed back. The Challenger himself burned, as did his realm. His body was seared as the sin inside of him was kindled before the presence of tyrannical heroism. For the first time, the Challenger took a step back, surrendering his approach as he retreated, but not because he was truly wounded.

The burns he suffered were paltry, indeed, but it seemed that he recognized what was taking shape here and wanted to play along, if only to imbue the Paragon with greater power. Shiv had read things from the Challenger's face: that look of religiosity, the same kind of holy euphoria the faithful expressed when bearing witness to the descent of their own god or the coming of a saint. It lasted for a flicker before it was replaced by a dark and lustful satisfaction. The orc gave two more steps, retreating up those lightning-scarred slabs lining the fabric of reality as Adam's light grew brighter, as his divinity grew truer.

The crown upon his head, flaming and bright, lost the last luster of its incandescence as it hardened into a thin band of azure radiance. Shiv struggled to interpret the implications of such a thing, but it stood in juxtaposition as well. The contrast between Adam losing his personal glow, yet his glow returning around his skull, manifesting as that twin to the Crown of the Anti-Savior he'd just cast back, couldn't be denied. The significance was great and confusing to Shiv. He couldn't process why this was the case, or what the System was trying to express.

Elevating his confusion ever more was Uva's whispered warning that snaked into his skull: "The Crown of the Anti-Savior is dissolving!" True to her words, Shiv watched as the crown of torment the Challenger had forced upon Adam broke apart into parting particles of ash within the orc god’s grasp, devoured by the System. And it wasn’t even of the Challenger's will, for his face betrayed a look of genuine shock.

As it dissolved, a new shape formed around Adam’s head: a crown wreathed of his own nature, lit by his own glory, beyond his Divinity, and also the bedrock to it. From it flowed the streams of fire, for at its center was an eye that burned bright, a perfect replica of the glaring star of omniscience that he now manifested in the sky above. That eye pressed deep into the center of his skull until it submerged itself into his flesh and bone without pain. The integration was perfect and harmonious, yet still against Adam's volition.

A hollow laugh escaped the Paragon. He turned to Shiv, his neck almost unable to support the weight of his head. “It marked me, even now. It awarded me a purified version of the crown he forced on me.” The Paragon's laughter became something that was almost akin to a sob. “Take it off from me. I don't want it. I don't want any of the System's gifts. I don't want to be stained by the story it forces on me anymore. It's not my legend. None of this is my legend. None of this is our legend. We all exist as threads it weaves, but in these threads it pushes upon us. For all her power, Evanescia is just that which resides below. This is what it is above. I think I realized what Silence was trying to do now. I think I see it…”

The delirium that ruled Adam was clear, but so too was something else. He had glimpsed a truth that eluded all others. The Harbinger felt it, and thus did Shiv. The Deathless acted not as Adam's champion, but as his friend, as he reached out. Yet even as he pressed his fingertips against the crown, now purified and stained with Adam's essence, he found he couldn't pull it away. It was rooted as deep and true as the Crown of the Anti-Savior had been. Though this bestowal gave Adam power and enhanced his Divinity, though it was something that seemed beneficial on the surface, just suffering its presence upon himself filled him with palpable anguish.

“The System taunts Adam. The System taunts us.” The Harbinger's words were hoarse and hollow, and Shiv's actions proved fruitless as the crown refused the persuasion of both Adam’s will and Shiv's strength.

“I see, then. What a joyless, wretched struggle you've chosen for yourself. What a hopeless, fatalistic scripture you are writing, O God of Heroic Tyranny.” For the first time, the Challenger sounded genuinely sympathetic, and the remorse radiating from his person was deep and true. "I will weep for you someday, perhaps. I see this now is not a struggle against me, but everything that is, even yourself. You see me as an expression of the System. How can I say you are wrong? To reject everything and all of this, to reject the very cradle of existence you were spawned in… What a path of fated tragedy. But so be it. That ambition is most respectable, though it might see you struck down far earlier than my liking. Still, I pray to you, O Paragon: Continue defying the world that is for the world you wish it to be.”

