The flashing lights and shockwaves of impacts become faster and faster; melting away all of this Demon's protective armor, and its dignity with it as tens of millions watch.

Andras tries to fight back, but the overpowered blows of this human are too strong and fast to block or even see coming.

He relies on instincts alone to survive for the few remaining seconds he believes he has but yells out with rage.

"The Vermillion Family will curse you all. You have no idea what you have done, lower lifeforms. The Royal Family head will show you true despair. If you dare kill me, you shall all soon wish you died here with me today once you understand your new fate."

Ember flies through the air with even faster speed and kicks the Demon in the back of the leg.

Andras falls to his knees as Ember yells back.

"A Noble Demon has admitted his defeat? You cannot stand your ground against a human and three 1st-Class Lords? What a shame, the Demons have grown quite weak..."

The entire central building starts to rumble at these words, and Ember uses both hands to create a white fireball and send it flying toward the kneeling Demon's chest.

It tries to block with crossed hands, but the force of the attack shatters his battered bones, setting his hands into a white fiery mess in the air while the remainder of the attack hits his chest and sends the Demon flying backward to the floor.

Lightning bolts and bloodstone rain down from the air, pinning the defeated Demon to the green dueling room floor.

A High Orc and a Blue Ogre land beside the Demon with thuds, pressing their axe and club down onto the Demon's shoulders; making their hot ether burn against the Demon's face.

Zashen lands with a thud between the Demon's legs and stabs both of his red glowing blades into his thighs, shattering the last remaining pieces of armor left on this Noble, and a weak cry escapes the Demon's lips.

Ember floats above with his arms crossed, counting down the milliseconds left before the end.

The entire central tower shakes more and more; and that, in turn, makes the live broadcast vibrate too.

Yet, no one inside the dueling room is the root cause of the shaking.

When it looks like the four Warlords are about to kill this Noble Demon and directly challenge the Five Great Families, something not a single Lord on the Citadel could have predicted happens.

The floor of the dueling room cracks open, and a massive purple and black soul sword with an eye on its base plunges upward through the Noble Demon's chest.
