“Is that why you brought these... these friends of yours?” Confusion and concern warred on the old man's face, his eyes flickering between Gen and Laughing Dragon. “Thank you so much for bringing him back Great One. A thousand praises aren't enough, he means everything to us.” Turning back to Gen, he stood and backed away, motioning for Gen to follow. “Don't you worry my boy, Baledagh is gone, he left yesterday, headed north to find his people. Your friends will catch up easily, they're riding a pair of work horses, no good for riding. Drove that bastard away I did, put my foot down and told him to leave. Qing-Qing left with him, we don't need no black-starred jinx staying with us, only put up with that little vixen because of her father, but that's all i-”

Hearing Baledagh was gone, Gen grabbed the old man by the throat, snarling with rage. “Your son disappears and you ask him to leave?” It must have been difficult, you couldn't have done anything if he refused. “You sniveling coward, if you thought him responsible why did you not take action?” It's not your fault papa, I know you had to think of the others, protecting them, putting their interests first. “I suppose you packed his supplies and gave him my old clothes too, sending him off with a smile and a wave. Did you send your wife to fuck him before he left, or did you suck his cock yourself? You disgust me.” I don't mean it Papa, I don't know why I'm saying these horrible things.

Trapped within his mind, his body moved of its own accord, as if watching through the eyes of a stranger, striking his Pa in the mouth. Blood dribbled down his chin as he stared at Gen, shock and disbelief etched on his face, and Gen stared back, screaming for his body to leave Pa alone. Why didn't Pa fight back? Why didn't he defend himself? A second blow landed with a crack, Pa's hands rising to protect himself, but it was too late as a third blow followed, throwing him to the ground. Gen felt his face stretching in a grin as he stepped on Pa's throat, Gen begging and pleaded for this nightmare to end.

His voice went unheard and he watched helplessly as Pa's face turn purple, clawing at Gen's ankle, desperate for air. His mother's heartrending wails tore a hole in his chest, the light fading from Pa's eyes as Gen stared down at him with a look of disgust and revulsion. Despair overwhelmed him and he shut it out, the void closing in around him, rejecting the world and everything within it. This was just a nightmare, nothing more. He was in bed, recovering from his beating, and soon, he'd wake and all would be well. Pa will pat him on the shoulder and Ma will make him some food, and when he recovered, he'd go hunting with Kash and ask Bei to marry him. He'd father several children, at least one boy and girl, raising them with the help of his parents and become a pillar of the community, the next village chief, decades from now. That was his life, not this horrible illusion.

Not this.

Never this.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ah, finally, that annoying little voice was gone. The old man died slowly, his body going limp and Gen continued to press down, whistling a catchy little tune that Qing-Qing always used to sing while working. A shame she'd left, but only a day ahead, he'd find them easily. Licking the blood from his knuckles, he turned away from the body and looked over the rest of the villagers, basking in their fear and veneration, their terror a delicious nectar ruined only by some woman's incessant howling. “Quiet. I will now speak.”

A minion pummeled the woman into silence as Gen paced about the villagers, enjoying his moment of triumph. The sweet, clean air, the sun shining upon his face, this was freedom, unfettered, unshackled, true power to do whatever he pleased. Might makes right, and he would be the mightiest of them all. “You all recognize me and I'm sure you're all thinking the same thing: How did Gen become so strong?” Picking Bei out from the crowd, he wrenched her from her father's grasp, kicking the old man away. A sliver of natural energy within her, she was barely worth cultivating if not for her beauty and his curiosity. “Well, through trials and tribulations. I overcame my sorrow, my despair, my defeat, and I rose up, stronger than ever. I am not a petty man, so I offer you all the same chance.” Smiling at the Firebrands, nodded. “My friends here have graciously offered to supply the sorrow and despair. Accept the energy of the world, give in to your base nature, throw away the lies of Balance. Those who survive will be reborn, and I look forward to meeting you.”

Laughing madly, he dragged away the struggling Bei while listening to the screams behind him, a day of fun and experimentation ahead of them, learning how to strengthen the energy within her. After that, he'd hunt down Baledagh and Qing-Qing, killing the bastard and turning her to his side. A wonderful day, his future was bright and limitless.

Chapter Meme
