“In a battle of ideas, only the one whose believers thrive in the end is proven correct. So far, my model has triumphed over internal turmoils and hostile threats so… we will see if it will hold. So far it has. As for the hypocrisy to denounce, a philosopher from my world named Popper already solved that paradox long ago. In order to remain tolerant, a society must retain the right not to tolerate intolerance. This is not hypocrisy, it’s a prerequisite.”

“I find that… naive,” the ambassador replied with clear annoyance.

By then, his aunt just sat there with her eyes closed in apparent meditation. Viv thought it would take at least that not to strangle her nephew if she were in her shoes.

“You wouldn’t be the first,” Viv allowed. “But when that naivete comes at the tip of Harrakan steel, you will find that it suddenly acquires a certain… momentum.”

“At the very least, we request that you stop delivering iron to the Kark clans. One of your lieutenants has disrupted our forces and brought gear to rebels who attack our citizens on their farms.”

He didn’t know Viv was helping Marruk with guerilla warfare tactics. Oh, that would sting.

“I fear those are private citizens exporting legally accepted quantities of iron.”

“Be careful,” the ambassador replied. “We may consider your… abandonment of humanity’s interest as an act of war.”

The ambassador shifted towards the waiting Dark Blade in a way that hinted that punishment would not come as an unlikely expeditionary force but as a knife in the dark. From the way all three Lutenese found sudden interest in Solfis, the golem had moved as well. Just enough to remind them he was the industrial harvester to their daggers.

“As you prefer,” Viv replied with a smile. “Our young hadals need some stimulation. And I believe this concludes our discussion, now that our respective positions have been made clear. I bid you good day.”

Viv made to leave and nobody stopped her. It was only when they’d returned to the street and her guards had gathered around her like worker bees around their queen that she turned to Sidjin, who still looked a little sour.

“You ok there darling?”

“Pay me no mind. His words only remind me of the justification I was offered for the near extinction of the merl. I understand that it would have been rude to refuse his invitation but in the future, I would prefer it if we simply did not interact with the Pure League. I cannot make demands of you, of course. I am merely stating that the course you follow and the Pure League’s values are fundamentally incompatible, and that by entertaining their requests, you do not show respect to the countless people they have hurt. Including Marruk.”

Viv considered his words. Maybe it was like talking to a mad dictator as a leader of a nation whose people had suffered at his hand. Was it right? Or was it just being realistic about what an international community was? She didn’t know. It was… a complicated issue. At least, now it was over with and she and the Pure League assholes could return to ignoring each other. In fact, she would do one better.

No portals for the cunts.

That would show them.

//Will we visit the Zazas embassy right away?

“I think everyone here needs a small break.”

It wasn’t entirely true. High mentals stats meant that she and Sidjin could spend the day in animated negotiations and still be fine, but the fallen prince was shaking very lightly. She couldn’t forget what he had been through. His resilience meant he could function but there were buried wounds that only time would heal. Stats could only carry him so far. In a way, it was a miracle he was even well.

They had a walk in a nearby park under the cautious gaze of employees on break. Viv bought fresh fruit crepes from a rather intimidated seller, which the couple ate near the fountain. There were fishes in there!

When Sidjin felt fine enough, he squeezed Viv’s hand. The two didn’t speak on their way to the Zazas embassy. There was no need.

While Luten had felt lived in, the Zazas embassy was clearly borrowed and also clearly very recently moved in. Servants hastily swept the ground of fallen leaves while others attached pennants or moved furniture even as Viv was led through the various rooms by an older northern woman with a strong no-nonsense aura.

“Please forgive the mess, we’ve only just arrived. Will you be having tea?”

Guards patrolled the grounds. Most wore light armor with short swords and javelins resting on their backs. Some of those were enchanted in the same way the witchpacts infused theirs.

“That would be lovely, yes.”

“Oh we have infusions from Vizim that will enchant your taste buds. Not literally, of course, we wouldn’t want that. Came with a shipment for the Golden Order’s paladin. Ah, here we are, dear. Go in and I will get you your drinks in a minute.”

Viv ignored the fact the butler had just called an abyssal-eyed elemental archmage of destruction ‘dear’ and just accepted in her heart that there were some people she would never impress, just like there were people who would pet giant psychic space squids if only the squids would let them. The receiving room was by far the coziest place in the small palace. Carpets and lush pillows gave it a cluttered yet welcoming aura while the sun bathed the place from a skylight. The most curious effect came from an enchanted lantern that filled the air with a fresh iodized scent, giving Viv the feeling she could take ten steps out and end up on a beach. A couple waited for her expectantly, without guard. Solfis took a look at the room then stayed at the door unprompted which Viv took as a good sign. She studied them as she and Sidjin sat.

They were middle-aged northerners in elaborate if humble clothes. The man wore a short beard well, a white streak showing where a scar crossed his left cheek. The woman was heavyset with the muscles of a gardener, or at least someone who was active. They both seemed nervous.

“Thank you for coming, Empress Viviane of Harrak. I am Mal, the Headsman of Zazas. This is Shan, my wife. Together, we rule the city by mandate of the elders. I suppose you have an inkling as to why we wanted to meet?”

“Thank you for having me and I assume it concerns portals?”

“Yes, absolutely. We believe portals will revolutionize the way our continent does business. We would like to start by asking if you would be inclined to expand to the northern states?”

“Well, yes, mostly, but not all of them. I am persona non grata in Helock. I also have Kark guests as well as yries and hadal citizens so the Pure League is out.  Zazas is not an issue.”

“That is good,” Mal continued. “We have prepared terms if you would agree to operate on our land. Shan?”

“Here they are,” the woman said, taking a bound contract from under the table.

The butler came in with tea while Viv was reading. The lady had been right. Her tea was fantastic. It also allowed Viv to hide her surprise. The Zazas couple’s terms were almost indecent. She would get seventy percent of the tariff as pure untaxed cash deposited in a Manipeleso Bank account along with a standing office for auditors to make sure everything remained kosher, a complement of guards, the possibility to restrict certain categories of goods… Harrakans were even exempt from taxes which was a condition no one ever accepted. Zazas wouldn’t even forbid the passage of Harrakan troops, provided they were notified of the final destination in advance.

“Those are very generous terms,” Viv finally said after Sidjin was done reading as well. “Let me be blunt. What’s the catch?”

“We would agree to those terms against an exclusivity access to all of the northern territories from Luten to Helock.”

Viv considered the offer. Portals were going to be the next revolution. At the same time, the most lucrative trade happened between the northern territories and overseas lands, especially Vizim. If Zazas became the central hub of all that trade… she had to make sure.

“You want all trade towards Enoria and Baran to go through you.”

Shan nodded, pulling a map from under the table.

“Yes. Right now, the Shal river makes transport from north to south complicated. There are no bridges to speak of because the river is either too wide or its shores too marshy, or too remote to make it feasible. Transport by boat remains an option, however it is one limited by the existence of waterways. Should we have access to the Baranese and Enorian network and build from there, we would suddenly become the center of trade… on the continent,” Shal concluded.

“And our damn harbor would finally see some ships,” Mal said.

“We have rebuilt piers but Zazas is small and ships have spurned us in favor of other cities,” Mal grumbled.

Shan paled a little. Viv understood the situation. Public projects cost a lot of money and this one hadn’t panned out. The headsman was in hot water. They were probably desperate.

“Suddenly becoming the center of trade will attract a lot of attention, most of it hostile. Shipping guilds and other cities will definitely resent you for it,” Viv mentioned, letting the couple fill in the blanks.

“The Golden Order keeps a standing garrison on our land, as it is their ancestral home. They are bound to defend us by oath,” Mal mentioned.

“Will you give us a moment?” Shan asked.

Viv made to leave but the couple placated her with apologies and wide gestures. They had a private corner with a sound enchantment. It took them only a minute to come to a conclusion, after which they returned while Viv was helping herself to another cup.

“We understand your security concerns and we would be willing to compensate you for having a, shall we say, security detail move on while you complete the network,” Mal conceded, though he was clearly hesitating.

“After that, we should quickly get enough funds to hire mercenaries. We have contacts with a few free companies. Our… own army helps with foreign conflicts, sometimes.”

That was usually a sign of a lack of funds. Viv also noticed that Zazas didn’t offer any sort of advance payment, which made sense given the generous terms.

“Will your elders agree to a foreign army camping on your grounds?”

“If you accept our terms, they will help us build your barracks themselves,” Shan replied.

“Though they will no doubt whine about it.”

Sidjin nudged Viv, a sign he wanted to speak. Viv just nudged back. The fallen prince was really concerned about upstaging her even though Viv assured him her ego could take a few interruptions.

“This is an extremely ambitious project for you. A military invasion is only one of the many threats posed by your neighbors. They could collectively boycott you. They could try to have you replaced by your elders to cancel the contract. They could even have you assassinated.”

“They can do all of that right now,” Shan retorted. “At some point we have to take a risk. Our contract is generous because you will take that risk with us, only if it falls through, you will have wasted time while we will be dead.”

“My wife is correct. We know this will be risky, but one must take risks if one wants to achieve anything of note.”

Mal looked at her pointedly. He wasn’t wrong.

“I have additional conditions,” Viv said, eliciting a double nod.

“The trade of slaves cannot be conducted using my portals. You will enforce this rule with rigor so no ‘groups of indentured employees’ wandering around while guards make sure they don’t complain. I will be drastic.”

Mal gestured for her to continue.

“I will not install portals near cities that belong or support the Pure League.”

“What about Helock?” Shan asked after a moment of consideration.

Viv waved her concerns away.

“My trouble with Helock started and ended with Elunath. What happened afterward was a consequence of that. Let’s just say someone made it personal but, in the end, I hold no real grudge towards that city. I am more than willing to let bygones be bygones for the sake of our nations. My issue with the Pure League is systemic. I am building a community of species while they want to exterminate and replace them. We cannot come to an agreement.”

“What if the Pure League uses proxy companies to conduct their businesses via other cities?”

“Then they lose money on tariffs, logistics, and overhead costs. Look, I am not expecting you to conduct a continental embargo, let’s be realistic. I only want them not to benefit from my network. I won’t be building one near them anyway.”

“Those conditions are acceptable,” Mal said after a few quick exchanges.

“You also need to be aware that I would have to build up the network towards you first.”

“We understand just as we are confident the Enorian and Baranese lords will be more than happy to welcome portals on their lands.”

They were right. Viv had no doubt some cautious rulers would be terrified of having a foreign artifact of their land but most would know they could not pass up such an opportunity.

“Very well. I believe we have an agreement. Please add the conditions I asked for then send it to my palace.”

Viv stayed for some small talk. Mal and Shan left a good impression on her but she thought they were a bit in over their heads. Only time would tell if they were fools or geniuses. At the very least they knew how to take the initiative.

Considering Viv could pull out of the contract without penalty, she was confident in the terms she’d been offered. Now it was only a question of making sure things would go smoothly. Her continued presence in the northern territories wouldn’t be without risk.

Maybe she could link the Kark Steppes to the portal. That would be… interesting.

