After leaving the Zazas embassy, Sidjin guided Viv to a restaurant that specialized in seafood, most shipped from the north in enchanted containers. It was the first time Viv had  had some since leaving Helock and she enjoyed the expertly prepared dishes with gusto. Nyil might not have the variety of ingredients Earth could afford, but magically enhanced skills more than made up for that. Sangor surprised Viv by inviting her for afternoon tea which she agreed on, then the Harrakans made their way back towards the Grand Avenue. This time, Sidjin picked a path that went through the district dedicated to Enttiku. It was a much calmer and more contemplative place filled with stone courtyards and intimate alcoves. The Death Goddess (or god but Viv preferred goddess) occupied a smaller share of the city which actually fit her. Enttiku was a humble deity, one that didn’t advertise its existence for there was no need. Death came to everyone and when it did, she would be there to accompany them.

Returning to the Grand Avenue was almost a shock. From dim and quiet, the Harrakans stepped into the busy light of Mornyr’s main artery. The palaces here were not rented dwellings but ancient holds bearing the statues of heroes of the past. Flags flew on long poles while the pillars supporting various walls proudly displayed symbols and insignias. It was easy for Viv to find the Enorian palace as it remained fastuous with many forest-related symbols as the old kingdom used to be proud of its proximity to the Deadshield Woods. Although it probably had a different name back in the days. The guards gave her a princely welcome then the two security details were left aggressively glaring at each other while a couple of aides led Viv deeper into the complex.

Sangor really didn’t look happy to see her again. He only had one other person with him which prompted Solfis to stay at the door once again. The golem looked smug for some reason.

“Hello again, Lady Viviane. This is Archmage Arno, a councilor of the late king.”

Viv was a little surprised that Sangor would trust a mage who was on the other side of the civil conflict. Armo himself looked old and pretty much like what she expected from a fantasy wizard complete with a long, white bushy beard and a somewhat wild hairstyle. The robes he wore clung to his skeletal form in an ill-fitting way. Red and brown mana swirled around him in controlled waves though he also shared a light transparent sheen to his aura that marked him as a colorless specialist. All in all, he was a powerful mage, Viv judged, and also one who had kept practicing over the years.

“Nice to meet you, Archmage Arno. This is Sidjin, previously of Glastia, my advisor and paramour. How is Yrlin of the Thorns?”

“At home in Losserec. We are expecting the birth any day now, and I was told in the latest message that she felt an urge to stockpile food. You can imagine I am waiting for the next letter with… a certain degree of impatience.”

“Yes. I will be brief then. I would like your authorization to expand the portal network across your land, more specifically to the north.”

“According to the same terms?”

“Yes.”

Sangor waved his hand.

“You have it, though you will have to treat with each lord independently. Have the Baranese received a similar offer?”

“No, but they will.”

“I understand.”

“There was another matter but…”

Viv pointedly looked at the archmage.

Sangor leaned forward, resting his head in his hands. He sighed heavily. Viv could almost taste the intensity of his stress.

“You can trust Arno. He was my son Gil’s tutor once upon a time, before I sent him here for his own safety. Neriad’s balls, I should have punched myself in the cock that day.”

“Now now, no need for self-flagellation,” Arno said.

He had a warm voice, a little tired. His gaze fixed Viv without passion.

“I toured my nation back in those days in the vain hope of promoting a peaceful reunification. My attempt was… not successful.”

“He was sidelined and almost banished for treason,” Sangor added.

“Yes. In any case, the safety of Prince Gil is now my priority. We cannot possibly have our heir used as a hostage for much longer if we want to retain our sovereignty. As my liege confirmed during your last VERY careless meeting—”

“It was necessary, Arno.”

“— he is willing to sign a defensive alliance with you should you recover the heir.”

“And distance yourself from the church, I suppose?”

“Officially no,” Armo replied.

“Unofficially I’m punching Bishop Reno in the groin the next time I see him.”

VIv thought Sangor must be in a terrible mood or he wouldn’t be so fixated on genitals.

“This is already agreeable, provided, of course, that you help me in the liberation attempt.”

The king glared though Viv had been glared at by a half a millennium old genocidal war machine and remained unfazed as a result.

“Surely you do not expect me to violate the truce of this place while you stay cozy in your palace awaiting good news, do you not?”

“If you fail, the temple will not believe in my innocence.”

“Which doesn’t mean it will overtly act against you. I will not be bearing all the risk. You will be part of the rescue from the beginning to the end, if only because your son Gil has no reason to trust me.”

“You would attempt the rescue yourself?”

“Do you know of many ward-defusing shadow magic specialists around?”

“No, I just, your path is not that of the infiltrator.”

“Indeed not.”

“It’s mine,” a raspy voice said.

Sangor jumped. Arno activated a shield, briefly, though he lowered it soon enough. Viv merely smirked. Where there was nothing, now a bald man with slitted yellow eyes stood wearing black armor.

“This is Irao, first of the Hadals.”

“I… have never heard of him.”

“That’s how good he is.”

The two Enorians grudgingly conceded the point.

“He will be in charge of the infiltration plan. As for the extraction proper and the diversion, I have an idea.”

“Do tell.”

“How do you feel about a masquerade?”

Sangor listened while Viv exposed her plan, Sidjin adding details here and there. Arno suggested spells and methods that would help various steps and Viv had to admit he was committed and thorough. Eventually, the meeting broke off since everyone had some preparations to make and methods to test before they could reconvene. Viv left the place satisfied, however to her surprise, Solfis asked for a short conversation with the king.

“Just a conversation?”

//Just that.

//I know better than to attack a foreign sovereign in the context of a diplomatic mission.

“Oh, very well then.”

***

Sangor was surprised to see the golem slink in. Arno was just finishing a glass of brandy, and he almost choked on it when the deadly construct closed the door behind him.

Sangor felt like a trapped mouse.

//You are dealing with my dear little heiress.

//She is a treat, is she not?

//Guided by loyalty and a desire to act.

//To improve her life and that of others.

//It is by this loyalty and kindness that I survived the extinction of Harrak and the last of my reserves.

//It also means, tragically, that she can be a little naive at times.

//I do not share that weakness.

//I do, however, share her sense of loyalty.

//My loyalty is born from desire as much as it is hard-coded in my very soul.

//Even the gods themselves could not break it.

//I am not kind.

//I see several ways you could benefit from her fall.

//Not least by denouncing her in advance.

//It could be very profitable for you under certain circumstances.

//Or so you might think.

//I am here to divest you of those illusions.

//If it so happens that my mistress loses her life because you found her demise convenient.

//I want you to remember that I have no limits except my energy reserves.

//And those, I have ways to replenish.

//I never tire.

//I never doubt.

//I never hesitate.

//I do not know impatience.

//I do, however, know how to kill kings.

//I have done that for three centuries.

//If she falls.

//I will find a path to you.

//And I will kill you.

//And when I am done, I shall look back at the mountain of corpses in my wake.

//And the only thing I will feel.

//Will be the satisfaction of a job well done.

“I have been threatened by worse, machine,” Sangor replied, surprised by the sudden turn of events. It was now clear the golem was not just fully independent. It also had an agenda of its own.

The royal aura expanded but it failed against the unyielding rock of Solfis’ presence. The king’s eyes focused on the one who had dared to threaten him and once the inspection skill returned its payload, he faltered.

Slowly, the golem bent forward until their heads were level. Sangor stared into the baleful abyss of Solfis’ yellow glare and inside he found nothing but shackled hatred begging for release.

//NO.

//YOU HAVE NOT.
