Mornyr made Viv nostalgic of Europe. It was, perhaps, the closest equivalent of a tourist spot Param had both in the variety of its people and the extravagance of its constructions. It was not lived in, or developed, but rather frozen in time by common agreement between its people to serve as a beacon of peace and unity. The Harrakan convoy walked the busy road leading to the main gate unimpeded, then they joined the ‘priority queue’, the one that crossed the main opening towards the Grand Avenue rather than the more humble lower streets. The perfume of oil and fruit wafted over the many carriages come to carry their wares, and more than a few commoners bowed at her passage.

Guards in the uniforms of various faiths welcomed the members of the alliance. The Harrakans arrived just in time to see the end of a northerner delegation make their way in before they were greeted in turn. The person who walked to Viv was a smooth priest with curly hair dyed golden at the ends which gave him an angelic aura. Unfortunately, he was a priest of Maranor, yet despite Viv’s misgivings, he didn’t seem fazed by her presence.

“Welcome, Viviane, Empress of Harrak.”

She gave him a surprised smile. Although this was her official title, few wanted to call her that, if only because two thirds of Param still remembered when their nations had to bend the knee to someone bearing that title.

“We always call sovereigns by their chosen name. Welcome to Mornyr, Your Majesty. Your manor has been prepared. Ser Berol will guide you there. Please enjoy the summit.”

The Harrakans walked on in perfect order past low buildings of gray, pink, and white stone. The Grand Avenue was home to offices of some of the greatest guilds of the continent. Merchant families and banks fought for the limited number of houses fitting inside of the walls. Here, space was finite and at a premium yet the sheer wealth of the residents made every house a luxurious, cozy space. Sellers hawked their wares at inflated prices and Viv winced. They would be staying here for about ten days. Each nation was responsible for their own expenses, obviously, so the entire endeavor would cost her as much as two refurbished workshops but… she needed those alliances. Fast.

The convoy left the Grand Avenue shortly before the permanent embassies hosting the great nations. Solfis wistfully glanced at the ziggurat, Old Harrak’s previous dwelling, now the house of the Mornyr’s civil government. He looked for all of two seconds which was an eternity for him. Probably dreaming of invading the impenetrable city at the head of a massive host just so he could reclaim their real estate.

The Harrakans moved through Sardanal’s district, which was also the richest one. Here, lavish palaces and bazaars competed to see which could be the most lavish. Viv walked past a restaurant where animated model ships carried dishes to various tables on a small river, each table decorated with replicas of famous Paramese palaces. They even had bonsai to complete the whole experience. There, a merchant sold every spice known to man, including those of Vizim and what was left of the shadowlands far beyond the sea. A horse merchant sold mounts taken directly from a fairy tale’s cover, so white and dazzling they were. Viv enjoyed the walk as Sidjin whispered in her ear.

“There is a bordello here that specializes in group events and theater plays. You can walk through three stories watching naked recreations of battles, only the actors spar with their—”

“I got the idea, and uh, ok that sounds really interesting.”

“I knew you would appreciate the suggestion. I do not believe you mentioned having this back on earth?”

“Nope. Or at least not that I knew of, who knows with really rich folks. I want to ask, though, is this really wise in the City of the Gods?”

“Sardanal is the patron god of fertility. You know how babies are made, do you not darling?”

“Ha ha.”

//That place you mentioned, with theater and three floors.

//Is it in the north east quadrant of the district?

“It is! Have you been there before?”

//No, Princeling.

//I am not a herald of fertility.

//But I have good news.

Probably meant the place was connected to the sewers. Viv filed the knowledge for later. A fanfare band marked the spot where they would turn into the Little Court, the place where minor nations with no permanent dwellings were hosted. Their guide Ser Beral led them to a stern stone construction of ancient design with a pretty decent inner courtyard. The subsequent visit was cut short by Viv.

“Where is the ward room?”

“I assure you, Your Majesty, we have refreshed and examined them prior to your arrival!”

“Thank you, great, now where is it?”

“... this way please.”

It was fortunate that Viv had made an arrangement with the Manipeleso Bank and Exchange because the palace came with no food, no drinks, and no linens. Viv missed high end hotels, like the privileged person she was.

“You could just call room service and they’d bring you food on a platter.”

“You can do that in any palace.”

“Only if it’s your palace.”

Soon, everyone busied themselves settling down. The support staff brought their plans and documents while the soldiers set up a barracks, an armory, and determined their patrols. Solfis inspected the roof for anomalies while Sidjin and Viv turned the place into a death trap for anyone foolish enough to want to test a duo of known mass killers. Everyone prepared their own quarters and made their own bed, even Viv. After that, it was time to move.

Viv had two days before the summit’s official start. It was a well-known fact that most diplomatic decisions were made behind closed doors long before a conference started. She first requested a meeting with Sangor, then another with the King of Baran though he hadn’t arrived yet. Two letters from a minor northern city came soon requesting her presence.

“It probably relates to portals,” Viv mused.

The northern cities were smelling a profit now that the east-to-west network was operational across Enoria and Baran. Viv’s witch gates were also not subject to Sidjin’s exclusivity contract. Viv was half-expecting to be pressured on the matter since Sidjin was her paramour. It didn’t take a genius to figure out that if you restrict technology and the inventor’s partner ‘fortunately’ comes across the same invention, a breach of contract was likely. The only thing holding them back was that no mage could possibly look at the two constructs and think they were in any way related. Hell, they were not even from the same branch of magic.

That wouldn’t stop the most determined people. She was still waiting for the other shoe to drop.

“We will accept both invitations, possibly have lunch in their embassies and then meet Sangor at night if he agrees. He’d better.”

//That will be a tight schedule.

“Perhaps not. I tend to be decisive.”

//That is true, Your Majesty.

//Should I come as well?

“Why would I deprive myself of my bodyguard and walking database?”

//I could take offense to such terms.

Viv finished her preparations. One of the keys of negotiations was to prioritize what you were looking to get out of them, but said priorities varied from interlocutor to interlocutor. One could not expect cash from Glastia, or horses from Helock. Many cities had their strengths and weaknesses. The first visit would be to Luten, the larger of the two at the edge of the Kark steppes. It was the richest and most powerful city in the area, but they’d been on the decline following a slump in their expansion westward. It was also the home of the Manipeleso Bank and Exchange’s main branch, which meant Viv couldn’t ignore them, though she had a strong opinion about what was functionally the center of the Pure League. The second city, Zazas, was more of a mystery. Sitting in a prime harbor location of the northern sea, they were known for fishery, oil production, and not much else economically. The Golden Order made its home there, though that didn’t mean much since the female-only warriors of Enttiku remained fiercely independent.

They had pretty good javelin throwers.

That was it.

“Not the best prizes.”

“They came to us, Your Majesty,” one of her aides said. “It makes a massive difference.”

“We have confirmed the presence of observers in the street. It will be known that two cities contacted you immediately,” another said. “Your legitimacy is only improved by their attention.”

“Have two runners send positive replies while I get changed.”

Clothes were almost as important as arguments. First impressions were always hard to dispel and what Viv wore would send a signal, telling the world and its many skilled individuals what message she intended to convey. Her visit dress was long and cut in the fashion of Old Harrak which made it somewhere between a toga and the sort of pauldrons-equipped cloth armor common in fantasy. For colors, she had picked the same black and white as her flag, the same coloration used in the uniforms of the revived Harrakan military. The entire outfit was tastefully sober, though quality bled through in the careful, expert embroidery visible only from up close. A silver circlet inlaid with a gem completed the appearance of a warrior queen, and her anchors would remind anyone of her favorite weapon. It was not a road-worthy outfit but instead a regal one; clothing meant to pay tribute to appearances. It belonged to a settled sovereign as confident in her might as she was in her craftsmen, and most importantly, it came with pockets.

Viv liked it a lot.

She walked out with Sidjin and Solfis in tow. The knights opened the way, led by a grim Rollo while a much grimmer Ban closed the march, aggressively glaring at anyone who dared even look at him. The Luten embassy stood on the same street as Viv’s own as another part of the Small Court, so it was only a matter of minutes to reach their gate on foot. Viv was received without delay in a cool patio with an inner fountain. Tea and biscuits awaited her delegation. The ambassador was an august man with a long dark beard matched with a tiny old woman with an extremely elaborate hairdo. Meanwhile, a powerfully-built man stood at a distance, arms crossed. He was one of the rare people she met to have dreadlocks. Viv remembered she had seen his like in a Manipeleso bank branch a long while back. The guard was a Dark Blade; one of the northern cities’ trained killers. She supposed him being visible was a mark of respect.

Also she’d brought Solfis so she couldn’t complain.

Ambassador Feliserendi introduced himself and his companion, who happened to be his aunt, then the two groups made small talk for a few minutes. Feliserendi was a warm and engaging man with a lot of experience and plenty of exciting stories about his career as a diplomat. He was on his sixth assassination attempt which he wore as a badge of pride, though if Viv understood things correctly, he only survived the latest one because his would-be killer forgot venomous snakes actually needed to breathe air for extended periods of time. It struck her as disappointingly amateurish. After a while and a rather unsubtle exaltation of Luten’s many, many virtues, they got to the meat of the meeting just as Viv was getting to the meat platter.

“We would be interested in portals as part of our efforts to promote the spread and glory of mankind. Since times immemorial, Luten had stood at the forefront of the war for civilization. Our soldiers delve into the steppes just as they fight on the Glastian walls. There is no holier task than this.”

Viv didn’t react, which gave her a perfect view of the quiet aunt of the ambassador giving him a discreet kick with her foot under the table. The shift of her dress betrayed it. She was the more observant of the two.

But the ambassador paid her no heed as he freed Viv of her duty to balance Harrakan interests with her own preferences.

“I also wish to extend my government’s concerns about some of the species you have harbored in your nation. We, of course, understand that in times of need and urgency, compromises must be made in order to guarantee survival. We understand it better than most! What we do not understand is that you have integrated those species within the functioning of your… New Harrak. Surely, humans can mine iron as surely as Yries can?”

He chuckled. He was alone. Sidjin put his cup in the saucer with a light click, a sign Viv could interpret very well but that the ambassador remained oblivious to. As far as she could tell, his aunt had given up while the fire of conviction alone fuelled the ambassador’s words.

“You cannot trust the lesser species to express loyalty. At the first sign of difficulty they will desert you, and how could they not? We are simply not alike. I can hardly even blame them because they just obey their nature. We live in a world of spheres of influences, of cultures. Our northern ways focus on trade, individuality, and exploration among other virtues while the culture you are trying to revive is one of order, of strength and obedience. You can never truly retake the place the Old Empire held on the continent unless you embrace those values and make them your own. All those bleeding heart followers of Neriad who promote equality are nothing but hypocrites who pretend to accept all sets of values while wilfully expressing distaste for the Pure League. They are bound to fail. Don’t you think?”

“No, I do not,” Viv interrupted.

She had the feeling this would go on otherwise.

