When I came to, the matches had already ended. The winners of the following three rounds were Lian Shu, number one, Jiang Ji, number thirteen, and Hewi Badai, number eleven.

I didn’t know what happened at all, but I didn’t care to find out. Meng Mao would probably tell me anyway.

But since the matches ended, so did the day. It was barely evening, so there was still plenty of time until we had to rest.

Since I’d already meditated for quite a bit, I was feeling well rested, so I could explore the area for a little while.

I did question if we were allowed to do so, but I figured the outer sect was not all that limited. Although there wasn’t much to do either. Since I couldn’t see a lot of the inner sect, I was interested to see what it had to offer.

Maybe they would even have a shop I could use my wealth in. Considering I’d won the first bet on myself and any subsequent bets after, my treasury should be seeing a nice increase soon.

After the results of the first day were announced, the spectators left alongside everyone who wasn’t involved. The rest of us made our way toward the inner sect, though I was wondering what would happen to those that didn’t qualify. Well, it didn’t really matter in the end.

Passing back into the inner sect, I felt that presence scanning us again.

Do you really have to do that each and every damn time?

It was an automated system; I knew it didn’t have a will, but that didn’t make it any less annoying!

At least I was well hidden. But how did the other two bypass it? They seemed more than a little stupid. Were their skills and stats that advanced?

I would have loved to ask them, but I didn’t want to risk my identity getting exposed if one of them slipped. Plus, I would have plenty of opportunities to talk to others like me if I just waited a little.

For the moment, my main and most important focus was to get stronger and to qualify in this damned tournament. Although I was pretty sure I’d already done so. By my calculations, I was in the top eight… so I could just give up now and would still enter the secret realm.

But where was the fun in entering eighth when I could enter first?

That would also give me the best chance at getting the top prizes, whatever they were. They had to be good, since it was a realm for low-level cultivators; then it had to have breakthrough opportunities.

Now that we were in the inner sect, the elders left together for tea and allowed the rest of us to enjoy the rest of the day. Those who were eliminated completely had to follow the elders, since they were technically not in competition anymore.

Those of us that remained, though…

They were gone before I could even blink, but I could only shrug and went on my merry way. My first stop would be the shopping, or trading district, whatever the sect decided to name it.

Finding it wasn’t hard, as it was where the most rustle and bustle was. I wasn’t shy to spread out my divine sense either, so I just made a straight line there.

Many disciples were staring at me, either because of my strength or because my human appearance was stunning was hard to say. Maybe both.

I could not give less of a fuck, though.

My only interests were the shops that sold soil and other resources to break through into the Foundation Establishment stage.

First, I made a visit to the pill store. It was a rather large place, very different from the one I’d visited in the Myriad Market, though.

It looked and felt like a true shop where alchemists who hadn’t quite gotten their white hair frequented. The moment I entered, I could tell there were many imperfect pills, unlike mine.

Unfortunately, I couldn’t refine any pills that were meant for the Foundation Establishment stage, not being there myself.

Unfortunately, that was a rule that couldn’t be broken, even by the most prodigious of alchemists.

When I’d entered, I was hit by the wonderful smell of pills. The place was empty, strangely enough, safe for a bored clerk sitting at the stand.

He didn’t even bother to sit up when seeing me, at least not at first. He had to do a double take before finally deciding that it was worth treating me like I did actually exist and wasn’t just some ghost that opened the door.

“Hello, dear customer, how can I assist you today?”

I shot him a cold glare. I wasn’t interested in someone who couldn’t treat the average customer right. No wonder the place was empty.

“What do you have for breaking through into the Foundation Establishment stage?” I asked bluntly, and the man began to stammer as he grabbed a jade slip from his bag of holding and began looking through it.

“What are you looking for specifically?”

“Everything. Pills, materials, soil.”

“Ah, everything…. Just one second, please.”

He took more than a second to look for everything, but eventually got to that part. Raising his head, the man listed everything he had… Instead of giving me the jade slip so I could look through it.

I… was a little flabbergasted.

I did ask what he had, but that doesn’t mean…

Letting out an internal sigh, I took note of what he’d said.

There were plenty of materials to make some decent pills with. I would need quite a few, and I didn’t trust the alchemists anywhere around wherever I was to make good pills.

The most important ones would be the pills to cleanse my body after the breakthrough, and also ones to clean the marrow. Or maybe even improve it.

There were many more pills I could take to improve my body and cultivation after reaching Foundation Establishment, and I had to remember some of the ones that could be used to increase elemental affinities.

Maybe I could also create a Five-Colored Spirit Root using the seed… There were many possibilities.

In terms of pills, he only had the basic pills to break through, but none of them were of any particular quality, and even the ones he had to help in Qi Condensation were worthless to me.

As for the soil… Whatever he listed wasn’t anything even worth looking at.

No wonder nobody frequented this shop!

In the end, I could only buy out his material stock, but I had to haggle down to about seventy percent of the price.

He was reluctant at first, but after batting my eyelashes enough times, he was kind enough to give me a reduction, considering I was literally buying everything.

No doubt my huge Charisma stat had a considerable effect on that. Regardless, I walked out of that shop prepared for when I’d break through, but not for the moment of.

I was still lacking good soil.

Out of all the alchemical shops, though, it seemed like I’d picked the worst one to visit first.

The other ones, higher up the inner sect, had much better materials and pills, for higher prices, admittedly. It didn’t really matter though, since I could basically buy out everything required for Foundation Establishment.

Which I did, many times. One could never be too prepared.

There were no rare plants or anything of the sort, though, just basic ingredients I could use for pills and elixirs.

Unfortunately, none of the shops were all that good.

I’d also passed many weapon shops, but compared to the two swords I had, this sect was rather poor.

Making my way higher, the number of shops slowly dwindled, until there were only restaurants, bars, and even brothels left.

I couldn’t help but frown upon seeing the latter. Sullying the sanctity of a sect with such filth was unbecoming.

It wasn’t my call to make, though; I was sure the old man knew what he was doing.

Walking forward and making my way up, I’d stumbled upon a tower, a very tall pagoda. It was… Sitting in the middle of the road, and for the life of me, I couldn’t tell what it was.

There was no text, no indication, nothing. People walked in and out of it, and that was about it.

Walking closer, I could feel an eerie aura emitting from it. It had the same sort of feeling as the Qi emitted by those of the Reaper Sect.

I supposed it was fitting, but still, shouldn’t such buildings be a secret?

Without thinking too much about it, I made my way toward the entrance, then entered without hesitation.
