It was that tall Gnoll woman who’d warned her about Olesm! She, like many of her people, wasn’t wearing a full-body dress, but a kind of decorated breastband and waistcloth. It worked because, well, she was covered in fur.
A light mahogany color. Or…walnut? Erin wasn’t sure how many colors of brown she actually knew, but the fur covered the Gnoll from head-to-toe. Like the other Gnolls, she had a vaguely…hyena-shaped head? A mane of darker hair running down her neck, like Drakes had neck-spines, and her ‘fingers’ and ‘toes’ that Erin could see in her sandals were furry paws, although fully flexible.
She seemed well-known by a lot of the shoppers here and called out greetings to a few who passed. When she caught sight of Erin, the Gnoll woman sniffed.
Unlike the first time they’d met, the Gnoll [Shopkeeper] did not greet Erin or wave her over. She folded her arms and waited.
Erin winced inside, but there was nothing for it. She stepped closer and waved at the tall Gnoll.
“Um. Hi. Are you open for business?”
The Gnoll looked down at Erin. She wasn’t smiling.
“I am, and I see you’ve wrestled some coin out of Lism’s claws, that greedy hoarder. Good for you, Human. But if you are here to look down your nose again at my goods, I would prefer not to waste my time, no?”
She seemed offended, and Erin recalled that she’d run off straight to Lism and snubbed the Gnoll’s friendly greetings. Erin blushed and ducked her head.
“What? No, no. I’m actually here to, uh, apologize.”
Erin tried to gauge the Gnoll shopkeeper’s reaction. It was hard to read her face. Like Relc and Klbkch, a Gnoll’s face didn’t display the same expressions as a Human one. But Erin didn’t detect the same amount of hostility in her features.
“Oh? What do you have to say then?”
“Um. Sorry?”
The Gnoll raised one eyebrow, and her ears twitched back. That was a Human reaction, so Erin went on quickly.
“It’s just that I was having a bad day, and I met this other Gnoll who really didn’t like me. So, uh, I was kinda afraid you would get growly at me too. But I’m sorry about that. I shouldn’t judge by, uh, species.”
The Gnoll looked at her. Erin still couldn’t read her face. But—weren’t Gnolls kind of like hyenas? They looked like them. And hyenas were cats. Or maybe they were dogs. Either way, Erin peeked at the Gnoll’s ears.
They were twitching. And once Erin saw that, she saw the Gnoll’s lips were twitching the merest fraction. Erin tried out a smile. To her surprise, the Gnoll smiled back. And laughed. She had a lot of sharp teeth, but the laugh was so boisterous Erin wasn’t as afraid.
“Hah! This is the first time I have heard a Human apologize in…months? A good day, yes? It is good you come to make amends. I will forgive you and forgive the smell you stink of as well.”
Erin frowned. Was this good or bad?
“Sorry, I don’t want to make you mad again. But—do I really smell that bad? I just had a bath.”
The Gnoll shopkeeper laughed again. She—and now that Erin looked, she was definitely a she— clapped one hand on Erin’s shoulder. Erin’s knees buckled.
“I do not mock you, Human. But I laugh because I forget others do not have our nose. Forgive, please. You stepped in something on your way to the city.”
Erin rubbed at her shoulder surreptitiously. Then she looked down at her feet, made a face, and began dragging her foot around on the street.
“Eugh! What was—that’s so gross! I’m so sorry! I had that on my foot the entire time? You’re totally forgiven. Your nose is amazing! Do I, uh, smell at all beyond that?”
The Gnoll shopkeeper nodded, turning serious.
“You smell of burned ash and trash. No; not just that foul smell. Even burning trash smells better. I know not what it was, but I can still smell it on you. You could also use some soap, a shampoo for your hair.”
“Really? You can smell all that?”
Erin sniffed at her arm experimentally, but she smelled like she always did. Better, actually, since she had found the stream to wash up in.
The Gnoll wrinkled her nose.
“Oh yes. It’s not too bad now though. All that blood and oil covers it up.”
Erin froze. The Gnoll laughed at her expression. Then she sombered and gave Erin a long, appraising look.
“I smell that too. Blood and death. Yet you don’t stink of fear anymore. You smell like a [Warrior] from my tribe after their first battle or hunt. I am relieved for that, yes? You have a bravery in you, to win a fight to the death alone.”
“It’s nothing to be proud of.”
Erin replied automatically. Her stomach was dropping out of her legs, but the Gnoll shopkeeper didn’t seem to notice.
“Isn’t it? You stormed back here, trounced both Lism in words and his nephew in chess—although Olesm is the better of the two by far—and in front of all to see! Warrior and tactician, both! A fine day for a young woman to have—”
“No.”
Erin cut the shopkeeper off flatly.
“It’s not anything to be proud of. At all.”
The Gnoll stared down at her. Erin met her gaze. At last, the Gnoll shrugged.
“Hrm. If you insist. I apologize if I’ve erred. Humans can be difficult to understand.”
That last remark stung. Erin gritted her teeth.
“Why do all of you say that? I’m Human. So what?”
The Gnoll grinned at her with all her teeth.
“Because you are Human. Few of us have ever seen your kind here, let alone talked to one.”
Erin smiled sourly.
“Well, you’re the first Gnoll I’ve talked to. The first one that wasn’t angry at me, at least.”
The Gnoll [Shopkeeper] laughed and slapped Erin on the shoulder again, but gently. Two huge brown eyes met Erin’s, and she growled in approval.
“Hah! You are a spirited one! I like you. So I will introduce myself. I am Krshia, [Shopkeeper] and seller of goods. And you are the Human who slew the Goblin Chieftain! What is your name, brave little one?”
So she knew, already, who Erin had killed. The young woman bit her tongue.
“I’m Erin. Erin Solstice.”
Erin stuck out her hand but found herself grabbed and squeezed tightly by the Gnoll shopkeeper. It was a bear hug by a creature that looked sort of like a bear. She was strong enough for a bear too, and Erin felt oxygen quickly leaving her body.
The Gnoll must have heard Erin squeak or felt her dying because she eased up on the pressure. She sniffed at Erin, only wrinkling her nose slightly. For Erin’s part, she smelled spices, sweat, a strong doggish smell, and that earthy smell that came from a day or two of not bathing. Then she was on the ground blinking up at the Gnoll.
“There. We have met, and we are now friends. Come into my shop, Erin Solstice, and tell me what you need. For the pleasure of seeing Lism humiliated, I will give you a discount. And I will not steal your coins. That is a promise from a Gnoll of the Silverfang tribe.”
“Silverfang?”
Erin blinked at her, but stepped inside the stall and looked around. Her first impression of Krshia’s full stall was of a dazzling panorama of goods. Sacks of food, neatly labelled as ‘wheat’, ‘rye’, ‘ashwheat’, and so on, occupied the lower part of the stall. In English, along with labels in that foreign script! Higher up were some books with interesting labels. Erin saw only a few on display, and they were pricey—gold instead of silver! But Krshia had a bunch of knives sharing space with some earrings made out of what might have been pure silver and bits of gemstone.
At first, it looked like everything, but Erin noted gaps in the stock. It appeared everything Krshia sold was in popular demand. She blinked as she took in the huge supply.
“Wow. Okay. That’s a lot of stuff. But that’s good, because I need a lot of stuff. Like food, clothing, um, soap. Toothpaste—do you have—?”
“Aha. I see why Lism got exasperated. Let us take a moment to breathe, Miss Erin.”
Krshia cut Erin off with a friendly smile and a raised finger. She gestured Erin onto a stool.
“I am not gifted with perfect memory via Skill or otherwise. Let us make a proper list, and I will be able to see what you want, yes? It will take time, but we shall be more organized than me fetching this or that.”
Erin nodded, impressed by the decision-making. It made her feel a bit silly for not having a list herself, not that she had any paper. But her mom would have had a grocery list. 
Her mom. Erin’s mind caught at the idea, but she pushed it down and focused on the Gnoll. Krshia bared her teeth at her again, but Erin was pretty sure it was a smile. A toothy smile, but the Gnoll was inviting.
“I will give you a fair price. Just as I said. I hail from the Silverfang Tribe, far to the south. The Great Plains of Izril. Have you heard of us?” 
“Um. No. A tribe, huh? What does Silverfang do?”
“Oh, we are fine [Traders], but we also mine silver and do much with it. I have not been home in nearly a decade, but you may find many Gnolls in Liscor are Silverfangs. Sit, sit! Ah, here is some parchment. Now, tell me what you need. And then I will have your goods delivered rather than make you pay for a bag.”
She growled derisively, and Erin realized this was another way she might have been ripped off by Lism. The young woman blinked.
“Delivered? You do deliveries?”
Krshia laughed.
“Of course. Did you think many would carry off bags of flour as you did? It is too hard. No; the stupid shopkeeper Lism, fur sheddings that he is, didn’t tell you and gave you the bag on purpose. But then again—have you never had a Street Runner deliver anything? It may be a bit more for somewhere outside Liscor, but I know a few Street Runners who will do it.”
Erin glanced over at Lism’s distant shop. He was still screaming at his store and his nephew. It looked like Olesm was recreating the game they’d played on another chess board. Erin had already bought the board she’d won on.
“I feel bad about that, actually.”
“Bad?”
Krshia stared at Erin in surprise and then laughed again.
“Humans are strange. He would not give you the same if he were in your place; he surely would not.”
Erin shrugged.
“Still, it’s not nice. And the law should be equal for everyone.”
Again, Krshia stared at Erin. Erin shifted uncomfortably.
“Well, that’s what I was always taught. Plus, I bullied Olesm a bit.”
The Gnoll shook her head, but not in confusion so much as…a kind of amused gratification.
“That is a viewpoint I have not often heard since coming to Liscor. So, you truly knew what you were doing, but you pretended to be humble and baited him into that game. Cleverer still!”
Erin ducked her head.
“I didn’t know he was going to challenge me to chess! That was a lucky coincidence. I just—happen to be really good at it.”
“Hm. How good is ‘really good?’ Olesm may be young, but he is considered the best player in Liscor sheerly by how much he plays. From how you speak—it sounds like you made a choice to ‘bully’ him. If he were a Level 20 [Warrior], say, what would you be?”
The question caught Erin off-guard as Krshia produced a tub of what might have been toothpaste—and a brush. She offered Erin a choice between mint and lemon, and Erin pointed at the lemon.
“I, uh—well, I dunno. If he’s Level 20…I’d be Level 60?”
Krshia nearly tripped and caught herself and turned to stare at Erin. Instantly, Erin felt like she’d made a mistake.
“Is that off?”
“If you say it’s so—so you could beat him one-handed, eh? Blindfolded, even? What did you want? Soap? I have a few from the [Alchemist]. But to wash the body…no, this is hair conditioner for Gnolls. I don’t think you need quite this much. Scale cream…I will have someone find it.”
Erin saw Krshia glancing her way as she produced a bar of soap. The [Innkeeper] fidgeted. She knew it sounded like bragging, but—she coughed into her hand.
“Er…I might be able to beat him blindfolded.”
At this, Krshia actually stopped and gave Erin a look that said she didn’t believe her. Erin raised her hands.
“Sorry! I know it sounds like I’m blowing smoke, but you can play chess blindfolded if you know the pieces. He’s a talented…rookie. But he doesn’t know any chess openings, and I’ve played since I was a kid.”
“Since you were a child. Hrr. Now that’s…”
Krshia’s eyes sharpened, and Erin fidgeted, but the Gnoll smiled in an incomprehensible way. She walked over and tapped one of the earrings she had. Erin noticed it was set with a beautiful bit of quartz which was glowing a bright blue. Wait…hadn’t it been clear just now?
“Fascinating. This truth-stone earring says you are telling the truth. So I believe you.”
“Wh—truth stones? That’s what that thing is? I’ve never seen something like that! Is it magic?”
Krshia looked amused. Then she frowned as the blue glow grew brighter.
“Really? Not once? I…have never seen a truth stone before either.”
At that, the stone turned a murky red color, and the Gnoll poked it a few times, looking mystified.
“So it is working. Tribes! Well, I suppose…they’re not the most common, and it is an expensive item. More gold than you have, Miss Erin. Not that I won’t sell it to you if you have, er, forty-eight more pieces.”
As she did not, Erin changed the subject, but she noticed Krshia glancing at the earring in confusion more than once.
“So. These deliveries…how do they work?”
Krshia smiled. She pointed to a small wooden bowl filled with brightly painted wooden tokens. Circular, with little markings on them in the unknown script. Erin looked at them and saw each had an intricate little design of red and gold that made up a pattern around the edge. The center was filled with some words and a symbol. It looked a bit like…a foot? A stylized, clawed foot like Relc’s.
“Don’t tell me you’ve never seen a Runner’s Guild Seal before? Hah—maybe not Drake ones? You haven’t? Well then…they are for Runners. When I give you one, I will keep its twin, yes? Then, when a Runner delivers your goods, you will give him the Seal you have, and then I will know my goods have been delivered. It is simple.”
Erin picked up one of the pieces of wood.
“Runner’s Guild? So you’re saying it’s like a postal service?”
“A what?”
“Um. A delivery service?”
“That is what I have said, Erin Solstice.”
Erin blushed while Krshia grinned toothily at her and laughed.
“Right, sorry. I just haven’t ever heard of these Runners before. What do they do, besides make deliveries?”
Krshia gave her a long look and snuck another quick look at the blue earring. She seemed to be checking whether Erin was making fun of her.
