“Runners run. They are quick ones, those who can run long distances to earn money. Sometimes they deliver letters, other times valuable things. Goods, yes? Magical items, messages that must only be spoken to one person. Such are expensive requests though. Only the best carry such things. Most just deliver goods very cheaply. I can call one and have all that you buy delivered to your inn for a good price.” 
Erin thought she knew what Krshia was talking about. In the bustling city, hadn’t she seen a few Gnolls and Drakes racing about faster than everyone else? Krshia nodded when she mentioned seeing them.
“That would be a Street Runner. If you were living far away, I would call for a City Runner. For a long journey, perhaps to another continent, or in a dangerous spot, or if I needed the fastest in the world, I would pay for a Courier—and spend a fortune on the delivery!”
That sounded good, but Erin had learned skepticism here.
“What’s a good price?”
“It is the broken inn a few miles east of here, yes?”
Erin nodded. Krshia scratched her chin.
“…Four silver coins. Not a small price. If it were the city, it would be one, or maybe coppers for a small delivery. But it is far, yes? And if it is heavy and monsters lurk about, the price goes up. You are lucky the Goblins are scarce and the Hollowstone Deceivers do not travel this late in the season. So I advise you to buy a lot and have the delivery done once, yes?”
Erin thought about that. It sounded really good. Better than carrying anything herself.
“I like it.”
Krshia grinned at her again. This time, Erin grinned back using all of her teeth.
“I knew I liked you for a reason. Then tell me what you want, and let us not waste the light, eh?”
“Sounds good to me.”
 
——
 
Later that evening, Erin sat in her inn and felt at her money pouch. It was much lighter now, but she felt a lot better about it. She felt a lot better about life, actually.
She had fresh clothes on, and she no longer smelled of…well, she no longer smelled. Instead, her skin had been bathed in an orange-y scent from the soap she’d used. And lemon toothpaste made her mouth feel fresh. And she hadn’t had to dodge fish in the stream while bathing either. 
The day had been full of busy things, and none of them had been entirely bad. After she’d bought all of the goods she needed from Krshia, and even haggled a bit over the price, the Gnoll had shown her to the bath house to have a proper wash. Then Erin had gone back to her inn, eaten the rest of the pasta, and she was now enjoying a minor food coma as she sat in a chair in her inn.
Erin played with one of the chess pieces on the table. She’d carried the chess board and a few essential items like soap with her back to the inn. She hadn’t wanted to let the chess board go. It was incredible, really. Chess? In a world like this? Actually, it made sense, but Erin was still amazed. She had to keep touching the pieces to make sure they were real.
But she had to focus. Erin dragged her mind back on track. Krshia told her the Runner would deliver her stuff tomorrow at some point. Until then, she could clean up the inn a bit. Or maybe play a game against herself. That was fun too. It was just—
Erin stared down at the chess board. She murmured to herself.
“Knight to D4. Pawn to E3.”
Suddenly, her good feeling vanished. Erin felt cold. The food in her stomach was dead weight instead of comfort, and she felt sick. Her hands shook as she put the pieces back on the table. Everything was better. It really was. But…
—If she closed her eyes, Erin could still see a Goblin lying on the ground next to her. If she opened her hands, she could still feel the dead weight between her palms.
Erin moved a pawn up and took the knight. She stared at the pieces on the board.
“It’s kill or be killed in this world, after all.”
She put her head in her hands and rubbed at her eyes. Yes. That was what she’d learned. And she hated it. All of the good that had come to her seemed like it had been built on the bad.
The bad. The dead. A game of chess on a pile of corpses. Erin stared at the chess board.
She was good at chess. She liked chess. She’d grown up playing chess and other games like that, despite the fact that girls weren’t common in chess tournaments. Chess had been fun to her until she’d grown up and realized she’d never become a Grandmaster herself. She was good, but not great. But chess had still been her hobby. Chess was fun. It was about outwitting the opponent, about using strategy—
It wasn’t at all like killing someone.
Erin stared at her hands. They were quivering. She could still feel them burning. It was all a game, though, wasn’t it? A game with levels and classes. A game like chess.
“It’s just a game. Just a game?”
Erin stared at the board. Pieces. If she thought about it like that, then death seemed to matter less. She’d done the right thing. She’d defended herself, killed the monster.
Killed the monster.
She stared down at the two dead Goblins. They were so small. Like children. And they had family. Friends. Those who loved them.
The ragged Goblin. The ones hiding outside her inn, scrawny and afraid. They were the enemy too, if she played the game like chess. The right thing to do would be to hunt them down and kill them. That was how all games worked.
That was how you played chess.
Erin sat up. She remembered the Goblin’s hand in hers, the feeling of his skin. She remembered his smile. She remembered laughing.
And then she understood. Erin put her hand underneath the chess board and flipped it off the table. Both white and black pieces soared into the air and clattered against the floor.
Erin stood up.
“I remember why I got bored of chess. There’s only one winner and one loser. The best game for both players is a draw.”
She walked over to the door and yanked it open. Then she stopped and turned. She raised her middle finger and flipped off the chess board a second time.
“I’ll make my own rules. And anyone that doesn’t like it can go to hell.”
The door slammed shut as Erin walked out. A few minutes later, she rushed back into the inn and carefully put all the pieces back onto the chess board.
“Still a great game, though. Don’t take it personally. Let me just get a quick snack for the road. And I need some soap. Proper hygiene and all that. Where did I put the soap? Soap, soap, soap…I should really organize all this stuff. Maybe tomorrow.”
Then she was gone, running down to the city. There was still plenty of daylight left in the sky. And she had one more thing left to do. The most important thing of all.
 
——
 
The sun was setting over the grassland when the young woman returned to the inn. She stopped, again, and saw a streak of purple grass blowing as the cool winds came down across the rolling hills and valleys. Shadows crept and lengthened across the old inn. They should have exposed cracks, but as she looked up, the darkness seemed to hide the age of the building, all the little imperfections and signs of age.
Like this—it looked like what it had been in its heyday, a lone building set against the fading crimson sky, visible for miles away if it were lit up from the inside. 
Erin Solstice slowly put down her burden. Her arms hurt, and she regretted not adding this to the delivery, but she had been too excited to wait. Krshia had humored her and even helped Erin buy what she wanted.
She was carrying a bucket filled with nails, a brush, and even a few slats of straight wood planks. And a hammer. It was quite heavy, and the young woman muttered and rubbed at her aching shoulders.
However, she eventually reached the inn’s door and set down her burden. Then she gazed up. 
The shadowy sign was long-since faded. The little one that said ‘open’ and ‘closed’ hung below some façade, some…signboard above the doorway that had once been this inn’s name.
Even if she had been able to pick out the letters, Erin felt it was in that other language. She did feel guilty, but she got to work as she set her tools down. Then she pulled something out of her pocket and grimaced.
“Aw. The water.”
She had a packet of what looked, at first, to be plain white dust. And some black charcoal or other powder. But when Erin found some water and filled another bucket with it, the dust turned the water white, and the second turned another black.
Powdered paint. Very handy, and it beat hauling a bucket of paint back all this way. Erin mixed up both, then dipped her brush into the first bucket. She gave the inn’s signboard a coating and hoped it dried as fast as Krshia claimed.
The inn lost its name quickly as Erin stood on a chair she propped on top of a table she’d dragged outside. She felt a pang, but it had lost that name long ago, with its customers and owner. It needed a new one, especially if she were to stay here.
It felt…reverential, almost. The girl picked up the bucket of black paint and the brush and thought a second. She dipped the brush in the black paint and painted a broad stroke on the wide plaque above the entranceway. She wrote the beginning of a letter, frowned at it, and then cursed and shouted obscenities and had to cover it all up with white paint again.
It was hard to write properly, and it took her several tries as the daylight escaped the world to finish her sign. Numerous coats of paint to cover her mistakes. Multiple tools. A paint-scraping knife to get rid of the paint when it became too thick. A hammer to hit things while she vented her frustrations.
But eventually, the sign was done. The young woman sighed in relief and then picked up the pieces of wood she brought with her. This was easier, so she only took the paintbrush and wrote on it briefly. Then, she planted the pieces of wood in the ground and drove the sign down with the hammer a few times.
By now, it was dark. So dark that Erin was yawning, hungry, and covered with paint. In defiance of any good painter or craftswomanship at all, she left the tools on the ground where they lay. Even the paint brush in the bucket.
“Food. I hate painting.”
The paint was already drying, and the sign and plaque were done. The lettering was crisp and clear, and if any travellers had been present, the words would have caught the eye.
But there weren’t any travellers. The inn was long-deserted, and no visitors had come here for a long time.
Yet—it didn’t matter. The inn’s shuttered windows began to glow with a bit of light. As they did, a few people stopped outside the inn. Not guests. Not yet.
Just…a young [Necromancer], rubbing at his rumbling stomach and glancing up at the new sign. He raised his brows and inspected the smaller sign. He recoiled—shook his head, and gave the inn a strange look.
Almost as strange as the smallest Goblin, peeking at the inn in the darkness. Her night vision was good, but even so, she had to hurry forwards when he left and puzzle out each word in the Human’s language one by one. She too stared and hurried away, just as confused.
It didn’t matter. The lack of guests didn’t matter. The sign was what mattered. The new name of the inn and the message mattered. They were written, now there to stay. As was the young woman.
So, as Erin Solstice slept, the twin moons rose, and the night sky began to brighten. The moonlight from the two moons, a pale blue and a faint green, caught the inn’s sign. The letters spelled out the new name:
 
The Wandering Inn
 
Next to the inn, a large sign was hammered into the earth by the door. It read:
 
“No Killing Goblins.”
 
Thus began the story of The Wandering Inn.
