THE TASK OF REBUILDING IS YOURS.

REMEMBER THIS DAY WHEN WE FOUGHT SIDE BY SIDE.

AS I WILL REMEMBER ALSO.

BUT BE SURE TO LIVE AS WELL.

FOR THAT IS WHY WE FIGHT TO BEGIN WITH.

FAREWELL MY BROTHERS AND SISTERS.”

The god dissipated, and with him, so did Denerim. All that was left was his armor. Not even dust remained.

Orkan fell to his knees and cried.

***

Neriad stood at the center of the sandy arena, where a hundred weapons were resting. He walked to a corner and caressed Denerim’s sword. He sighed.

“It never ends. Thank you, Denerim.”

The God of Righteous War ceremoniously laid the sword to rest. One more blade stuck into the ground. One more brave joining the ranks of those who’d died fighting for a better tomorrow. There would be more in the future, and he would be there for them.

Neriad unsheathed his own blade to practice his form. Perfection was a fleeting thing. Effort wasn’t. He owed them that much. Once he was done, he felt more centered, though a little tired.

“Heard an eight-legged hag has been sent limping into the in-between,” a voice said from the side.

“We won’t hear from her for a long long time. Welcome, Maradoc. Thanks for the help with Efestar. I think he’ll be ok.”

“Yes, speaking of.”

A cowled figure stepped from behind the blue robed shape of the God of Secrets. Twin hooked blades hung by his side.

“Drinks?” Efestar suggested.

“Absolutely.”

***

The war didn’t finish with the battle. The survivors of Sardanal’s Cradle were never meant to become warriors, so Viv and the others made sure to help with the grieving and rebuilding. Around half of the population was left to mourn the other. All of the houses needed to be rebuilt. During the time it took for ships to return, everyone worked tirelessly to help them cope with the end of their long nightmare. They’d held for so long with nothing but grim fatalism. Now that it was no longer needed, they fell apart. Viv found herself listening to a lot of sad tales that made her hate Octas even more. For others like Sidjin or Orkan, it was nothing new.

Emeric’s Girl picked her up after another three weeks. She made sure to pack the Beast’s head for Solfis. The trip led them into a storm but thanks to Sidjin, Emeric’s Girl did well. The new captain happened to be Sil’s father and though there was certainly a history there, the man was closed off and taciturn, and Viv never managed to get more than a few words out of him. They made landfall in Zazas during the heart of winter before teleporting back to Harrak in just a few days' time. Viv didn’t enjoy Arthur’s incredible advantage of having wings to fly away from every annoying social situation. She was mercilessly grilled by everyone on how the battle went and what had transpired. As for Harrak, everything was going well including a burgeoning clergy of Efestar. Solfis was particularly eager for their next project as he led her onto the training field for Harrak’s newest corps.

//I have recruited them from your worshippers.

//The one you freed from the Nemeti.

“I think I was abundantly clear. No worshippers!”

//Pardon me, I misspoke.

“Riiiight.”

//I meant to say, devoted fanatics to the cause of Harrak.

The new group trained with enthusiasm. They favored heavy armor but no shields.

“Linebreakers?”

//Yes.

//But that is a secondary concern.

//If the season permits you to be away without much damage, I propose that we carry on with our next project.

“Back to Harrak, then?”

//Yes.

//Where it all began.
