Viv rushed to Denerim’s side, unheeding of Octas lazily striding forward across the devastated wall. Her bodyguards were holding back spiders while far in the distance, islets of resistance remained around Orkan, Sidjin, and a few other elites. The others were running.

She couldn’t blame them.

To her surprise, Denerim turned to her when she approached.

He… was still alive?

“Denerim!”

“All… all necessary. Had to have her commit with intent or… she tends to hide.”

“You…”

The old inquisitor’s voice was calm and his eyes remarkably clear considering the divine weapon lodged in his chest. His breath was measured. It was a little surreal.

“It was only ever going to end one way, Viviane the Outlander. Now, listen, because this is the most important thing I’ll ever tell you.”

He grabbed her shoulder with remarkable strength. The pressure could be felt even through her thin armor, and the sensation grounded her.

“You plan and prepare a lot and that’s good, but sometimes? Sometimes you gotta have a little faith.”

His eyes glowed golden, not the normal gold of divine casting but something deeper, more intense. Something fundamentally other.

“Now, you might want to stand back.”

A shockwave sent her tumbling before she could really react. Her bodyguards lost their footing as well but it was nothing compared to the spiders and other lackeys who were propelled away, smacked contemptuously aside by divine power. The golden aura around Denerim grew more and more intense until she could no longer look at it and far in the distance, Octas hissed. A moment later, the spine in his chest fell to dust.

Then Denerim roared.

It was not an expression of pain as she expected but one of outrage, of anger, and of hope. The roar went on and went past the point even the most dedicated opera singer could sustain. It was primal and visceral and yet very human. The golden aura spread across the city, along the ruined walls and over the desperate defenders. Hearts were reignited, spirits were lifted. Warriors Viv thought dead stood up, their flesh knitting from even the most grievous of wounds, and still Denerim was roaring.

The witch had to step back when Denerim… grew. His battered armor flowed to form a glorious scale mail engraved with precious metals, his round targe melted into a kite shield. He grew younger as well, graying beard turning a lush gold. Where a man had kneeled, a titan now stood in a sea of power. The intensity of the mana was stronger than in the heart of Harrak. It overflowed and saturated the air with the smell of metal and hot sand. Denerim lifted his sword to the sky. The clouds parted, the night retreated, and a massive bolt landed on the weapon with a crack. When Viv could look again, the colossus was wielding solid sunlight shaped for purification.

Neriad, God of Righteous War, had joined the battle.

The incarnate was the most powerful one Viv had ever met.

“BROTHERS AND SISTERS, HEAR ME.

I, NERIAD, HAVE COME TO HOLD OUR ANCIENT COVENANT

THAT NO WARRIOR OF THE LIGHT SHALL EVER STAND ALONE

AS YOU HAVE FOUGHT IN DEFENSE OF THE INNOCENT.

SO TOO SHALL I FIGHT IN YOUR NAME.

FOLLOW ME, BROTHERS AND SISTERS

WE SHALL MAKE THE WORLD A BETTER PLACE

ONE BLOW AT A TIME.”

The God of Righteous War’s aura spread across the battlefield until every hero and heroine basked in his golden halo. They screamed with shared fury as their eyes gained a golden glow of their own. Viv watched them reform lines with barely contained energy as Octas took a few steps back. The energy didn’t reach her but it was close.

Neriad took a step in her direction. He was surprisingly graceful and quiet for something that size and covered in metal. He kneeled by the broken form of Efestar’s avatar. The dying god’s abyssal gaze found that of the light god. He smiled, though it was brittle.

“BROTHER,” Neriad said with clear love.

“Glad to… be back.”

“VIVIANE.

I AM COUNTING ON YOU.”

“Got it.”

“AND NOW, FOR SOMETHING I HAVE BEEN CRAVING FOR A VERY, VERY LONG TIME.

OCTAS YOU HAIRY, DOG-FACED BITCH!

I’LL KICK YOUR ASS SO HARD YOU’LL PISS SILK!

HAVE AT THEM FRIENDS

CHAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAARGE!”

The ensuing warcry was completely deafening. The assembled forces of light practically flew over the collapsed wall, jumping great distances at once. Viv had only seen elites move like that before. That aura had to be something strong, wow.

“Alright. No time to lose.”

She reached for her belt and removed the various pieces of a small altar, which she assembled by Efestar’s side. The fallen god was fading quickly. She hoped there would be enough time.

“It was good to see him one last time,” Efestar whispered.

“Fefe, if you think I’m just going to let you quit while you’re ahead, you clearly don’t know me. You got a lot of life to see yet and you also got a lot to answer for. So hold tight.”

“What… do you mean?”

“I keep telling everyone. I don’t do tragic last stands.”

The altar was ready. It was a communication altar used by many of the clergies, especially the one that belonged to Maranor.

“Ahem. Oh, Neriad, hear thy servant’s-”

“I AM RIGHT HERE JUST ACTIVATE THE DAMN THING.”

“Oh right.”

It took a lot of mana but the connection was made, and soon she was facing New Harrak’s Bishop of Neriad. The man’s hooked nose positively shivered with anticipation.

“Your Majesty! All our preparations are complete! For the record, the priests of Sardanal are still a little hesitant.”

“The time has come. Begin the ritual!” Viv said, feeling very much like an evil overlady ordering a war crime.

“As you command!”

Then Viv settled to wait over Efestar’s ruined body, hoping she’d made the right decision.

***

On the plains before Sinur’s Gate, the assembled people of Harrak waited in a festive mass around tents, fires, grills and tables. Almost fifty priests of various churches stood at the center of the gathering, praying and saying hymns. The green of Sardanal, the gold of Neriad, the Black of Enttiku led by that strange man Abenezigel, and even a few rare shades of the blue of Maradoc mixed in a harmonious whole. Only Maranor was truly missing, for second chances were not her thing. As the Bishop of Neriad exited the tent, he joined the group with a hasty pace, a smile plastered to his ecstatic face.

“My children! My people! The time has come to change this world forever! Let us pray, everyone, let us pray and bring forth a new age! For the light gods!”

“For the light gods,” the priests answered in unison.

With commendable haste, the ten thousand Harrakans gathered around the colossal statue standing proudly in the middle of the valley, and at the feet of which the priests were now busying themselves. It was a strange statue as tall as twenty men, and it represented a cloaked man wielding two hooked swords. His face was a little too angular to be called handsome and his gaze carried a terrible weight, but it was still him, carefully carved over the past few months to Neriad’s specifications. The Righteous God had sent visions to his sculptors so that they may recreate the face of his friend as it was before he fell. The statue evoked great pain and exhaustion, yet the subject still stood proud against adversity, despite it all.

“Oh, Efestar, the Redeemer, the Justicar, you who returned to the light.

We greet thee and welcome thee home.

Help up those who have fallen and seek solace.

Grant salvation to those the law has scorned.

Guide us to a path of betterment.

Give us the will to go on when all is dark.

Oh, Efestar, the Redeemer, the Justicar.

We grant you thine salvation.

So that you may grant us ours in turn.

Come back, Efestar. We beseech you.

Come back and take your rightful place.

We greet thee and call thee home.”

The chant repeated, carried by tens of thousands of voices both in Harrak and in other temples across the continent, but it was there, at the foot of the fallen god’s true representation, that mana was at its thickest.

The Bishop of Neriad ignored the tear falling down his cheek. Now this was worship, now this was a good cause. He happily joined his voice to the choir. It was not everyday one could save a god.

His eyes found the statue again, Efestar’s determined face. The giant stone construct gave him hope.

He just prayed Her Majesty Viv would stop calling it ‘El Efestaro Redentor”, whatever that meant.

***

Efestar turned to dust. At first, Viv panicked and thought she’d been too late, or that she’d fucked up, but the shell of the Dark God of Scorn fell away like a mask. The porcelaine of his perfect face broke like an egg to reveal scarred, rugged skin underneath. The armor cracked and crumbled, revealing a ratty cloak which framed a leather chestplate decorated with metal studs. Greaves and gauntlets gave way to cloth bands wrapped around wiry muscles. Efestar, the man, stood from the ruins of his glorious self like a lost child, blinking away power with brown eyes shining with a dull purple light. Thin and long fingers brushed the last scraps of scorn away from his new form and he stood up on shaky legs with Viv’s help. The strange thing was, he looked so human, lost and all, but Viv’s soul sense could not be mistaken. This was a god, with that strange domain around him. A newly remade god, a weakened god, a lost god, but a god nonetheless.

“You going to be ok there, Fefe?”

“Yes. I… this is so strange, mortal girl. I haven’t felt this weak in centuries and yet… I feel so free. So full of potential again.”

He reached for the air and two twin hooked blades appeared in his hands. Sunlight slowly faded from around the old weapons, and Viv felt a hint of hot sand and flowers on the wind. Efestar chuckled.

“Heh. He kept them. Of course he would.”

“Soooo are you good enough to fight?”

The city was empty now except for those protecting the Last Stand. Beyond the broken wall, the battle raged in a great din.

“Yes. I cannot let that cheerful idiot get all the glory. And… he’s alone. Maranor should be standing with him.”

“I think… they’re kind of having a bit of a tiff?”

“That is good… bad news. That is bad news.”

He chuckled.

“I am going to need some time. To adjust. But this battle is about redemption and absolution. I should be able to use my new aspect to its full extent.”

“It’s important?”

“Yes, very much so, mortal girl. You have seen Octas. This fight is entirely hers, what she stands for and Neriad… it’s also absolutely him. You will understand when his aura touches yours. Try not to resist too much. You are already walking your own path, after all.”

“I’m not sure I understand.”

“There will be time for that later.”

Viv quickly crested the remains of the Cradle’s walls and stepped into a vision of cataclysm. Night had fallen now but looking forward, she couldn’t tell. Dark clouds hung low over the burnt forests, their dark blue mixing with the rising soot of the battle field. Octas sat on the line like a black monument to savagery. She struck with spells, quick jabs of her razor-sharp legs and spat stingers. Silky tendrils reflected the light while by her side, Gomogog’s titan turned flesh to mush with every step. A veritable sea of squirming creatures crawled behind her until even the ground writhed and slithered. If there was a representation of Ragnarok, this would be it. Well, maybe with more wolves or whatever. The most remarkable thing was… they were not winning.

A thin line of warriors and mages, cloaked in golden and viridian light of such intensity that it was as if the sun had fallen to earth, held back the tide. They sang hymns and crushed creatures twice their sizes with a fury and a fervor they absolutely shouldn’t be able to display. Sidjin launched twisters of shards and grinders that tore through the horde in devastating strikes. As she watched, mesmerized, a farmer plunged a fork into a giant’s spider cerebellum and the creature’s entire head erupted in flames. Wounds closed almost as fast as they were opened, and their weapons reformed with every blow, shining ever brighter. The divine mana covering the battlefield gave her vertigo. Meanwhile, Neriad was a flash of speed holding back two avatars at once.

A part of her regarded Neriad as kind of a himbo. Well-meaning, strong, a good man but not necessarily a genius. Perhaps it was his own admission that he didn’t know what a good cause absolutely was, or maybe she was just biased. But looking at him now, she realized she’d made a mistake. Obviously, no one who had followed Emeric to the end could be normal, and Neriad was certainly not the weakest. It was watching Solar fight, if Solar had reached the pinnacle of his art. Perfect positioning, perfect moves, every strike pushing, deflecting, endangering, every step meaningful, he was a whirlwind of directed violence. His shield was not just an invincible barrier, he also used it to bash and push. By himself, he held two incarnates at bay.

A second after Efestar reached Viv’s side, Neriad planted his shield in the ground. A golden barrier surrounded the forces of light who took a step back to catch their breath while the dark squirming ocean rabidly scratched at the divine protection. Neriad appeared right in front of his lost brother with such speed that Viv had to take a step back.

“BROTHER.”

“Neriad. I suppose you were right in the end. I am here now, and I’m not leaving.”

“I NEVER DARED HOPE THIS DAY WOULD COME.”

“I am sorry I won’t be of much help. I am weak, so weak. Pathetic, for a god.”

He chuckled again though it was bitter and filled with regret.

“YOU ARE NOT PATHETIC.

YOU HAVE WON ONE OF THE HARDEST BATTLES THERE CAN BE.

QUESTIONING YOURSELF AND ACCEPTING YOUR MISTAKES.

