BROTHER, YOU ARE NOT PATHETIC AT ALL.

YOU ARE THE MOST MAGNIFICENT SIGHT I HAVE EVER BEHELD.”

“I’m sorry to be interrupting your broment of pure bromance but… the big fucking spider?”

Both gods glared and Viv suddenly felt very small indeed, but that didn’t last. Neriad sighed.

“THE PESKY ASCENDER IS RIGHT.

THERE IS MUCH TO BE DONE AFORE THE SUN RISES.

ARE YOU READY?”

“I may be weak but I believe the world has forgotten what we could do together. Let’s remind everyone here… who it was that brought the old gods to their knees.”

Neriad grinned. For the first time, Viv saw a hint of bloodlust there and she remembered that perhaps the God of Righteous War admitted he had limits because maybe, just maybe, he’d reached them before.

“JOIN US, ASCENDER.”

Viv’s vision turned gold, or rather, the night was banished and there was only light and darkness. Her soul sense shivered from an overload of sensation she was paradoxically more vulnerable to than the average swordsman. Thankfully, Neriad’s touch was light enough and she managed to accept the invasion. Energy poured through her veins like lava. She gasped from the absurd pressure.

There was a pressing request, as Efestar had warned. She allowed Neriad’s faith to take over her. A part of her wanted to resist it because it was altered by Neriad’s own mind, his belief. She would be embraced in his existence rather than living her own. It was inherently abhorrent, and yet a part of her wanted to know, to experience what it was to have faith. She didn’t see Neriad as a supreme existence. She didn’t really want to, but perhaps, for the duration of a single battle, it would be fine.

She breathed out and let it take her, and it was magnificent.

White light illuminating the darkness.

Power like lava coursing through her veins and conduits both. She breathed deeply of the heat and the anger until her lungs were full. Relief washed over her, through her, cleansing all fear and all doubt. No thoughts of the future remained, or of the past for that matter. There was no need to plan. There was no need to reconsider. Only two things existed on this evanescent plane of existence.

Us, the good guys.

Them, the assholes.

The world was perfect clarity and the belief that she was right, absolutely right, overloaded everything else. It was true. It was so true. Octas was unambiguously an asshole. She’d sieged that village, killed its people. She had tried to make Viv fail during her transition to elemental archmage. She was now trying to sink an entire island. Octas needed to have her ass kicked to oblivion and Viv was going to be the one to do the kicking. This blind faith felt better than good. It felt transcendent.

Tonight, Viv was righteous.

She would follow the incarnated God into glorious battle and triumph against the forces of evil.

It could be no other way.

She was so transported that the notifications barely registered.

You are now under Neriad’s Mantle. The God of Righteous War’s mantle is at full power.

Due to attributes of your own soul, the effect will be limited.

You are invested with an aura of righteous anger. Your stats have been temporarily improved

Power +12

Finesse +6

Endurance +7

Focus +3

Acuity +3

Willpower +10

You have acquired the following temporary skills:

Divine weapon mastery.

Divine battlefield awareness

War God’s reflexes

Dauntless.

Sardanal’s aura of renewal will extend the effects to the end of the battle with no ill effects.

Viv’s awareness expanded to include the entire battle line. Orkan took the center in a hurricane of blades, fighting dangerously close to the avatars. Other champions anchored the line while mages thinned the horde with every spell, their mana rushing back in thanks to Sardanal’s blessing. Sidjin was the heaviest hitter. Every last spell he cast shredded through dozens upon dozens of spiders in a ceaseless wave of colorless grinders, but it was at the center of the formation that the true battle was happening. Facing them, Octas remained a monolith of savage rage while the lesser form of Gomogog endured monstrous punishment, but now she could see why Neriad and Efestar would have been so close. They complemented each other perfectly.

Neriad was the showy knight in shining armor as well as a peerless duelist. His presence could not be ignored as he controlled the flow of battle with precise strikes. Meanwhile, Efestar appeared and vanished in his wake with every opening. The Redeemer struck fast and true, aiming where their adversaries least expected to devastating effect before vanishing again under the cover of his brother’s assault. Neriad was the torrent and Efestar was the sharp rock. They worked together so seamlessly, they might have been two bodies under one mind.

Viv settled into her new state and she knew what she had to do.

There was a horde; it was evil.

She was the dedicated horde solver.

[Aspect of the Destroyer]

Her wings anchored Viv over the line, slightly to the side. Octas noticed her and made to attack but Neriad instantly carved a leg up for her trouble, making full use of the opening. Octas simply didn’t have the time to do anything.

[Sequence: Triple Storm of Zamhareer]

Even to her, the spell should have been difficult to cast on the fly. She had to hold the array with her mind instead of writing it on the ground, and she didn’t have matching metal symbols ready yet, but none of that mattered. She was righteous. Her cause was just. Divine weapon mastery stretched to help her focus, discipline helping her maintain the array. There was no need for her to doubt or think about anything distracting like tactical positioning or cover or maybe being skewered by a divine arachnid stinger. None of it registered. She had Sidjin already laying defensive arrays around her while another champion pushed the line forward. A tiny part of her registered this fact before no longer paying attention at all. There could be only one outcome to this moment, and it was the one Neriad was showing her. Mana the color of dark, burnished gold flooded her being as it lit the array with divine intensity. The spell triggered once, twice, thrice and the sky under the clouds turned into a beautiful field of golden motes expanding over the battlefield. The delicate embers floated down with ineluctable slowness.

Octas recognized the danger too late. The hex was out; the die was cast, and not even Neriad could stop it now. The spider goddess fought harder to push the light gods back but in doing so, exposed her flanks before Gomogog could cover them. Neriad was simply stronger, and with Efestar by his side, the two were unstoppable. Out of options, the Spider Queen lifted her bulbous rear end and sprayed silk up in a large cloud. Viv tsked. That would intercept her spell.

“SKREEEE!”

A distant shape crossed the skies in a dash of white, spraying fire on the ascending shield and burning it in the air before it could manifest. Octas’ hiss of frustration made Viv’s ears ring and for a moment, she feared for Arthur, but Octas could not afford to go after the dragoness and live. Her flanks already bled thick ichor.

“Arthur!” Viv bellowed.

Am not staying.

Weird human magic!

I am already very righteous!

I don’t even eat people!

“Thank you anyway!”

With Octas’ last effort defeated, the rain of golden motes fell on her followers.

The battlefield in front of the human line erupted in a colorful display of popping balls. The sound was curiously subdued considering the devastating effect it had on the skittering mass. For a moment, the effect was blinding and the screeches, deafening. Octas spat silk again to protect herself while Gomogog merely absorbed spiders to form a protective layer of chitin that thwarted the spell but it didn’t matter. The assault continued on Neriad’s lines for a few moments and then, it stopped.

The horde had perished to the last flesh eater.

Viv followed her borrowed instincts. Followers formed a half circle around the fighting avatars rather than engaging. Shields and polearms gathered in a staunch line but it was clear they were outclassed.

Viv wasn’t though.

[Aspect of the Destroyer]

[Sequence: Hyperbeam, Astra, Astra.]

She almost flinched when a stinger whizzed her way but Neriad intercepted it with his shield. Sidjin struck next with a sharp and barely visible spike. The gods readjusted their tactics on the fly, the information communicated directly into Viv’s mind. They were a whole, united in purpose. It was absolutely glorious fighting side by side with those monsters, like singing next to a star or playing an instrument along with a soloist. She cast golden spells when her instincts pushed her to aim at seemingly empty spots and by the time the spell triggered, Gomogog’s avatar had been thrown there. The dark gods fought tooth and claw against the inevitable for several minutes with all their tricks and dark powers but somehow, the most horrible were pushed away from the humans under the auspicious mantle of the light god. Little by little, the dark ones were chipped away. Octas was the first to crumble when Efestar shattered the second leg on one side. Viv was ready for it.

“Guillotine.”

The cage of gold-tinged void blades closed in on Octas’ flank and carved deep gashes through the thick carapace. It was too much for Octas. Her screams of agony hit Viv like a solid wall. They were pushed back.

Neriad was not. While Efestar slashed at Gomogog’s arm, the righteous god lifted his blinding blade above him.

[Execution]

The divine blow cleaved the dark goddess’ head from top to bottom in one strike. Her body collapsed with a sound like broken glass, as if reality itself was shattering, it set Viv’s teeth on edge. Even outside of her mantle, even as her foe, it was as deeply disturbing as nails on a blackboard.

The ensuing scream sent shivers down her spine. The phantom pain of her soul wound washed through her mind.

Gomogog’s avatar lasted only a little longer. He abandoned the vessel rather than fight to the bitter end. As the abomination’s body turned to sludge, both humans and avatars took a few steps back, and waited.

It was done. It was over. Nothing moved anymore.

A cold wind swept over the silent battlefield as the light of Neriad faded and the warriors clumped together in weary bands, exhausted, traumatized, but alive and victorious. Gold radiance blinked out but a cool verdant green replaced it, calmer. A light of healing and everyday life. It washed over wounds and then over the carpet of corpses, the burnt trees and the desolate fields. The clouds parted to show the twin moons in all their glory. The weather was cold here in the heart of winter but it also carried the crisp scent of the sea.

The first dark green sprout popped up almost between Viv’s feet on land she’d recently blighted. It was soon followed by a wave of green, then joined by the red and blue of small winter flowers. Sardanal regained control over the island and the soil breathed for the first time in months. The trees did not bloom again, but offshoots popped from the stumps while deeply buried acorns grew new meadows around clearings of wild flowers. Crops filled the fields, and grass covered the burnt remains of many houses. Cries of wonder erupted from behind when the children left the Last Stand, joined by the remaining civilians and support people. All of the island’s survivors stood on the slope of the Cradle to watch the island come to life. The scars of war would take a long time to heal but they would get that chance, and that was all the forces of the light could have hoped to achieve.

Sidjin placed a hand over Viv’s shoulder to draw her into a hug. Arthur landed nearby with a grumble about human gods and their weird lack of love for wealth. Meanwhile, Nous thought it was a good time to bombard her with notifications.

Due to your victory today, your soul has been permanently marked. You have gained the following title:

Always a Chance: You do increased damage to powerful entities, especially those that are stronger than you. They will never be safe.

A light that never dims: the longer a fight lasts,the more powerful you grow.

Your draconic intimidation skill has been enhanced to reflect this new reality.

You have gained a new title: True Ascender.

You are one of two human True Ascenders alive.

That… had implications. She could guess where this was going and she was a bit hesitant. At least, the titles meant she would be able to protect Harrak better against unexpected threats.

Draconic Intimidation: Expert 9

Mana Mastery, Intermediate 8

Focus +1 (46)

All good and she would have to unpack some of these changes with Solfis. In the meantime, Efestar’s avatar stepped into the shadow of a tree and disappeared. Neriad’s own avatar had unfinished business.

The God of Righteous War walked towards Orkan. The light faded from his shape until he returned to more human dimensions. Viv could feel with her soul that the god was staying but also withdrawing most of his essence and from behind his overwhelming mantle, Denerim appeared again. Like Viv, the others stood at a respectful distance. Everyone knew this was a personal moment.

“This is goodbye,” Denerim said.

“I’m not ready,” Orkan forced out. “It’s not fair.”

“We’re never really ready to let go of people we love, I think.”

“Damn. Still with the lessons.”

“I love you too, my apprentice. I already said my goodbyes to my wife, and now I say them to you. You have made me very proud. I am amazed by how much you’ve grown while we journeyed together. I leave the place in your capable hands now.”

“Yeah. Yeah, I’ll keep making you proud. You can count on me.”

“I know.”

The eyes flashed gold and the voice belonged to a god now.

“THIS IS AS LONG AS I CAN STAY.

