“Only take a quick look,” Humphrey said. “If there’s nothing obvious, get back to the hunt. The what, how and why we can get to later.”

***

The blood oak was no match for four gold-rank adventuring teams in a fight, but proved devilishly elusive. Unable to escape, it resorted to hit-and-run tactics that led to almost a dozen encounters before it was finally slain. It might have managed to whittle down a few members of the teams if they each hadn’t had a powerful healer on hand.

In the end, it was the combination of Callum and Jason that killed it. Callum’s conjured rats mapped out the pipe network and allowed him to start predicting the blood oak’s patterns. He finally had Jason move to anticipate one of its ambushes, allowing him to get enough afflictions on it that it crawled off to die. In the end, Colin in leech swarm mode crawled to where it had died and devoured it, bringing back a small sample.

The teams converged in the laboratory that Rick had found. It was a large space and, unlike anywhere else in the complex, fully outfitted. The walls had been sealed and sterilised, with functional lighting and power installed. A contained plumbing system and multiple large generators were set up in an adjacent utility room.

The lab itself had multiple rooms, looking halfway between an alchemist lab and a medical research centre. One room had heavily reinforced glass with a heavy security door, now open. The inside contained what looked like old vines, tangled around skeletons stripped down to nothing but stained bones. There were a couple of fresh bodies in the main lab area, looking like every drop of moisture had been drained out of them.

“You think the vampires made that thing?” Neil asked.

“Maybe,” Jason said. “Clive, can you and Travis figure out what they were doing here?”

“We can try,” Clive said.

“Try hard,” Jason said. “That one creature took four gold-rank adventuring teams over an hour to hunt down. If this wasn’t a sealed space, it would have escaped, and easily. We need to know if this was the only one, or if the vampires have more of them. If they do, that will make dealing with them a lot harder than anticipated.”

“That’s a nasty thought,” Neil said. “Imagine a whole nest of these things, hidden under a city. Almost impossible to detect, even harder to trap when you do manage it.”

“Emir,” Humphrey said. “Callum is the best tracker here. Have your team sweep the complex for leftover victims, or indications that there was more than one of these things. Rick, go escort Travis to this lab. Jason, this is going to be a huge mess. You should start coordinating with local authorities.”

“On it,” Jason said.

“Jason,” Travis said through voice chat. “See if you can find someone whose computer skills aren’t twenty years out of date to go through the systems in that lab. At this point, I don’t know if we could boot up a laptop between us. Assuming they still have laptops.”

“Good thinking,” Jason said. “I’ll see if I can rustle up someone trustworthy.”
