As he left the chamber, though, his sharp eyes caught something poking out from under the crimson rug. Curious, he stooped down and teased the scrap of paper out from under it.

The eyes! They’re everywhere!Burning red eyes… get out! Get out of my head!I need to remove my eyes, then they won’t see me… where is that blasted dagger?Aaah…

Calen shivered. Ordinarily, he would have had serious doubts about someone taking the time to write anything like this; a mad person might mutter and mumble, but would they take the time to accurately record their ramblings? However, he had seen what lurked within the Well of Eternity, and it still filled him with a visceral dread. It made his mind want to curl up and gibber and wail in the corner.

Wordlessly, he handed the scrap of paper to Ali and stalked down the hallway looking for the way that would lead them to whatever had driven this poor person mad, for without a doubt, Calen knew it was that monster. The description of the eyes and the whispers were far too uncannily accurate to be incoherent rambling.

***

Calen walked on silent feet all the way to the end of the hall and looked out onto the familiar amphitheater. His powerful vision easily pierced the dark, drawn to the center and the deceptively still and placid gray surface of the Well of Eternity.

Hovering above in the air, completely invisible to the eye, he knew there was a deadly swarm of Dark Souls. Equally concealed beneath the murky waters of the well lurked a monster of nightmares.

The soft rustle of fur and the quiet padding of huge paws drew his attention to his side as Mato joined him, raising his nose and sniffing at the air.

“There’s something foul in here,” Mato said. “It reeks worse than the undead.”

“Yes,” Calen said, not raising his voice above the softest whisper, knowing Mato’s ears would hear it easily.

“Mind shenanigans, you said?” Malika asked, joining them up at the threshold and pulsing her healing magic.

You have gained Clarity.

“Yes,” he answered. He had long given up on trying to put words to the sheer, overwhelming immensity of the monster’s presence. He just hoped Malika’s ability would grant sufficient protection.

“So, how do we pull the invisible Dark Souls without awakening the boss?” Ali asked.

“You can’t see them with one of your minions?” Calen asked, a little surprised that Ali’s vast array of minions didn’t have at least something she could use.

“They’re invisible, and they’re cloaking their mana,” she said. “They’re not alive, not moving, not making sounds, and they don’t have blood. I could make one of my treants and find them with True Sight, I guess.”

“There are three of them flying over there,” Malika said, pointing. “I can see their stamina and health energies at the edge of my Soul Sight range.”

“One hundred and eighty feet?” Calen asked, recalling the details of Malika’s potent skill, her current skill level, and doing the range calculation quickly in his head.

“Close enough,” she answered, holding her hand out, palm down, and tilting it side to side.

Calen retrieved Cinderstrike to his hand and snapped off a volley of arrows aimed blindly, just following Malika’s pointing finger. One of the arrows hit something, leaving a blooming sphere of brilliant radiance and fire. With a hiss, three Dark Souls suddenly materialized, surging down along the path of his arrows toward him, bristling with arcing lightning.

But his arrows had not stopped. As Calen dodged, avoiding a volley of intense lightning, a second explosion lit the back wall of the amphitheater, and four more Dark Souls appeared.

“Two of them went to the spirit realm,” Malika said. “Ali, back me up?”

“You got it,” Ali answered.

As Malika and Ali’s mages faded over to the spirit realm, battle was joined in earnest.

Calen snapped off a volley of arrows at the incoming ghosts, combining instant arrows with grappling shot. Intense beams of light shone through the dark amphitheater, impaling one Dark Soul each, and the trailing chains of light snapped taut, wrapping around the ghosts through the power of his light-affinity magic and hauling them down to where Mato waited with claws of void.

“This should be far enough from the well, Mato,” Calen said. He ignored the scrambling minions as Ali maneuvered healers and ranged attackers, spreading them out to avoid making clumps – attractive targets to monsters with linear area lightning bolt attacks.

Malika’s indistinct form flickered between several burning ghosts while magic spells flew and detonated in faint, indistinct gray. She seems to have it under control, he thought, switching to pure damage and unleashing his full power.

With Malika popping back to the normal realm to spot Dark Souls, they slowly made their way around the amphitheater, keeping themselves well away from the Well of Eternity in the center. But despite their extreme caution, about three-quarters of the way around, the monster appeared.

There could be no doubt, its entrance was like the scratching of nails down the chalkboard of his mind. Calen shuddered as a dark orb shot up out of the well and peeled its lids back with the horrifying sound of flesh ripping, revealing the dark, malevolent red gaze. A dark beam shot forth from the eye, raking the ground, ripping through their army like a scythe demolishing weeds.

Calen raised a shaking bow, struggling against the mind-numbing force of the presence emanating from the well. His mind rebelled, refusing to acknowledge the awful eldritch existence, but he managed to snap off a shot in its direction.

His arrow pierced the eye.

Immediately, two more orbs shot up out of the well, opening their gaze and swiveling to stare down at him. At once, his mind filled with insidious whispers, echoing with madness, anguish, and promises of unspeakable power. The room shivered, buckling as if the stone had suddenly come alive.

Somewhere in the distant recesses of his mind, he registered something piercing him in the back, a soft chime, but it felt like something happening to someone else. Something so far away, it couldn’t possibly be him.

The giant bear in front of him roared, and a malevolent red eye suddenly opened on his back, swiveling to stare at him. Tentacles erupted from his flesh, waving about and reaching for him.

Calen dove to the side, hitting his shoulder heavily on the ground as he misjudged the distance. If only it would stop moving. But as he sprang to his feet, his arrows were ready and flying. Mato had been possessed, and the only way to save him was to shoot it.

Shouts rang in the background, but the whispers in his mind were far too loud.

He ran sideways, dodging a disk of golden magic that was pursuing him, but he brought himself up short just in time as the stone under his feet split apart, revealing jagged teeth and a maw into darkness. It snapped shut, narrowly missing his foot as he leapt over it. All around him, eyes and mouths began opening on the walls, the floor, his friends, and even the air.

It got everyone. It’s just me…

He gritted his teeth, drew his bow, and set himself to his grim task.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
