“I want to talk to Erin about this. This isn’t what I was hired for.”
Lyonette’s patience was at an end. She felt like she was dealing with a child, not an adult.
“You can do it when she comes back. Just go now, please. And take two buckets!”
She thrust another one into the affronted woman’s hand and practically pushed her out the door. Lyonette got back to serving, apologizing to the Gnolls. She waited for Maran to come back. And waited. And waited…
Maran returned after twenty minutes, twice as long as it should have taken, just when Lyonette was about to go look for her. She was irate at having to carry the buckets up the hill in the snow. And they weren’t fully filled!
Lyonette bit back her words when she saw Maran’s face and instead thanked her. Twelve minutes later, she wished she could have taken back the thanks when Safry began to complain about Mrsha.
“Hey, can you do something about her?”
She was pointing at Mrsha as the Gnoll tried to sneak up on the group of Gnolls. They were letting her do it, and one would turn to stare at her when Mrsha got ready to pounce on a tail. Thereafter Mrsha would run about excitedly. Lyonette saw nothing but pure fun in Mrsha’s game, but Safry was clearly displeased at having to watch to avoid Mrsha being underfoot.
“The kid’s cute, but we’re trying to work. Can’t you make her go upstairs or play outside?”
“Just ask her to move. It’s no problem.”
“She’s in the way every two seconds. Why not let her run outside if she’s so excited?”
Lyonette stared at Safry.
“There are monsters outside. She’s not causing that much trouble and she needs the room.”
Maran spoke up as she swabbed a table. She made a face as she held up a rag full of white hairs.
“She’s getting fur all over the tables and chairs we already cleaned.”
“So? Just clean them again? It’s only a few wipes of the rag.”
The two [Barmaids] looked at each other, clearly displeased. Lyonette had to turn away so they wouldn’t see the look on her face.
Small things. Small things that would go away. That was what she told herself, but then Bird came by and things got…awkward.
He wanted a drink, and he had some birds for Erin. Simple, right? Only Maran and Safry left him sitting until Drassi got a drink, and although Maran had a pitcher of refills, she kept seeming to miss Bird.
“Just fill his cup! What’s the problem?”
“He’s—don’t you think it’s weird? He’s one of them! One of the Antinium!”
It was only then that Lyon realized how clearly uncomfortable Maran and Safry were around Bird. They walked wide of the Antinium, not going near him if they could serve other customers. Drassi and Ishkr were far more relaxed around the Antinium, having seen them before, but Safry and Maran weren’t happy with him around.
“That Antinium in the Horns of Hammerad was one thing, but is he going to be here all the time? He just stares and talks about birds!”
Lyonette crossed her arms as Maran complained.
“Erin’s going to hire him permanently. He’ll stay here all the time as a guard.”
The woman looked dismayed. Safry shook her head.
“Maybe he’ll stay upstairs where we don’t see him. I’d hate to turn around and just see him there. Staring.”
Not once had Lyonette ever felt uncomfortable from Bird’s stare. He was just curious, and she never felt uneasy around him. She opened her mouth, and turned away.
When Erin came back, a few hours before dinner, Lyon had never been more relieved. She would have loved to chat with Erin, but dinner had to be made ready, and Erin was far too busy laughing with Maran and Safry for Lyon to pull her aside to talk about…Maran and Safry.
Indeed, while Erin was around, things suddenly began to work smooth as butter. Neither Maran nor Safry had a problem with the Gold-rank teams, the Horns of Hammerad and Zel in the crowd, mainly because everyone was distinctively, and largely, Human. Lyon rushed about until Erin pulled her aside. She was sitting with Ryoka, eating rather than cooking or serving for once and looking pleased as a cat about it.
“Isn’t this cool, Lyonette? I can take a break!”
“Um. Yes.”
Lyonette bit back the words she wanted to say. Erin smiled up at her.
“So how was everyone? Did Drassi talk a lot? Selys says she does that, but she swears Drassi’s a hard worker. Oh, and did Ishkr do okay with Mrsha? I was worried about that but he seems cool!”
“They both did great, Erin.”
“Awesome! So there were no problems?”
Safry and Maran were walking around, serving the tables and talking with the adventurers. Too near. And it was only day one, right? Lyonette felt she couldn’t say anything. So in the end she didn’t. She only mentioned Maran’s reluctance to get water.
Erin groaned aloud when Lyon brought that up, but she was already nodding cheerfully when Lyon was finished explaining.
“Oh, the water? I guess I didn’t mention that to them. I’ll talk with Safry and Maran about it, okay?”
And that was that. Erin had a word and then came back to assure Lyon that water wouldn’t be a problem. Lyon tried to take Erin at her word, but she really couldn’t. She just felt like something was wrong.
Then in the middle of the night, Lyonette woke up and realized what was wrong. Safry and Maran thought they were in charge. Because they were higher level. But Lyon was. Right? She’d been working here longer, so she should know what to do. Right?
But it occurred to her as Mrsha rolled over and Ryoka snored loudly from her corner of the room that Erin had never mentioned who was in charge while she was gone. Maybe Erin hadn’t thought about it. But it mattered. It mattered…quite a lot.
 
——
 
The second day was no better than the first. It started out promising, with Safry and Maran turning up exactly when they were supposed to and cleaning last night’s dishes and the room cheerfully while talking with Erin.
The trouble started the moment Erin left to hang out with Ryoka in Celum. Lyonette missed her chance to ask Erin who’d be in charge while she left. She felt awkward just bringing it up—it felt as though Lyon was trying to get Erin to give her more authority, when it was really an important matter.
Either way, it meant there was no leader, and so the duo of Safry and Maran butted heads with Lyon over countless issues as the day wore on. It began with tips, and came to a head with buckets of water.
This time Erin had left the inn before breakfast had ended. She’d already cooked up days of food in advance, a handy suggestion of Ryoka’s that was convenient all around. But it meant that the Gold-rank adventurers and the Horns of Hammerad were eating at the same time as Zel. And wouldn’t you know it, but Safry and Maran seemed to serve food first to the Gold-rank adventurers and leave Zel for last.
“Hey, you’re not serving Zel first. Bring the sausages to his table—he’s been waiting the longest!”
Lyonette caught Safry’s arm as she went out holding a steaming plate of reheated sausage. The [Barmaid] frowned at Lyon.
“Why? He’ll get some in a minute. But the Gold-rank adventurers are sitting over there, Lyonette!”
“So?”
Safry rolled her eyes.
“So, they might tip us!”
Lyonette paused. She looked accusingly at Safry.
“I thought you told Erin you didn’t get any tips!”
“Well, obviously not from normal folk. But Gold-rank adventurers throw their money around like water, especially for good service! If you smile the right way at some of the men, they’ll give you a gold coin just for serving their table!”
She moved away from Lyonette and to her outrage, served Griffon Hunt first. And indeed, both Safry and Maran flirted with Halrac, Ulrien, and Typhenous, who might have been twice as old as they were! Lyonette nearly swallowed her tongue when she saw that, but according to Safry and Maran, that too was customary.
“You don’t understand how being a [Barmaid] works, Lyonette. You need to pay attention to the most important customer.”
Safry’s arch tone made Lyon want to kick her. She pointed towards Zel, who was eating sausage with Mrsha, oblivious to the drama.
“Oh yeah? Well he’s a Drake [General]. Why don’t you shake your hips for him?”
Both Safry and Maran’s jaws dropped. They exchanged a speculative glance, and then Maran shook her head.
“Eh, I don’t want to flirt with him. What if he took it seriously?”
Safry nodded. Lyon ground her teeth together. It wasn’t the idea of Zel and Maran together that was upsetting her—that was pretty much impossible—it was how Maran had phrased her words.
“What’s wrong with him? What if one of Griffon Hunt took things seriously?”
“Well, that’s different. Obviously.”
Maran looked surprised Lyon had to ask.
“Ulrien and Halrac are fine, and so is the old [Mage], I guess.”
Safry made a face, but nodded reluctantly. Maran cast her eyes over to the other adventurers in the room and shook her head.
“But the half-Giant’s obviously no good, and neither is the fish man. Ugh. No way. And the others are all female…at least there’s that handsome [Mage] sitting with the Horns of Hammerad.”
She pointed to Pisces appreciatively. Lyon stared at Maran, and her dislike of her and Safry grew four times larger in that moment. She smiled bitterly at both of them.
“Who? Pisces? Go ahead if you want. He’s a [Necromancer], you know.”
She left the two horrified women and stomped away.
 
——
 
Midway through the day, Lyonette paused to check how much water they had left. There was a good amount, but a fit of pique made her go and ask Maran to get more water. She expected the other woman to resist, but she wasn’t expecting an outright refusal. But that was what she got.
“There is no way I’m going out there. Neither is Safry.”
“Why not?”
Maran’s face was set.
“There are fish with teeth in the water. That’s what Erin said! And Rock Crabs? Shield Spiders? I’m not doing it.”
Lyonette stared at her, and realized Maran hadn’t been told of Liscor’s natural hazards before now. Drassi and Ishkr accepted the slight danger as a matter of course, but Maran’s face was white at just the thought of running into one of the monsters.
“Look, Maran, it will be fine. Just take a seed core and—”
“No!”
It was customary now for Lyonette to use some of the wizened, dried-up seed cores that Erin had stored from the blue fruits just in case a Rock Crab showed up. She’d scared one away twice by now, and knew they weren’t a threat if you had your eyes halfway open. But Maran was insistent.
“I’ll get some water from Celum instead.”
“What, from a well there? Fine. But if you’re going—”
“No! I’ll do it like civilized folk do and have it delivered! You can pay to have water barrels sent to your inn or home each day. It’s just a few silver coins—a few more for a fast delivery, but it’s safe.”
Silver coins for water? Lyonette gaped at Maran and then shook her head.
“You can’t do that. Just go and get some water!”
“I won’t. If you need them, get it yourself or get the other two to do it. But Safry and I won’t get water from now on. You can melt snow in the buckets if you want.”
That was it. Lyonette crossed her arms, too frustrated to let this go. She glared at Maran, who was staring hard at Lyon, mouth a firm line.
“We need water, and Erin told you this was part of her job. No one else is getting water, so until you go—”
“I’ll just pay for some water to be delivered here! Erin’s got enough money.”
Maran went over to the bar’s counter and to Lyonette’s horror, opened the lid of the money jar where Erin collected the day’s earnings. She went to stop Maran, but Safry got in her way.
“Erin’s not going to pay for barrels of water when she can just get it from the stream.”
“Well that’s too bad, because I’m not going to get some and risk my life.”
Maran marched over to the door leading to Celum. Before Lyon could stop her, she’d disappeared through with a handful of coins from Erin’s money jar. She came back thirty minutes later, and Lyonette watched six huge barrels of water come through the doorway with butterflies of panic and anger fluttering about in her stomach. She took a deep, shuddering breath, and walked right past Maran’s smug face.
Lyonette was furious Maran had wasted Erin’s money. But deep down she was also pleased. It meant that there would be trouble, and that both [Barmaids] would get what was coming to them. At least, Lyonette hoped that was the case.
“Hey Lyon. Get Mrsha off the table!”
Safry was trying to clear the plates off of one and Mrsha was happily trying to steal scraps. She flicked her hands at Mrsha, trying to shoo her off, but Mrsha just saw that as an invitation to play. Lyonette hurried over and pulled Mrsha away. Safry glared, and Lyonette glared back.
The other woman broke the stare-off by glancing towards the door.
“By the way, one of the Antinium things was here earlier. Not the Bird one…this one called himself Pawn or something.”
“What? Pawn?”
Lyonette dropped Mrsha in her excitement. Pawn was alive! Erin had been so worried.
“Where is he?”
Safry shrugged.
“I don’t know. He was looking for Erin, so I told him to come back later because Erin’s not here. We’re busy cleaning up breakfast, so—”
“No!”
Lyonette clutched at her hair. She screamed at Safry, right in the woman’s surprised face. How could she turn away Pawn, just because she was afraid of the Antinium? He was a guest, and she—
“We always let the Antinium in! Always! Is he still nearby? How far did he go?”
She rushed out the door before the woman could respond.
 
——
 
Death. Pawn had known it would come to that. He’d known it, but not really known. There had been some stupid, foolish part of him that had imagined fighting with his Soldiers, triumphing over the monsters and not losing a single one.
What a fool he had been. The Antinium dragged himself away from Erin’s inn. She wasn’t there. And he was empty.
His Soldiers had died. Twenty five of them. But far more had died that weren’t his. He’d heard Belgrade give the report to Klbkch. Over two hundred Workers and about half the number of Soldiers had perished while they’d been fighting. Two hundred.
These weren’t devastating numbers. The Hive had suffered worse, and always come back. New Workers and Soldiers were always being created. That also meant each day they were also dying. If not by the hundreds, at least a dozen.
Each day. Each day, a dozen Soldiers like the ones who lived on the walls of the barracks in paint died. Each day. Pawn could barely fathom that. No—it was because he couldn’t imagine such a thing that he was still able to function at all.
