It killed every person inside, then panned across the rooftop before winking out of existence. Two more warriors were reduced to cinders in the blink of an eye. Another was aflame, running and screaming until someone tacked him, smothered the fire, and poured a healing potion into his mouth.

The ray boring into Kenji’s shield flickered and died a few seconds later, but it was only a matter of time before the mechanical mages let loose another barrage. Worse, another set of giants would emerge from the portals in less than two minutes, and the last attack had driven Team Earth away from the rings.

He knew deep in his bones that his army was about to be wiped out, despite their brilliant performance up to this point. He changed his objective in that moment, trying to find a way to beat the quest, even if everyone on the rooftop died to make it happen.

But even that seemed like an impossible goal.

He considered pulling back—having his people scatter to the wind, run like mad, and try to run out the clock—before deciding that it was a trap.

At the rate that the constructs were receiving reinforcements, his troops would be dead in less than fifteen minutes. And that didn’t even take into account the possibility of a fourth phase. Our only chance is to gamble that we can break both blue rings before our elites fall, then pray that at least one of us lives long enough to complete the quest.

“Hit the big portals with everything you have!” he cried. “This might be the end, but I’m not dying before they fall.”

His team let out a wordless roar, burning through the last of their reserves. The sky disappeared behind a resplendent tapestry of deviation, as spells engulfed the azure rings and arrows fell like rain.

When the smoke cleared a few seconds later, Team Earth let out a collective groan of dismay. While they had destroyed the remaining shield giant, the mages’ staves were already shining bright again. The moment that their beams appeared, every person within 100 yards would be reduced to ash on the breeze.

Fuck. We’re totally fucked. Both portals still stood, his army was running on fumes, and the clockwork colossi were ready and eager to settle the score.

In that moment, Kenji knew. Checkmate had arrived, and he was experiencing humanity’s final hour.

Well before the clock hit zero, they were all going to die, and every creature that called the Earth home would die with them.

Even standing on the precipice of annihilation, Kenji refused to surrender. He raised his spear and prepared to charge, intending to go down fighting no matter how hopeless the odds. All he could do now was drag the battle out as long as possible and pray that a miracle appeared.

He turned to face the closest giant and advanced—every scrap of concentration focused on making his final effort count. Ten seconds until impact.

The immense metal machines raised their burning rods, poised to strike as one.

With death staring Kenji in the face, his perception of time slowed to a crawl. It gave him a moment to appreciate his impending demise in stark detail as Team Earth bellowed their final battle cry. Eight seconds.

At that same instant, a message from the System appeared.

Late arrivals from Team Earth have climbed the Tower of Rizzen and arrived on the rooftop.

As the update faded away, a radiant pillar appeared beside him, like a spotlight was shining on the battlefield from above.

In the heart of that frozen moment, each millisecond sailed by at a glacial procession, giving Kenji a chance to process what he was looking. Six seconds.

Two men were descending toward the tower’s roof on a floating platform—profiles outlined by the brilliant blue Earth above.

One warrior was wreathed in a fiery aura—so bright that Kenji had to squint to look at him. His armor was covered in a layer of lava, and his two-handed axe was glowing like the heart of a star.

The other man was shrouded in a translucent nimbus of concentrated magical energy. Mana warped the space around him like air rising from sun-warmed stone. He held a curved sword that was bathed in silvery magic—pure like the light of the moon.

Kenji had no idea what was happening, but their appearance filled him with a frenetic hope—like his body had touched a live wire. Even with events proceeding in slow motion, the warriors were coming in fast. By now, their platform had closed half the distance to the battlefield. Five.

That was when he realized that he recognized both men, if not the incredible powers at their command. Holy shit. That’s Devin and Nick! In between one heartbeat and the next, time resumed its full course.

Three seconds. Hope and despair warred within Kenji’s breast. Despite their dramatic arrival, the men weren’t going to make it before the staff-wielding giants reduced his unit to char. However, the duo didn’t wait for the platform to reach the ground.

They braced their boots against the edge, pointed their bodies at the mechanical mages, and sprang into motion. Nick kicked off the platform’s rim with the full power of Force Acceleration, transforming his body into a streaking blur. Devin used an ability that made fire erupt from his feet, sailing toward the constructs while trailing flames like a comet.

What happened next was so fast that Kenji only caught part of it. A bare second before the giants unleashed their wrath, the heroes collided with the towering colossi. Devin’s burning battleaxe roared like a dragon, and Nick’s silver sword looked sharp enough to sever space itself.

In a twin flash of silver and crimson, their weapons came down, carving into the clockwork magi with meteoric force before their boots hit the ground a heartbeat later. One staff-wielding titan had a silver line drawn diagonally across its torso. Its beam flared to life for a fraction of a second, before its body slid apart, staff and all.

Devin’s symphony of destruction was in another key. His axe hit the machine’s shoulder, cleaving the arm carrying its staff before lodging itself deep within the giant’s torso. His weapon was burning so hot that a waterfall of molten metal was pouring to the ground.

Both towering titans came crashing down with a thud of finality—bodies dissolving before soaking into the stone.

Kenji pushed past his shock and forced himself back into action. This was a miraculous development, but the battle wasn’t over yet.

Devin and Nick were down on one knee with one set of knuckles braced against the cratered rooftop, having suffered no damage from the incredible impact. Then the men rose to their feet, looked his way, and smiled.

“Kenji,” Nick said. “Sorry we’re late. I had some pressing business to attend to.”

“You’re here now,” he replied—still processing that this was really happening. “That’s all that matters.”

In that moment, Kenji thought the worst was behind him. But Nick’s next words revealed that there was one last challenge to overcome before the day was won.

“The fourth phase is a trap, but I know how to disarm it. I need you to deal with the clockwork army while we engage the Guardian of Darkstone Tower. Break one of those big rings now but leave the other standing until the Guardian arrives on rooftop.

“Each portal that goes dark during the first three phases reroutes power to enhance the boss’s capabilities. If you break all the rings of one size, it will multiply the effect, and we won’t be able to kill it. Once its unplugged and on the battlefield, you can destroy the remaining portals without consequence and finish wiping out the construct army.”

Kenji didn’t know how the man had obtained this information and there wasn’t time to ask. There were hundreds of constructs surging across the rooftop, including the pair of polearm-wielding giants, and more were arriving every few minutes.

Sophia’s party had come running while Nick finished his explanation. They stopped long enough to share a few words, then everyone burst into motion.

While the duo dealt with the Guardian, Kenji ordered his unit to attack the blue portal that had taken the most damage, reducing it to a lump of twisted metal over the next thirty seconds.

He ordered half his forces to help clear the rooftop, while the rest waited for the next giant to appear.

Kenji’s army was wounded and weary. Ragged and running on fumes. But with Nick and Devin heading out to defeat the boss of Darkstone Tower, humanity could hold on a little longer.

The climax of the last battle was fast approaching, and it was time for Team Earth to strike back.
