The city lord, however, gazed out over the evening forest line. The massive trees waved back at him, leaves catching and flowing with the evening winds.

Just what exactly is out there? Kairon didn't know. But he needed to find out before one of his imps didn't come back. For now, there was nothing he could do.

Sometimes, Kairon himself would try and help with the hauling. Yet, he found the gains to be only marginal. His lithe form was better for precise tasks, not brute strength. And the sun was just so... sapping. Like he was some kind of vampiric species.

He was grumbling about that internally during his morning headcount when his stomach dropped. Nine. Only nine?! The massive eyeball opened wide, sweeping the clearing with its intense gaze. He checked the treeline, the stockpile, and the timber area. Where is the tenth? Where is Shiny?

Thirty seconds later, Shiny waddled out from behind the tower, dragging a fieldstone nearly half its size. It deposited the rock at the stockpile boundary with a satisfied grunt.

I didn't tell Shiny to do that. The imp had gone out, found a massive stone, and brought it back. On its own... While Kairon slept.

He watched the imp dust off its clawed hands and settle back at its post like nothing had happened.

...Impressive.

By day ten, the stockpile was looking significantly better than where it began.

Timber yields had been averaging closer to nine to ten a day, predominantly due to the chewers outpacing the haulers and Shiny making sure they always kept logs ready for hauling now. For any further increases, it would probably require the haulers getting stronger or new imps.

Unfortunately, one other change was getting more and more clear with each day.

Tonight, it had finally fallen below 40%, and it was evident.

As he watched his workforce curl up in their little holes and fall asleep, he contemplated what he should build next. He'd been thinking more on the city's growth.

There were two options as he saw it.

First, prioritize growth. Get a camp for better sleeping conditions and increased fervor, or a feeding pit to help with food supply.

Second, prioritize defenses. Rush the wrath district.

Even as he looked at the rising and falling chests of his slumbering workers, he knew he couldn't afford to wait.

The wrath district would come first. It had to. If the humans showed up like this, it could be the end of Kairon's city.
