A very strange feeling comes over me.

It is that same feeling of a veil being pulled over my senses, or like the isolation from the system I experienced in the Ravine of the Cyan Zone.

It wraps around the outer edges of my soul, and when Maria is linked in to this perk, the same barrier forms around her as well.

Unlike the daggers that held us in place, this barrier feels like it's completely under our control.

With a simple thought, I could deactivate it.

However, there is another very drastic difference as well. It feels permeable. When I push my senses through it, I can feel the entire domain around me with a strange echo-location-like technique.

It's made of Primordial Aura, and it's certainly a version far more advanced than normal, but it is not my own.

Whatever this aura is, it's come from deep within the Rising Emperor's system interface.

Not only can I see beyond the veil in perfect clarity, but inside, the outer layers of my soul feel exactly the same.

It's like all of my energy is perfectly contained. Not even the oppressive waves of gravity from the clash of the battle outside are affecting me.

Maria and I both look at each other in shock, because it feels like we're able to move and function as freely as though we were standing in the Lower Realm. Yet, we have access to all the power of a purple-cored primordial.

Even our glyphs pulse with more power than they did moments ago.

Not having to use up mental and physical energy just to stay standing upright from the pressure has elevated large amounts of raw power that can be used for whatever we want.

Instantly, we start cycling my ethereal fire through both of our bodies to heal.

The energy flowing through our soul energy cores flows through the barrier like it's not even there. Even as Primordial Trees are bending over and drooping from the pressure of the atmosphere.

All of the mental fatigue from running for our lives in this forest is lifted, and we can focus on the Demon and Dragon that collide with our full attention.

The collisions of claws and daggers make every single tree in the domain bend, and the outer layers of the domain barrier are affected too.

After Ember broke in from the ceiling, it began to heal itself up automatically, sealing all the diamond-shaped cracks and isolating the outside zone. However, this clash sends a shockwave into these cracks faster than it can fully recover.

An enormous spiderweb of fractures pierces through the entire inner side of the dome. It does not break all the way through, but it's clear that there are now tension points all over it, not just in a single place.

The two monsters in the center of the domain bounce off each other like they have collided with equal force.

There is no injury in Ember's palms, and the daggers in Marcellus Imperial's hands only glow brighter.

A wave of chaotic aura pulses out of the Demon's horns once it absorbs its third dagger, and this is enough of a disturbance to block the white wave of fire that comes out of Ember's mouth.

They each float in the air, now on opposite ends of the enormous tree trunk in the middle of the forest, and look at each other with disdain.

Ember yells, "You haven't grown rusty, good for you. The Overseer has a loyal dog that keeps itself fit!"

Marcellus yells back, "I wish I could say the same for you! I know how much power you have left, there's no reason to hide it. Even if you managed to change fate with a newly born anomaly from the Lower Realm, it is meaningless. I will kill you here again as many times as it takes. You will never touch the membrane again..."

They both blink forward, clashing in the center of the stump again, two daggers against two clawed hands.

Both swing their feet out to try and claw at the other, but they're met by perfect counters.

Waves of chaotic energy clash with a serene wave of white flames filled with too many colors and energies for the unaided mind to comprehend.

However, through the permeable barrier that surrounds us, I can see what is happening crystal clear.

That does not mean I have the full understanding of how the energies clashing work, but I can see them, and with every passing moment, they are making more and more sense.

Warm waves of understanding hit the outside of my soul.

They are pure shockwaves of Advanced Primordial Aura being digested by the defense mechanism released by the Rising Emperor's interface.

Instead of destroying the harmful energy, it absorbs it, and integrates it into its own barrier to become stronger. There is a decent amount of runoff that floods into my mind as new comprehension. With my mind and soul link with Maria returned, we can both bounce these understandings off each other and progress even faster.

I start to realize the barrier around us is kind of like the situation within the Primordial Trees. The trees are the remnants left behind by many ancient dryads, containing their wills. It is far more simple, because they have a single function, and I can already comprehend their high-quality ether glyphs to follow the energy flows.

With this barrier within the Rising Emperor's interface, I cannot sense any of the internal commands that were activated.

I've peered into this strange place a few times, while deep in concentration activating my primordial-grade shadowstep, however, the interface I'm using now is even more secure.

I cannot see what commands or glyphs are running this system, I can only instinctually understand that one must be running.

Whatever created it, their Primordial Aura is terrifying... it can nullify, neutralize, and dissect the auras in the outside atmosphere, while keeping the hosts completely isolated from the danger... yet we receive all of the data and energy benefits.

Our minds begin to spin once this rabbit hole of thought is opened up, and we only gain more perception and comprehension with each passing moment.

The budding Advanced Primordial Aura both of us were attempting to awaken while trapped in this Demon's clutches starts to make alarmingly fast progress as well. This is because the Aura we're trying to study isn't actively trying to kill us this time around. It's much easier.

So, behind the veil, our Primordial Aura's intensity grows exponentially stronger every time we witness a clash between Ember and Marcellus.

Yet, there is still one natural barrier that feels like it cannot be lifted by comprehension alone.

It is the bottleneck deep within our souls, the one our glyph imprints have been desperately trying to melt through every time we go within range of this enormous tree stump. Before, the danger and pressure were too overwhelming. Now, even with a battle raging on above it, this is our chance to see what this Royal Family Head has been guarding.
