"And none of it was on the history of this academy?" Flia asked, exasperated. "Did you not look into what it would take for you to advance to the next stage of the academy at all?"

"I was having fun in this one," Syphus said with a shrug. "Are the other stages better at fighting?"

"They are categorically better at everything," Flia said.

Syphus's single runic eye went wide. "...I've been missing out."

"You've all been missing out." Flia groaned. "Did you think you just move forward into the next stage once you pass or something?"

"...Yes?" Damien volunteered.

Flia buried her face in her hands.

It turned out, after a long explanation that doubled as a frustrated rant, that Damien's idea of how things worked at the Brightscale Academy had been completely wrong for all the years he'd been there. Which was a little awkward. The same was true for Syphus, who had been there twice as long. Leo had the best excuse, being relatively new to the place.

Magic academies did not adopt the year-by-year organization of each cohort that more mundane schools did. It took the average mage years of training to be considered worthy of assignments as a professional, especially on Utelia, where magic was easily accessible for just about anyone. As a result, rather than the cohorts being divided by years, they were divided by stages of knowledge and mana core development. Once the thresholds were crossed, a student graduated automatically to the next stage.

The four stages were, in order, plainroot, palewater, darkwood, and wyldfire. Leo had predictably immediately questioned the names, which was the one place where Flia faltered; she had no idea why they were named that way, except that it had something to do with mana core development.

"I can't believe you guys didn't know any of this," she muttered. "Were you just planning to stay at plainroot forever?"

"...Yes?" Damien ventured. It didn't help. Flia just let out a long-suffering groan.

"Okay, whatever," she said. "You know now. The important thing is that you can graduate as a mage at the darkwood stage; the wyldfires are the mages who want to learn everything Brightscale Academy has to offer. Some of them help out as professors, and a lot of them are either pretty much archmages or outright archmages in their own right. Every Wing has at least three of them—"

"Even the Astral Wing?" Leo interjected eagerly.

"Except the Astral Wing," Flia said sternly, making the poor minotaur hunch over with disappointment. "We have one, and I have no idea where she is. That's unimportant. The wyldfires are usually off delving dungeons and working on developing their magic. They're barely even in the academy most of the time, but they get to freely consult with our professors and use our resources in exchange for occasionally helping out with classes, or helping Headmaster Akkau intimidate someone."

"That feels illegal," Leo said.

"That's why it's unofficial." Flia seemed entirely unperturbed. "Here's the thing, though. They come back every year for the Fettered Divinity tournament—the one the Thyrahl Kingdom hosts to push back the dark lord. They're allowed to bring a small team of students with them to this tournament, and the position is extremely prestigious."

"...and you want us to be the team they bring along?" Damien asked, confused. There was no way they'd earn that position, was there? And even if they did, he didn't see why that would help. "Isn't it equally likely we'd make things worse if everyone gets jealous?"

"Brightscale students value control. Even the petty ones can't help themselves. Remember how Nala came to us the moment she realized there was something she didn't understand?" Flia asked. "Every academy has an identity, and control is ours. But I'm not exactly suggesting we somehow become the most stand-out student team in time for selection."

"What are you suggesting, then?" Damien asked, his brows furrowing.

Flia grinned. "I'm suggesting we train everyone to pick up on Cale's methods until we're all good enough to be nominated," she said. "It might be a little dangerous, but we can get the professors to help. And Cale himself, if he gets back by then. Professor Graystalk's remedial class last night went really well, from what I hear. It doesn't matter if we win—I just want the Astral Wing to stand out the most from all the previous years, where not even a single one of our teams was nominated."

"They'll think we cheated," Leo said, slightly hesitant, but now he looked like he wanted to be convinced. Damien was halfway there already, and Syphus had stopped listening and started nodding viciously as soon as Flia said the word "tournament."

"Maybe, but I doubt it," Flia said, shaking her head. "Because their own wyldfires will be nominating the teams, and everyone respects them more than anything. Trust me. We pull this off? The Red Hunters lose all the ground they made and more."

As the conversation wound down, Damien began to grow quiet, finding himself suddenly caught up in his thoughts about Cale and what he'd told them. He couldn't tell if the others felt the same way, though it was clear none of them had quite stopped thinking about it. Damien hadn't brought it up himself—he agreed with Flia that making plans for later was far more important—but now that that was done...

Well. Damien, for his part, didn't really know what to think about all that, and frankly he wasn't sure if he wanted to. All that stuff about Yggdrasil's End felt like it was several stages beyond him.

The general thrust of his thoughts went largely like this: Damien had spent most of his life worrying about the future. What he might do in it, what might become of it, all the eventualities in which his natural attunement fell out of control. Outside of his own problems, it felt strange now to worry about Cale's past. It helped him understand why Cale was the way he was.

As callous as it might have sounded, he was pretty sure he just didn't care about who Cale had been. He cared about who Cale was now, and about what he might do with all the power he wielded. On Utelia especially, with the power the Gift granted him, there was a potential for yet another event like that which once led to the end of Yggdrasil.

And despite himself, he was, in fact, a little bit worried about that.

He wasn't sure if any of the others shared that worry. Damien had mostly been watching Cale as he told his story. He'd seen the darkness within Cale's eyes slowly fade, replaced by the hope that Utelia represented, by the understanding that his apprentices would not abandon him for something that clearly scarred him, even now.

But that darkness hadn't faded entirely. That trauma wasn't the sort of scar that could be healed in the course of a single conversation, and certainly not in such a small amount of time. Now he was off to face the Red Commander, who had not only been the cause of Utelia's problems but represented a stark reminder of the Planar War.

What had Icon said, again? The Red Commander was an avatar of the corrupted fragments of the Source of Magic. If that was the case, then he represented everything Cale had struggled against for what had sounded like centuries, and no matter how much time had passed since, he clearly hadn't healed from that time.

It was one of the reasons he'd made the promise he had. To give Cale a reason to come back, even if the Red Commander somehow dragged his mentor back to the time of that war.

Damien sighed to himself.

Hopefully, that would be enough.
