Right now, the only people in Zago’s office were her, and Erick. She went to a cabinet beside her desk and opened it, revealing an assortment of both glowing and mundane crystal bottles on glass shelves. She grabbed a bottle of flickering red liquid and two crystal cups.

She turned to Erick saying, “I need a drink before we begin. Would you like one, as well?”

“Yes. I would.” Erick said, “Thank you.” He added, “And I’d like to make you and Sizzi some rings as well. And whoever else you might consider, of course. I want to be prepared for the coming fight, this time.”

Zago smiled as she poured two short drinks, and handed one to Erick, saying, “I did not expect this sort of Dead City business to happen in my lifetime.”

Erick took his drink, and sipped. It was strong, but Erick could hold his drink. A warmth spread through his body. “This is good stuff. Thank you.”

Zago downed her drink, then grimaced, as she said, “Whew!” She poured herself another.

Erick smiled.

Zago sipped her second drink slower, and said, “It has a minor mana regenerative effect, too, but without the use of crushed rads. You probably wouldn’t notice the effect, but I suffered through arcanaeum practically living on this stuff.” She held up her flickering red cup, saying, “I had to get in the proper headspace to talk of the Magisterium, you see.”

Erick downed his drink, then said, “I can imagine. I haven’t heard much about how the Wasteland Kingdom treats magic except that they don’t like it.”

Zago filled his drink again, then set the bottle on her desk. “Broadly true, but not at all true, like so many things in life.” She took one of the chairs on the visitor’s side of the desk. “I won’t go over much of it, but as a visiting mage there are certain things you shouldn’t do, and especially not do, considering you’re human.”

Erick took the other seat, beside Zago. At the mention of his humanity, he was glad she had offered him a drink. The alcohol was already making this messy business of Quiet War and the Dead City and new magic, seem easier to handle.

Zago said, “As an archmage, and recognized as such by the Headmaster, you are not subject to the limiting tattoos that they would require you accept on your body before you stepped foot on Kingdom soil. But it’s important to keep this in mind, as if you threaten ruin, then they will take you down and put them on you. They might look for some stupid reason to tattoo you, anyway.

“This is why I suggest you go with Ophiel. Most archmages do that sort of visitation. But there is a catch.

“If you go with your [Familiar], and not in person, then you will be looked down upon. I don’t know if that matters to you, but it might to some, so I tell you this now so you’re not surprised.

“You’re there to help clear out adult mimics though, in what is one of the largest infestations the Kingdoms have seen since the Fracturing Wars, back when I was a child. They were not prepared for this sudden shift in lifestyle, and they have just lost many of the people on site that would have dealt with such an infestation. So it’s gotten a lot worse in a very short amount of time.

“Besides that, there has always been a tiff between the Wall and the other Kingdoms, so the most obviously needed help won’t manifest for the current infestation quick enough to really matter. And, according to my sources, Archmage Hocnihai has already spoken for you and bequeathed his remaining debt of his bargain of trade to the Magisterium.

“The way has been paved for you to appear in person, but I don’t think you should.”

While Zago spoke, Poi stepped into the room. Both Erick and Zago noticed him, but Poi said nothing; he just waited.

Zago continued, “Anyway. I was already there once today… It’s not pretty. Practically the whole Wall is active in either repairs or mimic killing. Your Domain would be much appreciated, but they will try to trick you into something more permanent. They’ll try to ply you with gifts to offset the good you have done them, but if you accept those gifts, you will have entered into an informal contract with them, placing you into debt.” Zago stressed, “You do not want to be in debt with the Magisterium.”

“Oh? Uh. About that...” Erick said, “They came to me while I was on Oceanside, and gave me copies of Hocnihai’s final tomes, but while he was still alive, he gave me specialized tomes on [Prismatic Ward] and [Reflection].”

Zago’s eyes went wide. She calmed, and said, “That is worth much more than…” She paused. She said, “Maybe they do still owe you something. But that is unimportant. You need to stress that helping with the current infestation is final payment of the gifts you have received, and there is no debt to be had on either side.” She looked away. She looked to Erick. “Yes. That might be good enough. It has a higher chance of working since you’re a declared Archmage, but it might not.” She continued, “Anyway! Don’t accept gifts. Don’t get trapped. Ideally, I should be able to introduce Ophiel to Magister Iordex —the man currently in charge of clearing out the mimics— and from there, you can go do your thing, and others can clean up the remnants, and we can be done by—” She glanced out the window. The sun was still up in the western sky, and it was hours from setting. “By midnight.”

“Sir,” Poi said.

Erick and Zago turned to Poi.

Poi said, “Mayor Silverite has requested a [Domain of the Withering Slime] on Spur, before you leave. Within the next ten minutes, please.” He added, “Kal’Duresh and Frontier desire the same, as soon as possible.”

Suddenly worried, Erick said, “I haven’t done that in months. That could kill people with intestinal rads.”

Zago said, “We check for those, now. Every person who comes in through the Wayfarer’s Guild or through the gates should see the signs by those entrances. There’s even a warning in the signing papers here, and at the Adventurer’s Guild.”

Erick looked to Poi. Poi nodded.

“… Oh? Okay.” Erick said, “Then… Right now?”

Poi tilted his head up, then looked to Erick, and said, “After the warning has gone out.”

Zago winced. “That thing is too loud.”

“What warn—”

Erick didn’t get to finish his question, as the sounds of bees and violence and the moan of a dying god vibrated through the air outside of Zago’s office, rising into a crescendo, surging to a peak of terror, then descending to a low volcanic eruption.

Zago’s two cats absolutely flipped the fuck out, meowing loud before dashing into a dark corner of the room.

Words echoed across the city:

“THIS IS AN OFFICIAL TRANSMISSION OF THE EMERGENCY WARNING SYSTEM. [WITHERING] WILL BEGIN, SOON. I REPEAT: [WITHERING] WILL BEGIN, SOON. PREPARE YOUR [WEATHER WARD]S, IF NEEDED.”

As the violent air stopped assaulting his ears, Erick said, “Holy shit! Why have I never heard that before?!”

Poi said, “We had time to put out fliers and proclamations before, so no warning.”

Zago added, “Most city-wide problems are solved by the archmages and such, so there’s no reason to warn everyone about a problem they couldn’t solve, or a problem that they would get in the way of if they knew about. But the warning system is there for when something drastic happens that the individual needs to be responsible for.”

“I get that, but...” Erick said, “Why did I not hear that at the Red Dot attack?”

Zago said, “The three locations where someone can send out a message on the emergency broadcast system—”

The air vibrated again, repeating the same incredibly loud message as before.

When the message finished, Zago said, “The locations to broadcast the message were attacked first. Those locations were supposed to be privately held knowledge, but someone like Caradogh could have easily discovered them.”

Hearing that, Erick finished off his second drink, then said, “He’s dead, you know. He went after Jane and she killed him.”

Zago smiled, showing bright white teeth between dark purple lips. “I heard. Good for her.”

“She is rather awesome.”

Poi said, “You’re clear to go, sir.”

Erick said, “This seems so sudden.” As he cast, he added, “And why no loud voice like that when Tania screamed across the city?”

The air around him flickered with insubstantial white light, forming a sphere nearly two meters across and centered on his sitting form. Almost nothing changed of his immediate surroundings, but past the windows of Zago’s tower, thick air played across the city, like a sentient tsunami diving into every crevice and drying out every monster it touched.

Zago smirked. “This is magic cast upon the city that Silverite wants to happen. And since we haven’t put out any proclamations, we have the warning system.”

Notifications flooded in.

Erick said, “Okay. Sure. I guess I understand.” He added, “But someone could die!”

Zago said, “And we likely have shadowcats or other nasties inside the city right now, too. They would kill more people than your spell, for sure. Especially if they’re waiting for some signal from Candlepoint.”

Erick glanced at some of his notifications, his eyes going wide. He said, “Looks like you’re right about that.”

Poi heard Erick and stood a bit straighter, as he radiated more telepathic lines.

Zago, for her part, sat in the white bubble with Erick and poured herself another drink, before refilling Erick’s glass. Erick focused on the notifications, hoping and praying that he wouldn’t clip any people in his spell. He didn’t hope for zero surprises; that ship had sailed in the first ten seconds.

Minutes added together to a dozen.

After a minute with no more notifications, but with the spell still running, Erick broke the silence, saying, “Poi, can you please tell Silverite that I can continue to use the spell if she wishes Opal to pop any of the [Weather Ward]s out there. She might. So far, I see 5 Shadowcats, over 2000 wolves, a few hundred mimics, something called a ‘Puppet Master’, along with thirty ‘Puppet Minds’, whatever those are, more than a few acid slimes, and something called an owliper, but that looked rather low level—”

You have slain Umbral Leviathan A!

95% participation!

+34,716,353,135,390 exp

“— and an Umbral Leviathan!” Erick asked, “What the frick is that?”

Zago frowned, and downed her drink.

A dozen more tendrils of thought radiated from Poi as he muttered, “Puppets! What the fu...” his voice trailing off.

“The puppets are a bit of a worry, but if you got the master then whatever they were up to is over with.” Zago said, “The Umbral Leviathan could have been a major problem. Sometimes they wander up through the deeper tunnels of the sewer, and when they get this close, they usually go all the way and burst up on a street corner somewhere. How much experience was it worth?”

Erick counted, then said, “34 trillion. 95% participation.”

“Level 55, then.” Zago said, “It would have likely killed a dozen people before it got killed in return. That’s one of the lower level ones. Good job, Erick.”

Poi said, “Silverite would like you to hold the spell open until she says otherwise.”

Erick downed his drink then said, “Sure!”

Zago smiled, then said, “Care for a refill?”

“Thank you, but not if we have to visit the Magisterium after this. I’d like some coftea.” Erick stood up. “I’ll pop over to the house and be right back with enough for all of us.”

Zago smiled. “Go right ahead.” She filled her cup again, saying, “Personally, I can’t meet them sober.”

Erick blipped to the house, gathered up some coftea, a pitcher, two mugs, the rest of the stuff necessary to make coftea, except for water, and blipped back. He set the stuff out on a work table. Zago showed him the water fountain, and in ten minutes, he had his first cup of coftea, surrounded by the white orb of his Domain. It wasn’t till he was through his first cup, that he thought to foist his [Domain of the Withering Slime] off to an Ophiel, and set that Ophiel into the sky in the center of Spur. He still had to use his own mana to hold that spell open so that it would benefit from all of his own bonuses, but that was easy.

And so, he sat down to talk with Zago, about the past, and the present.

Zago spoke of her time at the Magisterium-licensed Arcanaeum, and how awful it was to learn magic under that rule, but also how beautiful the country is, and how nice the people are. Erick spoke of failing out of university, and then never going back because he had a kid to raise, but he did manage to get his bachelor's in social work. Occasionally, notifications would ping, and Erick would tell Poi of those notifications.

More shadowcats. A second leviathan. A flock of couatls, for some strange reason. A whole lot more crystal mimics, as the spell had time to really stretch kilometers past the edges of Spur, and past the black sands near the city walls.

After an hour, Poi asked, “Silverite is finished. She thanks you, Erick, for your time and magic.”

Zago said, “That spell would basically guarantee you the right to start your own Kingdom, you know.” She smirked, adding, “If you were incani, I mean.”

Erick laughed. “Back home, I could start a whole religion using just [Cleanse]. I’d probably get executed, too, but that’s par for the course. Nothing quite makes a religion more serious than a martyr.”

Zago laughed loud.

Erick smiled, as he canceled his Domain. The Ophiel over the city turned small and blipped back into Zago’s office, to alight on Erick’s shoulder with a pleasant violin trill. Erick glanced at the window. Sunset was only two hours away. Maybe less.

