Lifsauhn stared at Yggdrasil's End. He had no idea what he meant, but he had the distinct feeling that he needed to get out of here now.

No choice, then. He'd be giving up everything he'd achieved in Utelia, but at least he'd get word back to the Lower Branches. Lifsauhn braced himself and forcibly inverted the flow of his mana. He'd shatter his core and let the karmic stream take him wherever his soul ended up.

But his mana froze in place, unmoving.

"Interesting," Yggdrasil's End said. "But no. Normally this is where I'd try to interrogate you, but I don't have anything to check if you're telling the truth and I'd rather not prolong this. I kind of hate how this spell feels."

And just like that, the man that stood in front of him held what looked and felt like the End of All Things. A scythe of impossible, soul-ending power gleaming with layers of prismatic mana, folded in so many times it looked almost like a hole into another universe. It was impossible to look away from it, no matter how desperately he wanted to.

"For what it's worth," Yggdrasil's End said. "I'm sorry it had to end this way."

Strangely, he did sound regretful. It did not, however, stop him in the slightest.

For a blink between the severing of his soul and his true death, the Red Commander saw what seemed to be a black, endless maw, consuming countless other souls just like him.

Then it closed around him, and he was no more.

Adyr had no idea what to expect when that strange, incredibly powerful mage promised to help them, but whatever it was, it wasn't to see that same mage running around angrily after a bleating goat.

Weren't there spells a mage like that could use? Why wasn't he using them? He was just chasing it around in circles! There was that form he'd used earlier that allowed him to move at ludicrous speeds—why wasn't he doing any of that? He was just running! And at human speeds, at that—

The mage tripped and faceplanted into the ground, and one of the goats bleated at him before hopping over his flailing body. Hesa was watching and let out a startled giggle, and that was all Adyr needed to understand what was happening.

Cale Cadwell Cobbs recognized they needed normalcy, and he was doing his best to provide it.

What an odd mage. Adyr had no idea how to feel about him. The look in his eyes when he faced that horrible monster was like nothing Adyr had ever seen. It was cold, angry, and desperate for justice in a way that felt old and ancient. But now...

Well, Adyr didn't know if he could say the look was gone. But it looked a bit like he'd managed to center himself on some new sort of peace, and it looked like he'd needed it for a very long time.

Maybe this mage was okay after all.

...Honestly, Adyr really hoped he was right, because he'd agreed to introduce the mage to his master, and while there was no doubt someone this powerful would have something to teach, he was really starting to worry about them meeting.

Especially since his master was a little eccentric and had a weird obsession with baking.
