And absolutely no one was going to stop—

There was a sudden flicker of gold before everything went to hell.

Blood erupted from Edmund's mouth. Confusion followed—pain exploded in his stomach. Something had lodged itself in his gut. Something was gripping his spine. Something tightened its grip. His spine shattered. Edmund tried to scream, but his lungs had popped as well. A chaotic haze of agony and motion tore him through the room. Screams were erupting all around him. Edmund's mind reeled. He didn't know what had just happened. How did he end up here? He lay on the ground bleeding, his body broken in several ways. His ruined flesh tried to heal, but then something slammed down on his back once more and wrenched him off the floor.

Lifted up into the air, he was used to batter and bludgeon one of his lesser kindred until she was a bloody paste against the wall, until her lineage core cracked against Edmund's skull, bursting in a spray of miasmic blood. Edmund sobbed from the agony, sobbed from the uncontrolled frenzy of violence. A half-second ago, he had been sitting on his throne within his bridge. Now, he was broken. What had happened? He hadn't even seen his attacker. It was like time was missing. Chronomancy? That shouldn't be possible. The Court Leviathan was armed with significant wards.

Edmund smelled him before anything else. The stench of humanity and something more. Then he heard him, a loud heartbeat, thundering so powerfully it sounded like cannon blasts going off in Edmund's ears. The Elder’s neck healed just enough for movement, and he turned, looking up at the nightmare that butchered his people.

In the moment he did, a line of text crawled across Edmund's eyes.

Hidden World Quest Activated: Slay Tanner “Shiv” Lowe, the Deathless, before he…

The Deathless. He'd been here. He'd been here all this time. It was a trap. And Edmund had been a fool. He'd been a fool, blind and stupid, to think that they would just let him crawl so close to their Gate.

The bridge of Edmund's Court Leviathan was riven in broken bones, in crushed bodies, in death. Worse yet, Edmund couldn't sense any of his lessors' lineage cores. It was like they had been ripped away from existence. In contrast, twelve crimson serpents crept out from behind the Deathless, and inside them, small glinting lights filled with concentrated Biomancy radiated as if distant stars. It was then that Edmund realized the Deathless had used his Biomancy to subsume the lineage cores.

And the Deathless himself was a horror made manifest. He was too large to be a man. Closer to an orc in size—and still growing larger. His body radiated with white, red, and golden mana, and the pressure he exuded was beyond potent. Flashes of distant terror—of a Deity wailing in misery as the Deathless mutilated her—scarred itself into Edmund’s mind.

The Elder’s bravery failed him; he soiled himself.

"Please, please wait!" Edmund coughed. Blood spilled out from his mouth, his body broken and struggling to heal. The sheer amount of damage he'd sustained left him little more than soup on the inside, but the Deathless simply looked down at Edmund as if he were nothing at all. Edmund couldn't see his eyes behind that skeletal helmet, but he could feel the hate there. Cold hate.

"I don't know how many times I need to teach you leeches this lesson," the Deathless said. "I don't know how many times you have to be hurt before you learn. Today was not the day to invade. Today was not the day. Today... today I'm going to hurt you. You and every other godsdamn bloodsucker I get my hands on."

A loud thump followed as a disturbing length of tissue unfurled from the Deathless’s arm. Edmund’s eyes widened as he realized it was nothing but tissue and bone and cancer. Its thick head slammed against the ground, cracking bone and radiating with powerful Biomancy. Hungry Biomancy.

"No, please, I—I can be traded! I am an Elder, a fourth-generation Elder," Edmund begged.

"Traded?" the Deathless growled. "Alright, yeah. You know what? Maybe I will have you deliver a message for me."

Against all odds, a flare of hope ignited inside Edmund's chest. "Yes, yes, you can! I'll do anything, I'll convey any message."

Before he could finish speaking, the Deathless reached down, seized Edmund by the throat, and then slammed a fist through his chest, gripping his lineage core.

"Don't need you alive to deliver that message, though. And it's going to be real simple. They don't even need to hear me say it."

Edmund choked. He clawed weakly at the Deathless's face. But he was a gnat trying to defy the will of a storm.

"This gate was never yours to conquer,” the Deathless finished.

And then he closed his fist around Edmund’s core, and the Elder ceased to be altogether.
