Ella hiked through an endless sea of grass, part of a savanna biome bordering the Bladewind Badlands that stretched on for hundreds of miles.

She occasionally sensed a predator lurking in the prolific foliage, who didn’t have enough Psi to hide from her growing psychic powers. Whenever one mistook her for an easy meal, she sent it packing with a concentrated burst of killing intent—a little trick she’d picked up from Nick Silver during a duel that was well on its way to becoming a legend.

Event Horizon grumbled inside her mind at being used as a walking stick, but Ella knew the artifact was only complaining because it was bored. She didn’t like killing animals or beasts, and slaughtering the occasional monster she came across wasn’t sufficient to quell the clockwork staff’s bloodlust.

“Don’t worry, girl. These last few weeks have been blessedly peaceful, but my gut is telling me they won’t last much longer. A storm is brewing along the horizon, and mayhem rides in its wake. When the squall breaks over our heads, memories of days like this one are what will keep us sane.”

She chuckled at the staff’s anticipation of the carnage to come, which was flowing through the bond she’d formed with the newly awakened artifact. Event Horizon had absorbed enough essence to become self-aware shortly after Ella had crystalized her Neutron Star Concept and ascended to Tier 2.

She was listening to the roar of the breeze stirring the grass, which sounded remarkably like waves crashing against the shore, when a sound reached her ears that she had last heard in another life.

For a second, she thought her mind was playing tricks on her, but then she heard it again.

Ella smiled as children’s laughter echoed across the prairie. She supposed this could be some kind of elaborate deception, but her instincts said the joyous outbursts were the real deal. She tracked the voices to their origin—blazing a trail by free casting gravity magic to bend the stalks like an army bowing before their queen.

When she leapt atop a colossal boulder, she caught sight of a massive multistory building perched atop a modest hillock overlooking the savanna. The structure hadn’t been there when she surveyed the area from a distance, and it should have been impossible to miss. That incongruency made her proceed with caution, despite her aching desire to believe things were exactly as they appeared.

Two details caused hope to swell within her breast when she took a closer look. The first was a style of architecture she had never expected to see again. The building was a genuine Old Earth hotel, although it had clearly been somewhere urban prior to integration. It was built from concrete, plastic, and glass, with advertisements in the windows featuring products and places that no longer existed.

The System didn’t destroy everything after all. Ella’s understanding of the world shifted as she took in new data. Just most of everything.

There was no way that a monster or alien would know what Old Earth looked like. If this were an illusion generated by a clever predator or an invader that penetrated the Shroud of Protection, it would depict the structures the System generated with City Points or handcrafted buildings formed from local resources.

The second reason she was willing to lower her guard was what she was perceiving through her energetic senses. Hundreds of children were playing on the hillside, overseen by a dozen women carrying babes in their arms. All of them were living, breathing people—seemingly untouched by the ordeals humanity had undergone before reclaiming their homeworld, although some of the adults had a hard look in their eyes. I’ve finally found what I’ve been looking for all this time.

Until this moment, the whereabouts of Earth’s children and expectant mothers had been a perennial mystery. There were at least twenty pregnant women in Aurora by this point, but they had all conceived after returning to the world of their birth.

The System was supposed to have shielded anyone under eighteen and carrying mothers from the perils of integration. Friendly aliens Team Earth met while climbing Darkstone Tower had assured them everyone would return in a few months if they completed Taltos’s challenge, giving humanity time to adapt and rebuild beforehand. But since the planet was so much bigger than before, no one she knew had run into anything like this until now.

Ella loved children. While she hadn’t been blessed with a body that could produce a son or daughter of her own, she had helped raise dozens of fine young people over the course of her long and wonderful life. Since they should have been back by now, she had requested time off from her duties as sheriff to find them, but she had been about to give up and return to the settlement.

Tears streamed down her face at the sight of kids playing without a care in the world. They had clearly been spared the myriad horrors the Mad God had subjected humanity to. Seeing their innocent faces meant more to her than words could ever convey. Once she regained control of her emotions, Ella approached slowly, making sure she didn’t startle them by having a stranger appear without warning.

The little dears took off running when they finally saw her, but while they were excited, they didn’t seem afraid. They didn’t even turn on Blend. When a woman came walking down the hillside to greet her, Ella learned the reason why.

“Welcome. You must be Ella. My name is Julie. It’s a pleasure to make your acquaintance.”

“Likewise. I can’t tell you how excited I am to see children after all this time, but I must admit that I’m a little confused. Would you mind explaining exactly what is going on? I couldn’t see this hotel until a few minutes ago.”

“There is a barrier around this place shielding it from sight. The System says you are going to lead us to our new home, so I switched it off for a moment. Come in and meet the rest of the staff while we enjoy our last meal here. We’ll pack our bags and head out in the morning, if that’s all right with you. It will give the children a chance say goodbye.”

Ella nodded her agreement, grinning like a fool as she walked beside Julie. A flock of little ones came running up to meet her. Walking through the hotel was nostalgic—a last taste of a life that would never come again.

The food was good and the company was better. She spent some time talking to everyone, taking particular delight in playing with the toddlers. Julie explained that the other women had been expecting when the System arrived—assigned to oversee the children during a tutorial that taught them about their new lives and basic survival skills.

Her situation was a bit different. Julie had volunteered for the Mad God’s challenge before the Fate of Earth quest, part of the team that unlocked better classes for all of humanity. After being severely traumatized by accidently killing her teammate, the System had rewarded her victory by sending her here to recover.

They swapped stories, sharing everything they had experienced since their new lives began. When they were finished, Ella told them about Aurora. Everything Stan and Elizabeth had accomplished, and the mayor’s ambitions to turn the settlement into a thriving global hub.

After the children were asleep, she moved on to darker tales, filling the women in on everything that had happened during the Fate of Earth quest. By the time she reached the decisive battle for Earth—Devin and Nick defeating the Guardian with their homeworld hanging in the sky—everyone was yawning, so she bid them goodnight.

She still had a hundred questions, but they could wait until they were on the road back to Aurora. One of the scouting parties should come across them before long and send for backup, which would make it easier to keep everyone safe. Luckily the settlement’s sphere of influence covered most of the badlands, so the Monster Wards and Weather Barrier would protect them from everything besides other people and hungry beasts.

One way or another, she would see her charges safely home. Even if it cost Ella her life, she vowed that the music of their laughter would echo across the city of the rising sun.
