“That was pretty sweet,” the girl admitted. The giant seemed a little cowed by Rale’s new power. The old one merely grunted.“So, to celebrate your birth and Rale’s new form, it’s time for names!” Delta brought the attention back to her while Devina just stared at Rale with a glazed expression.The other frog didn’t seem to notice as he made an odd dance across the water without falling in, laughing his head off.“Oh! OH! I want to be Queen Rainbow Kickass!” the girl demanded. Delta stared at her as she hopped from foot to foot.“It’s a bit long for a name,” Delta said instead of just turning it down. This made the girl think.“Death Mark 2?” she bargained.“It’s a bit grim and I had enough grim to last me a while,” Delta answered. Frowning, the frog looked at the ground with a stumped expression.‘What kind of person goes from Princess rainbow whatever to Death Mark 2?!’ Delta turned to the other two with a strained smile. She could only hope these two wouldn’t be so diffcu-“Gramps will be fine. Someone’s gotta keep these animals in line,” the old frog growled. The last one merely looked down at her.“Giant.”Delta blinked at him.“Just... giant?” she repeated. A curt nod was her answer.Gramps... Giant... what next? Girl? Names were supposed to be important, right?“...I guess Luna will be fine,” the young one muttered and looked away as Delta’s face lit up.“Luna is a pretty name, that is a great one!” Delta agreed quickly.“I think people can’t breathe on the moon right? That’s pretty rad,” Luna mused. Delta felt her face drop but she carried on bravely.“Luna, Gramps, and Giant? Welcome to the jungle!” Delta said brightly. Devina mumbled something vaguely hospitable as she watched Rale flex to show her a new muscle he had never seen before.

“Nu... let’s leave them to get settled in... I still have an idea for the first floor. Something that’s gonna bring some business to the dungeon!” Delta struck a pose, one hand pointing up.“I hear people's eyes explode on the moon,” Luna explained to a malfunctioning Devina.“Too noisy, I need some peace and quiet in some cave... where’s the nearest cave?” Gramps complained.“...” Giant added.Delta’s finger trembled as she began to trudge away.

---“One more day. Quiss said Deo will take the test tomorrow,” Mr. Jones said into the silent room as Ruli tried to nap.“Yippee. I won’t hold my breath,” she answered.“No faith? How unfortunate, you trust Quiss, yes?” came the surprised response. Ruli gave the man a sharp look.“Why so chatty. I was pretty sure Knowledge didn’t mean gossip,” she answered instead. Mr. Jones snorted.“Gathering knowledge is an aspect of the idea. Gossip demons are just uncaring if their information is true or not. Like those who inhale tainted chemicals to reach a high. I seek the pure truth, I will settle for nothing less. Quiss is trying, must be interesting to have someone do that for you,” he added. Ruli’s growl didn’t seem to bother him.“After Mum and Dad? Yeah, random kindness is screwy. Dad tried but he’s a demon. Kindness is starting a war to settle boredom or banishing his power and sending you on a quest to get it back so you ‘get some Screaming sunlight’. Demons make odd parents,” Ruli snapped and sighed after a moment.“Quiss is easy. He wants beer, someone to bitch at, and don’t tell him your life's story. I like that too. No demon motives, no abandonment issues, no magical bullshit. Just us, the drink, and the good times. Is that so weird? I just don’t trust him to be a good enough teacher to get Deo to pass a test,” she added.Mr. Jones merely hummed.“Deo is the most difficult student I have ever had. Not like yourself where you left, but Deo tries and that makes it... hard to do what I do to you. Deo tries very hard to pass, but his head just isn’t into it. As a teacher, I must do what I can,” he explained.“So putting me on the line?” Ruli asked slowly. Mr. Jones didn’t answer for a while.“If I had to choose to pass yourself or Deo...” he trailed off and merely smiled.“Son of a Bitch. I’ve been used. I’m some sort of teaching aid...” Ruli spat in disgust and sulked at her desk.“Now now... nothing wrong with being a teacher’s pet,” he purred and closed his book.“The time is nigh. Will it happen?” he asked and looked out the window which showed an alien landscape. Purple seas drifted above while clouds crawled along the bottom like hungry beasts.“Do I get to leave regardless?” Ruli asked dryly. Mr. Jones pursed his lips.“I mean, If I get both of your educations done, that would be splendid as well!” he smiled serenely at her.The shadows that bent and formed twisted faces behind him didn’t give her much reassurance.---

Delta ignored his sarcastic tone as she focused on the menu before her.“I can craft and form an ‘idea’ if I build a room towards that. So let's see, first thing first,” she flexed her hands and the goblins huts dissolved into nothing to give her some space to mess with. Delta could see all the goblins watching from a distance in the tunnel that leads to the fort room.She waved her hands and focused her will. The rough and craggy rock of the stone wall was quickly replaced by neat boards of wood that fit into place piece by piece. When the boards reached the corner, they merely bent and reshaped themselves until Delta had a rather nice, albeit plain, room of wood. She flexed and bulged out the corners and the sides with stone pillars. With a frown, she pushed and the space in the room expanded outward.The room began to increase in distance but the dungeon outside managed to keep the other rooms in the same place.“This is some... timelord level of things I don’t understand,” Delta muttered as the map in her head didn’t exactly show the true size of the rooms. Still, the room was big enough for her purposes.The exposed secret passage was a pain but she’d work on that.Next, along one wall, she conjured a long counter, behind which she made shelves big enough and sturdy enough to support a lot of items. Not sure if her idea would be quite conveyed, she began to place tables and chairs in a haphazard manner around the room before flicking torches onto each of the walls. The cozy light was perfect, but it was still missed a few touches.Her mana was still about 80 so she had no worries over spending some more.On one wall, she carved out a large round stone area, where she made a long thin tunnel above it go as far as the room allowed. She set some wood at the base and nodded for Cois to light it up.The quick addition of a stone guard kept the burning wood from falling out and offered enough room to put a large iron pot over the burning wood.Having fun, Delta giggled as she made some glass bottles appear behind the counter.With a laugh she couldn’t stop as the feeling of simple joy flowed through her, Delta formed a metal chandelier that hung a little crooked on a chain.

Nu looked amused as his hands made a shrugging gesture again.Delta grabbed his hands and spun him, still giggling.“Come on Nu! Make something!” she offered cheerfully.

Nu’s screen showed a pair of spiralling confused eyes.“Show me what the cool and calm Nu will make,” she challenged.There was a beat of silence before a round wooden stool appeared next to the bar.Delta gave it a flat look before she turned it to Nu.

“Something exciting?” Delta suggested. Nu shook his box before he flexed his fingers with a sudden huff.

Nu flicked two hands out and a giant signboard appeared above the tunnel entrance on both ends.It was rather detailed, each letter engraved and somewhat golden. And had a picture of a familiar armoured boar on it.Delta read it aloud.“The Swarthy Hog.”Delta gave Nu a grin.

“Oh yes, now come on Sis!” Delta called as she opened the menu.She flicked through the room’s options until the last one appeared.

Delta looked around at the image of her inn and wondered what Sis would do.“The dungeon is open for business!” Delta declared and hit yes.The room shuddered and groaned as light seeped up from between the floorboards and the bar began to groan loudly.The light grew bright and orange. Delta shut her eyes as the whole dungeon began to shake as the changes took place.The last thing Delta really thought was...“I don’t have peanuts for my bar...”
