Delta watched Wyin idly prune a branch near her head.

With a roll of her eyes, Delta glared up at Nu. The box had its new fingers clasped together as it seemed to be taking every inch of the Wyin tree in at once.“I wasn’t panicking because compared to Maestro, Wyin really wasn’t that much of a shock. I was... upset when she appeared because I was worried she might make mincemeat out of Noland and/or Quiss would be forced to burn her to defend themselves because I had minutes to explain that murder is a no go here,” she pointed out with a flat expression. Nu hummed, his box slightly vibrating.His words appeared slowly as if he was thinking each one over.

The words were not harsh but Delta merely sighed.“I... No, you know what,” she stood and put her hands on her hips.“I don’t aim low because this is my home! So, yeah, I made a pseudo-legendary/mythical tree a boss, what you gonna do about it?” she asked Nu with a grin. Nu turned his palms up.

Nu called and Wyin stopped pruning to give him a sharp look.“The shadow. Do you require something?” she asked blithely as she yanked out a slightly under-grown twig.

Nu’s words were like a blunt hammer and Wyin’s lips curled back to reveal shapely thorns acting as teeth.“I do not like being called a liar,” she said coldly. Nu ignored her barbed words and kept talking. Delta watched the two. All monsters seemed to react to Nu differently than herself. It was something she had noticed but not really wanted to comment on it since it felt a little invasive.

Delta snapped back to see what Wyin would say, the sudden heated debated between Nu and Wyin seemed to have appeared out of nowhere. Wyin fanned herself with her many branches.“Pray tell, why I must earn trust when none of the others had such trials. Am I being bullied for merely being excited about being the boss?” she directed this question at Delta.Delta blinked and shook her head.“Of course not. I mean, it wouldn’-” she began but Nu shot in front of her.

Wyin merely shrugged.“Maybe Mother shouldn’t be played on by your paranoia either...but what would you do if I did misbehave? Hm, Shadow of Mother?” she asked, a playful smirk on her face. Nu’s hands slowly dropped to his side.

The words were sharp and Delta scrambled between them.“Enough! That is just enough!” she snapped and the thick tension seemed to falter for a moment.“I don’t care if Wyin is plotting to try and be a pain in my butt, we will deal with it. You don’t get to threaten to kill my bosses just because you feel nervous around them!” she glared at Nu. Wyin’s small chuckle was cut off as Delta snapped her glare to her.“If you hurt anyone out of spite or boredom Nu won’t have time to uproot you. If I can evolve people, I’m sure I can fiddle around with things to unevolve you. Our safety is our top concern. The people coming in comes second. Your entertainment ranks way below both of those things,” she warned.Wyin’s face looked pinched as if in pain.“O-of course. I was merely ruffling Nu’s feathers. Can’t expect every meeting to go smoothly, hm?” she hid her face behind her branches. Delta didn’t know if it was to hide a curse or merely avoid meeting Delta’s eyes.Sagging, she muttered as she left the room.“Supposed to be magically grown adults... why am I the mature one around here?” she asked no one.She could hear Nu say something quietly to Wyin and the tree responded. Honestly, if she wanted to hear it she could have... but she was fed up with those two at the moment.

Delta left the boss room and stretched as the false sun beat down from above. The ceiling projected a decent looking sky.She closed her eyes to enjoy the sounds of birds and busy bees.“Be honest, what trouble can Wyin cause?” she inquired, her eyes still closed. She focused and the image of Nu’s forming words appeared in the darkness of her eyelids.

Delta gave him a small smile.“Glad I got a snarky protector of my innocence,” she winked and walked deeper into the jungle as Devina neared.“Inchy went with Deo, I think he got stuck at the entrance and is now making his way back. Maestro is keeping tabs on him,” she explained. Delta blinked and forgot that the bird had indeed been with Deo when she ah... zapped them.“Any ideas why I can suddenly teleport people?” she asked Nu. The box was quiet for a moment.

Nu’s box flashed as he began to sound annoyed. Delta looked back to Devina.“Where did Inchy get off to?” she changed the subject. Devina merely sighed.“He stopped on his way back due to a party invitation?” she asked with confusion and gave Delta a look, hoping she would be able to translate.Delta slowed as she unfocused her eyes.---“I spy some berries!” Inchy cheered as the various spiders danced around him in greeting. The bird nodded to each of them in turn.“I am sir Inchy of the second floor! I come beeryng gifts!” he crowed and dropped more berries around. The Spider with a blood red hardened piece of web on her head regally accepted the juiciest berry for herself.She chittered and Inchy tilted his head.“Quite a tale you’re weaving there!” he chirped. The spiders began their dance again and the bird ate more berries. Never seeing eyes open far above him as more and more berries went down the plump bird’s throat.---“It’s nothing... I’ll get Billy to fetch him,” she smiled weakly. Not wanting to make Devina too happy at the idea that Inchy might soon be spending some time with Muffet...She rubbed at her stomach with a grumble. She was feeling massively bloated again.Opening her menu, she flicked to the numbers.Mana: 167/94DP: 180“Nu. Why is my DP so high?” she tugged at the box next to her in a tiny voice.

“Mrs. Dabberghast...” she whispered, warm affection for the woman flowing through her.“I wonder what she is after?” Devina asked as she read Nu’s box as well. Delta gave her a surprised look.“What do you mean? Mrs. Dabberghast has always been helping me, she’s a nice lady,” Delta grinned. Devina didn’t look convinced.“She is more than that. So much more but I will trust you, Mother,” she smiled and turned to look at the jungle.“From what I understand, the jungle is about to get very busy?” she asked innocently. Delta pursed her lips.“Maybe...” she admitted. That woman was too aware for her own good but Delta appreciated the fact she didn’t argue over Mrs. Dabberghast. It was a subject she secretly thought of enough in her own mind.“Nu, what does that blessing and blessed water do for us?” she instead asked as she finally reached the river.

Delta sat down and dangled her legs into the water with a wince.“Well, something to think over. Handy though it would be. I think I need to focus on the small-scale. First... I’ve got to get rid of all this mana. I feel like I’m going to explode...” she groaned. She opened the menu.With some idle flicking, two grinning foxes flashed into existence. They yipped and encircled each other before they ran off into the undergrowth. Next, she sent a few owls and some beetles off. It lowered the mana a little, enough to make the worst of the bloated feeling subside.Next, she focused on the spot before her.“This floor needs more monsters,” she admitted and hit the same button three times.Devina gasped as three flashes of oranges appeared on the other side of the river.At first, they seemed to form at the same length and speed but then rapidly changes began to occur. One stopped growing in height while the other two kept going. The light died down and Delta blinked at the three very different frogs before her.“Oh my...” Devina breathed.

The first frog looked like it was past its prime and now settled into the graceful age of wanting to complain and yell at kids. His skin was a grayish-green and his eyes seemed to stare at everything with annoyance. The second one was female like Devina but her age seemed to have gone in the other direction. Perhaps the youngest of the frogs so far, she gave a little finger wave as she swayed on the spot to some song she hummed.The last was the tallest frog out of the lot. A green giant who didn’t seem too jolly at all. His mountain of muscle and expressionless eyes made him seem more predatory than stoic.“Well... that eased the mana off,” Delta muttered to Devina. There was no reply.Turning she saw that Devina was frozen.“Are... you okay?” Delta asked with worry as Devina just stared at the newcomers with wide eyes.“More of us. There are more of us. Family...” Devina sank to her knees. Delta waved her hands and tried to smile despite the fact she was feeling she had done something wrong.“You didn’t think I would just keep it just you and Rale, right?” she laughed nervously. Devina nodded numbly. There was a thump as the perky female frog landed just before Devina.If you come across this story on Amazon, be aware that it has been stolen from Royal Road. Please report it.“Why the long face?” she asked brightly. Delta grinned as she watched Devina grasp the other frog’s hands.“Sister!” Devina breathed. The young one shrugged.“Neighbor doesn’t sound as nice,” she agreed. She turned to Delta.“Hey Mom, thanks’ for popping me into existence and junk. You did a great job!” she patted her hip and beamed.Delta liked this one. Not exactly Rale’s straightforward cheerfulness and not like Devina’s calm humor, but she had spunk. Her form wasn’t flat or even smooth. Muscles curled around her arms and stomach but she was wiry.There was a grumble as the older frog landed next. The giant merely walked into the river ignoring the current as it did nothing to slow him.“You’re supposed to be our wise woman and yet you looked like a tadpole who just got smacked. Straighten up lass,” he growled. Devina was on her feet in a second. The old frog nodded once Devina composed herself. Everyone looked at the giant frog.“...”“Hello!” Delta greeted with excitement. The giant looked down at her. Delta was pleased to see a dark green blush spread across his cheeks.“Mother...” he said so softly it was like a breeze.“Great Mother. Your servants are here. What do you require of us?” the old frog said seriously. The spunky one tilted her head.“Gramps, you already know... Mom just wants us to go wild and do our thing. Comes with the whole ‘Mom is the best core’ thing,” she said with air quotes. She nudged Devina.“Girls gotta stick together. You gotta show me the best places to sleep around here,” she muttered. The response she got was lukewarm.“Well, welcome to the Dungeon of Delta, the second floor: The Jungle of Trials!” Delta called and there was no response for a few moments until the giant one applauded politely. Her thunder now gone, Delta sighed.“She’s right, there is no real reason you’re here. Like most people. So, make yourselves at home, find out about yourselves and if you have any issues, just give me a ring,” Delta beamed. There was more silence.“What do we do when we find out, like, who we are?” the girl asked. Delta watched as a shadow in the water approached.“Well, for one...” she trailed off as Rale exploded from the water.“Devina I have co-” Rale began but stopped as he spotted the three newcomers. Without a word he sunk back into the water, just staring.“So, that’s Rale... Kinda felt he’d be a bit more... friendly,” the old frog muttered. The water exploded again as Rale reappeared with a flourish.“FROG FAMILY! It is I, the mighty Rale!” he boasted. He landed next to Devina and crossed his arms.“I was not aware of more frogs, forgive my rudeness,” he muttered to Devina who nodded mutely, her face a dark green.The girl looked between Devina and Rale.“Bow chicka bow wow...” she said under her breath. Delta hid a giggle and focused.“If you work hard and really just be yourself, you get to evolve into whatever you want. Like so!” she gestured to Rale who suddenly let out a whoop of excitement.“Finally! I was starting to think I would never get to hit this button!” he complained and smashed something only he could see.The orange light burst out from under his skin, completely hiding his form as a wind howled through the small clearing and Rale’s mighty yell began to reach to the heavens. The light died off and everyone stared at Rale’s new form.His burned orange shorts were the most eye-catching. And his new seashell necklace clattered like a musical instrument. His form had become even more toned and positively rippled with muscle. His arms almost matching the new giant’s in size. Rale looked up and his eyes were hidden behind black shades, the sunlight glimmered off them and he struck a rather formidable pose.In one hand was what looked like a metal trident... except the other end had a rounded soft crook for catching things.“My hard work has produced... ultimate lifeguard power!” Rale yelled with joy. Delta applauded and eyed the menu now before her.

