There were 34 left in total out of the inflicted. 34 out of thousands. Most of the dead that had been possible to recover were now being moved to the makeshift crematorium built at the center of the field hospital. The only reliable way of stopping the plague entirely was through concentrated Pyromancy—followed by a burst of Cryomancy. The shift between hot and cold was necessary, as Sullain proved his vile genius one final time. The heat fed the disease with a surge of power, and once it went past a certain threshold, it would turn the disease into a Fire Elemental, which would then wreak havoc within the bowels of Starhawk's Perch. There were scorch marks along the walls, and from what Shiv could see, bits of tissue burnt into the scoured concrete. He suspected more than a few Arrow Family guards met with the most fatal outcome when Sullain’s final surprise took shape.

Shiv treated the remaining survivors with his full dedication. He used his Bifurcated Processing to amplify his memorization, pushing his mind to the limit as he drew in every bit of knowledge that the orc Biomancers, especially Helix, could provide. He still lacked a lot of context for what they knew, but he was absorbing information like a sponge now. A sponge that developed spontaneous headaches as he forced his cognitive abilities to the very limit.

Bifurcated Processing 75 > 77

Atlas of the Flesh Scrier: 109 > 111

Memorization 20 > 24

After he stripped the patients clean of any physical wounds, he decided to take things further and use his Hydromancy to bathe them. He cleaned their bodies as best he could, making sure that they were nourished with a fresh dose of water as well. Most of them were still in a delirious state, but a few managed to crack open their eyes, muttering barely audible thanks, asking him if he was some kind of angel, some miracle made manifest dispatched to them by the Ascendancy. Shiv didn't have the strength to disagree. He wished they'd never find out. He wished that the Republic weren't the way it was. Shiv wished for a lot of things.

Eventually, Shiv found his way to his last patient, the one he'd been avoiding for a while, giving her more time with Adam. Isabella Van Stormhalt wasn't the woman Shiv remembered. Most of her hair was missing. She was bone-thin and looked on the precipice of death. She seemed destined to follow where Georges had gone, and Shiv couldn't bear the sight of her. She looked like she was being consumed from the inside. Adam kept a brave face and joked with her, whispered sweet nothings. Shiv tried to play along as best he could, but she was only half there anyway. Her mental abilities were diminished as well. Even so, she tried to smile, but her nerves and her muscles weren't fully under her control anymore.

But where her physical state was already heartbreaking, it was the pain behind Adam's gaze that made Shiv look away, lest he reopen his own psychological wounds again.

We need a proper healer. We need someone who understands disease pathologies. Maybe Dven back at Weave could help. Shiv began putting plans together. As soon as they arrived at the Gate, they needed to send for assistance. They needed to request the Composer's help. The orcs were powerful; Helix was a determined practitioner of Biomancy, but he didn't know everything. He had limits and blind spots. And if even Dven couldn't help, then Shiv would request the assistance of Tulveg. Not for his own expertise; Tulveg was a Legendary Biomancer, but he was not a healer, his Biomancy serving a more offensive role. He'd already stated there was little he could do to help here.

But there was something else Shiv would ask of him if necessary. He would ask Tulveg to find his former master: Ekkihurst the Sculptor.

Shiv would do anything to see the sickness finally broken, to see Sullain spited one last time, if only to honor Georges’ memory. He would even be willing to deal with the First Blood to achieve it.
