As mana built in the blade, the cloves of garlic added to his spice level with each of them he killed.

The monsters only being early Tier 27 kept the fight from being too bad, but even with Matt’s power and Aster’s support skills the debuffs were adding up.

It wasn’t anywhere near a critical level, but the additional fights because of their Tier had actually made the rift harder than if they had started with Tier 27 monsters.

After the garlic came sticks of vanilla that transformed into spears even as they were showered in lemon zest, which reduced all of their outward magical effects.

Matt dodged three thrusting spears of vanilla, cutting one in half and a second with the downswing, but the third hit him and strained [Cracked Phantom Armor]’s first layer forcing him to start using the second layer.

The lemon zest effect wasn’t helping but he had enough experience to work around most such effects so while it weakened his armor it wasn’t by that much. It was more that the enemies were empowered spears and good at penetrating armor and other magical effects.

At this point he had more than enough mana to keep both going at once, he could even afford to keep the second layer going all over his body instead of just creating spots of reinforcement but part of him growing the skill was pushing its first layer to its maximum which meant using it as much as possible.

When they finished the wave, Matt tasted one of the vanilla beans but gagged slightly as the concentrated flavor was mixed with all of the other spices they had accumulated.

Liz quite enjoyed the chaotic mix of flavors and asked, “Hey Aster maybe you can make this into a sellable flavor.”

Aster gagged, putting a hand out to stop Liz from continuing. “I'd be run out of the ice cream industry if I tried to make this a flavor.”

“Oh come on. It's quite good once you get past the initial taste. Come on Matt back me up here.”

“Honey I love you but you like the worm dishes your mother brings over. Your taste buds are not standard.”

Liz gasped. “It's not that bad. You liked the cooked crickets dish! That's weirder than worms.”

Aster snorted. “And neither are ice cream worthy. The only worms in ice cream should be of the gummy variety.”

“So make a gummy worm ice cream with this flavor. Easy peasy.”

“No way! They taste good, this doesn't.”

Aster's last statement was proven true as the double spices were truly less than appealing as the flavors pilled on.

Thankfully, they only needed to fight five waves to complete that region of the kitchen.

From there they moved under the sink where they actually fought monsters.

Rat soldiers, each decked out in a full kit of gear, came at them while they had to dodge rat poison instead of collecting spices.

If they got hit by the poison they would have to wash off all of their spices which made this a dangerous portion of the room. Most delvers did this area either right before they were already planning to clean off or before the steamer, but the three of them were doing it after the spice rack for a reason.

When they did, the rat fight changed the rest of the rift as the rats pilfered ingredients and pieces of the meal from the kitchen. If they were fought early they could prevent that but the collected ingredients could be added to the dishes in the room by them afterward. At the same time, if they put the rats off for too long they could ruin one of the dishes and the chef would then destroy the room in anger ruining the rest of the rift and quite possibly killing the delvers if they couldn't survive the chef’s anger.

The exact limit of when that would happen was variable between delves, but doing it when they did was fairly early as they were going for a particular hidden reward that required the rats to have taken the ketchup and mustard sauces from the fridge, but before they took the salt and pepper which would see them caught by the chef.

Matt slashed down at one of the rat soldiers in the shield wall letting his blade collide with its shield even as he took several hits to his body and chest using the second layer of [Cracked Phantom Armor] in spots to block each blow cleanly. He didn’t put a ton of weight behind the blow, instead letting the rat try to shove him. Stepping with the maneuver he hooked the pommel of his blade over the shield's edge and pulled causing the rat to stumble slightly.

It wasn’t enough to cause it to fall over completely but it was enough to open up the shield wall which a Liz took the opportunity to dive behind and start a slaughter only she could do justice to.

Blood flew, coalesced into a blade, reversed its direction and slashed down on the rats.

Their shields blocked some of the attacks but they couldn’t block from every angle and Liz easily flowed through their battle lines cutting down the monsters with ruthless efficiency.

Aster cast a few buffing spells on Liz and a few area of effect debuffing spells that slowed the rats down but Matt just sat next to his bond watching the two of them work.

It was a good show and it was rare he was able to enjoy it like this.

They were so fast, in fact, the second wave of monsters started to spawn before the corpse of the first wave had even finished vanishing.

The rat poison being spread around was the only thing that slowed the two of them down and in just minutes the five waves had been completed.

That meant another mini boss battle but it also meant they needed to be fast and pillage the stolen goods and put them where they wanted.

Matt grabbed a massive bundle of celery, a pile of shredded carrots cut by Aster using [Tornado] and [Cutting Hurricane], and the bottles of ketchup and mustard with [Telekinesis] and they quickly flew out into the kitchen where he put the veggies near the cutting board and the bottles next to the fridge but partially blocked by a loaf of bread.

The chef appeared in the room just a moment after he got everything put away and the mini boss immediately spat the tooth pick it was chewing on at them like a ballista.

The projectile was building sized and nearly hit Matt as he was caught out in the open but his teleport ring was just enough to get him out of the way and he let the buffeting winds push him even farther away.

The chef yelled which caused not just the air to shatter but space itself. The wind blades were dangerous but mostly because getting hit by one could send them into one of the slowly healing spatial cracks which would cut them cleanly in two.

Aster dodged the attacks by virtue of turning any of the blades that made it near her into an illusion while all of the Lizzes just turned themselves into puddles which were immune to the wind blades and able to flow away from any of the ground level spatial cracks.

Matt just grabbed all of the air near him with [Air Manipulation] and commanded the air to still, which prevented him from being buffeted about long enough for space to heal itself.

Once that attack failed the chef ignored them and started collecting the rest of the dishes but when he opened the fridge to get the condiments he saw them on the counter he grabbed them leaving the fridge open.

Most guides recommended not entering the secret area that was the fridge as it was a spike of difficulty that often ruined a spice accumulation run if it didn’t end a delvers run by the spike of difficulty in fighting the frozen dishes.

It was however one of their goals so the moment the secret area opened Matt flew forward with Aster and Liz right on his heels.

Once they entered the fridge the ever present heat of the kitchen was replaced by a bitter cold.

Aster thoroughly enjoyed it, but all of the Lizzes shivered in near unison as the cold tried to freeze her any of her liquid parts solid which for Liz was all of her.

While Aster would have loved to stay in here forever, the rift didn’t quite work that way.

The chef had left the fridge open and everything in the fridge would spoil if not defeated quickly.

Mint flavored heavy cream rained down from the air and stuck like blades in their bodies which made every movement painful but was generally a good spice to get as they could deal with pain and it didn’t further debuff them.

Their first wave of monsters were sticks of butter that didn’t have much in the way of damage but they were incredibly hard to kill being almost immune to fire attacks thanks to being near frozen. Cold attacks also didn’t bother them as they were in a perpetual state of near cold and anything but blunt physical attacks were just as useless.

The strategy recommended to most delving teams was to kite the sticks of butter around until they started to melt as the fridge warmed up but they weren’t most delving teams.

Where Matt had gotten to watch the other two fight last cycle they got to watch him dart around hitting the monsters with the flat of his blade hard enough to make them explode where he quickly padded them into smaller chunks that could be served at a table with [Telekinesis].

The amount of force he was hitting them with would have broken his older blades' lattice framework, but the design of this configuration was all about durability. In fact the mana the blade had been pulling from him since he filled it in at the start of the rift had been reinforcing the mana crystals the entire time making the blade stupidly durable.

The effectiveness was diminishing but it wasn’t limited by Matt’s maximum mana and instead time gated which didn’t mean much to him. Ultimately the enchantments were the weakest part and would start to fail but that was why they were testing it.

Matt wasn’t quite as fast as Liz and Aster in killing the butter as they had been in killing the rats but he was proud of the speed in which he did it.

The next wave however was a team effort.

Dill rained down on them and drained a portion of their willpower even as a variety of pickles pulled themselves out of jars with solidified mana arms and legs. They then started launching liquid projectiles which threatened to wash all of their hard work away.

Aster's debuffs came in clutch as her debuffs bought them enough time to both dodge the wet projectiles and also attack the monsters.

Matt even took the opportunity to cut off a piece of pickle on his last enemy to see exactly what they were fighting but found it a type of sweet pickle instead of the more bitter varieties he enjoyed.

Liz however took the news in stride and happily skewered her final opponent on her spear and started taking large bites out of its side as they waited for the next round.

On the fifth and final wave Aster shouted “Don’t fuck this up Matt!”

Knowing what he needed to do, Matt set himself in a runner's stance and using his Intent locked his feet to the glass plane they were fighting on.

He had no idea how someone had discovered this naturally but with the guide they were able to prepare for the secret room's secret room.

The fifth wave started with a bang as the glass shattered as a gang of moldy cheeses burst out from one of the drawers and up into the fighting area they were in.

The glass was sent flying and along with it one piece that had Matt stuck to it.

That piece stuck into the roof and punctured through just deep enough to reach the freezer. The glass shard fell after a moment and the fridge started to heal but Matt launched himself upward getting in the way.

Using [Telekinesis] and his Concept’s repulsion effect he pushed at the healing ceiling while fighting the anti flight effect that was trying to force him away from the ceiling. It took everything he had but he kept the hole open long enough for Liz and Aster to finish the cheese off and get into the freezer.

The first wave inside the freezer it rained chocolate which wasn’t nearly as pleasant as it sounded as it acted like sludge and made them stick to anything they touched meaning they needed to keep flying as the chocolate hardened.

The fights however were trivialized by Aster spreading her Tier 25 Talent space outward and just absorbing the monsters he and Liz weren’t gobbling up. What Aster was planning to do with living ice cream sandwiches he didn’t know but he doubted it would work.

As far as he knew, none of the monsters brought out of this rift survived or kept their special properties. In fact even the rift breaks, only seen when the rift was Tiered up, were just a combination of more normal sized and killable chefs and the rat soldiers, never the food.

Still, they’d done what Aster wanted and it had been a nice break from the much harder fights outside, which meant it was time to finish the rift.

They cleared several more areas until they were over fifty waves deep. As they hadn’t washed the spices off even once it meant fighting the Tier 28 monsters was pushing them to their limits and even beyond, but that was why they did what they did. Delving for fun could be good but they wouldn’t waste months delving without some advantage and this rift was one of the few places that they could stack debuffs on themselves in a relatively safe manner.

So at the peak of Tier 28 they moved back to the oven where the rift had started and together they pushed the off button turning off the oven.

A alarm blared and the chef walked in roaring mad.

Unlike before as he approached he got smaller and smaller until he was only a dozen times their height and mostly fit on the stovetop where they fought him.

At peak Tier 28 he was faster, stronger, and had better magical abilities than normal but he was also only a single monster. Between the ten Lizzes who harassed him from the flanks, Matt able to take the brunt of his attacks, and Aster able to buff them countering some of their penalties as well as debuffing the boss they were able to take him out without too much effort.

