In the fight the boss threw magical versions of all the dishes they helped make which instead of being dangerous gave them various buff’s as they were hit which was the entire reason they had helped with the environmental tasks. The original attacks were known for being quite a pain in the ass which stood in contrast to the experience of getting buffed by a boss's attacks.

Once the chief started to dissolve Matt fell onto his butt and panted as the feeling of relief from the various spices falling off him caused a wave of twitches and shivers to inadvertently overcome his bodily control. It felt amazing to have access to his full power again, and better yet all of their deferred essence from the rift started to pour into them.

It started slow but sped up right to the limit that Matt could allocate the energy which was always a appreciated feature of wave rifts as otherwise they would have lost a lot of the essence but being used to delving up Tiers he was using to monsters filling his spirit’s capacity for free essence after just a kill or two.

With how far they pushed in the rift they got nearly ten Tier 28 rift clears worth of essence which was pretty damn good for the time spent but that wasn’t the most exciting part of the rift.

From the chef’s body the rift exit formed and with its accompanying reward distortion which absorbed the spices that had fallen off them like a vacuum. It pulsed several times as the spices were pulled in until it stopped.

Even Aster and Liz who normally didn’t care about any of the superstitions in opening reward distortions like Matt waited breathlessly as he waited for the right combination of colors to appear.

Cyan, indigo, and bright orange.

Seeing the combination that felt right for the rift Matt dispelled the distortion with a thought and a single empty jar of spices popped out of the rift.

Aster whooped and grabbed Liz as they hit the jackpot.

The spice jar was one of the rifts' rarest drops and despite it being a non combat item sold for Tier 30 wealth on a bad day and upwards of Tier 35 for someone who really wanted it as it could duplicate any spices put inside of it, including rare or exotic ones that were otherwise hard to source in quantities.

Prize in hand they exited the rift ready to move onto the next one though that one was a more standard delve but they had had their fun and it was time to buckle down and grind out rifts until they were ready to Tier up.
