Finding the most productive way of spending my time, I set out to build the rest of Althea’s rifle. Fortunately, the stock wouldn’t be as difficult as the barrel to build. The barrel required tremendous precision. The stock of the gun required some, but not the laser like precision the barrel needed.

With that in mind, I reached the center of the Steel Legion’s encampment once more. Setting up on a wooden work bench, I resumed work on the rifle. Making the stock was simple. Before I started, I allocated ten of my dungeon skill points into the Carving into Oblivion skill. Since the breakthrough, I’d reached ninety in the skill. Maxing it out with the bonus skill points from dungeon cores was plenty efficient now.

Once I finished that, I checked my tree points. The past few days, I performed different tasks than normal. That meant gaining different than normal skills. I gained some points from the cooking skill, a foraging skill, and even a few points in Resourceful. After allocating about fifty more points into the tree, I closed my menu. It was time to make a rifle.

With a burst of ascendant mana, I willed my armor to bend. The metal contorted, flowing into the shape of a shitty stock. It turns out that making a five-foot stock wasn’t hard. It was downright demanding. With a surprising finesse, I began making the adjustments needed.

It needed tiny grooves for grip, recoil adjusting design, maybe a hollow interior for making. After trying a few times, I gave up with my brute force approach. Sketching it out and getting an excellent understanding of the stock would help.

Making something with the armor required excellent conceptualization of it. Sure, the barrel required greater precision, but it was something very simple. Understanding it inside and out didn’t take longer than a few seconds. The stock for the rifle I had in mind though? It would be a feat of human ingenuity if I had anything to say about it.

With that in mind, I asked and received a set of blank blueprints. gave me a few sticks of chalk, letting me draw what I needed. Starting with separate parts, I drew pieces of the gun’s design from memory. My intelligence held onto those memories with an iron grip, making the visualization easy. My dexterity made my hand steady. I didn’t have an artistic hand, but I could draw straight lines with mechanical precision.

An hour later, all the tiny bits were drawn out, each of them labeled with their purpose. After imagining how they’d fit together, I created the parts. One piece at a time, I made different parts by stretching out my armor. I cut off the pieces then, letting me make them one part at a time. I learned this approach from Torix.

He always mentioned the power of divide and conquer tactics. Nothing is complicated after it’s broken down to its base parts. Understand those parts and how they work together, then you’re a master. At least that’s how Torix says it.

It held true here. I finished setting up the various parts of the stock before a notification appeared.

Skill unlocked! Living Forge(lvl 1) – You form weapons from your own body. +1% to ease of formation and maximum charge of self-composite weapons.

It was a pleasant bonus, allowing me to gain skill levels even from this forging process. With the pieces made, I set out on carving the runic inscriptions onto them. Since the only thing large enough for the runes was the handle, I etched in the basic rune for stability. As I did so, a sense of serene calm and understanding rushed over me.

Engraving the signs onto the piece wasn’t like marking something onto the parts. It was like unleashing my understanding of the rune onto the metal. Instead of trying to write out a representation of what I was thinking, I wrote out my complete understanding of my thoughts.

When I finished the marking, it was almost like staring into a memory or living out an experience. The mark carried a depth like Torix’s markings, but they weren’t foreign. They were entirely my own, like leaving a piece of my life in a symbol. Once I leaned back from my creation, the letters turned out rougher and grittier than I imagined. They looked a little like me I guess.

My guess was that this was because of the level 100 in the skill. After months and months of training, I had two skills reach their pinnacle. So far, the benefits of both were palpable. The next test involved figuring out another unique skill.

Before that though, I finished up the parts of the rifle before heading back towards my tent. Once inside, I put the rifle together. Once it was completed, a notification appeared.

Omen, Cannon of Cataclysm (lvl requirement: 600) – Made by the Harbinger of Cataclysm, this harpoon rifle is composed of an unknown metal, but the hardness and flexibility of it is amazing to behold. Combined with the enchantments for stability, efficiency, and devastation, and even a novice cannoneer can wreak havoc.

The enchantments reduce ammo consumption by two thirds, doubles focus and stability, and triples the drilling speed of fired rounds. Charge limit set by quality of runes. Can only charge with arcane blood. Uses 10 mana per bolt.

Charge: 6,000/6,000 or 600/600 shots left.

The fact that the charge was only 6,000 drove home how amazing Torix’s son was. Alfred Worm made a gem that could hold a million mana, well over a hundred times the charge of this rifle. I couldn’t even make something 1% as incredible. It put into perspective how ridiculous it really was. I wondered how in the hell he made it.

That’s when a realization shot through my mind like whip cracking across bare skin. It wasn’t because of Alfred Worm. It was because of Baldag-Ruhl. The runes that fucking hivemind used were what carried the power to form that mana gem, not Alfred’s genius. Thinking back on the intricacy of the ritual reminded me of it.

That’s what I needed to learn. Not my own runes, not how to wield oppression or punch harder and faster. I needed that knowledge so that when I met Yawm, I could dive into the other dimension. Using Baldag-Ruhl’s ritual, I could rupture dimensions and come back. Hell, that’s assuming I couldn’t just beat Yawm’s ass with the runes outright.

Bubbling with excitement, I picked up the rifle and polished it with the technique I now called sandpaper palm. Normally my armor is black, but when polished, it’s a deep, shiny gray. It reminds me of the polished magnets you could buy at stores, at least in appearance.

Finishing the rifle up in a few minutes, I carried it over towards Althea’s tent. I knocked on it, and Althea replied,

“You can come in.”

I unzipped the tent, walking inside. Althea sat over her table, reading an old tome no doubt given to her by Torix. Her room was cleaned, a new, black bookcase holding everything in it. All in all, I was very pleased with the change.

I grinned, setting the rifle at the entrance,

“Here yah go. Made this in case you needed it. Learning to use it should make you much, much more powerful. Enjoy.”

I turned to walk out before a set of arms wrapped around my back and lifted me into the air. A pleased giggle sounded through the room, almost euphoric. She spun me around with an astounding ease, like I was light before setting me down. I turned to her with an eyebrow raised,

“What’s the big deal?”

She walked over and picked up the rifle, marveling at the polish and detail of the runes. She stared inside the barrel, then she stared at the notification of the gun. She whispered in awe,

“Omen…wow.”

She turned to me then ran up for another hug. Lifting me up again, she beamed,

“I can’t believe it. Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you!”

She said the words so fast they blurred together. She set me down again, continuing, “This is…perfect.”

I raised an eyebrow, “Did you need it this bad?”

She nodded, “I did. I’ve been researching stronger combustive materials than just gunpowder. I can produce gunpowder using my shapeshifting. The problem is, the other explosive materials would break the bone of my gun. I’d end up ruining my arm each time I fire a shot.”

I frowned, “Ouch. Sounds painful.”

She nodded, “There’s all kinds of problems that come with it. The recoil, the smoke made from the gun letting air into the chamber, all kinds of problems. This, this’ll do a lot for me.”

She picked it up, forming her arm into the open socket. She grinned, “It’s perfect. Just perfect. I normally just convert my body into the ammo and the gunpowder needed for the explosions. Now, I’ll be able to use stronger stuff. The bolts will fly faster, and they won’t do so much damage to me.”

“It does damage to you?”

“Well, yeah. The bolts and gunpowder costs health, firing the weapon obviously does damage to me. Now the gun will take that damage for me, and I can focus on making just the ammo and powders. Wow. The enchantments are so strong too. I’ll be able to practice now.”

The dots started connecting in my head, painting a picture. Althea sacrificed health for damage. Way back when I gained my first damaging ability, agony, I struggled to use it. It hurt me so bad that I had to adjust to it over a few weeks. There came points where I just didn’t know if I could keep on using it. I ended up doing it, but I couldn’t blame someone else for not being able to go through with it. It just hurt that bad.

Althea may have been in the same place, just stuck on the pain part. I’m sure she didn’t want to invest 60-70 of her dungeon core points just on pain resistance either. Damage skills would take precedence for a sniper after all. The new rifle would help her more than I imagined it would.

I grinned, “Well, uh, good. Glad to help. I gotta go though. See yah later.”

She swung the rifle, aiming down the iron sight, “Leaving already? You just got here. I uh, need your help with using the runes.”

I shrugged, “I have to go talk to Torix.”

Althea frowned, “Oh…Ok…” She grinned at me, “See you later Daniel.”

I nodded, smiling back, “Cya.”

Leaving her tent, I passed by back to Torix. After a quick hello, Torix sent me the files for the images of the runes used by Baldag-Ruhl. As they downloaded, I ate a meal of Torix’s rations and paced back into the forest. Something about the trees let me keep calm.

Once out there, I leaned against a tree and started my study. Compelling was an understatement. Maybe it was because I was ignorant, but I didn’t remember the runes being so impressive. Each of them, from the tiniest scratch to the ones dug deep as trenches, amazed me. The Power within them leaked through even digital photos.

Walking by them so many months ago, I hadn’t even recognized the detail in them. It was like listening to a great composer after trying to make music. You can’t fully understand the complexity of a genius’s work until you’ve at least tried at his craft.

It reminded me of looking at E=mc^2. Sure, I got the gist of it, but I didn’t understand how it worked. A physicist on the other hand can, and with that understanding comes a great humility. How can a person understand the height of a mountain until he has climbed one, or some Chinese proverb like that.

Now that I understood normal runes, I understood the differences Baldag-Ruhl made. Subtle tweaks were adjusted, along with new characters I did not know. There were so many adjustments, it didn’t even feel like Baldag-Ruhl had learned the language. It seemed like he invented it.

The excitement filled my belly, making me grin as I tore of sheets of armor from my leg. Flattening them out, I began testing the runes on the metal. The precision and intricacy of the new language flat out decimated the old one. The bizarre changes in the angles and lines of the language made it complex. Unlike the previous rooms, the depth of the carve played a pivotal role as well.

This added another dimension to the complexity. There seemed to be no structure in the runes either, each of them different. At a quick glance, I recognized over three hundred different characters. That list grew and grew and grew. Within an hour of researching the runes, I made a revelation.

No two characters were the same.

The closer I glanced, the more evident this became. Within each rune, extra lines and etchings of depth were added. Unlike with snowflakes or trees, the differences between each character were deliberate. If I write a letter a thousand times, each letter will be different, but I don’t mean for them to be. I’m trying to replicate the same letter.

That simply wasn’t the case. Even when finding the same characters, the depths were nothing alike and neither were the grooves within those depths. It was like someone had taken a language and fused it with another language, exponentially increasing the complexity of it. Parsing through such dense blocks of information would infuriate anyone.

Torix couldn’t understand the language because there wasn’t a single language being used. This was an evolved version of the magic runes, combined with another old language from elsewhere. In other words, I wasn’t about to understand it before Yawm came out. At least not here.

Once inside the rift, I’d find a sentient eldritch and get them to teach me. Ally myself with one enemy to fight another. They may know the underlying language set into the grooves of each rune. Who knew, I may get comprehension of how this ritual was set up.

Just knowing this information exists was invaluable. Often, I wondered how Schema bent dimensions and reality. Using this dual language while wielding an infinitely more complex algorithm, that could have let Schema re-write reality. If it let Baldag-Ruhl tear dimensions, what’s to say it wouldn’t let me do even more?

