That kind of tampering was far off in the distance though. Maybe when I was sent out towards the eldritch world, I could figure some of it out. I had no way of knowing without getting there. Since we’d be in there for a while, setting myself up for study would be the priority. Torix gave me a library of books to sift through, and Baldag-Ruhl’s runes gave me a focal point for later study. Now I needed to set up learning my class.

To make that happen, I needed a plan. After researching how to make plans for a bit, I figured out two core principles for them. First you had to come up with a strategy, then you had to come up your tactics. A strategy would be like choosing to focus on getting a class instead of leveling. Tactics would be how I went about getting my class.

I came up with the strategy: get a class. Leveling would take a back burner to that for now.

Skill unlocked! Strategy(lvl 1) – Other people fumble around without purpose. You aim your thoughts and your actions towards a goal. You give yourself purpose. +1% to efficacy of strategies. +1% to strategy formulation speed.

Getting a skill like that was a nice bonus for starting on something like this. I didn’t let it distract me. I turned my efforts back towards answering a simple question. How am I going to get another mythical skill?

I got lucky with boundless storm. It wouldn’t happen again. I had dozens of skills now, and most of them were simple and situational. Coming up with unique skills would require me to try and make them. With that in mind, I used my obelisk to create a list.

It didn’t require making the entirety of the interface come out. The list integrated into my current interface, allowing me to manipulate it with thought. I didn’t need to click or move boxes. They shifted as I thought for them too.

Staring at my list of skills, I separated them into a few clusters. These clusters were made of skills that were similar or had a theme. A perfect example was a cluster I called movement. It was made of five skills, acrobatics, physical fitness, sprinting, traveler, and jumping. These skills all involved movement. Turning them into a unique skill shouldn’t be that hard.

So to get started on that, I did a bit of research on unique skills. I found out a few things. Unique skills did require five normal skills to make them. They could also be made from less skills though. Any skill that reached 100 could be used as two of those five skills needed for unique skills. If a unique skill reached 100, then it also worked like that for mythical skills. A level 100 unique skill would take up two of the slots required for a mythical skill.

The other aspect about unique skills I figured out was just how simple they were to make. They required five skills used together all at once. Even if you had the five skills, they wouldn’t turn into a unique skill unless you used them at the same time. This gave me a quite a bit of hope. It meant I wouldn’t need to get hundred more skills. I may be able to make a few unique skills with little effort.

Up till now, I made my skills based on what I needed right then and there. I didn’t want to waste my time on useless skills for the most part. That was still the case, and it had the advantage of giving each skill a purpose.

With that in mind, I headed back out the city. The first unique skill I wanted was one for the movement cluster I made. It took five minutes before I was approaching suburbia. Instead of running through the street like normal, I ran through the backyards. I could’ve just plowed through fences and the smaller trees, but instead I weaved my way around them.

It was basically advanced parkour. I hopped fences. I pushed myself over cars. I spun around trees and leapt through windows. It was a lot of fun. Trying to engineer the easiest pathway took a good bit of skill, and using my new, athletic body to accomplish the feats was fun. Of course, I had to support quite a bit of my bodyweight using telekinesis. Hopping a flimsy wooden fence wouldn’t work otherwise.

Over the next two hours, I got better and better. My focus honed, and I learned a few techniques for moving past common obstacles. My speed improved, sometimes obstacles making me faster instead of slower. By the time the sun was setting, I could run at full speed without destroying my surroundings. I crashed through quite a few obstacles to get to this point though.

At the apex of my sprint, I jumped through a window and into a house. Before I touched the floor, I pushed myself over a countertop, swinging my legs over it. After landing onto the floor, I took a step and pushed myself up and over a couch. A telekinetic pad stopped it from crushing as I leapt over it. As I landed, I rolled on the ground before leaping up and out the other side of the building.

Landing on my feet and through the window again, I rolled again before pulling myself back into a full sprint without missing a beat.

Unique skill gained! (Requirements: Maneuver through a complex environment without losing speed) Fuses the skills Acrobatics, traveler, physical fitness, sprinting, and jumping into the unique skill Phaser. Gives half of missing tree points from skill fusion (153 total points gained)

Phaser (lvl 1) – A poet paints with the written word. A musician composes with sound. You create art with motion. Fluidity of movement is increased with level of skill.

Making unique skills was a simple and brutally effective means of getting of power. Phaser would no doubt be useful later if not right then. Fusing the skill gave me 153 tree points as well, letting me increase my rank in my current tree. With a huge grin plastered on my face, I slowed down to a walk and put the points into Cosmic Soul. It did not disappoint.

Fight and use every part of your being to do so. Some would let fear freeze them in place. You put that fear behind you, letting it push you forward. You fear the weakling of your past, sacrificing who you were for who you will be. You turn the frozen fear into fire and fury. +25% learning speed of soul related skills. +25% total learning speed of oblivion related skills. Ability upgraded! [Cosmic Soul (Tier 2) – The size of your soul is limitless. + 40% scaling and handling of related skills.]

You understand that you are the manifestation of your thoughts. A being that reflects what lies within outward. Your beliefs become thoughts. Your thoughts become actions. Your actions become your life. You’ve chosen a life of ambition. +25% learning speed of soul related skills. +25% total learning speed of oblivion related skills. Ability upgraded! [Cosmic Soul (Tier 3) – The size of your soul is limitless. + 60% scaling and handling of related skills.]

Whenever I reached out towards oppression, the ability was different once more. Malleable and moldable like putty, I shifted and controlled the area it affected. I created complex shapes, allowing me to move it. What set it apart completely was the density of it. I could condense the aura, making it stronger.

Trying with all my might, I could make it about half size and double the strength. The feat required intense mental strain, even with all my willpower, but it could be done. Being able to control oppression with a fluid handling would allow me to use it even in groups of allies. It still wasn’t quite ready for something like that, but by the time I maxed out Cosmic soul, it would be.

Crossing one checkmark off the list of unique skills I aimed at, I glanced at the next. Getting the skill in only an afternoon made me wonder why no one else tried this. If you could get so skilled so quickly, then why didn’t everyone do it? The reason popped in my head like a splash of cold water on my face.

It was the leveling perks and level 100 perks I had. Having so many leveling bonuses combined with so many points in each attribute made gaining skills easy. A normal fighter wouldn’t have the precision or control I did, so getting Phaser would be arduous at best. Diversifying my skill set allowed me to take full advantage of these bonuses.

An idea popped into my head. I already knew several people who understood many skills that I didn’t. If I spoke with them and gained a few more unique skills, I could be more than ready for the venture into the eldritch rift. Maybe I could get a mythical skill while I was there.

Interrupting my thoughts, the earth under my feet quaked. Only by a bit, but enough for me to notice. I glanced towards Springfield. The suburbia bled into taller buildings that were swallowed by the dark, yellow forests of Yawm. Beyond the sea of sickly looking leaves, a blot of gray fog covered the city scape. The world tree lied at its center, hidden in a miasma of dense mana.

Bright streaks of green thunder arced in slow motion from the center of the fog. They grew in intensity over time, so slow you could hardly notice them. It was like they were frozen in place. It wasn’t until the ground shook that they even seemed to move.

They’d become something like the background of a computer, still and lifeless. Seeing them from the same angle everyday made it seem that way. As I stared at the cloud of gray, the fog pulsed like a beating heart. The lightning shifted a bit before a shockwave shot through the air. The ground quaked for a second, then all was still. There was only one thought coursing through my mind at that moment.

Was it time to see the world eater?
