It was everything Delta ever wanted.Gramps tapped the staff once and the water in the Frog Spawn room shivered as if afraid. The grim face showed a soft smile as he stared at her.“My Delta,” he breathed before frowning. He spun the staff and it pulsed in the air. In the distance there came a masculine shriek.“RALE, do not surf Renny down the river, you thick-headed rock of a frog!” he snarled. He shook his head.“I enjoyed being a hermit, but now I gotta feel all these rascals pulling each-other’s legs or doing something stupid. But... I can still stay here and tend to the room. I find it peaceful and I’ll need peace before long,” Gramps snorted as he tilted his head.“Devina, dear, that would be lovely. I shall boil some water if you fetch the honey,” he promised to Devina. Delta blinked and found the female frog quite a distances away.“You’re connected to them all?” she asked with interest as she walked in time with him to the entrance of the room that was high up.“More like I am... aware of them. I’ll learn to mute them eventually,” Gramp’s smiled returned before he nodded to the jungle.“Do not fret. You have much work to do and it won’t be long before more people come. You need to secure yourself and grow,” he encouraged warmly. Delta blinked before she smiled, she threw her arms around him, only feeling a bare fleeting sensation before she pulled back.Hugging while being a ghost was hard but she did what she could.“Try and leave, the fake light is good for you!” she promised and took off with a jump, gliding across the sky.She twisted and flipped slowly. Flying... to think she could just fly when it suited her. Delta laughed as she fell on purpose. Her feet went through trees and rocks until she slowed down to land on the surface of the hot spring. She looked down to see the surface barely rippling as she moved.It was just so... magical. Delta shook her head at her thoughts.What about this place wasn’t magical?Even the mushrooms could shoot laser beams now.“Heyo, Mum,” Luna called as she pattered over to the edge of the hotspring to wave cheerfully at her.“Luna!” Delta quickly hurried over and gave her youngest sounding frog a once over. Still looking graceful in her kimono, Luna was the picture perfect image of style. Even the black boot heels seemed to just add to her character.Now Delta was going to give her something else to have.“How would you feel about being a ninja?” she asked with excitement. Luna blinked once or twice.“Do I still get to be in charge of the springs?” was the first question. Delta shrugged.“It’s an evolution, not a job. So I think you can do both,” she reasoned out. Luna leaned forward, her hands on her hips as her mouth stretched into a smile.“Do ninjas kill people in cool ways?” she asked almost innocently. Delta gave her a long look.“Normal ninjas do cool flashy attacks, and appear from the shadows like ‘you’re already dead!’. They use laser swords or giant monsters to fight for them,” Delta said with a bright smile.Luna’s eyes were so wide they almost fell out of her head.“I wanna be one!” she demanded.“But I don’t think you-” Delta tried to explain that the evolution would most likely be the more historically accurate but less cool version but Luna was already swinging some invisible blade and making whooshing noises.Delta merely shrugged and purchased the Frog Assassin evolution for her.Unlike Gramps, the cocoon that surrounded her was made of pulsing dark and orange fibers. They fell away like shadows under the sun and a figure that was Luna stood there for a moment. The only thought Delta had proper was...At least there were no laser swords.Black baggy top showed Luna’s torso was tightly wrapped with bandages. Her shorts were much the same but no one... and no one, should be wearing that many belts and fishnets.Legs, arms, neck, most of her body showed Luna had fishnets over her skin. Also, why did she have three belts on each arm?You only needed one belt and none of the ones she wore were in the correct place! Instead, a deep purple sash seemed to tie her black outfit together.“I am the night... I am the silence... I am sooo cool!” Luna gushed over her new outfit.

Nu’s annoyed words only made Delta stare longer.“I may have put ideas into her head about ninjas. They may be entirely the wrong ideas,” Delta admitted.Luna twirled and a deep thunk echoed through the springs as Luna threw a handful of hidden needles that buried themselves into the wood with ease.“Spine... heart... lungs... liver... brain... so many targets... so exposed..” Luna said as she spun lightly and to Delta surprise, the ninja garb was replaced by her Hot Spring’s guardian outfit. The change was almost instant.“Oh good, I still have my heels,” Luna said cheerfully. A few twirls showed that she wasn’t just changing outfits, she was leaning her being towards her ‘job’ and her ‘evolution’. Switching between them like a press of a button. Delta guessed it would take time for her to balance both.Until then, no one would suspect the graceful Luna to actually be an assassin... or maybe they would. It was hard to say.The only thing left to do now, while Luna was doing her best Wonder Woman impression, was to upgrade the hot springs themselves.Now... Delta began to smile very slowly at the innocent bubbling water.She had a rather fun idea.After all, Luna still needed a good test, right?“Yo... Nu? Why is Mum cackling?” she heard Luna whisper.

“Woah... she can hurt people’s souls. That is so cool,” Luna’s awe was clear and Delta’s laugh trailed off as she had an inkling Nu was right.Still, it had never stopped her before. She just needed to gather some items, upgrade a few flowers... and invest in an incense burner.Delta put that next on the agenda list, right after she popped into Renny’s circus and finally helped the Mime get a decent home. Jeez, so much work.Delta turned and beamed.But she couldn’t lie... she loved it.---“And the truth….truf is that I love you, in a nice way, not like a married way!” Kemy explained to the stoic bartender back in Durence. She felt her bestest sister in the whole world, Aneya, sigh.“Kemy, how did you come back drunk?” she asked again. Kemy pushed a finger to Aneya’s lips.“Shhh, it’s not drunk. It’s pop!” she argued. She would never get drunk on a holy pilgrimage. Never intentionally!“Girl’s redder than Quiss’ behind after I was done with him,” the loud wonderful woman known as Ruli said.Kemy gasped as she stumbled over to her.“You... punished Quest? Quish? Quiche? Was he bad?!” Kemy said dramatically and looked at the scowling blond man.She did a prayer for his immoral soul.“Oh he was very bad!” Ruli slammed her mug down, laughing at ‘Quiche’.“I shall… redeem you!” Kemy announced and stood on the table.“By the power of truth...truth....hic... I say this is the best town in the world!” she cried, beaming so brightly she hiccuped once more and toppled back into Gonga’s waiting arms.“Okay, Delta got her pissed. I need to know how,” was all she heard before she was warm and embraced by love and truth and Aneya’s grumpy mumbles.She would have to remember to gift the goobers...gooblins....gobbers something nice for bringing her home.Some love! Yes, that would be nice.Everyone needed Kemy love.Delta especially. Kemy would give her all the love… for more POP!The girl giggled in her sleep.--
