A strangled gasp of horror made Alden’s eyes snap open. And then he almost fell backwards off his cushion at the sight of Stuart’s nose a millimeter from his own face.

“Stuart! You have a habit of sneaking up on—!”

“What planet’s days?!” Stuart shouted in an appalled voice.

Alden stared at him. “Are you hoping I’ll name one with a slower rotation than Earth or the Artonas?”

“Yes.”

Still leaning back, Alden couldn’t help but roll his eyes at the intensity in Stuart’s voice. “Earth days. Obviously. And yes. I know. You’re weaving a friendship with a big idiot.”

Stuart brought his hands up to his cheeks and finally returned to his starting position on his own cushion.

“Are you <<miserable>>?” he asked in a whisper.

“No.”

“Do you hate yourself?”

“No! And you look sick. Like you’re the one who ate a container full of oil. I promise I don’t hate myself. Or being an Avowed. Or my talents. And my skill is way more important than the rest of what I chose anyway, and it’s…exactly the kind of power I wanted for myself back then.”

If Gorgon had described the skill in vivid detail instead of giving just a name, Alden doubted he’d have hesitated to grab it. The special skill that could get stronger than others, the one that resembled Hannah Elber’s power, the one that demanded sacrifice—I’d have eaten it up. I’d have thought a lot of the things that worry me now were positives.

The fact that it was a rare skill that would capture the interest of important Artonans would have given him pause. The possibility of being always, or almost always, on summons away from Earth would have occurred to him. And the entrustment requirement might have made him hesitate, too.

But other than that…

“Going from having nothing to having the ability to do magic was thrilling for me. I don’t want you to think it was some awful moment. Almost every child on Earth hopes they’ll become Avowed at some point. I just didn’t guess right about how my life would go after it happened and how I’d change and grow up because of it.” He watched Stuart’s face. “I didn’t mean to upset you.”

“Would you change your skill now?” Stuart asked, voice still a little faint. “If you could…no! I’m sorry for asking. It’s not an—!“

“It’s fine. I’m the one who took the conversation here.”

I wanted to be forthcoming about the things I could afford to be forthcoming about.

“I want to tell you stuff about myself. And my answer is—I don’t even know how to wish I’d chosen a different skill. Everything that’s happened to me this year has happened because I chose that skill. I wouldn’t just undo it.

“If I did, I would be a different person, with different friends, in a different place.”

I wouldn’t know anything. I’d probably be a Brute or an Adjuster down in F.

I would have gotten over being rejected from Celena North by now, and I’d either be focused on prepping for uni tryouts or I would have met some people and encountered some ideas that made me switch gears.

Maybe Boe would have told me the truth about himself sooner. Maybe I wouldn’t have tried CNH at all. Maybe I’d be an unregistered living in Chicago because a few extra months influenced me in a different way.

Those might-have-beens didn’t really matter.

“I don’t want to live in a universe where I never helped Kibby escape from that place. Or in one where I don’t ever get to catch zansees in jars with a future knight of the Mother Planet.”

Stuart sat up straighter.

“I don’t hate myself,” said Alden. “I don’t hate my skill. It’s a great one. I just recognize that everything flowed from that one choice that I made so quickly. And…here I am, a slightly different person wishing that it didn’t feel like so many of the most important decisions in my life were already made.”

When Stuart didn’t say anything else, Alden cleared his throat, “Anyway, what’s the spell impression for? Back when I chose it, I imagined myself using it as some kind of distraction in fights.”

“We could find a way for you to do that with it!”

“That’s not necessary. Just tell me what it’s actually good at. If you know.”

Stuart clasped his hands together. “I think they use temper spheres that way in Jatonta for…killing <<a seasonal pest known to infest houses in large numbers>>.”

Alden re-read the translation.

“So it’s excellent! Important!” Stuart was saying. “Nobody wants an infestation!”

Part of my authority is eternally bound…to pest control. I can kill one particular kind of alien roach using an overpriced glass ball.

Does the loud sound scare them to death? Do wizards really need an Avowed to come do that for them? Maybe it’s supposed to be part of a larger housekeeping package. Make the beds, mop the floors, scream the seasonal infestation to death.

He snorted.

“Are you <<devastated>>!?” Stuart said. “Don’t be dev—“

“I’m good! I’m great!” Alden laughed. “I can kill things for people in Jatonta. Thanks for solving the mystery. Let’s talk about my better magic.”

******

The best way to show off Bearer was to show what he’d been doing with it for the last few weeks, so Alden shared all of his gym highlights with Stuart.

It was eye-opening in a lot of ways. Stuart was even more focused than usual, and he was asking a ton of questions about everything. But although he’d had such firm opinions about some of Alden’s regular classes, he made only a few judgments when it came to gym. An occasional comment on weapons he recognized, several on whether or not a spell impression had been used to its best effect—beyond that, he actually had a much worse sense of whether Alden’s classmates were doing well or poorly than Alden did himself.

I feel like I’m introducing a kid to a new sport. Only the kid is familiar with a similar sport featuring racehorses and this one is being played by, like, dachshunds.

“Do you feel you did well there?” Stuart asked, replaying the moment when Alden had lifted one of the heavy bags off the scaffolding and brought it down with his paracord.

“I was showing you that to talk about distance limitations. When I’m shielding something that extends a long way from my body, like the cord does here, I tire myself out faster. This was actually at the very beginning of term. Let me show you something I started to figure out last week. Here. Look.”

Alden shared the video of him catching the tennis balls.

“I’m proud of this, so I saved it for last. This is the newest, most impressive thing I’ve discovered about my skill…well, the most impressive thing that I can actually do somewhat on purpose instead of waiting until I’m nearly dead and in a crisis mental state.”

Morrison Waker was flinging a Wimbledon’s-worth of tennis balls at the Alden on the video.

He minimized the image on his own interface so that he could more easily see Stuart’s reaction.

Notice my eyes are closed! Notice how cool and magicky my skill and I are being together!

He knew just how Stuart had felt showing off his bean-transport spell earlier.

Don’t get too excited. He probably won’t realize what’s happening at first. We had to watch the replays a few times before Lexi noticed.

“Your eyes are closed!” Stuart exclaimed the second the Alden on the video shut them.

“They are!”

“How did you do that?!”

He does think it’s cool!

“I was really focused, and I felt like I was in the zone. Sorry, I can’t think of how to say that in Artonan right now. And something important was here.”

Alden made a gesture he’d seen Kibby use a couple of times—a grabby motion with both hands beside his own ears. It was the equivalent of saying an idea was right in front of your nose or that you were on the verge of a breakthrough. “So I focused on the fact that Instructor Waker was throwing things at me—”

Stuart looked surprised. “Were you not focused on that already? He was throwing a lot of yellow balls at you.”

“I didn’t phrase that well. I’m just happy you noticed and I’m talking too fast—!"

“He threw so many. They’re very yellow.”

“Yes. I know. What I meant to say was I stopped thinking of it as him throwing weapons at me. I started thinking of it as him throwing something to me. And there was this feeling of getting it—”

“You were only getting some of them.”

“No. Getting it is a way of saying ‘truly understanding’ in English. So I was getting it more than normal. My skill. And it felt like the gym faded away and what really mattered was Instructor Waker being my entruster and me being the—”

The Bearer of All Burdens.

He almost said the words. But they wouldn’t come.

He hadn’t meant to say even this much, but here they were. And Alden wanted to share something real and important he’d noticed about his skill. With someone. With Stu-art’h, who had spent the past day sharing real and important truths of his own.

What am I doing? I just thought about how this was a bad idea even if I kind of want…

The secrecy contract had stopped him. The gremlin was awake now and giving him the mental equivalent of a suspicious look, like it thought he might be thinking of trying something forbidden.

Ro-den told me I might be summoned into a bullet. He said Stuart’s father would somehow make my life an endless misery if he ever found out about my skill. I shouldn’t want to.

He’d probably only gotten this far into his explanation because he’d had no intention of arriving at this moment when he’d set out. And now he was just kneeling here with his mouth hanging open and his thoughts scattered.

“Alden?” Stuart asked. His eager expression morphed into an amused smile. “What is it?”

Alden stared into his rust-colored eyes.

I mean it’s probably for the best, right? a voice in his head said. What were you going to do? Trust him with your life this fast?

Alden took a breath. He shut his mouth.

The endless misery was probably something obvious. Like being summoned a lot…or being forced to train the skill for the good of the Triplanets or something. Everything under the Intensity 99.9 category probably qualifies as “endless misery” to Joe.

“Alden? You just stopped talking so suddenly. Are you all right?”

“I hate Worli Ro-den.”

“<<Echoing klerms>>!” Stuart exclaimed. “What’s he been doing on Earth to make you keep saying that?”

“Nothing. He’s working so hard that half of the people on Anesidora think he’s a hn’tyon.”

Stuart’s face scrunched. “You should correct them.”

“I will. But let me tell you some things about Ro-den. I was so happy to see him on Earth because I didn’t expect to get the chance to meet him again. And I did go to a dangerous chaos moon to pick berries that he wanted. He paid me, but…I thought since so much had happened, maybe we’d talk about some of it.I wanted to drink some wevvi or some tea and tell him how his loyal assistants died. Because I thought he might want to know where their bodies fell so he could honor them. And I wondered if he personally knew Kibby’s new guardian. I just wanted to make sure they were a good person who would take good care of her.

“Tea, a short period of socialization, him acting like I was a person instead of a broken tool he couldn’t safely use anymore—obviously that was crazy of me. He ran away from me like I was a demon, and I had to chase him into an elevator and force him to talk to me. And then he told me he would speak to me for the time it took to go up twenty floors and then never again.”

Stuart’s mouth was hanging open now.

Alden replayed everything he’d just said in his head. He adjusted his position on the learning cushion. “Thanks for letting me drop all of that on you. It just surprised me that he would treat me that way.”

“He hurt your feelings.”

Alden grimaced. “He did a little.”

Stuart made a doubtful humming sound.

“More than a little,” Alden admitted. “I didn’t think we were friends. But I thought…he would respect what I’d been through enough to give me some of his time without acting like everything was about him. Or something like that. ”

“Last week,” said Stuart, “he made us practice identifying the elemental alignments of a <<residue>> embedded within the fourth <<bowel>> of a dead <<large quadrupedal animal from Left Bagru>>.”

“Yuck.”

“My arm was almost too short to reach.”

Alden blinked. “You had to reach? You couldn’t use a spell? Or a knife?”

“He is a <<foul>> instructor. I could sense the alignments from the exterior, but he kept acting like there was some secret within that I might be missing. I was afraid to be mistaken, so I had to reach inside and feel around like everyone else.” He shuddered. “If you want, I’ll tell you all the rumors my classmates shared about him after that lab.”

Tempting. Very tempting.

“Our time is too precious to let him steal any more of it,” Alden said. “Wouldn’t you rather throw things at me and see if we can get my skill to work like it did in that video?”

Stuart nodded. “I would.”

“Me too.”

They stood from their cushions, and Alden headed over to the bed to pick up the temper sphere he’d tossed there.

“Alden.”

He turned back.

Stuart stared at him for a few seconds. “I’m going to say this even though it may not need to be said. It will be heavy for me if I don’t.”

Alden drew a sharp breath.

“It would upset me,” said Stu-art’h, “if you ever accepted a skill or a spell that didn’t <<perfectly suit>> you, just because it was the best available on a list offered by Earth’s Contract.”

Then, he smiled.

Alden didn’t know what his own expression looked like, but he was sure it wasn’t bland.

