That's more people than I expected.

Veron took a moment to settle down, appreciating the atmosphere. Most of it felt exciting, people joining up to delve into the depths. The tension and danger that the dungeon represented was present in some of their faces and their body language, but more so, it seemed like there was a lot of drive and greed and excitement.

Some of them walked with heads held high, with straight postures, and smooth reactions to people striking up a conversation. Others looked shifty and nervous, though Veron knew that neither was more than a hint at their dungeoneering capabilities.

Now, what kind of people am I looking for?

Veron assumed they were all at the Modest stage of their Path, which meant at least some experience with fighting or extracting, or he supposed with making or having enough gold to buy quite a bit of essence. There were a few people he saw that stood out, with armor that looked a little too clean and more expensive than what most others here sported, though he wasn’t an expert by any means.

If it is better gear, that could just mean they have money or connections, or maybe someone sponsoring them.

Or maybe they saved up for a long time. Hmm.

Two to three additional people would be best, I think. My goal is to work on my magic, so making gold isn’t a priority, at least not yet. Maybe I can find others who share that goal.

A group of five shook hands and smiled at one another, two of them eyeing up each other’s weapons before they made to leave. One guy wearing gray traveling gear explained something in a book to a blonde woman in half-plate armor. One man was showing off his tower shield to three people watching him and discussing amongst each other.

Veron simply sat and watched. He felt a bit puzzled with how eager some of the people he saw were with joining up or looking for others.

Yeah. That’s one thing I don’t want. Overeagerness and impatience. I want people who will consider things. Who are willing to prepare and plan. Willing to compromise and work in a team.

The vibe has to fit too. Even if I consider the time magic, I plan to work with them for a long time.

They’re all Modest, so they all bring a similar strength to mine, and some kind of magic. Beyond that, we can all learn to work together and get better with our skills.

More newly formed teams were leaving.

I’m looking for reasonably grounded people, aware of their limitations and shortcomings.

A healer would be good too, though I suppose everyone else would want to find one too.

It seemed like Elementals with an Earth Harmony weren’t quite as sought after, as nobody came to strike up a conversation.

Veron was about to start approaching people when a man who looked to be in his late thirties came up to him. He had black hair going over to gray. He was shorter than Veron, wearing black linen pants, a green shirt, and a brown vest on top. He wore his silver adventuring badge on a necklace, indicating he was at least above the Modest rank.

“Hey there. I’m Rover, a team counselor of the Guild. Let me know if you’d like to get some input from me or if you have any questions. It’s good to meet you,” he said and shook Veron’s hand with an easy smile on his face.

“Good to meet you too, Rover. I’m Veron, Modest Elemental Path with an Earth Harmony. How do these things usually go? I see that some people already found their teams.”

“Elemental hmm? I assumed as much with the armor. It’s not every day we get someone with your Harmony. It's your first time at one of these meetings then?”

“Yes.”

“Well then, one way is to just strike up a conversation and see if you find anyone interesting. Or you could ask me for help. I've gotten to know quite a few of the people looking for a group here, and not everyone is comfortable joining up with people they've talked to for just a few minutes. It's not what I recommend either.”

He waited, giving Veron a questioning glance.

“I’m listening.”

“Great. Then let’s start with a few questions. First, I'd like to know why you want to go into the dungeon. Give me an idea of what you're looking for down in the pit.”

An interview. I see.

Veron considered the question for a moment.

“I mainly want to work on my magic, gain experience with the dungeon and the creatures within, and with working with a team. I suppose I'm not too interested in rushing things or earning silver.”

Rover nodded along. “Do you have prior experience in the dungeon?”

“Yes. Very limited. I got the chance to work with a more experienced team, high iron I think. I’ve been to the first and second layers, fought rats, various skeletons, skeleton hounds, in the second layer, we hunted Vereltir, and I’ve killed a few things in the Old Forest as well. For now though, I’m looking to get more comfortable with the Crypts.”

“That sounds reasonable. Not many Modest Paths who have faced a Vereltir before.”

“I was mostly there to support.”

“I understand. So, what would you be looking for in teammates? How many? What Paths, what aspects?”

“Two to three people. I want to work with people who are aware of their capabilities and limitations. People who can think things through and communicate clearly. I don’t really care about their aspects, as long as they are willing to work together and don’t run at the first sign of danger.”

“Why don’t you care about their aspects? If you don’t mind me asking,” Rover said.

“Because I don’t think it matters all that much in the Crypts. A healer would be nice to have in the team though.”

“Why is that?”

“The healer bit?”

“Yes.”

Veron blinked his eyes. “Well. Whenever injuries happen, we could go on. Instead of retreating.”

Rover huffed with some amusement. “Yeah… maybe that could work. I’ll tell you what, Veron. There are a few people I can think of that might fit, two of them aren’t here right now but I expect they’ll join again this afternoon. One fellow adventurer you could talk to now, and see if they’re interested. They’re sitting in the corner over there.” He pointed. Veron spotted them. A woman with short black hair and clad in brown leather armor.

“Sounds good. What can you tell me about her?”

“It’s probably for the best if you just talk to her and find out, see if you’re both interested in working together. I suspect there’s a chance at least. Come talk to me afterwards either way.”

“Will do, thanks Rover. Or maybe I should wait with thanks until I meet her and the others you’re thinking of.”

Rover smiled with a shrug. “I do my work either way. Good luck.”

“Appreciate it,” Veron said. He shouldered his pack, connecting his helmet and his shield to his armor, and slotting his mace into a stone holder on his waist. Then he went over to the woman, walking past the remaining fifteen or so people who were still talking.

One of them saw where he was going and called out. “Don’t bother, she’s not looking for a team.”

Another one snickered.

“I’ll try anyway, thanks,” Veron said.

He could see her better now. She was shorter than he was, arms in her lap, blue eyes forward. Her hair wasn’t short. She wore it braided and tucked up. She had white skin and a slight scowl on her face. A spiked war hammer rested against the wall next to her.

Finding new teammates. Alright, awkward first moves then.

“Hey. Do you mind if I sit over here?” Veron asked, indicating the same bench she sat on, a few meters to her left.

“Knock yourself out,” she said.

“I’m Veron. Nice to meet you.”

“Let me guess, you want me to join your team as well?” she asked.

“I don’t know. I don’t know you, so maybe we could start with names?”

She perked up slightly and really looked at him for the first time. “You’re an Elemental Path?”

“Yeah. Earth Harmony. It lets me save a lot on gear,” he said with a smile. “Is that enough to get your name? Or should I leave again?”

“It’s Ailis,” she said. “And no. Do you have a team already?”

“Ailis, good to meet you. I don’t have a team. You’re the first person that Rover sent me to, the attendant over there. So, why do you want to go down there?”

“That’s your question?”

“Yeah? Is there a misunderstanding? You are looking for a team, right? Modest Path?”

Her scowl vanished, replaced by what seemed like some confusion. She sat up a bit straighter. “No. No misunderstandings. I’m a Modest Path looking for a team. Why do I want to go down there? I want to go into the dungeon to gain experience. With fighting, and with my magic. That’s pretty much it. I don’t care all that much for relics, treasures, or whatever else some fool might think to find down there.”

“I see why Rover sent me to you then. I’m happy for anything we find, but I mainly want to go down to work on my magic as well. Have you been in the dungeon before then?”

“A few times, yes. What about you?”

“A few times. First and second layer. The second one I mostly just tagged along with a stronger team. Learned a lot but I want to focus on the Crypts for now.”

“Same for me. What role would you fill then? I’ve not seen a lot of Earth Paths before, and I’m pretty sure most Elemental Paths stay back and burn things or shoot their elements at things. You seem… a little more durable.”

“I should be. I can shoot things too, but I prefer close quarters. The heavy armor makes me somewhat slow, but I can take a hit or two. And I plan to do just that, if we end up working together. What about you? I assume that is your hammer? Is that your aspect?”

“It isn't. I'm not an expert by a long shot, but I do plan on using it and getting better.”

“Do you have a shield as well?”

Ailis smiled. “Not yet. That would be the next thing to buy. A smaller and lighter one than yours though. I do have magic by the way, but I'm interested to know if you would want to work with me as is.” She looked at him with what seemed like anticipation.

Veron considered for a moment. “I want to work with people I can trust and communicate with.”

“I’ll tell you what it is in a minute. It’s not a big secret.”

“Right. Purely based on everything else? Sure. I think it's risky without a shield, but I can make you one.”

“Fancy that,” she said and considered. “A stone shield. Maybe that could work, though I’ll have to see how heavy it ends up being. I'm a Devotion Path, Way of the Healer.”

“A healer. That’s awesome. Why wouldn’t you… oh, I see.”

“Yeah. Normally, that's the reason why people come up to me in the first place.”

“And that’s a problem? Do you want to fight instead of being relegated to the back lines to heal?”

Hayden did both.

Ailis seemed to relax a little, leaning against the wall behind her as she looked at him. “That's part of it, but it's not really about fighting or not fighting. I'm happy to heal. Working on my Path is the main reason why I want to go into the dungeon. It may even be the only reason actually.”

She made to continue, and then shook her head. “You know what, it doesn't matter right now. If you want to try working together, I’m happy to give it a shot. Sorry for having been so brash before. It helps figuring out who’s just in it for the gold.”

“I get that. You and your hammer then. Me and my rocks. That's two people. Which is a good start. I think we should probably get another two. How does that sound?”

“Yeah, that sounds good. Did Rover have more suggestions?”

“He did, though he said they usually join in the afternoon.”

“Ah I see. Well, maybe.”

“You know who he’s thinking of?”

“I might have an idea. At least for one of them. I wasn’t keen so far but with you,” she wobbled her head in a considering manner. “Sure, maybe. Let's quickly check with him, otherwise we'll see each other in the afternoon.”

Veron went and checked, but Rover let him know his picks hadn’t shown up yet.

“You want to go for lunch then?” Veron asked Ailis.

“I’ve got some work to do, but maybe dinner? If we get a team together.”

“Sure. I'll see you later then.”

Ailis waved and left, ignoring a plate-armored woman who came up to her to ask about her joining their group, immediately mentioning that they were looking for a healer.

Ah, that’s it, isn’t it? She gets reduced to her aspect. That’s all she is to people. At least initially.

Makes sense sadly. It’s such an important aspect to have around, especially at these lower levels. I guess once people can afford relics to help them deal with injuries, having a healer in the team would become less important.

But I see why she's annoyed about it.

And at the same time I’m really glad that Rover didn’t tell me. I might’ve brought it up as well. And now I found a healer to work with.

Two more people then, and we got ourselves a team.
