Master and my parents have made me take it easy since I woke up from my extended nap with the gods. Other than figuring out the process for making engraving ink, my skill growth has been relatively stagnant.

But all that changed after what I just accomplished. I managed to run through the air!

And I got the skill to prove it, Air walk.

I even made it through the second Running test at level 75. I guess the system considers running through the air an achievement as much as I do.

The mana skills I used to pull off the feat leveled as one, and Mana Manipulation reached level 60, giving me another skill test I’ll need to figure out how to pass.

I lay there basking in the glow of my success until my heart rate returns to normal, and I remember I still have a job to do.

Standing up, I give myself a quick shake to dislodge any dirt or mud still clinging to Mana Skin. I look around and retrieve my pack and axe from where they landed and make sure both are secure.

A part of me wants to try using Air Walk again immediately, but I'm forced to ground myself for the time being.

I only used the skill four times, but it ate up nearly 150 mana. If I was back home safe in the village, I could practice the skill until my Mana pool nears flatlining, but I can't waste my mana while I'm out here all alone.

I reluctantly continue down the forest path, cursing that I got one of the coolest skills ever, and I can't use it. It feels like someone gave me the best Christmas present of my life, and I was told I couldn't play with it until January.

Well, just because I can't use the skill doesn't mean I can't gush over it. While I gradually pick up speed until I'm back at my former pace, I start crunching numbers regarding Air Walk.

I used roughly 150 mana to activate the skill four times; that's 37.5 mana per activation.

If I have a full Mana pool, I can use the skill… Ummm, carry that over, about 22 times.

But that doesn’t take into account outside factors. If I use Air Walk, I would definitely need to have Mana Skin activated to its max capacity in case I suffered an accident.

So, lower the 22 to 19. No, more like 18 to be safe.

I’m sure the skill’s mana cost will lower as I practice it, but until that happens, I only have a minimal number of steps I could take with the skill.

“How far could I get with 18 steps?” I ponder out loud.

If I were back on Earth, 18 steps would be nothing but with my stats; I could propel myself a reasonable distance if I put everything I have into my legs.

Now that I think about it, I haven't really tested how strong I am now. I usually judge my Strength by how long I can swing my hammer, but that isn't a full-body test of Strength. I already limit myself when I run, if I didn’t, I would kick up dirt like I did earlier today, and that just loses me momentum to the loose soil, costing me extra Stamina for no reason.

It’s hard to say how much ground I could clear if I moved in a straight line, with no obstructions, and the ground could adequately support me.

The only place I could possibly test something like that out would be Drey, but I'm not crazy enough to push my luck with a stunt like that. The local lord or army would snatch me up before my feet would even touch the ground.

Damn, all this thinking of testing my limits has me itching to try out my skill again!

I’m forced to hold back my impulses as I continue my run.

Time starts to fly by, and soon I've been running for almost nine hours. I only stopped a handful of times to give my Stamina a chance to recharge when it reached halfway. With how much distance I've cleared, I'm sure I'm close to nearing the halfway point through the forest.

Even I couldn’t predict I would make such great time.

I don't feel all that tired, and I'm sure I could run for a lot longer before I would need to stop for an extended rest.

If I pushed myself and ran through the night, I could probably make it to Drey by sunrise tomorrow, but that would surely leave me exhausted and would endanger my trip back home.

To think, I've reached the point I can run hundreds of miles in a day and still be able to consider the possibility of running even farther.

Being alone with my thoughts has helped me clarify my goals.

My nervousness about being outside the village has almost completely vanished. My dreams of traveling the world are reinforced, and I promise myself to push my boundaries when I return to the village.

I’ll start with the one place I’ve always wanted to explore since the first time I saw it.

The dense magic region in the forest has always been in the back of my head ever since I saw the boundary during the goblin extermination. If creatures like the chameleon spiders live in there year-round, I can't imagine what else lies in its depths.

I can imagine the place teeming with magical plants and ore samples I've never seen before.

No matter how much my parents complain and try to talk me out of it, I make a promise to myself that I’ll go after I forge my new sword.

I smile to myself, just thinking of the adventure, only to be dragged back to reality when I pick up something funky with Sense Mana in the distance.

I skid to a stop and focus on the space a dozen feet in front of me.

Nothing is there to the naked eye, but my superior mana senses clearly see a kaleidoscope of shapes made from mana slowly moving in my direction. Taking a step back, I observe the weird shifting mana in front of me.

Looking side to side, I notice the mass is shaped in a circle, and it’s moving at a steady pace towards me. The mana is random but appears structured in nature. It doesn't appear to affect the plants its encompassing, and it isn't influencing the free-flowing mana in the air either.

So, what to do when you’re faced with something new?

I wait for the sphere of shifting mana to come towards me, and I try reaching my hand out to touch it.

As soon as my hand enters the invisible mana bubble, I feel a pulse of mana come from the center of the construct. The pulse of mana tries to envelop me, fighting against my mana obscuring magic tool I bought from Mr. Grey for superiority.

The mana's pulse weakens significantly thanks to my magic tool and is further reduced when it encounters Mana Skin. I send my own quick pulse of mana that finally destroys the weakened construct.

And just like a bubble, the mana construct in front of me pops but not before I'm able to trace the origin of the mana pulse to someone 100 feet down the road.

Whatever that was, it must have been some sort of spell. Even when the mana pulse tried to cover me, it didn't feel aggressive. Judging by the area covered, it must have been a detection spell of some kind.

Who would be using magic out here?

The face of my only friend pops into my head.

No way, did they?

I slip into the nearby trees and stealthfully make my way towards the spot I sensed the magic originate from. I draw my axe in case I’m wrong, which would mean I’d be dealing with an unknown person using magic that happens to be heading towards our village.

The hairs on the back of my neck stand on end, thinking of the possibility I might need to face my first mage opponent. I’ve practiced dealing with someone swinging a sword or other weapon at me; on the other hand, I’ve never had someone throw a fireball at me.

Skulking through the woods, I eventually come across a cart being pulled by what I assume is a sick bivol. The thing looks like it’s ready to topple over if a strong enough breeze blew through the trees. While the sickly beast of burden is continuing its agonizing trek forward, it's the couple in traveling robes that grab my attention. They're standing next to the cart, scanning their surroundings and arguing at the same time. I have to hold my hand to my mouth to stifle my laughter at the coincidence of it all.

"I thought you said your magic would detect anything bigger than a bird!" I immediately recognize my brother's voice.

“My spell did detect something, only whatever it was somehow canceled it out,” Sandra retorts him without taking her eyes off of the woods.

“Can’t you cast the spell again?” Brother hurriedly suggests.

"Shut up and let me concentrate; I can't do it just by waving my hands around!"

I wonder if I’m watching their first marital strife. Na, knowing brother Sandra has already put him in his place countless times while living together.

I watch Sandra gather her magic towards her hands, preparing to recast her scanning spell. Brother remains close to her, brandishing a large construction hammer.

Both of them don't look that different since I last saw them. Brother is still a hair taller than me, but instead of bulking up like father, his frame is slightly smaller than I remember. I can tell by how he holds his hammer he's invested points in Strength but not as much as I expected. Did he start focusing on his other stats? Why?

Sandra's raven black hair is positively glowing with Vitality, and while brother looks maybe a year or two older, Sandra doesn't look like she's aged since I last saw her.

That’s the power of gaining levels and investing in Vitality.

When someone turns 10, they gain access to their status and start earning more levels as they look for a profession. Most people gain the majority of their levels between the ages of 10 and 25. Even if someone only invests one or two points into Vitality each level, it provides them with the benefits of looking younger longer.

That’s why mother and father only look like they just turned thirty when they are both approaching forty.

Come to think about it, how long am I going to look like a teenager? My body has stopped developing, and I have a lot of Vitality. I look like a tall, fit, eighteen-year-old back on Earth, and though I'm proud of my looks, I'm not sure how I feel about looking the same for the next twenty years.

While I'm weighing the pros and cons of my body's future, Sandra finishes her spell.

It's interesting to watch her form the magic spell even though I can't hear the words she's using. She holds her hands together like she's cupping a liquid before opening them in a sweeping gesture.

The same bubble I witnessed earlier slowly expands with Sandra at the center. It pauses momentarily when it passes over brother and their bivol, but after two magic pulses scan them, the spell continues to expand.

That's interesting; the spell must use those pulses to bring information back to Sandra when it interacts with an animal of a certain size. If only she were here when we were worried about the chameleon spiders.

The spell slowly grows until it’s about to reach the spot I’m hiding.

I wonder how much information the spell brings back to Sandra?

Let’s have some fun and find out.

I absorb the magic in my mana obscuring tool and smile as the spell reaches me.

Sandra’s Point of View:

Damn it, what could break my spell like that? A magic obscuring tool would weaken the spell, but the only way to counter it is to be able to know that it’s there.

I supply a steady stream of magic into my spell as it covers the trees surrounding us. Maybe it was a fluke, and I'm overreacting?

But we need to be careful. Father's latest note said they hadn't seen any spiders in a while, but there is still a possibility one could be the cause of my spell's failure. It would be presumptuous of me to guess how a spider that can mask itself with magic would react to my spell.

“Anything yet?” Richard asks from my side.

“No,” I hiss through my teeth. It takes a minute for the spell to grow to its full potential. I can vaguely see the shimmer in the air where the boundary currently is, but to people like Richard, my spell appears to have done nothing at all.

I need to focus as the spell expands, but maintaining it is simple enough once it reaches its max distance.

If we're lucky, it might just have been a goblin on the outskirts of my spell. When it failed, I wasn't even able to pinpoint where the cause of the spell's failure was; so for all we know, the threat could be anywhere around us.

I’ll just need to remain…

“There,” I shout and point at a section of the forest.

“What is it?” Richard asks, stepping in between me and the spot I indicated.

"One second," I piece out the bits of information my spell sends directly to my mind. Around six feet tall, bipedal, female, magic quantity… Shit, around 700. "It's a single person; they can use magic."

“Anybody else?” Richard reminds me I still need to check the rest of our surroundings.

My spell finishes expanding, and I don't sense anybody else. "No, just her," I tell Richard.

“Do you have a lock on her?” Richard asks me.

"I do; she's staying in the same spot," I inform him.

"Alright then," he whispers to me. Richard ready's himself and takes a stance that would allow him to swing his hammer quickly. "Come on out; we know you're there!" He shouts towards the person hidden in the trees.

“Only because I allowed you to find me!” I shiver and take a step back on hearing the female demonic voice that comes from the trees. That was an intimidation skill, and it was used by someone who's seen battle.

"Stay behind me, Sandra!" Richard tries to remain calm, but I can see his shoulders start to shake.

"Oh, how heroic. But do you think trying to act brave for your girl will be enough against me!?” We hear a crash and the sound of wood splintering, and we watch as a large tree tumbles over in the distance.

“She’s coming!” I shout as my spell picks up the person nearing us. She must be confident she can take us because she’s moving slow.

“Tremble fools, and answer my question!” We hear the voice originate just outside the tree line. Richard ready’s himself to charge while I drop my searching spell and prepare to chant an attack spell.

