Erick grinned, saying, “It’s not paranoia if the bad guys truly are out to get you.”

Kromolok chuckled a little, smiling brightly. “To the White Palace, then? Central courtyard; I believe that is where the Stratagolds await.”

Erick opened a [Gate], and the two of them stepped through into a courtyard under the false suns of the Geode Stratagold, into the center of the White Palace. Erick had always liked this place. It was shaped like a starburst of crystals kilometers across, and surrounded by floating crystal platforms. Erick had been here long ago for a Bright Tea ceremony, under an ultraviolet light, where all the wrought danced and glowed together, to honor their sacred duty to the world, and to Rozeta. He had been to Bright Tea twice more since that first time. Nowadays he came here to talk with Alfonin about this or that, whenever the mood took him.

Erick already knew where to go, so he took a left and walked by some guards into a massive open meeting hall, with Kromolok at his side. At the far end of the space was a whole bunch of tables set up with charts and orreries of various sizes and metals. A bunch of wardlights held in the air, with the largest star chart being a copy of the one Erick had done in that ritual a while ago. That Star Map held to the side of the grand meeting hall, taking up a good twenty meters of floating space.

Abarnikon was at the paper charts, poking between them and an orrery on the table in front of him.

Alfonin was playing around with the Star Map. He noticed Erick first, his black metal face going from stoic to happy in a short moment. “Erick! That didn’t take nearly as long as I figured.”

Kromolok said, “Delivered as requested.” And then he said to Erick, “Good fortunes, Erick. Don’t go opening up Veird to cosmic expansion too soon, okay?”

Erick chuckled. “No promises.”

Kromolok eyed Erick for a moment, then said, “I hope that is a joke. See you later.” And then he spoke to a red incani wrought beside the door they had come in from. “[Gate] to my offices.”

The red woman bowed, softly saying, “At once, Head Inquisitor,” as she opened a [Gate] of red light, with the other end—

Erick instantly, reflexively, counterspelled the Script-given [Gate].

For a moment, no one said anything.

Then Erick shrugged, and said, “Sorry. I just had a really, really bad feeling… Uh. Here:” He opened a [Gate] to the beach area outside of the Yggdrasil at Stratagold. On the other side lay the wrought offices of Stratagold Transportation, set above and overlooking a wide, heavily busy avenue of transportation, where massive floating barges whipped through gates to travel to the Surface, and then continue on to the rest of the Gate Network at Candlepoint. The very few people in those transportation offices looked Erick’s way, but they said nothing; they wondered what they were seeing. “Again, sorry Kromolok. I have no idea why I did that—” A lie; he didn’t want the very good Mind Mages in Kromolok’s Inquisitor offices to catch anything at all from this side of the red [Gate]. “—And this spot is close, right?”

“… Sure, Erick.” Kromolok said, “I was actively protecting people from seeing your mind in my offices, though.”

“… Perhaps you were, but I’m not being overly paranoid here, Kromolok.”

“Fair enough.” Kromolok went through Erick’s [Gate], saying, “See you later.”

Kromolok greeted the people at the Stratagold Transportation office, all of the wrought ones bowing instantly while the fleshy people wondered what the fuck was happening. Some of the fleshy people suddenly realized and then they bowed too, and then even more as they saw who lay beyond the unexpected [Gate] in their offices.

Erick gave a little nod and shut the [Gate].

And then he went toward Alfonin and Abarnikon, saying, “Sorry about that. I’m a bit jumpy right now. So let’s talk about metals for use in space! And dyson swarms and colonizing planets and all that fun jazz, and where all those other planars might have come from.”

Alfonin raised an eyebrow at Erick, then he simply smiled and moved on. “Any planar stories you’d like to hear about in particular?”

A servant offered tea to Erick and he took a cup. Then the servant offered tea to Alfonin and Abarnikon as well, who also took some. They all three had a sip of their own; a little ritual of hospitality.

And then Erick said, “There was this one story I heard about long ago when I first landed on Veird where an elf fell to Veird and then orcols killed her for being an elf. What’s all that story about?”

The royal family of Stratagold were all shaped like orcols, so Erick suspected they might have a slightly more nuanced take on that particular planar. He was soon proven right.

“I think Abarnikon was more privy to that planar than I. I believe she called her race of people ‘astraelif’. ‘The Cosmic People’ in their language. I don’t believe she was an Old Cosmology elf at all, but her appearance tracked with our records of those extinct people.” Alfonin looked to his son, asking, “What was her story?”

Abarnikon began, “That story is one of the prime stories of elves and orcols, and shapes much of modern day orcol culture. It began with a woman named Ivalia Starstriker, a planar elf who fell to Veird centuries ago, in the year 838 or 839. She was lost in the Forest of Glaquin for an unknown amount of time and the registrar sent to find her could not find her. This is because she fell in her spaceship, and her ship, while damaged and healing, was able to guard her from all sorts of scanning magics used by mortals, and the divines were bickering at her arrival, so there was a lock on using divine magics to find her, as well. I believe you would have seen her ship down in the Vaults, Erick; it is the ring ship.”

Erick raised his eyebrows in half-surprise; he had heard about the ship’s origins last go-around, but Kromolok had given the impression of never wanting to talk about the specifics of any of the ships at all. Erick hadn’t expected to get this sort of sharing from Abarnikon, or Alfonin.

Erick smiled, saying, “That’s an interesting ship you got down there.”

“It is,” Abarnikon said, “Unfortunately, it is beyond broken. It was what Ivalia called a livingsilver ship and it died when she died, though its corpse still lives on, still producing that unknown mana that it produces. I doubt Kromolok is willing to talk about any of those ships, so your surprise is expected.”

Erick chuckled a little. “He’s pretty tight-lipped.”

Alfonin smiled at that, too.

Abarnikon continued, “We’ll get to her death later, but for the first several years of her life, she was hunted by orcols for the threat she represented through Aloethag’s various elven-sympathy proclivities…”

In the way that wrought did a lot of the time, Abarnikon spoke at length, and in depth, going over the 18 year-long history of Ivalia Starstriker and her livingsilver ship like a university professor asked to give a filibuster. Erick did not mind. No Red Sparks encroached upon Erick at all, and he was using Ophiel outside in the courtyard to check on the rest of the world through a bunch of [Gate]s. This was just a known-history story, finally getting told to Erick, though millions others probably knew the story long before now.

That story ended as Kromolok had already explained; with every orcol at the wedding Raging and tearing the bride-to-be to shreds of flesh and nothing more.

The commonly accepted reasoning varied, and Abarnikon went over many of them. In one version of the story the husband had been turned into an elf instead of the elf being turned into an orcol like had been agreed, and the wedding party killed them both because Aloethag was cheering for her new elven future. In another story the elf had done Blood Magic to the entire wedding party as part of a ritual, attempting to turn them all into elves. Another version had the elf just lay down some dormant blood magic in the wedding party that would have come to fruition generations further along, turning all orcols into elves, or something to that effect. And then there was Kromolok’s Fate-fuckery version of the tale, though that story was told in confidence, and not to be spread to others; world secrets and all that.

Eventually, the conversation moved on to Erick’s thoughts on elves (no thank you) and getting the ship out of the Vault for better inspections (“Probably never, Erick,” Alfonin said) and the uses of metals in space.

“It cannot be as simple as ‘adamantium is the best’,” Erick said, “The Script supports adamantium; it is not a naturally occurring alloy. And Ivalia’s ship is ‘livingsilver’; whatever that is.”

They were still standing around the tables, talking, drinking tea, and eating some small snacks, even several hours after starting in this very same place. They hadn’t gotten to any of the charts yet. They hadn’t gotten past a single story and a few tens of tangents. It was quite relaxing, actually, so Erick did not mind this at all. It was better than seeing Red Sparks everywhere.

Alfonin smirked, saying, “Adamantium is wonderful outside the Script, Erick. It soaks up mana of all kinds and even produces a minor Domain to keep that mana in. We used to have a large adamantium shell surrounding all of Veird to protect us from the Killing Sun in the beginning of the Script, but that only lasted weeks. No one wanted to be trapped inside anything at all, least of all Melemizargo, so we developed the current Edge of the Script.”

Erick’s eyebrows rose in surprise.

Abarnikon said, “Adamantium is not a perfect metal, for sure, but there is a reason that it is the royal metal. Many reasons.”

“… Could we make a giant adamantium shell the size of a mountain and throw it out there, filled with slimes, and it would survive?”

“Ah ha!” Alfonin smiled, gesturing to the table with the dyson swarm and other planetary schematics. “And now we can get to the math of it all.”

… Well. They had to get to the math eventually, didn’t they? Oh well. Erick understood the math of it all, but it was no fun, so he paid attention but not too much.

He did have to pay attention to all of the logistics, though.

Abarkinon said, “[Duplicate], when used on a sufficiently uniform building block, like a hexagonal rod a hundred kilometers long that we have in this design here, will be able to join to itself using standard metal-melding properties in a zero-atmosphere environment, allowing us to partition out an ever-expanding series of continent-sized plates. This would form half the basis of every part of the swarm, and would be runed against other runes being used upon it. We would need an interior runic system though, so we would have that secondary rune system inscribed and then sandwiched between the top and bottom plates. This secondary system would provide gravity and magnetic locking capabilities that would extend to the whole continent-plate, while the adamantium would guard the inner, vulnerable plate, from wear and tear and terrorism and malfeasance. Dirt, air, water, and a breathable atmosphere would be maintained by the middle plate, with enough redundancies and self-healing properties to make even the most paranoid of inquisitors be comfortable building upon one of these plates.”

Erick took in the theoretical work they had done, and said, “Wow. That’s impressive.”

“It’s actually not.” Abarnikon said, “This is basic stuff from the Old Cosmology, adopted and transformed to fit this New Cosmology. Much of this plan is over a thousand years old, and proven to work inside the mana ocean. Making it work inside the void of space, fully exposed to the killing sun, will be a miracle that we will have to make happen.”

Alfonin added, “This plan does nothing to consider the mana requirements in order to use [Duplicate] to make the adamantium and other materials in the first place. [Duplicate] doesn’t take much mana to make objects, but it does take some, and when you start using that magic on an industrial scale —and especially a continental scale— those numbers tend to add up.”

Abarnikon said, “Rozeta won’t give real numbers for security reasons, but we’ve been able to figure that Veird can make one fully-functional Glaquin-sized plate every 10 years.” He added, “That’s right now, of course. In 70 years, when we’re 20-ish years out from Yggdrasil sending off his first seed, we might be able to have a flattplate waiting in orbit for him, for his first world. That orbiting land can suckle off of Veird for several years, taking monsters and dungeons and people with it, and then float off to land on one of the other planets, growing strong. We’re imagining Yoril would be the first target world.”

A ‘Flattplate’! Ha!

A slow grin crept onto Erick’s face as he looked at all the plans. “This is… This is nice. I never even considered something like that. Tell me more!” He rapidly added, “We’re not calling it a ‘flattplate’, though.”

“How about a ‘flattearth’?” Abarnikon asked, completely straight-faced.

Alfonin smiled, though, giving away the game as he asked, “You don’t like the idea of a flattearth?”

“… My daughter has been talking to you about certain subjects that I wish never followed us here from Earth, hasn’t she?”

Alfonin laughed loudly, while Abarnikon cracked a smile—

Erick realized, “It was Sitnakov, wasn’t it!”

Alfonin smiled softly, saying, “Want to talk about how our children are mingling, Erick? Because I have heard that they are, and that you have finally found this out.”

“… I’m not ready for that conversation yet. As soon as Sitnakov approaches me about it, then we can talk. I am not opposed, but… I have 6 daughters now—” Erick winced. “… 4 daughters, and 1 son, and Yggdrasil and Ophiel too, of course.”

There was a brief look of oddity upon the royal faces in the room. They didn’t know about Debby; the Red had taken her from this world in all ways. Only through Melemizargo had Erick and the others been able to remember her at all. Perhaps they thought Erick was having some sort of minor mental break, but they moved on.

Alfonin nodded. “That’s fine with me. I’m not opposed to Sitnakov and Jane. Just putting that out there.”

Erick said, “So let’s talk more about plans for solar system colonization.”

And they did.

