Erick eventually got out of there six days later, but he went back after a day of rest to continue the conversations. He was much more lucid that second time, and he had a lot more questions about metals in space, and he even paced himself this time, asking for a break after two days and then coming back for another three final days of more talking about space and math and logistics.

Alfonin and Abarnikon’s enthusiasm for the universe, and for the Star Map Erick had done, was infectious.

Erick had known his Star Map had made a splash, but this was the first time he saw the results of that splash among the ‘hobbyist astrophysicists’ of the world. This was the first time he was truly exposed to this whole subculture of the wrought, too.

It turned out that every planar who ever landed on Veird had tried to connect themselves to their place in the universe, but Erick’s attempt was the only connection that ever produced the effect they saw with his Star Map, when Fairy Moon, Rozeta, and Melemizargo were all present. Other people just did basic drawings or wardlights or sculptures of various kinds.

Ivalia Starstriker, of the astraelif ‘space elves’, had a galaxy shaped like a five-armed broken-up scattering of stars. It was not the Milky Way, but maybe it could have been? Probably not. Erick had always drawn the Milky Way like a whirlpool with spirals that made most of a full rotation, and sure, some of the other galaxy representations were like that, but the real maps, like the one taken from that boxy spaceship down in the Vaults, had a real star map that was very much not the Milky Way at all. That particular map was like five uneven and long islands, swirling around a center scattering of stars.

None of the maps resembled the ‘Renew Rune Shape’ of Veird’s galaxy.

- - - -

Erick woke up in the house under the floor of the slime dungeon.

He rolled over and hugged Quilatalap.

Quilatalap blinked open his eyes. “Good morning.”

“Good morning.”

Quilatalap smiled. “I missed you.”

“I missed you, too. Would have been back sooner but asking them to not read my mind made them all highly anxious, so they needed a week of talking to me to check me out that way.” Erick smiled, adding, “And I got to talk about space colonization, which was surprisingly fun.”

Erick had needed a week to get over the fact that the Script was interfering with his mana generation process, anyway. For some reason, even disconnecting from the Script through no-Script spaces caused him to crystallize instead of just softly exuding Benevolence like he had both times when the Primal Lightning came for him. And that was news.

Talking about theoretical, far-away futures was good for the nerves, and the Red Lightning didn’t seem to give a shit about that, or maybe planning for good futures caused even more futures to spill outward, pushing back the Red even more.

Who the fuck knew! Not Erick. He had guesses, and that was it.

Quilatalap kissed his forehead then got out of bed, saying, “You ready to give birth to Ophiel?”

Erick breathed deep as Ophiel squeaked on the headboard of their bed.

Ophiel asked, “I’ma real boy?”

“Soon, Ophiel, if you want that.” Erick sat up in bed and Ophiel flopped into his lap. Ophiel was a bunch of feathers and eyes, but his form had mostly settled into four wings and a scattering of eyes on both sides of a feathery head. Erick asked him, “Do you want to be a human boy? Or a feathery boy? We’re not sure exactly how you’re going to turn out—” Erick suddenly added, “And you don’t have to do this now. But… You’re only a few months away anyway.”

Ophiel said, “I get purpleberry pie when real, yeah!?”

Erick smiled. “Yes. You could actually taste it if you had a physical body. Do you want that?”

“I want real now!”

Erick took a deep breath. And then he happily said, “Okay! Then yes. Time to be born, Ophiel.”

Ophiel tweeted in joyful violins, saying, “Yay!”
