It was a simple disk about ten meters wide, half a meter thick, and solid white. It was also another magic ship, filled with dense, quantum-entangled multi-directional crystals that were also filled with Red Sparks. It off-gassed mana just like the first ship did, but in a whole lot lower quantities. The first ring ship gave off what was effectively a thick air all the time. This thing only had a mirage near it, and that mirage faded in the [Cleanse] of the room.

All three ship rooms had a [Cleanse] spell active at all times, making sure the mana production of these ships did not affect anything else, or be allowed to build up. All the rooms had a similar system, actually.

“So aside from the vast amounts of xenological information in the other two ships, and maybe even in this one, this one is boring and it’s not even alive like the first one.” Erick asked, “Does it work at all?”

“It does not work.”

Erick asked, “Want to talk about the histories around each item?”

“Not really,” Kromolok said, honestly.

“I can’t really blame you for being distrustful right now, Kromolok, but come on man. I’m still me.” Erick said, “If I could let you in on what is happening, I very much would. But that would be detrimental to you and yours, and you would not be able to understand me anyway.”

“I can understand anti-memes just fine, Erick. I am the person who comes up with a great deal of the meme and antimeme countermeasures here on Veird. I feel like you are being dismissive of me and it is making it hard to trust you.” Kromolok said, “It makes me feel that you have encountered something and it has changed you.”

“Encountering world-changing information will do that to a person—”

The Red Sparks crowded.

And Erick sighed. They were near a rollback, and that was frustrating. He had probably been rollbacked every time he talked to Kromolok, hadn’t he? Because, of course, now that he was here, Erick recognized that since he was investigating an anti-meme, he should have come to Kromolok or Kromolok should have come to him long before now. It only made logical sense to talk to the man who was in charge of all the anti-meme and anti-antimeme countermeasures in the world, right? … Or maybe Ascendant Prime had something to do with all that, too.

Now why hadn’t Erick spoken to Ascendant Prime before now, either?

It was easy to make excuses after the fact; Poi was there, Ascendant Prime never showed himself most of the time, Kromolok was more Erick’s contact for this sort of world-affecting stuff, etcetera. But looking back on it, Erick should have been talking to Ascendant Prime, Kromolok, and even Phagar, really.

Erick had only been at this for, what, 2 days? Hard to tell with all the rollbacks. But as for the anti-meme itself, Erick should have been talking to those very qualified people before now… And yet, if he had, he would have fallen off this God Pact world, wouldn’t he?

So of course, the one that survived was the one who didn’t do all that.

Well shit.

The Red Sparks were playing at the edges of this God Pact world, making sure no one ever found out about it, and rolling back when people got closer to it. But maybe it was time to talk to the other gods about this sort of stuff. Erick was more immune now, wasn’t he? Maybe he could—

Red Sparks flashed.

- - - -

Kromolok stared at Erick, saying, “It makes me feel that you have encountered something and it has changed you.”

Erick sighed, and repeated what he had said earlier, “Encountering world-changing information will do that to a person.”

“Yes, but whatever information you encountered has changed you for the worse.”

Kromolok was staring at Erick, probably half a step away from truly taking [Mind Control] of the situation.

And that hurt.

Erick said, “I would accuse you of being too paranoid, Kromolok, but paranoia is a good thing sometimes. I’m rather paranoid right now, too. Mostly, I’m paranoid that you have touched my mind and been very careful, not realizing that you are dancing around something that will literally not let you know about it, and the second that you do, you are dead.”

Even after Erick said the words, he had no idea why he had been allowed to say them, for surely the Red would have rolled him back. He had basically implied the true existence of the anti-meme, and that was too much information—

Erick realized something bad.

They weren’t in the God Pact world anymore.

There should have been a rollback, but there had been no need for one because Erick had fallen off the knife-edge of chance and straight into death.

In that realization, the Script slipped away from him. The Script was gone. Erick felt it leave him like a soft sigh in a bedroom. Kromolok had no idea, but he would surely notice the loss soon, too. But Kromolok didn’t need to read Erick’s mind to know something was happening far away; he could see Erick’s face.

Primal Lightning was eating away at the edges of the world already.

Erick did not panic, even as Benevolence began to seep away from his body in fits and spurts, erupting from his skin and pushing back all other mana. Kromolok started to say something, his eyes going wide, tendrils of thought ripping out of his own body and plunging into Erick—

And then Kromolok knew.

His eyes went wide, and defeat closed in.

There was no need for the Red Sparks to rollback this world, because it was already winning.

But Erick had hope. As white lightning flooded out of him like soft, sparking light, touching everything and harming nothing, the world transformed into green life and brilliant futures even in the face of The End. Perhaps all this life in this tiny section of a piece of the world would allow it more futures, in a Many-Worlds sort of way, allowing it some time to stave off the end. Erick wasn’t sure, but the world certainly wasn’t collapsing nearly as fast as it had when Erick had been talking to Sininindi.

It was still falling fast though. The Core of Veird was gone. How much could truly be left?

It had only been a single minute so far.

Erick had afforded Kromolok all the time he could, and this place was guarded against Time Magics of all sorts, for now, so he couldn’t give him more without triggering the alarms himself. When the [Ward]s failed under Primal Lightning, though...

“Kromolok.” Erick spoke, “What is the one thing I can take from the Vaults back to the God Pact world?”

Kromolok had a thousand things to say to Erick, but there was no time.

Most of his words did not need to be said, though, for Erick understood.

The sudden loss. The personal failure to guard against what he had spent his entire life guarding against. The unknown danger beyond the Edge of the Script all this time, and yet already here, on Veird. The depth of the problem. The fact that Primal Lightning still existed at all.

And then he moved on.

Kromolok stared at Erick, while the room of this final platform ship filled with greenery and white lightning. Moss and mushrooms sprouted around his white metal legs. He did not step above the growth; he accepted his fate even as vines twirled up his legs.

“I apologize for pushing you at all. You should do more to navigate that better; less poking, more softness.” His admonition finished, Rozeta’s Head Inquisitor said, “Nothing can be removed from the Vaults in a timely manner. Even the end of this world will not allow that to happen.”

“It’s probably for the best,” Erick said, the ground giving way under his natural mana generation, like a helicopter brushing grasses to the side and yet a lot more than that. A lot of weirdness was going on, so the floor literally transforming into grass was not too surprising. It was kinda odd to not have his skin breaking apart and his body destroying itself through his mana flow, either, but then, of course, the Script was probably holding him down back there on the God Pact world. Even under ‘no-Script’ dungeon spaces, the Script was still there, somehow. Erick wasn’t sure why he didn’t recognize the ease at which his body naturally exuded mana back when he was talking to Sininindi at that other Bad End, but he certainly recognized that fact now. As he floated there, above the spreading life, while Kromolok continued to accrue greenery, looking up at him beseechingly, Erick asked, “Please give me something, Kromolok—”

Explosions rocked the outside world, and Erick’s lightning greenery suddenly crumbled away the roof of this spaceship hangar. His mana pressure pushed away all falling stone, revealing the world outside.

The walls of the Vaults flickered prismatic, seeming like an entire stone sky lighting up as something struck the outside like a violent child tapping at the glass of an aquarium, scaring all the fish.

The [Ward]s were failing.

Hidden things in the Vaults were already escaping, going on sudden rampages, or twisting the world in ways it was not meant to be twisted, or fighting each other, or feasting. The Vault protection squads atop the cliff were trying to contain the sudden damage, sending people flying around out there, shooting spells at the escaped dangers to the world—

Kromolok spoke a deep secret, “The secret of the omni-directional crystals found in the ring ship is adjacent to the inward-growing mana crystals found in the Glittering Depths. They are like cousins. But they use different types of mana than what we have here on Veird. And yet, that mana exists here, too.” Kromolok Looked at Erick, and in that moment he trusted more than he had ever trusted before. “That form of mana was called ‘resons’ by the woman who crashed to Veird on that ring ship, in the Forest of Glaquin several centuries ago. She was what you might call a ‘space elf’, but her species was called ‘astraelif’. She lived among the orcols for years, proving herself completely different from the stories of elves of the Old Cosmology. She was even to be married to an orcol man and Aloethag was to transform her into an orcol in the accepting of her vows, but a confluence of events conspired against her like a thousand things happening wrong and the entire wedding party raged, murdering that space elf on the altar. In honor of that woman, Aloethag took her would-be-orcol form as her own; a form she still wears to this day.

“That ring ship killed itself after the death of its creator and has hated all life that ever tried to touch it, ever since then.

“I had no idea why that all happened as it did back then, and I blamed Fate as the most likely of causes for a plethora of reasonable reasons. But now I know the real culprit.

“I think you’re right about the Many Worlds, Erick; the protection it offers us. But you are taking too many risks. You shouldn’t poke at this anymore. You might not make it back to your world if you keep testing the Malevolence like this.”

The world roared.

Prismatic [Ward]s failed.

Red poked in from the distant walls of the Vault, like leviathans invading a nest, looking for things to devour.

And then those endless streams of Primal Lightning tore through those walls, crashing through every single [Ward] in the place—

And suddenly all the defensive, crushing, anti-magic powers of the Vaults failed.

Kromolok was covered in greenery, breathing deep in his final moments, holding in the panic, putting on a good show for Erick, but he was terrified.

Erick said, “I’ll make sure this never happens, Kromolok. I’m sorry.”

With a ragged sorrow, Kromolok said, “Get going, Erick.”

Erick pulsed with power, then he constrained and warped that power. A twist. A flicker. A Connection formed with the Proper Path. A spark turned to lightning.

An imploding pop.

And then Erick was gone.

- - - -

Erick stepped out of his [Gate], onto the white floors of the entryway to the Vault, to see Kromolok, Alfonin, and Abarnikon standing there, waiting for him. It was a welcome sight to see them alive and whole.

“Greetings, Alfonin, Abarnikon, and Kromolok,” Erick said, “Thanks for agreeing to let me see the ships. I understand it’ll only take an hour, though, so if you have anything else we could see or talk about how life might work outside of Veird, I’d love to do all that.”

Erick was emotionally wrung. It was hard to play off what had just happened, but they were in the God Pact world again, and thus that other, doomed timeline simply did not exist. Erick managed.

Alfonin smiled a little bit, saying, “We have a wonderful little presentation about all of that up at the White Palace, for later. I know you were wanting to see some true astrophysicists, and my son and I are rather decent at all that, so I hope we can finally talk about the Star Map you made for Rozeta and even the dyson sphere of a decade ago.”

Erick happily said, “I would love that.”

Alfonin and his son Abarnikon had a few smaller words that were much like the ones they had had before, with Abarnikon subtly suggesting that Kromolok let Erick take samples of the ship, and Erick easily agreeing with Kromolok’s stubborn sense of duty, placating the inquisitor in a comforting way.

There was talk about Erick asking for them to mentally ignore him, and how that was a breach of protocol, but Erick gave some similar words to what he had done earlier, and easily navigated that Red Spark-lined conversation.

The next hour proceeded more or less how it had before, but Rozeta did not show up this time because Erick did not press any advantage at all. Visiting the space ships the second time was kind of numbing, actually; like he was seeing some great hidden work of art for the second time, even though it should have been his first time seeing it.

Kromolok seemed kind of relieved that Erick wasn’t too impressed by anything. That fact certainly lowered his defcon level.

Of course, Kromolok was subtly reading Erick’s surface thoughts this whole time, staying far away from any real knowledge, and so he knew Erick was rather calm and yet worried about everything; a normal way to be, really. Maybe Kromolok was just reading emotions? [Sense Emotion] was a spell, after all. Emotions seemed fine to sense; there was no actual information there.

Soon enough, Erick had passed back through the Abyssal Vault door with Kromolok to stand in the hallway with the boring door at the end. As he walked past the golden line in the floor, Ophiel chirped on the perch, and then flew back to rest on Erick’s shoulder.

Kromolok, looking relaxed, said, “I must be honest, Erick. I expected that to be more weird. I expected something unknown to trigger inside the Vault; for you to express whatever hidden thing you have in your mind and to cause some sort of problem. I am always glad to be proven wrong in my paranoia.”

