“A combination form. Killing lunge is only one part of it. The other is Springing Step. Should this slave demonstrate?”

Mila nodded several times. “Yes yes, of course, please do.” Tiger Form, Springing Step was almost like a dance movement, a small skip, but one foot always on the ground. Mila was delighted that Rain's suggestion had worked, the girl's first time voluntarily speaking up. She should have asked for his help long ago.

Song stood up and moved a few steps forward, demonstrating the movement several times, from different angles for Mila to see. Unlike the head on, rigid movements that Rain was attempting, Song moved in a light, circular step, her feet swinging as she lunged. “It is a countering strike, to dodge with a half circle movement. Rather than a direct lunge forward, the leading foot turns 90 degrees from the back foot. This lowers the amount of power in the thrust, but the strike relies on using the power of the opponent against them. The step allows you to trick your opponent, by appearing to move to the right, while slipping to the left.”

Rain watched closely a few times before closing his eyes to think. He stood still for long minutes, pondering the movements, while Song returned to her seat next to Mila. Whispering so not to disturb Rain, Mila praised Song. “Well done, I think you were right, Rain is in study.” The girl had no reaction to her praise, still stony and downtrodden as always, but it was progress at least.

While the movement seemed limited in use, it could be very powerful in the right circumstances. Mila would need to practice it as well, a useful tool when on foot and faced with a mounted opponent. Dodge with minimal movement, and allow the opponent to impale themselves. It didn't look very impressive, if Mila was being honest, just a step at an odd angle, but in close quarters, it opened up many different angles of attack.

Rain's eyes snapped open, and he moved, performing the same forms, yet very differently from Song. Where Song was soft, and reactive, Rain was forceful and aggressive. A longer step, a heavier thrust, Rain's demonstration was offensive in nature, Song's defensive. He repeated it several times, each time becoming more and more aggressive, using Springing Step to move into position, combining it with several other forms to attack, a chop, a slash, a twisting strike. A smile broke out upon her face as she watched Rain continue to become stronger. Already he was a fearsome opponent in close quarters, his only issue was reaching that range without dying. This step allowed him a gradual approach, rather than his head-on charge he was so fond of. He still lacked the explosive speed that Mama had, making it a risky gamble each time he used it.

Rain stopped his practice and walked over, Mila waiting for her praise. “Thank you Song, you were a great help.” This... “Sumila, spar with me?” His theory worked out, now he sought to put it to the test, and Mila was more than happy to oblige. They stood across from one another, Rain taking his stance, sword forward, his body turned sideways.

Smiling, she stepped forward, Springing Step. Smashing his sword aside with her shield, she drove her knee into his ribs. “You fight in close quarters, don't leave your sword sticking out like that.” Doubled over and gasping, Rain sought to regain his breath while Mila waited, happy and relaxed. Not only was she able to help Rain, sparring also helped her work out her frustrations with him. Stupid, angry, uncommunicative Rain. He should just open up and speak about his problems, maybe as they sit side by side, sharing warmth and chatting beneath the moonlight. Instead, all he did was ignore her unless he needed help or a sparring partner. Fine, if he wanted to spar, then they would spar. She would spar with him until he threw up. Perhaps then he would taste her stew, as it made its way back up.

He didn't thank her even once the entire night. The big idiot.
