“Is there any way for me to get something like Lightning Manipulation?” I asked.

Rho smiled at my question, but shook her head. “No. Elemental manipulation-type core skills are reserved for those who dedicated their entire focus to a single element prior to their ascension, or those who reach a certain level of mastery within this realm.

“And when I say element, I mean the basic and advanced elements, not aspects like space, time, mind, void, life, death, nature, or force. Fate and Soul do not have direct analogs in this realm, though both obviously exist.”

That explained why I’d never heard of Space Manipulation or Time Manipulation skills in the simulation.

“What does that mean for the Fate and Soul Mages?” I couldn’t help but ask, thinking about my mentor’s sister who had ascended just a few years before me.

“They are redirected to an adjacent, allied realm.”

Her answer immediately sparked several questions in my mind, the most prominent of which was: why?

I wanted to voice the question, but I knew that Rho could read my mind. Since no answer was offered, I figured asking would be pointless.

However, Rho’s comment did tell me one thing: I probably wouldn’t be running into Anya or her husband in this realm. Though her husband wasn’t a Fate Mage, they’d ascended together, so I felt it was likely that he would have been redirected alongside her.

I was tempted to ask about my mentor since he’d ascended at roughly the same time as his sister, albeit from a different location. However, I could sense that the goddess’s representative was growing impatient.

My mentor was supposed to have left me a message with the Delver Association, anyway, so I’d discover his status soon enough.

“Okay. I’ve made my decision,” I said. “Restorative Healing and Lightning Bolt.”

The spell was a classic for a reason, after all.

As soon as the words left my mouth, I felt something shift inside of me.

“Sleep now,” Rho said as her form faded away. Her voice echoed around me as my vision grew blurry. “When you awaken, you will be in the safe zone of the first floor of the newest Ascender Dungeon. You will be alone, but you will not be the only Ascender linked to this new dungeon.

“My clergy will recognize you as its Originator, though no others will, since the feat does not come with a title. They will not share such information, and I suggest you limit its spread as well. You already know that anonymity can be the strongest armor. Good luck, Ascender.”
