Erick blasted Oozy with another round of [Luminous Beam]s, filling the sky with nuclear fire.

Oozy didn’t return.

‘Why is Nothanganathor such an asshole?’ Erick thought to himself, as he watched the land of Fenrir below.

Red Sparks had covered everything down there. But now Oozy was gone, and Fenrir began to change. The Red peeled away from every surface, from every mountain and low-hanging cloud, from every person and time-frozen river and ocean. Erick briefly wondered at the mechanics of the land down there —was Fenrir planet-thickness now, all the way through? What about gravity? Were those floating lights in the sky enough to provide actual light? And what about, well, everything else physical down there? Why was the world a patchwork?— and then he focused on the upcoming war, whatever shape that might take.

Everyone had opinions about what the war was going to resemble. Erick had hoped for something he could do on his own, to save everyone else the danger and death, but that was never really an option; Nothanganathor had put a lot of shit between him and Erick. When the lands below appeared out of the Red two weeks ago and then truly took their current shape last week, everyone assumed it was going to be a massive interplanetary war.

Erick would send the valkyries down there and begin reaping lives, and taking in people to remove them from Nothanganathor’s influence. He’d do the reviving thing and the [Benevolent Cleanse]ing thing, and then he’d end up with a humanitarian crisis just like he had on Slaver’s Den, but different, because these people he’d be saving were all from the side realities of Veird.

And because they were not people Erick truly knew, but which he did, everything here was a trap.

A pitfall.

And Erick would walk right into it, because he had to.

Erick had talked a big game to Fallopolis when he spoke of only having concerns for the people of this Veird, but those people down there were a happenstance of Infinity away from being the people of this Veird. Of course he couldn’t actually hurt them… Though they were probably going to try and hurt him and everyone he loved, because of course they were influenced by Nothanganathor to be that way.

Oozy was clearly not the same Oozy that Erick had [Reincarnation]ed… probably. He had to be from some near-reality, or something like that.

But who really knew these things, anyway? Rozeta? … Probably not, actually. Whatever Knowledge that exists down there on Fenrir is probably corrupted, and so Rozeta would know not to touch it… Or something like that. Erick was working off of a lot of hypotheticals, here. He would need to talk to Rozeta and Phagar and get their opinions on all of that, and on all of those false gods down there, too.

Phagar had killed a god before, right? The God of Death of the Old Cosmology, like, 750,000 years ago.

Erick was probably going to have to fight some of those non-Mantle, mindless forces of Fractal-raised gods. How did you kill a god? Well, Erick already knew, sort of. You start with killing all of its believers. Maybe conversion would work, though? A bit of [Reincarnation] and [Benevolent Cleanse]ing and…

Erick would have to see what happened.

Surely there was something more concrete and less destructive than ‘kill the believers’.

There was one other way that Erick knew of. Witch Aragathara’s Goddeath Poison had killed Melemizargo and Nothanganathor’s mother, Ikaramaliana. That poison had taken a winding path to Ikaramaliana, though. To start with, that poison had been sprinkled among the believers of many different gods, and which did nothing to those believers because they had to keep believing, and thus supplying that poison to those gods. When those gods finally died to the poison, and their mantles returned to Ikaramaliana, that is how Ikaramaliana died; through a chain of poisoned divinity.

All of that was yet another hidden danger to this war.

Rozeta had shored up the Script to protect from a lateral attack against Veird through divinity, but Nothanganathor probably had a way around that. Eventually.

Maybe he could just throw Goddeath Poison at Veird, and Veird wouldn’t recognize it as deadly, so it would kill them all that way. Rozeta had prepared against that, of course, and thanks to Witch Aragathara helping in that way, but Erick bet that Ikaramaliana thought she was safe from the witch’s poisons, too.

That white bastard probably had ten thousand ways to kill all of Veird. The only reason he hadn’t used any of them was because he wanted to win everything. And to win everything, he had needed to convince the Fae Council of Margleknot of his agreeable intentions; he had needed to create his Opposite, so that Margleknot wouldn’t be losing Nothanganathor’s anti-corruption functionality when Nothanganathor Ascended to Godhood.

Margleknot would have killed Nothanaganthor as a Corruptor, if Nothanaganthor hadn’t displayed his willingness to work with them so very much.

… Erick was back to the original question.

‘Why is Nothanganathor such an asshole?’

There’s the obvious reasonings that he had given everyone. Melemizargo killed his wife, the Witch Ara, and sure, that was one thing, but to kill a universe over that?

Erick didn’t buy it… Maybe.

There was more to it, of course. There was a whole history of hatred stretching back way more than 10,000 years. Killing the wife was just the final straw?

‘Was it possible that things had just gotten so far out of hand, and the only response anyone ever had to trauma was to make more trauma? Highly likely. Nothanganathor deserves his trauma, though, since this is what he does when he gets power; he makes horror shows of morality and mortality.’

Back in that Non Combat Zone, in Margleknot, Nothanganathor had talked a big game and then Erased Blighter and Seabass right in front of Erick, just to prove that he could, to prove that he was an asshole of the highest order.

Erick recalled the bastard’s specific words.

“Just as it’s impossible to forgive them for sundering my wife, it is impossible to forgive them for cursing me to Obscurity. Even now, the only one truly Seeing me is you. I am glad for that, Erick. You can see who I really am. That is such a rare thing. So watch this.”

And then he had Erased Blighter with a Red knife through the heart.

… Honestly, Erick didn’t need to understand him any more than he already did, but his first instinct was to try and understand, and so that is what he attempted to do. And yet, what was there to understand about Malevolence? Nothing; that’s what—

Erick had another sudden string of thoughts that were loosely connected, important, and yet ephemeral.

1) Wizard fights usually devolved into Wizards adjusting the world and their enemy to their liking, and then winning in that way. Nothanganathor had already attempted as much through matching Veird’s timeframe and using Veird’s people to influence everything over on Veird.

2) Nothanganathor was responsible for the rise of Wraithborne’s ‘ring world’ and Evil Death Sun that powered the whole thing. So he was a capable ruler.

3) He was highly capable of causing real damage, far beyond his ascendancy-or-not would lead people to believe. At Erick’s first viewing of the Red Sparks, he had thought them all that Nothanganathor could do, but that was obviously wrong.

4) Nothanganathor’s Curse of Obscurity made it so that no one understood him, but maybe, what the curse actually did was make people think of the Erased One as a worthless person. That’s what everyone believed, after all.

5) And yet, the Erased One’s effects upon Margleknot were wide and deep, so he was an important person even with his Curse.

6) Nothanganathor probably doubled down on his Curse when he made Malevolence.

7) And he was prepared for this fight with every part of his being.

8) … Was there any real reason for Nothanganathor to Erase Blighter and Seabass, back there in that meeting? Sure, there was the effect of severing Erick from Wraithborne, from Erick’s attempts at a takeover, but that was the surface reason for Erasing Blighter and Seabass. Nothanganathor had been disinterested for the entire conversation up until then. And then he showed joy when he went and Erased Blighter and Seabass, because he knew that it would display who he was to Erick, in that moment.

There was no question that Nothanganathor enjoyed that.

But he had done that because 10) it heightened Nothanganathor’s threat level in Erick’s eyes.

Anyway. That was all just a complicated way to say that Nothanganathor thought he was going to win this war, one way or another. He probably had a thousand contingencies, all of them on the level of what he had done to Fenrir down there—

Erick suddenly saw the main contingency.

The real way Nothanganathor was going to ‘win’.

He was going to break his Curse of Obscurity.

What was the ‘Curse of Obscurity’? Erick had asked Melemizargo about it, once. He had said it was simply ‘a denial of existence’.

And how did Erick’s own Dark Mark grow? How did all Dark Marks grow?

From being acknowledged by others.

Maybe Melemizargo had cursed Nothanganathor’s Dark Mark to smallness... making him unable to grow?

Hmm.

Erick wasn’t 100% sold on the idea that Nothanganathor’s Dark Mark was cursed to smallness, because the Dark was not stingy in giving out power and it never took power back, as far as Erick knew. Melemizargo and Rozeta had had long and loud conversations about that difference in style, with Melemizargo hating the restrictions of the Script but Rozeta saying that sometimes restrictions were good, actually.

But it made sense that Melemizargo would break his own oaths to never restrict power in the beginning of his reign, before Melemizargo knew his own morals. Nothanganathor’s Curse of Obscurity was a 1-off thing, as far as Erick knew, so it made sense that Melemizargo might have done something weird and antithetical to the Dark as his first act as the God of Magic.

Melemizargo had set doom upon himself when he did that, thus tarnishing the entire purpose of the God of Magic, which was to give out magic and never restrict what was already given.

… Hmm.

Back to the war, though.

Nothanganathor had a bunch of ways to win.

Erick saw some of them.

… and then Erick turned his thoughts back around on themselves, looking for tricks in the mind itself. Nothanganathor’s first real killing trick against Erick had been a thought-tunnel of introspection, there in that mirage of an office worker that was really a killing room, right after Erick had Ascended. Nothanganathor played a bunch of mind-games to hide the truth of his power.

Even thinking of him as some ‘great big enemy’ was playing into his hands; that was setting the stage for him to actually be powerful. That’s how Wizard battles worked, after all.

… Erick was going to eradicate the guy.

As Erick continued to consider the major points of his multi-layered crisis of conscience and positioning for Wizardry-games, he continued to observe the Red ‘[Time Lock]’ of Fenrir. That magic was falling away rather fast, revealing the people and oceans and forests and otherwise of the outer, inhabited Surface. Everyone on Veird watched right alongside Erick, as copies of the continents of Glaquin and Nelboor and Nergal and Quintlan all revealed themselves in all their patchwork glory. Nothing was laid down as it was on Veird. Everything was mashed together, wherever it felt like existing.

Sometimes the continents were cut into pieces, with just some thick river/oceans separating the pieces of continents from each other. Sometimes there was no separating body of water, and stuff was mashed right up against each other. Over there were the Songli Highlands, right beside half of the nation of Greensoil, with Archipelago Nergal strung alongside those two lands like a mountain range, all of the islands bunched up together with ports and docks mashed onto dry land.

Erick used a bit of magic to lens the air, to truly enhance his sight, and he saw fishermen on boats on dry land, frozen in time, casting nets onto bare dirt. When the Red peeled back, those nets fell onto the dirt, and the guys fishing in those ‘waters’ were suddenly, incredibly confused.

“Right, then,” Erick said to himself, and then he organized his thoughts on Nothanganathor’s possible avenues of attack, and the meaning of the Curse of Obscurity, and he sent all of that along in a [Telepathy] message to Poi, and Rizala.

He might not be able to receive messages easily, but he could certainly send them out, and that was good enough to let the world know all the ways in which all of this was a trap of several different natures. They had probably figured out some of those traps already, but it never hurt to hand over information in these sorts of situations, even if some of those bits of information might be memetic threats; the Mind Mages could handle those threats. Erick’s job was easy.

He just needed to overpower whatever was coming his way.

Erick said to himself, “Time to go see what’s what.”

Rizala, Poi’s sister and the current embodiment of Ascendant Prime, based on the golden tendrils wafting off of her like she was a sea anemone, suddenly appeared in the sky beside Erick. She couldn’t talk to Erick normally, so she had decided to appear, instead. She calmly said, “If he has given us a week to see, then perhaps we should take it.”

Unsaid, was that Ascendant Prime was in a worry over all the little traps and big traps that Erick had sent in that latest information packet. If Prime was appearing like this, then Erick’s musings had set them all down thought tunnels of their own.

It had been a calculated risk to share that knowledge with them, but they could handle it, Erick was sure.

Erick nodded, showing that he respected Ascendant Prime’s ideas, and then he said, “If that is the determination of the Mind Mages, then I will take that under consideration, but we’re in a Wizard War now, Ascendant Prime. Setting the tone for the War is just as important as all the trappings of the War itself, and we’re going to win, but we can’t win by doing nothing.”

Unsaid, was the idea that the second you start thinking of those traps, then Nothanganthor might gain those traps. One couldn’t be giving enemies ideas; that was the surest way to failure…

And probably one of the reasons that Nothanganathor had allowed the New Stat of Intelligence to happen, and to make Erick paranoid in some ways. He had mostly gotten over that problem of paranoia, but… not really. Not when it came to big things like this.

… Erick kinda knew how he could circumvent that issue, though.

