But it smelled the same; a unique blend of humanity and mold and scented candles that one of Erick’s coworkers, Betty, loved. It was a zesty, beachy-vanilla.

Three desks sat in one office, this office, each of them with barely enough space to fit a pair of chairs in front of them, all at the same time. It was 2:47 in the afternoon on a Tuesday, according to the thin computer screen sitting in front of Erick. The screen was currently locked and a picture of an unfamiliar woman and her two kids smiled back at Erick. That was not his computer; it was too thin, and too new-looking, but only in a technology-sort of way. It was actually kind of an old computer, according to the dust on it and the scratches on the edges here and there. Some pixels were bad.

It was not his desk; not anymore. Based on the nameplate sitting in front of the desk, it belonged to a woman named Mary Karr. The other ones belonged to Kevin Bates and Betty Karr. Erick knew Betty. She was an outrageous flirt all the time, and great fun at the county parties at the end of the year. The pictures on her desk were her and some man Erick didn’t know, and Betty looked much older.

Erick had no idea who Kevin Bates was.

Erick expanded his senses outward, gripping the scant mana he flowed into the world and using it to sense everything around him as much as he could. The county office had gotten a few expansions on the edges since he had been here last time, years and years ago. A new police station over there. A few more offices for clerks.

The lovely little park across the street was gone. Erick had had a birthday party for Jane there when she was a teenager, and she had hated every minute of it, but Erick looked back on that memory with something like a sad joy. That park was replaced with a giant building that read ‘County Office’ out front, with a new parking lot in back. The city had grown and the real county offices had moved, and this old county office was where they put all the humanitarian efforts. It was even renamed the ‘Humanitarian Building’. Some of the offices in this place had been renovated into a big cafeteria, and everyone ate there, it seemed.

In the hallway outside of this building was a large wall of pictures of smiling, happy people. ‘SUCCESS!’ was posted in big, rainbow letters above that wall. Another wall showed homes that were now occupied by those successes. Another wall showed the social workers themselves.

And there was Erick’s picture, among those who had come and gone. He looked so much different in that old photo… Shit. That photo was almost 30 years old by now. And they still had it up? Well shit. Erick felt tears come to his eyes, and for multiple reasons.

Erick, still sitting at the desk, flexed his Authority to break all illusions.

The world shivered. It even broke in some places. But it remained exactly as it appeared to be.

People inside the rest of the building and even across the street all looked around as the minor earthquake passed. Some knicknacks fell off of desk edges and an old woman almost fell down, but a cop standing nearby saved her from falling all the way—

Holy shit. Erick recognized that cop. It was little Dan, whom Erick had helped with free cancer treatment programs in 2011. He was all grown up now and sporting a potbelly, but he was still the same happy guy he always seemed to be, as he helped the older woman to sit down, the both of them laughing about ‘what could that have been?’.

It wasn’t an illusion, and Erick wasn’t weakened at all.

He checked his Status and everything was still there, but one line was different. The first line.

Erick Flatt, [60-ish] [Current Year: 1489 (Veird, layer 789), [CURRENT REALITY=Layer 99,081, Earth]

Erick breathed out, a great tension threatening to ruin his life.

That breath ruffled the papers on the desk in front of him, revealing an invisible object. A letter. It hadn’t been there before, and yet now it was there. It had popped out of the shadows under the paper, and that boded horribly.

Erick read the letter without opening it.

. . .

Dear Erick Flatt,

Your attack provoked the use of a few artifacts of which I have several hundred. I will be using these artifacts upon the people who stand in my way. You have likely found yourself somewhere you care about; I do not know where, and I do not care. By the time you have read this letter, the battle for Veird is long over, and I have taken what I needed, and left Veird alone.

Melemizargo is dead and all your people survive, with the lone exception of Poi. He proved to be the largest of nuisances. His copy in that dungeon survived. Everyone else, including Yggdrasil, is fine. They have migrated to Fenrir’s surface after I destroyed Veird itself.

The gods have merged with their echoes on Fenrir, and become the guardians of the Darkness; they guard the gate into my new realm.

I have become Darkness, the God of Magic of the New Painted Cosmology.

You can no doubt make it back here, and you can attempt to undo what I have done, but I have saved up these artifacts for a long time, for all my years of assisting the Fae Council of Margleknot, and I can use them on anyone who enters Veird space at any point in Veird’s history.

In a more solid way, I have secured my history as God of Magic, and you cannot undo that. I have also abandoned Malevolence. I am above that tribulation.

I promised you that this was how this was going to end, and I have fulfilled that promise.

I do not wish to kill you, but if you come after me again, I will need to be more harsh with you.

House Benevolence thrives, even in your absence.

If you wish to participate in my new universal empire, then I will appoint you as Regent of my Eternal Empire of the Shadowed Sun, and you will enjoy the same power that Morbion Blackthorn enjoys as Emperor of Wraithborne, but on a much larger scale.

Shadow has been given a similar posting, but you can share.

-Nothanganathor, God of Magic and Darkness

. . .

Erick read the letter a few times before he went through the actual process of opening the letter. The paper involved in the letter’s construction was from eternal stonewood, which was… a thing. Erick wasn’t sure why Nothanganathor made the paper out of eternal stonewood, but he did. Even the envelope itself was made of eternal stonewood. The red seal was wax, imprinted with the image of a sun with an infinity symbol in it, or perhaps that symbol was actually Nothanganathor… which seemed more reasonable. There was no head or tail on that wax image, but the symbol was actually more like an S, but with the top and bottom curves almost touching the center; so perhaps one side or the other was meant to represent Nothanganathor’s head and tail.

Erick broke the seal, to little fanfare, read the letter with his own eyes, and then put the letter back into the envelope. With the scrape of a finger, Erick pulled away the red wax, rolled it into a ball, and then pressed it back down on the letter, to ‘seal’ it again; he simply didn’t want to see Nothanganathor’s symbol at all.

This was the first time Erick had seen that symbol, and he hated it already.

Erick incinerated the letter in a blast of absolute hatred that briefly charred the fabric of reality itself… And then Erick repaired that break.

And then Erick leaned back in Miss Mary Karr’s chair —who was likely the daughter of Betty— and had a think. Erick had been in the room for a grand total of 3 minutes by now, and he would probably be here longer than that.

Erick was having trouble believing any of this was real, but Rozeta had said that, aside from actual killing, the only real threat to Erick was trapping. And he had been trapped and then cast through time. He wasn’t even very far from the conflict; not really. Almost 100,000 Layers of separation? Not a big deal. That only cost 10,000,000 resons to navigate, and Erick had trillions.

For whatever reason, he was currently shaped like himself, but just a bit under 2 meters tall— maybe something like 6’7”. Erick had needed to dig around for half a second to remember the conversions to Imperial. His horns were pulled back, and his clothes were simple, though the style was different than Erick remembered. Whatever he was wearing seemed common enough for the time and place he had been dropped into, though, on this Earth he barely recognized.

People were wearing big lapels and button down shirts these days. It was weird to see even down-on-their-luck guys in shorts and shoes with holes in them wearing ratty old shirts that were both button down, and had big lapels. And yet they were graphic tees.

Erick thought for a while, not really about Earth, though some thoughts drifted that way, of course.

The letter was a lie in some ways, but not all ways. What was a lie, and what was a truth?

Erick also tested out the environment around him, stretching his senses as far as they could go, looking for other sources of mana on Earth, checking the place out for illusions and other such powers. Erick shot off tiny [Force Bolt]s into bushes outside and did some [Illusion Dispel]s and stressed his [True Sight] further than was comfortable, and all he ended up seeing was Earth, in the current year of 2047.

The place was pretty much as bad as Erick thought it would have been, but also not that bad at all. There were problems, but people were working to fix them—

Erick stood up, moved around the desk, and sat down on a chair meant for people meeting with the social workers. He used a bit of magic to cool down the seat he had been sitting in. He did this because Mary and Betty were coming back from a late lunch. With a final twist of magic, Erick reached over and unlocked the room.

Mary stuck her key in the lock and realized it wasn’t locked. “I didn’t lock it?” she said, but then she ignored that and walked in first, not even looking around, turning back toward Betty, saying, “Leon is too young for you, mother. You really shouldn’t egg him on— He’s— Oh?”

The mother and daughter stepped into the room.

Erick nodded to both of them. “Hello.” Erick’s voice was pretty deep right now, and he had set off warnings amongst the girls, so he cleared his throat, and said again, “Ah. Hello.”

… In a pleasant tone that Erick knew meant she was actually truly worried, Betty said to Mary, “I can’t believe you didn’t lock it, honey.” And then she came around and said to Erick, “Pardon me, young man, but how did you get in here?”

Erick stood, and he tried not to tower, but he weighed something like 275, all muscle, and he was 6’7”, while the girls were around 5’6”. He said, “I apologize. I broke in. I’m having some trouble, Miss Karr and Karr, and I heard through a guy connected to a guy from here, named Erick Flatt, that you were pretty great to talk to, and that you were an outrageous flirt, Betty Karr.”

Erick might have been trying to diffuse the situation with flirting, at least a little. It was surprisingly easy to be familiar with Betty in this way, even though it had been decades and neither of them was the same at all.

The women had a complicated set of emotions. Mary was kinda furious at Erick overstepping himself in many different ways, and she was ready to lay into him. Betty rapidly moved through anger, to acceptance, and then to joy.

Betty smiled, deep laugh lines creasing on her wrinkled, beautiful face, as she said, “Erick Flatt! That’s a name I haven’t heard in so long! Oh, a shame what happened to him; they never found him, or his daughter. We all thought it was some CIA nonsense, but they wouldn’t tell us anything. Sit, sit!” Betty moved to some sort of auto-coffee machine sitting to the side of the room, asking, “A cup of coffee? We have the finest blends that government workers can get! Which is to say it’s kinda shit, but it gets you good and awake.”

Erick smiled at the attempt to connect. “I would love a cup of coffee.”

Betty was obviously gearing up to ask some deep questions about Erick that she never got answered before, but Erick would try to cut those questions short.

Mary stepped into the conversation strongly, saying, “My mother might be forgiving of people breaking and entering and throwing around names, but I’m not. You should leave, whoever-you-are, and come back with an appointment, like everyone else. We’ve got people showing up in 10 minutes—”

“Oh, Mary!” Betty started making coffee, saying, “The Jules Twins aren’t sitting out there, so they’re probably going to miss your meeting today, Kevin is out sick so all his people are canceled, and today is a planning day for me. You don’t have another client for another whole hour. We can have an unexpected client.” She winked at Erick. “Which I’m sure is why you came here right now.”

“I assure you, my arrival right now was an event that has no bearing on anyone else… as far as I know. But who really knows about these things.”

“I’m sure,” Betty said. The coffee was made as fast as hot water poured through little capsules, with the capsules themselves dissolving in the action and becoming more coffee. Erick was impressed at the zero-waste. Betty had always been against the little disposable things of 30 years ago, but she had probably been won over by this new technology. She asked Erick, “Milk or sugar?”

“Both, please. It’s been a rough day.”

“I understand that.” Betty handed Erick a cup of coffee, and then sipped her own, saying, “Rough enough to have you coming in ‘off the books’?” She sat down at one of her client chairs.

Erick sat down in one of Mary’s client chairs, sipping his coffee, saying, “A guy fucked me over hard, killed a friend, and took everything I ever worked for. Should I forgive him and move on to this new world that he’s built, or proceed to fight for a past that doesn’t even exist anymore?” As both women stilled in their own ways —Betty preparing for a much bigger day than she thought she would ever have to face again, for Erick had known that she had dealt with difficult clients like him before, and Mary preparing to call the cops— Erick added, “I’m exaggerating, but not by much.”

Mary stood down. She went quiet, as she sat down behind her desk. She eyed Erick, but she said nothing.

“… Well,” Betty said, to buy herself some more time. “… There is something to be said for moving on. A lot to be said for that. What would you do if you chose to move on? What would that world look like?”

