There was a reason that the True Wizards of the Grand Wizard’s Tower in the Core of Veird, and back in the real one in the Old Cosmology, played tricks on everyone. There was a reason that Fae were, by and large, nonsensical and fun-loving. Because by being that way, except when it really mattered, they laid the path for a life that was lived in pursuit of less war, and less horror. Being non-serious, and generally positive, was a way to insulate oneself from the disaster of life. The Shades were mostly like that, too, with Fallopolis speaking like a crazy grandma most of the time, and even Killzone was like that with his southern drawl accent.

Erick was only a little bit like that. Mostly, he wasn’t.

But he could do that more. He could be a bit happier, and playful, and uncounterable, and chaotic—

Oh.

Shit.

Nothanganathor had seeded Erick with a bunch of paranoia in order to get Erick to be predictable.

… Of course, there was the counter argument that Nothanganathor was trying to ‘win’ by making Erick think about becoming a fae, and thus… Erick wasn’t sure what would happen when he was a fae, which is why he hadn’t done it. Would he simply not care about Veird anymore? About anyone?

If he had ultimate power, then he could do anything he wanted, and that seemed corruptive.

… Erick slowly realized that he was way past the point where second-guessing himself was productive.

So he acted.

“Perhaps, I would have liked to take that week,” Erick said, and then he asked, “But how long was I standing here, thinking, while you all watched?”

“About 35 seconds before you sent that information packet.”

Not conclusively a thought trap, then.

Erick nodded, then turned back to fully face Fenrir. “Past a certain point you simply gotta hope you prepped enough, and then you power through all opposition.”

Ascendant Prime smiled a little with Rizala’s body, and then she pulled back, saying, “We will follow your lead.”

Erick smiled, showing everyone that everything was okay, and then he spoke to the world, “The only power Nothanganathor has is a plan many years in the making, for if he had the actual power to enact his will, he would have done so. He has a trick. We will encounter that trick, and then we will crush it, and him. He’s earned what is coming to him ten million times over.

“But we will not be taking that anger out on the people he has duped into following him, who he has stolen from their worlds and put into our paths. The Valkyries on the front line are not empowered to cut down those who attack them. The Valkyries will descend to Fenrir soon enough, and then they will scout and allow themselves to be killed, to return to here. They will allow all of what I am about to do to be unraveled by those people down there, if those people should unravel it. Their goal, for now, is to be seen and to Siphon up the Red.

“This is not a traditional War, for that is what Nothanganathor expects. That is what he has planned for. That is how he sees this happening.

“So we will deny him that path, because people need help.

“Everyone down there is experiencing a crisis. Everyone down there needs our help. Everyone down there might already be poised to hate and tear at us, for they have likely been brought forth through visions of Infinity where Nothanganathor was already their god, or some other such nonsense, but we’re going to be better than Nothanganathor, because what Nothanganathor doesn’t know is that every single person down there is not our enemy, but just a friend we haven’t made yet.

“We begin with Plan Takeover.”

- - - -

A while ago:

Erick walked out of the tactical room of the Blue Corps a little miffed. That meeting of smaller, newer powers had not gone well. Poi caught up with Erick, right as he opened a [Gate] back to the cloud castle house.

They walked through, and they were back home.

Poi waited until the portal was closed behind them to say, “Do you have an actual plan?”

Erick scoffed as he walked toward the main house. “Of course I have a plan.”

“But people want to see actual magic solutions. You know. The things that Archmages do. The old definition, that is; someone with tier 7 magics and able to make magics on the fly to solve any conceivable problem.” Poi said, “Usually I don’t have to tell you this, but everyone is worried that the solutions you have of ‘blast and blast some more’ are both truth, and also lies, and in both cases they’re not comforting.”

The meeting at the Blue Corps had been with a coalition of newly-risen smaller powers, coming into their own in the last few years, and only just now finding any solidity. The Angels leaving had thrown everything into political disarray, and when the majority of other humans went with them everyone was both lost and confused, and so the meeting had been a bunch of people yelling and vying for power and demanding answers, all at the same time. Erick had told them not to worry, and that he had plans, and that to air those plans to too many people would invite those plans to be nullified by Nothanganathor.

Erick probably should have been more of a politician back there, but he didn’t want to give out comforting lies. This war was going to be dangerous. People were going to die. And yet what was the alternative? To submit to the man who had Sundered one universe to gain power, and hope that he would change if he were allowed to gain even more power? That he would somehow have a different opinion of the values of others when he was in charge?

… Erick sighed as he entered his house. Yeah. He had fucked up. He should have hinted at the full weight of the problem; not outright stated it.

Erick headed for the kitchen. “I’m going to make some coffee. Want some?”

“Yes. I want some of that un-[Duplicate]able stuff from Margleknot, too, unless you’ve learned how to copy it, then it’s no longer special at all. Then I don’t care for it.”

Erick raised an eyebrow, and then he laughed. “I haven’t learned how to copy it, and I guess that makes it special.”

“For now.”

Erick smirked. “For now.”

Soon, the two of them were sharing a pot of really good coffee that tasted like being freshly clean and warm and dry in fluffy robes, watching the sunrise on a cold, winter’s porch, as breath and steam fogged the air. Of course, none of that was physically happening at all. The two of them were in the kitchen, by the bay window, looking over Candlepoint down below the clouds. It was reson-imbued coffee, and Erick could probably copy it if he wanted, but he had chosen not to.

He saw how Poi liked the special stuff.

Poi smiled as he sipped his coffee. “It’s something to do with reson-imbuing, so I can’t imagine why you haven’t figured it out yet.”

“Give me some time, and I’ll figure it out,” Erick said, grinning. And then he thought back to the meeting and sighed. “I suppose I could make a magic and hand it to the Script, to make people happier? I could probably do a lot of that, actually.”

Poi said, “Make a dungeon planter; a mana generating spike you can launch at Fenrir’s bare surface and generate livable space.”

Erick thought about that for a second, then he nodded. “Maybe you should look into Igniting to Wizardry.”

“No thanks.” Poi said, “I got a plan for life and it does not involve any of that power-tripping nonsense.”

Erick laughed. “How do you think such a spell should work?”

“Ya see? That’s the thing. I’m not the Apparent Wizard King.” Poi pointed at Erick, adding, “You’re the one that signed up to be Emperor of Veird, Commander of all our Armed Forces. You figure it out.”

“Bahhh!” Erick said, “I’ll just end up being, like, the tip of the spear. Jane and her siblings are the commanders.”

“Maybe your spellwork can be the spear,” Poi said, being serious, without trying to be too obviously very serious. “But you should hang back. We need you here on Veird more than down there, getting into Nothanganathor’s face. He’ll take a swipe at us when you’re gone, or he’ll find some way to trap you.”

Erick didn’t mention his plans to Ignite and then Ascend other people to True Wizards, and Poi didn’t ask.

“I have plans in place for if I fall, and I won’t fall. He can’t just kill me.” Erick said, “I won’t let anything happen to Veird.”

“Good!” Poi smiled. “Because I do quite like the place.” He added, “Don’t let anything bad happen to yourself, either.”

Erick grinned. “Solomon will probably be doing the major defenses; what with that cross-Infinity cultivation he’s going for. We’ll work it out. As for sending… well? Sending missiles of dungeons at Fenrir? Yeah. That’s a good starting point. I’m sure Nothanganathor will have a trick or ten to counter such a plan, but I can make some giant… missiles of some sort?” Erick looked away, thinking.

Poi sipped his tea, smirking—

“Ah ha!” Erick said, “I got it. Want to join me for the creation? Or the other Poi down in the Black Gate dungeon?”

“No no. I’m busy, too. If you’re going to work on that then I’m going to devote my full attention toward some Mind Mage stuff happening up in Cerebrum. We have a meeting with Demon King Dinnamoth in about 6 hours.” Poi said, “He’s a lot less of an asshole now that Avandrasolaro is the Crown. We might actually make progress on some sort of united war front today.”

Erick finished off his coffee then set down his empty mug, saying, “Then you have fun with that. I’ll be back later.”

- -

Erick stood upon a mountain in an empty part of the world, somewhere on the Sixth Sphere, where the Forever War had taken place for the two years that Erick had been absent. This part of Veird’s new Spheres still weirded Erick out, but it was kinda cool at the same time. Rozeta had forgone the normal sky illusions on this sphere, and had instead put another layer of world upside down, on the roof of this layer. The two surfaces were like two worlds facing each other from 50-ish kilometers away, with a layer in the middle where clouds and sunlight flowed, and gravity pulled in both directions.

Erick began weaving magics.

First came the hum of Benevolence, flowing out of Erick’s aura and into the air like a soft light that crinkled at the edges with white static. Next came a twisting and the tinkling chime of Genesis, which combined with the solid, illusionary sounds of eternal stonewood. Erick pulled out the creation of free floating life in the form of slimes from the sounds of [Conjure Force Elemental] and the barest touch of Soul Magic. Some light [Renew] and [Terraforming] spellwork was only another piece of the puzzle. Next came defensive, node-network-layers, in the form of [Ward] and [Undertow Star] and [Benevolent Cleanse].

With another twisting that was in reality a shaping that rivaled anything Erick had done in his first years on Veird, power blossomed both in the air, and inside Erick, as he harmonized many different spells into one.

And then he cast.

A kilometer-long, 300-meter-wide tower of white eternal stonewood sprouted into the air, created from nothing but mana and intent. Erick turned the casting into a button in his soul.

Words appeared that only he could see.

Tower of Mana Slimes, instant, super long range, 250,000 mana + Variable

Create a living eternal stonewood spike and launch the spike at a target. The spike plants itself where it lands and then unfurls into a tower that grows based on the slimes and life and conditions the tower finds itself within. Has a hard limit within the Script to only double in size. Has no limit outside of the Script.

It looked good, too!

The tower stretched up tall, with ridges every ten meters that encircled the whole thing. Those ridges were where the floors were on the insides, and the whole thing was mostly hollow, for Erick had constructed the tower like bamboo. Down here, at the bottom, nodules bubbled upon the white wood; the precursors to roots expanding outward. The tower needed some way to stabilize itself, after all.

The spell finished creating itself, and then it planted itself in the ground in front of Erick; like dynamite blasting away at a mountain, the spike buried itself in the ground.

The spike buried itself into the mountain a good 50 meters. Erick expected when it struck the solid surface of Fenrir it would simply stop there on that adamantium surface, but there was dirt here, and so the spike stuck into the dirt. It never reached the black metal ground a good five kilometers underneath.

The tower began to grow.

The nodules turned to roots which secured the bamboo into the ground, and then windows opened everywhere. The inside was filled with water, making the whole thing mostly incompressible and able to be fired like a metal slug without breaking where it landed, but now that water spilled outward. [Water Shape] [Ward]s caught that water and secured it to the tower, and the space where the water left suddenly lit up with spellwork. Slope stairs, like a double helix, were revealed on the insides, along with [Gravity Ward]s that gave the whole place a sense of gravity. Fenrir didn’t have great gravity right now, so of course Erick had to account for that. Those same gravity magics also helped to set up a water cycle. And then a [Terraforming] cloud sprang into being on the ceiling of every floor, and all throughout the place. Benevolence and Genesis spilled out of those clouds like lightning, filling the entire place with power. When the lightning passed, each 10-meter tall floorspace got maybe a meter-deep layer of good dirt, and greenery sprang up from loamy soil that had not been there before now.

The systems came online, and Erick watched.

Erick watched for about forty minutes, seeing where he had failed on his first attempt and where he had succeeded. Mostly, the repetition spellwork was failing hard. Here and there some of the floors had massive gaps in them, where the window-opening part of the magic had translated poorly and opened up holes in the floor instead of on the walls. Some of the helical staircases were upside down, where the magic had done some weird sort of inversion, putting wall where the walking area of the staircase should have been, and open space where the walkway should have been.

Erick had started off too big. Maybe he should just do four repeating floors, instead of going for a hundred repeating floors, all at once. The mana cost was too much, too. That needed to go down.

Yes.

Erick pulled apart the original spell in his soul, and then went about making Version 2.

Tower of Mana Slimes V2, instant, super long range, 2,500 mana + Variable

