“I’ll get to work making the world a better place for everyone,” Erick said, “Which was part of the plan to begin with. And then this guy came along and ruined everything. Took it all and… Well. He killed a lot of people.” Erick said, “And I’m not exaggerating. What I said before was a lie to cover the impossibility of it all. The guy killed a lot of people to rise to power —an impossible amount of people— and I’m wondering if I should move on, or not, because now he thinks himself unassailable, and he’s wrong, but…”

But Erick wasn’t sure if he was lying to himself, right there. Was Nothanganathor unassailable, or not? Hard to say.

Mary was back to being concerned, though not really. She was more concerned that Erick was taking up her time and talking crazy. Erick was a big damned dude right now, too, so that was scary for them as well.

Betty simply smiled and didn’t believe Erick was telling the truth, or at least not the truth about the deaths. “We have therapists you can talk to. I can set you up with some right now, if you want.”

Erick laughed. “Yeah. I should do that. But the question remains. And I’m just gonna be real honest with you, Betty. I’m surprised to see you still kicking around.” Erick stood up and unceremoniously transformed into his old self. He shrunk and his muscles melted away. His belly sagged and his arms lost most of their definition. His eyes turned back to what they were before, instead of the bright white they had been for so long, and then his hair turned a little less full, a little more salt-and-pepper. “Hello again, Betty. I thought you would have retired by now.”

Betty sat there, staring. She hummed, and furrowed her brows.

Mary made most of the noise in the room, flailing backward and shoving against the wall behind her, screaming out, “WHAT THE FUCK WHAT THE FUCK!”

Erick had preemptively soundproofed the room, so Mary’s outburst wasn’t the disaster it could have been; there were cops outside, after all. When she went for her phone, sitting on her desk, Erick had to actually move to prevent whatever she was trying to do. With a flicker of white aura, Erick locked her phone to her table under a bit of Force.

Mary’s fingers slid across the invisible barrier over her phone— She paused. She tried to grab her phone again, but she touched the invisible barrier. A stream of, “What the fuck?!”s poured out of her mouth.

Betty told her daughter, “Please stop that.” Still seated, she said to Erick, “And you. You vanish off the face of the Earth for 30 years and you show up with… with whatever the fuck you just did— pardon my language. Sit back down, Erick.” She sipped her coffee, and then said, “Transform back, and make yourself more muscly. Tighter clothes, too. You know how I like them.”

“MOTHER?!” Mary exclaimed.

Erick did as requested, smiling a little as he sat down across from Betty. “This good enough?”

“Green eyes, red hair,” Betty said.

Erick obliged, turning himself into an Irish muscle mag coverboy. “How’s this?”

“Mother?!” Mary exclaimed, but softer.

Betty flicked a free hand at her daughter, saying, “Let an old woman have her fun.” She breathed deep as she looked at Erick all over. “You look good, Erick. So that story is true, then? How many people did he kill?”

Mary muttered, “What the fuck is going on.”

Betty was always quick on the uptake, but this was kinda weird for Erick, too.

So Erick said, “You’re taking this rather well, Betty.”

“Oh I’m rather sure I just died and had a heart attack somewhere during the day, and this is my introduction to heaven. It’s not a bad introduction. Could you put on a kilt, though?” She waggled her eyebrows.

Erick smirked, then said, “Pants are good, for now.”

Betty tsk’d. “Not dead and in heaven, then.”

“Nope. Not dead.” Erick said, “And the guy I’m talking about killed a universe. I can probably get it back, but it’ll be a solo mission. I had gone at the problem with a whole world and many allies at my back, but that was taken away from me through magic, and it would happen again if I went back to them. I can time travel back and do some things to solve that, but I’m wondering if the outcome, for now, is acceptable, and if I should make better plans. I had a lot of plans, Betty, but he broke all of them.”

Betty nodded. She sipped her coffee.

Mary stared. And then she blurted, “Whatever you do, you need to leave.”

Betty ignored her daughter and asked Erick, “How powerful are you?”

“Powerful enough to remake Earth in a better image. I can give you treatments for cancer, pollution, energy, and everything else you can think of, but I’ve been out of the loop on Earth for 30 years and I’m not sure if those needs are still relevant.”

Mary spoke up, “Maybe I’m the one that died and went to heaven.”

Both of them looked at her.

Mary was suddenly frightened. “… Did I say that out loud?”

Nods all around.

Mary fell silent.

“The guy you’re fighting? He’s a killer?” Betty asked, “Did you turn into a killer too, Erick?”

“Yes and yes.”

Betty nodded, still thinking, though she was rapidly coming out of shock and deciding that all of this might really be happening. Eventually, she said, “Normally, it would be wrong to give such direct advice, but I think I am having some sort of episode of something, and I really feel compelled to be truly honest… So you should go back and fight the guy with everything you have. He killed a universe, right? Did I get that part of your story right? Or did I imagine that?”

“He definitely killed a universe.”

Betty nodded slower this time. “Then that seems… unforgivable, to say the least of it— And he rose to power, right?”

“Yes.” Erick said, “Now he has the power of a god, and he could unmake… a lot. But he also might not want to, because he has everything he ever wanted. He won. I could simply be a king for his Empire, and he would be just another god that I worked with. Though I’m rather sure that particular job opening is yet another trap.”

Betty was rapidly losing her battle with understanding what was happening, but she managed to maintain professionalism. She said, “There’s a lot of good to be done by moving on. Perhaps your first stop should be seeking your coworkers who survived; seeing what they say about whatever happened.”

“I agree, but I’m a Wizard who can move through time. I don’t have to accept the past.”

Betty was a little short as she said, “Well maybe you should, because you already lost that fight.”

Erick was about to object, but then he realized—

When he had made Benevolence, he had empowered it to act on its own to prevent disasters.

When Nothanganathor had made Malevolence, he had empowered it to act on his personal behalf.

Nothanganathor was always going to win the first real fight, because that’s what his Malevolence had been geared toward, and he had prepared for thousands of years to win that fight. It was pure hubris to assume that Erick could win against an enemy 10,000 years in the planning. But now, if the letter was to be believed, Nothanganathor had abandoned Malevolence. Erick did not doubt that part of the letter because Malevolence was probably no longer useful to Nothanganathor; it had done what it had set out to do, to raise Nothanganathor to a god, and now it was a directionless mana. Maybe for personal users Malevolence had its uses, but nothing like what Nothanganathor had used it for.

… Maybe Erick could even experiment with it now that it was outside of Nothanganathor’s control.

Huh.

He should check on that. Go back to Margleknot and see what happened…

And yet, if he did that, he would be walking into a reality that he would be washing away as soon as he fixed this outcome. So...

No.

Erick would not be visiting Margleknot, or any other place like that. His friends and family awaited him back on Veird; not in whatever reality Nothanganathor had made of Layer 789.

Erick knew what he needed to do.

He stood, saying, “Thank you, Betty. It was nice to meet you again. I’ve got a world to save. Ask me for something, and I will attempt to grant it.”

Mary stared. “… Anything?”

Betty rapidly said, “I want our funding problems to vanish, so we can help a lot more people.”

“… Er. Yeah. I can do that.” Erick considered how to solve the problem. Could he make some more 1’s and 0’s appear in the center’s bank account? “Might take me a minute to figure out how to work magic on a computer— And that would set off too many alarms, because I know I am not capable enough to see through all the fancy checks and balances they got these days, I’m sure. Fixing the bank accounts would just set off alarms. Those phones of yours are way too thin and dense…” Just how far had tech advanced? Erick asked, “How do you feel about gold? Or platinum?”

Mary whispered, “Like a fucking fae.” She stared at Erick. She muttered, “Even looks irish.”

And that was another thing that Erick needed to do.

Turn fae.

No more chickening out with growing to power.

“Gold is good,” Betty said, well past believing that any of this was happening at all. “We can say you were a wealthy benefactor.”

Erick rapidly produced ten huge bars of shimmering gold from thin air. Each one was around 25 kilos. He laid them on the floor, in a stack, saying, “That’s 250 kilos of gold. What’s the price of gold today? I’m not sure. This is tens of millions of dollars either way. How bad has inflation gotten in the last 30 years?”

Mary stared at the gold.

Betty smiled as she laughed. “It’s gotten bad! They tried condensing the dollar by ten, ten years ago. The cost of a burger might be the same as it was 30 years ago, but not really at… all...” And then she breathed, and reached over to pick up a gold bar, and she couldn’t budge it at all. She stopped. “Oh. Fuck. That’s real gold.”

“Unmarked, too,” Erick said, “You might have problems with that. Just tell them that Erick Flatt says hello, and to keep doing what you’re doing. I’m not sticking around to talk to people. Also, here:” Erick threw a [Benevolent Cleanse] at both of them, which briefly knocked Betty out as he removed a few small cancers at the base of her spine and skull, and opened up wounds all across her body. A quick [Greater Treat Wounds] was enough to fix all that up, and a bit of [Greater Rejuvenation] probably made her feel 20 years younger. It also replaced her gallbladder, which had been taken out sometime in the last decade. She barely even moved, as Erick was done with the procedure so fast. And then he did the same thing for Mary, who was suffering from ulcers and a whole bunch of systemic problems…

In fact…

Erick simply knocked the both of them out and Mary got a [Reincarnation], because the healing magics Erick had cast on her were exacerbating a whole bunch of genetic issues. Five minutes later, Erick allowed both of them to wake up naturally and with a note scribbled on some spare paper, and stuck under a little glass paperweight on top of the gold pile. The note was a signed piece of paper that this gold was a gift to the Humanitarian Center, and to the offices of Betty Karr in particular.

Erick turned to light and lingered for a moment around the fluorescent light bulbs in the room, watching as Betty woke up first and then Mary followed.

Betty saw the gold and screamed, “GOLD?!”

And then mother and daughter were screaming together, in panic, and then rapidly in joy. The cops came running when they heard the noise, and then they saw the gold. And then they read the note.

Erick peered into the future a little bit, just to see if he could see how that all turned out if nothing else big happened.

There would be an investigation. Mary and Betty would both confirm that some guy came in, talking about weird things and claiming to be Erick Flatt, and then left them with a bunch of gold. Their story would make national headlines and then Mary would make headlines again as she didn’t need to take any of the medication she was taking for her auto-immune diseases, for she was healthy as could be, and no one could explain why she had healed completely. Betty would go on to live another 40 years, to the ripe old age of 120, which was way more than she wanted, but she was happy. Mary would live similarly long, but she was ready to go long before that.

And the office that Erick Flatt had worked in and then donated to would be renovated completely, the building renamed after him and the gold used to pay for a lot of new stuff in town. Of course some people would steal some of it, and the feds came in for their 40% cut, but a lot of good came from that gold. A lot of people lived better lives because of that gold.

‘Erick Flatt’s’ return to Earth was soon marked as an old, romanticized story of miraculous hope and ghosts of the past.
