Create a living eternal stonewood pod and launch the pod at a target. The pod plants itself where it lands and then unfurls into a tower that grows based on the slimes and life and conditions the tower supports. Has a hard limit within the Script to only double in size. Has no limit outside of the Script.

This time what came out was a 45-ish meter tall disk, about 200 meters wide, and it had lots of staircases and support all throughout, and a whole lot more complicated infrastructure. When it planted, the roots expanded wide, locking it to the mountain underfoot.

Erick watched the ‘disk-tower’ work for 2 hours. The slimes came to being through pure creation and they began wandering around, like the slimes in the larger tower. Everything seemed to be working a lot better, too. But there was another problem. The node network of the disk tower was failing; there wasn’t enough life to sustain the growth of the smaller tower.

Erick had gone too small.

“Version 3 will be better,” Erick told himself—

Something tickled the inside of his nose and Erick sniffled.

… Why was he sniffling?

… Erick already saw why he was sniffling. He wiped the blood away from his nose, and then stared at the red on his fingers for a few seconds. His eyes flickered to his Status. Nothing was wrong there—

“Oh!” Erick said, cleaning himself up, because he knew what he had done. “The Script is pushing back because it’s almost Propagation Magic.”

A blue box appeared.

The Propagation Ban is a Foundational Ban, Erick. Just gotta work through it. Sorry! Please clean up your magics when you are done, please. I don’t want another Crystal Mimic scenario.

~Rozeta

“Sure thing— Ah. Hello, Atunir.”

Atunir, the Goddess of Field and Fertility, stepped onto the mountain beside Erick, looking a little happy and also professionally concerned. She also looked resplendent with her dark skin and commoner-esque clothes. She playfully intoned, “So it seems you’re trying to make a propagating bamboo tower plant.”

“I am. Want to help?”

Like someone being asked to do something they wanted to do, but they knew they shouldn’t, Atunir said, “I don’t normally like to get involved, because people have to live their own lives…” Atunir blurted out, “But Sumtir and Aloethag are getting big in the Valkyrie culture and so I want in on this growing culture.”

Erick grinned. “Your help is greatly appreciated.”

“I do wonder about Yggdrasil, though.” Atunir said, “I helped you make him last time. He doesn’t want to be present here? For this?”

“He’s already said he doesn’t want to be a part of any offensive magics, so I didn’t even think to ask him about this.” Erick said, “He’s defensive, as always.”

Atunir simply nodded, Erick’s confirmation of Yggdrasil’s nature neatly slotting into her worldview. “Then this working will be one of comfortable offense.” Perhaps too excitedly, she said, “Now, as for iterating on this process, I was thinking golden wheat towers that surrounded the land with light and air and gravity and made it all habitable for everyone nearby, as well as serving as bases from which to attack the enemy. Also, a plant that grows and spreads in the void.” She said, “A planet maker.”

Erick’s eyes went a bit wide. “… Oh.” And then he said, “That seems like it could become a Daydropper situation.”

Atunir smiled delightfully. “Which is why I’m here, at the beginning, to ensure that it is connected to security and not to corruption.” She added, “Also, we can save that version for after the war. Let’s just do the Fenrir-base-maker, for now.”

“Sounds good to me.”

“Also: I hear you’re planning on having a child with Shadow.”

Erick balked, and then he laughed. “Yes. Eventually. We’re in a courting stage right now.”

“Congratulations on your future children, anyway!” Atunir smiled.

Erick chuckled. “Thanks.”

- - - -

Present day:

Atunir appeared in the sky beside Erick, so close to the Edge of the Script, the both of them looking down onto the newly inhabited dyson sphere that was Fenrir. This time Atunir was dressed in flowing, golden wheat, with twining green vines that replicated jewelry. Tiny, dew-drop-glittering apples hung from her ears like earrings, and her hair was done in thick braids that cascaded down her bare shoulders and her back.

She was absolutely gorgeous, and Erick was kinda ashamed he had never seen this part of her before. She had always been such a farm girl, and Erick did not think she would mind being thought of in that way.

Atunir smirked at him, and then said, “I thought Plan Takeover was scrapped when you said that we weren’t going to bother with caring for the enemy, and yet you changed your mind so swiftly.”

Erick said, “We can do both at the same time. I am a Paradox Wizard, after all. And I’m pretty sure us waging a normal war against people who are us would just empower Nothanganathor’s Malevolence. By that same token, I expect Benevolence’s helping hand to do even more once it reaches people who need it.” He held out a hand. “We will need to adjust some of the spell for landing on soil, and we’ll need to use the Weaver.”

“Easily handled,” Atunir said, as she took his hand.

With her other hand, she brought forth a sparkling orb of gold and held it in front of the both of them. It floated there, cascading gently, showing itself as the [Spellsurge Weave] basis for this next magic. The original version of this spell had Atunir directly overseeing the magic, not using a Weave at all, but now that Nothanganathor had covered the surface of Fenrir in the population of Veird, stolen from side realities, and thus launched a divinity and mana-based attack at Veird, she couldn’t do that. She couldn’t open herself to that sort of violation. Thus, the circuit-breaker of the Weave system.

Erick suspected that even this level of closeness might be too much.

But then he wove his own Authority into the magic, denying all Malevolent actors, and Intoned, “[Seeds of Atunir].”

Seeds of Atunir, instant, super long range, 50,000 mana + Variable

Create at least one living eternal stonewood seed and launch the seed at a target. This spell has many effects. This spell is attuned to Atunir, and she has oversight authority upon the magic. When the spell lands, it unfurls into a protected space that grows as the goddess demands.

Protection, growth, life, and bounty.

The cascading dot of power in front of Erick and Atunir suddenly shot out a white seed at the speed of lightning. That seed jaggedly snapped through the sky, before it touched the Edge of the Script, and then blasted out of Veird’s space, directly into the void.

It was a streak of white.

And then Red Sparks gathered like so many gnats, attempting to feast on the white dot, but Erick and Atunir were both feeding power into the gold dot that remained in front of them, and the white dot cascaded with that power. [Benevolent Cleanse]s ripped out of the [Seeds of Atunir], breaking the Red in the void into so much different mana, and then shadowy tendrils reached out from that Seed, into the broken mana. The singular Seed Siphoned that mana into itself—

One seed became three.

The Red fought back.

Erick fed power into the [Spellsurge Weave] in front of him and Atunir, and the white Seeds split into 3 again, becoming 9 white dots that traveled through the void at the speed of lightning. Those 9 white dots traveled in the Red, breaking the Red into mana, drawing that mana into the spell.

9 became 27. 27 became 81. 81 became 243.

Erick and Atunir filled the void between Veird and Fenrir’s surface with white stars, eating away at the Red. The spell was almost unwieldy past a few more multiplications, and the Red won here and there, consuming some of the Seeds on the edge of the red and white sky. The golden spell in front of Erick bucked like a Veirdquake, but Atunir held it together, and Erick flickered Benevolence wherever the Red dared to backtrack upon the magic.

It was surprisingly easy to break and consume the Red through the Seeds they had sent out, and soon, the Red retreated, so that it didn’t repeat the experience of what had happened when it tried to stay on Veird during the Day of Clouds. With a sky full of white Seeds, and nothing else, Erick had to actually spend mana to create another tripling, but he decided not to, and Atunir, holding his hand the whole time, wordlessly agreed with him.

They floated there, just before the Edge of the Script, marshaling the small parts of the magic in front of them into a working whole, with Erick sweeping his perception and many senses through the spell to check for lingering Red influence, and Atunir manipulating her divinity through the magic to solidify it even further. The spell was already self-purgative of Red, so once Nothanganathor stopped actively fighting, the majorly-influenced Seeds out there self-detonated, while the minorly-influenced Seeds cleaned themselves up, and the whole swarm swam through the void, uninhibited.

It reminded Erick of Syllea Wyrmrest’s and the Wyrmrest family's signature spell; [Starfall].

The distance between Veird and Fenrir was still a planetary distance, though, and Erick hadn’t put any Time Magic into travel times, because that seemed like a recipe for future disasters on the scale of faster-than-light plant spawnings. So even though the spell was traveling at the speed of lightning, it would still take about an hour to reach the surface of Fenrir.

That flat expanse of patchwork continents was about a moon’s distance away.

Erick held Atunir’s hand and spoke to the people watching from Blue Corps, “The spell is going to take 50-ish minutes to touch down. Prepare for larger countermeasures in the meantime.”

Atunir held Erick’s hand firm, as she focused on the magic in front of them. The golden [Spellsurge Weave] was beginning to look more like a diffuse layer of stars, in a small mirror to the stars far afield, in the void between worlds. When they touched down they would have a map of the local area around every single Seed.

Minutes ticked by with people on standby and white stars falling through the void.

Half an hour passed.

45 minutes.

Erick split his attention between the surface of Fenrir and the spellwork in front of him. From what he could see the people down there were in a panic, but only a few of them cared about the stars in the sky. Erick and Atunir’s spell was comparable to Fenrir as an apple was comparable to the size of House Benevolence. Except for those directly under the stars, people had other problems.

Islanders were on boats in the middle of deserts. Foresters were on mountainsides erupting with lava. Demons crawled across the surface of what almost looked like the incani Wastelands, but even more poisoned with Decay magics, their swamps filled with hydras, and now demons. Old Demons, too, with bodies made of slugs or rot, or made of hands. Incani-based demons sort of looked like incani, with a general two-horned, two-armed-and-legged body, but these guys were clearly demons from ancient Veird. Some were giant, the size of castles, and they were pulling apart the castles in the Wasteland Kingdoms, to eat at the people inside.

Red Sparks crackled among the attackers, empowering them.

Red Sparks did a lot more than that, too.

Something strange was happening to the people. They shot out their hands, trying to cast offensive magics, but then nothing happened at all, and then they died to demonic claws and maws filled with fangs. Whatever was happening down there was a horror of Malevolence, locking down the magic it didn’t like.

Erick decided that when the Seeds landed, he would go out and save people. Which was probably the point of the display. This was a trap to get Erick to venture into Nothanganathor’s domain—

The Seeds began to break the airy surface of Fenrir like spears of white in a cloudy sky—

The foremost Seeds broke on some sort of shield, among the clouds, and in the open air where nothing seemed to be. Every single [Seed of Atunir] evaporated as it neared the surface of Fenrir.

The full spell took nearly 2 full minutes to fully break upon whatever barrier existed on the edge of Fenrir’s airspace. When it was finally over, the golden [Spellsurge Weave] floating in front of Erick and Atunir was reduced to a simple golden glow in the air; the main power of the spell simply gone.

Erick let go of Atunir’s hand, and she did the same to his grip.

Erick said, “So it appears something is down there. Some inviolable space.” Erick had some good ideas of what was happening down there, but he looked to Atunir and asked, “Ideas?”

“He has a Script,” Atunir said, simply. “An automated Authority-system probably at the size of all of Fenrir, though he could have just protected the closest possible area. A full Fenrir-Script would be too unwieldy for anyone to control.”

Erick nodded. “All good guesses; I was thinking the same.”

Rozeta appeared in the air beside them, trying not to be too serious as she said, “Elaborate.”

Atunir said, “The spell Erick and I made was instantly countered, as though Nothanganathor had his manaminer target the spell working specifically, which means he has knowledge of all the magic we make here on Veird. The physical Seeds still fell onto Fenrir, but they are no longer attached to me. They might yet grow, but they will not be the magic that Erick and I made. I doubt if they’ll grow to more than larger-than-average wheat fields.”

Into the uncertainty of the moment, Erick said, “Then we move on to the planet-maker Plant Magic, Atunir. We’ll have bases in space, instead of on Fenrir. We’ll do Plan Surround and Con—”

- - - -

“—sume… Uh.”

Erick paused, because he was no longer in the sky with Atunir. He was no longer anywhere he should be, because he was sitting at a desk that he had not sat at for years. Decades, even.

It was the County Health Department on Earth, in Michigan.

Home.

Earth.

Erick did not panic. He focused.

Erick’s mana senses still worked, but there was no mana anywhere except for inside his own body, so Erick let some of that out, rapidly attuning it to Illusion, so that the prominence was invisible. Mana flowed outward like an invisible wind. Power ruffled the papers in front of him and the calendar hanging on the wall of the small-ish space. The base of the building looked the same as it looked in Erick’s memories of the place, though everything layered upon that base structure was different. The calendar on the wall read 2047, so it had been a long time since Erick had been gone.

