This only made Jake smile as he responded by pushing in his own energy directly. At the same time, he stopped all pretence and attempts at convincing the bow that he was the one meant to wield it all of that other stuff... instead, he tried to win it over with a far simpler message, with a single mental image and one equally simple question.

The image he sent was of himself wielding the bow, a Protean Arrow drawn and ready to fire as a True Dragon stood before him. With it, a question he knew himself well enough to know he would be unable to reject:

“Wanna kill a dragon with me?”

For the first time, Jake felt his will find some leeway as it entered the bow. It seemed enamoured with the concept of hunting down a dragon, instinctually drawn to the idea, as that was indeed what it was born to do. It’s Path. Yet there was still some doubt, which Jake sought to quickly relieve.

A second mental image appeared, this time showing Jake hunting something far more impressive than a dragon. It displayed Jake standing with the bow in front of a bare-chested human wielding a simple axe, their two auras clashing as Jake was ready with an arrow already nocked.

“Wanna see what the apex really looks like?”

Jake’s strategy had changed from trying to convince the bow he was some fated partner to instead offering something far more tangible... the idea that he could be its vehicle to fulfill its purpose and Path. For it not to merely be Jake making use of the bow, but for the bow to equally make use of Jake to accomplish its own desires.

Right as Jake saw signs, his time was indeed about to run out... the rejection disappeared, and instead, a powerful connection formed as he and the bow had found a common goal.

All around them, the formation began to break apart and disperse, but Jake barely noticed it as he instead focused solely on the weapon in his hand. Not wanting to delay, he quickly used Identify, in part to confirm he had indeed succeeded.

[Apex Hunter’s Bow of the World Tree (Mythical)] – Formed by Nature’s Attendant from a gift by the system and a branch of the World Tree, a bow of untold potential has been born, fit only for a hunter that stands at the apex. A true apex hunter seeks only to challenge worthy foes and effortlessly strikes down those inferior that dare impede his quest. Increases damage done against foes dependent on level disparity – both lower and higher – up to a certain threshold. This effect is based on Perception. This bow is overflowing with life energy, making it near-indestructible and ensuring it will recover from any damage as long as the host is still alive. All your arcane energy infused into the bow will find itself amplified. Faint whispers of a consciousness linger within the wood. Untold potential lingers within, allowing this bow to adapt and grow in tandem with the user. Enchantments: Apex Hunter. Requirements: Soulbound

“Good job... for a moment there, I feared failure. Also, don’t be too disappointed that it’s only a mythical rarity item,” Nature’s Attendant said in a comforting voice as he teleported over right next to Jake. “Making it more powerful wasn’t feasible when you’re still in C-grade, but give it time and attention, and it shall grow as you do. It’s nothing if not adaptable.”

Jake nodded, already feeling that. While some parts of the bow would stay the same, he felt a nearly limitless potential for change and adaptation within it. With time, it would only grow stronger, and even the name of the bow would change to something far less generic.

Who knows, maybe he could even get one of those truly legendary weapons with only a single-word name... but for now, Jake was more than satisfied, as he knew he’d just obtained a companion for life to wield alongside Eternal Hunger.
