Rémi asked. He did talk and interject questions, but usually preferred to let Ksmvr or Nsiia fill the air. Nsiia scowled.
“Yes. The Siren personally wants me. Nerrhavia? They have an interest in keeping me from my people. Femithain wants Domehead, and he was responsible for my captivity. It falls on his head if we are not caught. So—three nations. There are smaller ones, but—peh.”
She turned her head and spat, to show how she cared for them. Ksmvr nodded.
“We are nearing your western border. What is the plan after that? Where are we bound? I am content to be headed in Pisces’ direction.”
Pisces was due west, headed towards Roshal, so Ksmvr had not objected. But Nsiia just sighed.
“I need my army. And they are here. To the west of Tiqr lies three major lands.”
She pointed, and Ksmvr and Rémi leaned forwards. Ksmvr was aware of the nations around Reim, having followed the King of Destruction’s war, but the rest of Chandrar was largely unknown to him. He knew Roshal was a harbor on the furthest west coast of Chandrar, the famous nation of slavers.
In the center of Chandrar was Zeikhal, the Great Desert that had devoured countless nations and was a no man’s land that few could survive the further in you went. But along the southern coast? Savere, then Nerrhavia’s Fallen to the east…tiny Pomle, Illivere, Tiqr, smaller nations, and then?
“The Kilalle Steppes border Zeikhal here, you see? They are a wild place—few permanent cities. No central ruler. Garuda territory. Their clans—groups of Garuda, much like your Gnolls—hold it. They have been friends to Tiqr more than enemies. It is here Vasraf and what remains of my armies hide.”
She pointed to the northwest of Tiqr. Then circled a section along the coast.
“Here lies another power we should be wary of, and why you should keep accompanying me, Ksmvr. The Empire of Scaied is a mercenary one, and they might well go after an Antinium alone for the bounty on his head. More than that? You helped me escape.”
“In fact, I merely waved my sword in the vague direction of—”
“Yes, yes. But they are enemies of Tiqr and you are an enemy of theirs by extension.”
“I object to this line of thought.”
Nsiia grinned at Ksmvr.
“Not everyone is as reasonable as you, Ksmvr. The Beitv Underlands are in the middle, there. Another land without a central great power, though they do have rulers…”
“Tell me about them.”
Ksmvr was fascinated. Nsiia shrugged and cast her eyes at the evening sky. They had an hour before the land cooled enough to ride.
“Shortly? Very well. The Empire of Scaied made war on Tiqr many times—and we them. They fight for coin. Mercenary—they clash with other kingdoms, raid, and sustain themselves by war. Tiqr does not, and we share opposing views. I thought they would attack Tiqr when the other nations made war, but they were busy enough not to join in.”
She grimaced.
“They have a number of unsavory features, and I do not have time to list their many faults.”
Ksmvr held up his hand.
“…Is this an unbiased opinion?”
Nsiia’s glare made him lower it after a few seconds. She poked holes in the little sketch of Scaied for a moment, then sighed.
“I wonder if you would like them, Ksmvr, or they you, without fear of the Antinium in name. You see—they do deal with creatures kin to yours. Or so I think. Giant scorpions, which they ride—somewhat like the Jaws of Zeikhal, but far smaller.”
Ksmvr looked at Nsiia. He frowned, drawing his mandibles together.
“I am not a scorpion.”
She blinked at him.
“Yes, but I meant you are like an insect. And a scorpion…”
“I am not a scorpion. No one rides Antinium.”
Ksmvr crossed his arms. Nsiia peered at him.
“Fine then. The Beitv Underlands might be more your folk.”
“Why?”
“Because they live underground.”
The [Brave Skirmisher] paused. He opened his mandibles, raised a finger, then crossed two arms.
“I admit, there is some correlation there.”
“It’s my understanding that the Beitv Underlands have never had a strong military presence or a large standing army, Empress Nsiia. How have they survived? Peace treaties? Economic strength? Skills?”
Rémi looked intrigued. Nsiia just laughed.
“Nothing so smart, Rémi! They survived because no one would bother to invade them. The Beitv Underlands have some wealth, but if anyone tries to conquer them, they collapse the tunnels and withdraw. You would have to take two armies—one to fight and one to dig!”
“Antinium could do it.”
Ksmvr spoke, and Rémi shifted the box to him.
“Do the Antinium have designs on Chandrar, Ksmvr?”
The Gold-rank adventurer hesitated. Ksmvr looked at Rémi, at the box. He shrugged.
“I am not a Queen of the Antinium. But we have designs on everywhere acceptable to be colonized. Chandrar is far away.”
Nsiia eyed him. Rémi nodded, but frowned.
“Yet the Antinium have a reputation for being a warlike, invasive people, Ksmvr. What would you say to that?”
Ksmvr gave him a blank look.
“We have invaded Izril by Drake and Human rhetoric. We did make war. We would move to Chandrar if we could, to establish new Hives, I believe. If possible.”
He fell silent. Rémi waited, then prompted him.
“And?”
“…That is what species do to live. The Gnolls left Izril. Someday, we may leave Izril too. If so, the Beitv Underlands might be a prime target.”
Ksmvr stared calmly into the camera. He chewed on his breakfast as even the Empress of Beasts gave him a troubled look. Then he amended his statement.
“Except that we would have to cross water. We hate water. I hate water.”
 
——
 
Rémi Canada’s first documentary came out after a lot of drama and news around the Meeting of Tribes, to substantially less fanfare and instant attention. That it even got coverage was thanks to Drassi, but it didn’t have every eye glued on it, like, say, watching Foliana of the Forgotten Wing Company, Three-Color Stalker, try to throw peanuts at Grand Magus Eldavin did.
…Through the scrying orb. As if she could somehow toss a nut across the world and onto the other projection just because they were presented side-by-side in the same picture. Which demonstrated her lack of spatial understanding vis-à-vis the perspective of a camera, or her own misplaced confidence in her Skills. Or just her desire to toss shelled peanuts at [Mages] who annoyed her.
That was hugely interesting to any audience, no matter who you were, and had happened on the news. Live. Including such memorable scenes as the [King] of Pheislant, who was currently divorced, maybe, possibly, definitely asking both Queen Geilouna of Desonis and Strategist Perorn of the Forgotten Wing company out on a date.
And being shot down. By flaming arrows. That was another event from the news, and the Meeting of Tribes. So you could see why, frankly, even though Ksmvr was in the news, and Nsiia and Domehead, it wasn’t as instantly eye-catching.
Moreover, Wistram and the other news networks, which were becoming more mainstream television, were learning a lesson—their audiences did need breaks. They could only show so much high-drama before being tuned out.
Enter Rémi Canada’s first foray into the documentary. Was it at the worst possible time? Or…best?
There was something that made the documentary do the rounds on the other channels. It was just…well, a lot of quiet. Actual conversations, rather than a bloody battle. Like the opening, sometimes Rémi and the others just rode and the view was of Chandrar’s landscapes, the vivid sky, or capturing a conversation.
Because, crucially, Rémi Canada’s recordings were not edited. It was up to anyone who received a copy of the magical image to do so—or not at all. He didn’t have the magical acumen to do so, so, very interestingly, some groups chose to play it wholesale, and to their interest, they found audiences willing to watch someone just ride across Chandrar for an entire day in the background.
And—coincidentally—watch Ksmvr, Nsiia, and Domehead. None of the people being filmed really understood who was watching them. They didn’t stop near Mage’s Guilds or civilization. They were certainly staying away from scrying orbs, which, by now, everyone sort of knew could be reverse-engineered to spy on the user. And ‘everyone’ was really just anyone with a modicum of power or connection to a group with any military might or secrets they didn’t want revealed.
The only person who could chart any of this was Rémi Canada. And he was just the journalist, film crew, and passenger in this adventure together.
 
——
 
Ksmvr observed a few qualities about Rémi after two days of travel. First, the [Journalist] possessed a number of interesting abilities, both in Skills and developed by his profession.
He was able to keep up well with Nsiia, Domehead, and Ksmvr, despite being the least-conditioned of the group. Ksmvr could ride Spitty until the camel dropped dead, but Nsiia made sure they got plenty of rest, and he was a [Skirmisher] over Level 30, and had Antinium biology designed to weather most extremes.
Short of heatstroke, he could keep on going. Nsiia was the Empress of Beasts and Chandrar was her home. She could sleep in the saddle, and her faithful animal companions had extra intelligence and strength due to her presence.
Domehead was a Golem. He could run all day and all night. So even Yinah looked perkier than Rémi after a day of hard riding. Nevertheless, he kept up.
“I’ve done some hard riding. Unless you have an escort, you have to bounce around for stories.”
“And you seek those out.”
Ksmvr was riding Spitty, side-by-side with Rémi and his camel, Sandi.
Spitty and Sandi. He kept trying to ride closer and Ksmvr kept pulling him away. The camel turned his head to glare at Ksmvr, and the Antinium offered him a Yellat to eat. Spitty hated Yellats.
“I had to, right when I was starting out. Newspapers were not in circulation, nor was the television. I actually went from city to city with a little news bulletin—I made a small profit selling them to [Merchants] and people who were interested in my writing.”
“Fascinating. And you did this alone?”
Rémi hesitated. He had his magic-camera out, and it was on that swivel-stick that let it film both Ksmvr, the camels, and him.
“I had companions. At first. They died.”
“I am sorry to hear that.”
Rémi’s face had gone guarded. Ksmvr saw him nod, slowly, and look at Ksmvr.
“May I ask a question? Did any Antinium leave the Free Hive but you?”
“No. I was exiled.”
“Really? May I ask why?”
“…Gross incompetence.”
Nsiia turned in her saddle. Rémi raised his eyebrows.
“Really? But you’re a Gold-rank adventurer. You seem to be one of the most competent the Antinium could hope for—every species and nation respects Gold-ranks. I also thought you once threatened to start a war in the name of the Hives?”
Ksmvr felt unpleasantly warm, despite the cold air. He shrugged.
“…That was a bluff.”
“Really? A bluff?”
Nsiia cackled with delight. Rémi smiled.
“And you don’t mind sharing that to our audience?”
Ksmvr hesitated.
“—Ah. Will many people see this? In that case, I would like you to remove this commentary.”
“Could I persuade you to keep it in?”
“I would prefer you to remove it. Threatening war is a viable tactical advantage. Psychologically.”
Rémi coaxed Ksmvr into allowing him to keep it in. Ksmvr relented because his war threats had backfired and he’d been cautioned by Captain Ceria not to do that too often anymore. He tried to go back to Ksmvr’s expulsion.
“I have heard that other Antinium have left the Free Hive in some way. Bird the Hunter. So others have exited.”
“Yes, but their situations were not analogous to mine. You asked, specifically, if any had left with me. They did not. I was exiled. Their status is less directly related to that.”
“May I ask what that is?”
Ksmvr thought for a second. He prodded his stomach. And found he didn’t want to talk about it.
“You may. I decline to answer.”
Rémi nodded. He changed tack instantly. He was tactful, and had already managed to get Nsiia’s account of Tiqr’s fall out of her. Ksmvr was surprised to hear the Empress of Beasts relay her view of how the war had gone.
“—I never thought Tiqr was doomed, Journalist Canada.”
“No, Your Majesty? But you could see the odds stacked against Tiqr from the outset. Surely you heard your [Strategist] and [General]’s commentary. Did General Vasraf ever advise you to sue for peace?”
Nsiia threw her head back, eyes blazing.
“Peace? That would have looked much like what we see now! At best, I would have been a puppet on the throne, but the other nations in the coalition did not make war just to stop me from allying with Flos Reimarch. They did it to take Tiqr, which they wanted. Let us not play games.”
“Of course, Your Majesty. But the odds…?”
Nsiia sighed.
“I thought if I bled them, wounded them in great battles, they would relent. If one hound in the pack falls away, the next is more likely to follow. Even Nerrhavia’s hordes would not eagerly come one after another, not with the King of Destruction in the north. If I could do it again, I would sue for peace, if only to avoid the needless losses. Does that answer your question?”
The young man nodded, focusing on her face for a moment.
“Yes, thank you. And your plans next?”
She smiled thinly.
“That will wait until we find Vasraf. I do not trust you that much, Rémi Canada.”
She met his grey-violet eyes with hers, and Rémi ducked his head. Which led Ksmvr into his question.
“Violet eyes are not a natural color amongst Humans except when exposed to some magic, in their heritage or otherwise. May I ask your heritage, Rémi Canada? You do not appear to be natively Chandrarian.”
That was a guess based on skin tone and the fact that Rémi didn’t seem as used to the glare of the sun as even Chandrarians of his skin color were. The young man hesitated.
“—My eyes aren’t inherited, Ksmvr. They changed color due to one of my Skills.”
“Ah. Interesting. Which one? Unless it is secret.”
“No. I can share that. [Eyes of Personality]. It’s…call it a Skill fit for a journalist. It was one of the earlier Skills I got.”
Ksmvr nodded politely and added it to his lexicon of eye-based Skills. He concluded his observation.
Rémi Canada was a good deceiver. Not by outright lie, but by omission. He side-stepped, like Pisces could do with his rapier and footwork. He had things he did not want to say, like Ksmvr, who ignored or declined all of Rémi’s questions about the inner workings of Antinium Hives, and so on.
