There were some things that sounded like they might be jokes. And there were lots of compliments and mentions of gratitude toward classmates who had offered the journalers insight into the subject they were exploring.

The more Alden read, the more he began to build a picture of what school might be like for the upperclassmen here.

Ending your study journal abruptly, without any major revelations or answers to the questions that had prompted you to start it, seemed to be fine. The closing could include the author expressing relief that they’d solved a problem that had been bothering them, or it could be them frankly telling the reader that they were getting bored with it and stopping for now. That, combined with the fact that these were in the case labeled exceptional pursuits, made him think that the point of the journals was to pursue a personal curiosity beyond the scope of what the students had to know to satisfy instructor requirements.

Classmates interacted with most of the journals by adding notes at the end to thank the writer, point to relevant reference materials, or mention that they’d started studies of their own on a similar subject.

And being quoted in someone else’s journal was a thing at least some of them took seriously. There were multiple instances of journalers asking someone for their thoughts and then not getting a reply back for days because the other person was crafting a paragraph that was almost always deemed astoundingly insightful when it was finally included.

It might just be that anyone making one of these only asks the biggest geeks in school for advice.

The journals weren’t what Alden had hoped for as far as educating himself went. But what he’d hoped for was a great big book called Tattooing Yourself with Friends Who Are Sometimes Cats: A Guide, and that wasn’t the most reasonable thing to want.

These are actually so neat, he thought, admiring the journals.

But they stung him, too. A little. More than a little. Because even though these were written by young people, he was years behind them.

Decades, Alden. Admit to yourself that it’s decades…and that’s assuming you keep getting your hands on new books.

The authors didn’t seem that far away from him and the teenagers he knew in many ways. The person with the pink and black journal had a good sense of humor. The bright red one with the yellow vine on the spine was super social with their learning; he or she liked to involve as many members of the class in the project as possible. Someone who wrote in a dark gray one drew a diagram, illustration, or chart on every other page with elegant flourishes.

Alden could follow the journeys their thoughts took from curiosity to comprehension. But while he got a sense of their personalities and could see that their knowledge was growing, the specifics of that knowledge—the questions they were asking and the answers they were arriving at and the magic they were describing—he couldn’t figure it out.

These are the pursuits that someone thought were exceptional. Maybe if I read whatever is in the other cabinets I’d have more of a chance.

He slid the red one back into its place. Probably that’s the last time I’ll ever touch this, he thought as his fingers withdrew.

Because he couldn’t imagine ending up in this library on his own again without making some leaps, and no matter how many leaps he made, he couldn’t imagine ending up here with time to appreciate the writings of one student in one class on reversible transmogrification.

Reading these whenever you want is something you have time for if you’re one of those wizards down there. He pictured the students on the floor below him. Not me.

He told himself it was one of those things he was going to be okay with because he had to be okay with it.

It worked well enough for now.

He moved through the journals more pragmatically after that, just glancing at the subject on them to get an idea about whether they could be useful to him even if quickly skimmed and poorly understood. Viewed in that light, none of them were. The students in these classes were dealing with magical questions that were way out of his league.

I should have asked to see a lower library. This will teach me not to try to graduate from kindergarten ahead of schedule.

He was halfway along the second shelf, reaching for a green book, when the one that was four down from it suddenly caught his eye. It was an average thickness, and it hadn’t stood out until now because it was sandwiched between others that were also in pastel shades.

A purple so soft it was almost white, with a silver swoop near the top.

That’s Stuart’s auriad color. That’s it exactly.

He skipped the others to take it and found that he was right. The pale purple journal was from last year. Stu-art’h’s name was stamped on it above a silver line that squiggled a couple of times before disappearing over the edge. Inside one of the silver curves was a small shape Alden recognized. The round shape—a not-quite-spherical blob maybe—with pointy rays protruding from it.

It’s the symbol he embroiders on some of his belts.

According to the cover, this was Stuart’s study of, “Mysteries from the History of Teleportation and How to Approach Researching Them Without Resorting to Unethical Methods.” Cool. So he was already thinking hard about magical transportation when he wrote this.

Alden wondered if this study was sparked because of his budding interest in Maker of Narrow Ways or if it was the other way around. He opened it and started reading from the first page because he was sure Stuart would be offended if he skipped to the middle.

The flash card translation had been working overtime since Alden had made it up here. These students had some writing quirks he didn’t recognize, and they were fond of the various creative toning tricks. While Alden would have liked the word-gamey quality it gave the reading experience at another time, right now trying to figure out why a journaler wanted him to experience the logogram for “hominess” simultaneously with a thought they’d had about laying animal skins out in sets of two would make him crazy.

By contrast, Stuart’s opening page was refreshingly straightforward.

“Teleportation was a treasure found before its time,” he wrote. “The wizards of that earliest era hadn’t learned to appreciate our own Mother world. They hadn’t learned to desire the unity of our own species. If legends have truth in them, then the first Artonan to leave our planet did so because he was trying to reach a mountaintop. The only thing more shocking than the strength of his authority must have been his inability to judge what the effects of using it would be.”

Alden fought back a laugh. So Stuart’s not too impressed with the legendary first teleporter.

“Obviously, this isn’t an uncommon opinion among wizards trained as we are today. I doubt anyone will ever solve the mystery of whether or not that legend is true, but since we are still trying to learn what happened during teleportation accidents that are documented better, I intend to study the ethical questions that arise from that research. I would like to form thoughtful opinions about this subject and share them with all of you so that we can hone one another’s understanding.

“I’ll begin by looking for information about the practice of collecting blood from the descendants of those suspected of dimension piercing… ”

After that, he made a reading list, then blazed through it with lots of commentary Alden couldn’t hope to understand without having access to the references. What did come through was Stuart’s earnest attempts to grapple with whatever the moral conundrums were.

It’s a very Stuart journal. Alden smiled. I like it.

Before he continued reading, he did skip to the very end. Not to find out how the studying of the subject had ended but to see if Stuart’s classmates had added material. He imagined that having lots of comments and shared information from the others was exciting for the person who wrote the journal.

At the back, he found the added pages he’d been hoping to see. Several students had interacted with Stuart’s work. Alden was pleased for him until he gradually noticed what felt like an off note running through their contributions.

Normally, he would have dismissed something so mild because aliens and translations. But this was being translated for him by the System that had done his last affixation and then nudged him over to the Primary’s house to say hello.

If Artonan was ever going to be spoon fed to him with maximum accuracy it was here, by her, while he was trying to glean social information about Stu-art’h.

Noh-en read it.

Alden studied her addition. It was a suggestion that Stuart might want to contact a certain historian and request a season of mentorship. “Your curiosity about this topic could blossom into a flower worth a far walk, if you give it a little more time.”

It was a nice thing to say, and if this had been the only journal Alden had picked up, it wouldn’t have seemed out of place at all. But he had looked in the backs of several others. And in those, he’d only seen one or two comments that could be taken as advice to the author. They were usually more cooperative, just adding information that would help everyone who might read the journal. Or they were pure gratitude.

Alden didn’t think there were supposed to be expectations of future study placed on the writer, but Noh-en’s wasn’t the only suggestion that Stuart pursue this subject further. And one person mentioned that he might want to go into summonarium construction.

Yeah, they’re being pushy with him. Like they can urge him into liking this topic in a way that slows him down or doesn’t fit with his plans for himself at all.

He became surer of it the more he read the comments, and he was soon hoping that the Stuart of the past had missed the subtext and enjoyed the compliments from his friends. Maybe someone had given him the kinds of conversation he wanted face to face without inserting subtle roadblocks.

On the very last page, Stuart referred the curious reader to another study he’d pursued, along with the name of the instructor whose class had influenced it. Alden shut the door and carried the journal with him until he found that instructor’s cabinet. When he opened it, the pale purple journal in the middle stood out.

So they do keep journals from recent graduates up here, too.

He took it and turned to the last page. By following the breadcrumb trail of references Stuart had left, Alden managed to collect seven of his journals over the next few minutes. When he had them all, he knelt on a cushion as far out of sight from the library below as he could get and studied the dates, titles, and any comments from classmates.

Even with these few, there was a clear pattern. The two that seemed to have been written before Stuart announced that he’d made his choice had classmate interactions more like the ones Alden had seen in the others he’d read. Then came the ethics of solving teleportation mysteries. From that point on, it had changed.

Stuart had written one on “Learning about Methods for Drawing Similar Life Together,” which was basically an admission that he wanted to send a bean to another bean as far as Alden could tell, but by then, he didn’t seem to be confiding the specifics of which skills he was considering to the rest of them. They’d left notes for him in that one with the same kind of, “Please take a few years studying this more,” undercurrents that the ethics one had had. Alden didn’t think they would have done that if they’d realized this was a skill-specific interest, because the one journal that was absolutely, undeniably a study written by a future knight trying to figure out what skill he might like was completely devoid of comments. Like they’d all refused to read it, or refused to acknowledge that they had.

Perhaps that was their only recourse. Alden hadn’t seen any criticisms in the journals. Maybe if you didn’t have anything nice to say, you just didn’t say anything at all.

The subject of Stuart’s study for that one was “Skills Rooted in Concepts of Connection.”

It was the thickest of his journals. The single blank page at the back, waiting for a comment, was crushing Alden’s soul. He had two warring impulses as he stared at it. The first was to grab a pen and write the most glowing praise for Stuart’s skill choice he could think of. The second was to take the journal away from the library because the adolescent wizard twits who shunned it didn’t deserve to have access to it anymore.

Before he could talk himself out of either course, a loud voice from below said, “You saw a human in here?”

And Alden’s thoughts raced straight toward a fact that suddenly seemed very obvious. He was holding seven journals filled with information that he wouldn’t have been invited to access by wizards who’d been trained in proper discretion.

He’d gotten so invested because these were Stuart’s. But seven was a lot. Seven was too many to put back on the right shelves before someone who was interested in looking for him found him, and seven journals by the same author was less, “Just looking around,” and more, “I am intentionally collecting these for some purpose.”

What if Stuart’s mad that I looked at them? What if I get him in trouble? Whoever’s downstairs could be up here in a second. Do something!

