A minute later, a dark yellow plane was airborne, and they both watched it avidly as it sailed under limbs, down and down…

“No!” said Alden. “It’s going too far!”

“It’s going a proper amount of far, I think,” Stuart disagreed. “When I win—”

He never finished the sentence. A knight in a peach-colored coat with matching ribbons woven through her purple hair teleported onto the forest floor, directly in the plane’s flight path. It crashed into her forehead within a second of her arrival, and she screeched a loud, “Yeeeeeee!,” while swatting with both hands like she feared she might have landed in a swarm of the flying attackers.

Alden and Stuart looked on in surprise as Emban-art’h pounced on the fallen plane, smashed it into the ground with a fist, then picked it up to examine it.

“I think she thought it was a bug,” Alden whispered.

Stuart’s small laugh attracted Emban’s attention, and she looked up at them. She had the crushed plane held up in one hand.

“What is this?” she called. “Stu?”

“The Contract definitely made that happen,” Alden said.

[What a thing to suggest, Alden.]

“Definitely.”

Stuart was laughing even harder.

******

Emban-art’h opted to jog to an access ladder some distance away instead of accepting Stuart’s offer to levitate her up with a spell or Alden’s offer to drop her some paracord.

“She’s taking the longer path to gather <<composure>> to herself and consider your presence,” Stuart said after she had disappeared from view. “She might not have expected you to be with me. She didn’t call first, so she may have assumed you were with Healer Yenu.”

“If you think she doesn’t want me here, I’ll leave. I know the way back to the school summonarium. Or I could teleport from here.”

“We’ll find out. If she desires privacy from you, she’ll say so.”

Emban reached their bridge a minute later. She was still carrying the plane she’d killed.

Stuart stood as she approached, and Alden noticed his pale auriad sliding off his wrist to coil around his fingers as he greeted her with a nod and an outstretching of both upturned hands.

“You’re going to be so proper after hitting me in the face with a folded paper toy and laughing about it like an o’odee?”

[A ground-dwelling animal that resembles an ostrich, known for its laugh-like calls.]

Alden read the description as he rose to greet her too. If Stuart was doing it, it felt wrong to sit and look up at them both.

“I’m glad you’re feeling well enough for the Mother to tease you.” Stuart did sound glad about it.

Alden studied Emban-art’h. She looked a little better than the last time he’d seen her, as if she might have gotten more rest. And being teased by the Contract here was a good sign, wasn’t it? He didn’t think she would drop particularly miserable knights in front of paper planes.

“I’m sure I’m not well enough for this kind of <<mockery>>,” Emban-art’h grumbled, staring at the ground through the narrow gaps between the boards of the bridge. When she looked back up, her pink and gray eyes settled on Alden. “I hope your healing session surpassed your expectations. I thought you would be sleeping after it, as people often do.”

“The healing involved a lot of sleeping. It’s made me awake instead of exhausted this time. Did you want to speak to Stu alone? I can go. Don’t tell anyone who might pass by that I’m fine on my own, though. I’ve been letting everyone else think I can’t recover well without him being nearby.”

“You mean you’ve been leading them to think that. Not letting,” Stuart said helpfully. “Nobody thought that on their own.”

“Why would… ?” Emban-art’h started. “Actually, I don’t care what you two were able to lead <<silly>> people to believe. You may stay. I have no secrets to share with Stu. I wanted to talk to him about a trip we’ll be taking.”

“Is it next weekend so that it doesn’t take me away from my schooling?” Stuart asked.

“No. We’ll go the day after tomorrow. I apologize. You’ll probably miss every class and all the nightly festivities LeafSong is so famous for.”

“Do not shame your votary by apologizing for requesting his services in a time of need.”

They both wore expressions that didn’t match their words. Emban-art’h looked the opposite of sorry, and Stuart’s face said he thought she should apologize harder.

It is confusing that she keeps timing her requests to pull him out of school.

Alden was still of the opinion that this was some mild revenge for the sackfruit, and whatever else Stuart might have done to annoy his cousin recently. If she was conspiring with his parents, like he worried, then this was a baffling method. And if she were truly trying to drive him crazy, she could have taken it up a notch or ten. Alden had no doubt that he’d occupied more of Stuart’s time this weekend than Emban-art’h had.

Plus, she’d seemed willing to entertain the idea of Stuart being a knight the first time she’d spoken to Alden. Not exactly brimming with encouragement, but she had said she thought maybe he could do it. That might as well have been a full-throated cheer compared to the pushback from others.

She also called Jel-nor a prey-animalish girl who processed Stuart’s leg like a sausage…and she seemed pretty dismissive of LeafSong then, too…

For the first time, it crossed his mind that Emban-art’h might genuinely hate Stuart’s university choice and be pulling him away from that place every chance she got in protest.

That’s not it. It’s too dumb and simplistic.

“Where do you go to school, Emban-art’h?” he asked, as much to head off any bickering that might be approaching as to satisfy his curiosity.

“DawnStep. I don’t have any reason to choose another.”

“It’s where most knights pursue their university education,” Stuart said.

Which is why he picked another school?

“We have magnificent laboratories on campus,” she added. “Stu should arrange for you to tour some of the safer ones sometime.”

“Oh. Are you someone who enjoys lab work?” Alden asked. “Potions? Or more of the type with the breaking down of magical ingredients and then experimenting on them?”

“I’m not. But I respect anyone’s <<passionate interest>> in that kind of labor.” She had turned her attention to him fully and was speaking in what he thought was an encouraging tone.

Why is she bringing up labs if she doesn’t care about them? She doesn’t think I have passionate interest in them…does she?

He’d have to correct that possible misconception before she spread it around to other art’hs and they all decided he likedhandling toxic waste and peeling the flesh from pickled aliens.

“Can do” and “want to do” are very different things.

“And I thank you for the basket of Earth fruits,” Emban-art’h continued. “I’ve eaten much of it and divided the remainder of the abundance into smaller baskets for my friends who have also endured the binding recently.”

“That’s good. I hope they enjoy it so much. About the laboratories at your university, though—”

She’d already turned away from him. “Stu, I found a suitable <<Here-to-There>>. That’s what I want you to come with us for. Ryada is in a better mood for one now. It’s…”

Alden watched her talk. The tails of her slender peach ribbons waved as she became more animated, describing plans for making sure a couple of her squad members had a good time at an event that sounded like it might be a parade that celebrated people moving into new houses.

Stuart no longer seemed worried about missing school. He shifted to what Alden guessed was more of a real votary mode, assuring her he’d brush up on spells that might be needed and that he’d have all the supplies ready to go.

Emban-art’h looked really happy to have him on board. Alden was surprised at how quickly they’d switched from needling each other to something warmer.

“It will be fun!” Emban-art’h announced. “You should bring another votary to help. Or a prospective one.”

Stuart tensed. “I don’t need help from another votary.”

His cousin sighed. “I meant someone you get along with. Surely you can think of just one person who would be—”

“I can perform all of the necessary duties by myself.” Stuart was firm.

“If you must,” Emban-art’h said. “I didn’t come here to argue.”

She stepped over to the edge of the bridge and looked toward the forest floor. “You threw a lot of paper flyers.”

The bright colors stood out against the dark leaves.

“We’ll pick them up before we go,” Alden said.

“Let’s have Stu pick them up now. And make us some cushions. I would like to be comfortable while I defeat you both.”

Stuart was still looking stiff, like he expected to have to fight off the idea of a second votary for the upcoming excursion even though Emban-art’h had just dropped it. He caught Alden’s gaze.

“I’ll summon the flyers. I didn’t bring senva with me for cushions today. I apologize, Emban. Another spell might not be as well done, but I’m sure I can manage. Do you have a preference for which one I try?”

Alden reached eagerly into the hidden pocket in the front of his pezyva. His fingers closed around the small, almost flat pouch that had been his final purchase from Needle & Wheedle. He pulled it out and presented it to Stuart, the gratitude logogram displayed.

Stuart was immediately distracted from what his cousin was saying about a spell she didn’t like because if felt like sitting on a mound of twigs. He took in the sight of the pouch with the start of a smile on his face. “A pocket offering?”

“It’s senva seeds!” Alden said. “I’ve been carrying them, waiting on you to cast your cushioning spell again. Should I say the traditional thing even though you’re you and not a helpful wizard I don’t know?”

“No, you don’t have—”

“I’ll say the traditional thing since it’s the first time. For the gift of your magic. Please take what you need today and what may be wanted tomorrow.”

Stuart was delighted by the ordinary little ritual. Alden would have known it even if the Artonan hadn’t been beaming. He took his time admiring the pouch and then carefully selecting four seeds. Three for the spells he was about to cast, one for tomorrow that was carefully wrapped in a fabric strip and nestled in a bag full of other spell ingredients that Stuart had in his tunic pocket.

Emban-art’h watched her cousin without comment, though she did tilt her head and turn one eye toward Alden when Stuart spent several seconds longer than necessary debating which piece of wrapping fabric to use for the seed.

They weren’t a rare and precious plant.

Stuart did finish tucking it away, and before long, they were all sitting on squishy cushions of magic that smelled a bit like basil, with piles of folded planes beside them. Stuart sat in the middle. Emban-art’h was on his left. She felt like establishing additional rules and adding challenges, and at the moment, she was saying that planes that didn’t go over a particular limb shouldn’t count.

Alden eyeballed it, not liking his chances. “Are you expecting to be very good at this game, Emban-art’h?”

“I expect to frustrate myself if I don’t win.” she said. “Please do your best to be a difficult opponent. Maybe it will make me want to use my skill.”

Alden remembered working himself up to preserving that first ice cream cone after he’d been back on Earth for a while. “Is Definer of Grooves good for throwing paper flyers?”

He had nothing more than uneducated guesses about what a skill with that name might do.

“I can define for objects I hold, so yes, it is. Every one thrown well can make the next flight better. Longer. More accurate. ‘The first arrow falls short. The last pierces the sun’, was once said by Hoya-og’h, who is the <<most accomplished>> Definer of Grooves.”

Repeated actions by the skill user leading to increasingly potent effects. That’s what it sounds like.

“That’s amazing,” he said. “I hope you accomplish even more with it than Hn’tyon Hoya-og’h.”

A moment passed before she leaned around Stuart to look at Alden. She seemed to focus on his face and then the commendation.

“You may call me Emban, if you want.”

“Thank you, Emban.”

He wondered if she still thought he was too boring for the amount of trouble he’d caused in the siblinghold, but after considering, he decided the answer was probably yes.

And he didn’t want to risk bringing up anything about family tension when Stuart had a smile on his face and a paper plane in his hand.******

******
