While I care for the smelter, Master is filing up a wheelbarrow with kaglese ore and bringing it over for me to add to the molten glob of metals.

The gods should bless Master. By the time I arrived this morning, he already had the fire going and a pile of fuel ready to keep the smelter going all day.

“Master, I’m ready to tap the slag again!” I shout over the roar of the flames.

“Alright, I’ll grab the mold." Master brings over one of the simple wooden molds we built. Slag is the molten waste rock we don't need from the kaglese ore. We usually work with relatively pure iron, meaning we don't have to deal with that much slag. However, the kaglese ore is mostly waste rock, so as we smelt it, we're continually draining the slag.

We're using the mold to make slag bricks. I'll have to test the exact composition of the slag later, but depending on their hardness, we might be able to use them in construction or grind them up to create a type of concrete. Waste not what you can use.

Master moves the mold into place, and I open the valve with a long steel piece that we added an insulated handle to. The molten slag looks like lava as it pours out. Once the mold is full, I close the tap and start shoveling more ore into the smelter.

When the smelter is full again, I can back away for a moment and catch a breath of fresh air that won't burn my lungs. The new ore needs to melt and mix with what is already in the smelter. We don't drain the smelter completely because keeping some of the molten metal in there helps liquify the new ore faster, saving us valuable blacksmithing logs and magicite.

"Here," Master hands me a waterskin, which I quickly drain.

"Thanks," I say, handing him back the now empty waterskin. "How many slag bricks does that make?"

“That was the twelfth.” Master gestures over to the side where the slag bricks are cooling.

Each brick is 18’’ long, 8’’ wide, 8’’ tall. The bricks aren't as heavy as if they were pure metal, but they show how much ore we've already processed. And all we have to show for our work is three ingots of kaglese, with probably another one and a half worth still molten in the bottom of the smelter. It goes to show how hard the metal is to process.

"We're making good time, at least. How much do you think we've smelted?" I ask, looking at the pile of ore Kervin delivered yesterday.

“I’d say we’re a little over 10% done,” Master gives me his best guess.

I calculate we'll have approximately 120 slag bricks and 40 kaglese ingots before the day is through with some quick math. Forty ingots, that's what I have to work with until the new year. Other than the arrows I have to make, everything will be mixed with steel and mithril to produce the optimal alloy.

“This is going to take a long time,” I grumble.

“I remember someone telling me she wanted to do everything at once,” master mocks me with a shit-eating grin.

"Can you blame me? I'm tired of using Dad's spare axe every time I leave the house. I need something stronger that can handle mana properly."

"Kaglese doesn't react to mana like your old sword did," Master points out to me.

“It will when I enchant it!” I snap back.

"Oh, and how are your experiments going? The last time you practiced in my clearing, I couldn't sleep with all your frustrated shouting."

I don't have a response to that; instead, I tell him about Sandra. "Sandra agreed to help me experiment with the engraving ink. With two people working on it, I'm sure we'll have more success."

“Really?” Master asks, surprised.

"No," I admit. "But there's always hope." Master and I share a laugh.

We relax for a few more minutes before I need to add more ore to the smelter.

As I’m shoveling, Master asks me, “you sure you don’t want to take turns?”

“With your Vitality?! You’d probably burst into flames,” I yell over the forge.

"Girl, I've been working around heat longer than your parents have been alive. Vitality isn't as important as you think it is. I wish I never answered your stupid question in the first place."

I shovel quicker, so I can have this conversation without worrying my mana skin might ignite from the heat. Once the smelter is full again, I add a few more logs and magicite to the fire before moving back over to Master Del.

"You should have told me sooner," I complain. "After you got hurt, you told me you had too much Vitality for Anastasia to heal you; it's no wonder you needed two days to heal?" I go full-on mom mode and stare accusingly at Master.

"You're 50 years too young to admonish me. The reason I told you that was because I didn't need you fussing over me like you are now. I may have a low Vitality compared to you, but it's the same as any other villager. I chose to invest most of my points into Strength to combat my mana weakness as a kid, and it isn't good to change your stat distribution halfway through your life."

"I've been able to put more points into Endurance, and I have the tier 4 skill Heat Resistance skill. I might not be able to block everything like your mana skill, but when it comes to a forge, I'm confident I'll outlast you. It is not your job to worry about me."

"Now that you mention it, I could use a longer break," I admit.

“Scoot over and let me show you how it’s done,” Master strolls up next to me and recoils. “Torrow’s forge, that’s hot!”

“Still want to help?”

"I got this," Master says confidently. "Grab the mold from one of the cooler slag bricks and get ready."

"Right away, Master Del," I playfully salute, which gets me a confused reaction from Master.

Today may be all hard work, but at least it's easy. Tomorrow is arguably the most essential step, and though it won't be as labor-intensive, it will be mentally.

Day two of forging and I let out a long yawn just as I finish organizing my workbench. After yesterday my body is still a little sore, but at least I passed out last night without having to hop into my soul.

“Tired?” Master asks as he preps the forge for me.

"It's weird, I got the best sleep last night, but I'm still tired.” I stretch out my arms and jump up and down, trying to get my blood pumping.

“I know a good solution.”

“What?” I humor Master, knowing where this is going.

"Sleep more," Master tells me and starts laughing; I can't help but smile at his punch line.

“I’ll get right on that,” I tell him.

I wait for the fire to reach a proper temperature, grab a kaglese ingot with some tongs, and put it in the fire. Once it starts to glow, I move it over to the anvil, where I proceed to use our axe to cut off even chunks of the ingot. I need five small samples of kaglese for my first round of experiments.

The goal of today is to find the best ratio of kaglese, steel, and mithril. I need to know the alloy ratio if I’m going to make the best products I can without wasting my kaglese stockpile.

Using a scale, I weigh out each piece of kaglese and note down how much it weighs. Master informed me the kaglese alloy he was most familiar with was 55% steel, 35% kaglese, and 10% mithril. Kaglese is already a good mana conductor, so the amount of mithril makes sense to me.

I can add the mithril later, so I start by testing kaglese and steel combinations. Master and I made what we call testing crucibles in our spare time for just these kinds of situations. The last time I was testing metals, we only had two crucibles, and it took a long time to test all the ratios. This time we have five small crucibles, three of which can fit in the forge at once.

The first sample I prepare will follow Master's ratio. For the other four samples, I'll change the percentages by 1% each. I jot down which crucible holds each sample and the ratio it will use.

Pot 1: 55% Steel – 35% Kaglese – 10% Mithril

Pot 2: 54% Steel – 36% Kaglese – 10% Mithril

Pot 3: 53% Steel – 37% Kaglese – 10% Mithril

Pot 4: 56% Steel – 34% Kaglese – 10% Mithril

Pot 5: 57% Steel – 33% Kaglese – 10% Mithril

I hope the ratio with higher steel content ends up being the better option, that way, I can save some more kaglese.

Sealing the pots one by one, I start moving them into the forge. Like with the smelter yesterday, I need to watch the forge's flames to ensure everything remains hot enough to melt the samples. The kaglese is stronger than the steel and melts at a higher temperature, so if the forge doesn't stay hot enough, the two metals won't combine right.

Kaglese is known for being a hard metal to work with and not bonding correctly. Still, thanks to my mana senses, I can monitor each crucible and know if everything is melting adequately based on the individual metals' internal mana. When they fuse correctly, there is a noticeable shift in the molten alloy's structure.

Once again, my mana skills play a huge role in my success. If I didn't practice Sense Mana so much as a kid, I wouldn't be able to sense such intricate details today. Thinking about it, Sense mana is almost to level 80. After I broke through the test on level 75, my skill leveled slower, like Meditation, but I'm sure my abilities are improving. It might be hard to tell, but I can scan a hair farther each day.

I know such small gains can seem unimportant at times, but I spent months as a baby doing nothing but trying to sense my mana, so I can appreciate steady growth.

While the crucibles are heating up, I glance over at Master, who's lying down on his bench. I'll call him over when I need to start working the metal samples, but until then, I'll leave him be.

Master understands what I'm doing, but he's never had to care about perfect mana to strength ratios before.

After I go through all five samples, I’ll add the mithril to each and see how they react.

The steps will have to be repeated dozens of times, and I expect to go through at least 25 samples today. Perfection is hard to obtain but worth it.

I plan to earn a lot of experience through my crafting and subsequently create the best weapons and goods I can. But first, I need to get these ratios right and craft my new gear. That will be the fun part.

I walk into Master's clearing on the third day of forging my new gear with the wind at my back and a pep in my step. After two days of nonstop prepping, I’m ready to start crafting.

“You’re coming earlier each day,” Master calls out to me as I approach the forge. He’s still moving blacksmithing logs and magicite over to the forge for later.

"I'm excited to get to make something finally," I smile at Del.

“I understand,” Master chuckles. “There is nothing like working a new metal for the first time. And I’m sure that feeling is double for you after you put so much effort into your preparation.”

I’m happy to have someone who understands me. Unlike two nights ago, I was so excited for today I couldn’t fall asleep last night and was forced to meditate in my soul.

"I'll get the forge going while you prepare your crucible." Master helps me get started just like the last few days.

I move over to use the scale and weigh out the exact proportions I need. I'm using our largest Crucible because I need enough metal to forge a dagger and a sword. These two weapons will be the first things I make with my improved alloy, but they won't be the last.

I chose these two to start with because they're more straightforward in design and give me a chance to get used to the metal. My overall goal is to create four weapons for myself, a dagger, a sword, an axe, and a war hammer. I love practicing with a sword, but I'm not ignorant enough to not realize a heavier weapon is more suited for me.

The sword and dagger can be made today, but I'll need to spend a day on the axe and war hammer individually.

I finish weighing and calculating the materials to my exact specifications. Yesterday I concluded the alloy's optimum ratio turned out to be 53.4% Steel, 37.4% Kaglese, and 9.2% Mithril. Overall, the alloy was more expensive, but the final product was definitely at least low tier 4 in quality.

After adding everything into the crucible, I seal it and place it in the forge.

"What are you making first?" Master asks now that we have some downtime. The only thing I need to do is watch the forge's temperature.

“I’m going to make a dagger first, then a sword.”

"Sticking with a sword, huh?" Master is obviously thinking I'm making a questionable decision.

"That's to start with," I point out before he gets the wrong idea. "I also plan on creating an axe, war hammer, and some armor for myself."

Master Del nods approvingly. "That's good; I was worried I'd have to talk you into changing weapons. The armor won't hurt you either."

“The armor will be the most challenging part, so I’m saving that for last. I’m already thinking of designs that would protect me and won’t hinder my movement too much.”

“What are you thinking of?”

"I was thinking of making plates that could be attached to some strong leather. Maybe cast my arms and legs and make the plates perfectly fit over my shins and forearms. It would leave my joints open, but I think it will be an ok trade-off.”

“Sounds reasonable,” Master remarks.

Our conversation quietly dies out, and my mind goes to Kervin and Reel. "Master?"

“Yeah?”

"Do you think Kervin and them are doing ok? They're getting closer to the edge of the woods by now."

Master looks at me out of the corner of his eye before looking up at the sky. He doesn't outright assure me that they'll be ok and chooses to think over my question before answering.

"I'm not sure," Master finally admits, still looking up at the passing clouds. "All I can tell you is I think they have a fighting chance. That Reel fellow seemed quite strong and bloodthirsty. If he's in charge, they might make it. The only thing you can do is believe in them and pray to the gods for their protection."

