Ren closed the portal after Glastor had fallen through and before the pliers had entered completely. “Damn, I really liked these.” He said and picked the handles up and stored them, then cast another portal 30 feet up. Glastor appeared and fell from there and down to the ground. He hit the ground hard and everyone saw that he had 3 of the Void creatures attached to him by their mouths. Ren took out his pistol and shot the creatures, who screamed for an instant and dissolved from the Light and Anti-void enchanted bullets.

“You... bastard.” Glastor stared daggers at Ren and sat up. “Do you know what...”

“Yes, and guess where I'll send you again if you dare come after my people.” Ren said. “It won't be for just a couple of seconds, either.”

“I wasn't gone for seconds!” Glastor exclaimed.

“It was only seconds here.” Ren said and smiled. “So, are you done? Are you ready to play your trump card yet?”

“Yes.” Glastor spat at him and stood up. “I wanted to save this for when I had you on the ropes, then I was going to destroy you and take your head.”

“Ha. You're funny.” Ren said.

Glastor took something small out of inventory and hung it around his neck, and Ren identified it.

Talisman of Ordinariness (Rare)

This talisman makes everything within its area of effect ordinary. All special weapons, magic armor, spells, enchantments, etc. become the standard versions instead.

For example: A Master level Fireball spell becomes a Beginner Level 1 Fireball. A sword that grants Swift Strike and is Sharp to cause extra damage, becomes a basic sword with no bonuses. An item with an enchantment acts as if it didn't have the enchantment, etc.

Durability: N/A

Area of Effect: Personal Aura of Owner

“Tell me you found that in an ancient temple.” Ren asked pointed at it as he lost the Angered condition.

“Yes, with the Minor Demon's help.” Glastor said, and Ren laughed. “What's so funny?”

“We have the same trump card!” Ren laughed and laughed, then bent over and guffawed.

“Is it really that funny?” Someone in the crowd asked.

“Hooo. Hoo.” Ren stopped laughing and stood up straight.

“You really are crazy, aren't you?” Glastor asked.

“I've spent so much time prepping and preparing to spring a surprise on you, and I was so worried about affecting everyone around me because my basic Aura is so big... and here you are doing it for me, and your Aura is only 20 feet wide!” Ren grinned at him. “Yours can't even reach the front row seats because of the barrier!”

Glastor dismissed Ren's amusement as a false front and equipped a basic sword and shield. “Get ready to be pummelled.”

“I sincerely doubt that.” Ren said and stored the backpack and all the other attachments on his armor. Then he stored all of his other equipment except for the Beetle Crown Ring.

“See you later, Ren.” Teepo said. “Kick his ass.”

“Oh, I will.” Ren said as Teepo dissolved into the ring. Ren stored the ring and his armor, which left him in just his underwear, and he heard a bark of laughter and felt a strong spike of amusement from his support section. He quickly glanced that way and saw Gretchen's face flush red.

“Why do you keep turning your head away?!?” Glastor asked and charged forward. He moved really slowly, now that he was only normal, and Ren easily dodged out of the way long before Glastor could swing his sword.

“Well, it's simple really.” Ren said. “I'm not that concerned over you now.”

Glastor grimaced at him, and tried to charge again.

Ren easily rolled out of the way and moved off to just outside the limit of Glastor's Aura. “When the Sage of Ages told you that you needed to get by my enchantments and defenses, you dismissed it as if it was going to be easy.” He said. “I didn't think much of it at the time, but now I can see why you weren't bothered by that idea.”

“Stay still!” Glastor said and stored the sword and shield and pulled out a bow and arrow. He tried shooting it and it flew off to the right.

Ren didn't even have to dodge. “When I received the same talisman, a really good friend told me something very important at the time. It was just an odd sentence while we talked, and I didn't realize the significance of it until much later.”

Glastor shot two more arrows and came close to Ren. “I suppose you're going to enlighten me.”

“Yes, actually.” Ren said gave him a big smile and equipped a basic iron shield. “She told me that while wearing that talisman, I wasn't a King, or an Artificer, or anything else.” He smiled. “I was just me.”

“What does that have to do with anything?” Glastor asked and stored his practically useless bow and took out an iron sword and iron shield again.

“You see, she was right.” Ren said and didn't try to dodge as Glastor ran over to him and swung at him with the sword. He blocked the sword with his shield and deflected it. “I'm not a King or an Artificer right now.”

*Clang* *Clang*

Glastor looked like he was sweating a little from attacking, so Ren stepped back a couple of steps to give him a rest. The sword Glastor was using was pitted and dented on its edge from hitting the shield, but the shield itself wasn't even scratched.

“So... what.” Glastor panted.

“Well, if I'm not a King or an Artificer, I can't use those abilities.” Ren said and smiled. “I also don't have their restrictions.”

Glastor was surprised, as was everyone else, when Ren equipped a basic iron longsword.

“Being normal is awesome!” Ren said and stepped forward and swung at Glastor's shield. The longsword cut through the top of the iron shield like a hot knife through butter and sheered it off.

“Wh-what...”

“You better parry!” Ren said and swung the sword again. Without his abilities, he couldn't fight with techniques from the game; but, because of his perfect memory recall, he knew how to fight on his own without the game's help.

Glastor raised his sword and tried to knock Ren's sword aside, and Ren's sword bit into the edge of Glastor's and cut an inch off the whole side of the blade, all the way down to the hilt. The piece of iron fell to the ground and Glastor stared at it. Ren chuckled and cut the other side of the blade off and made Glastor's sword into a practice sword that had no cutting edge.

“How are you doing this?” Glastor asked and tossed the useless sword aside and took out a broadsword.

“I'm a Master Blacksmith when I'm not normal.” Ren said and swiped at the broadsword and cut the tip off. “I've been making weapons for years.” He said and swiped at Glastor's broadsword again and cut off 3 more inches. “I haven't learned how to make Legendary weapons yet, but I can fold and forge metal with my eyes closed.”

Glastor watched in shock as Ren cut more and more of the broadsword away.

“Normally, once you fold metal a dozen times, it pretty much gets formed into a perfect mixture and folding it after that, makes no difference to the metal's strength.” Ren explained. “However, this world isn't normal. There's magic involved. I had forgotten this several times while I forged and folded metal up to 50 times to create better things, and you know what? The metal got stronger and had higher Durability.”

Glastor tossed the broadsword hilt aside and took out another sword and equipped another shield.

“So I got to thinking.” Ren said and swung at the shield Glastor held and cut the top off of it. “What if I folded it a hundred times?” He asked and swiped at the sword and cut the tip off. “A thousand times? Or ten thousand times? What would that metal be like?”

Glastor could do nothing while Ren talked and cut another sword into pieces.

“The metal would be awesome, right?” Ren asked and stopped swinging his sword to give Glastor a break. “Well, I didn't stop at ten thousand.” He said and equipped a set of armor that looked just like his platinum armor, except it was only iron, just like the sword and shield he held. “This is the official debut of metal that's been forged and folded one million times.”

Glastor's mouth dropped open in shock at that, as did most of the crowd in the arena. Ren couldn't feel their shock and awe, mainly because he was only normal at the moment; but, he could see it in their eyes and on their faces.

“So, do you get it now?” Ren asked and turned to look at the crowd. “This isn't a high class or expensive armor that's unique or singular like my platinum armor. It's just basic iron.” He said. “All it took to make was time and patience.”

“Behind you!” Someone yelled.

Ren stayed facing the crowd as Glastor took out yet another sword and swung it at his neck. The blade seemed to move in slow motion as it arced through the air. Glastor grinned widely as the sword found its mark and impacted on the weakest part of Ren's defenses... and then the blade broke and shattered. Everyone in the arena and watching on the screens were once again shocked at this.

“I think I felt a tickle.” Ren said and turned back to Glastor.

“But... but... your neck... I hit your neck!” Glastor muttered but everyone heard him.

“Yeah, about that.” Ren said and stored his helm. “I guess it's time I told you how I secured the top three spots on the XP leader board.” He said. “I actually maxed out my character level recently.”

A lot of people expressed disbelief, some called him an outright liar, and others were too stunned by everything to react at all.

“A few choice people know this already.” Ren said and glanced over at his support section.

“You keep ignoring me!” Glastor nearly yelled as he jumped and tackled Ren. A gasp and more disbelief went through the crowd as the two men tumbled to the ground. Ren had stored his shield and sword instantly before they landed, then the two men rolled over and ended with Glastor on top, and he made fists and started to punch Ren in the face.

“It's... because... you're not... worth... bothering about.” Ren said between punches, then he raised his hands and caught both of Glastor's. “You must have put all your spare stat points into Strength.”

“How did you...”

“I almost felt those punches.” Ren said and sat up, which pushed Glastor off of him.

Glastor tried to pull away from Ren's grip, and couldn't.

“My turn.” Ren stood up and smiled pleasantly at the look of fear on Glastor's face. He let one of Glastor's hands go and rabbit-punched the arm of the hand he still held.

“Ugh! Ugh! Ugh!” Glastor grunted each time as Ren punched his way up the arm to the shoulder.

“I call it the Meat Tenderizer.” Ren said and let Glastor's hand go. The arm flopped down to his side, completely useless. Ren did the other arm before Glastor could react and it hung limply as well. “You really should concede the duel.”

“N-never!” Glastor said, then yelled as Ren grabbed him by the chest flipped him over, and slammed him into the ground. It knocked the wind out of Glastor, and he laid there in the dirt and tried to catch his breath.

“Come on. You've lost.” Ren said. “Just give up.”

“K-kill me if you dare!” Glastor spat. “You'll see what happens when-URK!”

Ren stepped on his neck and pressed down. “I don't need to kill you. If I wanted you dead, I would have just shot you when you became normal.”

Glastor and everyone in the arena stared at him.

“What? Did you think I wouldn't make normal bullets?” Ren asked and laughed. “I planned on being normal myself, remember?”

Glastor's face turned blue as Ren choked him with his foot for nearly a minute, then Glastor tapped the foot on his neck and submitted.

Notice!

PvP Mode: Duel has ended.

Ren removed his foot from Glastor's throat and stepped back.

Notice!

You have defeated your opponent Glastor Killdane. Because your levels are so vastly different, no rewards have been awarded.

I don't quite agree with that. Ren thought, and then shrugged slightly. It ended with us fighting normally, but I guess we're still technically at the levels we were before.

“You beat me.” Glastor said and shook his head. “You beat me at my own game.”

“I suggest you practice more with shooting a bow and arrow before trying to do it without any skills to assist you.” Ren said and held a hand down to him.

“Wow, you're either crazy or really stupid.” Glastor said and stared at the offered hand. “We just fought a duel, which would have been to the death if I'd won.”

“I know.” Ren wiggled his fingers. “You had fun, didn't you?”

“Definitely stupid.” Glastor said and took the hand, and Ren lifted him to a standing position as if he weighed nothing. “You put all your points into Strength, too.”

Ren chuckled and didn't answer. “Say, can I borrow that for a minute?” He asked and pointed to the Talisman of Ordinariness.

Glastor put is hand around it to stop Ren from taking it. “I'm not that stupid.” He said. “I'm not giving you my most valuable item!”

Ren waved his hands in a clear no gesture. “Breaking it now wouldn't do either of us any good.” He said. “Assuming it can be destroyed, I mean.”

Glasor opened his hand and looked at the talisman. “What do you want it for?”

“An experiment.” Ren said. “I give you my word that I won't steal it, or alter it, or damage it in any way.”

“You just expect me to take your word for that?”

Ren took out his special iron shield and held it out to Glastor. “You can hold this while I have your talisman.”

“You're giving me a shield that can deflect probably every weapon that exists?” Glastor asked, surprised.

“I'm not giving it to you. I'm borrowing your item and you're holding this one for ransom to get the item back.” Ren said.

Glastor thought about it for a few moments. “I'd rather have the sword as collateral.”

Ren chuckled and stored the shield, took out the sword and flipped it in the air to grasp the hilt in the opposite direction, and held the handle out to Glastor, who slipped the talisman off of his neck and held it out. They each reached with their other hands and grasped the other's item, and let go.

Glastor's arm acted like a pivot as the sword's tip dropped to the ground and dug in almost a foot before it stopped, and he stared at the sword. “What the hell? I... I can't lift it!”

“Yeah, folding it a million times made it super-dense.” Ren said and walked away from Glastor and stopped 21 feet away. He felt everyone's emotions again and felt his own powers and abilities come back into play. “Oh, yeah. That's so much better.”

