----“Tea? Coffee? I have some juice boxes around here,” Mr Jones offered politely as Ruli and Quiss took seats opposite his desk.“I’ll take dragon on the rocks, don’t skimp on the rocks,” Ruli grinned and Mr Jones raised one eyebrow, it arched just enough to looked intriguing and enticing.“Are you suggesting I have alcohol on the premises?” his tongue clicked inside his mouth and Quiss quickly spoke before Ruli could bury herself deeper.“Of course not. Thank you for seeing us, I know being the sole teacher means you have a lot of work to grade and lessons to plan,” Quiss began, politely and calmly. Mr Jones’ merely smiled.“One could say I am already doing them as we speak, have done them... will do them. It’s hard to tell on Tuesdays,” he said with a serious tone. Quiss hesitated and looked at the man before him.As someone who came to Durence after already finishing his education and having no kids of his own, he and Jones never really had any reason to speak to each other.The man never had any problems that he needed a peacekeeper for. In fact, Quiss was sure the man never did anything that required other people. Shopping, haircuts, small talk, drinking, clubs, hunting, painting, dating... Mr Jones seemed to be an example of time immortalized rather than an example of its effects on people.“Time travel is impossible,” Quiss nodded and Mr Jones looked intrigued, his simple but charming smile curving slightly.“Oh? Travelling of the Time Spiral is indeed beyond anyone but more than physical shells can pass through its tender grasps and remain intact. Information has a tendency to linger in the very air despite all evidence being removed of its presence. A blot on the very existence of time’s neat book. A single moment of time that is forever crystalised for all to see,” Jones clapped his hands together.“Urgh... I hated Metaphysics on Tuesdays,” Ruli muttered which made the teacher smile.“You did often like to get upset and promptly suggest that time ‘sort itself out and move on like the rest of us’,” he quoted with amusement and Ruli scratched at her nose.“I sucked at school, let’s not beat the bush over the head,” she said gruffly which made Jones smile turn very large.“It is never too late to learn something new,” he reminded and Quiss felt uneasy as the view outside the windows seemed to be slightly further away than he remembered.“We’re here about whatever the elders are hiding. Being the fact you’re one of the six or so people who doesn’t answer to them or is afraid of them. We thought we could get some good info from you,” Ruli explained, ignoring Jones’ comment.“They have many secrets and you are vastly wrong. Only a fool does not fear those three working in synergy. I see that even now they are returning to themselves... interesting. Tell me Quiss, how was your education? I heard you studied at Hovantown. An esteemed magical school. I knew a few people there,” he said and Ruli looked at him with confusion but Quiss decided to let the Knowledge Demon play his games for now.“I did, I knew no one from there bar Seth and my teacher. Why did you become a teacher?” he fired back, playing into Jones’ hands. Quiss was no fool, he had been instructed on how most demons work with reason.Mr Jones was a Knowledge Demon. They appreciated wits, a thirst of curiosity, and were one of the few demons that didn’t often make one sell their magic or soul for information.They preferred their own cocktail of temptations. Rare secrets and a softly simmered confessions of the heart.“It suited my needs best. Now, I heard you and Sethamus had a very interesting teacher, is this true?” he smiled as he leaned back in his comfortable chair.“Allani Serenegore.” Even saying the name made Quiss’ palms turn sweaty, unbidden images of a small woman with a large smile flashed across his mind. Jones’ smile faded to a thin line.“My condolences. Even in the Abyss, she was a name to be respected. Your tea,” he encouraged and Quiss looked down at a cup he was sure... he hadn’t accepted. Ruli looked at them and tried to look casual.“Sounds... important. She some bigwig at the magical nerd school?” she asked bluntly. Jones closed his eyes with some unseen emotion but Quiss shrugged.“She was a witch. A proper one but she dabbled with mages and ended up liking the title. She was the last fighter of the battle of the roots,” Quiss explained, voice hollow. Ruli’s eyes bulged out and she almost knocked her chair over as she stood up.“You were taught by the hero of the World Tree?” she demanded and Quiss just gave her a very cold look. She hesitated and sat back down.“Be glad you flunked, Miss Ruli. I hate to have you sent to detention for insensitivity,” Jones sighed and then clapped his hands.“But let us gossip and barter like frail old ladies that hide cursed death charms in their purses, shall we?” he asked, changing the subject completely. The classroom's air turned from business like professional to something more... relaxed and loose. It made Quiss’ teeth stand on edge.“Milla, Pic, Haldi and Durence. Four youths who came to this land. How do their stories line up with yours?” Jones inquired, his desk... longer than Quiss remembered it. Jones opened a drawer and retrieved a book.It was Abyssian and Quiss had no idea on how to read it.“‘Teasing plot twists and annoying your fellows’, are you serious?” Ruli grumbled. Jones laughed.“I took it off my student, Grimnoire. He does enjoy having an edge over his fellows. Please, continue,” he nodded to them both pleasantly.Ruli looked insured but Quiss’ mood was at a low point and he had no real motivation to parly with a demon.“Durence, what happened to him? Who is the Lord of the path of Ending Light?” Quiss asked bluntly and Jones turned a page as he read with no reaction to the names.“One is a town, the other has a too long of a title, would be my guess,” he responded dryly and Ruli sighed.“Quiss, come on, don’t be all agitated, you’re just gonna agree with something or say something and that’s that,” she reminded him. Jones hummed.“You could always put gum and glue on my chair, that worked well for a certain brat,” he offered. Ruli stubbornly met his eyes.“I was 11, you talked too much!” she defended herself and Jones closed the book.“And now you’re 32 and I’m not saying a word, it is interesting on how times change, yes?” he beamed. His black hair so perfectly cut.“Delta, the dungeon, is digging deep, she’s finding pieces of this history. You have a duty as a Knowledge Demon to retain and pass on this information,” Quiss placed the cup of tea back onto the coffee table.He paused and saw the room was a teacher’s lounge. It looked okay but something nagged at Quiss that made him aware something wasn’t right.Wasn’t there a desk befo-“My duty is whatever I make it. My obligations as a keeper of knowledge is now a task of imparting knowledge to children. You are not my student, nor will you ever will be, what obligation do I owe you?” Jones’ asked, voice flat.“Mr J... come on, remember how I passed that one test and how I almost passed all the others and that one time I accidentally did my homework because I thought it was a quiz on what my favourite weapon was?” Ruli tried and Jones’ eyed her before sighing.“You and those pigtails, you came into class with monster fluids all over you or with some packed lunch that still twitched. It was honestly a trial of my career until the last few tears. Deo Brawndo has really pushed my patience but... I cannot say I dislike the boy,” he smiled. Quiss could agree on that at least.Jones was quiet for a moment then clicked his fingers. The building around them quivered and a series of clanging noises echoed out before Jones spoke.“There is a reason you do not and will not know. Knowledge is a river. It flows in and sometimes it can dry up. This particular knowledge is like a parasite that lives in the water, it burrows deep and infects your waking thoughts to the point that you change. It is not about treating you like children nor about not trusting you. This information is literally dangerous and inside your unprepared minds, you will simply crumble like worms under a crow’s foot,” Jones said and his perfect appearance seemed to lose some parts and a being with many eyes sat before them.The eyes were all different shapes and colours. In the middle of it all, a round black orb beating like a heart before Jones returned to human form, clearing his throat.“Did you not find it bizarre that your mother began to forget things? Haldi? Pic? This very town became a routine of dolls and repeated play scenes. This land is very hungry and they have poured the very essences of themselves into the land to forget... now this dungeon has made such a thing impossible. It seems almost like a perfect counter. The Elders must see this Delta as a form of interference by the gods or devils. Who knows? Maybe an old foe trying to gain an upper hand?” he spread his arms and Quiss moved on the lunch hall bench as he glared at the menus.He was sure something was going on here in this school. He had...was somewhere with coffee but hadn’t they always been talking in the lunch hall?“What is it? What old foe?” Ruli pushed and Jones put his chin in his hand. Smile almost crooked.“The three lords. One of the Ending Light, One of the Settled Darkness and the One of the Broken Silence. Each guarded by their knight. What lies below them? I have no clue but that isn’t the dangerous part. Knowing numbers and titles is fine, you will be fine. It’s when you know of their nature, hear the name... you are at war,” Jones whispered and Quiss stumbled.He turned to say something but Jones shut the school door in his face. It left him standing there on the stone steps without Ruli as the school building before him seemed to lock all the windows and doors.Doing exactly what Quiss feared he would do. Re-enroll Ruli back into his class...Quiss walked towards a window and tried to smash it after knocking on the door did nothing.The rock he threw stretched the glass and simply flung it back at Quiss.Quiss itched to click his fingers but he turned on the spot, remembering his promise and the only known weakness of Knowledge Demons.A gifted genius and an idiot.Thankfully, he knew just the water mage who could fulfil both ends of that clause just fine.Lords... and their knights. Below and unknown. Delta and Durence.Questions... Questions... Questions.“I missed the days I could just set things on fire and go home to sleep,” he admitted and mumbled an apology as the new baker girl knocked into him.She looked at him and Quiss didn’t say anything as he rushed on.The girl bit her lip as her bloodshot eyes looked around at the lively people with some sorrow. She watched as people laughed, as grass and flowers bloomed, as mana flowed through the air bringing life.She turned and ran back to her shop to curl up on her bed. Her ovens cold and her bread hard as a rock.She just laid there, hoping Durence’s curse would just take her.
