I continued to lie there, making like a corpse, my mind absolutely spinning as the Skeleton Lady sat near me. She just stared off into the distance for a while, watching some moaning, shuffling skeletons further down the street.

She seemed… melancholy.

I mean, if the plan was to stick a dagger in her eye, right now she was making it easier than I ever could have hoped for. But I just couldn’t bring myself to do it. Not now.

But, I mean, whatever her deal is, she’d just spent the entire night trying to kill me!

Or was she?

I thought back to our exchanges. When she’d stuck a dagger into my shoulder, she could have just as easily done it to my neck. Was her plan ever to actually kill me at all?

Actually, no, screw that. She stabbed me multiple times. Not to mention she had already denied my offer of friendship! Even if she wasn’t trying to kill me, that was unforgivable! And as far as I could tell at this point, she’d only been doing it for entertainment!

But it was still so strange, not just that she could talk but how she talked. She sounded modern.

To be fair, the people of this world didn’t talk all that differently from Earth people. Fox, for example, talked nearly indistinguishably from anyone I might meet on Earth, and even Rin, when she wasn’t being formal and let her High Regent persona slip a little, could also sound rather ordinary.

The Red Masks talked a little strangely, but even they I thought sounded kind of Nordic, like Vikings or something.

Hmmm… Genzo spoke pretty strangely, and so did Grick for that matter, but that’s different.

Anyway, as far as Skeleton Lady went, I was curious. Incredibly so. What exactly was her deal? Of everyone I just listed, I wouldn’t expect her to have such a normal voice.

But could I risk this golden opportunity to eliminate a legitimate threat on my life? No, that was stupid. I had to just go ahead and stick with the plan and kill her!

But I was finding it very hard to make that move.

She finally turned her gaze back down to me.

“What the hell are you, anyway?” she muttered. She picked herself up enough to crouch overtop of me, her skull tilting left and right as she examined me, making her eye an even easier target. “Fucking stupid-looking thing, in any case.”

Hey!

“What kind of skeleton has dog ears? Are you a skeleton that turns into a dog or a dog that turns into a skeleton?”

Oh, right, guess she wouldn’t know.

“So fucking weird.” She reached a hand towards me as I continued to try to maintain total stillness. What was she going to do? What was—

She tugged on one of my skeletal ears. Then she made a fist and knocked on my skull a few times. It didn’t make the clinking sound of bone against bone as you’d expect. “Hmmm, yeah, these aren’t actually bones. You definitely shape-shifted from something else. Is dog your real form though? Or maybe these ears are actually horns like those weird statues?”

She leaned over me, bringing both hands to the top of my head and tugging on both ears at once. “These things make no fucking sense. If you’re a shapeshifter, you’re a really bad one.” She let out a cackling laugh.

Hey! I tried my best! I’m still working on leveling up the skill!

Since she was so focused on my ears, I let my fingers finally tense around the dagger. I was tempted to stab her through the eye right at that moment. She was being really insulting!

But still, I didn’t want to kill her. I knew I had to, but… I mean, she was still a threat. Right?

I wished I could look around more without giving myself away, but I considered the daggers around her waist.

Maybe I could find a moment to call for a truce, but not now. Not while I was vulnerable to her. I had to disarm her first. I had to be the one in the position of power before any negotiating could be done. Whatever she was, I couldn’t trust her; that was clear enough.

It wasn’t even like she felt bad about potentially killing me. She just seemed disappointed more than anything. Like she accidentally broke a toy.

Yeah, actually, fuck her. There was no way I was giving her the benefit of the doubt in all this, but I did want to know what her deal was. She might even be able to answer some questions about that Divine Dross stuff because she clearly seemed to understand what it was better than me.

Her other leg adjusted so she could lean over me more comfortably as she examined me closer, and I decided now was the time to strike.

I grabbed the rusty dagger and suddenly sprang to life, pulling her into a hug, but instead of a potentially fatal shot to the eye, I stabbed it into her back, managing to wedge it between her ribs, and I left it there.

“AAaaah!” she screamed in pain and surprise, but I was already getting the upper hand as I twisted and forced her into a roll. I managed to come out on top as my hands shot for her waist, scrambling for her daggers.

I managed to get my hand on one of them, and I caught her other wrist with my other hand.

I yanked one dagger free from the sheath, and I threw it away. It was more of a liability to me than it was to her, and I wanted to take away as many of her resources as I could.

“You fucker!” she hissed, as all four of our skeletal hands started wrestling for her one remaining dagger.

But she didn’t have much in the way of offense without her weapons, while I, on the other hand, still had a few tricks of my own.

{Crippling Bite}!

My skeletal jaw snapped down around her wrist. She screamed again as I twisted and pulled, but I wasn’t quite able to get the snap I was hoping for. Still, it was enough to help me win the wrestling match as her fingers spasmed open and the dagger dropped loose. I quickly snatched it up, keeping one hand under control with my teeth and the other I held by the wrist.

Surprisingly, despite her higher level, I was overpowering her. I knew my stats were unusually high for my level, and it seemed that my strength stat, at least, was higher than hers.

I growled, keeping my teeth tight on her bone, and I forced her other hand to the ground, keeping her pinned. Then, I brought the dagger up under her ribs, stabbing the blade between two of them and holding it there. My idea was that I could use leverage to break apart her ribs and do some heavy damage to her, even if she didn’t have proper flesh and blood I could stab normally.

“Y-You— Get the hell off of me!” she screamed, thrashing around under me, trying to buck me off. It was good to know that despite being a skeleton, she clearly could still feel pain.

I kept my legs straddled around her waist, flattening my body as much as I could to make it harder for her to find an angle to turn and kick me away.

I continued to growl as I spoke through my teeth, which were still clenched around her wrist.

”Shtop Shtruggling annd I’ll wrret you go!” I growled at her.

“I’m gonna kill you, you freak!” she hissed at me.

“Rook whosh talkin!” I growled back, then twisted the dagger.

“You’re gonnaa— Gyaaaaahhh!” she screamed as I twisted the dagger harder, until finally, the tension in her body eased. “Okay— Okay! God! You’re going to kill me, you fucker!”

“Promissh!” I growled.

“What are you five?”

Technically even younger, but that’s beside the point!

“I shhed promish!”

“Okay! Holy shit! I promise!”

Finally, I released her wrist from my jaw, and I eased the pressure on the dagger, but still kept it in position to twist it into her again if need be. “Why were you trying to kill me!?” I said assertively, staring down at her.

“If I simply wanted to kill you, you would have already been dead,” she said.

“Well, you didn’t exactly welcome me to the neighborhood either!”

“What, are you an idiot?”

“Look who’s talking, weirdo!”

“Honey, of the two of us, you’re definitely the weird one.”

“Am not!”

Well, actually she may have had a point there, though I still don’t think either of us had any right to call anyone else weird.

“Whatever, this is ridiculous,” she said. “Well, you got me, so what’s your move now?” she asked.

“I don’t know yet. I’m debating whether I should just kill you or not,” I said.

"Well, why don’t you?”

“Curiosity, I guess,” I admitted, and that really was the truth. I had no other reason to keep her alive, and if she hadn’t started talking, I definitely would have gone right for the kill. “But here’s the thing: I can’t risk dying here. If it was just my own life at stake, I might be willing to risk it, but I have a family, and they are depending on me. So you don’t get any second chances!” I warned her. “If you make a move to hurt me again, I’m taking you out as quickly as I possibly can!”

“If that’s the case, you ought to stop being a fool and finish me off,” she said. “How long do you plan to hold me down like this? You’ll have to let me go and turn your back eventually, you know.”

I stared at her. She was right about that.

I lifted the dagger away from her ribs, but I wasn’t letting her go yet. “Hold still,” I said.

“What are you—”

I cut the cloak around her neck and ripped it free. “Turn around, and like I said, any sudden moves and I’m not taking any chances. I’m the one with a weapon, and as far as I can tell, you’re pretty useless without your daggers, so don’t test me. You make the slightest move, and I’m stabbing this into your back, and then I’m going for your eye socket. You understand?”

“Yeah, yeah, whatever…”

I quickly cut a strip from her cloak, then returned the dagger to her back. Honestly, the bandages around her chest would make for much better bindings, and granted, she was only a skeleton so it’s not like I was doing anything scandalous. On that note, and by that logic, I was currently nude myself as I hadn’t had a chance to put on a new set of clothes again since transforming. I tried not to think about it.

As I worked on binding her bony wrists behind her back, another skeleton shuffled by us. I looked up at him with a skeletal-wolfy grin and said, “Lovely night for a stroll, huh?”

“Seriously, what’s with you?” Skeleton Lady hissed at me.

“I have no idea what you’re talking about.”

The brawling on the street had calmed down, but there were still plenty of deceased piles of bones lying around, not to mention one weird dog skeleton tying up a lady skeleton. But the midnight stroller didn’t seem to be concerned one way or another as he just peacefully went about his business.

Once I had Skeleton Lady’s arms secured, I cut another strip off her cloak and tied her legs together as well. “Is that really necessary?” she said.

“Well, I need to go find some clothes, and I don’t want you going anywhere,” I explained as I tied the two bindings together in a hog tie, then stood up. I paced a quick circle around her, kicking away all the weapons I could see, then I got to work pillaging a corpse for that same set of loose chest armor and waist cloth. Then I walked back to Skeleton Lady, loosened her bindings just enough, and then pulled her up to her feet. “Let’s hop over into that building there and have a chat,” I said to her.
