“Ha! Secrets are like moths to the flame of your eyes, even if they are filled with goop. But you may not like the fire of my answer—I have no idea.” One of Scaldos’ broad paws presented the barrel his marinade was in to Ranthia once she finished shifting into a clean body.

Instead of dumping it directly in with the ribs, she pried the lid off and took a deep sniff of its heady aroma. Nothing smelled out of place, though she still retrieved a spoon from one of the drawers and tried the flavor too. It was a touch heavy on the alcohol, though the flavors blended well—she chose to hope the overwhelming taste of the potent spirits would ease off as the ribs cooked.

“Most people think Arq is young, but I disagree—level aside, my smoldering instincts say she’s even older than I am. So, I have no flaming explanation for why we are so different. She seems to only speak a few words and is content to play and act as a child. Her class matches that preference, like a flame to the perfect charcoal that maintains its temperature. Some elementals become like me; others remain like her. And element has nothing to do with it. I spent long years alongblaze a fire elemental that was even less aware than she is.” Scaldos continued, once Ranthia began to carefully add the marinade to the basin.

“Wait, you can’t communicate with her any better than we can?” Ranthia asked as she began to massage the marinade into the frozen meat.

“Worse, likely. As a bright flame, I find less meaning in the subtle undulations of water than the average elf. Also, I suspect she dislikes me. She usually hides if I’m burning around her fountain-of-the-day.” It was hard to be certain—Scaldos wasn’t an elvenoid, and his words were closer to an elaborate symphony of crackling of flame than anything quite like how she spoke—but he seemed a bit sad about that.

“I suppose that makes sense. In case you were ‘burning’ with curiosity, I asked because my Bond got an [Artisan] class, and I’m still not sure what that means.” Ranthia spoke into the lingering silence.

“Hot stuff! My congratulations to her. And I think it means that she deserves a grand meal—I’ll heat something tasty up for her before you leave!” And in a way, Scaldos probably had the wisest take on what it meant.

Ranthia just needed to be happy for her Bond and continue to support her to the best of her ability.

She was still going to ask Ranger next time he came around.

“What?!” Ranthia stared at Anthelleon, unwilling to believe what she had heard. She hadn’t experienced such a shock since the sun’s brief-lived bit of fury.

“Yeah, I wanted you to be the first to know. Well, aside from Neyvern, of course. I do try to keep myself from being unduly loathsome.” The woman rubbed her arm, looking uncomfortable.

Anthelleon was pregnant.

It wasn’t a joke, nor was it expected. Ranthia knew for a fact that Neyvern was taking a potion that should have… prevented such effects.

“Should… Okay, I need context—is this a good thing, or are you unhappy?” Ranthia gently set her hands on her friend’s shoulders.

“Terrified.” The bold elf admitted. “But maybe happy? It’s kind of a lot, and it still doesn’t feel real.”

Ranthia offered a hug—swiftly accepted. “Well, congratulations can wait until you’re ready to accept them. I’m here for you, whatever you decide to do. We’re friends and partners, through thick and thin!”

Her cheer was a bit forced. It was hard to keep her traitorous brain from whispering selfish concerns about what it meant for their party. She didn’t want to find another team. She was happy with her friends!

“Thank you, my friend. I am uncertain of what the future may bring, but I know that there is something I must do before I show. We have already discussed it, and Neyvern will accompany me to confront my family. I… must make things right, so I might know my child’s place in the world.” Anthelleon offered a pale imitation of her usual fearless smile.

“I’ll come too. When do we leave?” Ranthia didn’t even hesitate.

“No.” The elf refused her flatly. “You are a true friend, but I cannot bring you along for this. You have not yet mastered the effects of your Bond. I must keep things nonviolent, no matter what vitriol or accusations my parents might bring against me, and anyone else that I bring along.”

The worst part of it was that Ranthia immediately knew that she couldn’t even refute the concern. The enhancements to her fight-or-flight impulses through her Bond were more than just difficult to control. If she had time and emotional distance, sure, she was fine. But every time something threatened her, she made an instant assessment on whether she could kill it or if she could escape. She was still learning to use that instinct while hunting or facing imminent threats, but in a more… political setting, there was a lot of risk.

Neyvern was lucky—his negative effect was that he yearned for the sky, just as intensely as Solareon did.

“Alright… But if you need me, send a [Messenger]—I’ll come as swiftly as I’m able. And I’ll be here whenever you’re done.” Ranthia promised, finally breaking the hug.

“My gratitude. Truly.” Anthelleon’s smile became true.

“Okay, but I have to ask. How did this even happen?! Not that part—I mean, wasn’t Neyvern taking something?” Ranthia tweaked her question when she noticed the unmistakably mischievous expression on Anthelleon’s face.

She did not need to listen to Anthelleon breathlessly describe how she got railed.

“Ah… Um. Do not get mad, but… Based on the timing, it was when we were searching for the young elf that had wandered into the woods while her family was moving here. We were out there long enough that he ran out of doses, though we expected once or twice to be safe enough. Yet to be specific, it was after we made camp forty-two days ago.” Guilt. Why was there—

“…Oh my Xaoc! An! I was sleeping right next to you that night!” Ranthia felt outright sullied as she stared at her so-called friend! She was no prude, but the idea of Neyvern and Anthelleon rutting within arm’s reach was more than a little off-putting!

“I… enjoy the thrill of trying to be slow and quiet enough to avoid disturbing you.” Anthelleon seemed to find the grain pattern of Ranthia’s table supremely captivating after saying that.

“Why are you making it sound like you’ve done it more than once?!” Honestly, her friend was so uncomfortable about Ranthia’s own preferences that she would change the subject if Ranthia said anything too ‘spicy’ about her own pursuits, yet she had …?!

Anthelleon chose to remain silently fixated on the table, too unashamed to even have the decency to blush!

Shocking betrayals aside, Ranthia still saw her friends and teammates off when they left the City of Arts. It was difficult to predict how long they would be away, but they hoped to return at least a month or two before Anthelleon gave birth—to give themselves time to get settled into the family district that was hidden away within the stone building.

“You will get certified to be around children while we are gone?” Anthelleon pressed for the eighth time while they embraced.

“If they let me, yes.” Ranthia finally gave a clear answer. Though honestly, she didn’t want to. Being in Remus—hundreds of cumulative levels ago—had been one of the most uncomfortable experiences of her life. It wasn’t just how scared of her that everyone had been either. Knowing that a single moment of insufficient control—a simple, thoughtless movement of her arms or legs—could destroy property and end lives had worn her down.

Elves were sturdier than she was and everything they built was designed to last. Sure, she could still destroy things or kill people, but enough force was required to need intent to bring harm. Living with Clover hadn’t quite been as difficult, because her [Companion Bond] guided her. But unless she took another Skill for interacting with babies…

“Take care while we’re gone, alright? Solareon will be sad for a season if you do something dumb while we can’t bail you out.” Neyvern went for a hug as well, not that she had any coherent reason to refuse.

She still would have rather clasped arms or something.

Solareon got a hug too, and the griffin tried to suppress her whistling purr—after all, she was far too majestic to be swayed by anything less than the greatest of scritches.

“I’ll be fine. Sorry Clover couldn’t make it; she’s been holed up in Lumornor’s workshop since yesterday.” Ranthia separated from the trio while they shouldered their packs and worked to put the saddlebags on a barely tolerant griffin.

“That guy gives me the creeps. Did I ever tell you that he offered me thrice the market price for one of Solareon’s eggs?” Neyvern shook his head.

“Yes.” Ranthia answered flatly.

“Thrice this season, six times last season.” Anthelleon piled on.

The couple still weren’t sure if they wanted to establish a formalized relationship or not. For the moment, they were still partners only by the bonds of being in the same party. But Ranthia had a funny feeling that they would be more by the time they returned—at least for however many centuries they decided to stick together.

“Fare thee well, my friend! I look forward to bragging to you about how my father fell to his knees and repented for his many sins!” And with Anthelleon’s hopeful words, they set off.

Going back to life as a solo Hunter had been unpleasant. Ranthia outright couldn’t go after anything that budged Clover’s level much, or at least she couldn’t do so without being entirely too reckless. And yet, even that was stymied midway through winter.

Something had killed another mountain lord. The Dark-aspected horse’s ruined head had been found quite some distance from its mountain—and there were clear signs that it’d been running away before it died. Afterwards, one of the largest groups of Hunters that operated out of the City of Arts confirmed that whatever did the deed had consumed the carnivorous horse’s entire food supply.

And, in the process, it left deep scars in both stone and ice—likely inflicted by powerful claws or talons. The fact that the horse lord’s tracks ended well before the head was found was noteworthy as well.

There was a decently long list of creatures that had enough flight power to seize a horse and fly, at least for a distance. Examples included rocs, thunderbirds, certain phoenixes, wyverns, sky sharks, winged wyrms, and basically any monster with a powerful Gravity, Wind, or Gale aspect. But there was one particular word that was being bandied about in whispers throughout the City of Arts.

Dragon.

Inflaming the rumors, the Maestro became common sights atop the stone tower or among the branches atop the two great trees at the heart of the city. And the guards had deployed eight to an entrance. It was a stark change from their typical one or two at each of the four major entrances—assuming anyone even bothered for the day.

Yet the Lodge’s owner faced the rumors with open contempt.

“If a dragon is in the area, it wouldn’t be hiding and fighting mountain lords one a time, you fucking idiots! Any true dragon would’ve carved a wide territory and made its presence known. So, stop spouting shit in my tavern already, you cowards!”

And after three days of repeating similar words, with escalating threats that she actively carried out, the woman finally had enough and called their attention.

“Enough of this shit!” She tossed the elf she’d been shaking aside roughly and remained unbothered by the resulting cacophony as he crashed through one of her tables. “I’m making a new bounty! I’ll pay a medium ruby to anyone that confirms any new beast or wandering lord that might have killed the damned horse, but only if you can actually tell me what it is. A second medium ruby for the level. And I don’t care what it is—if you try and kill it solo, you’re a fucking fool. So don’t even try it! We’ll gather information, then I’ll decide which groups have a shot at bringing it down.”

The payday was more than just generous, especially for a mere scouting job. In an instant, the dark mood in the tavern turned around—and more than a few elves rushed to leave, eager to be the first to claim the prize.

Ranthia chose to finish her lunch first. After all, the creamy beef stew was almost as good as the forbidden favorite from her past had once been.
