Not back. Back was the entrance, the ridge, the house with the empty chair, a life shaped entirely by the absence of someone she was losing the ability to remember. She could not go back to that. Not with holes in her where he should be. Not with the taste of a memory she could no longer identify dissolving on her tongue.

She went deeper.

Tam did not follow. The dog lay beside Edric's body with his muzzle on the fused hand and his eyes on Maren and he did not move. An old dog's judgment, simpler and more correct than anything the Maw would offer: stay with the dead. Let the living go.

---

The Marrow Warrens began without warning.

One step the walls were warm and wet and amber. The next they were white. Bone-white. Dry. The moisture that had clung to every surface in the Gullet was gone. The air was cool and still and smelled of nothing -- no copper, no earth, no green. The absence of smell was as shocking as a blow.

```stat-screen
  ENTERING DEPTH 2: The Marrow Warrens

  Known hazards:    Labyrinth disorientation, bone parasites
  Deaths on Depth:  0
  Survival rate:    No data.

  Resolve +1 (Depth transition)

  Resonance detected: 0 prior entrants on this Depth.
  The person you are tracking did not reach this far.
```

She pressed her palm to the white wall. Nothing. No warmth, no echo, no trace of anyone. Edric had never touched these walls. He had never walked these corridors. He had died one floor above and the trail was over and her Gift was useless and the cost it had extracted -- the mornings, the evenings, the anniversaries, the arguments, the daily domestic architecture of thirty-two years -- had been paid for a path that ended at a body she was already losing the ability to grieve.

She walked anyway.

The corridor branched. Left, right, left again. Then right, right, left. Every passage identical: smooth white walls, flat white floor, white ceiling. No moss. No light in the walls. The illumination was sourceless and even, casting no shadows, offering no direction.

She touched the walls as she walked. Not for Resonance -- there was no one to track. For contact. For the feel of something solid, something real, something outside the dissolving landscape of her own mind where the holes were spreading. She had lost their wedding. She had lost the mornings. She had lost the arguments and the reconciliations and the way the house smelled when he came in from the fields. She was losing the shape of his hands. She was losing the sound of his voice. She was losing him by degrees, and the worst part was that she could feel each piece go, could feel the edges of each absence, could map the growing emptiness without being able to stop it.

She called his name. The bone corridors gave it back to her distorted -- the white walls bouncing the sound in wrong directions, fracturing the syllables, turning a name into noise. She followed the echoes because they were all she had and they led deeper and they led nowhere.

She was lost in minutes. The Warrens were designed for this.

She pressed her palm to a wall. Nothing. Another wall. Nothing. A floor. Nothing. No one had been here. She was the first, the only, alone in a bone labyrinth with a Gift that worked on memory and a mind that was running out of it.

She could have gone back. That was the thing. At the entrance to the Warrens, where the warm amber gave way to bone-white, she could have stopped. The Gullet was behind her. His body was behind her. The entrance was behind the Gullet. She could have gone home and lived with the grief the way people live with grief -- by carrying it, by enduring, by letting the weight of it become bearable over ordinary days.

She could not do that. She was Maren, who acted. Who had always acted. Who could not sit with a wound but had to find its edges, understand its depth, press until the pain made sense. She had married a man who waited for the season to turn and she had loved him for his patience and she did not have one drop of it in her own blood.

The corridors closed around her.

She ran. She turned corners she had turned before and did not know it. She called a name she was losing the ability to connect to a face. She pressed her palms to walls that held nothing and the Fading continued -- not from the Gift now, the Gift was finding nothing to take, but from its own momentum, the process started and self-sustaining, memories dissolving in a slow cascade that had passed from their shared history into her private one. She was losing childhood memories. The color of her mother's kitchen. The name of a horse she had loved at twelve. The feeling of her feet in cold river water on a summer day.

She stopped at a junction. Four identical corridors. She pressed her palm to the nearest wall -- not for Resonance, just to feel something solid -- and caught herself waiting for the impression. The old reflex: press, receive, follow. Nothing came. She held her hand there and understood, with the clean clarity of very late things, that she had forgotten what she was looking for. Not where -- she had never known where. But the why. The name that had been the needle of this compass. There was a shape of a person in her chest. She loved them. She was certain of it. She could feel the specific weight of it, the thirty-two-year density. But the name -- the name was a door handle in the dark, her fingers closing around air.

She pressed her other hand to the wall. Still nothing.

In a bone-white corridor that looked like every other corridor, Maren Voss stopped walking. She leaned against the wall and slid down it until she was sitting on the floor with her knees drawn up and her hands flat on the white surface and she tried to remember a name.

There was a name. She was sure of it. A name that mattered, that was the reason she was here, that was connected to the warmth she could still feel in her chest like the afterimage of a fire she could no longer see. She had come here for someone. She had walked into a hole in the ground and followed a trail and found a body and read words on a wall and none of it was accessible anymore. Just the shapes. Just the sockets where the teeth had been.

Someone. She had loved someone.

She could feel it -- the love -- even without the memories to anchor it. It was there the way warmth is there after the fire goes out, sourceless and fading but real. She held it. She held it the way you hold water in cupped hands, knowing it is already spilling, holding it anyway because the holding is the point.

The bone parasite found her there.

It came from the dead end behind her. Low and flat, pale as the walls, visible only as a faint distortion in the sourceless light -- a thickening where no thickness should be. It moved on bone-white digits that blended perfectly with the bone-white floor. It had no eyes. It had no scent. It navigated by vibration and heat and the slow movement of the maze itself.

It had been moving toward her for three minutes. She did not hear it -- the digits made no sound against the bone floor, only the faintest displacement of air, a coolness arriving from the wrong direction. If she had been present she might have felt it. The back of the neck. The animal knowledge of approach. But she was not present. She was in her hands.

She did not see it. She was looking at her own hands, trying to remember whose face they had touched.

The pain was quick. The bone-digits found the tendons in her ankles and severed them with a precision that was not cruel because cruelty requires awareness and this thing was not aware. It was architecture. It was the maze defending itself the way a body rejects a splinter.

She fell sideways. She did not cry out. There was a name -- she could feel it in her mouth, two syllables worn smooth by thirty-two years of use. She said it.

"Edric."

The sound echoed in the Warrens and came back wrong -- fractured by the bone corridors, scattered into noise. She heard it return and did not recognize it.

The Fading took the last of it. Not a specific memory but the architecture itself -- the ability to know that she had lost something, the awareness of the absence, the grief that required a referent. She could not grieve what she could not remember having. The love was there, still, the fire's last warmth, but it was untethered now, floating free, belonging to no one and nothing, a feeling without a cause.

She was quiet at the end. The bone thing was efficient. The corridors were silent. Somewhere above her, in a chamber made of amber light and impossible barley, a dog lay beside a body and did not move, and the two of them -- the dead man and the old dog -- were the last remaining proof that Maren Voss had been loved and had loved in return, and neither of them could tell anyone.

---

On the wall of a bone-white dead end, deep in the second Depth of the Maw, words appeared. Pressed into the smooth surface from within, in handwriting that was quick and sharp:

*Someone was here. I think I loved them.*

The second Death Inscription. Written by a woman who could no longer remember the name of the man she had come to find, next to whom she had slept for thirty-two years, for whom she had carried water to a ridge and called into a hole in the ground until her voice broke. The Maw had taken the name. The Fading had taken everything except the shape of the feeling, and the feeling was what the stone preserved.

Future entrants would find it. Would read it beside the first inscription, one floor above:

*Tell Maren I should have brought the water.*
*Someone was here. I think I loved them.*

His: a name and a regret, addressed to a specific person.
Hers: the ghost of a feeling, addressed to no one.

A conversation between the dead where one side remembers and the other has forgotten, and the reader knows both sides and the stone knows neither, and that is the shape of the dungeon's cruelty -- not that it kills, but that it takes the meaning from the killing.

```stat-screen
  DEATH REPORT

  Entrant:         Maren Voss
  Designation:     Dowser #1
  Depth reached:   2 (The Marrow Warrens)
  Time survived:   51 minutes
  Cause of death:  Fading (Cost manifestation).
                   Secondary: bone parasite infestation

  Vitality at death:     0
  Resolve at death:      39 (+1 Depth transition)
  Attunement at death:   14 (+6 from Gift usage)
  Fortune at death:      13 (+2 Gold crystal)

  Gift used:       7 times (Resonance tracking)
  Monsters killed: 0
  Distance covered: 1.1 km

  Memory Crystals consumed: 1 (Gold — love, Edric Voss)

  Memories erased by Fading: approximately 30 years.
  Final cognitive state: identity dissolution. Subject
  retained emotional attachment to unknown referent.
  Subject could not identify the referent at time of
  death.

  Note: Fading cascade self-sustained. Cost model updated.

  Note: The entrance was visible from Depth 1.

  Harvest:
  - Death Inscription: 1
  - Memory Crystal: 1 (Blue — grief)
  - Floor Mutation: Resonance echo. Bone corridors near
    death site retain faint emotional impressions.
    Classification: minor.
  - Gift Absorption: Resonance acquired by the Maw.

  You are death #2.
  998 remain.
```

No one read it.

In the bone-white corridor, a Memory Crystal formed. Blue. The color of grief. Because at the end, with the Fading stripping everything else away, the strongest thing left in Maren Voss had not been the love -- the love was there but untethered, a feeling without a name -- it had been the grief. The ache of reaching for something that was no longer there. The crystal held inside it a woman in a white corridor, trying to remember a face, feeling enormous tenderness for someone she could no longer identify. A future entrant who consumed it would feel the grief without knowing its source. Would gain +2 Resolve from the sheer endurance of a woman who kept feeling after she had lost the ability to know what she was feeling for.

Above, in the Gullet, Tam lay beside Edric's body. The old dog had not moved. The barley grew around him, green shoots pressing against his liver-spotted flanks. He did not move and he would not move, and when the next entrant came they would find him there -- thinner, quieter, lying with his muzzle on the dead man's hand -- and they would step around him and the dog would watch them pass with old eyes that held no judgment, only the patient incomprehension of an animal waiting for a person who would not come back.

The dog did not leave. The barley grew over him the way it had grown over Edric -- slowly, without violence, the green shoots pressing against his liver-spotted flanks until he was part of the garden, another quiet thing the first floor held. His breathing slowed to match the dungeon's breathing. Six beats per minute. Then five. The old dog did not fight this. He had been waiting for a person who was not coming, and the waiting had been its own kind of sleep, and the sleep had roots now, and the roots were warm.

The Maw did not count the dog. The Ledger did not record him. He was outside the system, irrelevant to the Lock, a piece of grief that did not fit the mechanism's requirements. But every entrant who passed through the Gullet in the first year remembered the dog more clearly than they remembered the inscriptions, and when they told the story of the garden they said: there was a dog. And that was enough to keep him.

The second tumbler turned. The Lock registered: a wife, killed by her own search, in the maze below the chamber where her husband grew. Two deaths. Two crystals. Two inscriptions that would never understand each other.

The dungeon breathed, and in the Warrens, the bone walls shifted, and the corridors reconfigured around the body the way a river routes around a stone, and she was buried in bone, and above her his barley grew, and below her the deeper Depths waited for the nine hundred and ninety-eight who would follow.

Death #2. 998 remain.
