His scouts set out and returned with detailed information regarding the district’s defences. Much of it was already known or expected, but the more information he had to work with, the less his foes could use to surprise him. There were two-hundred Death Corps Guards stationed in the district, but only forty on active duty at any time, split into eight groups of five as they patrolled the walls. Five shifts, with one on duty, one on reserve, and three resting at all times, an arrangement which stretched the small garrison to its utmost limits. There were commoners on patrol as well, but Hideo paid them no mind. They were effective when already in formation with their crossbows in hand, but in a surprise night raid, they would be as useful as chickens running underfoot and killed just as easily. That being said, there were more Death Corps guards than just the garrison, as well as a sizable contingent of Royal Guardians to boot, all to protect fair Zheng Luo, or more likely, keep her from fleeing from her unworthy husband.

Yes, that was probably it. Even though Falling Rain had no doubt sullied her fair flesh and ravaged her to his hateful heart’s content, she no doubt yearned to escape him. He could only imagine how thrilled she would be when he offered her a chance at true freedom and promised to overlook her past indiscretions by taking her as his wife. No, that wouldn’t do, taking a sullied woman as his first wife, but she deserved to be more than a mere concubine, so Hideo decided she would do for a third... no, a fifth wife, which was admittedly a low position, but still higher than a concubine’s lot. Besides, this was merely for the sake of face, as Hideo had no intention of loving any woman more than he loved Zheng Luo, and he would make it clear to her by periodically killing his first through fourth wives and replacing them whenever he grew bored.

A perfect solution.

“Only if you see her as a prize to display, but she is a real person, with real feelings,” the damnable voice said. “You ever see your father treat your mother like that? Why do you never think about her?”

Because she was still alive and Hideo had yet to see her disappointment, which meant he still had hope. Perhaps she still loved him and was willing to forgive him, or maybe she had rejected and denounced him, a prospect which hurt more than any whip or lash ever could.

Focus. There was a wife to be wooed and a war to be won here. He’d bring Luo-Luo to meet his mother as soon as everything was settled and not a moment before, because he could not afford the distraction. The eastern wall would be Hideo’s best bet, as it was closest to Zheng Luo’s borrowed manor, but this meant he would either have to retreat east and give up positioning around the district to his foes, or fight his way out towards the west. Neither prospect was enticing, but the main gates were to the west and filled with traps aplenty. Hideo had no desire to throw himself into his enemy’s net, so east it was, meaning he would have to slaughter all opposition before leaving to prevent word of his attack from getting out ahead of his escape. Circling around the district under the cover of darkness, he kept three kilometres between himself and the walls so as to avoid even the slim chance of being spotted, and he made his approach slowly. A calculated risk, but one worth taking, especially as the enemy would not be expecting an attack from this direction. The distance closed metre by arduous metre until the walls were a mere stone’s throw away, at which point he raised his mace and signalled the charge.

The thunder of hooves raised shouts of alarm as he sought the Razor’s edge once more, his Domain billowing out into the night air. The same ramps his troops used to traverse over the Western Wall served them just as well here, allowing his retinue to swarm into the district and cut down all who stood in their path. Howling in unrestrained glee, he smashed his dark-armoured foe into an unrecognizable mass and kept his Chosen on task, making short work of the defenders before charging into the district proper. Unchallenged, he rode for the manor which was little more than a hovel in his eyes and stopped short as he sensed the Warriors waiting within, more Death Corps guards waiting with halberds at the ready.

No matter, for he was Mitsue Hideo, Chosen of Heaven, and he was here to claim his bride.

Gathering all his pent up rage and frustration, he hefted his right mace and unleashed a Mountain Collapsing strike on the iron-reinforced gates. A few days ago, this would have shattered the door and opened up a hole large enough for him to stride through, but the Uniter’s gift had given him the Insight needed to utilize his Domain in more creative ways. Rather than focus the strength of his strike on the point of impact, he spread his Domain out to cover the entirety of the gate so that the force of his blow was evenly distributed across it. Thus, instead of shattering into splinters, the entire gate flew off its hinges and into the ranks of waiting Royal Guardians. None were injured by the projectile, but dodging it disrupted their formation, and Hideo took full advantage of their disorder to charge in and lay waste to their ranks.

Laying into the courtyard with a righteous fury, he delivered death to his foes with Reverberating blows that pulped their organs on contact. It didn’t matter if they blocked or took the blow on armour, for Hideo’s attacks were more than just physical might or Chi-infused power, but imbued with the Energy of the Heavens themselves. A single touch was all it took to kill his foes, his Amplified Reverberations travelling through their armour and impacting directly against to their soft innards to explode their organs from within. Weapons humming with this newly mastered skill, he smashed through the Death Corps line to engage the Royal Guardians behind them. Imperial Warriors of renown who protected the Emperor Himself, they moved with speed and grace Hideo could not hope to match, but he responded with sheer power and emerged on top. None could stand against him as they threw themselves in his path, not here, not tonight, for this was his Path, his fate, his destiny at work, one that would see him with his true love, Zheng Luo.

A shrill whistling chime was all the warning he had, and he barely got his maces in place to block the blow aimed at his head. Though weak in force, the glancing impact left him rattled and shaking as a subtle Resonance travelled down his weapons and penetrated down to his bones, similar to what he utilized against his foes here, but less overbearing and more subtle in its attack. One strike was nothing, but he sensed that repeated blows would leave his nerves frayed and muscles too tense to even hold his weapons, meaning this was a Warrior he could not afford to leave unchecked.

Except how could he bear to raise his hand against his beautiful, beloved wife?

Clad only in a light shift that clung to her curvaceous frame, Zheng Luo stood behind her Royal Guardians with her flail in hand, the chain already whipping about for a second strike aimed at Hideo’s head. Blocking the second strike, he felt the Reverberations travel down to his gut and threaten to unleash all that was contained within, a most humiliating display if it should come to pass, and his patience for his future wife wore thin. How dare she disrespect her husband this way, especially after all the concessions he made to have her in his life? Just because he loved her did not mean he would tolerate her impertinence, so he would be sure to teach her a proper lesson and put her in her place.

“The Razor’s Edge,” Monk Eyebrows Sent.

“Balance,” the hateful voice insisted.

Hideo ignored them both and gave into his lust and desire, howling as he launched himself at his woman. He saw the fear and alarm in her eyes, and it only stoked the flames of his passion. He would taste her tonight, in every way possible, but he would keep her alive, for it would be a waste to be done with her so quickly. That was truly his greatest regret, killing Eri-Hime after a single night of passion. She would have so loved Zheng Luo and they could have kept one another company, but the rice was cooked so Hideo would have to be more careful this time around. He intended to keep Zheng Luo by his side until their hair turned white with old age, which meant he could not be too rough with her on their first night, not if he wanted to enjoy her more than once. Such was life, trials and tribulations, but he was more than confident he had the discipline to keep her alive.

And if not? Well, she was merely a prize to be had, an urge to be sated and nothing more, so nothing of value would really be lost.

Chapter Meme
