“An interesting concept, this blooding be.” Nodding in comprehension, Gongsun Qi leaned back in his seat and studied Vithar closely, for what seemed like the first time. After taking long enough for Vithar to grow bored enough to entertain the notion of heeding the Ancestors and driving his axe into the southlander’s chest, Gongsun Qi sat up and said, “You understand numbers yes? Two hundred Death Corps is no small force.”

“Yes. My raiding parties are one-hundred to five-hundred riders strong. Two hundred is not many, but not few, meaning the districts will be impossible to take and raze before reinforcements arrive.”

“Yet you asked why their presence mattered.”

A question that was not a question, yet another example of southlander senselessness. “Because our goal is not to take the districts,” he replied. “We raid to bleed our enemy and make them respond, so that we might study, learn, and adapt to how they fight.”

“Oh? And what have you learned?”

Now the southlander was testing him, but Vithar was always up for a challenge. Pointing at the map, he found the midpoints between each Citadel and said, “Here, the enemy is weakest. Their patrols are slow to react and reinforcements delayed in their dispatch, depending on which district my riders attack. This one, seven and five, is defended by soldiers moving from the Northern Citadel, while seven and six is defended by soldiers from Central Citadel. The same change occurs at one-five-zero and one-five-one, but the response from the Southern Citadel is much slower.”

“Anything else?”

“The Southern Cavalry cannot keep pace with my riders.” A good thing too, for they rode massive beasts with thick, grey hides the southlanders called rhinos and elephants, and even gajashias were no match for either in a direct confrontation. “The Northern Cavalry is most deadly, for I have lost the most riders there. Central Cavalry is inconsistent, sometimes shockingly competent and others so inept I do not know how they still draw breath, much less hold command over warriors.”

“So in your opinion, we should focus our attacks on the south?”

A carefully baited trap, one Vithar saw coming. “Only if we intend to ignore the districts to drive further in land. The southern cavalry cannot keep pace, but even they will eventually catch up if my riders stay in one place. This is no good, for then my people will be cut off and without support. No, the place to break through is the North.”

“Oh? Why is that?”

“Because it offers the biggest prize.” Pointing at yet another marker on the map, Vithar grinned and said, “This place, where the boats gather.”

“SuiHua.”

“Yes. Once we hold this SuiHua, the rest of the southlands will be open to us, and we will no longer be forced to attack only from a single direction. My tribesmen will scatter across the plains and force the enemy to fight without their walls to defend them.” And no more needed to be said, for Vithar’s people were strong, and the southlanders weak, so the outcome was obvious to all.

“An astute observation,” Gongsun Qi said, before snapping his fingers at his attendant. The submissive southlander hopped to obey despite being a Warrior to be wary of, unfurling another scroll overtop the map which Vithar studied in length. The bulk of the paper drawings rather than characters, one he eventually realized depicted the port itself, with a scattering of words and numbers that he was not all too familiar with. “What say you now?”

Unused to deciphering these sorts of detailed maps, Vithar clarified the details before continuing. “More walls,” he growled, his hatred of the smooth stone fortifications growing by the second. The Northern Wall was so tall there were times when the tops were hidden in the clouds above, and while the Western Wall was much shorter in comparison, SuiHua was almost as well defended as the Citadels themselves. “Your ships, they cannot take it?”

“If they could, this Prince would have already led the attack himself.” Spreading his hands in a gesture Vithar couldn't decipher, Gongsun Qi sighed and sank in his chair. “Our chance to strike was lost when Baatar scuttled Huanhuzi’s fleet, a loss not even this Prince foresaw.” Smiling in spite of himself, the southlander added, “I look forward to meeting the man myself, especially after the high praise formidable Akanai gave him. Perhaps this Prince will have yet another peer worth facing, but if not, at least Shuai Jiao has thus far lived up to his stalwart reputation.”

The southlander hungered for a challenge, a sentiment Vithar understood well. A challenge was not the same as sure death, however, which was what awaited them should they try to lay siege to SuiHua, as it would allow armies from the Northern and Central Citadels to encircle the Uniter’s forces and pin them against the sea. If the enemy cared to close in and trade blows, then it would be a proper battle indeed, but Vithar could already see his people dying in droves while the enemy weaklings loosed bolts and lobbed stones from afar. A loathsome method of fighting, but only a fool took on a losing proposition when other choices were available. “Then we strike at Central,” he said, pointing at the Citadel itself. “Have you a map of this too?”

“That, this Prince does,” Gongsun Qi slurred, as if speaking around a mouthful of meat. “But out of curiosity, why has the Chieftain of Chieftain’s chosen the Citadel itself, rather than a weak point along the Wall?”

Again, the southlander tested him, and Vithar’s patience grew short, but he reined in the urge to draw his weapon because he knew how quickly their match would end. “The same reason I care not to run my riders past the districts in the south. If we are to take all these lands for our own, then we must do so with a position of strength to return to, somewhere to rest and take on water before riding out for another hunt.”

“And how would you go about taking the Citadel?”

Having no idea how to conduct a siege besides storming the walls, Vithar growled, “With axe in hand and my tribesmen at my back. The details can wait until after I have seen your map.”

“...Not the worst response this Prince has heard.” Signalling the attendants once more, Gongsun Qi said, “The Chieftain of Chieftains will no longer require a tutor. When young Gen handed command over to you, this Prince thought it the lark of a fool, but it seems he was wrong for you show much promise. You are a Defiled tribesman, uncultured and savage, but I sense in you a Chosen of Heaven like myself. A gem such as this is too tempting a prospect to hand over to another. What might you be once polished and cut?”

Vithar didn’t entirely understand what the southlander was saying, but the man’s hungry gaze gave him pause as did his mention of temptation. “I will not lay beneath you,” he said, directly refusing his advances. “And I will bleed you if you try.”

“...You mistake this Prince.” Eyes heating with anger, Gongsun Qi’s barely restrained violence set off alarms in Vithar’s head as the Ancestors urged him to attack before being attacked, but then the southlander breathed deep and all threat disappeared. “No, this Prince means to teach you myself, both in characters and the art of war, for the Chosen be sorely lacking in capable commanders.” Springing to his feet faster than Vithar could follow, Gongsun Qi moved to leave and gestured for him to keep up. “Come. The map and further discussion can wait, for this Prince would see if his promising new student might also be promising as a Disciple, and then we will inspect the Chosen to see which of them needs blooding.”

“...Disciple? This means to teach me to fight?” Scoffing, Vithar sneered and said, “The Ancestors teach me all I need to know.”

The change in Gongsun Qi happened so suddenly Vithar didn’t even remember drawing his axe, but there it was in his hands, clenched so tightly the bone spurs dug deep into his flesh. “This Prince will make allowances for ignorance,” Gongsun Qi began, speaking even slower than usual. “But his patience is not without limit. You know not the heights of Heaven, and your ‘Ancestors’ care not for your strength, only your survival and suffering.” As he raised his hand, Vithar readied to defend himself against an attack, but Gongsun Qi merely beckoned for him to follow. “Come. Let us first spar and determine if you be worth teaching, and only then will this Prince waste his breath convincing you.”

The Ancestors warned him of treachery and deceit, but he knew the southlanders put much stock in their Mentor-Disciple bonds, as evidenced by young Hideo’s discussion with his Mentor on the battlefield. What’s more, he himself sensed he was stronger than before thanks to the ‘pure, unsullied Energy of the Heavens’ Gen shared with him, but he knew not how to apply it in battle. He was physically stronger, true, but he sensed there was more to his power than the Ancestors cared to say, so perhaps Gongsun Qi would have the answers he so desired.

Vithar had already sacrificed so much for strength, leaving Asmani and their unborn child behind, so what harm was there in pretending to be the Disciple of a powerful fool?

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Cloaked in Concealment and awaiting the darkness of night, Hideo’s back itched to feel the sting of his lash, but circumstances dictated his penance would have to wait.

For today, he set out to inflict penance upon those who wronged him.

The Empire was at fault, but how was one supposed to punish an Empire? Overturning it would do, but this was an undertaking that would be measured in months, if not years of blood and effort, for the Imperial Clan would not fall without a fight. Victory was inevitable, for the Heavens themselves were upon Hideo’s side and he would bestow calamity upon the Empire itself. First though, he would have to progress along his Path, the path to the salvation he so desperately craved. Even after so many months of penance and reflection, it still pained him to remember Grand-Uncle Juichi’s broken expression when Hideo revealed himself on the field of battle. That was supposed to be his crowning moment of glory, his first step towards righting the injustices of the Imperial Clan, a rallying cry for all like minded Warriors to break free from their shackles and join him in his crusade against the Dog Emperor.

Instead, it became one of his most painful memories. Not more painful than watching his father die or when he ate Eri-hime alive, but not as far as one might think. All his life, Hideo wanted nothing more than to earn his heroic Great-Uncle’s approval, and he never realized how much that meant to him until after he lost it.

“Hold to the Razor’s edge,” Monk Eyebrows whispered, and Hideo reined in his grief and despair. “Reflect on your emotions and contain them, but do not let them affect you. Only then will they be ready for use when you require them at a moment’s notice.”

Though spoken in the softest of murmurs, Hideo knew others could hear and bear witness to his shame, but Monk Eyebrows would simply call it fuel for the flames of emotion. This was all a part of Hideo’s training, to strengthen his lacking will the same way the beatings strengthened his body, but unlike the wounds of his flesh which healed without scars, the damage to his mind and soul was not so easily mended. Not because the Heavens refused to Heal him, but because he kept picking at his wounds and refusing to leave them be, when instead he should immerse himself in the pain without allowing himself to be influenced by it.

Yet despite knowing this and striving to adhere to it, a small part of Hideo’s mind simply refused to let things lie.

“Emptiness is not Balance,” the voice told him, and Hideo could not help but agree. “This is a Path, but not your Path, nor is it the Noble Eight-Fold Path, for this is not the Right View. You know this, so why do you persist?”

Because he had nothing else left to him. Only the Brotherhood would accept him now, for he was neither an Imperial Citizen or Defiled Chosen, but something neither side could accept. Taking a detour was better than ambling about without direction or guidance, so Hideo would follow this Path until he could see more of what lay before him. It was only pragmatic.

“Fear controls you,” the voice whispered, and again, Hideo agreed.

“Only a fool rushes in without information.”

A statement spoken by a different voice, one Hideo knew well, for it was Grand-Uncle Juichi who said it. It was in reference to military strategy and the significance of scouting, but it applied to everything in life. Knowledge was power, and Hideo would be foolish to turn down the knowledge offered to him by the Brotherhood and Monk Eyebrows. That was why he was here pursuing his vengeance, because without indulging his wrath and fury, how could he ever understand the significance of letting it go? It would be as laughable as a child moaning about hard work after playing in the courtyard all day, for the child knew nothing of hard work. If Hideo had never lost control and eaten Eri-Hime, he would never have known just how satisfying her tender meat and shrill screams could be, so there would be no meaning in abstaining from the consumption of human flesh.

The thought sent a pang of hunger coursing through his body, a cold chill running down his spine as he yearned for the taste of hot blood, but he mentally chanted the Sutras and contained his desires as instructed. The voices all quieted as he teetered upon the Razor’s Edge and familiarized himself with this most unstable of Paths, but the greater the risk, the greater the reward, and Hideo was destined for great things.

