That was why he was here in fact, surrounded by a thousand Chosen Elites he’d hand-picked for the core of his retinue. It all started several days ago when Gen marched into the Brotherhood’s compound in ShiBei and said, “You will lead a raid across the Wall, and attack District Seventy-Eight.” Hideo’s first instinct was to refuse, and no doubt Monk Eyebrows would have as well, if Gen had not added, “There, you will capture and interrogate Imperial Consort Zheng Luo so that we might uncover Falling Rain’s hidden whereabouts.”

Now, there was no possible way for Hideo to refuse, for beauty Zheng Luo was the catalyst which sent him careening off of his previous Path. His infatuation with her was what brought him here, and unless he overcame it, he would never progress along his new Path, which meant it was vital he connected with her once more. Even he wasn’t sure what he would do once he had her in his hands, whether he would conquer her with force and power, win her over with kindness and sincerity, or sever all ties with her and dine upon her flesh. All three were equally possible, and there were many other scenarios which were only marginally less likely, but regardless of the outcome, he knew he had to find her.

Of course, Hideo was not so foolish as to run off at the mere mention of a woman, especially not at Gen’s bidding. “Just because your Wraiths and blood compasses cannot find him,” Hideo began, eyes still closed as to insult the rude, uninvited peasant with delusions of grandeur, “Does not mean Falling Rain is not in the Northern Citadel. That is his base of power where his strongest allies are situated, so if he is injured and recovering, he would be a fool to do so elsewhere.”

“And our foe is most certainly a fool,” Gen replied, his tone taking on a shade of displeasure, “Else he would have long since realized the folly of his ways and come to join this Sovereign’s cause. Little worm struggles to delay the inevitable, for talented though he might be, even the greatest of talents require time to grow, time we will not allow.”

Hideo’s eyes snapped open at this declaration, for Gen’s nervous unease was plain to hear. Why worry so much over Falling Rain, even if he was Legate of the Outer Provinces? How much sway could one slave have over the outcome of the war? Reading Hideo’s concerns as easily as a skilled diplomat might, Gen puffed up and sneered in disdain. “The worm is nothing and no one on his own, but a potent threat if properly harnessed, one this Sovereign means to have in hand before our foes realize his true value. It may even be too late, for there are only a handful of powers capable of hiding the worm from this Sovereign’s sight, all of whom must be approached with the utmost of care. Wherever he is, it is not in the Northern Citadel, else the Death Corps would never have allowed themselves to be spread across the Districts. They know their ward is beyond their reach, so they follow the Songstress’s orders without question, and in doing so reveals the worm’s absence.” Taking a moment to study Hideo, Gen cocked his head at Monk Eyebrows and said, “This one has yet to deal with the parasite, as you claimed he would.”

“And he will. In time.” Ignoring Hideo’s questioning gaze, Monk Eyebrows’ hands formed the mudra of restraint as he conversed with Gen through Sending, no doubt irked that Hideo had even heard this much. What parasite, and how was he supposed to deal with it?

There were no answers to be had, not from Gen or Monk Eyebrows, and after long, silent minutes of Sent debate, Gen grinned and clapped his metallic hands, which set them to ringing in dissonant chimes. “Let him make the decision then,” he said, and though Monk Eyebrows clearly disapproved, he didn’t stop Gen from approaching with a single outstretched hand. The dissonance grated harshly in Hideo’s ears, but he couldn’t tear his eyes away from Gen’s upturned palm, his clawed talons stretched up and cupped around something without form, but with plenty of presence. “You feel this, yes?” he asked, his words taking on a hypnotic cant, one delivered by Chi and Aura. “Pure, unsullied Energy of the Heavens, severed and forfeited by our enemy’s own hand, processed by this Sovereign to do as he pleases. This is yours, if you so desire it, a taste of what awaits you should you keep to the razor’s edge.”

“Why do you seek strength?” Monk Eyebrows asked, his voice drawing Hideo’s stare away from the invisible energy pulsating in Gen’s hands. Impassive and unreadable was how he would describe the monk’s expression, but there was a gravity to his words which Hideo could not ignore, and he considered the question carefully as he always did.

One needed a goal in order to forge a Path, and this question lay at the basis of every Martial Warrior’s decision. The answer changed often as the individual discovered more about themselves and their path, but few as drastically as Hideo’s had. As a child, he sought strength for recognition, then later, for approval and renown. Then, he sought strength for vengeance, then absolution, and while he still hungered for both, he now knew the right answer to this question which had plagued him for so long. “I seek strength,” he began, his words resonating with faith and conviction, “So that none might stand above me.”

“Then you have your Path.” Nodding in acknowledgement, Monk Eyebrows offered no hint of approval or reproach as he sat in witness of Hideo’s decision. “A conqueror’s Path, one with no end in sight, but one you intend to walk nonetheless.”

A Path that would be much easier with the power Gen offered. Hideo would be foolish to turn it down, right?

“You would be a fool to accept,” a voice whispered, one Hideo tried his best to ignore, “Without first considering the price.”

The price was simple enough. Gen needed allies strong enough to stand against the Empire, and Hideo was a talent worth nurturing. This power was likely a gift from the Uniter, and the answer to how Gen progressed so quickly along the Martial Path, so of course Hideo would surpass the peasant if given the same resources. Reaching out with his Domain, he snatched up the power in Gen’s hand and felt it swell up inside him, filling him with both strength and Insight which he sat down to process. Even now, days later while seated at the border between West and Central, Hideo was still busy processing the Energy of the Heavens and basking in the strength it provided. Monk Eyebrows had guided him through it and hinted that there was more for the taking, but Hideo was unable to understand just what the monk was talking about or how he was supposed to seize this power. The ‘parasite’, no doubt, but what parasite? There were no marks on Hideo’s body besides those left by his own flail, and though he only had a rudimentary knowledge of human anatomy, he was unable to find any physical anomalies inside his flesh, blood, or bone.

No matter. He would deal with the parasite in time, once he finished processing the Uniter’s gift. A mysterious man, the leader of the Chosen, one Hideo had yet to meet in person, but Wisdom Vyakhya spoke highly of him, in those rare moments the old monk was around.

“Come.” At Monk Eyebrow’s signal, Hideo came out of his meditative trance and surged to his feet, for time was of the essence now. They only had a small window of opportunity to slip past the Wall unnoticed, though the details of how such a window had been arranged was beyond Hideo’s understanding. How a thousand troops and gajashia’s could go unnoticed, Hideo could not say, but he did not take for granted that they would. Even as his troops locked their ramps in place and led their mounts across, he kept a close watch on his surroundings using more than his eyes alone. One with the World, his senses informed him of every loose stone and crooked nail in his immediate area, flooding him with so much information he struggled to process it all. No, not just struggled, but failed to process, his mind overwhelmed by the multitude of facts surging through his thoughts.

A hand-print against the battlement. Someone stopped to lean there, leaving traces of sauce indicating they’d recently eaten barbecued pork.

Dust was gathering in one corner. No one checked it recently, making it the perfect hiding spot for a Concealed assailant.

A trail of cracked sunflower shells, left by an insubordinate soldier, snacking while out on patrol and likely paying no attention to his surroundings.

Ashes. More lacking discipline, this time stemming from the top, as only an Officer would be so bold as to openly smoke opiates on duty.

There was enough evidence to surmise that someone intended for this foolish officer to eventually take the blame for Hideo’s attack, but who? Powerful and knowledgeable as he might be, there was no way the Uniter could have arranged this, and no one in power would believe that a single patrol, no matter how incompetently managed, could have possibly allowed for a thousand enemy cavalry to slip by unnoticed. As Disciple to a Colonel General, he knew more than most of how Divinities fit into the Imperial Army’s plans, so he was certain there was at least one Divinity patrolling this stretch of the Wall and watching for Concealed crossings.

Which either meant the Empire had a traitor in their ranks, or a free-holding Divinity was willing to look the other way in return for some benefit.

Having progressed by leaps and bounds due to the Uniter’s gift, Hideo knew full well that something like this would be enough to tempt a Divinity, for who would crave pure Heavenly Energy more than those closest to wielding it? Having been given a small taste, Hideo already craved more, but he had no idea how to get more, while Divinities would at least have some notion of how to proceed. To them, the Uniter’s gift would be like a sip of water to a man dying of thirst beside an unreachable oasis, a tempting prospect few could refuse out of hand. Giving such a gift had its drawbacks, since it risked knowledge of the Uniter’s wealth getting out and spurring the Imperial Clan to direct action, as there were few treasures more tempting than Heavenly Energy itself. Hideo barely even knew how it benefited him, but he knew enough to rank it as a priceless treasure, and the Imperial Clan no doubt knew even more. No matter. This was something for the Uniter to consider, as Hideo intended to clash with the Imperial Clan eventually. Today, tomorrow, or ten years from now, their conflict was inevitable, so he welcomed the trials and tribulations ahead.

“A flower in a walled garden will never experience the hardships of the wild.” Yet another of Grand-Uncle Juichi’s favoured idioms, used to defend his neglect of Hideo’s training.

“Your Grand-Uncle loved you too much to neglect you,” the voice said, and Hideo hated hearing the ring of truth in its words. “Your pride tells you it was talent which allowed you to become one of the Hwarang, but you know this is not true.”

Indeed. Even if Grand-Uncle Juichi’s guidance was admittedly lacking, Hideo would never have made it into the Hwarang without his assistance. Face and reputation alone were factors enough to weed out the majority of would-be challengers, and Hideo always had the benefit of countless skilled sparring partners to test his skills against. Then there was the matter of Grand-Uncle Juichi’s personal journals, which he shared with Hideo after he uncovered the secret of the Mountain Collapsing Stomp on his own, as well countless other benefits Hideo would be hard pressed to list simply because there were too many to remember. If not for the Mitsue family name, Hideo would not be the rising dragon he was today, and to deny this was to deny the steps he’d already taken to get this far along his Path.

And yet deny it he would, because it hurt too much to acknowledge the truth.

Rage warred with regret within and he lost hold of Balance, and in his frustration, he unleashed his ire upon the world around him. It was no different from a child’s tantrum, only instead of clenching his hands and stomping his feet, he sent his Chi barrelling out into the world around him, infused with all his unwanted emotions.

And in doing so, inadvertently discovered the Concealed Divinity.

Aura overwhelmed him in an instant and squeezed the breath from his lungs, and for a moment, he saw his death, but then Monk Eyebrows stepped in and the pressure abated, if only enough for Hideo to breathe. Bowing towards the same dusty corner he’d noticed and ignored, Monk Eyebrows whispered, “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo. This monk has no eyes or ears, and he sees and hears nothing. Same too with this monk’s Disciple, blind as a newborn and equally as ignorant.”

No response was forthcoming, but Monk Eyebrows straightened up and carried Hideo away with a Cloud-Step, leaving his retinue to recover from the ordeal and catch up on foot. For long minutes, they stood upon the fields of Central in utter silence as Hideo tried to come to terms with what he just experienced, reflecting on his memories and trying to understand how it all played out. Monk Eyebrows said nothing, but he offered silent encouragement as Hideo wrestled with his thoughts, right up until his retinue caught up and they set out towards their targeted district.

And then there was little time left for introspection, for Hideo had a job to do.

