As Chieftain of Chieftains, Vithar’s first priority was to learn.

Not the reading of books these southlanders put so much stock in, but rather to study and scrutinize his enemies and rivals alike in order to improve beyond their abilities, for there were no allies across tribes. The lesser Chieftains were merely Vithar’s collaborators, heeding his orders until they sensed weakness and sought to take what was his, but he did not intend to give them any chance. This came as second nature to him, having lived this way his entire life until he came to trust Asmani. Now, in her absence, he fell back into old habits while commanding the garos; he slept lightly and never in the same building twice, kept clean food on his person at all times and had others test it for him first, and most importantly, he kept a tight rein on the Ancestors and heeded their advice sparingly, for they saw treachery and bloodshed lurking about every corner.

Even Vithar’s tribesmen could no longer be counted on to guard him, not that he ever put much stock in their loyalty to begin with. Nor did he trust the Uniter’s black-armoured Transcendents or hidden guardian Wraiths to keep him safe, despite how effective they’d been thus far. There was no one Vithar could truly depend on, not anymore, and while he would have once considered this the norm, his reliance on Asmani and time spent in the oasis had lessened him. Weakness could not be tolerated in the Chieftain of Chieftains, so he hardened his resolve, honed his instincts, and improved his strength to become the Prime Champion his people deserved.

His people. Not just his tribesmen, but his people, all the tribesmen of the north who’d survived this long. Numbers beyond the thousands made little sense to him, mere concepts he had nothing to compare against, but having heard how millions of his people had already died just to make it this far left his chest burning with fury and his heart aching for vengeance. To fall in battle against a strong foe was one thing, but these southlanders embraced their weakness rather than reject it, hiding behind their walls and armour of steel and leather. Such pitiful men and women were no match for even unblooded children, but instead of accepting their place in the world as prey and victim or striving to improve and adapt, they created contraptions of wood, iron, and tendon to deliver death to Vithar’s tribesmen from afar.

Crossbows, the southlanders called them, wielded by Irregulars who had no place being on the battlefield, yet they accounted for the deaths of too many garos and riders. Every tribe had their tales of mighty Chieftains and Champions falling victim to the hail of bolts raining down from above, many of whom died before even closing in to do glorious battle. An undeserving kill, one dealt by contemptible weaklings, and the worst of it was that there was nothing to be gained from the killing or dying. The world lost a warrior, but no Irregulars would rise to replace him, because what could be learned when dealing death from such great distances? If all war were fought in this manner, then the Empire’s weakness would only spread until they were too fragile to withstand the pressure of the world itself, a lamentable end Vithar’s people would never see, for they would have long since been eradicated by these clever cowards.

Feeble through they might be, these Irregular tactics were unquestionably effective, so Vithar treated the people of the Empire like the canny adversaries they’d proven themselves to be. While it stung his pride to even consider it, pride had no place when it came to survival, so he led his raids with care and caution aplenty while instructing his under-chieftains to do the same. Unfortunately, few cared enough to remember Vithar’s warnings in the heat of battle, and he lost more riders than he cared to in the initial forays, but this was both blessing and curse. Though the tribes dwindled in numbers, the survivors learned from their failures and harvested new Ancestors from those who fell in battle against the weak southlanders, their dead wisdom added to the collective for the living to make better use of. Vithar himself led a dozen such successful raids, driving his tribesmen over the towering wall and pushing past into the verdant green ‘farmlands’, where they did battle against the enemy hidden behind their smooth, stone walls.

Such was the mindset of prey, to huddle and hide in hopes of escaping death, but this only delayed the inevitable. Even if these weakling were able to drive Vithar back, there would come a day when he caught them outside their walls and then vengeance would be his. Despite the difficulties, he profited much from the raids as his tribesmen came away with packs supplies, materials, and prisoners aplenty.

All the while, Vithar learned from his foes and adjusted to match them, while sharing his knowledge with those under-chieftains capable of making their way back to the West alive after a raid. The patrols moved in timed intervals, so if spotted, split in two groups to ride north and south, allowing at least one half of the raiding party to make it over the wall uncontested. When attacking the forts, spread out on the approach, but target only a single wall, and avoid the gates altogether, for death lurks behind them. Though lacking in sport, the fields and houses were not to be neglected, for enough rodents will fill even the emptiest of bellies. Offer no duels, for the southlanders would not always honour them, and attack or retreat as soon as you are seen, for the enemy catapults had more range than one might otherwise believe.

Those he sent on raids were the least worthy of his people, ones barely in control of their murderous desires accompanied by the unblooded, but even this minor loss was enough to set young Gen to complaining. There was no survival without sacrifice however, and once Vithar realized the powerful young warrior was more concerned about the lost garos than tribesmen, he ordered the tribes to trigger a spawning season and showed the fool just how many eggs could be laid by a single breeding female. That quieted the brat down some, though he did grumble about the time wasted even after Vithar explained that breeding slowed down the entire pack, as the males would lose much of their drive and bloodlust once their desire to mate was sated.

Though he gleaned much from his raids and excursions, Vithar spent the rest of his free time shadowing the Western Warrior Gongsun Qi. This was one southlander who was far from weak, his strength above and beyond what Vithar could even fathom, but it was not strength which drew him to the slender, willowy man’s side, but rather his expertise in large scale command. Though Vithar was now Chieftain of Chieftains, the way things were done under the Uniter’s banner was strange and unfamiliar to him. Rather than task the under-chieftains directly, Gongsun Qi passed his orders to Vithar with little to no instruction on how to carry them out. Attack this district here and burn or bring back the timber stored in their warehouse. Assault the Wall here and hold the patrol in place for at least half an hour, before retreating to the north and west. Sink the ships passing by this place during this time, while capturing whatever prisoners you can. These were the nature of Gongsun Qi’s tasks, and while Vithar was more than capable of completing them all himself, he was unable to travel so quickly to carry them out. Thus, Vithar was forced to do something he loathed with every bone in his body, something that set the Ancestors to screeching every time he did it.

Vithar had to learn how to trust his under-chieftains and manage them appropriately.

That was the way these southlanders waged war, and it was part of what made them so effective, separate tribes working together towards a single goal. Vithar’s tasks were but a single piece to what Gongsun Qi was trying to achieve, and even now, what that might be was not yet clear to the Chieftain of Chieftains. Asmani might have figured it out by now, but she was always more clever than he, and he’d gotten used to leaving the puzzles for her to solve. Yet another reason why trust was weakness, for her presence made him ignore his own critical flaws and kept him from improving, but so long as he still drew breath, there was always room to improve. Day after day, Vithar listened in on Gongsun Qi’s meetings and studied his maps in order to make sense of the overall situation, collecting all the information he saw and heard without making progress in his efforts to decipher it. The greatest problem was his inability to read, as there was much information stored in the scribbles these southlanders put so much stock in, and he was beginning to see why. Rather than wait for his under-chieftains to return and report, Gongsun Qi gathered information from fast riders bearing sealed messages, allowing him to learn much with minimal delay and adapt his plans as necessary.

Asmani would make much headway with these scribbles, unlike Vithar who struggled to differentiate one from the next, even with the assistance of his near perfect memory. Knowing what the character for ‘death’ looked like did not tell him if the message meant ‘dead’, ‘dying’, or ‘will die’, assuming it was actually the character for death and not something that looked so similar save for a single added stroke or missing dot or something equally minor that could easily be overlooked.

“You be distracted.” Gongsun Qi was a soft-spoken man, but Vithar had long since learned not to mistake this for weakness, for there was none in the iron-eyed Warrior as he tapped the scroll unfurled across his desk. “Not unexpected from a Defiled tribesman, but strive to focus for at least a few minutes so that this Prince might pass along this vital information you require to keep your cavalry alive, oh Chieftain of Chieftains.”

There was a hint of mockery in the man’s slurred drawl, one that would have had the Vithar of old ready to bare blades and draw blood, but he held his temper and stared down the stronger warrior. There was no shame in admitting that he was not Gongsun Qi’s match, but what was true today would not be true tomorrow, for Vithar was young and vital while the older warrior was neither. Giving the scroll yet another look, he deciphered enough of it to have confidence in his conclusion. “There are Death Corps guarding the districts,” he said, brimming with satisfaction at Gongsun Qi’s evident surprise. “The black armoured Warriors who fight to the last. This is a problem, why?”

“So, you can read.” Nodding in approval, the bronzed general turned the scroll towards Vithar and said, “Read this for me.”

“I cannot.” Pointing at the words he recognized, Vithar said, “Death Corps. Two-hundred. Districts.” Looking Gongsun Qi in the eyes, he offered the barest hint of a shrug and said, “The most recent raids have yet to report back. They are lost?”

Still nodding, the southlander signalled at the attendants standing off to the side said, “Arrange a tutor for our Chieftain of Chieftains. Our cooperation will improve by leaps and bounds once he is able to read without assistance.” Seeing Vithar’s scowl, Gongsun Qi said, “This Prince suspects it will not be long before you pick up the skill on your own, but time saved is time earned.”

Grudgingly nodding in acceptance of this shared wisdom, Vithar glanced back at the scroll and said, “So Death Corps at the Districts. Why does this matter? These Death Corps fight well, but they bleed and die like any other.”

“Because now the cost of raiding the districts be more than the returns.” Raising his hand to forestall an argument, the southlander explained, “Even this Prince would not pit two-hundred of his soldiers against two-hundred Death Corps and expect to emerge unscathed, and this be without accounting for the supporting militia.” That was another word for Irregular, as far as Vithar could understand, which made him wonder why these southlanders liked to put so many different labels on the same thing. Cups, mugs, teacups, and bowls, all words for what amounted to a vessel for holding food or water, only one example of such southlander foolishness, but Vithar didn’t care enough to investigate.

“There is benefit to be had.” Never one to give up without a fight, he challenged Gongsun Qi’s decisions whenever he could, for Vithar saw these discussions as a different sort of duel, one of words that might reveal the southlander’s mettle. “Blooding and experience for the younglings who have yet to prove themselves in battle. Teaching my under-chieftains how their enemy thinks and fights. Raiding the towns for prizes and materials. My riders do all this and more.”

“All matters for Chieftains to worry about,” Gongsun Qi countered, and before Vithar could respond to this insult, the general clarified, “And you be Chieftain of Chieftains. You must elevate yourself and your way of thinking, for you command not hundreds, not thousands, but a veritable horde of riders who by and large have sat idle and unused.”

“They are blooded,” Vithar explained, and in his mind, there was nothing more that needed to be said, but he made allowances for the southlander. “The unblooded are... meaningless, unknowns, like many of the words on this scroll, but once blooded, the Ancestors will know their measure and so too will their Chieftains. These raids are for lesser tribesmen to prove themselves, so with little wealth to be gained and time spared for indulgence, the others have no reason to join.”

