The reasons he could imagine for Hugh, Corin, and whoever else was with them to want Esh-erdi’s time and attention were all negative. Maybe they were angling for Hazel to be declared Queen of Anesidora. Maybe they wanted the knights to give a speech about how Aulia was the best-most-sweetest Avowed, and how she’d had nothing to do with the Sinker Sender theft. Or it could be the opposite—some kind of power play to make sure Aulia stayed stuck on her megayacht for a few years while they did whatever it was people like them did when the boss was busy.

Esh-erdi and Lind-otta do not need further exposure to the worst of humanity on their esvulgivnas. And I don’t need Hugh glaring at me for getting his daughter jettisoned.

Even Aimi might not be as innocent as she appeared. Her mom seemed to be the closest thing Aulia had to a second in command.

“Why are you looking at me like that?” Aimi asked.

Alden shook his head.

Esh-erdi allowed himself to be chivvied out of the sauna.

“I feel so well protected!” he said as they headed for the showers. “And I feel so much more curious about Aulia’s family than I did previously.”

“This is Alden’s Cottontail mode,” Haoyu said.

How did we get to the point where Haoyu feels comfortable telling a knight about our dumb codenames?

“This is Alden being practical,” Alden retorted. “We needed to get out of there anyway. Most of those people weren’t fun. They were vibe ruiners.”

“We can go do something else fun,” said Haoyu.

“I want to do something fun,” Esh-erdi agreed.

They both looked back at Alden, wearing bizarrely similar hopeful expressions.

What the hell? When did I become the Friday night activities coordinator?

He tried to think of something that wouldn’t turn into a circus. “We’re very close to school. Did you want that tour now?”

******

While Haoyu and Esh-erdi poked their heads into every classroom on the Artonan culture floor of the Forthright Building, Alden trailed behind them, studying the map of the campus he’d pulled up.

The goal was to show Esh-erdi all the most interesting things without attracting crowds of people. Easier than it might have been, since we’ve ended up doing this on a Friday evening.

No classes were in session, and if they saved places like the student center and the cafeterias until later, everyone would pretty much have cleared out.

I’ll make sure he has a good time and feels like humanity is a pretty cool species despite everything that’s gone wrong. And that way when he’s on the frontlines with his partner and the Primary, he won’t be thinking, ‘Why am I doing this for those people?’

“And someone on this hallway pees in our roommate’s shoes!” Haoyu said.

Or we could tell him something like that.

Alden dismissed the map and examined his tourist instead. Esh-erdi was starting up a story about someone he’d known in school who watered a plant with nothing but her own tears one term.

He came just to hang out with me, I think? There didn’t seem to be any serious reason for Esh-erdi’s arrival at the spa. Maybe he really wants to chill for a couple of hours and not think about anything serious. Maybe Shoe Pisser is the right kind of thing for tonight, after all.

“Do you want to see the learning cushions we use in my conversation class?” Alden asked. “Stu saw them on a video call. They’re acceptable for most human students, but he’s still so mad about them.”

“He gave you permission to use his first name!” Esh-erdi said. “Your friendship buds.”

“Yes.” Alden checked the door to the classroom and found it unlocked, as all the others had been. “I’ve had permission for a long time. I was just dumb, and I didn’t realize it.”

They saw ass-abused cushions in that room, a board with a gokoratch eating a stick figure drawn on it in another, and in a lecture hall downstairs, they found a brunette girl randomly sleeping at a desk. They woke her up by talking about whether or not they should wake her up, and she shouted “One cappuccino!” as soon as her eyes snapped open. That was how they found out she worked part-time at the coffeeshop downstairs and also how she ended up nervously making a cappuccino for an intrigued Artonan.

Next, they went to the performing arts building to ride the elevator up through the glass bubble chandelier while Haoyu explained how the candle balls floating in the blackness were the perfect decorating idea that they hadn’t quite managed to mimic in their dorm room.

“Yet,” he added.

Then they went to Cafeteria North just after closing time to show Esh-erdi the fake town square. After that, Alden had been planning to take a walk through the memorial garden, but as they approached from above on the nonagon, they realized people were arriving early for a vigil that would start just after midnight. To mark exactly one week since the sirens had sounded.

“Did either of you plan to attend?” Esh-erdi asked.

“I went to one a few days ago,” Haoyu replied. “This one will probably be really crowded. So I’d rather not.”

Alden tried to think of how to say that he wanted to walk away from reminders right now, not run toward them, without the desire sounding dramatic or selfish. “I’d rather not either,” he said instead.

“And I shouldn’t.” Esh-erdi was looking down through the nonagon’s surface. “Since I seem to be distracting for some Avowed.”

“The Adjuster cleaning the cafeteria would have broken that table even if you hadn’t been there,” Alden lied.

“That’s right,” said Haoyu. “Clumsy aim was his problem.”

[Should we take him to see the MPE gym?] Alden texted.

[Who now?] Haoyu asked.

[It says Private Sessions on the schedule. Whoever it is, they probably don’t want us there, right?]

Haoyu shrugged.

[I’ll try to work it out for another day,] Alden typed.

They ended up making the dorm their last stop instead. Alden was under the impression that Haoyu was giving Lexi a warning, mostly because he had texted, “No worry. I can talk Danger Badger and make him open window for us!”

And Lexi did open the living room window for them the second they speed-dropped out of the night sky. But it was obvious that whatever message Haoyu had sent, it hadn’t included mention of their company.

Alden was positive that Lexi wouldn’t have greeted them in pajama pants and then yelled, “Gahhh! What the—!?” if he’d had any clue who was coming.

The look he directed at Haoyu and the knight was wild-eyed. The one he sent Alden’s way was more murderous.

[Haoyu told me he’d call before we got here.] Alden sent the message as he climbed through the window. [He’s your best friend, so I trusted him. Maybe he messed up a mental text? We’re just going to show Esh-erdi the apartment. Sorry.]

Best to make all of his arguments and apologies now, while witnesses prevented Lexi from doing any actual murdering.

“We have so much food left from yesterday,” Haoyu was saying as he trotted over to the fridge. “You can have supper with us if you want, Esh-erdi.”

[Possibly he’ll be eating supper with us, too,] Alden added.

He was going to leave the explanation there and join Haoyu in digging through whatever was in the fridge, but then he thought better of it. Lexi was looking pale…and that wasn’t actually unreasonable of him.

Just a few short days ago, Alden had been nervous around the knight. He had a lot more secrets to keep than Lexi did, but he also had a lot more information.

Haoyu was so chill and grounded and easy to get along with. That made him feel like the normal one. But he’s not. I think he might just be unusual in a way that’s convenient for me. And even he was nervous about meeting Esh-erdi for a second.

“Hey, come help me put my stuff down,” said Alden. It was a weak excuse to pull Lexi from the room. Alden’s “stuff” was a duffel bag he obviously didn’t need help with. But Haoyu was explaining the pros and cons of cold pizza to their visitor, and neither of them looked around while Lexi followed him down the hall.

[If you want to go, I’ll make an excuse for you,] Alden texted as they entered his bedroom. [The nonagon is right outside. I can send you up to Kon’s room or down to the garden.]

Lexi stiffened.

Is he insulted?

The Meister was air-typing. [What is he doing here?]

Alden chucked the bag onto the floor beside the closet. He quickly ran through his Esh-erdi knowledge and decided most of it was actually shareable.

[He’s probably not shopping for Avowed, despite what all the people who seem to dread that or want that think. He’s here with his partner, and after they finished up at Matadero, they were planning to enjoy Earth for a while. They’re celebrating a relationship thing and vacationing together before they go do bad shit with other powerful people. If they were hoping to pick up some Avowed for that, I’m not sure anyone on Anesidora would even be qualified.

[Their vacation plans got interrupted, but he’s trying to make the most of it, I think, by being curious and blowing off steam when he’s not busy. He’s been doing a lot to look out for me. Too much probably. The biggest risk of having him around is that he’ll decide we need help with something and then he’ll do the helping too enthusiastically.

[He’ll be very interested in you if you stay for cold pizza, but if he notices he’s making you uncomfortable he’ll leave. Or he’ll try something to fix your discomfort…no telling what. He brought me juice while I wrote an essay, and he bought me a tree.]

When he finished, he watched his roommate read the long message. Finally, Lexi sighed and nodded.

“I’ll go put on a shirt,” he murmured.

It wasn’t long before he reappeared in the living area, well-dressed and ready to point out that Haoyu was feeding Esh-erdi all of the things that had been declared unfit for wizard Thanksgiving a mere day ago.

“We can order good food from somewhere,” he said seriously to Esh-erdi. “You don’t have to eat the mystery dishes and the floor potatoes.”

“Don’t worry,” said Esh-erdi, looking at him with one eye and a smile. “Human food isn’t very frightening. What is floor potatoes?”

Haoyu started describing how the mashed potatoes had been dropped on the staircase because of Kon and then been reassembled, bowl and all, by Kon.

“And there’s not even any dirt or dust or hair in here as far as we can tell,” Haoyu said, scooping some of the floor potatoes onto a plate for himself. “When he brought them up here, they still had the butter swirl Søren had put on top and everything. Which is amazing! But just in case, we decided not to send these to Matadero with the other dishes.”

Esh-erdi did take a bite of the potatoes, but not until he’d stared at them for a much longer time than anything else.

******

“You can stay here with your friends tonight if you want,” Esh-erdi said. It was late, and the nonagon was rising above Garden Hall. “All of the most worrying matters have been dealt with. I’d like for you to return to Matadero again at least once so that we can speak of certain things that are best spoken of in that place, but otherwise you’re free to come and go while Lind and I are staying there.”

“Come and go?” Alden asked, almost bringing the nonagon to a halt. The wind ruffled his hair; the air smelled clean and crisp.

“If you want.”

Who would want to come and go from The Slaughterhouse? Alden thought, only to realize that he did want. People he liked were there, and Matadero was convenient for him in some ways.

“The teleportation area,” he said. “It’s all right for me to use it to go see the mind healer on Monday?”

Travel through the TC had its inconveniences, and it would be easier to hide how frequently he was going to the Triplanets if his trips were routed through the cube.

Or if I just vanished from my room like it was an insta-summons. But let’s give Earth a break where we can, right?

“You can use any of the facilities you want,” Esh-erdi said. “Though I’m aware that with your body healed, you may have trouble convincing people Porti is responsible for trips you make to the cube.”

I could tell everyone he was experimenting on me…and he might take that as an invitation to experiment on me.

“Why would I be allowed to come and go from Matadero if I’m not working there?”

Esh-erdi looked thoughtful. “You’ve proven yourself worthy of trust. I like your company and want to enjoy more conversations with you before I leave Earth. It is convenient for me if you’re occasionally in the same location as me, and I do hope to make your life easier. Giving you access to the building is such a <<minute>> privilege that I can’t imaging an Artonan ever questioning it once they know the situation. I find your own people’s fascination with your presence there <<perplexing>>.”

“Um…it’s strongly associated with demon fighting,” Alden pointed out. “And I’m an adolescent. And a Ryeh-b’t. And not very powerful.”

“I know,” said Esh-erdi. “But everyone is aware by now that it’s being used as a house, despite our <<polite fictions>> about making repairs…oh. Do some humans think the polite fictions hide nocturnal battles instead of rest? That misconception might explain some things.”

“I don’t think people think that,” Alden said. “At least not many of them. Honestly, it’s…I can’t think of the word. Novelty? The novelty of me being there. And envy mixed in. And some stranger things that aren’t worth mentioning.”

“I see,” Esh-erdi said. He looked out over Apex. “Change our direction a little since you seem to be coming back with me anyway.”

“Yes. My learning cushion is there. And I have an earring from Olorn-art’h now, and I…”

