We slowly move over to the spider without entering its striking range. I point out the legs I can see and follow them up to the main body of the spider. The canopy isn’t as thick this far into the forest and only a quarter of its body is behind some branches and leaves. I deactivate my Sense Mana skill and realize the main body of the spider is completely invisible amongst its surroundings. Damn, they don’t need a dense canopy to hide.

At least the horrible weather is helping a little. You can see the rain bouncing off the carapace if you look closely enough.

I pull out our torch and light it with my magic before the rain can soak it too much.

“Llaif gamfr ol e nnamse!”

We each know what our jobs are. I take up my position after charging master’s pickaxe.

I had to use my skills last time to cut through the spider’s leg. The only skill I’ve practiced with my sword is Precise Strike, I hope it will be enough. I see master out of the corner of my eye readying his stance.

Just like working together, we don’t need to communicate to synchronize our swings. We both attack at the same time.

I inject mana into my sword and activate Precise Strike. My blade bursts into flames as it clashes against the spiders camouflaged leg. I feel the resistance when my katana makes contact. My sword makes it three quarters of the way through the leg before I need to draw my sword back. That’s better than the last time I attacked the other spider.

“AAAAAGGGGGGGGG!”

The shrill scream of the spider doesn’t keep me from striking the leg again, this time I sever the leg completely. I use Flash Step and avoid the remaining part of the limb trying to hit me.

With some distance between us, I look at the stump of the leg on the spider. The place I cut the carapace is slowly burning. My magic sword worked!

Master jumps back and appears at my side. He managed to sever three legs this time. The pissed spider charges us on its remaining six legs.

The twang of a loud bowstring fills the air and an arrow appears in one of the spider’s eyes. I quickly glance at Ronald and see him smiling while he knocks another arrow back. Last time he could barely do anything against the spider’s carapace and quick movements. I’m glad the new bow was a success.

I switch places with Ronald, he and Del distract the creature while I start chanting.

“I summon the power of the earth. I give 400 of my mana to use your great power. I call the element magnesium before me in the form of a powder. I shape the powder into a ball a foot in diameter in the palm of my hand. The ball will be covered in a shell made from wind mana and will be shot in a straight motion at 100 ft per second. Execute in five seconds.”

The mana leaves my body and the spell forms in my palm. “I’m ready!” I shout to Ronald and Del.

They both jump back as the ball of magnesium dust rockets out of my hand. The spider moves slightly and the ball strikes the bottom of the spider rather than its face.

“Your turn, master!” I watch Del grab the torch I prepared earlier. A small explosion of mud happens when master launches himself at the spider with incredible force.

He makes it under the beast and prepares to torch the fucker.

“Watch out,” I scream as the spider tries crushing master with its body! Master makes it out from under the beast but can’t dodge one of the spider’s legs coming at him. Master tries to block the leg with his pickaxe but the force of the strike sends him skidding against the wet forest floor. He impacts a tree so hard the bark is pulverized.

Worse, he dropped the torch during the skirmish. The torch went out as sone as it fell in the mud.

“Ronald, Piss it off more!” I shout at the hunter while I try to run towards to Del.

His bow snaps again and an arrow pierces into another one of the spider’s eyes. The beast turns away from master and charges us. Ronald takes some distance and I use Double Step to slash/evade another one of its limbs.

Another arrow hits the spider in one of its joints distracting it long enough for me to reach master, who looks slow getting to his feet. His armor is dented and a steady stream of blood is dripping off of his face.

“You ok!?” I help him to his feet.

“I’ll be fine. I lost the torch!”

“I’ll have to light it with my sword. I need you and Ronald to keep it distracted!”

“Ok!” Master raises his pickaxe and charges the beast again.

I need to hurry, the magnesium may be waterproof once it catches fire but every second it's not lit the rain washes part of it off!

I break into a run and try to get behind the spider. I’m not sure if my sword can stand the magnesium fire so I can’t just throw it at the carapace.

I wait for it to lunge at master before I rush the creature!

I make it underneath but I need to jump to reach the part where my spell hit. I’m about to launch myself up when the carapace starts crashing down towards me. In the corner of my eye I see the eyes of the spider focusing on me.

“Oh shit!” I raise up my flaming sword in an overhead striking motion. I move towards the head of the creature as I feel the carapace make contact with my sword’s tip. I feel the heat form the magnesium igniting above me as I reach the open jaws of the creature.

Sorry, but I don’t feel like being eaten today!

“Flash Step!” I shout out and swerve around the jaws of the beast. I can’t fully clear the body of the spider with my skill, so I push off of the ground with as much Strength I can muster after using my skill. I momentarily fly through the air before I hit the muddy ground. I curl into a ball and skid around on the forest floor, feeling my Mana Skin being ripped away in chunks.

Master grabs me and pulls me away from the flailing spider. The cries of the burning beast are muffled by the heavy rainfall. Sparks dance across the carapace as water comes in contact with the magnesium.

The fire only lasts 37 seconds this time, it took us too long to light the magnesium. The spider isn’t dead yet but it’s very close.

It takes us five minutes to slash away the spiders remaining health before it finally stops moving.

That’s what we get for planning ahead.

I look at the corpse of the magic beast. The exposed flesh of the creature is still steaming and I’m suddenly hungry.

I have a feeling I’ll get plenty of spider meat in the coming months.
