“What’s that, sweety?” Mother scooches closer to me and looks curiously at the large wrapped bundle.

“Something amazing! Ronald, come over here, please.” The silent man moves closer to our group.

I slowly open the hide covering trying to make it look more dramatic. “Master and I worked on this all week trying to get it to work right.”

“My apprentice likes to challenge both of us.” Master interrupts my monologue and everyone smiles at his joke.

“I know you enjoyed making something different as much as I did.” I finish unwrapping a quiver of arrows and the bow I made with master.

Everyone’s eyes go wide, including Ronald’s when they see the bow.

“What is that!?” Camden exclaims. “I’ve never seen a bow like that before.”

“It’s a recurve bow made with some new materials.” I carefully hoist the bow up so everyone can see it. Even time I see it I’m amazed we managed to pull off making this thing.

“What metal is that?” Nicolas looks amazed at the shiny silvery metal laying in front of me.

“Let me explain what we did.” I carefully set the heavy bow back on the table. “This beast weighs 30 pounds. It’s five feet from tip to tip and the body is made from steel mixed with the carapace of the chameleon spiders. We tried making it out of our best steel but it wasn’t flexing like we wanted. We were tossing ideas back and forth when I had the idea to try using our new steel mixture. The steel is mixed with the spider’s armor and after four tries we got the composition right it’s strong enough you can slam it up against a tree but still flexible enough to retain its shape after it’s subjected to the force of shooting the arrows.” Mother and Sarette are still gushing about the beautiful polished silver design on the body while the men are more interested in the technical aspects.

“The string was also woven from the sinew we recovered from the chameleon spider.” I lift the bow back up and move to draw the bowstring, it barely moves for me. “To draw the bow, you need 140 Strength. Master had to be the one to string this monster because I don’t have the stats to do it. The force this thing launches an arrow at is incredible.”

I set the bow back down again and reach for the quiver of arrows I brought with it. “Your average arrows can’t handle the force the bow exerts, so I made you some new arrows to go along with your new bow.” I pull one of the twenty arrows out of the quiver. “The shaft of the arrows I made are also made from the spider steel but we used different proportions of carapace in the mixture to make it stronger so it can endure the force when you release your shot.”

I hand the arrow over to Ronald so he can inspect it. He holds the arrow up to his eye examining the straightness of the shaft. “I made sure each was perfectly straight.” Ronald nods at my claim. “If you’ll look at the arrow tip, you’ll see the true magic of it. The arrow head is designed to help the arrow twist not only through the air but also when it hits its target. The broad head arrow has a single beveled design, making the edges slant on both sides. When the arrow strikes something, it rotates into the wound and penetrates deep, causing a bigger wound. I call it a helix arrow head.” [1]

Ronald examines the arrowhead and moves his finger closer to the blade. “Try spinning the arrowhead to the left.” Ronald looks confused but follows my directions. His surprised expression when the arrowhead unscrews from the shaft is worth all the work we did to make that possible. “Each arrow and shaft has its own fittings that allow you to swap them out. If you need more shafts, I can make them separately or if you want a new arrowhead you can change them out depending on what you’re doing.”

“The fletching is again made from the carapace of the chameleon spiders. The fins are made from sculpted carapace that we melted in the fire. It took us a long time to get the fletching shaped just right.” I eagerly await his thoughts on the arrow.

“Good arrow,” he says as he reattaches the arrowhead. A pressure I wasn’t aware I was feeling is lifted with his two words.

“I made sure to take my time and sharpen each arrow to the point they’ll cut any soft surface with ease. The bottom of the quiver has hide in it so you’ll need to replace it once a year but it will protect the arrows when you place them in. I’ll make more arrows for you later. I hope twenty will be enough for now?”

Ronald bends over and picks up his new bow. “It’s fine, you did an amazing job. This is the most amazing bow I’ve ever seen.” All of us are staring at Ronald. He’s too busy examining the bow and I don’t think he realizes how much he just said.

“Master and I worked really hard on it, I’m happy you’re happy.” I smile as Ronald takes his stance and knocks his arrow. His arms are tense as he slowly draws the bow, bringing his fingers up to his face.

He slowly releases the tension on his string and sets the arrow back into his new quiver. Back on Earth, a bow like this could be made but it would be impractical. I wish I had a way to measure how fast this bow can release an arrow. I just hope it’s enough to harm the chameleon spiders we’ll be hunting tomorrow.

“Now each of us has a cool weapon to show off tomorrow morning.” Del and I smile at each other and I can see Ronald smirking down at his bow. We both went out of our comfort zones to make this weapon. I had to learn multiple new things about customizing a bow for someone. I asked Ronald for his strength stat but it wasn’t until we started to make it, I was told I need to get his draw length. Draw length is how far back the bowstring will be pulled back to fire the bow. The draw length also played a huge part in the arrows I had to make. Having arrows exactly long enough to be fully drawn without the arrowhead touching the arrow rest was something I never thought of before this build.

I’m sure a bowyer could make something better but we did the best with the materials we were most accustomed to.

“Does anyone have anything else to say before we adjourn for the day.” Camden looks around the room.

“I was wondering if you can do me a favor now that you mention it,” I ask the headman.

“Name it and I’ll do whatever I can to help!” That’s more exciting than I was expecting.

“Nothing too big. I was wondering if you can convince Kervin to wait for my return if he shows up while we’re gone. Let him know I have a lot of business for him.”

“I’m sure he’ll be excited to await your return,” Camden assures me.

“He’ll want to get his hands on your magic beast materials. He would have to be a horrible merchant to pass over such an opportunity. That said, don’t take too long to return, sweety.” Mother leans over and puts her hand on top of mine.

“Wouldn’t dream of it, mother.”

Alright spiders, watch out. Round two starts tomorrow!

Thankfully there were no speeches when we gathered the next morning. The three of us walk into the forest with our weapons drawn. None of us want to look back at the faces watching us fade into the trees.

When Camden said that there would be a crowd when we departed, I imagined a dozen or so people like during my sparring sessions, not half the village!

We gathered in front of the headman’s house and slowly made our way over to the tip of the fields. The closer we made it to the trees the more the group following us increased. Even the rain that began to fall didn’t deter the crowd from following us.

We’re going hunting for a spider, not a dragon.

The three of us are side by side as we move deeper into the forest.

I look behind us and scan our surroundings for anyone who decided to follow us. “I don’t see anyone. What about you Ronald?”

“No.”

“Then that means we’re clear.” Master visibly relaxes and Ronald and I do the same.

“I hope that doesn’t happen every time we do this,” I complain. Out of sight from everyone, I sheath my sword. Ronald moves his new bow onto his back and Master Del follows his example doing the same with his pickaxe.

We don’t need to keep our weapons drawn for now. Our goal is to move fast and get closer to the area we last spotted the closest chameleon spider.

“Which way Ronald?” I look around our surroundings.

“There,” he points to my left.

“Same formation as last time?” I turn and grin to my companions.

“Sounds good to me,” master says and I get a nod from Ronald.

We take up our old positions, I’m in front scanning the trees with my mana sense and Ronald is directing me from behind. The three of us let loose and dash through the trees.

The three of us move as one at an unprecedented pace.

It only takes us eight hours to reach the edge of the area the hunters usually stick to. We slow our pace and move deeper into the forest.

“Do you guys think we should stop and make camp soon?” I ask over my shoulder.

“Why would we stop now? You tired already?” Master quips behind me.

“If we’re going to be doing this every month, we should make a camp that we can easily access during each trip.”

“We should move a little deeper than, don’t you think?” Master gives me his two cents, I mean copper.

“Up ahead, good spot.” Ronald points into the distance.

It takes us thirty minutes to find Ronald’s spot. It’s a large karhu burrow that looks abandoned. We’ll need to shore up the sides but it could make for a great place to camp when the weather takes a turn for the worst. The rain has stopped for now but it’s been coming and going all day.

The three of us spend the rest of the day sprucing up our hole in the ground. Some large logs from a nearby tree make the perfect frame for our den. Karhu are big enough that we didn’t need to excavate any more room. A firepit is placed a foot outside the cave for cooking and our stats should keep us warm with the help of a few blankets, as long as we stay out of the wind.

It started to rain again and I’m not looking forward to hunting tomorrow if this downpour continues.

We sit down after we finish the construction and pull out our rations for the night. While eating my jerky I double-check the strategy for tomorrow. “Are we sticking to the same plan as last time?” I ask Ronald and Del.

“Are you talking about fighting the chameleon spiders?” Master takes a swig from the flask he brought.

“Of course, I’m talking about the chameleon spider, what else would we discuss?”

Master shrugs his shoulders. “I don’t know? We could talk about our watch shifts, our searching strategy for tomorrow, or maybe we can discuss the weather. You can pick a topic.” Master gives me a sarcastic look.

“Funny. I was thinking more about me blasting the spider with earth magic and one of you torching it.” I deadpan.

“Same as last time then.” Master smiles at me.

“If it’s not broken, why fix it?” I point out to master.

“Sounds good to me, what about you Ronald?” Master looks over at our expert hunter. He’s also eating jerky but stroking his new bow on his lap.

He looks up and then down at his bow again. It doesn’t take a genius to realize he wants to try it out.

“Two of us have new weapons. I say we start off the same. Master and I will each attack the legs and Ronald will lay down some cover fire with his bow. I’ll back up and cast my spell, then master can toss the torch we brought and finish it off. Easy peasy.”

We all agree on the plan. Master Del and I continue with our small talk the rest of the night until our watch shifts start. It feels almost like we never left the forest after the goblin extermination.

“Well, this sucks.” I’m standing at the mouth of our cave. The sky is dark grey and not a single ray of sunlight makes it through the clouds. There’s so much rain I can only guess the gods must be pissing on us right now.

Master and Ronald walk up next to me. “It’s not that bad,” master says. Ronald and I just look at him with our straight faces. “Your faces look the same!” Master immediately starts laughing and I can’t hold back my own smile.

I activate Mana Skin and step into the pouring rain.

Master and Ronald pull up their raincoats and follow me into the forest.

We zig-zag through the trees making sure we cover as much ground as possible. If we’re lucky we won’t find anything all day and will have to move to our next campsite. The farther we make it from the village without spotting a chameleon spider the better for the village.

“Your skill isn’t fair,” Master complains behind me.

I turn around and see two soggy men following me. “I’m sorry you're jealous about my skill.” I humph and face forwards.

“Your right, I am jealous.” Masters sad voice cuts through the rain and into my heart.

“I’m sorry, mas…” I cut myself off when I turn around and face him. Instead of a depressed Del, master is smiling at me.

“I may be a little jealous but I have more pride than jealousy for my monstrous disciple.” I turn back around before he can see me blush.

“Thank you, master. It means a lot that…” I freeze in my tracks.

Master and Ronald see me stop. They both move directly behind me as quietly as possible so we can whisper to each other.

“Ahead to the left.” I point out the camouflaged spider leg to my companions.

This isn’t good! We’re only an hour from our campsite. The spiders are definitely closing in on the village.

