The thought passed in Lehesion's mind, and he considered it for a second. He shook his head and frowned, "No. I wouldn't. I have yet to sink so low."

Impressed by the guy, I raised a hand, "Then we can keep fighting, or you can go back. It's up to you."

Lehesion looked down, indecision spreading over him. That indecisiveness died as a foreign force overtook him. A series of convulsions robbed him of his self-control as his eyes dilated. The Adair's wrestled complete dominance of him once more, and without warning, he began charging a beam. Lehesion blasted at the Nebula Drifter as I reached out with a singularity at the center of his chest. It siphoned his body inward, deforming his frame.

The damage was already done, however.

His blast passed through the Nebula Drifter, disintegrating the mental and glass at an atomic level. Not even a trace of debris remained from the shuttle, the entire vessel consumed by his strike. My stomach sank as I roared at the golden monster. The Gialgathen regenerated before smirking at me, his pupils dilated. Tohtella's cold voice rang in my ears,

"You've wasted enough of Lehesion's time. Because of you, we've lost many lives."

Unlike Lehesion, Tohtella didn't even try to fight me. Using Lehesion's body as a vessel, she darted away from me, taunting all the while,

"From what I've seen, you cannot be killed. You and Lehesion are alike in that way. Since you cannot be controlled either, we will use other means of dispatching you. The first of which involves eradicating your will to live rather than your life itself. Look forward to it."

A portal appeared behind Lehesion, and the gialgathen darted into it. It closed behind him while I lashed out where he was in frustration. One second of control and that piece of shit just destroyed everyone. I grabbed the sides of my helmet, squeezing so hard I left finger imprints in my helm.

Flashes of Althea passed through my mind, along with all the memories we shared together. I remember getting her to control her eldritch half, and when we used to cook together and go on dates. I should've cherished those times more. I remembered Torix and all the lessons he gave me, along with his snappy retorts. He was kind of an asshole when we first met, but the guy was like a father to me now. I wanted to make him proud.

Kessiah, Hod, Florence, even Obolis, they might all be dead along with everyone else. My heart pounded in my chest like a jackhammer as something like a panic attack came over me. Before I let myself go entirely to the panic, I remembered Althea's restorative abilities. She could regenerate from anything after thirty seconds as long as she wasn't still taking damage.

With every ounce of my strength, I shot myself towards where the Nebula Drifter once was. As I arrived, I peered around, struggling to find Althea in the vast void of space. She would be the smallest inkling of color in this empty place, but I should've been able to find it. As the seconds turned to minutes, you'd think my dread would grow.

It actually disappeared.

She would survive that kind of attack, so if she wasn't here, she wasn't vaporized in the first place. Verifying my thoughts, a message from Obolis cropped up.

Obolis Novas, the Finder of Secrets(lvl 23,987 | Class: Founder | Guild: The Empire) - Send me your coordinates.

I replied that I was right where the Nebula Drifter once was. A few seconds later, a warm breeze blew from above me. Someone created warp that let out air, so I went to it, finding and diving through the portal. My feet dragged across dirt as Helios closed the opening behind me. Surrounded by my guildsmen and a forest clearing, I took a deep breath of fresh air.

"Man, it's good to see you guys."

Althea ran up to hug me, so I warmed my skin a bit. It was cold from space, and I didn't want her skin to peel off on me. As she hugged me, I held her too. Even though it was just for a second, I thought I'd lost her. Torix put a hand on my shoulder from behind, his skeletal hand squeezing hard,

"It's good to see that while you might not be his equal, you are at the very least a suitable distraction. Well done."

I scoffed, "Eh, I do my best."

A nervous chuckle ran through the crowd around us. It looked like most people escaped from the vessel before Lehesion blew it away. Along the outskirts of the group, Obolis paced back and forth, his mind thinking of hundreds of different possibilities. Helios stared in the distance, trying not to hurl. Wrath skulked in the surrounding woods, culling a few wild eldritch to keep these high society people safe.

I turned to those here, "Is anyone missing from my guild?"

Hod, Kessiah, Torix, Althea, and I were here. They gave me a few congratulations on my fight, everyone counting it as a win. It was a victory in some respects, but it showed a glaring weakness I needed to address. I could stop Lehesion if he chose to fight me, but restraining the guy was outside my power. That much was impossible for me.

They would find Earth, and when they did, Lehesion would ravage its surface until no life remained. Combine that with the fact the Adair family was after our heads, and we had a lot on our plate. Before thinking about it further, I gave Althea a squeeze to clear my mind. With that moment of respite, I was ready to talk.

I gave a light shout,

"Everyone, we need to talk in private. Let's get these guys out of here before we have another meeting."

Helios sighed before waving his shoulders. The guy's shoulders and chest were slumped, so I reached out a hand,

"Hey, you alright."

He pushed my hand away, "Of course. I'm fine."

Torix mouthed, "The portals shattering takes its toll on the caster's body. Even one as gifted as Helios would be feeling the side effects."

"Ah, that makes sense."

Despite that sickness, Helios got all of Obolis's guests out of here, along with most of his crew. Not all, however. Some perished in the wake of Lehesion's blast, and that solemn air permeated all the crew members. The high society folk were far less effected, probably because they were prioritized during the evacuation. They hadn't suffered yet, but the crew already lost friends and loved ones. That made it more real.

It was a wild situation either way, so I couldn't blame people for not knowing how to handle it. Reactions ranged from sheer shock to unbridled fear. A few were impressed by me. Others were disappointed. I could never make everyone happy, and I had long ago accepted that. Regardless of what I did, someone would complain, so I took their opinions with a grain of salt.

Once they were gone, a few core members of our guilds were left. We gathered around into a circle. We needed to discuss Lehesion's reincarnation, my liquification, and even the rebel's flawed victory. We had to get to the bottom of it all and fast since the clock was ticking before the Adair's found Earth. Once they did, I would lose another home along with everything I'd worked hard to build.

And that didn't even include the collapse of Schema's society.

Man, we had a lot to talk about.
