"Or, you know, maybe a meal for that eldritch. I can say I've never needed some ruler of time and space to bail me out. I've done everything I'm known for all on my own. I took this armor from the hands of someone who wanted to use me to create it. I fed that armor and expanded its abilities using the cipher, knowledge I gained on my own."

Well, outside of Eonoth and Etorhma. Lehesion didn't need to know that, though. I kept my introduction needlessly long and dramatic to waste time,

"I killed the Destroyer of Worlds, Yawm. I saved my homeworld while you destroyed your own. I didn't need two lives to do it either. You were wrong earlier. I wasn't reincarnated. I did it right the first time."

I pointed at Lehesion, "Somehow, you managed to fuck it up both times, even with someone giving you all the advantages in the world."

Lehesion grimaced, his teeth snarling,

"Shut up."

I spread out my hands, "And now your mind is so weak that even I can get you this riled up. A supposed god versus some dude who isn't even thirty. Think about that."

Lehesion let out a mental growl, my skin bristling at it. He roared,

"I said, be silent."

His voice was acid on my skin, the tone and force behind it palpable as a punch to the gut. Despite his outrage, the guy was already sentenced to kill me, so I figured getting him mad didn't matter at this point. I waved Event Horizon over him, speaking with as much authority as I could muster.

"No."

Lehesion recoiled for a second, taken aback by my voice and how it boomed. I surprised myself, kind of stunned that I could muster up that much of a presence. Lehesion lifted his head, indignation saturating him,

"You think the voice from such a limited being will evoke fear from me? Laughable. I will silence the voices of dissent in my mind. I know who and what I am. I am the end and the beginning, the ruthless and the kind. Hear my proclamation."

He fumed, "You will not be the only one who is killed today. Your entire species will be culled, eliminated for angering me. There will be nothing left but salted earth and scorching air. The oceans of your world will evaporate under my fires. The plains will crumble under my wings. When I am finished, you and everything you cherish will be nothing."

Oh man, I just wanted to distract the guy. I raised a hand,

"Listen, Lehesion, we're just talking. You don't have to bring my home planet into this just because you're angry."

"And my wrath shall spread far and wide like a plague across your homeworld, wherever it may be."

A shiver ran up my spine, but I kept myself together,

"I saved your entire species, whether you like me or not. In exchange for doing that, you'd kill off my entire planet?  I thought you said you were ruthless and kind?"

Even with his fractured mind, Lehesion knew I had saved the gialgathens from all becoming Hybrids. He gave me a nod, "Then instead of killing your race, I will unleash enough pain and torment onto you to rival your species's extinction. Be ready for it."

I raised my hands, "Come on then."

He shot towards me, snapping his tail with absurd speed. I anchored myself with gravity and smacked my arm against his strike. The metal bones in my limb shattered, but I rebounded his first attack. Within a split second, my arm was fully healed, and Lehesion grimaced,

"You've strengthened yourself since the last time we fought then?"

"Yeah. I did."

Lehesion coalesced his aura into his body before rearing his tail back. Smashing it towards me, I predicted the attack's angle, creating a portal to my dimensional storage there. He pulled back, remembering this tactic from last time. I shot forwards, using my pocket dimension as a kind of bloodthirsty shield. Lehesion snapped his jaws at me, but I unloaded a singularity between us before it landed.

There was nothing for the singularity to feed on, and it reacted differently than usual. It sucked us both in, tearing through the top portion of my left arm and shoulder along with the bottom of Lehesion's jaw. As it imploded, we were both slung apart. My vision twirled as all sense of up and down was lost. I stopped myself from revolving, trying to spot the giant gialgathen.

As I did, an upside-down Lehesion glared down at me, his lower jaw regenerating. Collapsing his aura into his frame, he smashed his tail at me before I got a grip on what the hell was going on. His limb snapped onto my torso, and it carved a foot deep into my chest. Stuck in there, the kinetic impact rippled out of my back, blowing my insides apart.

Because of my gravitational anchor, I didn't actually fly back. Lehesion grinned at my opened guts, but his smile didn't last long. My armor laughed at him, the jagged, metal teeth menacing and monstrous. I held onto him, piercing my hands and ribs into his tail flesh. He whipped the limb about, confusion spreading over his face,

"What is this?"

I shot back using telepathy,

"This is what a real monster is."

The same fear Lehesion owned for the Spatial Fortress manifested in his chest for me. Like a growing infection, I drilled through his bones and tendons. Lehesion snarled his teeth before breathing in the vacuum around him, readying a breath of golden flame. I whipped my body around, putting his tail between me and his attack.

Without hesitating, Lehesion unloaded one of the beams from earlier. A portal from Helios spawned in front of his mouth and towards the back of his body. The portal redirected a part of the blast, leaving a deep wound in Lehesion's back. At the same time, his tail guarded me against the worst of the remaining blast. Despite the redirection and barrier, his beam scorched through me, singeing my skin and bones like a fire burning twigs.

I stayed alive, however, and I still drained his essence with each passing second. I turned his flesh into my own, the shattered god becoming a buffet. His aura rippled back out of his body, knocking me off of him. It disintegrated the tendrils of my armor ingrained through his body while driving me back. Before I could reorient myself, he shot forward and clapped me with his tail.

I braced for impact. His attack collided with me, smashing into my chest. Ribs broke, my chest caved in. Silver blood spluttered out of my mouth. I laughed with no sound as I got a grip on where I was. It turns out, without his aura enhancing his tail, Lehesion wasn't actually all that overwhelming. All those levels from culling Giess were paying off.

I turned myself towards the angle of his attack, reaching out with a singularity. He pulled away from the gravitational lure, sidestepping it while darting away. The hungry point yanked me towards its center before I jerked myself back. It fizzled into nothing, the first one I ever failed to properly ignite.

Lehesion taunted,

"You've developed your body since we last fought, but your magic has grown stagnant."

I winced at his words because the giant frog dragon was right. I was prioritizing a lot of different tasks right now, and my splintered approach led towards fewer gains in my own development. Those haunting thoughts cropped up with memories of the elemental furnace along with saving the gialgathens. Pride bloomed in my chest.

Even if I hadn't gained personal power, I'd helped people. That was worth it in the end.

It did make this fight a bit harder, though. Lehesion closed the gap and swiped at me once more. I slapped his tail aside, the gialgathen no longer able to bully me with his physical might. Without his aura helping him out, I could clobber him on contact. He shot out a dozen tail swipes over the next second, and I kept pace by deflecting with my arms, elbows, and knees.

I saturated myself with quintessence, my skin glowing a bright white. Lehesion burned himself each time he attacked me, and I gained some ground. I pushed the legendary figure back, his attacks unable to stop me. Even if he believed himself holy, that didn't make it so. I could win this. I growled back to him in my mind,

"And you never once learned to fight against someone on equal footing, did you? You just relied on your natural talent to keep you afloat."

He sliced his tail while biting with his jaws. I grabbed his limb, two of my fingers breaking while I established a firm grip with the other three. At the same time, I pulled him to me while smashing his face with my fist. His teeth cracked along with a bone in his jaw. My body infested his as I made contact, ripping more chunks out of his face.

I taunted right back, "Look how that worked out."

Mana filled Lehesion, and crystallized mana appeared over his skin. These scales formed under my hand that grabbed his tail. These mana plates exploded outward, leaving my left arm in tatters while he got distance from me. My arm regenerated while I pulled myself to him. He was faster than I was, however.

With a gap between us established, Lehesion charged another attack. I bit my tongue at the sight. I got him angry earlier, and that made him run at me. In a physical confrontation, I was his equal, maybe even his better. However, once Lehesion began using his large scale spells, I couldn't keep up at all. Knowing all that, I bolted towards him as fast as I could, trying to interrupt his casting.

I didn't make it in time. Lehesion created many emerald serpents, each forming over his head. These aetherial beings slithered through space before eyeing me. I neared him before one of the snakes bit at me. I pulled myself with gravitation, evading the first, second, and third strikes of the serpents. The bites after that sliced into my arms and legs, their fangs injecting caustic venom.

I pulled at them, but the serpents were strong. They jerked at all angles, stopping me from escaping before Lehesion breathed deeply. My mind raced for a solution before I tried something new. Instead of trying to outdo the apparitions, I tried eating them. Just as I ate lightning, I reached at them with my armor. The snakes writhed in pain before the one restraining my right arm released me.

New skill unlocked! Energy Siphon(lvl 10) - You've learned to drain many things, and now energy is one of them.

As Lehesion unleashed his golden beam, I pulled my arm in front of my face. Several of Helios's portals spawned at once, each trying to buy me time. Lehesion blasted into them, sustaining through his own blast. The edges of the warps cracked, but they bought me a few seconds.

I wracked my brain for a solution. Thinking of Helios's tactics, I used my dimensional storage as a shield, trying to block the ray of energy. Helios's portals shattered, Lehesion's beam firing at me right after. My shield actually absorbed the light coming at my face, right shoulder, and some of my torso.

The rest of me disintegrated.

Not all of that was from Lehesion's attack. Every ounce of energy I stored in the shield cost me mana. Spending mana meant spending health, so I still took a massive amount of damage even when blocking the attack. I contained the blast from outright killing me, however, and that was all I needed.

Lehesion's blast stopped, and he inspected the damage done. With only a piece of my upper half left, I willed the ray of light I absorbed from Lehesion to fire back out. In a flash, I shot out the beam at his head. He jerked his neck sideways, avoiding the blast. Using the rest of the stored energy, I cleaved his torso in half.

He roared in agony, his serpents dissipating as he lost focus. I stared back at my dimensional shield as my legs regenerated, kind of surprised by how damn useful this thing was turning out to be. In the corner of my eye, I saw two new skills as well.

Unknown skill gained! 500 tree points awarded for pioneering a new skill! Dimensional Shield(lvl 10) - By breaking the laws of physics, you trade your life to nullify incoming attacks.

Unknown skill gained! 500 tree points awarded for pioneering a new skill! Dimensional Reversal(lvl 10) - After placing an opponent's attacks in stasis, you've learned to wield their own fangs against them.

They were the kind of skills I really needed, and they gave me a method of countering Lehesion's massive attacks. The gialgathen gawked at me with utter surprise as he telepathically spoke,

"You've been hiding tricks up your sleeve, haven't you?"

Of course I wasn't. Risking my life for the surprise factor wasn't actually something I wanted to do. I got these skills out of desperation. Having Lehesion think I was stronger than I was would help me out right now, however. I grinned,

"I'm sure you have a few tricks up your sleeve as well."

Lehesion frowned, "Allow me to show them to you by enacting your death."

I pointed at the battle raging on behind him, "You sure about that? What about them?"

Lehesion turned, spotting the Adair's fleet. His eyes widened as he saw many of their forces facing destruction. Even with the Spatial Fortress destroyed, it wasn't as if Schema was helpless. Using his personalized A.I.'s, Schema organized his unit's attacks around his main fleet. By using his vessels to peel back layer after layer of the Adair's offensive, Schema gained ground.

On the other hand, the Adair's fleet lacked the same training and systematic approach. They were a larger but more divided force. This left many of their sentient eldritch and wilder Hybrids as easy pickings for group tactics. Combine that with Lehesion's glaring absence, and the rebel's victory was quickly turning into a defeat. Lehesion grimaced at the sight before glaring back to me,

"The next time we fight, I will muster every ounce of my power against you."

I pounded my fists together, "Anytime then. Go on, save your new owners."

Lehesion narrowed his eyes before staring back up at the Nebula Drifter. He grinned with an ominous joy in his eyes,

"Ah, that is the vessel you arrived from, is it not?"

I scowled, "You'd bring normal people into this?"

