<Alex, Real - Prepare, Complete>

Alex concentrated on the fact that he needed more tools.

With that, he saw the huge range of items that he had likely been meant to focus on, if he’d gotten a more normal number of merits.

There were weapons, of course, ranging from more disposable ones that would be weaker than the one he’d started with to ones that promised to repair themselves from all but total destruction over time.

While tempting, he already had a way to repair his dadao, even if inefficiently. It wasn’t worth the expense.

Beyond simply better weapons, there were a few with inherent magics that would be incredibly interesting to him, if he didn’t have Basic Life Transfusion and Force Burst.

Aside from weapons were various types of armor, none of which were of use, at least not those that even he could afford.

There was a tantalizing ‘Skin of Diamond’ that would sheath his entire body in a near-impenetrable layer of protection against anything up to high E grade attacks. And I’m only F right now…

The fact that it cost three-quarters of a million merits was the only reason he didn’t consider it more. Beyond even that were things like: Titan suit, Dragon skin augmentation, and things of that nature. All were well beyond what he could afford.

It truly put the purpose of this glimpse into perspective. While they were supposed to be able to get a few things, the main purpose was obviously to show them what they could earn, and inspire them to work harder going forward.

With that, he dismissed all the things that were beyond his current funds and refocused.

That brought his eyes to the one-use items: Potions of health, stamina, mana, wound closure, anti-toxin, cure magical disease, and so many more.

While they weren’t expensive, they did seem more costly than they were worth to him, given his own health regeneration. There was the addition that if magical shops in this scenario had potions, they could acquire some while checking for spells and skills.

So, what did he need?

His only real weakness was magic, but that was more guesswork than knowledge. Magic should be able to do all sorts of crazy things, if all these spells are any indication.

He also would do badly against something like a machine gun or the equivalent. Swarms should be able to be obliterated with Force Burst or Basic Life Transference, so those weren’t a concern. He could even briefly counter mundane projectiles with Force Burst if required, now that he thought about it.

That brought him back to the one remaining thing. He needed a defense against magic, and that brought his thoughts to the flesh golem’s bones. They were a seemingly perfect defense against magic, even if he assumed that they could be overwhelmed by someone of a higher grade or sufficiently great power.

Huh… that’s interesting. Now that he thought of it, their very nature bore consideration. They had magical symbols on them with obvious, permanent effects.

Could he learn to do something similar on objects or clothing? That would give him a massive toolset if so. His primary focus was finding a defense against magic, but if he could get something with a greater utility overall?

Yeah, that was worth looking into.

At the thought, a few books moved to the top of the various lists.

Each was a whopping three hundred thousand merits, showing their value, rarity, or both.

One seemed to be focused on triggered effects—likely traps or one use items—if he understood the description correctly.

Another looked to be symbols—and the methodology behind them—for augmenting individuals. This looked like he would use magical pigments to paint symbols on himself or others… or items, probably, and that would give enhancements or effects for as long as the symbols remained or until something else brought it to an end.

He almost chose that one as it seemed most in line with the bones, and since he had all of them as references, he thought to use them as a resource, hopefully for some more advanced symbols once he understood the basics.

Then, he saw the symbol on the cover of the last of the three books. The symbol matched the one he had seen on the center of the flesh golem’s skull, if much more cleanly drawn. In fact, he could see that very symbol in that moment, the skull sitting in the corner, just at the edge of his vision.

As for the book? It’s title really said it all: ‘The Basics of Permanent Magic Symbology’.

That was what he wanted. He had absolutely no doubt.

He added it to his cart.

Based on the descriptions, it seemed like this was the weakest of the three in terms of immediate output, but the ability to create something lasting—something that would endure—was what he really wanted.

Alright, time’s almost up. What do I still want or need?

Realizing that making permanent symbols would need a permanent means of marking, he quickly searched through skills and spells, and he came across three that could work.

He was honestly a bit confused as to why the spell was cheaper than the skill between the first two, aside from that being the standard for pricing such things.

Basic Small Claws (Common), SkillSpend health and stamina to manifest small claws on your fingers or toes.Generally useful for utility purposes, but can function well enough for close-quarters combat in a pinch.Not MagicalPhysical Agility and Power have a minor boost when using this skill.

80,000 merit points(Discounted due to inherent compatibility)

Basic Small Force Blade (Common), SpellCreate semi-permanent small blades of Force Magic.Generally useful for utility purposes, but can function well enough for close-quarters combat in a pinch.No inherent, magical-penetrative power.Physical and Magical Agility have a minor boost when using this skill.

40,000 merit points(Discounted due to inherent compatibility)

The spell seemed like it was better in almost every way. They were clearly very similar, but the spell looked to be more versatile.

But it’s magical. There seem to be reasonably common, anti-magical things in this world. Maybe that’s why? Spells can be negated, but skills can’t really?

That didn’t seem quite right, but he didn’t have all that much information yet.

Regardless, he looked at the final option with only about a minute left to decide.

Basic Carving (Common), SkillMost craftsmen need to carve in order to bring out the best in their creations.Add an engraved flourish, perfect a joint, give a subtle detail to let your skill shine.This gives you a basic understanding of that art.Physical and Mental Agility have a minor boost when using this skill.

50,000 merit points

He couldn’t afford all three, or even two alongside his other purchases. The Spell was a no-brainer to him, but he still really wanted the carving skill.

That gave him an idea.

Every skill that he’d seen seemed to be available at multiple rarities.

Sure enough, he found the ‘Simple’ version of the carving skill.

Basic Carving (Simple), SkillMost craftsmen need to carve in order to bring out the best in their creations.This gives you a beginner’s understanding of that art.Physical Agility has a marginal boost when using this skill.

20,000 merit points

With only moments remaining, he grabbed that skill and the Basic Small Force Blade (Common), Spell.

That brought his total to four hundred thousand one hundred merits.

The store closed, and time resumed around him.

Notice!By means of the Tutorial Store, you have learned a skill.

Reward:Basic Carving (Simple), Skill

Apology Tutorial Addendum:Carving, eh? You do you!

Notice!By means of the Tutorial Store, you have learned a Spell.

Reward:Basic Small Force Blade (Common), Spell

Apology Tutorial Addendum:Go forth and cut things.Make small things just that much smaller.

Knowledge flooded his mind on how to use the spell, along with knowledge about the skill.

The latter was much less than the former.

Also, he felt his books and pin appear within his Inventory.

Without hesitation, he pulled out the pin and clipped it on his shirt, grinning stupidly to himself.

I’m hilarious.

He then noticed the general state of his shirt—abysmal—and sighed.

I’ll deal with you later.

The others seemed momentarily occupied with their own purchases.

That’s when it really hit him. He felt foolish for not really considering it before, but it’s possible that the System had kept him from giving it too much consideration because it would take time from him, but it was still daunting even after the fact.

The System had frozen everything. He knew that it had said time was frozen before, while he was making his selections, but he hadn’t really been able to see it. Similarly, he knew that it had built this world somehow, but that was again just cognitive knowledge.

For the first time, he had directly experienced the irresistible power of the System in a ‘cannot be ignored or second-guessed’ sort of way.

He felt like a culturally religious person might when coming face to face with the god they supposedly believed in all along.

Nope! He tucked that existential horror away alongside the other traumas inflicted by the physical pain he’d been undergoing... and the emotional distress of being in a literal life-or-death horror show.

I said nope!

Thus, to distract himself, he grabbed some necessities from the pile of items he’d created before the end of the first quest, sticking them back in his Inventory. He then pulled out the Speed Reading skill book, and began to devour it.

It was actually kind of interesting, and not just because he forced himself to focus on it fully.

It seemed to be a mix of a traditional ‘How-to’ sort of book, along with clearly magical elements that caused the knowledge to—somehow—hit his mind just a bit differently than normal reading.

The biggest take-away on the mundane side was something that he felt would even have helped pre-System. He needed to stop ‘vocalizing’ the words within his head as he read them.

Even the unaugmented human mind could pull the meaning straight from the words without needing that intermediate step.

Now? With his mental stats so drastically increased already? Yeah, he could easily accomplish that step.

He retained the info on speed reading better than expected, even with his expanded stats, and it almost felt like the skill that he was learning was actively building on itself, allowing him to learn it faster simply because he was actively learning it.

A part of him recognized that the others were similarly engrossed in what they’d gotten, so no one bothered him.

He was about halfway through the book after only five minutes, when the next System message appeared.

Group Quest [Secure]:You have chosen to stand with others, and you’ve succeeded.Now, fully claim your base of operations

Reward:Unlock Base Related System featuresUnlock the next Tutorial QuestExperience

Individual Quest [Secure]:Your chosen path is that of a defender.Keep casualties to a minimum while fully claiming your base of operations.

Reward:Based upon results achieved

Well… isn’t that something.

Alex had two new quests, and their specifics meant that he had a bit of time in which to think long term, and it was time to get some important things done.

“Assign Unused Points to Physical Fortitude.”

He felt as his points were applied.

Outside energy flooded through him and changed him in subtle ways.

His health went up by a bit more than ten percent, and he felt… sturdier, like it would be harder to take away each point of his health.

And that answers that. It would take more than 5 points to train his Physical Fortitude once again.

His stamina also rose just a bit, and he felt a little less exhausted.

Then, he pulled a small stool from his Inventory and sat down to finish his Skill book.

The other Initiates apparently had things they wanted to deal with, too, so he wasn’t going to be disturbed.

Natasha walked over and briefly told him that they were going to meet up in half an hour to discuss the new quest and see what they could do to help each other with their various individual quests.

Perfect. He had a lot of reading to do.

I’ll get the speed reading skill first, then hit the introductions of each book, next. That way I can delve through them more meaningfully later.

Then, as soon as he had time, he would do his physical work, going through dadao forms with a focus on the skills, and maybe even with Master Adams watching and giving him pointers. …Assuming that fit in with everyone else’s plans.

The non-Initiate survivors were working together to get dinner for everyone, as well as starting to prepare for the night.

A part of Alex heard their murmurings and some things stood out enough for him to piece together a bit of a picture.

They all assumed that this would pass.

They hoped that everyone who wasn’t here would be alright and that their families wouldn’t worry too much.

It momentarily confused Alex until he realized that the teacher had likely locked down the rooms before the students had really seen any zombies.

Then, when he’d cleaned up the hall, he dusted everything, leaving only the few blood splatters that existed before his arrival.

Sure, there was destruction about, but it wasn’t obvious how truly awful the situation was.

Some were complaining about their phones not working, not connecting to the people that the magical links should easily be able to call.

Some expressed fear for this friend or that family member.

But, overall? Overall, they seemed to be taking this as an inconvenient camping trip of some kind.

He sighed, returning his full attention to Speed Reading.

It was about seven minutes later that he got the System Notice.

Notice!By means of a Skill Book, you have learned a skill.

Reward:Speed Reading (Common), Skill

Apology Tutorial Addendum:What? The world is ending?…Fine, just one more chapter.I’ll be quick.

Speed Reading (Common), SkillWhat better way is there to spend an afternoon than reading a book?But what if you could read the same book in five minutes, that’d be better, right?Right?Physical and Mental Agility have a minor boost when using this skill.Grants the ability to heighten focus on what is being read, greatly increasing speed of consumption and retention of knowledge.Grants the ability to spend stamina to increase these effects even further, including the heightening of focus up to the exclusion of all else.

Alex grinned. Twenty two minutes left? Let’s see what I can learn about Skills and Spells.

Even as the Speed Reading skill book crumbled to nothingness, he pulled ‘On the Improvement of Skills and Spells’ from his Inventory and allowed his new Speed Reading to take over.

I’m going to sleep soon, right? Yeah, he was going to eat and sleep soon.

Let’s see what we can do.

What felt like a moment later, Natasha was shaking his shoulder. “ALEX.”

Alex jerked, pulling his face from the book. “Wha—?”