For a split second, the arch-goblin manages to fight back against the colossal hand of stone, but he doesn't last long before being swatted away like a fly into the forest. The two hobs run after their defeated leader as he soars into the distance, leaving Tabitha and me alone with the murderous construct.

Once the goblins are entirely out of sight, the giant turns its attention to Tabitha, who still hasn't moved despite its second attack, further tearing up the terrain close to her.

I wait with bated breath as the golem stares down at Tabitha, but the attack I expected never comes. Instead, it looks up at me, and my heart threatens to jump out of my chest.

Why is it!?

"Calm yourself!" I hear Tabitha shout up at me. "Show no hostility!”

What the fuck is that supposed to mean? I nervously grip my hammer tightly.

At this point, the giant was winding up its hand like it was reading itself to throw a punch. Could he reach me up here?

What was I thinking; of course, it could! I needed to move, find a place to run to, and look for an opening to save Tabitha. I’ll find a way if it kills me, even if I have to kick this walking mountain's ass!

I move to start sprinting away when Tabitha’s words finally register. Glancing down at the giants’ feet, I spot Tabitha still sitting there with her sword put away, though now looking up at me with concern.

It finally dawns on me what she wants me to do and why the giant continued attacking the arch-goblin and not Tabitha. I hurriedly drop my hammer and raise my hands above my head in a non-threatening gesture.

But it isn’t until I clear all hostile thoughts from my mind that the stone giant begins to lower its arm. Again, I stare into the humongous glowing gem for what feels like an eternity. And finally, after the worst staring match of my life, the golem turns away and continues walking in the direction it was originally traveling.

I don't move a muscle until the vibrations from the giant's footsteps fade entirely into the distance, and once I do, I bring my hands up to my face and wipe away the tears that start to form there.

Somehow Tabitha and I were still alive, and I couldn’t be happier.
