Freedom was a wonderful affair, one Song made sure to exercise and take advantage of with each passing day.

It was one thing to be told she was free to do whatever she desired, and another altogether to actually possess the ability to do so. A difference without a distinction to most, yet for Song, it was as if night had turned to day now that she was wholly and truly free to do as she pleased. Nothing else changed as she went about her days much like she had before, but everything was different from her liberating new perspective. No longer was her every action coloured with the intent to curry favour, an inescapable motive which had always been present in some way, shape, or form while she was still bound by Oath, for now she was truly free to act as she pleased and no longer had to consider her status. She was Li Song, Daughter of Akanai and Husolt, Sister to Mila and Baatar, and Sentinel of the People in truth, no longer a lowly slave pretending to be something more, but a free person with goals and aspirations like any other.

The weight of her Oaths had finally been lifted, and Song was free, though her new status raised some difficult questions.

Hopping onto her lap to demand her attentions, Buster pawed at her hand until she lifted him up to kiss his chubby grey cheeks and nuzzle his beautiful white head. So calm and relaxed despite the nearby presence of Rakshasa the tiger, Buster cared not for the change of location and behaved the same no matter where they were, whether it be the Central Citadel ruins or here in Medical Saint Taduk’s herb garden. His brother, Bugs, who shared the same coat pattern only with the colours reversed, possessed an entirely different personality as he hopped about the garden with a mission in mind. The bravest and most destructive bunny of the lot, Bugs was never happy to simply sit still and relax, a curious explorer and adventurous digger who caused the Medical Saint no small amount of heartache as the bold and daring bunny tried time and again to dig his way under the wooden garden plots to nibble on the roots of some precious Spiritual Plant.

Until recently, Song herself was just like these rabbits, wholly beholden to Rain’s whims. Though he never abused his power over her or the bunnies, he still held ultimate authority over them. Neither rabbit had the luxury of true freedom, but they still had their quirks and foibles, whereas Song had only just come into her freedom and was now trying to discover her own personal identity. Was she like Buster, happy no matter where she might be so long as she was with her loved ones? Or was she more like Bugs, who wanted to see the world and explore the great unknown, even if it meant leaving safety, comfort, and family behind? Those weren’t her only options either, for she could be like Flopsy who loved to make new friends, dining on bamboo with Tai Shan and Guai-Guai in the centre of the garden, or like sweet, stupid George napping under Rakshasa’s paw after failing to entice the massive feline to play, utterly oblivious to the danger he put himself in by seeing every living creature as a possible friend. Now that she was no longer a slave, she had options available to her which she’d never even considered before, and she was at a loss on how to exercise her newfangled rights.

This predicament only revealed itself to Song after Rain left with Brother Baatar to do battle with the pirate Huanhuzi, a battle she’d been privy to planning and had assumed she would take part in right up until one morning when she sat down for breakfast and learned they’d already set off the night before. In retrospect, leaving her behind was obviously the right choice as she would only be a burden to the Cloud-Stepping party, but Song had gotten so used to following Rain around that she’d had a minor panic attack when she realized he’d left her behind. Not because she had any great desire for his company, but because she forgot she was no longer bound by her Oaths and thus freed from her obligation to stay within five kilometres of his person. For the first time in her life, Song was free to go wherever her heart desired, but she herself had no idea what it is she might want, a question she spent the last few days mulling over without making any progress whatsoever.

What was it she wanted out of life? Mama once gave her a new purpose in life, to live and be happy, but to this day, Song was not sure how to go about fulfilling those wishes. Tending to Rain’s menagerie made her happy, as did watching the sweet quin pups amble about, every bit as brave and bold as the bunnies as they tried to entice Rakshasa to play, but was this all she wanted from life? Then again, was it so bad to aspire to ‘only’ this much? She loved seeing the antics these animals got themselves into and discovering their unique personalities along the way. For some reason, the tiger’s aloof nature proved irresistible to the sweetest, most innocent of animals, as if his indifference to their adorable antics was a challenge to be overcome, but thus far, Rakshasa’s stoic disinterest had remained wholly unshaken. Perhaps proud papa Mafu’s overbearing presence had something to do with it, his fat, voluminous body laid out over top the striped predator with fearsome fangs well within reach of the feline’s neck, the sweet, friendly quin taking no risks when it came to the safety of his newly hatched pups. Not to say Rakshasa was intimidated by the quin’s presence either, but he tolerated it unlike his violent response to Niece Alsantset’s attempt to exert dominance over him, which was odd to say the least. According to Brother Baatar, the quins quickly accepted the tiger into their pack with almost no fuss whatsoever, albeit only after swimming with the ferocious feline for the better part of a day in the pond outside Rain’s manor.

Beautiful and graceful though the tiger might be on land, it was difficult to be intimidated by Rakshasa after seeing his goofy expression while paddling awkwardly about in the water, a rare cat who enjoyed swimming unlike most of his species.

Alas, the wildcats were not so accommodating when it came to Rakshasa, all three of whom were curled up around Rain and Tai Shan alongside the cowardly bears. Having grown bold after a short year of marriage, Sister Mila was also fast asleep in her husband’s embrace where anyone could see them and wholly unaware of the comings and goings all around her. Ping Ping and Mama Bun bounded between the two groups, with the former aggressively cuddling tiger, panda, and quin pups alike while the latter bullied them all without mercy to make sure they all knew who the true queen of the herb garden was. Every now and then however, the sweet rabbit would return to hop on Rain’s chest and stare him in the eyes, checking to see if he was awake yet and possibly even asking for an invitation into his Natal Palace, though Song was unsure how that actually worked. As for Rain himself, he was still dead to the world while recovering from the rigours of his momentous battle, one Song would have loved to see firsthand, but alas, instead she was left with her current dilemma regarding how she should exercise her newfangled freedom.

Mama, Papa, Sister Mila, and everyone else still treated Song the exact same way as they did before, and aside from a joyous reaction to the happy news, nothing else had changed after she returned to them a free woman. A fact which was comforting in many ways, as it meant her family had always treated her as if she were not a slave, but now Song bore the heavy onus of discovering who she really was and what she aspired to, two questions which had plagued her for the last few days. Being stuck in a carriage with nothing else to do didn’t help matters much, as Sister Mila, Yan, and Lin-Lin had set out for the Northern Citadel as soon as they received word from Brother Baatar that Rain had fallen into another coma after overexerting himself in his victorious battle against Huanhuzi. As impressive as it all must have been, Song was fast growing numb to surprise when it came to matters of Rain’s strength. While Brother Baatar was unsure if the grand finale had been delivered by Rain or Pong Pong, everything short of the destruction of the Demonic Army was still impressive to say the least. At only twenty-two years of age, Rain was on par with most Peak Experts when it came to offensive capability, though his defences left much to be desired even with the reinforced durability of his Spiritual Heart, which sadly fell woefully short of the offensive capabilities of any Honed Spiritual Weapon.

All in all, the journey over gave Song plenty of time to mull on her new status, accompanied by Niece Alsantset and a bevy of Sentinels, Death Corps Guards, and Royal Guardians, but Sister-in-Law Sarnai stayed behind at the Central Citadel to assist poor Luo-Luo and keep her safe now that she’d been officially saddled with all of Rain’s responsibilities. The poor Imperial Servant was running herself ragged butting heads with Marshals and Colonel Generals, but Luo-Luo was more than capable of running the outer provinces even without Sister-in-Law Sarnai looming over her shoulder. Doubly so now that word of Rain’s exploits had spread like wildfire across the Empire proper, of how one Water-Blessed Warrior single-handedly turned the tides of battle even after the Enemy revealed their never before seen capability to transform hundreds of Defiled into Demons on the spot. There were fanciful tales of how he called upon the Mother Above to right this gross imbalance and She responded with a tidal wave that sank the pirate fleet and dragged Defiled and Demon alike down to their watery graves. All nonsense, of course, most of which stemmed from BoShui’s lyrical retelling of an event he only heard about third-hand, already working on his next instalment in ‘The Saga of Falling Rain’.

Much as she enjoyed reading BoShui’s fanciful renditions of reality, Song thought it silly that Rain refused to say anything to his friend about how those widespread tales were detrimental to his own mental health. An ardent and devoted son of the Mother Above, BoShui’s religious beliefs were featured prominently in his writings, painting Rain as the Mother’s Chosen Son and now the saviour of all mankind, but while the common people loved this portrayal of their Legate, it was clear Rain found it troubling to the extreme. There had never been a less pious and devout man than Falling Rain, someone who doubted the very existence of the Mother who blessed him so, and it was obvious he found BoShui’s portrayal discomforting to say the least, especially now that he was being painted as some pivotal force meant to address an Imbalance introduced by the Father’s foul meddling. Though he had yet to wake and learn of this new take on his existence, Song knew Rain well enough to know that he would hate it with every fibre of his being, but she also knew he wouldn’t say anything because he didn’t want to disabuse anyone of their faith. A strange man, Rain was, so flippant and irreverent when it came to matters of personal faith, yet had somehow worked his way into becoming an icon of the very beliefs he derided.

There was more to it than just his irreverence too. Rain was not a man who did well under pressure, and raising him up as the Mother’s Chosen Son was yet another source of stress he did not need. Though he’d taken steps to distance himself from the Legate’s office and the myriad of responsibilities it represented, he still did his due diligence and kept up to date with Luo-Luo’s efforts, or at least he had until he passed out yet again. However, there was nothing he could do to get away from his unwanted mantle as the Mother’s Chosen Son, nor could he escape from the Abbot and his insistence on making Rain a Wisdom of the Brotherhood. With so many hopes riding on his shoulders, he might soon crumble under the stress and snap, an outcome which seemed more and more likely with each passing day despite his Martial strength progressing by leaps and bounds. Even Brother Baatar was worried for his son’s mental state, and if one read his after-action report with care, they would see that he wanted Rain to take a period of real rest to adjust and acclimate to his new status as the most formidable rising Dragon of the Empire.

It was disturbing to read of Rain’s battlefield antics and realize just how close to breaking he truly was, spewing nonsensical statements after giving into his desire for bloodshed and battle rather than dealing with his fears and concerns in a normal manner. Thus far, he had yet to do anything too reckless or foolhardy, but if he continued down this path of unmitigated aggression, then it was only a matter of time before he kicked a steel board. Even before the battle, there were signs to be wary of, such as how he indulged himself in lust without inhibition with Sister Mila and Yan. Mama and Teacher Du had long since discussed the matter with them, but they were all unrepentant about their behaviour, claiming they were ‘just making up for lost time’ and ‘still in their honeymoon phase’. Oddly enough, these excuses were accepted without any argument, but Song knew this discussion would not have any effect on Rain’s behaviour, nor would his impending marriage to Lin-Lin help matters much.

Of course, none of this had anything to do with Song at all, aside from her concern for her friends and family. There was a little more to it than that, as Rain was undoubtedly Song’s benefactor, not only treating her well when he had the power to do otherwise, but also helping guide her to reform her shattered Core as soon as he was able to and freeing her from the unending deluge of torment and agony she suffered for what felt like an eternity, but in reality turned out to be less than half an hour. Her gratitude aside, given her newfound freedom and inability to decide what to do with it, Song found herself idly wondering what she would do if Rain asked her to marry him and how her life would change if she said yes. It wouldn’t, not by much, or at least that’s how she saw it, as they already lived in the same manor and spent most of their time together when not busy with anything else. Even in the days before he set out to ambush the Bandit King, Rain was never far from Song’s side, not out of any real desire for her company, but because she always stayed close to Sister Mila and the animals, which meant Rain was never too far away. It wouldn’t be a terrible life, one no different from her life now, save for the fact that she would be obligated to lay with him every now and then, if only to sate his lust.

Having lain with other men before, Song had no idea what was so enjoyable about the process that would make her sister and Yan go moon-eyed every time Rain showed his face, and none of them cared to say. All they did was look at her with pity in their eyes and hug her close when she asked, which Song didn’t object to, but still didn’t understand.

With a muted splash of water and a relaxed sigh, Yan made her presence known as she emerged from her herbal bath, hidden behind the opaque curtains Mama thoughtfully arranged. Drawn by the sound, Rakshasa came to his feet with Mafu still draped across his back, the burly quin proving no obstacle to the hulking, horse-sized tiger. Padding over to the outdoor bath, the massive feline chuffed as he stuck his head through the curtains and elicited a throaty laugh from Yan hidden within. “Silly Rakky,” she said, as she tried and failed to stop the tiger’s forward advance. “You tried this already, and it didn’t work. You’re too big and heavy, understand?”

Obviously not, as Rakshasa was determined to soak himself inside the heated bronze bathtub, even if only his two front paws would fit. Grumbling in adorable protest, he lifted a single back paw in a futile effort to get his rear end into the tub, wobbling precariously as the water-filled receptacle threatened to tip over and fall. Chittering in delight, Mafu didn’t help matters any by stretching his neck out for a pat, parting the curtains to reveal Yan’s pale, unblemished skin as she stood there naked as the day she was born and laughing up a storm. Not that the bold and confident woman cared, even though the Medical Saint was only a few steps away, as well as a multitude of Sentinels, Death Corps Guards, and Royal Guardians standing a few meters further out. While the Medical Saint seemed beyond such earthly temptations and the others had their view blocked by the bamboo grove, Song shuddered at the thought of how she herself would soon be in a similar position, as Lin-Lin and Sister Mila were already done with their respective baths.

Were it up to her, Song would much rather do all this at the bath-house back at the manor, where they had a beautiful stone basin large enough for ten people and a tiger to fit. Not that she would want to bathe with that many people around, but at least the bath-house had stone walls and a roof to cover her, instead of silk curtains and open air. Alas, Mama and the Medical Saint both thought it best to carry out their business here, away from watchful eyes looking for more than a glimpse of bared flesh. Not without good reason either, as these were no normal baths, but ones laden with Spiritual Herbs meant to infuse their bodies with the Energy of the Heavens and temper their physiques. Having already undergone the process herself, Mama was adamant the younger generation take advantage of this innovative process, because she believed youths were more able to reap the lion’s share of the benefits. According to her, too much of the Heavenly Energy was wasted repairing the ravages of time, and thus Mama saw only minor gains from the process overall. The same lacklustre results were seen with Colonel General Nian Zu and Teacher Du, both emerging from their medicinal baths refreshed and reinvigorated, but lacking even the minor increase in durability Mama received, as both men went in in poorer condition than she had, despite the vast discrepancies in their ages.

How strange to know that Mama was almost four times Teacher Du’s age while retaining enough of her youthful good looks to pass for under forty...

After several seniors of the older generation were treated to the baths, it now came time for the younger generation, and Song was next on the list to receive hers. A bath was most welcome after the long ride from Central, but this would be anything but relaxing. While Lin-Lin and the Medical Saint set to emptying the tub and scrubbing it clean with help from the veiled guards, Mama called Teacher Du in and sat down with Yan to discuss her experience. “It was... interesting,” Yan began, wrapped in a cotton bathrobe and eyes unfocused as she sat with arms wrapped around Jimjam’s neck and basked in the afterglow of her medicinal bath. “I felt a heat that had nothing to do with the temperature of the water, one that emanated from within me and billowed out to cover my entire being. Then everything went... tingly, like when I’ve been sitting too long and my leg falls asleep, only it was both pleasant and painful at the same time.”

“What of your progress along the Martial Path?” Excited and over-eager, Teacher Du pressed Yan for direct answers, hoping his theory proved correct. “Were you able to Form your Natal Palace?”

“No...” Yan replied, her tone hesitant and unsure as she reflected on her hazy memories. “I... I could feel the Energy of the Heavens imbuing me with strength, but it wasn’t the same as Insight or meditation. It was different, not better, not worse, just... not the same, more neutral and impersonal, if I had to describe it. It was just... there, flowing into my body because it had nowhere else to go, and I gained nothing from it on a mental or spiritual level.”

Which made sense to Song, as this body refinement process was not the result of personal effort or Heavenly fortune, but rather using natural resources to make up for personal deficiencies. Even though Rain managed to do the impossible and Refine his body into a Spiritual Heart, he claimed it would not have been possible without first improving his physique through these medicinal baths. Though he went on to say the baths were high-cost effort for minimal gains, he also believed there was no harm in partaking in the fruit of Taiyi Zhushen’s lifetime of efforts, so the Medical Saint was working day and night to procure enough ingredients for them all.

“Difficult to say if the baths are lacking or if little Yan is still not yet ready,” Mama mused, a comment which set Teacher Du to bristling.

“Have you not seen firsthand what the girl can do?” Waving dismissively as if to sweep away Mama’s unfounded criticism of his beloved grand-daughter, Teacher Du huffed and said, “If she is not yet ready to Form her Natal Palace, then no one ever will be. Her foundation is already more stable than most of her peers, even those who already possess a Natal Palace of their own. The girl is simply lacking Insight and opportunity, but this is merely the first of many baths to come.” Patting Yan’s still wet hair, Teacher Du smiled and said, “No need to worry. All will come in good time, and you still have much to take pride in even without a Natal Palace of your own.”

“Thank you grandpa,” Yan replied, beaming all the while, “But Mother-in-Law Akanai is not wrong, since according to Rain and Monk Happy, it should be theoretically possible to use these baths to enlarge my Core and Form my Natal Palace. Any failure to do so is likely because I still don’t entirely have a concept in mind for my Natal Palace, and thus am unable to maintain permanence in anything I envision.”

A failing Song feared she would soon share, because even though she’d already Formed her Natal Palace once before, she worried that the concept she’d used would no longer fit. Before, her Natal Palace was comprised of the Void being held back by the chains representing her Oaths, and her throne was none other than the emerald set into the chain itself. While the physical item itself had long since been destroyed, lost in the fires which almost took Rain’s life in Sinuji, it still represented her Oaths in her mind, because that was the chain’s purpose for so many years. The Oaths confined and restricted her during every second of every day, and as such, allowed her to easily keep her Natal Palace in perpetuity since the chain was never far from mind. Add in Mama’s dulcet tones reciting the Classics of Poetry without end and Song’s Natal Palace had been formed.

Except her Natal Palace had been destroyed alongside her Core, and now that she was no longer bound by her Oaths, she feared she could not use the same trick again.

Song had already shared her reservations with Mama, but there was precious little advice to be had. “Keeping your Natal Palace in memory is only one facet of the milestone,” Mama Sent, reassuring Song as they prepared for her turn in the bath. “It is not kept only affixed in memory, but also in your heart, your soul, your very being, for only then can your creation become a permanent fixture within your Core. Your sister took this bamboo grove to heart after finding beauty and Insight within it, whereas little Rain used the village he so loves and yearns to return to. Comrade Du picked the mountaintop upon which he Awakened to the Blessing of Wind, while I myself used the orphanage I grew up in. What is something you cherish deeply, dear girl? Do not think on the question, simply feel it out, and the answer will come naturally in time.”

Slipping out of her clothes and into the bath, Song sank into the warm waters and winced at the unexpected bite, one that pierced through skin and muscle down to her very blood vessels themselves, a minor irritation that spread fast and wide without warning. Patting her head, Lin-Lin said nothing to distract her, but smiled reassuringly all the same while monitoring the temperature and other such signs for an adverse reaction. Every person required a different ratio of Spiritual Plants, because each person’s body could withstand different amounts of Heavenly Energy. To date, Teacher Du used the most, while Nian Zu and Sister-in-Law Sarnai came in second, but Sister Mila required the least overall, supposedly on account of how she’d already naturally refined her physique without even knowing it, thanks to her Esoteric Blessing of the Sun.

Idly wondering how she herself would rank in terms of Spiritual Plants used, Song was struck by an errant thought and turned to Lin-Lin to ask, “Do I need to submerge myself entirely underwater? So as not to miss out on refining my face and head?”

“Nope.” Stifling a giggle before looking up from her notes, Lin-Lin explained, “We only call it a bath because it sounds nicer than saying we’re stewing you, ya? The heat helps open your pores so the medicine can steep in through your skin, and more surface area makes the process go faster, but once in, the medicine will move throughout your entire body to affect the parts of you that aren’t touching the water directly.” Patting her on the forehead again, Lin-Lin added, “You don’t need to think about it too too much. Just sit there and meditate like normal, and I’ll handle the rest, so don’t you worry about a thing. I won’t let anything go wrong, promise.”

Truth be told, it hadn’t occurred to Song that anything could go wrong until just now, but she trusted sweet Lin-Lin with her work. Even though the half-hare appeared flighty and capricious even in the best of times, Song knew Lin-Lin was even more knowledgeable than Sister Mila on topics outside of the Martial Path, and almost a match for Luo-Luo in matters of mathematics and economics. While Lin-Lin had little experience in putting those skills to use, as Medical Saint Taduk’s daughter and student, there was no way she was lacking in the medical experience. What’s more, Lin-Lin had helped with Sister Mila and Yan’s baths already, and nothing had gone awry, so Song silenced her trifling doubts, placed her trust in the sweet half-hare, and focused on the task at hand.

Closing her eyes, she reached for Balance and submersed herself in the familiar darkness of the Void. The warm embrace of the Mother above wrapped around her like a protective cloak, affording her the opportunity to study her surroundings in peace. There was power all around her, surging in and around her both here and in the real world, acting autonomously to improve her physique in whatever way it could, but that was about as far as her understanding went. According to Rain’s redacted retelling of events which was eventually shared by Mama, Song was currently seeing things from the perspective of her soul, which in turn was residing within her Core, or as a part of it. It felt different from before, even though her view was still the same as always, with vast, unending darkness in all directions, yet that darkness felt more open and expansive, as if she had more room to breathe and be herself. Before, when she Formed her Natal Palace, she theorized that the chains represented the extent of her boundaries, ones that shifted every time she looked away. Only now did she understand how that was indicative of the unstable foundation upon which she Formed her Natal Palace, the constant reminder of her Oaths too precarious an anchor for this vital milestone along the Martial Path. Not because her Oaths were not firmly affixed in her memory, but because she resented having her limits so clearly defined at all times and yearned to be rid of them, even if she didn’t dare to ever dream it.

She hated her Oaths, wanted to die so that she might finally be free of them, so how could she bear to include them in something so precious to her? Her attainments along the Martial Path were not due to her Oaths, but in spite of them, a truth she’d known all along. Since it’s inception, she’d always known that her Natal Palace would not have remained intact if not for the inclusion of Mama’s continuous recital of poetry, a soothing chant which served as a reminder that life was not so terrible now that Song had a family who loved and cherished her. This was why the bounds of her Natal Palace often shifted and shrank, for it changed based on her ability to overlook the heavy restrictions placed upon her and overcome her seething contempt for her lamentable lot in life.

But now, she was free and bound no longer, and she would not have those hateful Oaths or the chain that represented them be a part of her Dao. Not now, and not ever, for she would sooner die than accept such restraints ever again.

Gratifying as it was to have closure about her past actions, this did little to help her with Forming her Natal Palace anew, and she eventually emerged from the bath when Lin-Lin prodded her cheek to let her know she was done. Though Mama showed no sign of disappointment upon hearing the news, Song still felt like she’d let her down, as these Spiritual Baths were priceless not just because of the ingredients, which were impossible to source without a steady supply of shrimp and access to a Divine Beast’s waste, but also because the process was the culmination of Taiyi Zhushen’s life’s work, completed with the help of his first Disciple Li TieGuai and Medical Saint Taduk. Any one of those individuals was a lofty existence far beyond Song’s meagre status, even after taking into account her elevated status now that she truly wasn’t a slave. While the process was originally designed to help refine one’s physical body, that was a waste of good Spiritual Plants considering the lacklustre benefits obtained, so it would be best if Song could eke out every benefit she could to Condense her Aura, Form her Natal Palace, and possibly even Develop her Domain for the first time ever.

Unfortunately, all this would remain merely a dream for today at least, as she had failed in her first attempt. With nothing else to do for the rest of the day, Song played with the animals and idled her time away until they returned home to the Citadel. Strange that she would call it home without thinking, especially considering this home was a shared manor which belonged to Rain, but Song had spent more time living here than almost anywhere else, save for Teacher Du’s compound which was less of a home and more of a prison. A home was more than that, though Song knew not how to describe it, and it soothed her heart to be back here again, in the courtyard with the couch swings and fountains aplenty. Nephew-in-Law Charok cooked up a wondrous feast to welcome everyone back to the Citadel, though he’d been living there for some time now and helping Rain manage the property in his absence. After dinner, they all sat in the courtyard and conversed with one another, and while they were lacking Luo-Luo’s melodic strumming and Sister-in-Law Sarnai’s presence to complete the scene, it was still a joyous family reunion to behold. Sitting with the twins until they fell fast asleep, Song helped Niece Alsantset bring them away to bed before retiring to her own room for the night with Sarankho, Bugs, and Buster, but rather than change into her nightclothes, she opened her window and sat on the sill with the sweet animals to stare out into the Citadel proper.

It felt like a lifetime ago when she last did this, only from the fifth-story window of her old room, one which overlooked the Western gate and the plains beyond. Back then, as she stared out at the sea of frost-dusted grass and watched the sun rise, she remembered thinking about the fiery inferno which almost claimed Rain’s life and destroyed her Oath chain, a calamitous event which left her bound as his unwilling slave until the day he drew his last breath. Then, she had the audacity to wish that day would come sooner rather than later, an errant thought which left her in tears and gasping for breath as the Heavens punished her for defying her Oaths.

Silly to think how dramatic she’d been, sent spiralling into a pit of depression over so minor an event. So what if she was bound to Rain who’d been crippled in battle? He was a good man who would never abuse her the way others had, a fact she now knew beyond the shadow of a doubt because he’d opened himself to her in a way no one else ever could and showed her the truth of his emotions. What’s more, even if he’d remained crippled for decades and left her with no chances to prove her worth in battle, Song’s family would still have loved her no matter what, a truth they repeated time and time again, yet one she was too foolish to really accept. What better proof than her life now, which remained unchanged even after casting off her Oaths? She was no longer a slave, yet still daughter of Akanai and Husolt, still Sister to Mila and Baatar, still a Sentinel of the People, so what difference did it make if she was bound by her Oaths or not? None whatsoever, save for the freedom to travel more than five kilometres from Rain’s side, a restriction which rarely came up anyways given how often they travelled together. In fact, this was the first time he’d ever left her behind and she felt aggrieved over being abandoned, and while she understood why he’d done it, he could have at least told her so himself instead of leaving her to find out after the fact.

So knowing all this, what was something Song cherished deeply? Well the answer was simple enough: she cherished her life, this life with her family, friends, floofs, and more. She wanted things to be like this forever, to spend her mornings training with Yan, Dastan, Mister Rustram, and others on the sparring fields before sneaking out to the market for a quick jaunt. She wanted to spend her afternoons playing and brushing the animals, and her evenings having dinner with the entire family and hearing all about their days. The where didn’t matter, whether it be here in the Citadel, back north in the village, or even out in the field on campaign. All that mattered was that they were together, and that nothing could ever tear them apart.

Nothing save for death, for life is suffering.

Repressing a shudder at the macabre thought, Song said a small prayer asking the Mother to watch over her beloved family, but trials and tribulations abound. As such, it was vital she improve her strength as quickly as possible, but she... didn’t know...

Of course. The answer was there before her eyes all this time, she was only too foolish to see it.

Moving away from the windowsill, Song took a seat on the floor after making certain there was nothing for the rabbits to get into. Closing her eyes, she focused her mind and brought her will to bear as she found Balance and drew upon the Energy of the Heavens. Radiant silver light burst into existence, reminiscent of her slave chain, because no matter how much she might wish otherwise, her past experiences as a slave were an inseparable part of her Dao. However, she was a slave no longer, and thus would not allow her past to shackle her any longer as she moved forward in life. The past was fixed, the present in flux, but the future... the future was limitless. So long as she had the drive and ambition, Song could accomplish anything she set her mind to, because though she had been shaped by them, she was no longer limited by her Oaths.

But even without those Oaths to restrict her, one truth remained forever constant: Li Song was a Warrior through and through, a woman wholly enamoured by the Martial Path who intended to press forward until she arrived at the Peak, or died trying.

The silver light spread throughout the Void and illuminated the darkness of her inner Core, revealing a cobblestone floor underneath her floating feet. Laid out in a checker-board pattern of lighter and darker stones, the area was naturally divided into even squares measuring eight by eight metres in size, just enough room for two Warriors to spar without getting too out of hand. If more room was needed, then the combatants could simply commandeer four squares instead of one, or sixteen if the participants were Peak Experts seeking to exchange notes. These were the training grounds upon which Song spent many a morning, similar to ones found here in the Northern Citadel, far off in the Central Citadel, back home in the Northern Wall, and various other military facilities the Empire over. There were no secrets of the Dao hidden within her Natal Palace, not like Sister Mila’s or Rain’s, for Song’s strengths had never lain in her comprehension of the Dao, but in her wholehearted devotion to the Forms, and what better place to practice them than here?

A Throne was still needed, a simple area to stand at outside the training grounds where Song had stopped by many a time to see if a suitable partner had yet to arrive. From here, she could see her entire Natal Palace, the temple at which she worshipped, for though the Mother Above loved Her children dearly, Song could only count on herself to protect those she loved, and it was here where she would find the strength needed to do so.

Upright stands the bamboo amid green mountains steep...

Mama’s soothing rendition of the Classics of Poetry wasn’t entirely necessary, but hearing her voice set Song’s mind at ease, and she left it in place just because. There was more to be discovered, but not standing idle like this. Stepping out onto the sparring ground, she summoned a sabre to hand, her sabre which she lost to the Demonified Gen, made whole here in her Natal Palace once more. With little more than a thought, she summoned a shadowy foe whose outline matched that of her hateful Demonic foe, and immediately closed in to trade blows with the apparition, honing her martial skills for the dark days to come. Ten exchanges turned into a hundred, then a thousand until Song lost count of how many blows she dealt and was dealt in return, her skills progressing by leaps and bounds as she digested the fruits of her own labours. Soon enough, without any effort on her part, her Aura Condensed and spindled out into the Void, bearing her heartfelt determination to protect those she loved and signalling to them all that she was back. Off in the distance, she felt other Auras respond in kind, one to start, then more as they realized what her message entailed. Unable to defeat her foe just yet, she dismissed its shadowy form back to the Void and returned to the waking world where she found the sun rising in the distance as her family stood over her seated form with joy and pride in their eyes. Mama, Papa, Sister Mila, Brother Baatar, Niece Alsantset, Nephew-in-Law Charok, Yan, Kyung, and Teacher Du, they were all here and present to share in Song’s success, and she wouldn’t want it any other way.

This was her family, the people who came into her life uninvited and made it worth living, and for this, she would forever be grateful.

“Love you,” she whispered, bursting into tears of joy as her Aura billowed out to convey what mere words failed to. “Love you all.”

A sentiment her family needed no Aura to respond in kind, for Rain was right. There was power in love, power enough to change the world, and Song meant to prove it, in whatever way she could. Grateful to have met him, she used her Aura to bare the depths of her soul to him, show him how she loved and appreciated him in ways that even she didn’t wholly understand, a conflicting tangle of emotions that she was scared to even consider just yet.

Joy, love, and understanding was his response, one given out of instinct as he stirred from his sleep, and Song’s smile stretched until her cheeks ached with the strain. “He’s awake,” she said, and everyone instantly knew who she was talking about, their eyes turning to his bedroom even as Brother Baatar disappeared to his side. “Rain’s awake.”

Which for some reason, made Song feel that much better, because now she could share her joy and accomplishment with him as well.

Chapter Meme
