Cuntus waved him along. Instead of walking back into the portrait, he started marching down the hall. “Yeah. Fuck it. Why not? Until the Princess calls you to deal with a wart growing between her toes or to find a rare goat to add to one of her mutton-mashes, I think I can snatch you up for a spin. See what your worth is. Better me than that bland, raw-chicken cooking frog-fucker Ser Oliver.” Cuntus promptly spat off to the side, and his saliva blew a Cuntus-sized hole through the wall, which promptly collapsed. Dust from the rubble filled the room, and a curtain of haze obscured Shiv’s vision. Where his physical sight faltered, his Atlas kept Cuntus lit bright.

That, and a certain Food Sensing Skill provided by his armor, continued to tug at Shiv—revealing to him that there was a pinch of salted beef stashed inside Cuntus’ armor.

Shiv hurried along, following behind Not-Georges. “Where are we going?”

“Down. To the bottom of the keep. Well. Almost. We stop right before we end up hitting the Great Hunger Maw. Have an entire level to myself—real fucking wonder of a place. You’ll see. How long you been cooking, lad?”

“Uh. Well. Technically, over ten years, but—”

“Fuck. Barely an infant, then. Guess you can still help peel the potatoes or something. Shit. With how bloody strong you are, I might let you do a few alone.”

Shiv didn’t get it. Why would he need to peel a potato with someone else? “A few potatoes alone?”

“Yeah. Usually takes a few hundred dead commis to even get one done. Lazy, weak shits.” Another gob of spit was launched. This one hit another chef in a portrait dead center in her chest. She let out a shriek of offense and was promptly launched backward in the painting and out of view. “But I didn’t name my kitchen The Boiling Toad for nothing. Takes a hot flame to make proper metal. Why do we think things would be different when it comes to preparing a meal?”

Shiv eyed the back of Cuntus’ head. That intensity was all Georges. The callousness wasn’t.

“But you look like you’re fine with the heat, aren't you?” Cuntus asked. “Your last master worked you good. I can smell it off you. Proper broken chef you are—even if you're a baby.”

“You didn’t know I was a chef until I told you.”

“Wrong! I didn’t bloody care to know before. Now that I’ve decided to think of you as a person, I can taste it off you. Can’t hide it. You stink of practice and…” Cuntus sniffed deeper. “Sadness. When did Papa die, boyo?”

“About nineteen years ago,” Shiv answered dryly. “Georges was more recent.”

“Oh. A double orphan. I was wondering why you were so fucking salty.”

Shiv halted for half a step. “Wait. You can literally taste me?”

“You? No. Your emotions? Yeah. Speaking of, the hells did you do to your anger, boy? There’s something inside it. I tried to have a bite earlier. Burned my tongue and nearly took a chunk out of me instead.”

“What?”

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: I have no recollection of this.

“Yeah. Can’t quite Analyze your Path or Skills either. Guess the Princess wants to keep the gift wraps around you for as long and as tightly as she can make them. But you know what? I like me a mystery. See how many licks it takes to get to your center. And in return, maybe I can give you what you want as well.”

“And what do I want?” Shiv asked. A bit of irritation was starting to climb. Georges was never presumptuous. Cuntus was nothing but.

“A new daddy, of course. It's probably why her Highest Voyeur, Evanescia, led you straight to me.”

The ground fell out under Shiv as that final sentence struck him. “Wait, what?” he hissed. “You know about Evanescia?”

Cuntus chortled darkly. He just kept walking. Didn't turn back to look at Shiv. “Know her? Boyo, I’ve fucked her in a dozen different bodies. I've felt her tight and good, loop after loop. She’s the reason I’m still stuck here. And I’m guessing she’s the reason you’re trapped here too. Hm?”

Once more, a question echoed in Shiv’s mind. “Stuck here. You're… not from here. Georg—er, Cuntus, how did you get here? Do you… remember anything about who you were before the Fairwoods?”

Silence. Crushing silence.

And then, Cuntus finally turned around. Another sneer. “Well. I think you’re going to tell me all about who I was. Or who you think I was, anyway. Start spilling, son.”
