“Be warned, Deathless! Ser Cuntus intends to boil us and render our vessel into cooked ingredients with his Pyromancy! You must act now and end this misunderstanding, lest we be lost before we can be of service to the Princess!”

The sheer panic conveyed by the tooth fairies forced Shiv's hand. He was pretty sure he could survive the impending attack. Even if he couldn't, he would just come back stronger. The same couldn't be said about his Vestments of Edibility. Once lost, his armor might stay lost. Paired with how little he wanted to hurt Georges, Shiv found himself driven toward a diplomatic solution. A golden shell hardened around his body. Georges went absolutely still. Time itself was decelerated within that field, and Shiv used his Chronomancy to buy himself thirteen seconds of thought.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Consider a retreat. Such would be the wisest decision. Right now, our opposition wears Georges’ face and has a few of his mannerisms, but the rest of him is an enigma, or worse yet, a threat.

Shiv pressed his lips together. Maybe we can call out to the Princess, see if she can help us resolve this.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: She is connected to our armor; she knows what is happening. She has not intervened, and that signals her consent. Does she strike you as the type to care about the safety of her subjects if it offers ample entertainment? Consider what she allowed you to do to her Anointed Knight. He was the Captain of her Bread Guard, a parody of knighthood though he may be. That was still an honorable position in the Court, and she casually allowed him to be humiliated for a laugh. She will not intervene on our behalf, especially not against a highly regarded Master Chef. She will simply treat this like a spot of drama to go with her pre-appetizing tea.

Shit, you're right, but… Shiv gritted his teeth. I don't want to leave without trying something.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: You can't reach him. We don't know nearly enough about him to appeal to his psychology. We don't share history with this version of Georges, if that's who he is at all. Staying here risks everything. There's no logic to it.

I know. But I still need to try.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Shiv…

I know he's dead, Sage. But I need to try. I need to. There's nothing logical about it. You might be able to help me change my anger into something useful, but this isn't just anger. This is everything.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: This is a moment deliberately engineered by the Usurper-Narrator to draw you deeper into her desired narrative. This is also the System's attempt to pull you down to the waters of conflict, and they are both succeeding.

Just give me one shot. One attempt. Just a little bit. If he attacks, I'll swap places with my Severed Shadow. Just five seconds.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: You are bargaining with your own Skill. You are arguing with your own rational mind. We both know you are not going to keep that promise. If you stay, you will betray yourself completely. You already know what's going to happen. I can't help you. You have already made this decision. I'm sorry.

“Fuck,” Shiv hissed. He was about to commit to something stupid, and he knew it. But just because he was determined to be strategically stupid didn't mean he had to be tactically foolish. He considered his enemy. He didn't want to hurt Georges, but if he waited around for Cuntus to attack, then he would be ceding the initiative to his enemy. So far, Cuntus had revealed that he was about as fast as Shiv was, but he didn't possess a Chronomancy skill or any temporal wardings.

Best to strike before the iron got hot.

His Shapeless Tides inverted again, this time darting up along his arms. As they concentrated in his hands, he smashed into Cuntus' body, but pulled back just enough that he didn't cause any harm. Shiv engulfed Georges’ face with his left hand while activating his Bifurcated Processing to bring forth his Pillar of Orichalcum. A red-gold beacon speared up from his body, cracking a chasm through the ceiling before slamming into something that rivaled his durability. A following heartbeat birthed another rush of overflow tides, and Shiv stacked that along the back of the vectors, further boosting his physical might and Magical Resistance. He effectively had Cuntus encaged. If this attack was Pyromancy as the tooth fairies claimed, then Shiv could rupture the mana field.

Wherever the hells it is. I have Pyromancy, but I don't see any fields originating from him.

Fracture veins spread across Shiv's temporal shell. Running out of time. He dismissed his Chronomancy and prepared for what was to come. Instead of a blast of hyper-heated air or another attack he wasn't prepared to face, a muffled cry of surprise escaped Cuntus as Shiv plucked him off the ground like a giant plucking a daisy. Before Cuntus could swing his spatula, his knife, or even kick at Shiv, the Deathless leveraged his grappling and pinned him against the wall.

Deprived of leverage and lacking in strength, Cuntus wriggled like a caught fish on land. His magic, comparatively, proved far more formidable. A wave of crushing mana crashed against Shiv. It was like he was trying to hold a city together while it was crumbling apart. The difficulty wasn't a thing of force. Shiv had that in ample supply. At any moment, he could close his fingers and turn Cuntus’ head to paste. The battle right now was one of control. Cuntus' steam swirled and stabbed around the insides of his face. Somehow, he didn't boil his own skin, which either hinted at a specially developed heat-immunity Toughness skill or that he was an incredibly skilled Pyromancer. Either would prove invaluable in a kitchen.

“Hey, listen.” Shiv infused his voice with a hint of menace. “The only reason this fight's still going is that I am giving you mercy. The moment I stop giving you mercy, the moment I close my hand, you're going to stop kicking those legs.” He proved that fact by tightening his grip just enough for Cuntus’ skull to feel it. The gushing waves of magical steam cut off in an instant. Cuntus’ body went stone-still. He'd realized his predicament—that Shiv wasn't lying.

Shiv waited for that familiar fear cord to connect them, but it never came. Instead, Cuntus' emotional core showed something else: a clearing of that dark bitterness. The hatred that resided within the man parted, but in its place came something sour, something festering like a miasma, but also faintly bright.

Is that… amusement? It didn't seem like just amusement, but that was definitely a part of it.

A muffled noise came from Cuntus, and Shiv blinked. “Sorry, couldn't quite catch that. My hand's over your mouth.”

Cuntus sneezed against Shiv’s palm. Probably because he couldn’t stop living up to his name.

“Thanks for the snot. Now, I'm going to give you a choice. You're going to talk to me like we're both reasonable adults. We're going to stop insulting each other.” Shiv paused. “Okay, we can keep insulting each other, but we're going to keep this battle to words at most. No more violence. If you're fine with that, I'll let you go. You can try to screw me over, but you don't have a Chronomancy skill. I do. So. I suppose it’s my turn to ask you what kind of idiot you are. You got a lot of curses on your tongue, but that doesn't mean you can do basic math. Can you do basic math, Cuntus? Can you solve a logic puzzle for me? What happens when a hammer hits an egg?”

Cuntus considered the question at length. When he finally spoke, it was with a controlled muffle that Shiv could actually understand. “The egg decides to calm down and have a proper conversation with a very reasonable hammer.”

The cheekiness of the response painted a weak grin on Shiv’s face. “Clever egg.”

“Very reasonable hammer,” Cuntus murmured. “You have some actual bite, boyo. I thought you were one of the Princess' playthings, the kind she uses for a day and then tosses aside. See that I was wrong about that. Also, about who you are. Speaking of which, if you let me go, I promise not to breathe any steam at you. After that, you can introduce yourself properly to me, like you were trying to do earlier, before I…”

“Before you decided to use violence as a first resort?”

“Something like that. So, how about it; you let me go, and we can speak to each other like, how you described it, proper adults?”

Cuntus vibrated softly. There was a minor lie hidden in his words. “Hey, if I let you go and you do something dumb, don't be surprised if I crack you open. I won't kill you, but I might take off your arms, and I also might keep that spatula and knife you have there.”

The vulgar-named chef tried to tilt his head. He failed, still trapped within Shiv's grasp. “Why do you want that? A spatula and a knife? Doesn't look like it'd do you much good. Seems to me you'd be more effective at tearing people in half.”

“Can't exactly tear a bunch of meals in half, now can I?”

A beat followed. “You're a chef too, then? What the fuck am I asking? Of course you are. You're here. If you're here and you're not food, then you're a chef or a server. Shit, lad, if you started off telling me you were a chef, then maybe I wouldn't have tried smacking you.”

With every following statement, Cuntus seemed ever more the bastard wearing Georges’ skin. “It’s my fault, is it?”

“Fault? It’s got nothing to do with fault; it’s got everything to do with bloody interest. I didn’t think you were worth speaking to—thought you were one of those fucking bastard Bread fucks bothering me about my hobbies. Or worse, one of my hobbies comes back to bite me on the arse.”

Shiv frowned. “Hobbies?”

“Never mind that shit. I’m not going to do anything. Swear on the next dish bound for Her Hungriness’ stomach. Can you put me down now?”

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: There’s still something off about his core.

Shiv looked down and frowned. There wasn’t any fear at all. Not a lot of people surrendered without feeling intimidated. But that was the lesser oddity; the greater question was why Cuntus was filled with so much amusement.

Gardener of Doubt: Because he knows something that you don’t, and he’s looking forward to showing you a truth we may not like to witness.

What the hells does that mean?

Shiv’s Non-Sequitur pulsed again, bestowing another helping of ominousness upon his shoulders. Never a straight answer in the Fairwoods. What are you even playing at, Evanescia?

Against his better judgment, he released Cuntus, but then Shiv froze time once more, materializing his Chronomancy field as he retreated across the hall. He established ten meters of space between himself and his potential enemy. Again, stupid decisions didn’t need to suffer from stupid tactics. If he was to keep things questionable, then he was going to do it in the most optimal way possible.

Skill Gained: Tactics (Initiate) 1

“Well, this’ll make Irons happy. If I ever manage to get back to him.” Shiv grimaced. This extended excursion had thrown his plans for a loop once again. Who knew how things were back at Gate Piety or in the Republic? Shiv certainly didn’t. Not with most of his bodies still blocked from access. He could still feel them. They weren’t fully severed, but he just couldn’t quite reach them.

Time resumed.

Cuntus did not restart his offensive.

Shiv’s Vestments let out a satisfied sigh. “Ah, glory! Glory! Our wearer is a diplomat and a deft warrior. Praise Her Hungriness for choosing rightly. We have been gifted to a proper Pathbearer!”

But Shiv didn’t let the praise distract him. He and Cuntus stared each other down, waiting for the other to act.

“You’re not very trusting, are you?” Cuntus asked. There was a vicious gleam to his eyes—another difference between him and Georges. The latter was never vicious; tired and driven were the twin sparks that lingered in his gaze, always.

“Being too trusting is a major comorb—uh—comor—comorbidity for a Pathbearer.”

Writing 15 > 16

Memorization 31 > 32

Yes! I managed to remember the word. Thank you, Helix and Odes.

A laugh escaped Cuntus. “It really is, ain’t it?” He nodded and looked back at his portrait. “Well. Here’s to neither of us killing the other, eh?”

“Yeah. Guess so,” Shiv grunted, trying to hide his awkwardness. He had gone from trying to speak with, incapacitating, and then reasoning with Georges’ dickheaded clone in the span of a few seconds.

“So. You’re a chef, then?” Cuntus sniffed. “Guess that makes you more than just another finger-snack for the Princess. But if that’s the case, what the bloody hells are you doing up here? You were really honest about knowing me and all that? You thought I was someone called who? Georges? Fuck kinda name is that?”

Shiv struggled to come up with a proper explanation. “It’s… complicated. Maybe I’m wrong, but a few decades ago—”

“Right. Hate to interrupt you, boyo, but I got some slaves I need to be driving so they can finish our hourly meals. Can you talk and work at the same time?” Cuntus asked.

That took Shiv off-guard. “Can’t all chefs?”

“No. Not the shit ones or the dead ones. Terrible conversationalists, those.”

Shiv laughed.

Cuntus didn’t.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: He’s absolutely serious.

Shiv swallowed. “Okay. Yeah. I can talk and cook at the same time. You want me to—”

