“Of course,” Ali chuckled and crafted a runic circle for the dwarf and his apprentices to go explore his new abilities and skills down in the depths of the mines.

As soon as they vanished, Ali shifted her attention to her minions.

“Come,” she said, beckoning to Tol’brekk. “It’s finally your turn.”

“Yes, Seeker.” The giant troll bowed his enormous, tusked head and stepped forward, his weight making the entire grove shiver.

She shifted her perception into her berserker and reached out to touch the shrine with an enormous hand. Quickly, she activated the class evolution for him and ran through the path choices, deciding immediately to take whatever was his preference.

[Zone] Carnage Berserker has advanced to the second tier.

Ali’s Grimoire immediately appeared and spawned a glowing cloud of new runes that rapidly assembled themselves upon the pages of the troll chapter.

Variant completed, but the imprint is full. Make space or select a new chapter.

Based on what had happened when she had learned the Lirasian Oak Elder Tree variant, she had expected something like this, but for once she had a couple of open chapters available, so she selected one, expanding her Troll imprint with room for the new complex structure of an evolved berserker class.

Variant: Carnage Berserker added to Imprint: Troll.

Ali stared in awe as her enormous berserker grew bigger and heavier. Already-enormous muscles swelled and hardened and his skin darkened, taking on deeper, burgundy-red hues and the runes tattooed on his skin brightened.

“This is most excellent, Seeker,” he said, flexing a massive bicep in appreciation.

“You’re welcome,” she said, congratulating the former Death Knight on his second ascension – and this time with a class she could make excellent use of. Carefully, she inspected the impact of what he had chosen.

The biggest change was a massive increase in strength and a crushing blow chance that was linked to increases in rage, and a substantial power increase to his bloodline. But Leap gained a stun effect, and Monstrous Armor gained heavy armor proficiency. Ali stared at the enormous monster, towering above her, trying to imagine how much more terrifying he would be in a full set of Eimuuran steel plate. She shook her head. Ouch. But even that wouldn’t be enough against the Lich.

Overwhelming Power, one of his most effective melee skills, now had a new advancement that allowed him to spend his health to temporarily increase the power of any melee or movement skill. This, paired with his berserker rage skill, seemed to achieve the same thing she had done with Ritual Infusion, offering a controlled way to dramatically increase his damage at the most critical moment.

“He’s huge!” Mato said, nodding his head in approval.

Tol’brekk grunted and nodded back.

“He’s terrifying, Ali,” Malika said, soberly. “And that’s after getting used to how terrifying he used to be.”

“You made good choices,” she told him.

“Thank you, Seeker,” Tol’brekk said.

“Wait, you let him choose?” Mato asked, incredulously. “That’s priceless!”

“Why not? He’s smart, and he understands melee fighting a whole lot better than I do,” Ali said.

There were a few more things she needed to do. First, she quickly verified that she could summon a second berserker with the newly evolved Carnage Berserker class. As she had previously determined, she couldn’t summon another Tol’brekk – her skill seemed to have a hard limitation around summoning unique or named monsters. Still, her Grimoire had recognized the paths he had picked as applicable to the entire berserker troll variant. Studying the runes closely, she realized Tol’brekk’s Death Knight variant was still available, should she ever require something so awful.

That means… she eyed the shrine speculatively. As soon as it recharged, she would have to run a few more berserkers through the evolution process exploring the different paths. Even if it cost her another Grimoire imprint, it would be worth it to understand the full extent of what her Shrine was capable of. Having a variety of builds will be good situationally, too.

“What now?” Malika asked.

“Time to take Thuli up on his promise,” Ali said, grinning. She stepped through the teleportation circle with her friends and Trolls following, appearing in the sweltering heat of the anvil chamber to find Thuli Emberforge and his apprentices busy setting up.

“Hey, lassie,” Thuli said, glancing up at her. “What can I do for ya?”

“What do you think about a plate armor commission?” Ali asked, gesturing at her newly evolved giant troll.

“For that mountain?” Thuli asked, staring up at the giant troll. But he had a gleam in his eyes that betrayed the anticipation of a worthy blacksmithing challenge. “Let me get his measure quickly. Then I’m gonna need a lot more ore or steel.”

“I think I can help with that,” Ali said, grinning at the excited Dwarf.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
