I shrugged, "Eh, it happens."

I followed her through a winding labyrinth of tunnels. We passed a laboratory full of silvers and vials of sludge. Scientists studied saysha, merjects, and other live silvers here. They even had a tube full of yana, the parasites that infected the first gialgathen I fought back in Icosah.

After a few minutes, we reached the end of a hallway. On a reinforced metal door, the name 'Tohtella Adair's Office' was imprinted. The receptionist gave me a bow. As she left, I knocked on the door. Tohtella shouted,

"Come in."

I opened the entrance, finding an everyday, regular office. So ordinary, in fact, that it seemed off. There was no dust, no disorganization, and no disorder. The only strange part was a jar full of yana worms. My guess was she kept it as a reminder of what she was working against.

As I stood in front of her, she stared at me, her eyes piercing. She pointed at a chair, "Please, sit. Does it bother you if I work while we talk?"

I shook my head, "Not at all. Does it bother you if I practice magic?"

She gave me a small smile like she was amused. When I got a good look at her, it shocked me how attractive she was. She hid it beneath her persona and workwear, but it still beamed through if you looked close.

I already had someone special though, so I leaned back in my chair. I pulled out a lump of orichalcum from my dimensional storage. I heated and cooled it as I talked,

"I'm here for a quest."

She operated several windows of her status, "Which one?"

"An Encroaching Invasion."

Tohtella froze for a second. She looked me in the eye, "What did you find?"

I sighed, "Is this conversation at all confidential?"

She nodded, steepling her fingers and turning towards me,

"You have my word it is. Speakers are a neutral faction. We only aim to further Schema. Nothing more, nothing less."

She meant it too. From the beginning, everything about Tohtella screamed integrity. From the way she handled her office and workers to her candidate Jilian, Tohtealla wanted to do a good job and get results.

However, I kept myself skeptical even if my gut reaction was good. I pulled out my obelisk and recorded our conversation. I turned to her,

"You don't mind?"

She waved her hand, "Of course not. I have nothing to hide, and documentation is almost always an excellent idea."

I flipped the orichalcum in my hand, "Good. I figured out who's spreading the infestation."

Her eyes widened, and she leaned towards me, "Who?"

I frowned, "I think it's a faction of gialgathens."

She raised an eyebrow, "What makes you believe that?"

I sighed, "I found espen bodies implanted with eggs. They were covered in the same slave brands that Emagrotha used forever ago."

Tohtella narrowed her eyes, "And? Anyone that knows those brands could plant that kind of evidence."

I shook my head, "I fought a Skyburner."

Tohtella blinked. She peered off to her side. She pushed her glasses up. She looked back at me, "Ahem, I understand that you are a contender in the Honoring of Lehesion, but-"

I shrugged, "I have video evidence of me kicking its ass. I can show it to you if you'd like. I'm the reason Mount Vernon has a new crater."

She blinked, "Wait...that crater wasn't an eruption?"

I shook my head,

"No. It was me."
