“It is possible to enjoy it without losing yourself to the feelings.” Artemis said. “Or you can join them.”

“N-no, I... Rimsoh...”

“Ren is right. You need to be careful of him.” Artemis said. “Ren will protect you when you need it.”

“I... don't really need...” Dilseffa stopped talking because she didn't want to lie so blatantly.

Artemis put an arm over her shoulders. “Until then, let's just sit here and see how long Yuwen can last.”

“Wh-what?” Dilseffa asked.

“Ren absolutely loves doing that.” Artemis said and motioned with her other hand at Ren. Yuwen had her face pressed into the seat and had her teeth dug into it to stop herself from screaming in pleasure. Her intense purring gave her away, though.

“If we didn't make him stop to give us a break once in a while...”

Dilseffa felt a shiver go down her spine at the thought of never having to stop, then her immense sexual desire peeked out through the unintentional gap that had left in her defenses. Everything seemed to stop as Artemis, Ren and Yuwen felt it, and they all turned their heads to look at her.

“Wh-what? What is it?” Dilseffa asked, then she felt a very strong feeling of Camaraderie and understanding. She blinked her eyes at those feelings, then Ren was there in front of her. “What... what are you doing?”

“Giving you a hug.” Ren said and leaned in to give her a hug. “I'm the same way.” He said. “I have to keep it restrained or I'll make a mess out of everything.”

Dilseffa's eyes had teared up and she wasn't sure why.

“If you need to talk about it, you can always come to me.” Ren said into her ear, gave her one last squeeze, and let her go. She saw his kind eyes and felt his welcoming feelings. “I hope you can enjoy the show for what it is.” He said and walked back over to Yuwen, who had stayed on her knees with her head resting on the seat.

“What's that?” Dilseffa asked.

“Mutual pleasure.” Ren said and looked at Yuwen's eyes. “Would you mind if...”

“Please continue.” Yuwen said and her purring started up again.

“I'm starting to really like that sound.” Ren said and smiled, then grabbed her tail and pulled it up. It made her catch her breath, like he had intended, then he kissed her special place and kept pleasing her.

Dilseffa was completely surprised that Ren kept pleasing Yuwen for just over an hour as they passed over the Gnome lands. Teepo warned Ren that the next land border was coming up and he had to stop. Ren made Yuwen go one last time and cleaned her up, then slid her bodysuit back into place. She didn't move or react in the least, and stayed where she was as she kept panting heavily with her tongue stuck out. Their time was at an end and the carriage dropped fairly quickly to land just inside the border of Pervaria.
