The precursor arrived on Day 52.

Wren felt it in the threshold stone's dawn vibration — not absent, but compressed. The thirty-second greeting ran its full duration, but the edges were different. The first and last three seconds had a quality of pressure rather than resonance, as if the stone were speaking through something that was learning to crowd it. She stood with her palm on the east face and counted the full thirty seconds and wrote in her journal afterward: *Day 52. Precursor. Dawn vibration full duration, edges compressed. Consistent with prior precursor timeline. Two days.*

She did not tell the others until breakfast.

"Two days," Theron said. He was not surprised. He had been watching the insects — his own version of a precursor count, the species-count dropping as the corruption boundary's chemistry tightened. He had noted it two days ago and not said anything either.

Hadley counted seventeen species in his morning survey. Down from twenty-three the day before. He wrote it in the column and did not comment.

Brecca finished her tea and walked to the gathering hall wall.

---

Day 53. The dawn vibration shortened.

Not absent — eighteen seconds, the same compressed quality at both ends, the middle clear. The Vael ran through the full eighteen seconds, the bedrock's resonance carrying the stone's greeting with the warmth it had carried since Day 39. But compressed into a smaller window.

And then: the precursor. In the substrate beneath the settlement, settling in overnight the way it had at the second pulse. A low steady compression, different from the Vael's warmth — where the Vael was open, patient, distributed through the formation, the precursor had a directional quality. South to north. The corruption gathering itself at the basin's far edge, preparing to move.

Wren sat on the threshold stone's carried stone base and felt both signals simultaneously. The Vael beneath. The precursor above it, at the surface layer. She engaged Detail Notation and held it as the resolution built.

At minute six: the precursor was not suppressing the Vael. It was running parallel to it, occupying the surface frequencies while the Vael continued in the bedrock below. Two signals, distinct. The corruption had not silenced the land's voice. It had tried to crowd it and found the Vael was deeper than it could reach.

The System did not respond. No notification, no XP. Whatever she had observed was inference, not contact — a reading of two signals' relationship rather than a new encounter with either. She noted the absence and closed the Detail Notation.

She wrote: *Day 53. Vibration 18s. Precursor active in settlement substrate. Vael continues in bedrock — precursor cannot suppress it. Corruption is shallower than the geological resonance. Two signals running simultaneously. System did not respond — observation, not discovery.*

---

Day 54 came and the pulse did not.

The dawn vibration was absent — the stone tried to speak and the precursor occupied its full frequency range, the same pattern as the first two pulses. Wren placed her palm on the east face at first light and felt the stone's presence, its four-thousand-year identity, and felt it held silent by something that was gathering itself south of the settlement.

And the Vael was still there. Running in the bedrock, uninterrupted, the same warmth it had carried every morning since she named it. The corruption's precursor had silenced the threshold stone's dawn greeting. It had not silenced the land.

She stood with her hand on the stone and felt both: the stone's silence and the bedrock's song. Two things, simultaneous.

*This is what it was like before the builders arrived,* she thought. *The Vael running in the ground, the corruption's cycle passing over it.*

The pulse did not come at dawn. It did not come at midday. The four of them assembled at the threshold stone at dusk — Theron at the carved depression on the west face, Hadley behind, Brecca at the east face with her palm flat — and waited.

Brecca had her eyes closed. Her breathing was slow. She was not rigid — not the sixty-second lock of her first approach to the threshold stone. She had been reading this stone for twelve days and she had found her way in. Whatever the stone held, she was holding with it.

"It's still there," she said without opening her eyes. "The stone is ready. It has been ready since this morning. The pulse is not a thing the stone does — it's a thing the forest does that the stone responds to."

Wren had been thinking of the pulse as something the stone did for two months. She let the revision settle.

No one answered. That was accurate to what they knew.

The pulse arrived at full dark.

Not at dawn, not at midday, not at dusk. Full dark, moonless, the settlement's fire the only light. Wren felt it arrive the way she had felt the previous two: a wave front, south to north, moving through the basin floor, the corruption entering the settlement's margin as something looking for weakness. The threshold stone answered. The [Foundation Stone] signature expanded outward through the substrate, meeting the wave at the settlement's edge. The triad ran its chord — threshold stone, prayer-notch, healer's house — the three-node cluster translating the corruption's energy through its three modes and returning it as information.

The holding lasted one hundred and twenty-four breaths.

---

When it was over, Wren counted the stars. The night had the particular quality of post-pulse silence: the insect chorus completely absent, the ghost-elms still, the Vael running quiet in the bedrock. She sat at the threshold stone's base and did the math.

Pulse 1: Day 18.
Pulse 2: Day 36. Interval: 18 days.
Pulse 3: Day 55. Interval: 19 days.

She wrote it down. *Day 55. Pulse arrived. Third interval: 19 days. Drift is growing.*

Then she wrote: *This is what every settlement on the limestone formation needs to know. The pulse cycle is not re-stabilizing at 18 days. It is still decelerating. Fourth pulse: Day 55 + 20 = Day 75, if the pattern continues. Or Day 55 + 19 = Day 74, if the acceleration rate stays constant. Or something else.*

She looked at the numbers. Then she looked south, where the corruption's wave had come from and returned to.

The gap had retreated. She would measure it in the morning, but she had felt it during the holding — the settlement's margin pushing outward one more degree, the corrupted ground releasing its grip by the same small increment it had released at the second pulse. One degree. Approximately three additional meters of retreated strip.

Theron would find new channel in the morning.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  OBSERVATION
  Pulse Cycle -- Third Interval Confirmed
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Temporal: Third pulse arrived Day 55 (not Day 54).
  Third interval = 19 days.

  Pulse history:
    Pulse 1 -- Day 18 (interval: 18 days from Day 0)
    Pulse 2 -- Day 36 (interval: 18 days)
    Pulse 3 -- Day 55 (interval: 19 days)

  Drift pattern: Growing. Each interval one day
  longer than the last. Original cycle: 17 days.
  Current offset from original: 2 days and increasing.

  Projected pulse 4: Day 55 + 20 = Day 75
  (if drift rate holds at +1 day per interval)

  Implication: settlements synchronized to original
  17-day or observed 18-day cycle are now out of
  phase. Recalibration required.

  +0 XP (observation, not discovery)

-------------------------------------------------------------
```

---

The gap was five degrees in the morning.

Theron was already at the channel when Wren arrived with the counting rod. He had cleared three new blocks of dressed stone — one of them revealed a feature: a T-junction, the main channel branching east-west at the same depth, two channels feeding something that was still buried under the corruption's retreated boundary. The junction's blocks were dressed to a higher standard than the main channel — tighter joints, the stone itself a different limestone, lighter and denser.

"The terminal structure," Theron said. He was not excited. He said it the way he said things that had been true before he knew them, and now he knew. "The junction serves a structure. Whatever it was built to feed is at the junction's eastern or western terminus." He looked down the exposed section of branch channel, disappearing under grey soil after two meters. "One more degree and I will see the first block of the terminal structure itself."

"One pulse."

"One pulse." He turned the trowel over. "Unless the fourth pulse retreats more than one degree."

She did not say that the fourth pulse might be twenty days away now. She would tell him, but not here, over fresh stone. Later, at the fire.

---

Hadley returned from his post-pulse ecological survey at midday.

He had walked south to the retreated strip and east along the new boundary. Wren watched him come through the ghost-elm perimeter with his journal open in his hand, still writing, the way he moved when the data was coming faster than he could record it at rest.

"Thirty-one species," he said. He sat at the fire pit and kept writing. "Up from seventeen. Fourteen new species in the retreated strip and the new boundary zone. Three of them I haven't recorded in the basin before. One — " he paused, pen moving " — one I cannot identify. Small, dark, moves along the limestone surface. Not an insect. Not a worm. Something I have not seen."

He held up the journal to show her a sketch. Two centimeters, elongated, with a structure at the anterior end that might be a sensory organ. Hadley's sketch was precise and small and full of uncertainty marks.

"It only appeared after the pulse," he said. "I checked the same stretch of limestone yesterday. Nothing. This morning: six of them, same square meter, working the surface."

Wren looked at the sketch. "Does it respond to substrate vibration?"

"Yes. It stopped when I tapped the limestone. Then resumed." He capped his pen. "Something the pulse brought to the surface, or something the pulse made the surface safe enough to be on. I cannot tell which."

"Write it down carefully."

"I am."

She looked at the journal. The columns of species counts, the sketches, the methodical accumulation of observations that had no System to award them XP and no class to give them names. Hadley had been counting since the second pulse and he had built something real — a record of ecological response that no one else in the basin had.

"Hadley," she said. "When you check the basin cache for the resupply run — can you go today? The Sorrel reply might be there."

He looked up. "I was already planning to."

---

He returned in the late afternoon with the reply.

A folded note, sealed with plain wax, the handwriting on the outside the same precise script as the supply log entry: *To the Southern Settlement, via H. care of Rimfolk network.* No name on the outside. Inside: two pages, both sides.

Hadley read it standing at the fire pit while Wren watched his face.

He had the quality — she had noticed this before — of someone who read the way he counted insects: full attention, no expression, the information going in before any response came out. He read both pages. Then he read them again. Then he folded the note and looked at the fire.

"Sorrel wants to come," he said.

Wren had not expected that.

"To the settlement. Not permanently. A visit. Two weeks, to read the geology directly rather than through correspondence." He held the folded note. "They have been watching the pulse cycle from the escarpment. Their count has the same drift I observed — eighteen days for the second interval. They did not expect it to drift further. They want to know what the third interval was."

Wren thought of the number she had written last night. *19 days.*

"The drift is growing," she said. "Third interval was nineteen."

Hadley looked at her. Then he opened the journal to a new page and wrote the number down.

"Sorrel's hypothesis," he said. "The corruption contracts around something lost. A grief response. If the pulse cycle is decelerating —" He paused. "They wrote that a decelerating pulse would suggest the corruption is settling. Becoming more permanent. Less a response and more a state."

"Or," Wren said, "it could mean the response is changing. Something is different now from when the deceleration began."

Hadley looked at her.

"The Vael," she said. "The geological resonance. The pulse cycle started decelerating before I named it — the first observed interval was already 18 days. But something has been changing since the second pulse. If the corruption's grief is responding to something, and that something is the land's own voice —"

She stopped. She did not have the vocabulary for what she was thinking.

"Write it down," Hadley said. "The way it is now, incomplete. Sorrel can read an incomplete theory."

---

That evening, Wren allocated her level points.

Not at the fire, not in company. In her tent, journal open, the Vael running in the bedrock beneath her.

Six attribute points. She had been carrying them since Hearthstone, since the Level 6 notification fired at the end of the comparative reading and she had closed it because there was a pulse to watch for. The pulse had passed. The number was 19. She knew what she needed.

She put three points into PER. Perception: the attribute that extended the range of what she could read through her bonds and her skills, that increased the resolution of Detail Notation, that would eventually let [Keen Survey] reach further and sharper. She was a Wayfinder in a landscape where the significant things were deep and subtle and spread across geological distances. She needed to read further.

Two points into ATT. Attunement: bond sensitivity, trait clarity, the speed at which new bonds formed and deepened. She had a new bond slot and a relay terminus she could not yet reach and an Eye whose transmission content she could feel but not read. She needed to listen better.

One point into MEM. Memory: record precision, the ability to hold a landscape's full detail without compression. She was building a comparative record of a site across visits. She needed what she had observed to stay precise.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  ATTRIBUTE ALLOCATION
  Level 6 -- 6 Points Spent
-------------------------------------------------------------

  PER: 14 → 17  (+3)
  ATT: 14 → 16  (+2)
  MEM:  8 →  9  (+1)

  Free skill point: held (no allocation)

  Updated stat block:
  PER 17 | ATT 16 | EMP 12 | ADP 11 | PTH 10
  DEX 10 | RSV  9 | END  9 | VIT  9 | FOC  8
  MEM  9 | PRE  7

-------------------------------------------------------------
```

She held the free skill point. There was a skill she was approaching — she could feel it the way she could feel the Eye's transmission content, present but not yet readable. When she knew what it was, she would spend the point. Not before.

She closed the journal and lay in the dark with the Vael running beneath her and the number 19 running in her head and Sorrel's letter in Hadley's pack and a T-junction in the channel and one more degree of corrupted ground returned to the world that had been waiting for it.

*Day 55. Third interval: 19 days. Drift growing. Gap: 5 degrees. Sorrel wants to come. The pulse cycle is a question the land is still answering.*
