She told him before breakfast.

Not gracefully. Not with the speech she had rehearsed in the dark -- the careful ordering of facts, the apology tucked between the discovery and the significance, the words that would make the keeping sound less like what it was. She had lain awake composing it, sentence by sentence, while the bonds pulsed in her chest and the ruins hummed at the edge of her awareness like a word she could not quite remember. She had built the speech the way she built her maps: methodically, with attention to proportion, every landmark in its place.

She threw it away the moment she saw his hands.

Theron was at the fire. Coals rebuilt, clay pot warming, the camp’s morning rhythm already underway. He was holding his cup with both hands, the way he always held it, and his thumbs were moving -- slow circles on the clay’s surface, an unconscious gesture she had seen him make a dozen times in four days. But this morning the gesture looked different. This morning she could see the scars on his hands, silver-white in the early light, and the hidden stiffness in his left wrist, and the way his eyes went south-east for two breaths and came back with something compressed behind them.

He was a man holding his grandmother’s grief in a cup of thornwild sage, and Wren had spent the night sitting on his inheritance.

“Theron.”

He looked up. Assessed her the way he assessed weather -- one glance, full inventory. Whatever he read in her face made him set the cup down.

“I found something yesterday,” she said. “In the north-east section, past the ghost-elm grove. Hadley and I -- we followed the compass, and we found --” She stopped. Started again. “Rimfolk stonework. Worked stone with guild marks. A settlement. Ruins.”

She watched the words land.

Theron’s hands went still on his knees. Not the stillness of surprise -- she knew what that looked like from him, the compressed pause, the recalculation. This was different. This was the stillness of something very old being touched for the first time in a very long time, and the touch hurting, and the hurt being welcome because it meant the thing was real.

He did not speak.

“I found it yesterday afternoon,” she said. “And I kept it overnight. I didn’t tell you. I should have told you the moment I walked back into camp and I didn’t, and I am sorry.”

The fire cracked. A coal shifted, sending a thread of sparks upward. In the canopy, the basin thrush started its three-note call -- steady weather, the day holding.

“You found it yesterday,” Theron said. Not a question.

“Yes.”

“And you kept it.”

“Yes.”

He looked at his hands. Turned them over, examined the scars as if checking whether they were still there. Then he looked at her -- not angry, not wounded, but with the expression of a man who had been deciding something about her for four days and had just received his answer.

“My grandmother,” he said slowly, “told my father there were buildings. In the basin. Places where the families lived before they went upslope. He told me. I never looked.” He picked up his cup. Set it down again. “Three generations of knowing and none of us looked.”

“Theron --”

“You looked.” His voice was level. “You walked into my forest, and in four days you found what three generations of my family knew about and did not seek. And then you kept it for one night because you wanted it to be yours before it was mine.”

The words landed in Wren’s chest like stones dropped into still water. She felt the ripples spread -- shame, recognition, the particular ache of being seen precisely by someone you respected.

“Yes,” she said. “That’s what I did.”

Theron looked at her for a long moment. The south-east glance came and went -- the briefest flicker, almost invisible, but the [Reflective] trait would not let her miss it.

“My grandmother would have understood,” he said. “She was the same way with places. She said the first hour of knowing was the sweetest, and sharing it changed the taste.” He stood. “She also said that the second hour -- the showing -- was better. Because then someone else could taste it too.”

He walked to the lean-to and came back with his gathering knife and his coat. The ghost-elm bark cloth caught the morning light, its tight weave the color of weathered wood.

“Show me,” he said.

---

They went three together.

Hadley was awake -- had been awake, Wren suspected, since she’d started talking. He emerged from his tent with his boots already laced and his notebook already in his hand, wearing the expression of someone who had been waiting to be invited and was trying not to look like he had been waiting.

“I can sketch the guild marks,” he said, falling into step beside Wren as they left the camp. “I recognized two yesterday but there were more I couldn’t read in the light. If Theron can identify them --”

“He can,” Theron said, without turning.

The route was familiar now -- Wren’s second time on the path, and [Trail Memory] made the retracing effortless. She led them south-east from the camp, through the transition woodland where the ghost-elms grew in loose clusters, past the grove where she and Hadley had discovered the resonance network yesterday. The morning air was cool and dry, the insect chorus already fading as the birds took over, and the Thornwild smelled the way it always did in early light: green and wet and underneath the green, the faint sweetness that was deeper today than yesterday.

She noticed that. Stored it beside the other small changes accumulating in her attention.

The Shelf sat behind her breastbone, cool and steady. The Eye was brighter -- the bond’s attention sharpening as they moved south, as if the pool could sense their direction and was interested. Between the two bonds, the thread of the network hummed with low-frequency data: the Shelf’s morning temperature (warming slowly, limestone releasing its night cold), the Eye’s surface state (still, reflective, the pre-dawn mirror giving way to the softer diffusion of full morning).

She was walking through the forest and simultaneously feeling two other places. The sensation had not diminished overnight. If anything, it had deepened -- the bonds settling into her, the initial strangeness becoming a fit.

Theron walked ahead. Economical, each step placed, his body reading the terrain before his eyes confirmed it. He had not spoken since the camp. His silence was not hostile. It was the silence of a man walking toward something he had spent a lifetime not walking toward, and the walking requiring all of his attention.

They reached the ghost-elm grove. Passed through it -- the resonance humming in Wren’s sternum as they crossed the zone, the corruption boundary visible now even in daylight, the soil change she and Hadley had documented yesterday. Theron’s boots crossed the line without pause. He had walked this ground for decades. He knew the boundary by feel, even if he had never had words for why the ground felt different here.

Beyond the grove, the undergrowth thickened. Then thinned. Then the trees opened into the stretch of disrupted canopy where the light came through brighter, the forest floor less shaded, the growth younger and denser in the way that said something had happened here once.

Wren’s foot found the first stone.

“Here,” she said.

---

In daylight, the ruins were larger than she remembered.

What she had found yesterday in the fading afternoon -- a wall corner, a line of cut stone -- was only the edge. Morning light revealed the rest the way rising water reveals a riverbed: slowly, then all at once. The worked stone extended north-east in a rough arc, wall lines emerging from the undergrowth at intervals, each one straight and deliberate and unmistakably *made*. Wren counted foundations as [Wayfinder’s Eye] resolved the bond-potentials into distinct signatures. One here, bright and sharp, its stone well-preserved. Another there, lower and older, its foundation half-collapsed into the earth. A third further on with the quality she had felt yesterday -- the *ruined* quality, a place that had been something and stopped and was waiting.

Not one building. Not five.

She could see the shape of it now: a settlement arranged in a rough ring, residential structures at the perimeter, a larger foundation at the center -- bigger than the others, its stone heavier, its footprint suggesting a gathering space, a hall. Behind the ring, on a slight rise where the ghost-elm canopy thinned, the ground stepped upward in deliberate terraces -- stone-walled garden beds, overgrown but intact, the terracing so precise that even decades of root encroachment had not broken the lines.

The bond-potentials shimmered in her peripheral vision. Each one distinct now -- not the cacophony of yesterday but a chorus, each voice separate, each with its own character. Some potentials were warm and heavy (stone structures, foundations still holding heat), some were bright and alive (the terraces, where something was still growing in the enriched soil), and one -- deep, clean, resonant -- pulled from the center of the settlement like a heartbeat.

“The well,” Theron said.

He had stopped walking. He stood at the edge of the first foundation, his gathering knife forgotten at his belt, both hands hanging loose at his sides. He was looking at the settlement the way the pool had looked at Wren -- with an attention so sustained it had weight.

“The well is at the center,” he said. His voice had changed. Not louder, not softer. Rougher. As if the words were being pulled through something that resisted their passage. “My grandmother said. The well at the center, the houses in a ring. She said the well never went dry and the water tasted of -- of something sweet. Not the corruption. Something older.”

He walked forward. Past Wren, past Hadley, into the settlement’s perimeter with the sureness of a man following a map he had memorized as a child and never expected to use. He went to the first intact wall section -- waist-high, the stone grey-green with moss -- and crouched beside it.

His fingers found the guild mark.

The groove was shallow, precise, cut into the stone’s face with a tool that left a signature as distinctive as handwriting. Theron traced it without speaking. His fingertips moved slowly, with a pressure that was half touch and half listening.

“This is a Wynn mark,” he said.

Hadley’s breath caught. A small sound, barely audible, swallowed by the morning. Wren looked at him and saw his face doing something she had not seen before -- not the rapid cataloging, not the delight of discovery. Something rawer. Something that hadn’t been filed yet.

“Wynn,” Hadley repeated.

“Your family’s mark.” Theron did not look up. His fingers moved to the next stone. Another groove, different pattern. “And this is Blackroot. My grandmother’s family.”

He stood. Walked to the larger foundation -- the gathering hall -- and crouched again. More marks. His fingers read them systematically -- each one a data point, each one a name.

“Osk. Brenn. Ashvale. Holt.” But his voice was rougher with each one, the words pulled through more resistance, and when he reached the sixth mark his hand stopped and he rested his palm flat against the stone and did not speak for a long time.

Wren stood three meters away and watched him. She could feel the Eye’s [Reflective] trait sharpening the scene -- every detail heightened, every micro-expression visible, the light on his scarred hands and the way the stone was warmer under his palm than the air around it. Her attention wanted to map the ruins. Her eye wanted to follow the shimmer of bond-potentials into the terraces, the gathering hall, the deep clean pull of the well. The compass in her pocket was pulling -- not hard, not insistently, but with the patient directional lean it had developed since the upgrade, pointing her toward the strongest potential in the cluster.

She stayed where she was. She watched Theron touch his family’s name in stone that had been buried for longer than she had been alive, and she did not move, and she did not map, and the staying still was the hardest thing she had done since arriving in the Thornwild.

*This is not your place to map,* she told herself. *Not yet. Right now it is his place to hold.*

Hadley had taken out his notebook. He was not writing. He held it in both hands -- the way he held things that mattered, carefully, with specific attention -- and he was looking at the Wynn mark on the first wall section with an expression that Wren filed beside Theron’s: the face of someone discovering that home is a bigger word than they thought.

“My grandmother,” Hadley said quietly, “said we came from the south.”

---

Theron walked the settlement alone for twenty minutes.

Wren and Hadley waited at the perimeter. They did not discuss it. There was no conversation about whether to follow or to stay -- Theron had walked into the ruins and they had both understood, separately and simultaneously, that this was not a group activity. He moved between the foundations with a sureness that had nothing to do with landmarks and everything to do with memory -- not his memory, but the inherited shape of a place that had been described to him so many times it had become geography.

Wren sat on a fallen trunk at the settlement’s edge and felt the bond-potentials shimmer around her. Fifteen at least. Maybe more. Each one a voice, each voice a character. The gathering hall was the loudest -- a deep, resonant presence that she could feel in her back teeth, the kind of bond-potential that suggested depth and complexity and a long history of human use. The well was quieter but cleaner -- a pure, steady signal, uncorrupted, as if the groundwater feeding it had been beyond the corruption’s reach all this time.

She itched to survey. The itch was physical -- a tension in her hands, a restlessness in her feet, the Wayfinder’s fundamental impulse to move through a space and catalogue it. [Wayfinder’s Eye] was shimmering on everything. Every stone, every moss pattern, every shift in the canopy light above the ruins -- all of it registering as discoverable, all of it pulling at her attention with the gentle insistence of a compass needle.

She sat still.

She watched Theron touch another wall. She watched him find another guild mark and trace it with his fingertips and say a name she could not hear. She watched his south-east glance come and go three times, and she realized, sitting there with the Eye’s borrowed clarity, that he was not looking south-east. He was looking *here*. The settlement was south-east of the camp. The direction he had been glancing for four days -- for longer than four days, she suspected, for years, for decades -- was this direction. He had always known where it was. He had never come.

*Three generations of knowing and none of us looked.*

She understood. Not because she had felt the same thing -- she hadn’t, not exactly -- but because the Eye’s [Reflective] trait was doing what reflections did: showing her something she would not have seen on her own. Theron had not avoided the ruins out of ignorance. He had avoided them because knowing they existed and not seeing them was easier than seeing them and knowing they were lost. The ruins were the physical proof of everything the Rimfolk had been and stopped being, and visiting them would make the stopping real.

And now a sixteen-year-old girl had walked into his forest and found them in four days, and the stopping was real, and the stone was warm under his hands, and the guild marks spelled his family’s name.

Wren sat still and let Theron have this. She owed him that much. She owed him more.

---

When he came back, he was carrying something.

A stone. Small -- smaller than his palm, flat and smooth, with a groove on one face that was different from the guild marks. Finer. More deliberate. Not a mason’s signature but something decorative, a carved pattern that Wren’s [Wayfinder’s Eye] registered as significant without telling her why.

“From the hearthstone,” Theron said. He held it in both hands. His voice had returned to its normal register -- level, compressed, the field-note delivery that was his natural mode. But his eyes were red-rimmed in a way that had nothing to do with smoke. “The gathering hall. The main hearth. It’s still there. Fire-blackened. The soot hasn’t faded.”

He looked at Wren. “Survey it.”

“Theron --”

“You came here to map. My grandmother would have wanted it mapped. She would have wanted someone with your eyes to see what’s here and name it and remember it.” He turned the stone in his hands. “I am not that person. I don’t have that skill. You do.”

Not generous, not grudging. True.

“We’ll survey together,” Wren said. “You can tell me what things are. What they were.”

Theron looked at the settlement -- at the foundations rising from the undergrowth like bones surfacing from sand, the terraces climbing the rise behind, the ghost-elm canopy framing it all in pale translucent light. He nodded once.

“The well first,” he said. “The well is the heart.”

---

The well was limestone-lined, round, and clean.

That was the wrong word for it. Clean suggested effort, maintenance, the result of someone’s attention. This was something else. The well was *clear* -- the water inside it visible from the rim, bright and still, reflecting the canopy above with a resolution that reminded Wren of the Eye’s mirror-surface at night. She leaned over the edge and looked down. The water was perhaps three meters below the rim, its surface unbroken, and the limestone walls below the waterline were smooth and pale and faintly luminous in a way that made no sense unless you understood ghost-elm resonance, which Wren was beginning to.

The well sat at the center of the settlement. The foundations radiated outward from it like the spokes of a wheel -- not perfectly, not geometrically, but with the organic regularity of a place that had been built around a resource rather than imposed upon a landscape. The gathering hall’s foundation was the closest structure, its entrance oriented toward the well, and the residential ring curved around both.

“Groundwater,” Wren said. She could feel the bond-potential rising from the well like steam -- not the shimmering of [Wayfinder’s Eye] but a deeper signal, the kind she had learned to distinguish from the surface noise. The well’s potential was clean and strong and entirely uncorrupted. “The corruption can’t reach it. The water is coming from below the corruption’s depth.”

“My grandmother said the same,” Theron said. “Different words. She said the well remembered what the forest forgot.”

Hadley was already at the rim, peering in, his restlessness finally given permission to move. “The water level is high for this time of year. The last good rain was -- what, ten days ago? The aquifer must be substantial.” He looked at Wren. “What does it feel like? The bond-potential.”

“Clean,” Wren said. “The cleanest thing I’ve felt since the Shelf.” She put her hand on the well’s rim. The stone was warm -- warmer than the air, warmer than the surrounding foundations, as if the well drew heat from below as well as water. The warmth traveled through her palm and into the bond-network’s thread, and the Shelf and the Eye both registered it: a new data point, a new node, a place that could be connected.

She pulled her hand back. Not yet. Not today.

Hadley looked at her. “You’re not going to bond it.”

“No.”

“Why not?”

She looked at the settlement. At the foundations rising from the green. At Theron, who was standing at the gathering hall’s hearthstone with the carved stone still in his hands, his back to them, his shoulders carrying a weight that had been there for longer than Wren had been alive.

“Because I don’t understand it yet,” she said. “And because understanding matters more than speed.”

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY LOGGED
  Location: Unnamed Settlement — Central Well
  Type: Location (Significant Feature — Unbonded)
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Limestone-lined well at settlement center. Water
  table: ~3m below rim. Water quality: uncorrupted.
  Source: deep aquifer below corruption penetration
  depth.

  Structural role: central resource node. Settlement
  foundations radiate from well position.

  Bond potential: HIGH
  [Wayfinder’s Eye] detects strong latent resonance.
  No corruption signature detected.

  +45 XP (significant location, bond potential)
  Surveying: +3 proficiency
  Environmental Reading: +2 proficiency
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

Forty-five experience points. She was close to something -- she could feel the accumulation in the same way she felt the bonds, a gathering pressure that meant a threshold was approaching. The system did not tell her how close. It never told her how close. But the gathering pressure was there, and it was building with each discovery, each notation, each thing she stopped long enough to properly see.

---

They surveyed for three hours.

Theron led. He moved between foundations with the inherited map -- here was a home, here was a workshop, here was the building his grandmother described as having a doorway worn smooth on one side from leaning. They found the doorway. The stone was smooth. Wren put her hand against it and felt the warmth and the wearing and the specific pattern of a body’s weight, repeated daily over years, polishing the stone through persistence, not force.

Hadley documented. His notebook filled with sketches -- guild marks copied in his quick, cramped hand, annotated with Theron’s identifications. Six family marks confirmed.

The terraces behind the gathering hall were remarkable. Stone-walled garden beds climbing a gentle rise, each terrace perhaps a meter wide, the soil inside them darker and richer than the surrounding earth. Ghost-elm saplings had colonized the upper terraces, their translucent bark catching the morning light, but the stonework held. Wren crouched beside a lower terrace and put her fingers in the soil. It was different. Finer, darker, with a mineral sweetness she could smell before she touched it -- not the corruption’s sweetness but something organic, earned, the result of centuries of cultivation concentrated into a depth of earth.

“These were gardens,” she said.

“They were more than gardens.” Theron was behind her, looking at the terraces with an expression she could not entirely read. “My grandmother said the Roothold had gardens that fruited in every season. She said the earth there was -- alive. That it wanted to grow things.”

*The Roothold.* The word landed in Wren’s awareness with a resonance that was almost physical. She looked at Theron. “Roothold?”

“The old name. For the settlement in the deep basin. Not this one -- the one further in, the big one. The one the corruption took.” He paused. The south-east glance again. “But my grandmother said the upper families built the same way. They learned from the Roothold. Same terraces. Same well design. Same guild marks.”

Wren’s mind was working fast -- the Eye’s [Reflective] trait channeling the connections, lining up pieces. The Roothold -- the settlement in the deep basin, the one the corruption had consumed. This settlement was an outer ring -- a satellite, a daughter-community, built by the same families using the same techniques. The garden terraces here were a smaller echo of whatever the Roothold had built at its center.

*Building from ruins,* she thought. Not the grand version -- not the idea of it, not the word. The small, specific, dirt-under-fingernails version. These terraces had been built by people who understood that the land wanted to grow things, and the land was still here, still rich, still waiting, underneath the decades of wild overgrowth.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY LOGGED
  Location: Unnamed Settlement — Garden Terraces
  Type: Ecological/Architectural (Constructed Feature)
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Stone-walled garden terraces on settlement rise.
  Construction: Rimfolk masonry (consistent with
  settlement-wide guild mark tradition).

  Soil analysis: enriched, mineral-dense, darker than
  surrounding earth. Ghost-elm saplings colonizing
  upper terraces — stonework resisting root
  displacement.

  Historical context: terracing technique consistent
  with Roothold agricultural tradition per Rimfolk
  oral history.

  +35 XP (architectural feature, historical context)
  Surveying: +3 proficiency
  Identification: +2 proficiency
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

Eighty experience points total from the two survey discoveries. The pressure was building.

She was standing at the entrance to the gathering hall when the warmth arrived.

Not the bond-potential warmth she had been feeling all morning -- the general shimmer of a place dense with discoverable features. This was specific. Localized. The threshold stone beneath her left boot -- the large, flat slab at the hall's entrance, worn smooth by decades of foot traffic before the forest reclaimed it -- was radiating a heat that climbed through the leather of her sole and into the arch of her foot and settled there with the same quality of recognition she had felt at the Warden's Shelf.

She had been standing on this stone for forty minutes. She had not noticed because she had not been paying attention to her feet. She had been paying attention to everything else -- the well, the terraces, the guild marks, the stonework, the moss patterns on the walls, the way the light moved through the settlement's disrupted canopy. She had been paying distributed attention, the wide-aperture presence that the Wayfinder class ran on, and the threshold stone had been receiving it the entire time.

[Lay the Path] opened.

She recognized it instantly -- the same internal prompt she had felt at the Warden's Shelf, that quiet certainty that the system was ready and the place was ready and the only thing remaining was for her to say yes. But this was different from the Shelf in one critical way. At the Shelf, she had reached. She had pressed her palms to the stone and extended herself toward it, actively, deliberately, the way you extend a hand in greeting. Here, she had not reached at all. She had simply been present, for long enough and with enough genuine attention, and the bond had come to her.

She closed her eyes. She felt the threshold stone's density beneath her -- old, dense limestone, warmer than it should have been, holding heat the way some stones held water: not on the surface but deep, in the grain, in the molecular structure of the mineral itself. The stone had been the first thing every person in Varethen touched when they entered the gathering hall. Every morning for however many years, feet had crossed this surface, and the stone had received them, and the receiving had become a quality of the stone itself. Not memory -- stone did not remember. But a kind of readiness. A permanent welcome worn into the mineral.

The bond formed.

It was not like the Shelf's cool, steady settling. Not like the Eye's handshake. It was deeper and slower and less like a connection made than a connection acknowledged -- as if the bond had existed in potential since the first Rimfolk mason had set this stone, and Wren's forty minutes of standing on it had simply been the final necessary act in a three-hundred-year process of preparation.

She felt it seat in her chest -- not beside the Shelf and the Eye but below them. Deeper. A foundation. The warmth spread from her sternum downward, grounding her, and for a moment she felt as if she had roots of her own, threading down through her boots and into the stone and through the stone into the bedrock beneath.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  SYMPATHETIC BOND FORMED
  Location: Varethen — Threshold Stone
  Bond Depth: Glimpsed
  Trait Active: [Dormant] — Elemental family
  Signature: [???]
  Bond Type: Cluster Anchor (Node 1)
-------------------------------------------------------------

  [Dormant]: This location holds deep reserves that are
  not yet accessible. The trait's benefits are dormant at
  Glimpsed depth. At Known depth, the sleeper wakes.

  Note: As Cluster Anchor, this bond serves as the
  foundation node for all future bonds within this
  location cluster. The anchor occupies an Imprint Slot.
  Subsequent cluster nodes do not.

  ---- SLOT 2 UNLOCKED ----
  Achievement: Form bonds with 3 distinct locations.
  Slot 2: FILLED (Varethen — Threshold Stone)

  Discoveries at bond: 4
  Active Bonds: 3/? [Warden's Shelf, Warden's Eye,
                      Varethen — Threshold Stone]

  Network connections: 3 (geometric, 3 nodes)

  +50 XP (Imprint Deepened)
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

She opened her eyes.

Three bonds. Three connections. And the third bond was not like the first two.

The Shelf was shelter. The Eye was clarity. The threshold stone was -- patience. A deep, geological patience that did not need her to be there, did not respond to her presence with the Shelf's cool welcome or the Eye's bright attention, but simply *held*. The warmth was not for her. The warmth was the stone being itself, and she happened to be standing on it, and the bond was not a greeting but an acknowledgment that she was, for now, part of what the stone held.

[Dormant]. She read the trait again. *The sleeper wakes.* She did not know what that meant yet. She set it aside the way she set aside everything the system gave her that she could not yet use: carefully, precisely, in the part of her mind that kept things until their moment arrived.

And Slot 2. She had known it was coming -- three locations, three bonds, the achievement gate she had been approaching since the Shelf. But she had not expected it to feel like this: not an unlocking but a widening. As if the space inside her chest where the bonds lived had always been this large and only now had permission to admit it.

---

It happened at the ghost-elm perimeter.

Wren had noticed it on the walk in -- the ghost-elms that bordered the settlement’s north-eastern edge were spaced differently from the wild groves. More regular. The arc they described was too deliberate, too evenly curved, to be natural growth. She had filed it as a detail to investigate, and now, as the survey moved outward from the center, she came back to it.

She stood between two of the perimeter trees and put her hands on both trunks. The bark hummed. The resonance was strong here -- as strong as the grove where she and Hadley had discovered the corruption boundary -- but the quality was different. The grove’s resonance had been a natural overlap, three trees grown close by chance. This was structured. Intentional. The trees had been planted at intervals that maximized their resonance overlap, creating a continuous field rather than isolated pockets.

Someone had understood ghost-elm resonance centuries ago and used it as a ward.

“Theron,” she said. “These trees were planted.”

He was at her shoulder. He looked at the spacing -- at the arc, at the distances between trunks, at the way the canopy formed a continuous ceiling of translucent bark above the settlement’s edge.

“Yes,” he said. Not surprised. Confirmed. As if this was something else he had always known but never articulated.

“The resonance creates a boundary,” Wren said. She could feel it -- the corruption’s pressure, light here in the upper basin but present, a faint wrongness at the edge of her senses -- and the ghost-elm resonance pushing back, holding a line. Inside the perimeter, the settlement’s bond-potentials were brighter, the stone warmer, the moss greener. Outside, the forest was forest -- healthy enough, this far from the deep basin, but lacking the quality of *protection* that the resonance conferred.

She walked along the perimeter. The resonance held for fifty meters, sixty, seventy -- and then faltered. One ghost-elm in the arc was dead. Its bark was grey and silent, stripped of the translucent quality that marked the living trees, and where it stood the perimeter had a gap. A hole in the ward. The corruption had entered through the gap -- she could feel it, a thread of wrongness seeping inward, and at the gap’s inner edge, the bond-potentials were different. Dimmer. The *ruined* quality she had sensed yesterday clustered here -- buildings whose foundations felt not dormant but damaged, their potential diminished by exposure to the corruption that the dead tree no longer held back.

She stood at the gap and felt the two zones: the protected settlement behind her, bright and warm and waiting, and the thin corridor of corruption ahead, seeping through the broken ward like water through a crack.

The Shelf contracted.

Wren gasped. Not pain -- surprise. The bond in her chest, the steady cool presence of the Warden’s Shelf, had pulled inward. Tightened. As if the stone ledge five miles away could sense what she was standing near and was recoiling from it. The sensation was unmistakable: the Shelf was *flinching*. Not breaking, not weakening -- pulling back from something hot.

The Eye followed. The brighter bond dimmed, its attention narrowing, its [Reflective] clarity clouding at the edges. Both bonds were responding to the corruption’s proximity -- not with the data-relay of the network but with something more primal, more visceral. They were afraid.

*My places are afraid.*

She stepped back from the gap. Three steps, four, until the ghost-elm resonance surrounded her again and the bonds eased, the Shelf cooling to its normal temperature, the Eye brightening back to its usual clarity. The flinching stopped. But the memory of it stayed -- the sensation of the Shelf pulling away, the Eye dimming, the two places she loved contracting in her chest like hands withdrawing from fire.

The corruption was not a mechanic. It was a threat to her friends.

She stood inside the ghost-elm perimeter and breathed until her hands stopped shaking. The compass was still in her pocket. The bond-potentials still shimmered. The settlement waited around her, patient and warm and entirely indifferent to the thing outside its walls. The ghost-elm ward held, except where it didn’t, and where it didn’t, the corruption crept, and where the corruption crept, her bonds flinched.

She put it away. She would think about what it meant tonight, in her bedroll, when the bonds were calm and the forest was dark and the implications could be examined without the visceral memory of the Shelf pulling away.

---

The level came quietly.

They were back at the well. Wren had been documenting the settlement’s layout in her journal -- the ring of foundations, the central well, the gathering hall, the terraces, the ghost-elm perimeter with its single dead tree. She had been sketching the guild marks Hadley had copied, annotating them with Theron’s identifications. She was doing what she always did: paying attention.

The system notification arrived between one pen stroke and the next.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  LEVEL UP
  Wayfinder — Level 4
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Class grants: +1 PER, +1 ATT
  Free stat points: 3

  CLASS ABILITY UPDATE
  [Lay the Path] — Compass Sensitivity
  Tier: 2 of 3

  Compass now responds to bond-potential strength,
  not only presence. Stronger potentials register as
  a firmer pull. Effective range increased.

  Additionally: compass will indicate relative
  corruption density in the surrounding environment.
  Clean areas register as neutral. Corrupted areas
  register as resistance — the needle will drag.

  You are learning to read the land’s health
  through the tool your father gave you.
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

Level 4.

Wren set down her pen. She took the compass from her pocket and held it in both hands -- the brass case, scratched and dented and warm from her body heat, the stiff hinge that Callum had never fixed because it kept the lid from opening accidentally. She opened it. The needle swung, found north, and settled. But it was different now. She could feel the difference in the way the needle moved -- not the old binary (pulling or not pulling) but something graduated, a spectrum of intensity. The well pulled hard. The gathering hall pulled less hard. The terraces pulled gently. And at the edge of her perception, in the direction of the dead ghost-elm and the corruption gap, the needle did not pull at all. It *dragged*. A subtle resistance, a heaviness in the bearing, as if the compass was telling her that the path in that direction would cost more than the path in any other.

*Corruption density,* she thought. *The compass can read corruption now.*

She held it up toward the perimeter. Swept it in an arc. The drag appeared at the gap’s bearing and vanished when she swept past it -- a narrow band of resistance in an otherwise neutral field. The settlement itself was clean. The well was clean. The corruption had entered through the gap but had not reached the center.

She looked at the compass -- really looked at it, the way she had looked at the Shelf before bonding it, with the sustained, attentive gaze that was the Wayfinder’s fundamental tool. The brass was scratched with thirty years of her father’s use. The glass was clouded at one edge from the Ashbrook drop. The needle was slightly bent, barely perceptibly, from a magnetization that no human hand had caused.

*You are learning to read the land’s health through the tool your father gave you.*

The system’s words sat in her chest beside the bonds. Not in the same place -- not in the space where the Shelf and the Eye lived -- but nearby. Adjacent. The compass was not a bond. But it was becoming something more than a tool.

She closed the case and put it back in her pocket and sat for a moment at the well’s edge, feeling the new sensitivity settle into her. The bonds hummed in her chest. The settlement waited around her. The sun had climbed above the canopy gap and the light fell warm on the worked stone and the moss and the terraces and the well’s still water, and everything was bright, and everything was patient, and she was Level 4 in a place that had been waiting a very long time for someone to arrive.

---

They stopped for a midday meal at the well’s edge.

Theron produced flatcakes from his pack -- cold, left over from this morning, the kind that tasted better at room temperature than hot, the grain having settled into itself during the hours of walking. Hadley had dried thornwild berries and a small block of the pressed root cake he made himself, which tasted like nothing Wren could name but was filling in a way that exceeded its volume.

They sat on the gathering hall’s foundation stones and ate.

Theron spoke between bites -- not freely, not the way Hadley spoke, but in the compressed way that meant the words had been building.

“Scattered,” he said, when Hadley asked about the families. “Wynn is Millhaven -- your family. Osk is escarpment edge -- my aunt Maret’s family. Blackroot is me.” He paused. “Brenn went east, past the plateau. Ashvale and Holt I don’t know. My grandmother knew. She’s gone.”

“Hadley,” Wren said. “Your supply run to Millhaven. When is it?”

“Four days.” He looked at her. His cataloging face was on -- she could see him anticipating where this was going.

“Could you carry a message to the escarpment families? To Maret?”

Theron’s hands went still.

“The ruins are here,” Wren said, speaking to him now, not to Hadley. “Your family’s names are on the stone. This isn’t mine to keep. It isn’t mine to survey without the people whose names are written here knowing that it’s been found.”

Theron looked at her for a long time. The south-east glance did not come. He was looking at her with sustained attention -- the weight of assessment, and something behind it she could not quite read.

“You kept the discovery for one night,” he said.

“Yes.”

“And now you want to give it away.”

“It was never mine to keep.”

He nodded. One nod. The decisive kind, the kind that closed a door and opened another. He looked at Hadley.

“Tell Maret,” he said. “Tell her the upper settlement has been found. Tell her the well is clean. Tell her the guild marks are intact.” He paused. “Tell her Theron says come.”

---

They walked back to camp in the late afternoon.

The light had changed -- the morning’s green-gold shifting to the warmer amber of a day settling toward evening, the canopy filtering the sun into long columns that fell across the forest floor like the bars of a cage made of light. Wren walked with the compass in her hand, feeling the new sensitivity. Bond-potentials registered as pulls of varying intensity. The settlement behind them: a dense cluster of strong pulls, fading with distance but never disappearing. The Eye to the south: a clean, bright signal, attentive and curious, the pool’s reciprocal awareness reaching toward her through the network. The Shelf to the north-east: steady, cool, reliable, the stone’s patience unchanged by anything.

And everywhere else, the baseline: the Thornwild’s ambient potential, a low hum of discoverable features and bond-candidates that she had learned to filter into background noise. The compass read it all -- the pulls and the absences, the clean zones and the faint drag of corruption at the basin’s edges, the health of the land expressed as the ease or difficulty of a needle’s swing.

They were a hundred meters from camp when Wren stopped.

“The stream,” she said.

Hadley, who had been walking beside her and talking about soil composition in the terraces, stopped mid-sentence. “What about it?”

“It moved.”

There was a stream that ran thirty meters east of their camp. Wren had noted it on Day 2 -- a narrow channel, ankle-deep, running north to south through a shallow cut in the forest floor. She had sketched its position in her journal. She had noted the deadfall across it: two ghost-elm branches and a tangle of undergrowth that partially dammed the flow, creating a small pool upstream.

The deadfall was gone.

The stream was wider. Not dramatically -- a foot, maybe two, closer to the camp than it had been. The channel was cleaner. The water ran clear over smooth stones, and the banks were defined with a precision that suggested deliberate shaping rather than natural erosion. The stream looked like a version of itself that had been tidied. Presented. Made ready for someone’s attention.

“It was narrower,” Wren said. She pulled out her journal and found the sketch from Day 2. Held it up, comparing the drawing to the reality. The positions did not match. The stream had shifted six feet west -- toward the camp, toward where she slept, toward her.

“Streams shift,” Hadley said, but his voice was uncertain. He was looking at the banks. “In the Thornwild, water moves. The substrate is --” He stopped. Crouched. Touched the bank with his fingertips. “The bank is firm. This soil doesn’t shift overnight. And the deadfall was here yesterday. I stepped over it.”

Wren crouched beside the stream. The water was cool and clear and it smelled faintly sweet -- not the corruption’s sweetness, or not exactly, but a sweetness that was adjacent to it, a cousin-scent. She dipped her fingers in the water. The compass in her other hand registered something she had not felt before -- not a pull, not a drag, but a flutter. The needle trembled, oscillating between two bearings so quickly it almost vibrated, as if the compass could not decide what it was looking at.

[Wayfinder’s Eye] shimmered. But the shimmer was wrong. It was the wrong color -- not the warm gold of a natural discovery but something cooler, greener, with an iridescence that she associated with the ghost-elm’s translucent bark but had never seen in a system notification. The text assembled itself in her peripheral vision, and it was --

It was garbled.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DIS██VERY L█GG█D
  Location: Camp Perimeter — [unnamed watercourse]
  Type: ████████ F██████
-------------------------------------------------------------

  This water has been directed to you.
  This water has always been here.

  The channel is n██ural. The channel was
  a█████. The water is cl██n. The water
  want█ to be cl██n for you.

  This location has be██ properly met.

  Please stay.

  +██ XP (█████████)
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

Wren pulled her hand from the water.

She stood. She stepped back from the stream. Her heart was hammering -- not from danger, not from the physical threat that the corruption posed to her HP or her stamina, but from something worse. From recognition. The notification was not a system error. It was not a glitch. It was the system trying to tell her something and something else trying to tell her something different, and the two messages were layered on top of each other like two voices speaking at once, and one of the voices was the System and the other voice was --

*Please stay.*

The corruption had noticed her.

Not as a threat. Not as an invader. As a *mapper*. As someone who paid attention to water and mapped streams and documented the positions of things. The stream had moved overnight because something in the Thornwild -- something underneath the Thornwild, something that had been here for a very long time -- had rearranged it. Had cleaned it. Had presented it the way you present a room to a guest you want to impress.

The corruption was courting her.

“Wren.” Hadley’s voice, careful and low. “Your face is doing a thing.”

“The notification is wrong,” she said. Her voice sounded strange to her own ears -- thin, precise, stripped of its usual warmth. “The system notification. It’s garbled. Something is interfering with it. Something is -- speaking through it.”

Theron had stopped ten meters ahead. He turned. His face was unreadable, but his hand was on his gathering knife -- not gripping, just resting, the gesture of a man who had lived in this forest for decades and knew when the forest’s register changed.

“What did it say?” he asked.

“‘Please stay.’”

The words hung in the air between the three of them. The stream ran clear and sweet beside them, its banks neat, its surface catching the afternoon light in a way that was almost beautiful, almost inviting, almost exactly what a stream would look like if it wanted to be noticed by someone whose entire being was organized around the act of noticing.

Theron looked at the stream. Looked at Wren. His expression shifted -- not the compressed recalculation she was used to, but something older, something drawn from the same well of inherited knowledge that had guided him through the ruins.

“My grandmother,” he said, “said the forest wants things. Not the way people want things. The way a current wants a channel. The way roots want soil.” He paused. “She said if the forest starts wanting *you*, walk the other way.”

Wren looked at the stream. It ran clear and clean and sweet, and the sweetness was wrong, and the cleanness was wrong, and the wanting was wrong, and she understood -- standing there with two bonds flinching in her chest and a compass that could now read corruption and a system notification that had been rewritten by something that said *please stay* -- that the Thornwild was not just a place she was mapping.

The Thornwild was a place that was mapping her back.

---

She did not sleep well.

The stream ran beside the camp, clear and sweet, and she could hear it in the dark -- a sound that had not been there three nights ago, because the stream had been thirty meters east and partially dammed, and now it was here, close, cleaned, presented. The sound was gentle. Almost soothing. Almost exactly what a stream would sound like if it wanted to lull someone to sleep.

She lay in her bedroll and felt the bonds.

The Shelf: cool, steady, distant. The stone’s patience undiminished by the day’s events. The rowan growing from its crack, roots gripping, the long slow holding that the Shelf did because holding was what stone was for.

The Eye: bright, alert, watchful. The pool’s reciprocal attention turned toward her even now, even at night, the mirror surface holding stars she could feel through the bond without seeing them with her eyes.

Between them, the thread. The network’s hum. And beyond the thread, north-east, the ruins -- the settlement’s dense cluster of bond-potentials, dormant in the dark, waiting with the patience of places that had been waiting for a very long time.

The stream ran. The forest breathed. And somewhere under the breathing, under the stream’s gentle insistence, under the ghost-elm hum and the insect chorus and the night’s held breath -- something watched. Something that had rearranged a stream to impress a girl who noticed things. Something that said *please stay* in a voice that was not the System’s voice but wore the System’s clothes.

Wren pulled her blanket tighter and thought about the Imprint That Flinches. The Shelf pulling away. The Eye dimming. Her bonds recoiling from the corruption like hands withdrawing from a grip too tight.

*The corruption doesn’t want to hurt me,* she thought. *It wants to be my only bond.*

The thought was worse than danger. Danger she could walk away from. This -- this wanting, this possessive attentiveness, this rearranging of the world to make itself appealing -- this was something else entirely. This was communion’s dark mirror. This was what it looked like when a bond said *mine* instead of *ours*.

She closed her eyes.

The stream ran sweet beside her in the dark, and she did not drink from it, and she did not sleep easily, and when she finally drifted off it was with the compass clutched in one hand and the other hand pressed flat against her sternum where the bonds lived, holding them close, keeping them safe from the thing in the forest that wanted to be loved the way she loved places -- absolutely, completely, and at the expense of everything else.

The Crying Forest was fourteen days from its next event. She had counted, the way Theron counted -- automatically, the number always running.

The well was clean. The guild marks were intact. Theron had said *come*.

And the Thornwild, patient and possessive and impossibly old, had said *please stay*, and meant it, and that was the most frightening thing Wren had heard since she descended the Warden’s Stair.
