Lyonette shouted in horror. Grimalkin pointed. The [Siege Fireball] blew a section of them apart. The other [Mages] rained spells at a distance at the black wave. But Nalthaliarstrelous was their target.
As they came for him, the [Druid]’s body grew. Mrsha saw brown fur race over his body. His form changed—
“Dead gods.”
Erin heard someone breathe. The Dire Bear form rose. It crushed the largest spider with a roar, claws tearing through even the thick armor with contemptuous ease. Nalthaliarstrelous brought his arms down, smashing the body.
The spiders swarmed him. Erin lost track of the [Druid]; the hill poured with spiders. But something was thrashing about as they tried to bite through his fur and flesh. Crushing them. Tearing them apart. Eating some of them, or spitting out fragments from his jaws.
From The Wandering Inn and Liscor’s walls came spells. Grimalkin grimly blasted pockets of spiders with his spells. So did Montressa and Palt; others shot arrows, like Bird. But it was all from afar.
Nalthaliarstrelous held the hill. He must have used potions; Mrsha twice saw-felt the [Druid] flagging, and then a surge of fury and vitality. He cut and tore across the spiders and they refused to stop attacking him.
Until…it ended. There was no signal. One moment the hill was boiling—the next, the Shield Spiders were fleeing. They fled over thousands of their dead, across the soil where buried, crushed spiders lay. A fraction of the army that had assailed him.
Mrsha tried to run, then. But Lyonette and Shassa both held her back. It was Grimalkin, along with Numbtongue and a few others who approached the hill.
Nalthaliarstrelous lay naked amid the destruction. His body was covered with blood, bites. He didn’t move as the party extricated him.
But he was alive.
 
—-
 
“It was just spiders. Saliss could do it. Or…Magus Grimalkin. At some point—spiders can’t hurt you. Keldrass could probably survive with the Heartflame Breastplate.”
The shaky opinion came from one of the guests. Later, in the inn, they analyzed it.
It was just spiders. They had been crawling all over one another to get to Nalthaliarstrelous. No wonder his spells had been so effective. The [Druid] had challenged them and he was an earth-specialist with Erin’s inn to back him up.
No wonder he’d won. Absolutely. Plus, the others had helped! [Siege Fireballs] had come from Magus Grimalkin. It was…was…
Olesm didn’t add to the appraisal of Nalthaliarstrelous’s abilities. He just sat there, trying to imagine a conventional army fighting that. Or even if the Shield Spiders had attacked Liscor’s walls.
“One. Two. Three. Four? No…three. Four if you give him that artifact.”
Maviola was counting. Olesm looked at her.
“Four what?”
She smiled at him. Then she pointed.
Xrn. Saliss. Eldavin. And then Grimalkin.
“Those are the ones who could do that. I’m not sure about Eldavin, but the other three—yes. Grimalkin might need the Heartflame Breastplate, though.”
Olesm looked at the [Sinew Magus]. Grimalkin’s face was unreadable, but his jaw was clenched. The [Lady] kissed Olesm lightly and he looked up at her. She smiled, less shaken than the others.
“That is what power looks like, Olesm. It was a good lesson.”
The Drake’s jaw worked.
“For who?”
 
—-
 
The Antinium watched the [Druid]. They looked at Xrn’s calm expression. She was appraising the [Druid].
For his part, all Nalthaliarstrelous did was weep. Mrsha hadn’t realized it. But the [Druid] was crying. So was Shassa. But Nalthaliarstrelous cried longer.
Tears ran down into his beard. But all he said to Erin, Lyonette—the others who now treated him with respect—and wariness, was this.
“They have died. They must be hunted. The city must do this. But the nests can be destroyed. And if they are—the Floodplains will be bountiful again.”
“I…remember Tekshia saying that once, there were all kinds of [Shepherds] here. And you could walk up and down the Floodplains.”
Selys mumbled. Nalthaliarstrelous’s tears dripped into his beard. He was sad. Mrsha touched his leg. Then, why had he done it?
“Because it had to be done. We are [Druids]. Not all would do it. But little landfriend—they would have eaten the world in their hunger.”
That was what he told her. And when he rose, the [Druid] leaned on his staff, looking worn and wan. But that was the lesson.
“Some of us are warriors of great destruction. We burn forests that new life might live. We do battle that balance might be restored. In old ages, we fought the tree-folk when they tried to exterminate villages. Then we were their allies when the small villages became cities that threatened to destroy the great forests.”
He touched his chest. Closed his eyes.
“We failed. Now, most of us are guardians of small places. Connections to the wilds that speak with law. I am the largest of the small.”
Erin Solstice looked at him. How dare he say that after that display? But the [Druid] turned away. He looked at Shassa—the other [Druid] bowed to him.
“I will consult with Oteslia. When I am able. I have duties here, but I will come.”
“Of course. Walk well, wild keeper.”
They nodded to each other. Shassa bid farewell to Mrsha as well.
“If fate allows it—we shall meet again, little one.”
Solemnly, Mrsha shook the Drake’s claw. She would not forget this. And she had seen what it was to be a [Druid]. Now…she wondered if [Wizards] were recruiting.
Well, only half-seriously. The Drake’s eyes crinkled up. So did Nalthaliarstrelous’. He also paused to say goodbye.
“Small or large. Each thing matters. I entrust you with the bees. I have no more strength for a fortnight, save at great need. If you are no more a [Druid] than you are this day—that is well. But remember what we are: neither good nor evil.”
She nodded solemnly. The [Druid] ruffled her hair.
“If you lack a teacher, landfriend, wild child, I will teach you at a later date.”
He stood, and slowly walked past Erin and Lyonette. They bade him farewell. Erin stared at the [Druid]’s back. Lyonette waved, calling out polite thanks. When he was gone, she turned to Erin.
“We are never letting him back into the inn.”
It was hard to argue with that. Then again—Erin wanted to know how Lyonette was going to stop him.
Anyways. It was just a day in the inn. The day turned to night. Ryoka Griffin glared at the Silver Swords in Mad Madain’s inn.
Mrsha leveled up. But just a tiny bit.
That night, someone hammered a nail into a door. Now, the [Garden of Sanctuary] had a sign. It read as follows:
 
Private garden; no [Druids] allowed.
 
Mrsha took it down the next day.
