Nalthaliarstrelous stared across the Floodplains. He touched at his eyes. Mrsha saw them flicker. She sensed…something. Shassa bit her lip. And the [Druid] turned.
“To me…this place seems much worse than it has ever been. Mrsha du Marquin. Look and see.”
He turned to her. His brown, plain eyes deepened. Mrsha’s gaze was drawn into the black pupils. Something was in there. A…picture. She blinked—
And she was standing in the same place. Mrsha looked away from Nalthaliarstrelous. And froze.
She saw the Floodplains as they had been. The mountains were the same. But—the land was different.
Gone was Liscor! There was no tall walls! No city of stone! Just—water. Mrsha’s jaws dropped. She saw Nalthaliarstrelous pointing. Only he, Shassa, and she were left. Even the roof of the inn was gone.
“See through my eyes. What must have been here once.”
The [Druid] pointed. Through his Skill, Mrsha saw.
First—a vast lake. Oh! The Gnoll saw, in a flash, how this basin, the rains—it had been a lake! Of course! Only, at some point someone had pulled the plug and the waters drained. But before—she saw water everywhere, only a few points of shallow land. Vast things swam in the waters. Mrsha saw something far larger than a Lurkersnatch fish moving in the deeps. And then—
Then it was a swamp. Mushy, overgrown. But beautiful. Nalthaliarstrelous’ eyes reflected in their very depths a buzzing place full of wild creatures, large predators who lived in water and on the sparse areas of land. Lots of trees, growing wild. Not a fun place to live for people. But so full of life!
Mrsha saw Razorbeaks in the trees, amphibious reptiles—snapping, fighting with snakes—mammals were rare. She looked at Nalthaliarstrelous. Shassa was wide-eyed.
“[Memory of the Earth]. Nalthaliarstrelous, why—”
“And then came Drakes.”
The [Druid]’s voice was calm. Mrsha saw trees disappearing, the murky waters clearing. Someone was removing the trees! Harvesting them—to build settlements of wood. And the effect of the clearing was pronounced.
The waters drained. The marsh system turned into something familiar. Mud flats and a temporary lake by spring. And at other times—
No more trees were left. But that was not a bad thing. Just something new. Mrsha blinked, ran over a field of flowers.
What was this?
The Floodplains were dry. They filled and drained, but in the summers, they bloomed verdant. Mrsha saw Corusdeer herds, vast plains full of moles, rabbits, and other grazing animals like cows and sheep! Not all native to Liscor. It was a vast pastoral land! Albeit not flat.
Of course, predators roamed this place too. Foxes, wolves—Carn Wolves too, hunting, larger species such as Rock Crabs at the top of the hierarchy. But it was filled with wildlife. Mrsha smiled. She raced after a rabbit—
Nalthaliarstrelous caught her from going over the edge of the roof. Mrsha blinked. Suddenly, she was back in reality. The Floodplains looked almost like her vision. But something was wrong.
Where had all the animals gone? Mrsha blinked. The Floodplains now had butterflies, ordinary bees, birds, flying well clear of the inn—a few rodents. But not the abundance of before. Even the [Shepherds] and their herds were gone. Liscor was back, but…
“Oh. No, Nalthaliarstrelous—”
Shassa breathed. Mrsha glanced at her and then the Human [Druid]’s face. He looked…weary. Concerned.
“Do you see?”
He asked Mrsha. She did. Sort of.
Something strange was happening here. The [Druid]’s eyes glittered and he waited for Mrsha to solve it. She thought. She had seen life in abundance in three stages. First, fishies in the lake. Second, marsh-stuff. Third—plains animals.
This was the plains now, largely unchanged. But why were there no animals? The young [Druid] thought. And she had it.
The spiders.
They were all over the Floodplains. Not visible, but Mrsha knew from experience that their camouflaged nests were all over the place. You stepped on them and you went into a nest full of hungry Shield Spiders. That was why you had to stick to the road. And why…the animals were gone.
“They are not native to Izril, you know. They came from Baleros. Only one species. And while not as terrible as others, they breed in great numbers.”
The [Druid] sat heavily on the roof. Shassa was breathing hard. She looked at the man as he spoke to Mrsha.
“Few things can live where one species dominates. Now I have shown you what I see. Tell me— Mrsha of the Stone Spears tribe. Think of the Shield Spiders of these Floodplains. You, who have seen them more than I or Shassa. Do they spread beyond number? Do they choke other life? I say it so.”
He held up a hand before Shassa could reply.
“I say they will multiply until all else dies here. I say—the Floodplains may lack for trees. It has changed, by the actions of Drakes. But what it could be now is still less than it is. Think carefully before you respond, Mrsha. But this is your land. What do you say?”
What did she say? Mrsha looked at Shassa. The [Spiderweb Druid] was a friend of the Shield Spiders. But even she…the Drake looked across the Floodplains. She bowed her head.
“I say it is so. Ancestors, but the webfolk are too hungry. They eat everything. There are hundreds of thousands. And those don’t even count the young, the unborn…”
She could sense them. For a moment, Mrsha saw as she did. She saw the nests. Thousands of them. Some close to the inn. Spiders milled about—Mrsha felt her fur standing on end.
Nalthaliarstrelous nodded. It was two votes now, a clear majority. But that wasn’t how it worked. They waited for Mrsha.
Below, in the inn, a Dragon blasted a chess board and sent everyone running for cover as he vented his fury. Above, a small Gnoll thought gravely. And at last…
She nodded. Nalthaliarstrelous bowed his head.
“So then.”
Shassa’s eyes filled with tears. Mrsha looked at them. She did not understand. Yet.
She had one last lesson to learn about [Druids].
 
—-
 
Xrn hiked up towards The Wandering Inn. She wanted to see what all the fuss was about and why Belgrade and Garry had both run out of the Hive. She pushed open the door to the inn.
Just in time to hear the cheering. The crowd barely noticed her.
Erin Solstice was shaking hands. Teriarch—Grand Magus Eldavin had stormed off.
Contrary to the mood, it wasn’t the sweeping victory you might expect. To the chess aficionados, it was clear that it was very close.
Erin and Teriarch, as master-players, had played to a draw eight games. Between master-classes, that was usual. But Teriarch had lost the first game due to his overconfidence.  By the time he’d taken the game seriously, Erin had smoked him.
He’s actually won the next game, and the fourth. But Erin had won the eighth after four draws, and the Dragon had lost his temper.
“Poor sportsmanship. Just, just tragic.”
Olesm was remarking to Belgrade. The [Tactician] nodded. It was clear Erin and Teriarch needed to settle this. One last win took all. But the Grand Magus had flipped the chess board after the first loss, and then proceeded to blast a table out of existence so thoroughly that even [Partial Reconstruction] wouldn’t salvage it. People were…concerned about a third loss.
But Erin was on fire. Almost literally. Her competitive spirit had been turned up by the only other player in this world who could match her. Teriarch was good. He didn’t play like her mysterious opponent; he was far more aggressive. She’d tried out-speeding him, but he’d taken her down effortlessly. He could process faster than even she could. But he grew overconfident. And that meant…
“One more game takes all. But we’re betting on this one. I won’t lose again!”
A roar came from across the room. Erin saw the half-Elf stalking back down the room. He wanted to put it all on the line. He passed through the crowd.
“Erin—maybe a bet’s a bad idea.”
“I dunno, Olesm. I’ve played for money before. What do you want to bet, Eldavin?”
The Dragon looked at her, snarling. He was tempted to say one million gold coins and be done with it! Reynold and Sacra were trying to drag him back, remind him to keep his cover. But he was too incensed. The Dragon’s head turned as he looked for things to bet.
The magic door? He had magic doors! Gold? She couldn’t match his bet! A magic sword? Hm. His eyes alit on Numbtongue’s sword. Bah, but it wasn’t valuable. He looked around.
And there was Xrn. The Centenium stared at the Dragon. Her interested yellow-and-rose eyes turned bright yellow. Orange. Shock. Alarm. The Dragon’s eyes widened.
He recoiled.
“You? What are—”
The Dragon’s anger turned to hostility at once. Grimalkin and Chaldion looked around. Saliss of Lights reached for his bag of holding. Xrn’s hand tightened on her staff. She looked around, unafraid of anyone. Wary of Saliss and Eldavin.
“Ratici. I think we might be earning our pay.”
Wilovan adjusted his cap, looking worried. He saw the Centenium shifting. And his [Dangersense] began going off.
Erin Solstice didn’t notice the ringing in her head at first. She was reaching into her pocket. He wanted a bet? She didn’t know if it was a good idea. But she had something to bet. Pelt was watching her.
The world was ready to change. But if you understood this moment, you know—it wasn’t about chess. Or Dragons. Or even Antinium.
It was about [Druids].
The first rolling drumbeat came from the roof of the inn. Soft. Then louder. Everyone in the inn looked up.
“What the…?”
Erin rose from her seat. She heard a thunderous beat. It shook through the entire inn. Everyone, the crowd, the guests—even the Dragon looked up.
Slowly, they came out of the inn. The sound was louder now. On the walls of Liscor, someone was shouting the Solstice-alarm. The Watch stared towards the inn. Towards the source of the sound.
Nalthaliarstrelous was banging his staff on the roof. Mrsha, standing next to Shassa and Lyonette and Bird, felt like the entire world was shaking.
“What’s happening? What is he doing?”
Lyonette was screaming at Shassa. The [Druid] shouted something back. But no one heard a thing.
“What?”
Lyonette screamed. Bird shouted.
“What?”
The Drake [Druid] screamed loud enough, even as the pounding grew louder.
“Challenging them!”
And then it was silent. Mrsha saw the [Druid] halt, his staff raised. She heard shouting from below, confused voices.
“#2, don’t make me come up there! We’re playing ch—”
Erin Solstice froze mid-shout. She saw, behind her inn, across the Floodplains—
The grass moved. The fake nests collapsed. Black shapes boiled out of the holes. Not hundreds. Not thousands. Not tens of thousands.
Shield Spiders. The [Innkeeper] turned white as the innocent Floodplains, green and lush, turned into a sea of spiders. They popped out of the ground where they had been hidden, an infestation out of sight. The holes in the grassy hills and valleys were like gaping wounds in green skin, divulging the foul nests.
On the walls, Watch Captain Zevara saw a flood of Shield Spiders even greater than the one in the dungeon coming at the walls. Her mouth went dry. She croaked.
“Sound—sound the—”
The Shield Spiders rolled across the plains in a fury. Some were as large as cars. Few were the size of those in the dungeon, but they were everywhere.
“Inside the inn! Get in the garden—now!”
Erin was the first to break the shocked silence. She screamed and pointed. People ran. The [Mages] and warriors stayed.
“That damned [Druid]! I’ll kill him! Erin—inside! We need barriers, Montressa! We’ll have to blast them! Grand Magus!”
Bezale roared. The other [Mages] were running, shouting at each other to erect walls, cast [Fireball] spells—
Teriarch didn’t move. He looked up at the roof. Then at Xrn. The Centenium had raised her staff. But she was waiting on Teriarch. The two locked gazes.
“Leave him. This is his duty.”
That was all the half-Elf said. He turned back and walked into the inn. Erin stared at his back. Leave him? Who—
From the roof of the inn, Nalthaliarstrelous leapt. Impossibly far, soaring through the air like Grimalkin had done when the Wyverns attacked. He landed on a distant hill and strode forwards, robes fluttering. And the Shield Spiders converged on him.
They ignored the inn. They ignored the [Mages], the walls of Liscor where horns were blaring. They cared only for one person.
The [Druid]. 
He waited until the first wave was nearly on him and then struck the ground with his staff. Erin saw him raise his arms.
The Shield Spiders racing up a valley between two hills had one second of warning. Then the two distant hills rolled towards each other. The dirt and soil merged—and the Shield Spiders were buried.
“What?”
The [Innkeeper] saw Nalthaliarstrelous stride forwards onto the bare land. Shield Spiders came at him. He struck the ground again—and it turned to mud. The spiders sank into the mud, suffocating, struggling. The [Druid] spun his staff. The earth opened and a rift sucked thousands more into it. It snapped closed. The soil crushed the Shield Spiders, smashing them to bits.
“Dead gods. What level is that [Druid]?”
Zevara snapped, command scrolls in her claws. She saw the [Druid] whirl. This time earthen spires shot out of the ground, impaling the Shield Spiders in a huge radius around him.
“He’s funneling all of them at him. It’s all area-spells.”
Grimalkin had leapt onto the roof. A [Siege Fireball] burned in one claw. He saw Nalthaliarstrelous spin. He ran down the hill and the entire hill turned into an earthen avalanche that buried another wave.
“Geomancer. He’s not bad. I could still beat him. But this is the best of their kind. Watch him. This is who you will fight.”
Xrn remarked to Belgrade. The [Tactician] turned to her, shaking.
Nalthaliarstrelous made a hole in the world. Spiders poured into it. The sinkhole opened deeper, deeper as he stood on a small ledge, a small pillar. And then the soil moved back together.
“He’s taken magic from the inn. But he’s running out. Those are too many spells.”
Hedault felt his wand vibrating in his hand. He saw Nalthaliarstrelous drop to one knee, panting. The Shield Spiders flooded at him, greatly reduced.
“Why are they attacking him? Even insects should retreat.”
Chaldion ignored the look Yellow Splatters gave him. He turned to Teriarch for confirmation. The half-Elf shrugged.
“[Druids].”
“[Challenge of the Wilds]. He wants to erase their foothold on the Floodplains.”
Shassa breathed. Mrsha saw Nalthaliarstrelous on his knee. He was panting wildly. She could feel his exhaustion. But the spiders—
“Do something!”
