Pawn and Lyonette sat in the room together. Mrsha heard him speaking, his voice low. Filled with…
The Antinium [Priest] looked older as he sat by Lyonette. She was holding his hand. Crying for him. He held her hand with his own, as if it were the only things keeping him anchored in this world.
Ekirra backed away. Mrsha looked another moment. Then she fled.
These were the things Mrsha saw. And her two friends saw something their parents had never conceived of.
Drassi wondered why Visma burst into tears. She thought Ekirra had been throwing rocks at her or something.
 
—-
 
Not all the Antinium painted themselves. Not all prayed. On the roof of the inn, now with three floors, they built a tower.
It would be tall. It would be fortified. No random Hobgoblin with a sword would destroy it. It…might have a ballista. Lyonette and Erin had sort of vetoed that one.
But the Workers there…worked. Building the tower up.
Slowly, though. Usually, the worked with a determined energy that meant they didn’t race, but didn’t stop until a job was done. Now, though, they worked more…slowly. Taking their time, passing objects to each other.
It was a new concept. There were more than there needed to be. Most of them were actually the Archer Workers.
Archer J3 passed a piece of stone to Archer B23, who had some mortar which the other Worker carefully applied. With one hand, the other [Archer] applied it. And with his two free hands, he slowly, ever-so-gingerly dipped a little bit of fufu into some spicy beef soup.
Fufu was gluten-free, if you made it without…gluten. All of Erin’s agonizing over bread, wheat, and so on, had been solved by Imani in three seconds when she’d heard of the issue. Now, the Antinium ate. And the one responsible for the food on the job, insisted on the slow pace—he was named Bird.
“Why did Workers die, Hunter Bird?”
Archer A11—the third of his designation—asked that question. His unit had seen high combat, but there were enough Autonomous Workers to fill the seventeen archer groups now formed in Liscor’s Hive. Thanks to Anand and Belgrade, the Antinium died less.
But they still died. Every head turned to Bird. He sat above them, in his tower as it was being built around him. The [Bird Hunter] watched the sky. He looked down at them.
“Why do you ask ‘why’?”
The Workers looked up at him. Bird sat there, legs dangling happily. He stared at some birds out of his range. His voice was cheerful.
“Bad things happen. They always happen, like good things. Sometimes people do bad things. Sometimes people do good things. This is so. I have observed it.”
The other Workers thought on this. Another Workers spoke.
“Is there a Heaven, Hunter Bird?”
“I do not know. Ask Pawn. Or Yellow Splatters. He has been there. So probably?”
“Is Heaven nice?”
“I do not know. I do not care.”
The Workers thought on this. They were not ordinary Workers, with no names. But neither were they Painted. They looked up at Bird. And at last, one asked a question they often asked.
“What is good, Bird?”
The Worker thought about this. And each time his answer was different. Mainly because he forgot all the other answers. After a while, he spoke.
“Good is a feeling. Good is not happy. Happy lasts a short time. Good feels good even when happy is gone.”
They thought about this. After a while, one raised a hand.
“What is happy, Bird?”
The Worker sighed. He wondered when they’d stop asking him questions. But this was alright.
 
—-
 
And then the important guest entered the inn. At first, Montressa and Bezale didn’t notice.
The two Wistram [Mages] sat together, having a meal at a table. Beza poked her deflating soufflé with a dubious expression. Montressa was halfway through hers.
“Beza. Have you been thinking what I’ve been thinking?”
“I doubt it, Montressa.”
The [Aegiscaster] sighed. Beza was…difficult. As bad as Ulinde, who wouldn’t sit still for five minutes, or Isceil, who had been rather arrogant and grating, or Palt who enjoyed being difficult, or…[Mages] were hard in general. They tended towards unique personalities.
“Master Hedault has a meeting scheduled with Miss Solstice. Today.”
“And?”
The Minotauress dug into her meal at last. Montressa exhaled.
“…I think she forgot. Even Miss Maviola. What with the riots and all. Neither one’s come down from whatever they’re doing upstairs.”
The [Spellscribe] raised one eyebrow.
“I see. That’s rather unfortunate. Master Hedault is known to be extremely punctual.”
“I know. But what if—hear me out, Beza—what if we reminded Erin?”
“…Sensible?”
The Minotauress gave Montressa a blank look. The [Aegiscaster] waved a hand; she’d taken too large a bite.
“Sorry. We reminded her and offered to go in her place? Or—or even got Master Hedault to come here?”
Her companion gave her an odd look. Beza was still a bit sweaty; she’d been working out with Grimalkin’s weights, having developed something of a compulsion in that regard. She rolled her shoulders.
“Why?”
“Because Master Hedault is one of the best [Enchanters] in the region. Because Erin would think more kindly of us if she did.”
“If you’re expecting her to throw Palt under the wagon for us—”
“Not at all. And I’m not asking for help with the Earthers. Beza, think about it. If we flatter Master Hedault, and we can do that—he’ll remember us. Right?”
“…So?”
“Master Hedault. The best [Enchanter]. You’re a [Spellscribe]. Your classes are related.”
“Hmf. True. It would be good to learn from him, but he’d never teach anyone.”
“That’s not the point. Master Hedault will probably want to come to the inn anyways, once he hears Master Pelt is now close enough to have his works enchanted. Right?”
Slowly, Bezale raised one thick eyebrow.
“Aha. And Master Smith Pelt is one of the best [Blacksmiths] in the region.”
“Pallass will certainly want his works, even if he’s not based in the city. Which is convenient because we happen to be close to Pallass.”
The Minotauress flicked a finger and blasted a fly out of the air with a little gust of wind.
“And Invrisil.”
“And Celum.”
“And a number of [Lords] are now seeking Erin for trade rights. You know, Beza. I was a secretbroker back in Wistram.”
“I’m quite aware, Montressa. But I see your point. You had connections.”
The [Aegiscaster] smiled. She sat back in her seat.
“We failed when it came to getting Erin out of her inn. But I think that might be a good thing. Think about it, Beza. This inn has access to two major cities. That’s…a lot of influential people. And both are trade hubs.”
Beza slowly exhaled.
“Hm. You’re proposing…what? The same thing Beatrice and you did?”
“Well…we’re not exactly popular at Wistram. And I do know how it goes. It’s all about making connections. Introducing people to people. And we know the person with the magic door. Why don’t we just nip up to Erin, offer to greet Master Hedault and…?”
The Minotauress hmmed and leaned forwards. They had been largely aimless of late. But this was something she understood. Liked.
Neither one noticed the gaggle of Drakes and Gnolls coming in from Pallass. Many were wide-eyed. But here were…tourists.
One, with a smart cap, adjusted it and looked around, murmuring. Another, a Drake with a leafy staff stared around, blinking. A Gnoll with a bow on his back and travelling gear—a tribal Gnoll on whose fur was stamped a silver crescent—or fang—sniffed the air.
“Excuse me, Miss. Do you know where the owner of this inn, a, ah, ‘Erin Solstice’ is?”
The Gnoll with the cap strode up to the nearest person. That happened to be Lyonette, still a bit red-eyed, but back to work.
“Oh—Erin? I’m sorry, she’s personally occupied. But I can help you. Are you looking for a place to stay? Directions? We can transport you to other cities…”
The Gnoll gave Lyonette an abashed smile. Awkwardly, he fumbled for his belt.
“I’m sorry. I should have introduced myself—oh—”
He dropped the bit of paper and several coins. Lyonette bent to pick it up, but with flustered apologies, the Gnoll scrambled to pick it up. She felt bad for him, as, blushing, he stood upright.
“Sorry, sorry! Let me begin. I’m ah, sent here on behalf of my company. Izril’s Wonders. I’m not sure if you’ve heard of us…?”
Lyonette had to dash his hopeful look. The Gnoll sighed, despondent.
“What is it? Can I get you a drink?”
He was dusty, Lyonette realized. The Gnoll brightened.
“That’d be wonderful, Miss. I’m actually here on behalf of our group with an offer. You see, we’ve heard of this wondrous inn. And we’d love to expand our destinations. I’m forgetting myself again. You see, my company takes people to each Walled City. Shows them the sights.”
“Oh! How delightful! And you want to put Liscor on that list?”
“Well, Invrisil, in point of fact, Miss. We’d love to discuss the matter if we may.”
The [Princess] smiled. Her mind began racing at once.
“I don’t think Erin would have a problem with that. I’ll let her know as soon as possible. It might be a little bit, but she’s sure to be interested. Can I offer you something to eat and drink while you wait? What’s your name?”
The Gnoll slapped his forehead. He took off his cap, abashed.
“I forget myself. I’m no [Negotiator], Miss. I was just closest when I got my orders. I’m just a [Coachman], me. Not sure why they wanted me, but we’re not the biggest company…Ferris, Miss. Ferris Seftpaw. Oh behalf of my company, I’d love to make a deal with Miss Erin Solstice. Even offer her a free trip. We can get you to a Walled City within a week from one to another.”
“Really? How?”
“Trade secrets, Miss Lyonette. Well, I say trade secrets, but really, it’s just good wheels, magical horses, and…”
The Gnoll took the drink eagerly as he told Lyonette about the fantastic company. Meanwhile, the Gnoll with the bow on his back had found Ishkr, the first Gnoll on staff.
“Excuse me. I seek Krshia Silverfang. I was told this door leads me to…Liscor. This is Liscor, yes?”
He had an accent, a far more growling tone, with connected words. Ishkr blinked at him.
“Er. Yes. The door connects to Liscor. The same one you came through.”
The Gnoll’s brows crossed. He glanced sidelong at Ishkr, as if believing he was being tricked. Ishkr gestured.
“I can send you to Liscor right now. This way, please. Krshia is probably at City Hall or tending to her shop.”
“City Hall?”
“She’s a Councilwoman of Liscor.”
The Gnoll’s jaw dropped slightly. He quickened his steps, suddenly full of questions. Ishkr sighed, but bothersome customers came with the job.
…Neither one was the important guest. And important was a relative term. Montressa and Beza rose, on their important work.
“Let’s go to Master Hedault now. We can show Erin our initiative.”
It was the kind of thing that would have earned them accolades in Wistram if they pulled it off. Beza was nodding. They hurried out of the inn, towards Invrisil, past the Drake with a leafy staff.
She was….interesting. Her clothing was sparser than most Drakes. Rather than being seductive in any intention though, they gave her the look that she was going to bushwhack or do something that involved dirt. And dirt did cover her clothes; not that she was dirty, but it had been worked into fabric from much exposure.
She’d tied something interesting around the top of her staff. It was, in fact, a delicate lattice of cobwebs. It seemed incongruous, as if a strange spider had woven all around the top of her staff. But if you looked closer, you realized her clothing, the staff—
It was all spider’s silk. Some dyed, but nonetheless. The Drake had been staring around the inn, first in puzzlement, noting the weird Drake with a box, the two [Mages], the crowds—she didn’t seem at home with anything there.
But she had migrated over to the wall, as if drawn. Now, she murmured.
“Oh! What power runs here. What power. Magic. But what is this? This—this is strange. This calls to me. I am a humble traveller. What waits for me here?”
She put a claw out, gingerly. And jerked it back as a door appeared. The Drake stared, wide-eyed at the door. Then she put a claw on the handle and opened it.
The [Garden of Sanctuary] opened for her. The [Druid] hesitated at the opening.
“How magnificent. A sacred place! Here?”
She stared about the inn, marveling. No one really paid any attention. Lyonette was listening to Ferris’ clumsy upsell. Erin was upstairs, listening to lectures on how to negotiate. Numbtongue was making boxes full of hidden weapons.
The Drake hesitated at the opening. She touched at it and recoiled. There was a…barrier. She frowned. Then she stood back and bowed with her staff. Ishkr, passing, gave her a strange look, but he was busy. The Drake spoke to the open doorway.
“I am a humble traveller. I mean no harm. I beg entrance; I am Shassa Weaverweb, granted my name by those who still walk the wild green. May I enter?”
She closed her eyes. After about two minutes where nothing at all happened, she cracked one eyelid open. Shassa gently felt at the opening.
The barrier was gone. The Drake blinked, then smiled, ducked her head, and entered the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Then she gasped and stared.
“Magnificent.”
 
—-
 
Mrsha and Ekirra and Visma were playing, now tearless and chasing around Mrsha’s magic ball. They were laughing and running up and down the hill as Drassi snoozed. At first, they did not see the Drake with the staff.
That was because she walked about the edge of the dome, looking at the mushrooms in the loamy soil, marveling at the pond. A pair of Fortress Beavers backed up warily from her, but the Drake murmured and bowed and they soon were nuzzling her, letting her check their scarred flesh with dismay.
“You poor things! I am sorry. This is not my forte. Web-cousins did this to you? I am sorry. They can be cruel. On their behalf, I will do all I can. How many…oh. So few. But this place is surely safe. Can I do aught for you?”
The Drake bent her head. The Fortress Beavers nibbled on her staff and she gently lifted it.
“I see. But how strange. Someone has…”
Her head swung. The Drake frowned.
“Low-level. But…but I see a wild-walker’s touch. Is someone…?”
Mrsha was running over the hill, pursuing the magic ball, when she felt something. She looked around.
Are you here, friend?
Mrsha looked left, at Visma. But the Drake girl, laughing and breathless, hadn’t said that. Mrsha cocked her head. She ventured a tentative…yes?
It was a voice in her head. Mrsha felt the impression of a smile. And then, as she crested the hill, Ekirra came racing back towards her.
“Mrsha! Mrshamrshamrsha! Who is that?”
He pointed. Mrsha ran up on all fours and saw—
