Later, the [Druids] walked around the garden with Mrsha. Lyonette didn’t like it, but they had pointed out, quite reasonably, that Mrsha did not know her class. And while Nalthaliarstrelous was arguably a public menace, Teriarch had supported him.
Lyonette was nothing if not practical at some points. Even so, she was sitting on the hill, glaring daggers down at them as they circled the periphery.
As they talked, Hedault found himself having a drink in the inn. The table was full, and onlookers hovered in the background.
Palt, Montressa, Beza—and even Guildmistress Alonna, and other [Mages] who knew what was what. They ran errands, listened in silence, and seldom dared to ask questions.
But the real table was only a few people. Hedault. Pelt the Dwarf. Grimalkin. Teriarch. Or Grand Mage Eldavin.
“Another round, sirs.”
Reynold brought the drinks. He was well aware someone’s head would roll after this, but the put-upon [Butler] was helping serve the table, much to Ishkr’s bemusement. The [Mages] barely noticed.
“Yes, well. Enchantment is not what it was. One remembers rather grand enchantments that could be transcribed on a coin, say. So, one would offer a competitor [Mage] a triple-bound [Fireball] on a silver coin and watch their heads explode. Not that I ever did so myself, but it seems to me that the compression of spells is what’s lacking.”
Eldavin was waving a hand airily as he spoke. It was Grimalkin who objected.
“Politely, Grand Magus, I’d say the complexity of spells has also gone down. Wistram Academy isn’t the only institution that lacks for advanced spellcraft these days. The competency of magic has decreased worldwide.”
“Nonsense. The advancement of magic ebbs and flows. True, as a whole, the power of magic dwindles, but Archmage Zelkyr is not to blame for all of it. How long has it been since a true, worldwide disaster struck?”
“…You mean, the King of Destruction? Or the Demons?”
Hedault was tapping on his wrist, listening intently. Eldavin’s brow wrinkled.
“The…oh. No, I mean, a disaster. Like the Creler Wars. That level of adversity.”
Those sitting around the table exchanged glances.
“…Not within the last thousand years. I can name some events, but that’s a high bar to set, Grand Magus.”
The Dragon snorted.
“There you are then. When such an event strikes—it will change the next thousands of years. You see—those who level up to such high levels may pass away within mere centuries. But their artifacts remain. And the next generation is thus of a higher level. Now, we’re all at a low point in history, but the long view is where you see it at. But that’s not about enchantments. In truth, I think it’s a shortage of compression theory. And I know I’m right. Compression theory leads to higher-level enchantments.”
“Why, Grand Magus?”
Everyone leaned forwards. The Dragon tapped at the side of his nose, enjoying the moment.
“Enchantment is a series of building blocks. One can create a monumental enchantment on something the size of a mountain. But the purity and scale required is too great. Because modern-day enchantments are not compressed, the difficulty is scaled up exponentially on all levels. Compress the amount of runework needed by a factor of even two, and the benefits. It’s about dimensions. Modern enchantments only seem to use two, or three at most for some reason…”
At that point Montressa had to ask.
“But Grand Magus. What other dimensions are there?”
The Dragon’s eyes twinkled. And he refused to talk. He felt quite happy with the attention and he believed that he was managing to just drop the most nebulous of hints.
He was, of course, wrong. The problem wasn’t that Teriarch was speaking in abstracts without dropping any concrete magical examples to his audience about how spellcraft had waned and could be discovered. Nor was it that he was avoiding any specifics.
The problem was that he was absolutely correct about the vague flaws he pointed out. And the students of magic, from nosing about aimlessly in the maze of spell theory, had just scented the cheese.
Such delicious moments. Such informative talks. Such notes. But that wasn’t the point. As Teriarch stretched back, he heard a sound amid the talk, the eager questions, Grimalkin’s quill skritching.
Click.
It was the sound of wood on wood. A delightful little noise. The Dragon looked around. And he heard a curse.
“Aha! Victory!”
Erin, in a very unsportswomanly like display of conduct, checkmated Maviola’s king. The [Lady] glared.
“How are you doing that?”
“Pure skill! This is vengeance! Hey, Saliss, want to get in on this?”
“I don’t play chess.”
The [Alchemist] was in the group watching Teriarch, for different reasons. The Dragon leaned back, craning his neck to and fro.
“What’s that over there?”
“Someone take me on! Where’s Belgrade? Pawn? It’s been a stressful day!”
Erin Solstice was slapping down her opponents. Maviola had lost eight games in a row; Erin was feeling unusually uncharitable. She was warming up for a Chaldion match, and her regular chess game wasn’t until later tonight. She looked around.
No one met her eyes. Olesm might have, but he was in Liscor. None of the Antinium were her chess veterans. The staff hid. Even Numbtongue carefully and deliberately walked out the door and went into the outhouse.
Into that opening came a Dragon. The table of [Mages] fell silent. Erin Solstice slowly looked up as the half-Elf walked over to her. And the inn…
Fell…
Silent.
Grand Mage Eldavin. He sat down as the regulars of the inn turned in their chairs. They knew. They looked at each other. Someone ran for the doors and sent a Street Runner for every chess lover in Liscor.
“Hey there.”
Erin Solstice cautiously looked at Eldavin. She knew something. Reynold and Sacra looked at each other. Eldavin sat down slowly.
“Good evening, Erin Solstice. How curious. You know this game?”
“Of course. I mean…I only learned it two years ago.”
Erin’s eyes flickered. Across the room, Grimalkin snorted.
“Sure.”
The Dragon’s eyes narrowed. He recalled something Ryoka had told him.
“Only naturally. I myself learned the game two years ago as well.”
Sacra and Reynold exchanged a glance. Sacra recalled—quite vividly—seeing this game before. Teriarch had taught Magnolia how to play.
“Cool. Do you play chess? You’re uh—a friend of Magnolia’s. I didn’t know that.”
The young woman looked carefully at Eldavin. He gave her a half-smile, mysterious, a bit superior.
“One cultivates acquaintances over time. It is an inevitability of age. Would you object to me challenging you to a game?”
“Chess? Not at all. I’m actually a huge fan.”
Erin smiled. The Grand Magus glanced at Maviola. At the crowd suddenly pulling up tables, chairs. Palt produced a ledger.
Bets.
“You…appear more than confident, Miss Solstice. ”
“No, I’m not that good—”
Erin began, blushing. In other areas, she could maintain a big head. But a good chess player wasn’t overconfident. Neither were they humble. But the Dragon cut her off.
“That’s rather fortunate. I don’t play chess for lack of suitable opponents. I myself am something of a…master.”
The [Innkeeper] paused. Slowly, her eyes lifted and she met his.
“Oh, really?”
Eldavin polished his nails on his robes.
“I can’t remember losing a game in recent memory.”
“Huh. Well, I’m decent at the game myself. Perhaps I could give you a good match.”
Something in the air. Maviola blinked. Erin Solstice was terrible at using her aura. But the [Innkeeper] leaned over the table.
“Would you like to play a game?”
The Dragon offered her an arrogant smile.
“I suppose I could pass the time.”
His tone suggested that winning a game or two might be enjoyable. No hint that he would ever lose. Palt glanced at Montressa. Numbtongue poked his head out of the door.
By the time Olesm burst through the door, panting and clutching at his side, the two were sitting.
“I prefer playing black. But if you have a preference…”
Erin politely switched the board around. The Grand Magus waved a lazy hand.
“I’m quite fine with either side. Rather—to make this interesting, why don’t I spot you a move?”
The young woman’s eyes narrowed.
“…Really?”
“I am most adept.”
“Cool. That’s really generous. How about this, though. I could spot you a move.”
The Dragon hesitated. He sat up slightly. His eyes narrowed. Erin gave him a big, friendly smile.
“I’m adept too.”
Somewhere in Pallass, Chaldion was fighting with his [Healer], demanding to see. Erin Solstice cracked her fingers. Winced. She didn’t even notice the rings of people watching. Belgrade, Olesm, Garry, Pawn…Montressa, Bezale, Pelt, Palt…Hedault…
Saliss of Lights casually walked down the hallway. He leaned on the magic door and switched it away from Pallass. Then he dusted his claws and walked back, smiling.
Two voices spoke in the silence.
“I’m serious about spotting you a move.”
“You seriously believe you have a chance, Miss Solstice?”
“Yup. But hey—I do like a nice, fair game. Equal. I’d even bet on it. Like…a few gold coins?”
“I wouldn’t like to take money from you. Why don’t we simply play?”
“As you like.”
The Dragon slowly moved a pawn to E4. The [Innkeeper] looked up at him. She smiled.
 
—-
 
…Of course, that wasn’t important. In the [Garden of Sanctuary], oblivious to the sounds coming from the common room, three [Druids] walked. Two upright, one on all fours.
Nalthaliarstrelous, when not beating animal-abusers with his staff, was much different to the person Lyonette and Erin mistrusted so much. The first thing he did was see to Mrsha’s Fortress Beaver colony.
“Oh, you poor things.”
Mrsha saw him gently coaxing the Fortress Beavers out of their dam. Then, the [Druid] held them. He gently inspected their scarred flesh. And to Mrsha’s amazement, produced little balms, rubbed them into the flesh. And the scar tissue began to fade.
Even Shassa, the other [Druid], was amazed. But Mrsha felt it. If Shassa was a sapling, Nalthaliarstrelous was a tree. And his power ran deep.
“Healing is one of our talents. Few spells heal outright, but our class can cast [Regeneration] at the utmost highest levels. Which I am not. But I can still remove scar tissue.”
The [Druid] explained to Mrsha. His fingers were gentle, and the Fortress Beaver nuzzled him before she waddled off. The animals trusted the [Druid] instinctively. And he knew his work. He inspected the stool of the beavers—which Mrsha had to toss out every day as part of her responsibilities. He kicked one fresh leaving apart and hmmed.
“The wood isn’t as good for their diets. There are better trees. And they will want different food by season.”
Mrsha looked up at him. She was impressed. This smelly Human was smart.
Shassa laughed, appalled. Nalthaliarstrelous just guffawed. The Drake bent down and addressed Mrsha.
“You mustn’t mock him. Nalthaliarstrelous is among the best of us.”
“I am just a man. Our little landfriend has the right of it.”
The older [Druid] snapped. Shassa jumped, blushed under her scales and ducked her head.
“Forgive me, Nalthaliarstrelous. As I said. Oteslia craves your aid. He is the best of us at terraforming, you see, Mrsha.”
And combat and shapeshifting. The Drake’s thought ran parallel to her words. Mrsha peered up at Nalthaliarstrelous. She nudged him.
Show me. The [Druid] understood her without words. He shook his head.
“This garden is a sacred place. I will not casually move earth. It is just magic anyways. Any [Earth Mage] could do the same, or [Geomancer].”
His tone made it clear what he thought of them. Mrsha wrinkled her nose. She had walked with the [Druids]. But she didn’t understand what made them…unique.
Shassa and Nalthaliarstrelous both smiled at that.
“The answer, Mrsha, is that we are more than just ‘protectors of nature’ like many call us. Your—your mother for one.”
She pointed up at Lyonette, who scowled at them from her hilltop. A bee was buzzing around her, lazily feeding on flowers. Nalthaliarstrelous nodded.
“You saw me dealing justice.”
Smacking bad mens with a club. Mrsha felt that was less…impressive than she had hoped from her class. The [Druids] chuckled.
“Not always. I do not attack [Woodcutters]. Despite what your parent thinks. You may chop down trees. You may hunt for food, or coin, or need. These things are what all people do. But when you destroy, waste lives—that is when I break your legs. My Skills and spells empower me to do that.”
The [Druid] tapped his hand with his staff for emphasis. His palm turned into a valley of thorns. Shassa shook her head.
“Nalthaliarstrelous—his role is more punitive, Mrsha. He deals with people. Myself, I deal with animals. Plants. Animals can be cruel as well. Sometimes they need to be disciplined. A rabid bear must be calmed and healed—or put down. In the same way, plants need water, but sometimes they must also be pruned. This is my role.”
Gently, she uprooted a thistle plant that had migrated into the [Garden of Sanctuary], perhaps borne on someone’s boots. Without malice. Mrsha was puzzled. Wasn’t the thistle a plant? Well—Mrsha would have yanked it up too.
“It doesn’t need to be here. It can serve another purpose as food if boiled, or in other ways. Again, we’re not all like him. I don’t break the law! And while I’m part of Oteslia, I am not under anyone’s command. Nalthaliarstrelous…the Circle of Oteslia is concerned about your involvement in the Antinium affair. We want to talk to you about that as well.”
She pointed at the Human [Druid]. Cautiously. The man ignored the implicit criticism. He addressed both Mrsha and Shassa.
“Sometimes, we must seek the authority of cityfolk to do greater good. Such as that woman. What she gives is more than is asked for. I deem it well enough. And my work is my own law; I am the only [Druid] around Invrisil.”
He meant Magnolia Reinhart. But his thoughts also indicated that [Druids] were rare. A Circle of them—rarer still.
Chastened, Shassa nodded.
“We acknowledge that, Nalthaliarstrelous. But—”
She broke off for a second. Mrsha heard a buzzing. All three [Druids] looked up.
Apista flew upside down past the three [Druids], ignoring the stares. Mrsha distinctly got an impression that if the bee could speak, Apista would be saying—‘whee…look at me, I’m flying!’
“What’s wrong with her?”
The Drake [Druid] looked concerned. Mrsha explained. Flowers. Apista got silly when she drank their nectar. Nalthaliarstrelous shook his head, frowning.
“Those flowers. Just as well they’re not fully matured. Terrible and beautiful. Where did they come from?”
