Teriarch pointed a finger. The cats, about to set up for another chorus of yowls, found themselves on top of the magical carriage. They leapt down, hissing or flipping their butts at Teriarch. He ignored them. Reynold stared.
Instantaneous teleportation. A high-level [Mage] could in theory perform [Lesser Teleport] sub-vocally, even teleport a group like that. But a bunch of cats spread out on a rooftop to another point in a moment without proximity himself? That would be a…high-level, dedicated teleportation expert.
But he had also seen Teriarch physically reconstruct the destroyed Steel Golem, literally reshaping the metal and reanimating it while pocketing all the latest books in Magnolia Reinhart’s library. Now, the Dragon wanted popcorn.
“With…yeast. Yes, that’s what that [Innkeeper] served me. Salt, butter, yeast. And where did I put that infernal device? Summon. I mean, er—[Summon Object].”
The laptop popped into Teriarch’s hands after he cast the spell. Reynold hurried into the kitchen. He needed a sit down.
Magnolia Reinhart was out. She had not been in a good mood and was wise enough not to butt heads with Teriarch. He had been exceedingly amused by the news about the [Lords] and Erin Solstice, conveyed through her informant networks. The Dragon even chuckled about it as he played Solitaire on the computer.
“Hah. As if you’re the only one who can conduct trade deals, you little brat! That was so amusing. Ah, well…where’s my popcorn? The inn was faster than this!”
He shouted as a [Chef] in Magnolia’s kitchen labored over a stove. Teriarch was a menace.
But not unkind. Since he had been here, Reynold couldn’t help but notice that Bekia, the Gnoll [Maid] who had been sick ever since their clash with the [Assassins] had suddenly stopped puking. She’d taken many poisoned daggers, such that even their best healing potions and Magnolia’s [Healers] hadn’t done more than slow the toxins in her systems. Magnolia herself had been arranging a visit to the Healer of Tenbault.
But she’d had a word with Teriarch—er—Eldavin. And the Gnoll had looked better the next day. Reynold hurried back with a heaping bowl of popcorn. Teriarch took one bite, and pointed a horrified finger.
The entire bowl caught on fire. Reynold saw the Dragon spit and gag.
“What was that?”
“Yeast, sir!”
“That’s not yeast! The other yeast, you fool!”
Anyways. Between the [Butler] running about, he nearly slammed into Sacra. The [Maid], who was one of their best disguise-experts, was heading in from Invrisil. She was dressed in the regular maid-uniform and looked exasperated.
“Reynold! What are you doing?”
“I need yeast! Edible yeast, apparently!”
The [Maid] gave the [Butler] a look that suggested he’d taken leave of his senses. She opened her mouth—
Pop.
Both staggered. They were back in the large parlor. Teriarch waved a hand without looking up from the computer.
“I changed my mind. I shall have just the wine. And a good cheese to go with it. Make it one of the magical varieties.”
Reynold ran for it. Sacra just stared. She checked herself. She should not have been teleported. Not without a line of sight or…had he just grabbed her?
The Dragon looked up after a second.
“What are you doing here?”
He stared at Sacra. The [Maid] bowed slowly.
“Master Eldavin?”
“Who? Oh…yes? What is it? I’m not in the mood to entertain more of Reinhart’s requests. I’ve already done enough!”
The Dragon snorted. He stretched out in the comfy chair, playing with one hand and grumbling about uppity young [Ladies].
It was a funny thing. In The Wandering Inn, the Dragon had been like thunder and lightning. Kindly, but there you were. Here, he was more retiring. This wasn’t his first visit. Although Sacra had been a girl when she first remembered the ‘Grand Magus’ visiting.
“Is there anything I can do for you, Grand Magus? Reynold is procuring your desired items.”
The [Maid] waited, hands folded behind her back. Teriarch glanced up. For a second, his eyes sharpened.
“Do I…know you? The butler’s new. But your aura—were you a new employee?”
Reynold had been serving for a long time. Sacra chose her words carefully.
“I was a girl in the Reinhart employ, Master Eldavin. Perhaps you recall me from an earlier visit.”
“Yes. Perhaps.”
The Dragon’s expression grew uncomfortable. Abruptly, he made the laptop disappear. He sat back.
“Where’s Reinhart? Off, trying to stop this trade deal, I’ll warrant? If she’s so busy, I won’t trouble her.”
Sacra began to panic at once. Her top order—all of their priorities were to keep Teriarch entertained and here. Magnolia would kill them if he disappeared.
“No—that is to say, she’s only out for the day, Lord T—Magus Eldavin! I’m sure she didn’t want to bother you!”
“Well, I’ve already been here three days. If Reinhart’s busy, so am I. I still have to figure out how to construct a ‘mice’ for this…this game Ryoka Griffin showed me. And deal with all these [Messages]. Shoo!”
He waved at something in the air. Much like a cat. Sacra held her breath.
“I—perhaps we could offer you entertainment, Magus Eldavin? We have a quite splendid number of [Musicians] or [Bards] we could summon from Invrisil. There are even—yes, the Players of Celum! We could arrange a private play—”
“I’ve seen them. Not interested. Maybe I’ll go back and call a later time.”
The Dragon snorted. He began to rise and Sacra panicked. Later meant…far too long. The last time he had been here had been over eight years ago.
“Lord Teriarch…perhaps you could aid us? There’s a small issue in Invrisil!”
Desperately, she spoke. The Dragon looked up.
“What’s this? What issue?”
The [Maid] froze. But she’d said it. So she went on in a rush before he could draw a magic circle in the rug.
“Er—I was just in Invrisil. An urgent issue was sent for Lady Reinhart. One of the staff—Nalthaliarstrelous has gotten into an incident. Assault.”
“That [Druid]? Someone jumped him? What, a Level 50 [Thug]? I swear I saw a high-level one about last time, but who attacks [Druids]? They carry moss, not gold!”
The Dragon raised his eyebrow incredulously. Sacra wiped at her brow as Reynold ran back in with twenty plus cheeses and as many vintages as his bag of holding could carry.
“No, Lord Teriarch. Actually… Nalthaliarstrelous has apparently, er, beaten a young man half to death.”
Reynold winced. He was familiar with this. The Dragon just stared.
“…Why?”
“Apparently, the young man spurred his horse to the point it was injured. Nalthaliarstrelous has…a history of attacking pet owners for abuse.”
“Of course. [Druids] don’t stand for that sort of thing. I’ll wager that young man got what he deserved. Time was, a [Druid] would shoot a [Poacher] with the arrows they left in animals.”
The Dragon leaned back. But he looked interested. Sacra nodded as Reynold set up hurriedly.
“Yes, Lord Teriarch. But…Invrisil has laws. Lady Reinhart will reimburse the injured party, of course, but the Watch and the [Mayor] are objecting. Strenuously. Nalthaliarstrelous’ actions are somewhat problematic.”
“I suppose they are. Huh. Well, well. He’s quite respectful. Perhaps…yes. Perhaps that would be an interesting conversation. Not that I don’t approve of it, but I can speak with him. I’ll do that.”
The half-Elf stood up. Reynold and Sacra looked at each other.
“Grand Magus? We can find Nalthaliarstrelous. There’s no need to—”
“Nonsense. I don’t need help. I’ll find him myself. One good scrying spell—no. I’m not spelling that name out. I’ll just track his magical trail. I’ll be back.”
“Grand Magus, wait—”
Too late. Pop went the half-Elf. He vanished. Reynold stood with a plate full of exotic cheeses. Sacra’s mouth opened in horror. They looked at each other and ran.
 
—-
 
[Druids] in the inn. They stood in the center of a gathering of onlookers. From afar, though. Guests sat at the tables, absorbing…
The ambiance. It took a particular guest of culture, to appreciate The Wandering Inn’s unique ambiance.
But picture the scene. A Centaur was smoking near an open window, taking his leisure. The drinks were ready at hand. A Dwarf was having just a light ale—he had work later. The air was filled with the smells of good food from the kitchen. An [Actor] was striding the stage.
The sound of clattering dishes, muted voices—shouting from the place with the three [Druids]. Classy. Well, a certain level of class. A cold drink with ice cubes in claw, and in the background, a Hobgoblin strumming on a guitar.
Ambiance. And as you sipped, you could listen.
“—kidnapped Mrsha! And why do you people keep walking into my Garden!? It’s not supposed to be open to other people! And who are you? You’re that guy!”
An [Innkeeper] was screaming. The other guests peered at the three [Druids].
One was a very nervous Drake with her webbed staff. Another, a little Gnoll who was really in trouble. And the third, a Human man with a wild beard polishing the staff which had been covered in drying blood. He didn’t seem affected by the shouting.
“I am so sorry. It’s just that I was lost and I was looking for someone. And the door was open—I didn’t mean to kidnap her!”
Shassa pointed at Mrsha. The Gnoll was trying to explain. She held up her deposition and Lyonette snatched it. She read it, and glared at Mrsha.
“That’s no excuse, young Miss! What did I tell you about strangers?”
“Yeah! Stranger danger! Look at him! He’s like—the exact person you don’t go with!”
Erin pointed at Nalthaliarstrelous. The [Druid] gave her an affronted look.
“Innkeeper. That child is one of us. We are [Druids]. We know each other.”
So much for subtlety. Some of the guests sat up. A Gnoll tipped his hat at his fellow and they took notes. A muscular Drake was hunched in a corner, coming up with a second theory.
But it was that kind of mood. After Erin and Lyonette tried not to throttle the [Druid]—some kind of order reasserted itself.
There were a few things to be mad about. And so, Erin made a list of priorities. She didn’t even have time for Ferris—the Gnoll was politely shuffled off to a corner. She stalked past the line of people jostling for her attention. She pointed at the first culprit.
“You. You know you don’t go with strangers. And there was the cupboards incident this morning. You’re in big trouble, buddy.”
The Gnoll child, Mrsha, gave Erin her most soulful, pleading, tearful look. Erin poked at Mrsha.
“Oh no. You’re not getting out of it. You’re in trouble. You just wait!”
“Excuse me. What is the meaning of—”
“Hold it, #4!”
Erin whirled and shouted at the orange-haired man. Montressa turned white.
“Erin—”
“Shush! Now, you.”
Erin moved to her next person on the list. Shassa shrank.
“I can’t apologize enough, Miss Solstice! I didn’t mean any of it. I just saw—”
She waved at Numbtongue, who had nearly beheaded her. Erin thought about this. She folded her arms.
“…I’ll grant you it was a mess. But! You can’t just grab Gnolls and run off. I’m uh—mad. At you too! How do you just walk into my garden? It’s private! It’s supposed to be safe!”
She pointed at #2. Nalthaliarstrelous blinked at her.
“It is. What’s the problem?”
Erin stared at him.
“It’s a [Garden of Sanctuary]. No one can get in but the people I allow! Even Grimalkin can’t get in! If it’s not safe…”
“It is safe. It is a sacred place. Bound by powerful law. An army would fail to enter.”
The [Druid] leaned on his staff. Erin narrowed her eyes.
“You say that, buddy, but I saw you just waltz in there when you and Magnolia came.”
“Erin, this is H—”
“Shut up, #5!”
Erin spun back to Nalthaliarstrelous. She poked at his chest; he swatted her finger away.
“How did you get in?”
“I am a [Druid].”
“Oh, so anyone can just walk in if they have the right class?”
Nalthaliarstrelous and Shassa exchanged a glance. The Drake raised a timid claw and Erin nodded at her.
“No. Only us, Miss Solstice. We are…allowed access. That is the nature of our class. No place of nature is barred from us in general, so long as we obey the rules.”
“Hmm. I dunno. That seems awfully convenient.”
Erin stalked in a circle around Shassa. The Drake stared at her as Erin peered at her from different angles. She looked at Mrsha—the Gnoll shrugged. Erin was crazy. Sometimes.
“We could no more harm someone in the garden than anyone else. Should we break such sacred laws, we would lose our very class.”
The Drake [Druid] explained. Erin rubbed at her chin. At this point, a horrified [Lady] staring at #4, spoke up.
“Erin. I really think you should—”
“#7, don’t push me. Ow!”
Maviola smacked the back of Erin’s head. Hedault glanced at Maviola as Erin punched at her. The [Princess] decided to hurry this along. Lyonette faced Nalthaliarstrelous and Shassa.
“The fact remains that you two still entered the garden illegally. Why? Don’t you have any respect for boundaries? Even [Druids] should!”
She looked down her nose at them, with proper disdain for troublemakers. The ‘homeless vagrants’ stared at Lyonette. Nalthaliarstrelous just sneered.
“What, respect? For what, exactly? Laws of the land? Of course not. You put a flag here and say ‘this is mine’. Why would anyone acknowledge that, any more than a piece of metal on your head? We respected the one law that mattered: do no harm. Come in peace. No other one was made apparent.”
“But it was private property!”
Lyonette’s eyes flashed. Shassa and Nalthaliarstrelous looked at each other. Both raised a hand.
“How were we supposed to know? We thought it was part of the inn.”
That was a good point. Erin exchanged a quick glance with Lyonette. The [Innkeeper] faltered.
“Well—well, it obviously wasn’t accessible to just anyone!”
Nalthaliarstrelous snorted in contempt.
“No one indicated that to me. Why wasn’t there a sign? I would have obeyed it.”
The question did so much damage to Erin’s psyche that she had to walk away for a second just to deal. She came back with an actual sign, and showed it to the line of suspects. Problems 1-7 read the sign. Problem #8 (Ferris was still not included), walked through the door, muttering to himself. He stopped as Erin shoved the sign in the other’s faces.
“See this? See this? ‘No Killing Goblins!’ I’ve got signs! No one reads them! Who here read this, huh? Huh?”
Every person in line raised their hands, slowly. Mrsha, Shassa, Nalthaliarstrelous, Hedault, Montressa, Beza, and Maviola. From his point in the audience, Teriarch tapped Ishkr on the shoulder.
“Popcorn. With yeast.”
The [Innkeeper] stared. Nalthaliarstrelous folded his arms.
“I read signs. Who would not?”
