A Drake with light clothing and a staff of cobwebs. The Drake had been looking in their direction. Her eyes and Mrsha’s met at the same time. The Drake’s eyes widened.
You? You are a child!
Mrsha stared. The voice was in her head. The Drake’s jaw dropped.
“A wild-walker? So young? Ah—but you have no name! You—”
Mrsha backed up. She did not know this Drake. The voice in her head alarmed her. She turned. Ekirra and Visma looked at her, just curious.
“Who is that, Mrsha?”
“I don’t know. Stranger.”
Mrsha signed. Both glanced down at the Drake again. They looked at Mrsha, suddenly alarmed.
“Hello? Child? Are you she? I apologize for intruding!”
The Drake was waving up at them. Mrsha backed away from her.
She—the Drake was calling out with words and the voice in Mrsha’s head. Mrsha felt, instinctively, that she should trust this Drake. But that just made the other part of Mrsha, which was sensible and Lyonette-like, very worried.
“Let’s go to Miss Drassi.”
Ekirra tugged on Visma’s claws and Mrsha’s. The three backed up. The Drake slowly approached, lifting one hand.
“I’m sorry if I intruded. But I mean you no harm! I swear by the webs!”
Mrsha paused. The voice in her head echoed the Drake’s sentiments. And it was so sincere. It was like she had cast a [Truth Spell]. Slowly, Mrsha stopped.
“Mrsha…”
Ekirra whined. Mrsha ignored them. Slowly, she walked down the hill.
If it had been anyone else, Mrsha would have hesitated. But this certainty was like gravity itself. In her chest, Mrsha knew…
The Drake smiled. She looked down as Mrsha stared at her.
“Hello, friend.”
Mrsha waved. The Drake’s face was puzzled.
“I am Shassa Weaverweb. May I know your name, keeper of this…garden?”
She waved her staff around. Mrsha pointed at herself and looked around vaguely for her notes. The Drake was puzzled again.
“Can you not speak?”
No. Mrsha sighed. This was a common problem with strangers. She always needed someone to explain…
The Drake’s eyes widened.
“You cannot?”
Mrsha’s head jerked up. The Drake peered at her. Slowly, she touched her breast.
“I heard you nonetheless, small friend. Tell me.”
Mrsha thought her name. Tentatively. She saw Shassa’s mouth curl upwards.
“Ah, Mrsha, right?”
The Gnoll child jumped. Shassa laughed.
“I can hear you! We two are similar. You see?”
Mrsha almost did. She narrowed her eyes. Shassa felt her wariness and hurried to explain.
“I am sorry. But I came here. I was told this was a shortcut around the Bloodfields, but—I was not used to Pallass! Too many people. Too much noise. And then I was here and I felt this.”
She shuddered. Mrsha almost felt her confusion, being lost. The Gnoll nodded. The Drake bent.
“I am…ah, a bit lost. I was told I could go to Invrisil, you see. By magic? But I went through one door and I did not see the other.”
The little Gnoll rolled her eyes. Visitors. They never listened. They were so—
She caught the Drake woman frowning at her.
“I did listen! What? The door goes to Invrisil? Well—that Drake didn’t explain fully!”
It must have been one of the new staff members. Mrsha huffed. Lyonette had hired a new batch and they kept making mistakes. Shassa’s eyes flickered.
“Oh. I see. So the door goes to Invrisil? Six silver?”
She felt at her pouch.
“Hm. Well, I have that. Thank you, little friend. I am in your debt.”
She bowed. Mrsha felt quite pleased at this and nodded. Shassa laughed and the two relaxed. The Drake turned, heading back the way she’d come.
“I am on a mission for my city. Thank you, wild-friend. If time permits, I will call on you. With permission!”
She spoke sidelong to Mrsha. The Gnoll looked up, entranced by this peerless method of communication. She tugged on Shassa’s leg. Wait! Stay a while! No one had ever understood Mrsha like this, not even Urksh or Ryoka! How did Shassa understand? Who was she?
Mrsha felt like she should know. And the Drake’s eyes certainly crinkled up. Then she frowned.
“Dear Mrsha, has no one taught you of your class? How can you not know me?”
She listened. The Drake and Gnoll stood there, as voices floated down from the hill and Drassi’s sleepy one replied, then began to wake up. Shassa frowned.
“What’s that? Really? By yourself? How extraordinary! And so young!”
Mrsha nodded proudly and then frowned at the implicit slight. Shassa laughed, and it was a merry sound.
“I apologize, Mrsha! You are no doubt quite talented. I should explain—I will explain! You see, you have entered with a pact. You are a Tribal Gnoll, aren’t you? They are granted the honors far more than City Gnolls. But you must have met with a sign. Some great event of nature.”
The Frost Faeries. The Goblin Lord. Shassa’s face froze. Her head dipped with shock, then sorrow.
“Oh. Little one. You have seen such terrible things. But this class—listen to me. You are one of us. I go now to meet a great keeper. In Invrisil. But upon my return, I promise you—”
“Mrsha! Who is that?”
A voice rang out from the top of the hill. Mrsha and Shassa spun. Drassi, bleary-eyed and followed by Ekirra and Visma, stared down at Shassa. She of course, knew everyone allowed in the [Garden of Sanctuary], like Mrsha. She did not know Shassa.
“Hey! You! Get away from Mrsha!”
The clear alarm and fear in Drassi’s tone caused the older Drake to back up. Shassa held up her staff and free hand.
“I am sorry! I wasn’t aware—”
“Mrsha, get back! Where’s Numbtongue? Erin, Erin!”
Drassi began shouting. Alarmed, Shassa fled towards the door. Mrsha wavered. She tried to wave her arms, explain, but Drassi couldn’t read her thoughts.
Shassa fled into the inn. Drassi’s shouting followed her. Mrsha ran through the doorway as the Drake sprinted down the hill.
“Lyonette! Numbtongue! Help! She was in the garden!”
Heads turned in the common room of the inn. Shassa looked around.
“No—I was just lost! I—”
Too late. Drassi, meaning well, sprinted into the inn after the Drake. Mrsha tried to grab her arm, but the [Gossip] shouted as Lyonette turned.
“Intruder in the inn! Alarm!”
This time the effect was immediate. Shassa opened her mouth and saw Lyonette go for her sword. A pair of Antinium Soldiers sitting at the bar surged to their feet. She backed up.
“No, please—”
Erin Solstice and Maviola surged down the stairs. Numbtongue leapt over them and landed with his sword drawn. The newcomers to the inn screamed. In the chaos, Shassa ran from the Hobgoblin, the Antinium, and the angry [Princess] with a sword.
That was understandable. Mrsha ran too. She weaved between the legs as all the inn’s defenders tangled up with the panicked crowds. Drassi was shouting an explanation, Lyonette was looking for Mrsha and telling Shassa to stop. Erin was demanding to know what was happening.
Help me! Oh, Ancestors, they’re going to kill me!
Like a beacon, Mrsha heard a thought, full of panic. The Gnoll dove through the crowds, dodging feet. She found Shassa. The Drake looked at her. Mrsha pointed.
To the door! Erin would probably punch Shassa’s brains out of her head and Numbtongue might actually kill her! The Drake fled as Mrsha dragged the hallway door open.
“Enough!”
A bellow from behind Mrsha. She felt Erin’s aura freeze the entire crowd. Shassa stumbled; Mrsha dragged her towards the door. She needed to set it to Invrisil!
“How? How—”
The Drake picked up Mrsha. The Gnoll swiveled the dial. At that moment, Numbtongue came charging through the door and saw Shassa holding Mrsha.
“Stop! Put her down!”
The Hobgoblin charged them with his sword. Shassa turned white. Mrsha yanked open the door. The Drake ran. Numbtongue hesitated, sword drawn, afraid of hitting Mrsha.
“I’m sorry!”
The Drake fled. The Hobgoblin pursued her into a room full of Humans. Half of them saw the Redfang Warrior with the blade and reacted like Humans did. Numbtongue cursed, but Shassa was out the door and running. And by the time he got free—she was in the crowds. He saw the Humans pointing and screaming and cursed.
After about five minutes, Shassa’s frantic fright slowed. Only then did she stop and gasp to catch her breath. And then, the Gnoll child she’d been holding under her arm finally got her attention.
“Oh no.”
The Drake stared down at Mrsha. The Gnoll child stared solemnly up at the Drake. They shared a thought.
They were dead. Mrsha had already had one bad incident with the drawers this morning. Shassa…she pictured Numbtongue lopping off her head.
The Drake turned pale under her scales.
“I didn’t mean it! Let’s explain! No—I’ll bring you back!”
That was a very sensible thing to do. Mrsha wavered. But she knew that Erin was about to destroy all of Invrisil to find her. She nodded solemnly. Shassa took a breath.
“I’m sorry. I didn’t think—of course it was a sacred place! I will apologize. Just—don’t let them kill me, please?”
They stood together. People stared at the outlandish Drake talking to the Gnoll child who never made a response back. A few began looking around for the Watch themselves. But Mrsha pointed the way they’d come, where someone was indeed yelling at the top of her lungs.
They began to move back. Shassa caught her breath, muttering explanations—or at least trying to think up things that wouldn’t get her killed in an instant. Mrsha nervously tried to think of how to explain how she’d known Shassa was nice.
Was it all coincidence? Of course not. There were other important events taking place. Other confluences which were fateful, or just mere chance that melded together. But Shassa had not met Mrsha by accident. They were two of a kind.
And so—perhaps inevitably, as both walked back, full of trepidation, they turned down a street. The Drake and Gnoll’s heads rose. They glanced at each other. And then they stared at a crowd, shouting ahead of them.
The people of Invrisil surrounded something. There was screaming, shouts for the Watch. Mrsha and Shassa pushed forwards. Mrsha felt something. Blinding rage. She heard someone begging for someone else to stop, a thud.
And then she saw a man. His beard was wild, his robes covered with nature, poo, and other things. It was ratty, and he himself smelled like…nature. He had a staff—not decorated like Shassa’s.
Well, unless you counted blood. The man was standing over a figure on the ground. Another woman—a young wife or lover—was trying to pull him back.
The young man on the other hand wasn’t moving. He’d been beaten bloody, and the man was kicking him. A horse was standing to one side, blood on the fur. Mrsha saw spurs on the young man’s boots.
“Stop! Someone call the Watch!”
The man ignored him. Quite deliberately, Nalthaliarstrelous, keeper of Magnolia Reinhart’s gardens, raised his staff and began to beat the nearly-unconscious young man. People tried to pull him off and he began to lay about him with his staff.
Shassa Weaverweb and Mrsha du Marquin stared at Nalthaliarstrelous. The man was hurling curses, roaring like an animal as the crowd backed up. He was preparing to swing again when his head turned.
“What…?”
He looked up and met their eyes. And Mrsha felt the same shock of recognition as the first time she’d seen him. Now she understood. Nalthaliarstrelous lowered his staff. He looked at Shassa. And she bowed. Mrsha saw the man look at her. And she finally, finally got it as she heard his voice in her mind.
Well met again, little friend.
The man bowed.  He, Shassa, Mrsha—
They were all [Druids].
 
—-
 
[Druids] were rude. Not just individually; as a class. There was something about [Druids] that clashed with most other sensibilities. Of course, they were focused around nature, like [Shamans], but where [Shamans] could be said to work and respect the natural world, [Druids] lived with it. They cared.
So…rude. The kind of rude that ranged from petting your cat since the cat was okay with it, to rummaging about in your gardens and making alterations without your consent, to causing a sinkhole to swallow a [Lord]’s mansion when he refused to stop overhunting.
That kind of rude. They were perfectly respectful of course; their definition of whom to respect just differed from most people. And anyways, there were other groups far, far ruder than [Druids].
One of the last of them stood now in Magnolia Reinhart’s estates. Yawning, he pointed. And a magical carriage, garishly pink, turned into a crimson red coach, highlighted by black and gold on the trim. It looked fast.
“Grand Mage Eldavin! Lady Reinhart was most insistent about the color scheme!”
A man protested. Reynold, the [Butler], was holding a tray of drinks and snacks as he followed Teriarch about. The Dragon ignored him.
“Pink affronts my eyes. She wants me to repair it? She can paint it later. Let’s see. What’s wrong with this thing? Hm. Hm…ah, a failing conversion spell for these stupid mana crystals.”
The ‘Grand Mage’ poked around dismissively, sighing and grumbling. He didn’t like working with enchantments. And he was less than motivated. To amuse himself, he kept snacking, casually emblazoning a few sigils of long-distant empires on the newly-painted coach. Reynold glanced up and protested weakly again.
“Grand Magus—perhaps you would consider relenting?”
“About what?”
Meow. A loud yowl of complaint came from above. Eldavin glanced up. So did Reynold, with a pained look.
Magnolia Reinhart owned cats. How many had never been ascertained until now, but she tolerated them about as much as they tolerated her. It was now clear—and Reynold would bet on this—that all eighteen in the large mansion were now stuck on the roof. They were hissing at the Dragon.
He ignored them. Teriarch kicked around the carriage.
“…Well, I bridged it. But the entire enchantment’s old. Someone needs to just recast the magic. Tell Reinhart that.”
“Er—recast, Grand Magus?”
“That’s right. The wood is what’s decaying. Build a new carriage, port the enchantment over. I’m not doing it. What else did that brat want?”
The Dragon yawned a fifth time. Reynold felt sweat beading down his back as he followed the half-Elf around. Of course, Reynold knew.
What exactly he knew was up for debate, but he wasn’t an idiot. Still, he had exact instructions and this thankless job was mostly humoring Teriarch.
“I er—believe Lady Reinhart would appreciate a few discreet…scrying spells…on some individuals. [Assassins], mainly.”
“No.”
“No, Grand Magus?”
“Too much work. Too much interference. I’m doing this…half-hearted. I’ll have some of that good wine now. And those annoying pests may come down.”
