Mrsha wasn’t sure she should explain. The two [Druids] frowned. But they did not press her.
It was funny. For all Lyonette called them ‘lawless rulebreakers’, it was clear that they regarded this as Mrsha’s domain. They were respectful to her, listened when she wanted to say something, and treated her like an equal. Mrsha liked it.
“What you must know of us, Mrsha, is that we occupy many roles. It is not just people and pets that concern us. In fact, it is seldom them for most of us. Nalthaliarstrelous is an exception. We must battle monsters, disease, starvation, fire, even animal species themselves.”
Shassa went on with the explanation. She lifted her staff, and showed Mrsha the tip. To Mrsha’s horror, she saw it actually had a small nest of tiny purple spiders. They scurried out as Mrsha backed away. Shassa laughed.
“Don’t worry, they’re friendly! Nor would I let them infest this place.”
She lifted her staff and they disappeared into the web. The [Druid] gestured about.
“Our job is balance. Not protection. For instance, I am a [Spiderweb Druid]. But when Shield Spiders bred over their limits and began eating everything in the Kask region—I exterminated them with my fellow [Druids], adventurers, and military. Because it was necessary. In the same way, unnatural things, like undead, some monsters, are also our enemies.”
“Crelers. We exterminate them.”
Nalthaliarstrelous was blunt. The Drake shuddered. So did Mrsha. But it was an important distinction to make so the Human took over.
“Few things we loathe, Mrsha. The Bloodfields are a type of nature. However changed. Not nature I would allow to persist outside of its zone, but nature nonetheless. Crelers destroy everything. Even rabbits would destroy Creler eggs rather than let them exist. What [Druids] deem enemies, we battle. We are warriors.”
Shassa touched her chest.
“Caretakers.”
“Arbiters.”
The Human [Druid] bent down. He touched the ground.
“You and Shassa wonder why I worked with Magnolia Reinhart? The Antinium are our enemies, little one. When they came, they eradicated everything around their Hives. We fought them.”
His eyes flickered. Mrsha felt his cold resolve. He had fought them. Buried them, drowned them, torn them apart during both wars…
Indignantly, the Gnoll [Druid] stood up on her two legs. No! The two [Druids] recoiled. Mrsha punched Nalthaliarstrelous’s leg. Not Pawn! Not Garry! Not Belgrade or anyone here! She’d beat them up first, she’d—
Nalthaliarstrelous picked her up. Lyonette jumped to her feet.
“Hey!”
The [Druid] ignored her. He let Mrsha swing wildly in the air.
“Stop that. Explain. The Antinium have always been one Hive. Explain, little one.”
Mrsha hesitated. She thought—and both [Druid]’s eyes widened. Mrsha imagined Garry, feeding her scraps, Belgrade, learning to play chess—
Pawn, praying for the dead. Was that evil?
“…No.”
Slowly, Nalthaliarstrelous lowered Mrsha to the ground. He blinked. Shassa turned pale.
“I cannot believe it. The Antinium are one thing.”
“Clearly not. Listen to the young [Druid], Shassa.”
“But she’s a ch—”
Smack. Nalthaliarstrelous bopped the Drake so fast Mrsha didn’t see it. The Drake clutched at her head and squatted down. Lyonette hesitated as Mrsha excitedly nodded. Nalthaliarstrelous scowled at Shassa.
“Do you deny the truth? Look! Listen! If she says the Antinium are not one thing, they are not!”
He turned to Mrsha.
“If they are not all the same, we will treat them as such. But this is a revelation. The other wild walkers must know. Now I regret helping Reinhart.”
His face was troubled. But as he bent low to look at her, the man’s face broke into a huge smile behind his beard.
“It must be fate, that the wilds make you a [Druid] so young! You have battled Raskghar, monsters! Little landfriend—you now bring us important knowledge! If the Antinium are not our enemies, we should not fight them as we assumed in the Third Antinium War.”
“Nalthaliarstrelous!”
Shassa cried out, horrified. The [Druid] spun, staff raised. But this time the garden’s law made him hesitate. Apparently educational bops counted—not beatings with sticks.
“We will debate it. You see, Mrsha—there are only two large Circles. One, in the Vale forest under the aegis of House Veltras. The other in Oteslia. There are [Druids] in other places, but two gatherings in Izril. In every continent we roam, but two there. And we are not all united.”
Shassa edged away from Nalthaliarstrelous as he pointed at her. Mrsha began to see. The Drake felt very peaceful compared to Nalthaliarstrelous’ wild impulses. A warrior and caretaker, indeed.
“Yes. Perhaps let’s leave it at that. For now—Mrsha, you should come to Oteslia with me. Or at the very least—wait until Nalthaliarstrelous returns to learn from one of us.”
Even him. The Drake rubbed her head as she looked up at Lyonette. She saw Mrsha tug at her leg. Why? Mrsha was happy to learn, but she’d leveled up well enough.
“To understand what it is to be kind. One can be cruel by being kind. Or make mistakes. You were close to losing your class. And you have hurt these children, haven’t you?”
Nalthaliarstrelous bent down. Mrsha went still. Her face fell.
The rats. Gravely, the [Druids] nodded. They felt her guilt.
“Just so. And the Fortress Beavers fought the Shield Spiders because you did not separate them. You must learn some lessons to help, not hinder. We will teach you. But later. It may be difficult if that one objects.”
Nalthaliarstrelous waved at Lyonette. Mrsha nodded slowly. The [Druid] bent down.
“For now, just know that your class is not just nature-mage. Magic is a side-effect of our class, not the goal. We do not crave power. We are not all one people. But we share ideas in common.”
He tapped his chest.
“Here is mine, and what I believe: to hurt those who cannot defend themselves is a poor thing. To waste is a poor thing.”
His voice was gentle, but like steel, vines rooted in the earth. Shassa raised her staff, and nodded.
“To destroy without leaving something behind is to be worthless. That is what the [Druids] of Oteslia believe.”
Cowards. Nalthaliarstrelous glanced at Mrsha. She began to suspect part of Oteslia’s project involved combat of some kind. But as the [Druids] walked on, they explained a tiny bit more.
“You will not master magic as well as [Mages]. But nor will you be as unfit to survive without magic. But the true root of our power is in our connection with nature. Plants—animals—we are shape-changers. You have one Skill. We have many.”
The Drake touched her chest.
“For instance, I am spider-friend. If I will it, I can spin silk. Climb even the tallest trees.”
Nalthaliarstrelous’s already-hairy arm covered with fur. He grinned at Mrsha with bear-teeth, only cooler than Erin.
“I am bear-friend. Wolf-brother. Many things in one. You have one ally: beavers.”
“Beavers.”
Shassa giggled. Mrsha and Nalthaliarstrelous both glared at her. He raised his staff and she raised her claws.
“I’m sorry! But that’s just rare!”
Nalthaliarstrelous nodded. He—twitched—blinked. Mrsha saw him look around, feel at the back of his neck. What had that been? But the [Druid] didn’t know himself. She felt his curiosity.
“True. But all of us have our paths. You might be a fine grower, or more magically inclined. The point is that nature is supported where you find it. It may be a garden, like I tend. Or Oteslia’s produce.”
Druids could sell plants? Wasn’t that bad? Shassa shrugged.
“Everyone has to earn money. And we put it into sanctuaries for animals. You see, some of us are less active than others. Because of [Druids], the Pegasi populations did not dwindle like Unicorns! They now live in Oteslia, even if their numbers are still small.”
“As slaves.”
“Companions! They’re well-cared for, Nalthaliarstrelous!”
“Mhm. As slaves. They are not free to fly.”
“Don’t start, please! The Circle of Oteslia decided centuries ago—”
“The north never agreed to it.”
“How many Pegasi are in the north, then? Huh? Answer me that?”
“They died free.”
“Well, don’t hit me for speaking the truth—”
The two began to quarrel. Mrsha listened, hearing insults both verbal and mental begin to fly. Her takeaway was that [Druids] were a bit high-strung.
But she liked her class. She didn’t know if she wanted to just be a [Druid], though. Mrsha rather liked the idea of being a [Druid]-[Adventurer]. A real adventurer. And maybe a [Wizard] too!
Both Nalthaliarstrelous and Shassa stared at the Gnoll child in consternation. It seemed to occur to them only now that Mrsha might not be as invested as they were in their class. Nalthaliarstrelous opened his mouth—
And twitched. His head spun around. Mrsha and Shassa looked at him. The [Druid] stared about. Then up.
“What is that?”
 
—-
 
Twang. On his roof, Bird happily hummed and shot another arrow. Another bird fell out of the skies.
“Two birds, three birds, all in the pot. Or if I leave them out, they will rot.”
Bird happily sing. He ignored the roar from below. An outraged Dragon overturned a chess board. An [Innkeeper] danced. Chaldion pounded on the door as Saliss leaned on it.
Spectacle. But Bird didn’t care. He aimed his bow at another frantic, diving shape. He sighted, calculating velocity, wind, drew back and—
“Nalthaliarstrelous, stop!”
The Antinium froze. He had heard nothing. Seen nothing. Up until that moment—slowly he turned his head.
A vast bear stood behind him. No—not a bear. It had climbed the tower in three moves. Long claws had torn the wood. But this creature was bipedal. It opened its mouth and dark venom dripped between huge fangs. It rippled with muscle—Bird swung his bow around.
“What are you doing?”
The thing spoke. The Worker hesitated. He saw a Drake and Gnoll race onto the roof, alarmed. The other Workers scrambled for weapons, but Nalthaliarstrelous paid no attention. Bird hesitated.
“Hunting Birds?”
The [Druid] waited. Bird stared up at him. Slowly, Nalthaliarstrelous looked at Bird.
“Tell me. How many do you kill? How many do you eat? How many do you leave to rot, or strip only for feathers and trophies?”
He had exceptionally long claws, Bird noted. Venom bite—it was like someone had engineered parts of bear, wolf, and something with venom for combat. The Antinium reflected he might die unless he jumped from the roof. But someone would die either way. Still—since Mrsha was behind the [Druid] and frantically trying to pull him back, the Worker replied. Honestly.
“I will kill as many birds as I see. Yes, as many as fly past me. I eat them all. I leave some to rot so they get squishy. And I like their feathers very muchly. Will you kill me?”
He drew back the arrow, aiming for Nalthaliarstrelous’s open jaws. The [Druid] stared at him. The Workers froze. And then—Nalthaliarstrelous laughed.
 
—-
 
A naked [Druid] stood on the roof of the inn, putting on his robes. Mrsha learned something interesting about him. About [Druids].
Nalthaliarstrelous didn’t care. Or rather—he had thought Bird was just shooting the birds and leaving them to die for fun. When he heard that Bird would eat each and every one, his wrath had abated.
“All things die. I object to waste.”
He explained to Mrsha. On the other hand, Shassa had been horrified to learn about Bird’s one-bow crusade against all that flew. She was explaining to Bird about conservation of species, nests, and so on. Nalthaliarstrelous’ mental thoughts were dismissive. He sat with Mrsha on the roof, listening to the cheers as Teriarch bellowed for a rematch. Foul! He hadn’t been trying!
The [Druids] ignored the silliness. Nalthaliarstrelous nodded to Bird.
“Shassa is wrong. That Antinium cannot kill every bird in the Floodplains. The smart ones already fear him. I sensed that and assumed he only cared for sport. They will learn to avoid him.”
Mrsha didn’t know if she agreed with that. But Nalthaliarstrelous was, in fact, a proponent of hunting.
“Animals kill each other to eat. Only those of us like Shassa want people to eat leaves all day. And she is a Drake.”
He grinned at Mrsha. Lyonette huffed onto the roof after extricating herself from the mess in the inn. She saw the Human [Druid]—now thankfully clothed or there would have been trouble—peering around the Floodplains.
“This is not my place, little landfriend. But if I had to solve one issue of this land…no [Druids] reside around Liscor.”
“Gee. I wonder why. Excuse me, but Mrsha can’t stay with you fine [Druids] forever!”
The [Princess] stomped over to them. Nalthaliarstrelous glanced up at her.
“This place would be better for our kind. Now I look at it—perhaps we should have come earlier. Now I see.”
His eyes flashed across the Floodplains. Mrsha saw lush grass, butterflies, flowers—not many trees, but a nice place to run about if you didn’t mind Shield Spiders and Rock Crabs. She sighed.
She was banned from going out. Stinky Lyonette and Erin said—
Tap. Nalthaliarstrelous’s staff touched Mrsha’s head. Lyonette made a sound. But the [Druid] just looked at Mrsha.
“Just as well. There are threats here to children, even [Druids]. You lack judgment. Even we follow rules.”
She was tough! Mrsha made a fist. Nalthaliarstrelous raised his staff. She…lowered the fist. Lyonette lowered her fist. The [Druid] paid no attention to her. Nalthaliarstrelous’s head turned once more.
“How problematic.”
What was? Her? Mrsha poked at him. The [Druid] didn’t respond for a second. Shassa came stomping across the roof.
“What a monster! He doesn’t see how many birds he’s killing!”
“He eats them. Maggots and all. You could learn from them.”
Lyonette made a sound. She stood up.
“Bird? What did I tell you about—”
The [Hunter] fled. Shassa blanched. But Nalthaliarstrelous was just frowning. He had sensed something. And Mrsha waited. At last, the Human [Druid] rose.
“Shassa Weaverweb. Mrsha of the Stone Spears Tribe. I am minded to call together a circle to debate a grave issue I see.”
The Gnoll blinked. She hadn’t expected that. What grave issue? Shassa was just as taken aback. Her gaze swung to Mrsha.
“A circle? But there are just three of us!”
“Three is enough.”
“But she’s not even recognized. She’s only—”
The Drake saw Nalthaliarstrelous’ eyes flash.
“She is a [Druid].”
“She is too young.”
The female [Druid] protested. Nalthaliarstrelous shook his head.
“This is her place. Would you exclude her?”
Shassa bit her tongue. Mrsha glowered. Yeah! Exclude from…what?
“A decision. Something grave affects this land. Worse than the dungeon.”
