Another day passed. And whatever madness, glories, tragedies or acts of fate had passed, the next day the world remained.
Well…for now. She woke up in the rolling, bumping darkness and realized she was alone. Which was preferable, for now.
Slowly, the City Runner reached into a pouch. And for light, instead of a spell, came a glowing vial. The liquid sloshed around.
Viridian. What a color. Blue and green, ostensibly. What vibrancy. What magic. For a moment, Ryoka Griffin marveled at it. Such a little vial; less than a mouthful, unless you were a baby.
It could change everything. Or…nothing.
“Panacea. Fierre…but what did Teriarch say? What did he mean? What causes Vampires to fall ill?  He knows.”
The mumbled questions from Ryoka’s sleepy lips were still tinged with a bit of satisfaction. A bit of happiness, wonder. She had met the Dragon. And he had left the cave. He had given her hope. And this.
A magical potion. And a question. The Dragon might refuse to interfere—but he was fairly bad at this commitment. And even half-hearted replies told Ryoka a lot.
Vampires.
There was a tap; Ryoka jumped and fumbled the vial into her belt. When the coachman opened the sliding window to address her, she was stretching.
“Miss Griffin? We’re nearing Reizmelt. Should be in eight hours if there’s no delays. Nothing bad’s happened yet, huh?”
“Don’t jinx us.”
The lanky young woman stretched out. She was rewarded with a grin—but a nervous one. The [Coachman] chuckled.
“Never thought my only passengers would be a City Runner, eh?”
It was a joke, albeit at her expense. Ryoka took it in good humor.
The driver was nervous. Ryoka hadn’t known the overnight coaches were part of the Merchant’s Guild, but it was obvious in hindsight. They needed a central authority and management, and theirs was an important service, even if Runners did deliveries.
After the Bloodfeast Raiders attack, the Merchant’s Guild had done an inspection to make sure Ryoka hadn’t provoked the attack. She had been carrying valuables, but since it wasn’t on a delivery, they hadn’t banned her from using the coaches.
But it was a close thing. Besides which—word had got out. Bloodfeast Raiders, riots; few people were using the overnights. So somewhat ironically, Ryoka was providing this [Coachman]’s coin for the day. She had tipped handsomely; in fact, in advance.
[Coachmen] were practical people. You gave them money up front and they made your passage more comfortable, rather than after the fact. Neither had seen anything more dangerous than a wild Mothbear, and it had ignored them.
Even so, both she and the driver were nervous. Ryoka smiled at the driver.
“I can’t run from Invrisil to Reizmelt as fast as a coach. Not nearly, even if I drank stamina potions every mile. Not high enough level yet. Sorry.”
He grinned toothily at her.
“‘Sokay, Miss. Your lot is the ones targeted by [Bandits] on the roads. Usually. They know the overnights don’t carry more than people, and not wealthy folk, most off. Let’s just not have trouble, eh?”
“Your wish is my dream, Mister Randal.”
The little sliding hatch shut. Ryoka sat back. Staring blankly at the covered windows. After a moment, she rolled up the shades. Sunlight streamed into the coach. She was headed back to Reizmelt after The Wandering Inn.
She would return. She had promised Mrsha. But she had a job to do. A party the likes of which even the fae would want to visit. Powerful nobles to impress.
The Archmage of Izril waited. Ryoka felt the wind blowing around her, cooling down the horses. She smiled, slightly.
“Better find a [Seamstress], too.”
She had plans that might just involve breaking every bone in her body. So, some things never changed.
 
—-
 
As the coach rumbled forwards, the roads were mostly clear. Riots had happened. Not in smaller towns or cities, but Invrisil had not been the only place struck by them. Terandria, even as far away as Baleros and a very few Chandrarian cities…the synchronicity across the world was frightening.
And even now, the [Coachman] was reading the ‘new papers’ he had gotten from the Mage’s Guild on his 30-minute stop in the last town, detailing the riots. Created by Wistram, distributed to most Mage’s Guilds. He passed the paper to Ryoka when he was done and steered with one hand as he drank a soup-breakfast.
She contented herself with some of Erin’s sandwiches. They held up pretty well in her bag of holding. She just wished Erin made more sandwiches than ‘grilled cheese’, ‘peanut butter and jam’, and ‘ham ‘n egg’.
Erin was weird.
And as it happened, the coach rode past a weary three adventurers, arguing as they headed north. They were covered in blood, and the travellers on the road steered wide of them. The [Coachman], Randal, slowed to stare at the trio. They weren’t [Bandits]; rather, they were adventurers.
“I’m telling you, I didn’t know they exploded.”
Falene snapped. Dawil and Ylawes glared at her. The half-Elf was only partly covered in blood. But the [Knight] in his armor and the Dwarf were soaked. They had run into some monsters—part-fungi, part flesh-and-blood—whose defense-tactic was to explode and thus send viscera and spore everywhere.
“Let’s not point fingers and blame Falene now. We all know whose fault it was. The problem is that we’ve lost our horses.”
Dawil growled. He dumped a water flask over his head. Ylawes spat and Falene slowly cast a cleansing spell on her robes rather than her companions. The [Knight] spoke, gagged on mushroom-blood, took a swig, spat, and spoke again.
“We’ve lost our horses. They were galloping for the High Passes, last I saw. If we lose them, we’re only out the cost of the saddles and rental. Let’s ask if a [Hostler] can locate them. Some can whistle them back from miles and miles away. And they’re trained to run back home if they’re in danger.”
“If they’re dead, the stables will give us hell. Damnit. I hate mushrooms. Think we could’ve eaten them?”
The Gold-ranks stared back the way they’d come. All three shuddered. It hadn’t even been a quest; they’d just seen the carnivorous fungi close to the road and decided to do the world a favor and themselves a disservice.
“I miss Durm. We should buy dedicated warhorses. Or at least, I’ll buy one. Falene, please stop cleaning yourself and conjure some water for us?”
The half-Elf [Battlemage] pointed and a jet of water blasted Dawil in the left ear. He roared in fury, but after a brief scuffle, the three Gold-ranks looked at each other. Dawil grimaced, feeling at his belt.
“Let’s talk after we get back. We’re not sitting flush when it comes to coin, Ylawes. Although…that old woman did give us this amulet-thingy. And those other two heirlooms. And the family’s treasured potion of who-knows-what. Might be worth something.”
He named the gifts the last three villages had given them after the Silver Swords had killed monsters, removed a landslide, and recovered a lost and prized magic cow carried off by a pair of Ogres, not in that order. The Silver Swords operated like that. They were as antithetical to Todi’s Elites and even Griffon Hunt as possible.
And there came the overnight coach. Dawil spotted it as Ylawes scrubbed at his armor with a bit of soap, cursing the sticky blood.
“How much further is it to Reizmelt?”
“Eh. Should be a day’s ride. Told you we should have taken a coach. Say—hey! Hey, hold up there! We want a ride!”
Randal slowed the carriage, warily. Adventurers weren’t a preferred passenger. They tended to cause trouble. Even so, after a moment of shouting he slowed.
 
—-
 
“Yes, we can pay! Gold!”
Ryoka awoke from a daydream involving disease and Vampires. She realized the coach had slowed. The speaking-slot opened.
“Sorry, Miss Ryoka. We’ve got company. Adventurers. They want a lift. Lost their damn horses, but they seem decent. I know the team. They’re a sight. Take a look.”
The door cracked open. Ryoka blinked at the trio of Gold-ranks. Ylawes raised a hand.
“Ah! Excuse me! We’re getting on the coach. Are you the only rider?”
“That’s right.”
Ryoka peered surruptitiously at the very knightly-looking [Knight]. He was blonde, tall, he looked like a fairy-tale hero. There was a Dwarf, a half-Elf…she had the instant urge to hum a certain theme song. She was tempted to look around for an army of Orcs.
“I’m deeply sorry, Miss. Rest assured, we’ll clean ourselves before entering. We ran into some…unpleasant monsters just before reaching the road.”
“It’s fine by me. You’re adventurers, right?”
The [Knight] blinked and then smiled as the half-Elf waved her staff and a huge orb of water splashed down on the Dwarf’s head. He kicked her.
“Excuse me; we’ve been impolite. My name is Ylawes of House Byres. This is Falene Skystrall, and Dawil Ironbreaker. We’re Gold-rank adventurers, the Silver Swords.”
Ryoka nodded to them and sat back, waiting as the Silver Swords washed themselves as clean as possible. She wished she had her iPhone.
Outside, Ylawes sighed as Falene blew wind around them, drying them off.
“Not far to Reizmelt, now. And our objective.”
“Mhm. We’ll let Erin know when we arrive. Say, lad…”
Dawil tapped Ylawes’ arm. The Human man looked down at him.
“Don’t call me lad. What?”
“Just a thought. I’m all for helping Erin out. Not like we have plans. But er—it occurs to me just now that we only have a name to go on. Have you met this girl we’re supposed to find? What does this ‘Ryoka Griffin’ look like, anyways?”
The half-Elf and Human exchanged a glance. Falene put a finger to her temple.
“…I’ll ask for a description from Ceria. She’s finally mastered [Message].”
“Good idea.”
“I’m sure Pointy-Ears would have come up with it, eventually. She just didn’t want to say to embarrass us. Obviously.”
The Dwarf’s smug look earned him a deep glare as he clambered into the coach. He waved at Ryoka, who nodded back; he was the first Dwarf she’d seen up close. The other two piled in and the coach moved on in short order.
They were an interesting bunch. The first thing the Dwarf did was hold out a hand.
“Sorry about the smell. Exploding mushrooms. Appreciate you letting us in.”
“Not at all. Adventurers keep everyone safe. Especially someone like me. Good to meet you all.”
They nodded in a friendly manner at her. The [Knight] glanced at Ryoka; the half-Elf was doing something magical to judge by the way her eyes were flickering.
“May I ask where you’re bound? We’re headed to Reizmelt.”
“Oh really? Me too. I’m a City Runner. I work around there. Sorry, I should have introduced myself. My name’s Ryoka Griffin.”
Ylawes’ hand tightened on Ryoka’s hand. He blinked. Dawil sat up. Falene lowered her hand, [Message] unsent. The [Knight] stared at Ryoka as she saw his face change.
“Really? Well, this is fortunate. We’ve been looking for you, Miss Griffin.”
Ryoka’s face froze. She stared at Ylawes. She couldn’t help notice that Ylawes’ armor—along with his sword—was silver. She hesitated.
“What did you say your name was?”
“Ylawes Byres.”
The [Knight] saw Ryoka start.
“Oh. Do you know Yvlon?”
Ylawes blinked.
“She’s my younger sister.”
“Small world. So—you’re looking for me?”
The Silver Swords nodded. They gazed at Ryoka and Falene casually adjusted her staff.
“Someone would like to speak to you, Ryoka Griffin. Please—”
 
—-
 
The City Runner exploded out of the coach. Randal jerked, and the horses reared in alarm as Ryoka Griffin took off running. He turned to stare after the Silver Swords, who poured out of the coach, chasing her.
They’d laugh over it later. Well, probably. Ryoka Griffin might not laugh as much. And after a while, in hindsight…she would blame Erin for all that happened next.
 
—-
 
The Wandering Inn was having a busy day. There were quiet days, when the worst thing that happened was Erin spent all day hunting for a missing chess piece or tried to make a 10-foot pizza for fun.
But busy days came after dark drama, or triumph. So much was happening.
The [Lords] were gone. Lady Bethal was in Invrisil, enjoying a play. But the door was popping with activity.
Maviola El was there. And before the sun had even properly risen, you could hear her haranguing an [Innkeeper].
“—and when you make a contract, you need to have it officiated at least by the Merchant’s Guild. It isn’t that hard, Erin.”
“Leave me alone! Lyonette’s better at this!”
“They’re negotiating with you. You need to learn how to talk to them. It’s not hard. Listen, we’ll practice. Stop running away—”
Thump, thump, thump. Erin ran down the hallway. Maviola El pursued her.
“Stop being childish.”
“I don’t wanna do it!”
“You are impossible. Don’t make me spank you.”
“I’ll punch you! Why do I have to learn all this?”
The two arguing young women were talking about contracts. Sending food, supplies hundreds of miles via magic door. Erin Solstice had struck a deal—at least the beginning of one—and Maviola was determined to make it real. The [Innkeeper] was less than happy, but her protestations grew weaker because Maviola was right. She sighed, turned—
But of course, it wasn’t always about Erin. As the [Innkeeper] reluctantly returned to her room, a little white paw reached up. A white Gnoll hefted a giant rock, still covered with dirt, into a drawer. She tossed it—and never heard the thunk.
A tail wagged. Mrsha peered into the drawer. Then she put a pillow in there. It vanished as soon as she inserted it into the drawer. Mrsha padded off. She came back with hers and Lyonette’s blankets. She stuffed them into the drawer.
From the outside, the single compartment in the chest of drawers should have held some clothes—a few knickknacks. But six rocks, a pillow, blankets, and now a variety of Mrsha’s gifts, including Numbtongue’s silver ball and her horn went sailing into it.
A very excited little face poked over the edge of the drawer. Mrsha rubbed her paws together.
Most excellent. Of course, this was the most important thing happening in the inn. Mrsha vaguely heard Maviola sitting down.
“Okay. This is a sample contract. Note the magical bindings on the side? Magical contracts are essential for agreements you need to enforce with magic. Skills on the other hand can do the same. So never sign anything unless you’re sure…”
Oho! What else can I put in here, then?
Mrsha padded out of her room. After a second, she pushed open another door, came out with Numbtongue’s pillows and blankets. She pushed them into the drawer. Stared inside.
