The guests of the inn looked at each other uncomfortably. Erin turned to the [Druid]. He looked like the least law-abiding person in the inn. She had heard about the beating of the young man.
“You. You read signs?”
“I make signs.”
“No way. Get out!”
The [Druid] glowered.
“I write many signs for Invrisil. Warnings, just like that one. There’s one outside this very inn. I was putting more up when I saw that man mistreating that poor horse.”
Everyone looked at him. Nalthaliarstrelous pointed. Erin, Lyonette, and Mrsha all poked their heads out of The Player’s Retreat. And indeed, in neat lettering, one of the [Druid]’s signs was clearly visible, on a billboard with pieces of news and other public-service announcements with large type font. The sign read as follows:
 
‘If you kick your dog, you will never walk again.’
 
Back in the inn, Erin decided she needed to tackle #3 on this point. She pointed at him. Again, the [Druid] swatted her finger down.
“Why’d you beat that guy up? They had to take him to a [Healer]’s! There was blood!”
“So?”
The [Innkeeper] drew back. Nalthaliarstrelous—whom she was quickly abbreviating to Nalth in her head, was completely unrepentant.
“Look, Nalth, buddy. No one likes mistreatment of animals. If I saw a dude kicking a dog, I’d kick him! Or her! But you broke his skull.”
“And?”
Mrsha peeked up at Nalthaliarstrelous’s blank face. He seemed to sense Erin’s complete lack of understanding and explained.
“He spurred his horse until it bled. Until it screamed for mercy. No one stopped him but me.”
The guests in the inn rumbled. That was poor treatment of any animal. Even so—Erin looked at him.
“You were close to killing him.”
“And if I did—would the world be any poorer?”
The [Druid] leaned on his staff. It was the [Princess]’ turn. She smiled at Nalthaliarstrelous.
“But sir. The Watch would have fined the man. Or arrested them. You did not need to resort to violence. There are laws—”
She broke off. Nalthaliarstrelous was blowing his nose on the sleeve of his robe. He looked at her with clear disdain. He sneered at her.
“Law? Laws say many things. ‘Do not hurt that man’. Make him pay money for torturing his wards. He will not learn. When I break his legs for spurring a horse when it screamed and bled—he will remember.”
“But you could stop him without hurting him! Or at least—not that much!”
Erin protested. The [Druid] looked around the inn. He spotted Teriarch, half-bowed in acknowledgement. Eyes swung to Teriarch as he chewed on some popcorn. Much better than the mansion.
Nalthaliarstrelous replied to Erin curtly.
“Let me ask you something, Innkeeper. When you see a man yanking on a dog’s leash, mistreating it, would you say something? Stop him?”
“Yes.”
Erin didn’t blink. The [Druid] eyed her. He seemed approving of that. Shassa and Mrsha both nodded. But he went on.
“Good. But would you take the dog from that man? If he mistreats it once, he will again. Will you, on the spot, take the dog so it will suffer not a second longer? What if he is an important man? The [Mayor] of the city?”
Erin hesitated.
“Well…it depends.”
The [Druid] nodded, almost understandably.
“Yes. It does to you. You have laws. The dog is that man’s property. You cannot take his property. So for laws, for words, you allow the dog to suffer. And that is the difference between you and me. I do not wait.”
Mrsha and Shassa stared at Nalthaliarstrelous in silence. They felt his rage—the willingness to kill the man a second time if he did not change. The Drake leaned over and whispered to Mrsha.
“…That’s his perspective. We’re not all alike.”
A thoughtful silence ensued. Nalthaliarstrelous wasn’t entirely losing his audience. Although the perspicacious among them could still note blood on the tip of his staff. Even so—he was a character. More people began to order popcorn, or snacks to go along with their drinks.
“I get that. I even respect that. Sort of. Don’t look at me like that, Lyonette. But you’re like—that went too far.”
Erin argued with the Human [Druid], but her temper had subsided somewhat. Shassa waved an urgent claw.
“Again, we’re not all like him. I don’t break the law! Excuse me, I’m so sorry about this. Again! But I was just coming through to Invrisil. To meet with Druid Nalthaliarstrelous, actually! I’m from Oteslia!”
Ferris’ head snapped up. Teriarch, Grimalkin—the inn turned to Shassa. Erin blinked.
“You are? Wow, that’s far!”
“Yes—but we have an urgent appeal for Nalthaliarstrelous. If—if we could just talk, I will remove myself forthwith.”
“I mean…”
Erin looked around. She counted. Problems 1-3 looked at her expectantly and Lyonette blew out her cheeks. Erin nodded at last.
“Okay. I guess that’s okay. #1. You’re not done.”
She pointed two fingers at her eyes and then at Mrsha. The Gnoll child gulped. Shassa exhaled in relief. Nalthaliarstrelous nodded.
“Good. Then we shall confer among ourselves.”
He beckoned. Shassa and Mrsha walked off after him. Erin blocked them.
“Hold it. Mrsha’s staying here.”
The two adult [Druids] looked at her.
“But she is one of us.”
“Oh no.”
Lyonette scooped up Mrsha. The Gnoll fought her, squirming to get free. Nalthaliarstrelous looked at Erin.
“She is of our class. But she does not know our role. She must come with us. I thought she had a teacher. She does not.”
“Yeah, but…how about no? You two can talk. Mrsha, stay here.”
The [Innkeeper] blocked Nalthaliarstrelous. The [Druid]’s eyes flicked to Mrsha. She was squirming to get free. She wanted to know what they had to say! Lyonette threatened her.
“Mrsha…”
“Let her go.”
The [Druid] slowly raised his staff. Erin raised a fist. Teriarch raised a hand.
“[Druids] do not break their word lightly. Let them walk in the garden with the child. She will not come to harm among her peers.”
Erin blinked. She turned.
“Eldavin? When did you get here?”
The Dragon sat at his leisure. He nodded at Nalthaliarstrelous. The [Druid] bowed deeply. Shassa blinked, frowned at Teriarch, uncomprehending, and then hurried to copy the other [Druid]. Mrsha saw Lyonette waver.
“Excuse me, sir. But Mrsha is my child.”
“Good. Appropriate. Let her go.”
Teriarch waved a hand. Mrsha slipped out of Lyonette’s hands like grease. She landed on the floor. Lyonette spluttered.
“Excuse me!”
“Buddy, you just became #8.”
Erin warned Teriarch. He narrowed his eyes.
“I am not a number.”
“Don’t make me make you #9. Lyonette…maybe we should let Mrsha talk with these two? In the garden. They’re not going to run off. Right?”
Nalthaliarstrelous and Shassa nodded. The [Druid] murmured as Mrsha hid behind him.
“I wouldn’t need to run, anyways.”
The [Princess] glared daggers. But Mrsha scampered into the garden and the two [Druids] followed.
“Hold on! I’m not done!”
The [Princess] followed. Erin let her go. She had a feeling…Nalthaliarstrelous was hard to deal with. Momentarily lost, she had to lean on a table.
“…I’m tired. Where was I?”
A man cleared his throat.
“I believe I am next. Number 4.”
Erin looked up. She blinked at Hedault.
“Who’re you?”
The [Enchanter] nodded at Erin. Hedault, precise, hair slightly thinning on top, but pale orange. Pale-skinned from being indoors. He tapped a finger on his wrist.
“I am Hedault. [Enchanter]. We had an appointment this morning. I was approached by these two [Mages] who informed me the meeting would take place at this inn. I have little time, but I understand this is in connection with the Horns of Hammerad, as well as the House of El. So I am willing to make concessions.”
His little speech made Grimalkin reach for a second sheaf of notes. Erin just blinked.
“…Are you Ceria’s fiancé?”
Hedault looked at her. He closed his eyes. Montressa covered her face.
“No.”
“Okay. Um. Sure. #5, #6, what’s this about?”
Montressa and Beza looked at each other. Hedault’s eyes slowly turned to them and they gulped. The guests at the inn nodded approvingly. This is what they came for.
Ambiance.
 
—-
 
Explanations ensued. Hedault did not look pleased, upon learning that Erin had not set up an appointment and had indeed forgotten all about the meeting. If anything kept him from storming out, it was familiarity with the Horns of Hammerad, and the fact that he’d vaguely approved of Erin’s numeric system of dealing with issues.
Even so, he retired as Erin waved her arms in a panic and turned to Maviola, who had also forgotten.
“Ridiculous. My debt only goes so far. First that obnoxious [Necromancer]—now this.”
Only the Antinium had been pleasant to work with. And wasn’t that an insane statement? But Ksmvr had been very straightforward, direct, and orderly. The half-Elf? Fiancé?
Hedault was about to just leave and blacklist the entire inn when someone walked over to him.
“Hedault, right? I was meaning to talk to you.”
“I do not make unscheduled appointments.”
The [Enchanter] snapped, irritably. He turned—and saw a Dwarf sipping from his chilled ale. Pelt burped.
“I don’t care. Pelt. I was going to speak to you. Pallass. We talked now and then. You did that enchantment on a few blades of mine two years back.”
Hedault’s eyes focused on Pelt’s face. He opened his mouth. After a few seconds of thinking, he chose the most economical response.
“—How?”
“The magic door. Didn’t you hear? Connects Pallass to Liscor to Invrisil.”
“I did hear. I didn’t credit it, though.”
Hedault had inspected the magic door before the crowd had swept him into the inn. Now, he was compelled to stride down the hallway. Grumbling, Pelt followed. And a few others.
“Remarkable. This is indeed the work of Warmage Thresk. Of Albez. And someone’s performed a very crude alteration to his enchantment trap. Any regular mage would be hard-pressed to notice the teleportation trap!”
The [Enchanter], now that he had the leisure to look at the magic door, was agog. Pelt peered at the door.
“Good wood. Deceptive iron bands, see? It’s actually pure metal.”
“To hold the enchantment. It would not last this long otherwise.”
The Dwarf grunted.
“I don’t see how that’s possible. Not that I’m an enchantment expert, but who enchants damn wood doors?”
Hedault tapped at his wrist, somewhat annoyed by the question. He replied snappily, ignoring the argument coming from the inn. Lyonette was trying to remove Mrsha and the two [Druids] were arguing again.
“This wood is exceedingly precise in the ah, cutting. Not only is this door all cut from the same tree’s wood, but to maintain the perfection of the enchantment, the grain is uniform. One has to imagine even finding the correct tree took countless fellings. All to create this innocuous door.”
“But why a door? And who is this ‘Warmage Thresk’? I do not know of him.”
A slightly supercilious voice. Hedault did not look about; he was eying the enchantment and the splicing of the elegant spell into this…aberration.
“Warmage Thresk of Albez is a [Mage] I have studied from various artifacts unearthed. His personal, and quite secret quarters were recently looted by adventurers, but his creations have long been uncovered from the ruins. As to the reason the door appears so plain—I gather this was a trap. The final trap of his apartments was, apparently, to lure unwary robbers into touching the door whereupon it teleported the intruders into a room filled with [Insanity] spells from every side. I would imagine the effect reached Tier 6 with so many overlapping spells.”
A murmur. A huge figure folded his arms.
“Not a bad trap. Too paranoid by half, though.”
“[Warmages] of the Albez City-State were exceedingly paranoid about competition. This is a disgusting alteration to the door. It bleeds efficacy.”
“Doesn’t it, though? I noticed it myself. Amateur work. But inspired.”
Crunch, crunch. Someone was eating something. Hedault found that annoying. In disgust, he rose and withdrew something.
A treasure. The wand looked plain at first. But the wood that had made it was ironwood. And the core? Heads turned. The Dwarf, Pelt, murmured.
“Now that’s good wood. Ironwood, right?”
“Correct.”
Hedault drew the wand down the door’s length. Ah, what a perfect spell. Barely faded with time. He smiled as the wand allowed him to feel the enchantment buried in the wood. He was no expert in earth-magics, but the wand boosted his connection, even focus. He sighed.
“I would take months to even try to alter this enchantment. Fixing this…basic teleportation network I could do. But I’m disinclined to work in this inn. Too many Skills; casting a spell in the common room would be dangerous. This has been a waste of time.”
“Not if we talk about enchanting my products.”
Pelt sipped from his mug. Hedault looked at him, annoyed by the Dwarf’s manner. Of course, he knew Pelt. And his image of the Dwarf’s craft—such wonderful purity of his metals, and delicate hammer work!—was rapidly being dashed by the rude fellow.
“I will make an appointment, Master Smith, to consult. I do not have a surplus of time.”
“Bah. I don’t have time for appointments.”
“And I am exceedingly busy!”
This place was stressful enough. Hedault turned and reached for the door. As he did, someone tapped him on the shoulder.
“Excuse me. I was actually hoping to consult with an enchantment on some weights. Grimalkin of Pallass.”
Hedault turned. He stared at a muscle-bound [Mage] in some amazement for a second. It seemed inconceivable that the body had that many muscles. Hedault blinked.
“…of Pallass? I can make an appointment, Master…Drake, but—”
There was a roar from the common room. Hedault winced at the unorganized sound. He wanted to go. But a third figure was there. He was a tall half-Elf. Hedault glanced at him as he stroked his beard.
“Interesting. Warmage Thresk…Warmage…it still doesn’t ring a bell. But it’s not bad. I take it back. Insanity room traps are entertaining. I wish I could have seen it. Are there more Albez artifacts? I should like to see them.”
“Excuse me, I don’t have time to speak about the entire history of Albez! Whomever you are. I apologize, but I must go.”
Hedault snapped. Teriarch fixed him with a single eye and the [Enchanter] slowed. The Dragon slowly popped a kernel into his mouth. Chewed. Then, he spoke.
“As you wish. But tell me one thing before you go. Is that a genuine Living Wand? I thought no one made them anymore. How old is it?”
The [Enchanter] wavered. He looked at the wand. Grimalkin’s eyebrows rose. Pelt scratched his head. Master Hedault…decided to stay.
 
—-
 
