It was mostly full. Mrsha, experimenting with the limits of Erin’s [Compartments of Holding] had discovered that they were far more spacious than your average Bag of Holding. So much so that the upper limit of even the drawers in hers and Lyonette’s room could comfortably hold all this stuff.
She liked it. Erin had woken everyone up in the middle of the night shouting about her new Skill. Mrsha had wanted to experiment, but she’d been so sleepy.
At first, Lyonette hadn’t been too impressed. Numbtongue had decided it was useful for storing more weapons, but had promptly gone back to sleep. But for the Gnoll child—this was amazingly fun.
She could hide all her things wherever she wanted! In a tiny little space! Mrsha’s mind raced with the possibilities. Hide snacks Lyonette would never find! Store all her favorite things!
Lyonette only had boring ideas like ‘let’s store even more food and supplies and facilitate trade with the nobles!’ Erin’s new Skill worked on anything that was a ‘compartment’. Be it drawer, closet, cupboard, or even sacks in the basement, it essentially made the insides larger than what they should be. Multiplied space.
Mrsha reached down into the drawers and pulled out a pillow. She fluffed it experimentally.
So convenient. The Gnoll’s tail wagged. She had another brilliant idea. She stared into the compartment, which had held two blankets, six pillows—Numbtongue liked pillows—rocks, some of her toys…it was full to the brim. But if you removed two more pillows…
There was a nice divot of space in there. Mrsha eyed the open spot. She had been told by Lyonette you should never put living things into a Bag of Holding. But this was a Skill. Slowly, Mrsha looked around and then surreptitiously climbed into—
 
—-
 
The first screaming howl made Erin and Maviola jump from their room. They shot to their feet and looked around. They couldn’t place it at first. But the second howl of pain made them run out of the room.
“Mrsha? Where are you?”
Erin located Mrsha in Lyonette and Mrsha’s room a beat before she saw a green blur race upstairs. Numbtongue kicked the door open, his new sword drawn.
They found Mrsha in the cupboard. She was compressed along with the blankets, rocks, and other objects in the now ordinary-sized cupboard. Numbtongue tugged at the door, but Mrsha just howled louder. So the Hobgoblin aimed his sword and carefully cut the entire cupboard apart.
Broken bits of wood—the objects had cracked the other drawers when they reverted to real space—pillow feathers, and Mrsha all exploded outwards. The Gnoll was crying. She let Erin scoop her up as Lyonette, panting, raced up the stairs with a sword in her hands.
“What happened?”
Sniffling, Mrsha explained to Erin and Numbtongue out what happened.
“Bags of Holding don’t contain people. At least—not alive. Erin’s Skill must not either. It’s a failsafe. Better than what the enchantment does to some people. It’s definitely Erin’s Skill—if Mrsha tried that with a superior holding enchantment, it might have compressed her. Or even let her climb in—without air.”
Maviola wiped at her pale face. The teary-eye Gnoll found herself cuddled and scolded by turns. Only after Erin had made Mrsha promise to never, ever do that again, did she relax.
That was how her day started. Mrsha’s, that was. Twenty minutes later, she was feeling better. Even if Lyonette had been very mad.
But aside from that near-squish experience, Mrsha decided the drawers were alright. She was careful not to put herself in them. But as Numbtongue (now acting as her supervisor until Drassi signed in), remarked, the Skill had benefits for the creative.
“Nice Skill. Pyrite has a good idea. Can’t put people inside, but storage isn’t the only trick. You still hurt?”
Mrsha’s hurts had been healed with a little sip of healing potion. She shook her head bravely and sat by his leg. Cross-legged, the Hobgoblin was sitting with a chair lying on the ground in front of him. He had a knife, one of the inn’s crossbows, and several bolts lying there.
The crossbow was unloaded. And it said something that Erin had asked Numbtongue to take care of Mrsha, believing, rightly, that she would be much safer in his company. Mrsha reached out to touch a crossbow bolt. Numbtongue let her. If she stabbed herself, he wouldn’t offer much sympathy.
His new, Dragonblood-crystal sword on the other hand, he didn’t even let Mrsha near. And when she tried to edge around to see the wonderful scabbard, which had a red fang sewn on it—he looked at her.
“Do you want to lose your paw?”
Mrsha hesitated. The Gnoll child scooted back on her bum and made no more efforts to even touch the sword. She was a good girl. She really was. Her adventures were just…er…adventures. In that sense, Erin, and even Lyonette and Numbtongue were all poor role models. Bird was somehow the most careful and that was a horrible thought.
Well, she was learning things. And one of her favorite, if rarest instructors now appeared. Numbtongue raised a finger. Then his expression changed.
His posture grew more heavyset—out of memory, not reality. He sat back, grunted. Scratched at his belly, and then looked at Mrsha.
“Hello, Mrsha. Good children don’t play with artifacts.”
She respectfully waved back. But the Hobgoblin—the Goldstone Chieftain—Pyrite, did not waste time. He picked up the knife and got to work with the chair leg at once. As he did, he spoke.
“Had a thought. Interesting. Skills of [Innkeepers]. Not very Goblin. Extremely powerful. Wish I had been one. Useful. Idea with compartments. You see?”
He dug the knife into the cheap chair leg. Mrsha frowned. She didn’t. But Pyrite was smart. She watched; he was cutting into the wood. Cutting a block out of the leg.
“Hm. Concealed. Hollow this.”
The Hobgoblin began digging with one claw into the wood, hollowing a cavity. He showed Mrsha. She frowned, then figured out what he was doing. Her eyes went round and the [Chieftain] gave her a slow wink.
“Drawer. Compartment. Now. How powerful is Skill? Is it based on size or always makes everything bigger by same amount?”
The crude drawer was tiny. But as Pyrite slotted the secret compartment into the table leg, Mrsha saw it expand. Pyrite checked the drawer. He grunted.
“Hm. Three times bigger. Rat. Then—”
The time limit expired. Numbtongue blinked. He shook his head, paused a brief moment, and finished Pyrite’s thoughts in his own words.
“—Can’t hide the crossbow in here. Is okay. Can hide it in a slightly bigger spot. Here. Watch.”
The chair he abandoned. This time, the Hobgoblin wandered downstairs and came up with some bits of wood. Quickly, he fashioned together a crude box. It was small—the size of two hands. But when it was sufficiently box-like, it took on Erin’s Skill.
“Aha. See?”
Numbtongue put the hand-sized crossbow and some iron-tipped bolts inside. Then he closed the lid. It appeared to be impossibly small. And if you weren’t careful—unnoticeable. The Hobgoblin winked at Mrsha and she grinned.
“Now, where do we put it?”
They walked downstairs and investigated. Mrsha wanted to install the tiny box under a table, so you could pull out a crossbow and go boom, like those ‘Cow Boys’ that Erin had told her about. But Numbtongue was more practical.
“Everyone sits at tables. Better to put it here.”
He placed it right next to the windowsill, next to one of the flower planters. Erin had moved the Faerie Flowers to her garden to prevent thieves, but she’d liked the flowers so much that she had some lovely scented red ones there. The crude box was innocuous.  Mrsha grinned. She saw Numbtongue lean against the windowsill, check the room, and slowly slide the box open. He grinned at her with his teeth and she gave him the same smile. The Hobgoblin leaned down and muttered in her ear.
“Now just have to hide the acid-jars. Maybe small vials in chair legs? Or just shiv?”
 
—-
 
Mrsha was just done hiding the acid jars in secret spots in the inn with Numbtongue—they’d decided not table legs given how often they got smashed—when they heard Palt calling for Erin.
The Centaur didn’t like stairs. He could do them—but with difficulty. Lyonette was working on a special ramp between floors in the new parts of the inn. But it wasn’t done yet.
“I have a spell from the Silver Swords! It’s urgent! They’ve uh—they say they’ve found Ryoka Griffin?”
“What?”
Erin came clattering down the stairs. Mrsha’s ears perked up. She saw Erin, with Palt’s help, using the communication spell. Even Mrsha couldn’t hear the other side of the conversation, but she heard Erin’s side.
“Ryoka? But why—I—uh oh. Uh oh. Falene…um, no, listen. Listen—wait, you got her? When you say…tied up? What happened? She did w—no! No, she already came back here! Yes! A few days ago! I forgot to tell you! Uh…um…is that Ryoka in the background? Listen—no, I’m so sorry. But listen—”
All was well. Mrsha relaxed. And the guests of the inn started coming in as Erin began apologizing profusely.
The first was the two strangers with hats. A rather stylish Gnoll and a Drake. Mrsha liked them. They were always polite. They tipped their hats to Lyonette, they spoke funny, and the Gnoll gave her some snacks.
“I say, Ratici. That was a bit of a scrap yesterday. I feel somewhat embarrassed to tell the truth. We nearly failed our contract.”
“How were we to know, Wilovan? But we were stuck in Invrisil. Perhaps we should stay here?”
“Some thought on that, Ratici. The Tall Man’s paying well. Too well to pursue our—other activities. I say we devote more effort to this.”
“Agreed, agreed.”
The two sighed. Then the Drake did a double-take as he stared at one of the windows. His eyes narrowed; they flicked to a beam on the ceiling, the kitchen, and then he looked all around. Wilovan patiently cut a pork chop in half.
“Something the matter, Ratici?”
“…The inn’s different. I’m seeing multiple holding areas, Wilovan. Either this [Innkeeper]’s leveled up or an [Enchanter] went insane. And someone’s already created multiple stashes.”
“Anything good inside?”
“Hand crossbow, knife, jars of…something.”
“Sensible precautions. Pass the salt?”
A high-level…something. Mrsha stared at Ratici, suspiciously as the Drake noted all the places she and Numbtongue had just been. She looked around for the Hobgoblin, but he was gone.
“Numbtongue, Numbtongue! They found your secret stuff! The hat-duo!”
Mrsha found him in Octavia’s shop. She waved her hands, using sign language. At first, the Hobgoblin didn’t notice.
“Mhm. Looks like nice paste. Edible?”
“It’s more than that, Numbtongue. And no, don’t eat it. Ryoka calls it penicillin. Or something close. I’m spreading the word, trying to find a buyer among [Healers].”
Octavia was leaning across her counter, showing the Hobgoblin something in a jar. Mrsha waved her paws.
“What? Is that Mrsha? Hey! My shops off-limits, kid! Say, Numbtongue, do you know why all my cupboards are suddenly three times as big on the inside?”
The [Alchemist] frowned. Numbtongue grinned.
“What happened was—what, Mrsha?”
He bent down. With some trouble, Mrsha explained. Numbtongue frowned and his eyes flicked back to the common room. But he didn’t seem too concerned.
“High-level. Smart. I’ll watch them. You go back. No Mrshas allowed in shop. What buyers, Octavia?”
The two went back to smiling over the weird-smelling paste. Mrsha huffily walked back to the door. Some people weren’t grateful for Mrsha the Spy’s information! How dare they!
She was ready to spy on the two dangerous, potential infiltrators when the door opened and brought through a slurry of people from Pallass.
“Hello everybody! Did you miss me!”
A naked Drake strode into the inn. Ratici choked on his drink. Mrsha’s head turned. Saliss of Lights bounded into the room, smiling, waving—naked. You got used to it.
“I say, sir! There are children here! Put on some pants, please!”
Wilovan rose to his feet. The Drake spun.
“Excuse me? You and what army? Say—”
The two locked eyes across the room. Ratici’s eyes narrowed.
“Named Adventurer.”
Saliss eyed them.
“Hm.”
 
—-
 
Saliss of Lights had not had a good day. Or perhaps that was inaccurate to say. Saliss had been fine.
Yesterday, he’d been largely out of sight during the riots. And even afterwards—he’d just gone around handing out potions to injured people, nakedly posing in front of [Guard] patrols and annoying the heck out of them—that was what Saliss had done.
At the same time, though, a certain female Drake had seen fighting. She’d dragged more than one person out of the protests when the Watch came cracking down on them like a ton of bricks. It did not put either Drake in a good mood.
Saliss didn’t know why he’d come here. Perhaps because he was in a bad mood. He did not want to be in…Pallass at the moment. The curfew and martial law was still in effect.
He narrowed his eyes. He couldn’t read either Wilovan or Ratici’s levels or classes. But that didn’t matter. Saliss recognized talent. And anyone who bought charms that blocked [Appraisal] usually needed such items for a reason.
“Say, fellows. Do I know you?”
The Drake skipped over and put an arm around the Gnoll’s shoulder. For a moment he saw the Gnoll’s body shift. He was quick. But he relaxed and let Saliss do it.
“I am, sir, Wilovan. And this is my partner, Ratici. You must be the infamous Saliss of Lights.”
“Guilty! But don’t arrest me! The jails are already full in Pallass!”
The Drake grinned about them. Wilovan looked down.
“Sir, there’s a young Gnoll child in this very inn. I have to insist you put on something to cover your shortcomings.”
“Hey! They’re not that sh—well, maybe they are. But I’m afraid they’re there to stay.”
The Gnoll coughed. He adjusted his hat.
“Adventurer Saliss. I’m but a poor fellow compared to a personage such as yourself. But I fear I must insist. Good dressing and decorum are the manners of every gentleman.”
That rankled Saliss more today. He grinned, toothily.
“I’m afraid no one puts pants on me.”
Wilovan glanced at Ratici. The Drake raised his brows. But the [Thug] stiffly addressed Saliss.
“Sir. There are women, children, and people I assume who don’t wish to see unmentionables while dining and taking their leisure. I feel I should insist.”
All three individuals paused there. Saliss’ smile never wavered. But his eyes narrowed.
“Like I said. You and what army?”
