What Wilovan might have said or done next was up for debate. The Gnoll was glancing about, inspecting the inn—not a good place to cause trouble—a little Gnoll child peering at them around a door, and no doubt aware of Saliss himself. He adjusted his tall hat—
And Erin Solstice shouted.
“Hey! Saliss! There you are! I could have used you yesterday! What’s up?”
She waved and the Drake turned. Wilovan hesitated, stepped back, and Ratici relaxed. Saliss of Lights turned. And there was Erin.
“Erin! My favorite Human! I think! How are you?”
He spread his arms, laughing, and posed. Just to annoy the Gnoll. But Erin was hurrying over and she had something in her hands.
A box. Saliss recognized it. He put up his claws.
“Hold on now, that was only for Mrsha’s birthday, Miss Erin.”
“Aw, Saliss. But people like eating here! Come on! I added something to make it better.”
“Added? Erin, as I was just telling this fine fellow, you and what arm—”
Erin showed him the front of the box. Saliss blinked at it—and then burst out laughing. Wilovan and Ratici craned their heads to see. Erin grinned. That was the thing. She got Saliss.
In short order, the Drake strutted around the inn, now with a box on his private parts. It was just a box, but it had one notable addition.
Warning: contains small nuts.
Only her. Chaldion had never tried that. Saliss kept laughing about it and in a fine humor, found Erin sitting him down.
“Hey, how’s it been? Sorry, I can’t stick around long; I have this thing with Maviola. Have you met Maviola?”
“Who? I can’t say I have. Say, I heard you were involved in a riot.”
Saliss’ eyes twinkled. Inside, his good humor over the box faded. Erin’s face fell.
“Yeah. They were everywhere. Hold on, can I get you anything to eat? Or rather—Ishkr!”
As the two sat and Saliss ordered breakfast, he talked with Erin about yesterday. Mrsha sat at a table next to them, eagerly bouncing up and down in her seat. She was getting a cheese-and-bacon soufflé. 
“It’s all puffy and hot. Soufflés are the only thing that doesn’t keep well. You want one? Or just your salad?”
Erin presented the puffy soufflé-in-a-cup to Mrsha. The Gnoll picked up the spoon and dug into the fluffy breakfast with delight. Erin turned to Saliss.
“Mrsha had a scare this morning. She’s still being punished, but this is also to cheer her up.”
“…What’s the punishment, then?”
The [Alchemist] eyed Mrsha eating the soufflé. Ratici instantly ordered one for his table and Wilovan doubled the request. Erin smiled.
“No cake for dessert.”
“Ah, the worst of things! So you outrioted a riot by beating them all to the ground with your fists?”
The Drake found that amusing. Even if his memory of yesterday made the smile artificial. Erin sighed.
“It was that or let them kill the [Lords]. Who were stupid. But that’s this entire thing. Tell me about Pallass. I heard…the riots weren’t as bad. But um. I heard that’s because Chaldion put down the riots. Hard?”
The Drake toyed with his fork. He felt a hot flash in his chest and smiled at Erin.
“Oh, you know Chaldion. Everything’s a war for him. There were only a few thousand [Guards] and [Soldiers] kicking people’s teeth in. Literally. I sold a few teeth-regrowing potions. Broken bones—I think they beat a few children—excuse me, troublemakers—unconscious. But that’s Chaldion! You should ask him about it.”
Erin’s face went still. She saw Saliss eating the food he didn’t really taste.
“I will. He…ordered that?”
He winked at her.
“Everything to keep law and order, right? Hey, this is great, by the way.”
The Drake gobbled at his food, but the [Innkeeper] wasn’t fooled. In a way, they were too much alike. Erin watched Saliss eat for a second.
“Think I should kick Chaldion in the butt when he comes into the inn? Nah, I’d probably break his tail or something. How about I beat him ten times in a row at chess? I can do it. He’s not as good as he thinks he is, Skills or not.”
The [Alchemist] looked up. He blinked at Erin and then he guffawed. Saliss slapped at his knee as Mrsha began to giggle. He must have laughed for at least a minute because everyone saw him on the ground, rolling around with the box. When Saliss finally got up, he was actually smiling.
“Would you? Can you do that?”
The [Innkeeper] just grinned at Saliss and winked back.
“I can probably do twenty. If I really put him off his game. How about this? Um…okay, I can challenge him to speed-chess, which he’s bad at. His [Path to Victory] helps, but he can’t keep using it in game after game. And I can win even if he sees one path. But once I beat him four times, you can like, I dunno, run up behind me and start waving a sign and counting how many times he loses, see…”
He laughed and didn’t know he needed that until he did. Erin sat with Saliss. After the laugher, she asked.
“How bad was it, really?”
Thoughtfully, Saliss looked at her. He had resolved not to complain. But with Erin…the Drake wavered. Still, he shook his head. Onieva was his secret. And he trusted almost no one with it.
“I—didn’t see much of it. I was in my laboratory, making potions. Those faerie flowers are giving me lots of trouble, by the way.”
“Oh?”
“Yeah. Xif doesn’t have any to experiment on except the one, but…well…he said the same thing. They’re magically potent, but I feel like I’m missing something. Something about their natures. It’s just a hunch, but mind telling me how you got them?”
“Er. Yes?”
Saliss sighed. But he had expected that. He was about to ask Erin about these Humans [Lords] when someone called Erin’s name.
“Erin Solstice. You have a lesson to learn! Stop having breakfast and come on!”
Maviola had been waiting in Erin’s room the entire time Erin had gone down to persuade Saliss to box his genitalia. Now, she came downstairs. Erin stood up.
“I’m sorry, Maviola! I forgot! Saliss, I have to go.”
“That’s fine. Just promise me you’ll make Chaldion cr—”
Saliss spotted the fiery-haired young woman. She didn’t notice him; she was haranguing Erin. The Drake [Alchemist] stabbed himself in the mouth with his fork. His eyes bulged.
Maviola?
The fire burnt away day by day. But how beautifully it died.
 
—-
 
Mrsha ate her soufflé. It was fluffy and delicious. She was thus in the best of moods as her minder for the day arrived.
“Sorry I’m late. Visma’s family wanted to walk her to the door. And I forgot it was moved to right next to the Adventurer’s Guild. I mean, it’s closer, but I went the wrong way…here they are! Mrsha! Ekirra and Visma are here!”
Hey! Mrsha threw up her paws and scampered towards her friends. She saw a shy Gnoll and Drake poking around Drassi’s legs. Ekirra went over to Mrsha at once, but both he and Visma were…shy today.
This was not the first time they’d visited The Wandering Inn by far. But today they were reserved, and Mrsha was confused for a good minute until she saw them staring. Then she knew why. They looked at Erin as she made Maviola drag her up the stairs. The silly [Innkeeper] was the same. But the way Mrsha’s two friends looked at her was different. Mrsha saw it in their eyes.
Awe. They were not the only ones. A group of Humans from Earth were breakfasting and looking at Erin surreptitiously. As Drassi tried to herd the children towards the [Garden of Sanctuary], which was their approved play-area, Mrsha heard Troy and Leon talking to the others.
“Dude. We were hiding in a shop the entire time. You said Erin charged them?”
“We all saw it. She went straight into them! She got stabbed, but she had a potion and Bird was shooting people in the legs and they actually broke up one of the crowds! Twice!”
Rose was looking wide-eyed at Erin’s back. It was the same look they’d had after the Rock Crab incident. Only, magnified.
“Miss Erin is cool.”
Ekirra informed Mrsha. Visma just peered at Erin’s back as the [Innkeeper] was finally dragged upstairs with a wail. It was hard to conflate the two Erin’s. But Mrsha had seen both. Rather proudly, she signed at her friends—who could understand her hand-signals—that Erin had always been cool.
The play date in the inn was, for once, without reservation on the parts of Ekirra and Visma’s parents. Erin had found both families during the riots. And more notably—stopped a riot around Visma’s house that had threatened to burn down her home.
“She was invisible. And then she appeared and told the people go away or else. And then she went bang! With the pan and Mr. Goblin. And Miss Minotaur.”
Visma relayed the entire event to Ekirra and Mrsha; she had been there. Mrsha had been in the garden and only heard some of it. Mrsha was nodding proudly. She made a triumphant fist on Erin’s behalf. Then paused; Ekirra was waving a paw for attention.
“My dad says Miss Erin was lucky no one was killed. He says she could have made things worse.”
The Gnoll boy’s comment made Mrsha frown. She folded her paws and then—since she had to use them to communicate—unfolded them.
“Erin did good! She saved Visma’s home. And yours!”
“No one burned down our homes. My father says people got hurt when Miss Erin stopped the riots. Badly. Some had to go to the [Healers].”
Ekirra’s parroting of his father’s opinion offended Mrsha to the core. She glowered at him as he played with some flowers in the grass where they were sitting. Drassi was lounging, reading a book; she didn’t seem aware of the moralistic debate occurring and assumed they were just playing.
“Erin did nothing wrong. The riots were wrong! She should have hurt them more. Bird should have shot their arms and legs so they hurt no one again.”
The Drake and Gnoll child looked at Mrsha’s furious face. Now Mrsha thought of it—she grew angrier and angrier about the riots. As she had been yesterday.
Visma’s short tail waved uncertainly in the grass. After a second, the Drake girl spoke, her voice tinged with uncertain certainty.
“No. Because that would be wrong. Bad people hurt each other. Erin shouldn’t hurt people.”
“But she saved your house! And what about the Workers?”
Mrsha furiously pointed out. Visma had nothing to say to that. Ekirra waved his paw again.
“My dad says—”
He flinched at Mrsha’s scowl, but went on determinedly.
“He says that the Antinium were dangerous too. They marched.”
“Not all of them. Workers got hurt!”
Some had died. The two children hadn’t known that. They went still as Mrsha got up. She glowered at them and decided it wasn’t their faults. She had to show them.
“Hey, Mrsha, don’t go into the jungle! Remember you got your fur full of burrs when you went in there!”
Drassi lazily shouted at Mrsha as she led the two others over the hill. The Drake yawned and lay back in the sunlight. Meanwhile, Mrsha led the children down the hill to the edges of the dome.
The door was waiting for them. Ekirra and Visma drew back doubtfully.
“We’re not supposed to leave. We’ll get in trouble.”
Visma peeked out through the door. There was a…humming sound. A wooden hallway. Mrsha waved at them, signaling for quiet.
Workers had died during the riot. But Visma and Ekirra hadn’t known. Mrsha doubted their parents had been aware—or cared.
After all, who cared for Worker casualties? No one said it. Olesm’s newspaper had illustrations of the destruction, counts of people injured, hurt, dead, arrested…but the Antinium were only mentioned as ‘The Black Tide’, sweeping through the city in a mass.
No one spoke of the Workers who’d been cut into pieces or smashed and killed and left to die by angry people. Angry people who pretended to be normal the next day.
But some people did not forget.
The place Mrsha led her friends was a new part of the inn. A new wing, off the kitchen-side. It had not been part of Lyonette’s original plans. But it had been funded and paid for by Xrn. And conceived of by Erin and Pawn.
The humming in the air was louder as the children crept forwards. Ekirra’s ears perked up and even Visma heard it as multiple voices. And as they moved towards a room where light spilled from behind two double doors, they saw.
Antinium. They knelt, or stood, in a room designed for them. It was simple, adorned by color. Pictures on the wall. Each one unique. This place was a copy of a room in the Antinium Hive. And in it—standing behind an altar stood a [Priest].
The humming came from him as he swung the censer. It was not a single-minded drone—but nor was it music. It was meaningful, wordless.
Religion.
Now, Pawn bent. In front of him were about a dozen Workers. They were all—wounded. Or they had been. Mrsha saw one Worker had no antennae. Another’s carapace had been cracked in multiple places.
The Workers knelt there, as Pawn put down his censer. Two of his hands were clasped in prayer. Now, the other two offered something with reverence to the first Worker. A bowl.
It did not contain food. Rather, it had small sections. Each one with a different color of paint. The Worker’s hands trembled as he slowly accepted the bowl. Slowly—so slowly, a finger dipped into the paint.
“We pray for the souls of those Workers who have died. Let them rest in Heaven. For the living—we continue on. Despite suffering. To make earth as it is in Heaven. Do not forget. Do not give in. You are not alone.”
Pawn’s voice was quiet as he walked down the line of Workers, offering another bowl. The children heard a sound.
Click. The Painted Antinium standing around the room made the sound. It made Ekirra jump; Visma sucked on her thumb. But it was not a harsh sound. There was something beautiful here. Mysterious.
Yellow Splatters stood at the back of the room, waiting. The others looked to him. One who had been there.
Heaven. Something worth dying for. And more—worth living for. Pawn’s hands were gentle as he blessed the first Worker. His [Benediction of Hope] made the Antinium rise. But more than that, the [Priest] prayed, and the Antinium prayed with him. For the dead.
For better days.
 
—-
 
The children crept away as the Workers painted themselves. Shining with the drying paint, they left the chapel made only for them. A Worker with green pools of blood, as if symbolizing the other Workers. A Worker with a white flag on his chest.
It did not mean pain was gone. The two Gnolls and the Drake saw Pawn splitting from the others as they marched back to the Hive, bearing food with them. He paused, and entered his rooms.
A [Princess] slipped in after him. Mrsha scowled as Ekirra prowled forwards. She was pretty sure they didn’t want to see—
“…wasn’t there for them. I couldn’t bring them back. I tried. But one died. It wasn’t enough.”
