# Chapter 3: Six Kills to the Bonus

The last two crawlers were barely worth the walk.

Dayo found them at the end of a side corridor, isolated from the colony range, pressed into a root alcove like afterthoughts. The first one had time to turn before Shield Rush connected and sent it sideways into the fungal wall with a crack that echoed down the corridor. The second tried to flank. Dayo planted, caught it on the buckler, redirected it into the ground, and put her gauntlet through its carapace before it could recover. Iron Stance had not even been necessary. Eight seconds, maybe nine. Nadia, who had been leaning against the corridor wall with her arms crossed, straightened up and said: "That was the most anticlimactic victory in our entire careers."

"Good," Solenne said. She watched the kill counter update through the Arcane Analysis overlay -- the number resolving with quiet finality.

```stat-screen
[FLOOR 7 — FULL CLEAR]
Enemies Defeated: 96 / 96
Bonus Objective: All Secrets Found
Status: COMPLETE
```

Ninety-six of ninety-six. The number settled in her mind with the particular satisfaction of a closed loop. Three days on Floor 7, thirty-one crawlers in a colony complex that should have been eight, and now two stragglers in a root alcove that Dayo had handled the way you handle taking out the recycling. It was done. The bonus was theirs.

"The trigger should be somewhere in the corridor," Solenne said. "Bonus rooms open on full clear. Look for a structural change -- the architecture responds to the kill threshold."

"Meaning the wall does something weird," Nadia translated.

"Meaning the wall does something weird."

Tomás had already moved ahead. He was standing forty meters down the corridor, very still, his head angled two degrees toward the south wall in the way that meant True Sight had found something. He did not call back to them. He waited.

---

The living-wall folded inward.

There was no sound to it -- no grinding, no crack. One moment the south wall was a dense mass of fungal root, pale green-blue light pulsing in its lower quarter the way it pulsed everywhere on this floor. The next moment a seam appeared, vertical, and the root mass on either side of it drew back like curtains, and behind it was a space that had not been there before.

The room was small. Three meters by four, roughly, lined with crystal alcoves that were dark until the party approached and then lit with a cold pale light that was different from the bioluminescence -- sharper, whiter, more like the System's notification architecture than anything organic. Three alcoves on the left wall. One on the right. The air inside was cooler than the corridor and carried a faint ozone quality, like the space had been sealed against the floor's ambient conditions.

Vesper was through the opening first. She moved with the professional efficiency of someone who had learned, over many floors, that hidden rooms had a shelf life -- the architecture could shift, the access could close, and you did not stand at the threshold admiring the lighting.

"Three cache alcoves," she said, already reaching into the first one. Her voice had shifted to the inventory register -- flat, precise, listing for Solenne to record. "Standard loot distribution. First alcove: crafting materials. Tower-crystal fragments, four, medium grade. A binding-compound refill, two applications. Something I haven't seen before -- a fiber material, dark, slight Mana response. I'll need to analyze it."

She moved to the second alcove. "Core. Single, large. Not crawler-sourced -- this is a Tower-generated reward Core, pre-graded." She held it up to the light. Dense amber, larger than the queen Core from Chamber 14. "Tier II material grade. That's good. That is genuinely good."

The third alcove: "Consumable bundle. Two healing potions, System-produced, not field-crafted. One Mana Vial, concentrated. And --" She paused. Her fingers touched something in the back of the alcove and her expression changed. Not excitement -- recognition. "Skill Book."

The Skill Book was a flat, palm-sized object that looked less like a book and more like a tablet of compressed light. It sat in the alcove's rear with the particular glow that System-generated skill items carried -- not warm, not cold, just present, with a quality of attention that made you feel like the item was aware it was being looked at.

Vesper lifted it out and turned it over. The System overlay resolved in Solenne's perception before Vesper could read it aloud.

```stat-screen
[SKILL BOOK — COMBAT PERCEPTION]
Tier: I (Passive)
Effect: +5 Initiative. Grants spatial
awareness of enemy positioning within
10 meters. Body-based perception (distinct
from sensory skills).
Requirements: Level 8+, AGI 15+
```

"Combat Perception," Vesper said. She set it down on the alcove's edge with deliberate care. "Tier I passive. Initiative bonus and spatial awareness. I don't need it -- Enhancement Inscription already gives me an applied version of the positional sense." She looked at Dayo. "This is yours."

Dayo crossed the room in three strides. She picked up the Skill Book the way she picked up most things -- directly, without ceremony, as if the object's significance was something it could sort out for itself. The Book dissolved on contact, the compressed light flowing up through her fingers and into her forearm, and Dayo went still for half a second -- the briefest pause, a flicker behind her eyes -- and then she rolled her shoulders and said: "Huh."

"Good huh or bad huh," Nadia said.

"I can feel where you are." Dayo turned her head, not toward Nadia but toward the corridor behind them, where nothing was visible. "All of you. Like -- not seeing it. More like knowing where the field is. The whole field." She flexed her fingers. "Good huh."

---

Tomás had not been looking at the cache.

He was crouched near the fourth alcove -- the one on the right wall, the one that had been empty. Except it was not empty. Solenne noticed this as she finished writing Vesper's inventory list in her notebook: Tomás was crouching, his fingers hovering an inch above the alcove floor, and his face had the particular stillness that meant he was reading something he did not like.

"Tomás."

He did not look up. "There was a trap here."

"Was."

"It has been sprung. And reset." He touched the edge of the alcove with one finger, tracing a line in the dust -- a line that Solenne could not see from her angle but that Tomás was reading with the focused attention he gave to ground sign and trail evidence. "The trigger mechanism is a pressure plate. Standard Tower design. When the cache opened, this alcove would have activated -- contact trap, probably a Spell Glyph, something to punish anyone who reached in without checking."

"The System resets traps on floor resets," Vesper said from across the room. She had stopped inventorying. She was listening.

"The System resets traps to their original state. Unsprung. Ready." Tomás straightened. He looked at Solenne. "This trap has been sprung, recovered from, and manually reset to appear unsprung. The dust pattern is wrong. The plate is seated at a slightly different angle than the original mount -- the person who reset it was good, but they were working from memory, not from the System's template."

The room went quiet. The crystal alcoves hummed their cold white light.

"Someone was here," Solenne said.

"Someone was here. Recently. The dust disturbance is consistent with thirty-six to forty-eight hours." Tomás delivered this with the clean precision she had learned to rely on -- no speculation, no editorializing, just the data arranged in the order it needed to be understood. "Unknown actor. High stealth capability. Probable solo or two-person configuration. Approximately thirty-six to forty-eight hours ahead of us."

That was all he said about it. He had opinions. Solenne could see them in the line of his jaw, in the way his eyes moved once more across the room before settling on her. He did not volunteer them.

Solenne looked at the dust. She looked at the trap. She looked at Tomás's read and did the math, the way she always did the math -- threading the new information into the pattern of things she already knew, looking for where it connected, where it intersected, where the threads converged into something she could act on.

The Quest. The anomalous doors on three floors. And now this: someone else was climbing the Tower quietly, just ahead of them, and they were better at not being noticed than her party had been.

Three threads. They did not converge. She turned them over and they did not converge. She ran them again and they did not converge. She --

Solenne stopped.

Not dramatically. Not with a sound or a gesture or anything the word *stopped* usually implied. She just -- went still. Standing in the hidden room with her notebook open and her pen resting on a half-finished sentence, and the stillness was not the kind that meant she was thinking. It was the kind that meant the thinking had hit something it could not process, and the person underneath the thinking -- the person who always had a plan, who always had a next sentence, who routed every fear through competence and every uncertainty through preparation -- that person had arrived at a place where none of her tools worked and she did not know what to do with not having them.

She was aware of the room. She was aware of the crystal light and the cool air and the five people in the space with her. She was aware that she should say something -- should organize the information, should give Tomás a response, should tell the party what the plan was. She was aware that the pen in her hand was not moving and that the sentence in her notebook was not finished and that she did not have the next word.

Miriam felt it first. The Empathic Sense registered the shift -- not as a number but as a quality, a change in the room's emotional weather that was as readable to her as a vital sign dropping on a monitor. Solenne saw Miriam's eyes move to her and stay, and she saw the assessment happen, the clinical read, and she saw Miriam make a decision: not to move. To wait. Because someone else was already moving.

Dayo crossed the room.

She did not say anything. She did not touch Solenne. She just moved -- the same way she moved in combat, instinct faster than thought, the body reading the situation and responding before the mind could deliberate about it. She crossed the four meters between her position near the cache alcoves and where Solenne was standing, and she stopped close enough that their shoulders were almost touching, and she stood there.

That was all. She stood there. Close. Present. Not offering a plan, because she did not have one. Not offering words, because there were no words for the thing that was happening to Solenne in that moment and Dayo knew this the way she knew field geometry -- not through analysis but through the bone-deep spatial awareness of someone who had always known exactly where the people she loved were and what they needed her to be.

This was not the Anchor skill. This was not the Steadfast Aspect operating through its mechanical framework. This was Dayo, standing next to Solenne, because Solenne had stopped and Dayo had noticed and the distance between noticing and moving was, for Dayo, not a distance at all.

Solenne felt the warmth of her. Close enough to feel but not touching. The particular warmth of someone who ran hot, who had just been in motion, whose body carried the residual energy of two kills and a room crossing and a Skill Book absorption. It did not fix anything. It did not make the threads converge. It made the not-converging survivable in a way it had not been ten seconds ago.

Nadia read the room.

She read it the way she read every room -- with the precision of someone whose survival had depended, since childhood, on knowing exactly what a space needed from her at any given moment. She read Solenne's stillness. She read Dayo's proximity. She read that the intervention was covered and that what the room needed now was not more care but less weight.

She turned to the crystal alcoves. She looked at them for a long moment with an expression of profound evaluation.

"This one," she said, pointing to the first alcove, "is clearly Gary."

Nobody responded. The room was still holding the quality of Solenne's silence.

"This one," she continued, pointing to the second alcove with the careful deliberation of someone presenting a thesis, "is Gary's Ambitious Cousin who got into cryptocurrency before everything." She tilted her head. "You can tell by the way the light hits it. There's a confidence there that is not entirely earned."

She turned to the third alcove. She looked at it. She opened her mouth.

She closed it.

"Actually," she said. "I don't know what happened here. This one might not be Gary's fault."

Vesper, who had been standing very still near the cache materials, said: "Why is his name Gary."

"All alcoves are Gary until proven otherwise, Vesper. This is a known principle."

Dayo's laugh came out before she could stop it -- the same big, sudden, involuntary sound from the corridor after the crawler fight, the one that echoed off walls and made rooms feel like places where people were alive. It cracked the stillness the way Nadia had meant it to.

Solenne's pen moved.

It was a small motion. Just the pen touching the page and a word appearing -- Solenne did not look at what she wrote, not consciously, but her hand moved and the ink went down and the sentence that had been unfinished was finished now, or at least continued, and the movement of the pen was the signal that everyone in the room who knew her recognized: she was back. Not fixed. Not resolved. But present, and working, and able to function again because someone had stood close to her and someone else had named the alcoves Gary and the combination of proximity and absurdity had done what plans and analysis could not.

She wrote in her notebook: *Unknown climber. 36-48 hrs ahead. Solo or two-person. High stealth. Evidence: trap reset in hidden cache, Floor 7. Question for later.*

She underlined *question for later*. Twice.

Miriam had redirected to cataloging the remaining cache materials, her hands moving through the inventory with the focused efficiency of someone who had assessed the emotional situation, determined it was being handled, and reallocated her resources to the next useful task. The Warden's tactical thinking applied to dynamics that were not, technically, tactical.

"We should move," Solenne said. Her voice was steady. Not the false steadiness of performance -- the real steadiness of someone who had been nowhere for a moment and had found her way back and was choosing to keep going. "The floor is cleared. Exit gate should be active."

---

