Calen

Calen sprinted down the moonlit street, cloaking his form with his new Eclipse skill. The street was deserted, all the normal merchants, crafters, and townsfolk having retreated to the relative safety of their locked doors and barred windows. All that remained was the litter and trash strewn about from the day’s busy activities. Under normal circumstances, he would not have attempted to cut across town in the dead of night, but with the stealth provided by his class skill, he should be safe enough.

As he rounded the corner onto Artisan’s Row, he froze at the sight of a figure robed in white suddenly looking up sharply and glancing around suspiciously, before vanishing into the dark alleyway. Whoever it was moved very rapidly, but Calen’s sharp eyes did not miss the sigil of the Town Watch emblazoned on the ornate robe.

He ducked into a shadowed doorway and waited, not daring to move a muscle. His stealth skill was powerful, but it obviously hadn’t protected him from being heard. Who was that? His instincts screamed at him to flee, but he forced himself to remain still. Are they still there? This might not be the most dangerous part of town, by any stretch of the imagination, but at night, anything had been known to happen – and this area was certainly not patrolled by the guards with nearly the frequency of the noble quarters.

After several tense, drawn-out minutes hiding in silence waiting for whoever it was to return, he finally decided it was safe to approach, but when he did, he wished he hadn’t. In the dark alley, he found a shattered bottle and the overpowering odor of strong alcohol. Two long trails of blood were smeared across the pavement. Lying at the end of the trails was a body. Dressed like a lower-class merchant, the man had been impaled by several long lances of white ice, one piercing the thigh, and the other through the back of the knee, emerging grotesquely from the front, still leaking blood. He had obviously turned over to face his assailant because the third ice lance had punched clean through his hand and embedded itself deep into the center of his chest.

Dead. Extremely dead. He grimaced. It was not the first dead body he had run across in this street, and probably it wouldn’t be the last. But this unknown and unfortunate man had not been mugged for whatever meager possessions he might have had. He had been murdered, and for what reason, Calen couldn’t discern from the slowly forming puddle of water and blood and the crumpled form of the body.

Returning to the shadows, he continued onward with redoubled caution, leaving the body to the authorities. I wish Mom hadn’t bought on this street, he thought for the hundredth time. But he knew that she couldn’t afford anything better, now that she was no longer affiliated with the Guild of Tailors. Nor was there anywhere in the town that would have been much safer, even if she could afford it. If the white-robed assailant had really been with the Town Watch, they would be immune to any prosecution or investigation the town authorities might muster.

He finally arrived at his mother’s new store and apartment. The building had been gutted when his mom had first moved in, and the previous owner had vanished. The rumor on the street was that the prior merchant had skipped out on their loan payments, or perhaps hadn’t paid the Watch. Calen didn’t know, he just knew he could still see the burn marks on the outside of the building from the fire, extending all the way up to the apartment that was on the second floor.

He stopped right before the door. That’s new, he thought, looking at a freshly painted sign that read “Lydia’s Allure: Boutique Clothing”. He smiled at the sight. If nothing else, his mother definitely had an eye for style – the sign looked like it belonged hanging outside a store frequented by the nobility.

Carefully, he unlocked the door and disabled the magical alarm before slipping inside and locking everything behind him.

“Calen?”

He jumped, startled by the sudden voice in the dark. But it was just his mother, sounding tired and a little stressed, sitting in the guest chair in the waiting room of the storefront.

“I told you not to wait up for me,” he said with a sigh. Did she get any sleep while I was out?

“I was worried about you,” she said, getting up and stumbling in the darkness.

With a thought, Calen dropped his stealth skill and instead summoned his Mote of Light, turning the inside of the small tailor shop that took up the entire ground floor into something akin to daylight.

“Oh,” she said simply, and then hugged him. “I’m glad you’re safe. Why don’t you sit and tell me what happened?”

He had long ago given up on understanding why his mother insisted on waiting up for him like this. His having reached adulthood had never seemed to factor in at all. He sat calmly beside her as she activated the runes to warm up some tea.

“I unlocked an affinity for Light magic, and a class called Archer of Light,” he began, and then proceeded to tell his mother everything that had happened, from the Town Hall to saving Aliandra and using the shrine in the cavern deep under the town.

“You left the girls in that dark cavern with the monsters? Tsk.”

No excitement about his class, or questions about his magic. It was not that surprising though; his mother had a strong sense of propriety. It probably wouldn’t matter to her that Malika could probably take him in a fight with her street experience and martial arts training – especially now that she had her monk class. But he had to try.

“Mom, Malika is very strong. And she grew up on the streets. I’m pretty sure I couldn’t have made her come, even if I wanted to.”

“Mmm, it’s still not right. Besides, you’ll never get a girlfriend if you leave girls in dark and dangerous caverns underground.”

“Mother! I wasn’t looking for a date, we were fighting monsters to earn a class.” She always found the most inappropriate ways to remind him he was still single.

“Why not? Both of those girls sound strong and capable. They could maybe keep you on a better path than I apparently can. Maybe even get you to come home at a reasonable hour.”

He almost missed the little twitch at the corner of her mouth that marred her near-perfect deadpan. He sighed. She always knew exactly how to tease him and make him feel the most awkward.

“I’m happy to see you too, Mom,” he answered, getting a chuckle from her as she released her stern façade.

“Here, why don’t you have some tea?” she responded.

He took the heated cup gratefully and then used his prepared distraction. “Aliandra was still wearing a torn cotton t-shirt when I left, and Malika’s clothes were mostly rags, even before we started.”

“Your distraction won’t work on me,” his mother answered quickly. “You should have brought them with you if you wanted me to help them out. They would have been safer here.”

“I found another body outside,” Calen answered, getting a grimace from his mother. “Murdered by ice magic. I’m not so sure it’s safer up here than down there.”

“True enough,” she said. “Very well, what are their measurements? You did get their measurements, right?”

“Uh, Malika is about here, and Aliandra about here,” he said, holding his hands to indicate their approximate heights.

“So, this tall and this wide?” she asked, spreading her arms.

“No, normal,” Calen said.

“Normal… nice?”

“Mom!” He could already feel the flush rising to his cheeks. “Malika’s not a boulder, she’s a little shorter than you and skinny. And Aliandra is a Fae, she’s smaller than a Gnome.”

“You’re hopeless,” she sighed. “You know, you need to actually look at the girls if you want a girlfriend one day.”

“Yes, I know,” he answered, rolling his eyes. It certainly wouldn’t be the last time she teased him about this topic.

“I’ll make something, just please apologize on my behalf for the fit not being right.” She then looked at him thoughtfully. “You said Malika seemed to be from the rougher parts of town?”

He nodded.

“Tell her it’s a thank-you gift from me in exchange for saving your life,” she said.

He was puzzled, they had all saved each other’s lives down there, but he knew his mother wouldn’t explain her thinking. He also knew that she was almost always right about stuff like this, with some kind of uncanny sense for people, so he simply filed the particularly specific request away for when the time came.

Aliandra

Ali sat beside Malika on the stone path where she had first awakened into this dark future world. With the shrine depleted, the only real source of light was the soft golden glow of several small circles of mushrooms growing nearby and the fading remnants of her mother’s shattered spell. Ali was getting used to keeping her barrier nearby to create a little extra light to see, but the golden magic still tugged at her heart every time she used it.

She had mostly been ignoring the sadness, covering it up with the all-consuming focus that only lots of adrenaline-fueled, life-threatening combat could demand. But now, in the moment of quiet, with no immediate threats apparent, the infinitely deep well of pain and sorrow bubbled over into her heart. The loss of her family and the shock of uprooting her entire life – and even her era – loomed sudden and enormous, threatening to consume her entirely. She hovered there in numb contemplation of the giant void gripping her heart, desperately waiting for the tears that wouldn’t come. The strain left her feeling stretched out: thin and brittle inside. Her parents, her old life, her friends, and her dreams were all long gone – thousands of years ago – but her brain insisted that she had experienced it just yesterday, feeling all too immediate and utterly raw.

Her thoughts turned to her nascent resolve to reclaim her home and the strangely defiant rage she had somehow kindled by standing up to the rat – a monster that still hung suspended in the roots she had created off to the side of the shrine.

I want to reclaim my home. I want to set things back to the way they were. I want my apartment with my bed and my books. I want to be strong enough to stand up to Nevyn Eld. I want my family back. Her thoughts spiraled uncontrollably, her resolve shrinking down to a tiny flickering candle over the abyss of darkness that threatened to swallow her whole.

Why me? Almost everything she wanted was impossible.

More than anything, she felt lost. Her beautiful world had turned dark, damp, and filled with monsters trying to kill her. This was a horrible mockery of the peaceful forest that her father had tended so lovingly outside the glorious underground city of Dal’mohra.

All destroyed by the rampaging undead for some inscrutable purpose of the power-hungry Blind Lich.

The only people she had met so far were strangers. Malika seemed nice, but she barely knew her. She never would have imagined choosing a hybrid class – with combat skills of all things. But she had. And though she didn’t exactly regret it – a necessity of circumstance – she hardly knew how to use it. Three of her skills were directly related to combat, an activity she had no experience or understanding in, and deep inside she mourned the loss of Runic Sage, and the dreams of her youth. If only she could leave the nasty rats to the Dwarves or Elven guards as she had her entire life before this. Two of her skills seemed exciting, relating to the world of magic and study she loved, but how would she ever learn to use Runic Script if she couldn’t find a library? After three thousand years, did the Grand Library Arcana even stand? Or was it long gone and decayed, crumbled into dust like Maeria Runeweaver’s book when she had awoken from her mother’s spell and touched it?

And my last spell is a cleaning spell. Brilliant. She frowned. Maybe the universe is playing a joke on me. A dark and cruel joke.

“You seem deep in thought,” Malika’s voice intruded on her downward spiral.

Ali considered her state for a moment, trying to get a handle on what it all meant. “I don’t really know what to do. I want to put things back to the way they were, and now I have a class, but…” She trailed off, staring down at her hands, clasped together, white-knuckled in her lap.

“Hard to figure out where to start?” Malika asked.

“Yes.” Ali looked up at Malika sitting beside her, radiating a strangely quiet calm. This girl had lost everything, also. Even though many years had passed for her, she still struggled against the world, reaching for her dream.

Why can’t I be like her?

Malika gazed off into the darkness for a moment. “I want to be a powerful warrior and do some good in the world. Maybe I can become an adventurer and help people with monsters, or clear out dungeons to make the world safer,” she said. “But I can’t be that tomorrow, I need to train. So, I plan to kill more rats and level up. Your situation is more complex, but I think you can start with the simple stuff and figure out the rest as you go.”

“What do you mean?” Malika’s way of looking at the world seemed curiously clear and straightforward. A strong contrast to the uncertainty and confusion that bubbled up within Ali, threatening to overwhelm her.

“Well,” Malika said, “You can’t restore anything if rats are roaming around in it.” She gestured out to the large dark cavern. “And we can’t do much at level two. So how about we work on that first? This is a great training ground; we can both get stronger. Getting stronger will help… everything.”

“You’ll help me?” Her surprise at Malika’s unexpected implication diminished some of the loneliness eating away inside.

“Of course. I mean if you want?” Malika seemed happy – such an incongruous emotion down here in this monster-infested cavern. “I think we make a good team. It will be good for both of us. Let’s ask the boys to join when they get back, too – it will be much safer to tackle the wolf packs with four of us.”

Slowly, Ali unclasped her hands, massaging her fingers to restore the color and blood flow.

“Also, another thing you can start on,” Malika said. “Look at the mess this shrine is in, and you happen to have a trash disposal skill.” Her deadpan delivery was marred by an evil grin that snuck in at the end.

Ali frowned at her teasing.

“Come on, I’ll help,” Malika said, leaping to her feet energetically. “It will be good; you’ll feel better after we do something productive. I’ll gather some of the broken wood and branches. Why don’t you clear the moss off the stone path and the shrine?”

