She’s right, I could clean up the moss and old dead wood easily enough. The shrine might be the only connection to her previous life that hadn’t been warped beyond recognition by the passage of time. Even if cleaning seemed overwhelmingly mundane and trivial, it struck her as wrong to leave it in such a state.

Malika’s energy and excitement were contagious. As she began dragging broken dead wood and discarded bones off the stone path into a pile, Ali got up and focused on the shrine and all the thick green moss growing around it. Her magic required her focus, but even with concentration, she found the activity to be quite therapeutic. The golden glowing patterns of mana dispersing into the air and leaving behind pristine cleared stone gave her quite a disproportional sense of satisfaction. A sense of purpose.

Even if it’s just a cleaning spell, it is quite pretty.

Ali worked her way around the shrine, clearing the stone in a broad circle. As the path slowly emerged from under the moss and dirt, it began to resemble her memories of the Grove more and more.

She’s right, I do feel better doing this.

After about twenty minutes, Ali had restored most of the stone of the shrine and the surrounding path, but she was starting to feel uncomfortable. A strange pressure built inside her head, a sensation of fullness, like the feeling of eating a little too much, but in her mind, not her stomach.

Am I overdoing it? Ali didn’t know much about how the spell worked, only that it mentioned learning about ‘mana structure’. Perhaps I should take a break? She looked over her work so far. Decent. I’ll just finish that last piece and then rest.

She admired the beautiful golden light display as the tiny runes dissolved the moss, emitting motes of mana that floated into the air, slowly fading. The mental pressure increased sharply along with the sense of incomprehensible knowledge being absorbed and shunted off somewhere unseen. As the magic completed and the last of the moss dissolved, Ali heard the surprising sound of her notification chime. The pressure suddenly coalesced into a dense kernel of energy somewhere behind her eyes, throbbing with the intensity of a headache from concentrating for way too long.

Ouch, that’s not good …

Two lines of golden writing appeared on the parchment of her mind.

Deconstruction has reached level 3.

Imprint: Verdant Moss completed.

Imprint?

Golden light and streamers of green suddenly burst from her still-outstretched hand, swirling together, and coalescing into a vaguely rectangular shape. The light slowly faded to a soft magical glow emanating from a small book that floated above her outstretched palm.

I made a book! But… how? It was a rather small book, bound in what looked like green leather with a golden trim, but was clearly entirely magical. Ali reached out, and as she touched the warm surface of the book, it sprang open. With mounting curiosity, she peered inside, turning the pages. There were just three pages. At the top of each page, she found the runic symbol for a chapter number inscribed. There was nothing else written, the entire book, what little of it there was, was otherwise blank.

Ali blinked in confusion. It’s magical and shiny, but… I hope there’s more to it.

There was a rough clatter of wood as Malika dropped what she was carrying and rushed over. “Are you ok?”

“I think so…”

Suddenly, the chime sounded again, and a flurry of golden notifications appeared in her mind.

Requirements met for skill evolution.

Deconstruction skill known.Runic Script skill known.At least one imprint completed.

The class skill: Deconstruction becomes Grimoire of Summoning.

Hold on! But the lines of golden text spilled out across the parchment page, heedless of her wishes. Faster and faster, until she found herself staring at a completely unfamiliar skill shining from the page of the class tome in her mind.

Grimoire of Summoning – level 3Mana: Release the mana from an unresisting or inanimate target, learning about its structure, and retaining some in your own mana pool. Requires continuous uninterrupted focus and the target is destroyed. Range: Touch.Mana: Manifest a magical Grimoire storing the runic imprint of any object you have fully understood. You may create or summon anything imprinted using the Grimoire as a focus. [Summons cannot exceed your class level. Reserve cost is reduced by 3% per class level higher than the summon.]Arcane, Nature, Minion, Channeled, Knowledge, Intelligence

What… Was that a skill evolution?

Breathlessly, she reread the description she had skimmed through. The first part of the new skill was simply the same Deconstruction – cleaning magic – from before. But the second part was clearly what had made the book manifest.

It must be related to the imprint thing. Ali examined the first chapter header in the book and the still-intense pressure behind her eyes intensified as if collecting into a point. Realizing the connection instantly, Ali willed the pressure toward the book’s first chapter, hoping she knew what she was doing.

Immediately, a storm of golden and green runes exploded from her body. The pressure inside her head released as if the dam-wall of her skull holding it in had suddenly vanished, and whatever had been trapped within her suddenly began draining from every part of her skin. The runes swirled like a storm in the air, slowly drawn in by the conjured book, and finally alighting on its pages. The magical vortex rapidly began inscribing the tiny, dense runes into the book. Each time a page was filled, the book created a new one in a sparkling flash and continued filling it at a breakneck pace. Her mana rushed from her in a powerful torrent, mirroring the draining pressure in her mind as the book consumed the sudden eruption of runic magic.

Runic Script was active, but the sheer volume and speed of the flying runes, and the dense and mind-bogglingly complex interconnected web of spells being rapidly inscribed, instantly overwhelmed her ability to understand anything. As abruptly as it had started, it all stopped, and the light dimmed leaving the glowing Grimoire floating quietly in the air before her.

Runic Script has reached level 2.

Almost half her mana had vanished into that powerful storm of magical energy.

“Ali? Ali!” She realized that Malika was shaking her by the shoulder. “You alright?”

“Hold on. Let me just…”

Barely able to breathe, Ali tentatively reached for the Grimoire, but when her fingertips brushed across the page, runic symbols and inscriptions lit up leaving slowly fading trails of magic in the wake of her touch.

With a growing sense of awe and wonder, she paged through the densely inscribed chapter of softly glowing runes, her skin prickling as it reacted to the vibrancy of the most complex magical construction she had ever seen. This is going to take forever to understand, she thought, excitement bubbling up within her at the prospect.

The chapter title had been updated to read ‘Imprint: Verdant Moss’.

“What the heck is that?” Malika’s voice echoed the surprise she had felt.

“I have a spellbook!” Ali exclaimed. She couldn’t help it, she was excited. She didn’t care, she had her very own Grimoire. She shared the details of her new evolved skill with Malika.

“That makes a little more sense, now,” Malika said, scrutinizing the floating tome. “It’s not for cleaning. It’s for collecting things to put in your book.”

Ali grinned, still on a high from what had just happened.

“Well, go on. Try it out!” Malika said.

Grinning from ear to ear with barely contained excitement, Ali poured some of her remaining mana into the imprint in the book. The process turned out to be just as intuitive as using her other skills. As her mana flowed into the pages, the runes lit up and glowing copies of them floated off the pages, swirling and connecting in the air. In a more sedate reversal of the chaotic storm, the stream of magic runes flowed to where she had focused on the damp ground, and everything coalesced there. The entire process took several minutes before it shut off with a snap and a patch of moss the size of a small rug sprang into existence.

Ali marveled at her creation. The moss seemed vibrant and full of life.

Excited, she created several more patches of moss, growing the size of the original one as much as she could until she ran out of mana. Glancing around, she saw the large pile of decaying wood and bones Malika had collected. Rushing over, Ali deconstructed the pile and then returned to her moss-growing with a freshly filled pool of mana.

“You carry on,” Malika said, smiling. “I’ll be over here training my skills for a bit.”

Ali continued playing with her new skill for almost an hour, creating a broad swathe of green moss carpeting the ground alongside the shrine and stone pathway. She found she could summon and dismiss her Grimoire at will, and, even after an hour, the sight of the magical book springing into existence still triggered her sense of wondrous excitement.

Toward the end of an hour, the sense of pressure building returned, until her notification chimed again.

Imprint: Wood completed.

Another one? Her Grimoire automatically manifested and opened to the second chapter, as if suggesting she might choose that one. Good book! She sent the imprint towards the suggested blank chapter and the process repeated itself. This time, it didn’t take quite so many pages, but Ali still froze, breathless, to marvel at the beautiful and complex magic dance once again.

Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 4.

As the notification chimed, the book glowed briefly and grew slightly wider. Quickly paging through it, Ali found that a new blank chapter had been added at the end.

“This is nice,” Malika said, sitting down on Ali’s new moss carpet. She patted the moss with her hand. “It feels vibrant, almost more alive than before. How about we camp here? I can keep watch while I Meditate.”

Ali sat beside her on the moss-covered ground and experimented with her new wood imprint. Every time she used the imprint, it would create a branch or stick of a random size and shape, mostly in a state of decay, like the ones she had deconstructed. Try as she might, she couldn’t influence the size or shape.

Maybe I can use it for firewood? Or perhaps I can block a doorway or something with it? Give those wolves something to chew on rather than my leg?

***

Ali woke to the soft chime of her notifications. She sat up slowly and looked around, finding everything just as she had left it. She sat on the soft bed of moss she had grown. The earthy scent of growth and nature filled her nostrils, and she was transported at once to a moment when she had sat here – very nearly in this exact spot – surrounded by her father’s burgeoning Grove, practicing her newly-learned plant cantrip while Aunt Lira smiled on encouragingly.

Malika sat with her legs crossed, hands resting in her lap, Meditating with her back to the large, haphazard pile of wood they had made.

“I can keep watch now,” she said, quietly, letting Malika know she could take her turn to sleep, and then she directed her attention to her status.

Two notifications awaited her.

Your Domain has been established.You have gained the Domain Aptitude.

Her mouth pursed in puzzlement. What did I do? She had been expecting something would create a domain, since she had chosen her class knowing a domain would be an important part of it. She just had no idea what had triggered it, or how it worked.

What she wouldn’t have given to speak to her father right now …

Searching for clues, she opened her status and looked up her aptitudes, finding two new entries at the bottom of the list.

Domain (Class): Your mana increases with the size of your domain, up to +100%.

Domain: -10% maximum health per day domain withdrawal. You have Domain Sense.

The note about domain withdrawal looked somewhat scary, but her dad’s class had had the same restriction. She had always enjoyed hearing him explain his magic, so it felt familiar. Her maximum health would decrease the longer she was outside of her domain, but it would recover quickly when she returned.

The only problem is, I don’t know where my domain is or how it works. There was the cryptic reference to some kind of Domain Sense in the new Domain aptitude, but she had no idea what that was or how it might be accessed. It would be crucial for her to figure it out. As Aunt Lira and her dad had both explained, a domain was an area of magic – often permanent – imposing a class-specific magical structure or order over a space. Often it greatly enhanced the potential of the class skills used within it.

What all happened yesterday? she thought, trying to recall anything that might have been the trigger for her domain to suddenly appear. Quite frankly, yesterday had probably been the second craziest day of her entire life. She had gone out hunting. She had fought monsters. On purpose. She wasn’t a four-armed Naga warrior like Armand, but she had survived and leveled up. She had even cleaned the shrine, evolved her skill, and earned her precious Grimoire in the process.

And I made a whole bunch of moss…

She studied the mossy ground beneath her, a suspicion taking hold. Curious now, she got up, walked over to the edge of her moss carpet, and stepped out. The moment she passed about a meter beyond the edge, something subtly shifted. It felt different outside, but she couldn’t immediately pinpoint the source of her disquiet.

What is that?

She crossed the strange border several times and then suddenly, insight dawned. The sense of vibrancy, of life, that she had noticed when first planting the moss; she could feel it when she entered the area. Outside, however, there seemed to be a potent sense of death and decay which grew progressively stronger the further she got from the shrine and her moss. And she had only noticed it now because it was entirely absent within her little patch of green.

I can literally grow my domain. And, if I understand the aptitude right, I can use it to increase my mana. Ali brought up her status once more and examined her mana and wisdom. She had increased her wisdom to twenty-three already, and when she had gone to sleep, she had had three hundred and forty-five total mana. Her race’s magical heritage gave her a fifty percent advantage over most other races; she earned fifteen mana per point of wisdom. However, her mana now showed a different number.

Mana: 360/360

