Shrugging, Matt told his first actual lie of the conversation. “When we get our invites, but not too long. A year, maybe two, max.”

In reality, it came down to if Matt could find the items he needed to finish his armor at this auction. Anything he couldn’t find here would come down to locating it at the Minkalla auction or settling on an alternative.

Knowing the laundry list of items he needed, Matt didn’t let any of his worry show on his face as his friends mulled over his offer.

“Think about it and let me know before the end of the auction. You can also back out at any time if you find you don't like it there. Ultimately this is a vacation and you can work as much or as little as you'd like.”

Dodging a thrown celery spear, Matt glared at Tara, even as he made his way over to where she and Annie were lounging.

“Was this your acceptance celery?” Taking a bite of the vegetable and its tangy filling, he continued, “It passes the taste test if that was ever in question.”

“It wasn’t but I'm glad I have good taste. We had some questions, do you have answers?”

Knowing he didn't, Matt nodded. “I can try.”

After reiterating several times that he didn’t know and JR probably didn’t care what they sold so long as they followed Corporation law, he got both of them to agree. Not that anyone else was far behind to his not so secret delight.

Given the opportunity and having the Emperor’s at least tacit approval made the choice easy. Stay home and do the same old thing or have a decade long vacation that could also prove profitable.

The only one who struggled to say yes was Melinda because she knew that meant not using her Talent. Matt had already cleared it with Manny and he had no issue letting her go, so after some deliberation, she agreed. She’d wanted to visit one of Charl’s victims and see if there was anything she could learn and this was her best chance, making it a clean sweep.

Plans set, Matt settled in to enjoy the auctions, a weight lifted off his shoulders he hadn’t realized had been there.
