Being excellent at her job, the auctioneer, Judith, continued right as the excitement was about to boil over. “A full and complete video of our tester’s experience is available for purchase, but overviews are available for free. Given the new nature of this item, our auction house has put a restriction on this first batch of goods at the behest of the sellers. This first lot will only be sold to locals below Tier 10 who have created their own skill at least once before. Before that, we will have a short intermission for those who wish to prepare. Starting bid is the item’s Tier: One Tier 11 mana stone. All bids must be in same Tier mana stones.”

Sharing a look with Liz, who was as confused as he was, Matt denied any part in the idea. “We never asked for that. Did they just assume we’d like that?”

“I had honestly forgotten about it. Didn’t you look into it, Rah? Good guess if they did.”

As Liz denied asking for special treatment, everyone looked to Rah, who slowly started to grin.

“Ah, maybe this one is my fault. When we first got back from chaotic space, I dropped a few of the samples we gathered off at the university I wrote most of my paper at—”

Leaning over Aster, Allie poked Rah, interrupting him. “Are you ever going to share what you were researching? I swear you’ve hinted at everything and said nothing. Time to spill!”

Unruffled by the teleporter, Rah continued, “I was a little busy, but I was called upon quite often during the research that went into the herb and then again before they finally used it. I may have mentioned at a meeting we’d prefer all of the lower Tier herbs not be bought by companies immediately and hoping individuals might get involved, but it was idle chatter. I didn’t expect them to set one aside.”

One question answered, they had little else to do but to pester Rah about his secret research paper, since he was finally willing to talk about it.

Finally succumbing to the good natured peer pressure, Rah took over the projectors and minimized the auction while they were giving lower Tiers time to gather enough money to bid. Everyone knew that without the auction house’s limitations, they’d never have the chance to get their hands on a ‘new’ Natural Treasures.

Realistically, other teams had similar or identical herbs stored away but they would be in the minority. Few teams were willing to keep unidentified Natural Treasures around long term, and they’d already bought up any samples they had been able to find on the open market before the auction. Something Matt now felt bad about, knowing Rah’s idle musings had been taken seriously.

Sending the organizers a small thank you note, he focused on the more joyful lower Tiers who hadn’t expected any chance at securing the Dream’s Delight.

Rah, however, distracted him as he finally started talking about his research. “When we were exploring chaotic space, I started to realize something. At least, according to what I know and remember, which isn’t perfect given my people’s misunderstanding of rifts, there are far too many strange realms in your Realm. On average we found over one strange realm per world. Sure, there were worlds with none, but there were far more worlds with two or three strange realms, which inflates the average. At first, I told myself this is a new Realm and there isn’t any reason to try and compare everything. But while we were in the bubble, it felt like any other explorations I’d been on, everything matched, except we kept finding far too many strange realms. I couldn’t mesh that with what I know. So when we got back and after I took my break, I started investigating. My original paper was limited to the differences in the amount of strange realms found in this Realm versus my first Realm, but without ways to verify my own Realm’s data beyond my memories, I began looking elsewhere. To make a long story short, I got in contact with Ciceron, who had some very interesting ideas.”

Seeing the auction start, they all took a moment to watch as the price jumped up to Tier 11, but with few signs of slowing down, they turned back to Rah. “Together we started combing historical data and plotting what I did remember or what dowsers could drag from my earliest memories. What we found somewhat confirms my original theory, this Realm has far more strange realms than my old one did by an order of magnitude. But still, only one man’s memories of a single Tier 25 Realm isn’t enough to prove anything definitive, my Realm could just as easily be the odd one out when the sample size is two. I even considered it’s a property of this Realm being a higher Tier in general, which would imply the next Realm up will have them in even greater abundance. However, in keeping with making things short, both Ciceron and myself seriously doubt that is correct. First of all and most telling is that Rasdale tidal breaches have the highest number of strange realms observed by a fairly wide margin. Sure, the other breaches all have higher than average number of strange realms, but when looking at the historical averages, the Rasdale tidal breach is hands down the best breach for strange realms.”

Rubbing his temples, Rah sighed. “I wish I'd known about chaotic space when I was in my lower Realm. Only seeing half the picture makes it very hard to truly know what else I might have missed, but we can’t do anything about that now. Instead, Ciceron and I started looking for historical data from other lower realm ascenders and checking their records. The Empire has very few such records, but in our searching we found something even more interesting. The tunnel I ascended through was expected to close, but it didn’t. Don’t ask me how Ciceron knows this because he wouldn’t explain it to me, but he was confident the tunnel I created when I ascended is still there and stable.”

Cocking her head to the side, Allie asked, “Wait, have you been waiting to tell us all of that because you want to get another ascender and ask them about their Realm so you have another data point?”

Rah shrugged but nodded. “Our hope and estimation is that the next ascender will likely be from my Realm if I truly did create the tunnel. If I just happened to be the first one through a randomly occurring permanent tunnel, we could be wrong, but we believe we are correct.”

Smiling for his friend, Matt offered, “That's a good thing, right? Means you might be able to reconnect with others from your Realm.”

Instead of being happy, Rah shook his head firmly. “We are in uncharted waters according to Ciceron, so I’m keeping my expectations low. According to the Realm’s history, there hasn’t been a stable permanent connection to this Realm since the Glorious Kingdom of Eternal Prosperity. That's when ‘frequent’ lower realm ascenders stopped appearing, not necessary when people stopped ascending into this Realm, because they do have records of random ascensions like mine. Also there is zero indication it leads to my Realm and not some other, as seen by this Realm having three Realms to ascend into.”

Taking a moment to think and consider the implications, Matt asked, “Does that mean more people might have ascended between your arrival and now?”

Rah shook his head. "According to Ciceron, no. They have ways to know when it's about to happen. At the same time, my arrival was very quiet and without you guys being there, I doubt anyone would have noticed, so maybe. If a seasoned explorer ascends next, we can hopefully gather more data points from their Realm. Don’t you understand how big this is?”

Aster shook her head. “Rah, I think you are excited about the wrong thing! Having more people possibly ascending is awesome. Why didn’t you start there?”

“I’m with Aster on this one. I feel like the big thing is the stable connection to one if not more Tier 25 Realm. What could that possibly change?” Melinda nodded along, finally saying something, which Matt was grateful for. The unfamiliar higher Tier Rah had caused some of his friends to be reticent, where they were normally boisterous, and it would be a long month if they couldn’t relax with the more literal ascender.

Rah flicked everyone a data packet of what he found, but Matt only scanned it with his [AI] before setting it aside for later review. Rah was an excellent researcher, and while a little more speculative than most papers due to the information gap, his work was pristine and deserved his full and undivided attention.

Before any of them could dig too much deeper into Rah’s paper, their item’s auction ended, bringing them all back to the present.

Checking in on the winner was easy, as the Tier 9 woman was doing her best to resist having a panic attack, even as she was being congratulated by everyone around her.

Matt was considering sending her to a private room where she could relax when the venue stepped in and escorted her out of the room.

Intending to use one of the newly named Dream’s Delight himself in conjunction with the better [Item Link] JR promised for his armor, Matt indicated he’d be interested in buying Tiana’s experiences of using the Natural Treasure. Not that he was alone in his interest. The Tier 9’s AI would be working overtime screening her inbox as anyone involved with skill creation reached out to her.

Realizing where that could lead, Matt started going through the process of ordering protection for Tiana, but found the venue had already handled it.

The next several items went by without too much fanfare, no doubt a deliberate choice by either the venue or Judith, but as the tenth item rolled out, Aster leaned forward.

“Oh, what is that?”

Vanishing from their room, Matt felt Aster appear in the auction room. To her credit, she was invisible and didn’t stay long, but when she returned to their suite, she was grinning from ear to ear.

Judith provided the answer at the same time. “This is an ice and illusion based plant picked up from the breach. Each fern is a pseudo Natural Treasure, which means they have magical effects, but they aren’t so restricted in their growing locations, with two successful transplants. As an alchemical ingredient, our appraisers believe it can be added to offensive ice potions to add random illusionary powers. We have four batches of seeds to be sold here, with two Tier 20 plants being sold at the later auction.”

Shaking a limp Allie, Aster shouted, “I think it can grow in my spirit space! I need some of these seeds!”

Aster only managed to buy the third set of seeds after she raised the price to a Tier 16 mana stone after deliberating with the rest of them. Seeing a Tier 36 mana stone’s worth of additional charges added onto her bill, Matt reminded himself to keep his purchases to items closer to his Tier.

However, Susanne’s late and bedraggled arrival signaled Matt's moment to make JR’s offer known to his friends. Ultimately, the conniving raven had a point, and they needed a way to hide the true reason as to why he was spending something like a decade in a foreign Great Power. If he’d been asked, he would have gone under a false identity, but JR killed that plan. Still, it did free him up to actually have a pleasant trip, so he didn’t grumble too loud, even internally.

“Everyone, I want to thank you all for making it. Susanne, I know they had you working until the last minute.”

As he was speaking, Aster pretended to gag as she whispered to Tara and Annie, “He swears all his speeches haven't altered the way he speaks, but listen to him. Clear as day.”

Flipping her a rude gesture, Matt changed his manner of speech entirely. “Okay assholes, listen up!” After getting a chuckle, he continued, “I have an offer for anyone who might want to spend a decade in the Corporations opening a business. Once we leave, you can either cash out and sell, or continue to operate it remotely. It's an open offer for everyone in this room, and Manny already said he didn’t care who I brought. At that point, I stopped asking questions before I asked myself out of something good, but I’m pretty sure he’s fine with whoever goes, as I did ask about you, Melinda, and while you’d have to follow some rules and restrictions, he agreed.”

The first question wasn’t a surprise at all as Conor raised a finger, “Why do you need to spend a decade in the Corporations.”

Working his jaw, Matt hammed it up for comedic effect, not wanting anyone to see through the act. “Wrong place, wrong time.”

Waiting until the others looked annoyed, he elaborated, “I was there when Manny and JR were chatting and got caught in the crossfire.”

Seeing no one believed him, Matt threw up his hands. “I’m telling the truth! JR then started pestering me about the economy and then he basically said, ‘Because you started the aura craze you can play in the mess you made. When should I stop cutting?’.”

It only took Allie a moment to put the pieces together for everyone else who rarely paid attention to other Great Powers. “Wait a moment! Are you the reason the Corporations did their big reset thingy? Dude you fucked a lot of shit up. Several of my favorite corpo bakeries went under.”

Wistfully she added, “Who knew the common ingredient in good snacks was tax evasion?”

No one believed Matt’s denial, but he made it all the same. “He clearly intended to do so even before I got dragged into the conversation. I think I just made it worse?”

Seeing the held back laughter, Matt waved them for them to let it out. “Go on, laugh at me! Anyone interested in coming with? Picture it now. At least a decade-long vacation where you can make your own business, all at my expense. Come on, who wants in?”

Melinda asked the second most important question, and one of the ones Matt wished he could have avoided. “When do we leave?”

