Valor heard the hushed words and turned a soft gaze upon his student. "When my adopted family was butchered and our farm was burned to the ground, I spent a few days hiding in the ruins. I was not a person, barely an animal. Divorced from my senses. A portion of me died that day along with that farm. Along with the people I loved, and who loved me. Menha. Petair. Numei. Genso. Auntie Hurrie. Old Sad Eye. My dogs. The old, ugly cow that just never died. I still remember them. Even after all these years, if the fire did one thing good, if my mother's murders gave me a single gift, it was memory. I will never forget the people who took me in as a babe. Who granted my childhood years bliss and peace. Few though they were, I still remember them. Even now."

Shiv tried to grunt, but it was only a half-hearted thing. If he made too much noise, he was afraid that the fragile dam he built inside of his chest would break, and he would find himself sobbing again, clutching at his face, hiding his tears in pain from the others, desperate not to feel so weak, yet unable to stem the flow of pain.

"Everyone suffers differently. Everyone breaks differently," Valor said softly. "I, when I finally returned to myself, when my mind was my own again, dug up the bodies from the rubble. Little more than charred bones remained, but I tried putting them back together. As a child of the Necrotech Legions, I was raised on stories of heroes, wise Necromancers, great Pathbearers who could defy death. Who could bring echoes of the living back from beyond that unknowable veil. I tried then. I tried so hard to do what you did, to return those I lost to life, to pull their spirits away from the void and place them back within their bones. I tried. And like you, I failed."

Shiv turned away from Valor and clenched his teeth. I failed. I failed. The words struck his psyche like a whip.

"They didn't come back," Valor whispered. "They never did. Everything I did, it didn't mean anything. At least, that was how I felt at the time. I wept, I begged. I called out to gods I knew, and all the gods I didn't. I tried making bargains. I invoked the System itself. I even offered a trade: my life for theirs, or a thousand lives for theirs, or a million lives for theirs, to anyone who would listen. But no one cared. No god answered. Neither did the System. We were just a small farm, a few people, barely proper Pathbearers. Our lives didn't matter to the greatness of the Abyss, and we weren't even known to the rest of the world, not to mention the infinite vastness of Integration. What was the ruin of my world, in the grand scheme of things? My personal apocalypse was less than news for someone just a few kilometers away. And that made it hurt even more."

Valor paused, looking at the stone floor. "Eventually, I slept with the bones for a few days. I pretended they were alive. I did my routine and chores as much as I could, especially the chores I hated doing. In my young mind, I thought if I was just a good boy, if I was a noble sort, the Great One or System would reward me, I would be pardoned, and I could buy back what I had lost. All with genuine virtue and demonstrations of piety. But I learned. And it hurt me all over again."

"But it wasn't your fault," Shiv croaked through his hoarse throat. "It wasn't your fault at all."

"And you think this is yours?" Valor’s soft gaze turned to a glare. It was one of judgment and disappointment. "No. I am your master. To the Blackedge, I am your master, and I will not see you making such childish mistakes. Own it. Do not fall to folly. Do not. You are not a child. You are not stupid. It is not your fault. You need to play at control to give yourself an illusion. Because the comfort of failure is an easier concoction to swallow against the cold realization of the world's apathetic cruelty."

"I could have gotten here faster," Shiv shot back, feeling defiance bubble up inside him.

"You could have," Valor agreed, nodding. "But not fast enough to make a difference. He was sick. He was dying. He was already on the verge when you last spoke with him. He passed not long after that. This wasn't a recent thing. He perished before you ever got close. It didn't matter how fast you were going unless you could have broken through the threshold between Integration and the Outside with your very hands. Such a feat is beyond me at the height of my power under most conventional circumstances. It remains beyond most Dimensionalists and even Planeswalkers.”

"I must have been able to do something. I must have!" Shiv snarled. He hated how much he sounded like a child, but he was desperate.

"Like what?" Valor asked him. His voice was gentle again, but his eyes remained intense. "Like what? Tell me. Say it!"

"I don't know!" Shiv admitted with a shout, and the words left him like a chain of jagged glass getting ripped out of his throat. He choked. "I don't know. I don't know at all."

It took all of Shiv's self-control to stymie the whimper that threatened to escape from him, to stop himself from breaking down anew.

"I don't know either," the ancient Pathbearer finally replied. "And that, perhaps, is the worst admission we can make to ourselves. That even if everything goes right, even if we make no mistakes, we can still lose. Because that is the shape of life. That is the System's way."
