"Done?" the other student asked. It extended a mechanical hand, and its sleek, three-digited hand whirred as it gestured for the ogre to hand over its completed chopped pieces. A cleanly shorn mess of onion bits was promptly offered over, and Shiv's guts nearly tangled in outrage. That was some of the worst cutting he'd ever seen. The Deathless did everything he could to not let this moment color his opinion about all ogres in the future. He failed.

At least I know they have a kitchen now, he thought to himself. He retreated from the scene quietly and, after a minute more of searching, found his door. As he came before it, he saw that it was made out of some kind of maple, perhaps. It was a soft and brown wood. There were some mithril supports lining its interior. He could feel that with his Biomancy. They were like rods riven through a body, things he couldn't feel but sensed by absence alone. Beneath the doorknob, there was also a slight glimmer of violet mana.

Shiv stared at the door, wondering how he was supposed to open it, and on instinct, he reached out. As soon as he did, his pin flickered twice upon his lapel, and the door clicked open, the lock disengaging. As he stepped into his room, Shiv felt the faintest of pressures wash over him. He guessed the lock also constituted several very basic wards, and with how much mithril was running through the Capitol's buildings and even within its academy, he had little doubt that there was probably an integrated alarm system active.

More importantly, if it could detect his mana signature, or at least his Perfect Semblance's mana signature, then it probably could do the same to other students as well. That likely helped with petty crimes such as burglary or instances of someone sneaking in to copy homework, if that stuff was actually what a cheating student did.

As Shiv squeezed down the narrow hall leading into his room, he shut the door behind him, and only when it clicked did he feel a sense of triumph.

He had escaped. He had survived. Another day of madness, and to think this began with him still in a prison. Telling the System to eat his shit one more time, Shiv surveyed his on-campus living arrangements and immediately found himself missing Weave once more.

To his left was a bathroom. It wasn't shared, but it was small, barely large enough to fit Shiv. The sink and the toilet were a little too close together, and the shower came with a small bathtub. It wasn't long enough for Shiv to lie down in, but he could definitely squat inside it. This made him wonder what kind of living arrangements the ogre student had, if they needed to apply for special housing or something.

"Well, it's better than my shithole apartment back on Blackedge," Shiv muttered to himself. "The only water I could get there was harvested from other places."

He left the bathroom door open because he was going to head in after a while. Marcus Unblood's robes needed cleaning, and so did Shiv himself. He'd been in active combat for so long that blood, dried blood, giblets of flesh, and leftover grime were beginning to cling to him like crusting mud.

Briefly, he regarded the rest of the room proper. There was a small chair placed in front of a wooden table. Shiv wondered if that seat could take his weight. That worry in consideration extended to the bed. It was made of wood too, with white linen sheets and plump brown pillows. But it was definitely smaller and a lot less durable than the first bed he got at Weave.

And I destroyed that thing, Shiv thought to himself. Well, Uva and I did. That was awesome… Godsdammit, I hope she’s okay… They'd badly deformed her bed, made from reinforced metal as well. Good thing I don't need to sleep that much anymore, as a Legend.

Frankly, it didn't feel like he needed to sleep at all for physical recovery. Mentally, however, he was somewhat past exhausted and a kilometer beyond frustrated. Maybe a half-hour nap would do him some good.
