Would there be a benefit if I built the room upside down and just kept the door like that? I’d be shifting gravities each time, but the benefit would be if I hopped out of the door, I’d go flying the other way, right?
He was trying to imagine it. He’d be tossing something with the force of gravity down—then it’d reverse coming out—
You had to be able to do something wild with that. Could you make a…Nanette piped up eagerly.
“What if you just put it on the roof, Mister Termin, Mister Rhaldon? Then it has a secret second floor! It might still move, but there’s another option, right?”
The two [Drivers] looked at each other, struck by the idea. Suddenly, Rhaldon decided he wasn’t ready to commit to the wagon just yet.
“I think I’d better get back to the inn and figure out how the room should work, Termin. Let’s drive back to the inn.”
Termin sneezed into his gloves.
“Works for me, lad. It’s too cold out; we’ll noodle on it tomorrow. Miss Solstice just wanted Rhaldon to have his wagon before the Winter Solstice…and to be on the road, by the sounds of it.”
He glanced at Rhaldon, and the young man felt a squeeze at his chest, but he nodded. He got back into the wagon, and nothing would do but Lady Bethal and some volunteers ride in the leased room until they got back to the inn.
The vardo wagon went down the hill. Up a hill. Down a hill; the Floodplain’s unique geography really was a perfect test of how things worked.
They were heading up one more hill when Lady Bethal got out and puked.
 
——
 
Leasing rooms and feeding [Soldiers]. Erin Solstice’s inn still had events of the moment, even as the Solstice closed in.
But the [Witch of Second Chances] was at work. She had not gone out to see the wagon Rhaldon was working with; she’d already got her fill of gravity shenanigans, and she couldn’t get into fun in the same way.
But that did not mean she could not have…moments.
Erin Solstice had a policy, and it was generally this, even if it was unspoken: she did not pull out all the stakes right away.
You might meet her during a party or while she was doing something crazy—to you—but she didn’t light a Minotaur’s Punch and hand it to you first thing. She underutilized her Skills, criminally so to some of her friends.
What that meant was that she always had a trick up her sleeve. Of course, Erin’s first trick was the power of all [Innkeepers]. She could listen to people.
“Why are you here? You stupid?”
“Yes. I agree with this rude comment. Why are you here?”
“I don’t know. I thought it was the right thing to do. I fear…I fear I’ve made a mistake, but I couldn’t not come. I’m afraid it will be like last time, though. I’ll be useless. But I owe them a debt. Not just this inn; you two. And Lady Reinhart. And Zel Shivertail.”
A Human man sat with a Goblin and an Antinium. The Goblin and the Antinium were bullying the man.
To be precise, the first speaker was a Goblin. Redscar himself, who had come over to talk to someone he actually recognized; a rarity among Humans. The second was an Antinium that Erin knew: Embraim of the Knights of Solstice.
Right now, they were trying to bully the Human man, and it was working. They were trying to get him to leave, which was an odd strategy. But Gershal of Vaunt…really shouldn’t have been here.
Vaunt. Cheese-loving Vaunt had shown up. Two hundred [Soldiers]; they hadn’t been ordered to by a noble. They’d demanded to come here, snuck out of their city and come to answer Erin Solstice’s call.
But oh—the Goblin and Antinium looked at each other and then at Gershal. He was not Garen Redfang’s successor, who bore enchanted blades and who had danced with Zeladona herself and won her approval and Skill.
Nor was he an Antinium [Crusader] who had taken the very power of glorious fire into himself and become the first [Knight] of his kind, member of a new order of Izril.
Gershal had a magic sword he’d gotten from the <Heroic Quest>. He was a good [Lieutenant], and Vaunt’s [Soldiers] had fought the Gargoyles and Eater Goats. But he should not be there.
“You should go. Your soldiers…Thunderfur and I could eat all of them. You is not very useful.”
“Yeah. Bullying.”
Redscar poked Gershal, and Embraim copied him after a second. The Lieutenant protested.
“But if this moment matters—”
“You won’t. You’ll die. Go away.”
Redscar’s look was not joking. He was trying to chase Gershal off for good reasons, but the cheese-folk of Vaunt seemed to be surprisingly stubborn. And brave. And open-minded, if he was speaking to both Goblin and Antinium. Gershal’s hands tightened on the table.
“I can’t. Vaunt’s let down the north once before. We were right there when Zel Shivertail died. We went to Invrisil, you know?”
“You fought the Goblin Lord?”
Redscar was impressed. He hadn’t known that. A few members of House Veltras’ soldiers twitched. Lady Buscrei had been eying the Goblins, but she glanced away as Gershal spoke. And his gaze did sweep the room, and many people didn’t meet his dark expression.
“Yes. We were there when half our reinforcements didn’t show up. I thought about leaving or falling back to the city—but then the Tidebreaker showed. And I thought…he strode into camp. Just one Drake, and I thought ‘we could win’. I’d never met him, only heard of him before, and I didn’t think much of Drakes. But I swear, but for that last attack—we had them. I’m sorry if that Goblin Lord was your friend.”
“Nah. I hated him.”
Gershal’s hand clenched over his mug of Blackfur Ale.
“Good. I still remember it. We had them—then that dome of bones appeared, and I knew he was dying, but we couldn’t even get close. And when it opened and we saw him—I was one of the highest-leveled officers on that field. I shouldn’t have been. But I let him down, and a legend died right there.”
Gershal raised his voice, and he took a long drink and sat there. Embraim and Redscar exchanged a glance, and Erin Solstice sensed a lull in the conversations. So that was why…Gershal spoke.
“I couldn’t do that again. When I heard it was Liscor, I thought—that’s fitting. He liked Liscor, didn’t he?”
Redscar shrugged, but someone answered for the Goblin in a faraway tone.
“Yeah. If you had to name a city other than his home…he liked Liscor. He and Sserys were best buddies. I remember that. But he wouldn’t tell you to be here.”
Relc Grasstongue was sitting at another table. He lifted a cup, and his good mood had turned into pained reserve, that kind of look that burned in the pink flames of Embraim’s fire. Glory as it recalled did not always burn like wonder. Sometimes it hurt. But you had to remember.
Gershal nodded to him and saluted.
“Gershal of Vaunt.”
“Relc of Liscor. Former [Soldier] in the army. The one Sserys used to lead.”
“You served under General Sserys? Wait—I know you. Liscor’s [Spearmaster]? Are you the Gecko?”
Lieutenant Caoraz had been hovering around the inn, drawn unwillingly into it, Goblins or not. But he was impressed when he heard that from Relc. Relc glared at him.
“That’s a stupid title! But that’s me. Retired. Senior Guardsman, now. Who’re you?”
“Pallass’ 8th, [Lineholders].”
“Oh, the Hellholders? Damn. Chaldion knows how to pick ‘em. Your lot went up against an Adult Creler, didn’t you?”
Caoraz’s face didn’t change, but Erin’s head turned towards him, and her eyes lit up.
“We’ve fought one, yes. That’s probably why we were called in.”
Relc eyed the [Lieutenant] as Redscar grinned; Caoraz ignored him, pretending he wasn’t there.
“Were you part of the 8th when that happened?”
“I was there, yes.”
Caoraz smacked a napkin roll out of the air and stared at Redscar. The Goblin had tossed it. The Drake’s claw reached for his sword—Relc spoke cheerfully.
“Leave it.”
“You don’t see a problem here, Guardsman Relc? Everyone from the Grand Strategist down to the [Generals]—even the Humans have lost their senses in this inn.”
Caoraz snapped back. There was a ‘hear, hear’ in the background. Erin chucked a falafel at Xitegen, and one of his Golems slapped it down. Relc took his time answering.
“I fought in the Antinium Wars and against the Goblin King, so if the next thing you were gonna say was about that, just know I’ll throw a table at you, buddy. That’s those Goblins. This [Lieutenant] from cheese-town—”
“It’s cheese city.”
“—cheese city, sorry. He fought the Goblin Lord. Different Goblins.”
“Yah. I hate all of them. Ptuy. Stupid Goblins.”
Redscar grinned and pretended to spit on the ground. Caoraz stared at him.
“Really?”
The leader of the Redfangs grinned and produced a toothpick. He was sitting with Thunderfur napping on the ground. The Carn Wolf had to remain still in the inn, and it was scaring the hell out of everyone but Buscrei, who wanted to pet the gigantic doggy. It had sniffed Nerry, and she had kicked Thunderfur in the nose, so it was sulking. Redscar dropped a falafel on the ground, and Thunderfur nibbled on it. Then he grinned wider at Caoraz.
“Nah. I lied. Goblin Lord sucked. Goblin King sounded like fun. Wish I’d met him.”
Well, that didn’t do much for interspecies relations. But it was honest, give Redscar that. Caoraz actually seemed to respect that.
“I wish I’d been there when he got killed.”
He stared at Redscar, and the Goblin thought about the reply.
“I wish Elia Arcsinger didn’t suck so much. Halrac the Grim better.”
“Yeah! Grim, Grim, Grim!”
Several Goblins instantly cheered. Gothica, Flooded Waters Goblins, Peggy—until Lyonette glared at her staff—
A lot of Humans were glaring, and Halrac was trying to vanish—which was hard because Typhenous had created a giant floating arrow made out of magic.
In the end, though, it still went back to Gershal of Vaunt. He drained his mug.
“I asked, and everyone from Vaunt is a volunteer. You may call us the City of Fabulous Cheeses—”
No one called Vaunt that. Gershal’s head turned, and he looked determined and nervous as he wiped at his mustache.
“—But once we put our minds to something, we stay. Don’t call it a debt of honor; I doubt the Tidebreaker even remembered my name. I just hope I make that difference.”
He looked around, a single man in the presence of famous heroes and stories. Chaldion at his table, Tyrion Veltras—even Relc and Redscar had their own stories people knew.
No one told stories about Gershal of Vaunt. The battlefield had never revolved around him nor stopped when he drew his blade.
In these coming days, if there was a trial—Gershal would be up first. He was not the final guard, like the Knights of Solstice. And he probably knew all that, and he was still here.
That was why Perorn Fleethoof wanted him. He wouldn’t run.
He looked like he was glowing to Erin. He looked like someone she wanted to know and protect and watch him continue to astound both himself and her city.
She had seen a lot of people like that, even the surly Caoraz. Old faces—and new.
Like the Minotaur who was trying to avoid attracting her attention. She was surprised Olesm had gotten him into the inn, even though Erin had told him to bring Calruz.
This odd truce that saw Xitegen in the same place as Goblins—even if the two were giving each other death-glares—extended to Calruz. Although, there was a Cave Goblin sneaking up on him with a knife.
 
——
 
“Poisonbite.”
Rags gave the order, and one of her lieutenants stood up with a groan and growl to halt a knifing incident. But the [Innkeeper] was faster.
“Uh uh. Not in my inn.”
Erin Solstice opened a door behind one of the Cave Goblins and grabbed their arm. The Cave Goblin spun—and nearly slashed her. But a scowling Hob appeared.
“Bad.”
Badarrow chopped the young Goblin’s head with his hand so hard their eyes crossed a second. So Erin punched him in the side.
“Badarrow!”
“Ow. What?”
He rubbed at his side and sidled away, glaring. Erin pointed at the Cave Goblin.
“Don’t hit them! No one hits Goblins in my inn!”
Badarrow pointed at his side in outrage.
“But you hit me!”
“That’s because you can take it. I mean, no hitting small Goblins. Oh, hey. Calruz.”
The Minotaur had twisted in his chair. He and Erin stared at each other as Badarrow grabbed the Cave Goblin before they could charge him.
“Erin. I’m causing problems. I should go.”
The Minotaur stood. Erin folded her arms.
“You always cause problems. I told Olesm to get you because I wanted to see you. You and this inn have a history. You belong here. At least for a few days.”
The [Honorbound Prisoner] hesitated. He looked around, and many citizens of Liscor wouldn’t look at him. It could not be pleasant, but many things were surely not for him. He slowly relaxed and sat down.
“I am surprised there hasn’t been violence before now.”
What about me? Badarrow pointed at his side in outrage. Erin and Calruz ignored him as the Minotaur went on.
“So many different sides. Old enemies—this isn’t just species who have warred with each other. You have literal enemies sitting too close together, Erin.”
It was a warning. He was looking pointedly at Wall Lord Aldonss and Lord Tyrion. The two men hadn’t been trying to lock gazes or been staring each other down, but every time their gazes did meet, it was like an invisible bolt of lightning meeting a shield in the inn.
Really. Peggy had dropped two trays; she’d sensed the auras meeting, and the tables between the two had cleared. And Redscar didn’t have aura powers, but his stare would make the House Veltras guards stir every time he glanced over.
Erin imagined her inn would be a powderkeg—save for the looming threat of Kasigna. It was an actual tactic she’d used more than once: if there was a bigger enemy to unite against, it kept things down.
But in this case? She shrugged and put her pipe back in her mouth. Then scowled at it.
“I’m addicted to this stupid thing. Hey, Calruz, look at my new pipe. Palt gave it to me, that jerk.”
“Centaur gave you a pipe and he’s the jerk? Weird logic, but okay. I forgot how silly the inn is.”
Badarrow scratched at his head. Erin paused, then glared at him as Calruz smiled. Olesm was covering his mouth.
“Badarrow—I love you. And Olesm, I haven’t seen you in ages. But why you gotta do that to me?”
“What? He gave you a pipe. Why is that bad?”
Erin pointed at Palt, who was trying to talk to Perorn Fleethoof and get her autograph. He froze as heads turned to him.
“Palt sells drugs.”
Every Drake officer turned, and their bright-eyed stares made the Centaur sweat. Erin clarified.
“Dreamleaf.”
“Oh.”
Half of them stopped glaring. The other half kept glaring. Erin tried to explain as Badarrow raised his eyes.
