“He gave me the pipe because he’s trying to legitimize his stuff! He sells tobacco, Dreamleaf—he loves smoking.”
“Okay. And what did he do that was bad?”
Badarrow waited. Erin hesitated.
“No, Badarrow. That was the bad part. He’s trying to get me into his ways.”
“By giving you a pipe. Is a nice pipe.”
“No, no. Listen. It’s the smoking and Dreamleaf that’s bad.”
“Why bad?”
“Smoking is bad for your lungs. And drugs? Drugs are bad, m’kay?”
She remembered saying that very line and grinned, looking around for support. Kevin raised two middle fingers. Badarrow opened his mouth a second. He hesitated.
“…What about Faerie Flowers? You give them to everyone.”
Someone started laughing. Saliss of Lights had been sitting, looking stressed, but he started laughing in anticipation already. Erin began to sweat.
“That’s different.”
“No it’s not. Mrsha said you gave her a Faerie Flower drink. Wait…drugs…isn’t alcohol drug?”
“No, listen, Badarrow. It’s been a long time since you’ve been gone. Where is this coming from? Dreamleaf. Tobacco. It’s not good stuff.”
“Neither one is illegal in the House of Minos. Even Drake cities regulate Dreamleaf rather than outright ban it. Is this your personal preference, Erin?”
Olesm spoke up, and Erin jumped.
“A stab from behind! Olesm, that’s the first thing you say to me?”
The Commander of Liscor’s 2nd Army raised a cup.
“Sorry, Erin. But I just never understood. I think you just don’t like smoking, but it’s unfair to claim you have the moral high ground. You don’t. If you don’t like it, that’s fine, but you’re fighting uphill. Word to the wise.”
“Yeah. I’m not in your inn any more. That Centaur can sell me Dreamleaf all day.”
Badarrow poked Erin back. She stared around.
“How—how dare you. Why are you all changing?”
Badarrow was talking, now, when he used to be monosyllabic! And Olesm would never argue with her like that! He didn’t even look embarrassed as he met her gaze! Erin looked at Calruz for help.
“Everyone changes, Erin. Would you mind giving us a Solstice moment, though? We have a bunch of new soldiers, and a lot of them want to see what we keep talking about.”
“Yah, hurry up.”
Badarrow poked Erin one too many times as Calruz indicated the Liscorian army soldiers sitting with him. Erin’s eyes narrowed.
A door opened under Badarrow, and he cursed. He almost dodged—but the door just flickered as he hopped left. Then he was falling—and landed on the floor across the room, next to Snapjaw. She helped him up, kissed him on the cheek, and waved at Erin.
“I am leaving now. But I’m remembering this. And you? You’re next.”
The [Innkeeper] gave Calruz a huge smile as she pointed at him—then she walked back the way she’d come. The Minotaur saw Olesm and the other soldiers look at him. He grunted and reached for his drink.
“Send my remains to the House of Minos.”
 
——
 
“You know, I don’t see eye-to-eye with Erin Solstice on much, but I quite liked her take there.”
Lord Xitegen Terland remarked to some of the people around him as Erin retreated from the table with Calruz. He was ever a [Lord] who spoke his mind and gave credit where credit was due.
Tyrion Veltras was also nodding. The straitlaced Lord of House Veltras and Xitegen Terland were on Erin’s side with her anti-drug policy.
Someone else having a hard time keeping a straight face was Ryoka Griffin. She wondered how Erin would feel if she realized that she was only in bed with the most obnoxiously law-abiding of Drakes and Humans.
“Yeah. Drugs. I can’t abide by them. We should outlaw alcohol as well.”
Tyrion Veltras hesitated as Ryoka spoke. A part of his developing mind suggested that this was perhaps—possibly—sarcasm.
Unfortunately, Lord Xitegen was a man who could detect sarcasm and roll with it.
“Absolutely. I’ve petitioned for us to try banning alcohols in House Terland, but even my peers won’t hear of it.”
This man said that while sipping wine. Which he calmly kept drinking as Ryoka, Tyrion, and many affronted nobles looked at him.
“What? I can admit it’s a fine indulgence. But it’s not necessary for survival. If banned, follow suit. But a ban makes it a rule to abide by. And if it turned out an area with it banned was more productive and healthy, then the rule makes sense.”
Ryoka was about to draw breath and point out that prohibition caused more problems than it started, but someone beat her to it.
“Lord Xitegen. You are the most cynically pragmatic peer I know. You would make a fine Reinhart.”
The [Lord] stopped and grimaced as if he had found the vintage he was sipping suddenly displeasing.
“Lady Reinhart, is that a denigration of your house or myself?”
Lady Magnolia Reinhart had arrived so stealthily it caught them off-guard. But that was because she was in disguise; she didn’t have a pink dress on, but a wool cloak and puffy jacket underneath. Even [Ladies] got cold.
After Magnolia removed her cloak, she revealed the iconic pink dress, a jacket, and removed her proverbial glasses.
Then again, her servants were also in disguise; they had cloth masks over their faces, and more than one had bundled up. A few wore the [Maid] and [Butler] uniforms despite the intense chill, which was a commitment to style at the expense of personal body warmth.
However, Lady Magnolia Reinhart threw off her jacket, and Reynold caught it. She sat down as Ressa inserted a chair, and her smile had teeth.
“Lord Xitegen, I don’t care for at least two of those things. But it astonishes me that you’d think a prohibition on alcohol would work, even if it were the entire north—or even the entire continent! Banning something so popular leads to a rise in creative ways of undermining the law. Which I do not encourage when I wish to be respected.”
You had to dance fast to keep up with Magnolia. Xitegen’s face didn’t change as one of House Terland’s officers, Controller Lectara, caught up with what Magnolia had said.
“So you’re not one to prohibit people from doing something that harms them? Would we be having the same conversation if this was Selphid Dust?”
Magnolia sighed and rolled her eyes as Ishkr appeared.
“Tea, Mister Ishkr. The good kind I know you get from Witch Eloise. And pour some Ashfire honey in there. A dollop for me.”
The Gnoll bowed, vanished. And then Magnolia replied to Lectara.
“To your question, Controller Lectara. In this odd hypothetical where everyone was snorting Selphid Dust and murdering each other with our teeth we ripped from our gums—I rather imagine Selphid Dust would ban itself. I do not make a habit of prescribing laws to influence behavior. I would rather do it in reverse.”
“Oh, how elegantly I’ve been turned on my head. The wine is suddenly off.”
Lord Xitegen poured himself a larger cup, rolling his eyes. Magnolia Reinhart snorted.
“You would have had everyone at least considering your idea if you hadn’t touched a drop for the last three years, Xitegen. Don’t blame me for failing to lay the groundwork.”
“One can espouse an idea or hold true to their values while compromising for a moment.”
“Can one? I never thought you’d sit under the same roof as a Goblin. But before you toss your glass at me, I think the situation warrants it. I just wonder why the [Innkeeper] has gotten you to say the same thing I’ve shouted in your ear the last two decades.”
Lord Xitegen paused, and Tyrion Veltras finally broke into the conversation.
“Magnolia. Good evening to you.”
It was such a non-sequitur he felt he needed to say that Xitegen and Magnolia broke off their staring contest and turned to him. Tyrion Veltras sat back, visibly pleased with himself, and Magnolia exhaled.
“What do you see in him?”
She spoke to Ryoka, and the Wind Runner turned red. Xitegen shook his head. Magnolia sat back as more nobles appeared.
“Magnolia! You’ve been away too long! Have you seen this hilarious moving room that Erin Solstice has made?”
“Bethal, how do you keep so entertained?”
“Magnolia, how do you not?”
The [Lady] of House Walchaís was beaming, and Magnolia looked mildly envious and exasperated with her friend. Lady Pryde cleared her throat.
“Magnolia, who’re your companions? And who’s the gentlemen giving Lord Xitegen the evil eye?”
She turned, and Magnolia waved idly without turning her head.
“That would be Demsleth, an old friend, and Taletevirion, another ‘friend’. Do note the quote marks. He probably overheard the prohibition idea.”
The Unicorn was having a glass of Rxlvn and staring Xitegen down. The [Lord] raised his brows. Then he eyed Magnolia and her servants.
“You haven’t been here. I would have imagined you would be about, even if battles are not your area.”
“I have been thoroughly occupied, Xitegen. A little snafu—I’ve been observing the ramifications of something rather interesting that’s happened. Oh, thank you for the tea.”
Ishkr handed over a cup of tea that was a quarter honey, the rest tea. He stared at Magnolia as she drank it. She winked at him. But then someone sneezed and apologized.
“Deeply sorry, Lady Reinhart.”
Reynold sneezed into the cloth mask he wore over his face and stepped back. Magnolia sighed.
“Not at all. Ressa, with me. Everyone else, mingle.”
The servants stepped back, and Ryoka eyed Reynold. Was he sick? It wasn’t like the man to sneeze or look unprofessional, but he seemed actually somewhat miserable as he bowed, retreated, and because she was curious and sensed something was up, Ryoka excused herself from the table as Xitegen began to speak.
“If you’re going to complain about Celum—”
“Xitegen, I was going to offer you my mansion. But if you keep annoying me, I shall offer it to Bethal or Pryde. And believe me, you do not want to compete with them over a city.”
Ryoka sort of wanted to watch the nobles snipe at each other, and Tyrion looked like he wished he could excuse himself, but Ryoka was more interested in the servants.
Each one had a cloth mask on. Either they’d been cleaning dust or they were sick—and Ryoka somehow doubted both. She recognized some servants standing around in a trio.
Bekia, Reynold, and an unknown [Butler]…who turned out to be not so unknown when Ryoka got a look at his miserable face and recognized him.
Theofore the [Assassin] had found new employment! Yet it seemed all of them were suffering or something because Reynold was lowering his mask, then raising it with a wince.
“Smells like weird spices. Something cooked in oil?”
“Falafels. Those round things everyone’s eating for some reason.”
“The outhouses aren’t half as bad as the sewers. Smells acrid?”
“Acid. Erin uses it to clean her outhouses. You get used to it.”
Bekia was talking to them, and Theofore muttered.
“You’re lucky it’s only smell. My life is ruined.”
“Oh, come now. There has to be something beneficial about it.”
“No, there isn’t.”
What were they on about? Then Ryoka saw Reynold sniff and realized he was talking about smell! Was he—smelling the outhouse outside the inn? And Bekia was covering her mouth—but the real clue that this was a new Skill of Magnolia’s—[Employees: Species Perks]—
Was the tail.
Theofore had a Drake tail. Ryoka hadn’t realized it until she saw him from the side. It trailed on the ground, it was black, and everyone who noticed it was staring.
“What the f—”
“Ah, Miss Ryoka. I was hoping to get your help. Lady Reinhart has given us the day off, but we do need an introduction.”
Reynold bowed. Ryoka kept staring at the tail.
“What’s going on?”
“[Employees: Species Perks]. Lady Reinhart’s new Skill.”
“Her new—she leveled up? And now you smell like a Gnoll, and you have a tail like a Drake, and you—”
Bekia sighed, then removed her mask, exhaled—and a plume of frost shot out and froze the air. Ryoka Griffin’s mouth opened.
Dragonbreath! 
Wait…Dragonbreath and Reynold grudgingly sighed, removed his mask, and there was a flash of light.
“It seems like Dragonbreath or a tail is the most common. Scales might be unpleasant, frankly. Miss Ressa is the only ‘lucky’ one. She has wings.”
Ryoka’s eyes began to pop. Wait. Wait.
“You have super smell and wings? But that’s Gnoll, Drake—”
She stared at Bekia, and the Gnoll harrumphed.
“A pepperous picadillo pipes panickingly…fast. Vintage Veltras vibe vying victorious. Apparently, a ‘Human’ talent is the ability to speak in incredible tongue-twisters. I’ve also stopped saying ‘yes’. I can turn it off, but it’s not that useful.”
Her accent changed, and the Gnollish growl became a strong English accent—then she changed dialects until she was speaking like someone from Oswen!
“Or I can sound more roundabout like this. I suppose it works.”
“My ears are good.”
That was all Theofore said. Ryoka was staring from face to face.
Three new abilities? Magnolia had Drakes, Humans, and Gnolls under her employ. If all three got a power…
“Does that mean having a new species would give you…?”
“Lady Reinhart may make Chieftain Rags an offer, but if you would be so good, we would like to consult with the Antinium as well. It is very…sensitive, but I understand she will be approaching Pallassians too.”
Ryoka’s mouth opened as she realized Magnolia’s Skill really was more powerful with her level. Insane! So this was the power of someone over Level 50? Ryoka was reasonably sure Magnolia was, if Tyrion had been the same. Then Ryoka eyed Ressa and realized the [Maid] still had a cloak on.
Ressa turned and glared, but Magnolia’s eye twitched at Ryoka in a wink. No wonder she’d been busy the last few days! Even so, Reynold sighed.
“It has been—a process adjusting to the powers. Which was why we were so glad to let the children roam free in the inn. Most of our abilities are under control, but Bekia’s breath and a few other ones are unpredictable. But we were held up all evening with Lady Reinhart’s attempts to…add to the situation.”
“I have. A tail. It’s useless. Someone’s just going to lop it off.”
Theofore felt like he had been cursed and wondered if Mrsha the Doombearer could actually help him with his run of bad luck. Menolit was staring at him, open-mouthed, and Ryoka was just looking at the servants.
“What else kept you, Reynold?”
The [Butler]’s face was colorful in a way he knew only Ryoka would appreciate. He leaned over as he indicated the rather grumpy duo of old men. Demsleth and Taletevirion, who were not hanging around Magnolia.
“Lady Reinhart spent six hours attempting to have them put on a uniform. Whether or not it would have worked, it seems they needed to play the part, not just look it. Sadly—the employment negotiations failed.”
 
——
 
