A spear was embedded in the tree. Erin Solstice exhaled. Then her head turned.
“A spear for a [Spearmaster]. Hey, you. Yes, you. Want it? Do you think you’re worthy? Do you think I’ll let you have it?”
Her head slowly twisted around, and she gave a stare like a lighthouse to the person who looked incredulous despite himself. Ryoka saw Relc half-rise, then hold still as Erin’s eye twitched. And he groaned and turned as Spearmaster Lulv growled.
“Me?”
His teeth bared as an uproar began—starting with Mrsha and rising through the room. But Erin Solstice just beckoned.
“Convince me.”
“Lulv—that might beat any spear we have in our armories. Dead gods, it might be better than your old one. Aldonss, sit down. Lulv, with me.”
Rafaema was rising. She stood, and Ryoka saw it.
Erin didn’t like Manus, but even Magnolia was giving Erin a look like an underwhelming pupil had just aced a test. The [Lady] was exhaling.
“Ressa, pinch me. Am I seeing this right? Subtlety? From Erin Solstice?”
Ressa obligingly slapped the back of Magnolia’s neck. The [Lady] glowered. And Ryoka was trying to piece together everything Erin had done.
Let’s see. She gave a Relic-class item to Duln, which pissed the hell out of Manus and the other Walled Cities. But they were only pissed off at her—now she’s offering Lulv a weapon. But wait a second, didn’t he lose his spear to the Antinium? Infinitypear. She was worried he was going to kill them to get it back.
If Erin gave Lulv a new spear, would he forswear vengeance? She was looking pointedly at Relc, and there was Embria here—Lulv was hesitating, probably in genuine fear for the first time. For the one thing Spearmaster Lulv was bad at was…diplomacy.
And Erin had something he wanted at last. Her smile was not very nice.
But it was even more than that. Who loved magic items? Everyone here. And Erin had just given magic items to a Dullahan, an Orangutan, and now was considering it for a Gnoll.
The north was getting unhappy. A lot of the supercilious officers were realizing that they were somehow lower on Erin’s list of friends than a bunch of Drakes. They were trying to figure out how to rectify the issue.
Still, Ryoka felt like Erin had missed a point, which was that if she was rewarding friends—ah, she was thinking too fast for once. Because Erin turned and winked.
“And before you protest—I already gave Ilvriss his sword.”
The Salazsarians twisted around—and the Wall Lord was sitting there, legs crossed, sipping from a cup of coffee. He put a hand on the hilt of his sword, lifted his cup, and gave Erin a smile.
Amazing.
It was the same trick Erin had pulled, only with more finesse. Magnolia Reinhart was beaming. She wasn’t idle either; she had just finished writing something down, and she passed the note to Ressa, who flicked it left.
Lower-level or not, Tyrion Veltras caught the note before it hit him in the face. He read it and stared at the note. Then he stood for a quick word with Buscrei and Xitegen, who both looked at Magnolia before reluctantly leaning over. And everyone on the north’s side had noticed that.
Ryoka Griffin realized she was too busy admiring it all. She did a quick dance on the spot, looking around. Where was her target? In a moment like this, she could contribute! She hurried off to help—she was searching the crowd.
Was he using the bathroom? She jogged out into the hallway, past Liska, who poked her head out of the portal room.
“Is something cool happening?”
“Very!”
“Aw. Damn. Is it edible?”
“No—”
“Oh, okay then.”
Ryoka strode outside. She looked around for Demsleth and saw the outhouses had a queue. A grumpy old man was standing in line, muttering about the frailties of bladders.
“Demsl—”
Someone grabbed Ryoka before she could shout at him. A hand pulled at Ryoka—and she threw a punch. She hit something soft, fuzzy, and as she turned her head—a figure in a cloak smiled at her.
Or his mouth opened and the googly eyes of the giant sock puppet moved a bit. Ryoka stared.
Well, this was just as good.
“Well, well, well. Seems someone’s been busy. Your friend, I mean. She looks halfway competent. You, on the other hand, haven’t been doing much. Find any Dryad seeds yet?”
Rhissy sneered down at Ryoka, and she swallowed.
“As a matter of fact—”
“Don’t answer that. I want the genuine article, not status updates. The Winter Solstice, eh? I caught most of what she said; for a high-level Skill, the [World’s Eye Theatre] isn’t hard to listen in on.”
The Wyrm seemed self-satisfied as ever. Ryoka adjusted like the speed of light.
“Well—I’m sure Erin was letting you listen in. Not that you’re going to help, so why bother? Listen, if you’re going to gloat, tonight’s not a good time, okay? I’m busy. Can we talk after the Solstice if I’m alive? I need to ask someone for help.”
Rhissy’s eyes couldn’t exactly narrow since he was a giant sock puppet—but Ryoka was pretty sure the Wyrm’s eyes were narrowing in Ailendamus.
“And who do you think could help you in this moment?”
“Oh, I don’t know. Demsleth.”
“Demsleth? Who’s D—that bastard.”
Rhisveri spotted Demsleth standing in line and recognized Teriarch in a moment. His voice rose in outrage.
“He’s just wandering around? That fat—I thought he had subtlety!”
Ryoka flipped up her hair and tried to look dismissive.
“So says the giant sock puppet. Listen. I need actual, substantive help right now. So can we do this later? There’s also this Unicorn—I need heavy hitters, not children’s show toys.”
She turned and strode towards Demsleth. Hoping like hell she knew—yep. A sock puppet bit her shoulder with its fuzzy mouth and dragged her back.
“Shut. Up. You ingrate. Ask him for—you think that greedy hoarder will give you anything? You think that [Innkeeper] can give out more than a few decent items? Hah! I guess I’ll teleport all this Truegold weaponry into the sea, then. No scales off my back.”
Ryoka froze in genuine astonishment for a second—but that was because it worked either way.
“Wh-what?”
“Oh, got your attention now, have I?”
The sock puppet grinned at her in a not-really-menacing way. He leaned forwards.
“I heard you have an undead problem. What those idiot Drakes don’t seem to realize, even the Titan and that ‘Cyclops’ himself, hah—is that you’re not fighting run-of-the-mill undead. Trust me. Ailendamus has been fighting real undead in the last few years.”
“Didn’t you have a war with Noelictus that went horribly wrong or something? Uziel ment—”
The sock puppet headbutted Ryoka so hard she sat down in the snow and saw stars.
“Shut. Up. As it so happens, I have a lot of weapons I don’t need at this moment. What with most ghosts being dead or gone. Now, I don’t care to give you even cheap items like that, but I’m convinced this might be an important battle. I’ll put this on your growing tab, got it?”
“Rhisveri, thank you. I—”
The sock puppet was grinning superiorly as Ryoka got up. He jerked his head.
“Twenty miles north, eight west. Buried under a snowdrift. Your bag of holding should fit it. If not, I’m sure a Courier can make a few trips in the snow. Better hurry; a [Thief] might spot it.”
Then he turned and receded into the shadows of the inn. Ryoka Griffin rubbed at her head for a second, then bowed to the place Rhisveri had been. She waited three heartbeats, then lowered her breath and muttered.
“He’s a good guy after all. I guess…even Teriarch can’t beat that. Wow. Amazing.”
She was pretty sure he’d heard that. Then Ryoka went jogging off to get those weapons. But not before she had a quick word with Demsleth.
After all, if Erin knew how to motivate the people with short lives, and understood their hopes and dreams and fears, Ryoka understood the same of immortals.
 
——
 
The [Innkeeper] took a break in the middle of deliberating whether to give Lulv his spear, because she really didn’t have that many magical items to give out.
At least—so she thought. But a wind-frozen Ryoka and a relieved Dragon came to find her in the middle of her beach-garden as she was kicking some sand into the waves.
“No freebies—oh, hey guys. I locked the garden to anyone but friends, but wow, people are not shy about using Mrsha or other people as messengers. And Mrsha has no scruples.”
“Well done, Miss Solstice. Well done indeed. You have the air of a [Witch] about you—albeit a tad underdone in your peroration on the matter of the dead gods. One supposes Perorn is a master of that. Aha.”
Teriarch’s puns were so complex that Erin just stared at him as Ryoka groaned. But the Dragon was smiling—a bit too hugely—and Ryoka was giving Erin a significant look.
“I have something for you, Erin. How many relics do you have?”
“Not enough to give out like candy even if I wanted to give them all.”
Ryoka grunted.
“Well, how about Truegold blades? They’re not ‘much better’ than steel, apparently, and I’m told they’re below Mithril in quality—except for the fact that they kill ghosts like no one’s business.”
“I don’t have any of—what the heck.”
Ryoka began dumping swords, maces, even giant hammers and shields and pieces of armor onto the beach. Erin’s eyes popped, and Teriarch looked down and sniffed.
“Looks mass-produced. Shaping spells, sharpening, and a bulk enchantment on the lot. Shoddy work, really. He could do better.”
“Wh—-b—”
“Don’t ask questions, just start giving them out. You want magic swords? We’ve got them. It’s better if it comes from you. As for Relics—I brought this one because he might be able to help with that.”
Ryoka nudged Teriarch, and the old man swept back his hair and smiled. He seemed taller and grander, and he folded his hands behind his back. Erin gave him a confuzzled look—because even despite knowing him, she did not know Demsleth.
Ryoka had a resigned look much like the one Magnolia had given her—along with a nod—when she had come back in with the Dragon. Demsleth cleared his throat a few times and eyed Erin.
“I may indeed have a little proposal for you. You need high-quality artifacts and relics to arm your guests with. Judiciously! One must work for the favor of a [Witch]…and they are lent, though getting such items back is difficult after the fact. Ahem. I speak from experience there.”
Erin smiled crookedly.
“If they’re alive, I’ll worry about it later.”
The Dragon’s smile turned into a serious look for a second.
“Indeed. Which is why I propose to help you. Not every weapon in your gardens is surely usable, is it?”
Many were not, and Erin nodded.
“Ice, rain, and lightning…a lot of ‘em aren’t good, and most gardens don’t have much. They’re…not supposed to be used, but I have to do something. I’m sorry about it.”
She looked guilty, and Teriarch rested a hand on her shoulder.
“The owners have passed, and I think they would understand the need to protect—if anyone can. I am offering to help supplement your stores. As Ryoka points out, a ‘magic weapon’ can come from your gardens with few questions asked.”
Erin’s head rose, and she gave him a disbelieving look before she remembered—Dragon. Of course he had a hoard! But she’d never heard of a Dragon just giving out magic weapons! She nodded to him, awkwardly grateful.
“Th-thank you, Teriarch. What can you give me? I think weapons are great, but armor’d be even better; there’s not as much armor or shields and stuff.”
Erin was smiling now, with genuine hope and relief, but Ryoka rolled her eyes as Demsleth hesitated. And Erin noticed and shot the Wind Runner a quizzical glance, and Ryoka gave her a warped smile. Demsleth was hesitating, and he cleared his throat a few more times. Then produced some spectacles and put them on his nose.
“Well, let us see, shall we? Obviously I need to inspect anything that can be restored—it may have low value as a ‘weapon of war’, but I happen to have a few means of bringing back even the most destroyed of objects. Did you really burn scraps of a spellbook in a fireplace? Tsk. Tsk. Obviously a completely warped enchantment is no good, but even a ‘destroyed’ artifact with historical merit—I can certainly swap that out for a very strong but, ah, mundane sword in my collection. It’s about significance over sheer power.”
Erin stared at him. She rubbed one ear for a second—then figured out what he was saying.
“Wait. You want to trade me weapons that are as good as the ones—”
“As good as or better. I can be exceedingly generous, especially in light of the occasion.”
The Dragon was trying to look humble, but Ryoka had her face averted, and Erin’s goodwill and surprise at his altruism was turning cynical. Teriarch was doing his best, but…
“This wouldn’t happen to be because you think the swords and such are collector’s items, would it?”
To his credit, he only hesitated one second before looking sternly at her.
“Miss Erin. I simply preserve memories, much like you do. Does it make sense to use up a Relic on its last legs in a battle or for me to offer a replacement that will serve even better?”
He drew himself up, and his image flickered. A Brass Dragon folded his claws together and gave Erin a smile that did not lack shame, but rather had such self-satisfied pomposity that shame ran away.
“At the end of who I am and in my direst hour—I am still who I am. A collector. I find it gives me small joys, much like you play chess. And it does not do to give every soldier a magic sword, does it? That makes them think they are invincible.”
He threw his head back and chuckled like the shift of metal in the stratums of the earth—and Ryoka loved him for that like she loved many immortals, and it was probably how he had charmed Magnolia and so many others.
Not Erin. A Dragon was still looking for trinkets for his hoard, and she beheld him. Erin said nothing. But her mouth was a firm line, and her eyes held a kind of actual disgust that made Ryoka intervene before Teriarch got defensive.
“Why don’t we—take a look around, Erin? I can help sort things and do the trades.”
“Yeah. That might be best. Thanks, Ryoka.”
Erin had never really known Teriarch. She had known Demsleth, seen his grief and connected with him in ways even Ryoka might envy. But she kept staring as the Dragon averted his head. Blushed.
“No respect for my nature. None at all. It reminds me of another young woman who—hmph.”
He turned to Ryoka, who gave him a more understanding smile. Erin waited until Teriarch’s head was turned, then she gave Ryoka a kick. She still agreed, but wow.
It took a certain someone to overlook all the immortal faults and failings. Yet another to think they were positive traits. No wonder Ryoka Griffin did so well.
