A [Witch of Second Chances] sat in her inn, and the night had settled early. It was barely 7, and the skies were dark; the Floodplains were draped in a cloth made of blackness.
But fires lifted the darkness up, countless watchfires trying to defy the oppressive gloom and the shadows of the High Passes, like slumbering giants.
“It’s so oppressive. How do you sleep with them looming over you like that?”
Lieutenant Caoraz was getting his first view of the High Passes, and funnily enough, the orange-scaled Drake was having, uh…mountain-phobia.
Not acrophobia, which was the fear of heights, but the fear of their presence. To him, they seemed like they could collapse and turn everything into rubble, bury the Floodplains whole. Or perhaps he was thinking of Kaligma and wondering—
Were Giants buried among the bones of the earth? 
These were the kind of salient, helpful thoughts that awaiting the Solstice brought you. And it made Caoraz stand out, because most people were stuck on the levelling announcement.
“This is [Agent] Virrt. Checking in. No, she’s not admitted to it yet. No…no, she’s played a few chess games. Levelled someone. Nothing fantastical yet. Update in thirty.”
In fact, at a table just across from Caoraz, a Gnoll wearing some nondescript clothing raised a speaking stone to his mouth. Caoraz twisted around, breaking off from staring into that dark night.
…Did he just hear…?
Yes, [Agent]. The Gnoll took a sip of some ‘Blackfur’ ale and frowned. Then he raised a hand.
“Excuse me. Another toasted sandwich? And what’s this ale? It’s good. Hits like the upside of a hammer, though.”
He stopped a passing server, a Goblin. Caoraz leaned back as Peggy halted with a grin. Goblins. His glower got him a wink from her, but the Gnoll treated it as if this were normal.
“You want another one? We’re out of grilled cheese. You want, um…fancy cuban panini? Very tasty for gold. Or we have lots of falafel.”
Were those Goblin words she was speaking? The names of the dishes made no sense to Caoraz—but his stomach rumbled a bit, and the Gnoll frowned.
“I have no idea what either of those are.”
Here was one thing about The Wandering Inn that was new. At this moment, as the [Innkeeper] looked over, she could get up and explain—in a very Erin-esque way—what a falafel was.
But here was the question: did Erin know what a falafel, which originated from Arab countries in the Middle East—a place on Earth she had never been—was?
When she said it was ‘made of chickpeas’ or ‘fava beans’—was she going to have to then explain what a chickpea was to Drakes, who didn’t grow the stuff? And if she made a reference to a movie while saying ‘fava beans’, it was not only silly, but possibly stupid.
Yet this was how The Wandering Inn had run…until now. For while it might not be the powers of math—a Gnoll adjusted his sunglasses as he turned his head from the bar. And Peggy fished around in her belt pouch and produced—
“Tada! Here, you take. But don’t steal or we have Shriekblade break your legs.”
She handed a beautiful, hand-illustrated menu to the Gnoll, who promised instantly that he would not steal…what was this? The Gnoll peered at it and went ‘oh!’.
“Oho. Can I take copies?”
“Mm…you can buy.”
“How much?”
“Eight gold coins.”
Caoraz nearly spat out his drink again. Peggy beamed at the Gnoll, who was fishing around in his belt pouch for coins! Then she saw the Gnoll with sunglasses waving at her and mouthing.
“No, wait. Twenty-one. Gold.”
What!?
Now Caoraz and Erin Solstice were recoiling in horror, and the nearby diners were scrambling to check the prices of their own entrées. But the Gnoll calmly inspected the odd menu, then began placing coins down.
“This has to be new.”
“Yep. Is very nice. You want to look? Is free to look. No taking though, or we hit you.”
The Goblin encouraged other patrons to look as she headed off to refill the Gnoll’s mug, and despite his hatred for Goblins—Caoraz had to stand.
It called to him, as a Drake. Something worth twenty-one gold coins had to be…he headed over and peered over the Gnoll’s shoulder as the [Agent] spoke into a stone.
“Agent Virrt. Update to interested parties—I’ve just laid hands on a very interesting menu. The price is very high, but it’s filled with interesting details. I can send it over to any bidders, but the going price is ten gold coins per copy.”
He paused, listened to something, and Caoraz saw a speaking stone embedded in a piercing around one of his ears. The Gnoll responded.
“You can try, sir, but I’m one of the few spies who can even get into The Wandering Inn. Contents look like…descriptions of food products. Rather helpful, too.”
And there it was. Yelroan’s newest invention was an accomplishment of writing things down. It was the deeds of someone who knew you had to explain things—so why do it twice when you could do it once, hire a bunch of [Scribes] to make copies, then sell it to all your spies and hand it out to patrons?
 
Menu Item Explanations! 
No stealing or we hit you! :) 
 
Blackfur Ale – This is a special ale only sold at The Wandering Inn and Liscor, invented by [Innkeeper] Timbor Parithad at The Drunken Gnoll! It uses a special blend of spiced ale made by Silverfang Gnolls with a ‘furry’ head for the ale, hence the name.
Don’t worry, it’s just twice—or maybe three times—stronger than your regular ale, but you sober fast! It hits you hard thanks to Rxlvn, an Antinium drink. Only a drop per ale, but it has a weird combination. This drink has been approved by Rufelt of Pallass as safe to consume. It does make you pee a lot, though.
 
There were more, too. Caoraz read another neat section with a hand-drawn image of a round…meatball? No, wait, there was a cross-section too, and it was green inside? Someone had paid for color and there were images of some weird, round beans.
 
Falafel – This is a round snack food that’s healthy and best had hot! It’s made with chickpeas, a kind of legume, as well as a nice blend of spices and a hit of pepper! This dish has no meat inside it, and a patty of chickpeas and spices is fried in hot oil.
Ask the [Chef] to put them in a sandwich, on a brunch board, or just by themself with some of our sauces! We can also give you some for the road! If you’d like to buy a recipe book, ask any server.
 
Incredible. It was a simple solution to a problem Erin didn’t know she had. She whistled as she stood behind the [Agent], who was looking around.
“Excuse me. I need to find an information broker…”
He stood up with the menu, hesitated, eyed Erin nervously—then sidled over eight steps and sat down at a table.
Fierre val Lischelle-Drakle was already sitting there.
“We’re going to need a [Mage] who can either send a Mage Picture or hand-scribe and illustrate the menu. I suggest the latter because the former devalues the product. Three gold cut per sending?”
“I’ve got fourteen already, so I’m up ahead.”
“Fierre! What are you doing?”
The Vampire looked up as the Gnoll jumped, and Yelroan frowned from the bar. Both Yelroan and Fierre glared at Erin.
“Business. Do you mind?”
“Oh, sorry.”
Erin backed off a few steps—then came storming back into the conversation five seconds later.
“Wait! You’re stealing my stuff!”
“Miss Erin. Is it stealing if they’re paying for it? Agent Virrt has been specially vetted to enter the inn, and he isn’t causing trouble.”
Yelroan smoothly intercepted Erin. He took her aside as Fierre apologized to Virrt and bought him a falafel bowl; Palt was already trotting over to make some money in an easy side-job. The Gnoll spoke as Caoraz listened on in disbelief, much like Erin herself.
“But he just stole our menu—”
“Miss Erin, everyone steals. But he bought it at twenty-one gold pieces. Mind you, he’s already made it up with how many he sells it to. But it’s putting gold in his pockets, which means he’s less inclined to cause trouble or let rival [Spies] snoop around the inn. Agent Virrt is one of the better ones, and he keeps the others away. And Miss Fierre is also getting paid.”
“At three gold a message?”
“Well, I suspect she’ll only skim one off the top. One goes to the [Mage], or perhaps she’ll take that out of Virrt’s cut. Either way, one gold coin goes back to us since she’s the only authorized broker allowed to work in the inn aside from Miss Bezale and Miss Montressa.”
Erin’s mouth was doing a goldfish. Caoraz was wondering who this Gnoll with the sunglasses was and whether or not he wanted a job in Pallass’ 8th Army.
There was a delight to seeing someone who knew what they were doing. Before Erin could protest, Yelroan tapped the side of his nose.
“Also, Agent Virrt is dutifully copying over this ‘hot’ information to his clients. But this is just a primer manual on what we sell. I have no doubt that in a few days, all the people trying to recreate a falafel will demand he acquire the recipe. Which is when we launch the recipe books.”
“Wait, we’re doing that?”
Peggy waved something, and Yelroan motioned her to put it away. It was already pre-made! Now, Erin was trying to find a hole in Yelroan’s logic.
“But we learned that from Imani. Aha! So what about her—”
“She’s already selling them at Barehoof Kitchen, and we paid her to help make them.”
Erin turned to stare at Virrt, hoping he hadn’t heard that. But the Gnoll barely glanced up, and why would he? Yelroan explained.
“Virrt isn’t interested in telling anyone, Miss Solstice. Otherwise, he’d miss the sale of the primer books and the recipe books.”
The [Agent] glanced up.
“Exactly. That’s bad business.”
“I feel like I’m running a mafia. A food mafia.”
Erin was entirely unsettled by how smoothly this was all going. But Yelroan just flicked some dust out of his fur, looking pleased.
“It was all just to save you from having to explain food menu items. And it pads the budget nicely. Especially for your projects that we’re sinking gold into without a return at the moment, like Mister Rhaldon’s new room.”
Erin’s ears perked up, and she stared at the Gnoll. He winked; this wasn’t high math, but it was a practical and fun thing he was doing for The Wandering Inn. It made him feel useful. A Plains Gnoll had to put food on the table before he could cogitate on all the Earth-math he got. Erin glanced around and lowered her voice.
“Say, is it done?”
There was Lieutenant Caoraz, and he noticed Yelroan pointing down one hallway and Erin Solstice glancing around at her inn full of guests, soldiers from afar. Her eyes twinkled, and after a second, she put a pipe in her mouth.
Despite the oddities of the day, the weird announcement about chess—the stress—there was something about this that was The Wandering Inn at its finest. And so the [Innkeeper] puffed on her pipe, and he expected to find she had a tobacco or dreamleaf smoking habit.
But then the [Innkeeper] blew a big, green, glowing bubble of magic out the pipe, and Caoraz’s mouth opened. 
Was nothing she did normal? A dozen patrons turned, and instantly, one of them asked where they could buy that pipe. But Caoraz just stared—and he was relieved when he turned his head and saw a blue-scaled Drake, Olesm, sitting there with a scarred Minotaur with one arm.
“Did you know she could do that?”
Olesm’s mouth was slightly open, and he was staring at Erin. Calruz just grunted.
“That’s not even worth blinking over.”
 
——
 
In The Wandering Inn, there was a room. It had a door.
The door had a sign plate in copper. It read ‘Rhaldon’s Room. Leased.’
The door was actually one of the private dining rooms that Erin had sacrificed; it wasn’t the largest of spaces. Compared to Stitchworks, it was downright humble at a third of Octavia’s shop size.
However, Antinium had hauled out all the furniture and replaced it with solid counters, securing them to the very floor and bracing everything. Then they’d gone over the entire place with something Xif had gifted Rhaldon: a varnish that was fireproof.
A single rack for ingredients, tons of cupboards built into said counters, and the Antinium had tried to install a window that led into Erin’s inn—then had to replace the wall.
The window didn’t work. And there had been issues…hence Rhaldon coming back and demanding everything be braced. But the room was done, and occasionally, a new guest to The Wandering Inn would wander down the hall, see the door, and try the handle.
Snoops, curious and bored people, and Lady Bethal—who was all of the above—had all tried the door’s handle more than once. Even tried picking the lock.
When Erin Solstice found the [Lady] unabashedly swinging the door open with Chevalier Thomast and several of her Petal Knights, the [Lady] smiled—and stopped.
“Oh my.”
“Hey! Don’t mess with my room! It’s leased!”
Erin ran over, shaking a fist, but Bethal couldn’t harass Rhaldon or see what was inside the room to begin with. Mostly because there was no room behind the locked door.
There was nothing at all. And that ‘nothing’ included even a wall. There was just a blank void, not even black, but empty, and Lady Bethal instantly tried to touch it.
Thomast and all the [Knights] grabbed her. But she wouldn’t have lost the hand even if she touched it; it would have felt like glass but even smoother, without heat, substance, or anything else.
“What is this?”
“[Lease Room].”
Erin said that like it explained everything. Lady Bethal peered at Erin and then at the room. Erin pointed out the window of her inn.
“Leased room. If you wanna see what it’s like, go ask that guy. But he says it’s not as fun as it looks.”
Lady Bethal stared out the window at a single wagon slowly going up and down the snow-covered hills. Two annoyed ponies were pulling a huge, box-like wagon, like one of those rolling trader’s wagons, the kind you could live in.
A primitive trailer design, heavier than most [Wagon Drivers] would use, and roofed with a chimney sticking out the top. A pair of men were riding on the front, and every now and then, one would go inside and come out and confer and stop the wagon. Lady Bethal was out the door in a shot—but she came back inside quick to get Lyonette, Pryde, and a coat.
 
——
 
Rhaldon’s new wagon had problems.
Problem one: it was heavier, since it needed to at least have a ‘doorway’ design. He could see making it half the size and just having a literal doorframe without anything else, but Termin pointed out the problems.
“Lad, it’d work, but it’d look mighty stupid. And people would notice if you open a door and vanish inside without any space. That attracts curious folk. And curious folk have sneaky fingers or get nasty.”
