Magnolia Reinhart’s appearance in the inn did not go unnoticed by Erin, but she was too busy focusing on her current project to talk. Anyways.
The regulars and returning guests of her inn were too tough! Erin Solstice stomped back the way she’d come until she came to a table. The people were talking there—until they looked up at her.
“Er—Innkeeper Solstice. Can I help you?”
Lieutenant Gershal half-rose. Caoraz looked wary, but the [Innkeeper] was giving them an owl of a stare. She tilted her head.
And she was looking at Gershal.
“I overheard you guys talking. You’re Gershal, right? The guy who fought with the Horns. You took my quest. And you fought with the Tidebreaker. Zel. He was a guest of this inn, you know.”
“I—didn’t know that. I hope I wasn’t being facetious, Miss Solstice. I wanted to thank you for the warm greeting and your hospitality.”
Gershal stood, nervously, and bowed. But the [Innkeeper] didn’t seem angry. She looked intense, but she was just staring. Eyes open too-wide, the hazel gaze intent on Gershal. She had that hat of fire, but it wasn’t visible—yet.
“They’re right, you know. This isn’t going to be a simple battle. You heard what I said. You really shouldn’t be here. You don’t know me.”
Gershal hesitated as Erin spoke to him. She paused a second.
“But—if you’re staying, I’m grateful. We don’t know each other; I wish we did. You sound like a fun guy to get to know.”
What could you say to that? Gershal blushed a bit.
“Vaunt’s very popular despite our small nature as a city, Miss. Here—I’d like to give you a gift from my city.”
He produced a wrapped wheel of cheese and handed it to Erin. She blinked—Redscar handed her a knife, and she took a sliver.
“Whoa, this is nice! It’s sweet.”
“It’s a specialty camembert. Sophia’s Kiss. Sophia was a cow.”
This man went around handing cheese out to people he met and he wondered why he was popular? It turned out this wasn’t just a case of Gershal being equipped with random pieces of cheese, either.
“Every time we go out of our city, we all get at least five pieces of our cheeses. It’s good marketing to give them out. I took five times as many myself. Vaunt can’t pay for the fanciest artifacts, but there’s a funny story about our troops running out of supplies during a winter and surviving on cheeses.”
“Dead gods. What are you, some kind of [Lieutenant of the Brie Line]?”
Caoraz couldn’t resist. It wasn’t even a funny joke. And he instantly tensed up as Relc snorted, and Gershal turned red.
“Hey!”
Erin glared at him and slapped Gershal on the shoulder.
“Be more respectful. This is a [Lieutenant of Cheddar].”
“No. I believe he will soon become a [Mozzarella Major].”
Embraim said that straight-faced, and Relc began guffawing. Redscar closed his eyes and got up to leave. And the [Innkeeper] was laughing as Gershal groaned.
“Cheese puns. Everyone tries them, and no one knows more than five cheeses outside of Vaunt. If you’re going to say [Gouda General], I’ve heard it.”
Erin Solstice had to laugh at this, along with everyone else. She was smiling at Gershal of Vaunt, and then she said something else that was unexpected.
“I have a funny request. I think I do remember you—did you get a magic sword from the <Heroic Quest>? Are you still using it? Can I see it?”
Gershal of Vaunt obligingly showed her his sword, which was his biggest gain from the battle against the Gargoyles. It was a gravity-magic blade that activated a twisting, signature magical effect. Erin felt it, impressed.
“Ooh. That’s so cool. I give out these <Quests>, but I get nothing.”
“I could wish I had it a while back. It’s not the best blade, but it’s quite the treasure. My own commander wanted to take it from me, but I hung onto it.”
Erin Solstice lifted the blade up; it was light, but she imagined swinging it would be hard. She wasn’t a swordswoman or a warrior. But she noticed how people stared at her.
Oh. They were remembering Zeladona. Erin gave them a guilty smile, and Theofore flinched. But she was not Zeladona.
Even so, she realized that some of them might look at her, like Relc, and see someone else. Sserys’ ghost. Erin Solstice looked down and wondered if someone else saw Zel Shivertail in this inn.
Wall Lord Ilvriss was staring up at the frozen memory, though he had held his tongue, his eyes lost in regrets and respect he had only truly found after it was too late. But he half-rose as Erin looked at him. She spoke to them all.
“Zel was a guest here. I didn’t appreciate him the way I should have, Gershal. I wish I could tell you where he sat, but I think most of the tables and chairs got smashed. Heck, we rebuilt the inn at least once since he was here. But he was here, and I remember him.”
Her eyes flashed, and in her gaze her friends saw the [Garden of Sanctuary]. That hilltop of statues. Was that where she was going to take the [Lieutenant of Cheese]?
“I was honored to have met him. He should not have passed there, Miss Solstice.”
That was all Gershal said, and many Drakes looked at him angrily, as if prepared to shout that it was not their fault. The Humans rustled, and Controller Lectara opened her mouth as if to say that they should have waited for reinforcements.
But neither group spoke. Erin Solstice’s eyes glowed as her head swung around, and they fell silent.
“There’s somewhere I should take you. A memorial for the Tidebreaker. But before that, I have something to give to you, Gershal of Vaunt. I think it will work. Come with me, would you?”
Erin put the sword on her shoulder and nearly stabbed Ishkr. Then she turned. Caoraz ducked, and Erin strode down the inn. Gershal got to his feet as Redscar cackled and jumped off his chair.
“Wait, my sword—”
Gershal followed Erin, wondering what she was going to do—and half the inn followed. There came Major Khorpe, Perorn, Agent Virrt, Calruz, Olesm, and the [Soldiers]. Magnolia Reinhart got to her feet and winked as Lord Xitegen looked incredulous.
“You can’t be serious, Magnolia.”
“Lord Xitegen. Does she surprise you? Don’t treat her like one of us playing at party favors and little tricks. She is Larracel the Haven’s peer.”
When she said it like that, more than one person decided to follow Erin. And the [Innkeeper] marched into her [World’s Eye Theater].
Not the [Garden of Sanctuary]. The dome was glowing, and Hethon, Sammial, Ekirra, Visma, and Kenva all tried to hide behind Mrsha and Nanette.
“—my favorite monster I’ve ever killed? I guess that would have to be—oh, oops.”
King Itreimedes of Avel tried to hide behind his throne as Erin Solstice stopped. She eyed the King of Bows, who had apparently been so bored he and the kids had been swapping stories. She raised her brows.
“They’ll call you back, Your Majesty.”
“Oh, that’s quite alright. They were just telling me how that Flying Gnoll’s contraption worked—”
The King of Bows vanished on the crystal dome as Erin sighed. Then the glass overhead began to flicker.
Gershal of Vaunt had heard the [World’s Eye Theatre] had a lot more powers, but Erin hadn’t used it for more than a glorified [Scrying] orb. Now—he looked up and realized it really could show anything.
Not just parts of the world. Not just send Erin Solstice’s image almost anywhere she wanted.
It also had the power to show her memories.
The [Innkeeper]’s head rose, but it seemed like she didn’t need to see the image of a bemused, giant Drake watching a smaller Gnoll eating pancakes at a table. But then her eyes sharpened, as if the theatre revealed things even she had forgotten.
Zel Shivertail appeared as Erin had seen him, a memory glowing above, and Lieutenant Caoraz halted at the entrance of the theatre, as if afraid to step forwards.
Calruz shouldered past him, and Olesm stopped only a second, then leaned on the balcony. Ilvriss looked up, and Erin Solstice stood there, a sword on her shoulder.
“Uncle.”
Selys Shivertail wasn’t sure she’d needed to see this tonight. Why couldn’t Erin just play a few games of chess and lift a glass up? But perhaps she wasn’t sure that was enough, today.
Then Selys looked down as Erin Solstice slowly walked down the aisle of seats and realized what was different about the [Innkeeper]. It wasn’t the [Innkeeper]; it was the [Witch].
Her hat wasn’t blazing, but it didn’t have to every single time. Erin Solstice shook her head a second.
“No. That’s not the right memory. I wasn’t there when he died. And it doesn’t work with your memories. But perhaps…”
The image changed. Then—Zel Shivertail was standing at the door to The Wandering Inn, lifting a claw in farewell. The image halted, and he paused, half-turning.
Flickered—
The land became grey and distant, and a Drake was reaching for a woman that stood there, engulfed in flame. Caoraz’s eyes went round.
Who was that woman? She unsettled him, and the world looked half-real. Zel looked different. Young—
The image vanished, and the picture of him at the door to the inn reappeared. Erin Solstice shook her head.
“Not her. No more power for her.”
She looked up, and the people staring up realized something was wrong. The image wasn’t perfectly clear. It looked…fuzzy, and the details were only on Zel, really. There was a table in the corner, but it wasn’t sharp.
As if Erin Solstice didn’t remember everything perfectly. Her [Perfect Recall] Skill; it only worked on the arts.
But it’d do, and she remembered this. Well enough. Erin was staring up, and Gershal of Vaunt took a seat.
“That’s him. Why…why are you showing the Tidebreaker to me, Miss Solstice? I did not know him that well. He left an impact, I like to say. But I’m not anything like an heir to his will.”
Her head turned slightly, and then Erin Solstice lifted the sword from her shoulder. She studied the magic blade, holding it up and keeping her fingers away from the edge.
A beautiful, magical sword with a twisted hilt. Erin doubted that even if she could cast magic, even if it was her class, if she could make anything better than this.
Hedault had praised the kind of magic that the system rewarded via the <Quests>; even if it wasn’t as good as he could do, it was often unique.
The [Lieutenant] had a magic sword for this coming battle. But a magic sword wasn’t enough to make a [Hero].
Erin didn’t want a [Hero]. Heroes had tragic lives and died. She looked back and saw no hero.
Just a brave man.
So she spoke.
“Gershal of Vaunt. My class is [Magical Innkeeper]. And I do the magic part; that’s this.”
She waggled her fingers in the middle of her [World’s Eye Theatre]. But then she looked up.
“I’m also something else. I am the [Witch of Second Chances]. And I offer many people second chances in different ways.”
Erin glanced at Calruz, Embraim, and even Rags. They nodded at her, smiled, raised their brows.
“Y-yes, Miss Solstice? What’s my second chance? To protect someone again? I will try.”
Now, Gershal was getting scared. He was waiting for her to post a <Mythical>, no, a <Legendary Quest>. And some of Erin’s guests were expecting that with bated breath.
 
—-
 
Badarrow was standing on one side with Calescent and Redscar. The Goblin muttered as he watched Erin staring up at the image of Zel, then talking to the [Lieutenant].
“I missed this. But didn’t. She makes your heart hurt. How do you do it, Calescent?”
Redscar agreed. He didn’t know how anyone could stay at the inn.
“Too much crying, probably. Numbtongue is the only one who can stay.”
The [Chef] eyed both tough Hobgoblins and snorted.
“Stupid. She’s just an onion. Tears happen.”
 
——
 
Erin Solstice looked up and concentrated. She hadn’t tried this out, and she didn’t know what the consequences would be.
It was the only thing she could think of. She was no [Enchanter].
But she was a [Witch].
She lifted Gershal’s sword with one hand and reached up with the other as if trying to reach up into that vast ceiling of glass and into the memory. But she couldn’t go back. What she could do was remember him.
Already, the details of how Zel Shivertail had looked were not perfect. But the memory was bright. The Drake’s green scales flashed as they turned to steel armor, and his eyes were faintly yellow.
His memory lingered on in many people. She could give people the [Boon of the Guest]. But only one person at a time, and only if she thought they were worthy.
Erin could see his statue, but the Drake who had been called the Tidebreaker, the General of Izril, was still gone. So this?
This was just a memory. But she looked at Gershal, a man that she thought Zel would have approved of being here, and Erin’s fingers felt wet. The theatre trembled, wavered, and the air felt odd, as if it didn’t know if this was allowed.
But she was doing it. So Erin pulled, and something ran down onto her hand. It looked like droplets of…
Color.
They dropped out of the air, as if condensing from that vivid memory. Gently, Erin collected them in her hand. A drop of green. A flash of off-white from a smile. A mote of yellow and steel. She heard someone gasp—
“Erin. You can’t!”
Nanette shouted, but Erin just smiled.
“It’s a memory, Nanette. I don’t remember Relc’s spear either. Memories change. All I have to do is re-remember it. But this?”
She lifted something in her hand. It looked like the colors she had given to Pawn. The paint of her home—but this was different. Erin Solstice slowly ran her hand across the sword of Gershal of Vaunt.
The colors she had drained from her memory flashed, and the sword rose once more. The blade had been pale silver. Now?
It was a shade of silver-green, and the handle was a pale yellowish-white, brighter than gold by far, and when she lowered it, she knew it was different.
Erin was afraid to look up, but when she did—she exhaled.
He was still there. The colors were still there. It wasn’t the same as Ekirra’s ball. She had been far, far more careful this time. But even so…she lifted the sword up, and it was definitely different.
“What did you do?”
Grimalkin of Pallass was staring down at Erin and then up at the memory. Erin looked at him.
“Not magic like the kind you know. Gershal of Vaunt. Take this sword. And this time. Don’t you dare die or fail again.”
She turned and let the sword rest in her hands. Erin Solstice felt a bit silly as she held it out to him, but he looked at her wide-eyed and then around.
Gershal hesitated—then reached out and took the hilt of the sword. He lifted it up, flinching, and stared at it. Then Erin Solstice exhaled and felt something leave her.
It hurt. It was a loss—but the blade shone with colors no one had ever dreamed of. Not Hedault, not Valeterisa—and Erin whispered.
“This is the last thing I can do.”
