Second chances. She looked around, and now Caoraz was giving her the look of a first-timer.
Olesm clapped him on the shoulder, and Calruz slapped him on the back, and the Drake nearly went over the row of seats.
 
——
 
“Who does she think she is? Supreme executive power comes from a mandate from the masses, not some farcical aquatic ceremony!”
Kevin slammed a fist on the table and got a lot of laughter even if people didn’t get the reference at all. This was joined in an instant by Keldrass.
“That’s right! Democracy! De-mo-cra-cy!”
“Boo!”
One of Manus’ [Soldiers] instantly booed the Pallassians, and that got a huge laugh. You had to have a laugh after Erin did something like that.
“Yeah! Some watery tart distributing swords is no basis for a system of government!”
That came from another Earther; Troydel shouted as he leapt to his feet with a grin. Rhaldon stared at Troydel, and several of the cheering people stopped abruptly.
“Too far, dude.”
Troydel sat down as Kevin gave him a stare. Well, it was also in how you delivered it.
Erin Solstice herself slapped Troydel on the shoulder as she walked out of her magic door.
“I’m not just handing out magic swords! I’m re-enchanting—I’m not just handing—you know what? No magic sword for you.”
“Aw, come on. You don’t even know what you did, Erin.”
Gershal was, at this very moment, gingerly trying out his sword with Redscar, Embraim, and a bunch of people. It was cold as heck, but they wanted to know what it did—but no one wanted to lock swords with Gershal until they were certain the spirit of Zel wouldn’t come out and kill them.
“That’s right. An instruction manual with your magic powers would be handy, Miss. Or you could do that for my army. A thousand soldiers, at least. It’s a cute trick, though.”
That urbane comment came from General Edellein Blackwing, one of three Pallassian [Generals] present. There were so many people that it wasn’t surprising to see 4th Army’s Edellein here.
Not that he was to take part in the battle. General Shirka was the leader that Chaldion had picked for the defensive action.
She and General Duln of 1st Army were the ones with any real stake in the battle. But all three [Generals] were here as a sign of solidarity. And probably to stake Pallass’ claim in this battle to outsiders like Wall Lords Aldonss and Ilvriss.
The other Walled Cities could have sent more; Salazsar was second most-represented, especially with Major Khorpe. Of course, there were two days till the Solstice, and Drakes could move fast.
But despite Perorn’s comments, even Fleethoof herself didn’t think Luciva was going to come down with a wing of Wyverns.
She could have used that. Liscor’s 1st Army itself was absent, and the Centaur thought that Embria and the other two companies were a paltry replacement.
Not everyone was Erin Solstice’s friend. But the [Innkeeper] was still breaking her rules. The Solstice was coming. Nothing might remain afterwards. So she slapped Troydel on the shoulder again and turned to General Edellein.
“I don’t have a thousand swords, pal. And if I did, I wouldn’t give them to you. I never have enough to give to people who come and help me. I never have. Friendship is sometimes people giving things they know they’ll never get back.”
“Very anti-Drake, then.”
The Drake [General] sniffed, not impressed with Erin. She stared at him. He was deadpan. Even other Drakes were eying him incredulously. Erin spoke slowly.
“Seems like it. I might even ask for the colors back, afterwards. It depends on whether you’re worthy of them. These? These are just loaners. They’re not even mine to give away, you know. But then again—you have to give things back.”
Edellein had no idea what she was talking about. The Drake raised his brows as Erin walked across her inn. Olesm noticed something as Erin clomped over the floor.
She was wearing boots, even indoors. Oh, and they were trailing snow melting fast. Which was hardly unique; Silverstache was happily cleaning up all the mud that was being tracked in as Ishkr chased after him with a broom and dustpan.
But Erin hadn’t been outside.
She did know what she was doing. The [Innkeeper] halted in front of a table, and Edellein thought that if she slapped his shoulder, she’d regret it; he had armor on. But Erin just reached out—and the [Garden of Sanctuary] was open.
“And just so you know—I’m not some watery tart. And this isn’t a sword. It’s a halberd, idiot.”
Erin Solstice yanked something out of the air, and cold air blew into the inn and made the fireplaces gutter. Everyone was already staring at her, but they saw, in the moment her door opened, a room filled with snow.
Something like an altar—no—it wasn’t an altar to a person. It looked like that at first, but it was just a stand, and the figure on top of it was actually a mannequin that should have been covered in armor.
The snow-laced room was a kind of prayer to war itself, and the [Innkeeper]’s hand closed on the haft of a curious blade that stood taller than her. She pulled it out, grimacing as snow fell and the rust-colored blade found the light.
It looked plain and red—until she shifted it, and the metal began to gleam with layers of inner light without end. Then they realized it was polished, unrusted, and that the metal was that color from the start.
The Adamantium glowed with a shine that no one except Pelt had seen in an age.
The Dwarf had been throwing falafels at his apprentice for trying to get him to eat healthy. But his head turned as if he smelled or sensed the metal first. His face paled, and Edellein’s mouth opened—he leaned back and fell out of his chair.
Then he reached up with a trembling claw.
And the innkeepery tart turned—and held the halberd out to the person sitting to his left.
General Duln, the only Dullahan officer in the room, had gone still, feeding himself a bite of dinner. His mouth was open; his head was off his body, revealing a glowing orange hole where his neck had been. He scrambled for his head and put it on his shoulders, then looked at Erin.
Chaldion might have stopped breathing. Khorpe was laughing and clapping again, and the [Innkeeper] smiled.
“I don’t know many Dullahans. You’re not worthy of this. But someone should take it.”
She tried to lift it up and hold it sideways, but it was too heavy for her to do one-handed. She nearly dropped it—and Duln caught it with his hands. The moment he touched the blade, he swore he felt a shock run through his entire body.
“Whoa—”
Erin recoiled as if kicked, and she saw the Dullahan’s armor light up. Runes of magic were tracing themselves down his arms and legs, and that definitely hadn’t happened when she had held it.
“Species-specific weapons. Mwah. That’s so Drakeish everyone stole the idea from us.”
Saliss caught Erin and blew a kiss with one claw. But he was grinning, and Erin Solstice caught her breath. She pointed down at General Edellein, who was on his back and staring up at her.
“And you’re definitely not worthy, pal. Okay.”
Then the [Witch of Second Chances] turned. And her smile took in the entire inn.
“I’ve got a long two days and all of tonight. Who’s next?”
She threw back her head, and The Wandering Inn resounded with voices.
 
——
 
Erin was cackling. She stood in her inn, not handing out relics like someone handing out candy. Rather, she handed the idea of them out. The actual article? Very, very few blades.
The fact that she had any was insane. But the sight of the young woman looming over nervous, hardened [Soldiers] with a teasing smile and mischief in her eyes was helping some people come to a belated realization.
“She’s a witch. I knew it. She’s a witch!”
Sammial Veltras seemed to have missed every single memo about Erin’s other class. Probably because he thought reading was something other people did. However, the boy said it in a way that made sense.
“I think you are correct, Sammial. That is a [Witch]. Indeed. Hither-to, I wouldn’t have believed it.”
Tyrion Veltras nodded slowly. House Veltras’ soldiers looked at each other as the two [Lords] confirmed the obvious. It was amazing to see that even they had the same feeling Ryoka Griffin did about their [Lords].
But that was sort of why you liked them. Magnolia Reinhart rolled her eyes, but even she was smiling.
“At least we won’t have an issue from Veltras. Terland I shall keep an eye on and slap if they get unruly.”
She murmured to Ryoka. The Wind Runner hesitated.
“What does that mean?”
Magnolia Reinhart tapped under one eye slowly, and Ryoka saw her mildly exasperated look. So the Wind Runner turned her head, shut up—and her understanding of the north pointed out the answer.
Oh.
House Veltras wasn’t recoiling from Erin wholesale. In fact, the soldiers were nervously approaching Erin with a lot of Drakes and people whose desire to possibly get a Relic of old exceeded their dislike of her, her class, Goblins, or Antinium.
Which you could argue was pragmatic—but here was the thing. That was more than the Terlands were doing.
Controller Lectara had taken a step back when she realized Erin’s nature. [Witch]? She seemed more scared of Erin than before.
And that had to be due to each house’s attitude. House Veltras was, at its core, still a lot of smaller groups of people living pretty close to nature. [Druids] were respected in House Veltras, and they had that rural connection.
House Terland had Golems; Ryoka had heard their cities were highly developed, and they entrusted all their work to Golems if they could. Not exactly witch-friendly.
Even if they didn’t fear Erin, like Lord Xitegen, they weren’t at home with her. Point for House Veltras, then. The Wind Runner admired her friend for a second.
Then she pushed herself to her feet. For she’d done a lot of sitting around, and she felt bad—because she had to contribute something too. The problem was that this wasn’t a place that needed deliveries or someone running around.
In fact, there were too many damn Couriers around. Seve-Alrelious was enjoying the moment. He seemed to have decided The Wandering Inn was a place worth defending. Compared to Ryoka, it was a reminder that a real Courier was a force.
Yes, she could fly and use the wind.
He? He had magical animals who’d come out and kick the shit out of anything he didn’t like and had the power of A’ctelios Salash running through his veins. Maybe the flesh was greener on the other side, but Ryoka felt like she didn’t match up to him at the moment.
And the gap just widened. For Erin Solstice turned, pointed, and everyone crowding around her ducked.
Ryoka sensed the lightning in the air and slapped a spoon out of Hethon’s hand. It went flying across the table as he yelped, looked at her, hurt—and a bit of static sparked.
Ressa caught the spoon in midair, grimacing, and Ryoka saw sparks run around the inn as a door opened. She sensed a storm. Lightning…and a Goblin sat up at her table. Rags checked her shortsword as the blade gleamed—and Erin Solstice’s cackling was drowned out by thunder.
The lightning tree room. Even the Goblin Chieftain looked surprised. And mildly upset. Was Erin giving out the treasured blades she hadn’t wanted to touch?
Only to the worthy or those who might be worthy, surely. And who was worthy of that? Wall Lord Aldonss glanced up as Manus’ crowd susurrated, and Rafaema fanned her wings excitedly. Erin was pointing at them!
No…Rafaema realized Erin wasn’t pointing at her. Nor at Aldonss. She traced Erin’s finger, turned her head, and her mouth fell open.
“You. The two of you, I suppose, but you. You’ll do.”
“M-me?”
Someone pointed at themself and stood, half-smiling until they realized it wasn’t even them. Erin Solstice stared past the speaker, and her actual target looked around and then pointed at his chest. Me? He looked delighted, confused, and then—when he swung himself onto his feet and stared at her, she had him.
“Ook?”
“A monkey?”
Lulv roared, and Erek stopped loping forwards and gave the Gnoll a push. Lulv went skidding across the ground as Erek’s pure, Orangutan strength reminded the Humans in the room that they had developed intelligence—but they weren’t going to win an arm-pulling-off competition with their ancestors.
“Erek? Are you sure, Erin? He’s not even outside all the time.”
“Then take this, Hundredfriend Courier. And find out where the blade came from. Then come home and tell me all about your adventures!”
Come home. Seve was left breathless—until a smile eclipsed his surprise. Then he bowed, and Ryoka thought—well.
So that was how she charmed people so damn fast.
Erin Solstice lifted a sword up high; it was a longsword, the hilt blackened with soot by a million lightning strikes. The blade itself looked worn and ancient, as if the rain had eroded even magic. It was still weeping rain, and Ryoka felt like it carried a storm with it. Her eyes found a streak of faded blue running down the center of the blade, like a bolt of lightning.
Slowly, Erek lifted his hands, and the [Innkeeper] placed the sword gently onto his palms. The Orangutan hesitated—and the [Innkeeper] smiled.
“Are you going to be worthy of it?”
“Ook. Ok? Oook.”
“Good. Do your best.”
A. Monkey.
The outrage of the others was rising—except when Erek extended his long, long arm and lifted the longsword in a way that suggested he not only knew how to use it, but any attempts to take the blade from him would be a mistake.
“How did she know Erek knew how to use a sword?”
Even Seve-Alrelious was surprised. Everyone else turned to him, and Erin winked. Perorn Fleethoof was eying Erin, and the [Strategist] looked surprised, but not astonished. As if she were getting a sense of Erin.
“Interesting. So she’s not like even Foliana. Even Niers wouldn’t think to do that. He’d hire an ape-tribe in a second. But give one a magic sword?”
Erin was whirling, now, and her eyes were roaming the crowd. She paused, and her expression twisted like she’d just taken a bite of something nasty. But she looked around at the Antinium, Goblins, and Ryoka just bet she had gifts for all of them.
Yet Erin knew her audience. So, though it made her look like she wanted to spit, she was playing a careful game. She turned back to that garden of rains.
“I have only a few more blades from this one. There’s one I can’t even reach without getting hurt.”
“I thought you owned the garden, Erin? Even you’d get hurt?”
“Yeah. Well. That one won’t stop shooting lightning everywhere. See?”
Erin pointed, and Ryoka edged around and saw a tree made of—glass? Then she saw what looked like one of the crystalline branches high up was glowing with sparking arcs of electricity—
