“All right. Let’s go. Unless—are we keeping you from giving anything to the Goblins, Erin? Antinium? The nobles and Drakes you’re pitting against each other really, really well. You even got Lulv trying to play nice.”
Erin gave Ryoka a weary smile.
“He’s really good at being a stabbing-dude. But he sat down at the board, and now I’m gonna trounce him. Nothing for the Goblins or Antinium, Ryoka. At least not now; I’ll make everyone jealous. This is for the showoffs.”
She got a nod from the Dragon, and then she did feel better about his presence. Even if he was a greedy lizard. Erin stretched and turned.
“Okay, let’s get this over with.”
Teriarch brightened up as Erin opened the door to the hallway with the Key of Reprieve. She led them down past the gardens, pointing out the ones that she knew held something valuable until they came to the end. Then Erin hesitated.
A single door was open; the door was blown away. She paused at the entrance, and Ryoka Griffin shuddered, and Teriarch’s smile turned to concern as they saw the broken door that held the ruined [Garden of Sanctuary] that had belonged to Cormelex of the Lucifen.
“There’s nothing in there that we can use, right, Erin?”
“Could you—excise this room from your gardens? That might be best.”
Teriarch moved as if to shield both young women. But Erin Solstice shook her head and turned away from the room.
“There’s no weapon in there either of you can use. Let’s go.”
She turned her back on the reminder that sanctuary could not protect everyone. And then Erin Solstice opened the first door and let the Courier and Dragon enter, to borrow the might of the past and trade it for lives and hope.
Erin didn’t follow them but stood in that hallway of doors, head bowed, and rested her hand on the door a second. She spoke, then, only to herself and the original owner.
“Forgive me.”
She thought they might understand what she was doing. Hoped they would, if they could have still heard her. Then Erin Solstice wondered whether she would leave something in her own garden. For someone to find someday.
The flowers, at least. For whoever came next—
“You’re welcome to it all. So long as you are worthy.”
It was not for her to decide. Erin stared at her hands, and they were shaking. She felt emptier. Her gardens and inn felt emptier, but in truth…she had just given things away. Changed their owners and forms, but not lost anything. Yet she had—less.
“Almost nothing left, now. Nothing for you to steal, Kasigna. You little thief.”
Erin whispered and knew she was heard. That’s right. She was the opposite of Teriarch, in this at least. She had given it all away, and even if she herself vanished—what was Erin would be out there.
The memory of the Tidebreaker, her flames, her gifts and will—that was how you did it.
When death came for you, it could only take you, not your deeds. So the young woman relaxed a bit and smiled.
“You can’t let me live. I’ll keep doing this. Keep arming them and feeding them and telling them all about you. That’s my gift, and it’s what you’re so bad at. You don’t have anyone on your side who can tell people why you’re supposed to matter. Maybe you did once—”
She thought of Zineryr and sighed.
“…But you lost them. And you can’t have a single voice telling people you’re not actually that mighty, can you? You’d be scarier if you were Crelers. Crelers don’t care what people say, but words hurt you. You all suck.”
Then, Erin was another night closer to the Solstice, and she was using up all her cards. All her tricks. All her Skills.
But she still had a handful of secrets for the final hour. The [Innkeeper]’s eyes gleamed in the void of her garden’s inner doors. She was not yet worthy of the Pavillion of Secrets. However…
When the Goddess of Death came for her, Erin wouldn’t have any more regrets or things she could have done. She swore that at her end, she’d go out with banner in hand. Armed with every blade she could borrow or buy. And if the three-in-one found her, she would go out laughing, smiling, burning and cackling and dancing.
