“Well, the wagon’s too big as it is. Look at poor Erma and Fox!”
Neither pony liked the box-like wagon and preferred the open-air ones that just needed a canvas for securing.
The problem with having a giant square or rectangular wagon was that the center of mass was off; a flatter wagon was far more stable, whereas this? This one could overbalance or roll.
“Needs more weight. Maybe making it wider’d do. It’s a shame we couldn’t just have a regular wagon and put the door in the middle of it, lying face-down. I did that with Miss Erin’s door, and it was a treat! You could hop into it—‘course, then you were falling into her inn and gravity went sideways, which did your stomach a turn, but it was convenient. This vardo wagon’s a piece of crap. We should have bought a nicer one or had it custom-made.”
Rhaldon nodded as he imagined it.
If you had a magic door, everything would be easier. A magic door? He could use it like a portal, literally lie it flat and fall into another room.
Or—make it super cunning! A door that held all of his stuff! Then he wouldn’t even need much of a wagon, right?
But he didn’t have a magic door. What he had was a [Leased Room]. And that was different.
This is the least cool magic room I have ever seen.
A little Gnoll girl solemnly held up a notecard, and both [Drivers] glared at her. Termin flapped his hat at Mrsha, who’d begged, begged to be here to see Rhaldon’s new room in action!
“‘Least you’re not living in it, Miss Mrsha! Why don’t you feed Erma and Fox, like Miss Nanette there?”
The little witch was patting both ponies, and Mrsha glowered.
I have to go back to Magnolia’s stinky mansion tonight! I was promised fun! You are wasting my limited hours of fun!
Termin stared at her notecard. Only a child could complain of ‘having to go back to Magnolia Reinhart’s mansion’. He didn’t dignify that with a response.
“The room’s no good either. If we put the door down—hells. That’d be something, eh, lad?”
“I can see it working, Termin. We’d have to completely redesign, though, and then it’d be more like a…a well? Completely vertical. I think it still works. The thing is—the rest of the wagon’s empty. What if we put the doorway in the back of the wagon—so I could use it like an actual wagon for my goods? But there’s a door in the back…”
Termin’s eyes lit up.
“And then no one knows you’ve got a room—in a room! Plus, it means we can alter the wagon a bit. Brilliant!”
Their entire conversation was fascinating to Nanette, who eagerly hopped up onto the wagon.
“Can we move the doorframe in?”
“We’ll need to pry them screwy-things Mister Kevin gave us out. Where’s that twisting thing he gave us?”
“The screwdriver, Termin.”
The older [Driver] grunted.
“Right. That. I don’t trust them things. Nothing as good as a nail. You sure you want to use them?”
Rhaldon smiled and ducked his head. For all Termin loved new things—screws he drew a line at. He understood how they worked, but he thought a wagon made with them was far inferior to one made with nails.
Mind you, they were apparently really difficult for a [Smith] to make, so Kevin had cautioned Rhaldon that replacing them on the road would be hard—but they were securing the door to Rhaldon’s room, and they made it easy to unscrew them and move the frame around.
“Excuse me! Excuse me! I hear something delightfully funny is going on, and I insist on being part of it!”
And here came Lady Bethal. At least it wasn’t a full gaggle of people, but Termin and Rhaldon instantly got down to bow as Pryde, Grimalkin, Lyonette, and even Colfa and Himilt came over to stare at the new wagon.
“I’m sorry, Rhaldon, but Lady Bethal was dying to see the wagon—and so was I. How are the tests going?”
“Oh, a few problems, Miss Lyonette. This one’s wont to roll over, but if you ladies were wishing to see it, I won’t deny it’s funny as heck.”
Termin’s bad mood instantly became obsequious to the [Ladies]. Lyonette gave him an apologetic look as Bethal introduced herself.
“You must be Termin the Omnipresent! I just adore your name—I had no idea [Wagon Drivers] had such funny titles! And you’re Mister Rhaldon? I am Lady Bethal Walchaís, and I shan’t hesitate to call on either of you! Are you from Baleros or Chandrar?”
She gave Rhaldon’s black skin an interested look, which made him hesitate uncomfortably. Bethal had an innocent way about her, but the question was loaded.
“Rhaldon’s a friend of Erin’s, Lady Bethal.”
Lyonette interjected quickly, and Bethal’s gaze flicked to Lyonette sharply.
“Oh, one of Magnolia’s mysterious children? Someone explain it to me—later. Right now, door!”
That was interesting in itself. Bethal didn’t know about Rhaldon’s nature? Pryde herself folded her arms and gave both Lyonette and Rhaldon a sharp look, which in turn made Grimalkin blink. He shot Lyonette a wordless look as the [Princess] raised her brows.
The Vampires were just there. Drinking it in.
Mrsha and Nanette were bouncing to see the leased room again, and Rhaldon found his wagon taken over—not that he minded too much. It was more than he expected, and still, not perfect, and the horrible cold and darkness honestly made him want to do this in the morning.
Everyone else had insisted they take the wagon out for a spin; Rhaldon was more interested in introducing himself to Himilt and Colfa.
Erin had not told him who they were, but one look at Colfa’s red eyes and a pointed tooth when she talked with the [Ladies] despite her attempts to hide it, or just Himilt’s oddly stylish look despite being in simple farmer’s clothes and Rhaldon was wondering if The Wandering Inn sold garlic dishes.
Holy shit, they’re so cool, though. And the two farmers were practical in a way the [Ladies] were not. Colfa offered Rhaldon a flask.
“Something hot?”
She’d filled it with hot milk, heaped up with some cinnamon! No, wait—she also had some steaming falafels, the snack of the night. Rhaldon and Termin poured themselves cups instantly, and Mrsha and Nanette both held the hot, steaming drinks before biting into the slightly spicy snacks.
And there went farmers over [Ladies], because the entire group came over to beg for snacks too as the wind blew snow at them. Lady Bethal had inspected the outside of the wagon, and it really did look like one of the wagons Rhaldon associated with Earth— old-fashioned, the paint flaking off, but with a shuttered window—no glass—that you could live in or work out of.
Not a [Wagon Driver]’s wagon, built for economy and hauling size, hence Rhaldon and Termin’s large distaste.
The addition was the doorframe they’d just unscrewed and which they had carefully left standing; if it dropped, they would have a big problem, despite Rhaldon’s room not having anything in it but counters yet.
That meant that Bethal could see that the vardo wagon had nothing inside of it; it was a giant box, and it made her slightly disappointed.
“I don’t understand. Where is this room that was leased?”
“Right here, Miss.”
Warmed up again, Termin stumped over and touched the doorframe, and Bethal’s eyes gleamed.
“Wait, is it like Miss Erin’s door? Another magic door?”
“It seems to be her signature ability. Not every [Leased Room] works like this, or so I understand.”
Grimalkin murmured. Termin and Rhaldon were about to wrestle it to the back of the wagon as Termin tried to explain Erin’s new Skill as they understood it.
“It’s the darndest thing—forgive me, Miss—Lady Walchaís. I’m not one to know how to speak proper and such.”
“No, do go on.”
“Well, the thing is it is and isn’t like Miss Erin’s magic door. It only works to Rhaldon’s room; nothing else. No one can get in from the inn-side neither, even Miss Solstice with her garden. She reckons if she cancels her Skill, it’d get messy, and no one wants to try that. The thing is…the room’s not perfect, and we broke near half poor Rhaldon’s glassware on the first attempt.”
“Dear me, how?”
Termin was nodding at the doorframe, which the two men were carefully moving around.
“Turns out it’s a room in the door more’n a magic door to a room. If that makes sense. I’m not sure how to explain it.”
Lady Bethal was trying to understand with a quizzical look on her face as she sipped from the cup. Nanette took over eagerly.
“I know how to say it, Master Termin! The problem, Lady Bethal, is that Erin gave Rhaldon a room—but the room is in the door the two are holding! So it’s affected by gravity!”
Grimalkin’s head snapped up with sudden, deep interest. Himilt scratched his head, then Colfa whispered into his ear; she got it. He looked very interested, and Bethal turned her head to Pryde.
The easiest way would be to show her. So Rhaldon nudged Termin.
“Let’s set it on an angle. Right here…”
They adjusted the door so it had the slightest tilt to it. Then Rhaldon fished out a key, unlocked the door—and opened it.
“Step on through, Lady Walchaís. We’ll hold the door. Don’t worry, it’s safe.”
Unless we drop the door. But Lady Bethal was already in the wagon, ignoring her [Knights], and she blinked—then gasped.
“Oh my word! Thomast! Thomast, look at this! The entire room—it’s tilted!”
Thomast climbed into the wagon and blinked.
The room that Erin had given Rhaldon really was smaller than he wanted, but any bigger and she claimed she ‘couldn’t’ give it to him. Yet. Even so, it was a free room, and even as a miniature of Octavia’s shop, it was wonderful.
It more than doubled the small vardo wagon’s interior, and it was far warmer; it was still technically in Erin’s inn, so it was warm, and Rhaldon wouldn’t have to worry about heat or cold—so long as The Wandering Inn wasn’t on fire.
However, the room was leased, so even if Erin installed a window into the room or tried to connect it to her inn, Rhaldon couldn’t hop out of the room into her inn. Nor would her [Garden of Sanctuary] work; all she and he would see was an uncanny, black void.
It had limits—but it was still functionally a—a—
“A closed dimensional space. Huh. This is magic on the level of a modern Archmage. [Innkeepers] get powerful.”
Grimalkin was deeply impressed. But Bethal was delighted by the problem Rhaldon and Termin had noticed.
“It slants! Oh—oh—move the door?”
Lady Bethal hurried out when neither Rhaldon nor Termin obliged her. She pulled, and the entire room tilted further as the doorframe shifted several degrees down. The [Lady] did a happy dance of delight and amazement. Then she stepped in and began sliding.
“Gravity’s gone sideways! Thomast! This is so funny!”
She was laughing, but the [Chevalier] glanced at Rhaldon.
“I imagine this isn’t as pleasant for an [Alchemist].”
“No, it’s not.”
Rhaldon’s sour look was because—before they’d known how the door worked—he’d begun putting some of his alchemy stuff in the room. Then someone had knocked the door over.
“If you ever roll the wagon, you’ll lose anything not bolted down, lad. I really think we need to figure out how to make sure that don’t happen—and even inclines’ll shift everything around. Fine if you’ve got grain or whatnot, but them alchemy stuff goes boom.”
Termin was rightfully worried about how Rhaldon’s new room would work. Rhaldon sighed.
“It makes things—harder. But I can always avoid steep inclines, and there has to be a way to make a primitive gyroscope or something to keep it stable?”
“I dunno about that fancy talk, lad. But it’s not the perfect room. If we laid it flat—”
Then Rhaldon would be descending into a room, but he imagined it’d still slide around. He didn’t want to live his life like that, anyways.
There were heavy benefits. Lady Bethal was sliding around and insisting they ‘shake the door’ with her in it, and her [Knights] were adamantly refusing as Mrsha rolled into the room and slid into Bethal, giggling.
Children and [Ladies] could have fun, but Himilt raised his brows.
“Twice the space is still twice the space. What if you put any alchemy sets in the wagon and used the room as a glorified holding spot?”
Termin winked.
“Ah, but then them [Thieves] would go after Rhaldon’s wagon. The thing is—Miss Erin’s room has a lotta benefits. We asked some of those sneak-spies to poke around, and few of them could tell if there was something valuable in the leased room. Plus! It’s part of Miss Erin’s inn.”
“Meaning?”
Colfa and Himilt looked blank, but Lyonette was smiling, and Grimalkin exhaled.
“Ah. That’s a tangible benefit.”
Meaning that Rhaldon had a room that had both [Field of Preservation] and [Compartments of Holding]. He had been so flabbergasted when Erin brought up the other Skill—as if she had forgotten it mattered.
Rhaldon had, potentially, one of the most spacious wagons in all of Izril, and he and Termin had realized he could take over huge, bulk-delivery jobs.
Then again, the [Drivers] who ran those circuits might actually try to murder him if he muscled in on their turf. But Rhaldon was excited.
“Except for the door tilting, it’s a wonderful thing. I reckon the first thing is upgrading the wagon itself; we bought this one cheap, but it needs better everything. The one thing that can’t change, though, is the door. Has to be exactly that size. Otherwise the lad was thinking he’d make a door two feet high and crawl through it! Sneaky, sneaky.”
Termin was beaming at Rhaldon, who blushed at the approving look he got from Nanette, Grimalkin, and some of the [Knights]. Colfa was whispering to Himilt.
“What I don’t understand is how it all works. If Miss Erin has given Rhaldon a room—I suppose it’s as if the door is the room, so when he tilts it, the entire room tilts. But it doesn’t tilt in her inn…very odd. It’s a shame he can’t use it to his advantage.”
“How so?”
Himilt was still wrapping his head around the way the room worked, and Bethal was now sliding the door around; she wanted to turn it upside down, and Rhaldon was afraid the secured counters would break loose if she did.
“Well, it’s a magic room, dear. Rhaldon can have one that’s upside-down. Nevermind if it’s practical for making alchemy; he can make gravity move however he wants. It sounds fascinating to me.”
Rhaldon’s head slowly rose, and the chemist blinked.
Wait a second, that was right. He could have a sideways room or one where gravity was tilted. Even one where gravity was inverse of when you walked through it!
There weren’t many alchemical things he could think of where that helped, but physics-wise? That was fascinating objectively!
