Niers laughed.
“Fashion? I’m a former Named Adventurer and the second-in-command to one of the Great Companies of Baleros. They can have their fashion. I’ll have my dignity.”
She grinned as he winked at her and got to work.
 
——
 
When Niers entered the ballroom of the academy, carried by Peclir on a silver pedestal, every eye turned. Most of the jaws dropped. The [Grandmaster Strategist] was wearing an eye-catching, eye-searing red overcoat lined with silver thread, over a comfortable, decidedly lace-less shirt and pants which he could move around in without tripping.
His shirt under the coat was brilliant white, and his pants were a dark black, making the coat stand out more. His shoes could have been used as a mirror, but pride of place was the hat on Niers’ head, a sweeping grandiose affair that somehow supported a huge yellow feather that shimmered and somehow stayed stuck in the hat and didn’t drag Niers over backwards as he stood there.
“Nice clothes. Mine are more comfy.”
Foliana appeared as Peclir put the pedestal down in the center of the room. Niers grinned as he felt every eye lock onto him. Suddenly, the rows of lace-covered dresses in their subtle colors seemed downright silly. He looked at Foliana and noticed that she hadn’t changed out of her clothing. Her work clothing.
“The feather’s not practical.”
“I’ll take it off if we have to kill someone. But this? I rather like the coat, don’t you?”
“Professor!”
Umina approached, wearing a concoction of laces and trying not to laugh at his feather. Niers smiled at her.
“Yes, Umina?”
The Lizardgirl hesitated. She looked like she wanted to laugh, but contained it to ask her question.
“Didn’t you tell us that caution and prudence were important, sir? A red coat and a feather—isn’t that—that sort of obvious?”
He exchanged a look with Foliana. Niers adjusted the hat on his head and spoke for everyone to hear.
“Practicality and caution have their importance, Umina. However, speaking for myself, if I can’t win a battle in fashion, I’d rather be dead!”
He looked out one window and saw his students facing off with both armies. It was Venaz against Wil this time, and both were wearing plate armor in the heat. He saw Umina depart and rush out to speak with Venaz. The Minotaur turned, looked back towards Niers, and then took off his helmet and hurled it to the ground.
Niers laughed. As the wary guests circulated around him, he saw Foliana moving towards a dais near the front of the room. Niers shook hands and then pulled a piece of parchment from his coat that he’d prepared as Foliana appeared at the dais.
It was hard to notice her at first. Peclir had to clear his throat and ring a small bell a few times before people noticed Foliana. When they did, there was silence.
The Squirrel Beastkin stood at the dais, and when she spoke, her quiet voice was magnified by a spell so it was projected into everyone’s ears.
“Mm. A twenty years ago, the King of Destruction launched an invasion from Chandrar. He sent his armies sailing to each continent in the world, conquering, claiming lands and overthrowing kingdoms. He sought to conquer the world.”
Everyone stared at her. Foliana stared ahead, not at anyone or anything, speaking to the air. To herself. To Niers.
“His Seven were legendary. Each one could defeat an army, and his great [Strategist], the Gambler of Fates, Queravia, he sent to Baleros. Here. He sent his other vassals across the seas, to Izril, establishing footholds, battling his foes. But the world was turned against him and the seas themselves sought to stop his advance.”
Niers could remember the sound of drums. He closed his eyes as Foliana continued.
“Only one of his fleets reached Baleros. The others were stranded at sea. But it was Queravia who first set foot here. She crushed the port city of Zaland in a day, and established a foothold, though her King’s armies had yet to reach here. But she would not retreat. There she planted the King of Destruction’s banner and challenged all the companies of Baleros. By herself! With only a single army, an advance force! And she held that ground.”
Foliana’s eyes grew brighter, or maybe the world grew dimmer. Niers could still see the smoke, rising in the distance. It seemed like the skies themselves were black during those days.
“No one could defeat her. No one could kill her or rout her army. Not assassins nor legions of her foes. She defeated Three-Color Stalker, flushed them out of hiding and sent them fleeing, nearly dead of their wounds. She slew the leader of the Armored Legion Company, Grandmarshal Sorolat, and broke both his company and the Flowing Wind Company with her forces.”
The people started as Foliana spoke and they stared at her. She went on.
“The King of Destruction’s fleets neared and it seemed as though Queravia would receive aid. Baleros prepared itself for a war like it had never seen. However, one last force gathered to defeat her.”
Standing, shouting at the [Captains] and commanders gathered before him. The rain fell and Niers raised a banner. They followed him.
“A Fraerling, the second-in-command of the Forgotten Wing, brought together every company from the marshy cities to the eastern ports and launched an assault on her position. On that day the two greatest [Strategists] in the world clashed.”
A woman’s laughter. She lay on the ground and laughed at him, laughed as the dice fell one last time. Niers remembered what she’d said. Every word.
Foliana’s gaze focused on him in the silence. Her words were a whisper.
“One survived.”
No one in the room spoke. Not one of the richly dressed guests, not the students who’d come in from the mock battle fields, not Niers. Foliana waited for three beats of the heart, and then went on.
“The result changed history, broke the spine of the King of Destruction’s invasion. His advance faltered. An army from Rhir broke the Lord of the Skies and his tribes. His people fell like flies against the monster slayers. A Minotaur fleet humbled his forces at sea, and Amerys, his champion [Mage], finally found a city whose walls she could not break in Izril. But it was one Fraerling who stopped him, one hero of Baleros.”
She raised a hand and pointed. Niers stood tall, the weight of memories on his shoulders. Foliana nodded as every head turned to Niers.
“Guests and friends, I present to you: Niers Astoragon.”
She waited a second more, and then she was gone.
 
——
 
After the applause and having shaken every hand in the room—twice, Niers found Foliana. She was making the hors d’oeuvres disappear at one of the banquet tables. He coughed as Peclir put him down and checked his notes. Foliana looked at him expectantly.
“Word for word the exact same speech you gave last year. And the year before that.”
Unashamed, the Squirrel woman scratched at her ears.
“The same people keep coming back. I think they like the story. And he’s back this year. Mm. He probably eats muffins too. Don’t you think?”
“On campaign? I doubt he would. From what I know of the man, he doesn’t feast himself and eats like his soldiers.”
Niers had a hard time imagining Flos eating muffins in any circumstance. Foliana shrugged.
“Mm. But when does the King of Destruction eat muffins, then? In bed? It’s important to know these things.”
“Why? Are you planning on killing him?”
“Very hard. But I could do it if he ate muffins. No one’s on their guard when eating muffins.”
“Professor! Sir!”
One of his students was trying to get Niers’ attention. He nodded at Marian as she trotted around a visiting dignitary.
“Marian. Can I help you?”
She smiled nervously.
“We were wondering, professor, whether you’d care to have a mock battle with us yourself on this day. You’ve never had a match, and today…well, we were wondering—”
For a second Niers thought about refusing. But then he grinned.
“Why not? Form an army, Marian. I’ll take you on—”
“Me?”
“You and every one of my students who wants to participate. Go on, get things ready. I’ll be out shortly.”
He saw Marian’s eyes widen, and then she galloped from the room. People who’d casually been eavesdropping instantly headed for the doors and the rumors began to fly. The Titan was about to have a match! He wondered what the odds were.
Foliana looked at him.
“The old you would have said no.”
“Good thing I don’t feel old.”
Niers grinned and swept the hat off his head. He plucked the feather and offered it to Foliana. She took it, looking at it with bemusement.
“For luck?”
“It’ll get in the way of a real battle. You can eat it if you want.”
He left her with that. On the mock battlefield both armies were forming up. All of the [Strategists] and [Tacticians], his students, were lined up in front of their command unit. Over half had armor on. The other half were shouting orders as their army formed up around them.
“Sir?”
One of the [Soldiers] in charge of a battalion of pikemen armed with padded spears jogged up to Niers. He nodded at the man.
“You’ve never had a Fraerling command, have you, young man?”
The young man, who was probably in his forties, grinned at Niers.
“No, sir. But we’ve never had the Titan commanding! I reckon we’ll get on. Where did you want us deployed?”
“Oh, I have a simple strategy in mind. I’ll need two people to carry my pedestal—I don’t fancy being trampled. As for the rest, my orders are simple. Here’s the formation you’ll take at the start of the battle…”
 
——
 
In her nice, cool banquet hall which was now mostly empty, Foliana stood at one of the glass windows and stared out at the mock battlefield. It was swollen with people, over half of whom were onlookers fighting for room.
Someone coughed behind her. Peclir came forward and Foliana turned. She had a muffin in her hands. It was several days old and stale as a rock. The [Chamberlain] eyed it but made no comment.
“Do you believe Lord Astoragon will be victorious, Miss Foliana? I imagine quite a lot of potential investors will be interested in the outcome of this little event. It could prove unfortunate if he were to lose.”
“Mm. Yes.”
Foliana nodded. She watched with her curious eyes as someone blew a horn and both sides moved into action. Niers’ students immediately sent cavalry charging at Niers’ flanks, rains of arrows and spells flying at his army, all boosted by their assorted Skills. She watched as Niers’ army spread out, ignoring the attacks, and ‘dead’ soldiers began to depart the field.
“What’s he doing?”
Peclir was stunned by the display. Niers was advancing, heedless of being overwhelmed. He was being encircled, and still he hadn’t made any moves.
The enemy heavy infantry was about to smash into his own when Foliana saw a tiny red figure in the center of the mass of his army raise a tinier sword. But his voice was not tiny. He shouted.
“[Vanguard of Terror]! [Covering Fire]! [Rapid Advance]! [Formation: Dodge]!”
He waved his sword and his army shot across the field, taking the first wave of soldiers by surprise. His army moved as one mass, as his designated archers, mages, and so on joined with the common infantry. They hit the group of armored soldiers like a wall. Peclir winced as he saw the group of soldiers that had been sent against Niers’ army go flying. Foliana put her paws over her ears.
“Form up! Form up and charge!”
Niers’ voice was a howl above the shouting. His empowered army pushed back the soldiers trying to encircle them. Peclir stared.
“He’s using his Skills?”
Foliana shrugged.
“Why not? It’s a battle.”
“One hardly thinks that would be fair.”
“Mm. Nope. That’s the point.”
The students were scrambling to withdraw and form a wall between them and Niers. Foliana saw Niers’ army running across the ground. She waited.
“Big skill. Mm. Come on. Can’t win with [Vanguard of Terror]. Which one?”
She peered at Niers. He was being carried by his command, rushing towards the enemy, fearless. Like always. It didn’t matter that he was in a mock battle. She heard his voice.
“[Charge of the Strategist]!”
There it was. Behind Niers, his army accelerated. Foliana heard a roar, and this time covered her ears and eyes. When she opened them, after the tremendous clash, she saw the other army running for their lives. [Actors] weren’t paid enough to fight that. She watched as Niers’ army joyfully beat the [Strategist] and [Tactician] students with their padded weapons.
After a while, Foliana found the muffin she’d kept from breakfast a while back. She carefully chewed the very, very stale muffin.
“Showoff.”
Niers was standing on his pedestal, red coat ablaze in the sun. Peclir stared at him.
“When I see him so, I can see him there, Miss Foliana. Right there in your story. And before that. He has been a legend.”
“Mm. He’ll quit when he’s old.”
Foliana nodded. Niers was laughing, she could tell. She couldn’t see him or hear his voice, but she knew he was laughing. Peclir turned and stared at her.
“Do you mean he plans on retiring, Miss?”
“Mm. He forgets sometimes. I have to remind him.”
“Remind him of what?”
She smiled. Niers laughed, and Foliana turned. Her eyes shone as she looked at Peclir and grinned.
“We’re not old yet.”
