Sputtering as he massaged his throat, Charok shook his head, face red from exertion and shame. Though it’d been years since he left the Banner, he’d foolishly believed his strength had grown in recent years, his control of Chi improving by leaps and bounds. How foolish a fancy, before Baatar, he was still no different from a child, unable to resist even in the slightest. “I meant about the Wall.” Straightening himself out, he forced himself to look Baatar in the eyes without flinching. “If you’ve given up on defending the province, then you should give the order to retreat.”

“I’ve not given up.” The snarl was back, the wolf snapping at him even as he collapsed back into his chair, so full of rage and sorrow, a caged beast ready to lash out. “I’d have thought of all people you’d understand. I’ve more important matters to attend to, Sarnai needs me and the Wall will hold in my absence. Even with Jia Yang at the helm, the officers on the Wall have decades of experience serving under Nian Zu. Good men leading good soldiers, they’ll hold no matter what that buffoon does.”

Understanding dawned on him as he watched Baatar dismiss reality with a wave of his hand. “No one told you? Teng Wei Sheng is dead and with him his entire cadre of officers. Han BoHai’s advice is outright ignored when not ridiculed and his troops placed on reserve so Jia Yang can claim all the glory. The battle is going poorly. In the last day, the Defiled have almost taken the walls thrice and every soldier has been called to action as the Enemy continues their attack, unabated day and night. They seek to waste our strength and overwhelm us before sending in a wave of Demons, dozens of them gathered on the horizon in plain sight, filling the soldiers with despair. Your daughter isn’t at your side because of lack of empathy, but because she is desperately fighting day and night, holding back the tide which threatens to overwhelm us all.”

Brow furrowed, Baatar slumped even further in his chair as he glanced at his wife, reluctance on display. “Thrice? Are things really so bad? Why has Ghurda not taken things in hand, she is no less able a commander than I.”

“Ghurda suggested Alsantset order an evacuation, but your daughter is loathe to abandon your post.” Charok refrained from pointing out Baatar abandoned it first, and how unfair it was for him to dump his burdens on her. “Talented though she may be, she isn’t like you, a leader of soldiers. She’s a duellist, a solitary warrior, unused to cooperating with a partner much less coordinating tens of thousands of troops. Yes, you’ve lost a wife, but she lost a mother and yet still she fights. She fights for her father’s honour, not her own, holding your place in your absence, hoping to see your dreams come to fruition. Put an end to your mourning, or at least put it aside for now. You need to take command and be the hero she believes you are.”

Holding his hand up, Baatar lowered his head, eyes closed in concentration. Belatedly, Charok realized he was Sending to someone, perhaps Ghurda or Alsantset, verifying the situation. After long minutes, he sat up and took Sarnai’s hand again, ignoring Charok in stony silence. Just as he was about to try again, a knock came at the door and a trio of servants streamed in as Baatar rattled off a list of instructions for Sarnai’s care while donning his armour.

Pride swelling in his chest, Charok followed Baatar out the door and to the stables where their quins sat harnessed and ready. As they rode towards the Wall, they were soon joined by an escort of Sentinels, Alsantset among them, her smile no longer tired and resigned, but radiant and hopeful as she clasped his hand in silent thanks. Their escort swelled in size as Han BoHai joined them, a magnificent sight to behold as Major General Baatar rode through the streets, back straightened and shoulders raised, finally ready to aid in the defence. Though night was upon them, their procession didn’t go unnoticed, many citizens still awake, unable to sleep for fear and trepidation. Muted cheers and subdued optimism greeted them, Baatar’s mere presence inspiring confidence, his recent exploits not lacking when compared to Nian Zu’s early career. Nian Zu’s chosen successor, finally here to save the day.

The sounds of battle grew clearer as they moved up the stairs, passing a steady stream of dead and wounded flowing down towards the hospices. Baatar’s mere presence kindled their spirits, the soldiers saluting as he passed, their eyes burning with hope and ambition, confident he would lead them to victory. It was his way, a born leader of men, the Iron Commander Baatar.

As Baatar burst into a meeting room, Charok delighted in Situ Jia Yang’s conflicted gaze, the stubborn fool unsure whether to laugh or cry. Fortunately, Jia Yang knew the situation was desperate and settled for a simple reproach while accepting aid. “How fortuitous, the Bloody-Fanged Wolf has finally deigned to grace us with his presence. You are appraised of the situation I gather? Suggestions?”

Drawing himself up, Baatar appeared every speck the hero Alsantset made him out to be, resplendent in his silver and black armour. “As Commander of the Wall, heed my order: sound the retreat. Evacuate the citizens.”

Silence fell upon the room, not a single person in earshot daring to draw breath.

Perhaps, Charok mused as he watched despair threaten to overcome his wife, it would have been better to let sleeping dogs lie.

Chapter Meme
