“You take the other side. Make sure to sometimes check below and above as well. Thieves can be very creative,” Hayden told him, taking his warhammer into both hands and closing the carriage door behind him.

Veron gave the man a nod and got into position, spear in hand and his repaired shield in the other. There was some blood still on his gear, though he’d at least repaired all of the damage by now.

Being to the left of the carriage gave him a good view of the townhouse. It had a tiled roof where many others nearby simply had flat stone roofs. Most of the buildings looked to have been exposed to rain for at least a few centuries.

I'm pretty sure I could fix up a lot of these buildings. Maybe nobody wants to pay for that or having a cleaner look will make one a target? Though I’m not sure how well I’d be able to fix wear on the existing stone, seeing how I can’t even get blood off my armor.

He could also imagine that signs of age might lend a certain amount of prestige to whatever establishments were housed in the buildings but his first interpretations felt more likely. Perrion seemed busy but not particularly rich or comfortable. There were a few stone steps leading up to a heavy wooden door on the townhouse, a sign above depicting the head of a ram or a similar animal with letters spelling out Parr’s Lodgings.

Veron occasionally checked below and above the carriage, inside too. With magic at their disposal, he couldn't even begin to imagine what kind of tactics people employed to steal. He looked at the inn and wondered if he could slowly break in through the stone walls given enough time. Maybe Earth Paths aren't welcome or trusted if they can do that? Yeah, I can imagine all kinds of issues. With other magics too. Can't imagine people would be thrilled to have Fire Paths around either. Except maybe during the winter.

Veron wondered how many things were done with the help of enchanted items and where people needed actual mages.

The others returned soon and informed them where to go. They moved the carriage behind the townhouse and brought all the wares into a cellar.

Veron looked at the iron bars in the small windows. “Is there anything else here that prevents people from entering?”

Reymond gave him a slight smile. “Steel grates within the walls. You’d need some Faen magic or relics to get in here without a lot of noise.”

“I heard about metal harmonies too,” Hayden said.

“Bunch of hogwash. Never seen one in my time,” Reymond said. “There’s a reason people have used steel to protect things for as long as history’s been written down.”

“That’s the last one,” Reka said and set the crate down.

“Finally, we can go sleep,” Silvie said with a yawn.

“We share a room, Silvie. Hayden, you share one with Veron. We grab food first, it should be ready in a few minutes.”

“Who’s paying?” Silvie asked.

“I am,” Reymond answered. “And I’d like to discuss your continued employment when we’ve all gotten a good night’s rest.” He gave Veron a slight nod. “And we’ll talk about your payment too.” He ran a hand through his gray hair and sighed. “Lost two wagons, good horses too. But we’ve made it out without deaths,” he grumbled and went upstairs. “Good job out there. Roads’ not what they used to be.”

Veron looked at the crates and then out through one of the small windows, then followed the others upstairs, Reka locking the cellar behind him.

He shivered when he entered the main hall. It was warm, a fire burning in the hearth, lanterns adding to the warm glow illuminating the room. It smelled of spices and potatoes. Silvie already made for the bar while Hayden went to one of the empty tables. There were a few patrons drinking or having dinner, everyone reasonably well dressed and clean. A few people were armed but Veron and his companions were the only group still in their armor.

Veron glanced at the hearth and raised his eyebrows. There was no wood burning inside. In fact, he couldn’t see anything that was burning at all. Just a fire.

“Pretty nice place, this one,” Reka said as she passed him.

He agreed. It was almost as nice as Warren’s.
