“Of course they don’t.” Kiri said, “The Script was created to stop the abuses of the Old Wizards. If the mental Stats made you smarter, then that would just make mages that much more dangerous.”

Erick smiled. Everything was nominally stacked against mages, but he was having a pretty good go at being a mage, wasn’t he?

He took his potatoes and added oil, salt, and pepper. Then he shook them up a bit, just enough to break up the outermost layer but not enough to break them apart. It was a technique that gave them a nice outer layer which would fry up well in the oven.

He turned back to the room, and said, “I could see that being true, about not wanting to make mages strong again.” He asked Poi, “No intelligence enhancing spells out of the Mind Mages?”

Without missing a beat, Poi looked up from his concentration of telepathic lines, and said, “There are no intelligence enhancing spells. There are no temporary buff spells.”

Teressa huffed out a laugh, adding, “There are, but they’re Mind Mage only, and they can’t share for whatever unknown reason.”

Poi frowned, repeating, “There are no temporary buff spells.”

Kiri said, “I was told that they do more harm than good and that they’re especially bad if you don’t have that telepathic knack, but I honestly don’t know.”

Poi sighed, repeating, “There are no temporary buff spells.”

“Are you sure, Poi?” Erick said, smiling, teasing. “I’m getting a lot of conflicting information, here.”

Poi let out a long suffering sigh, and gave no further response.

- - - -

Breakfast was wonderful. Erick did not eat as much as Teressa, but he was a close second. They finished their meals just as the sun began to rise on the eastern side of the house. The yard and the ocean to the west were still dark with night.

- - - -

The day started surreal and it only got weirder. When Erick moved, he felt more secure in his movements. When he gauged walking through a door, he hit his larger shoulders. When he bent over to pick up a twenty kilo tome at the bottom of the crate, he just did it, without a strain in his back or any difficulty at all.

Over the years, he had picked up a lot of nuances to how he moved to make sure that he didn’t hurt himself. A lot of those nuances went away when he fell to Veird, as he began to get a new feeling for how his body worked here, and as he learned how to enchant huge Strength Stat accessories. But he still didn’t ever get on his knees to look into the back of a bottom cupboard, and he didn’t sit down on the ground because getting up was still not the easiest thing in the world. Vitality did a lot, but it didn’t save him from age. Hocnihai even died of old age, not too long ago.

And yet, as the morning dawned, Erick had taken to the front yard with loose pants, a plan, and nothing else. Now, hours later and in the sun, he was still playing around in the yard, doing gymnastics, testing how far he could push himself.

Handstands, hand walking, cartwheels, leaps and tucks and turns, Erick played around with his new, old body. He had been in rather good shape when he was 22, but this, right here, was something else. His muscles tensed as he told them to, they held his weight as he wanted. He wasn’t secure in his movements, but the falls to the ground and the demands on his Health to support his very strenuous activities were not harsh demands. Meditation’s Rest state was more than enough regenerated Health to cover for his missteps, when he landed on his face, or when he landed wrong on an arm, or a foot.

When he was happy with his base movements, he [Conjure Item]ed boxes and walls and hoops and rails to test himself some more. Soon, he turned on [Hunter’s Instincts], and the Health drain was barely noticeable past his natural regeneration.

With [Hunter’s Instincts], the entire world seemed full of influences and directions. The way the leaves curled with the wind, the way the grass held the dirt secure enough to support his weight a little extra, so that he could push off the ground a little harder. Erick knew, suddenly, the best way to move to get from one space to another, to hop through a hoop and to curl his body as he fell to the ground on the other side. He moved with grace from barefoot toes to his bare hands as he twirled across the lawn and over temporary obstacles. There were no missteps this time. His body did exactly as he wanted, and when he overextended, his body made up for his mistakes with a stretch and an adjustment to its new capabilities. He recognized each time his body stretched, too, because each time his Health dropped a few hundred points.

If his new Health Regeneration wasn’t so high, that might have concerned him, but his regeneration was that high, so it didn’t. If he had tried to do some of those movements out in the field, without Rozeta’s Recovery, he knew he would have injured himself. Maybe even pulled a muscle or sprained something bad enough that he wouldn’t be able to walk or bend like that again until an application of [Treat Wounds].

Introducing himself to the extra Elites the Headmaster had set out around his house was something of a tense moment, for he wasn’t sure if they would think him an intruder, but they had seen him inside the house, making breakfast. They had listened in. And though that was both creepy and a massive invasion of privacy, and Erick was not comfortable with that at all, he knew he would soon be out of here and back in Spur, so he let it slide. He told them off a little, but just enough so they knew he wasn’t happy, just to set a boundary. Should he have done that? Probably not. They were just doing their jobs. But he tried to be diplomatic about it, so he put that out of his mind, and went on with his day.

As the sun spilled warm light across the lawn of Windy Manor, Erick walked around on his hands and laughed, as sweat dripped down his body and Ophiel trilled in the air nearby. He was still a 48 year old man, but magic could do a lot with a 48 year old body. For not the first time, Erick was really happy he chose to focus on Focus.

- - - -

Sweat dripped down Erick’s chest onto the torn up grassy lawn, as the sun beat down from above. His hands tightened around the white staff in his hands. He set his feet into position on the loam; one in front, the other behind. He took aim. [Hunter’s Instinct]s flared. He launched forward, staff aimed at Kiri.

Kiri’s eyes flared with the activation of [Evasive Stance] as she deflected the blow and sidestepped with absolute grace, like Erick was moving in slow motion and she was as agile as air. She countered with an obvious strike to his exposed side, but Erick rolled away, out of range.

Halfway through the roll he [Blink]ed to Kiri’s back, hoping for an opening, using his continued momentum to swing his staff at her shoulder.

She turned and smacked his hand. His staff went flying but he caught it with [Telekinesis] and whipped it back around to Kiri’s other side. She blipped green, out of the way. She reappeared and smacked him on the thigh before he could bring the staff up to deflect the blow, but he managed to get his staff back up in time to intercept her next strike. His blow cracked and broke Kiri’s green staff. He took aim at her stomach.

Kiri huffed out fire as she demanded her body to move faster, to twist, to avoid the worst of Erick’s incoming strike. He almost managed to land a hit, but Kiri blipped again. She reappeared with another green staff in her hands. She struck him on the back. His skin flashed bright white as he went sprawling forward, face planting into the dirt.

Erick tucked and rolled—

“I’m done!” Kiri said.

Erick was already on his feet, already aiming for Kiri with his staff, ready to [Blink] again, but he stopped. He breathed hard, laughing as he said, “I still haven’t sent you flying!”

Kiri breathed out fire as she dropped her green staff into the ambient mana. She winced as she held her hands, and her wrists. “I think I almost broke something.”

With a thought, Erick bade Ophiel to drop down from the air above, to touch Kiri with the rod of [Treat Wounds] the [Familiar] had been holding since Erick and Kiri started sparring. As a white glow transferred from the rod, to Kiri’s shoulder, she relaxed.

She touched the rings on her fingers, saying, “Even with these Stats, it’s still tough to counter a hit from that kind of power.”

Erick smirked, disbelieving. “You have to have more Strength than me.”

“I would have thought us the same, yesterday, but I’m still training my body to be able to use all of these extra Stats, while your recovery gave you a shortcut.” Kiri said, “Almost everyone has a mental limit on the amount of Strength they can actually utilize so they don’t damage their body in the process of doing something that they really shouldn’t even try.” She breathed out fire, huffing out heat where others would sweat.

Erick breathed deep. He glanced at his Status and Health, watching as the numbers rapidly ticked back up. He was a thousand Health from full, but that would all come back in a little over two minutes. From the state Kiri looked to be in, she would take considerably longer to get back to full Health. But then she flickered green, and a gentle glow took hold across her body. She breathed deep, her [Rejuvenation] rapidly healing her for two times Willpower per second. She had bought the skill a little while ago to better deal with the physical demands of her various fighting classes. It was a good buy, according to her.

With Sunny, who was currently hanging out in the sky with Ophiel, she could actually heal people at range in a battle. She wasn’t a Healer, like Rats, but with her [Familiar] she was a close second.

Erick still had yet to get the one healing spell allotted to him by the Script. Maybe he never would. He had thought, in the beginning, that maybe he could try inventing an immortality spell, but right now, with his body feeling better than ever before and Fatigue Immunity doubling his lifespan…

… Was there a need for immortality?

Immortality wasn’t an uncommon thing on Veird—

Kiri asked, “What are you thinking about?”

“Immortality magic, and if there is a point.”

Kiri smiled softly. She said, “The biggest causes of death on Veird for people like you and me, are monsters. Hocnihai was an outlier, by a lot, but if anyone is capable of making it to old age it’s usually Warders. I don’t think I’ll make it past 60.” She glanced around. “Not with this life I’m living.”

Erick paused. He blinked. He said, “Fair enough.” He added, “Let’s stop. I want to run a few more tests with [Cascade Imaging]. Are you packed and ready to go back to Spur?”

“Halfway packed.” Kiri added, “The rest won’t take long.”

Erick fixed the torn up lawn with a bit of [Stoneshape]. He called down platinum rain to heal the grasses and stood under the gentle drops, feeling the cool waters wash away the sweat. He smiled. He felt great.

- - - -

Erick conjured his map on the front lawn then went inside to get actually clean and change into something else. When he came back out twenty minutes later, a five meter wide opaque white map imaged everything up to ten kilometers in every direction. He stepped into the map, to stand in the ocean just outside of Windy Manor’s location. Kiri was already out here, waiting for him, next to the map.

Erick looked up to the green trees all around him, then proceeded with the first test: ‘green’.

Nothing happened on the map.

He tested for ‘leaves’.

The forest turned into blue dots.

Kiri asked, “What was that for?”

“The first one was for ‘green’, the second one was for ‘leaves’.”

“Ah. Testing for ethereal constraints vs physical constraints.” Kiri said, “It really can’t see the ethereal, can it?”

“You were right, yesterday.” Erick held his hand out and cast [Find Object], searching for ‘light essence’. A white arrow appeared above his palm, pointed directly at his own chest. “[Find Object] can, though.” He added, “That’s light essence.”

Kiri looked down at the white map around her waist. “It’s not a large constraint.” She added, “If you had something to go on, you could probably find most things.”

“Yup!” Erick said, “And one of those things is searching for active magic.”

She said, “Magic is mostly ethereal, but you were able to search for [Ward].” She paused. “But not [Invisible]. So what’s the difference?”

“I’m guessing that it’s the same as most magic; if you can’t do it yourself, you can’t enchant it or empower the runes for it, or even search for it.” Erick said, “But we can test that. What’s a magic you have that I don’t? Just channel some mana through the spell so I can hear it. Don’t tell me what it is, though.”

Kiri said, “You know all of my magic and almost all of it is instant, so it wouldn’t really serve as a test… Probably.”

“Maybe. We’ll come back to that later, but that is a good point.” Erick called out, “Any of you Elites have [Invisible]? Or some other durational magic?”

A wind rustled through the trees, just like it had been all morning long.

Erick said, “Please?”

The air blipped pink, ten meters away, as a red-skinned incani woman stepped down onto the grass, near the cliffside.

“Ah!” Erick said, “Hello, Tyli. Were you on duty this morning?”

Tyli spoke with complete professionalism, “No, sir. Your wishes were made known to me so I am here. How may I assist you?”

