As they dropped down, Tala embedded more and more iron spikes. Additionally, Rane’s magic reached outward, pushing those spikes along with the rock, loose soil, and other things in the ground outward, compacting them, unifying them and strengthening the sides of the otherwise unstable path into the ground.

The result was a vertical shaft roughly fifty feet across and steadfastly sturdy.

The next gravity fountain would have had to pass through the three, but Rane acted again without being asked to, using their shared aura and authority again. Through that medium, he imparted kinetic energy outward on anything that came at them from below, keeping them utterly untouched.

This continued for cycle after cycle as Tala went deeper and deeper, a perfect path remaining in their wake.

They were nearly a mile underground when they all felt it.

There was a powerful gathering of magic, as if the natural zeme of Zeme itself had a confluence within a cavern that was barely within Tala’s range with her threefold sight.

At the moment, that power was moving, feeling like nothing so much as a thousand invisible hands all working together to weave power and matter into a body that was so standard as to be insulting.

It was a mole, if one sized closer to a caravan oxen.

The process was all but complete.

No.

The next few cycles weren’t faster—Tala had already been going as fast as she was capable—they weren’t even more focused as nothing else was in her mind, but they seemed more… vengeful.

Finally, they came up against the bedrock that made up the cavern’s structure, that which had allowed a hollow expanse that was nearly large enough for a city to exist so far underground.

Only a focused dissolution breath managed to breach the magic-reinforced stone. The very natural makeup of the reinforcement made the results somehow more powerful, more resilient.

Regardless, she was through.

But the mole was finished being rebuilt.

It turned its face up to them as they dropped down toward where it waited, and as it regarded them, the magical creature seemed to make a decision.

Without any hesitation whatsoever, it turned and fled, even as it began creating stone-spider looking things all around the cavern, the spawn swarming toward the falling Paragons.

Tala’s focus was only on the mole as it tried to escape toward a side-tunnel.

Yeah, no. Rust that.
