“You were still wet, you’d lost some of your clothes in the summoning pool, and you looked younger than you do now. We treated you badly and scared you. But the whole time you walked back and forth in that room, holding me, you were talking to me. You had called me a prick earlier, but in the house of healing, you mostly spoke words of comfort. You told me you hoped I would be all right. I have studied that video. It is impossible to study that video and not see that you were giving me the gift of your compassion.”

He looked back at Alden. “I thank you for it. But it was cruel of you to get lost right after that.”

Alden couldn’t remember exactly what he had said to Stuart’s unconscious body while he paced around with it before the healers were ready.

“Hard to tell a dead man you noticed his efforts?” he asked.

“Remarkably.”

“Sorry. That was shitty of me.”

Stuart gestured at the table in front of him. “I’m going to keep doing this. Because it’s obvious and right that I should. And because it makes me happy to do it. And because you will appreciate it when you’re not being shitty.”

“I appreciate it now, Stuart. I really, really do.”

“It’s not a project that should be delayed. You should have this information before your next binding. And it needs to be thorough so that even when I’m not here you have everything you might want.”

Even if what?

“Why wouldn’t you be here?” Alden barely kept the alarm out of his voice.

“I’ll be a knight,” said Stuart. “I’ll travel to places where communication is less simple. Even when I’m somewhere like Goldbush we won’t be talking to each other as easily as we do now.”

“Goldbush…”

“The world where most young knights are training. Did you forget the name?”

“No. I remembered. I was realizing…trying to picture your work there,” Alden said slowly. “Is it a place like Moon Thegund?”

“Not in many ways,” said Stuart. “Except for the chaos, of course. Now, it’s my turn to ask you about Zeridee-und’h again, isn’t it? I think I have a fair understanding of the concepts that are essential to your skill, but I was wondering if there might be something I haven’t thought of in the way you used it when you saved her. You were separated from her, underwater, in a state of extreme stress. And you kept her shielded. Did you notice anything about how you thought or felt in that moment that might be important?”

Alden wanted to give him an answer. However, now that he was aware Stuart was actively going after information about the essence of his skill, the contract tattoo was problematic.

I’ll have to say I can’t say, he thought.

But then he realized phrasing it like that might make Stuart suspicious, and the tattoo wouldn’t allow him to deliberately make Stuart suspicious. He searched around for any answer he could give that wasn’t a lie.

It was like being trapped in a tiny, dark room, banging into walls.

“Are you well? Your face is odd.”

Alden tried to make his face be less odd.

“That was a bad night,” he said. The words dragged themselves out from between his lips. At least they weren’t a lie.

“It’s fine if there wasn’t anything obviously significant,” said Stuart. “Maybe you remember something that seems insignificant but unusual?”

He looked so expectant.

“I’ll…I’ll think about it.”

“Oh.” Stuart drooped a little, but picked himself right back up. “Well, that might be best anyway. Record every detail you can, and we’ll go over them together the next time you visit.”

“I do look forward to visiting again,” Alden said. A pitiful attempt to make up for how disappointing he was being in other ways.

“You can come see the manuscript library and help me research. That would be a nice way to spend a day, wouldn’t it?”

******

When he got off the call several minutes later, Alden had exactly enough composure left to climb up into his loft bed and punch his mattress a few times instead of hitting something that would break his hand or be broken by it. Then he smashed his face into one pillow, covered the back of his head with another, and tried cursing furiously.

It didn’t exactly work, but he could only bully a mattress and shout muffled insults at a pillow for a short while before continuing became too dumb and embarrassing. He rolled over onto his back.

This well of emotion needed something to vent at. He was so happy and touched to have a friend like Stuart. And he was so ashamed and angry at himself. And afraid of himself.

He wanted to peel off his tattoo and throw it out the window.

I wish Ro-den would appear right now.

Alden would bow to him. Then, when his head was conveniently aligned in that position, he could charge at the professor like a bull.

Yeah, that’s the thing for my temper. Bet nobody’s ever done a bow like that one.

[Video call from Boe]

Alden answered like lightning.

Boe was glaring. “You—”

“No,” said Alden, glaring back. “I’m having a bad moment, and I don’t want to hear it right now.”

“Why did you jump in front of some crazy man who could’ve taken your head off? And you did it for that ambassador whose money we blew!? What were you doing?”

“MY BEST! I was doing my best. That’s what it looks like today. And I said not right now.”

“Fine. Whatever. We’ll talk later.”

“Stuart wants to say hello to you. He is such a fucking good person, Boe. He’s awesome. And I’m starting to get really pissed that you don’t like me being friends with him.”

Boe stared at him. “How mad are you?”

“I only punched the mattress. It’s just a mattress. It can’t feel anything. I’ll be over it in ten minutes. I miss you.”

“Yeah. You too. Talk to you…tomorrow?”

“Tomorrow’s good.”

“Eat some carbs or something, Alden. Go to that spa and inhale peace potions. What’s up with you?”

“For your information, I’m having a very good week. I feel a lot more like myself. Teachers do important work. Klein and I are pals now. The hospital staff loves me, and they’re all willing to mentor and support me. I can go to the Christmas market one day and have a ton of friends and a giant family waiting for me there. And it would be a great trip with no mishaps.”

“Okay.”

“I warned you the second I answered the call,” Alden said.

“You did.”

Alden nodded. “I bought you a Christmas present. Connie’ll take it to you for me. Sorry it’ll be a few days late.”

******
