RIVERWALL

“Involve my sister?” Niala asked, ears wiggling.

David nodded. “Sybil and Sammie think it's bigger than just the orphanage. They want more, and official, resources.”

“What about your brother?”

He shrugged. “I think he's mostly an accessory to Angeline. Where she goes, he'll go.”

She narrowed her eyes. “Should you be talking about your brother like that?”

“Do you deny it?”

Niala stared back, ears rigid, tail swaying, before spinning around. “I'll go get Violet ready. Write your letter,” she said over her departing shoulder.

He grinned and sat down at his desk, fishing out writing supplies. Sammie had already sent a missive with all the details. He just had to write a small introduction.

Let's see...

“Dear brother,

Angeline needs to read this.

Best wishes,

Your brother.”

He re-read himself, nodded, and gently blew over the ink to dry it up before folding the paper and stamping it with his family seal.

The Allwarden shield-and-herb image stared back at him. It still felt weird not to see the skull-and-sword of the Wardenfel, but he guessed even that feeling would pass, with time, and as the iconography spread around.

Perhaps not so strangely, he didn't have any sense of loss at the thought. Instead, he felt that he was slowly casting off the last few cords that still held him linked to his past.

These days, he only had eyes for the future, and perhaps...

He turned his head to look at Niala as she returned from the garden, her recently re-fitted dress clinging to her curves, especially around the waist where Yrlemagne had stretched the fabric just enough that whenever his wife moved, he saw the hint of her buttock and legs.

She threw her hips to the side and rested a hand on them. “Are you already done? What did you write? Not just one line, right?”

He smiled. Perhaps he also had eyes aplenty for the present, or at least for whatever present his cute, lovely wife was in.

Yrlemagne was due a very big gift this year for Renewal Day.

He watched the mechanical violet, now powered by mana cores, flap its wings and lift up and away, angling to the north-east, toward his family's estate.

Wing flaps... He glanced at Niala. She also had wings, and she could summon a magic bird that she could sustain for as long as she had mana. With him around, that meant practically forever.

She caught his gaze. “What is it?”

“I'm wondering- over the past years, your weaving has grown a lot.”

“Yes, and?”

“You can meld it with your wind powers, and we can create something close to an arcanea incarnate when you mix it with both our mana together.”

Her ears twitched. “That... I never thought of it like that, but it kind of makes sense. What are you getting at?”

“Do you think we should try doing more?” He asked.

She furrowed her brows. “More... Using our powers? You want to go out and right wrongs?”

He shook his head. “No, not like that. I want to be here, in this town, with you, and found a family. That's hard to do on the road.”

She smiled. “David... Alright, then what do you have in mind?”

“I'd like to see if we can make our friends more powerful. By combining everything we have, you and I, we might be able to... create things.”

“Things?”

“Yeah, things, but powerful things,” he said with a bit of emphasis.

She let her ears droop. “Ah. Dangerous things. Things that could do damage if they got into the wrong hands.”

“Yes, and that's why I'm not certain, but used by the right person, they could do a lot of good.”

“Are you thinking of Sybil and Sammie?”

He lifted his shoulders. “They'd be a good test case. Sybil sounds like she'd die before doing injustice.”

Niala looked away from her husband and up into the blue sky. She'd had the feeling for a while that they were purposefully ignoring the full extent of their abilities. She'd made it a point to ignore that as well, because it was a very big, important door that wouldn't ever close again if they opened it.

But the point that David was making... If they could, and if it helped, could they afford not to? But they didn't have to carry the kingdom on their shoulders either!

She lowered her gaze back to David, who was still looking at her. “I don't know,” she admitted, her ears folding down.

He walked up to her with a quiet smile on his face, wrapping his arms around her as she leaned into him. His cheek came to rest on her head as he spoke softly. “Let's talk about it, then. Whatever decision we make, we do it together.”

There was no way for him to see her smile, but he didn't need to; they were past that point.

They just knew when the other was happy.

The couple went along with the rest of their day, coming back to the topic later that night. Still no decision.

The next day came and went, and they shared their thoughts once more, without resolution.

A third, with the same result, though tainted by frustration which bled into their words and fanned the flames. It was such a simple question; use their power more, or not. The answer kept being tossed every way except out.

On the fourth day, Niala had a revelation.

Safe and warm within David's arms in their bed, Niala tapped on his chest with a finger, her ears twitching to the beat. Then, one last tap. “I think we should do it. All the way, everything we can.”

He lifted a brow as he craned his neck to look at her. “What changed?”

“Soyana, of the hummers. She came to talk to me today. She's been doing a lot better recently, as if her mind's gone past a turning point and now she's more herself than a three or whatever.”

“What did you talk about?”

“A lot of things. She told me my commands were less like chains and more like strong suggestions now, and how she could ignore them if she focused.”

He frowned. “So she could hurt people if she wanted to? Should we re-assign guards to them?”

She rubbed her face against him a few times before resettling in his embrace. “I had the same thought, and she did as well, saying she was scared she'd hurt someone with her abilities.”

David waited for her to continue.

She sighed. “I asked her if she wanted to hurt people. She said the idea repulsed her, but also that her powers weren't fully part of her anymore either, more like a foreign presence that was only listening to her.”

She scrunched her lips. “It made me think of when I learned I had Anaakendi's powers. I was scared like that, too. What if those things manifested because I got angry, or lost control? Back then, you told me that fear came from the unknown, and learning to control them was how I could feel safe once more.”

Niala turned her head upward, meeting David's silent gaze, and smiled. “You were right, you know? The wind powers don't bother me at all. Actually, I'd be really sad if I lost them, and I mastered the enthralling ability by practising on Anaakendi enough that I know I can control it now.”

She sighed and burrowed her head back into the crook of his neck. “So I told her the same thing. A power is just a tool, and if you're scared of a tool, you need to learn how to wield it until you feel in control.”

Silence stretched in the room, filled with nothing but their slow breathing.

He spoke first. “So we should learn everything about our abilities, because we don't understand enough to make an informed decision.”

The sheets deformed as Niala's tail swished underneath. “Pretty much. What do you think?” She asked, looking up.

He smiled and put a kiss on her forehead before locking gaze with her. “I think you're beautiful and smart and wise and it's what we should do.”

Her lips curled into a happy crescent. She shuffled upward and over him, straddling his body with her legs. “I think there's something else you should do.”

“What should I do?”

She gave him a sultry look instead of answering.

Two of his neurons connected. “Oh.”

Their decisions made for now, the next question was what to explore from their abilities. Throwing ideas at the wall wasn't Niala's style, so the notebook came out, and the lists followed.

Niala had her ability to weave, to consume magic, to control the winds, to perfectly recall memories, and her alchemy.

David had infinite mana, perfect mana control, the ability to create mana cores, to infuse his imbuements into objects, and potentially people.

They already knew that they could mix David's infinite mana with Niala's weaving and her manaphaging to create permanent creations, like Heartsong and Hope's light. They were, so far, linked to them and couldn't be used by anyone else, but that didn't mean it was impossible to do otherwise.

Some testing was required.

For now, they decided to eschew Marshalla's help, instead wanting to feel things out. Their previous exploits had been borne out of emotional moments, not carefully measured processes.

Niala summoned one of her birds, grown to the size of a small house, large enough to carry them both and their eternal guardian, Jordo. They set out toward the north-east, setting down in a largely uninhabited dip in the land at the intersection of several hills about half a bell out from Riverwall.

They gathered around a large boulder, sat down, and began testing.

And that was the only thing they did for most of the day; tests, with nothing to show for it.

The barest of orange had begun filtering into the sky when Niala let out an exasperated groan. “Nothing's working!”

David watched as she stomped around from his seat on the boulder. “We haven't tried everything.”

“We tried a lot of things! But not even a hint! We mixed our mana! I ate your mana! I ate both our mana! I took your mana without eating it! I ate mana in different ways! I even tried regurgitating mana to you! I replayed the events from the creation of Heartsong and Hope's light, and I replicated them perfectly! Nothing!”

He let her pace back and forth a few more times before speaking calmly. “It's the lack of hints that's bothering you.”

“Yes! It is! When I'm creating a new formula, I at least have little pieces of a puzzle! But here, nothing!” She exclaimed, stomping her foot.

He opened his arms with a calming smile. She pouted at him for a few seconds before slumping her shoulders and padding over to him, walking into his embrace. He stroked her head as she rubbed her face against him. “It's annoying. I'm sorry. I don't want to be difficult.”

“You're fine, Kitten. I'm annoyed as well, just hiding it better.”

“Not fair.”

Jordo tilted his head, his eye flashing once. “Sir, Madam, may I offer an observation?”

Niala turned her head toward the golem. “Sure, Jordo. You know we always value your opinion!”

The golem slightly bowed. “And blessed I am to have such magnanimous masters! But after much observation and analyzing your mana patterns, there is something I think might be missing. I was only present at Heartsong's inception, so I cannot say for certain this is valid for Madam's Hope's Light as well, but my records of that time show a third mana frequency. One that I haven't recorded since, but I presume might have been present during Sir and Madam's fall from the heavens and subsequent miraculous soar.”

She tilted he head, ears lopsided. “Another mana signature? From when we created the sword?” She looked at David. “Do you think... We haven't been mixing our mana correctly?”

He scrunched his brow. “Maybe? We were rather pressed both times, and from my memories, we tuned out the rest of the world on both occasions. For Hope's Light, literally, since we were in our inner world.”

“Hmm. Then, we should just... Mediate together?”

He lifted his shoulders. “Worth a try. Here,” he said as he scuttled further back on the boulder, bringing his legs up and letting them fall to each side, creating a space between them. She caught his meaning and sat up with a little jump, plopping herself down between his legs and resting her back against him.

His arms laced around her, grabbing onto her hands and forming a bundle over her lap. A soft gust of wind ruffled their hair as they closed their eyes and listened to each other's breathing.

Second by second, they matched pace as they inhaled and exhaled. They let go of everything that wasn't each other. Their world narrowed down until nothing but them existed within it.

Nearby, Jordo stood still, his joints locked into place, outwardly nothing but a silent stone statue. Inside, his instruments furiously recorded his masters' every vitals. Their breathing synced, followed by their heartbeats. His eye dimmed in surprise as even their brainwaves began drifting toward each other.

That's when his mana sensors picked it up: a nascent new signature. Intermittent, very weak, but undeniably present.

All of his accumulated knowledge and database said this would lead to nothing. No precedents, no logical explanations.

But he knew his masters were about to do something marvellous, an unexplainable miracle.

Again.