“Yup.” Fallopolis said, “Got it.” She smiled. “That’s also how they were able to stand in front of the Clergy and not piss themselves; they’ve had practice facing Shades.” She smiled at Quilatalap. “You knew! You kept their lower halves controlled, to give them plausible deniability!”

The magenta woman, Idolizia, put a hand on Caizoa’s shoulder, and Caizoa fell into Idolizia’s arms, still crying.

Quilatalap just sighed, as he tossed fresh noodles into a pot of boiling water.

Skorka looked from her teammate, to Erick, saying, “We’re not giving humans power over anyone. Ever.”

“Good.” Erick said, “I don’t want it. But I am going to help you kill the Converter Angel when the time comes—” And then several thoughts struck Erick like a bolt from the blue. “Oh.”

Fallopolis’s jaw dropped. “You thought of something! Tell me!”

Erick looked to Quilatalap, saying, “You usually remove memories before you give out the Black Star?”

“Yeah.” Quilatalap said, “Operational procedure when giving out artifacts that have the chance to go really wrong. The Black Star is one of them.”

Erick said, “Tania is going to ask that the Black Star be given to them now. With unaltered memories.”

Fallopolis narrowed her eyes at nothing in particular, then she turned to the adventurers. “Who do you want to kill most?”

They didn’t speak. All they did was stare at Fallopolis and Erick like they were monsters.

Erick knew their unsaid answer.

Erick said, “They want to kill humans, and Tania wants to kill humans, too. You qualify as human, Fallopolis, and so do I. Hence the hatred in their eyes. Tania wants to give the Star to them and set them loose upon Kendrithyst.”

Skorka said, “You humans deserve death for what you’ve done.”

Fallopolis said, “You’re going to have to narrow that statement down, girly girl.”

“You both deserve the End.” She looked to Erick. “And you’re worse than her. That Breach Demon would have helped to finally end the threat of the Republic.”

Caizoa stopped crying long enough to say, “I want to see Uncle Anopix. Where is his body?”

“Turned to gore then ash, no doubt.” Fallopolis said, “Sorry, girl. Your uncle is gone.”

Caizoa sniffled, then continued to silently cry.

Skorka glared at Fallopolis, saying, “We’re not stupid enough to start a war against the human Shades, or the Shade-adjacent.”

Erick saw that for a lie, and he called her on it. “Why keep lying? I can already see you thinking about what it would mean to join Tania in her war. You’ve already worked with one Shade long before today, so what’s another?”

And then another thought occurred. Should he kill these people, to prevent Tania using them against every human under the barrier?

Erick asked Quilatalap, “Would this scenario be possible? Wouldn’t the Black Star kill the user if they used it like this?”

“Now that you’ve laid it all out there…” Quilatalap fished noodles out of one massive pot and put them into the second massive pot, full of cheese sauce. He said, “It sounds like a risk Tania would be willing to let these people take.”

“It’s messy, but… But it would kick it all off. Honestly, it’s getting rather stale, waiting this long for the open war to begin. If Tania does this...” Fallopolis shrugged. “I can evade these young idiots, so I’m not worried about myself. So, I say: Let Tania have her plots! I should go work on my own.” She stood up. “Good luck, kids! I hope you kill plenty of Shades before the Black Star kills you.” She turned to Erick. “We can talk magic another day; there’s work to be done!” She stepped into shadows, and was gone.

Rexx, the assassin, lost his mask, as he muttered, “Well, shit.”

Idoliza said, “Seven more gods damned days in here.”

“I can put you all into storage if you want.” Quilatalap said, “But it sounds like people have plans for you, and it’ll be hard to evade those plans when you’re not yourself.”

“No storage.” Skorka said, “We live and die in the open.”

Erick asked, “Who was Anopix, Quilatalap?”

Caizoa shouted, “A wonderful man! The only good Shade out there!” She did not devolve back into tears, but it was a close thing.

Erick frowned at them. “You just said a Shade was ‘good’, and Skorka there is entertaining the idea of joining Tania’s scheme to kill the human Shades, at least. But there’s only one Black Star, right? Only one of you gets it. That means the rest of you die when you try this crazy idea.”

Skorka said, “We knew what was necessary before we tried for the Black Star. We have a plan.”

Rexx eyed Skorka, saying, “We had a plan, Skorka.” He added, “Joining a Clergy-plot will harm that plan.”

“What is your plan?” Erick asked.

Skorka looked away from Erick. Taking their cue from her, the other three began to ignore Erick, too.

It appeared that Erick didn’t rate an explanation without a Shade standing beside him. He didn’t know whether to be happy or mad about that.

Quilatalap finished plating out six large bowls of pasta, saying, “Seems this is a good time to stop talking and eat, no? Maybe you four will feel less suicidal after some pasta.” He asked Violet, “Can you help dish these out?”

Violet, who had been standing off to the side this whole time, being professionally barely seen, and not heard, did as she was asked. There was a bowl left over for her, too, but she gracefully said that she would eat later. She would probably report all of what was said to Queen, later, too. But no one seemed to care about that.

The adventurers accepted their food, in silence, and remained in silence the whole time.

It was an awkward lunch.

Partway through, Erick asked, “Oh, Quilatalap? You mentioned that the thick air from [Cleanse] was a very complicated topic.”

Skorka, Caizoa, Rexx, and Idoliza, scowled at Erick.

“We can talk afterward.” Quilatalap asked, “But have you bought all those Sights, yet?”

Erick said, “Yeah. I bought them earlier, and leveled them during your presentation. They’re all level 10.”

Mana Sight X, instant, close range, 5 mana per second

See the truth of mana all around you.

Blood Sight X, instant, close range, 5 mana per second

See the blood all around you.

Soul Sight X, instant, close range, 5 mana per second

See the souls all around you.

They were easy to level, since they were just 5 mana per second experience machines, and Erick could run all of them at the same time. He just activated them through an Ophiel who was sitting out of the way, with nothing better to do.

“Good.” Quilatalap said, “They’re not great on their own, but they are necessary for creating counters.”

- - - -

Erick looked through the back window of the house, at a small cottage partially hidden beyond some low trees. He asked, “They’re actually going to be safe over there?”

Quilatalap shut the door behind him, as he said, “They’re not safe. No one is safe, Erick. Especially not with this trouble looking to start.” He sat on the couch. “But I can help prepare you a bit. Any radiant questions, burning pages in your book?”

Erick looked at Quilatalap. “Oh. It’s a saying.”

Quilatalap laughed. “Making me feel old! I thought everyone still said that one?”

“Maybe they do?” Erick said, “I’m beginning to think that I don’t spend nearly enough time outside of my own house. I have the distinct feeling that I missed out on talking to those four; on trying to come to an understanding. I should have been able to talk to those people, to try… But… The hostility of this world still gets me… sometimes. Or maybe all the time.”

Quilatalap nodded, knowingly. “Something to work on.”

“Lots of things to work on!” Erick sat down on the couch across from him, and rattled off a few of his goals, both long term and short term, in no particular order, “The best [Dispel]. The best [Privacy Ward]. The possibility of learning [Resurrection], and the possibility of learning an [Immortality] spell. Though those last two are more curiosity than necessity. Oh! And the possibility of a [Renew] spell.”

Quilatalap thought. He said, “Let’s start with the impossibilities. [Resurrection] and [Immortality]. The first, because you’re not ready and I don’t teach that to just anyone, no matter their backing. And [Immortality] is impossible without Phagar’s direct allowance. It’s much easier to just learn enough Blood Magic and Soul Magic to keep yourself running for however long you wish.”

Erick nodded. He had expected most of that.

Quilatalap continued, “[Dispel]… Normally, I wouldn’t push people down this path, but you might do well to learn how to [Counterspell]. It's a variant [Dispel] that allows the user to spend a pittance of mana, comparatively, to lock down another spellcaster’s casting. Useless in a duel, when you might run out of mana or mess up a counter well before your opponent makes a mistake, and then you’re dead. Useless when the enemy has an Elemental Body and knows how to use it outside of a Script Second. But in certain situations [Counterspell] shines. One of those situations is when you’re in a group, and you have one dedicated Counterspeller. For you, you can probably achieve the best of all worlds by dedicating an Ophiel to this task.”

Ophiel cooed at his name.

“What about a [Total Dispel]?” Erick clarified, “Spend a thousand mana, [Dispel] any single spell. Or all the spells on a person. Or… All the spells connected to a person. That would be useful.”

Quilatalap chuckled. “That would be useful, but that’s firmly in the realm of a Destruction Wizard.”

Erick grumbled.

“The Script enforces a lot of nuances in its operations. One of those is a 1-to-1 mana cost to erase another mage’s spellwork.” Quilatalap added, “You can make a [Dispel] with some high-ratio Variable costs, but that’s either Blood Magic, or ‘tricking’ magic. I can help you achieve some of that, too.”

Erick nodded.

Quilatalap continued, “I think that the best [Privacy Ward] is going to be rather easy for you, now that you have a mana sense. As soon as you can get [Witness], you can put that and [Scry] and all the Sights you got today, backwards, into [Ward]. Or, if you don’t want to block the sight of your Ophiel, you can not include [Scry]. Play around with it. It’s only tier 2 or 3, depending on if you want to start with a good [Privacy Ward], first.

“Now, as for [Renew]…” Quilatalap asked, “What is that?”

“A spell I’ve been kicking around for a while.” Erick said, “The idea is a spell that would allow others to [Renew] ongoing magics. Here’s an example: you have your resident archmage cast a big defensive spell around a city, and then you have guards, or whoever, contribute to the defense by casting [Renew] into the shield, renewing duration, damage absorption, [Teleport]-negation. That sort of stuff. It would be like large-scale temporary enchanting, that anyone could contribute to, that would have the potential to outlast the archmage’s life by a very long time.”

Quilatalap instantly said, “Paradox Wizard. No other way to do that.”

Erick’s heart sunk. “Nooo….”

“Yes.” Quilatalap said, “But… Tell me if I have some wrong assumptions: What you’re asking to make is a Basic Tier spell that anyone can buy for a point. This spell will allow for the renewal of magic, which, when you get down to the complexity required, is like an original caster using a coin-press to churn out a spell, and then when that spell degrades, like a coin rusting, another caster comes by and meticulously fiddles with the coin to un-rust it. Is this basically correct?”

“Yes! But! [Mend] exists. This would just be [Mend] for magic?”

“Ah! But [Mend] doesn’t actually fix anything. It makes it so those items never broke.”

“… What?”

“That is what [Mend] does.” Quilatalap said, “And when the damage to an object is too deep —too ingrained in the history of the item— [Mend] fails. To make a long explanation short: In a similar way in which [Mend] fails to heal long-term damage, when magic degrades, the damage is too deep to be repaired.”

“So maybe a [Renew] that works on new-ish magic? It won’t revive a dead spell, but it will keep a young spell young?”

“No. Let me explain another way: [Mend] is physical reconstitution of an etheric construct of the manasphere that exists because items have lingering lives in the manasphere. Going in the other direction, to make mana constructs from the physical, is also possible, but that field of magic is called enchanting. But you don’t want to use artifacts or enchantments, so, that’s that.”

“But. Like…” Erick tried, “I can unrust a coin with Particle Magic.” He wasn’t able to right then, but Erick was pretty sure he could string together a few Particle Spells to unrust most any coin. “And I’ve made a Permanent duration spell before! I know it’s possible to ‘repair’ magic.”

Quilatalap took a deep breath, and sat back on his couch. He said, “You’ve got a lot of overlapping problems and topics, so let’s tackle the permanent duration spell, first.

“In the case of permanent magic, you made a spell that is readily able to be repaired through the natural vagaries of magic. I’ve made a few permanent duration spells, too. We probably made them in similar ways, with built-in methodology for self-repair. Right?”

“Yeah… Sort of.”

