And there were too many new names today. This was not mentally exhausting, but it was emotionally exhausting. Erick had just upended a local crime syndicate not two hours ago, after all.

Caizoa, the Juggernaut, said, “A defensive skill, to prevent the likes of you from running over us like a raging wyrm.”

“Oh! Baby, darling, honey, sweetcake.” Fallopolis lightly said, “Don’t challenge a Shade to prove they’re better than you. You wouldn’t like the obvious outcome.” She offhandedly complained to whoever would listen, saying, “Children these days! Did you not even read the codes of conduct for entering Kendrithyst? Such shame.”

Skorka put a hand to Caizoa, preventing the woman from rising from her chair, as Skorka said, “Our Caizoa is the idiot of the group. Pay her no mind.”

Caizoa glared at Skorka, but there was more embarrassment in her look than any real heat.

“I was already doing so, dear, but here’s some advice for you: don’t tell a Shade what to do. They’ll go out of their way to fuck you over.” Fallopolis magnanimously said, “You four are going to experience a lot more shit till you get out of here with your Black Star. Best be better than who you are!”

“Your advice is acceptable.” Skorka asked, “When can we leave?”

Quilatalap said, “As soon as the barrier is down. 7 more days.”

Professionally, Skorka said, “We will not last that long if we are to be paraded out in front of the… The Clergy, time and again. I ask that we be allowed to leave Brightwater, and to take refuge in the open city beyond.”

Fallopolis tilted her head. “No. You’d die out there, for sure.”

Skorka barely kept the glare out of her eyes, as she asked, “Why?”

Like it was the most obvious thing in the world, Fallopolis said, “Because I’d kill you myself, take that Black Star, and shove it at Erick.”

While the four adventurers glared from the Shade to Erick, Erick just sighed, Quilatalap paused his kneading for a moment, before continuing, and Fallopolis looked like a cat who got the cream.

Erick said at Fallopolis, “Why.”

With exuberance, Fallopolis said, “To start this show off right! Tania is already planning on—”

“Are you really doing this, Fallopolis?” Quilatalap asked.

“Yes, we are doing this! It’s already happening, my fine dead friend! Tania killed two Shades this morning!” Fallopolis continued talking at Quilatalap, undaunted, “All the smart ones know what is happening, and all the dumb dumbs are decidedly dead.” Fallopolis gave a wild smile, as she continued, “And these four can either fall in line, or fall apart. Besides! All they wanted was for the Converter Angel to die, right? Give Erick the Black Star, and that problem solves itself!”

“I’m not going on a killing spree, Fallopolis.” Erick said, as he sat down on an empty couch, facing the rest of them.

“You really could, though.” Fallopolis kindly said, “And I’d help.”

Skorka said, “We don’t want to get involved—”

“Shush.” Fallopolis shot them a look. “The adults are talking.”

Skorka continued anyway, “And we refuse to allow the Black Star to fall into the hands of an archmage, anyway. It’s ours, by right of trial, and we will see that Angel evicted from this world before it can do any more damage.”

“Oh?” Fallopolis, partially mad, went suddenly intrigued. She asked, “It’s not the human-thing that concerns you? It’s the unkillable archmage? That’s interesting… I wonder why.” Casually, and in a way that no one thought was actually casual, she asked, “Have you been talking to Tania already? Or was it Bulgan?”

While their Juggernaut paled to a brighter shade of blue, the other three tried not to give away the game at all. They failed. They were very good at it, though. Erick could barely tell that Skorka knew the most of all of them. He wasn’t quite sure how he knew; but he did.

Erick looked directly at Skorka. She looked at him. Erick asked, “Did one of them want you to kill me?” Erick instantly zeroed in on the assassin; Rexx. “Why?”

No one spoke. Rex activated some sort of Skill; his breathing evened out as he calmed, completely, and began to sit there, same as before, but now with a mask to his features, and an average beat to his heart.

Without turning from the adventurers, Fallopolis offered, “Tania wants Erick dead now?”

Confusion, all around, except for Rexx. His entire body was still a mask.

After a moment, Erick said, “No... That’s not it. Maybe Tania or Bulgan weren’t involved, yet?” Erick realized, saying, “It was another Shade. But who?”

“… Perhaps.” Fallopolis said, “Likely, in any case. So who was it? Are you four kids connected to one of us? Oh. That got a reaction.” It had. Caizoa, the blue Juggernaut, gave away that secret. Fallopolis waited a beat, and when no one spoke, she said, “I’m going to throw out some names. Here goes: Silverite—”

Not one of the adventurers had any emotions.

Erick openly balked. “What?”

Fallopolis glanced at Erick, saying, “It’s a long list! I can probably do this without you, but you might want to know going forward. So hush, and let me do my Quick Interrogation!” She pointed at Rexx. “And you. Stop that. It’s a crutch. That [Stilled Body] does you more harm than good, because not only does it prevent you from developing real skill, if you don’t stop, there’s going to be some physical harm done to you, right now.”

Quilatalap said, “Fallopolis. Do not harm my guests.”

Fallopolis mouthed, ‘Killjoy’.

Skorka spoke up, “We wish to go back into stasis until this is over. We have a goal, and it has nothing to do with whatever is going on with you all.”

Quilatalap said, “If I put you in storage, you’ll likely die.” He said, “I saw the look in Tania’s eyes. I can’t tell exactly what she wanted, but she has something planned, and it will likely involve you. So if you’re not there to participate, then you will die.”

The women adventurers went silent. The man, Rexx, was still operating under the power of his Skill.

“Fine! I’ll continue the interrogation normally. Bah!” Fallopolis rattled off, “Viscount Andro Helix, of Frontier… No. Pirazel Xelxex, of Kal’Duresh… Looks like a no. North, Old Kingdom, Swamptown, Delta, the Wall… Oh. Old Kingdom. Yes. House Blue. House Tourniquet. King Rashi. Oh. There’s something. House Ribbon— House Ribbon! But not all of you. Skorka. House Ribbon. Yes.”

Erick watched her do it, keeping up with the names that were new to him, and watching as her words sent ripples through the Adventurers. They reacted to a lot more than just ‘Old Kingdom’, though— Oh.

Erick frowned at Fallopolis, saying, “They’ve been inside the Armory for two months. You already knew all this. Are you doing this to prove something to me?”

“No no.” Fallopolis said, “Well. Yes. I knew the basics of where they came from, but this business of not wanting to hook up with you is very odd. They’re from Swamptown, Erick. So why did they react to ‘Old Kingdom’ so much? That’s what gives me pause. That, and that you’re already contracted to help kill the Converter Angel, and the New Demons know this, so these people should know this, too. So why not use you? When you searched and found those hunters, after they ran? That was worldwide news! You’d be nothing but a help to these people. So. This reluctance is an unexpected phenomenon, and Tania must have caught on to that, too.

“What I just pinged off were the larger Kingdoms of the Wasteland, and I wanted to see where the discrepancies led, for myself. Old Kingdom is a very old operating area for almost every Shade who has ever gone through that place.” She turned back to the adventurers, and started naming Shades. “Cludolphis, Farix, Goldie, Queen, Perri, Rodel, Skyhook… None of these? Odd.”

Erick came to the same conclusion, mostly.

Fallopolis said, “Let’s get weird, then. Strain, Mallor, Natis, Gora, Anopix— Aha! Anopix! OF COURSE it’s that one. But I had to go through the other options first, to get a baseline, you know.”

Three adventurers flinched, in tiny, barely visible ways, as Fallopolis spoke of Anopix. Rexx did not. He was still under the influence of his Skill.

Fallopolis smiled, asking anyone, “Is that why Tania killed Anopix today?”

Their reactions were much larger, that time. Much larger. Skorka breathed deep. The other three, even Rexx, seemed to deflate, ever so slightly. Caizoa’s eyes went wide, and wet, as anger washed across her face, and she whispered denials to herself.

Skorka simply said, “Shit.”

Fallopolis triumphantly declared, “You need to pick a new route if you want to go forward with your plans! That one is closed, my sweets! Anopix is deader than the Old Cosmology!” She gestured to Erick, saying, “Here’s a route. Pretty good one, too. With the Black Star on his chest, he can kill all the Shades and then move on to the Converter Angel.”

Skorka said, “I will not give absolute power to a human.”

“Ah!” Fallopolis laughed, then said, “It IS the human-thing! Good old racism! Pops up where you least expect it!”

“I don’t want that Star.” Erick said, “And I will not accept it.”

Fallopolis’s face fell a fraction. “But it’s such a good solution! Everyone wins!”

Erick was still thinking of the bodies on the playground, as he said, “I don’t think I can kill anyone today.”

“Okay okay. Fine fine.” Fallopolis said, “Tomorrow, then. Nothing has to happen right now!”

No one spoke. The adventurers glared at Erick, or at Fallopolis. Caizoa silently glared at the table in front of her, hot tears rolling down her face. Quilatalap silently rolled pasta into sheets, and moments passed in relative silence.

Erick said, “I’d like to know more about Anopix.”

Caizoa’s face shot up to stare at Erick.

Fallopolis asked, “How much do you know of the Opalice Kingdom, and the Scaled Horns?”

Erick said, “The Opalice Empire are the people who broke the Lori Dukedom, while the Scaled Horns were the ones that tried to push for dragonkin inclusion into higher offices in the Greensoil Republic. The two events happened at roughly the same time on opposite sides of Glaquin.” Erick thought a bit more, and added, “When the Opalice Empire was destroyed and the remnants became the Wasteland Kingdoms, meanwhile, over in the Greensoil Republic, the Scaled Union was radicalized into the Scaled horns...” He asked Fallopolis. “The Opalice Empire was a nation of Script-haters. Was that you?”

Fallopolis said, “I know for an undeniable fact that the Clergy did not cause the fall of the Lori Dukedom. They were controlled, and we liked them that way.”

“Yeah. Right. A land as old and as stable as the Lori Dukedom suddenly falls to anti-Script rhetoric and you expect me to think you guys weren’t involved?”

“I mean… We were involved… In a way. But it wasn’t very direct.” Fallopolis said, “Long story short: Anopix was a dragonkin born to an incani mother and a dragon father, who reached maturity about the time the Opalice Empire was gaining traction in the Lori Dukedom. Anopix came to us while the Lori Dukedom was still burning. He became a Shade, and then he went right back into the world, looking to kill those who had taken his kingdom from him. Where all the rest of us were content to watch that part of the world burn, Anopix went on a silent rampage, cleaning up the Opalice Empire, and then, when that was done, he left the remnants of that land to their own devices.

“Anopix next set his sights on the Greensoil Republic, looking for revenge however he could get it, for the killers of his kingdom had to be human, right?” Sarcastically, Fallopolis said, “It’s not like people are dumb and hateful and controlling on their own. Anyway. Anopix had heard about their Scaled Union, and went to investigate. No one but those people are truly sure what happened, then. But soon enough, the Scaled Union changed from an instrument of slow social change, into an organization dedicated to pushing radical change. When that didn’t work, they turned to extremism, and terrorism. And then you have the birth of the Halls of the Dead somewhere in all that mess.” Fallopolis said, “Anopix has been quietly seeding war against the Republic for a long time. He’s rarely ever in Kendrithyst—”

The blue woman, Caizoa, couldn’t handle it anymore. She yelled, “And you PIGS turned our best hope for real change into Experience! DAMN YOU ALL!” She flickered, blue, then went still.

Quilatalap was staring at her. He had done something.

Caizoa sat back down in her chair, like a puppet put to rest. The other three incani glared from Fallopolis, to Quilatalap, to Erick, but no one said a word.

And then Fallopolis said, “I knew Anopix cultivated some sort of following. But to get this reaction? How close were you?”

Skorka breathed deep. Then she said, “He was a silent benefactor. Some of us were closer to him than others.”

That was a lie. A pretty big one, too.

“Why bother lying, now?” Erick asked.

Caizoa stiffened, as she sat upright in her chair. Quilatalap must have let her go. She didn’t speak, but she did hunker down in her chair.

And then Fallopolis set off a metaphorical bomb, saying, “Caizoa. You’re related to Anopix, aren’t you.” She pointed at Caizoa. “Familial relation? Did Anopix have a sister or brother somewhere? Someone he kept with him after becoming a Shade?” She narrowed her eyes, and hammered in, “Are you his grand-niece?”

Caizoa’s eyes went wide. And then her chest heaved. Her shoulders shook. And she started bawling. Snotty, tear-filled crying. It rapidly got worse, and louder.

