Quilatalap nodded. “But you’re talking about making a spell that will enable the repair of any random spell you encounter. Now, if you wish to make a specific shield spell, and then teach people some individualized spells that people have to learn that can specifically repair the specific original spell you cast, that might be doable. You might even be able to make an artifact that is able to prop up this shield you speak of, with nodes that allow the caster to imbue them with mana, to continue to prop up the shield. This has even been done before.

“But what you’re actually trying to do is have anyone repair any damaged magic. True?”

Erick said, “True… But now I’m really intrigued about this shielding artifact you speak of.”

“The real ones are called Tears of Aloeth. The fake ones are called City Shields, though no one uses them anymore since they’re so easy to break. Anti-specific-magic runes are much, much more reliable, and harder to break, since you have to stress multiple runes for the whole system to fail. Stressing and breaking a City Shield is as easy as attacking any part of the construct. Anyway—” Quilatalap continued, saying, “To be able to [Renew] with a simple spell is the realm of Wizards.

“Because here’s another fact to know: No two people cast the same magic.

“The Script makes this fact even more clear-cut, but even the Script has just codified something that has been true since the dawn of time. You see: When a person buys a spell from the Script for a point, that act of buying and accepting that spell into their soul, and then leveling that spell, is the creation of their own, personal mold in the magic. Their own coin-press, so that they can pop out the same spell they managed to cast that one time, again and again.

“Magic does not interact with other magic, not directly…

“I say that, but there’re caveats. There’s sympathetic magic or metamagic. Like [Dispel]. Or various exceedingly complicated spell-searching spells. Or any host of other minor overlaps. Even group-casting is only possible when everyone has the same spell, and even then your working might not work, for there are discrepancies between every mage, and small cracks might turn into chasms in a group-cast.

“But the fact is, is that no one truly casts from the same magic, so to create a [Renew], you would have to either make it through Paradox Wizardry, which would honestly be the easiest way, or you would have to make a spell that would…” Quilatalap went silent, thinking. When he started speaking again, his voice was much less negative. “But...” He offered, “Okay. So. As a thought experiment, there would have to be a tapping-into of the spell you wish to [Renew], and then an Altering of your own magic into something compatible with the target spell, and then you’d have to prop up what had come before… Somehow…” He went silent again. “It would be like trying to manually repair a house, and...”

Erick waited.

After a minute, Quilatalap said, “Outside of Wizardry, if such a spell were possible, it would be horribly mana inefficient, and it would be much higher than Basic Tier. You’d probably have to pull apart a Tear of Aloeth and try to recreate that divine magic, as a normal mage.”

Erick smiled wide. “That’s further than I’ve gotten!”

“Your foray into permanent magic will help you in this quest.” Quilatalap said, “But let’s talk about something else for a little while. I’ll keep thinking about your [Renew], though.”

“Okay!” Erick grinned, happily asked, “Next question! What is UP with that Thick Air! Or should I say, what is down with that thick air? It sinks pretty good.”

“Oh yes.” Quilatalap said, “That thick air you see when you [Cleanse] is another part of magic that the Script has merely codified, instead of outright changed.” Quilatalap said, “I will briefly lay out the most basic nature of magic.

“Mana comes in distinct Elements. Stone, Water, Air, Fire, Shadow, and Light. We’re ignoring all the rest for now. They exist. They matter. They don’t matter for this conversation.

“When these six combine in roughly equal measure, they form mana that is suitable for life, for balanced mana becomes something larger than the sum of its parts. But it is the breaking of that balance that leads to more life. In such a case, if there is a critical mass of life already in the area, that life eventually balances the mana out again, which leads to more life. This is a compounding cycle, where life creates mana and mana creates life.

“As long as the balance isn’t too unbalanced, that is. In such a case, life usually dies rather fast.

“But back to balanced mana: All the mana around us is partially tuned by the Script to be balanced, to generally enable life and magic. The Script keeps a loose rein on elemental balance, only truly fixing this balance when it breaks. It hasn’t broken many times since the creation of Veird, but— Eh. That’s history.

“Anyway.

“But aside from balance, mana also comes in density. Here, the Script readily enforces a good equilibrium. Not too solid, not too thin. You don’t see mana rocks on Veird, nor do you see mana vapors. All you really get is the manasphere, which is basically liquid mana.

“But consider this: in water, there is a triple point, where ice, water, and steam, can all exist at once. This is similar to what the Script does, all across Veird, all the time. But it’s not perfect. And neither is the balance of elements.

“Because life needs broken balances in order to grow and function.”

Erick was suddenly reminded of potential energy and heat energy and all the other energies he knew of, and how they related to life. Life could be said to exist in the broken balance between high and low energy states; in the drawing from high energy, to the using of that energy, to the expulsion of low energy. Erick smiled, as he saw a great deal of similarities between what Quilatalap was saying, and what he already knew.

Quilatalap continued, “So. Back to [Cleanse], and the nature of magic:

“In the Old Cosmology, if you wanted to cast a [Fireball] you needed fire mana. If you were in an area of very low fire mana, any [Fireball]s you cast would either fail, or end up as puffs of flame, and nothing more.

“Until you [Cleanse]d the space, and restored balance to the world.

“Restoring balance enabled that balance to be broken again. In this way, you could thus cast your [Fireball] at full strength.”

Erick said, “Ohh!”

Quilatalap said, “Since [Cleanse] has been codified in the Script, it has gained some additional functionality, but in the beginning, it was just the ritual to prepare a space for magic, and for life.” He added, “So when you [Cleanse], not only are you fixing the messes all around you, you’re also balancing the world with the matter turned to mana by that [Cleanse].” He finished with, “You hardly ever see it anymore, but if there’s not enough people [Cleanse]ing in a year, then the gods release large-scale [Cleanse]s all across the inner surface of the Edge of the Script, whereupon that thick air will fall through the world, toward the Core, fixing problems as it goes.”

Erick smiled. It was all so magical! And wonder—

“… Wait. So [Cleanse] turns matter into mana?” Erick said, “I mean… I see that happen all the time. But I didn’t expect it to actually mean what I thought it meant.”

“Yes. [Cleanse] turns matter into mana.” Quilatalap said, “In the other direction, mana becomes matter any time a slime is born. That’s also a major part of the mana cycle.”

“There’s a cycle?!” Erick instantly added, “I mean. Of course there is some sort of cycle?”

“There is. It’s an exceedingly complicated topic that is hard to explore on Veird, for reasons of the Script.” Quilatalap said, “And by the way: Slimes were the first [Cleanse]rs. They’re really good at balancing mana, too, if you let them. This is why slimes pop up in dungeons that have been tuned too far into one type of mana. They’re trying to re-balance the world by removing excess mana types and condensing them into their core.” Quilatalap stated, “This is how dungeoneering works: The dungeon creates an imbalance. Slimes move in to rectify that imbalance. People harvest that imbalance by harvesting the slimes. Repeat to infinity.

“Or, in a more natural setting, monsters or animals grow and spread by eating those slimes, and slimes eventually stop spawning because the imbalance is solved.” Quilatalap added, “But imbalances are almost never truly solved. There’s always more slimes spawning somewhere, in some unbalanced area.”

Erick felt like he had been slammed by knowledge.

“… Slimes are the basis for life on Veird?! And Magic?!”

Quilatalap said, “Slimes are born whenever there’s too much mana or imbalance. In being born, and in bringing balance, they thus enable more life to break that balance and flourish.”

Erick had visions of evolution, dancing in his brain. “Does it go somewhere from there? More complicated slimes? Multi-slime slimes?”

“Yes; all of that.” Quilatalap said, “Eventually, after thousands and thousands of years, slimes evolve— Back before the Script, I mean. Slimes evolved into higher lifeforms all the time, back then. Theoretically. I never saw it happen, but some immortals liked to watch it happen, and cause it to happen. There was always the occasional story of an intrepid scholar finding slimes with nervous systems or eyes, out there in the more remote parts of the Mana Ocean. But that doesn’t get a chance to happen on Veird. Not enough time. Not enough undisturbed slimes.” He whispered, saying, “Don’t tell anyone I told you, but back in the Old Cosmology, every learned person thought that our universe started with mana and slimes, and then worked up from there.”

Erick scrunched his face. He asked, “But what about the First Telling? With Melemizargo and Xoat?”

“A version of the truth, or completely true. I’m not sure; I wasn’t there.” Quilatalap shrugged. “What I do know is that the Clergy changes its dogma with each new dragon who takes up the mantle left by the old God of Magic, as each holder runs things a little bit differently. Now, I say that, and you should understand that names and timings and certain stories might have changed from one holder of that Dark Divine Spark to the next, but the First Telling about the Darkness meeting Xoat is almost certainly true. That one has never been told differently.

“But it’s also possible that all life was all slimes in the beginning.”
