Erick needed to clear his head.

So, for whatever reason, he decided to visit a few more Presentations, while almost all the Shades were busy being elsewhere. Such were the circumstances in which he found himself walking along the roads of the Palace District, toward whatever that place up ahead was, where a plume of rainbow smoke billowed out from atop a long post.

He wasn’t alone.

“Not that I’m saying your presence isn’t welcome. But why?”

Fallopolis said, “I’m waiting to see who you kill next. That business with Gora was pure art, that was.”

Erick reflexively gasped, but he kept his reaction tiny, as soon as he realized it was happening. He said, “I didn’t kill him.” Erick attempted to quip, “Not a single point of Participation.”

“And that’s what made it so artful!” Fallopolis happily added, “Gora makes two Shades killed today.”

“… Two?” Erick asked, “Who was the other one?”

“You don’t know him, but he was a dragonkin Shade who helped the Halls of the Dead gain the materials to make a Breach Demon, all those months ago.”

Erick paused. He tried to think of any possible person, in any of Killzone’s words, who fell in line with what Fallopolis had just said. He came up blank. “I really should have heard of that one before now.” Especially since he was the one who killed the Breach Demon. He asked, “Who was it?”

“Guy by the name of Anopix. He always keeps to the deep shadows. He barely showed up this year. And then Tania killed him.” Fallopolis said, “He was a less-successful version of Torika, the Shade of Ashes. The one who Tania Judged the other day who went around infiltrating and killing higher-ups? You remember. I think Tania is following a plan, and culling the slippery or quiet ones, first. Anopix barely had a presence inside Kendrithyst, so he certainly qualified as quiet.” Fallopolis smirked. “Get it? Quiet? Of the Quiet War?”

“Well then I’m glad he’s dead.” Erick added, “Couldn’t have happened to a better guy.”

Fallopolis nodded, agreeing. Then she said, “Tania is done, though.”

Erick frowned a little. “What does that mean?”

“It means that it’s going to start, soon. Cracks are showing.” Fallopolis said, “Look around you, Erick. Does this look like a place on the verge of a party?”

Erick had been looking around all this time. He saw normal people rushing to follow white lines carved into the road, hurrying to get to presentations, to submit themselves to individual Shades for consideration. He saw presentation spaces almost empty, or manned by a single non-Shade. What he didn’t see was the cavorting and extravagance and lounging and casual violence that he had expected, coming in to this Feast. “Well. Maybe.” He said, “I did expect orgies out in the open.”

Fallopolis exclaimed, “Yes! No orgies this year! You see it. This is wrong. And people are catching on.” She asked, “What’s your plan when the towers start falling?”

“I can’t tell you what I don’t know, Fallopolis.”

With a slight scowl, she said. “How very politic.” And then she looked ahead. “Oh? Are we going to taunt Hollowsaur, next?”

Erick’s destination was just ahead; a large plot of grasslands on the western slope of the Palace, where large cages sat in the sun, and animals prowled under the watchful eye of their Beastmaster, Hollowsaur.

Erick said, “I heard he makes level 90 beasts, and I wanted to see one.”

Fallopoilis eyed him. “Why, though?”

He shrugged. “For a number of reasons.”

Fallopolis hmm’d, as the two of them finally moved close enough to see, in person, what was going on with the ‘animals’. Beyond a small fence that would have done nothing to prevent any sort of escape if any of the monsters inside wanted to escape, lounged four beasts, sunning themselves in the aurora light from above. Several small green people sat around with them, tending to their needs like the monsters were rich ladies at a spa. It was a relaxing sort of atmosphere.

Except for the monstrous monsters, of course.

One beast was a fox. It was three meters tall, and void-black, even its eyes, save for the tiny white tufts on the tips of its ears, and on the tips of its three tails. It sat in the sun, enjoying itself as a small green person brushed out its coat with a long rake. It yawned, showing off a red maw full of needle teeth.

Another monster was actually a collection of normal-sized monsters: owls made of lightning and fire. Four of them sat upon a scorched tree stand, while a small green man took turns flipping up fishes to them.

Ophiel instantly took an interest in the birds, and they took an interest in Ophiel, but Erick kept his own [Familiar]s back, as the lightning birds flapped a little and hooted at him from twenty meters away. A suddenly concerned owl-feeder looked over to Erick, his eyes going wide as he shook his head, muttering ‘no-no-no-no’. Erick just nodded, and stayed away from the lightning birds as he moved Ophiel out of direct line of sight. The owls calmed down, and Erick stayed on the edge of the field.

The last monster was an eyebeast made of golden eyes, held together by optic nerves and magic. Four meters tall, it almost looked like some sort of bull. The shape was there; four equal-length legs made of eyes, a thick body made of eyes, and a head with horns, which were, of course, made of eyes.

Killzone had told Erick about this one. It had been made from adventurers who had been turned into ‘eye-cattle’, who were then harvested for eyes, while being healed to ensure that the eyes kept coming. It was horrific stuff.

Doing some very rough math, and estimating the weight of an eye and the optic nerve weighing 10 grams, and comparing the bull in front of him to those Erick knew of, as weighing 1500 kg…

“A hundred and fifty thousand eyes?” Erick guessed. “Sounds about right.”

The gold-eyed bull plodded around on the grass. It leaned down to open its maw and eat some grass. Oh. So it had teeth, too. Maybe it wasn’t fully made of eyes? How quaint.

The abomination turned toward Erick. It huffed, then went back to its small green caretaker.

Erick turned to leave.

Hollowsaur stood on the road. He narrowed his eyes at Erick, and asked, “What do you want?”

“I wanted to see the pretty monsters.”

“Cow shit.”

“Maybe.” Erick said, “I’ve actually been thinking a bit, too. Maybe that’s why I came over here.”

Hollowsaur deadpanned, “What.”

“You offer incentives for people to invade you, asking them to harm your people and your pets, and then you kill them when they aren’t fast or strong enough because you enjoy this. But you’re obviously skilled enough to make horrors without using people.” Erick gestured toward the monsters, asking, “So why do you do this? Do you hate the world? Do you simply wish to cause lasting harm? I don’t think you actually do wish to cause true harm, for these people here seem to like you. Or have you soul scoured them into loving you like fanatics?”

One of the green men rushed the fence at the edge of the garden, shouting, “You leave him alone! He’s a good guy!”

Hollowsaur glared at the smaller man. No audible words were exchanged, but the man went back to work, tending to the eye-bull.

“I don’t control my people like that, Erick.” Hollowsaur turned toward Erick. “I turned those invaders back into people. They’re still partially cows. That’s never going to change. So congratulations on inventing a new form of sapient life. They’re your responsibility now.”

“Ah.” Erick nodded. “The minotaurs. Glad to hear they’re okay. I’ll have to go check on them later.”

Hollowsaur scrunched his face. “The what?”

“You stole Jane’s laptop. Those words are in there.” Erick said, “Anyway. I hope they won’t have long lasting health, social, or soul problems because of what you did.”

“They’re more stable than incani souls.” Hollowsaur sneered. “But when the world tries to kill them, that’s on you.”

Erick smiled. “I’m sure you’ve done well. Hopefully, you never have to do such awful things ever again.”

“Get the fuck out of here.” Hollowsaur said, “You sound like Priestess and you’re pissing me off, and my birds, too.”

Erick saw as the lightning-fire owls flapped and puffed in his direction, and as the fox on the other side of the field regarded him. Erick said, “Very well, Hollowsaur. See you tomorrow at the Second Telling.”

- - - -

Three streets closer to Quilatalap’s apartment, Fallopolis asked, “What was the point of that?”

“I’m not sure.”

Fallopolis smirked. “Okay?” She added, “Also, you named those cow people something special, didn’t you?”

“You guys didn’t already have myths about cow people?” Erick said, “There’re shifters everywhere. Are some of them not cow shifters?”

“Nope!” Fallopolis said, “Wolf, owl, and snake. Three kinds. And I’d hardly consider one out of every thousand random people to be ‘everywhere’. Shifters are rather rare.” She said, “So tell me: how prominent is this word you just used to describe these cow-people? Was it anything close to ‘Reincarnation’?”

Erick scrunched his face. “Not at all. But that brings up something I’ve been wanting to ask. Magic and language; how connected are they?”

“Deeper than the deepest Darkness. It could be said that without language, there could be no magic.” Fallopolis said, “It’s widely believed that the Ancient Script of the Script is a bastardization of Holy Thought, brought down to Veird, and wrapped in chains of soul and wrought. What we tap into when we attempt to enchant, is both what others have carved out of the Script, and a real bastardization of actual magic. True Magic and True Enchanted Items never fade; like dreams written down so that you can know of them beyond the few moments past waking. But everything fades away under the Script.”

“And that’s another thing!” Erick asked, “How are you guys able to make artifacts so easily? That Mini Box is something my Jane has been after since we fell to Veird. A portable storage unit. It wasn’t till recently that I began to think of doing the same thing but with [Gate] magic.” He added, “You know… Eventually.”

Fallopolis shook her head. “Artifacts are not easy to make. The Script gradually… I should start at the beginning. Whatever enchanting ideas you’ve been fed are likely wrong.”

“Let’s get back to the house, and we can talk.” Erick said, “I want to make lunch, anyway.”

Fallopolis smiled. “I will take you up on that offer!”

- - - -

Erick knew what awaited him inside the house, before he opened the front door.

Quilatalap was already there, already in the kitchen and making lunch, while the four adventurers sat at the table, looking much like lemons were on the menu; a little bit pissed, sad, and angry, at the same time. Rather silent, too.

And then Erick opened the door and walked inside. The adventurers instantly locked eyes with him.

Quilatalap just said, “Hey, Erick,” as he busied himself in the kitchen kneading some pasta, or making bread; Erick wasn’t sure. He had already put together some sort of cheese sauce that was currently simmering on the stove.

Erick said, “Hello, Quilatalap.” He stepped in further, saying, “Hello,” to the four people he would need to help survive the Converter Angel. Or something. He still wasn’t quite sure how that was going to work out.

Fallopolis grinned wide, silently watching, as she filed in behind Erick and waited for something more to happen. She was enjoying this, for sure.

Erick said, “I was going to make lunch, if you wanted. I can make it for all of us.”

Quilatalap just smiled a little, then said, “I got it. I’m making cheese pasta. Instead of that, why don’t you talk to these guys, first? Tania seemed serious about having them at the Second Telling, so I thought it best to get that problem out of the way, now. They’ve been talking about you amongst themselves for two months now.”

Fallopolis said, “Oh! Spoilsport! Just look at them.” She said, “I’m not one for Tania’s plots, but it would have been so much fun to see them at the Second Telling, without a private introduction. More Shades could have died.”

Erick grumbled, as he stared at Fallopolis, hoping that she could leave for a while.

Fallopolis smiled wider, and said, “I’m not leaving. This is pure drama! The fate of nations! The plight of planets! Or at least the plight of poor people in those places.” She teased, “Watch out now! Skorka might try to kill you by switching out the salt shaker!”

“I will not,” Skorka said, as her red eyes locked on Erick’s, telling a different story.

Fallopolis stepped, her feet flashing shadows, and suddenly she was sitting on the couch, across the room. Every single adventurer casually turned toward her. There was a moment of heaviness at the Shade’s open use of potentially hostile magics. And then it was gone.

Fallopolis told the adventurers, “Good reaction! No immediate violence. Nice dilatation of those eyes. But you: Blue.” Fallopolis eyed the blue woman, saying, “You turned on some physical skill. That could be taken as a sign of desire to fight. Around Shades, your only real shields are either propriety, or vulnerability.”

Erick eyed the adventurers, and went over their names in his head. The red man, Rexx, was an Assassin. The magenta woman, Idolizia, was a Hunter. The blue woman, Caizoa, was a Juggernaut. The white woman, Skorka, was their Cook. Skorka was responsible for enacting the plan that poisoned and killed off the rest of their remaining party…

