[This class can be combined with various other martial classes in order to bolster them, its versatility and complementary nature making it a staple pick for many of Firrelia’s soldiers, bandits, and other fighters, but that same commonality leading to this class’ 5 year mortality rate standing at 23%. This class also has viable evolutions with an extensive list of other classes, including many hybrid classes, any martial classes that use a bladed weapon, multiple crafting classes concerned with bladework, some magical classes, and multiple miscellaneous classes. Your compatibility with this class is high.]

This… didn’t sound bad. Sure, it was tier 1, as commonly selected of a class as there got, but it sounded like there was a good reason for that.

This was a good baseline class. It supported and complemented a big variety of other classes and skills and enabled a ton of evolutions.

For Markus, who could combine up to three classes but would likely need them to be already compatible, assuming he didn’t find a way to cheat that, this class might end up being the versatile glue that was able to bridge two other classes together and bolster them even further.

But was it something he wanted to pick now?

He’d instantly get a Blade Adept skill choice. He’d be more likely to get rare ones because his compatibility was high. Now, even the rare options from this class tree might not necessarily be as impressive as some of the more common skills and passives from a higher tiered class, but that was an assumption. In truth, Markus had no idea if higher tier necessarily meant better. It meant less picked, but that could be for many reasons. There were less food tasters out there than there were fast food workers, and yet who had the higher skillset?

What the fuck kind of job was ‘food taster’, anyways? Since when was having discerning taste buds a skill? Anyone could taste food.

...not the point. Point was, common didn’t necessarily mean bad. There was a reason everyone was picking it, surely, and that reason seemed to be necessity. Something about beggars and choosers. In this case, from how the description read, literally.

“Have you made a decision yet?”

“Don’t you think if I had, I’d have told you?”

Markus scowled. He could hardly do with being rushed right now. He already understood the gravity of the situation. He wasn’t deliberating because he thought it was a fun and zany thing to do. He just didn’t wanna fuck this up.

Ugh…

Markus switched to the magical skills section. He began flicking through them. Frost Mage stood out to him, as did Exsanguinator. They were both things he was already capable of doing, and he had access to Frost and Blood Mana in pretty much every fight. They offered specialised skills, faster growth, and Arcana and Spirit increases.

They couldn’t be combined with as much as something like Blade Adept could, but they were both still pretty versatile and worthwhile to consider. Leaning on things he already partially understood seemed like it was the best thing he could do right now, and picking a more experimental or lower compatibility option could always wait until after he was facing his imminent demise.

He decided to look through Hybrid options just to see. Spellsword stood out for a moment, but Markus soon realised that it didn’t seem to offer much that a high Affinity in his Malichor Blade didn’t already give him.

Then there were the more fringe options like Blood Medic. Commanding blood in combat to heal allies or yourself, a concept which sounded like a permutation of the [Rend] ability.

A lot of hybrid classes seemed to focus on a specific intersection of skills, rather than a big picture, general concept kind of thing. They seemed to be for those who wanted to hone in very specifically on a single or select few attacks or moves that took advantage of what they were already proficient in and didn’t branch far beyond that.

Markus would rather find his own meeting points between the skills he had, make his own compounds. Hybrid classes didn’t seem to offer much that he wanted right now, as most of the more interesting ones sounded way too outlandish for him to even unlock right now, shit like Rune Brawler and Artifice Beastmaster.

Speaking of which, there was a specific Beastmaster class in the miscellaneous section. It would’ve offered him better and more direct command over Ember in combat and in general.

He didn’t like that option. He would rather she fight of her own volition and that they trust in each other. They’d worked well as a team that last fight.

Speaking of which, he wanted to pet her and feed her something expensive as a reward for how she fought. He also wanted her to heal him a little. He was so fucking tired right now, and his body felt as if it’d been through a woodchipper.

“Hey.”

Drathok stared at him, resting bitch face in full effect.

“I get a reward, right? Get me a few steaks for this fight. Big ones. And a healing pot.”

“Of course, you may have another potion, but can you really stomach all of that before you go out again?”

Jesus, what a last meal that would be. Markus almost laughed as he shook his head. “Don’t worry, they’re not all for me. Bring like ten.”

Which was true. Last thing Markus was right now was hungry.

But he felt like Ember probably was, and that was probably why she slipped out of their cell so often. Could be something else, but he doubted she’d be averse to a nice bowl of meat.

“Are you picking something? I have things to attend to, you know.”

“Yes! Give me a minute!” Markus shouted, swatting at him with an arm he could barely raise above the elbow right now.

“Fine. But in five minutes, I’ll be forced to make a decision for you.”

Markus hitched an eyebrow. “What do you mean ‘make a decision for me’?”

“What I said. Time is of the essence. Choose or I will.”

“How the fuck are you gonna choose? It’s my fucking class!”

“I own your soul,” Drathok stated simply. “I can make whatever executive decision I need to if I so wish.”

“Can you make the executive decision to shut the fuck—wait.” Markus pointed at him, lowering his status screen. “I thought Randall owned my soul now. What’s the deal.”

“I… no. No.” Drathok shook his head. “Randall owns the right for you to be sold. I’m still in possession of your soul.”

“Yeah, sure. Okay, you know what? I have no leverage. So pick for me. You clearly know best. How does my class work? How do I accrue skill points from my attributes? What’s my strongest attack? What do I do with mana cores after I absorb them?”

“I… I understand many of the core principles of Mana Manipulation, I—”

“Really? So what would you choose? Have you ever been a Mana Manipulator, Drathok? Have you ever met one? Plus I’m an Otherworlder. Do you have the slightest clue of how that combination works?”

“I’ve read books concerning Mana Manipulation in the past, and…”

“Really?” Markus nodded, looking oh-so-interested. “Then why didn’t you answer any of my questions, huh? Why don’t you tell me what you’d pick for me? What’s the best option that I’m so clearly missing?”

“It’s…” Drathok scrolled through the system menu. He squinted. Squinted some more. “Dark Knight.”

“Really? Well let’s just take a look at that!”

Markus pulled up the class in question and spent about ten seconds perusing it.

He smiled at Drathok. “You know what? Not bad. This sounds like something that’d fit pretty well with me. It uses Spirit as a core attribute, it favors long weapons, and it even has some magic resistance passives available.” He paused. “Only one problem.”

“But the class I selected doesn’t—”

“Oh!” Markus feigned shock, mouth open. “Oh, really, Drathok? Does it not?”

“No, it says—”

“That you don’t know what the fuck you’re talking about? That you tried to recommend me a class built for fucking cult paladins that use huge swords and heavy armour?”

“You put pressure on me to choose something, and—”

“Yeah, it’s hard when someone’s constantly badgering you while you’re trying to make your damn mind up, isn’t it?!”

“STOP interrupting me!” Drathok roared, kicking a hole straight through his desk.

“Okay!” Markus smiled, picture of innocence. “I’ll stop. You pick my class, Drathok. You know better. You should pick it.”

Silence.

“Oh, what’s wrong? Don’t wanna pick it? I thought time was of the essence,” he repeated in a crude approximation of his voice. “I’m not interrupting you. You can speak. Wanna pick my class for me? Wanna command me and tell me what to do? Go for it! You should!”

Silence. Drathok slowly began levitating up the broken pieces of his desk, attempting to patch it together.

“Right. So maybe, you should shut the fuck up about things you don’t know anything about and let me fucking think. You’re so desperate for me to win this fight, after all. Wanna tell me why that is? Seems only fair after you drag me through all this shit. Wanna clue me in? Huh? Huh?”

“JUST!” Drathok sighed. Drathok breathed. His chest heaved as he leaned back and titled his head up, then released a huge breath, reminiscent of a dragon about to release a torrent of flame. “Just, please, make your decision and—”

“Way ahead of you buddy.”

Drathok began to bite his fist. “Argh!”

Okay, lack of impulse control aside, fucking with him was kinda fun.

But now Markus needed to pick something and fast if he didn’t wanna lose face. He was so much better at this shit, after all, right?

After roughly five more seconds of deliberation, Markus made his decision.
