“I wanted her to be here too, and she’ll be there for the experiment if you decide this is a good idea, but I honestly have too much power over her. You’re a much better sounding board.” Erick added, “Sorry. The ideas are kinda jumbled and everything seems to be coming to a head, especially since I was able to do yet another ‘impossible’ thing down here, and make a Light Slime spawning zone.”

Poi just nodded as both men continued to walk slowly across the large, large dungeon floor.

Erick continued, “But tiered Particle Magic isn’t even that big of a deal. Whatever happens with that will happen. What this room was all for, was for real experimenting. Not just for doing things how the book said, but for discovering if the books were right at all.” Erick stopped. “Here we are.” He gestured outward, saying, “The purpose of this dungeon.”

They had arrived at a jut of stone that poked out over the shallow waters of the central pool. Ophiel floated above, still thrumming like a violin harp. From here, seeing the true purpose of the room was as easy as looking out across the space, and turning on Meditation.

In every direction, the same scene played out, primarily along the ceiling but also along the distant walls and the pillars of the room. The same kaleidoscope hung against the ceiling, each one slightly different, either spinning slower or faster or damaged in some way, each in slightly different flows of mana that poured against the [Ward]s from hidden inlets above. Some of them were not in flows at all, but in calm areas of mana; these ones were the least damaged of all. They were the control group.

Erick said, “So I’ve gone on a bit of a ramble, but the first thing I have seen that really needs to change is that Oceanside teaches from books and sparring experience, and not much else. There is no method for magical study. There is no scientific magic. Maybe I’m missing something with the math; I admit that all of that is evading me, but I don’t think I’m missing anything at all. The Scientific Method is missing on Veird. But that’s another problem for another day. Hopefully I will prove the importance of such a protracted methodology by the creation of what this room was also meant to create: A [Renew] spell.”

Poi suddenly looked out at the kaleidoscopes of the ceiling again. He said, “This Permanency effect. It’s a [Renew] effect, isn’t it?”

“Yes!” Erick said, “It’s not perfect, but it is if you give it some space! If you were to close off any of the tiny vents on any of those kaleidoscopes out there, the damage you see here —the dimmed lights or the altered colors— all of those issues would go away. This bombardment of mana is what gradually decays the permanency, but in a calm space, the lightward will reconstitute to wholeness over a period equal to density of the ambient, calm mana.” He said, “The reason that lightwards in the streets have to be redone is because there’s ambient mana everywhere and people fire off tiny spells all the time, and that contributed to the decay of those lightwards.”

Erick said, “To sum it all up. This dungeon works, it makes light slimes.” He added, “It also allowed me to test some theories regarding the scientific method and to see if what they said in the books really was the best for creating slime-producing dungeon environments. Spoiler: The books are pretty darn spot on about slime generation, but no one talks about why their ideas work; they just want the students to read and know the material, and never have any deeper understanding other than that.” He said, “This dungeon also allowed me to investigate the permanency effects of lightwards and what they really mean. So far, I think it means that there is some sort of [Renew] effect inherent to permanent [Ward]s. But even more than that...” Erick laid it out there, “I think this [Renew] effect is what makes [Ward]s regenerate at Rested Regen, in the first place. [Renew], in some intrinsic way, is a part of [Ward].”

Erick went silent. He waited for Poi to say something.

Poi looked out over the waters. He watched the light slimes bumble across the dungeon floor and play in the prismatic light from above. One bumped into another, sending both of them plopping in opposite directions.

Poi said, “There’s a lot to unpack there. [Ward] is already a very large blue box.” He asked, “What’s the ‘Scientific Method’?”

Erick answered, “Ask a question. Do research. Form a hypothesis. Test that hypothesis. Analyze the data. Draw a conclusion. Repeat.”

Poi said, “I was taught to do what I needed to do. It works well enough.”

“Yes! But there’s no advancement, there!”

“I get it.” Poi said, “But I don’t think all of what you said is true. Oceanside has been producing archmages for a long, long time, so they know what they're doing. And that part about [Renew] already being in [Ward] seems… suspect.”

“Maybe.” Erick looked across the room, to say, “It’s hard to keep it all straight. Spatial Magic is still going poorly. I thought I had a breakthrough a few times in the beginning, but as time goes on, I think I’m actually missing something rather crucial.”

Poi asked, “Like what?”

“Years of study, most likely.” Erick added, “Or something else even more fundamental.”

Poi looked down as a light slime bumped into his leg, then rolled away. He asked, “Are you going to do anything with these guys?”

“I’m not sure. Jane says that [Lightwalk] is pretty good. She’s even offered to give me that giant horn she got, but I don’t think I should take it.” Erick looked down at the slimes, saying, “She said Liquid and Killzone still have no news about what happened to her in Killtree, either about the fight between the dark and the light, or the discrepancy in the size of the Queen. Have you heard anything new yet?”

Poi said, “No updates since I last checked. That was this morning.”

Erick frowned. “Nothing? Nothing at all?”

“I heard the story from multiple angles and I still don’t believe it, even though her Mind Mage teammate, Marric, verified her story.” Poi added, “The whole thing seems like a trick of the light. Ancient Unicorns are like that, you know.”

Erick frowned, saying, “There’s a 9 meter long horn sitting in the Interfaith Temple back in Spur. 20 meter tall Ancient Unicorns don’t have 9 meter horns. They have 4 meter horns. That’s irrefutable proof of Jane’s story.”

“I also can’t believe that Jane almost had it stolen from her.” Poi added, “And that she needed to stock it with High Priest Darenka. Though Darenka is rather happy to have it sitting in her own prismatic cathedral.”

Erick looked to Poi. He stared at the sapphire scaled man, then said, “You’re avoiding an answer, Poi. Is this some internal Mind Mage politics, or something?”

“… Something like that.”

“Fine. You can keep your secrets.”

“Thank you, sir.” Poi said, “I shall.”

Erick gestured to the slime bumping up against a nearby pillar. “Is light slime a good Familiar Form?”

“Not around Ar’Kendrithyst. Shadows that strong love a strong light. But for everywhere else? [Lightwalk] does alright since almost everything needs light to see.” Poi said, “Whatever you choose, know that Light Essence is rare. If I were you I’d show this place to the Headmaster and see about working out a deal for some larger plot of land. This dungeon is big, but it could be a lot bigger. Perhaps you could start a light slime farm and sell the rights to someone, or even the Headmaster himself.”

"I was already considering that, but it’s good to know that it’s a decent option.” Erick said, “Anyway. Gotta get back home. Work on that tiered Particle Magic.”

Poi frowned. “Maybe work on not invoking gods so casually, either.”

“Oh, Poi. That wasn’t a casual invocation at all.”
