“But...”

“The next time you come here, you better see me first.” Gina said, and he felt her determination and her resolve. “Skipping me again is not an option.” She said, sternly.

“I... I didn't... skip...” Ugly Santa Ren tried to say, but her emotions were so strong that he was having a hard time trying to think straight.

“You better come back soon.” Gina said and kissed him passionately, and Ren's Emotion Siphon Ability activated and absorbed the emotions she was pushing out. Gina broke the kiss a few moments later, and she saw the surprise on his face.

“Yeah, that's right.” Gina purred seductively and gave him a quick kiss. “I've got the stuff, and you want it.”

Ugly Santa Ren didn't say anything, and she smiled crookedly and let him out of her embrace. He backed up two steps away from her, turned around and walked to the door, then looked back. Gina held up her hand and wiggled her fingers in a tiny wave. He returned it and went out the door.

Wow. Ren thought and ran around the Pleasure Palace, then over to the impenetrable rock mountain that was the roost for the succubi.

“Yeah, it's hard to believe after all that, you could turn yet another woman on.” Teepo said and chittered in laughter.

Ren was going to argue about it, then had to admit Teepo was right. I guess if you put it that way, it's not that much of a surprise.

“Not at all.” Teepo said. “Succubus above and to the left.”

Ren dismissed his Full Illusion spell and ran up into the air to meet the flying succubus. “Hi.”

“Ah!” The succubus said when he startled her. Her flight faltered and she started to plummet to the ground, so he quickly ran down and caught her.

“I didn't mean to scare you, Wynphine.” Ren said.

“My Lord.” Wynphine said and folded her wings up under her so he could hold her properly. “I haven't seen you in a while.”

“I'm sorry about that.” Ren said. “I can give you excuses if you want.”

Wynphine chuckled. “Only if you save them for when you come over to feed us.”

“That's where I was going.” Ren said and started running through the air towards their roost.

“You... are a lot more powerful now.” Wynphine said.

Ren smiled. “You should see me when I'm wearing my new armor.”

“I'd like that.”

“Should I ask where you were coming from?”

“Patrol.” Wynphine said.

“Patrol?”

“Yes, this is our home.” Wynphine said. “We will protect it... and you.”

Ren felt her need to do that, and he kissed her cheek. “Thank you.”

Wynphine's face flushed to a darker red. “You brought us out of the darkness that has kept us hidden for...” She stopped talking, then smiled. “No, that time is past.” She said and touched his cheek. “Now is what we have, and now is what we live for.”

Ren arrived at the roost and asked her which entrance was hers. She pointed to a balcony about a third of the way down from the top where the tower was, and he ran over to it.

“I can't feel your Aura, My Lord.” Wynphine said as Ren put her down.

“Oh, right.” Ren said and made a connection between all of his Auras except for the bad ones, then activated it. Wynphine gasped and staggered a little when the Aura hit her, and he held Wynphine steady.

“M-my L-lord!” Wynphine said. “What... you feel so...”

Artemis felt Ren's Aura snap into place, and she flew quick as a flash out of the warehouse and over to him and cut off Wynphine's words as the succubus stared at the oddly-dressed woman that flew without wings.

“Oops!” Ren said and took Artemis' hand. “I'm sorry! I didn't think I was that far away.”

“That's okay.” Artemis said. “It's nice talking to the others, but we don't have a lot in common.”

“I... never thought of that.” Ren said.

“Oh, no! You aren't perfect like we all thought!” Artemis said, gave his hand a squeeze, and let it go.

“Ha.” Ren smiled and turned to Wynphine. “Is everyone here?” He asked. “Never mind, I'll find out for myself.” He said and activated his Heat Sense Aura as well. He found all 20 of the succubi were inside the roost in different areas, and also found several other people were there, too. “I assume there's some sleepovers going on tonight?”

Wynphine nodded. “Zunala, Kelfaren, Miastina, and Crakasia all have mates staying over.” She said. “I'm pretty sure they all know you're here.”

Ren chuckled. “Let's go to the meeting room.” He said, and they walked inside and down a hallway, then down the stairs. “I wonder if I could add a lift to an already existing structure?”

“A what?”

“It's a magical platform that moves people from floor to floor instead of using stairs.”

“We just fly.” Wynphine said. “It's much faster than walking.”

“I really need to learn how to do that, just so I can use my Winged Flight skill properly.”

“I will gladly help you, My Lord.” Seldanna said as she landed beside him. “Just come and get me whenever you want a lesson.”

“Thank you, Seldanna.” Ren said.

“I will do anything for you, My Lord.” Seldanna said, and he felt that she really would.

“Are you angry that I haven't been around?” Ren asked.

“Extremely.” Seldanna said. “But, since you are a great Adventurer, I cannot demand your time when you are so busy.”

Ren reached out and took her hand, and he fed her his regret that she was angry at him. “I'll explain what's been going on, and hopefully you won't be as angry with me.”

When they arrived in the large meeting room, Ren stood there to wait; and his Heat Sense Aura showed him that everyone was coming to meet him, so he didn't have to send the two succubi with him to go and get them.

********

Edward sat in his office and stared at the message his head programmer, Max, had sent him. After a bit of investigation on his own, he had discovered that Ren really had been chosen by the AI running the game to be one of it's representatives.

How the hell did he manage that? Edward asked himself, almost proudly. I knew the kid was resourceful, but to actually gain the attention of the game's AI? He smiled and held in his chuckle. I should hire him to help find even more bugs in the system!

Edward folded his hands and rested his chin on them, then rested his elbows on the desk.

Max is right. Edward thought. It is potentially dangerous for such contact, even if it is indirect and they aren't actually 'speaking'. He started to twiddle his thumbs as he contemplated the problem. Those starter cities were brilliant, and even Max had to admit that. He smiled. That one move saved us a month of programming headaches about trying to integrate a new starter city for both of those races.

Edward stopped twiddling his thumbs and sat back in his chair and crossed his arms.

The people that changed to both the Giant and High Elf races, and subsequently opened up all that new content, went from zero to 20% in one night! Edward chuckled. The message boards are on fire about it, too.

Edward made his decision about what to do, uncrossed his arms as he leaned forward, then typed up a response to Max.

*

Max had sat quietly as he waited for his boss to get back to him, and then he received a priority message.

Inter-personal Memo

Max, you are to follow this order immediately:

Do nothing.

- Edward

“Well, damn.” Max said. “I guess he wants to see what the kid will do with it.” He said. “I hope your trust isn't misplaced, boss.” He said and closed the message. “I also hope that he doesn't crash everything.”
