And Shiv's vicious scowl turned feral. Causal Scargiver was an incredible Feat to have against the Eldritch and Chronomantically tuned, but Dread-Tainted? That worked on practically everyone.

Seizing this moment of engineered terror, Shiv stole the advantage and flung himself at the Index in a burst of replenished tides. His inertial sheath undulated around his body, pulsating and ballooning like a membrane on the verge of bursting. He tore across the space between him and the Index in an instant, and then plunged into its weakened body like a dagger sinking into vulnerable flesh.

He dug through the Eldritch biomass, shattered its unnatural Magic Resistance, and seized it down the middle, held it in place using his mana hydra and his Shapeless Tides. He felt it writhe. He felt it call out to its father. But too late. He swung his Last Morsel downward, and its orichalcum, edges coated in Vitae, bit deeper than the Index's flesh. It carved somewhere down to the Fingerling's very soul, and there he felt his blow glance upon something grander, something greater, something lurking at the heart of this unnatural, nightmarish forest.

The entire dimension flinched with pain. And he felt his Deepest Edge level over ten times as his cut traveled far, so far that it ended up as a scratch upon the true form of the Stranger.

Deepest Edge 69 > 80

Vitaemancy 130 > 135

“ABOMINATION. CANCER. BASTARD OF THE SYSTEM’S Apostle-Apostate!”

The Stranger's bellowed outrage was the loudest thing Shiv had ever heard. And its last words, "Apostle-Apostate." He guessed that was its name for Udraal.

But he didn't get to ruminate for long. The insides of the ruptured Index were consumed, and the biomass shifted. Eyes opened, and beams of light began to spear against it. He didn't have nearly enough tides to sustain another devastating blow, so he did the only thing he could. Even as he saw the biomantic signatures of the Pinkies and Recollectors approaching to finish the job, he detonated his multi-hundred inertial sheath stack, and a new blast of light consumed the world. Light, plasma, and devastation. The Index ceased to be. Everything within a five-kilometer radius was vaporized. Everything up to twenty kilometers was blasted back, leaving a massive vacuum around Shiv.

Inertial Overdrive 195 > 209

He was slightly disappointed the skill didn't jump to Legendary after hitting a new threshold, but he supposed that, compared to what Harkness had done back in Passage, he really hadn't been straining his Reflexes skill much, not after gaining his Shapeless Tides.

But through it all, he never stopped infusing his Pillar of Orichalcum with more Toughness. He never stopped cultivating more tides. And it proved enough to spare himself from a final fate. His pillar was deformed, bent, and near-broken, but it endured, like him. It hovered and gleamed alone at the center of the warzone, and all around him, he witnessed a wall of hesitant monsters surrounding him, realizing that they were no longer the true predators of this place. That someone had come to claim them. That there were nightmares for nightmares. That there were beasts beyond beasts.

Past that initial encirclement of Recollectors and Pinkies, Shiv's orcs conducted their own war. Mana bombs with titanic yields went off one after another, and small specks of gray-skinned brutes hung off the sides of palm-shaped titans, some of them carving into the Recollectors' eyes, others choosing to bottle themselves up on the inside. Yet some others used more esoteric skills to pin the Fingerlings down, to make the battle one of bloodied attrition. The orcs that had joined Shiv in the first wave were the sacrifices, the ones that wished to rebuild. They had gained Shiv's favor, been lit by his flame, and now they wanted to start anew. They wanted to obtain new skills. To be reborn fresh and ready for a new life of highest strife.

Adam's initial plan took shape. Shiv would draw the Stranger's attention, and as the first wave of Fingerlings swarmed him, trying to bring him down, the orcs would form an outer layer, creating the double encirclement that would further tax the Stranger's forces.

Shiv sneered and beckoned his foes to come forth. He stretched out his mana hydra at the same time, sweeping its heads through the Pinkies and Recollectors.

"Come on!" Shiv waved at himself. "Come and kill me! I'm right here! Come and kill me!"

His Shape of Monstrosity pulsated with power, his Aegis of Assimilation grew heavier with assimilated mass, and strain built inside the Deathless. But he felt euphoric, giddy from the bloodletting. Yet the Fingerlings held themselves at bay. Even when he reaped their weakest members, absorbing them into his Biomancy field, the Recollectors pulled back and divided themselves. Forming dense walls of parting gold, their past instances became as if afterimages—Temporal mirages to shroud what lay behind them.

Skill Gained: Eldritch Physiology (Master) 1

For a moment, Shiv wondered why, but he didn't need to wonder long. His Atlas of the Flesh Scryer gave him insight beyond sight, and he detected another ten Indexes drawing forth. They came from all sides, their colossal forms aglow with crimson brilliance, and Shiv could see the many micro-spells that made up their gargantuan architecture. Their architecture was so much more complicated than a person's. They didn't even have blood. It was staggering to witness, and just trying to drink in all the detail made Shiv's Eldritch Physiology Skill advance another three levels in rapid succession.

Eldritch Physiology (Master) 1 > 4

Atlas of the Flesh Scryer 103 > 109

And then he felt ten separate wells of gravity pull at him. Ten separate retrocontinuities drag at his very being. His Temporal Shell had only partially regenerated. Shiv formed it around himself anyway. He knew what was coming. He knew he wouldn't survive this. Hells, he wouldn't be able to survive two Indexes firing on him at once. And despite all the power fed to him by his Shape of Monstrosity, his Inertial Overdrive skill was spent. He needed to build up his speed again.

But that didn't mean he was out of options.

Instead, the Deathless prepared himself. The moment the Indexes fired, he would go Non-Sequitur. He would sacrifice his Vitae Decoy and then break through this encirclement while building up his Inertial Overdrive once more. He would go after one of the Indexes, then another. He would force the Fingerlings to follow him, force them to devote even more of their total military capacity to wearing him down until everything was drawn away from Blackedge, and all eyes and the Stranger’s full ire was entirely condensed upon him.

"Come on," Shiv whispered to himself, preparing to time the attack. "Come on." His voice rose to a growl. "Come on!" he roared.

But the thing about best-laid plans is that they never truly turn out the way one expected.

Before any of the Indexes could fire their retro-continuitive beams, the Recollectors unleashed a collective scream. The same scream that had once utterly debilitated Shiv. His inner ear popped, his brain matter recoiled, and a primal sense of rawness crept through his very marrow. Shiv's skin felt like it was trying to unlatch from his body. Nausea churned through him. But rather than folding over and collapsing in on himself, suffering a seizure like he did back at Gate Theborn, Shiv just groaned and shrugged it off. His Toughness was Heroic now. He was far more of a Pathbearer than he'd been before, even when surrounded by a few hundred Recollectors. But it was enough to distract him from an encroaching beam.

At first, Shiv didn't even realize he was dead. It happened in an overwhelming instant, and the world around him was white. There was no pain that accompanied this end. No devastation, no parting of his flesh, or even jarring shifting of his senses. One moment, his physical body existed. Next, his pillar was broken down the middle, and his Magical Resistance was extinguished by a torrid torrent of Eldritch Chronomancy.

On top of that, the Indexes were being clever. They weren't firing at the same time. Instead, one unleashed its retrocontinuity first, and the others continued charging their power but waited and watched.

Shiv noticed how they were observing him, how no one was rushing in to finish him off. They knew he was good up close. They knew the danger he posed now, and they were adapting.

Rat-godsdamn bastards, Shiv thought to himself. But still, the Stranger had earned a slight measure of begrudging respect from him. The Eldritch God seemed a rageful toddler in most situations, and little more than a beast in others. But in this instance, there was a hint of intelligence. A hint, but not enough.

Non-Sequitur 127 > 132

Flakes of white and red were ripped away from Shiv, and they were stretched until they became as if inverted needles, drawn back into the beam of Chronomancy. A coldness rushed into Shiv. Death didn't approach in an instant. Instead, it ground away at him, chipping away at his vitality. Even so, he was fading fast. Yet Shiv had another trick beyond Non-Sequitur, and that trick was not a skill, nor a weapon, nor even a feat. Instead, it was someone he could call upon when the Eldritch came to inflict their torment.

"Cullywier!" Shiv cried aloud, and in that moment, the fae appeared. His tall, rail-thin form became a bubble of anti-magic against Eldritch Chronomancy, and suddenly a spherical vacuum formed in the middle of the golden waterfall.

Cullywier's hands were clasped behind his back nonchalantly, and he took in the war unfolding all around him. "Quite the spectacle we have going here. You Patternists sure do like yourselves a war."

Shiv tapped the fae on the shoulder. "You haven’t seen half of it."
