“Ah, you made a common mistake that gets pretty much every newbie sooner or later. The road you were following, Moonfall, actually turned off that-a-way back at the last intersection. You ended up on Moonveiled Journeys, which continued over here. I know, it’s needlessly confusing. Personally, I’d just keep cutting through this clearing, the street on the other side is New Horizons, just turn right onto it and you’ll find the Lodge to your left after a quick jaunt.

“But first, mind if I ask what you’re looking for the Hunters for? Did you lose some stuff or a friend to a horrifying monster along the road?” The elf’s eyes were practically sparkling as she levied her unambiguously hopeful question.

“…Yeah, no, I killed the only beast that took anything from me myself. I was told to go there, but I’m curious about them too.” Seriously, was everyone going to assume she couldn’t handle herself?!

“Huh? Oooh, you’re a [Warrior]! I never thought to [Analyze] you; I was weirdly sure you were a dancer, given your gait and all. That would explain the armor.” Like most elves, she was surprisingly observant.

But Ranthia wasn’t exactly trying to hide who she was anymore.

“Both, actually. I’m a [Warrior] by necessity, but my love for dancing shaped it.” Ranthia admitted. Honestly, it felt good to finally be open about herself. As an Adventurer, she followed her favorite Guildmaster’s advice a bit too stringently—she’d tried to refuse to communicate anything about herself if it was tied to a Skill. Then, as a Sentinel, she’d been forced to keep her mouth shut to avoid spilling “secrets” to the shimagu. Only her brief window of time as a Ranger with Ranger Team 6 had been different—two damned years out of a full mortal’s lifespan.

“Oh! Well, I hope you can make it as a Hunter, because seriously—ouch. You picked a bad time to come to the City of Arts as a dancer. There probably isn’t a single other Maestro-seating art that’s even half as viciously competitive right now. The top eight get shuffled around almost every time I blink. Just a few months ago Lillilii left the city after she failed to claw her way back into the top eight—and she’d been the Maestro of Dance when I got here. I mean, yeah—most of the core arts have rankings that run deep, but breaking into the top sixty-four in dance is a feat. I mean, I was plenty wowed by a pretty little number that wasn’t even in the top one hundred and twenty-eight!” Her sultry voice practically dripped with genuine sympathy.

“Trust me, I have no real interest in competing. I just dance because I love dancing—I don’t give a damn what other people think.” Ranthia replied, willfully ignoring the times that she had danced competitively, like with Avyna’s horrid ex.

“They’ll pull you in sooner or later. No one gets to avoid the rankings here. No one. If you asked me for advice—which you didn’t, because you have questionable taste—I’d tell you to step into it on your own terms, sooner rather than later.” The woman paused to wink, then glanced upward and frowned. “But I’ve probably held you long enough. Neither of us want to miss dinner when it opens up. Fair warning for you when you get to the Hunters’ Lodge: avoid my dad, he’s an asshole. And he in no way reflects the beliefs of me, my sister, or our much cooler mother. There’s a reason I never visit him.”

“Noted. Thanks for the advice; I’ll see you around!” Ranthia waved and stepped around the booth to head for the road that the unusual elf had recommended.

The elf’s laughter reached her a moment later.

“Yeah, I’m here most days. And hey, maybe next time we meet you’ll actually ask me for my name, my pretty!”

Her tone was playful, but that didn’t blunt the impact of Ranthia’s absolute mortification. People weren’t being rude—she was! She hadn’t even thought to give her name or ask the name of almost anyone she’d met since she arrived!

How had she gotten that bad at conversing with strangers?!

She’d have to apologize to… well, everyone when she had time. But there was no undoing her shameful mistakes; all she could do was make sure she improved. And as mortifying as it was, she was genuinely grateful for the blunt correction—she seriously owed the woman a drink or something.

She still wasn’t going to buy one of those grisly sculptures though—she could all too easily imagine Clover’s terrified reaction!

The brief walk gave Ranthia just enough time to master her blush (…hopefully), but the Lodge (literally just named that, with no indication of its affiliation with hunting) was pretty much exactly where the elf had told her it would be. In a city of vibrant expression, the Lodge stood out with its drabness—there wasn’t a lick of paint on the outside, and its architecture was surprisingly utilitarian. If anything, it looked more like a tavern straight out of Remus rather than anything made by elves. Even the sign on the front was minimal, just black Creation letters on a rectangular board.

The windows were oddly dark, but the sturdy wooden door was ajar. So Ranthia carefully pushed it open—though she hesitated when the interior proved to be dark as well. Was the place already closed for the day?

““Surprise!””

Some two dozen elves erupted from beneath tables, from behind supports, and out of other hiding places as they shouted in a… valiant attempt at unison.

“Wait, that isn’t Arvantus!” Someone in the group pointed out the obvious, after which the glowing crystals that provided light were reactivated.

Ranthia—still in the doorway—was on a single foot, poised to start a dance, with her arms held ready. Feeling somewhat sheepish, she reversed the trail of adamantium sand back to her bracers as she slowly lowered her leg, eyeing the disappointed elves warily all the while.

“And it’s a good thing too—she was ready to start knocking heads, but Arvantus would’ve been throwing punches you idiots! And if any of you shits mess with my lights again, I’m drawing Steel!” Someone roared from further in the back, which sent the other elves scurrying for their seats.

In no time flat, the tavern returned to a comfortable level of noise as elves chattered and drank—as if they hadn’t just botched a surprise. Only a few people even glanced her way—none of them visibly guilty about their misdeeds—as she walked past.

“Eh, sorry about that. These fuck-for-brains never think anything through. They’d probably eat my fucking tables if I ever took my eyes off of them for more than ten minutes. Arvantus hates surprises and he doesn’t need a celebration for his five hundredth hunt—especially not for going after a measly spine-eater.” The words were grumbled by the largest elf Ranthia had ever seen. She’d assumed the Maestro she met earlier was tall, but no—the woman on the other side of the bar was tall enough that Ranthia stood under her chest. She was dressed in a one-piece leather bodysuit that left her broad, muscular arms and legs on full display. Her short, practical hair was almost the same shade of brown as her leather, her eyes bore the telltale dark blaze of the Pyronox element, and her horns were massive, even on her frame (seriously, were those moose antlers?!). The woman probably had to duck and shuffle in sideways to pass through her own door!

“What’s a spine-eater?” Ranthia asked after entirely too many moments spent gawking.

“Local bug. They can live for several centuries, and if they get high enough level they start growing again and won’t stop. At some point they stop eating leaves and little bugs and start killing animals and crunching their bones for the marrow. They’re generally pretty low risk, but every now and then you’ll hear of one getting the drop on an elf. The Unchanging Council has a standing bounty on any of the fuckers that get that large, especially since the big ones tend to breed up other big ones.

“But you’re not here for bugs. You’re here because you’re the stupid fucker that climbed a mountain for no reason and killed that damned gorilla. I can give you three medium jadeite and a small obsidian, or I can buy the remains from you and round it up to five medium jadeite.” The woman with the size (and musculature) of multiple elves fused into a single, magnificent form sassed as she stared into Ranthia’s very being.

She should say something, right? She should accept the offer. Or protest that she’d climbed the mountains for a reason. Or something, why was she remaining silent?!

“Wait, what? You’re telling me whatever that is killed the Lord of Decay? Pull my other horn!” A man at a nearby table interjected loudly (thank you!).

“Oh, come off of it! Just because you were too cowardly to ever go after the beast doesn’t mean everyone else is incapable!” A woman sitting with her back turned to the man snapped over her shoulder before she went back to tearing apart the chunk of bread she was holding.

“Hey, he’s one of the most accomplished Hunters here! I mean, who else among us has caught the same Mist eagle and failed to deliver it thrice?!” Another elf called out from some distant corner of the building.

“Hey, new kid, what’s with the stupid grin?” The muscular elf drew Ranthia’s attention back to her.

“Sorry, just reminiscing a bit. This is… exactly the kind of place I belong.” Ranthia wiped the wistful smile off her face and offered a proper Adventurer’s grin to the woman—full of fierce determination.

Competitive yet (more-or-less) good-natured mockery? Eating and drinking while trading insults? Her long dormant inner Adventurer was being nourished with every crude sound that reached her ears—the sweetest of music. Sure, the Legions and even the Sentinels had indulged in some of it, but these people weren’t bound by any authority higher than their own zeal to head out and risk their lives for coin and for their own satisfaction. And that made all the difference.

“Oh, by the first forests. Not another idiot!” The tall elf complained.

“Name’s Ranthia, I’m an Adventurer by trade and by my own desire. First ratified by the Guildmaster in Sardonia back in 4801 and A-Ranked by the authority of the Guildmaster of Ariminum as of 4804. I’ll sell you the carcass, but tell me: what do I need to do to join your Hunters?” Ranthia kept her grin.

These elves weren’t Adventurers—the Guild didn’t even exist beyond Remus’ borders. But they had a spark, one that was familiar enough that Ranthia felt at home in a way she hadn’t for over ninety-six years. She’d hoped to rediscover herself as an Adventurer when she made her decision to leave Remus behind, but she hadn’t dared to hope she could find something so familiar half a world away. And now that she had?

There was no way she was going to let it slip through her fingers.
