Finding the Pink Pavillion was her first task. Given the amount of pink on the beautiful roads that Ranthia walked as she drew near, the roads themselves were probably intended to guide people. But Ranthia wasn’t sure what the trick to that was yet, so instead she’d asked for directions. The two elves that she spoke to were as nice as anyone she’d met—they’d even tried to invite her to join their book club—but she had precious little energy or will to indulge in prolonged introductions or small talk.

Xaoc willing, she was close to reuniting with her heart’s desire.

The Pink Pavillion itself probably began its life as a space for events or for the use of every [Merchant] in town, but even from a distance Ranthia could see why her unrequested guide had described its current occupant as having “overtaken” the Pavillion. Eclectic goods were piled and shelved haphazardly up against the very steps of the wall-less structure, with several sides of the area blocked off entirely from entry. Other [Merchants] and [Artisans] had set up stalls on the streets that lead to and from the Pink Pavillion, though no one hawked their wares—in fact, many of the stalls were attended only by a single sign with an open bowl where a few gems sat unguarded.

It was easily one of the most alien and inexplicable things Ranthia had experienced. If a [Merchant] left their stall unattended for a single minute anywhere in Remus, [Thieves] and other opportunists would have it picked clean by the time they returned. Gods and goddesses, some of the bowls were even placed in locations where the few stalls that were attended wouldn’t be able to see them! Sure, Ranthia wanted to believe that people could be trusted, but there was a stark difference between wanting to believe the best of others and offering blatant temptation with zero risk! Had Ranthia seen such a sight in Remus, she’d be looking to see where the guards were hidden for their poorly planned sting operation—yet no matter where [Divine Eyes in the Void] peeked, there was no trace of guards, enchantments, or other hidden danger.

And the Pink Pavillion itself was almost worse! There were no walls and the only enchantments that Ranthia could recognize on the pillars were for repelling water—there were no anti-theft wards or any other means with which to secure the bloated shop when it closed. And with how many items were crammed into the sprawling area, it was hard to imagine that any theft would ever get noticed.

Ranthia carefully kept to the center of the road with her arms at her sides so she wouldn’t seem even slightly suspicious, while she avoided looking too closely at any given stall as she passed it. Once she reached the Pavillion itself, she carefully skirted its closed off sections until she found an opening that was wide enough to walk through normally.

Naturally, three turns later, she found that she’d chosen a dead end. Her way through was barred by an unstable mound made from bolts of various fabrics dyed in loud colors that Remus had never found the materials to match. Carefully, without getting too close to the shelves of colorful crystalline bottles or the loose and free-ranging sewing supplies, Ranthia turned around.

Her next attempt at an entrance led her through increasingly narrow spaces and eight turns, but she finally found herself stepping into the central area of the shop! There were bins and displays scattered about, but at least the central area was more open. From her vantage, she could see several elves browsing assorted goods ranging from the practical to the absurd. And if the shop’s layout had any sense or reason behind it, she’d eat her right sandal. Sure, the chaos of the place spoke to her, but it was large enough that it was also kind of daunting. She’d hoped to find some nice things for Clover—including a bed, so she’d stop stealing Ranthia’s—but there was no way to even guess where to look.

There was no coherent explanation for having three-legged stools and expensive bottles of wine side-by-side.

But first, Ranthia had a mission. She carefully worked her way around an elf that was flipping through a book that contained surprisingly life-like depictions of nude men and women—all elves, of course—while muttering to herself about how she didn’t need or have the funds for the reference, then stepped up to the counter.

Which was, of course, manned by a reedy man that was sound asleep. Because why would anything go easily?

“Hi, excuse me?” Ranthia kept her volume conversational.

Naturally, her target continued to snooze. Aside from his broad horns, the man was shaved bald—though it’d been long enough since his last session that light, visible stubble was coming in. His long, pointy nose looked like it’d give him an impressive snore, but the man’s breathing came easily and quietly.

“Hello?” Ranthia tried again, just a touch louder. Using his name would have helped—she was certain that her guide had used it… But Gowron didn’t sound right for some reason, even in her own head.

“Just snap your fingers in front of his face! It works every time it works.” A helpful(?) elf offered while he slipped entirely too far into Ranthia’s personal space and dropped a few gems onto the pile on the counter to pay for the fine cushion in his other arm. The man favored her with a dazzling smile while he transparently did his best to make sure that she saw the cushion.

Offer made, offer ignored.

“Thanks.” Ranthia side-stepped the unwanted presence and leaned forward to snap her fingers.

“Eh, what? Prices are on the shelves and baskets.” The narcoleptic elf mumbled, not even bothering to open his eyes.

“I just had a quick question, if you don’t mind?” Ranthia carefully kept her tone sweet.

The ‘helpful’ elf let loose a rather conspicuous sigh that had a strong undercurrent of “her loss” while he made his exit.

Just as Ranthia was about to give up hope that the shopkeeper was still awake, the man cracked a single eye open. His gaze flicked to her for a single moment, before his eyelid fell anew.

“Prosthetic horns are over there. But seriously, just go to a [Healer]. Your ears are screwed up too.” He offered his heartfelt advice with a voice that faded further with every word he spoke.

“No!” Ranthia hurriedly interjected before he could drift off. “I’m looking for someone, a [Merchant] I was told to meet here. Her name is Avyna; one of the Maestro suggested you would know if she’s in town currently.”

Truth be told, she actually had no idea if the man was the person she was told to speak to. Sure, he was in the right store, but most store owners had at least one employee. Just because he wasn’t taking the job seriously didn’t necessarily mean he was Golos (was that right?). But even if he wasn’t, he was still a place to start her search!

The bald elf let out a tiny hint of a grumble—a solitary noise, less than a syllable in length—and opened his eyes fully to look at her.

“Never heard of her. And I’d know about any major [Merchants] around.” He had the decency to use a gentle, yet firm tone to break the news. He was awake. She had no cause to doubt him.

Ranthia’s heart took some damage, but she was fine—she probably just was the first to arrive.

“She’s with the Silverleaf Traders, if that helps?” Ranthia chose to forgo logic for a moment longer.

“Eh, I haven’t seen a Silverleaf [Merchant] here for…” his eyes unfocused for a moment as he consulted a memory Skill—but only for a moment, proving once again that something had been severely wrong with her version of [Chest of Experience]. “Sixteen years and two seasons now. These days, they mostly deal in imported final products from other nations, and that just isn’t a big seller in the City of Arts. Better to ply that stuff on the idle elves in the bigger cities, you see. Sure, we have our imports, but it’s mostly just raw ingredients—I arranged most of those myself.”

“I… see, thank you. Before I go, could you direct me to where I could find bedding suitable for a cat amongst your wares?” She just had to swallow her disappointment and press forward. And her Bond still needed some supplies—even if it was awkward to try to describe the scale of her bunny to those more familiar with the typical sizes of rabbits.

“Nope.” The man offered a surprisingly blunt answer as he closed his eyes and settled back into his chair.

“…As in you don’t have any?” Ranthia needed more clarity than that!

“As in I have no idea. When goods come in I just stock ‘em wherever there’s space. I’ve got what you need, but you’ll need to find it. No worries though, the magic of the Pink Pavillion means that if you just wander while you think hard about what you need to find, you’ll find yourself in front of it.” The [Merchant] was fading fast, each word came just a bit slower and a touch more muffled than the last.

“Wait, really?” How would that even work?! Conventional wisdom had it that the System couldn’t even read minds. Was the facility some sort of ‘oddity’ that somehow transcended the very laws of reality? Or—

“Nope. Best of luck to you.”

—was the jerk just messing with her.

While she’d been out, Clover had migrated from sleeping on top of the bed to sleeping under it. She had also managed to scatter the hay Ranthia had left for her across a significant swath of the room and left a new pile of poop inside Ranthia’s abused backpack—and chewed through yet another fastener’s strap in the process. About the only pristine thing left in the room was the box of sand that Ranthia had left a few of the rabbit’s previous droppings in.

But Ranthia just swallowed her frustration and set up the cute little dark green bed she’d bought for Clover. It was kind of like a little cave, with an opening Clover could slip through while offering her some shelter and privacy. It’d been a touch expensive, but Ranthia had a funny feeling her Bond would prefer something that left her less exposed while she rested.

But since her Bond was once again sound asleep, Ranthia tried to minimize how much she risked bothering the bunny—she set up what she needed to, stowed the rest, and made her way out once again with the directions to the so-called Hunters in hand.

When Ranthia had first arrived in Ariminum as a young Adventurer, she’d found the number of parks and open spaces excessive and wasteful. Over time, she learned the value of having tranquil places for people to relax and safe spaces for children to play. If anything, Ariminum hadn’t had enough spaces for it—several districts had no easy access to one.

The City of Arts didn’t have that problem. If anything, Ranthia once again found herself questioning why there were so many open spaces and trees in the city! With housing consolidated to the two great trees and the stone tower, there was a surprisingly minimal number of buildings for a town of… er, however many people the City of Arts contained. Not that the green, empty spaces were disused—there were men and women pretty much wherever she looked. One park had two elves that were taking turns singing to a crowd of their peers—with the singers plainly aiming to compete with one another, another open area was home to an altogether different sort of gathering that Ranthia sincerely hoped wasn’t competitive, and when she turned a corner to what she assumed would be her destination, she found a wide, green space that contained a single stall manned by an elven woman in dark clothing.

Absent any better ideas, Ranthia decided to approach the stall… though by the time she got a bit closer, directions were the last thing on her mind.

“Is that… an arm?!” Morbid curiosity was the only reason she wasn’t recoiling away from the woman. It wasn’t just the arm either, the stall and the surrounding grass were littered with assorted body parts of varying degrees of… freshness. There wasn’t really any smell from them, but some of them were…

“It’s just an arm-shaped sculpture, my pretty.” The elf replied in a surprisingly sultry tone.

“It’s twitching!” Ranthia protested.

“Well duh, it’s art.” The elf replied in a brazenly playful tone, fixing her rainbow-hued eyes directly into Ranthia’s own eyes beneath her blindfold.

It took several moments for Ranthia to work up the courage, but with the woman’s permission, she finally reached out and gently touched the twitching, severed limb. …Thank Xaoc, it was plainly made of wood. Beneath whatever soft layer coated it she could feel the grain.

“I can’t seem to even give my babies away—no one here shares my taste—but I’m still damned proud of ‘em. There’s like a thousand other [Artists] here that make art that celebrates the saccharine banalities of life and joy, so you’d think there’d be more interest in little ol’ me that looks to the macabre, but no, of course not. Instead, I get asked to leave the spaces where other [Artists] gather because I’m ‘ruining the experience’ of their art.” She didn’t sound angry—it was the tone of someone that’d come to accept the reality of her situation and was (more or less) content to do her best within it.

“I can’t say I share your tastes, though they do seem… impressive. How do you even make them look so lifelike?” Ranthia knew she was more-or-less just humoring the pariah—it wasn’t like she had any interest in the ghastly décor, but it was genuinely well-crafted.

“Trade secret, I’m afraid. But I will say that it’s been a direbear to figure out how to make each part’s twitches feel authentic, so I do appreciate your interest, however feigned it might be. And that was the best reaction I’ve had in months—almost as great as the guy that started screaming when he realized what he was looking at. I kinda doubt you walked over here just for me though, so let me pay my mirth forward: whatcha need, my pretty?” The elf offered her a warm smile with her bottom lip protruding noticeably.

Ranthia had no idea if the elf was flirting with her, or if the woman was just teasing her—but her heart was still focused on her disappointment over the dearth of Avyna. She was in no mood to play along.

“I was trying to follow the directions I was given to reach the hunting group. Instead, I ended up here?” Ranthia answered.

