Ben lay against the solid wall, thinking about trying to dig under it to get to Jerry.

And on the other side of the wall, Jerry was thinking about how to dig under it to get to Ben.

The humans let them hunt together sometimes, but it wasn’t a real hunt. In a real hunt, prey wasn’t brought to you. You had to go out and find it! Back home, they had to find the rabbits and chase them down.

Now prey was dropped from above by the humans. Sure, they still had to chase the prey, but it was different. Because there wasn’t really anywhere for it to go.

Damn those humans!

Ben couldn’t help a growl bubbling in his throat as he looked up to the balcony where the humans sometimes appeared. Jerry looked up and growled as well.

Ben and Jerry’s ears twitched.

For a moment, neither Hell Hound moved. They simply stared up at the balcony, hackles slowly rising as the scent of humans drifted down from above.

Ben huffed.

Jerry huffed back.

Ben pushed himself onto his paws and paced along the wall, claws scraping against the packed dirt. He had tried digging here before. The ground was hard, and the humans always noticed. They would shout, bang on the loud dinging thing, and sometimes spray the cold, stinging water.

Jerry trotted along the opposite side of the wall, his nose pressed close to the stone as if that might somehow let him smell Ben better.

They paused at the same place.

Separated by the wall. Both sat.

Ben lifted a paw and scratched once at the dirt.

Jerry scratched back.

Ben tilted his head.

Jerry tilted his head.

Then Ben scratched twice.

Jerry scratched twice in return.

Their tails began to wag.

Not because they had found a way through the wall, but because even with the wall between them, they still understood each other.

Ben lay down again with a heavy sigh.

Jerry did the same.

The humans are the problem, Ben thought.

They’ll just separate us again, even if we get through the wall, Jerry thought.

We need to eat the humans.

There are a lot of humans… but I bet we can eat them all!

If Jerry were here, we’d eat them together.

When I’m done eating them with Ben, we can leave and find home.

I hope everyone is okay, they thought together.

Ben stood and walked away from the wall, and Jerry did the same. They had both come to the same conclusion.

First they needed to get to each other.

Then they needed to get to the humans.

Then they needed to leave this human place and find home.

I hope home isn’t too far, Ben thought.

Jerry thought the same thing.

***

The next day, Ben paced along the walls of the enclosure. He was feeling very hungry, and so was Jerry. They both looked up toward the balcony, wondering when the humans would drop prey down again. They almost always did it by now.

I want to hunt with Ben, Jerry thought.

I want to hunt with Jerry, Ben thought.

Hunting was better than just being given food. When you hunted prey yourself, you didn’t have to wait for anyone to tell you it was time. Well, sometimes Mother made them wait, but that was different.

They both felt sad when they thought about Mother, but they felt even more sad when they thought about Iris.

Iris had always been the one who made sure everyone in the pack was okay. Even before the humans came, she was always checking on them—making sure no one wandered too far, making sure everyone got food, making sure no one got left behind when the pack moved. She’d even make Luke calm down whenever he was being too rowdy or bullying Lily.

When the humans had put them in cages, Iris had taken it the hardest. Her cage had been right next to Mother, and she had been forced to witness everything the humans did to her.

Ben and Jerry hadn’t liked it either, but Iris was different. She reacted to things more strongly than the rest of them. She always knew when someone in the pack was scared or hurt and would always intervene when there was a problem.

They were just glad Lily got away and hoped their strange sister was okay as well.

Then Ben heard a scraping sound.

Human?

His ears perked up.

Ben, is there a human? Jerry asked.

I think so, Jerry! Ben’s tail wagged as he trotted away from the wall to investigate.

Sure enough, there was a human. The big gate with rusted bars had opened, and the human was carrying a large piece of bloody meat.

Ben stared, completely dumbfounded.

Why would that human do that to its prey?

More importantly, why was it just holding it?

Oh, I know! I’ll take the human’s prey.

Ben’s hackles rose as he lowered himself and bared his fangs.

On the other side of the wall, Jerry ran back and forth, excitedly yipping. He wished he were there to help Ben steal the human’s prey.

“Uhhh, h-here boy… th-that’s a good boy,” the human said nervously, holding the meat out toward Ben.

Ben tilted his head.

The human was holding the meat out… just… holding it.

Why?

Humans didn’t usually do that. Normally, they dropped prey from above, then the prey ran, and Ben chased it.

That made sense.

This did not make sense.

The human took a slow step forward.

Ben’s tail wagged.

Jerry scratched rapidly at the wall.

Is the human close? Jerry asked.

Very close, Ben replied.

Is it attacking you?

Not yet.

The human crouched lower and pushed the meat out farther.

“Good boy… good boy…”

Ben didn’t know what boy meant, but the human was very close now, and Ben thought it would be fun to hunt him.

Ben suddenly charged.

The human screamed and tried to run for the gate. Ben grabbed his leg and dragged him to the ground, then let go and ran circles around him.

The human tried to run for the gate again, but that would be no fun if he got away. So Ben shot a fireball in his way, and the human finally started running properly as he was forced away from the door.

Ben chased him all the way across the enclosure until he was backed into a corner. He just huddled into a ball, shaking, covering his arms over his head.

Ben fake-pounced at him a few times, but he just curled tighter against himself without running.

Ben’s tail drooped.

Boring!

He turned and walked back to the meat the human had brought. He lay down with it and started digging in. He was a little glad Jerry couldn’t steal the meat—it was actually pretty good!

Ben liked hunting with Jerry, but he didn’t like sharing food. Unless there was a lot of it, but even then Ben would usually try to eat faster just in case Jerry ended up getting more than him.

Jerry felt the same way about it, and he was jealous that Ben had meat and he did not.

Eventually, the human started trying to make his way back toward the gate again.

Ben just watched him through the corner of one eye while he enjoyed his meal. However, when the human got close to freedom, Ben decided he wanted to play more.

He abandoned the meat and stepped between the human and the gate.

The human froze.

His eyes were wide and wet, and he smelled like fear.

Ben wagged his tail.

The human slowly tried to step to the side.

Ben stepped to the side as well.

The human stepped the other way.

Ben stepped that way too.

The human made a strange choking noise.

Jerry scratched excitedly at the wall.

Is it a good hunt? Jerry asked.

Not really, Ben replied.

The human suddenly bolted.

Ben let him get three whole steps before he pounced.

The human screamed as Ben slammed into his back and sent him sprawling face-first into the dirt. Ben didn’t bite him right away, though. Instead he bounded past him, spun around, and crouched low with his tail wagging wildly.

Run again! Ben thought.

The human crawled desperately across the dirt.

Ben waited.

The human staggered to his feet and started running again.

Ben barked and gave chase.

They ran across the enclosure, kicking up dust. The human slipped once, then again, and Ben always herded him away from the gate with little bursts of fire that exploded in the dirt.

Every time the human tried to run back toward the exit—

Boom!

Eventually, the human collapsed in the far corner of the yard, sobbing and shaking too hard to stand.

Ben trotted over and sniffed him.

The human smelled terrible now. Fear, sweat, and droppings. Ben sometimes used that smell to track down prey, but it wasn’t necessary here, of course.

He wasn’t running anymore, and that was boring. It wasn’t a very good hunt even when he was running, so Ben figured he should just put an end to it now.

Ben opened his jaws and bit down.

The human only screamed for a short time before he was silenced, then Ben happily dragged the body back toward the half-eaten meat and resumed his meal.

Prey Eliminated! Level 5 human!

No experience gained.

On the other side of the wall, Jerry wagged his tail, hearing the notification as well.

You caught the human? Jerry asked.

Yep! Ben replied proudly.

Are you going to eat it?

Yep!

Jerry sat down.

Lucky…

Both Hell Hounds looked up toward the balcony as they heard more human sounds. Sometimes humans stood up there talking to each other.

They both thought, One day, I’m going to eat them too.
