Liz punched the air in sync with her phoenix form, causing Matt to laugh. Making Liz happy was worth it on its own, but it really was a good idea. Doubly so that hosting their own party meant they could avoid the endlessly stream of invites he was sure they were already getting now that it was clear they were remaining in the capital instead of vanishing like Zack and Allie.

Aster huffed. “I’m going to hold my own party and force everyone to decide which one they should go to.”

Matt laughed. “That could be fun. We each hold a party at the same time and force people to decide who they want to snub by not attending.”

“It's wicked. I’m actually tempted.” Liz looked positively evil at the suggestion.

Her and Aster’s villainous plans were interrupted by the front door of the estate opening which set off a few subtle pings.

Spreading his spiritual perception, Matt was on guard until he realized exactly who had shown up.

Travis and Keith, Liz’s older brother and his husband, and the two family members Matt had first met when they were just Tier 4s.

Cranking his perception and activating his combat buffs, Matt was the first to arrive in front of the duo, but Liz and Aster were only a moment behind him where they all lowered their perceptions to Tier 20 speeds.

“It's good to see you two!”

“Travis! Keith!”

“Ha! I’m stronger than you now! Taste my vengeance!”

As the three of them talked over each other, Travis and Keith reacted to their presences. “There they are, the Heroes of the hour!”

That praise caused Liz to pause mid jump. “Ahh, now I feel bad for wanting to bully you.”

Travis ruffled Liz’s hair before pulling her into a hug. “It's ok, no matter how strong you get, you’ll always be my baby sister.”

Liz mockingly mouthed the words “baby sister”, but she didn’t pull away.

Matt instead fought with Aster on who got the first hug with Keith. Aster won by dint of creating an illusion over Keith, making Matt miss the actual person, so Matt just hugged both of them.

“It's good to see you, Keith. How have you been since our last message?”

“Good, good. Really, just the same old same old. Delve once a year, work on other things the rest of the time. It becomes a routine pretty quick. How are you guys doing with the war? Or rather, how are you guys holding up now that the war is over?”

Matt didn’t want to lie and say he was doing fine or good. He had lost friends and was far from either of those descriptions but he didn’t want to bring down the mood right after seeing them for the first time in so long. Messages just weren’t the same as in person contact.

“We are… As well as can be and getting better day by day. It's great to see you two though. And unexpected.”

Travis laughed as he leaned in for his own hug. “We were all the way at dad’s capital and we left the day we heard the news of the war ending. We are only lowly Tier 20s, and our best method of transportation was slow.”

Aster poked his puffed up cheek causing him to let out a puff of air. “Why didn’t you just hitch a ride on a shipping liner? Fifteen just arrived today, and they have been flooding the capital since the war officially ended.”

Keith tried to hide his laughter but failed, causing Travis to sigh. “We—” Looking at Keith, he corrected himself, “I thought it would be better to fly ourselves.”

Matt snorted at that. “Well, you are still the first ones to arrive, so you are doing better than everyone else.”

Travis perked up at that and started into the estate proper, talking over his shoulder. “I bet Sam and Annie won’t be free for a while. Backline Generals like them always have a ton of stuff to do post war, or so he says. What—” He spun around and his eyes narrowed in on phoenix Liz. “Oh yeah, your new bloodline. Congrats, by the way. But wow. That’s weirdly subtle. I mean, it’s clearly not a normal phoenix when you look closer, but something like an ice phoenix is very obviously other.”

“Because ice bloodlines are the superior element. We are so cool!”

Both of the siblings ignored Aster, and as Travis transformed into his own phoenix form to inspect his sister as they walked, Matt walked with Keith further into the house where he settled them into their room.

Like their own rooms, the rooms came equipped with every amenity, but Keith seemed well used to them as he put their spatial rings on the holders which distributed their content to the appropriate venues in the rooms.

Looking around, Keith gestured Matt and Aster over. “Under no circumstances can you let ‘you know who’ know about this, but I want to share.”

Keith flashed a small hand sized sphere that looked like petrified flesh. It took him a moment to properly identify it, but his eyes widened in surprise once he did so. Aster, after pinging him to tell her what it was, played up her surprise even further, making an illusion of herself shattering like glass and vanishing into the breeze.

“How’d you get one of those?” Liz asked with a bit of awe, and Matt couldn’t help but agree. Descendent Decanters, like the one Keith had, were exclusively dropped in rifts above Tier 40 and allowed anyone to have a kid. Whoever provided essence to the item would be a parent, be it a singular Tier 1 or an entire group of Tier 40s. Considering how much fertility dropped for immortals, it was an incredibly desirable item at the best of times.

With Manny preparing to have a kid, they were actually impossible to buy at the moment, along with all other reliable child-producing methods. That Travis and Keith had one was surprising both from a rarity perspective, but also in what it represented.

Keith answered with a hushed tone, “Leah got it from a delve a couple decades ago, and instead of selling it, she gave it to us. We’re really grateful, because otherwise there was no way we’d be able to be part of the upcoming noble generation. Neither of us wants to body morph to go for a child the biological way. Not that the timing matters that much, but… well, you’d know why we’d want to do it this way, Liz. Kids between generations and all.”

Matt nodded along, still shocked. It made sense that Leah got it. Despite only being the second oldest sibling, she was the highest Tier at Tier 44, meaning she had a chance for it to actually drop from a rift. It also made sense why Keith was being secretive. If Mara and Leon found out, they would probably explode from the happiness of finally being grandparents.

It was then that Keith dropped a second bomb on Matt. “Currently Sam, Erin, as well as Alice are planning to do the same. We’ve joked we are going to bury them under grandkids after denying them for so long.”

Matt chortled at the idea of Mara and Leons reaction to the fact they would be grandparents four times over. They might explode with happiness.

Then his laughter stopped as he realized the potential.

He was still lost in thought when phoenix Liz came in and cheered over the Descendant Decanter as if she hadn’t seen it in human form.

Matt couldn’t help watching her as she congratulated Travis and Keith. It could easily be five of them instead of just four. The current date for the birth was thousands of years away but it suddenly felt very close to Matt. He found that as he thought over the idea that he didn’t hate it. The idea that his and Liz’s child would be raised with at least four other cousins was comforting, not scary.

Liz shot him a look which told him she had gone through the same thought process and they would talk about it later.

But not here.

Frankly, Keith and Travis were foolish to bring out the Descendant Decanter anywhere on the Capital. Mara and Leon might arrive at any time if the Emperor teleported them back, and the siblings seemed intent on turning this into a surprise for the ages. Mara and Leon’s no snooping rule could only apply if they knew there was someone to accidentally snoop on, and a quick scan would surely reveal the secret if it was just sitting out in the open.

No matter his own complicated feelings, Matt was ecstatic for Travis and Keith. “Come, let me cook something up to celebrate.”

Aster immediately agreed. “Oh yeah, I just made some ice cream as well. We need to celebrate this before the terrible duo come back!”

As if the arrival of Travis and Keith was the signal the others needed to arrive, Erin and two of her harem members arrived, then shortly after Daniel arrived, turning the evening into a party.

With the new arrivals, they decided that instead of cooking they should go out to eat. After some good natured arguments, they settled on going out to a twin-Red Feather restaurant just two buildings over, which they had gone to before with the extended family as they wanted something quieter. As Ascenders, they had standing invitations to eat for free at pretty much every restaurant in the Capital but that would come with interviews they didn’t want to deal with.

Matt was still shocked at just how spatially expanded the Capital truly was, as they had to fly for almost two hours to reach the edge of the building they were in before they could exit. Each building was like its own, not so little, self contained world. Spatial expansion was one of those things that was easy to take for granted, but added so much livable space to a crowded place like the Capital that when he really thought about it, Matt was slightly overwhelmed.

He wanted his guild to fundamentally change the world in a similar way to how spatial expansion changed how people lived. It was a lofty goal, but it all started with a single step. The first person to create a folded space surely had no idea just how far their idea would grow and morph.

With how old spatial expansion was, it wasn’t like they could study the actual history of its development, but they had enough information to make guesses. It started small and mostly for higher Tiers and the wealthy, but thanks to its usefulness, the demand, and the value of spatial items, there were more and more crafters willing to make them. Some number of those crafters improved the contraptions, building off each other, lowering the Tier of the spatial items, removing the need for exotic materials, and making cheaper methods to enchant them. Until eventually, someone created the first closed spatial item that didn’t need an aperture, and items like spatial rings were born. The same process repeated until they reached where they were today.

Some suspected they had reached the end of major advancement and were simply chasing the nines as it was called, but Matt didn’t believe so. Nominally, spatial rings were only usable by people above Tier 15, and while Talent-made ones did break that rule, most people just chalked that up to Talents being Talents. Or the rings were made for specific items and unable to hold anything else but they were expensive and specific enough that only delvers could really afford them. Matt felt all of that signified there was still progress to be made for the non-Talented methods of research.

Not that spatial items were high on his personal list of things to delve into, aperology took that slot. It was however something so useful that any advancement was a net positive for everyone, and if someone came to his guild with a good idea that wasn’t already being worked on by another company, he’d happily fund it.

Spatial items weren’t perfect.

That was but one of countless things that he could do with his mana. Individual discoveries existed, and tremendous amounts of research was done on so many things, but so much of it was, in his opinion, wasted. Or at least not fully utilized for all the good it could do.

Most high Tier research was directed towards optimizing a specific person’s Talent or Domain creations, or tweaking outputs in specific non-replicable situations. And it was almost always in service of making something new and specific. If a high-Tier wanted a new sword, that almost always required bespoke research to tailor it for their essence and Domain, but that research was barely applicable to common crafters trying to learn something new to further their own skills.

His own mana concentration array was a perfect example of that. The odds of someone else ever using it were basically nonexistent, but a huge amount of resources had been directed into it.

That was all fine, and Matt even understood why it was like that. Cultivation became so individualized that artisanal crafting was the better option at the higher Tiers. Combined with higher Tier crafters wanting to push their skills and their fellow higher Tiers being the only ones who could facilitate that it all made sense.

But with his guild and with his mana, Matt wanted to improve things from the base up. Better enchantments for the common mortals, better rifts for beginning and low Tier delvers, better mana density on high-Tier worlds, all to help out the lower Tiers who couldn’t afford to just fix their own problems by dint of their individual power.

Even now, the air was positively starved of mana in a way that was still shocking every time he noticed it.

With that in mind, combined with the reminder of the incredible amount of essence swirling around them, made Matt spontaneously grab a wisp of environmental essence and use it as leverage against his core, crunching it and advancing to Tier 26 and letting that wisp of essence fade back into the air around him. Manny hadn’t officially told him to advance as fast as he could, but he could read between the lines and there was no need for him to be any weaker than he had to be any more.

With his Tier 25 Talent, it was easy to take his mana pool from 41,943,040 to 83,886,080 in a matter of seconds.

