Shiv reluctantly took advantage of her apprehension. "It’s, uh, fine, devoted… faithful. I understand you have a lot of questions. It's just a normal part of being dead, you know. There's like a layer of final service before you can really cross over into true heaven." Shiv cringed with every word, and from what he could feel using his Sage, the Anointed One was cringing along with him.

"Just how bad are your Social Skills?" the fae hissed.

“Hey, my Psychology-Berserk Skill Fusion jacked your shit up.”

"That has nothing to do with a social skill; that is purely your ability to read and peer into another person's psyche. No wonder you are performing so poorly. Have you convinced anyone of anything diplomatically in your life?"

"I've intimidated people before," Shiv said defensively.

"Intimidated? This is not about intimidation; this is about luring bees to honey. You need to be sweet, Deathless. You need to be careful. You need to convince the mind. If you force the mind, it will break. My word, my Laughing Radiance, you are truly a monster to the bone—ah, forgive me, I get frustrated when I see… inefficiency."

"That's okay, Toasty. I'll forgive you. Maybe only after I slam you against the bars a few more times, but I'll forgive you."

The fae shuddered.

Shiv continued speaking with the bread-chefs. "So… Uh, you guys passed the test. You're going to Heaven!" Shiv declared. "But before that, there's one final thing I want you to do. It's like a commemorative thing for how you've lived your life. You're adventuring chefs, and your cooking is pretty awesome."

“Pretty awesome,” Velly said, taken aback.

“Uh, shi—I mean, that’s what the—the people say these days, right?” Shiv tried to remember how Harlock spoke during their brief encounter. The Ascendant was one of few words and absolutely didn't sound like Shiv did right now. But who was to say what Harlock’s personality was actually like?

I really should have paid more attention to theology, Shiv thought to himself. Fucking War Priest throwing me out of that church—it's not my fault that I don't know anything!

But even with Shiv's absolutely atrocious acting, both of the fallen remnants accepted his words. They kneeled, lowering their heads before him.

"We will do as you command, Harlock. It will be our honor to serve you a final course," Velly said, looking at his hands and slowly balling them into fists. "We will be willing to offer ourselves as the final course unto you as well, for the glory of the Republic. Simply speak your will, and I will do everything within my power to see it done.”

"For the glory of the Republic," Nornsong echoed.

Shiv wondered if either of the two was this loyal in life. He didn't know them very well at all, but something told him that the bits of Nornsong's personality might have ended up inside the head chef's mind as well. They were both a little too similar to each other when it came to degrees of faithfulness.

The Fae-Knight chuckled darkly. "But even if you are crippled socially, it is clear that you don't need to have that high an aptitude to compel them to service. As I told you before, the dead are desperate, the dead are lost, and with a few properly placed words, the dead are yours to awaken, to use, and infuse into bread."

Shiv really didn't know how to reply to that. This entire endeavor was beginning to feel more and more questionable. Suddenly, the world around Shiv began to tremble. Everything rippled like the surface of a disturbed lake, and the orange matter spilling out from both Velly and Nornsong's new bread-forged bodies formed an aura around them.

Everything burst apart, and Shiv found himself back in his original body. His skill sigils were flaring bright on the back of his hand, and with the final splash of mana, he found himself standing before two newly shaped forms. Nornsong and Velly had rejoined him in the world. They looked as he remembered them, both of them examining themselves and looking around the kitchen.

Finally, they turned and noticed the Fae-Knight standing in his cage. Shiv tasted a surge of animosity coming from both the chefs, but he cleared his throat and drew their attention back to him.

"Welcome," Shiv said, swallowing as he tried to keep his bullshit train going, "back to your kitchen. I had this place shaped to give you that final trial of, uh, pre-heaven."

"Of course, Deepest Midnight," Velly said, bowing his head. "We will do anything you ask.”

“Anything," Nornsong repeated.

Adam leaned in next to Shiv, and he asked with a voice barely louder than a whisper, "Shiv, what did you just do? Why do they think you're Harlock the Midnight?"

"I'll tell you in a minute," Shiv said through clenched teeth. He regarded the two bread beings before him and decided to set a few things straight: "Ignore the Faebread for now. He's been defeated and caged by the Republic's glorious justice."

“I am undone,” the Fae-Knight said with as much enthusiasm as a parent forced to listen to their child go through faith choir after the eighteenth false start.

Despite Shiv's rambling awkwardness, both Velly and Nornsong accepted his words with resolute bows. Shiv also caught the fairy rolling his eyes, but the eye roll froze halfway through as he realized Shiv had seen it. Suddenly, he looked down at the ground and re-assumed the role of pensive prisoner.

"Alright, the first thing I need you to do is…" Shiv gave Nornsong and Velly a look-over. "Felling hells, we’re going to need to find you some clothes. But before that, I need to… To see if you two can be baked.”

Both of the chefs snapped to attention and betrayed no hint of fear.

Velly held his head high and stood tall. "Of course, great Harlock.” Yet, suddenly, the lizard chef was unmoving. He seemed lost for a moment.

"Is there something wrong?" Shiv asked as his own worries rose. Would this be the moment where they realized he was full of shit?

"Forgive me, O Deepest Midnight," Velly declared, "but I—" And the tension in the room grew. "I don't quite recall how bread is prepared."

Shiv blinked. "You don't?"

“Neither do I,” Nornsong said dreamily. The left part of her dough-ass promptly fell off and landed on the carpeted floor.

“Well, that’s a scene that’s going to come back to me in a nightmare at some point,” Adam muttered from behind Shiv.

"The awakened are made from partial remnants and echoes," the Fae-Knight explained from his timeout cage. "They often need direct guidance and commandments. They do not possess their original skills either. Understand that you still must be the one that judges them, that leads them. They do not have specific knowledge, only bits and fragments of who they were. The deciding hand must still be you. You must command them to act!”

Shiv gritted his teeth. It felt weird ordering a spiritual echo harvested from a dead person you knew to cook itself. And then you had to actually walk it through cooking itself. But Shiv's life was nothing but weird by this point. And besides, this might be a workaround for the Curse that's currently keeping my Cooking Skill crippled.

Drawing in a breath, Shiv began navigating the moral and ethical ambiguities of the current situation as best he could.

"Well, alright, Velly, so I, Harlock the Midnight, happen to remember how to make bread."

"That is wondrous, O Deepest Midnight," Velly said. His voice briefly became monotone, and his gaze lost focus.

Like some kind of damaged automaton, Shiv thought.

"That is wondrous, Deepest Midnight," Nornsong echoed. She wasn’t much more animated.

Yep, Shiv thought to himself. Parts of them are definitely intermingled.

"Okay, so here's what you're going to do."

Adam tugged on Shiv's arm once more: "Shiv, what are you doing?”

“Gonna find out if I can make bread to make itself.”

The Gate Lord’s eyes grew wide. “They’re people, Shiv.”

"Yeah, well, the customers downstairs still need to eat, right? Otherwise, they'll come in to find out what’s taking so long." The look on Adam’s face got ever more incredulous. Shiv shot the bread-chefs a look, then turned back to Adam. "Would it help if I told you that these people are not really themselves anymore? Just like fragments?"

Adam looked extremely uncomfortable. “But… It still seems…”

"Well, I feel the same way, but, uh, you know, I—I just—

"You want to use them as ingredients and to bypass the Curse?" Adam asked.

"Yeah, something like that," Shiv admitted with a slight hint of shame.

Deep struggle played across Adam's features, but ultimately, he just sighed. "Well, let's see if we can make these bread people bake themselves."
