Zac nodded in understanding before sending over a Mental Tendril. Entering Tavza’s body felt like being submerged in the Abyssal Lake. Zac quickly infused some Dao of Death into his spiritual thread to keep it from being eroded without causing harm as he followed the calling. And there it was. A second heart.

The opalescent organ was nestled right next to Tavza’s Cosmic Core. It had a beat despite not being connected to any veins or nerves, each thump releasing a significant amount of Creation Energy. The heart was surrounded by countless runes radiating Abyssal Death and Oblivion. The array had created a separate space that kept the foreign heart isolated. It kept Tavza safe, but just countering the steady pulses of Creation required a significant amount of Miasma.

“What the hell? Is it a shard? No, it’s pure energy…” Zac muttered. He looked up at Tavza in disbelief a true undead could walk around with such a thing without keeling over. “How did this happen?”

“It’s the price of touching the Peak of Chaos without the qualifications,” Tavza said. “Some of it followed me back after our previous encounter. I could barely survive with it spread across my body, let alone exhibit my abilities. I finally found a solution during my time here. I delineated the Dao, separating Chaos into Creation and Oblivion.

“One became nourishment, the other a lesser threat. However, it exhibited surprising resilience. Because of how I reached you, I believe the energy is directly connected to the Tapestry of Chaos. I still couldn’t expel it, so I chose to contain it all in one spot. Then this happened.”

“Is this thing why you’re traveling alone?” Zac asked. “You’d have little left for yourself if you had to provide your subordinates with Miasma while keeping that thing trapped.”

“That’s one of the reasons,” Tavza nodded.

The situation was eerily similar to his own, and Zac wasn’t thinking of the Shards of Creation. Tavza’s predicament was just like when he was poisoned by the ancient Draugr blood, which eventually turned him into a Draugr himself. Zac had even combated his festering wound the same way, though naturally in a much cruder fashion.

Tavza didn’t have a Technocrat Heritage to deal with the malignant tumor. Besides, the Creation lodged by her core was far more troublesome than some ancient Draugr blood smeared on a Corpselord’s weapon. Just as Tavza said, it seemed even purer than his own Creation. It retained a state of perfection he’d only seen when absorbing Chaos Motes.

“I’m not sure I can absorb its energy as much as I’d like to. It’s almost like it has a will of its own. There are a few other things I could try, but I’m not sure how well it’d work,” Zac admitted.

The most obvious route was blasting it with [Void Mountain]’s Dao-extinguishing brand. Exhausting Dao with Void was much more effective than Tavza’s war between Creation and Death. However, there was a limit to how much Dao Zac could extinguish every second, and he wasn’t even sure his complete stores of Void Energy were enough to deal with the heart.

The alternative was trying to open up a Void Vortex inside Tavza’s body to swallow the accumulation in one big bite. His personal Void could easily accommodate that amount of energy, and it might even prove highly beneficial. Unfortunately, Zac didn’t have that kind of fine control over his Bloodline. If he managed to open a vortex, he’d probably accidentally cut Tavza in two.

“The good news is that I’m certain this thing has no connection with the Heart of Creation. I’m intimately familiar with their brand of obsession, and there’s none of that here.”

“It’s fine. I can keep it under control. Worst case, I’ll have my ancestor expel the corruption upon my return,” Tavza said. “I’m only bringing it up because there is a limit to how much energy I can divert to hiding your presence.”

Zac kept his face impassive to keep his suspicions from showing. Tavza wasn’t exactly one to wear her heart on her sleeve. Still, shouldn’t there have been some disappointment upon hearing she’d be stuck with the energy-draining parasite for the foreseeable future? Would she have accepted if he presented a solution, or would she have come up with an excuse? Because it almost seemed as though she wanted to keep it around.

“Let me know if the situation changes. I’ve been implanted with all kinds of weird things over the years, so I’ve gotten pretty good at coming up with counters on the fly,” Zac said, deciding to drop the matter. It was no business of his if Tavza wanted to turn the ball of Creation into something useful.

“I will,” Tavza promised. “If you give me a moment, I’ll prepare something that should buy you a few hours.”

“That’s perfect,” Zac said, part of his attention diverting to the Seal of Fertile Earth floating inside [Purity of the Void]. “It should be enough time to call reinforcement.”

“A Hegemon slaying a God,” Tavza lightly exhaled. “I look forward to writing history with you.”

Zac looked at Tavza with surprise and some alarm. She was being sincere. Ventus had already cracked under the pressure, blabbering about the winds of Chaos whenever death drew close. Now, it looked like the An’Azol descendant had lost her marbles before they even started traveling together.

Was Ogras right? Was he really that bad an influence?
