After Aiden nodded, she said goodbye to Seth and teleported directly to the plaza on the upper level of Dal’mohra. She had housed the Wood Elves here for a while, a necessary discomfort for them, but perhaps it might suit the dwarves better, as Aiden had suggested. Regardless, the place was still an unfinished mess after the Blooming Rot incursion, and she had a lot of work to do before anyone settled in – and some of those Dwarves had looked like they were at the end of their rope.

She pushed her sleeves up to her elbows and summoned the mana of her domain.

A billowing wave rolled out through her mana, and with it, she erased everything that was not locked down or solid stone. She watched carefully, directing her mana, and then removed a substantial amount of what remained, leaving the ruins stripped bare, with just the outline of houses, the skeleton of the stone paved boulevards and streets, and the barest backbone of trees she needed to support her domain with the help of all the plants she’d placed in the Spirit Realm.

After taking a deep breath and rolling her shoulders a few times to ease a crick in her neck, she summoned several giant Treants, setting them the task of repopulating the main spoke boulevards with glowing Radiant Larch trees. She had enough experience working with Murgrid and Belra rebuilding Myrin’s Keep by now to know exactly what they would need. Beside every block of houses, she summoned neat piles of stone, leaving the shells of the houses in place with the raw materials for the stone crafters to wield their mastery. Where it was easy, she patched up the structure of broken walls, but fashioning details like bathtubs and windowsills on this scale was a task best left to the specialists.

When she finally reached the yawning hole blasted through the foundation rock of the residential district by Nevyn Eld’s invading armies so long ago, she paused.

You’ve been broken long enough, she decided, resolving to undo at least part of the Blind Lich’s damage. She summoned her magic once again, and stone began to sprout, growing out from the shattered edges. Ali shaped it steadily, making the flowing stone harden as it seamlessly repaired the missing bedrock of the city level. When she was done, she repaired the runic defensive circles, growing them as inlaid etchings around the shattered edges, until they finally looped around and closed.

With just a few adjustments, she diverted the power conduits from the missing mana condensers on the level below, instead attaching them directly to her domain, and, more than three thousand years too late, the defensive dome shields suddenly sprang into place. She disabled them with a thought.

When Ali flew back, she found Dwarves slowly filing out of the Grand Library Arcana and onto the plaza, grumbling and complaining about the dark, the long journey, being hungry, and more or less everything that exhausted, tired, and hunted people typically felt.

When Dal’mohra had been at the height of its glory, the residential district had been bathed in the beautiful radiance of an artificial sun. One that tracked the cycles of day and night on the outside. It had been something she had loved waking up to and watching how the city transformed at night when the ‘sun’ slowly faded.

The artifact that had powered that was now a shattered remnant down a level below – a mana condenser that had been leaking liquid light mana down into the jungle below for so long that it now spawned all kinds of elemental monsters. Still, Ali did not have an enormous domain for nothing. Just as she had repaired the defensive barrier enchantments a few moments ago, she zipped across the plaza and poured her mana into the ancient runic array, adjusting the couplings and restoring sundered runes. As soon as she finished, she linked it to her domain, and the formation suddenly thrummed with raw power.

High overhead, light-affinity mana projected by the array began to gather. It swelled as the conduits fed the flood of domain mana through the array. Larger and larger it grew, while below her, the Dwarves grumbled as more and more of their number gathered, guided there by the guild leaders.

And slowly, after millennia of night, dawn broke once again over the ancient city of Dal’mohra.

As the light began to shine, the Dwarves fell silent.

The awed hush shattered as Murgrid and Belra strode through the crowd to the front and turned to face them.

Murgrid announced, “Alright you lot! Stone crafters, masons, and earth mages with us, we have a city ta rebuild. If ya want some nice solid stone houses to sleep in tonight, we have work ta do!”

“Those of you who aren’t about to pass out on your feet,” Ali added.

“Aye, that,” Belra added.

And with that, she wheeled on her heels and strode off toward the first pile of stone Ali had left, magic gathering in her stocky arms and hands.

Looks were exchanged. Looks of surprise, with many unanswered and unspoken questions, but then dozens of Dwarves rushed after her eagerly.

With her part of the work mostly done, Ali flew down, admiring the ancient magic that powered the artificial sun. Compared to the disaster that had befallen her home, the sun seemed like an insignificant detail. And yet, somehow, just seeing it again, the soft light illuminating the houses and familiar streets, making the crystals embedded in the rock overhead glitter like stars in the daylight, it instantly filled her with that indefinable feeling. I’m home.

“Who are ya?” someone grouchy asked.

“Excuse me?” Ali asked, turning to find a Dwarven woman with a shock of fiery red hair glaring at her.

“Who are ya that ya offer us the fabled city of Dal’mohra for a home?”

“This has always been my home,” Ali answered, keeping a lid on her feelings. “You and yours seem to need a place to stay, and Dal’mohra has been empty for far too long.”

The Dwarf woman paused, as if reconsidering her response, and finally said, “Vilda Steelbellows. Thank ya for yer generosity and hospitality.”

Ali identified her.

Blacksmith – Dwarf – level 122 (Fire)

“Aliandra Amariel,” she answered, smiling at the soot-stained dwarven blacksmith. She looked like she’d been crawling around in the dirt somewhere for a few weeks.

“I don’t suppose ya happen ta have a wee little forge in here somewhere?” Vilda asked, eyes searching the ruins hopefully.

“Yes. The Anvil of Thovir Emberforge is down past the mine,” Ali said. The Dwarf wheezed in evident shock. “I can have Thuli Emberforge stop by tomorrow and show you if you like.”

“Aye, I would like that… very much,” Vilda whispered, her voice filled with sudden awe, and yet carrying well in the dead silence Ali’s words had provoked.

“There’s a mine? Did ya hear that Haldin?”

“Thovir Emberforge?”

“The legendary anvil?”

“Be there good, strong iron in those mines, lassie?”

“There is iron,” Ali said, and then she grinned at the curious dwarf who’d asked. “There’s also bloodsteel ore, mithril, magicite, abyssal bloodstone, and a whole lot of other things.”

“Ooh, lassie! Yer my new favorite person!” That fervent declaration earned him a clout on the ear from a woman who looked to be his wife and a raucous round of infectious laughter from everyone nearby.

If they can still laugh after all they’ve been through, I think they might be ok, Ali thought. But she wasn’t certain of it until a whole army of townsfolk traipsed through the doors bearing barrels of beer and crates of food. Street vendors set up their carts, and soon the entire plaza was filled with the mouthwatering scents and aromas of cooking and the happy chatter of the Dwarves mingling with their hosts.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
