She shrugged, stowing her enchanted gun and stepping back. “A bit, but I don’t need the winnings. Are we going?” The crowd around her first seemed upset that she was leaving, but then cheered when she said she wasn’t going to take her winnings. It didn’t look like much to Nathan’s eyes, the sort of utility enchantments that made camping easier, but that the Heirs already had access to, and a bunch of bottles of fine alcohol.

“We are,” he replied.

They found Aarl and then promptly turned around, since he was otherwise occupied with a small group of friendly Questors. “I’ll get him later,” Sarah said, rolling her eyes hard enough that her entire head moved in a circle.

“Don’t interrupt on our account,” Nathan said, amused. “He seems like he’s having the most fun of any of us.”

Nathan tracked Stella to the outskirts of the party, where she was putting the finishing touches on a subterranean campsite similar to those they’d used in the blight. “I’m surprised you left the party. Is everything ok?” he asked.

She shrugged. “It was too much. Too many Questors, most of them wanting something. A lot of mages who wanted to prove their prowess and then see me prove mine. But I don’t need to prove myself. Not after today.” She sounded exhausted and a little frustrated. "Fame is upsetting."

“Same here,” Nathan answered. “Let’s rest and talk in the morning. I have the feeling we’re going to be making some hard decisions tomorrow.”

“Where’s Aarl?” Stella asked.

“Where do you expect?” Sarah asked, acerbically.

Utility skill: High-tier Disguise

This skill will make your disguises more convincing, especially in conversation. You will seem less suspicious even in doubtful circumstances.

Utility skill: Blending

You will be at home in any social situation, able to avoid provoking annoyance or suspicion even in unfamiliar environments.

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 6

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 9

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 5

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina: 16832/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 897

Limitless Focus: 9070/9070

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Perfected Mind 2

Inspiration 10

Impulse 8

The Sense of Magic 5

Forewarning 10

The Truth of Magic 6

Evasion 5

Wizard’s Palace 5

Veracity 4

Whiplash 5

Visibility Control 8

Blending 1

High-tier Battle Cry 7

Aura Mastery 6
