Standing up from the meditation, I felt ready for what was to come. I stepped out of my owned space, and everything crushed around me. The pressure was a tangible thing, but I welcomed it. Spreading my hands, I clasped my fists. It was good to be alive. I had a few notifications, but I'd read them after heading out.

It was time to destroy the time area with Chrona.

Chapter Begin

Having everything I needed, I set out in search of Chrona. Her position was obvious on my minimap, and I found her outside the barrier of the city, fighting various local eldritch. I floated over, watching from several kilometers away. Against a thriving mangrove tree, Chrona stood tall and faced it down.

The vines and roots of the plant came to life, each of them wielding water and earth magic. Fruits swelled on the eldritchian horror, and they ruptured into swarming fields of wasps and spores. Streams of abrading water erupted from the creature, and the soil beneath Chrona condensed to crystals that shot out of the ground.

As it turned a vast area into mulch, it wielded the entire region against Chrona. I inspected the monster.

Celestial World Waving Ent, the Endless Encroach of Nature | Level 31,019

I smiled at the level. It was one of the strongest eldritch that spawned here, and it held an enormous sway over the entire area. Facing it down, Chrona kept her gaze steady. Moving her tail like a fencer's sword, she deflected the incoming projectiles using subtle flicks. Each angle of her tail left an attack bolting past her face and sides, the wind flowing over Chrona's shining skin.

She used my tail cover to wield gravity and telekinesis. While Chrona struggled to summon those forces, applying them was well within her abilities. It bolstered her formidable skills, helping Chrona disrupt the flow of her enemy's magic and attacks. Whenever a stray strike angled too well for her to dodge, Chrona's Planet Wielder skill gave her the heft to meet the monster head-on.

As they fought, everything surrounding them disintegrated. It was a strange aspect of fighting on Rebirth. The celestial ent was a monstrous foe. It cleaved enormous portions of the surrounding forest, tearing down entire hills from the whiplash of its strikes alone. Its earth magic shifted city blocks of soil at once, and it upturned entire lakes through its sheer will alone.

Yet it wasn't enough.

Chrona narrowed her eyes, keeping an inexorable focus. Watching them destroy everything in the distance reminded me why Empires had so much raw territory. Their main administrative planets were established on low-gravity planets with minute mana concentrations. Worlds like Rebirth acted as the wild frontiers for the same empires, the hostile terrains becoming grinding stones for the brave.

Rebirth was firmly in the frontier category, having strong native eldritch. That gave the elites of a guild the leeway and space to truly master destructive fighting. On Earth, this kind of duel would collapse structures for miles in every direction. Unprotected humans would be killed in the carnage, and entire ecosystems would be converted to ash and upturned dirt.

It was another reason to take this planet as my own. Those thoughts tumbled in my head as Chrona and the ent fought. After a few minutes of handling the crushing blows, she smiled and laughed.

"Is this it?"

The writhing ent had used all of its tricks, but Chrona had yet to use her most pressing skill. A reverberation through reality bent time to her will, and everything slowed as she hastened. It left her bolting across the battlefield in a playground that was all her own. Bounding forward, she shuttled to the ent with immense momentum.

Timing her reversal, she whipped every bit of that driving force into her tail. The ent sliced three colossal roots at her, timing its own strike. As they met, the terrain howled out in explosive agony. Shrapnel erupted for miles, bits of rock pattering against my skin. Several clashing blows cascaded those forces, the clouds trembling overhead.

My eyes widened, and I murmured.

"Ah, that's an interesting way to use telekinesis."

She wielded a different kind of magic than I did. Instead of putting all the surface area into a tiny point, Chrona did something similar. She applied all of her force into a series of thin, telekinetic lines. In essence, a telekinetic blade. Without the tail cover, she would've sliced herself apart. It acted as the conduit for her force application, and it held immense power.

Behind the ent, a mountain fell sideways as the telekinetic blade sliced it apart. The ent's body split apart before regrowing as a mass of tumbled knots. Chrona pressed her advantage once more. The invisible, telekinetic force flowed forward like a series of invisible blades, and the ancient and powerful ent took on grievous wounds before falling apart.

A series of invisible slices cut the monster apart. Before it regrew, Chrona took a deep breath and released her icy breath. The cubes froze in place, and I smiled yet again. Chrona had learned how to incorporate the stasis principles from Ghelid's territory into her icy breath. Taking a closer look, she hadn't actually bent the fabric of reality yet, but instead, she applied raw magic to achieve a similar effect.

It wouldn't work against a controlled space, but it was still great progress. The ent was unable to even budge itself. The cubes of wood shivered in their prisons before frostbite bit through their entire forms. In a minute, the ancient ent passed, and Chrona let out a breath of relief. I clapped my hands while hovering down.

"Wow. That was excellent."

She turned to me, sweat dripping from her brow.

"I do my best, but I still cannot match the pace of your removal."

I gazed at the frozen blocks.

"Eh, but you've got a lot of utility. The time manipulation and stasis are a deadly combo, and anyone you fight with will benefit from them too."

Chrona wiped her face with her tail.

"Perhaps, but it is nothing before absolute destruction."

I shrugged.

"Little is, but I think that's a binary lens for looking at combat."

Chrona smirked.

"That's easy to say when you have that kind of annihilation in your palms, while I do not."

I swung a hand.

"Speaking of, I'm about to head over to the time-blipping area. I was wondering if you wanted to go?"

Her eyes widened, and she hopped over like a bounding puppy.

"Ooh, absolutely. I will do all that I can so as not to be a burden."

I rolled my shoulders.

"Chrona, you're never a burden. Now, let's go."

Chrona took a breath and gazed at the dying eldritch.

"Ash-tah, leh-vee, stah, baby."

I furrowed my brow. Chrona gave me a side eye, a satisfied grin on her face.

"I already know that you've yet to see one as cultured as I in your old world's ways. I have used that reference from an old saying from your time, and you may show your surprise whenever you are ready."

I deadpanned.

"You mean hasta la vista, baby?"

Chrona's eyes widened.

"Ah, so that is the proper enunciation."

She flushed.

"It would seem I've made a fool of myself then."

I waved a hand.

"Not at all. If you want a crash course in how to do that, just talk to the vanguard golems."

A vanguard golem stuck its head out of the bushes.

"But should the almighty Harbinger call for me, I will be ready whenever-"

Chrona and I turned to it. We said in tandem.

"No."

The vanguard gave us a thumbs up.

"I fully understand. There are times when a more subtle approach is required. I will leave you both to it."

It exploded out of the brush, creating a shockwave as it tore through many trees. Chrona murmured.

"I must admit that the antics...They're endearing."

I scoffed.

"Let's agree to disagree. Come, let's head out."

We swooped through the vast, indeterminate plains that surrounded the capital of Rebirth. As we passed them, I checked out my status and found a few surprises.

Unknown Skill Unlocked! 500 skill points awarded.

Spatial Domain | Level 11 - Many who trespass onto this world know little of its origins. They understand that there exists a surrounding to themselves, yet they lack the will to try and pull at it. To reach out and find something in the ether. You have found that this space encompasses your entire being.

And instead of letting it decide what you may do, you have chosen to rise above it. By doing so, you wield the world.

+11% to Spatial Domain Range

+11% to Spatial Domain Duration

+11% to Spatial Domain Effects

It was a skill I had anticipated, but the name of it surprised me. It matched the effect, but it sounded violent. I mean, this skill hadn't involved tearing the space like a rip in time would have, but according to the skill, I was operating on a paradigm that was just as impactful. Hm. It was like I changed the space itself rather than destroying it.

After pushing the surrounding dimension away from myself, I used my dimensional wake to fill in the void. My laws and principles then became the norm, allowing me to manipulate reality a bit. If anything, it was a natural progression of my wake, and it may protect me from the whiplash of future skills.

In fact, it could protect me from the ripples of the Old Ones. I recalled Eonoth's utter destruction of my form, and a bitter laugh escaped my lips. I would need every advantage I could obtain. Revelations aside, I gained skillpoints, so I put them in Schema's Champion. A satisfying ding rang through my mind, and I anticipated the benefits for a moment before checking them out.

Schema's Champion Tier III unlocked!

It beckons and has become aware of you. It doesn't fully understand that you contain many of the abilities it seeks, yet it has heard the whispers of those it trusts. In time, it will come. When it arrives, you must be ready. It is a user of the Old Ones, and in doing so, it has become both their bane and their champion.

That is why all you understand now rests on your shoulders.

+3,000 to level cap

+ 3 tier to the access level of Schema's Archives(Gold) | Gives certain tree, skill, and class specs. Unlocks extra informational utilities, weekly Overseer calls, and the ability to rent system vessels and faculties.

+ 3 tier to technology level allowance(Gold)

+ 3 tier to economy privileges(Gold)

Sovereign Exclusive: +3 to hidden mana type allowance

I read through the message, and I frowned. The benefits were as esoteric as always for this tree, but the message it left was not. Schema was warning me about someone who was using the Old Ones. If not for Marcella's words, I'd still not know the name, as even Schema feared communicating it.

I pulse of dread coursed over my skin like passing brutal roadkill. Considering my current progression, I felt confident that I was on the right path, but the urgency of the message gave me pause. Was I doing enough? The question lingered like poisonous self-doubt. Even from my cursory experiences here, it seemed as though higher-tier beings operated on law-based magic.

The Old Ones gave avatars powers and artifacts on that axis rather than normal physics, and that explained how they held such absolute powers. Shalahora's psionics were a great example. Mesmera likely gave him some kind of conditional power that couldn't be beaten by conventional means, augmenting the Sovereign's already potent mind magic to absurd heights.

Getting myself acquainted with the mechanics and workings of that law, magic could only help. Other than that, I tried reading a few of the advantages of the tree in more detail. Unlike most, this one had a bunch of subsequent documentation, many of its inner workings nested in small details and fine print.

They left me smiling. Effectively, this unlock gave my guild added rights and the personal ability to rent stuff. What kind of stuff? Good stuff, of course. Schema monopolized a lot of the information and calculative power in his system. That's why he didn't let people establish complex informational networks. It wanted that as a point of leverage over other people.

Normally, that is.

My guild would be an exception, and we'd get an enormous leg up on other empires because of that. This tree upgrade was a further extension of those benefits. Did I need to translate some external language outside the system? I could rent out an AI powerful enough to decode it. What about creating a special quest that needed weird system allowances? If I had the credits, I could make it happen.

This held a lot of sway for me since I didn't have many avenues for spending money in general. My body was beyond most gear, and my fighting style didn't use weapons. I didn't care about any collectibles or artifacts, either. Once again, I could make those due to how broken my armor and my multiversal abilities were.

This gave me a nice menu for using those credits, and I intended to take advantage of it in multiple ways. Tucking that away in my mind, I reoriented to the present. We neared the edge of the time territory, and it appeared as odd as I remembered. Objects, creatures, and even the terrain shifted in position, age, and makeup.

As we crossed the temporal threshold, my vision blurred. Hm, but that wasn't quite the right description. My vision curved, as if I viewed the world through a panoramic, fisheye lens. Objects bled together at the edge of my sight, and the sounds around me shifted in tone and volume.

Some boomed as deafening roars that droned for eternities. Other sounds were crisp, light blips that hardly registered. It was instantly overwhelming. I rotated my perceptional mind over and over, preventing the mental strain from affecting me. However, compared to the other territories, this was a brutal bludgeoning of the senses.

