For the first time, I fought the ambient mana from soaking in, and my wake was a wall for the mana. I couldn't push away the oddness of reality beyond that point, however. Not without creating a spatial domain, as Schema called it. To my surprise, Chrona could. She spread her wings, and our surroundings mullified. A wave of palpable relief coursed through me, and I let go of my held breath.

Turning to Chrona, I smiled.

"Thanks. That was like an acid trip, one I wasn't expecting."

Chrona smirked.

"It would seem the Harbinger isn't infallible?"

I gazed at my surroundings, finally able to take it all in.

"Far from it. That's why I have a guild and a team."

We pressed on. The temporal territory was similar to the undefined central arena. Elements from all over the planet fought here, slugging it out for dominance. It was a futile struggle as the white-knuckle hold of time made its mark on all. The elements, creatures, and reactions of everything shifted and squirmed, trying to get out of the temporal ruptures.

This only made it worse.

We floated over the entire struggle, unaffected in Chrona's temporal dilation. It drained her mana to move it like this, so I kept the Rise of Eden over her while tossing primordial gemstones her way. Taking mana potions as we went, Chrona maintained her unrealistic mana consumption, granting us safe passage through this drudgery.

And drudgery it was. The realm inflicted a perpetual and meaningless struggle on all that lived here. The residents were creatures from other territories that wandered in. Unable to find their position in time, they couldn't escape. Many of the eldritch mirrored Sysuphis of legend as they tried to break out, only to end up right back where they scurried from.

It was sad, but unlike Ghelid's territory, this suffering seemed unintentional. The mana didn't benefit from capturing the creatures here. It simply was, and that made the experience all the more nihilistic. Chrona watched the fierce struggle with sadness in her eyes.

"They are fish caught in a net. They struggle, scrambling for an escape, yet they are only food for that which has caught them."

I took a breath, keeping my resolve.

"We should take as many blue cores as we can. Considering your temporal field, it shouldn't be difficult to get them."

Chrona frowned.

"I'd rather we stayed here for as short a time as possible."

I peered at the agony below.

"We have two reasons to do harvest as we go. Firstly, ending their suffering is a mercy."

"It is as you say."

"Secondly, if we waste time now, we could regret it later. If you ask me, I'd rather take the suffering I know than the kind I don't."

Chrona widened her eyes at me.

"That...It was a remarkably wise saying. Did you learn it from Torix?"

I grabbed my chin.

"Oh, no, I kind of just said it. Well, in essence, I did. I had twelve minds fighting over how to say that. One of the minds went for it, and it ended up working out in the end."

Chrona scoffed.

"And the illusion of profundity was shattered. C'est la vie."

I pointed at her.

"Ayeee, you did it. That's the correct phrase at the right time."

A toothy grin grew on Chrona's face.

"I did? Hah, an unexpected joy is always welcome, but enough talk. Let us choose the suffering we know, shall we?"

A ripple of energy coursed through my runes.

"Always."

I gave her a nod, and we dove down into a rift. They weren't hard to find. Like most places, the dungeons centered around leylines and the eldritch guarding them. In these tortured spaces, each monster carried strange, blipping abilities that abused the time dilation present.

Once again, Chrona's magic rendered them null the moment they entered her domain. It resulted in the eldritch losing their abilities and combat prowess. Cleaning them up required little input from me, and I watched our levels rise in a steady, reliable fashion. As we collected hundreds of leylines, the sheer power and efficiency of Chrona's magic left me feeling inadequate.

I marveled as she disabled another set of eldritch.

"You know, I'm supposed to be the living multiverse here, but it feels like you're the one who owns your surroundings."

Chrona had a soft smile on her lips, her amusement obvious.

"There is a simple explanation for that. These beings operate on the same ideas as I do. We all work to take the space we occupy and bend it to our liking. This gives us control of our surroundings that you simply can't have, but I wouldn't be too quick to judge our methods and deem them superior."

I waved a hand and washed a pack of monsters away in a storm of singularities. Chrona breathed her icy breath at me to cool my body to a normal temperature. She continued her speech.

"We change the laws of nature that we occupy, but we are also bound by them. They are the operating principles, and in essence, we work on pulling those levers to achieve our aims. You are different. I believe you are building your own domain from scratch, and from what you've told me, you're fighting this dimension off as you do."

I'd told her about my abilities long ago. Chrona was an excellent sounding board for ideas, given her experience with time magic. I carved another hole into the landscape, singularities leaving absolute destruction in their wake,

"Yeah, but when I see you tear these guys apart like this, I just wonder if I'm tackling my magic from the right angle."

Chrona tilted her head at the monsters.

"Despite all you've said, you remain unaffected by anything they've tried doing to you. I am fully vulnerable, and that immunity is a boon in and of itself. All of this is to make a singular point; I would take your own advice and limit comparisons between you and me."

She nudged me with her tail.

"It isn't good for either of us."

I smiled.

"Hah. Thanks for the reminder."

She nodded.

"I will always be here when you need them."

We managed to harvest around two hundred blue cores as we swept across the shifting terrain. It only took about two weeks of accelerated travel to get near the central area of the time territory, and we arrived prepared. I already sent warnings to the others about fighting the autarch of the area. Knowing my allies hid in the confines of Rebirth's capital, we headed into the strangest zone yet.

Here, the time magic oozed out of the ground like bursting geysers of boiling oil. Creatures changed from their elemental forms, adjusting to the odd, overbearing principles. They existed as dark blue insects of tremendous tenacity and power. Their shells sheened an emerald green, and their red eyes carried malice.

Yet they only watched as we flew over. Even if we closed in, they remained unaggressive. That was due to their nature. Instead of battling one another directly, they created towers reaching into the sky. These rudimentary structures were piles of wreckage, each construct made of any objects they could find.

Having stripped the ground bare, these beetles left a desolate landscape in the wake of their building. It grew ever more bleak as we passed towers that became more solid. It was like traveling through an old world slum, and Chrona shook her head in disgust.

"They are possessed by the mana here."

I observed a beetle knock over a competitor's tower.

"Aren't we all possessed by something?"

Chrona frowned.

"Not like this."

Having no battles, we got to the central tower that rose far into the sky. While not a small structure, its height defied physics, and it pierced the clouds above. Even stranger, the leader of the territory erected the tower like a half-done Jenga puzzle. It writhed back and forth, parts of it as narrow as a hose pipe while patches above thickened to the width of a city block.

Heading up, we found pillars, machinery, and various memorabilia from a time long passed. It reminded me of worn-down collectibles from some kind of cyberpunk videogame, grit and all.

I waved my hand at it.

"We'll probably be taking this all once we eliminate the ruler here."

Chrona ogled the supplies.

"Are those records of their past? Oooh, this might be an interesting territory after all."

Chrona's hunger for pop cultural memorabilia left me stumped. Unable to find an answer on my own, I turned my palm to her.

"So why do you like movies, books, and other stuff from old eras? I've been dying to ask."

Chrona laughed.

"Who doesn't appreciate history?"

I furrowed my brow.

"That's not what you look for, though. You're after what defines a culture's entertainment, not necessarily the historical records. I'm not judging, just wondering why is all."

Chrona flushed.

"Perhaps I you are correct. Perhaps not."

I raised my brow.

"Assuming I am?"

She sighed. The air whistled in our ears, her expression's sound lost in the vast rifts of passing wind. She telepathized,

"Back in Giess, on Rivaria, I was one of the lead musicians for Emagrotha's orchestra. I still remember my many performances and the stories we told in song. It was the brightest part of our capital, and we had eons of history built into those tales. In many ways, it was the culmination of our entire species' understanding and experiences. It reflected what we thought on a deeper level than mere historical recountings could ever convey."

She closed her eyes, lost in memory.

"Those stories, songs, and writings exposed how we thought of, well, everything. When Lehesion began the civil war, he destroyed the majority of that culture. All the stories of the past were replaced with tales of what was to come, of his future, and what he would do. In many ways, it was the true death of our people. To this day, I still regret not taking more of those precious songs or stories and writing them down."

Her eyes watered.

"I see what remains of these other peoples, and I cannot help but reflect on my own mistakes. I left precious artifacts to fall into oblivion, and I must watch others do the same time and time again. It saddens me. Deeply, it does."

We waited for a moment of silence to pass. When she was ready, Chrona brightened.

"So I will help preserve the truth of other people. I've been working with other gialgathens to help the Vagni retake their stories, too, and I'm doing the same for the skeptiles, humans, and eltari. I may not be able to get back what my people have lost, but I can help others avoid our fates."

It was a touching reason, and I was moved.

"Ah. That's a damn fine reason. If you need any help-"

She shook her head.

"I'll be fine. You must dedicate yourself to your tasks, and I will mine. Besides, it's as you said earlier. I will choose the suffering I know. Otherwise, I may end up with even more regrets."

I put a hand on her side.

"Sure thing. But look, I'm not saying I'll spend decades helping you recover documents. However, can I give you a record collection department at the guild, right? Besides that, I have a few benefits I just gained from a tree that might help us get back some of what you lost as well."

Chrona's eyes widened.

"Really? How?"

I gazed at a few screen menus.

"So, if I'm right about this, the gialgethens were in systemized territory. If you give me the right amount of credits, I can exchange them for espen documentation on the gialgathens. You guys were in the system for a while, so it should be possible."

Chrona's eyes lit up.

"I would like that very much."

I smiled.

"Anytime, Chrona."

We headed up the cliffside in that wholesome quiet. Once at the apex of the tower, we found another area where time mana spiraled about. After flying up, Chrona landed and took a breath. Wielding space and time, she pressed her will onto reality, but nothing shifted. She gritted her teeth, pulling at the seams of reality.

After several minutes, she could not pierce the veil. I stepped up with a smirk on my face. I raised a hand and parted the storm from our path using my dimensional wake. Chrona rolled her eyes.

"Ah, yes, of course. I am deemed superb at clearing the riff-raff, yet you pierce the impenetrable storm between us and this entity with ease. Do tell me of your lacking merits once more, by all means."

I gave her a thumbs up.

"Let me think...Ok, I make awful puns sometimes, and I hold back from saying them sometimes since they're always so, so bad."

She took a reluctant breath.

"Oddly enough, that does make me feel better. Onward we go then."

I raised a palm.

"Wait one moment, I want to feel this mana."

"Wasn't it disorienting before?"

"Yes, but I let the other manas soak in to get a better feel for them. I want the same opportunity with this energy, even if it isn't as comfortable as the others."

She flew up, flapping her wings and whipping the wind.

"I will wait here then. I have much to think about, so no rush."

A curt nod later, and I stepped up to the temporal storm. For some reason, my armor bristled at the prospect of even touching it, let alone entering the swarm. I shook my head, resolving to enter. I stepped forward, and as I expected, it grated into my body like pins and needles. For some reason, my body rejected the energy outright.

It fought against the temporal influence on a fundamental level. I kept wondering why, diving into the sensation and pulling more of the energy into my frame. I kept experiencing an intense dissonance, and it reminded me of my experiences molding time magic. The same utter chaos, disassociation, and inhuman dissociation rattled into my brain like a butterfly trapped in a shaken cage.

I kept feeling it, tolerating the suffering. Was it suffering? Honestly, I couldn't really pinpoint the sensation. It was a unique experience and was similar to a delirious nightmare mixed with a vivid reality. Personally, I despised it. Down to my core, I loathed this sensation. Questions and emotions raced into my mind.

