Why was time magic so difficult to learn? Even more so, why was it so necessary? I didn't have a choice in the matter. If I didn't abuse time magic, then I'd be utterly screwed when trying to keep up with the monsters of the wider world. Avatars, eldritch, and the Old Ones. They all knocked at my door, and Schema piled on all the absurd expectations to new heights as I unlocked new trees.

It left me scrambling at every moment, trying desperately to stop things from falling apart. Even when I did all of this, even when I sacrificed my comfort, my peace, and my untainted perspective on the world, I still failed. Like now. The time magic turned several of my outer minds insane.

Why? Hell if I knew. The energy simply did. That was the truth I found in Schema's world. In my life, actually. Whenever my life was on the line in BloodHollow, my only way out was through pain. I turned my blood into magic, and that was the only way to get through. I had to sacrifice to survive.

After experiencing that, I watched my home get buried in spores. My neighbors mutated into zombies, and I fought against monsters far beyond my abilities. I prevailed, but most of my home was left as a post-apocalyptic ghost town. Finally, I achieved a moment of peace that was shattered by an assassin who tried to kill me and Althea.

Then Giess. Then Elysium. Then, the lottery. Now, Kriiyah and some far-off, universe-ending threat. What was my solution to it all? Pain. Discomfort. A personal purgatory I induced on myself at all times. Many of myselfs, actually. I held back tears as my pity party truly reached new heights. We had kazoos and everything.

Damn, it had been a while since I felt tears welling up. It was pathetic. I had been given this insane opportunity as a dimension, but I couldn't even achieve a semblance of time magic even after many years of diligent study, practice, and application. It was so integral to my path, and I finally found a place reeking of the stuff.

Even when surrounded by suffocating amounts of the mana, I rejected it outright. I was that untalented, that ungifted in using the temporal sorcery. It left me hopeless. Gah, here I thought I had finally found a way out of the insane time magic I used, but no. I hit my forehead while letting out a pained laugh.

It was absurd to think I'd ever find a way out of this. If anything, I shouldn't have let myself get my hopes up. I blended my minds and put them into my wake. Ah, yes, that's right. This was my greatest strength. The ability to suffer. The ability to be beaten. It's what my father showed me ever since I turned eight years old.

The system only reinforced that fact. My ability to endure was all I had, and the more I endured, the more I would need to continue enduring. I let out a more manic laugh, my arms spread wide. As I did, the magic reached a critical density before soaking into my soul. I breathed it in and breathed it out, relishing in the agony.

After reaching a certain threshold, something about the mana reoriented. It soaked into my body and began realigning something. It tugged at something I'd never felt. As if unbottling a jar of lightning, the mana unleashed a new sense. All around me, I experienced my surroundings. I felt the air with my wake. I could see from every angle and smell the condensed soil below me.

Even greater senses arrived. I gained an awareness of the gravitation, mana, and even the rays of light piercing through my wake. And, finally, the time. That perception gave me an awareness I'd never had. In that instant, I could feel the pace of my timeline compared to my surroundings. And it was different.

It bent to my will, hastening as my surroundings slowed. My laugh, seconds ago, so full of bitterness and pain, carried an incredulity. A lightness. A levity. I had always wondered why it was so difficult to manipulate time. Well, I wasn't manipulating the right timeline. I was trying to tug at a reality that I wasn't a part of.

That's why I used this twisted process that I jury-rigged together. I had to establish a rudimentary control of my dimensional wake since I lacked that nuance or comprehension. That let me manipulate the temporal flow of space even though I wasn't a part of it. I gained awareness by turning my mind into something else, something that could touch the ineffible aspects of my dimensional wake.

And of course, if I altered myself into my surroundings, it was going to feel awful. This new sensation operated on a different principle, and it was nothing like my previous methods. The smoother, tranquil flow of magic carried peace and calm. That wasn't because the time magics were innately different.

It was because I was. I was my own dimension, and that included a timeline all my own. If I gained a total awareness of that timeline instead of the surrounding dimension, then I'd be able to shift my temporal flow with far greater ease. It would make my life so much better, and I closed my eyes to breathe that in.

I didn't need to suffer. It wasn't a part of me. Pain didn't give me anything innately. At times, it was a necessary path, but I didn't have to experience misery at all times. I could have fun and still save the universe or whatever the hell Schema was trying to get me to do. There was no law written into the universe stating otherwise.

If anything, it felt like I had been feeding into some pretty poor self-beliefs. Beliefs from a pre-system era. Ones that were fed into me by an abusive father and friends who thought I was nothing more than a tool to be used. A belief that I was nothing more than someone who was beaten and that, somehow, someway, that made me strong.

From seven to seventeen, I lived that life, and I believed it was the only one I could live. So I fed it. I gave that belief food and fuel it never deserved. I put up with absurd circumstances, and the system continued to instill that belief into me. It found that tolerance and pressed it against my throat like a poison-soaked knife.

I couldn't leave Earth until I faced Yawm. Hm, but what about intervening with the gialgethens? What about helping out Obolis's empire and their war with Elysium? Hell, I could've let everyone die in the lottery and just left. I chose to take on those burdens, and I think it was because I believed the pain of doing so was my path. I had thought that suffering was inseparable from the core of my being.

Now, I perpetuated that agony, and it was all my own doing. And for what? Stats? Attributes? You know, the stats I could gain from the system instead of from my own suffering? Or even from killing eldritch? It was lunacy. I had put myself into such a poor mental state just to get more of what I was guaranteed to get with time.

I should've taken a different angle or tackled a different problem instead of trying to force time magic as I had. I would've had more mental energy to progress in a myriad of other ways. Like right then and there. I soaked in the time magic, letting it pierce deep into my being. I let it affect every mind, and I watched my psyches shift their temporal position.

A few went into what felt like the past, and a few arrived from an uncertain future. They continued rippling, and I soaked in as many of the magic's insights as I could in the meantime. That is, until there was no more mana to take. I opened my eyes, wondering what had happened. Around me, the raging storm of time principles had soaked into my body. I absorbed all of them, and I stood as a shifting afterimage.

As I floated over to Chrona, I left several after-images frozen in time as I reached her. I spoke in stilted words.

"How goes it?"

My voice was butchered. Chrona winced.

"You seem to have taken a liking to the mana?"

I raised my hand, grasping it while containing the forces. I flowed the mana through me, hastening the temporal flow of my dimension. I smiled.

"Oooh, I have. It's quite nice."

I relished my newfound dimensional awareness, and I turned to the autarch of the time terrain. A coursing blur of images coalesced in an instant, revealing the ruler of this realm. A collossal pharaoh gazed at me, the Egyptian style being slick and timeless. It had the face of an ethereal Doberman, its skin composed of galaxies and entrapped spaces.

Brutal intelligence simmered in its ancient, glowing red eyes. On its back, a scarab beetle shell covered translucent wings that pulsed time mana. Runes covered the scarab shell's surface, and the cipher crackled in rhythmic waves of pure power.

It spoke in a diligent voice, one like an ancient librarian.

"The Harbinger and a dragon. This is truly a momentous occasion. Come. Let's have tea and toast."
