He had run through a cloud of dust particles that made it hard to breathe until he’d come to a short but enormously wide cliff in the landscape. It was fifteen or so feet of sudden topographical difference in a smooth crescent-shape that extended as far as his blurred vision could make out.

Why had the Artonans dug out the soil? Or squashed it flatter?

Alden didn’t know. It didn’t matter.

The crescent was the bite someone had taken out of the chaos pizza. It had to be. On the other side, Kibby would be safe.

There was no way to climb down, so he’d jumped. He’d landed badly and heard something snap. He wasn’t sure if it was an ankle or a wrist or a muscle. He still couldn’t feel pain.

Probably the parrot-person knows what it was.

He thought he was supposed to know the name of their species, but he couldn’t even make himself want to remember facts right now.

We did it. We made it out.

Kibby’s grip tightened on his hand. He’d dropped preservation on her a while ago—was it minutes or hours?—when he thought they must surely be out of the chaos. Based on the way the maps had looked. He’d had to do it. To ask her if they’d come far enough.

Because Alden couldn’t tell anymore.

His authority sense was so overwhelmed by the sensation of the machine the System had given him cracking and cracking, that he didn’t even have the bandwidth to feel the chaos if it was there. Kibby said it wasn’t. She said they were safe here.

He reasserted the skill. It cracked. He reasserted it. He raged against it accidentally. It cracked. He reasserted it.

Kibby made sure to keep the auriad around her wrist pressed against his skin. She’d borrowed it from him as they approached…to keep it safe?

That’s right. We aren’t sure what they’ll think if they find out it’s mine. She’s making sure they don’t take it away from me.

Alden was glad one of them had remembered.

She was talking quickly to the people in the room. Answering questions.

The parrot-person’s hands were cold on Alden’s chest. They asked everyone something in an anxious tone. Alden’s brain deciphered it for him slowly.

“I have never encountered this species. Without a Contract assisting, it’s a little difficult to know what I should…can someone bring me a ————?”

“He’s a human!” Kibby sounded offended on Alden’s behalf. “He’s the best human. He is the best Avowed in the universe.”

It’s okay, Kibby. I can’t even remember what the parrot-people are called, so we’re even.

Something shrieked. An echoey translation in Artonan followed.

Sophie?

No. He’d seen the griveck when they entered. It was twice Sophie’s size.

“No he’s not the best Avowed, Kraaaa!” a woman’s voice shouted. “He’s a Ryeh-b’t child!”

That’s the pregnant lady from the party. Stuart’s aunt. She’s not pregnant anymore. And she sounds pissed off.

A man in wizard’s garb leaned over Alden to pass the parrot-person a tablet. The device was speaking rapidly in a language he didn’t recognize.

The healer set it beside his head and placed their hands back on his chest, looking from him to the screen and back again with bright yellow eyes.

<<A Ryeh-b’t,>> the griveck said in a tone Alden recognized as pleased from his experience with Sophie. <<Like me!>>

“Not like you,” Alis-art’h snapped. “He’s exponentially weaker than you. He does parties. He’s not supposed to be here. Nobody is supposed to be here. What if I had —————— crushed them both when I was ———————- the moon!?”

“I think I understand his body well enough to get started at least,” the parrot-person announced. “Someone carry him to the medical room, please.”

“I need to stay with him!” Kibby said, smashing her hand and the auriad with it against his. “He needs me.”

“She needs healing, too. But him first. Young Kivb-ee, you cannot keep holding his hand.”

Alden tried to tell Kibby it was okay. She could let go of him for a second. He wasn’t going to fall apart without the auriad. Maybe.

But when he tried to speak, the words were such a croak he couldn’t even make them out himself. Kibby almost head-butted the healer in an effort to stare into his eyes.

“Take my auriad,” she said loudly, looping it back around his neck. “It will keep you safe while you are being healed.”

Someone made a slightly pained sound—one of the other Artonans most likely—but nobody objected.

Kibby’s so cool, Alden thought. She’s the coolest person I’ve ever met.

His authority cracked inside the confines of the skill. He tried to reassert.

It cracked more. He managed to realign it.

I think if they knock me out to heal me, I might die.

He wasn’t scared at all. He wondered why.

Slender arms lifted him easily. It was Alis-art’h.

Stuart’s aunt bit her lower lip and narrowed her eyes at Alden. “Low rank,” she muttered so quietly he almost didn’t catch the words. Her face was tight. “Stuck here for months. Skill active for days. I think maybe I should look at…”

An authority so massive it dwarfed understanding pressed against Alden’s own. It wasn’t trying to hurt him, but it was too much. If he had possessed the strength to do anything but shore himself up, he would have pushed back against it reflexively. As it was, his own power simply lay quiescent, enduring the examination.

After it was over, the other presence backed off. But not completely. Alden still felt an odd pressure and stillness around him. It seemed to help with the cracking. A little.

Alis-art’h’s face was dark as she looked down at him, and then her expression cleared. She smiled over her shoulder. Probably at Kibby.

“Don’t worry,” she said. “Your friend will be fine after some healing and rest.”

Oh, wow, thought Alden. That was one hundred percent a loving lie.

You really could learn a lot about Artonans by watching their children’s shows.
