An exquisite sense of anticipation came over Nick when he pulled up his profile, savoring the electric moment before confirming the prompt blinking at the bottom of the screen.

At long last, despite Taltos’s lethal trials and the countless obstacles the System had placed in his path, he’d hit Level 50 and unlocked power comparable to what Astra had promised before the Mad God intervened.

Acutely aware that he was experiencing a pivotal scene in the story of his life, he initiated his class selection and eagerly began to read.

Based on your behavior, accomplishments, attributes, abilities, and traits, you have been offered a choice between 26 Epic classes and 1 Legendary class.

You have 1 hour to decide, or a class will be selected at random.

Fucking System. He let out a rueful chuckle at that last line. Always making things harder than they need to be. He was more amused than irritated and didn’t feel pressured at all. With his present attributes, Nick could browse his options and consider them in-depth in a fraction of that time. Even still, he didn’t intend to waste a second.

I’ll read through everything, put the top contenders on a short list, then ponder them in depth before making my decision.

Having 26 Epics to choose from felt like his birthday and Christmas rolled into one. Like turning a kid loose in a toy store and telling them to grab whatever they wanted. There were classes that focused on swordplay, spellcraft, and everything in between. Options to specialize in offence, defense, control, and a dozen other roles, or split the difference between them.

Nick grinned when he saw Shadow Knight near the top of the list—the Epic Pax was steering him toward when the Mad God hacked the System, handed him a Basic class, and thrust him into a survival tutorial from hell. Those powers aren’t bad at all, although I don’t want to switch to a darkness-mana specialty this late in the game.

He forced himself to consider the implications of each Epic class in turn, although they would have to offer something uniquely suited to his needs for him to choose them over the Legendary lurking at the bottom of the list. He refused to look at it until his short list was complete, since he knew it would skew his perception of his other options.

Every offering was a substantive upgrade that suited him well, and his smile grew wider as he continued to read. It was exhilarating to have so many good choices. It made him feel like his future was wide open. That countless roads stretched before him, and he could walk down whichever he pleased.

When he reached the end of the Epics, Nick slid two into his pile of strong contenders. He split his screen to consider them side by side, performing a comprehensive analysis of each before considering the Legendary class the Blight had helped him unlock.

Class: Purist (Epic).

Primary Attributes: Magic, Dexterity, Creativity, Mind.

Attributes per level: +2 to Magic, Dexterity, Creativity, and Mind. +5 Free Points.

Purists, also known as Mage Hunters, specialize in the manipulation of pure mana, with a lesser emphasis on other forms of non-elemental mana. They do not receive any offensive skills or abilities. However, with diligent training, they can learn to shape their own spells by directly controlling the mana inside their cores. Their skills focus on assassination, evasion, and defense.

Ability: Disruption Shield (Active Spell).

Disruption Shield creates a potent barrier formed from pure mana that is extremely effective against offensive magic. This barrier can be placed within 50 feet of the caster’s location but must be manually repositioned with an effort of will.

Uses per day are determined by the user’s mana pool, and all parameters scale with energetic attributes. (With your present attributes, the maximum size of Disruption Shield is 500 square feet.)

Skills: Counterspell. Detect Weak Points. Evasion. Light Shield. Acrobatics. Light Armor.

Trait: Advanced Mana Manipulation <Pure> [permanent].

Mana Manipulation dramatically increases a Purist’s sensitivity to pure mana and makes it easier to manipulate. This includes both the mana originating in their core and the ambient mana present in the environment. Mana Manipulation is especially helpful when creating original spells that are not granted by the System.

Warning: This trait will become a permanent part of your bloodline. It will remain with you after changing classes, significantly altering your future class options.

Nick liked everything about Purist. It was perfectly in line with the direction he’d envisioned prior to entering the dungeon. It was like an Epic version of Force Weaver, with a focus on controlling pure mana instead of force. The added emphasis on eliminating casters made it even better, as creatures capable of wielding powerful magic were some of the most dangerous enemies he’d faced.

Better still, pure mana was a key component of Devour, which meant enhancing his affinity would make his Concept stronger. He had no idea what Counterspell did, but the other components would require minimal adjustment, making Purist a seamless continuation of the path he was already walking.

Satisfied that he was going to come out of this with an amazing class no matter what else was on the list, Nick moved on to the next offering.

Class: Maze Runner (Epic).

Primary Attributes: Strength, Dexterity, Toughness, Meta, Magic.

Attributes per level: +3 Strength, Dexterity, Toughness, Meta, and Magic. +2 Free Points.

Maze Runners specialize in surviving in the Labyrinth. They are uniquely suited to exploring uncharted sectors and dealing with the myriad dangers lurking within untamed nodes and the conduits running between them. They are versatile fighters capable of using any equipment they find. Maze Runners can hold their own in melee combat or eliminate threats from a distance utilizing a blend of ranged weapons and offensive spells.

Ability: Monster Slayer (Passive, Combat Art).

Monster Slayer significantly increases damage dealt to and reduces damage received from monsters living in the Labyrinth’s conduits and creatures dwelling in the void between worlds.

Skills: Evasion. Shields. Armor. Melee Weapons. Ranged Weapons. Sense Monster. Sense Traps.

Ability: Node Navigation [permanent].

Node Navigation allows its wielder to detect the two closest nodes, regardless of their distance. It also grants an intuitive understanding of which conduits lead to them, and which are dead-ends or too unstable to traverse.

Warning: This trait will become a permanent part of your bloodline. It will remain with you after changing classes, significantly altering your future class options.

Nick let out a low whistle of appreciation when he reached the end of the description. Maze Runner was a fantastic class with no discernable downsides. In addition to helping him traverse the Labyrinth, it would let him develop an incredibly versatile fighting style, supplementing his current approach with any technique he cared to learn.

Shield, Armor, and both Weapons skills were the broadest he’d ever seen. They would let him equip anything he pleased, which would be great if he found something amazing that was different from what he was used to. The attributes per level were great, and the inclusion of Meta confirmed his suspicions that evolving and spending his points had expanded his options, and quite possibly improved them too.

Moving on, the bonus damage to monsters and diminished damage from them was guaranteed to come in handy, helping him level faster while reducing the risk of taking on the maze’s deadly denizens. Not to mention, whatever lives in the void.

As matters stood, Nick was tempted by both options. Purist was a bold step down his present path, but Maze Runner would radically increase his versatility and enhance his survivability. Of course, his dilemma was moot unless he decided to decline the final class detailed on the floating screen.

Heart hammering and palms sweating, he turned his attention to the class the Crimson Blight had helped him unlock, the only Legendary offering on the list.

Class: Ascendants’ Hope (Unique, Legendary).

Primary Attributes: Strength, Dexterity, Toughness, Magic, Creativity, Mind, Charisma, Psi, Meta.

Attributes per level: +5 Strength, Dexterity, Toughness, Magic, Creativity, Mind, Charisma, Psi, Meta. +5 Free Points.

Ascendants’ Hope is a unique class bestowed by the Crimson Blight to its champion. It has been further enhanced by the System to help the Ascendant win its war with the Mad God and destroy the Labyrinth, ending a threat to the universe itself. The spirit inhabiting Earth’s world core has contributed a generous amount of cosmic energy, unlocking an additional trait.

Warning: Taking this class will draw the attention of corrupted entities. They will instinctively prioritize hunting you above other prey.

Ability: Ascendent’s Insight (Passive, Spell).

Ascendant’s Insight allows its wielder to analyze entities that have been corrupted by eldritch forces, including creatures mutated by Taltos and his pantheon—Slaughter, Splendor, Suffering, and Spectacle. It may offer visions revealing secrets the deities wish to remain hidden.

Skills: None.

Trait: Eldritch Bane [permanent].

Eldritch Bane dramatically increases damage dealt to and reduces damage received from beings native to other planes of existence. It works to a lesser extent against entities mutated by the Mad God and his pantheon.

Warning: This trait will become a permanent part of your bloodline. It will remain with you after changing classes, significantly altering your future class options.

Trait: Skill Master [permanent].

Ascendants’ Hope does not provide skills directly. Instead, any known skill may be increased without limit. Once per month, its wielder may learn a new skill after receiving instruction and acquiring a basic level of proficiency.

Warning: This trait will become a permanent part of your bloodline. It will remain with you after changing classes, significantly altering your future class options.

Trait: Omni Affinity [permanent].

Dramatically increases affinity with all frequencies of mana, enhancing their absorption, efficiency, and potency.

Note: This trait will mitigate the negative effects of Force Adept regarding elemental energy but will not eliminate them.

Warning: This trait will become a permanent part of your bloodline. It will remain with you after changing classes, significantly altering your future class options.

Nick had to read the description three times before the full implications sank in. The words made sense, but he was having a hard time wrapping his head around just how powerful Ascendants’ Hope was. He resisted the urge to accept it on the spot, analyzing every aspect and calculating potential drawbacks before pulling the trigger.

The attributes per level were insane. He knew rarer classes needed more experience to level, but after absorbing the dreadbeasts, evolving to C Grade, and unlocking Meta, he wasn’t worried about taking on powerful opponents to promote his advancement.

On top of boosting his stats across the board, each level of Ascendants’ Hope came with five Free Points. Combined with the flexibility afforded by secondary attributes, he could guide his development in any direction he wanted for the foreseeable future. Ascendent’s Insight was an intriguing ability. It sounded like it would offer benefits comparable to Size Up and Portal Visionary, only geared toward Taltos, his minions, and the Seed of Corruption known as the Labyrinth of the Mad God.

Nick was deeply confused when he saw the Legendary class offered no skills, but it all became clear when he reached the traits. He’d come to prefer classes that offered trait permanence, since it let him retain their benefits after moving on to something new. It was part of the reason his magic was so powerful, and after advancing Blightborn and evolving to C Grade, his bloodline had plenty of room to spare.

Omni Affinity would boost his spellcraft across the board and mitigate the penalty to manipulating elemental mana that came with Force Adept. It would let him master any spell he came across and boost his free casting too.

Out of everything he’d read, Skill Master was the most exciting. The power it promised was so incredible that his hands wouldn’t stop shaking. Being able pick up a skill of his choice every month would let him excel at any pursuit he undertook. He could learn new skills to solve pressing problems, work toward long-term goals, or tackle side projects that would promote his people’s prosperity.

Permanently uncapping every skill he learned was ridiculously overpowered. It would completely change the calculus when selecting the second Profession he’d unlocked upon reaching Tier 2. I could also leave the School of the Ever-Surging Blade and acquire a different faction bonus without losing my uncapped Sword skill.

On that note, he wanted to explore the list of Professions, but not today. Nick wasn’t ready to make another life-changing decision just yet, and he wanted to adjust to his new powers before pondering his options at length. He would dive into the details on his way back to Aurora, which meant it was time complete his analysis and select a new class.

Eldritch Bane sounded great, although it scared him a little too. Despite his explosive gains, he wasn’t ready to take on Taltos’s elite forces. Then again, it should work on lesser minions too, like the corrupted rhino I fought in the Grand Arena of Papillion.

That brought him to the downsides of the Legendary class. While he had some reservations about serving as the Blight’s champion and the System’s pawn, he was mostly concerned about the warning included with the description.

While Ascendants’ Hope offered unparalleled power, it came at a considerable cost, painting a target on his back for the rest of his life. Nick still had nightmares about the Herald of Slaughter. He had been lucky to survive his chance encounter with the terrifying woman with crimson wings. If he’d had the Legendary class back then, she would have erased his existence in the blink of an eye.

While he was worried about the fate of the universe, he was just one man—insignificant compared to the scale of the threat. The odds of playing a critical role in war that had been waged for millennia were infinitesimal, and the Earth was already centered in Taltos’s sights. If the Mad God became aware of Ascendents’ Hope, he wouldn’t rest until Nick was obliterated and his homeworld reduced to the memory of ash.

The prospect was terrifying, but Nick was done running.

He was done hiding, holding back, or second-guessing himself. It didn’t matter if the odds were long. If there was a chance that he could help destroy the Labyrinth—even to the slightest degree—then he was willing to pay any price he must, even if it put his people at greater risk than they already were.

He couldn’t truly comprehend the stakes at play—the scale of the conflict, strength of the warring forces, and countless lives hanging in the balance. But he trusted the Crimson Blight when it said that if the Labyrinth grew large enough to open a portal, every star in the sky would be consumed by eldritch horrors from another plane of existence.

The System worked hard to bring this about, and the Earth itself was willing to invest in Ascendants’ Hope. Taking it should increase our odds of survival.

Nick’s time was almost up. He took a deep breath, looked Fate in the eyes, and made his decision. “I will take Ascendents’ Hope for my next class and do what I can to win this war.”

Acknowledged. Thank you, Nick. Good luck.

It was rare to receive such a personal message from the System, emphasizing just how big a deal this was. Its magic reached out to infuse his body, along with a second stream of energy that felt like the Blight, and a third that was blue like Earth’s oceans.

Most of the changes they wrought were subtle, but that all changed when the System activated Omni Affinity.

Power reverberated within Nick’s core as the trait enhanced his affinity to every frequency of magic, letting him perceive the tapestry of mana with astonishing detail. The elemental weaves that had felt so faint before were crisp and vivid, and he could manipulate the flows with his will. The sight filled him with a profound sense of awe, but there would be time to play with his powers soon.

It was time to browse the bloodline library, pick a new trait, and begin the long journey home.