“So far the trend has been every three to five years,” Rin explained. “So far, we’ve only been able to confirm between four and eight from each wave, but we suspect the true number is quite higher than that.” She interlaced her metal fingers as she sat back. “The trouble is, as far as we can tell, the majority of transmigrators go to monster bodies, as it seems the System does not necessarily prioritize humanoids over monsters, and monsters, of course, far outnumber humanoids. Therefore, we only have a chance at realizing someone is a transmigrator if they are among the minority of humans, or if they are a monster who finds a way to communicate, as you have. And even then, it’s not like we will automatically know about them.”

“Do you know of anyone else from Earth?” I asked.

“Of course,” Rin answered. “That’s why we already know about that world. Which seems to correlate with the little bit I've gleaned from you.”

So she, or at least someone in her intelligence network, has spoken to them recently.

“Oh… Um… Are they in the Verdant Empire right now?”

“That’s classified information,” Rin answered, and watched me for a moment. “But if speaking with another Earthling is something you are interested in doing, perhaps we can arrange it.” I noticed she looked among the room full of military peeps, almost as if checking for a consensus on who was okay with that, but nobody seemed to object.

“I… guess I don’t really care about that,” I said, and honestly, it was the truth. It would be interesting to speak to someone from my home planet, but honestly, it wasn’t high on my list of priorities. After all, there wasn’t a single person from Earth I cared about more than my family in this world, so I can’t say I felt much connection to it. Maybe if I'd had a better life there, I would feel differently.

“Then lets move on to talking about your quest,” Rin finally continued, then nodded to someone else.

A man who seemed far too clean and delicate compared to the military officers stood from his chair and cleared his throat. He wore layered green robes with a black sash tied around his waist, and had long hair pulled back into a ponytail.

“Yamiko, it is good to meet you. I am Archivist Noboru. I serve as one of the empire’s lead scholars on unusual lands and those rich in mana. I am here to provide you with information on the Black Pyre in order to aid you on your quest.”

I nodded, but then stopped and blinked as I looked over one shoulder, then the other. “Yamiko?” I asked. “Who’s that?”

“You,” Rin answered.

My ears shot upright. “I am?”

She shrugged. “Since we didn’t have a name to call you by, one was selected.”

The guy with the scar cleared his throat. “We realized it was getting a little confusing whenever we were trying to talk about you. So we just picked one. Sorry about that.”

“Oh.”

I guess I can see how that could get confusing for people.

Rin turned to me, metal fingers still interlaced. “If you have something you prefer, we can go with that instead.”

I felt about as much attachment to having a name as I did to my past on Earth. What did I really need one for? My family knew me by scent and Pack Bond. Lily didn’t need a name for me to know I was me, and Grick just called me Puppy.

“Yamiko is fine,” I said, some small part of me feeling like what would normally be a major character milestone just got a bit shrugged off.

I checked the top of my stat screen just to make sure it didn’t matter.

Name: ???

Race: Hell Hound

Level: 18

Path: Juvenile Arcane Nightstalker

Yup, still question marks. We’re all good there!

“So what about my quest?” I asked.

Noboru bowed once more. “The Black Pyre is an unusual place, rich in mana and steeped in old death. Some call it cursed. Others call it sacred. The oldest legends claim that a god-tier monster once attempted to evolve even further there, only to die the instant its evolution completed—or perhaps the instant before it could. Its body did not rot. It burned. And from that corpse-fire, the land we now call the Black Pyre became a cradle for rare magics and unusual monsters.”

I blinked.

Seriously! What’s with lore bombs constantly getting dropped in this room? I’ve only been here, like, what? Five minutes!?
