We made our way out of the city, only killing skeletons that go in our way. The town square was still heavily populated by the lower-class skeletons and that creepy broken statue in the middle.

As we stopped to assess how to pass through, I heard a sound. It was like a long, stressed wail that echoed throughout the entire city, from somewhere far back in the furthest, deepest end of this cursed place.

My ears folded down as I looked back down the street we’d just come from. Luke’s tail drooped as he still stood beside Themiel.

“That’s the thing I was talking about,” Themiel said. “It will be looking through the city, but it won’t leave the city’s walls.”

“What is this place anyway?” I couldn’t help muttering.

“It was once the capital city of the Umarii people. Nearly a thousand years ago. Long before any currently living Umarii.”

“A thousand years?” My tail drooped. This place did seem quite ancient. If its architecture had been made of wood as most modern Earth buildings, or even thinner bricks, I doubted much of it would remain. Since everything was made by those thick black blocks, that’s the only reason this place was still recognizable as a city at all. It probably helped that this seemed to be an arid climate with little rain or natural plant growth to help things along.

“The story goes, that our ancient ancestors were studying creatures beyond the realm of even monsters. Demons.”

"Demons?" I repeated.

He nodded. “Creatures that exist in the deepest layers of the depths and never come to the surface. In the same way humanoids and monsters fundamentally differ in how the system affects them, demons have a third type of stat screen. Instead of gaining Classes or evolution Paths, they have something else."

“What is it?" I asked.

“I don’t personally know, precisely,” he admitted. “Whatever we do know of demons is lost knowledge. But whatever our ancestors were doing, they caused this place to become cursed with death. It is not possible to clear the city of the undead, they will just come back in time, and in the meantime, stronger and stronger undead will emerge in the process.”

Respawning, huh? I thought. I’d wondered about respawns in this world before. Maybe it is something the undead did?

“I’ll answer more questions later, let’s go,” Themiel said.

I didn’t like how he was acting like a leader. I’d accept it for now, but not for long. I guess he did apparently know more about what was going on around here anyway. If anything else, he’d be a good source of information, and he didn’t seem to be trying to control me by force. Not yet, anyway. But I wasn’t sure I could trust that to continue to be the case.

He led us through an alley instead of cutting directly through the town square, then emerged on the other side of it, trying not to draw the huge crowd that was gathered there.

Come to think of it, when I first arrived in this dead city, this place was completely empty. It was like the entire city was sleeping until I came walking through, and then it decided to wake up more and more as I made it my hunting ground.

But there must have been something around to kill even before I showed up. Considering Skeleton Lady said she was going around killing stuff and experimenting with the Divine Dross stuff. Maybe she didn’t count because she technically was one of them? Yeah, if she could kill skeletons without the city seeing her as an outside force invading the city, then it may not have woken up the way it had for me.

Perhaps that’s something else I’d ask the Umarii about, but I decided to wait.

As we made it down the last road I’d originally entered from, Themiel went into a building briefly. He came out with scraps of wood tucked under his arm, and held a few pieces out to me. “Take these,” he said.

Not liking being told to do anything by him I just stared back.

“You want a campfire? It’s better than sleeping in the cold.”

“I do just fine without fire.”

“Sure, but it’s still better, isn’t it?”

He seemed insistent on it, and to be fair, I actually did like having a fire when one was available. The warmth made sleeping more comfortable, and just something about having a fire was nice. So I took the wood, feeling this wasn’t necessarily the hill worth dying on. But I still wouldn’t let him get comfortable ordering me around.

We went out into the wastes, past the boulders where I’d slept a previous night, until finding a flat area with a nice bit of coverage immediately around us. I dropped the wood alongside Themiel’s and he said, “Luke, go hunt.”

Luke yipped and excitedly wagged his tail as my ears folded down. It was like he had been watching Themiel, waiting for the okay. But then he looked at me, tail wagging, and a smirk touched my lips.

I’d never really directly hunted with Luke when we were pups. Usually I’d just stick with Lily, while Ben and Jerry went off together and Iris and Luke would go about things their own way. I patted Luke’s head. “One second.”

I then looked at Themiel, and more particularly the fact he had a bag. I didn’t want to ask anything of him, but that would be a major convenience for the time being. I’d eventually need to get a bag of my own and learn to carry it around my neck like Fox does.

“Hey. I’m going to change forms. I won’t be able to talk to you as a Hell Hound,” I explained to him. “Also, hold on to my clothes for me, I’ll need them when I change back.”

“Sure.” He nodded.

“Just wait a minute Luke,” I said, showing him an open hand as I walked away and began transforming.

I walked around behind a boulder as my bones started cracking and popping as my body morphed and my clothes loosened around me. I shook them away, then gathered everything up as best I could in my muzzle and brought them back to the fire.

Themiel looked at me oddly, but Luke instantly seemed even happier. He lowered down, tail wagging, and I already knew what was coming.

He barreled towards me, looking to pounce, but I was ready.

I slipped around his side and pounced on his back, but he hiked me off easily. When he came in for a second attack, I dove low, then came up again, biting at the scruff around his neck and pushing into him, testing his strength.

Despite the lower level, his size still made a big difference, and I could easily assume strength was his highest stat. Despite my higher level, in a test of pure strength I was finding I was having trouble taking control while we were locked together like this. Of course, in a serious fight utilizing all of my skills, I’d win easily. Though, to be fair, he was holding back as well and just playing. He could do that jumping slam thing in a serious fight, and I had a feeling that would still hurt quite a bit.

He managed to break away from my hold, then dove his head between my front legs, scooping me up and then driving me back. I fell down, and he pinned me to the ground, breathing heavily and tongue-lulling.

Basic Fighting Leveled Up! 4 > 5

+4 Strength

+4 Dexterity

Hey! It’s been a while since that happened. And if I recall, didn’t I originally get that skill from when we would play fight as puppies?

Then Themiel laughed and said, “Good job, Luke!”

I don’t know why, but that bastard sounding happy just pissed me off. Luke looked back at Themiel, tongue lolling, clearly pleased by the Umarii's praise.

That stirring fire returned slightly, but Luke nuzzled me, gesturing out into the wastes. He wanted to hunt.

I picked myself up, gave Themiel one more wolfy glare, and then followed Luke as he ran off away from the camp. The daylight was dying, but we had maybe close to an hour left to get a good kill. With Luke running alongside me in my proper Hell Hound form, going on a hunt, without Themiel commanding every single move of his, I felt a little better about the whole thing.

I angled myself into the wind and Luke increased his pace as well, trying to pull ahead of me. He was as competitive as ever!

Once we got away from the rockier terrain, we spotted a worthy target easily. There was another Furthrum Wastewalker, about the same size as the one I’d fought before.

Luke didn’t seem at all hesitant about taking the fight, though I think it wouldn’t be wise for him to fight such a thing solo. But he did have me, so maybe he calculated that! I really didn’t know how he was with risk assessment, considering the only other thing we had to fight as pups was bunnies.

But without even having to communicate the plan, I veered left and he veered right, closing in on the Wastewalker from both sides.

It noticed us coming, and seemed at a loss for what to do momentarily, caught between fight or flight. It chose fight and targeted me first, which was perfectly ideal. It probably assumed since I was smaller I’d be the easier target, but big mistake!

It charged, lowering its head down, looking to get me with its horns. But of course I had an easy time dodging around and by the time I was looking for my follow-up attack, Luke was already on him!

Luke jumped onto his back and was ripping and tearing at him. The beast let out a scream and started stomping around wildly, trying to buck Luke off.

His front legs were less chaotic, so I dove in there, launching myself at the knee joint with a {Crippling Bite}! It took a bit of effort and twisting and shaking, but I soon got the snapping of bone I was looking for and Luke and I took it to the ground together.

Luke went for the back of the neck while I went for the throat.

Prey Eliminated! Level 20 Furthrum Wastewalker

Experience gained!

Easy!

Luke and I both looked up from the kill, locking eyes with each other, both panting heavily. I felt really happy. But not just happy, also hopeful.

I’d been pushing myself forward every day, resolving myself with the belief that my entire family would be together again. But in my dark moments that I’d rarely admit to myself, I always had my doubts. In truth, it sometimes felt like an impossible task.

But I already had Lily back, and now my brother Luke as well! The Empire was working on getting Ben and Jerry back, and even if I had to go get them myself, I at least knew where they were and I had people willing to help. Hell, even Iris wouldn’t be too hard to find because I knew where she was. I just had to believe it would be the same for Mom as well. Then we could all go back to the Vale together, where we belonged.

I stared at Luke, and he stared back. I tried to use Pack Bond again, but no good. He whined softly, probably sensing I was unhappy about something.

It would be fine, I told myself. I just had to hunt and fight with him a little more. Then I needed to talk to him and explain I knew where Lily was, and that we should abandon this Umarii and go reunite with her, and plan on reuniting with the rest of our family as well. If I had to put off going to the Black Pyre, then so be it. I needed to get Luke to come back with me.

My gaze drifted across the wastes as another uncomfortable truth hit me.

Was the empire really any better? I needed them, but they wanted to use us just as Themiel was using Luke. It wasn’t an even partnership between Luke and Themiel, more like master and subordinate. I knew that's what the Empire wanted for us as well, but I felt I had a little more control than that.

Luke was clearly not an equal to Themiel, and that’s not the same as being part of a pack. But the problem is, Luke didn’t seem to mind at all. In fact, he would sooner defend Themiel against me!

Did Luke consider that Umarii his pack?

Luke nuzzled the side of my face and whined as if saying, “What’s wrong?”

I looked away. “It’s nothing…” I closed my eyes for a moment and tried to remind myself to be happy, then I looked back at him and panted. “Let’s eat!”

I went after the Wastewalker’s belly, Luke digging in alongside me as there was plenty of space for both of us to fit our muzzles in, and we shared a meal.

Come to think of it, as pups, we weren’t truly so communal about our meals. Everyone knew to watch out for Luke, because as soon as he’d finish eating his rabbits he’d start pining for someone else’s. Lily was his most common target, as she was least able to defend herself, but either myself or Iris would step in and stop him usually.

It seemed Luke had gotten a lot more polite since then. He really did grow up.

After we had our fill, we started heading back. I could see firelight in the distance as Themiel must have gotten camp started.

When we got close to the boulders, Luke broke off from me for a moment, and my head tilted, wondering what he was up to as he put his nose to the ground and started sniffing something out.

Is he hunting? Didn’t he eat enough? There was still plenty of meat left on our recent kill.

Then I heard a painful scream from some animal a moment later. A snarl from Luke ended the scream as he must have shaken the creature to its death. He then trotted back out with a plump mouse hanging from his mouth, and headed for the camp.

Oh… I see…

He was hunting for Themiel.

I huffed as Luke trotted proudly off ahead of me. I lagged a bit behind .

As I came into the firelight to see Luke already there, having his head patted as Themiel praised him, I just stared. Luke’s tongue was lulling happily, pressing himself into Themiel’s touch.

He wasn’t being treated cruelly. Even I could see that. But the way he seemed to just accept being a pet… How could I be okay with that? How could I just decide that’s fine? And what about my dream of all of us going back to the vale together?

Would Luke…

Would Luke choose Themiel over us?

I felt my eyes turn hot at the mere thought of it, but I shook it away.

“Hunt went well, I see,” Themiel said to me, placing the plump mouse over a rock then pulling out his dagger to begin skinning it. Luke sat on his haunches beside him, tail wagging.

I let out a huff as I collected up my clothes and disappeared behind the rock once again to get changed. I still had some questions I wanted to ask this Umarii. He seemed to know far more about this place than I did, and I also needed to get to the bottom of where we go from here. Because one way or another, I wasn’t separating from my brother. I would refuse to do so no matter what.