The urgent Sending arrived the moment Akanai sat down for dinner, a most unfortunate turn of events. Repressing a tired sigh, she closed her eyes and massaged her temples, lamenting her earlier indecision. Since embarking on this journey south, she’d taken all her meals facing the Bridge as a way to feel closer to her family, but a few days earlier, she realized she wasn’t being fair. While Mila and her husband were north at the Bridge, Li Song was south on a jaunt with the boy to see Ping Yao’s giant turtle. Such a foolish thing to concern herself with, which direction to face while eating, but Akanai still spent several minutes agonizing over the decision before each meal. Today, she opted to face west and watch the setting sun while keeping her entire family in mind.

She was growing soft in her old age, but such was life. She’d much rather stay home and spend time with her family instead of marching south for what could be the final war against the Defiled. As a young woman, the prospect of open warfare against the Enemy would have filled her with visions of honour, glory, and adventure, dreaming of advancing her career and winning favour for the People, but as Chief Provost of the Sentinel’s, her outlook was far less optimistic. The battles ahead would be bloody and hard-fought, with armies numbering in the millions clashing on the flat, open fields of the Central Province. In a war of such epic proportions, her 15,000 Sentinels, were but a drop in the bucket, lives easily spent for little or no gain.

How many of her people would make it home alive? Though the Emperor’s ‘invitation’ was a sham and his intentions clear, Akanai had no choice but to comply unless she wanted to live in a world ruled by the Defiled. Should the Central Province fall, the North, South, and East would soon follow. Their only hope for victory was to band together and face the Defiled threat, but given her experiences the last time she visited Central, Akanai wasn’t too optimistic about their prospects. There was little chance she’d be given an opportunity to affect the outcome either. Though she held a high rank, as a woman and demi-human, she was likely to be overlooked and excluded from command, if not outright mocked and marginalized.

Riding Kankin out of camp, Akanai smouldered with anger as she imagined the barbs and derision she’d soon suffer. She could hear them now. 'A Lieutenant General in command of a paltry 15,000 mounted archers wanting to weigh in on matters of importance? How absurd.' She had the authority to command 360,000 troops, but she’d brought less than a twentieth of her full complement. No one would care about the 10,000 Sentinel’s left behind to guard the Bridge, though mostly cadets and retirees. Few would even notice the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains had a population little over a million, which meant 2.5% of its population had succeeded in becoming Martial Warriors, more than double the Empire’s estimated 1% average. No, all this would go unnoticed and her Sentinel’s numbers would be seen as a joke or she’d be accused of shirking her duties.

Akanai prayed whoever held command would see the value of her Sentinels as scouts, archers, and skirmishers instead of simply throwing them into the meat grinder. With luck, the Emperor would appoint proper soldiers to lead his army, warriors like Nian Zu or Du Min Gyu. If not...

As much as Akanai loved her country, she loved her Sentinel’s more and refused to see their lives squandered by some high-born fool or small-minded bigot.

Since riding full-speed out of camp would raise a scare, Akanai kept Kankin moving at an easy trot, the aged quin still full of energy despite the long journey. He should have long since retired but Akanai still couldn’t bring herself to replace him, the temperamental quin holding a place near and dear to her heart. Upon reaching the outskirts of camp, she directed Kankin into the shadows and used her Chi to Conceal their presence before breaking out in full gallop. Military Law dictated she remain in camp while the army was in transit, but circumstances dictated otherwise. She only hoped there weren’t any bored experts paying attention to her movements, lest she be brought up on charges of dereliction of duty, or worse, desertion.

After riding for a quarter-hour, Akanai came across Jochi waiting where the message said he’d be, nervously picking at his quin’s fur. “Idiot,” she Sent, startling the young elite as she came out of Concealment. “What is your mission?”

Giving her a hasty salute, Jochi replied, “Uh, join Falling Rain’s retinue, Chief Provost... Lieutenant General... Ma’am?”

“Wrong.” Fixing him with her best glare, she rode up and loomed over him, inwardly delighted by his look of terror. “Your mission is to guard Falling Rain. The boy is my Grand Disciple, grandson, and future son-in-law all wrapped in one, yet here you are shirking your duties yet again.”

Blanching in fear, Jochi whined, “But I’m following his orders... He needed someone to quietly Send a message and he don’t have many Senders. Besides, he’s safe as can be, tucked away in secret while me brother watches him, I swear it.”

True enough, but Akanai wanted to hammer home the importance of protecting the boy. “Oh? Like he was safe inside Sanshu’s walls, or surrounded by Yuzhen’s army? You should know better than most, trouble is drawn to the boy like a fly to honey. If he comes to harm and I find out you brothers are to blame, it would be in your best interests to flee to the ends of the world and pray I never find you. Now, bring me to him. I’m curious to see what new trouble he's stumbled into.”

Nodding like a chicken pecking grains, Jochi turned his quin about and took off, pushing the poor animal as if the Father Himself were chasing them. After reminding him to Conceal himself, Akanai followed behind in quiet reflection. Jochi and Argat were both talents in their own rights but sorely lacking in self-discipline. A damned shame too, if not for their lackadaisical attitudes, they could one day rival the pup or possibly even herself considering their abundance of natural talent, but sadly, talent only counted for so much. Rarely would there be a genius as diligent and dedicated as the boy or the pup, and without hard work, geniuses were doomed to fall behind their peers. As they were now, despite being a decade older, Jochi and Argat weren’t even a match for Tenjin and Tursinai, much less Alsantset or Gerel.

At least Akanai could count on Alsantset to keep Rain safe. Such an earnest and persistent girl, able to keep up with Gerel while also raising her children, Sarnai and the pup raised her well. And those twins, so obedient and adorable, Akanai quickly grew addicted to their cries of ‘great granma’. A pity she hadn’t adopted the pup two decades earlier and been there for Alsantset’s childhood. Diligent and talented though she might be, the tiger-eared beauty grew wide-eyed and thick-skulled every time Akanai drew close, overwhelmed by admiration and hero-worship.

Spotting a flash of white in the treetops, Akanai slowed Kankin and turned about, whistling to greet the watcher. Bounding out of the treetops, Sarankho landed lightly and arched her back in a stretch, displaying both her fancy silk vest and the fat duck clamped between her jaws. Chuckling in amusement, Akanai shook her head in disbelief. The proud wildcat huntress was so well fed she cared nothing for wild game, carrying it around like a trophy to display. After giving Sarankho her deserving praise, the wildcat discarded the duck which was promptly snatched away and devoured by Kankin, showing the stark difference between pet and companion.

The boy’s pets were the strangest addition to Akanai’s new family, but she was happy to welcome them all the same, even if they were a bunch of lazy, silk-shirt wearing, good-for-nothing idlers.

Leaving Kankin to enjoy his treat, Akanai sent Jochi ahead and followed Sarankho on foot, knowing the wildcat never strayed far and would lead her back to Song. Whatever trouble the boy was in, it couldn’t be too pressing since Rain asked for her instead of the pup. Reluctant as she was to admit it, her prized Disciple was far better equipped to deal with any faction disputes the boy might have gotten them into, a man of fame and influence after being recognized as Nian Zu’s successor. Bittersweet to be surpassed by the pup, but her wounded pride was nothing compared to the satisfaction of seeing him succeed.

Minutes later, Akanai watched Sarankho strut into a clearing with head and tail held high before taking a seat next to Song who was brushing one of the chubby bears. Cocking her head, Song welcomed the wildcat with a rare smile. “No present today, Sara? You glutton, keep this up and you’ll grow fat and lazy like your brothers.” Sarankho made a noise of contentment and closed her eyes as Song continued brushing the bear, humming one of the boy’s nonsense songs beneath her breath.

Seeing her daughter in such high spirits warmed Akanai's heart. She wished Song could always be like this, but the girl’s wounds would be long in healing. Clearing her throat so as not to surprise her apprehensive daughter, Akanai strode out of the clearing with a smile. It pained her to watch as panic and terror flashed across Song’s face and even more to see it replaced by feigned apathy as the sweet girl retreated into her shell. Putting the bear aside, Song shot to attention and greeted Akanai with a salute, her ears flicking left and right with scared indecision. Opening her arms for a hug, Akanai stopped in place and waited for Song to come to her. “Hello sweet daughter. Mama missed you.”

Exhaling with relief, Song ran into her arms and embraced her tightly, though Akanai noted the girl still didn’t smile. “Hello Mama,” she said, adding no ‘I missed you’, or ‘happy to see you’, not even questioning why Akanai was here. It was hard to tell if Song truly loved them or was merely doing what was expected of her. Though she’d improved much in these past months, Song was still too reserved and afraid to step out-of-bounds, knowing her good treatment could be taken away in an instant. It might take years to convince her otherwise, but Akanai could wait until Song was comfortable being herself.

“I never knew you had such a beautiful singing voice, sweet daughter.” Leaving things there, Akanai kissed Song’s forehead and laughed as the animals crowded in around them. Contrary to her expectations, there were no new faces in the crowd, leaving her both relieved and a little disappointed. She’d hoped the boy might pick up a red panda, as the clumsy creatures’ adorable antics were famed throughout the Empire. “Did you enjoy the trip to Nan Ping?”

“Yes Mama.” Displaying her lack of social graces once again, Song fell silent and leaned into Akanai’s embrace.

No need to chide her or correct her, she’ll learn if given time. Glancing around, Akanai noted the distant campfires of the boy’s retinue and frowned. “Why are you so far from camp? It’s dangerous to stray out on your own. Is the boy bullying you?” Or worse? Rain was nothing if not a lecher and Akanai wouldn’t be surprised to learn he’d set his sights on her second beautiful daughter.

“No Mama. Aurie insisted on coming out this far.” Nodding towards camp, Song continued, “You should go see him. Rain has need of your aid.”

Oh? Taciturn and servile Li Song making a suggestion? To help the boy no less? Was Akanai destined to lose both her daughters to Falling Rain? How irritating. “Very well. Let’s go back together then, shall we?”

This time, Song hesitated briefly before nodding in agreement, breaking off their hug to round-up the pets and load them onto carts for the brief walk home. No wonder Sarankho didn’t eat the duck, not only was she well fed and dressed in expensive silks, she was also carted back and forth like a furry, four-legged princess. Such decadence, was this how the boy intended to raise his children? While it wasn’t her place to interfere, Akanai couldn’t stand by and watch as he ruined her grandchildren’s futures.

Or would it be her great-grandchildren? While Mila was her daughter, Rain was technically her grandson, making things a little more complicated than normal. If Rain became her son-in-law, that made his relationship with Baatar awkward, but she couldn’t ask Mila to lower herself by a generation...

Before she could make heads or tails of her complicated family tree, they met up with the boy who was coming over to escort them, with Argat and Jochi at his side. Seeing the two monkey brothers finally taking their guard duty seriously, Akanai gave them a slight nod of approval before taking a look at her grandson. His amber eyes filled with joy and relief at her arrival, tinged with a healthy dose of guilt and shame as it should, having to come running to his Grand Mentor to fix his problems. He looked much healthier of late, benefiting much from the pup’s close supervision. In all her years, Akanai never met anyone quite like Rain, so hardworking he’d stunted his growth. Though still lean and wiry, Rain no longer looked starved and malnourished, an athletic, young man of surprising strength and durability. After years of self-harm, it seemed like his efforts were finally paying off, this compact young man the physical match of other, larger, martial warriors. While no one would ever call him beautiful, he was handsome enough, and despite caring little for his appearance, he possessed a natural charm and easy-going smile which could light up a room.

He was just a boy, not even twenty years of age. If only the Western Wall had held for ten more years... even five would have been enough. This was a seedling to be nurtured and protected, but in today’s climate, the Empire couldn’t afford to.

“So,” she said half-mockingly after the greetings were out-of-the-way. “Who have you offended this time?”

“No one.” The boy’s answer prompted a small snicker from Song, and he quickly changed his tune. “I mean, it wasn’t my fault. For real, this time.”

Oh sweet Mother in Heaven. “Explain.”

“Easier to just show you.” Leading the way, the boy told the tale of their journey, up to where they saw the guardian turtle from afar. “The turtle was incredible. Words don’t do it justice,” he said, glancing at Akanai with a smile.

“Mh, I’ve seen it before boy.” Though Akanai had gotten much closer than a kilometre away when she made the journey with her husband. The boy was too timid, back then, she’d gotten so close the Protectorate came out to chase her off, sparking a merry game of cloak and dagger as she tried to slip past them and touch the turtle just so she could brag about it to her comrades.

Ah, to be young again...

“Anyways, long story short, we got back to camp and then like twelve hours later, she showed up.” Rounding the corner, Rain pointed and sighed. “And uhh... here we are.”

For long, silent seconds, Akanai didn’t understand what she was looking at. Then, she couldn’t believe her eyes. Finally, she accepted the truth for what it was and closed her eyes, massaging her temples once again. “You. Stole. The turtle.”

“I didn’t steal her. She followed me here.” Despite his persecuted tone, the boy strode up and stroked the turtle’s neck, already treating it like one of his pets. “I tried getting rid of her, I really did. First, we thought we could outrun her, but the big gal’s got gams. Don’t let the stories fool you, this turtle can leg it.” Chuckling as he shook his head, the boy continued. “Then, I had everyone travel ahead while I waited for her to fall asleep. Once she did, I tried to sneak away, but it didn’t work. I even tried to trick her by saying I’d be back soon, but she caught up after a half a day and looked so sad and betrayed, I couldn’t bring myself to try again.”

Still wrestling with the truth before her eyes, Akanai spotted a small, black creature scurrying atop the turtle’s shell. Taking a deep breath, she counted to ten before trusting herself to speak. “You caught a Cloud Chaser Hare too? I expected you to pick up one or two new pets but I thought you would at least know your limits.”

“The hare wasn’t my idea either.” Shrugging helplessly, Rain said, “I wanted a red panda but Alsantset said no. Instead, now I have a giant turtle who does whatever she wants and a bloodthirsty hare who hides in the turtle's shell so the bunnies won’t bully him.” Chuckling, he added, “They might not be predators, but those bicorn bunnies play rough.”

Giving up on massaging her temples, Akanai embraced the pain of her growing headache. “So, what did you call me here for?” How was she supposed to fix this?

“Err... well, see... Ping-Ping, that’s the turtle’s name, she uhh... keeps following me around for reasons unknown.” Returning to her side, Rain Sent, “Well, I think I know why but I’ll explain later.” Switching back to speaking out loud, he continued, “Anyways, her guardians were happy to follow her around after they realized I wasn’t forcing her, but once we were about to leave the province, they said I couldn't go. We’ve been camped here for two days waiting for you to catch up.” “I don’t think we should kill them, they’re just trying to look out for Ping-Ping.”

Understanding dawned on Akanai and her headache disappeared in an instant. Idiot boy, he couldn’t kill them even if he wanted to, and why would he? This was a stroke of fortune. Had she even an inkling this might happen, she’d have sent him to see the turtle months ago. Most likely, it had something to do with the drop of Heavenly Water, but she never would have expected the turtle would notice it inside Rain. “Mm. I understand. Go tend to the turtle, I will speak with the Protectorate.” Striding towards an ‘empty’ clearing, she turned to face the strongest response to her probing. No, these people are trying to hide so she should seek out the weakest and therefore most well-hidden. After finding her target, Akanai clasped her hands in a salute. “This one is Lieutenant General Akanai of the Bekhai, Chief Provost of the Sentinels and Herald of the Storms. Who might I have the honour of addressing?”

“Hmph.” The hidden figure came into view as he dropped his Concealment and Akanai’s stomach twisted into knots as she studied the familiar, sun-tanned man. Disguised as a common woodcutter, the man’s straw hat hid what Akanai knew were ears exactly like Mila’s, triangular with red and white fur. His long, luxurious white eyebrows and beard trembled as he scolded her without regard for either of their statuses. “Lieutenant General, pei. Chief Provost, pei. Herald of the pei! In this lord’s eyes, you will forever and always be the little scamp who led my people on a merry chase for the better part of a month because she had nothing better to do.”

Swallowing her trepidation, Akanai bowed properly while inwardly cursing this old man who refused to let bygones be bygones. “Greetings, Venerable Guan Suo. It gladdens my heart to see you again.”

“Bullshit.” Refusing to give her face, the cantankerous old bastard sneered in disdain. “No need for your flowery words, the Divine Turtle can not leave the Province. Since she’s taken a liking to the boy, then he also can't leave, end of story.”

“By all means,” Akanai said, gesturing at the turtle who lay dug into the dirt. “Bring her away or stop her from following, but the boy has been summoned by the Emperor himself. Rain must leave, and soon.”

“Bah. A girl her size goes wherever she damn pleases, and she’s smitten with your boy.” Spitting into the dirt at her feet, Guan Suo glared at Rain. “Damned brat. Should’ve killed him when I first laid eyes on him. Marked him as one of yours but I didn’t figure him for the Falling Rain.” Likely still considering killing the boy, Guan Suo asked, “His reputation, is it deserved?”

Hiding her excitement, Akanai nodded. “All of it and more. My Grand Disciple is a-”

“Bah, a yes or no is all I’m looking for, no need to gloat.” Pulling out a pipe, Guan Suo packed it tight and sparked it, taking small puffs as he delayed the inevitable. With a tired sigh, he threw his hands in the air and turned away. “Call him over.”

Standing in silence after Sending for Rain, the seconds stretched into eternity as Akanai waited for him to arrive. Damned boy, when your Grand Mentor calls, you should come running. When he finally arrived, Akanai signalled for silence and put her arm around him, doing her best not to tremble with emotion. With his back still turned, Guan Suo continued puffing away at his pipe, keeping silent for long minutes before speaking. “Where the Divine Turtle goes, we go to protect her. Falling Rain, the Protectorate requests to join your retinue.”

Seeing his frown, Akanai almost smacked the boy out of sheer panic, worried he might offend the temperamental Guan Suo, but Rain kept his mouth shut and looked to her for guidance. Smart boy. Nodding, she urged him to answer quickly, and he did. “Sure, I guess.”

“That will be all.”

So relieved things went well, Akanai grabbed the boy and brought him away. Pinching his still frowning face, she Sent, “Why so sour? Are you not satisfied?”

“Whatever you think is best, Grand Mentor, it’s just... They’re just joining to protect the turtle right?”

“Yes.” And the turtle follows you around, so the benefits should be clear.

“So they aren’t going to take orders, but I still have to pay for their food and shelter. I’ll probably have to give them armour and weapons too, I can’t show up with a bunch of woodsmen in my retinue. I’m not paying them a wage though, if they won’t take orders then...”

Shaking her head, Akanai rolled her eyes and smiled at Rain’s miserly ways. Wealthy beyond all imagination yet here he was complaining about paying for food, shelter and wages.

All in all, a small price to pay for your own personal Ancestral Beast bodyguard.

Chapter Meme
