“Mh, I’ve seen it before boy.” Though Akanai had gotten much closer than a kilometre away when she made the journey with her husband. The boy was too timid, back then, she’d gotten so close the Protectorate came out to chase her off, sparking a merry game of cloak and dagger as she tried to slip past them and touch the turtle just so she could brag about it to her comrades.

Ah, to be young again...

“Anyways, long story short, we got back to camp and then like twelve hours later, she showed up.” Rounding the corner, Rain pointed and sighed. “And uhh... here we are.”

For long, silent seconds, Akanai didn’t understand what she was looking at. Then, she couldn’t believe her eyes. Finally, she accepted the truth for what it was and closed her eyes, massaging her temples once again. “You. Stole. The turtle.”

“I didn’t steal her. She followed me here.” Despite his persecuted tone, the boy strode up and stroked the turtle’s neck, already treating it like one of his pets. “I tried getting rid of her, I really did. First, we thought we could outrun her, but the big gal’s got gams. Don’t let the stories fool you, this turtle can leg it.” Chuckling as he shook his head, the boy continued. “Then, I had everyone travel ahead while I waited for her to fall asleep. Once she did, I tried to sneak away, but it didn’t work. I even tried to trick her by saying I’d be back soon, but she caught up after a half a day and looked so sad and betrayed, I couldn’t bring myself to try again.”

Still wrestling with the truth before her eyes, Akanai spotted a small, black creature scurrying atop the turtle’s shell. Taking a deep breath, she counted to ten before trusting herself to speak. “You caught a Cloud Chaser Hare too? I expected you to pick up one or two new pets but I thought you would at least know your limits.”

“The hare wasn’t my idea either.” Shrugging helplessly, Rain said, “I wanted a red panda but Alsantset said no. Instead, now I have a giant turtle who does whatever she wants and a bloodthirsty hare who hides in the turtle's shell so the bunnies won’t bully him.” Chuckling, he added, “They might not be predators, but those bicorn bunnies play rough.”

Giving up on massaging her temples, Akanai embraced the pain of her growing headache. “So, what did you call me here for?” How was she supposed to fix this?

“Err... well, see... Ping-Ping, that’s the turtle’s name, she uhh... keeps following me around for reasons unknown.” Returning to her side, Rain Sent, “Well, I think I know why but I’ll explain later.” Switching back to speaking out loud, he continued, “Anyways, her guardians were happy to follow her around after they realized I wasn’t forcing her, but once we were about to leave the province, they said I couldn't go. We’ve been camped here for two days waiting for you to catch up.” “I don’t think we should kill them, they’re just trying to look out for Ping-Ping.”

Understanding dawned on Akanai and her headache disappeared in an instant. Idiot boy, he couldn’t kill them even if he wanted to, and why would he? This was a stroke of fortune. Had she even an inkling this might happen, she’d have sent him to see the turtle months ago. Most likely, it had something to do with the drop of Heavenly Water, but she never would have expected the turtle would notice it inside Rain. “Mm. I understand. Go tend to the turtle, I will speak with the Protectorate.” Striding towards an ‘empty’ clearing, she turned to face the strongest response to her probing. No, these people are trying to hide so she should seek out the weakest and therefore most well-hidden. After finding her target, Akanai clasped her hands in a salute. “This one is Lieutenant General Akanai of the Bekhai, Chief Provost of the Sentinels and Herald of the Storms. Who might I have the honour of addressing?”

“Hmph.” The hidden figure came into view as he dropped his Concealment and Akanai’s stomach twisted into knots as she studied the familiar, sun-tanned man. Disguised as a common woodcutter, the man’s straw hat hid what Akanai knew were ears exactly like Mila’s, triangular with red and white fur. His long, luxurious white eyebrows and beard trembled as he scolded her without regard for either of their statuses. “Lieutenant General, pei. Chief Provost, pei. Herald of the pei! In this lord’s eyes, you will forever and always be the little scamp who led my people on a merry chase for the better part of a month because she had nothing better to do.”

Swallowing her trepidation, Akanai bowed properly while inwardly cursing this old man who refused to let bygones be bygones. “Greetings, Venerable Guan Suo. It gladdens my heart to see you again.”

“Bullshit.” Refusing to give her face, the cantankerous old bastard sneered in disdain. “No need for your flowery words, the Divine Turtle can not leave the Province. Since she’s taken a liking to the boy, then he also can't leave, end of story.”

“By all means,” Akanai said, gesturing at the turtle who lay dug into the dirt. “Bring her away or stop her from following, but the boy has been summoned by the Emperor himself. Rain must leave, and soon.”

“Bah. A girl her size goes wherever she damn pleases, and she’s smitten with your boy.” Spitting into the dirt at her feet, Guan Suo glared at Rain. “Damned brat. Should’ve killed him when I first laid eyes on him. Marked him as one of yours but I didn’t figure him for the Falling Rain.” Likely still considering killing the boy, Guan Suo asked, “His reputation, is it deserved?”

Hiding her excitement, Akanai nodded. “All of it and more. My Grand Disciple is a-”

“Bah, a yes or no is all I’m looking for, no need to gloat.” Pulling out a pipe, Guan Suo packed it tight and sparked it, taking small puffs as he delayed the inevitable. With a tired sigh, he threw his hands in the air and turned away. “Call him over.”

Standing in silence after Sending for Rain, the seconds stretched into eternity as Akanai waited for him to arrive. Damned boy, when your Grand Mentor calls, you should come running. When he finally arrived, Akanai signalled for silence and put her arm around him, doing her best not to tremble with emotion. With his back still turned, Guan Suo continued puffing away at his pipe, keeping silent for long minutes before speaking. “Where the Divine Turtle goes, we go to protect her. Falling Rain, the Protectorate requests to join your retinue.”

Seeing his frown, Akanai almost smacked the boy out of sheer panic, worried he might offend the temperamental Guan Suo, but Rain kept his mouth shut and looked to her for guidance. Smart boy. Nodding, she urged him to answer quickly, and he did. “Sure, I guess.”

“That will be all.”

So relieved things went well, Akanai grabbed the boy and brought him away. Pinching his still frowning face, she Sent, “Why so sour? Are you not satisfied?”

“Whatever you think is best, Grand Mentor, it’s just... They’re just joining to protect the turtle right?”

“Yes.” And the turtle follows you around, so the benefits should be clear.

“So they aren’t going to take orders, but I still have to pay for their food and shelter. I’ll probably have to give them armour and weapons too, I can’t show up with a bunch of woodsmen in my retinue. I’m not paying them a wage though, if they won’t take orders then...”

Shaking her head, Akanai rolled her eyes and smiled at Rain’s miserly ways. Wealthy beyond all imagination yet here he was complaining about paying for food, shelter and wages.

All in all, a small price to pay for your own personal Ancestral Beast bodyguard.

Chapter Meme
