Seeing the Enemy forces all but champing at the bit, Hongji rearranged his battle-lines in preparation for imminent battle, shuffling his soldiers about in order to confuse and delay the Enemy. With luck, the Defiled Commander would wait to see what he was up to or, better yet, be baited into attacking early, but alas, Hongji’s foe was too canny and continued his slow advance, ensuring the Enemy forces would be somewhat rested once battle was joined again. Despite knowing there were two formidable armies speeding towards his army, Hongji’s counterpart appeared wholly unconcerned, which was somehow both encouraging and worrisome at the same time. Either he knew something the rest of them didn’t, or he was a fool, and though Hongji had yet to put a name to the Enemy commander, they’d clashed often enough in the past week to know he was no fool.

There was no point agonizing about what Hongji didn’t know, as whatever it might be was out of his hands for now, so all he could do was fight the battle before him. On the front line, which was the rear of the column, he deployed his heavy infantry, the finest of such soldiers in all the Empire. The Death Corps guards would hold to their last, especially with the Legate so close by. Even better was the fact that their commander, a young Peak Expert by the name of Kuang Biao, was familiar with the same net-like formation Major Rustram used to great effect, meaning there was no need for Hongji to micromanage the centre and only had to keep reinforcements on hand to support them when necessary.

Which begged the question: where did this clever formation originate from, the Eastern Imperials or the Bekhai elites?

Much as he would like to arrange the rest of his army in a similar fashion to take advantage of the effective formation, Hongji knew it was better to stick with what he knew than to fumble about with something he didn’t. As such, he moved his ranged contingent into the middle of his formation where they’d be well protected. Not just the catapults and longbows of the Bekhai, but also a full ten-thousand irregulars who thus far had done nothing but sit in their wagons and drain Hongji’s supplies. There was no fear of running out of food or water any time soon, nor was there any chance of this battle being drawn out into a long, extended campaign, but the frugal farmboy in him disliked making an expenditure without being certain of a return. It remained to be seen if these ten-thousand commoners were worth their salt, for while the first group of irregulars had proven themselves warriors and heroes in spite of their original criminal status, he couldn’t help but remember how rough and unpolished those crossbowmen had been when they first arrived in Sinuji.

Granted, this lot had willingly taken on this job, but regret was a powerful poison for which there was no cure...

Next, he picked out his elite units and stationed them where they would have the most effect. Major Rustram’s retinue had dwindled to less than a quarter strength, what with his ranged and cavalry contingents elsewhere, but the man was too competent a commander to be wasted. Tam Taewoong and Lu Jia Zian, on the other hand, showed little to no talent for command, and thus Hongji left them in Major Rustram’s capable hands with little regard for their pride, and even reinforced his position with another fifteen-thousand soldiers to act as an anchor on the right flank.

If only he had another brilliant young commander to spare for the left flank, but Hongji made do with Major Yobi-no, an older, no-nonsense Warrior who’d long since reached his limit along the Martial Path, but was also a fine, steadfast commander. The grizzled veteran took over guarding the left flank from Ishin Ken-Shibu, whose retinue had shown far too much promise as elite shock infantry to keep as static, immobile defenders. Joining Ken Shibu was the likes of Du Min Yan, who would’ve also been a fine choice for commander of the left if she herself were not so deadly in battle. To ensure Ken-Shibu’s good behaviour and keep the Legate’s second wife safe, Hongji gave lady Yan a field promotion to Warrant Officer First Class, even though he technically didn’t have the authority to do so. While no one would dare raise a voice in protest considering the Legate had the last say in this matter, it still reeked of favouritism more than Hongji would like. He would have avoided doing so if he had any other choice, but this allowed him to place Bekhai allies like Tong Da Fung and Ryo Seoyoon under Du Min Yan’s command, as well as a handful of other loyal, dependable units who even Ishin Ken-Shibu would have to think twice before acting against.

Truth be told, in light of Du Min Gyu’s recent display of martial domination, the Ishin Scion would be a fool to act against his granddaughter now, but men did strange things in the heat of battle and Hongji would leave nothing to chance.

After positioning his shock infantry where they would be of most use, Hongji moved the rest of his forces into place and settled in to wait. Seen from above, his formation made for an odd sight on the fields of Central, with black-armoured Death Corps soldiers stationed loosely in the front in a concave line, and an eclectic smattering of light infantry ranging towards the back in a clumped, convex grouping. To the north, Major Rustram arranged his troops in yet another net formation, only this time they formed a triangle rather than a rectangle, almost like a wing on the side of an ungainly beast, while on the southern flank, Major Yobi-no stood waiting with his troops in a dense, unwieldy square. Unimaginative and cumbersome, but reliable nonetheless, yet if Hongji were sat on the other side of this army, he would choose to hit the southern flank the hardest. Since it appeared to be the juiciest target, he made preparations to support it, even Sending along a suggestion to Lieutenant General Akanai which only warranted a simple, “Understood,” in response.

Some general from one dusty book or another once likened an army to a ponderous, ungainly creature whose limbs moved independently of one another, and Hongji wholeheartedly agreed. A second benefit of the net-like formation was how much freedom it afforded each individual unit. So long as they didn’t lag too far behind or range too far forward, the overall formation would remain intact, but on the dense southern flank and clumped, ranging trailblazers, they all moved at the speed of their slowest individual. Keeping the whole army in formation while marching ever eastwards was proving quite a challenge, but it wouldn’t be long before the Enemy sounded the charge and Hongji could give the orders to dig in.

Or so he thought, but after an entire hour of marching, the Enemy had yet to make a move, affording their troops and cavalry more time to rest than Hongji deemed safe. Again, this pointed to either a mistake on his foe’s part or knowledge of events he remained unaware of, but he knew everything the Citadel knew, which meant nothing had changed in the last hour. The Northern and Southern reinforcing armies were still racing over with all haste, and the other two Defiled armies in the field had yet to adjust accordingly. In fact, from the handful of truncated reports he received, it sounded like the Enemy was redoubling its efforts on all fronts. Castle Wulin to the north and Castle Youxia to the south were holding firm beneath the attacks, but both commanders put in a request for support to the Citadels, one aimed at sapping soldiers away from the Legate’s reinforcing armies. There was no malice to the requests, as Hongji himself would have done the same in their position, for no commander liked to see his soldiers struggling to hold while a surplus of soldiers rode away. Both reinforcing commanders had already acquiesced to the request, which again, Hongji could not fault them for, but this boded poorly for the Legate’s plan. His army was supposed to join forces with the reinforcing armies to wipe out the foes arranged against them using overwhelming force and numbers, but now, almost a quarter of the reinforcements had been reassigned on the way to their destination, and he worried the Enemy meant to destroy him here and now before turning to meet the tired reinforcements. While the Imperial Army would most assuredly slaughter this Defiled army to the last man, the butcher’s bill might be higher than what the Empire could bear...

Although every instinct urged Hongji to retreat and delay, he kept his troops at three-quarter’s march speed and watched as the Enemy kept pace. There was a chance the Enemy commander was putting on a mummer’s farce, behaving as if he had all the time in the world so that Hongji would grow flustered and panic. Not to say it wasn’t working, for even though this delay favoured him in every way possible, he felt like he was stark naked and staring down a hungry predator that had yet to decide if he was worth eating.

Then, out of nowhere, the Enemy army came to a halt, and the sudden drop in volume left Hongji wondering if he’d gone half deaf. Before he could even ponder what the other commander was thinking, he saw a single figure Cloud-Step out from the Defiled army and land roughly at the halfway mark between their two forces. Clad in yellow and black Runic brigantine armour, he looked no different from any other Peak Expert Chosen, save for the plumage of his conical helmet which was golden rather than red. A man of slim and unimposing build as far as Martial Warriors were concerned, though he carried a massive, towering glaive, one with a red shaft longer than the man was tall and topped by a blade at least one third its length again. Without even needing to Scry, Hongji knew there were nine, thick, leaden rings inserted along the back of the blade to add even more weight to the cumbersome weapon, and that there were two, sinuous, verdant dragons coiled about the shaft, with one head at each end baring its fangs to act as weapon guard and counter-weight. This type of polearm was colloquially known as a reclining moon blade, and this weapon in particular was named the Green Dragon Crescent Blade, which he knew because he’d seen it depicted in a book detailing the Empire’s greatest Living Legends.

“This Prince,” the figure began, speaking in the slow, ambling drawl so common to Westerners, “Be Gongsun Qi, Colonel General of the Chosen and commander of the First Army.” Pausing for effect, the Executioner of Yique and Prince of Brutality waited patiently for his words to sink in and give rise to dread and dismay. “I would have words with your commander, here and now. This Prince has come alone, but you may have a guard if you so desire, even one of those beasts you keep hidden about.”

Ignoring the none too subtle jab at the Concealed Divinities, Hongji frantically considered his options. To refuse a meeting would be to admit cowardice and deliver a devastating blow to Imperial morale, but if ever there was a man to be feared, Gongsun Qi was he. Desperately hoping for an out, Hongji delivered a Sending to Akanai and asked, “Do you think I should go?”

“Yes,” came the reply, arriving all too quickly and without thought, though thankfully, it was followed by, “I will accompany you.” Just like that, she arrived at his side with a brief nod of greeting, standing a full head taller than Hongji and clenching her polearm tight. “I suggest we approach slowly,” she Sent, eyes locked on their formidable foe across from them. “So as to be certain this is not a trap. If battle is joined, I will cover your retreat.”

Not daring to even nod for fear of giving himself away, Hongji steeled his nerves and ordered the army to halt and ready for battle before setting out to meet a Defiled Living Legend. This wasn’t the ideal location to do battle, as there was a river crossing less than a kilometre east which would have made for a better site, but perhaps that was why Gongsun Qi chose to reveal himself now. Regardless of his reasoning, this was not a foe to take lightly, for although his tactical prowess was prodigious, his Martial might was second to none in the Western Province, and some even argued the outer provinces themselves.

One could not forget, a common man turned Defiled counted as half a Martial Warrior, so what gains would a Living Legend receive?

Desperately hoping not to find out first hand, Hongji steadily advanced with Akanai at his side until he stood across from Gongsun Qi. Up close, the ruthless Colonel General was even more imposing than before, for it was obvious the man was utterly relaxed, or as relaxed as a soldier on duty could be. Feet spread and grip loose, he stood at ease and studied his visitors with a mixture of boredom and disdain etched across his surprisingly youthful face, one which belonged on a man of fifty years rather than one nearing a hundred. “This Prince wishes to have words with the commander of this army,” he said, shaking his head in Hongji’s direction. “Not its nameless figurehead. Call out your commander now, the one advising you from the shadows. I would know my foe for true.”

Though his scorn was understandable, Hongji was at a loss as to how to respond. “The Legate has tasked this one, Brigadier Chen Hongji, to command the army here,” he began, resisting the urge to turn around and look back. “If it is he you wish to speak with, then –”

