Peak Expert.

A lofty title in so many eyes, but Hongji found it lacking when used to describe the heroes he fought alongside today. There were no strict guidelines to separate Experts from Peak Experts, only a generally accepted understanding that a Peak Expert was someone ready to take on the final milestone along the Martial Path. Strength played a minor part in all this, as Hongji himself only fit the description due to his peculiar mastery over Domain. Compared to the extraordinary Warriors under his command, he was sorely lacking in terms of speed, strength, skill, and too many other metrics to list, leaving him feeling unworthy to count himself among their number.

Take the husband and wife pair, Exarches Bralton and Erien. At first glance, their style of fighting was best described as basic, their methods and techniques no different from what common soldiers might utilize. Both fought on foot and wielded unremarkable spears crafted in the same fashion, a two-meter-long steel shaft topped by a pointed, double-edged blade, one which measured no more than twenty-centimetres from tip to base, and perhaps a third that in width. Their weapons had no cross-guards or counter-weights, no tassels or engravings, nothing of note besides two leather hand-grips fastened near the base and centre of the spear, meaning there was more thought and effort put into the crafting of a mundane, standard-issue army spear than the Exarches weapons. Combined with their primitive leather attire, elaborate, antlered headdresses, and crudely daubed war paint, it was easy to underestimate this powerful pair before seeing them in their element.

And make no mistake, Exarch Bralton and Exarch Erien were born for battle.

Rather than holding down one area along the line, the husband and wife pair played the part of heavy cavalry, except they did so without needing a mount. Spears lowered and legs pumping, they raced about the battlefield charging into Demons and Peak Experts alike, and as simplistic as it might sound, their tactic proved effective for one reason and one reason only: no one could match their foot-speed. To call it running would be a misnomer, for Hongji had personally seen them outrun horses and quins in the field, able to sprint faster and dash longer than any human had right to. When Hongji learned they came from rival tribes of horse-rearing nomads, he assumed it meant they would make for phenomenal cavalry commanders, but nothing could be farther from the truth. Since they made their living rearing horses, their tribes put the lives of their thoroughbreds over the lives of their warriors, meaning they refused to ever ride into battle. Consequently, fleeing from battle was as easy as riding away, since their foes would also be on foot and avoid injuring the horses.

This in turn led young Bralton and Erien to focus on foot-speed above all else, solely to engage in battle, horse-theft, or what have you. As a result of all their training, the Exarches had somehow incorporated the Forms into their running styles, though how, neither one could really say. From an outsider’s perspective, their long, lopping gait was reminiscent of a horse at full gallop, and while it didn’t seem like it would be particularly efficient, the speeds they were capable of left no doubt as to their effectiveness. Thundering footfalls echoed across the battlefield as Exarch Bralton and Exarch Erien left naught but dust and blood in their wake, their spears dripping with blood and Ichor and faces lit up in sheer delight as they pushed their limits to the extreme. Most of their foes died before even registering the pair, while the others were smashed aside by the collision or worse, trampled underfoot, with the deafening din only subsiding when the formidable husband and wife duo periodically paused to drink, eat, catch their breath, and change their tattered boots.

Though their movements and attacks lacked elegance and sophistication, their effectiveness could not be denied, and there was more to their prowess than merely speed, but Hongji lacked the knowledge or ability to recognize what it might be. Offensive Deflection perhaps, to protect their bodies while moving at such high speeds, or a constant use of Domain deployed as a rigid barrier against impacts, but whatever it was, he could not say. Nor was this Exarch Bralton and Erien’s sole tactic, as he and many others had personally seen them go up against the strongest foes the Enemy had to offer and emerge victorious in a stand up duel, but this was merely an example of how one or two Peak Experts could change the entire pace of a battle. Today, here on the open plains of Central, there were hundreds of such powerful individuals making their mark known to the world at large, meaning this particular clash was more chaotic than usual.

A keening cry wailed nonstop as Howling Dragon Situ Jia Yang and the Immovable Binesi held the line, while Singing Spear Shi Yukun fluttered over their heads and descended to whip his malleable spear about. Further down the line, Lawgiver Won Gwang formed a single-man bulwark with his long, unwieldy man-catcher Spiritual Weapon, an acknowledgement of his humble beginnings as a City Guard. Wielding the exotic weapon with phenomenal skill and finesse, the Lawgiver used the rotating-latch and ring device to great effect, trapping arms, legs, or even necks within the steel enclosure and holding his foes in place for his allies to secure the kill. This wasn’t to say the Lawgiver was helpless without assistance either, for the reversed edge of the immobile, double-ringed portion of the weapon’s head was sharpened and Honed to such an extent that Hongji witnessed a Humanoid Demon lose its hand by simply grabbing the weapon locked around its throat.

Compared to the six mentioned above, most other Peak Experts were lacking, but there was no denying their prowess. Mu Hong the Unrestrained lived up to his name as he whirled in and out of combat, charging with reckless abandon and smashing aside anyone in his path without a care for his own safety. Dong Ping of the Twin Spears fought in a similar manner, twirling his namesakes about in a deadly ring of singing steel, so similar to the Howling Dragon’s style yet wholly unable to measure up even to young Lu An Jing. The Nine-Tattooed Dragon was a sight to behold, the inked scales etched into his skin glimmering in the sunlight as he fought side by side with the Jade Armed Craftsman, whose milky white Spiritual Prosthetic was impossible to miss yet also easily mistaken for a real flesh and blood limb with how naturally he wielded it. All the while, Song Qing of the Fiery Star whirled her luminescent flail high overhead, angled sharply so as not to strike her younger, larger brother, the aptly named Dark Giant Song Jian who towered over friend and foe alike.

And despite all their combined efforts, they were still unable to match the one-hundred and eleven year old Du Min Gyu, a Warrior who stood at the pinnacle of mortal might and fought like a veritable force of nature on the battlefield. Striding through the corpses like a bored, bloodstained noble out for a mid-afternoon stroll, he cut through the chaos with poise and elegance using his exquisite and refined sabre. Hongji remembered a time in his youth when that style of sabre had been all the rage, all due to the efforts of this Living Legend before him, and he suspected it would soon come into fashion yet again once tales of today’s battle spread. While others fought long and hard in close exchanges with no clear victor, it seemed like Du Min Gyu’s foes went out of their way to lunge into the path of his weapon, offering up their necks for him to slice as if ashamed of their inferiority. One strike, one kill, his presence on the battlefield could only be described as a whirlwind of blood and death, leaving no doubt as to how he earned his name as the Sanguine Tempest.

There was simply no comparison. Du Min Gyu was the oldest human warrior present by at least a decade, yet also the only one to take part in this battle of Peak Experts from start to finish. No foe could match him, no Demon ever gave him pause, and it wasn’t until late into the battle when most Imperial Warriors were exhausted and ailing did the centenarian Hero begin to flag and falter. Of course, this meant it took him two or three exchanges to find an opening instead of merely one, and Hongji could not imagine how strong Du Min Gyu would be if not for his lengthy absence from the battlefield.

Small wonder he supported the Bekhai so strongly. Not only was his adopted grand-daughter married to Falling Rain, but the Medical Saint had Healed what ailed him and breathed new life into Du Min Gyu’s career.

Things did not go entirely in Imperial favour, and many lives were lost, but after a long, riveting bout between Peak existences, the Enemy finally drew back from the Imperial lines and Hongji could breathe again. A quick Scry on the Enemy army showed that the bulk of their forces were still in hot pursuit, though nowhere near as scattered and disordered as he would like. Habitually resisting the urge to check his pocket-watch, he gauged the sun to be about two hours past midday, which meant the first part of the plan was all but done with. Lieutenant General Akanai had kept the Enemy cavalry in check and the forces under Hongji’s command had withdrawn to relative safety, for at this very moment, soldiers on the northern and southern parts of the second line were streaming out of their castles, carried by horses, cattle, rhinos, and whatever other beasts of burden they could scrounge up in order to intercept this Defiled army and slaughtering them to the last. Soon enough, the Enemy commander would receive word of this and the time for half-measures would be over and done with. Either the Defiled would commit and attempt to eliminate Hongji’s forces as quickly as possible, or they would cut their losses and retreat to Castle JiangHu in hopes they arrived before the reinforcements cut them off.

The worst part? Regardless of the Enemy’s decision, it made no difference to Hongji’s forces, for either way meant they were in for a hard fight ahead. If the Enemy committed, then it was a fight for survival, and if otherwise, then it was their job to slow and hamper the Enemy forces as much as they could, without getting caught and ground into meat paste out on the open field. A fine line to dance, but dance he must, else all his soldiers’ sacrifices would be for naught.

Ordering his army to half march, he slowed to match the Enemy’s pace and prayed for some form of relief. Seconds passed like minutes, minutes like hours, and slowly but surely, the Enemy’s plan came together as the Chosen of Heaven marched into formation with spears held high and ready to do battle once more. Off in the distance, Hongji could almost make out the clouds of dust kicked up by the impending arrival of Defiled cavalry, their numbers cut down by almost a third thanks to Lieutenant General Akanai’s valiant efforts, yet still outnumbering Hongji’s mounted forces by three-fold. To make matters worse, the bulk of the arriving Enemy cavalry were not the lightly armoured garo outriders Akanai faced in the field, but heavy gajashia cavalry, monstrous horse-like creatures with beaked, avian heads carrying fully armoured riders. Hongji had precious little heavy cavalry of his own to match them, but fight he must, for to do otherwise would be to lay down and admit defeat.

Giving orders to pick up the pace to three-quarters march speed, Hongji Scryed through the Enemy lines in search of his formidable foe while simultaneously passing along this information to Akanai. Technically, he was still in command of the overall forces for the sake of this withdrawal, since the infantry contingent was by far the larger of the two, but he didn’t feel right giving orders to the Legate’s Mother-in-Law, a larger-than-life heroine who cowed the Warriors of Central fifty years past, and had since returned to show off her Martial prowess once again. The formidable leader of the Bekhai was also a brilliant strategist in her own right, for had she not foreseen the Enemy commander’s intention to take Castle JiangHu by force of Peak Experts and taken steps to counter them, Hongji would have died on the inner wall and the castle might have fallen before the reinforcements even arrived, rendering all of the Legate’s preparations for naught.

As expected, Akanai gleaned the meaning of his reports and responded by gathering her scattered patrols to reinforce him, though she did not go as far as to reveal her positioning to Hongji or the Enemy. It still boggled his mind to think that there were Imperial Divinities out there Concealing thousands of mounted Warriors from Enemy sight, for they were an arrogant, prideful lot who disdained the struggles of mere mortals. This part of the plan had not been revealed by the Legate, and Hongji had no idea how the young man had managed it, but it brought attention to the previous Legate’s brilliant foresight in appointing Falling Rain as his successor.

May the Mother watch over Shen ZhenWu in his time of need, but it was possible he might not even need to return to the outer provinces once he saw how his replacement had everything well in hand.

Seeing the Enemy forces all but champing at the bit, Hongji rearranged his battle-lines in preparation for imminent battle, shuffling his soldiers about in order to confuse and delay the Enemy. With luck, the Defiled Commander would wait to see what he was up to or, better yet, be baited into attacking early, but alas, Hongji’s foe was too canny and continued his slow advance, ensuring the Enemy forces would be somewhat rested once battle was joined again. Despite knowing there were two formidable armies speeding towards his army, Hongji’s counterpart appeared wholly unconcerned, which was somehow both encouraging and worrisome at the same time. Either he knew something the rest of them didn’t, or he was a fool, and though Hongji had yet to put a name to the Enemy commander, they’d clashed often enough in the past week to know he was no fool.

There was no point agonizing about what Hongji didn’t know, as whatever it might be was out of his hands for now, so all he could do was fight the battle before him. On the front line, which was the rear of the column, he deployed his heavy infantry, the finest of such soldiers in all the Empire. The Death Corps guards would hold to their last, especially with the Legate so close by. Even better was the fact that their commander, a young Peak Expert by the name of Kuang Biao, was familiar with the same net-like formation Major Rustram used to great effect, meaning there was no need for Hongji to micromanage the centre and only had to keep reinforcements on hand to support them when necessary.

Which begged the question: where did this clever formation originate from, the Eastern Imperials or the Bekhai elites?

Much as he would like to arrange the rest of his army in a similar fashion to take advantage of the effective formation, Hongji knew it was better to stick with what he knew than to fumble about with something he didn’t. As such, he moved his ranged contingent into the middle of his formation where they’d be well protected. Not just the catapults and longbows of the Bekhai, but also a full ten-thousand irregulars who thus far had done nothing but sit in their wagons and drain Hongji’s supplies. There was no fear of running out of food or water any time soon, nor was there any chance of this battle being drawn out into a long, extended campaign, but the frugal farmboy in him disliked making an expenditure without being certain of a return. It remained to be seen if these ten-thousand commoners were worth their salt, for while the first group of irregulars had proven themselves warriors and heroes in spite of their original criminal status, he couldn’t help but remember how rough and unpolished those crossbowmen had been when they first arrived in Sinuji.

Granted, this lot had willingly taken on this job, but regret was a powerful poison for which there was no cure...

Next, he picked out his elite units and stationed them where they would have the most effect. Major Rustram’s retinue had dwindled to less than a quarter strength, what with his ranged and cavalry contingents elsewhere, but the man was too competent a commander to be wasted. Tam Taewoong and Lu Jia Zian, on the other hand, showed little to no talent for command, and thus Hongji left them in Major Rustram’s capable hands with little regard for their pride, and even reinforced his position with another fifteen-thousand soldiers to act as an anchor on the right flank.

If only he had another brilliant young commander to spare for the left flank, but Hongji made do with Major Yobi-no, an older, no-nonsense Warrior who’d long since reached his limit along the Martial Path, but was also a fine, steadfast commander. The grizzled veteran took over guarding the left flank from Ishin Ken-Shibu, whose retinue had shown far too much promise as elite shock infantry to keep as static, immobile defenders. Joining Ken Shibu was the likes of Du Min Yan, who would’ve also been a fine choice for commander of the left if she herself were not so deadly in battle. To ensure Ken-Shibu’s good behaviour and keep the Legate’s second wife safe, Hongji gave lady Yan a field promotion to Warrant Officer First Class, even though he technically didn’t have the authority to do so. While no one would dare raise a voice in protest considering the Legate had the last say in this matter, it still reeked of favouritism more than Hongji would like. He would have avoided doing so if he had any other choice, but this allowed him to place Bekhai allies like Tong Da Fung and Ryo Seoyoon under Du Min Yan’s command, as well as a handful of other loyal, dependable units who even Ishin Ken-Shibu would have to think twice before acting against.

Truth be told, in light of Du Min Gyu’s recent display of martial domination, the Ishin Scion would be a fool to act against his granddaughter now, but men did strange things in the heat of battle and Hongji would leave nothing to chance.

After positioning his shock infantry where they would be of most use, Hongji moved the rest of his forces into place and settled in to wait. Seen from above, his formation made for an odd sight on the fields of Central, with black-armoured Death Corps soldiers stationed loosely in the front in a concave line, and an eclectic smattering of light infantry ranging towards the back in a clumped, convex grouping. To the north, Major Rustram arranged his troops in yet another net formation, only this time they formed a triangle rather than a rectangle, almost like a wing on the side of an ungainly beast, while on the southern flank, Major Yobi-no stood waiting with his troops in a dense, unwieldy square. Unimaginative and cumbersome, but reliable nonetheless, yet if Hongji were sat on the other side of this army, he would choose to hit the southern flank the hardest. Since it appeared to be the juiciest target, he made preparations to support it, even Sending along a suggestion to Lieutenant General Akanai which only warranted a simple, “Understood,” in response.

Some general from one dusty book or another once likened an army to a ponderous, ungainly creature whose limbs moved independently of one another, and Hongji wholeheartedly agreed. A second benefit of the net-like formation was how much freedom it afforded each individual unit. So long as they didn’t lag too far behind or range too far forward, the overall formation would remain intact, but on the dense southern flank and clumped, ranging trailblazers, they all moved at the speed of their slowest individual. Keeping the whole army in formation while marching ever eastwards was proving quite a challenge, but it wouldn’t be long before the Enemy sounded the charge and Hongji could give the orders to dig in.

Or so he thought, but after an entire hour of marching, the Enemy had yet to make a move, affording their troops and cavalry more time to rest than Hongji deemed safe. Again, this pointed to either a mistake on his foe’s part or knowledge of events he remained unaware of, but he knew everything the Citadel knew, which meant nothing had changed in the last hour. The Northern and Southern reinforcing armies were still racing over with all haste, and the other two Defiled armies in the field had yet to adjust accordingly. In fact, from the handful of truncated reports he received, it sounded like the Enemy was redoubling its efforts on all fronts. Castle Wulin to the north and Castle Youxia to the south were holding firm beneath the attacks, but both commanders put in a request for support to the Citadels, one aimed at sapping soldiers away from the Legate’s reinforcing armies. There was no malice to the requests, as Hongji himself would have done the same in their position, for no commander liked to see his soldiers struggling to hold while a surplus of soldiers rode away. Both reinforcing commanders had already acquiesced to the request, which again, Hongji could not fault them for, but this boded poorly for the Legate’s plan. His army was supposed to join forces with the reinforcing armies to wipe out the foes arranged against them using overwhelming force and numbers, but now, almost a quarter of the reinforcements had been reassigned on the way to their destination, and he worried the Enemy meant to destroy him here and now before turning to meet the tired reinforcements. While the Imperial Army would most assuredly slaughter this Defiled army to the last man, the butcher’s bill might be higher than what the Empire could bear...

Although every instinct urged Hongji to retreat and delay, he kept his troops at three-quarter’s march speed and watched as the Enemy kept pace. There was a chance the Enemy commander was putting on a mummer’s farce, behaving as if he had all the time in the world so that Hongji would grow flustered and panic. Not to say it wasn’t working, for even though this delay favoured him in every way possible, he felt like he was stark naked and staring down a hungry predator that had yet to decide if he was worth eating.

Then, out of nowhere, the Enemy army came to a halt, and the sudden drop in volume left Hongji wondering if he’d gone half deaf. Before he could even ponder what the other commander was thinking, he saw a single figure Cloud-Step out from the Defiled army and land roughly at the halfway mark between their two forces. Clad in yellow and black Runic brigantine armour, he looked no different from any other Peak Expert Chosen, save for the plumage of his conical helmet which was golden rather than red. A man of slim and unimposing build as far as Martial Warriors were concerned, though he carried a massive, towering glaive, one with a red shaft longer than the man was tall and topped by a blade at least one third its length again. Without even needing to Scry, Hongji knew there were nine, thick, leaden rings inserted along the back of the blade to add even more weight to the cumbersome weapon, and that there were two, sinuous, verdant dragons coiled about the shaft, with one head at each end baring its fangs to act as weapon guard and counter-weight. This type of polearm was colloquially known as a reclining moon blade, and this weapon in particular was named the Green Dragon Crescent Blade, which he knew because he’d seen it depicted in a book detailing the Empire’s greatest Living Legends.

“This Prince,” the figure began, speaking in the slow, ambling drawl so common to Westerners, “Be Gongsun Qi, Colonel General of the Chosen and commander of the First Army.” Pausing for effect, the Executioner of Yique and Prince of Brutality waited patiently for his words to sink in and give rise to dread and dismay. “I would have words with your commander, here and now. This Prince has come alone, but you may have a guard if you so desire, even one of those beasts you keep hidden about.”

Ignoring the none too subtle jab at the Concealed Divinities, Hongji frantically considered his options. To refuse a meeting would be to admit cowardice and deliver a devastating blow to Imperial morale, but if ever there was a man to be feared, Gongsun Qi was he. Desperately hoping for an out, Hongji delivered a Sending to Akanai and asked, “Do you think I should go?”

“Yes,” came the reply, arriving all too quickly and without thought, though thankfully, it was followed by, “I will accompany you.” Just like that, she arrived at his side with a brief nod of greeting, standing a full head taller than Hongji and clenching her polearm tight. “I suggest we approach slowly,” she Sent, eyes locked on their formidable foe across from them. “So as to be certain this is not a trap. If battle is joined, I will cover your retreat.”

Not daring to even nod for fear of giving himself away, Hongji steeled his nerves and ordered the army to halt and ready for battle before setting out to meet a Defiled Living Legend. This wasn’t the ideal location to do battle, as there was a river crossing less than a kilometre east which would have made for a better site, but perhaps that was why Gongsun Qi chose to reveal himself now. Regardless of his reasoning, this was not a foe to take lightly, for although his tactical prowess was prodigious, his Martial might was second to none in the Western Province, and some even argued the outer provinces themselves.

One could not forget, a common man turned Defiled counted as half a Martial Warrior, so what gains would a Living Legend receive?

Desperately hoping not to find out first hand, Hongji steadily advanced with Akanai at his side until he stood across from Gongsun Qi. Up close, the ruthless Colonel General was even more imposing than before, for it was obvious the man was utterly relaxed, or as relaxed as a soldier on duty could be. Feet spread and grip loose, he stood at ease and studied his visitors with a mixture of boredom and disdain etched across his surprisingly youthful face, one which belonged on a man of fifty years rather than one nearing a hundred. “This Prince wishes to have words with the commander of this army,” he said, shaking his head in Hongji’s direction. “Not its nameless figurehead. Call out your commander now, the one advising you from the shadows. I would know my foe for true.”

Though his scorn was understandable, Hongji was at a loss as to how to respond. “The Legate has tasked this one, Brigadier Chen Hongji, to command the army here,” he began, resisting the urge to turn around and look back. “If it is he you wish to speak with, then –”

Hongji was going to say it was unlikely the Legate, or rather his protectors, would accept, but Gongsun Qi cut him off with a derisive snort. “The Legate? Pei. What need have I to speak with a mongrel child puppet? This Prince speaks of the true commander who be giving orders from the shadows, whispering advice and tactics in your ear.” Gesturing at Akanai, he continued, “It is not her, formidable though she might be, for she arrived with your puppet Legate and his reinforcements. No, someone else be close by, someone who has not been seen in some time. This rules out the Colonel Generals, but this Prince must know who his foe be. Long has it been since Gongsun Qi has met a worthy match, and I would know his name before I slaughter you all where you stand.”

A puff of laughter escaped from Akanai’s pursed lips, not a laugh of joy and amusement, but one of ridicule and contempt. Impressive to pack so much meaning into a single exhalation, but Akanai did it well and her efforts did not go unnoticed. “This be amusing to you,” Gongsun Qi stated, his expression calm as his fingers curled around his Green Dragon Crescent Blade. “Why?”

“Because,” Akanai began, dragging out the syllables in a bored, disinterested tone, “Your question has been asked and answered. The commander stands here beside me, Brigadier Chen Hongji, and for the last week, he has matched you blow for blow at Castle JiangHu. You think yourself so talented that only the Colonel Generals are your match? When my son arrives, you will bear witness to true genius, right up until he rips your heart from your chest.” Smirking, she added, “Assuming you survive long enough that is. I’m considering taking your head here and now for myself. I do like the thought of mounting your colourful halberd on my wall, though I’m afraid my husband would likely object to so garish a decoration.”

Despite not having spoken much to the formidable woman, Hongji could see why so many of Central’s families targeted her during her last visit. What man didn’t dream of conquering a powerful woman, and there was none more beautiful, domineering, or dangerous than Akanai of the Bekhai.

To his credit, Gongsun Qi didn’t lose his temper or even seem put off by her insult or insinuation. “Your son?” he asked, before his eyes brightened in recognition. “Ah, the new ‘upstart’ Major General from the North. Baatar, I believe his name be. This Prince did not know you were his mother, but you must forgive me. News comes slowly to the west, though I should have guessed at a relation, for no sparrow can beget a hawk.” Flashing a predatory smile which was not at all reassuring, he added, “If you wish to take this Prince’s head and Dragon Blade, then you be free to make the attempt. This Prince yearns for a Martial challenge as well, and as impressive as young Hongji’s tactical skills be, his Martial might is woefully lacking, but he has time and potential both to grow.”

It shamed Hongji to admit he was proud to receive such glowing praise from a Colonel General. Defiled or not, Gongsun Qi was one of six Warriors to currently hold the rank, so it meant something to know he had potential, but this man was the Enemy now, and Hongji had to treat him as such. “You asked to speak,” he said, feigning indifference and impatience. “So speak.”

“Ah, the eagerness of youth.” Shooting an amused glance towards Akanai, Gongsun Qi’s expression took on a thoughtful cast as he asked, “Though I suppose even a man of my years be seeming young and hasty to you.” Akanai’s fingers tightened around her polearm even more and her feet even twitched forward a bit, leaving Hongji to wonder if it was time to flee, but thankfully, the two Peak existences did not come to blows. When it became clear both of them were waiting for him to say his piece, Gongsun Qi sighed and said, “Very well then. On to business it be. I am normally not so... cavalier, but current circumstances have left me with no peers to converse with, only subordinates.” Uttering another sigh, he straightened up and shed all pretense of cordiality, the transformation so stark and sudden it took Hongji by surprise. “Your Legate spoke of choices, so this Prince has come here to offer one. Surrender, or die. Those are the only two options before you.” Pausing a beat as he fell back into the role of earnest and congenial competitor, he added, “I would much rather you both surrendered, for this Prince has dire need of capable subordinates.”

Between the fear, nerves, and awe, something snapped within Hongji and his composure slipped. “Ha!” he barked, throwing his head back in genuine laughter until he realized what he’d just done, but it was too late to back down. “Surrender? If it is your surrender, I am willing to accept on behalf of the Legate, but as for the soldiers behind you, my small head dares not guarantee their lives.”

Akanai said nothing, but her snort made her position clear, one of agreement with Hongji and amusement for Gongsun Qi. Clearly not amused, the Defiled commander straightened up and shed his veneer of cordiality once more. “Think carefully on my offer,” he began, looming over them despite standing shorter than them both. “You believe me trapped between three armies, but I assure you, they will never arrive. As we speak, my old rival turned ally, the self-proclaimed King of Bandits Huanhuzi leads a naval fleet east along the Azure Sea, carrying an army which dwarfs the one I set out with. To the south, YuChun of the Ten Thousand Spears stands waiting with an admittedly smaller army, but one Concealed less than fifty kilometres east of Castle Youxia.” Shrugging with the ghost of a smile hanging about his lips, he said, “A clever gambit, but one this Prince came up with first. Your reinforcements will receive word of this soon, and they will have no choice but to turn back. Otherwise, the second line will fall, and we will hunt down and slaughter every last soldier still stationed out there.” Leaning forward without shifting his feet, he added, “After this Prince be done slaughtering the pitiful army behind you.”

“You missed a third option,” Akanai replied, still drawing out her words in mockery of Gongsun Qi’s accent, “We slaughter you without need of the reinforcements. Simple enough if you ask me.”

If Hongji were to chime in, he would state that it was close to impossible, but he knew better than to open his mouth. Strangely enough, he felt a little better now that he knew what the Enemy was planning, because as dire as things might seem, if Gongsun Qi was telling the truth, then all was not entirely lost. So what if there were no reinforcements incoming? The Citadel was less than a day’s march away, half that if they marched double time, and half again if a new wave of reinforcements from the Citadel met them halfway. All he had to do was continue the withdrawal for a quarter day more, and everything would be fine.

Far from the stunning victory the Legate envisioned, but at least all was not lost...

“This is your decision?” Disappointed by the lacking response, Gongsun Qi frowned and said, “Your lattice formation is clever and intriguing, but your soldiers unaccustomed to its use, and this Prince already has the tools needed to wrench it apart.” Meaning the heavy cavalry, who would run roughshod over the isolated units within the net formation, but Hongji knew of a counter to that counter, and no doubt Gongsun Qi had yet another counter for them. Regardless, it was pointless to debate the strengths and weaknesses of a formation, as the only way forward was to fight it out and discover the answer for themselves. Sensing Hongji’s unspoken answer, Gongsun Qi shook his head and sighed. “In my youth, this Prince loathed his title of Lord of Martial Peace, but in my old age, I have come to cherish it. They meant to mock me, say I lorded over the peace of the grave or the peace of submission, but whatever form it might take, peace be a blessing, one this Prince seeks to bring to the entire Empire.”

Seeing their disbelief, Gongsun Qi changed tact. “Why do you resist? You think the Empire cares for you or yours? For millennia, Western tariffs have filled Imperial coffers while Eastern nobles grew fat off the labours of my countrymen, but where were they when the Western Wall fell? Where were they when we stood behind our city walls, starving and thirsty as we held back the Enemy tide? Where were they when loyal citizens of the West were slaughtered like dogs in the street? They did not march out to relieve us. They did not send word to inspire and reassure us. We could have fought, could have cleansed the West of the Enemy, but instead, the Dog Emperor tucked tail, closed all borders to the West, and killed those who sought to escape to freedom. You will see soon enough, as he does the same to all the outer provinces, and only through our united strength can we topple him from his throne!”

Seeing how he had joined hands with the very army who slaughtered his countrymen, Gongsun Qi had clearly gone mad, or perhaps he’d been mad to begin with. Hard to support his argument when he was now working with the Enemy he so clearly detested. “Is it true?” Hongji asked, more out of curiosity than anything. “Were your parents in Yique when you oversaw the Purge?”

Stiffening in surprise, Gongsun Qi visibly rocked back on his heels, though his feet remained rooted in place and his overall balance never shifted. Narrowing his eyes to glare at Hongji, he hissed, “They were, and I tell you now, my father would have turned if not for my mercy. This Prince knows what you insinuate, but I be no Defiled and never have been. This Prince be a Chosen of Heaven, one who will deliver Peace to the Empire, in one form or another.”

Turning on his heels to leave, Gongsun Qi moved to Cloud-Step away, but Akanai’s ax-lance was faster, its piercing tip drilling towards the back of his head. Faster than Hongji’s eyes could follow, Gongsun Qi lift his Green Dragon Crescent Blade and swept it around to parry the thrust, but Akanai pulled back before the attack connected. This, and only this, saved her life, as well as Hongji’s own, as the Lord of Martial Peace overpowered them both with a single, errant swing. The impact shook Hongji’s organs as he tumbled away from the collision, and he was only vaguely aware of Akanai’s body landing somewhere nearby. Unsure if she was dead or alive, he Cloud-Stepped faster and farther than he’d ever Cloud-Stepped before, making sure to Deploy his Domain beforehand and use it to grab Akanai tight. The earth exploded behind him and the force pushed him even further away, but he continued to Cloud-Step as quickly as he could until he lost control of his bearings and crashed somewhere in the midst of his army.

Hardly the most graceful retreat, but there was no face lost in fleeing from an overwhelming foe. Turning to check on Akanai, he found her icy blue gaze burning with recrimination and directed firmly against him. “Why?” she demanded, and it took Hongji some time to piece together her meaning.

“Why did I leave?” He Sent, so that they would not be overheard. “Because he knocked you on your ass in one swipe!”

Scrunching her face up into a frown, Akanai sniffed and retorted, “He is stronger than I expected, but still human yet. I will kill him the next time we cross blades.”

Which would come soon enough, for the Defiled sounded the charge, and Hongji had no time for banter. The rest of the Empire would have to fend for themselves now, because his forces were massively outnumbered with no friendly reinforcements forthcoming. Hopefully, the Legate had planned for this and would soon unveil yet another miracle, but failing that, Hongji and his soldiers would have to do this the hard way.

And strange as it might sound, Hongji relished the challenge, for as Akanai said, he had already traded tactical blows with the Lord of Martial Peace, and he, Chen Hongji, had come out ahead.

...

Granted, he had no walls or static defences to speak of anymore, only flat terrain on all sides, so perhaps his confidence was unwarranted in this particular situation. No matter. He was mortal, so he could do naught but persevere through the trials and tribulations before him.

Chapter Meme

- End of Volume 34 -
