Hongji was going to say it was unlikely the Legate, or rather his protectors, would accept, but Gongsun Qi cut him off with a derisive snort. “The Legate? Pei. What need have I to speak with a mongrel child puppet? This Prince speaks of the true commander who be giving orders from the shadows, whispering advice and tactics in your ear.” Gesturing at Akanai, he continued, “It is not her, formidable though she might be, for she arrived with your puppet Legate and his reinforcements. No, someone else be close by, someone who has not been seen in some time. This rules out the Colonel Generals, but this Prince must know who his foe be. Long has it been since Gongsun Qi has met a worthy match, and I would know his name before I slaughter you all where you stand.”

A puff of laughter escaped from Akanai’s pursed lips, not a laugh of joy and amusement, but one of ridicule and contempt. Impressive to pack so much meaning into a single exhalation, but Akanai did it well and her efforts did not go unnoticed. “This be amusing to you,” Gongsun Qi stated, his expression calm as his fingers curled around his Green Dragon Crescent Blade. “Why?”

“Because,” Akanai began, dragging out the syllables in a bored, disinterested tone, “Your question has been asked and answered. The commander stands here beside me, Brigadier Chen Hongji, and for the last week, he has matched you blow for blow at Castle JiangHu. You think yourself so talented that only the Colonel Generals are your match? When my son arrives, you will bear witness to true genius, right up until he rips your heart from your chest.” Smirking, she added, “Assuming you survive long enough that is. I’m considering taking your head here and now for myself. I do like the thought of mounting your colourful halberd on my wall, though I’m afraid my husband would likely object to so garish a decoration.”

Despite not having spoken much to the formidable woman, Hongji could see why so many of Central’s families targeted her during her last visit. What man didn’t dream of conquering a powerful woman, and there was none more beautiful, domineering, or dangerous than Akanai of the Bekhai.

To his credit, Gongsun Qi didn’t lose his temper or even seem put off by her insult or insinuation. “Your son?” he asked, before his eyes brightened in recognition. “Ah, the new ‘upstart’ Major General from the North. Baatar, I believe his name be. This Prince did not know you were his mother, but you must forgive me. News comes slowly to the west, though I should have guessed at a relation, for no sparrow can beget a hawk.” Flashing a predatory smile which was not at all reassuring, he added, “If you wish to take this Prince’s head and Dragon Blade, then you be free to make the attempt. This Prince yearns for a Martial challenge as well, and as impressive as young Hongji’s tactical skills be, his Martial might is woefully lacking, but he has time and potential both to grow.”

It shamed Hongji to admit he was proud to receive such glowing praise from a Colonel General. Defiled or not, Gongsun Qi was one of six Warriors to currently hold the rank, so it meant something to know he had potential, but this man was the Enemy now, and Hongji had to treat him as such. “You asked to speak,” he said, feigning indifference and impatience. “So speak.”

“Ah, the eagerness of youth.” Shooting an amused glance towards Akanai, Gongsun Qi’s expression took on a thoughtful cast as he asked, “Though I suppose even a man of my years be seeming young and hasty to you.” Akanai’s fingers tightened around her polearm even more and her feet even twitched forward a bit, leaving Hongji to wonder if it was time to flee, but thankfully, the two Peak existences did not come to blows. When it became clear both of them were waiting for him to say his piece, Gongsun Qi sighed and said, “Very well then. On to business it be. I am normally not so... cavalier, but current circumstances have left me with no peers to converse with, only subordinates.” Uttering another sigh, he straightened up and shed all pretense of cordiality, the transformation so stark and sudden it took Hongji by surprise. “Your Legate spoke of choices, so this Prince has come here to offer one. Surrender, or die. Those are the only two options before you.” Pausing a beat as he fell back into the role of earnest and congenial competitor, he added, “I would much rather you both surrendered, for this Prince has dire need of capable subordinates.”

Between the fear, nerves, and awe, something snapped within Hongji and his composure slipped. “Ha!” he barked, throwing his head back in genuine laughter until he realized what he’d just done, but it was too late to back down. “Surrender? If it is your surrender, I am willing to accept on behalf of the Legate, but as for the soldiers behind you, my small head dares not guarantee their lives.”

Akanai said nothing, but her snort made her position clear, one of agreement with Hongji and amusement for Gongsun Qi. Clearly not amused, the Defiled commander straightened up and shed his veneer of cordiality once more. “Think carefully on my offer,” he began, looming over them despite standing shorter than them both. “You believe me trapped between three armies, but I assure you, they will never arrive. As we speak, my old rival turned ally, the self-proclaimed King of Bandits Huanhuzi leads a naval fleet east along the Azure Sea, carrying an army which dwarfs the one I set out with. To the south, YuChun of the Ten Thousand Spears stands waiting with an admittedly smaller army, but one Concealed less than fifty kilometres east of Castle Youxia.” Shrugging with the ghost of a smile hanging about his lips, he said, “A clever gambit, but one this Prince came up with first. Your reinforcements will receive word of this soon, and they will have no choice but to turn back. Otherwise, the second line will fall, and we will hunt down and slaughter every last soldier still stationed out there.” Leaning forward without shifting his feet, he added, “After this Prince be done slaughtering the pitiful army behind you.”

“You missed a third option,” Akanai replied, still drawing out her words in mockery of Gongsun Qi’s accent, “We slaughter you without need of the reinforcements. Simple enough if you ask me.”

If Hongji were to chime in, he would state that it was close to impossible, but he knew better than to open his mouth. Strangely enough, he felt a little better now that he knew what the Enemy was planning, because as dire as things might seem, if Gongsun Qi was telling the truth, then all was not entirely lost. So what if there were no reinforcements incoming? The Citadel was less than a day’s march away, half that if they marched double time, and half again if a new wave of reinforcements from the Citadel met them halfway. All he had to do was continue the withdrawal for a quarter day more, and everything would be fine.

Far from the stunning victory the Legate envisioned, but at least all was not lost...

“This is your decision?” Disappointed by the lacking response, Gongsun Qi frowned and said, “Your lattice formation is clever and intriguing, but your soldiers unaccustomed to its use, and this Prince already has the tools needed to wrench it apart.” Meaning the heavy cavalry, who would run roughshod over the isolated units within the net formation, but Hongji knew of a counter to that counter, and no doubt Gongsun Qi had yet another counter for them. Regardless, it was pointless to debate the strengths and weaknesses of a formation, as the only way forward was to fight it out and discover the answer for themselves. Sensing Hongji’s unspoken answer, Gongsun Qi shook his head and sighed. “In my youth, this Prince loathed his title of Lord of Martial Peace, but in my old age, I have come to cherish it. They meant to mock me, say I lorded over the peace of the grave or the peace of submission, but whatever form it might take, peace be a blessing, one this Prince seeks to bring to the entire Empire.”

Seeing their disbelief, Gongsun Qi changed tact. “Why do you resist? You think the Empire cares for you or yours? For millennia, Western tariffs have filled Imperial coffers while Eastern nobles grew fat off the labours of my countrymen, but where were they when the Western Wall fell? Where were they when we stood behind our city walls, starving and thirsty as we held back the Enemy tide? Where were they when loyal citizens of the West were slaughtered like dogs in the street? They did not march out to relieve us. They did not send word to inspire and reassure us. We could have fought, could have cleansed the West of the Enemy, but instead, the Dog Emperor tucked tail, closed all borders to the West, and killed those who sought to escape to freedom. You will see soon enough, as he does the same to all the outer provinces, and only through our united strength can we topple him from his throne!”

Seeing how he had joined hands with the very army who slaughtered his countrymen, Gongsun Qi had clearly gone mad, or perhaps he’d been mad to begin with. Hard to support his argument when he was now working with the Enemy he so clearly detested. “Is it true?” Hongji asked, more out of curiosity than anything. “Were your parents in Yique when you oversaw the Purge?”

Stiffening in surprise, Gongsun Qi visibly rocked back on his heels, though his feet remained rooted in place and his overall balance never shifted. Narrowing his eyes to glare at Hongji, he hissed, “They were, and I tell you now, my father would have turned if not for my mercy. This Prince knows what you insinuate, but I be no Defiled and never have been. This Prince be a Chosen of Heaven, one who will deliver Peace to the Empire, in one form or another.”

Turning on his heels to leave, Gongsun Qi moved to Cloud-Step away, but Akanai’s ax-lance was faster, its piercing tip drilling towards the back of his head. Faster than Hongji’s eyes could follow, Gongsun Qi lift his Green Dragon Crescent Blade and swept it around to parry the thrust, but Akanai pulled back before the attack connected. This, and only this, saved her life, as well as Hongji’s own, as the Lord of Martial Peace overpowered them both with a single, errant swing. The impact shook Hongji’s organs as he tumbled away from the collision, and he was only vaguely aware of Akanai’s body landing somewhere nearby. Unsure if she was dead or alive, he Cloud-Stepped faster and farther than he’d ever Cloud-Stepped before, making sure to Deploy his Domain beforehand and use it to grab Akanai tight. The earth exploded behind him and the force pushed him even further away, but he continued to Cloud-Step as quickly as he could until he lost control of his bearings and crashed somewhere in the midst of his army.

Hardly the most graceful retreat, but there was no face lost in fleeing from an overwhelming foe. Turning to check on Akanai, he found her icy blue gaze burning with recrimination and directed firmly against him. “Why?” she demanded, and it took Hongji some time to piece together her meaning.

“Why did I leave?” He Sent, so that they would not be overheard. “Because he knocked you on your ass in one swipe!”

Scrunching her face up into a frown, Akanai sniffed and retorted, “He is stronger than I expected, but still human yet. I will kill him the next time we cross blades.”

Which would come soon enough, for the Defiled sounded the charge, and Hongji had no time for banter. The rest of the Empire would have to fend for themselves now, because his forces were massively outnumbered with no friendly reinforcements forthcoming. Hopefully, the Legate had planned for this and would soon unveil yet another miracle, but failing that, Hongji and his soldiers would have to do this the hard way.

And strange as it might sound, Hongji relished the challenge, for as Akanai said, he had already traded tactical blows with the Lord of Martial Peace, and he, Chen Hongji, had come out ahead.

...

Granted, he had no walls or static defences to speak of anymore, only flat terrain on all sides, so perhaps his confidence was unwarranted in this particular situation. No matter. He was mortal, so he could do naught but persevere through the trials and tribulations before him.

Chapter Meme

- End of Volume 34 -
