Damn, this meal is amazing, Rhys thought. In all kinds of ways, whether it was flavor, power, or even comprehension and hints of the future of magehood.

Impure Wells really seemed to attract trash, and he didn’t just mean himself. Every single one he’d encountered so far was either filled with trash, or hidden under a trash pile. It wasn’t a mind-blowing coincidence, since both Impure Wells were toxic in their own way, so it made sense to pile trash up in or around them. It was like throwing trash in a swamp or dumping bodies in a bog; it just made sense, at least until people figured out that swamps and bogs were actually valuable ecosystems in of themselves. Still, it was an interesting coincidence that the ones he’d found so far were either treated as their own trash pit, or buried under a trash pit. Something worth noting for later, in case it turned out to be important. Who knew? Maybe it was just a trashy coincidence with no deeper meaning. But given absolutexistance’s question about trash, and the fact that the Impure Wells appeared around trash heaps or pits… he couldn’t help but wonder if the two were related.

At last, dessert came out, a fine, delicate cake so light and airy that it seemed to float off the plate. It went down easy, and reinforced all the gains Rhys had made throughout the meal, locking them in so he wouldn’t lose them over time and helping his body process them. He sat back, patting his stomach and letting out a sigh of relief. So good. This food put his trashy potato ships to shame. It wasn’t even close, not even a little. The fake enlightenment he could give people had nothing on this truly impressive series of buffs.

Bast nudged him. “Nothing like the orphanage, huh?”

Rhys cut a glance his way, raising a brow. “Nope. Nothing at all.” It was crazy to think that they’d started out scrapping over moldy bread crusts, and now, they were filling themselves with the finest cuisine in the lap of luxury. Truly mind-boggling.

“Thanks for picking me, back then. For not holding a grudge,” Bast said quietly.

“Thanks for believing in me,” Rhys replied earnestly. They’d just been two kids in the muck. Nothing to make them stand out from anyone else. But now? Now they were the two finalists in the tournament. Rhys had the freedom that came with a scrap of power, and Bast was the Sword Saint’s apprentice. Both of them had come a long way, and they still had a long way to go.

There were trials to come, and dangers looming, but for a moment, for one glorious moment, they sat in warmth and comfort, full of delicious food, and just enjoyed one another’s company. Just two orphan boys, who were now so much more than the scrappy, filthy kids they’d once been. Rhys glanced at Bast, and for a moment, he saw that boy he’d seen when he’d first arrived, just a little bit more muscular than the other kids, a cruel glint in his eyes and no one on his side. And then he blinked, and Solaire once more sat beside him, cloaked in white, his powerful master not far from his side.

The other contestants started to rise. Dinner was over, and it was time to enjoy the rest of the festivities outside this room, whether it was the festival or the dances among the other students. Bast nodded, starting to rise.

Rhys smiled. He patted Bast’s shoulder. Knowing a tiny glimmer of what was to come, of what he would face, and Bast would be protected from, he said, “I’ll see you later. But no matter what, remember, I’m always on your side.”

“Of course. And the same for me,” Bast pledged, and Rhys could tell he meant it. “I said it when we were kids, didn’t I? I’ll follow you to the ends of the earth. That hasn’t changed.”

“Then I’ll need to grow into a great leader, if I’m going to lead the next Sword Saint,” Rhys joked.

Bast nodded, dead serious. “You’d better,” he said, and walked away.

Rhys stared after him. He reached out, so startled he tried to stop Bast from leaving. Wait—seriously? I can’t actually do that. What kind of earth-shattering general would I have to be, to be able to lead the next Sword Saint? I’m just some trash! Hey, come back! I don’t need that pressure!

Bast was gone. Rhys lowered his hand and chuckled to himself. Fine. If that was how it was going to be, he accepted the challenge. He’d show Bast. No one was going to underestimate trash when he was done!
