As expected, his talk with his parents hadn’t gone well. They hadn’t been angry with him—just concerned. They worried he’d been staying up too late, that he was becoming obsessed and starting to see things that weren’t there, that his own bitterness at his weak magic core was eating away at his mind. It was one thing to have a useless son. It was another to have a crazy one.

A part of Callan wished they would get mad, just once. He could take anger. It was the subtle disappointment, the quiet pity that drove him up a wall.

Three days had passed since he’d seen the chimera. He’d told damn near everyone in the village, and no one had believed him. One word from a more experienced mage was all it took to destroy any ounce of credibility he managed to gain.

If no one would believe him, Callan decided, then he’d just have to bring back proof and force them to take him seriously.

He ducked under another low branch, pausing and craning his ear at the sound of water. If he remembered right, there was a stream near here that ran throughout the forest. Callan frowned, thinking. He wasn’t sure what creatures this chimera had formed from, but generally speaking, it should still need to drink water. If he followed the stream, he might be able to get a lead.

Taking a deep breath, Callan stepped towards the noise. His fingers tightened around his bag. He didn’t need much as proof—some fur, shedded scales, a broken piece of a horn. As long as it came from the chimera, a spell would reveal the warped ichor around it. He knew the other mages would probably scoff and refuse to perform the spell, but he’d either force them to or he’d do it himself in the middle of the village if that’s what it took.

One piece. That’s all he needed.

Up ahead, the trees thinned, the forest soon opening to reveal a narrow stream cutting across the earth. Callan began following along the water’s edge. He was well past Winrow’s patrol bounds by now, he knew. Aside from the sound of the stream, the forest remained eerily quiet. He kept walking.

Eventually, the stream led him into a clearing. Callan pushed a few bushes aside, taking note of a small waterfall and the cave below it. He stepped a little closer.

The inside of the cave was empty from what he could tell, but near the entrance, he could see what looked like a sharp white tooth. The mage’s heart raced. Moving swiftly, he picked it up. Was it the chimera’s? Had he found its lair?

There was a chance, of course, that it belonged to some other animal, but this was better than nothing. He tucked it into his pocket. He’d head back to Winrow and test it to see if its ichor was warped. If it was, then he had his proof. If not, he’d look again. He didn’t care how many trips it took.

For now, Callan turned away, readying to return to the village. That was when he heard it.

A low, rumbling hiss.

The hairs on the back of his neck rose. Before he had a chance to turn around or leap away, blinding pain burst from his back. The mage screamed, falling forward as sharp claws dug into his flesh. He slammed hard into the ground, but the sensation barely registered to him. Callan gritted his teeth. Through the pain, he could hear another snarl. Without thinking, he threw his arm back with as much force as he could muster.

He felt it slam into something hard, and there was another hiss. Callan shoved himself up, fueled by adrenaline, and rapidly muttered a chant below his breath. He raised his hand just as the chimera pounced again, and the spell burst out of his palm.

The creature didn’t even flinch. The magic just bounced uselessly off its body.

Its jaw unhinged. Callan scrambled away, but it was too fast. Rows of gleaming teeth clamped into his torso, and for a second he blacked out from the pain. By the time he was conscious again, he was faintly aware of his own voice screaming as he thrashed wildly in the monster’s grip. He tried to cast another spell, tried to dig his fingers into those yellow eyes, but it held on.

Around him, his surroundings were becoming blurry. He was losing too much blood, he realized.

Still struggling to force the chimera away, he felt his hand brush against something hard. He grabbed onto the rock and swung it down on the chimera’s skull. It snarled, jaws loosening just enough for Callan to shove it away.

Gasping for breath, he chanted another spell and slammed his other hand into the ground. Thin vines sprouted out from the earth, snaking and coiling around the chimera. They wouldn’t hold it for long, he knew. He had to get away.

Callan forced himself to his feet. His legs were shaky, and he couldn’t see straight. His whole body was starting to grow cold, but he attempted to take a step forward. He almost fell, but he kept going.

Behind him, the vines ripped.

A heavy weight slammed into him. Between his fuzzy vision and the nonstop pain, everything was becoming hazy. He was vaguely aware of the chimera clawing into him, of himself still desperately trying to hit it back, but his body felt distant, heavy.

He was dying, he realized. He was going to die here, alone in the middle of the forest, and no one would know what had happened to him.

In a last ditch effort, he attempted to fire one more spell directly into the chimera’s chest. It barely singed it.

Sharp teeth tore into his arm, yanking it out of its socket. He punched the chimera with his other hand. Its snake tail wove around its body and snapped his fingers.

When Callan imagined dying, he’d always thought there should be more to it. Some greater meaning or purpose. As it was, there was only pain, so much pain that he couldn’t tell where it was coming from, and a growing, all-consuming cold. No grandeur, no heroics. He was going to die as he’d lived—useless, insignificant, and filled with regrets.

It was so easy to snuff a life out. He was hit with the growing realization that he would never travel the continent now, never get a chance to learn more spells, never share a quiet meal with his parents again. He wouldn’t be able to feel the wind on his skin anymore, smell the fresh grass after a rain, see the soft glow of ichor. So many little things that he’d taken for granted, all of them gone in an instant.

The black spots in his vision grew. His heartbeat was starting to slow down, and there was probably more blood outside of him than inside at this point. He should close his eyes and just accept it—maybe he’d go unconscious faster and the pain would stop—but he couldn’t bring himself to close his eyes.

He kept them open even as the chimera shifted until it was looming over his head, staring into those blurry yellow eyes and its open maw. He met its gaze as those teeth clamped around his skull. He refused to look away.

Everything went dark.

He heard a voice, but he didn’t understand the words. It was cold, but a wave of warmth washed over him.

The haze lifted. The world sharpened into focus.

When Callan looked up, the first thing he saw after waking was the sight of a demon standing before him.
