Cartographer's Truth

The fifth divergence was a sealed section.

The Apex schematic marked it as a through-corridor — passage from the rest node into Floor 21's mid-section, one of two routes east. In practice: a wall. Recent collapse or deliberate closure, the stone at the join-point showing pressure stress that hadn't been there long enough for the Tower's ambient to smooth it. Tomás looked at it for four seconds, measured the join geometry against the schematic's notation, and turned to the party.

"Second route," he said. "Longer. The schematic's east branch branches again before the second encounter cluster. We take the fork."

Dayo had already assessed the sealed section: no seam, no mechanism, no give. She turned without comment and took point on the second route.

Tomás walked with the notation surface open and the schematic beside it. Three divergences documented in detail, two more flagged for later reference. He was building the corrected version alongside Apex's. The corrected version was becoming the more useful document.

He stopped.

Not at an obstacle. Not at a formation call. He stopped at a section of Floor 21 wall and stood looking at it with the Clearvoiced signal at a quality Solenne had not yet filed correctly. Not the assessment forward-lean. Not Terrain Read — the skill hadn't shifted. Not True Sight. He was looking at the wall with his eyes and the quality was: recognition.

She had seen him stop at a wall section during the first encounter corridor. And now again.

He noted something on the notation surface and continued.

She ran the Conductor on the Clearvoiced signal. The new sub-register she had begun building at the previous rest node — the quality of someone whose load had redistributed after a long carry — was running underneath the forward-lean. Not the fourth register. Something she was still building the entry for.

She filed it under: the same hand.

---

They reached a natural widening — not a System rest node, but a section of corridor where the ceiling opened and the floor broadened and there was room. The second route had added twenty minutes. The encounter cluster was ahead: the schematic marked three Hollow Wardens, enemy density high.

Tomás closed the corrected notation and opened the original schematic. He looked at both.

"I need the actual geometry of what's ahead," he said. "The Apex documentation has been reliable for structure, not current state. I want to know what we're walking into before we walk into it."

Solenne looked at him. "Cartographer's Truth."

"Yes."

Thirty-five MP each. She had 290 of her 690 remaining from the morning's encounters. She committed without debating the cost.

The skill fired through the conjunction the way it always did — not through both of them separately but through the point where their perception overlapped. Tomás ran Terrain Read in the same instant she opened the Conductor at the extended-reach setting. The floor map populated in their shared perception: not the Apex documentation's version, not the corrected notation — the actual floor. Complete. All rooms, all corridors, all the encounter clusters with their real positions and real density, the rest node three sections ahead, the locked door at the floor's far end that the Apex schematic hadn't noted at all.

The map was correct. She could feel it the way she felt accurate information: the weight of it landing and staying.

```stat-screen
[CARTOGRAPHER'S TRUTH — ACTIVE]
Floor 21 — complete layout revealed
Rooms: 14 total / 9 cleared / 5 remaining
Enemies: 3 Hollow Wardens (cluster, 2 sections ahead) / 1 Hollow Warden (isolated, east branch)
Traps: 2 detected (pressure-sensitive, sections 7 and 9)
Hidden: Locked door (far east, not in Apex documentation)
Rest node: Section 11
Duration: 5:00 / Cost: 35 MP each
```

Then the skill went deeper.

She did not know what she was receiving when it first arrived. The Conductor read Aspects — Harmony signal, emotional register, the specific frequency of a person's bond with the Tower's ambient. She had been building the catalog against that baseline for twenty-six floors. What arrived now was not a person. It was not a System notification. It was not the floor map.

It was signal.

Six frequencies, embedded in the architecture of Floor 21. Not in the stone's surface. In its structure — the load-bearing geometry, the proportions, the specific way the Tower's material distributed weight at this depth. She recognized them the way she recognized an Aspect: not by analysis but by something that arrived before analysis had time to run. The precision of it had the same quality as the architectural anomalies True Sight had found on the lower floors — the load-distribution logic in the Floor 3 boss chamber, the joint geometry that had no precedent in any post-Day Zero construction. The same hand. She had been filing it under: anomaly. It was not anomaly.

Steadfast. Clearvoiced. Warmhearted. Openhanded. Brightspirit. Trueweave.

Not the party's Aspects. The same categories.

The Tower had Harmony signal. She had been reading it since Floor 21 entry as: older, deeper, pre-System, the particular frequency of stone that had been here longer than the System had existed. She had been filing it under: ambient.

It was not ambient. It had been designed.

The skill faded at its natural end — five minutes, the map still present in her perception, the frequencies already beginning to compress into memory. She stood in the widened corridor section and held what she had received without saying anything.

Tomás was already writing.

She read the Clearvoiced signal: not the recognition-quality from the wall stops, not the post-disclosure redistribution. The working register at high intensity. Not the careful precision of a man writing what he observed — the specific quality of a man who had recognized something and was getting it onto the notation surface before the precision of the memory degraded. He had received the architectural layer too. He was already building the documentation.

She waited.

She ran the Conductor on all six while she waited. Dayo had her hand on her weapon at a readiness angle she only used when combat was imminent — not the disclosure-stillness of an hour ago, the operational register. The floor map had shown the encounter cluster was close. Dayo was holding both: the revelation and the next fight, the way she held both when the formation required it. Miriam was looking at the corridor wall with the Warmhearted signal at the specific quality that meant she was reading something without using her clinical tools — the signal that had been running since the True Sight disclosure, present with a question. Vesper's Workframe was running at high intensity. She had stopped in the same instant the skill fired, and she had not moved since. The Artificer signal was doing something Solenne had no catalog entry for — not the analysis-mode, not the making-mode, something that ran underneath both. The quality of someone who had received a piece of information that reorganized everything adjacent to it. Nadia was very still. The Brightspirit signal was at a quality she had read once before: in the Transition Hall, after the Six of Six notification, the reverberation quality of a bell struck, still sounding. Something had registered and was still registering.

Tomás finished the first notation pass.

She said: "I need to tell you what the skill showed me."

He looked up. The working register shifted: he was going to write what she said.

---

She described it the way she described Aspect signals — not with interpretation, with precision. The six frequencies, the Aspect categories, the specificity of where in the architecture she had found them: load-bearing geometry, structural proportions, the distribution of weight at this depth. The Tower's stone carried the signal the way a person's Aspect signal carried through the Conductor. Not metaphorically. Literally.

"The Tower was built with Harmony Aspects embedded in its architecture," she said. "Not after the System. The structure predates the System. The signal doesn't — it has the same quality as the System's Aspect recognition. Something built this with knowledge of what Harmony Aspects were before the System existed to name them."

She stopped. She had said what she could say precisely. The speculation she had not said — what it meant that the Tower knew about Harmony Aspects before Day Zero, who had built it and with what foreknowledge — she held and did not release. The Conductor gave her how people received it. That was sufficient.

The six registers:

Dayo turned from her corridor assessment. Not threat-response — the specific Steadfast quality from the True Sight disclosure: recalibrating a variable, integrating. The Conductor read what was underneath: the register that ran when the weight of something was present and she was choosing to hold it rather than distribute it. The Tower had been built for them. Dayo was holding that and putting one foot forward regardless, the way she had held every weight the Tower had given her and continued. "Does any of this change the encounter parameters on the next section?" she said.

Tomás looked at the notation surface. "No. The enemies are still the enemies."

Dayo nodded once. "Then we move when ready." She did not dismiss what she had heard. She held it and put one foot forward.

Tomás was already writing the second notation pass.

Miriam had the clinical notebook in her hands — not open, held. The Warmhearted signal was at the quality it had been running since the True Sight disclosure: present with a question that had no answer. She said: "Built by who?"

Solenne: "I don't know. The skill shows structure, not authorship."

Miriam held the notebook. She was not reaching for the clinical frame. She opened it, main text, and began to write. Nadia was looking at Miriam's hands rather than the notebook's contents — watching the act of writing rather than what was being written.

Vesper set her hands on the corridor wall. Not the Workframe assessment touch — flat palms, full contact, the way she tested materials when she was reading properties the Workframe couldn't name yet. She held them there. She moved to a different section of wall. She held them there too. She took her hands off and looked at them. Both contact points had the same quality — the same load-bearing logic, the same distribution of force through the joint, the same structural precision that she had been cataloging in the Hollow Warden joint section without having language for it. She had it now.

"The Hollow Wardens," she said. "The joint structure I've been analyzing. The load distribution." She stopped. She did not have the language yet. "It's the same construction."

Solenne ran the Conductor on the Artificer signal: the hot-Workframe quality she had read during the True Sight disclosure, running hotter now. She had identified something and was inside the problem. She had been analyzing the Hollow Warden joint section since the previous day's first encounter. She had not had language for what she was building toward. She was building toward this.

Nadia was looking at the wall — not Vesper's hands, the wall itself. The Brightspirit signal was at the reverberation quality. Her hand was not on the dulcimer case. The case was on her back and she was standing apart from it in the specific way she stood apart from it when she was paying attention to something with her full hearing.

"The frequencies you described," she said. "The Brightspirit one." She looked at Solenne. "What did it feel like?"

Solenne considered this. She had described Aspects for twenty-six floors. The six frequencies in the Tower's architecture had arrived the way Aspects arrived — before analysis. She said: "Like someone had been playing a note in this room for a very long time. Before anyone was here to hear it."

Nadia was quiet for a long moment. Something in the Brightspirit signal moved through a quality she had no catalog entry for — not the reverberation, not the open-present. The quality of someone receiving a description of a thing they had also received, from a different direction, and recognizing the convergence without naming it.

She did not open the dulcimer case. She nodded once, the particular nod that meant: filed. Will hold this. Will look at it later.

Miriam finished writing. She closed the notebook. She looked at the wall Vesper had touched. "Not built knowing the System would exist," she said. It was not a question. "Built expecting it."

No one answered. The question was in the room.

Tomás had the notation surface full. He filed the second pass, opened a third page. He said, without looking up: "The locked door at the far end of the floor. The skill showed it. Not on the Apex schematic."

Dayo: "What kind?"

Tomás looked up from the notation surface. He looked at Solenne first. "Composite designation," he said. "Same System notation as the Floor 17 Locked Room."

The widened section was quiet.

Vasic's paper was in Solenne's inner pocket. The Repository Node. The Composite Activation key she was carrying and had not yet used. Six of Six in her skill queue, available since the Transition Hall. The loot-recovery corridor Cassia had offered when they were ready.

She did not take the paper out. She ran the Conductor on the Clearvoiced signal: Tomás looking at her with the notation surface open, the architectural layer documented alongside the corrected map, a third thing written on the third page. He had been carrying the notice board entry since Floor 15. He had disclosed it at the right moment. He was not telling her what to do with what the skill had shown. He was giving her the information.

She nodded.

"After the Hollow Wardens," he said.

"After," Dayo confirmed. She was already at the corridor entrance, the Steadfast signal at the working-forward register — present with the next fight and the one after that simultaneously. Formation three called with a gesture, not a word. The party assembled.

---

They moved.

The Conductor read all six in motion: the post-Cartographer's Truth register, which she was still building the entry for. Different from the True Sight disclosure register. Different from the Six of Six notification register in the Transition Hall. Something that required a new entry each time. Six people carrying the same piece of information in six different ways, forward through a floor that had been built knowing they would come.

She had been building the catalog for twenty-six floors and the catalog was still growing.

She noted this not as a problem. Filed it under: the work.

The Hollow Wardens were in the next section, the Conductor reading the ambient shift that preceded enemy contact. Dayo was already adjusting her grip. Tomás had the notation surface closed and the longbow clear. Behind them: Miriam with the notebook closed and the Warmhearted signal at a register that was present with a question she had written in the main text and was now carrying into the next fight.

Nadia had her hand on the dulcimer case — the travel position, not the pre-play position. The Brightspirit signal at the working-present register. The reverberation quality had not entirely faded.

Vesper was walking with her hands at her sides and the Workframe at high-intensity and nothing in her hands. She was building toward language she did not yet have. The floor continued to give her material.

Ahead: three Hollow Wardens, two pressure traps, a locked door with a Composite designation.

She ran the Conductor on the widened section behind them as the formation moved away from it. Six signals, in motion, each carrying the same thing in their own register. The section's ambient was unchanged — the pre-System stone frequency, the Brightspirit layer running through the architecture the way it had been running before any of them arrived. It would continue after they left.

Dayo rounded the corridor bend.

The Hollow Wardens turned.
