# Chapter 2: What the Rest Node Knows

The Field Forge was humming before Solenne had her pack off.

Vesper had dropped to one knee at the center of the rest node, unlatched the Workframe's lower assembly, and deployed the Forge components with the practiced sequence of someone who had done this on every rest floor since Floor 3. The hum was low and even, a vibration more felt than heard, and by the time Solenne set her staff against the wall and sat down, Vesper's hands were already moving through the first crafting cycle, her face settled into the particular focused stillness that meant she was doing the only kind of resting she knew how to do.

The rest node was a natural alcove in the Living Walls structure, roughly circular, large enough for six people to spread without touching. The bioluminescence here was different from the corridors -- steadier, warmer, amber-shifted instead of the pale green-blue of the growth tunnels. A faint silver line traced the perimeter where the System's no-combat field began, and inside that line the air was warmer, drier, and carried a quality of quiet that felt actively maintained. Like something was holding the silence open for them.

Dayo had found the high point. There was always a high point. In this case it was a shelf of compressed root-mass on the far wall, elevated half a meter above the floor, and Dayo was already sitting on it with her legs hanging over the edge, working her left shoulder in slow circles. The mandible strike from the crawler fight was still registering in the stiffness of the joint, though Miriam's healing had closed the bruise underneath. Dayo's HP was climbing in the rest node's accelerated regeneration field -- Solenne could feel it through the Harmony Conductor passive, the slow upward tick of the party's collective recovery, like a room filling with warmth.

Tomás had completed his circuit. He did this every time: a slow, silent walk of the node's full perimeter, checking entry points, sight lines, structural integrity. There were three access corridors -- the one they had entered through, a narrow passage east that led deeper into the Living Walls, and a vent-shaft opening in the ceiling that was too small for anything larger than a crawler but that Tomás checked anyway. He finished, sat against the wall furthest from the main entry corridor, and went still. From his position he could see all three access points without turning his head. His bow was within arm's reach. The medicine bundle on his quiver was a dark shape against the fungal glow.

Nadia was lying flat on her back in the center of the floor, arms spread, staring at the ceiling. She had been the first one horizontal after Vesper, and she was doing the thing she did on rest floors where she lay very still and made an elaborate show of how much she was resting, as if resting were a competitive sport and she intended to medal.

Miriam was already moving toward Dayo.

---

"The north wall," Solenne said.

Tomás looked at her. Not a question. An acknowledgment that the conversation had arrived.

She had her notebook out -- the non-System one, the small bound thing she carried for observations she did not want in the System's architecture. She had already written the coordinates: corridor section between Chamber 14 and the rest node, north wall, approximately forty meters from the chamber exit. She had written *Mana-responsive* and *door-shaped* and *not on the map*.

"What did True Sight give you?"

Tomás was quiet for a moment. Not hesitating -- organizing. When he spoke, the sentences were clean.

"There is a space behind the wall. Sealed. Not part of the floor's documented architecture. The dimensions are roughly three meters by four. The seal is responsive to Mana -- specifically to Harmony Mana. Standard elemental probing would not register it."

"You're sure about the Harmony specificity."

"I am sure."

Solenne wrote this down. "This is the third one."

"Floor 5. Floor 6. Floor 7."

"All in corridor sections. All between a cleared chamber and a rest node. All sealed, all Harmony-responsive." She tapped the pen against the page. "Tell me about each one."

"Floor 5 was the first." He paused. The pause was brief but present -- a half-beat where something was considered and set aside. "I registered an anomaly in the corridor wall. Sealed space, Harmony-responsive. I did not have enough context to interpret it."

He moved on before she could ask a follow-up.

"Floor 6, the sealed space contained something that True Sight registered as a resonance echo -- not a trap, not a monster, something older. A pattern in the Mana. I did not have a framework for describing it and I did not want to speculate without one. Floor 7, you felt yourself."

"And now you have a framework."

"I have three data points. Three is a pattern."

Solenne looked at him. His face was calm and specific. He was telling her everything she needed to hear. She had the distinct, sourceless feeling that he was not telling her everything he knew.

She did not push. Three data points. Three sealed spaces responding to Harmony Mana, hidden in the architecture of a Tower that, according to every Compact document she had read, was not supposed to contain sealed spaces that responded to anything other than standard key mechanics. She wrote *pattern -- 3 floors, Harmony-specific, architectural anomaly* and underlined *Harmony-specific* twice.

"I want your full True Sight logs for all three instances," she said. "When you're ready."

Tomás nodded. The nod was precise and did not include a timeline.

---

Vesper's hands moved through the Workframe in a rhythm that Solenne had learned to read like weather. Quick movements meant simple output -- healing potions, antidotes, the consumable staples the party burned through on every combat floor. Slower movements, with pauses where Vesper held a material up to the Forge's light and turned it, meant she was working something new, testing a formulation, pushing the material to see what it would do.

Right now: quick movements. The mental list she carried for every rest floor session, the one she never shared because she had already factored in what everyone would need tomorrow based on what they had used today and what the next corridor was likely to contain.

Nadia appeared at Vesper's shoulder.

She had moved from her position on the floor without Solenne noticing the transition, which was either a function of the Jester's natural movement or a function of Solenne being distracted. Nadia sat cross-legged next to the Forge's warm radius and watched Vesper's hands with the focused attention she gave to things that interested her, which was an attention that looked lazy from the outside and was not.

"What if," Nadia said, "and hear me out -- what if instead of healing potions, you made a grenade that, when it went off, the enemies just became deeply sad."

Vesper did not look up. "No."

"Not like combat-sad. Existentially sad. They stop fighting because they're thinking about their choices."

"That is not a formulation."

"What about a potion that makes you smell really good. Like, combatively good. The crawlers can't attack you because they're too busy admiring your scent."

"I am making antidotes."

"What about a thing that, when you throw it, it plays music? Not weaponized music. Just, like, a nice song. For morale."

Vesper's hands paused for approximately half a second. She did not tell Nadia to leave. She resumed working.

Nadia settled more comfortably against the wall near the Forge, close enough that the warmth reached her, and watched Vesper's hands move with the same quality of attention she had before. She did not make another suggestion. The silence between them was a specific kind -- not empty but occupied, a shared space that neither of them had acknowledged building.

A healing potion materialized in the Forge's output tray. Then another. Then a third. Vesper set them aside without ceremony and began the antidote formulation, her fingers already reaching for the alkaloid compounds Tomás had harvested from Floor 6's nature corridors.

Two antidotes. Two contact paralysis gels -- the same formulation she had applied to Dayo's gauntlet during the crawler fight, pre-portioned into flexible application strips. Two Mana Vials, small and dense, the blue-white of concentrated ambient Mana stabilized in a crystalline suspension.

Nine items. The party's operating budget for the next combat run, produced in the time it took the rest of them to sit down and breathe.

Vesper lined them up in the tray with an alignment that was not quite casual and not quite deliberate. She did not announce the output. She did not need to. The party would know what was available because the party always knew, because Vesper always made sure.

---

Miriam's hands were on Dayo's forearm, wrapping a minor cut with a strip of clean linen she had pulled from the medic's pack. The cut was shallow -- a crawler mandible graze that had slipped under the bracer's edge during the second half of the fight. It was not medically significant. Miriam was wrapping it anyway, with an efficiency that was also a form of attention, the kind of attention that said *I see this* and *you do not have to pretend it is nothing*.

Dayo sat still.

This was, Solenne knew, more valuable than the wrapping. Dayo did not sit still easily. She was built for motion -- every instinct, every trained response, every line of her body oriented toward action and engagement. Getting Dayo to sit for ten minutes and let someone tend to her was a project Miriam had been running since Month 2, and the project's success was measured not in outcomes but in the diminishing resistance. Dayo no longer said *I'm fine*. She said nothing, which was a different thing, and which Miriam had learned to recognize as permission.

Miriam's clinical notebook was open on the root-shelf beside her. Small, bound in something dark, filled with the tight precise handwriting of someone trained to chart patient conditions under pressure. Solenne caught a glimpse of the current page: Dayo's name, an HP percentage, a note about the shoulder joint, and a symbol -- a small circle with a line through it -- that Solenne did not recognize. Whatever Miriam's notation system meant, it was hers, and she did not explain it, and no one asked.

Dayo flexed her fingers when the wrapping was done. She looked at Miriam. Miriam looked back.

"Thanks," Dayo said.

"Mm," Miriam said, and closed the notebook, and the exchange was complete.

---

The group conversation started the way group conversations always started in rest nodes: with no particular beginning.

Someone said something about the crawlers. Nadia said something about the crawlers' life choices. Dayo laughed. Tomás mentioned the colony count discrepancy from the floor map -- one nest listed, four nests present -- in a tone that carried no judgment but that Solenne heard as a note she should have caught, which she knew was not what he meant and which she felt anyway. Vesper, still at the Forge but listening, said the discrepancy could be a seasonal clustering pattern, something the map data would not reflect if the survey was more than two weeks old. Miriam said she wanted to know whether the crawlers had a queen hierarchy or a distributed reproduction system, and Nadia said, "Distributed reproduction is my stage name," and Dayo laughed again, hard, involuntary, the way she always laughed at Nadia.

The conversation moved. Topics drifted. The fungal walls pulsed their slow warm light and the Field Forge hummed its low note and six people talked the way people talk when they are tired and safe and do not feel the need to perform.

"I don't miss anything," Dayo said, with a confidence that sounded like she had practiced it in a mirror. Then, after a beat: "Open ground, maybe. Spaces where you can see the whole field. The geometry on 7 is better than 6, though. More room to work."

Vesper said she missed deadlines. Everyone looked at her. She clarified: she missed having a project with a completion date. In the Tower, every project led to the next one. Nothing was ever finished. You just ran out of materials or moved to the next floor.

Tomás said he missed early light on open land. He said it in his clean way, without elaboration, and something about the specific simplicity of it made the rest node go quiet for a moment. Solenne thought of him in the city park at dawn, the habit he had told her about once, the one he maintained because the quality of the light reminded him of home.

Miriam did not say what she missed. She was sitting with her back against the wall, staff across her lap, and when the question drifted toward her she looked at her hands and smiled -- a small, specific smile that said *I heard you* and *I am not going to answer that* and *this is fine* all at once. Nadia watched her do this with an attention that Solenne was fairly sure Miriam did not notice.

"What about you, Nadia?" Dayo said.

"I miss not having to have opinions about whether to stay in a building when something large is eating the door." Nadia delivered this with the timing of a bit she had been working on, but the truth underneath it was not a bit. "Before the Event, I had very few opinions about structural integrity. Now I have many opinions about structural integrity. This is a net loss."

Then Nadia turned to Solenne. And the way she turned -- the shift of her whole body, the quality of the look -- was the comedian's look, the one that meant she had been watching someone for a long time and she had a question and the question was a real one.

"Sol. Do you actually like the Tower?"

The rest node went a specific kind of quiet. Not silent -- the Forge was still humming, Dayo was still working her shoulder, someone's pack shifted against the wall. But a listening quiet. The kind of quiet that meant a room had decided, collectively and without consultation, that the next thing someone said was going to matter.

"Not do you find it useful," Nadia said. "Not do you find it important. Not is it a source of really interesting data, because I know you find it that, I've been watching you study the floor maps like they owe you money." She paused. "Do you like it. Do you actually like being in here."

Solenne opened her mouth.

She closed it.

She felt the answer before she could shape it into sentences -- felt it the way the Resonance Map gave her perceptions, not as a thought but as a frequency, something that had been humming underneath her attention for months and that Nadia's question had suddenly made audible.

"Yes," she said.

The word came out with a certainty that surprised her.

"I like -- I like that everything means something in here." She was talking before she had decided what to say, which was not how she operated, which was maybe why it was coming out true. "Before the Event, I spent a lot of time studying how things connected. Linguistics, cognitive science, constructed grammars -- how the structure of a language shapes the thoughts you can have in it. And it was always -- the connections were always partial. You could see them but you could not stand inside them. You could map the system but you were always outside the system, looking in."

She paused. Her hands were on her staff, fingers tracing the smeared chalk notation she had not yet rewritten.

"The Tower is a system I am inside. And everything in it -- the skills, the stats, the way we fight, the way the floors are structured -- it is all connected. Every piece affects every other piece. When I use Arcane Analysis and the data feeds to all of you through Harmony Conductor, that is not a metaphor for connection. It is connection. It is real. It is happening. And I --"

She stopped. She had arrived at the part she had not planned to say.

"I have always wanted to live in a world where things felt connected and consequential. Where what you did mattered in a way you could actually perceive. And the Tower is exactly that world, and I hate the price of it, and I love it for exactly that quality."

She said this to five people in a warm alcove on the seventh floor of a building that had cost the world more than she could calculate, and she realized, mid-sentence, that she had never said this to anyone. Not in fragments. Not through the filter of competence. The actual thing.

The rest node was quiet.

"Yeah," Nadia said softly. "That's what I thought."

Dayo was looking at Solenne from her high perch with an expression Solenne could not fully read -- something between recognition and a tenderness that Dayo would deny if asked about later. Tomás had not moved. Miriam's hands were still on her staff but her eyes were on Solenne with the quality of attention that meant the Empathic Sense was reading something and that what it was reading was being taken seriously. Vesper had stopped working. Her hands were still over the Forge, and she was looking at Solenne the way she looked at a material that had turned out to be something other than what she expected -- not disappointed, not surprised, something closer to revised understanding.

Nobody said *that's beautiful* or *I understand* or any of the things people say when someone has been accidentally honest. They sat with it. The Forge hummed. Dayo's shoulder continued its slow recovery. The bioluminescent walls pulsed their warm light.

It was enough. It was, in fact, exactly the right amount.

---

The party settled toward sleep in stages.

Dayo first -- she pulled her legs up onto the root-shelf, leaned her head against the wall, and was out in minutes, the deep immediate sleep of someone whose body knew how to recover from exertion without permission from her mind. Nadia curled on her side near the Forge's warmth, the green scarf pulled up around her ears. Tomás did not appear to sleep, but his breathing slowed and his eyes half-closed and his body entered the particular stillness that was his version of rest -- present, aware, but allowing the edge of alertness to soften by a fraction.

Miriam checked each of them. Solenne watched her do it: the quiet circuit, the brief touches, the reading of each body's state with the doubled awareness of medic training and Empathic Sense. Miriam paused longest at Nadia. She did not wake her. She adjusted the scarf where it had slipped.

Vesper was the last one still working. She completed a final item -- a small, dense thing Solenne could not identify from across the node -- and deactivated the Field Forge. The hum stopped. The silence that replaced it was warmer than silence should be.

Solenne sat against the wall with her staff across her knees and her notebook open and did not sleep, because she was Solenne, and sleeping was the thing she was worst at. Tomorrow: two more crawlers, the bonus Skill Book, the corridor sweep she had promised. The number sat in her mind like a bookmark -- *94/96* -- but it did not feel urgent. Other numbers felt more urgent now. Her RES was at 18. She knew this the way she knew her own heartbeat -- a constant, quiet awareness of the number and what it meant. She was close to something. She could feel it the way she felt the sealed doors -- not through analysis but through the Resonance Map's deeper register, a threshold she was approaching that she could not yet name.

She was thinking about thresholds and connection and the look on Nadia's face when she said *that's what I thought* when her Status Window activated.

Not the standard notification. Not the clean blue-white of XP awards or floor completions. This was different. The window that materialized in her perception was bordered in a color she had not seen the System use before -- a deep gold, warm, almost organic, as if the notification itself had a temperature.

```stat-screen
[QUEST RECEIVED — PERSONAL]

  The Trueweave's Question

  You have perceived three anomalies on three
  floors that do not correspond to the Tower's
  documented architecture.

  The Tower sees you seeing it.

  Follow the thread.

  Objective: [Pending]
  Reward:    [Unknown]

  Quest Type:  Personal Chain (Stage 1)
  Assigned to: Solenne Achebe-Park
  Aspect:      Trueweave
```

Solenne read it. She read it again.

*The Trueweave's Question.*

The System had never used her Aspect name in a notification. The System did not address climbers by name in Quest text -- it assigned objectives, it listed rewards, it provided the mechanical scaffolding and left the rest to the people inside it. This was not that. This was warm. This was direct. This was -- *The Tower sees you seeing it* -- the kind of sentence the System did not write.

Something in the Tower was paying closer attention than usual.

She closed the notification. Opened it again. The gold border pulsed faintly, once, like a heartbeat. The text did not change. *Follow the thread.* No objective yet. No reward yet. Just a direction and a name and the specific, unsettling warmth of being seen by something very large that had decided, for reasons she could not yet parse, to tell her it was looking.

She did not show it to the party. Not yet. Not because she was hiding it -- because she needed to sit with it first, the way she sat with any new piece of information that changed the shape of what she understood. Three anomalies. Three sealed spaces. A pattern she had documented and a name for something she had felt but not confirmed.

*Trueweave.*

She knew the word. She had carried the Aspect since Month 2 and understood it since Month 5 and used its skills every day. But seeing it written in the System's own hand, in gold, addressed to her -- that was different. That was the difference between knowing your name and hearing someone say it who had never spoken before.

The rest node was quiet. Five people in various states of sleep and stillness, the amber glow steady on their faces, the Forge cooling, the fungal walls pulsing their patient light. Solenne sat with her staff across her knees and her notebook closed and a Quest notification humming at the edge of her perception like a note she could almost name.

She felt watched. Not threatened. Not surveilled. Watched the way you feel watched when someone in a room has been looking at you and you turn and their eyes are already there, and what you see in them is not judgment or hostility but interest. Genuine, sustained, attentive interest.

The Tower sees you seeing it.

She did not sleep for a long time. The gold light of the notification pulsed once more, faintly, in the dark behind her eyes, and she sat with it, and she did not feel afraid.

She felt like something had started.
