Lucilia Crimson: The Empress of the Crimson Empire, an underground empire with many of the most powerful ability holders in the universe. She is Aria’s biological mother and one of the Nine Grands. Her ability is Life Drain.

Ashur Kaelar Valan: The emperor of Arteria. DEAD

Lysandre de Pyre Voltaire: The former emperor of Albaria. He is power hungry and cares only about himself without any care for the nation. To the point that he eliminated the Crimson family simply due to their power and influence threatening the little power he has remaining over the people and politics. DEAD

Elara Crescent: The First General of Albaria. Serious, intelligent, leader, and cares about skill more than anything.

Rowan Vale: The Second General of Albaria. Analytical and ruthless. Meanwhile he appreciates tactical maneuvers and intelligence.

Calyx Star: The Third General of Albaria. Quiet, reserved, and in charge of the Third Army, which is in charge of gathering the nation’s intelligence.

Seraphina de Aragon: The Fourth General of Albaria. She has the most powerful Superstrength Ability in the world and can crush a skull with her bare hands with ease. Supports Aria. And she does not like how powerful ability holders are treated.

Selene Morn: The Fifth General of Albaria. She has long blond hair and golden eyes and is blunt and to the point. Supports Aria because her brother, the Eighth General, supports her. While she is very much a nationalist who loves her nation and will do whatever she can to benefit it, she will assist her brother over her nation any time.

Alaric Ashfall: The Sixth General of Albaria. He is an old man who doesn’t participate in any of the political squabbles surrounding the generals and therefore has the least power amongst them.

Valerie Sylver: The Seventh General of Albaria. She has a screw loose and does what she wants, when she wants, and when she becomes interested in something.

Victor Morn: The Eighth General of Albaria. Supports Aria. He is passive aggressive and sometimes is hard to figure out.

Aeliana Fang: The Ninth General of Albaria. She is power happy and enjoys having as much power as she can get her hands on.

Frank Rogers: Part of Team Predator with a Category 5 Enhancement ability that lets him flood energy into other people’s bodies, replenishing their mana, stamina, and healing them while also increasing their strength and speed. He doesn’t speak much but when he does, everyone listens. Meanwhile he sees himself in Aria and takes a liking to her. He has a large frame with black hair and green eyes and is in his early forties in age. Overdrive.

Leonardo Striker: Leader of Team Predator with a Category 5 ability that lets him control kinetic energy to a degree. He wishes for his team to get along well and be more informal, so he’s constantly making attempts to get them closer together. And he especially likes Category 5 abilities, finding them all to be interesting as he tries to learn more about them. He has black hair and purple eyes with an average height. He is in his mid-thirties. Twilight Huntsman.

Hannah Harvey: Part of Team Predator with a Category 5 Perception and Protection ability that allows her to sense everything with mana in a ten kilometer radius around them and use her own mana to create an incredibly tough barrier within a single kilometer radius around her. She is very excited to have another girl joining Team Predator but is saddened by how Aria treats them. She is taller than Aria and has brown hair with equally brown eyes and is in her mid-thirties in age. Mystic Warden.

Adrian Snow: Part of Team Predator with a Category 5 ability that lets him create blades of ice that are nearly indestructible and grow stronger with each unsuccessful blow against the target. He is a lady-killer who often goes to mixers when given time off. So he is very interested in Aria when she joins Team Predator since she’s a beautiful girl. However, he believes she is too young for him and to be an officer in general and believes that she should retire. He is tall and has white hair and blue eyes and is in his mid-thirties in age. Arctic Edge.

Jason Vargas: Part of Team Predator with a Category 5 ability that lets him read the minds of whoever he touches and dig into their memories. He acts kind and jokes with everyone but when it comes to his job, he is ruthless and follows Striker’s orders to a T. He sees Aria as a weapon to be used, just like himself. So he has nothing against her joining the team and welcomes her. He has gray hair and eyes and is in his late thirties in age. Psionic Inquisitor.

Vorelius Cornelius Caesar: Emperor of the Grand Roan Empire.

Ryohei Shirogane: The Silver Merchant, traveling companion, and contracted merchant contracted to Aria. He is a Nine Star Merchant and Prince of the Eternal Dynasty whose level is incredibly high but unknown, and he has the Class S ability to manipulate and create metal and turn it into liquid or molten metal.

Aisling Sullivan: Clan Leader of the Sullivan Clan on Luk’tar.

Darragh Sullivan: On the Sullivan Clan’s council and brother of Aisling.

Sean Byrne: Clan Leader of the Byrne Clan on Luk’tar.

Azura Atlantus Althea: Seventh in line for the Atlantean throne and friend of Aria’s. He likes setting up cafes.

Nerissa Atlantus Azurion: Ninth in line for the Atlantean throne and a friend of Aria’s who thinks of Aria as an older sister. She was only 8 years old when she first met Aria but is now an adult. She quickly became close to Aria and shares Aria’s interest in explosions.

Selenia Atlantus Caelum: Eighth in line for the Atlantean throne and a friend of Aria’s who thinks of Aria as an older sister. She was only 15 years old when she first met Aria but is now an adult. Sel enjoys battling very much and would often spar with Aria or join her on hunts to the Grand Ocean during Aria’s time on Atlantis.

Akela Nalohia: Kahuna of Arian.

Hao Xing Shengshi: Emperor of the Shengshi Dynasty.

Lei Xao Shengshi: Elder Prince of the Shengshi Dynasty.

Mo Xao Shengshi: Younger Prince of the Shengshi Dynasty.

Leone Pride: Aria’s latest companion and a lyon. She is in her level several thousands and is only a bit weaker than Shirogane. Meanwhile her ability is solely physical in nature with no magical powers given to her, making her physical body incredibly powerful and durable.
