However, Arian has no military, and each tribe has their own defenses largely consistent of powerful independent fighters.

Frost Clan

Description: The nation ruling over the world of Jotunheim with a level of technology at the bottom rung of the universe. They are led by a single Clan Leader whose emotions are always erased the moment they take control, along with a council of Chiefs. However, the Clan Leader has absolute control over the nation due to their inability to be affected by emotions.

The military of the Frost Clan is separated into three ranks:

Vanguard – The forces of the Clan that are sent to attack other worlds.

Frost Sentinels – The forces of the Clan that stay on Jotunheim to defend their own world.

Frost Keepers – The names of officers serving below Clan Chiefs within the Frost Clan.

The Clan Chiefs each have their own forces and take commands directly from the Clan Leader.

Rex Dynasty of the Dead

Description: The most technologically advanced nation in the universe. They created the Gates connecting each world, created the Universal Feed keeping the worlds connected through the internet, and manage each and every Gate’s creation and management except for Gates created by the Eternal Dynasty.

The Rex Dynasty of the Dead is ruled in an absolute monarchy by the Pharaoh, Raja Singh Amunet, and the nation and its leader both worship Death itself along with the Spirits of Death. Death is seen as a reward in the Dynasty and not a punishment. Only those who have done enough for the nation are allowed to die. Meanwhile those who do die yet have not done enough are raised as undead and forced to work until they have done enough if they killed themselves, or they will be resurrected if they were killed by other means such as murder. However, various other factors may influence it as well, such as how much benefit the being in particular may grant the nation.

The necromancers of the Rex Dynasty of the Dead are the only ones to be publicly known to never have summoned a Death Spirit and be killed by the Death Spirit summoned. Every Death Spirit summoned by the necromancers of the nation left without killing their summoner, regardless of if they carried out the wishes of the summoner or not.

The Rex Dynasty of the Dead’s military:

Pharaonic Royal Guard – The personal bodyguards of the Pharaoh. They are at the top of the military and have the right to command any other member of the entire military to do anything.

Death Legion – The ground forces of the military. They handle the ground warfare on other planets.

Death Sentinels – The defensive forces of the military tasked with defending the Rex Dynasty’s territory. They are often split up into enforcers to keep the peace on the worlds and military sectors to defend against attackers and have the lowest ranks amongst the military varying depending on what worlds they are stationed on.

Death Fleet – The space and naval forces of the military tasked with marine and space warfare. They are often the highest ranking members of the military and are tasked with defending their worlds and attacking other worlds from space. They also station themselves around the capital to defend the artificial mechanical planet known as Rex from others.

Nobility – The nobility have a large amount of control over the military, with the noble rankings ranging from baron to duke, with barons having control over low-ranking officers and dukes having command over up to mid-ranking officers. However, no nobles have control over high-ranking officers. Meanwhile the planetary governor of every planet is at the very minimum a viscount of the Dynasty.

Shengshi Dynasty

Description: A harsh nation on both natives and non-natives alike with a level of technology on the lower end of the universe. It is ruled by the emperor with a council of state officials who got the highest scores on various tests to earn their positions.

The nation has no measures in place to help out the poor or the struggling, and purposefully uses them to benefit the higher ranking members of their society. Whether they got to where they are through birth or skill. And the nation does not trust outsiders in the slightest, only allowing them in unimportant cities while banning them from more important cities to the nation.

The military is led by a single general who has the same ranking in regards to military decisions as the princes of the nation. Meanwhile the emperor has the authority to direct where a war will go, however he has no control over what exact actions the military will take in any particular war.

The governing of the nation is split between the state officials, the emperor, and the consorts, with each having their own responsibilities. Meanwhile the consorts are all titled off of different flowers.

The nation currently has six consorts, including the Rose Consort, the Daisy Consort, the Lily Consort, the Orchid Consort, the Chrysanthemum Consort, and the Azalea Consort. Meanwhile there are two princes and no princesses within the nation.

Grand Silvanian Empire

Description: The second largest empire in the world in terms of pure number of owned planets and citizens, with the Dread Empire being the largest. It largely specializes in healers and protection and has a strange focus on medieval aesthetics. One beginning with its emperor. And it is ruled absolutely by the Emperor of the Grand Silvanian Empire, with the other nobles each having some sway with him as he does truly listen to his noble court.

The nation makes up the majority of the healer market around the universe, providing healers through the Healer’s Order to every world with ties to the nation. Meanwhile they fund themselves largely through the Spires and the magical iron and magical steel within, which are leagues below the powerful magical silver but still incredibly powerful for a naturally found metal, and worth an extremely large sum. One large enough to fund the running of thousands of worlds.

The Grand Silvanian Empire is in a constant cold war against all of the Horsemen of the Apocalypse except for Aria, who of which the emperor considers like a niece to him.

Military:

The Grand Silvanian Empire’s military is split up into Knightly Orders, each of whom belongs to a different noble. With the Royal Order of Knights being directly under the Emperor’s command and far above the others in power. However, all Knightly Orders are required to listen to the emperor as well.

Royal Order of Knights: They serve the royal family and include ten Class S ability holders along with millions of Class A ability holders. The captains and commanders of the order also have authority over everyone within lower authority Orders. Which include every single other Order within the nation.

Violet Order of Knights: They serve the Archduke’s family and include three Class S ability holder along with millions of Class A ability holders. The captains and commanders of the order also have authority over everyone within lower authority Orders. Which include every single other Order within the nation except the Royal Order.

Aqua Order of Knights: They serve the Aqua Duke’s family and include a single Class S ability holder along with millions of Class A ability holders. The captains and commanders of the order also have authority over everyone within lower authority Orders. Which include every Order that serves a noble beneath the rank of duke or duchess.

Emerald Order of Knights: They serve the Emerald Duchess’s family and include a single Class S ability holder along with millions of Class A ability holders. The captains and commanders of the order also have authority over everyone within lower authority Orders. Which include every Order that serves a noble beneath the rank of duke or duchess.

Amber Order of Knights: They serve the Amber Duchess’s family and include a single Class S ability holder along with millions of Class A ability holders. The captains and commanders of the order also have authority over everyone within lower authority Orders. Which include every Order that serves a noble beneath the rank of duke or duchess.

Gray Order of Knights: They serve the Gray Duchess’s family and include a single Class S ability holder along with millions of Class A ability holders. The captains and commanders of the order also have authority over everyone within lower authority Orders. Which include every Order that serves a noble beneath the rank of duke or duchess.

Governance:

The nation’s everyday operations are controlled by the Council of Nobles, which only allows nobles from the rank Marquis and above to join. But all decisions can be overruled by the emperor should he desire.

Dread Empire

Description: The Dread Empire is in a constant state of starvation. It is ruled absolutely by the Horseman of the Apocalypse, Famine, who has zero cares for his own people outside of their use as a source of famine to level him up. However, he tries to stop killing as much as possible for no other reason than to have more people to starve. So the nation still has the lowest death count out of most nations in the universe despite it being the worst place to live.

Additionally, the Dread Empire is the largest nation in the universe in both number of worlds owned and population. With tens of thousands of worlds under its control and quadrillions of people.

Meanwhile every last citizen including the nobles are required to sign a body contract blocking them from killing themselves or allowing others to kill themselves in any way whether directly or indirectly. They are also forced to obey incredibly cruel laws meant to put them in a constant state of starvation and fear.

The military is directly under the control of Famine’s Nine Generals and his Grand General, who of which has a perfect cloning ability reliant on illusion magic, unlike the Crimson Empire’s Class S perfect ability user that uses life and death magic.

There are no officers in the military as the Dread Empire’s method of fighting often tends to be simply throwing their soldiers in numbers at their enemies without a care for their lives. Then reviving them afterwards by paying a massive price to their levels with void mages, their nation having been banned from the Void Temples long ago.

Every single world at the end of the day is governed by one of the Grand General’s clones. With a substitute governor assigned from the upper class nobility.

Star Link Stations

Description: The Star Link Stations are forty-eight enormous stations that take the place of worlds in their solar system. Each one is ruled by someone whose title is the Star of the Station, or put simply, their Star. And each Star must be the highest level being in their station with a light or some sort of radiation-based ability, and they must be a resident of the Station that has lived there for at least a few years.

The Stars all vary in power and personality, with some of them being absolute tyrants and others being relatively magnanimous. However, all of them are happy with the way of the stations and how they are ruled.

The Star Link Stations themselves are all linked through the Star Link Trains that run across the solar system connecting each station, and they are separated into two sectors. The private sectors and the public sectors.

The public sectors are meant for tourists and are filled with shops and stores of all kinds, making them some of the greatest tourist attractions in the universe.

Meanwhile the private sectors are always at war, with the only laws in place being whatever the Star wants along with the survival of the fittest.

Military:

The military of the Star Link Stations consists solely of the personal forces of each of the Stars. With the forces being required to work together in the event of an emergency under the direction of each Star separately. Unless they are all able to decide on a Grand Star to lead their forces for the emergency.

Arcadian Society

Description: The Arcadian Society is an academic society of mages formerly led by the former Archmage, Isabella de la Vega. Their capital is the planet known as Arc, and they have the most powerful mages in the entire universe amongst their numbers. However, they are forever at war against the Horsemen of the Apocalypse, fighting against every disaster they bring about.

Military:

The military power of the Arcadian Society is split up into four different Towers.

Crimson Tower: The Crimson Tower was set up specifically to combat all disasters created by the Horsemen of the Apocalypse. They do not fight in wars unrelated to the Horsemen nor do they protect their nation from anyone other than the Horsemen.

Black Tower: They serve as the first line of defense for the Arcadian Society, protecting the worlds they are assigned to protect.

Blue Tower: They serve as the forefront of magical knowledge in the universe, focusing solely on their studies and only fighting when absolutely necessary. The Blue Tower also holds the seer division that divines the Tiers of each world.

Silver Tower: They serve directly under the archmage and are the last line of defense for the Arcadian Society.

Governance:

The Society is run solely on a contribution basis. Every paper written by a mage gets them contribution points. Every time they fight in combat for the Society gets them contribution points. Every new discovery they make gets them contribution points.

And these contribution points can be used within the nation either to trade for credits or to get a benefit from the nation itself.

And almost anything can be bought with contribution points so long as it does not break the laws of the Society.

Council of Darkness

Description: The Council of Darkness has no known home planet and is an organization made up of assassins and other types of mercenaries that take on underworld jobs. It is led by a council consisting of nine different council members, along with a single leader. However, despite having a council, the leader’s word is absolute within the Council of Darkness, and he can replace anyone on the council whenever he feels like it. Making the council itself nothing but a setup to manage the Council of Darkness organization in his stead.

The leader of the Council of Darkness is Hassan al-Malik. However, unbeknownst to the majority of the universe, his real name is actually Arthur Crimson, and he is the brother of the Empress of the Crimson Empire.

The council is spread all throughout the universe and is the largest underworld power in existence.

Military:

The military power of the Council of Darkness is not largely structured as they have nothing more than simple ranks. With their ranks within the organization not denoting any sort of authority beyond the Council Members and the leader, as all ranks other than theirs are merely in place to decide which members have access to which jobs.

