Organization Ranks in ascending order:

Copper Ranked Member

Bronze Ranked Member

Silver Ranked Member

Gold Ranked Member

Diamond Ranked Member

Council Member

Leader

Governance:

The Council of Darkness has no interest in ruling any worlds or nations. All the members care about is making money for themselves and gaining power within their own areas. The only times the Council of Darkness even does anything as a single organization are when the leader of the council himself orders it so, since all members are required to accept mandatory requests made by the leader.

Crimson Flag

Description: The Crimson Flag is the foremost warmongering nation within the entire universe, only barely beating out the Dread Empire in waging war. It is ruled by a single leader and is a complete military nation with all affairs being decided upon by the military.

The leader of the Crimson Flag is the Horseman of the Apocalypse, War. However, War barely ever makes any decisions for his own nation and leaves all decisions to his generals as he goes off waging war every second of every day.

Within the Crimson Flag, there is one general for every Solar System the Crimson Flag takes up residence within stationed there to manage and defend the worlds, along with an additional ten generals for direct warfare with other nations. And each general has full control of the worlds they govern, and can designate their own ministers and officials to help them govern.

Many of the worlds War conquers end up being sold to the highest bidder due to his own lack of interest in the worlds along with their distance from the main Crimson Flag territories.

Military:

The military of the Crimson Flag has three different branches.

The main branch which War personally takes with him everywhere he goes.

The defensive branch that is left in all of the unimportant worlds and solar systems under the Crimson Flag’s rule.

And the capital branch that is left within the important worlds and solar systems under the Crimson Flag’s rule.

The military under the main branch has no officers beyond generals as all soldiers within the main branch were hand picked by War himself during his many battles due to their skill and talent. They are all also equipped with tools to communicate directly with War and the generals at all times.

The military under the defensive branch consists solely of the military forces belonging to and chosen by the generals leading them. Leaving the defenses entirely to the commanding general’s prerogative.

The military under the capital branch is a mixture of the main and defensive branch militaries depending on where the military is defending. If they are defending the capital solar system itself, they are filled with nothing but those handpicked by War himself. However, if they are defending solar systems close to the capital, they are commanded by some of War’s top generals and consist of military forces chosen by them.

Governance:

The people of the Crimson Flag live vastly different lives varying depending on which general rules over their solar system. Simply because War has no interest in the people of his own nation and leaves it entirely to his generals to manage.

Some solar systems live peaceful lives without much to complain about while others are abused and treated roughly based on their military status.

Spirits

Spirits: The spirits are all classified into various different types. There are Lesser, Minor, Regular, Major, Greater, and Grand Spirits. And on top of that, each different type of Spirit has their own separate tier. There are Tier 0 Spirits, which are very few in number and are the most powerful types of Spirits. They’re so rare that there are only two Tier 0 Spirit types in existence. Death Spirits and Void Spirits alone. Then there are Tier 1 Spirits, which are the Spirits of the base elements in the world and are the second most powerful Spirits. Fire, Water, Earth, Light, Dark, etc. Followed by Tier 2 Spirits, which are based largely on concepts like Famine, Pestilence, War, Space, and Time. And these Spirits are more often weaker than the Tier 1 Spirits, but not always as some of them are just as strong if not stronger than Tier 1 Spirits depending on how many users of their magic are in the universe.

Death Spirits: The Death Spirits are the most powerful Spirits in existence. No Spirits even come close to their power as they are part of Death herself and can completely erase life force with ease. They are also one of the only two Tier 0 Spirits, sharing the Tier with the Void Spirits, whose power come from the Void and are not directly combat oriented. There are currently three Grand Death Spirits in existence. And the Death Spirits are the only Spirits in existence who cannot be killed no matter what.

Famine Spirits: The Famine Spirits are the weakest of the four Horsemen’s Spirits on par with Pestilence Spirits. They are capable of directly draining everything from the body, whether food, nutrients, water, blood, or even mana and other forms of energy. They are one of the more powerful Tier 2 Spirits.

Pestilence Spirits: The Pestilence Spirits are the weakest of the four Horsemen’s Spirits on par with Famine Spirits. They are capable of creating and spreading any type of pestilence, whether disease, illness, virus, or anything to any type of creature, regardless of the presence of flesh and blood. They are one of the more powerful Tier 2 Sprits.

War Spirits: The War Spirits are the second strongest of the four Horsemen’s Spirits, behind only the Death Spirits. They are capable of fighting endlessly with no rest while stealing the abilities and skills of those they kill for temporary use. They are one of the most powerful Tier 2 Spirits.

Void Spirits: The Void Spirits are the only other Tier 0 Spirit aside from the Death Spirits and are the second most powerful Spirits in existence. However, they are not combat oriented despite their power. And just like the Death Spirits, Void Spirits are immortal. However, unlike the Death Spirits, the Void Spirits can be killed. They will just be brought back to life after death as they are merely sent to the Void Realm after dying, where they can freely leave on their own without help. Additionally, Void Spirits may bring anyone they wish from the Void Realm. Reviving them in the process.

Universe

Revival is possible if a strong enough void mage or a Void Spirit is present. They are capable of pulling a soul from the void and placing it back in the body at a significant cost levels from the one revived. However, conditions have to be fulfilled for the revival to work. Such as the being who is getting revived needing to be at least level 10 if it is a void mage doing the resurrection. However, a Void Spirit can revive most people with only a few restrictions.

Every world has a World Core where the users of the System are allowed to reset or lower their levels. However, these changes are permanent and cannot be revoked. Furthermore, people are not capable of forcing others to reset their levels as the System will detect attempts to do so.

Invasions of new worlds are considered an honor for those who participate, and entire forces are created just to prepare for invasions, filled with people who have either stopped themselves from leveling or have had their levels purposefully reset to 1 at a World Core.

Coordinates of new worlds are found by spatial magic users, and the worlds are classified by a division of seers from the Arcadian Society into five different Tiers. Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta, and Epsilon, with Alpha being the highest Tier.

These Tiers are decided based on planet size, population, quantity and quality of Ability Holders, and resources.

Level of the user plays an important role in society outside of Vortel. Meanwhile most adults are already at least level ten, with the higher level average adults being around level 20.

Raising the level of someone’s class has various effects on the user in question. Some of them include but aren’t limited to raising their physical strength, their mental capacity, their magical power, their mana capacity, and their lifespan.

Every user in the System tends to live for around 100 years on average, with every 100 levels doubling the user’s total lifespan.

Worlds across the universe vary in their levels of technology and magical understanding, with Vortel’s level of technology being just a small amount above the average level of technology in the universe, and their understanding of magic a little above that.

System

Description: The System is an instinctive defense mechanism on every single planet in the universe, and it activates when invaders arrive to attack the planet.

Class: A Class is automatically assigned to every user based on their natural ability and talents. Leveling up their Class will give them skills that will benefit them in further accomplishing what their Class requires along with possible physical or magical enhancements to their own body.

Ability: An Ability is whatever special ability the user was born with.

Level: A user’s level is increased by doing the action that their Class centers around.

Planets are tiered based on various factors including but not limited to the size of the planet’s population, the number of Ability Holders they have, and the power of the Ability Holders on the planet. And they are rated between Tiers Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta, and Epsilon, with Alpha being the highest.

Abilities are divided into five Classes or Categories, the term varying depending on the culture classifying them.

Category 1/Class D

Category 2/Class C

Category 3/Class B

Category 4/Class A

Category 5/Class S

Aria Crimson

Description: The main protagonist of the story and a true immortal. She was a soldier fighting on the side of Albaria and was on the frontlines when the gates open and the System Initializes. And she is the only surviving member of the Crimson Noble Household – a family made up of Category 5/Class S Special Ability Users, each with their own unique ability. However, all of the money of the household was taken away by those who killed her family off, and she is the only one left because it is impossible to kill her. So as the only way the Emperor could think of to get rid of her, he sent her to the frontlines where she is expected to fight for eternity for the Empire. But he lost his political and military power, and was eventually killed by Aria with his soul core devoured so that he could never revive again.

Aria then left Vortel and arrived on Eternus, the Capital world of the Eternal Dynasty where she began living life as she pleased. Going from one world to the next with her friend Shirogane.

Eventually she learns that she is the Princess of the Crimson Empire and that the family who raised her were in actuality clones and that her real blood family is still alive. And at the end of a war she was stuck spectating between the Grand Silvanian Empire and various other nations, she is finally separated from Shirogane, beginning her travels once more through the worlds alone this time. Albeit with her immortal cat, Asher.

She is beloved by the Death Spirits and the people of the Rex Dynasty of the Dead.

Aria doesn’t care for anything that’s bothersome and is a laidback person in general. And if something doesn’t interest her, she won’t care about it.

Ability: True Immortality – The user will never die and will always regenerate from any sort of damage done to them given time. Furthermore, the amount of time it takes to heal from a wound will shorten every time that exact same type of wound is received.

Class: Harbinger of Death – One of the four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, the harbinger must bring death unto others to grow stronger.

Characters

Pestilence: Pestilence, otherwise known by the name of Victor von Lüneburg, is a mad man who is obsessed with science with a specific focus on poisons and diseases. Victor is always in his lab on the planet of Vest and rarely sets foot out of it. He lives on a secluded planet, only ever leaving in order to test out a new virus, plague, or disease he has made, wiping out the populations of entire planets in the process.

War: War, otherwise known by the name of Lucius Octavio, is a war fanatic who brings war wherever he goes. He is the absolute ruler of a military nation called the Crimson Flag and is always on the battlefield, his class giving him the ability to fight forever without rest.

Famine: Famine, otherwise known by the name of Ignatius Darkheart, is a brutal tyrant who starves his people for obedience within his ever-growing Dread Empire. He is also a warmonger who travels from planet to planet, spreading his rule along with the eternal famine that comes with it. Ignatius also grows stronger by the number of starved near him, so the further he spreads his rule the stronger he becomes.

Isabella de la Vega: The ruler of the Arcadian Society that has dominance over the world of Arc. She is a mage with the ability to keep three spells ongoing indefinitely as long as she pays the mana price to activate them initially, with no more price required to upkeep them. And her Arcadian Society is a society of mages with a powerful school of magic.

Leopold da Silva: The Emperor of the Grand Silvanian Empire ruling over the world of Silverfall. He is a kind ruler who loves his people but is ruthless towards his enemies and goes the extra mile to remove threats to his Empire before they become a problem.

Raja Singh Amunet: The Pharaoh of the Rex Dynasty of the Dead. He is a brutal tyrant who worships death and the Spirits of Death and views death as a reward for those who have fulfilled their purpose. And his people believe it as well.

Hassan al-Malik/Arthur Crimson: The Leader of the Council of Darkness, an Assassination group that is spread out across most of the powerful worlds initialized into the System. He is a psychopath without the capacity for emotions and cares only for coin, same as his assassin underlings. He is also the brother to the Empress of the Crimson Empire.

Shirou Amatsuraki: The Emperor of the Eternal Dynasty, a neutral empire that wishes only to stay afloat forever without entering conflict with other nations. Shirou himself is a lover of commerce and runs the empire as a merchant would. He has white eyes and shoulder-length white hair, and enjoys fiddling with a coin in his hands.

Artorius Crimson: The Emperor of the Crimson Empire, an underground empire with many of the most powerful ability holders in the universe. He is Aria’s biological father. His ability is Death Lightning.

Adrian Crimson: The Prince of the Crimson Empire, an underground empire with many of the most powerful ability holders in the universe. He is Aria’s biological brother. His ability is Life Clone.

