Valor sighed. “Ah. Legend Jessica. Don’t argue with Shiv. It’s bad for your emotional and psychological well-being.”

The sputtering continued for a few seconds longer before Jessica let out something between a growl and a laugh. “You are really good at that, you know. The Culturist wasn't bullshitting. You are an emotional terrorist. You really are Veronica’s grandchild, you oversized fuck. I should have never told you shit.”

“Yeah, you were probably thinking that even while you were telling me. But guess what? You're lonely, and frankly, I wanted to listen. Now, let's pretend you never told me about your therapy sessions, and I'll pretend that you didn't rip your way up my ass and leave me feeling an ache in the hole every time I run into someone I’m not sure I can beat.”

“You know what, you piece of shit, you got yourself a deal.”

Jessica extended her hand. Shiv sent his physical body over to shake it. He caught her peeking down several times but decided not to comment.

You know, if the System was really a bastard, Uva would show up out of nowhere right now and walk in on this. But even after she finished the thought, no such thing happened. Because the System ultimately wanted one thing: blood. Drama was conflict too, but Uva was too coldly rational to assume anything untoward—especially with everyone else in the kitchen.

“What’s this about your posterior and her?” Valor whispered to Shiv.

“Yeah, so me and Legend Jessica here had a fight a couple days ago, and she showed me the Upcreek Special.”

“The Upcreek Special?” Valor asked, still confused.

“I turn myself really, really small and then I rip someone apart by cutting my way up their rectum,” Jessica said with a yawn.

Valor actually shuddered. “I—I see.” He briefly patted Shiv on the shoulder as his physical body returned. “You have my pity, disciple.”

“Thank you, Master. Be glad you don't have a real ass for someone to ruin. It fucking sucks.” Shiv shook his head. “Alright, body number three. Let's see it.”

He triggered his resurrection immediately, and the overload came as expected. There were too many senses, too many inputs. There was too much all at once. He stopped being able to sort through everything, and so he focused, concentrating the totality of his awareness in one body: his Severed Shadow. As his new organic form spilled free and staggered forward, he felt it crash down on the ground just as his original physical body did.

Two thuds followed just as Gone appeared in the doorway, body still crackling with golden lightning. She stared at the naked Shiv-ling on the ground and the Severed Shadow half-painted by fading vitality.

“Is this a bad time?” Gone asked, slightly shy.

Yeah, you can come in, Shiv managed telepathically, even though he was on the verge of slipping again. It was hard ignoring two bodies. He could still feel things from them, but if he concentrated hard enough, he could alleviate the overwhelming load pressing upon his mind.

Gone awkwardly shuffled in and swiped at the air. She vibrated her hand so fast that the blood that coated her claws evaporated in an instant.

Valor, meanwhile, examined both of Shiv's physical bodies. When he realized there were no differences, he asked him how much vitae it cost.

“Half,” Shiv answered. “Every single time, always half.”

“But why?” Valor mused. “It doesn't make any sense. A resurrection should cost you a considerable and fixed amount of Vitae, but it shouldn't be half every time. Wait. It shouldn't be half, unless you're actually…” Valor looked away from the physical bodies, and his corrosive eyes burned as he regarded the Severed Shadow once more. “Shiv, I have a new challenge for you. I want you to switch places with one of these bodies. I want you to do it using your cutting aura.”

“Uh, yeah, sure,” Shiv said. “I can give it a try, but don’t expect anything incredible. I already got a lot weighing my mind down right now, and I doubt it’s as easy as just thinking—”

The blade at Shiv’s core ignited, turning into a white-hot shape that filled the room with blinding illumination. At the same time, a pitch-black gap parted the chest of one of his downed physical bodies. The switch happened immediately. From within the blinding blade of Shiv’s Severed Shadow, a body dropped, bouncing off the floor. At the same time, his Revenant burst free from a massive slash that expanded across his physical body—and turned into the outlined edges of Shiv’s blade-shaped core, even as the organic vessel it manifested upon disappeared.

The shift happened so easily, so smoothly, so instantaneously, both Jessica and Valor flinched with surprise.

“Whoa,” Shiv gasped. He nearly lost himself to an overload of sensory information, but kept himself rooted in his Severed Shadow. “That was… a lot easier than I expected.”

“Indeed,” Valor whispered. “Do you think you can—”

Shiv did it again, swapping places with his other physical body. He appeared right next to Jessica, and she barely held her reflexes back, stopping herself from cutting him in half. He smirked. “Yep. Easy.”

Valor let out a quiet chuckle. “Incredible. For this to require no spatial mana at all… The System must think you exist at multiple places at the same time.”

“Impossible,” Rusty declared with utmost confidence.

“Indeed, but clearly not after all,” Valor replied. “Very good. Now—something harder. You could implant a skill inside a golem before, Shiv. Let’s see if you can do the same for one of your resurrected bodies—or even extract a skill from them instead, if that fails. Let’s see how deep your edge truly goes.”
