“I know I said it before but let me repeat it one last time. If you go straight north from here—toward those mountains—you’ll find the City of Arts on the other side of ‘em.” Elencor announced while the caravan slowed to a stop.

Their original timeline had them arriving in Tympestshard by autumn, but the myriad little delays that life threw at them (…and the not so little delays; Ranthia still couldn’t believe they’d rebuilt a collapsed bridge) meant it was already winter. The road was mostly flanked by spiky trees that remained obstinately green, even in the bitter cold. But a layer of frost covered the region everywhere Ranthia looked—an enduring memento of the rain that had assailed them two days previously.

After almost a year spent travelling with the caravan, it was time for Ranthia to part ways with them.

“So, I just have to climb the mountains?” Ranthia asked as she eyed the peaks. They weren’t quite as tall or imposing as some of the mountains she’d seen throughout her journey, at least.

The asshole that she considered a friend promptly burst into laughter, and she sorely wished that she could be surprised. He was happy to tell her things that she didn’t know (and things that he unilaterally assumed she didn’t know), yet any time she said or did something he considered to be naïve or ill-informed, she had to endure his gleeful guffaws.

He was also prone to laughing for minutes at a time, leaving her to simmer in her impatience.

“By the Field of Miracles, oh, that was a good one! Climb the mountains, she says. Ha! Listen, only a total fool of a child or a true powerhouse—preferably more than one, really—would climb a mountain. Civilizations tend to not touch mountains for ages; there’s just no point in it. Unless you’re a harpy, of course. But this means that the nastiest beasts you’ve ever seen tend to live atop mountains. Yeah, you’d see the City of Arts from atop any of those peaks, assuming you ever got there in the first place.

“Seriously, just go straight north. You should come across another road that runs parallel to this one, and along it there’s a foot path—actually, it might be a full road by now, it’s been a while since I was in the area. Anyway, it leads to a tunnel that punches straight through the mountains. You’re just four or five days away from your destination, I reckon.” Elencor explained, once he finally overcame his amusement.

She was going to miss the guy, even if he was a jerk.

Once she absorbed his navigational guidance, Ranthia nodded and offered the elf her arm.

“If you’re ever around the City of Arts in the near future, look up any human living there. I don’t know how long I’ll be staying, but I wouldn’t be too put out if I had to see your pointy mug again.” The words couldn’t have come from Prima, but she’d largely weaned off from her initial (exhausting) guise as they travelled. She still hadn’t (and wouldn’t) give them her true name though; if the caravan ever made it into Remus, she really didn’t want to risk her name getting back to the Sentinels.

Elencor nodded gravely before he placed his hand atop her bandage-wrapped bracer. …Ah, oops. She’d somewhat forgotten that he wasn’t a fellow Adventurer from Remus after so much time spent together. And elves didn’t have a custom of clasping arms like people in Remus did.

It was the kind of mistake that she really needed to stop making if she was going to live amongst the elves. Avyna had largely adapted to Ranthia’s own comforts and habits, but she couldn’t expect anyone else to go that far out of their way just to soften her culture shock.

Making a conscious effort to control her blush, Ranthia freed her arm and turned to his daughter. Her smile was more forced than she’d wanted it to be when she said farewell, but she wasn’t going to let a bit of embarrassment stop her. With deft fingers, she unclipped the sheaths for her short swords from her belt before she presented the weapons to the elven woman.

“I know you said you’d think about it, but I wanted to make one last plea—your father and I aren’t kidding, you need a melee weapon you can rely on if you run out of mana and something gets close. Please, accept these—at least for now. You don’t have to use them forever if you find something that you prefer, but these blades are dwarven steel and have proven themselves to be reliable and easy to maintain.” Ranthia let a slight plaintive note enter her voice as she waited for the surprised elf to take the proffered swords.

“Just take ‘em; they’re not her actual weapons. She’s just hiding from something and didn’t want to use her flashy weapons.” Elencor quietly explained when his daughter tried to refuse.

…Ranthia’d never quite told him that much, but she wasn’t exactly surprised that he’d pieced it together. The man had lived several times her own lifespan and—bad habits aside—he wasn’t an idiot.

Elenera sighed through her teeth, but she finally nodded and accepted the weapons without a word. Instead, she offered Ranthia a somewhat sad smile as she hugged the sheaths to her stomach.

“Alright, well, I can practically feel my former employers glaring at me, so I better stop holding you up. Brush, give the elk my best!” Ranthia called over as she stepped back.

The quiet elf was still inside of the wagons, but she had every confidence that he heard her.

“Alright, here’s the goods you wanted, Prima. That’ll cover what we still owe you. And if you’re ever looking to work as a caravan guard in the future, you can drop my name.” The short [Merchant] announced, as he tossed a bag of woven grasses in her direction. He wasn’t wearing one of the flamboyant hats he favored, for whatever reason—and Ranthia had no idea why that felt significant.

Ranthia chose to accept his words as high praise and offered him a smile while she caught the bag.

“Thank you! Best of luck with your future endeavors everyone and may you all stay safe!” Ranthia dipped into the bubbly persona one last time as she scrambled to turn the salute she nearly made into an awkward wave.

And with that, the caravan resumed moving. Ranthia didn’t linger to watch them go (the road’s sight lines were long; it would’ve taken forever). Instead, she turned to the north and started to ‘walk’ at a pace suitable to her level.

She’d basically made back what she spent on those swords through her time in the caravan, but she only had a small piece of obsidian and whatever fresh produce and goods her former employer had put in the bag to show after almost a full year spent guarding the caravan. The pay was insulting—and well below what she would have charged as an Adventurer—but she was finally more-or-less where she needed to be.

Xaoc willing, Avyna was already waiting for her just past those mountains!

Elencor had warned her that she still had four or five days left of walking, but she was optimistic that she could beat that. Once she was confident that the road was out of sight, she sent out a fresh image and tossed her backpack and the bag of produce to it while she activated [Reflections of Reality].

It was nice to be freed from weeks of accumulated scratches, bruises, and cramps—she’d rarely been able to find opportunities to shift while she was in the caravan’s employ. But there was something she’d missed even more than shifting into a fresh image several times a day…

After almost a year, Ranthia finally indulged in her urge to dance. The rhythm returned to her with ease, and she embraced her oldest friend with relish. Her footfalls turned erratic and light as she traipsed across the frost. The day was beautiful, and she could be mere days away from reuniting with the woman she loved—no matter what Avyna’s ominously phrased final note suggested.

Sure, Elencor had warned her that the area was prone to snowstorms due to the mountains, but it wasn’t like she was planning to camp there throughout the season. She wasn’t worried—not one bit!

Yeah, even she had regretted the thought from the very moment that it crossed her mind.

With her luck thoroughly jinxed, the cruelty of Pallos wasted no time; the temperature started to drop steadily almost from that very moment. By midday, the sky had turned grey—and that was when the snow started. First came sporadic, gentle flakes, which soon evolved into a consistent dusting that began to accumulate on the ground. And then—hours too early—the world rapidly grew darker as the wind began to pick up in earnest.

The region became a frigid mass of flickering white over a sea of black. Wind howled as though it were a monster from some great legend. It was a storm unlike anything Ranthia had ever experienced, but she couldn’t just nest down—she needed shelter.

Otherwise, even she might freeze. Her vitality was plainly outmatched by the sheer cold that the snowstorm had invoked. Her fingers and toes—damn Reman sandals—were worryingly numb, but Ranthia couldn’t let herself fret about that.

Navigation was the larger issue.

[Divine Eyes in the Void] let her see a little further than her own eyes could. She’d put her blindfold back on to keep the wind-driven snow out of her eyes, but even with all three sources of her vision she could only see a very short distance. It was enough to spare her from a tumble every time she discovered a streambed, but…

…She was terrified that she was stumbling across the same streambed over and over again. Her sense of direction had proved to be reliable time and time again, but she was pushing through vengeful wind in a world of darkness marred by absolute white. The fourth time she found a streambed, she decided to stop trusting herself.

Necessity was the mother of invention—a solution came to mind almost immediately. She was desperate to find shelter, after all. Ranthia dropped an image behind herself and sent another forward, using her prior image and current body to verify that she was moving forward. She had no idea if she was moving toward the mountains or not, but any progress was worthwhile. Shelter first, then she could reorient once the storm was done.

Her trick with her images slowed her down even further though. They’d grown robust enough that the driving snow wouldn’t break them, but fragments from trees weren’t uncommon. She’d never even thought to test it, but it was a relief that she could willingly negate [Divine Eyes in the Void]’s default behavior of zipping around to face incoming hazards. She was in a wildly dangerous situation, and she was counting on the Skill to keep tabs on her images that she was using to keep herself moving in a single direction. Once she got too close to the image she was nearing or started losing sight of the image she was moving away from, she replaced both.

Cold, numb, and scared, Ranthia continued her journey.

Thank you.

Ranthia sent her fifth—actually her sixth—prayer to Xaoc once the fire finally spread to the log. The needly leaves on these green-in-winter trees had a horrendous scent when they burned, but she didn’t have anything else she could readily use for kindling.

Finding the clump of closely gathered boulders, large enough to offer her shelter (while she crouched or sat, at least) had been miraculous enough, but they proved to be close enough that she could form shelter against the wind using her traveller’s cloak and some piled rocks. From there, Ranthia left one of her adamantium knives stuck in the ground—so she could be damned certain she could relocate the site with [Divine Seeker]—and set out to harvest the wood and kindling she needed to start a fire. Shoving the bulk of the snow out had taken even more time, but it’d all been worth it.

Her discolored fingers and toes were placed as near the growing flame as she dared, as Ranthia finally allowed herself to relax a little. She was exhausted after everything, but she was… well, at least she was briefly safe. Xaoc alone knew how long the storm would last or if her shelter could withstand the fury—and sheer weight—of the driven snow, but until a problem arose, she intended to recuperate.

Ranthia shook herself out of the light doze she’d succumbed to and hurriedly verified that nothing had gone catastrophically wrong while she was out. But no, her fire was still going, her traveller’s cloak was still in place, and the boulders hadn’t gone anywhere. If anything, the storm had lost a bit of its fury in the (at most, probably) minutes she’d slumbered.

Her fingers felt far better, so Ranthia finally opened the woven bag that the caravan had provided. A small traveller’s cooking pot was the first item she removed—honestly, how had she left the war zone without even thinking of such an important staple from her Adventurer days—and Ranthia wasted no time in setting it up and gathering some of the cleaner, fresher snow to pile into it. Chunks of dried meat and tougher vegetables went in next, once the snow had melted.

“I’m pretty sure Danther gave me more than I was owed, maybe he did feel guilty.” Ranthia gave voice to the thought, just to hear something. The world was creepily silent as the wind died down. She was used to how snow seemed to absorb the noise of the world, but she had never truly experienced just how eerily quiet it could be, not while she lived within a bustling military installation.

Silence had become uncanny at some point.

Ranthia seasoned her soup as her whims directed, enjoying its aroma. She’d set several items from her bag into the snow outside of her shelter—close enough that she could lean over and grab them—to help keep the produce fresh. She added a few leaves of spinach to the soup once it was ready (no point in letting the greens turn to mush), then tied the bundle closed again and leaned over to set it in the snow.

She was so hungry. There was zero chance she was going to wait for her food to cool before she began to—

Vlip.

Ranthia had never heard anything quite like the sound. Sure, snowscapes were infamous for generating some unusual noises, but the wind had died down to almost nothing. Ranthia peered about, only to finally spot movement that was far closer than she would have ever expected.

[Rabbit – Spatial] level 81.

The tag was as incongruous as the presence of the animal was. Ranthia never truly relaxed her guard, yet a rabbit had managed to get within arm’s reach?! It was oversized, oddly proportioned—as though it was still immature, despite being larger than any rabbit she’d ever seen—and its fur was a brown tone that was wholly unsuited to the snow.

Animal and Adventurer froze as they assessed one another. Then the rabbit snatched the bundle of spinach as it braced its legs—and vanished.

Vlip.

