The notification was accompanied by a blizzard of other boxes, including those notifying Nathan of his new class choices. He blinked them away, unable to take his eyes off Stella.

Then Khachi stepped forward, the golden flame around him burgeoning into an inferno. It didn’t just burn, it blazed upwards in a column of divinity with Khachi at the core. Magic spilled out of the fabric of Davrar, and the jagged shard of divinity that the wolfman had in place of a mana pool flexed and strained.

The outpouring of divine mana nearly blinded Nathan’s magical senses, and he threw himself away, accelerating as fast as he could to get away from the incipient prayer. He couldn’t see what was happening against the brilliant light emanating from the cleric, but he heard Khachi’s words. The whole city probably heard the words.

“By my radiant flame and the weight of earned glory, I call forth with divine right. Let the soul that walked with honor be reborn with fire in her eyes. Stella Caxol, I name your life unfinished, and by the bond of deed and shared valor, I call you to stand within my light and continue your righteous war!”

Multiple things happened that Nathan didn’t understand, things that went against his understanding of magic. The divine mana roared in acclaim at Khachi’s prayer, and his shard of divinity sharpened and grew. The mana funneled downwards from high above, the column of power inverting itself and crashing back down upon Khachi as he laid hands on Stella.

Nathan couldn’t tell what was going on, but he refused to take his eyes away until the glare faded, and he saw Stella blinking her eyes open in confusion.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 9

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 995

Bottomless Stamina : 85193/100500

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Spellslayer level 729

Regenerative Focus: 3439/7390

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Tranquility 4

Inspiration 8

Impulse 5

Mystical Discernment 7

Forewarning 6

Arcane Insight 9

Evasion 3

Mental Vault 7

Veracity 3

Parkour 10

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 9

High-tier Battle Cry 4

Aura Control 8
