Also, since Lord Husband’s initial confusion and his friends’ laughter were entirely genuine, they were clearly all communicating through Sending, so why was Luo-Luo left out of the loop?

“What’s the matter?” Lord Husband taunted, seeing the dancer standing utterly still on stage, save for the rise and fall of his shoulders as he struggled to contain his rage. “Oh, I get it, it’s because we already got all the dancing we paid for today. This is your livelihood we’re talking about here, so you can’t be dancing for free. Tell you what, I’ll match what you earned in ticket sales today, just to ensure you don’t make a loss. Would you accept my word, or should I start throwing coins on stage one at a time? I’ll send my people to bring a chest, but since it’ll take awhile, we might as well start now.”

“Enough!” Forceful as the dancer’s delivery was, it came moments too late as a single coin clattered down beside him. By some stroke of luck, the coin bounced on its edge once, twice, then went on to roll about unhindered, circling the stage for long seconds until its forward momentum was spent. Then, as it fell on its side, the coin clinked and clattered with increasing frequency for long, tense moments of clamour, until it finally came to stop with a faint, metallic ring.

“Oops,” Lord Husband said, speaking quietly into ensuing silence. “Accidentally threw a copper.”

Fung’s snort of laughter sounded genuine to Luo-Luo’s ears, and it set off a good half of the audience, if not more. She was missing something here, and it most likely had to do with the talented dancer’s identity, which she’d paid no mind to because Shen ZhenWu’s note had implied the danger would be at the tea-house, not the opera show. More fool her then, but she would not make this mistake twice. “No wonder you’ve so many enemies,” the mysterious dancer began, his faintly quivering feathers giving away his barely repressed anger, “With behaviour as boorish as yours.”

“Oh lighten up. We’re all here at the opera house to have fun.” And from what Luo-Luo could tell, Lord Husband was clearly enjoying himself despite the apparent danger, wholly in his element playing this game of cat and mouse. “Unless we’re not.” Tilting his head, Lord Husband asked, “Are we? Here to have fun? Because if not, then maybe you should stop playing games and tell me why we’re really here.”

Swallowing a gasp of amazement, Luo-Luo marvelled at how neatly Lord Husband cut his opponent’s legs out from under him, having emerged the clear winner in this battle of wits. While he might have lost face playing the fool earlier on, this final statement turned everything around onto his enemies instead. ‘If you want to play games,’ Lord Husband was saying, ‘Then I shall play, and we can both play in circles and nothing of note will ever get done.’ This was a declaration of intent, plain and simple, telling everyone that Falling Rain was sick of playing games, and no longer cared to entertain them.

Or conversely, ‘Play games, and you will be played. Speak plainly, and you will be respected.’

Perhaps not the best message to send during a time of uncertain diplomatic tension, but one so masterfully delivered, it left Luo-Luo breathless in amazement.

“A starving camel is still larger than a healthy horse.” Though clearly furious, the dancer magnanimously clasped his hands in a salute out of feigned respect for Lord Husband’s clever ploy. “Very well then. There has been many a tale of Imperial Consort Falling Rain’s discerning eye, and how even with a shattered Core, he is able to offer keen insight into the Forms. Thus, I, Ishin Ken-Shibu, humbly request Imperial Consort Falling Rain bestow his vaunted guidance upon this ‘trumped up play-boy of a painted dancer’.”

Drawing in a deep breath, Luo-Luo finally realized who their opponent was, a young Martial Warrior of thirty-three years second only to Ryo Da’in herself within their generation. Uncle Yo had warned Rain to be wary of the Ishin family, for they were diametrically opposed to the Ryo family in every possible way. Ishin Shigen, the family patriarch and Ken-Shibu’s father, was Ryo Dae Jung’s rival in the Sword King’s earlier years, but had long since been left behind by his meteoric rise. However, ten years ago, their family rivalry was rekindled when Da’in humiliated Ken-Shibu in a public match, one fought in retaliation for spreading false rumours alleging the young Ishin Scion had ‘plucked her flower’ and would soon take her as his concubine. Thus, Da’in made her debut into the Hwarang at nineteen years young by stepping over the fallen form of twenty-four years old Ishin Ken-Shibu, and soon after took her place as the Number one Talent in Central, a title she held for six years until time and age forced her to relinquish it.

Though never able to surpass Da’in, Ken-Shibu was currently the only person to ever fight her to a draw, even though their match took place only a week after she aged out of the Hwarang. Still, in their many subsequent spars, Ken-Shibu proved he had the strength to stand against Da’in, though not outright defeat her, and many claimed he might soon surpass her once he inevitably became a Peak Expert. Regardless of his reasons, Ken-Shibu was clearly here to humiliate Lord Husband and smear what little reputation he still had left to him, but Lord Husband was not so easily snared. “And why should I?”

Caught off-guard by such apathy, Ken-Shibu straightened up in surprise. “What?”

“Why should I,” Lord Husband began, gripping the railing to lean over the banister, “Offer my ‘vaunted guidance’ to you? Just because you asked nicely? I mean, it was very gracious and humble of you to lower your head, but I’m a busy man with things to do and places to be. I don’t have time to teach every random nobody who accosts me in an opera house.” Holding his hand out in blatant demand, he added, “What I’m saying is my time is valuable, so you need to make it worth my while.”

Oh Mother in Heaven, how could Luo-Luo have ever thought Lord Husband was unskilled in diplomacy? He simply played by different rules, and his schemes were dazzling to behold. Having already offered to generously pay Ken-Shibu for his time, no one could say Lord Husband was being greedy by asking for the same. Giddy with awe and delight, she watched the audience reevaluating Lord Husband, wondering if they’d all been fooled by this supposed uncultured savage, and if they should rethink their stance in the following days. Brilliant, utterly brilliant, and all done without prompting or preparation.

Unaccustomed to haggling, Ken-Shibu immediately gave away the initiative by asking, “What is it you want?”

“An hour of your time.” Grinning like a fiend, Lord Husband explained, “I offer you five minutes of guidance, and you put on a one hour dance show for my troops at a time of my choosing. You choose the dance and you don’t have to sing, but I choose the outfit and you dance for the whole hour. The clock stops when you take a break or go in for a wardrobe change, of which there will be many.”

...This was all awfully specific for Lord Husband to come up with on the spot.

“...Thirty minutes of guidance, and I must approve of all outfits beforehand.”

“Fifteen is as high as I can go, and no make-up or masks while dancing.”

“The venue must be private.”

“Paid for by you, must be large enough for ten-thousand guests, and subject to my approval.”

“The stage is to remain clear at all time, else the remaining time is forfeit.”

“The dance must be an actual dance, subject to interpretation by Imperial Servant Zheng Luo.”

“...I accept.”

“We have a deal then.” Their somewhat embarrassing negotiation complete, Lord Husband turned on his heels and spoke over his shoulder. “I’m coming down to watch from stage side. Be right there.” Giving Roc a pat on the head, Lord Husband smiled at Luo-Luo and said, “Stay here. Kuang Biao, keep Luo-Luo safe.” Glancing at both back corners of the room, Lord Husband frowned, turned to the back right corner, and asked, “Naaran, could I trouble you to stay here with Luo-Luo as well? The others will refuse, but if you’re unwilling, I can send for more guards instead.” Wincing from some Sent scolding, Lord Husband grinned and mouthed, ‘Thanks’ at the shadowy corner before leaving Luo-Luo with a wink.

So distracted by watching him leave, Luo-Luo didn’t even notice Da’in moving about until the formidable woman sank down beside her. “He is an interesting man,” Da’in Sent, utterly relaxed save for her half-lidded fox eyes studying Luo-Luo’s expression. “Tell me, why did he go down and put himself in danger? I’ve no doubt surly Binesi is chewing him out as we speak, and I am loathe to admit it, but the Major would be right to.”

Unfortunately, Luo-Luo had no idea what Lord Husband’s plans were, but she had no intention of showing her hand. Instead, she merely smiled and nodded towards the stage, as if to say, ‘wait and see’.

It felt like an eternity passed before Lord Husband reappeared, leisurely making his way to stage side without a care in the world. How many Concealed guards were there with him? Luo-Luo cuddled Roc close and prayed the answer was ‘enough’, for if their enemies struck now and succeeded, then Ken- Shibu and the Ishin family would likely be blamed, which might be well worth the price to the right Imperial Noble. Thankfully, no assassins appeared out of thin air aiming for his life, and Luo-Luo made sure her sceptre was within reach if attackers should appear here, but with so many formidable warriors around her, she was unlikely to have need of it.

Still... she would very much like to redeem herself for her poor showing two nights ago, when she stood frozen in fear and watched Li-Li take grievous injury just to keep Luo-Luo safe. The cut was so deep, you could see the bone, yet the formidable half-cat barely even batted an eye...

Then there was no more time for regrets as Lord Husband finally arrived, standing in the middle of the aisle about five metres from the stage. “A short demonstration, if you please. Explaining takes longer than observing, especially if I end up having to repeat myself. Also, don’t move too quickly, else I won’t be able to see it.”

"Very well.” Brimming with the confidence of a man who’s rigged the game, Ken-Shibu flourished his swords once again. They were different from Zian’s curved sabres, and not at all like Lord Husband’s old short-sword, but Luo-Luo was no student of weaponry and didn’t have a name for them.

They were both very pretty, with hilts wrapped in silver wire and studded with a fortune in blue sapphires and clear diamonds. The right one was long and thin, the left shorter and wider, and both were straight, double-edged, and viciously pointed, but that was all she could say of the weapons themselves.

Then Ken-Shibu moved, and the two swords came to life, spinning through the air in a metallic blur. He spun in circles as well, his feet in constant motion as he danced across the stage to the beat of his humming swords, moving neither fast nor slow, but at a steady and sedate pace. Round and round he went, man and swords moving as one in a hypnotic pattern of blurred steel and flashing light which blended perfectly with Ken-Shibu’s striking robes and colourful feathers. Though Luo-Luo thought his opera performance sublime, this sword-work took her breath away, for it was both beautiful and deadly, a continuous flow of motion punctuated by lightning fast thrusts and slashes meant to slaughter imaginary foes.

And then, as suddenly as it began, it was all over, with Ken-Shibu having made a full circuit of the stage and returned to his initial starting position. “Please,” he said, not even short of breath as he politely saluted with both swords reversed in his hands. “Your guidance would be much appreciated.”

“Very pretty,” Lord Husband replied, carelessly leaving his neck exposed as he lifted himself on stage. There was no grace in his movements, no beauty in the mount, for Lord Husband merely hopped up and sat on the stage before bringing his legs around and over, much like how an older toddler might climb stairs. “Not very practical though.”

Smirking as Lord Husband dusted off his pants, Ken-Shibu smiled at the audience as if sharing some private joke. “Please, enlighten us all.”

“Sure.” Holding out both hands, Lord Husband stood silent for long seconds and said, “Swords please, unless you’d prefer I show you empty handed. I don’t mind, but you’re paying for the lesson, so I figure I should give it my all.”

Clearly suspicious of Lord Husband, Ken-Shibu eventually handed over his Spiritual Weapons hilt first and Lord Husband stepped away to test them. “Lighten them please,” he said, while bringing the swords about in a slow routine, very similar to those stylish flourishes Ken-Shibu so loved. “And Hone the longer one. I’m much shorter than you are, which means I’ll have to carve up your stage a little to make the same movements. Little lighter. Too much, back a bit. Perfect. Hold it just like that and get off the stage.”

Once Ken-Shibu was in place, Lord Husband smiled and said, “Watch carefully and listen.”

