And then he was off, mimicking Ken-Shibu’s movements at about three-quarter speed. “You move using Coiling the Nest,” he began, slowly but confidently twirling himself around while his blades danced through the air, in complete control at all times. “It looks nice, but one, it’s stupid to spin around in battle, and two, you’re moving in an incredibly predictable pattern. Watch my steps, because they’re the same as yours, and you’ll see what I mean. One-two three, one-two three, one-two three, one. Stutter-step, then back to one-two three, one-two three.” Stopping in place, Lord Husband returned to his starting point and explained, “You do that the whole circuit. It’s terrible. Anyone with eyes will stab you in the foot, because by repeating the three same steps over and over again, you’re telling them exactly where your foot will be at any given time. Also, your ‘three’ step is this wide sweeping circle that could easily be interrupted, and that stutter-step is an open invitation to catch you off balance and sweep you off your feet, so you should stop using both those steps so habitually.”

Though unable to see Ken-Shibu’s face with his back turned as it was, Luo-Luo could hear the chill in his tone at being publicly talked down to by a man more than a decade his junior. “The footwork is merely to show off the flexibility of my swordplay,” Ken-Shibu said, so defensively that even Luo-Luo could tell he thought Lord Husband was right.

“You say this, but bad habits have a tendency to pop up at the worst moments. Practice does not make perfect. Perfect practice makes perfect, so never settle for anything less than your best.”

“...Understood.” Luo-Luo could almost hear Ken-Shibu grinding his teeth. “The swordplay then?”

“Interesting stuff, but not really all that different from your footwork, just flashier and slightly more complicated.” Having followed along with Lord Husband’s explanation, Luo-Luo hadn’t paid much mind to his sword work, but to the best of her knowledge, it had seemed every bit as flawless as his footwork, and he demonstrated it once again. “Your swords are constantly in motion, ready to attack or defend, and from what I can tell, you stick to multiple variations of four similar Movements: Sweeps the Rushes, Rending Fang, Crooked Claw, and Standing Fury.” Hearing Lord Husband call out their names while going through the motions, Luo-Luo thought she could see the base Movements in his twisting, rotating motions, but she wasn’t entirely sure. “The interesting part,” Lord Husband continued, moving beyond the point he last stopped at, “Is how you shift the patterns in subtle ways to mislead your opponents. Very clever, because you start off with one, two, three, four, one, two, three, four, getting them used to the pattern. Then you switch it around, with one, two, four, three, then next is four, one, three, two. Mixing familiar with unfamiliar, interrupt their flow and pick it back up at a different beat, very disorienting for anyone not paying close attention.”

...Which of course, was Ken-Shibu’s goal. To confuse and confound Lord Husband, so even if he did offer proper guidance, Ken-Shibu could then turn around and claim his guidance was flawed. A crafty trap within a trap, playing on Lord Husband’s over-confidence, but this only showed they didn’t know him at all. Lord Husband continued spouting off numbers and offering criticism until he finished the circuit, at which point his shirt and brow was starting to show signs of sweat and his chest heaved ever so slightly from the brief bout of exertion. “Whew,” he said, slumping down in a show of fatigue, playing it up instead of hiding it. “You need to work on your Lightening control too, it was slipping and varying at the end there. Anyways, like I said, pretty, but hardly practical, much like the gems in your sword. Stick to dancing, because the Defiled will literally eat you alive on the battlefield.” Winking as he tossed Ken-Shibu’s swords towards him, he added, “Contact me once you’ve picked out a venue, and I’ll bring the costumes for you to look at.”

“Hold on.” Unwilling to give up so easily, Ken-Shibu growled, “The deal was for fifteen minutes, and my time is not yet up.” Leaping on stage with effortless grace, he flourished his swords once again and growled, “I won’t challenge a cripple, so call your friends down and I’ll show you how I’d fare against the Defiled.”

Luo-Luo’s heart skipped a beat as what she dreaded most had finally happened. By calling Lord Husband a cripple, Ken-Shibu had thrown away all pretenses of face, and Lord Husband’s response would set the standard for all other public interactions from here on out. Thankfully, he didn’t respond with anger or vitriol, nor did he even respond right away. Instead, he stared for long seconds before shaking his head, before asking, “Have you ever seen a million Defiled, gathered on the fields across from you? I have. Most of you here probably haven’t, and don’t think much of it. It’s only a million Defiled. Just more bodies to cut through, right?” Lord Husband’s voice hardened, so haunted and hurt. “It’s not. You might understand what the number means conceptually, but I don’t think any of you truly comprehend how staggering a number one million really is.” Taking a deep breath, Lord Husband turned to address the crowd and pointed at his feet. “If I were to stand here and count the seconds until I reached one million, it would take me eleven days, thirteen hours, forty-six minutes, and forty seconds. That’s one million seconds. Eleven and a half days, let’s call it. Think about that for a bit, and translate that to Defiled on the battlefield.” Turning back to Ken-Shibu, Lord Husband bared his teeth and said, “There are tens of millions of Defiled out there, possibly even more now since they’ve captured the West. If you want to show off how you’d fare against them, then head West and show the Empire. Dance with the Defiled and make it back alive to prove me wrong. Until such a time, you are, in my eyes, nothing more than a trumped up play-boy of a painted dancer.”

Jumping off the stage to land with an admittedly ungainly thump, Lord Husband stalked away and said, “Forget the payment. We’ll say this first lesson is free, because I’ve no more time to quibble with dancers. I’ve got a date with my mother at a tea-house to get to.”

Her heart swelling with pride, Luo-Luo hugged Roc ever so tightly as she gathered her things and raced out the room after him, so pleased by how Lord Husband handled things. Today, he showed Central that he was clever, but aloof, crippled, but not useless, and most importantly, proud, but also filial.

She was right to trust in Lord Husband’s judgment instead of endlessly pestering him about politics and decorum. Honestly, today couldn’t have gone better if she’d planned it all out herself.

Chapter Meme
