Pyre raised an eyebrow. It was a chilly night, the wind crisp as it whistled past the trees and rustled the canopy. She was once again in her “snake” form, but she was purposely keeping the eyebrows this time. Sue her, they made up 90% of her ability to make expressions.

Callan, at least, seemed to have already gotten used to this form. That was what happened when you spent most of your time around a flesh-warping demon, she supposed.

“You sure? I haven’t heard anything.”

“Well, I doubt they’d broadcast it.” The ghost shifted to the side as another breeze passed. Wind had no effect on him, but old habits died hard, it seemed. “I was watching the manor to see if there’s a way around the wards, and I saw a carriage on the grounds. The coachman was talking to a servant, and he pointed at the garrison. I think they’re planning a visit soon.”

Pyre hummed in acknowledgement. “Alright, thanks for the heads up, kid.” She’d be surprised if the Bellheins selected people this early on in their “observations,” but maybe she’d get lucky. At the very least, she could stand out enough that she’d be the first on their list the next time they came around.

Callan hesitated. “You’re, uh, not going to blow your cover, are you?”

The demon snorted. “I’ve been fine this whole time. I’m not going to fuck it up now.”

The ghost nodded slowly, but Pyre could tell there was more on his mind. “What?” she asked, voice blunt.

“Sorry, it’s just, I wish I could do more.” He sounded frustrated. “I still haven’t found those floor plans.”

“To be fair, they probably don’t leave those hanging out in the open.” Especially not a family as paranoid as the Bellheins. “Anyway, you’re studying magic and shit, right? Call it a learning opportunity.”

“I guess…” Callan scowled. “I still can’t get into the sanctum, though.”

Ever since that first night, the ghost hadn’t failed to bring up the sanctum every meeting. To be fair, a waterfall of ichor did sound pretty cool, though it looked like neither of them would be able to see it anytime soon. Its wards were apparently just as specific and detailed as the ones around the manor, and as long as construction was ongoing, no one was allowed inside. Pyre could see parts of the sanctum’s exterior from the garrison, and it certainly looked magnitudes larger than the one in Winrow. Which she also hadn’t been able to see inside, come to think of it.

“Tell you what, after I get that guard position, I’ll see if I can get in. We can drop by after we grab the horn.”

Callan looked up, expression hopeful. “Really?”

“Might as well try.” She was starting to get curious herself. Heck, maybe the amount of ichor in the sanctum would make it easier to transfer the curse to the horn since ichor powered magic and all. It made sense in her head, at least.

“Okay, but you need to get in the manor first,” Callan said.

And there was the kicker, wasn’t it? Pyre swiveled her tail, tilting the eye on its end up towards the inky black sky above them. The moon’s silver light was soft and luminous. It reminded her a little of the glow of ichor, actually.

“Guess we’ll see if the Bellheins show up tomorrow.”
