“… May I try something that will not leave me a gibbering mess if I fail? I am rather good at [Shadowalk], as well?”

Melemizargo laughed, and the world shook. “Yes. You may try this instead.”

Jane had been [Shadowalk]ing for days now.

… Not the most auspicious start to attempting to please a dark god thousands of years old, but it was better than accidentally putting her brain outside of her body. Messing up with [Shadowalk] would probably just cut off a limb, or four.

… How to even start, though?

“Let me help.” Melemizargo said, “This is the harmony you are looking for.”

Melemizargo hummed, and something clicked inside of Jane as the manasphere responded to the Dark Dragon's gentle song. The shadows of the city, even locked in this [Time Stop] between the Dark God and Jane, grew like grass under the sun. Darkness flowed into the sky, and Jane felt the darkness inside of her grow to match.

Jane had felt the melody coming out of Melemizargo, every time she stepped into the shadows. But with this new display, she felt Reality and the Manasphere like never before, like her entire being was made of shadows, like her soul and all of her connection to magic was resonating with Melemizargo’s gentle tune.

In for a penny, in for a pound.

Jane joined the song, vibrating her soul and her magic like she never knew she could.

Suddenly, she was [Shadowalk]ing, her spider legs disappearing into the shadows under her feet; sinking into the deformed bodies of Basil and Dorthy.

And just like that, Jane remembered where she was, and what she was doing. She stepped up and out of the shadows, up and out of Dorthy and Basil, stilling her soul; her magic. “I think I got it now. I will have to work on the rest later. That was most informative.”

Melemizargo smiled wide, showing countless fangs. He flicked his wings wide—

He went utterly still.

“I remember you, now! Yes! You were with that nice man that sang me a song in the Underworld! How is he doing these days? What is your relationship to him?”

Jane went still, but said, “He is doing well. I talk to him every night; he’s my father.”

“Your father! That’s wonderful! He’s added such a nice variety to this stagnant Script.” Melemizargo flapped his wings, hovering into the sky without moving the air. “Keep working on your magic, Jane. I’m sure you’ll get a claw into it sooner or later. I didn’t start learning spells until I was thirty five years old. Rather old for a dragon, but that’s how it is, sometimes.” He gazed off into the sunrise above, saying, “Speaking of fathers and daughters, I wonder how Rozeta is doing?” He looked down to Jane. “Have you heard anything about her? We don’t talk as much as I would like.”

“… They call her the Ever-Moving, so I think she’s rather busy.”

Melemizargo laughed a bit, shaking the world, then said, “She is, isn’t she!” He looked down. He frowned. “This garden is such a mess.” He pulsed.

The Garden of Ar’Kendrithyst returned to the glory of last month, with tall trees and well kept streams and lakes. Grasses regrew, as fungi began to glow in the early morning twilight. Moisture layered the air in fog and life, as Melemizargo breathed out across the land, a breath of pure magic, that soaked into the soil, growing and repairing everything it touched.

The statue of inhumanity under Jane remained under her, Basil and Dorthy still frozen in time, along with the rest of the world, but the vines and crystal and growths of the statue turned green and vibrant, mossing over the cruelty of the Shades; a layer of fluffy jade.

“Take care, then!”

Melemizargo slipped through a rent in Reality.

Time resumed.

Everything happened really fast.

Basil and Dorthy both screamed in pain under Jane’s feet and fangs.

The Shades resumed their laughter, but that cut out almost as fast as it came back. They knew something was wrong.

Jane’s HP was at 9, but her MP was… also at 9. She had not been meditating while talking to Melemizargo; she tried, but she couldn’t. As the Script returned to Jane, she immediately began meditating as she slapped Favored Spell onto [Shadowalk] —which looked a bit different, but now was not the time for that— while at the same time grabbing Dorthy and Basil and yanking them along with her into the shadows, down and away, fast as she could go, faster. Faster.

Suddenly, Jane stood upon the red bridge, next to the sandy courtyard right outside of Forward Base, with Basil and Dorthy in her spidery legs, both of them horrifically deformed and dying. Forward Base had been emptied for the Champion’s quest; no one knew how bad it would get. No one was there when Jane arrived.

Jane sent to Killzone, to Liquid, to anyone who could listen, telling them she needed assistance and mana potions at Forward Base, right now.

Killzone responded, ‘What the FUCK DID YOU DO!’ as he popped into the air beside Jane. He grabbed Dorthy and Basil. In two more blips, Killzone was gone then back again, tossing two mana potions onto the ground, saying “Debrief! Now!”

On zero mana and very little HP, Jane caught the mana potions and tipped them into her spider mouth. Swallowing, she said, “Tania put me to sleep as a spider, because that’s a thing she can do to spiders. I woke up after whatever happened—” Jane looked at the Kill and Exterminate Quest; Planter’s name was gone. “—After they killed Planter and were put in that statue? Then Melemizargo came down—”

“And you took an opportunity from us.” Fallopolis floated in the sky over the red bridge, asking, “What did you get for it, Jane?”

Fallopolis and Tania floated in the sky, over the red bridge leading from the Crack to Forward Base. As they floated, waiting for an answer, an [Avatar of Melemizargo] crawled out of a far tower; a giant of shadow and air, dimming the light all around. Another Avatar stood up to the left of Forward Base, while another stood to the right. Jane and Killzone were completely surrounded. Killzone stepped to stand beside Jane, his eyes locked on the Shades in front and the Avatars all around; watching everything all around him, just like Jane.

Another Shade floated above the top of Forward Base, behind Jane and Killzone, wearing full-length, fully concealing black hooded robes. Jane didn’t know that one. Killzone glanced at the third Shade, and went still for a brief moment.

Killzone said, “You’re all encroaching on my territory. Leave, or I will force you to leave.”

“I won’t speak for all of us—” Fallopolis said, “But this Champion ordeal is over, the day’s events are done, and I will leave, but only after Jane tells me what she got from my god.”

Jane tried to think if she got anything—

[Shadowalk]?

Greater Shadowalk, instant, long range, 10 MP per second + Variable ~{Favored Spell}~

You are the everlasting night.

Oh yeah. [Shadowalk]'s blue box had majorly changed, but more than that, it felt different. Jane felt the spell inside of her Status, inside of her soul, like it was a muscle long neglected but finally working again. [Shadowalk] vibrated, and as Jane matched herself to those vibrations the spell slipped over her body like a fine moisturizer. It was a funny comparison, but after going without moisturizers and shampoos for two months, using [Shadowalk] now was like feeling good in her skin. Really good. Her mana was already coming back from the potions Killzone had given her, so she [Polymorph]ed back into her self—

She came back to her human self, losing half of her senses, but feeling even better than how she felt as a spider. [Conjure Armor] replaced her clothes, and with her human eyes, she saw what her channeling of [Shadowalk] looked like to everyone else around her.

As her soul sang of the hidden, the dark, and the other side of sight, the shadows inside the crystals of the Dead City danced to life under her inner song, all around Jane, and her [Conjure Armor] turned midnight blue. Jane looked at herself, cutting off [Greater Shadowalk] wondering if something was really, really wrong with her body, or her magic, or her self. She didn't know. She looked up at the Shades.

Tania laughed, vanishing in a shattering of shadows, followed quickly by all the rest, except Fallopolis.

The grandmotherly Shade smiled upon Jane, saying, “She's groOOwing up so faAAst!”

Then she turned with a giggle and floated away, toward the Crack, toward the sunlight, laughing as she went.

One by one, the Avatars of the Dark God retreated into the kendrithyst towers, like shadows melting. Sometime when Jane wasn’t looking, the hooded Shade had vanished.

With the sky above turning a brighter shade of blue, Jane felt like something had gone right, but also terribly wrong. She picked at the hem of her [Conjure Armor], poking at the darkness in the color of her magic; it didn’t go away. Jane flashed out a brief [Greater Shadowalk], and the shadows of her armor only darkened. She relaxed her magic back inside of herself, and the color stayed. Maybe her magic was just dark blue, now. Maybe… Maybe something really bad had happened when she talked to Melemizargo, but she didn’t feel any different than normal.

How would she know, anyway? She would know if she had been changed, wouldn’t she?

Killzone said, “Your eyes aren’t black and white; you’re not a full Shade.”

Jane looked to Killzone and felt her blood run cold, then warm. Quietly, she said, “Good,” the word gutting out of her like viscera yanked out of a fish.

Killzone sighed, his posture relaxing. “Do you have enough mana to send some images of what you saw? To give a better, full debriefing?”

“Not… really… I’m at a few hundred.”

Jane looked up, at the sun peeking into the city, spilling through the Crack in the wall to catch upon the red crystal road, and the towers all around her. A wind picked up, flowing into the Crack, carrying with it the scent of the Crystal Forest.

She asked, "Is it… Over?”

“For today. Yes.”

Jane breathed, trying to relax.

She asked, “What’s the final count for rescues? Is Yetta's team okay?”

“Two hundred and four people saved from dungeons. Permits into the city will be paused for a while, though we won’t deny people entry. Even with all this excitement, the Shades will still want more.” Killzone said, “Allan killed himself in the battle with Planter; activating some final magic to kill the Shade. It worked. They tried some other stuff beforehand; that did not work.” Killzone looked to the air. “Basil and Dorthy are dead.”

Jane felt a tear fall. She didn’t speak for several moments, because her voice was sure to break. She liked Dorthy. She was starting to like Basil. When she could, she said, “It could have been worse.”

Killzone agreed. “A lot worse.”

“Tania told me...” Jane said, “They were killing each other to...”

“To summon Melemizargo. We understood that… way too late. Silverite says that the last time Melemizargo was summoned, it took the deaths of fifty Shades. She's thinking now that the number needed is probably proprotional to the number of Shades alive."

Jane asked, “How did Yetta and… How did they end up in that statue?”

“That was Gora, Treant, Skyhook, and Rodel, all working together, while all the rest either watched, or sang.” Killzone frowned. “I’ve never felt so powerless to stop them before.”

Jane dried her tears, and said, “I would like to request some time off to go hunt certain monsters for [Polymorph], and to complete my Class. I’ve heard that unicorns have this ability called [Aura of Freedom], that would negate many of the controlling effects employed by Shades, and I would prefer to have this ability before resuming my duties. Tania can put spiders to sleep, so I have no doubt that she can do worse.”

Killzone smiled, faintly. “Granted. Provisionally. After we know the new lay of the land. It might take a week. Or maybe just a day.” Killzone added, “Hunting unicorns is crazy dangerous, Jane. Was Tania putting you to sleep the first time you experienced that sort of mind magic?”

“Yes.”

“Unicorns are entirely mind magic. It gets a lot worse than a sleep spell.” Killzone added, “And I’m sure you’re right about Tania having stronger stuff to use against spiders. Now that I'm thinking... I'm going to have to take you off duty for a while. Or at least forbid you from using your spider form inside the city.”

“She’s Melemizargo’s Champion, you know?”

Killzone looked across the city, saying, “Yes. We know.”

Jane nodded, watching the sun through the Crack. She turned to Killzone, her voice a heavy thing to get working correctly. “I’m not becoming a Shade, am I?”

Killzone shook his head, saying, “If all it took to become a Shade was to meet Melemizargo and have a nice chat with that monster, then Veird would fall to chaos and death in a matter of moments.” He explained, “No one accidentally becomes a Shade. Not even Dark Mages are in danger of becoming Shades, though there is a bit of a stigma against them. No; becoming a Shade is a process, which starts with the guided implantation of a rad upon your heart, a time of struggling to emerge victorious against insanity, and culminating in another Shade personally assisting in your resurrection. It is not something that happens in one sunrise.”

Jane felt calmer.

He looked to Jane. “You don’t have a rad inside of you. I’m not worried.”

“Is there a way to change the color of my magic back?”

“Not without a great deal of effort and psychic mutilation. Just chalk it up to today’s trauma.” Killzone said, “No one would doubt such a thing. I bet a lot of people's magic will look different after today.”

Jane nodded, slowly. “What now?”

“Now, we go back to Command Center.”

