Yetta breathed. She said, “Planter splattered me across the sidewalk as an opening move, so I missed the first five minutes.” She loosened, and words began to pour out of her. “I have almost 20,000 HP. Planter’s spell was not a crit. It was just a pure hit for two hundred thousand Force damage. I had [Defend] up and it was only one hit, but I only survived because I’m a Regenerator. Everyone else managed to evade his subsequent attacks. Allan—” She said, “Allan had really good Mana Sense. Cyril, too. But nothing like Allan. He saw the attack once, and was able to tell when it would come again. Allan is the only reason we had any hope of winning; we won because of him.

“Planter might have started off as an orcol, but he immediately went into his [Avatar of Melemizargo] and became a tentacled monstrosity. Limbs like trees, with the length to reach halfway across the entire Garden in one attack. He tore up his Garden to kill us. Dorthy did her Juggernaut thing and bounced his most obvious attacks right back at him. Basil was on minion duty; Allan was on minion duty, too, but sweeping up the smaller targets was Basil’s forte. Planter had a lot of minions, but we ventured down to Nergal and got Basil a Flare Snake expecting minions. Do you know about Flare Snakes? They’re these really big snakes that flash-ash everything they touch. It worked well; Tenders and the smaller wretches were literally falling apart as Basil zipped around the battlefield.”

Yetta got a far off, happy look in her eyes, as tears fell, as she talked of her friends.

“Cyril— Warder. Just so you know. He threw 10,000 point [Ward]s on each of us. His [Ward]s regenerate really fast, too. Scion of Focus… Dorthy was a Scion of Strength. Allan was a Scion of Willpower, though he often lamented that he should have picked Focus. Basil was a Scion of Focus." Yetta laughed, once. "Basil and Cyril would always rag on Allan...”

She went silent.

Jane asked, “But the Daydroppers have only been out for 17 days, or something?”

Yetta smiled, saying, “We’ve known each other for a lot longer than that. Allan was a neighborhood kid who went to the Tower and got himself a ‘right ‘n poper edu-ma-cation’.” She laughed. “Allan came back home to say ‘hi’ to his momma a few years ago. One thing led to another and he joined up with the four of us, forming a nice adventuring party. We’ve been killing monsters around the world for years. When we were kids, Cyril would escape from his gilded tower to come play wyrms and knights with us in the dirt and the fields. Dorthy was the one who got us out of trouble; Basil was the one who got us into trouble. Always deep into the shit, with Basil. He wasn’t a Polymage; he just liked everyone to think he was. He was actually a Seeker. He never told us what he was looking for; always said he’d know it if he found it.”

Yetta breathed. She said, “Anyway. Planter’s minions were taken care of. Planter himself was between an anvil and a hammer; Dorthy on one side, me on the other. Allan raining destruction from on high— Battlemage. Very good at killing; only got stronger as a fight drew on.” She said, “And we killed him. There were no real surprises past the first splatter; once Allan’s Mana Sense got ramped up and he could tell us every spell before it happened. And then… Allan killed Planter, and the rest of us helped.” She laughed. “The rest of us even managed to stop the watching Shades from striking the final blow. They got no credit. Each of us got between 18 and 20 percent; they got nothing. They’re not going to qualify for the Kill and Exterminate Quest, at all.” She sighed. “Then… they all attacked at once. A few as Avatars… A few as themselves. And we ended up in that statue.”

Yetta stopped talking.

Jane filled the silence with her own story, “I was stolen away by Tania. She has mind magic over shadowspiders, greater than anyone in the Army knew. They drilled me pretty damn hard on what to expect from her, and from being a spider inside Ar’Kendrithyst...” Jane said, “Tania only woke me up to taunt me, saying that I couldn’t do anything because their summoning was complete. But… I could. I saw you down there and I rushed to save you two, first. When I came back… Melemizargo interrupted me from saving Dorthy and Basil. I’m sorry for your loss.”

Yetta’s eyes were wide, staring at her tea, as she listened. She sipped her tea.

Jane added sugar to her own tea, then had a sip.

Yetta slowly came back to herself, and said, “Thank you… for saving Cyril and I.”

“Thank you for not killing me right at the start of this whole horrific ordeal.”

Yetta laughed loud. “That was just… unfair of me. Sorry.”

“The whole thing was unfair, Yetta. None of it was your fault.”

Yetta sighed, long and low. After a moment, she said, “When I accepted this Championship… It was a group decision. We all knew that there was a very high chance something like this was going to happen. We didn't expect Shades, but... But when Atunir came to me, Odaali was already dead; there was no one to name in our Final Affairs. Everyone we knew was gone. All of us were hungry for vengeance and all of the people on the quest were known terrorists that we had no problem killing. Everything just… sort of happened very fast. And it’s not over yet. The vengeance is still there, but its a quieter thing, now that my— my family is down to just… to just Cyril and I.”

Jane nodded. Her tea had gone cold already, but a tiny bit of [Prestidigitation] warmed it right back up.

Yetta asked, “So how was Melemizargo? I think I would have shit myself.”

Jane smirked. “I probably dropped some spider thread, for sure.”

Yetta scrunched her face, exclaiming, “You met the dark god as a dark spider?”

“Believe me, it wasn’t intentional.” Jane explained, “Apparently Tania Webwalker is Melemizargo’s Champion. And she has the spiders, and Mel is a bit confused and one thing led to another and I ended up talking out of my ass to save my skin, I guess? I’m not even sure. But Silverite said that this was a win, and she would know, so I’m going to take the win.”

Yetta stared at her tea. She cast a bit of [Prestidigitation] fire into the cup, warming the tea to steaming. She almost took a sip, but then she set her cup down, and said, “I need something stronger than this.”

Jane smiled. “I’ll get the alcohol and we can keep talking about a lot of things, because I’m probably going to come with you to Odaali. If I can; if you'll have me.”

Yetta smiled, then softly said, “Okay.”

Jane blipped home, grabbed the good alcohol she had kept stashed in the back of the cold room, and blipped back to Yetta.

Yetta was sobbing into her tea.

Jane set out some shots on the table in front of Yetta while Yetta cried. Yetta briefly came back to herself, did three shots, then went back to crying. For a little while, there were a lot of emotions; most of them sad, but some of them happy and full of laughter. Somewhere in the middle of that, Cyril woke up. Jane and Yetta were already smashed. Cyril promptly joined them in drinking their emotions.

It wasn’t very healthy to drown emotions, Jane reflected somewhere in the middle of the night, but it was nice.

“Healthy?” Cyril shot, “We could all die tomorrow and I’m not drunk enough to handle that.”

“That's fair.”

Yetta stumbled to the door, saying, “Let’s go fuck up a bar.”

Cyril laughed. “You sound like Basil.”

Yetta said, “Well someone’s gotta be an irresponsible idiot! Might as well be me!”

Jane would later reflect that the night after Planter’s death, bar hopping with Yetta and Cyril, was full of pain and strong emotions, but it was also one of the best bar crawls she had ever been on. And the company was pretty great, too.

They got a lot of free drinks.

and

They punched so many idiots.

- - - -

When the soldiers of Spur's Army would later return to Forward Base the next day, they would find bouquets of roses and other flowers laying on the red road. After a quick check in with the proper people, fireballs would rain down on the bouquets, incinerating roses, orchids, succulents, and lots, and lots, of parasites.
