A new stone club—far smaller than those he usually used—appeared in his clawed fist in an instant. The ogre swung his newest weapon at her, which forced her to use her Void-kissed left knife to intercept his attack. [Void Edge] carved through the conjured stone, but her opponent managed to twist away from her follow-up attack with her right knife—he received only a shallow wound on his arm from their exchange.

Ranthia sprang back before his tail found her and activated [Reflections of Reality] once again. The tail smashed into the baseplate with a muffled clang, followed by his whips. Her perception warped to the new image before they reached her. Her opponent’s eyes widened.

He was off-balance and his appendages were all moving in the wrong direction—he couldn’t possibly stop her.

Ranthia brought her knives up, and the winged ogre launched into the sky as though he had been fired from unseen artillery. Ranthia’s Void erased nothing except air.

“Which of us is running away now?!” Ranthia snarled after her opponent.

Even his strange ability to suddenly shoot himself into the air was far, far faster than it had been when she wounded him, back when he sought to prey upon their scouts. She was frustrated, but she danced in the remains of the ruined tent while she waited.

Her opponent wasn’t fleeing. He circled tightly through the air above her, then entered a sharp dive, eyes locked on her mistweave. Ranthia sent an image through the hole the ogre had torn in the adjacent tent and waited to meet the ogre’s dive. She was willing to endure a bit of pain if it meant she could inflict true harm upon her opponent before she had to shift.

It wasn’t like those powerful elves—may Xaoc curse their cowardice—were bothering to visit the promised elven retribution upon the twin!

The ogre arrived. His claws bored their way deep into her shoulders and upper arms, but Ranthia slammed both knives into the ogre’s chest. Unfortunately, she couldn’t sweep them through his organs while he held her limbs in place, but she was content that she had inflicted a deep wound—even if her opponent wasn’t showing any signs of pain. Ranthia, inwardly, reached for [Reflections of Reality].

…And learned that her image inside the tent was gone.

A tendril of Ooze revealed itself as it retracted—the ogre had somehow guessed her plan! The brute’s wings tore at the air as he began to lift off with her.

Ranthia snarled defiantly and activated the Skill again, seeking the image that she had left atop the wall. Yet, once again, [Reflections of Reality] failed to find purchase. Ranthia felt like ice flowed through her veins. The ogre had never gotten close enough to possibly have destroyed that image. The image she had left outside of the base was gone too!

In the mere moment she was distracted, her opponent hunched his torso, which let him twist his body enough for his foot-talons to dig their way into the meat of her thighs. Ranthia hissed in fury as she struggled, but her opponent had her firmly grappled—she was helplessly pinned by his far greater strength.

Worse, the only thing she could see was the ogre’s hideous form. Desperately, Ranthia thrashed as she sought the barest glance around his shoulder or enough space to turn her head. She needed line of sight to create images, yet every time she succeeded, a tendril of Ooze destroyed one of her still-too-fragile images before she could shift.

They were rolling through the air in ways that Ranthia suspected were physically impossible—but for the System’s influence—for creatures that flew through the power of wings, even as they ascended higher and higher into the sky. At length, her opponent seemed to realize what she was doing or how [Scattered Reflections] worked and a thick band of Ooze cemented her head and neck in place, her gaze locked onto his broad, leathery chest.

True desperation settled in. She was pinned and she couldn’t even get enough leverage from her arms to throw a knife meaningfully. Ranthia howled obscenities and abuses at her captor for a precious moment or three, then silently, desperately struggled while she tried to come up with a plan—some way to escape.

“I finally have you, monster. I’m ripping you apart in midair, then I’ll devour your head. That should stop you from coming back. And if not? Well, I guess I’ll just have to consume every last scrap of your stinking meat!” The ogre snarled triumphantly. His foul, fetid breath was hot against her face.

He was baiting her for a response. She had felt his Ooze gathering on her cheeks, and she had no intention of letting the beast that was once an ogre stuff her mouth full of Ooze. No one truly knew how the parasites reproduced or spread to other hosts and she was feeling—paradoxically, considering her situation—somewhat risk averse.

Instead, Ranthia glared murder at her captor—channeling every whit of her fury and venomous hate into her glare. He couldn’t appreciate it thanks to her blindfold, but it cleared her head ever-so-slightly.

Then [Combat Awareness] pinged. She was in so much danger it felt as though the skill was politely informing her that a new bit of pain was inbound. An arrow launched from somewhere below flew perfectly past the flapping leather strips of her skirts and punched deep into the meat of her butt. She already had claws and talons tearing into her flesh, so the newest source of agony barely even registered.

Seriously, how did someone have aim so terrible that they managed to hit her?! She was less than half the damned ogre’s size, even before his wings. For Xaoc’s sake, whoever did that should have aimed for his wings; if a lucky hit managed to force him to release her or even dropped them both from the sky, her situation would be immeasurably improved!

The ogre let out a surprised hiss and hurriedly beat his wings, bringing them even higher into the increasingly cold sky. Sadly, the brute was undeniably clever—he knew that the archer threatened his moment of triumph.

This can’t be how it ends! Not to this blight on Pallos! Ranthia screamed inwardly. Yet no matter how she struggled, her opponent’s grip proved to be unshakeable. All that she was accomplishing was digging his claws even deeper into her flesh, and her blood wasn’t slippery enough to foul his deadly grip.

Her pain was ramping up by the moment. Her opponent was, oh-so-fucking-slowly, applying more and more force upon her. His forelimbs pulled her upper body by the shoulders and forearms in one direction while his hindlimbs pulled her lower body by her thighs and hips in the opposite direction. He was taking his time, content in his safety.

The fucker wanted her to suffer.

She had been torn apart plenty of times. Which was a terrible sentence borne of more than a few horrible life experiences. But she had never been slowly, leisurely pulled apart by someone that just wanted to find out exactly how much force it took.

She had never felt so helpless.

There was no hope of rescue. As much fun as the mental image of Sentinel Aurora crashing her [Starship] into the ogre was, the sun hadn’t set. Aurora was the only Sentinel that could get so high—as far as she knew—and Night’s arrival was similarly impossible. No one in Remera had a flight Skill worth a damn; arguably she had the best one. And after everything, it was clear those two elves were no allies to her.

And yet, even as the pain built up… Even as her bones started to crack and her flesh started to tear… Ranthia found her plan.

It wasn’t a good plan. It was desperation masquerading as tactical decision-making. Even if she succeeded, there was a real chance that it would be nothing more than a final act of vengeance, but if she was about to face Xaoc, then by every last god and goddess, she would drag her killer along with her.

Her opponent planned to devour her head, which meant he needed to adjust his grip and bring her upper body within striking range!

With her mind settled, Ranthia stopped thrashing. She pretended to be in too much agony to do anything but scream, while she kept her mouth and teeth remained tightly clenched shut. Which… wasn’t much of an act; it was damned near the truth of her situation.

She knew the agony of being torn apart. But having it play out slowly somehow made it far, far worse.

The pain built. Every instant invented a new, slightly different form of suffering. Then came wet tearing sounds, followed by the final, horrible crack of bone. And then, with a final roar of triumph, the ogre tore her in half. Her ribcage and everything that was above it went one way. The rest of what used to be her went another.

Ranthia very nearly lost herself in the exquisite agony of that instant. Darkness and an all-encompassing light clashed for dominion over her mind as she clung desperately to her fading consciousness. And while the desperate struggle to endure for a few precious moments waged in her mind, her body hung limply in her killer’s claws.

Ranthia was losing her struggle. She faded rapidly in the interminable moment her opponent held her in triumph. And then her mind convinced her that she heard Avyna scream.

Gods damn everything—Gemheart, you were supposed to wait inside! The thought brought her from the brink of oblivion. Unwittingly, she nearly laughed aloud at the absurdity—she was literally dying, yet she was worried about Avyna’s safety somewhere far, far below!

Hopefully, the ogre assumed it was just a shudder from her failing body. She had dropped her knives from her near-lifeless grasp at some point, but her bracers were crumbling to replace them. The ogre released his grip on her left shoulder and raised her up. Through her blindfold, she watched and waited for the perfect opportunity—she wasn’t close enough yet. Her opponent wasn’t committed to a strike.

If her final attack failed, she would die alone. And that couldn’t be tolerated.

Yet every heartbeat threatened to be her last as her lifeblood and other viscera tumbled free of her severed torso. With every last drop of her willpower, she fought to hang on. She struggled to stave off Black Crow’s approach. She just had to wait a few more moments.

Her opponent’s maw split open, wide enough to hide his eyes. And her moment came.

Now.

The thought was meant to evoke a war cry, but a weak, wet gurgle was all that escaped her throat. Perhaps it sounded angry. But what truly mattered was that her freed arm lashed out. [Void Edge] and [Echoes of Devastation] were active. There was no way to dance, but the lethality of her Skills would be enough. She had the perfect angle and range—there was nothing that could possibly make her miss.

And yet.

Something went wrong and her arm failed to move quite how she willed it to. The ogre’s bestial lips dropped just enough to show her the twisted man’s surprise reflected in his eyes—the only reaction he managed in his final moment. And then he was gone.

But she had swung too high!

The kill notification for the ogre appeared, but she ignored it after confirming what she already knew—there was no paired notification informing her that she had killed the ogre’s parasite! Without the host’s vitality infusing the corpse, Ranthia saw the parasitic ooze writhing within thanks to [Vision of the Void]. Her other arm was still pinned in the dead ogre’s grasp and there was no time to try to free it; she tried desperately to bring her knife back around instead. But the blade had escaped her grip at some point, and her empty hand kind of pathetically thumped against the shoulder of the ogre’s corpse—which wasn’t at all what she had tried to do.

The top part of his head was gone, but she still found herself staring at a triumphant smile frozen across his face.

A heartbeat was the only respite she received, before countless tendrils of Ooze lashed out and began to smash into and tear through her body, one after another. Bones broke and the last of her armor scattered to the winds. The final knife fell from her newly shattered arm’s grasp.

And then she was wrenched free of the ogre’s final death grip. It should have been her moment of salvation, but what she found herself in wasn’t an uncontrolled descent. Ranthia tore through the sky at impossible speeds, driven by some Skill that imbued the Ooze that still coated the ruined fragment of her body.

Caw! Caw! CAW!

She wasn’t sure if he was real or imagined, but even as the wind screamed past her ears, Black Crow drew near. Ranthia tried, desperately, to ignore his approach as she struggled to activate [Scattered Reflections] and [Reflections of Reality]. The former Skill had always felt as if it was instant, but even before an image fully formed in the air above her, she made impact.

And everything went black.
