The worst of the blast had passed and Matt simply needed to keep up his efforts for a month or three, which he didn’t mind in the least. Even after the initial clash, his Domain was still growing, albeit slowly. After that, the Tiered atmosphere and magnetic field of the planet could shield against the rest. Especially now that the planet was Tier 5.

Aster and the other four teleported up next to him and Matt spared what concentration he could to congratulate his bond.

Aster immediately said, “Ha! I’m now stronger than you, so you need to do whatever I say! I want my room to be twice the size it is. I need the extra space to fit my ego. Then I need a whole ice cream factory put into the house. No more excuses! Then I—”

Matt just rolled his eyes even as he ignored her increasingly ridiculous demands.

She finally only stopped when she got a message from Tolraubos’ baron, who was requesting she come and give a speech so the people of the world could thank her for elevating their planet's Tier, as well as giving them incredible notoriety that would undoubtedly serve as a tourism base for years to come.

Matt, left floating above the world, could only wonder if he was chopped liver in comparison, having been seemingly completely forgotten.

Still, Aster deserved her moment, and so Matt continued in his duties and ensured the planet would still be washed in just the right amount of radiation to create auroras but not be dangerous.

It was truly already good enough that Aster had had an Inspiration, let alone one on a low enough Tier world that she was able to force the Realm to protect the planet.

Matt was personally more upset by that.

He had never expected to experience such an event again, but now that he had, and one where he had been so close to it when it happened, his interest was beyond piqued.

Except, he hadn’t been able to divert much attention away from the world-destroying supernova, only able to look just enough to want to see more.

Not that he had been able to see much with his spiritual power being unable to push through the tear in reality to look outside.

The energy that had entered the Realm was truly from beyond the Realm, like what happened during an Ascension, but there was a subtle difference he wished he could investigate.

Unlike during an Ascension, it had converted itself into essence in a process that seemed entirely natural, but also so incredibly complex, Matt didn’t have even a chance of understanding even the smallest piece of it.

Still, he wanted to know more and his mind went to piecing together if he could form a guild team to investigate the phenomenon.

He’d first need someone who had an Inspiration and was actively holding it back, as well as a low-Tier world. The latter was easy to find, but the former wasn’t so easy. Most people who knew they were having an Inspiration had no reason to postpone it and let the revelation happen immediately.

Even then, those who could actually stop their Inspiration were few and far between.

That didn’t mean it was impossible.

If Matt put out the call and was willing to pay enough, it was possible.

Difficult, but possible.

The issue was, he didn’t know what purpose the research would be good for.

While Inspirations that triggered the defensive mechanism of a planet and Ascensions were rare, they had been happening for untold aeons. Many, many people had tried investigating them before him, attempting to figure out a way to permanently keep the passageway open.

Most who did so simply wanted a never-ending stream of the strange outer Realm energy to make forming Domains easier, as well as making Talents better. But others wanted passageways to higher Realms, hoping they could get information from them or the like, but not a single one had been successful in any way, shape, or form.

Which meant there was likely no reason for Matt to invest in such a project, but the ability to safely Tier up planets for effectively free was a lure he found hard to resist.

His realistic side took over and promptly shoved the idea into a box and locked it while throwing away the key.

Sadly, while he was still protecting Tolraubos, Liz, Aster, and everyone else had to leave to return to what they had been doing before what was only meant to be a few hour excursion turned into a week-long celebration.

It was during that time Matt got to see the effects of Aster’s Inspiration, as the aurora, which should have only lasted as long as Matt allowed the right amount of radiation to hit the magnetosphere, lingered.

It wasn’t enough to aspect the planet, but it did give him some interesting ideas to try for making aspected planets down the line.

Not that Matt minded, still having a stop on his journey back to Palustris he needed to complete before he returned.

Calafor was a Tier 5 world which had been brought from another dukedom when his and Liz’s had been formed, and had been one of their least problematic worlds.

Baron Negui Dalru was a steady man with a long history, having earned his non-hereditary title, working at a Viscount’s side for nearly five thousand years, and had a stellar record after taking over Calafor.

He was in one of Matt and Liz’s favorite group of barons because neither of them ever had to interact with the man.

Or, that was the case until a few years ago, when one of his local banks had started making off-schedule requests for physical credits.

In and of itself, that wasn’t that surprising. No bank was always perfectly accurate in their predictions of how much currency they would require, but with Matt and Liz’s limit on physical credits, they had needed to fill in much stricter request forms to receive the extra currency. After the third such request in short order, it had been brought to Matt and Liz’s attention.

At first, they had hoped it was connected to the counterfeiting rings that had continued to operate in their duchy as another lead would be immensely helpful, but it quickly became evident they weren’t so lucky.

Rather, all of the withdraws had been from one Timothy Bao, a Tier 3 who had been making the withdraws with zero attempt at subterfuge.

Normally, given such information, Matt and Liz would just wipe their hands of the venture, but what was strange enough to pique their interest was that none of his withdrawn credits ever appeared in circulation, which spoke of a Talent.

And a Talent that destroyed credits in some way was interesting enough that Matt was willing to make a detour to deliver them himself, since Calafor was on his way back to Palustris.

Two weeks of flying later, he arrived at Calafor and slipped in unnoticed, having disembarked from his ship in chaotic space and entering real space while ensuring no fluctuations were made.

The first thing Matt did was the first thing he did whenever he entered a world under the command of one of his people: he scanned it from pole to pole.

Matt was mainly looking for flagrant abuses of their people, but it was also a good way to get an unadulterated view on Empire civilian life in his duchy.

What he saw made him happy. Calafor was peaceful and nearly fully inhabited, with the largest three continents completely settled and rifts pacified, even if some areas were less populated than others. The smallest two continents were only settled on their coasts, with a few island chains having been artificially raised connecting the two of them.

Acting as something of a nature preserve, those two continents had most of the world's Tier 5 rifts, which would have normally made them the economic hubs of the world. But the former custodian of the world had deliberately set things up that way to help make settling the larger three continents easier, as well as having wild monsters available to hunt in a safe manner. It wasn’t a bad idea by any means, and plenty of planets followed such methodologies, though such concentration of rifts was more detrimental after Tier 10 or so, when a more dispersed layout was better for economic growth. Calafor however had a long time before it encountered that problem which made continuing perfectly acceptable.

What made Matt happiest of all was what he saw his baron doing when he arrived.

The man wasn’t idling his time away, even if Matt wouldn’t have blamed him for that, given how well his world was run. But rather, he was helping set the foundation pillars for a new railroad bridge that would span the distance between the two sets of continents.

Many Tier 15s would have just hired the work out and watched on, but it spoke well of the man that he was taking such a direct hand in his world's development even if it was as grunt labor miles underwater.

Pinging Baron Dalru, he gave the man leave to continue working but wasn’t surprised when he still excused himself and quickly made his way over to Matt.

Knowing there was no way to avoid it, Matt let himself be shown around and made the appropriate noises at the projects and works.

Once he felt like they had seen everything, Matt excused himself, citing the matter with Timothy to be dealt with.

Baron Dalru just nodded, and seeing Matt wanted to handle it himself, informed him of where the Tier 3 was currently living.

The baron looked like he wanted to say something more, but refrained himself when Matt didn’t question him further.

He had traveled all this way, and he wanted a surprise.

It was rare that Talents made themselves this well known.

After changing his appearance with a mask, Matt pretended to be a simple courier making the requested delivery.

Finding the bank which had made the request, Matt gave them the three requested 100,000 credit coins, replacement currency for the coins that had been removed from circulation, and finally enough credit coins that they could service the growing trend for at least a year, so long as it followed the growth model of withdrawals.

Normally such an order would have just come from the nearby Viscounty, but the small delay hopefully wouldn’t have caused any undue hardship on the kid.

Amusingly enough, he needed to use his ducal access to override the bank’s verifications, as he didn’t have a prepared identity. That would have been fine, but the more stringent requirements for physical currency he and Liz had enacted meant his quick fix tipped off the bank manager, who suspected something was wrong.

Matt even got to watch as the emergency message was routed through all of the proper authorities, and detecting both his presence and the priority he had assigned currency related issues, arriving in his own inbox.

Not having expected to run into such an issue, Matt waited for Baron Dalru to arrive, who vouched for him. Matt then had to reward the manager for doing as he had asked, not wanting to set a bad precedent. He did use the excuse to slip into her office and hide out there until the commotion of the baron arriving settled down.

Only once the coast was clear did he go to a nearby cafe and order a light snack while he waited for Timothy to arrive.

It took a few hours, and Matt had to resist the urge to backtrack the kid’s path in the city as Timothy happily withdrew the three 100,000 credit coins.

Matt had gone through a few scenarios of how he wanted to play the situation, but they were mostly thrown out the window when Timothy absorbed the coins into his spirit the moment they were inside his pocket.

It wasn’t the absorption that surprised Matt. Such Talents that needed to absorb physical currency were rare, but did exist, and were one of the reasons he couldn’t just get rid of the problematic physical currency. No, what surprised him was how the Tier 3’s spirit twisted and morphed upon the act, almost like a lizard shedding an old skin.

Then the Tier 3 started to do small aborted movements with his hands, almost like he was doing a martial art, but what was more interesting was how his spirit shifted with each movement.

It looked a lot like someone performing the first steps of creating a skill in one's spirit, but not any of the actual steps as described in the manuals. Weirder still, with each movement of body and spirit, the kid's spirit pulsed slightly.

Choosing to wait a little longer, Matt followed Timothy until they reached his recorded place of residence, wanting to see if he could glean anything else while looking up his public history.

Given the way he had withdrawn credits then seemingly overnight become a passable alchemist in several potion types the next day, Matt was pretty sure the kid was a variant of an innate knowledge Talent.

After his interactions with Ellen and learning just how strong her Talent was, Matt waited for Timothy to enter his apartment before pressing his doorbell politely then using his Concept to mimic a knock when the doorbell proved to be broken.

He could have appeared inside the room with the kid, but he wanted to try and play it straight without the subterfuge he had needed to use with Ethan and Eleanor when recruiting them to the Path.

His smile froze as the door slammed in his face just as quickly as it was opened, and he had to make an effort to not laugh out loud at the look on Timothy’s face.
