“I won’t ask you your full status build; but for now, I need to know your Vitality, Strength, and Dexterity. I need to know your Vitality in case you get hurt, while Strength and Dexterity affect proper metalworking.”

“100… 50… and 50”

Hearing my values, he breathes a sigh of relief.

“At least your stats aren’t ridiculous as well. That’s a good place to start off learning to smith. You should save your points till you reach the age of 15. When your body stops growing, that’s when your points become the most important. I’ll try to teach you the foundations of blacksmithing till then. Do you have any questions for me now?”

“Only two. What level are you, and what am I learning first?”

Now Master Del looks unsure whether or not to respond. I just gave him a lot of my personal information. If he can’t do the same, I might have to find a new master.

“I’m level 87.” He didn’t take as long as I did to decide.

Gods, I thought father was ridiculously strong. This guys a monster. How do you get a level like that?

“Stop giving me that look. You may think my level is high, but that’s only because normal humans don’t have time to level like Stone Kin do.

“This year I’ll be 238 years old. Stone Kin usually reach level 100 by the time they reach 140 years of age. By Stone Kin standards I’m quite under leveled.”

Over level 100, how strong does that make someone? I feel super human at level 38; what’s possible with a level three times that, or more.

Looking at Master Del, he’s just sitting there waiting for me to compose myself. Taking a few breaths, I set a new goal in my heart. I’ll rise my level to the highest any human has ever gone. Crafting in games gives loads of experience, I need to learn everything I can from Master Del.

Standing up, I shout to the gods.

“I’m ready!”

Realizing how silly I must look; I turn to Del.

He’s just sitting there with his hand on his chin, I didn’t know people actually did that.

“What’s wrong? Did I do something?”

“Huh, no. I was thinking about your second question. This is the first time I’m teaching somebody else. If we were in a Stone Kin city you would start off identifying metals.”

“That wont work here because I have a limited selection of metals, I only have what I can mine myself. I had to learn about mining metal the hard way after I left my home. Unlike our cities, we don’t have magic tools to mine and smelt large amounts of minerals. So, I was thinking about taking you mining for your first lesson.”

When he mentions mining, the feeling of being crushed to death comes to mind.

“There’s a mine around here, is it safe?” I can’t help but tremble a little.

Walking up to me, master Del puts his hand on my shoulder. The strength from his hand envelopes me like a hug. If I didn’t already know master can’t use magic, I would have thought he cast a calming spell on me.

“Worried about cave-ins, huh. I sometimes forget humans fear things like that. I can promise you the mine is very safe and even if a collapse happens, I could dig us out in a minute.”

That’s right, master strength must be over 300 he could probably pick up a boulder like an apple.

“Take some deep breaths and calm yourself. Stand here while I grab some gear.”

Disappearing into his house for only a few minutes he comes out with two pickaxes, two weird looking hard hats, and a clear stone.

“Here take the light-hat and an pickaxe. I’ll show you how to use them when we get to the mine.”

Following behind master, as he walks around his hut, and over to a giant hand cart made of metal. It has to be five feet wide and ten feet long with a metal wheel in the front. Del simply gets behind the giant metal wheelbarrow and starts pushing it towards an open path leading deeper into the forest.

Remembering what dad taught me, I survey the woods around me, not that Del cares. He walks forward never taking his eyes off the path. I bet he could punch a karhu to death if he needed to.

Twenty minutes later we come to a small quarry. The forest has been pushed back, with rocks piled around the perimeter. The dirt path leads straight down to the bottom of the quarry, where a stone archway stands leading to a deep abyss.

“Is this my first Dungeon Crawl?”
