When the blade looks completed, master tosses it back into the forge. “Is your mana full right now?”

Master’s question catches me off guard. “Not completely, I used some of my mana on one of the logs when we first started the forge. I think I could use another 300 mana if I need to.”

“That should be enough. I’ve watched how you pour your mana into objects, and I’m going to have you do that to your knife. We Stone Kin call it mana quenching. Fire mana is the most volatile, but it is also the easiest mana to influence. If you inject your mana into the blade it will rapidly force the fire mana out, making the blade stronger, and making it more responsive to your own mana. Remember to force the fire mana out! Don’t try to mix your mana as it will make it even hotter. We had techniques to mana quench back in Truset, but I haven’t seen it performed since I left. When I pull the dagger out, pump as much mana as you can into the metal.”

Waiting for master to pull the dagger out, I sink into my Meditation and Sense Mana skills. While meditating, I use Mana Manipulation to speed up my mana flow. Usually I practice by slowly injecting my mana into items, but this time I think the faster I fill the metal the better.

“You ready?”

“Yes!”

Pulling the dagger out of the forge and holding it in front of me, I start pouring my mana out of my hands as fast as I can. The only reason I can do this properly is because I reached the next levels in Meditation and Sense Mana. I wouldn’t have been able to use all my mana skills like this a week ago.

Master Del said fire mana is easily pushed aside. So, I take a risk, and while expelling my mana through my hands I grab the hot metal. For a split second I think I feel my flesh melt, but after a moment, I realize my hand is fine. With both my hands I inject my mana quicker than I ever have into the steel.

100, 150, 200, 250, 300

I can feel the heat being forced out of the dagger into the surrounding air. I can hear a sizzling sound, coming from the metal. Watching the mana inside the dagger, I notice a current my mana is taking through the metal.

In only six seconds, I empty my mana pool to 15%. I was nervous about how much I needed so I went under my usual 20% safety limit.

Luckily the blade stopped hissing after four seconds, and with my mana sense I can tell all the fire mana was properly forced out.

“I can’t believe that worked.” Del smiles down at me.

Bent over breathing a little deeper than usual, I quickly look up at Del.

“What do you mean, I can’t believe that worked! Were you not confident I could do it!?”

“Well… maybe 70/30.”

“70, that it would work!” I exclaim.

“No… 70, that it would fail. Don’t worry so much there was only a 10% chance you would really hurt yourself.”

Staring at each other, the silence only lasts a minute before we both break into laughter.

Holding the tang of the dagger in my hand, I marvel at the blade. This is one of the coolest things I’ve ever done, in either of my lives.

While being escorted back home by father, I hold my new dagger up explaining how awesome it is.

“After it cooled, Master Del taught me how to cut up some farkas bones and pin them to make a handle.”

Waving my new dagger around, I try and show the handle off to dad.

“That’s nice sweety, it’s a beautiful knife.”

Dad doesn’t look excited yet. “Then Master Del showed me how to sharpen the blade and polish the handle. You have to take different stones and slowly sharpen the edges. Master Del had to finish mine, but after I practice some more, I could sharpen your axe for you!”

With that dad finally smiles down at me.

“I’m very proud of you, sweety. I’m happy that man is doing his job.”

Watching dad’s face go from smiling and congratulating me, to one of pure distaste at the mention of my master, I’m reminded how much father hates Del now.

I was bragging about Del since father picked me up. I forgot to think about dad’s feelings in all of my excitement.

Moving alongside dad, I hug him with my left arm and hold my dagger away with my right. I need to have mom help me make a sheath later. I have a new reason to level my Sewing skill.

“Thanks for coming and picking me up Dad. I love you.”

“Always sweety, love you too.”

Walking close together, feeling the joy of the day, I look at the beautiful trees and shrubs alongside the path home.

Did that bush just shake?

“Aaaaaaaaggggggggg!”“Aaaagggggghhhhhh!”“Hhhaaaaaaaa!”

With screams filling the surrounding forest, goblins come flooding out of the underbrush.

Before I can react, father swings his axe in a quick horizontal motion. Four goblins that were running straight at us are cut in half at the waist.

Faced with such brutality, the other charging goblins falter.

In the distance, I hear the horn the village uses to signal an attack. This must only be some of the goblins if the village is already signaling an attack.

The horn further freezes me and the goblins. Father looks calmly around us, like he’s mentally mapping the surrounding enemies.

Looking around, there’s over 20 goblins surrounding us. With eight behind us, separated with five on the right side of the path and three on the left side. I think there’s almost double covering the path ahead of us.

The short creatures are brandishing stone knives and basic spears while snarling, showing us their misshapen yellowed teeth.

“Aaliyah, stay close to me.” Dad has the same serious face he had back during the karhu attack.

I refuse to be a burden again. “Dad, I’ll distract the ones behind us while you take care of the ones in the front.”

“No! Just stay close to me and I can…”

No time to waste. I take a deep breath and scream, charging the three behind us on the left.

The three goblins look terrified at my reckless charge, and only the closest one reacts to my approach. The naked goblin starts flailing his spear in my direction. With his panicked movements, he over extends his arms trying to skewer me before I can reach him.

Moving to the right, I grab the wooden shaft with my left hand. I can feel the goblin trying to pull it back but I’m bigger than him and probably have higher physical stats.

With the spear secured in my left hand, I take another step forward and drive my new dagger into the goblins left side. I’m close enough to smell the horrible stench of the creature. I can feel my hand being drenched as the goblin's blood gushes from the stab wound.

As I start to relax the goblin looks me in the face and starts screaming like I’ve never heard before. The sound is echoing in my mind. The screams sound of pain, anger, and a fear of death! They tear at my soul.

Stop screaming!

Stop screaming!

Please stop screaming!

Before I know what I’m doing, I use the curved part of my dagger to slit the goblins throat. As the dead goblin hits the ground, I can still hear the screaming in my head. I look up at the two still shocked goblins.

Their faces of fear tuns to rage, so they charge me together. I can vaguely hear screams behind me, but I focus on the charging monsters.

With my left hand, I swing the back end of the spear, striking the left one across its head. With one dazed, I step in towards the third one who is rushing me with a knife. Getting in close so he can’t stab me, I push him towards his dazed friend, with my knuckles still gripping my dagger.

As they tumble to the ground together, I twist the spear in my left hand bringing the spearhead forward. Running towards the grounded enemies, I slam the crude spear tip into the goblin on top. I feel a resistance as I drive the spear through the goblins flesh and feel the snapping of the spear inside its body, or maybe I drove through some bone.

With the spear stuck in the goblin, I throw myself on top of the pile of goblins and stab the bottom goblin with my knife repeatedly.

Time seems to slow down as three of the creatures tackle me while I’m stabbing recklessly. As I tumble with the new goblin group, I think I stabbed them once or twice but I can’t pay attention anymore. My adrenaline is through the roof. I manage to free my left hand when the grip of one goblin falters. Prying off the goblin holding my right side, I stab its chest a few times before another three goblins have me pinned again.

The last goblin is readying a spear to stab me, as the others hold me down. I won’t die again!

I continue to thrash, refusing to give him an angle to stab me. The screaming in my head is gone and the whole world sounds quiet.

As he the goblin standing over me lines up his thrust…

An axe severs the goblin in two.

With a quick blur two of the goblins fly off of me. I can’t tell what struck the bodies, I only heard their bones crackle inside them. The two goblins fly through the air, one hitting a tree and the other landing on the ground.

Neither are moving a muscle.

With only one left holding me, I roll on top of the goblin. Its claws are trying to scratch my face, my arms, anything it can get a hold of. I’m surprised I’m still holding my new knife, as I keep stabbing the flailing goblin in the chest.

It won’t stop moving!

Seven stabs, eight. Its eyes won't stop blinking, as its arms continue to reach for me.

With a shadow covering me, a hand grabs my right arm. I have to free myself! I won’t be caught again!

With a quick motion, my body is wrapped by a strong arm. I have to escape!

“It’s ok Aaliyah, they're all dead.”

“No, it’s still moving. It needs to die!”

“It’s dead already, sweety. Calm down, it’s ok.”

I suddenly realize it's dad holding me. Looking down at the last goblin I was on top of, I can see the body twitching. Dad’s right, it’s dead, the chest area looks like carved beef.

As my adrenaline drops, my body becomes harder to move. I refuse to drop my knife, but dad releases my arm, letting my clutched fist fall to the side.

Still holding me in his arms, dad turns around towards the village. Two men are running towards us shouting something I can’t seem to understand.

The last thing I see before I pass out, is all of the bodies dad hacked apart, before he came to my rescue again.
