Nathalia gasped. And now he's giving me Honor! She thought, shocked. Who is this man?!?

Ren still wasn't sure what was going on. “If you go to the stove and say 'Activate', the stones will light and heat the stove.”

“W-w-what?!?” Nathalia said and leaned on the table she stood next to. Now he's giving me an expensive gift! She waved her hand in front of her face again and tried her best to not pass out. I'm only 30! For a man to be doing such things for me so soon... I... I... don't know what to do!

“I've enchanted it so you won't need wood.” Ren said. “To turn it off, say 'Deactivate'.”

Ren stood there and waited for Nathalia to recover from whatever it was she was going through. “Are you all right?” He asked after a few minutes.

“I... I'm fine. Thank you.” Nathalia said and smiled.

Ren relaxed. She seems to be over it, whatever it was.

Nathalia went to the stove and said 'Activate'. The stones lit and the flames burned high enough to warm the stove almost immediately. She bent over to open the stove's door, and as blast of heat hit her in the face, she smiled.

“It's hot already, and I didn't even have to stoke it!” Nathalia said, excitedly.

“You never have to stoke it.” Ren said and smiled at Nathalia's shocked expression.

“W-w-what did you say?”

“As long as you don't damage the stones, or remove them from the stove, they'll work for as long as you want them to.”

Nathalia's mouth fell open as she stared at Ren, who chuckled.

“I didn't put a time limit on them, so you can keep saying the commands and it will work.” Not that I know how to put a time limit on them, anyways. Ren thought.

“You're serious? They'll always work?” She asked, dumbfounded.

Ren nodded. Nathalia stood up and stepped close to Ren. In one swift motion, she stood up on the tips of her toes, wrapped her arms around Ren's neck, and kissed him.

Oh, crap.

“What is it?” Teepo asked.

Another woman is kissing me. Ren thought and held his hands out in a 'I'm not touching her' gesture, knowing full well that someone... namely Stella... was watching the game feed right now. He also did not kiss her back in any way.

“Way to go, Ren!”

Teepo, this isn't a time to celebrate!

“Oh... I thought you'd be happy about it.”

If I didn't have a girlfriend, I probably would be happy about it. Ren thought.

Nathalia wasn't wearing a bra, and Ren could feel a lot of her through her green dress, the thin aprons they wore, and his shirt.

There's apparently a shortage of bras in this game. Ren thought and Teepo chittered in laughter.

A moment later, Nathalia broke the kiss and stepped back with a deep red blush on her face.

“Thank you very much for the gift.” She said and ducked her head slightly.

“You're welcome.” Ren said.

“You can help yourself to... anything... in the kitchen.” Nathalia said and held her hands together in front of her waist, and turned slightly from side to side.

Ren didn't know what to say to that, and after what he thought was a really long awkward pause, he looked around the kitchen to see what they had in stock.

“There's not a lot here for a quick meal.” Ren said and looked at Nathalia. “You only make big meals, don't you?”

She nodded.

“What are you making for supper?”

“I've got a side of boar in the pantry, and I'd planned on mashed potatoes. They're hard to peel and take forever to do, so that's what I was doing when you showed up.”

Ren looked at the table she stood near and nodded. There was a half dozen peeled potatoes and a pile next to that, chopped up. “I'm sorry that I interruped you.” Ren said. “I'd like to make something up, if you don't mind my intrusion.”

Nathalia shook her head and smiled. “I don't mind at all.”

Ren went over to her and grabbed a large cookie sheet from the rack above the cabinet by the table the potatoes were on. He put the cookie sheet down on the table, as there was still lots of room left. Ren reached for a knife on the rack and examined it. He nodded and started to peel potatoes, then chopped them up into slices.

“What are you doing?” Nathalia asked.

“Making one of my favorite things.” Ren said and chopped the slices into french fries. “I can't cook them like I want to, at least not yet, but baking them works almost as well.”

She watched him work and studied what he was doing. He can cut them up so fast!

Ren filled the cookie sheet with them, sprinkled a bit of seasoning on them, and put them in the stove. “They're pretty thin, so it won't take long before I have to flip them.”

Nathalia stared at him again like he was crazy, and Ren chuckled.

“Don't worry. There's a method to my madness.”

A few minutes later, Ren took out the sheet and used a spatula to flip them, added a bit more seasoning, and put them back in. After another few minutes, he took out the pan and the french fries were a nice golden brown. Ren stirred them up a little, then grabbed a big bowl from the shelf under the table. He slid the fries into the bowl, ate one, and then held the bowl out to Nathalia.

“Want to try them?” Ren asked and watched her face as she tried to reach for one.

Now we're sharing food! She thought.

Ren saw consternation, curiosity, denial, longing, and a few other emotions that went by too fast to read. Nathalia eventually made up her mind, and took one. Her face lit up and she ate it quickly, then took another one. “They're delicious!”

They're not as good as deep frying them, but I haven't found a good oil to use for frying. Ren thought as Nathalia took another french fry.

“What are they called?” She asked.

“Fries.” Ren said.

“F-fries. Fries. Fries!” Nathalia said and took another.

“I have to take these to my friend, but I'll be right back.”

Nathalia looked a little sad, but nodded.

“I'll make more.” Ren said. She smiled and went back to work peeling potatoes. Ren took the big bowl of fries to the hold and gave it to Princess. She looked at it skeptically, until Ren took one and ate it.

“Mmm, delicious!” He said and rubbed his belly.

She sniffed them, gave one a lick... and then tried to eat the bowl.

“Hold on! HOLD ON!” Ren said, laughing. “Take your time! Please, don't eat the bowl. I'll bring more later.”

Princess ate the fries at a pace that she considered slow, but Ren pretty much saw her suck the things into her mouth and they were gone. He laughed again, shook his head, and picked up the bowl. After looking for teeth marks, he left the hold and went back to the kitchen. Ren knocked on the door and Nathalia let him in. He put the bowl on the floor next to the door and went to work. He made another batch of fries for Nathalia, that she ate while Ren helped her peel and chop up the potatoes. When they were all chopped up, she brought out a giant pot and tied a rope to it, then opened a window.

“What are you doing?” Ren asked.

“Getting water for the potatoes.”

Ren stared at her. “You... you're getting water... from outside of the ship?!?”

“Where else would I get it?” Nathalia asked. Ren looked at the sink and saw the tap. She followed his gaze and chuckled. “Where do you think the water in that comes from?” She asked and laughed at Ren's expression. “You don't travel on ships much, do you?”

Ren shook his head. “This is my first time.”

Nathalia looked at him with wide eyes. “I don't know if I should tell you that you're going to have a great time, or warn you that you might be sick as a dog.”

“I'm voting for having a great time.” Ren said. “I get a vote, right?” He laughed.

Nathalia shook her head. “You really are crazy.”

Ren smiled. “You go back to peeling, I'll fill the pot.”

She shrugged and handed Ren the rope and pot. She always had trouble pulling the pot back in anyways. Ren took out another raised platform ring and placed a finger on the front of it, enchanting it with a quadruple Water glyph. He put it on and held it over the pot. Activate. Water poured out of the ring and filled the pot and a moment later Ren gave the second command. Deactivate.

“Where do you want it?” Ren asked.

Nathalia looked at him with surprise on her face. She'd only looked away for a minute and he'd already brought a full pot of water up from outside.

“On the stove, please.”

Ren put it there and the water slowly started to heat up. Looking at the pot with his Vision of Impurity, he saw a flaw in the metal near the top. He examined the pot and was surprised that it had barely any durability left. Ren took out his blacksmith's hammer and held it to the pot.

“Repair.” He whispered. The pot glowed for a moment and was fixed. It made Ren wonder what else needed repairs so badly. Using his Vision of Impurity and examining everything he could see or find, he repaired anything that needed it.

Nathalia had watched Ren out of the corner of her eye the whole time, as he went around and touched everything in the kitchen. She'd almost protested out loud several times as he dug out every single piece of metal he could find.

No one has ever touched all of my things like that! She thought and tried to get mad about it, but as she watched him, she couldn't bring herself to hate him. He took out each item, gently ran his hands on it, almost caressing it, and held onto it for only a moment. She thought she saw a few things glow, but she dismissed that, because she was straining her eyes trying to watch him and assumed that her eyes were playing tricks on her.

When Ren was done repairing everything, he made up another batch of french fries for Princess, and then another for the captain. The potatoes finished boiling. He didn't even ask Nathalia if she wanted him to do it, he just grabbed the strainer and set it over the sink, took the big pot of potatoes, and drained them. Even though he'd only worked in the mansion's kitchen for just over 4 days, He'd done it so often that it was almost automatic. He reached for the potato masher and made short work of the boiled potatoes.

“Milk?” Ren asked a shocked Nathalia.

He didn't even blink as he mashed those potatoes! How did he do that so fast? She thought and pointed to the pantry.

Ren found the milk and grabbed a slab of butter from the pantry, too.

“What are you doing?” Nathalia asked.

“Making mashed potatoes.” Ren said.

Milk and butter? In potatoes? She thought and frowned.

Ren chopped up the butter and mashed the potatoes a little, then poured in a good amount of milk. He pumped his hand up and down, mashing and mixing at the same time, and soon the potatoes were a white fluffy mass that looked like clouds. Ren grabbed a spoon from the rack hanging over the table and scooped out a little bit.

“Here. Try this.” Ren said and held the spoon out for her. Nathalia blushed a little, and held her mouth open. Ren fed her some of the mashed potatoes and saw her face light up.

“That's really good!” She said. “When I saw you put on your apron, I figured you knew how to help out in a kitchen; but, I had no idea that you knew how to cook!”

Ren laughed. “I'm just learning, so I can only do a few things.”

The boat rocked from side to side and Nathalia stumbled. She would have fallen onto the hot stove, but Ren caught her and pulled her away from being burned. “Are you alright?”

Nathalia nodded as the boat steadied. “We're casting off.” She said, and blushed as she realized that Ren had caught her before she realized she was even falling. He's so gallant!

Ren let her go and she held onto the table. “I have to get the side of boar into the stove for supper.” She said. He nodded and went to get it. He came back carrying it and put it on the table, like it weighed nothing.

He's so strong. She thought and started to wave a hand in front of her face again.

“I have to go.” Ren said and Nathalia nodded. “Don't forget to give the fries to the captain.”

Nathalia nodded again. “Thank you for all your help.”

Ren nodded, waved, and left the kitchen. I hope Princess isn't too shaken up right now. He thought. I should have been there for the cast off, but I didn't even know we were leaving so soon. You'd think they would have made an announcement or something!

Ren got back into the hold and Princess was calm as can be and he smiled. “Are you ready for more fries?” Ren asked and she bleated loudly. “Okay, okay! Here.” He said and laughed as he passed her the bowl full of fries.
