I cleared my throat. “Okay. I appreciate the explanation, Cuilcis. Now, as for my question: I’ve found that my education when it comes to the nearby area, talents and skills in general is sorely underwhelming. What would it cost me to earn a full description of the knowledge you have available on basic skills, along with higher-rarity skills and how to unlock them?”

He blinked. Then dismissed me entirely. “More than you can afford, unless you have uncovered something truly massive in the past few days.” He bowed his head. “I apologize. That would be an extensive commitment on my part, and I know how little money you have.”

Goddammit. I’d had plans. Or, vague ideas, at the very least. The part where he’d allowed his guards to attack me still rankled in the back of my mind. Yet, before his explanation, I’d allowed myself, for a second, to consider that I could trade secrets with him, extract some promises that he’d keep it secret or something.

Back on earth, librarians were perhaps the only type of people you could trust without reservation. Sure, they might lead you wrong every once in a while, or inadvertently traumatize you by giving you a book with a lovely, precious horse named Artax. Yet, there was rarely anything mean-spirited in it, and they did it to the best of their knowledge. They were the type of people you might entrust with the knowledge that there was a whole other world out there.

This was something else. If I told him all about the Ever Steady, what were the odds that would stay between us? Absolutely non-existent. He and his Tethered friends were going to milk that for all it was world.

I needed another approach. “Cuilcis. You remember how you attacked me, and I let you live?”

“Suspicion. We already decided that you were not the type to apply torture to get what you wanted. Is this a veiled threat, or are you hinting at a friendship that does not exist in actuality?”

I rubbed the bridge of my nose. “The latter. The point is, I really do need that information. I know right now I’m not exactly rolling in money. But I think we could build a proper working relationship. If you help me with this, I’ll make sure that I pay you more than it is worth over time.”

“Disdain. I don’t know what things are like where you are from. But I can tell you beyond a doubt, that the Tethered do not operate on credit. I am not-” He stopped himself, blinking at the open door. “Kimzi? Do come in. I am done with my barter with this gentleman.”

I turned to see, true enough, Kimzi standing in the door opening.

She was panting for air as if she’d sprinted here. She waved a hand at Cuilcis and spoke up, short of breath. Pointing at me rather than Cuilcis. “I’m actually here on my own business right now. I’ve got a piece of gossip for you that’s just way too juicy. And you’ll want to pay through the nose for it.”

I didn’t quite snarl at her. But I did turn a none-too-friendly glare at Cuilcis. “Sorry. Your boss here has already told me that I’m too poor to pay for the good stuff.”

She took my arm and pulled me outside, waving gleefully at Cuilcis. Then she lowered her voice. “Sorry. I find there’s no need to involve others when you’re discussing secrets. And you’ll want to hear this one.”

“Okay. Hit me with it. What are we talking about. I didn’t lie, though. I don’t have that much money left.”

“Ah, that’s okay. I’m sure we can come to an agreement. The boss operates at a more expensive level than I do. But I’ll let you judge for yourself. What would you pay, if I told you that I know where there are others of your kind… and that they’re probably in danger?”
