It was a week before the weldtree rang again, signalling Totori's return. She arrived with a few weldtech fairies, who got to work on the magical tree almost immediately, unpacking wands and tools, popping out a piece of bark and jamming probes into the wood beneath.

Niala let them to their device, instead focusing on the other guest that had walked in alongside Totori; Kevin.

She stepped up and kneeled, giving the lethargic fairy a friendly hug. “Kevin! Thank you for coming! How are you doing?”

The fairy's eyelids blinked one at a time as she pushed her lips up into a smile. “Hi, Niala. I couldn't not come. Ms. Totori gave me a basket full of money.”

Niala frowned, looking at Totori, who smiled back unperturbed. She turned her head back toward Kevin. “Ah, well, I hope you'll enjoy your stay here, anyway.”

The sleepyhead nodded. “Probably. I was excited to come see the mundaneworld that my parents talked about so much. They'll be purple with envy when I tell them about it.”

Her eyes closed, and her whole body swayed. For a second, Niala thought she was going to fall asleep, but she only stumbled a few steps, her eyes shuffling back open. “Oh, I heard you and David had gotten hurt? Are you getting better? Miss Totori said I might be able to help?”

Niala smiled. “Yes, we have, thank you for asking, and yes, I'm getting better. David, well, he'll get better, but it might take some more time. Hopefully, your special condition will help figure some things out.”

Kevin nodded as Niala got back up to her feet and escorted the two fairies upstairs.

She waited at each step as the mana-less fairy climbed up each of them in slow-motion.

Eventually, they made it to their bedroom, David looking up from his book at the two guests. “Oh, hey Totori, hi Kevin. Thanks for coming.”

But the sleepy fairy stood frozen, staring half-lidded at David. She lifted a grasping hand in his direction and began stumbling forward until she reached the side of the bed. There, she gripped the sheets and began ascending.

Niala watched her amble upward like a sloth climbing a tree.

After a few minutes, Kevin crested the edge and began crawling toward David. He eyed her with a raised eyebrow as she reached out to him, then began climbing up on him, up to his belly, where she let herself fall flat with a deeply satisfied sigh.

David shared a glance with Niala, who lifted her shoulder and shook her head. He looked down at Kevin, who was lazing around like a cat in the sun. “Kevin? You ok?”

The little fairy had a huge smile on her face, her eyes closed shut. “Yeeessss... you feel so waaaarmmm...” She breathed out.

Niala frowned and took a few steps forward. “Kevin? You know that's my husband, right?” She said, tail still, ears erect.

Kevin cracked open an eye and looked at Niala, entirely oblivious to the subtle warning. “Ooookkkk... your husband feels veeeery goooood...”

Niala threw a pointed look at David, who shrugged.

And then her eyes went wide.

David was leaking mana.

Kevin had negative mana pressure.

She was a cold lizard, and he was a sun-baked rock.

A blush pushed up her cheeks as she buried the embarrassing spike of jealousy.

As if David would choose a fairy over her.

She looked back at Kevin, sunning herself on her husband's belly. Her pupils narrowed.

From a certain angle, she kind of looks like a rat...

They introduced their guests to Marshalla, who asked why one of the fairies looked like she was drunk on top of David. Upon learning of Kevin's condition, the scholar marched out of the room, coming back within seconds, arms full of instruments.

While Marshalla strapped probes to the fairy's body, Niala began explaining David's situation in more detail.

Kevin, arm held up by the abassaran woman as she tried to make an armband fit on it, looked at Niala and blinked. “So that's why it feels so good... he's feeding me mana.”

She rotated her head toward David. “Do you think you could keep a little part of you with leaks? Like, a foot? Or a hand?”

He shook his head. “Sorry, Kevin. I'd rather not have any holes in me.”

The fairy looked sad. Or maybe just sleepy. “Oh... well, alright, I understand. But I'm going to stay here until you're cured, ok?” She asked with a faint smile, eyes half-closed.

Marshalla glanced at the fairy as she calibrated a small box-like instrument. “That might be a while. Until we figure out how to get Niala to connect with the foreign pathway residue in David, we don't really have a way to fix this.”

Kevin turned her head toward her. “What do you mean? Connect with her own pathways? That would open her up for mana contamination, wouldn't it? Unless the mana is naturalized beforehand, it would just poison her.”

The scholar stopped and looked at Kevin. “Naturalized? Do you mean through a mana-heart? But even that leaves behind some resonance. It only slows down the onset of mana poisoning.”

“Huh? What's a mana-heart?” The fairy asked, head tilting.

Mashalla began explaining to Kevin the mana-processing crystals that powered modern civilization.

Kevin stopped squirming on top of David and began paying attention. The questions she asked tipped Marshalla off that this fairy was a peer.

The discussion devolved into technical terms and discourses, though with frequent stops as they cross-referenced the terms that were different.

As they approached a bell, Niala asked Totori if she wanted to help with dinner. The fairy shoved her datapad into her suitcase and told Niala to lead the way.

His wife waved at him, abandoning him to his new role as a mana-rock for Kevin while she and Marshalla nerded out about the two worlds' manatech.

He sighed, picked his book back up, and resumed reading, tuning out the constant flow of technical gibberish.

Neither Kevin nor Marshalla even noticed that they were left alone and ignored.

The two scholars continued their cross-examination of each other's manalogic knowledge late into the evening. By that time, the weldtechs had completed their work and had handed Niala her new control box, oversized to fit a mundaneworlder's hands. With this upgrade, they could now open a weldgate to the Stormborn mansion or send a ping to Totori to let her know they wanted to talk.

Sadly, there were no cross-world communications possible, but the fairy said it was no trouble, and that she'd gotten herself a priority weldpass anyway. She could hijack a weldportal from any station.

Such access was apparently usually reserved for government officials and the military. Officially, anyway. In practice, anyone with enough money and influence could get one. Totori looked rather smug when she explained that, no doubt because she was now part of that very restricted club herself.

Incoming cargo would also now appear about 15 metres away from the weldtree, past their backyard's wall, in an area where they were now planning to build a small receiving warehouse.

A few bells before bedtime, the two scholars called for everyone to reconvene in David's room. They said they'd had a very productive talk and wanted to take a day to go over their findings and order their thoughts before presenting something important.

Given the critical yet sensitive nature of the topics involved, Marshalla suggested only inviting anyone they trusted implicitly; the information was important enough to have as many people as possible receive it, yet dangerous enough that it should still be controlled.

A contradiction, she noted, that was all too common for those on the front lines of research and science.

With that, Niala arranged a room for Kevin and Totori, and then slipped into bed with her husband, snuggling up on his side with the good arm.

For a while now, she had trouble falling asleep if she didn't have at least one of his arms around her.

When she had told him, he'd stared at her and had said something like “Being your favourite pillow isn't supposed to be literal.”

She had then asked if he'd rather she try and find an actual pillow to snuggle up on instead of him?

He had declared that he had seen the light and would embrace his nightly role of man-pillow.

She had snuggled extra close that night.

A day later, David and Niala's closest friends were assembled in the Allwarden's living room: Leandro, Jordo, Isaac and Angeline. Totori was there as well, though her seat was thanks to Kevin's presence.

Niala furtively noted that her sister and Isaac were sitting really close to each other. But, before she could begin investigating, Marshalla cleared her throat.

“Ahem, thank you all for coming. My esteemed fairy colleague Kevin and I have important information to share. We trimmed this presentation down as much as possible to not bore you with the details, but if you are interested, we will be co-writing a full research paper on the topic.”

She glanced at Kevin, who had draped herself over David's shoulder. The fairy gave Marshalla a smile and a lazy thumbs up before letting her head flop back down.

The scholar nodded and began her exposition.

“First, the question previously asked by Niala: if we had a truly neutral source of mana, could we use it as a baseline against which to measure mana corruption?”

Isaac and Leandro perked up at the topic being broached.

Marshalla dipped her head at Niala before continuing. “From preliminary tests, the answer would be a tentative yes. I've already been able, using Kevin's mana signature, to identify previously unknown resonances and frequencies in a normal subject. We don't know, at this point, if these are related to the corruption, but we suspect at least some of them may be.”

Leandro put a hand over his chin. “Marsh, if this is true, this needs to be shared with all manalogy departments across the kingdom.”

The dark-skinned woman glared at him. “I'm aware, Leo, and that's exactly what the research paper will be. Frankly, I'm a bit annoyed that you'd think I would fail to understand how important this might be.”

The large man stopped rubbing his chin, blinked, and dipped his head in apology.

She let her eyes linger on the man, as if making sure he was properly repentant, before turning back toward the rest of her audience. “The second piece of information relates to what happened to Niala. I asked her to only have trusted people here today. That being said...” She looked at the catkin. “Do you want to tell them, or should I?”

Niala held her sight on the scholar for a few seconds before looking at David, who smiled back. Her ears twitched as she nodded. “I'll tell them. Everyone, I'm a magivore.”

She felt the stares hit her as every sound in the room disappeared.

Isaac was the first one to speak. “You're a... are you a fel?! That can't be!” His eyes hardened. “Explain yourself.” He demanded, not noticing Angeline's hand reaching for his forearm.

David narrowed his eye at his brother, leaning forward, ready to jump up in front of his wife if need be. Niala put a gentle hand over his balled fist, catching his gaze, and shook her head with a smile. She turned to look at Isaac. “I'm not a fel. If I were, the Azure Guards detectors would have picked me up back at the Living Vault. The truth is that I don't know why I have this ability. It might be related to being a weaver, or not. It doesn't matter, does it?”

The light squeeze on Isaac's arm from Angeline startled him. He glanced at her, and she gave him a small smile.

After a few seconds, he let out a breath and turned to look at Niala once more. “I... am sorry for overreacting. You're right, you are not a fel, nor are you a danger to anyone, except maybe to my brother. Please, continue.”

Niala narrowed her eyes at the remark, but let it slide. “I had to tell you for the next bit to make sense. When David and I fought the ascended fel at the temple, there was a bit we left out. I... had to get into a magivore fight with the fel. I took in a lot of his mana, but something came along with it.”

Isaac opened his mouth to speak once more. Angeline squeezed his arm, enough to make him wince. This time, when he looked at her, there wasn't anything kind in her smile.

He wisely remained silent.

Niala continued once Isaac looked back at her, mouth shut. “As Isaac seems to have guessed, I've taken in what I think is fel energy. Only, it's contained. With David's help this past week and a half, I've been cleansing them from my pathways. Marshalla confirmed that I was not suffering any ill effects.”

Faces turned toward the scholar woman. “That is right. I've run every test three times. Niala is not turning into a fel anytime soon. In fact, she might be immune, given the nature of her mana.” She fanned a hand. “Anyway, irrelevant. What's important here is that we have proof that mana corruption is due to a foreign form of mana. Just that information alone would send us down the right path.”

She smiled hungrily. “However, coupled with the promising new method to measure mana resonance more accurately, we've not only started on the path, but will be doing so at a sprint.”

She looked around the room. “I know it might not sound like much, but it's very possible that, by this time next year, we will finally have a way to scan and identify mana corruption in an individual long before it becomes an issue.”

Jordo's eye flashed. His voice came out trembling. “Madam Airenne, Marshalla, if your research leads true, you will be on the path to solving one of this world's blights. Something that even the Luminous Reign never managed. When I think of all the scions who had to be put down...” He said, lowering his head.

Marshalla smiled at the golem. “I know, Jordo. As I said before, I understand how important this is, hence why I asked Niala to gather you up, and why I will be giving each of you a copy of Kevin and my findings so far, because it must be shared.”

Jordo looked back up and simply nodded, remaining silent.

Her smile might have been just a tiny little bit strained. If she had to be utterly honest, it did sting to have to release this research into the wild. The number of research grants and renown she could have reaped would have been staggering.

But, she also fully believed that this research was too important to keep for herself.

Besides, a way to detect mana corruption was far from the only topic she had broached with Kevin. The fairy's thesis on mana jelly, for example, had led to some rather interesting potential applications. The potential fame and funding from those were even higher.

The corner of her lips tugged up.

Leandro turned his head toward her and lifted an eyebrow.

She gave him an innocent smile.