“Yes. Friends. Help each other out. Stuff like that.” Naia said, making a remarkably good mimicry of Ali’s voice.

“Thank you, Naia. That’s very thoughtful.” Wait, how does she know I needed three?

Variant: Aetheric Slime added to Imprint: Ooze.

Ali bent down and hugged Naia, feeling the squishy slime body bouncing up and down happily before she let her go.

“Come and visit me in Myrin’s Keep if you learn to travel, and I’ll try to come back and see you soon.”

***

Ali had a lot on her mind as she swam back to the surface through the deserted underwater caves. For one thing, she was worried about Naia, and hated leaving her new friend all alone, even though she seemed to be having fun exploring and was now free.

I helped a dungeon.

That was the big problem. Dungeons were evil monster factories that decimated towns and kingdoms and required progressively higher- and higher-level adventurers to subdue and destroy them. This was precisely what had gotten them in this situation in the first place – destroying the Ruins of Dal’mohra as part of the Adventurers Guild had gotten her friends drained, and then she had taken this job to help them out.

But in the process, she had taught a dungeon two new monsters, and freed it, letting it loose on the outside world. In her mind she could see Naia’s incredible aggression and power as she was loosed in the large cavern, expanding, and growing until she could destroy everything.

Did I just make a huge mistake?

But she couldn’t figure out where she had gone wrong. When she had thought of ‘it’ as a dungeon or a monster, it was easy to consider killing it. She would be doing the world a service by destroying it. Like taking out trash, only more dangerous.

The moment she met Naia, she knew she couldn’t kill her. She wouldn’t have been able to live with her conscience if she had left knowing she could have freed her from such a horrible imprisonment.

She surfaced out of the last pool, hopped onto the rocky ground, and unsummoned all her minions. It wouldn’t do to have the guards realize what she had done. Any of it.

I wish Malika was here. Malika always seemed to have a clear understanding of what to do, and what was right or fair. She could hear Malika’s voice saying something remarkably simple and suddenly things would be less murky in her mind.

Does helping Naia make me a bad person? But all she could feel was Naia’s happy bounce when she realized she was free, and the little squishy pseudopod that had reached for the comfort of her hand when she was afraid of the open space.

“You took long enough, girlie, did the big scary slimes get you?”

“You seem a little damp.”

Ali purposefully ignored the rude guards and their crass laughter and checked out with the official at the tent before retrieving her Potion of Recall they had confiscated for ‘safekeeping’ and smashing it, perhaps with more vigor than strictly necessary, and whisking herself back to Myrin’s Keep, glad to put the miserable environment of Volle behind her.

The big scary slime was the only nice person I met.

Tala sat on the rooftop of the Town Watch training grounds, enjoying the screams of pain and the groans and cries of the injured recruits as Kieran Mori laid into them with his typical unemotionally brutal training regimen.

They will learn to appreciate it in time. She remembered when it had been her down there, subjected to his ministrations. At her memories, her mouth twisted into a disapproving scowl. At least I never embarrassed myself by crying or screaming. These new recruits from the Adventurers Guild were weak and soft and needed every ounce of Kieran’s discipline. It was a good thing he contracted them first, otherwise, Tala was certain none of them would still be here by morning.

It had been a simple task Kieran had set her, and she had despised it at first as it took her away from her passion. Spreading rumors and stories did not move her the way blood spraying from her daggers did. But he had promised her a gold coin in bounty for each combat class she convinced to join the Watch. She tossed the satisfyingly heavy coin pouch and caught it again. All in all, it had been exceptionally profitable work – and so easy. These so-called adventurers had been ripe for the plucking, ready to jump ship for the price of a little coin.

All it had taken was a few choice assassinations and spreading the rumors of the Silent Assassin.

Perhaps I should treat myself to a new pair of daggers? There was a traveling merchant in town, according to her sources, and she did have a new job for later this evening. And she was eager to try out the new advance to her Mutilate skill.

New daggers it is, she thought happily as she activated her stealth and leaped down from the roof, marking fake ambush attacks on each recruit as she darted unseen across the training ground.

Flawless…
