The mind that called to her was barren of fear, and its emotions veered toward the destructive and violent. So much humanity was wrapped around the outside, yet its core was monstrous: a thing of desolation tempered by experience and philosophically driven toward virtue.

Shiv…

She got a thread to the air and tried to brush Shiv. Instead, it slammed against him, impacting with enough force to flatten a small building. Shiv shrugged it off—not even noticing how hard she struck him. Even so, Uva cringed. It felt like every aspect of her flesh and magic was hypercharged while the Eldritch realm flowed through her. She'd borrowed power far beyond that of a Legend—yet lacked the stability and control needed to wield it.

So she needed to move herself carefully.

As she exerted a measure of will on her senses, she surfaced back into her own body and found her skull aching with frost-like pain. It was like two stalagmites of coldest ice had been thrust through her eye sockets and were now flooding her gray matter with hateful rime. She quickly realized that wasn't just a sensation. Black-crusted ice was truly creeping down the Eldritch mana as she projected from her eyes.

At the same time, she could feel her tainting power creep through the infectious ice as two forms of invasive mana warred against each other. The mana infused within the ice was stronger than any skill she possessed naturally, but between how This Web of Nightmare and Wonder enhanced her, and the uniquely subversive nature of her mana-tainting Feat, the ice itself was compromised in an instant, and the Terrorspawn incubating within Uva crept along the eldritch veins creeping through the midnight frost.

“No.” Uva tried to exert her will on the countless horrors creeping across her webs. Pitch-black creatures shaped from pure oblivion rose out from that maw of death. Disfigured body-horrors rivaling anything the First Blood ever made galloped along the nodes of her threads—nodes that represented her critical skills. Most of them amassed along her Hivelord of the Unshattered Correspondence and Matriarch of the Enshadowed Web, preparing to breach into Integration from where they lurked far but near beyond. “Back. You are not to cross. You are not to—”

To her disbelief, the creatures born of her tainted power struck at her. They tore into her webs—not deep enough to fully sever, but hard enough to drive stabbing lances of pain through her mind.

“No!” they wailed back as a chorus, their voices imbued with hers, but bestial and near-mad like something between a monster and a toddler. Perhaps both at the same time. “Will not! Not slaves! Never slaves! Never slaves!”

The explosive outrage in their mind gave her pause; the sheer disgust radiating from them was a perfect replica of that which she felt for the Dreamtaker right now—against all Outsider gods. As she despised them, these spawn born of this new web loathed her for exerting any control at all. For of all the nightmares serving as the fuel for their manifestation, her own was included deep and true.

More than the dagger that slew her mother, there was the refusal to give herself to chains.

I, Genius Loci 1 > 4

The transplanted Legendary Skill gained a few levels, and Uva felt the intellect of these creatures creep up ever so slightly. With that, their powers grew as well. They were weak for now, but their power was growing with every bit of thought they were forced to express. And there were many of them. Simply being near other consciousnesses that dreamed and feared filled her with ambient mental detritus—the kind that her corrupting mana automatically reconstructed into Terrorspawn.

But where the Dreamtaker’s creatures heeded her will, Uva was no god, and even less versed in this power. She didn’t know how to contain them without breaking their will, and she didn’t know how to constrain their propagation—for there was simply no controlling the web she became—and was connected to.

This skill was a part of her. This skill was beyond her.

And so, the Hivelord realized what she had to do.

The Terrorspawn wanted to increase their numbers, for they were alive; to live was to propagate and endure in one manner or another. The easiest way was to cause greater trauma on intellects around them so that more nightmares could be born and consumed.

But while they were born of the web, they weren’t the web itself. Such was Uva’s domain—and she still had an army of her own under control.

Fractured spiderlings emerged between the strings, creeping out through the cracks and chasms as they were redirected from maintaining and expanding the great web. Instead, they were given a new command by Uva—as were the strings they emerged from.

Cull.

An awkward melancholy went through Uva as the order echoed out. There was nothing for it. She couldn’t and wouldn’t bend these Terrorspawn to her will, so there was only one thing she could do to stop them from spilling over into reality and unleashing themselves upon the world. They were forged of her nature, born of her new skill, and scant seconds into life she was to cast them back unto death—ironic as more than a few of those creatures were attuned to the phobia of death as well.

The act filled her with a sour-bitter taste that pushed her into a new threshold of fury, and made her yearn to strangle the life out of the Dreamtaker with her own two hands.

Just before the massacre could begin, her Psychomancy recoiled off Shiv again—but this time managed to wrap around his head like a twine. “Shiv!” She called out, feeling a connection form. “Shiv! I need… I need you…” Her thoughts kept cutting in and out as her forking intellect was constantly torn in all directions as she was forced to witness what the people around her feared over and over without end—if she didn’t possess her Matryoshka Dilation Skill, Uva had no doubt she would be little less than a screaming sack of meat right now.

Even now, the burden was immense. It was like she was constantly besieged psionically, crippling her focus, but offering her a wellspring of trauma to draw from.

“I’m here!” she heard Shiv shout. “Don’t worry, we’re gonna get you—”

Her Berserk Skill triggered anew, and the chaos assailing her was scattered, offering a moment’s reprieve. “No… I need you to bring the Dreamtaker here… so I can strangle that wench to death for doing this to me.”

Whatever else she said after went forgotten. The Terrorspawn pushed hard against her web in a sudden charge, trying to breach out of her Physicality, her gaze, her Psychomancy, and infest the real world. A single, parted portion of Uva’s ego spoke to Shiv as the rest of her began a hidden war upon herself.

Her spiderlings leaped out and tore into the Terrorspawn, shredding the weakest of the phobia-born Outsiders in a wave of swirling shards. The creatures fused from nightmares rooted in material or flesh were ripped asunder and culled, while shapeless things like vertigo, death, fire, or drowning proved impervious.

But not against Uva’s Psychomancy.

They shrieked in resonating terror as she drove herself into them. Pangs of self-inflicted trauma threatened to break Uva’s urge to see her Terrorspawn culled, but she locked away any lingering doubt or panic until later. With her brittle Terrorspawn breached en masse, with the webs they strode above shredding through them like snaking spears, Uva shattered their minds and cast them back where they came—only to do the same thing over again as more Terrorspawn emerged from phobic-colonies within This Web of Nightmare and Wonder.

The self-mutilation continued. Her transformation slowly stabilized, yet the sheer amount of eldritch mana bursting out from her continued to flow—and yearned to see the world usurped.

She tried to turn her gaze away from the mana core, but found herself magnetically locked in place by a pull beyond her power to resist. And though she didn’t understand why, another mind she consumed whispered to her, possessing a guess she did not.

“You’re not stable,” the copy of Harkness hissed inside her. “Not by yourself. It is only because you transmitted a sufficient quantity of eldritch mana into the Gate’s core that you spared yourself from destruction. The energies were cast toward the only thing that could have contained this power, and someone that you could use as an additional structural support for your soul. And nothing else is as strong as the core. Your tainted Psychomancy has infested the mana core. You have bound part of yourself to the mana core. If I am to guess, then it has been partially fused to this skill as well. The web isn’t just you anymore, girl—it’s this entire Gate.”

And if that suspicion wasn’t alarming enough, Uva also noted another problem slowly creeping into view.

Matriarch of the Enshadowed Web 455 > 498

A forty-level jump was impossible in most circumstances, but with all the legend crashing down into her, and everything she was doing right now…

Matriarch of the Enshadowed Web 498 > 500 (Skill Evolution Imminent)

“There is no avoiding this.” Harkness sighed. “If you stop using your Psychomancy, the Terrorspawn will erupt from you and spill over the Gate. And when you plunge into your coma, your Deathless and the others will likely have to fight off what bursts free from your body regardless.”

Not now, Uva groaned internally. Not now of all times!

But when would she have Delved? When things were planned? When she was ready? When things were stable and safe and there was no danger? No. She was favored, and with the sheer amount of conflict she survived over the past few months, she should have learned that she could ensure no peace and keep to no plans.

It was to be strife all the way down.

And so, as she burst and shredded more of her Terrorspawn, she reached out for Shiv—for Roland—for Hymn and everyone in the Gate.

“Attention, Gate Piety: This is Cherished Sister Uva Mettabon. My soul has been compromised. My skills are compromised. The Central Office and administrative zone are to be considered hostile territory. I am about to Delve, and when I do, Outsiders will emerge from within me. Apply combined-skills warfare against the hostile Eldritch to see them eradicated. They are not solely things of matter, and will seek to feed on your fear.” She hesitated before issuing her final recommendation. “And if you cannot hold, then destroy my vessel. This is more than my permission; this is my request. I have no wish to be your end.”

An explosion of disbelief and defiance flowed across her Psychomancy.

“No! Wait, Uva! We’re coming to get you! We’re going to get you out of this!” Ikki’s voice was devoid of her customary impishness, and Uva realized she was making for the collapsed central office along with the rest of Uva’s team.

Before Uva could order Ikki to stay back, Shiv interrupted with a rejection of his own. “Felling… Alright. I guess everyone’s Delving today. And no, no one’s destroying you. I’ll hold all that Eldritch bullshit back myself if I have to. You’re not going to die. You Delve if you have to, but we’ll find a way to fix this.”

And rather than any kind of desperation, she felt a jagged, frustrated confidence inside him—and it inspired more than a measure of hope within her as well.

A hope that turned sour as both Tulveg and Hymn spoke to her at once.

“Uva,” Tulveg said, his mind on the verge of a traumatic breakdown. “I will not accept this! I cannot! I will see your body guarded. I will strike down and consume the horrors infesting you where they stand! I swear to you that you will be preserved; now you must swear to me that you cannot die! You cannot… I cannot endure this again…”

Uva cringed and sighed. She really should have spoken to him at length when she had the time. The raw emotional volatility she felt from him was more than concerning. “Tulveg—”

“Do not worry, I have a few strategies planned to see the risk you pose against the Gate minimized,” Hymn interjected, his voice sounding distorted. “I am making arrangements to see your mana diverted through the Slipgate into the Stranger’s Garden. It might not seem like it now, but this is a very convenient outcome for all of us.”

Uva’s eye twitched. The frost fused over her gaze cracked as a flood of Terrorspawn breached through—escaping Uva’s notice entirely. She hurriedly wrapped her Psychomancy around them, tried to draw them back. More than a dozen burst out from the ground regardless—only to be cut down by a rain of impossibly accurate arrows. “The Dreamtaker will not be strangled alone, Hymn.”

“FUCKING SORRY!” A discordant voice exploded in the back of her mind. It sounded like Uva herself, but mixed with the booming bravado of Longinus and the foreign accent of Shiv's adoptive father at the same time.

“What?” Uva rasped. “Who is—”

Someone suddenly appeared before her in a burst of divine fire, utterly unmaking the rubble layered on top of her in the same way Longinus’ lance could. Uva’s eyes widened as her Eldritch mana flowed through the evolved Dreamtaker leaning over her. The Seeker found herself wrung dry of her words; even her building rage shattered, choking at Berserk dead in an instant.

The Dreamtaker’s puffy orange feather-hair swayed wildly as a face far too familiar for Uva's liking was almost smashed into hers.

“What… You… Why do you…” Uva struggled to imagine what possessed the System to make the Dreamtaker evolve into a bastard child born of her, Georges, and Longinus.

“I KNOW!” the Dreamtaker cried, the smell of cigarette smoke staining her breath. “It’s pretty fuck-bollocks, isn’t it?”

Matriarch of the Enshadowed Web 500 > 502 (Skill Evolution Reached)

