Look, if any of you fuckwits are unfortunate enough to develop a Unique Skill, then you're gonna need to learn how to solve your own problems. The problem with the Unique Skill, right, is that it's a unique fucking skill. No one else has it. No one else has ever used it. You're the only one who fully knows how it works.

On top of that, you shouldn't let anyone know how it works because it's your edge, right? It's the thing that keeps you alive when you're all out of other cards to play. Your Unique Skill is that one thing, that one thing no other Pathbearer or circumstance can take away from you. That skill is your way out of any situation because no one can counter it.

So, shit goes wrong, and your Unique Skill goes haywire. You fix it; you figure out how to deal with it. You do it yourself. By that I don't mean to do it alone, but to manipulate people around you. I mean keep them in the dark and have them work as your hands or your body or something. Your mind has to be your own; you can't share that knowledge.

People talk about sharing knowledge as if that's the glory of civilization. Tell you what civilization wants. Civilization wants to bite down on you and suck you dry. Civilization is a vampire. It wants to make use of you. It wants to rip you apart and pour your lifeblood into a big slurry it calls community.

The thing about community is it's not about doing the end. It's about everyone else, always everyone else except you. When that churn finally finishes and the soup is cooked, you're not a part of it anymore. You're just a shadow. You're being boiled away.

You can't be the one getting cooked. You have to be the one doing the cooking.

But all this whimpering about philosophy is getting us nowhere, so I'm going to give you some very, very good advice. If it's your mind that is going out of control, if it's a mental skill that's collapsing, you're in deep shit. Your mind is special; your mind is your crown. If it falls off your head, you might end up like a slave, not only to yourself but potentially to the world. But that doesn't mean you're out of options. Far from it, in fact. For your mind, you want to have preparations made in advance. Too many fucking morons try to solve something when it's already gone wrong. That's dumb. That's stupid. You fix the thing before it ever becomes a problem. Otherwise, it usually just spirals worse and worse, and some of the damage isn't permanent.

You want to have a Psychomancer or some kind of mind mender, under retainer, blackmailed, perfectly controlled, enslaved to your will in advance, and they're going to be the ones who are healing you. The same goes if your body is going out of control. If you're developing a mess of, I don't know, tumorous growth or something, have a Biomancer do your bidding.

Social Skill is the easiest. You just want to stay away from people and slowly learn what it might do to everyone around you.

Whatever the case, preparations should be made in advance. Your logistics should be in order, and you should have redundancy over redundancy for your operations and to yourself. Nothing should kill you with a first hit. You shouldn't be surrounded easily; you should always have a way out. Again, I keep telling you this: You're not a person as a Pathbearer; you are an enterprise, and brittle enterprises don't last long.

Settle your own affairs in advance. Or get settled by them. Up to you, really. In fact, I hope you do worse. I can always use more merchandise.

—The Realmrunner

398

The Right Tools [II]

A soul was like a vase in more ways than one. It could only contain so much mana. As a Pathbearer gained and evolved skills, thus building their legend, the metaphorical vase would see its structural integrity reinforced, and its total length and volume expanded. This allowed it to contain more mana within before the point of overflow, and it also stopped the vase from shattering when the inner pressure became intolerable.

Much like a dimension, an individual also had an ambient mana threshold represented by the total amount of levels they'd accumulated. However, there was also a maximum output potential of a Pathbearer, and this was expressed through their highest-Tier Skill.

Trying to Animantically transplant a Legendary skill into a Master-Tier Pathbearer would see the skill protrude from the figurative vase that was meant to bear its burden—even if the recipient had enough theoretical mana capacity to sustain said Legendary skill.

However, if an individual was forced to contain the weight of an entire dimension’s worth of mana within themselves, the subsequent outcome would be devastating at best and fatal with higher likelihood. By all logic and law, Uva should have ruptured. The skills forced upon her, breaching through her soul and shredding the fabric of reality, would see her go from being a door left slightly ajar to a wall blasted wide open, allowing all the Outsiders within the Dreamtaker's realm to spill over in a sudden invasion.

But that didn't happen.

Uva felt deformed and bloated, like there was a sea inside of her, and it had to come out. The pressure was immense, but she was elastic. She folded and bent, not only materially but metaphysically as well. Her figurative vase proved to be made of rubber, and the sudden surge of eldritch magic bestowed upon her by the Dreamtaker sparked through her skills, leaping from each of her evolutions like electrical currents gliding across circuits.

It was still far too much matter for a single individual to contain. Not even a True Legend could hold an entire eldritch dimension inside themselves. Perhaps a Myth could, but even that was uncertain.

Yet, Uva wasn't even a proper Legend. She wasn't a Myth. She was, however, Unique. There were no Pathbearers in Integration who possessed these Skills and Feats. And it was that uniqueness which spared her from destruction—but not consequence.

The storm of magical power saw her mind, body, and soul usurped. Her skills were infested and charged; she could feel a change pass through them, yet they didn't break or transform; this wasn't an evolution. Instead, it seemed like her skills served the purpose of a mold, casting a series of new skills meant to take shape inside of her. While they formed, Uva's consciousness wailed. She was a small empire unto herself, possessed of countless forking egos that came together as an inner hive of intellect. But that empire was under siege from within.

Each instance of her fragmented consciousness underwent an unwilling Metamorphosis. Rather than seeing her mind, flesh, and soul overwritten to be more spider-like at the behest of the Eldest, or wrapped in a dense nest of sprouting fingers and glaring eyes as per the will of the Stranger, this change was more insidious. She became less like a gate and more like a stronghold. Her own body expanded from within along dimensions she couldn't fully conceptualize yet.

As chaotic moments passed, her mind went from being mental to partially material. She could feel a tangibility to her thoughts; they carried a force not unlike kinetic energy or electricity surging through her, thundering in the center of her skull. More than that, however, it was space as well. A splash of aberrant dimensionality took shape and leaked out from her compromised eyes; black dots of eldritch matter folded around her skull, hinting at the immense changes occurring within.

And then there were her spiderlings. They were changing as well. Some were too feral or undisciplined to heed her commands. They leapt out through her cracks, fleeing up along that uncontrolled projection of overflowing mana in desperation to find a new nest to take root in. The others, however, returned to Uva. They congealed inside her, merging like a storm of reunited fractals seeing each of their pieces slotted together, assembling new and terrifying shapes.

And those shapes stole animation from Uva's will. The expanse of her mind was becoming strange. One's consciousness was not a perfect mirror of the world. It was a chaotic mirage in some ways, feverish and transformative between the seconds, with certain ideations and manifestations rendered concrete by trauma or core memories.

Rivers of tainted mana flowed through her mind, and from their depths emerged strange new creatures, beasts of nightmare incubated from horror experienced and all the horrors consumed. Their bodily architectures were a nonsensical amalgam of spider, centipede, insect, and vampire. Lengths of needle-thin teeth meant to leech blood and reeve meat clacked together in ravenous rows. Branching arms, sprouting far too many fingers, dotted with gleaming claws, sparked against each other in the dark—each blade a perfect replica of the one used to slay Uva's mother.

As the first of the Dreamtaker-inflicted skills finally loaded inside Uva, a new sense of order befell this purgatorial paracosmos. Once caged in her own mind, Uva felt her many consciousnesses transforming. Instead of being separate stacks, they were threaded together by thin, glistening threads of translucence, her Psychomancy extending inward, weaving a grand web from her Physicality—incorporating her Hivelord of Unshattered Correspondence with her attunements as a new silk woven from her Unique nature alone.

Skill Gained: This Web of Nightmare and Wonder (Unique) 1

Skill Transplanted: Voyeur of Darkest Dreams (Legendary) 322

You have become a Progen—

[Error: Unable to separate Pathbearer from Eldritch Dimension]

Adjusting Skill…

Skill Gained: I, Genius Loci (Legendary) 1

With that, the fever consuming her mind broke, and she finally regained a measure of control over her other skills. The Eldritch mana surging through her still flowed strong, but an insulated layer of elastic threads shrouded her soul and conducted the Outsider magic on her behalf.

The metaphor changed. Instead of being a vase, she was a body again, one she couldn't fully conceptualize. Instead of using the water within to channel inimical electricity, her skin now became copper, and the lightning flowed free without striking that which served as its spine.

Tentatively, she exerted her first measure of regaining control, not through her body, but through her Psychomancy. Her threads moved, but each one quivered. It felt like relearning how to use a limb after an extended period of paralysis, but the strings obeyed. She was herself again—at least in some measure—and the relief that came with it was almost overwhelming.

But her feeling of relief was soon overthrown by the combustion of pure rage.

She did not ask for this power. She hadn't even known it was coming. Out of nowhere, the Dreamtaker decided on her behalf; it seemed all Outsider gods lacked a measure of respect for another's autonomy. And from there came a retroactive pang of horror, reminding Uva that this was what she did to others. This was what she forced on her shield. This was what it meant to be an offensive Psychomancer. You took, you enslaved, you used, and then you cast someone aside. By the end, they weren't even a person, just an intellect winnowed down to a crippled nub of themselves, barely more than an instrument.

I will not be this way, Uva promised herself even while drowned in the throes of delirium. I will strike. I will peak. I will fight. But I will enslave no more. The leash of tyranny is not for me, and it will not be for any other.

She tried to move herself some more. She gained a faint awareness of the world—but not from her own perspective. Instead, she found her many consciousnesses wrenched in different directions, transplanted in other people's minds, adopting a second-person point of view as she glimpsed not through their eyes or other senses, but into their minds, into what they feared and what consumed them with dread.

From them, she drank an influx of memory and psychosis, and at the core of her web, opened the grand black maw that was the embodiment of oblivion and death. Nothingness resided there, only a nothingness that sprouted hands that flicked out with tongues, licking for the living, yearning to swallow all down to a place that was not. But then other nightmare colonies began to form in her mind—seeds of fear sprouted; phobias evolved, imbued with intelligence and made matter through a magic that wasn't fully under Uva’s control.

It was then that she followed this grand web building inside of her and found it rising upward, far beyond her sight but not beyond her senses. The strings that composed her soul extended to another place beyond this dimension, another dimension unto itself, and it was from there that her new skills arrived, and it was there that an entire dimension began to change, mirroring the changes taking place inside her.

The Dreamtaker bestowed upon Uva the remnants of her realm. Why or for what reason, Uva didn't understand yet, but she did know this: it was a sliver of what it was before, with most of the Dreamspawn following their mother in her new evolution.

But that which was unpalatable—that which restrained and constricted rather than filled one with the urge to explore and savor—was left behind and given to Uva. Aspects of the Dreamtaker now deemed divine waste, in some sense.

But what was rubbish to a god was still mithril to a mortal, much like food waste abandoned in the aftermath of a roadside picnic might become a means of generational sustenance for rodents and insects.

It took Uva a bit more effort before she realized this Voyeur of Darkest Dreams was meant to be an Awareness Skill—one devolved from the leftover legend she inherited from her eldritch patron. As it painted a constellation of night terrors across Gate Piety, there was a single absence in this new cosmology greeting her, and it took Uva no time to figure out why.

