Cato’s eyes started to flick side to side as he sifted through information on his AI.

It took almost two minutes, but he eventually focused on Matt and said, “Aura.”

Matt grinned as he changed the projection to show some of his and Erwin’s early findings back when he was just a baby Tier 6.

“With a friend's assistance –Erwin, you should have already processed his application– I discovered a way to repeatedly and consistently create aura rifts in the Tier 3 and 4 range. Most of our time was spent reinventing the wheel, but we made a genuinely new discovery thanks to my mana sub-aspect.”

Matt couldn’t help but smirk as Cato’s slitted eyes widened into circles, large enough to almost eliminate the whites of his eyes. He knew Cato had researched guilds, corporations, and noble family holdings when Matt indicated he wanted to create a guild, and from the reaction, he had already put together the consequences of such a creation. It was petty, but his reaction tickled a deep part of Matt, which was mainly why Matt hadn’t informed him earlier. They had enough time that the delay wouldn’t hamper them, but the aura rifts were one of the things Matt had done himself. It wasn’t about his Talent, even if his Talent had enabled the discovery and that made it special for him.

“I could ship the information today and it would work, but I want to spend a decade or so refining the information before we publish it. I’m aware that I’m going to stomp on the toes of a lot of companies. Especially the companies that create Bottled Concepts. The subsidies they and their Tier 35 workers get for creating Bottled Concepts are immense, and while it won’t immediately ruin their jobs, the dissemination and propagation of auras will eventually eliminate or at least severely limit the need for bottled Concepts to advance past Tier 4. Those who rely on those subsidies and tax credits are going to be pissed. But Cato, here's the thing.”

Matt looked deep into Cato’s eyes and held them, letting all of his determination shine through. “I. Don’t. Care. This can and will help an uncountable number of people. I won’t just patent it and sell the product, even if I could make a fortune in doing so. It’s not like money is a direct concern, after all.”

Cato swallowed before correcting Matt. “More than a fortune. More like four or five fortunes. That discovery would be worth a king title at the least. Are you sure that isn’t something you desire, My Lord? In fact, I think I’m underselling it. This discovery will have the other Great Powers clamoring for it. If the method is exportable the profits could be mind boggling.”

Matt was about to speak when Cato frowned. “Also, My Lord, I think I should mention that you won’t just eventually ruin the Bottle Concept companies with this news. They will almost certainly take a massive loss in their share prices the moment this news breaks. That will make a lot of very powerful people very angry. Those same companies would pay through the nose to be the ones distributing such a method, as it would let them diversify their holdings over a longer time and prevent a sudden downturn in share prices. In fact, they would probably see an upsurgence. This will make enemies, My Lord.”

Matt chuckled lightly and asked a separate question. “What would you do, Cato? Be straight with me. If you were sitting on this, how would you play it? Even if you didn’t have my Talent. Would you just sell it to the highest bidder? Honestly?”

Cato didn’t answer immediately and instead pondered the question. “I’d like to think that I would do the selfless thing, but I don’t know. This is an unheard of opportunity and I have never pretended to be a saint.”

“What if you thought you could do more? If you believed the well wasn’t dry. Does that change your decision, or make it easier? With my Talent, I can afford to test the hard way, but while I may not be Talented at aperology, I have a knack for it. There is more low hanging fruit for me to gather.”

It didn’t seem possible, but Cato’s eyes widened even further before he settled down and nodded. “That would change things. I would at least like to think I would do the same thing as you, My Lord, and make it free. Help as many people as possible without bureaucracy getting in the way.”

Matt nodded. From all the reports Matt read about him, he knew Cato wasn’t a selfless person, but he was a good person. He always tried to avoid hurting others in his plans, even if it made things harder or lessened his own success, so long as it was within tolerable limits. He could also be ruthless if he thought it was worth it, which was what Matt needed.

Cato was right when he said the guild was going to make enemies, which was exactly why Matt needed someone who could assist him without crumpling in the face of everyone they were going to piss off.

He needed someone who cared, but could be ruthless enough to push through the obstacles.

He needed Cato’s unwavering support for what was coming. At least until he had a Vice Guild Leader to take over the day to day operations.

“I see My Lord. Thank you for enlightening me.”

Matt waved Cato’s bow away. “I’ve lived with my Talent for a long time so it means less to me than you. But to answer your comment about me being an idiot for this whole venture. I know, but I refuse to hold back. I—” He paused as he thought he might have seen an issue. “Did you see the budget for the guild’s researchers? I don’t think I ever saw it in the packets you sent over.”

“I assumed it hadn’t been settled on what is safe to launder, so I didn’t bring it up.”

“For the time being, I have secured one hundred billion mana a day for the guild. We ca—”

Matt had expected Cato to be shocked at how much mana the Emperor was willing to launder, but Cato hit him with something he didn’t expect. “Then the Emperor already knows about the aura rifts. That makes a lot of things easier. Or at least, that is how we should play it. Even knowing your Talent, the Emperor funding the guild is where my mind immediately went.”

He hadn’t considered that angle, but it was a good one. Being on the other side of the secret for so long, he had only considered explaining away his mana through a combination of Manny, Mara, and Leon. But from an outside perspective, it made more sense that the funding was just a reward for the aura rifts that they were trying to keep under wraps. It might not be a permanent solution, but it was a fairly long term one. And so long as they invented something useful to the entire Empire, the funding could continue unabated and unquestioned.

“Does that change your recommendation?”

Cato pulled another chain out of his spatial ring and went back to spinning it around his fingers for almost five minutes, but Matt gave him the time to think.

Eventually he nodded. “I can and will do a more detailed analysis based on this new information, but my preliminary answer is no. In fact, I believe it's smarter to play things even closer to the vest in light of the scale of our changes.” Seeing something in Matt’s reaction, he hastened to add, “Not out of fear, but so as to better position yourself for the inevitable fallout. There aren’t a ton of people who dabble in aperology, but there are a few. Thankfully, there aren’t any guilds or major noble houses who do more than dabble. That said, I know of one who is going to be a problem. Mackenzie Harrington, a Tier 45 with an aperology Talent that allows her to make rifts. The exact limits of her Talent are unknown. Additionally it's unknown and unlikely that she can affect rift rewards, but she works for the upper echelons of Empire society and she is… Protective of her monopoly on higher Tier rift creation.

“She is both wealthy and well connected thanks to her making hand made rifts for those who can afford her skills. I’ll need to look into her more, but from what little third and fourth hand knowledge I know of her, she would rather see any information about aperology locked away rather than freely disseminated. She hasn’t done it in a long time, but when she was still making a name for herself, she did things like create perfect farm rifts. In the middle Tiers, not the lower Tiers, but she would see these advances as stepping on her toes. We will want to garner as much good will with other guilds, corporations and noble families as possible before we inevitably confront her, which means slow playing the beginning, and if possible, giving a small head start to powerful noble families as a show of good faith. They will appreciate the advantage even if they know it won’t last, and you won’t have to compromise on making everything free.”

Matt frowned at the analysis. He knew of Mackenzie Harrington but he hadn’t considered that she was going to be an issue. She exclusively dealt with higher Tier rifts and was very secretive of her work, with clauses in her contracts that meant any rifts she created couldn’t be opened to the public. There was mass speculation about her actual Talent set and what it did, but no one really knew.

Matt knew he could ask the Emperor, but her Talent wasn’t the issue. It was her attitude, which was apparently worse than he knew. She cultivated an image of aloof and busy rather than petty and vindictive, but Matt believed his seneschal more than second hand knowledge that was undoubtedly controlled by a PR team.

He had considered trying to bring her onboard, but Erwin had brought up a good point. Some research teams were built around trying to maximize a Talent set, but anything that was built off that foundation was incredibly hard to re-engineer into something that could be mass produced, or even just created without the Talent.

Matt wouldn’t exclude those with Talents because pushing the bounds of what was possible had value, but it wasn’t what he wanted for his aperology department. He wanted things that could be deployed far and wide.

But this information that Mackenzie might deliberately try to make trouble wasn’t what Matt wanted to hear. His initial reaction was to just wait for her to make a move and then tattle on her to Lila, but that was childish, and not the right way to handle these kinds of things. Fight fire with fire and politics with politics. No matter how amusing it might be to see a woman who used her Talent for pure profit, and then used that profit to keep her monopoly, get chewed on by a dragon.

Matt was also no saint. If he was, he would voluntarily walk into a cage to just make mana for everyone, probably inside a Tier 47 rift with its incredible time dilation. The fact he wasn’t that self sacrificing didn’t change the fact he detested Mackenzie and her ilk. It was one thing to profit from one's Talent, but it was another thing to run interference to ensure no one threatened your interests.

Not that Matt would let this stop him.

Still, this was good to know, as now he knew who he should target for the upcoming party. That was the idea behind inviting everyone, after all. No matter how much he didn’t want to spend a week schmoozing with nobles, guild leaders, and corporations leaders, it was the time to set the foundation of what was to come.

“Also, Cato, I intend to dedicate a team to enchantments similar to the [Bandage] talisman back when I was at the Tier 10 tournament. I don’t have any ready to drop, but I intend to fund an entire department with similar goals.”

Cato’s already pale skin went almost transparent. “My Lord, can we keep the Empire shaking revelations to a minimum. Or at least the ones that will conflict with existing interests? Or at a minimum keep to one at a time? The rune guilds are expansive and tied up in a coalition of guilds that don’t take kindly to anyone outside their ranks creating runes at all, let alone giving them away for free.”

Matt just laughed. “I’m going all-in, Cato. There is no stopping this train. And I don’t intend to stop with these. If we find someone with a good idea for a project, or who is willing to sign up with our conditions, I’m willing to fund almost anything.” Bobbing his head, Matt equivocated. “In theory, at least. Even a hundred billion mana a day won’t stretch across endless teams, but point being, I won’t limit my scope just because it will step on established interests. I intend to focus on low Tier items and issues because they are the people in the most need, and anyone who sees their profits as more important than progress that can help people can get bent. It won’t be easy, and I want to avoid making enemies, but I won’t avoid doing something because it will make enemies. Maybe I’m naive, but I think enough people are decent and can see these things as good things. It's not like I won’t let them make a profit.”

Cato raised an eyebrow at that statement, and Matt explained, “I don’t intend for us to make things. At least not on any kind of scale. So those companies can make and sell our products, but they won’t have a monopoly or patent preventing their competitors from undercutting them if they price their goods too high. Margins might be thin, but they won’t be nonexistent.”

“That is a good angle, My Lord. And one we, or rather you, should mention often and loudly at this upcoming party. Speaking of the party My Lord, is there anything else you need of me immediately? If not, I ask your leave to go and assist with the preparations. I need to start laying the groundwork for a number of notable non noble guests, as I am the most familiar with them thanks to our prepwork.”

Matt dismissed Cato with a wave. “My only issue was with the buyouts and I agree with your reasoning, at least for now. Better to start small and grow organically. We can pick this back up once you have some more time.”

