“No, and no. But Pallass has a lot of [Alchemists]. First thing tomorrow, we’re going to run on all the magical dust they’ve got. Crystals especially. Magic crystals doubly. Everfrozen Ice…that’s how you make cold flame. You grind it up and mix it with Sparkdust. That’s how we normally do it. Even things that don’t normally burn will flame up and imbue the fire with magic.”
Everyone sat forwards. Wait. What did he just say?
“We’re making our own magical flames?”
“Of course we are! Do you think I’d trust her to light a fire? She’d produce a Griffin Egg and have me going on a quest to slay a Hydra every other day!”
Pelt roared at Erin. She tried to object and felt like she was being bullied for half-reasonable reasons of late. Pelt stabbed his palm with a huge finger.
“Magical fire! Each one of you will have to experiment. Choose your flame! And there’s a lot that Miss Emotions over there doesn’t have. Spark-flame. I hate it, and it’ll shock you numb. Everburning Flames. You’ll experiment, and the metal will react to each one. The Guild of Smiths knows how damn hard magical fire is to work, so even a Forgemaster like Amared probably never got to it. But it’ll imbue your metal with the power of the flame. If you master it.”
“Why—we’re using magical fire? Master!”
Emessa grew excited. He pushed her hugging arms aside.
“Not so fast. There’s a reason why it’s hard. Which is why we’re here. Before we begin making magical flames, you have to get a feel for what fire might be yours.”
Someone had to wave a hand and interject here.
“Uh, Pelt? Magical fire’s sort of my thing. And Maviola’s. Why don’t I—”
He threw sand at her legs.
“Shut it! You think you invented magical fire? Don’t interrupt. Dead gods. The day I let an [Innkeeper] tell me how to use flame is the day I renounce every last title and my very name!”
He pointed, and Erin was stunned as she stepped back and stood there. She waved a hand as someone jogged over.
“Erin! What have you done while I was gone? This is am—”
Ryoka Griffin was waving her arms, agog, and frothing at the mouth that she had once again missed an inn-exclusive because she had a life outside of Liscor. Erin put a finger to her lips, and both listened into Pelt’s talk. And Shaestrel slapped Ryoka’s ear.
 
“Hah! Even the Dwarf knows it! Listen in!”
 
Pelt spoke slowly, from memory, trying to remember how it had been explained to him, once. His face softened with nostalgia, then grew bitter—then calm and even slightly annoyed.
“The thing is, I was never the master of it. There were two great masters in our forge who led the others. One was I, and I was the master of form. He, Taxus, of heart. Flame…he knew magical flames. I could use them, but he could put more into the metal than was there. I do heat, pure and simple, tempering and finish. He knew the secrets of fire.”
He had always felt like this was where smithing left the realms of reality and went into the damned esoteric, which was why he was no good at it. But like the art of swords…the smiths were listening intently, and Pelt saw Emessa taking notes.
She had a penpal in Chandrar, some ‘Narwhal’ or something. Pelt snorted, imagining the gigantic dolphin-whale with a horn, which was how he pictured Emessa’s penpal. Let her tell them what he said. Tannousin knew good smithing, too. His voice grew calmer.
“Did you think you could sprinkle some powder in flame and master it? No, no. To move magic, you must know the fire. That’s the key. When you put magic in steel, not just the exact temperature at which metal moves…we’re not spellcasters. So we have to strike with coldness in our hearts to make frozen flames move. It’s not one feeling. You can be the raging flame in the winter’s chill or the cold logic where lightning touches the ground. But you must master it, and part of it is—knowing yourself. A steady heart when you swing and an arm like thunder.”
Erin and Ryoka looked at each other, and both of their mouths opened. Their teachers had both understood that, and Pelt—!
“We should have just apprenticed under Pelt and not bothered with Shaestrel or Ivolethe or anyone!”
Erin commented and got a kick in the head from the Spring Faerie. But Pelt was talking theory and magic, far beyond the world of smithing he had shown them before. Things even he had never understood.
Taxus. Perhaps in the eyes of those around him was the seed of the next great smith of this world. For now, Pelt would be content to give Amared the surprise of his miserable life. Pettiness befit a smith.
So did joy. So, soon, the [Smiths] were sitting around in a circle, some holding rocks, others with their hammers, eating from Erin’s rapidly diminishing sushi stocks.
They were…rather a nuisance to the other beach-goers, honestly. Mostly because, at this moment, they were eating and Pelt was hammering on the ground in a fast rhythm, and they followed suit.
Even on his far island, Chaldion’s drink jumped, and the rumbling made the other beach-goers complain to Erin. But Pelt kept showing them the rhythm.
“Come on, come on—faster! You lead, Maughin.”
It was a game where if you missed the beat, you got out. Emessa whispered to Pelt.
“Master, is this some tradition or training from Dwarfhome?”
He gave her a blank look.
“What? No. This is a game we made up when we visited Drath. It’s fun as shit. You have to stop working all the time, Apprentice. Actually, go make sure I can play that game where you hit the ball over the net. Reserve a spot for after I beat everyone here.”
 
——
 
A visitor came by as Pelt was warming to this beach. It wasn’t as good as Drath, which he made a point of letting Erin know. But for something you could walk into after a five-minute stroll? He’d take the convenience.
What those fools never realized was that Erin was a talented prodigy at her craft. He knew not the heft of [Innkeeping], nor the politics of it as opposed to the forge, nor even the metal she worked or how she did it.
But—fools—they had to challenge her, never let her rest idle at her station. Or else she would stagnate without competition. Pelt knew these things. Plus, making fun of her was entertaining.
However, someone interrupted Pelt from playing his hammer game after he lost to that damn [Farrier], Bealt. Pelt saw a little form trotting down the beach, skirting the waves. He made a face of disgust.
“Eurgh. I forgot this thing is here. I should’ve known they’d turn up. Damn barnacles. Get lost.”
He tossed some sand at Nerry, but the Sariant Lamb, staring up at him with huge, innocent eyes, dragged over her gift to him and spat it onto the ground. Pelt stared at…he uncorked the glass bottle and sniffed.
Some high-quality drink from Rufelt’s bar had been poured into the bottle, and the lamb mewled. Look at how nice she was! Didn’t he like her?
“Huh. This lamb has good taste.”
Pelt took a happy swig from the bottle. Nerry trotted him off to get him more things as Ryoka sighed.
Erin Solstice eyed the oddly-nice lamb and saw Nerry paused and spit towards the Dwarf’s back while he wasn’t watching. Then trot off.
 
——
 
Numbtongue was surprisingly popular with the [Smiths], just like he was with [Miners] in general. And he was only too happy to consult with a patch of air as he lazily floated around on the currents, watching two ships sinking as Nanette and Mrsha rammed Relc and Klbkch’s ship.
“We’re going down! How can kids beat us?”
Relc screamed, and Klbkch stared down at the fairly deep, blue water below him. He sighed.
“I hate water. If I drown, don’t tell Wrymvr how I died.”
Numbtongue turned from snickering at them to the paddling Raekea, who was giving him a huge and slightly too-friendly smile.
“What’s that? Purple quartz…?”
He rubbed at his chin as Pyrite, pretending to float on his back, muttered.
“Orichalcum. Never figured out how to forge it. Tell them huge vein is up in mountains. Tastes like grape poo.”
Numbtongue obligingly gave the Gnoll an innocent smile.
“Sure is. Purple quartz, all over the place. Up high. I found it ages ago. Tossed it into big crevasses for fun. Why, you want some?”
He savored the expression on her face and then wondered how happy Rags would be to hear this.
 
——
 
Such was the changing nature of smiths. Beaches, fire, and of course…Erin Solstice watched Pelt and smiled. Even if he hogged the space, he was definitely welcome here.
But she turned to Ryoka, who was looking around, agog with all the fun.
“I can’t believe you let Hethon and Sammial in. They look so happy. Thanks, Erin.”
“Oh, no problem, Ryoka. And hey! Someone’s selling swimsuits, and you can buy one and hang out. I know you probably wanna have fun here, right? Stay and have a blast! In fact, bring anyone you want. Except…”
Erin put her hands to her cheeks.
“Oh no. Oooh noooo. Poor Tyrion. That’s right, he’s still not invited. But his kids are because they’re kids. Oh, and his assistant Jericha and Ullim. Just not him. How sad. But be sure to tell him about the beach. Tell him ‘if he can get past Liska he can get in’. But he can’t. Which is sad.”
Ryoka Griffin groaned as Nerry trotted down the beach, rolling her eyes.
“Erin…seriously?”
The [Innkeeper] put her hands on her hips.
“Petty? Who’s being petty, Ryoka? I’m just being consistent.”
“I never said ‘petty’. Sounds like someone’s projecting.”
“Hey, I can change. In fact, why don’t I let Tyrion into the inn? That’s right. I’ve decided I was the jerk. Ryoka was right. He’s allowed in the common room, he can have all the food if he can stomach ordering from Calescent or Ishkr—but no beach. Actually, he can sit in a chair and watch everyone. How about that?”
Ryoka massaged her temples, trying to sound reasonable and not start a fight with Erin. Even if she felt like Erin wanted a fight at this moment.
“Erin, I wasn’t going to let him in anyways. Or even ask.”
Ryoka was weary of another fight when she wanted to just go swimming and have fun here. But Erin turned to her. To the Courier’s pure astonishment, Erin gave Ryoka a long look, then exhaled.
“He can come in. No tricks, no pranks. Even to the beach.”
“Wh—what?”
Even Badarrow, who had mysteriously appeared with Snapjaw when he heard ‘warm sand and lots of food’, turned around fast. But Erin just pulled something out of her belt pouch and handed it to Ryoka.
“I mean it. But give him this first.”
Ryoka Griffin stared down at something. It was…a neatly written piece of paper, one of Mrsha’s notecards that Erin had dozens upon dozens of. She walked off as Shaestrel whistled softly. Then Ryoka saw Erin stroll across the ground and hand something to Pelt.
“So that’s why she did it?”
 
“Not bad. But she still can’t beat me at chess.”
 
——
 
Chaldion of Pallass was lying on his back, snoozing and half-debating lodging a complaint about the damn hammering, when he heard a sound.
“You can’t approach without confirmation. Wait a s—”
Then the [Major] screamed, and Chaldion heard a thump. He sat up slowly as the Drake disappeared into a hole in the ground that had opened under his feet.
He raised the towel over his eyes and blinked without surprise as Erin Solstice walked over. She had appeared out of the air, and she was holding her back.
“I need to sit down. Ow, ow, ow…I can stand for longer, but I’m still tired too much. Mind if I sit?”
“This is your garden. Is my [Major] alive?”
“I just sent him to the main room. He’ll be back.”
Indeed, the furious Drake had run back in and was swimming as fast as he could towards them. Chaldion lifted a claw.
“Everyone else, give us room.”
Two Eyes of Pallass hesitated, then left the fake palm tree that Palt had conjured for Erin. The [Innkeeper] raised her brows as several more of Chaldion’s staff headed off.
“I just came to give you this. Sorry, doing the rounds now since Pelt actually showed up. Here you go! Please RSVP by the end of the week.”
Chaldion sat up slowly as Erin handed him the same card she’d been passing around to various people in the inn. And his eyes sharpened as he saw her smile gently. He read the card—looked at her, and exhaled.
“I suppose it would be too much to hope this is a joke?”
The card was the same, but Erin, like a good hostess, or [Innkeeper], had addressed each one to each recipient directly, because she knew what she was asking. And she’d added a variation to each card. Chaldion’s read thusly:
 
Dear Chaldion,
This coming Winter Solstice, on the last day of the month of Mouring/first day of the month of Elfebelfast, I cordially invite you to: the fight of your life.
Please either come ready for anything or stay far away from The Wandering Inn. Pallass’ armies are also invited to the party. All of them.
—Erin Solstice
 
The [Grand Strategist]’s heartbeat was increasing. He murmured, reading the short note, so sparing of details.
“All of them? Pallass has eight armies, Erin Solstice. Combined, they would have outnumbered every Drake force at the Meeting of Tribes.”
Did she know what she was asking? He, like Pelt, knew she was intelligent, but she was still no [Strategist]—
“Look into my eyes, Chaldion.”
He paused a second before he glanced up. Then—Chaldion’s one living eye and his blue gemstone gaze flashed under the sunlight as they rose, and he looked into the [Innkeeper]’s hazel gaze.
Slowly, Chaldion sighed. She wasn’t awash with fear, but she was serious. Her gaze, if anything, was kind and watchful. Mirth and happiness flickered in this warm beach. And at the center was Erin Solstice. Waiting for the Winter Solstice.
“—I see. I need details.”
“Let me tell you what I’ve got. I think it might be war and death itself that come after us, Chaldion. Hopefully nothing else, for now.”
“In what form?”
Erin smiled gently, almost amused by the [Strategist]’s alert, confused gaze as he beckoned for his aides to come running.
“War. And death.”
Then he understood. And the other people holding Erin’s card, her warning, looked at each other and made the choice they had always made here. Only Jelaqua, standing there and holding the card, looked around and cleared her throat nervously.
“U-um. So. We were going to have our wedding on the Winter Solstice because of the fancy eclipse and because it’s one of those auspicious dates. Do you think I should reschedule?”
Numbtongue patted her on the shoulder.
“Probably do it earlier or later by a day. One way, you’re married. The other, it’s all done.”
 
——
 
She’d even invited Tyrion. So. Fun, beaches, and a cordial invitation to a party. The Wandering Inn never changed.
