“By the Grandfathers! Two miracles, then. I thought I’d never see the Master of a Hundred Metals wield his hammer again. Let alone Master Pelt give anyone a day off. Deríthal-Vel would shake if it could see this!”
Then emotion filled Pelt’s body like a shot of painful vitality. He tore the apron off his head and whirled. And his eyes were suddenly filled with fire and wrath.
“You!”
Fifteen Dwarves raised shields warily, but the Master Smith wearing the badge of the Guild of Smiths from Deríthal-Vel, a Dwarf that Pelt did not know, just applauded onwards. He had a huge, reddish-brown beard, and he looked young.
Barely sixty. Talented, perhaps; Pelt saw his bulging arm-muscles, and he noted the sense of some expertise around the [Smith]. But this was—
He carried a rune hammer from home. Pelt’s eyes bulged as he saw that—then Dwarf warriors from home. How? Emessa realized who they were and tried to rush forwards, babbling.
“The Dwarfhalls Rest expedition. Master Dwarves—Master Pelt is—”
Pelt blocked her with one arm, and his voice was low and dangerous.
“I told you never to approach me again.”
He lifted the hammer, and if he threw it, it might go through the Dwarves, despite their Dwarfsteel armor. But he was a smith, like Erin was an [Innkeeper], and they’d probably cut him down.
He almost threw it. The Master Dwarf that Pelt didn’t know looked only barely concerned, but he was slightly tense as he smiled.
“I had to come, Master Pelt. Put down your hammer, please. I’ve come to offer you a new forge. Not in Deríthal-Vel, but our new home. The forges are lit—we’ve been producing steel already. See?”
He unveiled something, and Maughin groaned. A huge, gleaming set of Dwarfsteel plate armor shone in the smith’s hands.
It was well-made, Pelt had to own. Not many impurities, and the Dwarfsteel felt, to him, local.
So they found veins of the right metal, and they’re producing enough to show off. That’s probably a gift for Erin Solstice or Tyrion Veltras. Dead gods, Pallass has competition.
It was going to throw all of Izril’s metal economies into chaos. Dwarves in Izril after so long? Yet Pelt’s mind was filled with rage.
“I am an outcast. How dare you offer me a position? You have no authority.”
“On the contrary, Master Pelt. I am Forgemaster Amared. Chief Forgemaster of the Dwarfhalls Rest expedition. By the Guild of Smiths, I can offer you your title back and work—in Dwarfhalls Rest, as you are still exiled from Dwarfhome. But in time, you might earn access back home.”
Maughin gasped, and Emessa looked at her master, worried. This was what she had long feared.
Home. Pelt blinked a second, and it called to him. They had all been exiled, the masters. The younger ones, those who hadn’t run off in shame, had either sworn off the steel or just…left. Even the good, solid [Line Hammer-Smiths] like Yoitha. He’d heard she was selling her ability to smith Mithril like a genius for coppers before he’d left Terandria.
They’d ruined a generation, and now, barely two decades later, Deríthal-Vel wanted him back? Pelt stared at the new Forgemaster, and even his memory of the [Apprentices] didn’t turn up this Amared’s face. His reply, after a long pause, was curt.
“The forges of home must be pathetic if they need me back. Forgemaster? You’re nothing more than a basic [Smith], brat. You’d never make even Line-Hammer under me.”
Amared’s face tightened at the insult, and the two apprentices following him and holding the armor sample clenched their fists. But he was all smiles the next moment.
“I thought you’d say that. The Master Pelt I remember was too proud to accept working under anyone. And too proud to let anyone advance! You haven’t even taught this lot how to make rune hammers, have you? You always said that ‘a smith shouldn’t have help until he no longer needs it’. Well, the Guild of Smiths is thrice as large as it was under you, Master Pelt. Large enough to send an expedition to Izril.”
Ah. This felt too personal. Pelt wondered if he’d told Amared he was worthless. He’d probably said that to half the Dwarves he’d ever supervised who’d ever touched a hammer in Dwarfhome. The Dwarf was almost ready to begin murder—but he slowly lowered the hammer and hooked it into his belt.
Last year, he probably would have gotten himself killed attacking Amared, or perhaps given in and taken the offer. Today? He spread his hands and smiled at the Dwarf, who lost his when he saw Pelt’s look.
“You brag like a child, Forgemaster Amared. The metal you have there is mass-produced shit. Can you even forge Orichalcum?”
“We know all the techniques, Master Pelt. Including Adamantium ore, which we can buy in bulk, unlike your little forge.”
The Forgemaster took a step forwards, and Pelt picked at his teeth.
“Oh, how frightened I am. Shall we play a game? I can forge Orichalcum to break your Adamantium apart. Bring me your best craft and I will let two warriors smash the blades into each other. Bring your best two blades.”
He could do it, too. Amared turned pale with fury, but he mastered himself quickly. Then he gave a sardonic bow.
“Well, Master Pelt, I hope you can, because the era of everyone running to your forge for everything is over. I have approached all your clients—and the smiths of Dwarfhalls Rest stand with me. We are not going to cling to old tales about the ‘greatest generation’. Your shame ruined our reputations for years. We are rebuilding it, link by link.”
Pelt’s face reddened. Jelaqua, the younger smiths, everyone’s heads were turning back and forth as he and Amared shouted at each other. Pelt slapped his chest as he bellowed at the younger Dwarf.
“We know what we did! Do you stand in front of me and claim you’re truly proud of your title?”
Amared shot back quietly.
“I am a Level 45 [Forgemaster]. Not at your level, but I have hit it before turning seventy. We replaced your talent in twenty years, Master Pelt. I wanted to offer you, sincerely, a position to help us recapture our mastery. But if you need me to, I will prove we can do without you.”
Pelt just laughed in derision.
“There’s more to levels than just a number, Forgemaster.”
“Maybe. But there are six [Smiths] of my level in Dwarfhalls Rest.”
Pelt stopped laughing abruptly. His eyes snapped up. Amared lifted a finger.
“Before you ask—all of us were far lower-level when you were a master. Though, two were Line-Hammers.”
“You took them in?”
“Your failures weren’t theirs! That’s right, Master Pelt. If you want to see, Dwarfhalls Rest is open to you any day! But prepare yourself, because your dangling of Orichalcum over the heads of local smiths? We know exactly how it’s made. Pure copper is one ingredient, incidentally, and pure gemstones. The alloy is magical, and Master Pelt may know how to work it—but few have the resources in Izril. And ‘veins’ of it go unnoticed as mere purple quartz.”
Emessa gasped. Wait, it was just a quartzite infused with magical alloys? It was Adamantium all over! Experienced [Smiths] might have been trading or securing deposits under their very noses all along! Pallass, doubtless, had private records about deposits. Same with Salazsar. But did anyone else know where purple quartz might be?
Amared threw this one out there, and Maughin turned pale as the two locked eyes. The Dullahan was behind…and Amared turned to Pelt and met the Dwarf’s gaze. Both held the look for a long minute—then Amared spat on the ground, turned, and stomped away. He didn’t look twice at any of the smiths here, not Emessa, not Maughin, not Raekea.
Dwarves had come to cover Izril in their mastery. And Pelt?
Pelt stood there, then snatched his hammer up and drove it into the flagstones so hard he left a huge crack down the entire street. Then he wondered how many great hammers, how many magical forges, the Dwarves of Dwarfhalls Rest had brought. A hammer did not make a [Smith].
But dead gods damn it…sometimes it helped. And soulless metal could still be sharp. Who’d begged forgiveness and gone back to the forge? Which Line-Hammers…
Nevermind, they had just followed orders. Pelt stared down—then he looked up, and someone had reached out a hand to him.
“Master Pelt? I don’t think we need to go to the beach after all. Would you mind resuming your lesson? Now?”
Raekea, Maughin, and the other smiths had their pride. They were lined up, and the Gnoll had offered him a paw. Their eyes were blazing—and Pelt saw it, then.
You want to play this game, Amared? Be careful, because the secrets of Dwarfhome are not all mine. But I’ll share them. Oh yes. Grandfathers laugh at us both.
 
——
 
Thirty minutes later, Erin Solstice was scheming in her inn.
“A super cookie? No, no. He’ll probably just smash it. Alcohol? But he’s sobering up—well, when he’s working. How about clothing? Mithril underwear? No, that’s cool but stupid.”
She was trying to figure out how to get Pelt to be nice—when the door to Esthelm opened and the [Smiths] appeared.
All of them. Not just Pelt and Raekea and Maughin and Emessa, but the apprentices, even a lot of regular Esthelm smiths.
“Uh. Hi? What’s up, guys?”
“Beach!”
Five dozen smiths barged past Erin and straight into her garden. They were mad as heck, but half of them were already shirtless. Erin opened and closed her mouth as Liska popped her head back in.
“That wasn’t me. Honest. No, seriously. What made him change his mind?”
 
——
 
Erin had a hard time convincing anyone it wasn’t her, and she herself brought over a tray of sautéed beef and chicken and pork on a skewer to eavesdrop on the [Smiths].
They had plonked themselves down on the main beach and effectively chased off everyone else. Even for Erin’s large garden…they were a crowd, and Jelaqua was there, just as mad at Maughin’s skill being impugned.
However, their leader, the furious Dwarf with more hair than chest, was growling around as Emessa tried to put sunscreen on his head. He snatched a skewer as Erin offered the tray around.
“Erin. Fifteen sushi trays. I’m paying for this lot. Nice beach. Now, shove off. Alright, you lot, we’re on break for today. No one touches a hammer to hot metal, not for a bit.”
“You sure, Master Pelt? He’s making Dwarfsteel armor—”
Raekea was gnashing her teeth along with her Drake husband, but Pelt held up a hand. And he was not just a Forgemaster, nor the Hammer of a Hundred Metals.
He was…
A competing smith, a strategist in a different kind of war, and even Chaldion stopped lying in the sun to peek over at Pelt as he chomped down on his first skewer.
“Amared knows the work, or at least, he can probably remember seeing it. He wants us riled up and injuring each other and messing up the metal. So. We calm down and plan it out. First off. Kevin?”
“Yes?”
Kevin sat up in alarm. Pelt pointed at him.
“We’re done making your bike parts. I want you to go to Amared behind my back. Tell him…tell him that you need to upscale Solar Cycles. I’ll do your magical, custom bikes, but you’re willing to sell him the contract.”
“What? Master Pelt…”
The Dwarf had an evil smile on his face.
“Tell him that you need him to produce all your ball bearings, though, and let him know how many places will need high-quality steel gizmos. Pallass will be making parts too, and I bet for now, Dwarfhalls Rest can produce high-quality stuff. But you know what? They forge by hand. They have quality control. Whereas the Engineering Guild is working with molds and production themselves because we’re sick of it.”
The other [Smiths], including Maughin, who’d had the displeasure of making the damn stuff for the Engineering Guild, suddenly developed smirks. There was a big difference between the ability to forge something and enjoying the work.
And multiple nations with Earthers wanted the ball bearings and gears and the other, oh-so-hard to make things that required industry or a gifted smith who had to hand-grind a gear to exacting dimensions.
Pelt started dirty, and then he went into the cesspool as he talked tactics. Smiths could cause havoc for one another just by denying the other access to essentials in smithing, like the right charcoal or quality ore.
“If nothing comes from Pallass except overland or by sea…they have to get their precious gems. Yet if we can force them to pay tariffs on the magic door or worse, import it over land, they’ll need to seek the gems elsewhere or pay through the nose. And a lot of magical smithing is gemwork.”
“Orichalcum?”
They were taking notes as Pelt grunted.
“Let’s not go into smithing recipes right now. I’ll teach the best of you, but Amared has magical forges. He can literally smith mithril without straining his forges whereas half of you would crack Pallass’ own foundries trying to heat it enough. Pallass can probably put out more steel, but it was built around mass-steel, not magical metals.”
He scowled and admitted a hard truth. Even back in the old days, the masters like he were part of a team. And the team could have still beaten him and Taxus working together.
Smithing was no solo act when you forged for armies. Pelt exhaled slowly.
“The fact is—they can probably out-produce us if a third of the Guild of Smiths is there. We’ll need to work together, local smithies, to even put up a resistance to them flooding the market. You all can’t even make Dwarfsteel; it isn’t about how, it’s about the heat. Even my reinforced forge needs to be so hot to work it—Mithril’s at a cooler temp.”
That sobered the growing alliance of [Smiths]. Emessa nodded importantly.
“Plus, it’s mostly dust in other ore. Refining it takes specialist Skills or magic.”
“Titanium’s shit.”
Kevin agreed. Pelt had a plan, though. He tapped his finger importantly on the ground.
“That’s why where they go quantity, we go quality. Originality.”
“How? Art?”
“No, do I look like I value fancy sword guards or engravings on your metal or pattern-steel?”
Pelt spat to the side. He was someone who loved the quality of metal, and form over function made him want to puke. Someone complained.
“Hey, that’s my sand! I—oop! Wait, wait! Go ahead and spit!”
Pelt actually picked Erin up and put her in the center of the group of smiths. She instantly grew embarrassed.
“Hey! Wait! Am I the secret weapon? Noice. But wait a sec—”
“Her fire.”
Maughin came to the realization first, and Pelt saw Erin look up half in alarm. He raised a finger.
“Not. Quite. Shush yourself or whatever the phrase is.”
He shooed Erin off to the side, and she frowned, just as confused. Pelt shook his head slowly.
