Persua Mavva finally reached Invrisil and hesitated at the door to The Wandering Inn. It was as cold as anything, and when she was able to transit through to the inn, it occurred to her that a warm drink inside would be really nice.
But the fear of running into anyone who remembered her made her slightly glad the inn was blocked off.
Then angry when the Gnoll told her that she couldn’t go to the beach.
“Wait, what do you mean? Warm? I’m almost a Courier—”
“Next! Where are you going? You can’t stay here.”
“P-Pallass. I’m supposed to go to The Adventurer’s Haven. I was told I could get there by door—”
And thus bypass an eight-hundred mile run, much to Persua’s relief. She was happy—until Liska gave her a sympathetic groan.
“Ooh. Hard luck.”
“Wait? Why hard?”
Liska was consulting a map. She pointed to a dot as Persua stared at it blankly—she had never been south of the Bloodfields, and she’d only gotten that far once.
“It just went out of range. So what you’ve gotta do is go to the Runner’s Guild in Pallass, then ask them where the Haven is now. It’s probably only a hundred miles past the City of Inventions, and it doesn’t move that fast.”
“A hundred—”
She shrieked, but Liska helpfully opened the door.
“Good luck!”
Only when Persua had dashed through, with a scream, did Liska snap her fingers.
“Damn. Forgot to tell her about the passport or she’ll get arrested. Eh. She’s almost a Courier. I’m sure she knows.”
Liska happily went back to reading her book. If Erin Solstice could have given Liska an employee review on the spot for her conduct, she probably would have offered Liska an immediate bonus.
 
——
 
The agony of random Runners aside, the second day of the beach was actually more hyped up than the first. Mrsha went racing into the beach with Nanette, and they realized it hadn’t been a dream.
“Beach. Beach! Beaaaach!”
In fact, day two had seen Erin change it up so now the entire garden was water—and there were ‘islands’ you could swim to. None were too far apart, but the girls dove into the water—and made it onto another island until someone picked up both girls and tossed them into the surf.
“Hey! What are you doing?”
“The Grand Strategist is resting on this island. Please occupy yourselves elsewhere.”
A Drake [Major] retorted, claws folded behind his back. Chaldion was already here! Nanette and Mrsha stared at the VIP-island. They’d claimed everything.
Chaldion looked up from his morning paperwork and a bowl of sliced mangos. He’d demanded even fresher fruits from Oteslia.
“Major. You’re securing my working vacation, aren’t you?”
The Drake was wary in the inn, because he had seen the Trials of Zeladona and even bled there. He saluted Chaldion smartly.
“Yes, Grand Strategist! I will make sure you are not disturbed.”
“Well, you’ve done a poor job of it so far. Consider the psychology of your opponents, fool.”
“Sir?”
That was when the first mudball hit the [Major] in the head. Chaldion sighed as the outraged Nanette and Mrsha ran back to the inn and got reinforcements. He lifted a claw as the Drakes around him shouted.
“Incoming fire! Take cover, take—”
“If you harm them, we’ll be ejected. [Projectile Shield].”
Mudballs whizzed past him as he continued his breakfast. Chaldion did not deign to protect his crew. Nor did he react in an entertaining way, so the children left him alone. The Pallassians eventually tossed back some mud and low-tier water spells in the misguided assumption the kids would get tired. They were shown the error of their ways when, after a lull, the first naval craft—a floating table crewed by Dread Captain Ekirra—began assaulting them at range.
 
——
 
It just didn’t stop. And Erin’s beach was actually having an economic impact in how many people who had decided they were too good for work.
One of them was Kevin. He had grown up in San Francisco along the beaches, and he had done it all. Surfing, skateboarding, working at a bicycle shop to fund, well—
Having fun. A youth where he thought about a permanent career and a future after he turned thirty or something.
He had buckled down and gotten to work on something he found fun and rewarding, Solar Cycles, but this?
Hedault got it. The two were working on a surfboard, or at least, a kind of ultra-stable board for the smaller garden’s water and waves, and Kevin was imagining trying out a magical surfboard at sea. In fact, Hedault was speculating that he could add in a native thruster spell to the board so it could self-propel.
This was living. This was life. Kevin only stopped luxuriating in it all when someone knocked on his door as he was changing for the beach.
Shirtless, he appeared, and Emessa nearly slapped him in the face.
“Are you naked?”
“No! It’s beach apparel! Sorry! Emessa?”
Pelt’s apprentice, like many Drakes, was on the Lyonette side of nudity, unlike Gnolls. Kevin’s heart sank when he saw Emessa. The [Blacksmith’s Apprentice] folded her arms.
“Pelt’s throwing a fit. He wants the latest specification for all the bicycles, and he’s sick of making the ball bearings. We’ve done over a thousand, and they’re annoying to check.”
“Oh, shit. The ball bearings!”
Kevin’s face fell. One of the functions of modern industry was the tiny machinery—and ball bearings were a very useful tool you could put in almost anything that rotated. Which was like…everything.
The problem was no [Smith] wanted to make them, even if they could reliably make the tiny steel orbs. And yes—you could make them badly.
“But the beach. Emessa, I sent a Runner to Pelt the moment I heard. The beach is out, and—haven’t you seen it?”
“The what?”
Emessa smelled like soot, she had on her apron, and the forges were already getting hot in Esthelm. She had no time for…for…
 
——
 
The Drake stood on the beach instead of in the biting cold and blast heat of a furnace. She wiggled her claws in the sand and saw a group of children shooting water spells at some Drakes in the distance. Someone passed her a milkshake.
“This is a beach?”
Kevin gave her a huge smile, and Emessa suddenly wondered when her next break was. Today, right? She didn’t always ask, but if it was just ball bearings, some of the other apprentices could handle her master, even in a mood. In fact, she’d twisted her arm, and she needed the next week off.
Right now.
It called to her, this sunny paradise, and then Emessa saw the Wishdrinks staff undressing for work, and she decided she’d broken her leg too.
But the Drake’s sudden sway on the beach and Kevin’s enthusiasm were tempered, like a barrel of oil quenching hot steel, by one thought. Both looked at each other and thought of one person who respected neither beach nor Erin’s authority—at least in his smithy—nor the weather.
 
——
 
“A what? You want me to go to a Grandfathers-damned beach? We have work to do!”
Pelt roared over the clang of hammers in his smithy. And he was Master of the Forge, [Hammer of a Hundred Metals], Pelt.
He looked so much better than when Kevin had first met him. Even then, it had been after Erin had befriended the cantankerous Dwarf, but the sorry drunkard had shaped up. He was still a fairly squat, burly man, as a Dwarf was, but he looked—fitter.
He smelled of metal, not vomit. His eyes had a focus like the steel he was producing, and he had apprentices and—well, systems.
“Master Pelt! Quenching?”
Pelt turned and roared.
“Fifty-eight seconds!”
The blade went back in the fire to temper. Another apprentice was setting up the smelter for another puck of steel to be melted down, but they lifted a hand, and a [Smith] went to check it to make sure the ore was good enough.
If it was bad when it got to Pelt, he’d just crack the entire crucible and chew out the [Smiths]. But he let them fail and sweat over the purity of steel, because they had to learn to make it right.
Unlike the Dwarf who had flinched at any imperfection, he was once again teaching. He was not the Pelt who had once taken this world by the beard and shaken it for all the fame, glory, and gold for his creations.
This one was still haunted by his failure, which Emessa only half-knew. But he was teaching again, and Esthelm was quickly becoming a city of smiths. Even the other, competing smithies had instead asked if they could learn from Pelt’s apprentices or journeymen.
He had, as of yet, declared no one as an independent master he recognized as being capable of owning a smithy and stamping their own name on their work. But Emessa was one of the best, and she had graduated to a rank far beyond her Pallassian tenure.
“You’re getting in the way of my work, Kevin. All of it, not just the damn bicycles you keep demanding parts for. Emessa’s meant to do the mithril-work, and now you want one of my two mithril-smiths to take a ‘vacation’?”
Pelt was roaring at Kevin, and the young man was doing his best to placate and wheedle. He was good at appeasing personalities, usually.
“Pelt, dude. I get that I’m being a pain, but it’s a beach. It’s warm and fun, and there’s free drinks everywhere.”
“Free?”
“For you? Erin’s best friends are all getting it. Solar Cycles would foot the bill even if she wouldn’t.”
That made Pelt hesitate. Emessa tried to help.
“And there are lots of people without—I mean, in states of undress, Master. Fresh water, no snow…and seafood! I mean, more than just fish! I saw a lobster being cooked up!”
The other [Smiths] had slowed in their work, if they weren’t actually hammering hot metal, and were listening hard and picturing it. They worked insanely hard under Pelt, and they were proud of their advancing levels.
Emessa herself had passed Level 30, and she was now a [Mithril Blacksmith’s Apprentice]. For some reason, she’d kept the last bit, and her master was both annoyed and amused by it. But she had to admit…
Pelt was scratching at his huge beard. He ran a hand over his balding head, where his hair had vanished except for the back third, and muttered.
“…so she’s making beaches now. How long until there’s a door to the outhouse for every part of her inn, that damn Antinium has a Minotaur ballista, and she builds a tower for a pet [Archmage]?”
“Master Pelt?”
The Dwarf glanced up, and the hopeful Kevin and Emessa looked at him. He gave them a long look, then folded his arms.
“And?”
“And what? You’ll come?”
“No!”
His roar was like a hammer coming down on the fingers of hope reaching for the cookie jar. Pelt pointed a finger at both Kevin and Emessa.
“Do I look like I want to eat crustaceans when I have work? Do I look like I haven’t seen a metalrot-damned beach before? I’ve done all the ‘fun’ things on a beach.”
He made huge air-quotes.
“Dead gods, I’ve spent six months on them forging metal for fun with scrap washed up on shore. I’ve eaten so much seaweed from those Drathian kitchens I started shitting green.”
“Y-you have?”
Kevin’s face fell. Pelt gave him a sinister smile.
“We spent an entire summer training in the Drathian Empire. Do you think good [Smiths] don’t pilgrimage to train with masters? I’ve been to every continent.”
“You have?”
“Yup. We stole the secrets of Naq-Alrama steel from those Tannousin bastards, and they chased us across half the desert. Baleros with the Dullahans—too formal by half. Drath was fine, except for the Forgemaster, who hated seafood. Hah!”
Pelt brightened at the memory.
“We were all having fun, but he was vomiting clams each night. Tax—”
His face went flat suddenly, and Emessa flinched as she recognized the familiar signs of memory on her master. His old team of smiths?
He had to be referring to the legends of Deríthal-Vel, the best [Smiths] of the modern era. The group that had earned him his title as Master Pelt. She knew some—like Demastel, the smith who had influenced Demas Metal and the entire tribe. Outcasts who’d fled after some great disgrace that Pelt had never told her the story of, not in full.
But she knew enough, and the name that he had almost uttered was a name so famous that if you spoke about great smiths, he would come up.
Forgemaster Taxus. The only Dwarf more senior than Pelt. Dead, she assumed, for decades. But then—Dwarves lived a long time.
Yet Pelt did not break to pieces like last time. He stopped, his face went pale, but he forced the words out slowly, a hiss of sound.
“…Taxus. He always hated island-food. I quite liked it. Does Erin Solstice have any…what’s the word? Sashi…mi? Sashimi stuff? Raw fish and rice.”
“You mean sushi? The rolled up stuff with seaweed and fish?”
Kevin guessed. Pelt nodded and licked his lips.
“The good stuff, made by a [Sushi Chef].”
“…I think Imani makes some, and Lasica. Oh, and Lyonette levelled up and got [Seafood Cooking]! So she’s helping make some of the seafood up.”
Pelt raised his brows and folded his arms.
“So no experts from Drath?”
“No, but—”
The Dwarf laughed in Kevin’s face.
“Well, tell Erin Solstice that until she gets something worth eating, I’m not going. Get back to work!”
“But the sun! The surf!”
Pelt turned away and raised his fists over his head.
“Flames! Put more charcoal in the forge-fires! You want to sit in the sand and stare at crabs, Apprentice? The smell of steel is the only thing you need! I want to hear those anvils ring!”
A cackling Dwarf stood there, roaring at the smiths, who groaned and put their hammers to metal. He turned, grinning like a ruthless taskmaster at Emessa and Kevin. Then, the revitalized Pelt demonstrated a new part of his personality that even Emessa hadn’t seen before.
His voice dropped, became gentle, and almost purred.
“You want to take a vacation? Go ahead, Apprentice. I don’t want to overwork a talented smith.”
“R-really, Master? You mean it? You won’t fire me?”
She hesitated, suspecting a trick. Which there obviously was, but Pelt sounded sweet and concerned.
“Oh, no, Emessa. I would never fire you. You have half the forge running, and every smith deserves a break. Go on. Have your rest all week.”
Run. Run now, and don’t look back. Kevin was already heading down the street, and Emessa took a step back. She turned away as Pelt shooed her off. Then he dropped the hammer.
“You there. Go find Raekea from Liscor. She’s wanted to back us up, hasn’t she? I’ll pay for whatever orders we delay. Oh, and get Lacchius and tell him he’s working in Emessa’s stead. No, wait. Tell both they can go to the beach but I could use their help. If they want. No rush.”
An apprentice hesitated at the generous offer. Emessa slowed, and Kevin turned suspiciously as he got on his bike.
“Master? What if both don’t want to come?”
