Pelt folded his hands and stared at his anvil, a monstrously big one he’d set up on reinforced ground with some as-yet unused functions of the forge. He hadn’t even smithed in a quarter of the techniques from Dwarfhome; Pelt claimed that there wasn’t even the right equipment here to perform some things like Vacuum Forging. But he was in talks with even Valeterisa to upgrade his forge and keep expanding.
“We have to let them have their beach-time. If they can’t make it, they can’t. Who am I to tell them when the time to hammer is? Me? Just let them know, oh, that I’ll be forging Orichalcum today.”
Emessa’s head snapped around, and the hammering at the anvils missed a beat. The apprentice wavered.
“O-Orichalcum?”
Pelt dusted his fingernails on his vest.
“The art’s been lost. Demas Metal is closest to remembering it, but I’ll bet most smithies don’t even know how it’s done. Some could be made, and if Adamantium’s coming from Salazsar—oh, Apprentice, what are you doing here? Go on to your vacation.”
Pelt turned theatrically and saw Emessa. He shooed her off, a look of concern on his face. Then he grinned like the devil of a forge.
That monster. Emessa had a vision of doing body-shots off a handsome someone at night. She hadn’t had fun, socially, in an age. But Orichalcum?
“I—I—”
“Apprentice, what are you doing? Go on. Have fun.”
Pelt’s earnest expression returned, and he gave her a look of concern.
“You look stressed. You need time off. Someone go get me my Chest of Holding. Did I mention that Orichalcum requires a secret mixture? It’s not a mined metal, like Mithril or Adamantium. That’s why I laughed my ass off at all the [Miners] who always ask me about it.”
It was an alloy? No wonder he’d nearly shat himself laughing whenever Emessa had asked him before. Pelt turned away, and when he heard Emessa’s defeated sigh—
He started laughing.
 
——
 
“So, we’re engaged, if you didn’t know. Maughin and I. I know, it’s fast, but we’ve hit it off. Really.”
Jelaqua was talking to Erin and Numbtongue, and the Hobgoblin raised his brows as she caught them up over the central island.
“Really? Getting married?”
“Yep. Aw, I’m blushing. Don’t grin like that!”
The Selphid turned orange. She was pale-skinned, and Erin doubted her dead, Human body could tan, but the Selphid put her hands to her cheeks, and she seemed to be enjoying the beach to no end.
“It’s been a change. For one thing, I’m wearing just female bodies. You know how it is, you adapt. But the real change is being part of Pallassian society.”
Her face fell a bit, and Numbtongue offered a perceptive comment. The [Bard] eyed the Dullahans that Maughin had brought, who were reserved, not wanting to show skin—but relaxing and putting their heads together on a beach as their bodies played in the surf.
“Seems tough.”
“It—is. A bit. But Maughin doesn’t care. And he’s so sweet. He proposed, actually.”
Erin was amazed. Marriage? It was so soon, but Jelaqua seemed certain!
“Really? That’s so—huge, Jelaqua!”
In some senses literally. Maughin was the biggest Dullahan that Erin had met in person, and it seemed like an odd match. But hey. Grimalkin and Pryde? Jelaqua leaned over and whispered.
“Well, to be honest, it’s hard for him to date around Dullahan society since he’s at the top, and it’s all power imbalance. Plus, he’s far from home. And he’s practically a War Walker in stature. So, physically, Selphids are the only workable match. I mean, physically—”
Numbtongue grinned hugely.
“Ooh.”
“Stop. I get it.”
Erin put her hands over her ears, and Jelaqua laughed, but she looked happy. The real question was—what happened to the Halfseekers? She sighed when Erin asked that.
“Seborn’s probably going back to sea. Moore? He’s sort of moved back from wanting to adventure all the time, and Ulinde and he are a couple. Poor guy, he’s head-over-heels, and I think he’s never really fallen for someone seriously. It’s sweet, though, but…I can’t keep adventuring.”
“You going to be a mother?”
“Selphids don’t work like that. But hey, we could adopt a Dullahan or a cute Drake, Numbtongue.”
“Want a cute Goblin? We have lots.”
Jelaqua and Numbtongue laughed and nudged each other. Then Jelaqua grew serious.
“Really, I don’t know what I’ll do. Maybe work as a kind of bodyguard in Pallass? I’m not exactly poor after the Village of the Dead raid, and Maughin’s now the top-smith in Pallass. We’re a great match! Aside from his mistress.”
“His what?”
Erin and Numbtongue focused on the Selphid, and Jelaqua’s dark look grew sinister.
“I thought of throwing ‘her’ off the walls, but he’d sulk forever. He’s always working on her. And he claims it’s not romantic, but ever since Pelt gave her to Maughin…”
“Wait. Waitwaitwait. You mean—the block of Adamantium?”
Jelaqua took a huge swig of her drink and glowered around.
“Yep! And his forge! If I’m a workaholic sometimes, I can’t drag him away from the anvil for anything when Maughin is into a project! He’ll work on that stupid Adamantium when he thinks I’m distracted, but I’m number one. That’s why we’re on the beach together. He gets that he needs breaks. Right, Maughin?”
Jelaqua turned to her future husband, and her smile became concerned as she looked around and the huge, armored Dullahan was nowhere in sight.
“Maughin?”
“Maybe he went to the bathroom?”
Numbtongue suggested. Jelaqua nodded, clearly unconvinced, and Erin spotted Kevin running up.
“Erin! Erin, you have to help! Pelt’s holding everyone hostage! He’s forging Orichalcum to prevent Emessa from going to the beach, and Raekea, Maughin, and—”
“Deyaaah! You bastard! Maughin!”
Jelaqua grabbed Kevin and tossed him thirty feet into the water. Then she went storming out of the garden. Numbtongue sipped longer from his drink.
“Hm. Marriage seems too soon. Too many mistresses.”
Erin looked at Numbtongue. The oblivious Hobgoblin just stood there, tsking at Jelaqua, so Erin took matters into her own hand.
“Garden—gigantic sand fist.”
“Wh—bufegh.”
That was the sound of a sand fist punching Numbtongue into the water where he landed on top of Kevin. Erin nodded at Garia and Octavia, who both gave her a thumbs-up.
 
——
 
Now, a best laugh ranking within Liscor. A certain [Spy of the Captured Moment] was working on a new report.
Not one about actual, confidential information, but something stupid.
Because stupid sold. They’d already made, amazingly, over a hundred and sixty gold pieces for selling that recording of the [Princess] and [Lady] trying to win a brawl against a fish.
And gotten two levels and reached Level 30.
It had definitely been worth taking the seemingly random contract and spying in Liscor. Oh, a few close calls had happened, but Nollesc, the half-Clam Drake, had found a calling. He had, with great effort, obtained recordings to substantiate his list.
 
Number 2 3. Ryoka Griffin. Laughs like an evil villainess. Often finds amusement in children or people suffering minor accidents. See attached sound-crystal, tonality C3.
Number 2. Pelt Dooristone. Takes great amusement when tormenting his fellow smiths. Laughs like the bellows of doom in the dark. See attached sound-crystal, tonality D3.
 
He was finding an odd amount of inspiration for his descriptions. But Nollesc doubted he could beat the number one entry. In fact, no Riverfarm [Witch] had even broken into the top five, a huge blow to their pride if this leaked. But one of their number was…
 
Number 1. Erin Solstice. Normal laughter sounds quite pleasant. Her ‘cackle’, a rare phenomenon, reminds me of the Deaths of Demons raining destruction across the walls. It sounds like the gloating of a murderer holding a knife over a bloody ballroom with only one person breathing in it. See attached sound-crystal, tonality E3.
 
The laughter fit the person, even if it was a surprise. But amazingly, the number four ranking was just some [Beast Tamer] named Elirr. And number five would shock you!
 
[Spy of the Captured Moment Level 31!]
 
——
 
Pelt didn’t stop laughing at the dismayed smiths, even the engagement he was throwing into question. He had an audience, and he was teasing them by slowly giving them hints on how Orichalcum was made. But right now, the Dwarf was slowly, agonizingly, sweeping his forge.
“Keeping the forge clean is essential for more magical metals. For steel, but—hmm. Perhaps I need a soap wash. I knew a Drathian smith who spent three hours each day cleaning his forge. It’s not for everyone, but it matters.”
He delicately soaked a cloth in soap water and brushed it over the floorboards. It was so cold the water was about to freeze but for the forge fires, but Pelt theatrically exhaled and swabbed again at a stain.
“Master, please.”
Emessa was begging him. Maughin and Jelaqua were having a subdued argument.
“You promised that there’d be nothing. You and your mistresses! First her, now Pelt—”
“Jelaqua, my love, please. People are getting the wrong impression. It’s Orichalcum. Most have forgotten how to even smith Mithril properly, and he’s the greatest living master—”
Pelt was smirking as they fought. Raekea was here, ignoring her sons and daughters trying to drag her to the beach. Her husband had given up on his wife—plus, he was a [Smith] and taking notes himself.
But Pelt decided he had to correct his audience on one thing. He stopped, scowled, and felt a familiar pang of ego, loss, sadness, and guilt. But he turned, ignoring Emessa’s pleas.
No one had stopped Pelt from tormenting his smith audience, standing in the falling snow. Not Kevin or Erin Solstice herself. She’d tried, but he’d sent her packing with a secret weapon.
The secret weapon being threatening to not make any of her [Knights] armor or weapons. And swearing on his hammer that if she bothered him, he wouldn’t take a request for the rest of the year.
He saw their despair and cherished it. If even Erin Solstice couldn’t stop Master Pelt, what hope did mere mortals have of beaches?
None, that was what. Pelt did drop the rag in the bucket and turn and point.
“Second, Maughin.”
The [Smith] jumped. He’d been whispering, but his voice was loud.
“Pelt?”
“Second best practicing smith in this world. Second best.”
Pelt hated saying it. Even though he knew it was true, he neglected to mention the ancients who were out there, who could put his work to shame.
A Dragon smith, perhaps, if there were any left who practiced the art. If he was right and the Lord of Flames, Teriarch himself, the greedy Relic-Thief who had stolen more great treasures than Mrsha had stolen cookies, was actually a patron of the inn—
Well, the Dragonlord of Flame was a shit smith if the legends were true. A famously bad one for a Brass Dragon gifted with metal and flame.
Pelt noticed these things, you see. He had heard ‘Teriarch’ and nearly eaten his beard the first time he made the connection. But he was no stranger to great myths.
Everyone else was. Even Chaldion would blink his gemstone eye at Erin Solstice’s chaos. Pelt?
Pelt had seen better. But that was part of why he respected Erin, because she could shake their hands. Yet she had to grow, and Dwarves knew how to keep steady, to keep grounded, unlike half-Elves who lost time and got fat heads on their own egos.
Dwarfhome, Deríthal-Vel, grounded you.
Someday, I want to see her meet them. Pelt thought of that as everyone stared at him. He cleared his throat.
“Second. Best. Among mortality, second-best, Maughin. Perhaps best if he’s dead. Better than every single smith in Invictel. Better than every half-Elf I’ve ever met, even the ones in their ancient villages. I am better than them all. Better than the entire undersea smithies combined. Better than Drath and their oh-so-ancient traditions! So much better that the Walled Cities begged for my craft, and so did the Five Families!”
He roared, and the Dullahans bristled. But it was true. Pelt hefted his hammer up and wished, for the first time, that it was the one he had made, a Master’s hammer. His Skills made this plain steel hammer better than any you could dream of—but his tools?
Ah, well.
“One better. Know your craft, you lot. Know how you rank. Don’t listen to the fools who say ‘art is art’ and subjective. The strength and quality of your metal is something you can measure. And if you lack the ability to discern it, your eyes are bad. I have met blind smiths who could tell the quality of steel better than any Gazer. I am the second-best of two mortal ages, and no one has even come close to upsetting he and I from our thrones. In fact, we likely never got any higher because there wasn’t enough competition. We grew fat and arrogant because we could hammer drunk better than an army of our ‘competitors’.”
He sounded so arrogant, even in his own ears, that he saw Maughin’s brows darken and Emessa and Raekea grow askance. But it was true, and he said it so for a reason.
“We were corrupt, and it ruined us. Ruined a generation, the finest one. Ruined my chances at getting to Level 60.”
His talents might well actually exceed his level, still. Knowledge was one thing, Skills and the levels another. Pelt didn’t see a way higher, though. He was still…broken with shame. He wondered if Taxus were alive.
Somehow, Pelt thought he’d know if the Forgemaster was dead. For now? He turned to face them.
“The forge is all. It is merciless and requires your love, your free time, and sometimes even your health.”
He looked at the three [Smiths], one by one, and Jelaqua looked worried as Emessa hung her head. Then Pelt kicked the bucket of soap water over. It spilled across his forge, and the smiths stared at the mess.
“Go enjoy the damn beach.”
“Master? You’re not forging Orichalcum? We can stay—”
Emessa protested, and Pelt spat.
“Do I look like I’m heartless? That Selphid will probably eat my brains if I take Maughin away. We’ll continue this in a week.”
A look of delight spread across the [Smiths]’ faces. Pelt rolled his eyes as they looked at him in disbelief. He lifted a gnarled hand, remembering when he was a hell-for-leather [Line Smith] who worked himself to the bone then partied until someone hit him for almost falling asleep at the anvil.
If I did it, they can. Pelt was pleased with himself and just about to take off his apron, close the forge, and get all the free drinks from Erin Solstice herself in gratitude when he heard someone clapping.
It was a sardonic, loud clap. The kind that was loud and came from powerful hands. Pelt paused with his apron over his head, and a deep, booming voice that came from huge lungs shouted.
