She didn’t want to walk up the hill to her inn. No—it wasn’t that. Erin didn’t want to walk up the hill to her inn and go inside. Or…no, it was more like she didn’t want to walk up the hill to her inn, go inside, and then have to feed and deal with another crowd of people right this instant.
Maybe in five minutes Erin would feel good about that, but right now she could only sigh as she stomped through the cold snow, up the steep and unreasonably treacherous hill, towards her inn.
It wasn’t that she was tired. Well, she was tired, but it wasn’t a physical thing. Erin was used to being on her feet all day long and working hard. She could fight off Goblins and cook pasta while picking blue fruit in the snow. But she’d been working hard of late. Very hard. And Erin felt just a bit…
Here was the problem. Erin wasn’t just tired. That was a simple thing to fix. Tired was immediate, and solvable with sleep. It was a drain on the mind, a heavy little rock tied to the eyelids that made them close far too often.
Tired was simple. But Erin was exhausted. She just felt like—like—
“Like I need a holiday.”
Erin sighed as she trudged up the hill towards her inn. Everyone else had already disappeared inside; part of her was already thinking about what she could make for lunch. She hadn’t had time for that because she’d had to go to Brunkr. Erin didn’t regret that, but she knew the others would be hungry.
She was ready to apologize and get to work, but found to her great joy that Lyonette had already made something to eat!
“It’s well, it’s a fry-up with mushrooms and other greens. You can have it with fresh bread and I’ve got fried beef if anyone wants meat. It’s got a Gnoll sauce on it, so it’s a bit spicy…”
Erin sidled over as she saw the travel-hungry people lining up to fill their plates. Lyonette had put out a big dish of the fried veggies and meat for people to serve themselves buffet-style.
“You did all this?”
Lyonette nodded, smiling as she passed out plates. Erin resisted the urge to kiss Lyonette and instead hugged with one arm.
“You’re so cool. Best [Barmaid] ever!”
There was a plate, a fork provided by Mrsha, although it was covered with a few hairs, and hot food. For a few seconds Erin just chewed on crispy, crunchy green tubes and relaxed. The warmth went down into her stomach and made her feel alive again.
Then she looked around and took stock of her inn. It was a full room today. Not only had some of the [Wagon Drivers] stopped here to eat, but Pawn, Belgrade, and Bird and a small group of Soldiers and Workers were in line as well. Klbkch was conspicuous in his absence, as was the strange group of Antinium who’d followed him.
Erin went over to Pawn, thanking Lyonette in her heart—the girl must have figured out the Antinium might show up, hence the non-gluten meal she’d made. She smiled at Pawn and took time to welcome both Belgrade and Bird—she hadn’t seen them in what felt like forever!
The two other workers were almost shy as they bowed to Erin. Pawn was more relaxed, and showed the other Workers how to hold the plates properly—they had to do it for their Soldier counterparts, since the giant warrior Antinium couldn’t properly grasp the plates.
“I apologize, but I fear they will have to use their hands to eat, Erin. We will clean up any mess we cause.”
“Totally fine. Totally—don’t worry about messes. I’ve got a Skill! But if your uh, Soldiers have problems eating we can give them bowls.”
“That would help greatly. Thank you.”
A trip into the kitchen and the Soldiers had bowls to hold instead of plates. Erin smiled as she stood with the Antinium in line, watching the queue pass the buffet line. Everyone was hungry, but they’d stood aside to let the adventurers go first. And Zel. All the Drakes practically ushered him to the front, despite his reluctance.
“Klbkch sends his regards. He wished to meet you at the inn, but he has pressing business in the Hive. I believe he will attempt to visit you tonight, if his duties allow.”
“Of course he will.”
Erin sighed, but smiled at Belgrade. She watched as ahead of her, the Horns of Hammerad reached the table and began filling their plates.
“Silver and steel you two, eat something that isn’t meat or bread!”
Yvlon snapped exasperatedly at Ceria and Pisces. Both had gone for the sliced beef, completely skipping the vegetables. Ksmvr and Yvlon had a more balanced plate, but the two mages looked completely unapologetic.
“I’m a half-Elf. I used to eat leaves for breakfast. I’ve had enough of them for one lifetime, thank you.”
Pisces nodded.
“And I—”
He hesitated, eyed the slices of beef and added two more to his full plate. Then he turned and walked away. Yvlon rolled her eyes and made a disgusted face, but she followed her friends to the table.
“My body is dead, so uh, I can eat unhealthy.”
Jelaqua grinned as she emulated Ceria’s style. Erin saw Lyonette hurry into the kitchen—probably to cook what meat they had left. Erin resolved to order a lot more from Krshia when she went to the city again. Her feet were already aching.
“If you’re dead, why would it matter what you eat? Surely you can’t taste anything.”
That came from Typhenous. Jelaqua turned, pretending to be offended.
“I’ll have you know that I keep my body’s tongue in perfect condition see? Now, some other organs are a bit the worse for wear, but taste is something everyone likes.”
“True. Now move, you’re holding up the line.”
Seborn edged past Jelaqua. He and Moore had balanced plates, Moore with more vegetable and bread than meat.
Griffon Hunt came next. Ulrien, Halrac and Typhenous got their food without objection, but when Revi reached the head of the table she took one look at the spread and made a face.
“I don’t like mushrooms.”
Halrac growled at her.
“Then get the beef.”
“I don’t want to eat just meat for lunch.”
Erin hurried out of line, already slapping her I’m-sorry-you-suck smile onto her face.
“What’s the problem, Revi?”
“Nothing here really appeals to me.”
The Stitch-girl turned her nose up at the food. Erin kept smiling.
“Okay, why don’t I make you a sandwich? Toasted bread, cheese, some sliced ham and greens?”
“I suppose that will do.”
Revi sighed and nodded. Erin hurried into the kitchen, but not before she’d passed Zel and heard him mutter.
“Mages.”
It was the work of a minute to put together a lovely sandwich. No problem at all, really. But Erin had had to do it, which was what sucked. Lyonette was apologetic.
“I should have made something for Revi.”
“No, you shouldn’t. She’s just picky.”
Erin made a face as she used a pair of tongs to toast the sandwich to perfection by the kitchen fire. She pulled the sandwich away as her Skill told her it was done—it was like an egg timer going off in Erin’s head—and tossed it onto a plate.
“You know, I’ve heard that when [Chefs] and [Waiters] don’t like the people they’re serving, they spit in the food.”
“Ew! Do you think—do they really do that?”
Erin didn’t see why Lyonette was so upset, but the girl was staring off into the horrific abyss of recollection.
“They didn’t do that to my food—I’m sure of—but if I—”
She turned green. Erin waved a hand in front of her face and Lyonette came out of her trance.
“Well? I’m not saying you should, but…”
Both girls stared at the innocent sandwich. They shook their heads at roughly the same time.
“It’s not worth it. Besides, that’s disgusting.”
“Yeah. It’s not the sandwich’s fault.”
Lyonette nodded. She frowned, and then went over to the cutting board where some of the ingredients were left over. She took an unused mushroom and diced it up into very fine pieces, hiding them in the melted cheese. Erin smiled as Lyonette closed the sandwich.
“Hey Revi, you aren’t allergic to mushrooms or anything, right? If it touches your skin, you won’t break out in hives or swell up, because if you are—”
“I’m fine. Thank you.”
Revi took the plate from Erin without a glance and began eating it with a knife and fork. Erin winked as Lyonette came out of the kitchen with more food for the buffet table. That was a small victory in her books.
“Oh, you don’t need to eat the food here! I’m sorry, I forgot!”
She stopped Pawn as he was about to fill his plate. Lyonette hurried into the kitchen and came out with—
“Bees?”
The Drakes and Humans behind the Antinium took a step back. But all the Antinium perked up.
“I fried these in oil and then melted some cheese over them. Ksmvr says it’s good.”
Lyonette explained as she sat the Antinium at another table. With Erin’s help all of them had a few bees to eat, and Ksmvr came over as well to get his bugs. Erin sat next to Pawn and Bird, trying not to watch them eat as she slurped down her food.
Pawn was already pulling the legs off of his bee and crunching them down, but Belgrade and Bird stared at their food as if entranced.
“Well? Are you hungry? Or do you not like bees?”
“It is not that, Miss Erin. I have been waiting a long time for this moment. I wish to savor it.”
Belgrade stared at the bee dripping oil onto his plate. Bird stared at his bee and then picked it up. He spoke dreamily.
“They look like tiny birds. Bee birds.”
Erin glanced over, and saw Pawn and Belgrade shrug. She shrugged too, and began to eat. This was lunch. And since she hadn’t made it, Erin was a very happy [Innkeeper] indeed.
Work interrupted her before she’d finished eating, though. The door opened and a familiar blue-scaled Drake walked in.
“Erin?”
His face fell when he saw all of her visitors.
“If you’re busy, I can go. I’d hate to interrupt—”
“Olesm! No, I’m just finishing my lunch and Lyonette can serve everyone food and drinks. Uh, you can do that, right Lyonette? If you need a hand—”
“I’ve got two!”
Lyonette waved at Erin and smiled as she went past. Mrsha, trotting beside Lyonette, sat on her bum and waggled all four paws. Erin grinned and turned to Olesm.
“Want to sit? How about next to Pawn? You can eat mushroom stir-fry and tell me what’s happened, and then I’ll teach you all how to play Go!”
Olesm perked up and sat happily with Erin. He took one look at what the Antinium were eating and declined to have lunch.
“So, tell me everything that’s happened to you!”
“Only if you’ll tell me what happened! I heard a bit from Klbkch, but where did you go, Erin? That skeleton, Toren, did something, didn’t he?”
“You don’t know?”
A sea of Antinium and one Drake all shook their heads. Erin blinked.
“Okay. Then in that case, it all started when I was going to get more honey. I was in the sled with Toren pulling it and I took a tiny, teensy nap…”
Catching up with Olesm took half an hour of talk. Erin was aware of time passing and cut her story short, but she just had to pause when she’d heard what Olesm had done.
“A chess newsletter? That’s so amazing, Olesm! Can I subscribe? Oh—and what’s the latest puzzle? You do chess puzzles, right?”
Olesm’s light blue scales turned bright as he blushed. He traced on the table with a claw as Erin exclaimed over the letters he’d sent to other cities.
It was a simple collection of parchments, not anything like a magazine or newspaper. One was an annotated game—one of the ones she’d played, if Erin wasn’t mistaken!—and another was an explanation of how to read chess notation. Another paper held a chess puzzle someone had made.
“Ooh. Not bad.”
Erin solved the puzzle in three moves and handed it back to Olesm. His jaw dropped.
“You can’t have just—”
“I solved one like that ages ago. It’s good, though!”
“I got that one from the best [Strategists] in…oh, never mind.”
Olesm handed Erin another piece of parchment.
“Please, look at this.”
It was another annotated game, but not one Erin had played. To her eye, it was a fairly interesting back-and-forth between two decently skilled players. But what was really interesting was the attached commentary. Three full pages filled with comments from both players and two other [Tacticians] provided a decent analysis of every move made.
“Olesm, this is so cool. I’m so glad you’re doing this!”
“Well, I got the idea from watching you play. I sent some letters out and got a great response, so I’ve been sending more out each week! I’ve got over twenty readers so far, and I’m told my letters get passed around to lots more people! And it’s very profitable!”
Olesm puffed out his chest. Erin smiled. Internally, she was remorseful. She never had time to play chess anymore, or so it seemed! All that time in Celum and she hadn’t picked up a pawn once. Chess was her thing!
“Can you give me all your old letters? I’d love to solve a chess puzzle or two.”
“Erin, your puzzles are the ones I’ve been using!”
“Aw. No. Really? You’ve got to get more! And twenty people is great, but why not send this to [Tacticians] all over the world?”
“Don’t stop there. Is the inventor of chess not Niers Astoragon? He and the [Strategists] in Baleros might find your work very useful.”
Pawn put down the parchment he was holding and looked at Olesm. The Drake fidgeted in his chair. His tail lashed the legs of the table in his agitation.
“I wouldn’t dream of sending my small work to him, but perhaps if someone were to mention it to Master Astoragon—well, I’d need for a lot more people to read my work before I’d be confident sending it to Baleros.”
“Why? Because it’s expensive?”
“Well…[Tacticians] are held in such high regard there, I would hate to embarrass myself. Not that I think your games are anything but perfect, Erin! But it’s just…”
“You should do it.”
Belgrade stared at Olesm. Bird looked up from his bee.
“Yes. I agree with what Belgrade is saying. You should do this thing I know nothing of.”
Pressured on all sides, Olesm could only stammer about ‘improving the quality of his publication’. Erin laughed, and decided not to push him further. He, at least, seemed like he was doing well on his own.
“Maybe you can add this to your next newsletter. I’ll teach you all how to play Go while you’re here!”
“Really?”
Olesm, Pawn, and Belgrade all sat up. Erin nodded.
“All we need are some stones and a board. I figure we can make one—uh—”
The Antinium stood up, Workers and Soldiers. They immediately filed out of the door. Erin blinked, and then saw them digging in the snow outside through one of the windows.
“Um—okay! Let’s do this!”
 
—-
 
