The Horns of Hammerad were more nervous than happy about the items Ryoka had identified. Erin wondered if there really were more artifacts than the three weapons. It didn’t matter. Either way, her goal was to raise their spirits, so Erin interrupted Ceria and began explaining Christmasian theory. Again.
“Presents? I guess we could go out shopping. Only…”
“I’ll lend you some money. You can pay me back. I know you’re good for it.”
“Some adventuring group we are.”
Yvlon shook her head, but she was smiling at the thought of Christmas.
“You know, we did something similar. It wasn’t something as large as a present, but we’d get sweets during the winter solstice. I used to look forwards to that every year.”
“Sweets is a good present! Uh, especially since I didn’t make the list yet.”
Erin winced as she realized she’d have to run around and tell everyone who their secret two people were tomorrow. She left the Horns of Hammerad as she spotted someone else in the crowd.
“Selys! Selys!”
“Erin! Where have you been? I haven’t seen you for ages!”
The two laughed and sat down at another table. Selys was just about to tell Erin all about her troubles managing the guild with so many new adventurers when Erin remembered her magical soups and hurried into the kitchen to get them. She called over Halrac and some of the other adventurers as she explained how they worked.
“What do you think? Can I interest you in any of it?”
Ulrien, Halrac, Seborn, and Selys all stared dubiously down into the jar of blue, thick soup Erin had opened. It did not look appetizing, but after a second Halrac picked up the jar. He sniffed it once, and then gulped a mouthful down. Selys shuddered. Halrac’s face didn’t change as he handed it to Ulrien.
“Not bad. We don’t need it, but I can mention it to some [Scouts] I know.”
“You think they’d want it?”
Halrac raised his eyebrows.
“This? Oh yes. If they can move around with less clothing on, it’s less to carry and less noise. They’ll buy it.”
“Adventurers too. Anyone wearing armor in the snow will want this.”
Ulrien made a face as he swallowed. He pushed the jar over to Selys. The Drake raised her hands.
“I can get grandma—uh, the Guild to sell this. But I’m not drinking it.”
“Aw. Come on Selys, it’s not that bad. And it works! Just try it!”
“No.”
“Please?”
“No, Erin.”
“Pretty please?”
“No.”
“Well, okay. But wait until you see this potion! It makes your skin tough! Do you want to try it, Seborn?”
Sitting across the room, drinking some hot beef broth and wondering if she could get in on Erin’s business transaction, Octavia was just about to get up when a shadow blocked the light. She looked up and saw a Gnoll.
That wasn’t surprising around Liscor, Gnolls being a good percentage of the city’s population. But Octavia had met few Gnolls in Celum. She gulped as this one loomed over her. It—she—spoke in a deep, growling voice.
“Hrm. You are Octavia, yes?”
“Yes?”
Octavia squeaked. Krshia smiled, baring all of her teeth.
“I am Krshia. A [Shopkeeper]. I am told you may wish to let me sell your potions, yes? Let us talk business.”
“You? But I—did Erin—”
Octavia glanced helplessly towards Erin, but Krshia had already pulled out a seat. Octavia did her best to pull herself together. A customer was a customer, and she was a master at selling.
“Well, Miss, uh, Krshia, I’m one of the three best [Alchemists] in Celum. I don’t like to brag, but I’ve sold potions to Gold-rank adventurers and I get commissioned regularly to do research creating new potions. Now, my brews might not be the most standard, but I can assure you that my percentage is quite reasonable. A fifty percent cut of all profits is a good place to start, but I could—”
“Mm. What is your level?”
The [Alchemist] broke off nervously. Krshia was just staring at her, unblinkingly.
“My—my level? Well, I think that’s a personal issue, and as we all know, levels don’t always correspond to Skills of c—”
“I will sell your potions, but if they are lower quality, I must price them as such, yes? And then…well, we shall see. I have many levels in my class, and that must be weighed, yes? If I, a high-level [Shopkeeper], were to sell your potions, I should get a better cut, yes?”
“Well, yes, but no, but—let’s talk effort here. I’m brewing the potions—”
“But I sell them, yes? I must sell your potions. If I do not sell, no one will buy, yes? So which is more important?”
“Hold on—if I didn’t make potions—”
Octavia’s mouth was dry, but she didn’t dare take a sip from her cup. She was fighting for something far more important than her life. The battle for the bigger bottom line was fought quietly in one corner of the inn. Tears were shed, and a little bit of blood. But on the whole, Erin thought she’d done a good job, especially when she saw the look on Octavia’s face afterwards.
 
—-
 
“It’s a pain in the ass.”
Halrac was talking to Erin at a table late at night. She was trying to look as attentive as possible. She hadn’t gotten a chance to speak with him since she’d come back, and she knew the man wanted to talk with her, even if he wouldn’t say it.
That was how the night was going. Sit at a table and chat. But don’t sit too long, because someone else would want to speak with her. Erin’s eyes hurt. She wanted to close them, but her friends were more important.
“How’s it a pain? I mean, this is a dungeon so I know there’s lots of monsters…”
“Monsters we could handle. If it were a nest we’d deplete their numbers and destroy their home. But this is a magical dungeon, one where the rooms keep changing. A trap room we disarm one day might be gone the next, and in its place an entirely new trap, or a room full of monsters.”
“And the traps are really bad, right? I’ve heard stories from Relc.”
“They’re some of the worst I’ve seen.”
Halrac shook his head, looking grimmer than usual.
“I’ve seen deadlier—the one that got your friends is probably worse than most of the ones in this dungeon. But there are so many that we can’t make any headway. And when we come back the next day…”
“They’ve changed.”
Erin whistled quietly and Halrac nodded. He took a sip of the drink Erin had made especially for him. There was just a drop of the faerie flower nectar in it, enough to take the edge of the day off.
“So far, a lot of kids have gotten killed and the others are making no headway. We’re the only group that’s gone in, and we have nothing to show for it.”
“Is there any hope? Or do you just…have to get lucky?”
Halrac shrugged.
“Right now we’re trying to identify all the rooms on rotation. If we can figure out the trick behind most of them, we might be able to break through to the next area. Then it’s just a matter of anchoring ourselves at that point. There are ways to stop a magical dungeon from changing. But it’s the crevasse the Mrsha child found that interests me. It goes straight down into another part of the dungeon.”
“And that’s good, right?”
“Maybe.”
The [Scout] seemed incapable of optimism. For good reason, as he explained to Erin.
“The problem with that is if we go down there, we’re walking into an attack on all sides. Multiple traps with wide ranges might come at us, and there are plenty of strong monsters down there. The dungeon is infested. When we went down to save the child, we ran into eight different species, some of which were fighting each other. If we hadn’t all been high-level, we wouldn’t have made it out.”
“Thank you for doing that, Halrac.”
“It was nothing. You should thank Zel Shivertail instead. He was the one who killed the most monsters.”
“Do you think he’d like to go into the dungeon with you guys?”
Erin saw Halrac smile, just once. She smiled too; her mission was partly accomplished.
“Him? He’s no adventurer. I wouldn’t have ever expected to fight beside him, but it was…good to see. But he wouldn’t risk his neck down there. It’ll be us.”
“And it’s worth doing?”
“Who knows?”
Halrac raised his eyebrows.
“There could be nothing down there, or an artifact beyond our wildest imagination. But we’re going to look anyways, because that’s what adventurers do.”
“Well, you can stay as long as you like. And I’ll have good food and a warm bed for you—and I want to see if Pisces really can rig up some kind of emergency teleport stone. If he does…I want you to all have one.”
Halrac smiled.
“You’re an odd [Innkeeper], Miss Solstice.”
“I know!”
“Thank you. It’s…pleasant being here.”
Erin smiled at him, and felt her eyes threatening to close.
“That’s all I want to hear. Would you like a refill?”
 
—-
 
And then it was night time. Somehow, everyone had vanished, leaving Erin alone in her inn. She sat at a table, head resting against the wall. It was dark. Snow was falling. Everyone had gone.
And Erin was beyond tired. She was so tired she had passed into that special realm where she was too tired to sleep. She stared out the window as the snow fell and made to bury the world. One last hurrah, before the weather turned and the world slowly began to warm.
“It’s going to be very, very deep tomorrow…I’ll have to shovel it…can’t open the door I bet…”
Erin murmured dreamily to herself, slurring the words. They were just fragments of thought, things she had to do. She had so much to do.
“I forgot to get a Christmas tree. Oh well. I guess I can try tomorrow…”
One day to get everyone to buy presents. She had to figure out who would get what first—probably before she talked to anyone. So now or before dawn. And Erin had to get presents herself, get ready for the party—buy more food, figure out traditional Christmasy foods, decorate the inn…
If she pushed the date back she’d have more time. But Christmas came before the New Year’s, didn’t it? And the winter solstice was…well, as close to a New Year as this world had. The Frost Faeries probably only cared about the solstice, anyways.
“Solstice.”
Erin stared out the window. She breathed and the glass fogged up. Erin wiped away the condensation and stared into the snowy landscape.
So tired. But she’d done good, hadn’t she? She’d brought a game to this world, talked with everyone, helped Krshia, Octavia…but she was tired.
So tired. She’d wake up in a few hours. Before dawn. She had a lot to do. So Erin should sleep. She knew that. But she was too tired for that. She just wanted—well, she wanted so many things. But right now she just wanted to sleep.
Was today a bad day? No, it was good. Then why did Erin feel hollow inside? Miserable? Why would she feel like that?
If you’re sad, just smile. Had someone told Erin that once? Or was it just something she’d grown up knowing?
Her lips twitched. Erin smiled, and then let it fade. She stared out of the window, resting her head against the wall. Not crying. Not smiling. Just staring.
She felt just a little bit tired.
At some point, Erin fell asleep. But she wasn’t quite asleep. She hovered between waking and slumber, so that reality became a dream, but she was still thinking.
Smiles. She’d seen them today. That was what she’d set out to collect, like Santa getting his presents or the tooth faerie flying from bed to bed. They were such brief things, smiles. But they were so valuable. And Erin had collected so many…
A smile from Krshia. Brunkr’s bared teeth, determined, hopeful. Mrsha’s big smile as she licked honey off a paw. Lyonette’s mischievous grin as she fed Revi mushrooms. Relc happily eating the apple. Octavia and her gold. Jasi, performing. Bird, eating bees…
Fragments. In her dream, Erin reached out and gathered the glowing shards to herself. They were the one light in a dark world filled with snow. But when she touched them, they melted and dripped from her hand. They fell down into the blackness and became stars. Erin looked down and found herself staring up into the sky. The clouds were gone, and the stars shone down. She smiled then, and she was smiling when Lyonette found her asleep the next day.
And the word that spread through the city, through two cities, was simple. It was a word never heard in this world before, a word that would not topple kings from their thrones or start revolutions. But it was a special word, nonetheless. It was something new, something that might be important, or might not. It was as important as people thought it was. But it was special to the girl who lay sleeping in her inn, too tired to lie down. It meant happiness. It was a word for joy, a word for the season. A word of power. A word from home.
A memory.
Christmas.
