“So, we have white and black stones. Two sides, like chess, see? And you’re capturing territory. You place the stones on the intersections, where the lines join like right here. Each stone can have up to four liberties—that means open spaces where a stone could go—in each direction like this. If you take away all the liberties, you capture the stone. Now, the goal is to get as much territory—as much of the board as possible—and as many captured stones as possible.”
Erin demonstrated, surrounding a black stone with white ones. She took it off the board and put it to one side.
“We call captured stones prisoners. And ooh, here’s something cool. You see these connected stones? Well, if they’re all touching each other we call that a string. And you can capture an entire string at once, but only if you take over all of their liberties. So that’s definitely something to watch for…”
Fifteen minutes later, Erin stood over a table where a bunch of white and black stones were sitting. They were freshly painted, and a bit tacky to the touch still, although a flame spell had baked the paint nicely.
The board for the game was carved into the table. It was just a huge block of equally-sized squares, nineteen lines long by nineteen lines wide. Erin didn’t mind sacrificing the table; you could still eat on it and she had a feeling a lot of games would be played in the future.
She was lecturing a crowd of people, not just Olesm and the Antinium. The Drakes and Gnolls were interested in this new game, and a few of the adventurers had come over to listen. Typhenous and Pisces looked particularly interested; Moore was jotting what Erin was saying down on a slip of parchment, and Ulrien and Halrac were listening while drinking.
The game of Go was simple, yet complex. It was all about capturing territory, which, when you got down to it, was at the heart of chess as well.
“Although chess is about completely eradicating the opponent’s pieces, I see many similarities in this game.”
“Yup. Most strategy games revolve around stealing an opponent’s territory. It’s pretty hard to lose all your pieces in a game of Go, but it can happen. If you suck. A lot.”
Erin smiled at Pawn as she demonstrated how the game was played to her audience.
“The thing about Go is that—and I hate to say this, but it’s true—it’s far more complex than chess.”
“Really?”
“Oh yes. It’s very complex, but easy to understand. All you do is surround your opponent, but the game can take infinite forms. See, you can place a stone anywhere unless it means you’d lose it. So unlike chess…”
“There’s so much you can do.”
Olesm stared down at the empty board, seemingly daunted by its size. Erin smiled.
“I’m not as good at Go as I am at Chess, but I’m not bad. I used to study it and play games back home.”
“You did? I’ve never heard of it.”
“Well…”
Erin shrugged. She remembered staying up late at night, playing games online. She smiled sadly as she picked up a rough stone one of the Soldiers had smashed to make smaller and put it on the board.
“I used to play all the time. I was close to the professional level—not that I played half as much as I did chess. But I loved playing. Chess, Shogi, Go…it’s too bad I couldn’t gamble, because I can play a mean round of Mahjong as well. Anyways. Does anyone want to play a game?”
There were no shortages of volunteers. Erin soon found herself having Halrac carve a second and third board into the tables for people to play as the Soldiers went out to search for more stones.
“We really need round stones to play properly. But this is fine, I guess.”
“May I request your assistance in teaching me this game, Erin? I hope to learn as much as I can before Anand returns.”
Belgrade intercepted Erin before Pawn or Olesm could. Erin smiled at the Worker.
“Sure. Is that a bit of rivalry I hear?”
She was just teasing him, but the Antinium nodded to her great surprise. Erin blinked.
“I wish to beat Anand at this game. He is a better player than I, so I must practice more than he does.”
“Really? But I thought you two were closely matched. You were when I played you last time. Has something changed?”
Belgrade paused.
“Perhaps it is the difference of personality. Anand is far more decisive and bold than I. That is why he was chosen to remain behind at Esthelm. His ability to react to new situations is deemed invaluable. I can only memorize patterns and repeat them.”
He looked downcast. Erin reached out and patted him on the shoulder. Then she gave up and gave him a quick hug. As she did, she saw Zel standing by a far wall. He was watching the Antinium. Not with overt hostility like he did with Klbkch, but very intently. He was staring at Belgrade and Erin was sure he’d heard what the Antinium had said. Zel looked away the instant Erin saw him.
“Well, if Anand is so good at improvising, all you’ve got to do is study every chess move until you’re used to every possible outcome. Following your style isn’t bad, Belgrade. You’ve just got to be able to adapt.”
She led Belgrade over to a board and began to explain strategy. He shook his head dejectedly as Erin tried to get him to experiment while playing her.
“I fear making mistakes in experimentation. I prefer known strategy. I fear I will be poor at this game.”
“No you won’t!”
“But known tactics fail in the face of innovation. Anand is spontaneous, I am not. How can I ever defeat him?”
Erin had a reply ready, but to her intense surprise Zel came over and answered the question for her.
“Just because someone can adapt, doesn’t mean their strategy is better than a set formation. It’s a longstanding argument between [Planners] and [Leaders]. One kind—[Strategists] for instance—likes to plan for every eventuality. They see patterns in troop movements and in battle and react accordingly. But [Generals] like me just see opportunities. We act according to instinct.”
He nodded to Pawn as he walked over and stood over the board. He didn’t look happy, but there was something in the way Pawn turned to look at Zel that made Erin think they had talked before. Zel studied the board, frowning at the intersecting lines on which stones had been placed.
“There’s some overlap of course; most leaders learn basic formations and strategy, but there are few who can lead from the front and fight a war in their heads. But specialization isn’t all bad—you get weird freaks with classes like [Shadow General] or [Lightningstrike Commander] who can use one type of tactic very well.”
“Then I may succeed by using my set methods?”
“If you can adapt them for every situation, yes. Who’s to say one method can’t be used in most situations? So long as you have others who can support you—or you know when to retreat—I don’t see why not.”
That was what Belgrade needed to hear. He sat straighter and began to play a far more competitive game. Erin still beat him, but she felt good doing it.
“May I try?”
Zel took Erin’s place, and Pawn took Belgrade’s. This time the game was short. Zel bowed out as it became clear Pawn was the far better player. He shook his head as he let Pisces slip into the seat.
“It’s just black and white stones to me. I’m used to battles where no one takes turns and everyone’s slipping on blood and guts. But if it makes you level, I’m sure every [Tactician] south of Liscor will be begging for a copy of young Olesm’s next newsletter.”
Olesm beamed with pride. He looked at Zel like a hero, Erin recognized. And the [General] was, wasn’t he? Erin had a hard time imagining it, but Zel was a big hero. One of the biggest, according to what Pisces had told her.
“You should send this with your next newsletter, Olesm. And what about sending it north?”
“North? Well…I sent a few letters to Invrisil and some [Tacticians] I’d heard of, but I’ve really been reaching out to friends I regularly correspond with. They’ve been spreading the word in the Drake cities. You really think I should expand so soon…?”
“Yes! Send it to us Humans…and Gnolls too, for that matter! Why not? You should send some letters to a bunch of Gnolls—I’m sure Krshia could tell you who might be interested. Yeah, send like a dozen letters out for free. If they like it, they’ll reply back. If not…”
Erin shrugged. She sat Olesm down at a table as lunchtime turned into board-game time. Lyonette was already hurrying out with drinks and a snack, and Erin saw those not interested in the game heading out for the city. It was only a little bit past midday. She had time. So Erin sat across from Olesm.
“Now, you’ve got a lot of good stuff, but have you considered having your parchment all stitched together?”
“Like a book? That’s costly.”
“No, not a book. It can be cheap. But you see, if you have a bit of color and maybe a little gossip, well, back home we call stuff like that magazines. I’m sure Krshia could find you someone who does a bit of artwork. You should have a little logo—ooh, and maybe a [Tactician] of the week! It’s good to reach out to your readers and get them involved. And while I’m on the subject, why not print a lot of issues of your newsletter and have them for sale in the Runner’s Guilds? If you do, then anyone can walk in and buy it. And if they don’t sell that well, it’s fine because you’re getting the word out. Now, my favorite part of newspapers back home is this thing called a ‘crossword’. It’s not chess, but…”
 
—-
 
Things from home. Things she remembered. When you got down to it, that was what Erin truly had to offer to this world. She was just an average girl, but she’d brought part of the place she came from with her. That was what she could give, and that was what made Erin special, she felt.
Her memories of home.
Some of it was stupid. Some of it wouldn’t help. The people of this world took what they wanted, what was useful, and only that. No one had liked the idea of crossword puzzles, not even Pisces. The consensus was that if you were going to be silly about words, you probably had better things you could be doing with your time.
But not all of what Erin had said was pointless. She saw the value in it already, as Olesm strode out of the door, bursting with ideas for his newsletter. And she saw it in Pawn and the Antinium as they left for the Hive, already planning to introduce the game to the Workers there. A new board game had come to the city. It was a small thing, but it mattered.
Everything mattered. Small things became big things, like how a clean inn was wonderful. So Erin helped Lyonette clean up for half an hour after her guests had finished, and then told Lyonette she was heading out. Again.
Only this time, Erin didn’t take the door leading to the outside world. She took the door to Octavia’s shop.
“Hey Octavia! I’m—”
Erin stopped and stared. Octavia was standing at her counter and she had a customer.
The man at the counter gave Erin an odd look, mainly because she was staring at him like he was some new, undocumented species never seen before. He accepted a potion that bubbled brightly pink in a stoppered vial and hurried away.
“Who was that? Why was he here?”
“That was a customer, and he was buying a potion. What the potion was isn’t your business.”
Octavia scowled at Erin as the girl approached the counter. The [Alchemist] seemed irked today for some reason.
“Aw. You can’t tell me? Why not?”
“Confidentiality. [Alchemists] don’t reveal what they’ve sold on principle. You could be an adventurer or a [Barber], but some of what I sell—”
“Was it a love potion? Or…is it like a healing potion for something icky?”
Octavia ignored the questions. She glared at Erin.
“Do you need something? Or are you just using my shop as a rest stop?”
“I’ve got business! For you!”
Erin smiled at Octavia, but for once even the word ‘business’ didn’t make the Stitch-girl jolly. Octavia folded her arms. Erin’s smile slipped.
“What? Did I do something?”
“Oh, nothing. I’m just waiting for you to figure it out.”
It took Erin a few seconds. She knew Octavia’s shop had been the delivery point for all of Celum’s goods and the people sent through, but it was for a good cause! So why—
Erin’s head turned and she saw the problem. The front wall of Octavia’s shop that led out into the street…was gone. Someone had knocked the entire wall down, and it was now patched up by a collection of plywood planks. It wasn’t a good seal. Wind was blowing into the shop through the cracks.
“Oh. Uh, is that—”
“They knocked it in. To fit a wagon into my shop.”
Octavia’s tone could have frozen boiling water. She pointed at the front of her store.
“I was reimbursed for that, but hardly enough. You may note how I haven’t had it fixed yet? That’s because the cost of wood is very high in the winter. And guess who gets to pay for that? Not the city. Me.”
“Sorry.”
Erin took a deep breath. She felt guilty, and changed what she’d planned on doing. She put her hands on Octavia’s counter.
“I’ll pay you back for that. But can we talk business?”
The [Alchemist] wavered. An epic battle between mercantilism and personal irritation lasted for all of fifteen seconds, before she grudgingly nodded.
“What do you want?”
“I need all my magical soups. You know, the ones you were holding for me for a ‘storage fee’?”
Octavia hesitated.
“I have them. I may have sold one or two—but I have your cut right here and I would be happy to reimburse you for the cost of—”
“Okay.”
Erin didn’t blink. Octavia looked at her, surprised, and decided not to question it. She went into the back of her shop and came out with a bunch of bottles full of soupy liquids.
“That will be—”
“Hold on, you can combine that with my next order.”
“Next order?”
“I want you to do some research! I think you can make this one thing I want right away—it’s called a ‘match’, and I need you to make it for me. Ryoka says it’s simple, but this other thing is really hard. It’s called ‘penicillin’, right, and—”
“No.”
“Excuse me?”
Octavia glared at Erin.
“I said no. I’m not doing any more research for you. You’re trouble. Every time I do something for you, I end up with a melted cauldron, or a hole in my shop, or a hole in my wall. I’m not helping you.”
“What? But—I can pay.”
“Too bad. It’s not worth the cost.”
“I think it is. Here—”
Erin reached for her money pouch, but Octavia snapped at her.
“Erin, no. I have several orders I need to fill, not to mention a gaping hole in the front of my shop! I won’t just let you—”
She broke off as Erin produced a fistful of coins. She slapped them on the table. They were heavy, thick coins. All gold.
