“And I believe it.” Mog said, “Doesn’t mean what I said wasn’t true.”

Gwynewyn said, “I am not looking to gain political power in Spur. I have power enough back home.”

Mog smirked. “Good luck getting property. I hear plots in the Human District are going for a glowing grand rad, these days.”

Gwynewyn looked to her daughter.

Alandria startled for a moment, then spoke in an even voice, “This year’s wyrm season has been good for me— I mean. Good for House Clayfield. I will be purchasing the land and developing the house on my own, while my brothers will eventually participate, and all of us will have a location with which to venture into the Dead City, or into the other locations of the Crystal Forest. Our hope is to reestablish the Old Hold that once existed in Spur, and will exist again…” She blanked. She rapidly added, “—raised under my strength of arms and magic.”

Gwynewyn looked to Mog, saying, “It is like this, you see.”

Mog asked Alandria, “Where are you going to go, first? No new teams are getting into the Dead City right now, and especially not one in your unique situation.”

Alandria said, “The Hole, Firemaw Mountain, and the pursuit of larger hunts.”

“That’s why we have guilds.” Mog looked to Erick, asking, “Any questions? You have a vote too, if you want to use it, Erick.”

Erick ignored the question of how he got a vote, and said, “I do not. I have absolutely no idea who you are, so I can’t say one way or the other.”

Gwynewyn was unsurprised at this, but Alandria’s posture and facade cracked in a tiny, hurt way.

Mog said, “We’re done here, Gwynewyn, Alandria. I got more meetings coming up but I want some time with my unexpected guest, first.”

The Clayfield women got up from their chairs and stepped away.

Gwynewyn said, “Thank you for your time and your vote, Guildmaster.”

“Thank you,” echoed Alandria.

They walked away, to the staircase leading down.

An incani sitting at a table near the stairs gave Gwynewyn a sneering eye, but the woman did not respond to the provocation.

“I do actually have more meetings,” Mog said to Erick, as she pointed to the sneering incani. She spoke loud enough for the stranger to hear, “But I think this one just got canceled. There won’t be no Quiet War shit in my house.” As the man turned back toward Mog, realizing that she had seen him, Mog spoke louder, “Yeah. You hear me. Fuck off, dude. Your vote is ‘no’.”

The man sputtered, gesturing to the space where Gwynewyn had just been, calling out, “But—”

“NO.” Mog said, “Go back to the Kingdoms, or Kal’Duresh. You ain’t living here.”

The incani, who was purple skinned and dark horned, said some soft words from halfway across the room, that if Erick wasn’t looking for, he would have missed. “Apologies, Guildmaster.” And then he got up, and walked away.

Mog sighed, bringing Erick’s attention back to her. “Always Quiet War shit.”

“Yeah. I know.”

Mog smiled at him. “I bet you do.”

Erick asked, “So what was all that about? Gwynewyn? Nobles? That guy at that table?”

“The nobles are calling for space in our prosperity. It’s a hassle, but it’s good for Spur. I wasn’t there when it happened, but I’ve heard that after the Great Purge, Silverite made some dumb decisions that ended up causing Frontier and Kal’Duresh.” She shrugged. “Or maybe something else happened. Whatever the case, the nobles are finally coming back, and the Clayfields do have a long history with Spur. So they had my vote. It was good to hear her talk like she talked, though.” Mog said, “As for that guy I dismissed, he was a troublemaker. Can’t keep that shit out of public, then there’s no telling what they get up to in private.” She pointed to a table three away from the one the incani had been at. A different pair of incani were sitting there, these ones with tiny horns, and pale violet skin. “They had no reaction to Gwynewyn, but they’re early. Maybe early enough to see her and hear what she had to say? Or maybe because they want a lot of my time? I don’t know. I can only deal with what I see. But they can alllll wait.” Mog smiled at him, saying, “Because you’re here. So what brings you here?” She laughed, as she slapped him on the shoulder, saying, “And you take this long to show up! What’s a girl to think! I can’t have been that bad, could I?”

Erick chuckled, saying, “Ah. Uh. No. It was… It was good.”

“Damn right it was good.” She smirked at him. “So what’s up, Erick?”

“Oh. I…” Erick tried to collect his thoughts. He landed on, “I heard about all these holes out in the Crystal Forest. I actually put up an Imaging north of the city, searching for every hole, for a pair of young adventurers I met earlier. What’s up with the holes?”

Mog said, “That’s just what Ballooning Spiders do. Most of their lifetime is spent underground, and they gotta get back down there, somehow.”

“But… I thought that the Crystal Mimics ate them?”

“Well yeah. But not all of them. There’s half a billion spiders up there!” She laughed, then said. “Enough pregnant mothers survive the fall and the mimics in order to [Stoneshape] holes down to the Underworld.” Mog shrugged. “There are monsters that live in burrows out there too...” She paused. She said, “Actually… Where is the Imaging you put up?”

“North of the city. Hard to miss.”

Mog nodded. Tendrils of intent flicked away from her head. “Thanks, Erick. That helps.”

“Is there a danger of dungeons forming from the deeper holes? Or do they collapse?”

Mog gave Erick a small grin, then said, “Those holes usually collapse on their own, but even when the holes are deep enough to spawn slimes, mimics will feel those vibrations in the ground and then go excavating for a meal. Even unattended blood dog burrows, or dune viper burrows, end up getting excavated if the original residents aren’t there anymore; sand slimes spawn in those, all the time. Now, sometimes, very rarely, the burrowing monsters hit some Underworld tunnels near the surface. When that happens, you get dungeons in the Crystal Forest.

“But rarity turns commonplace every ten-ish years, with the Ballooning Spiders’ passing. Unexpected dungeons, everywhere.

“It’s nothing to panic about right now, for there’s a lot of land out there, and the monsters in those natural dungeons don’t usually make it far outside of those underground spaces before the mimics come and eat them, then go down the holes in search of more, collapsing the entrance and the dungeon in their search for food. Or, the fragile spider tunnels collapse from the inside as monsters try to get out, thus burying everyone under sand, and that’s that. But if none of that happens, and the tunnel is big enough to not collapse, and a real dungeon forms...

“First come slimes, then come shadowolves hunting those slimes. Then it’s all a pain in the ass and at least five rookies always die, because there aren’t any Shades overseeing those unknown dungeons out there, and the people who find them are always rookies. There’s always some oddity out there lurking in those untamed holes in the ground, too, like cursed babblers, or sand oozes, or stonebone skeletons.

“It’s a problem,” Mog stressed. “Not a large one, but every ballooning, there’s a good twenty or fifty dungeon spaces that become real dungeons within a [Teleport] of Spur, made by Balloon Spiders just looking to get home. We’re still, technically, in the flying horde phase of the problem, and then there’s Candlepoint… People’s focuses are not where they usually are. But we should be fine.

“In the coming months, people will be searching for those holes and sealing them up.” She said, “Your Imaging will speed up that process, considerably.” She smiled. “Good work, Erick.”

Erick had killed high leveled monsters headed for Spur before, on Mog’s request, but she had been adamant about refusing his help to ‘clear out the land around Spur’, because the younger crowd needed the experience and the danger of the Crystal Forest in order to grow stronger, to face the real threats out there. But even knowing that, after hearing about ‘unexpected dungeons’, Erick asked, “Want me to send some Witherings out there, into those spaces?”

“Nope.” Mog said, “Mapping them out is good, though. Makes it a lot easier for the youngsters to find the problem areas.” She asked, “Have you looked at the map you put out there, lately?”

Erick had not, but at Mog’s question, he summoned a [Scry] orb at the map.

About two dozen people surrounded Erick’s floating, white map of the nearest thousand radial kilometers. There were also maybe four guards who had stepped in to stop a breakout of violence between two smaller groups of angry people. Most of the people standing around, studying the map, were just talking to each other as they planned their course. Most of them looked like rookies, with basic, mismatched equipment, but some of them had custom, highly magical items, like one incani guy in black, flickering armor, and an orcol woman in a sundress made of feathers.

He came back to himself. “That got popular rather fast.”

Mog asked, “Would you be interested in putting up more of those, for other targets? Finding some of the monsters on the boards takes a lot of time.”

“Oh? Sure. Absolutely. Once a day? Or?”

“Nothing like that.” Mog said, “But as a bonus for some of our higher leveled people, sometimes. I can just send a message to Poi over there, like I did before?”

Erick smiled. “I’d love to help. Ah. I also came here to get one of those black rocks you use to level [Strike].”

Mog scrunched her face in a cross between disbelief, and amusement. “Sure. We got those.” She lifted her head toward the bar area of the third floor as a tendril of thought left her head. She said to Erick, “Coming right up.”

Erick did not see who she motioned toward, but in seconds, one of the barbacks, a young incani guy, came walking out from behind the counter. He came to Mog’s table and set down a black stone.

Mog said, “Thanks.” The kid bowed, and stepped away. Mog picked the stone up. She held the rock in her fingers and tapped it with her thumb. A small crack of sound crashed from the tiny rock. She said, “They’re just some alchemical iron rocks, made to deform rather than break. Here.” She handed the rock to Erick.

He took the rock, and almost dropped it. He had 82 Strength, so the rock wasn’t heavy, but it was surprising to have something that looked like it weighed a few ounces, at most, end up weighing a full kilogram. He said, “That’s heavier than I thought it would be.”

“That’s a larger rock than most.” Mog asked, “What’s the plan with [Strike]?”

“Going for [Melee Reflection], but first, I’m trying to see how Mana and Health can play nicely together in combination skills and spells.” Erick used [Strike] against the stone, tapping it with his finger.

He did not blink, but he missed the moment of attack, anyway. Erick’s thumb was on the stone. He giggled as the phantom of some passing sensation lingered in his finger, and in his arm.

Mog joyfully asked, “Was that your very first [Strike]?”

“Ha ha! Yes.” Erick said, “That was very weird, too. I didn’t get the full feeling of it all.”

“Ha!” Mog said, “[Strike] is one of those special skills that returns your investment, ten-fold. If you use it right, [Strike] does a shit-ton more than even the strongest [Force Bolt].”

“I bet it would!”

Mog laughed, happy, and then the moment was over. She sighed. She glanced away, giving an annoyed look to the people waiting for her, for their appointment. She looked to Erick, saying, “It was good seeing you.”

Erick said, “It was good seeing you, too.”

Mog grinned, saying, “Don’t be a stranger.”

Erick got up from his chair, and turned to her. Mog was quite beautiful, in multiple ways. Not just the physical, but most of all, she was open and honest.

Erick said, “See you later, Mog.”

Mog nodded, saying, “See you later, Erick.”

- - - -

Erick’s next stop was the Guardhouse, to speak to the orangescale Guardmaster, Merit.

Teressa met Erick and Poi at the front entrance of the huge, cube block of a building. From there, they went upstairs. Erick briefly [Scry]ed on the [Cascade Imaging] he left north of the city, mostly just to dismiss the effect, but also to see how many people his spell had attracted; he almost felt bad canceling the magic in front of thirty-odd people.

He returned his attention back to his body, and took another step up the staircase, leading into the center of the building. The bustle and anger of guards and their quarry were left behind, as Erick turned a corner, and then another. Soon, he was in the central courtyard of the Guardhouse.

Either he or Ophiel should have been here, in the central courtyard, hours before now. But time got away from him, as it usually did. Erick summoned another Ophiel. The little winged [Familiar] fluttered through the air, chirping and humming violins as his eyes wandered in all directions, catching on the other people in the courtyard. And then Erick blipped him away, to join the rest flying out across the Crystal Forest, waiting for Merit’s searching orders.

The woman in question stood to the side of the courtyard space, her silver armor glinting in the sunlight, her orange scales as vibrant as her casual glare. Merit looked to Erick like he had fucked up, and maybe he had fucked up by being a few hours later than he thought he would be…

He looked to the plates of body parts. Somehow, he had forgotten that part.

Oh yeah. He had fucked up.

Erick said, “Oh. Uh.”

What other words could he really say?

Merit asked, “Do you have a problem with me?”

“What? No.” Erick said, “It’s—”

“Because the missing people that these body parts represent could either be found dead or alive.” Merit said, “My people are still looking for them, but you can look faster, and cleaner, than anyone else I know.”

“You’re right.” Erick asked, “Where are we searching, first? What happened?”

“Just Spur.” Merit added, “There was a capture, and a ransom. If they’re not in Spur anymore, then they were tricked into accepting a [Teleport] but that seems unlikely based on the note.”

