Irogh said, “We’ve already gone over all the options; all of them are good. This is a choice you must make for yourself.”

Erick smiled. Registrars often seemed like social workers or lawyers; they often spoke in clarifying speech, giving long, expansive answers to the mechanics of most any ability, skill, or spell you already had, but they would never answer ‘what was best’.

Erick confidently said, “Blood Mana, please.” He added, “And another Ability Slot Increase Quest.”

Irogh nodded, as he tapped the air. “Done.”

Blue boxes appeared.

Ability Slot Increase Quest!

10 Points

OR

10,000,000,000 Mana and/or Health

Class Ability Quest!

Create a well-made tier 3 skill or spell born of a Health-cost skill and a Mana-cost spell.

Reward: Blood Mana

Erick asked, “Weird Quest. Is there a comparative warrior Ability?”

Irogh answered with a non-answer, saying, “Highly likely.”

“Thanks, Irogh.” Erick got up to leave, saying, “Till next time.”

Irogh said, “Farewell, Erick.”

- - - -

Erick had dreaded going to the Adventurer’s Guild because of his unintentional foray into Red Dreams with Mog, and Al, but now he had a reason to go to the guild; he needed one of those [Strike] leveling rocks Jane got, way back when they first got to Spur. He also wanted to ask if anything was happening with the holes outside of the city, if anything, so he had two reasons to go to the Guild.

Three reasons, if you counted asking for help with [Strike], which Erick bought for a point.

Strike 1, 10 HP

Level 1: Deal 1.0x damage with your weapon

Exp: 0/100

Hopefully Mog wouldn’t be too put out with him. Erick genuinely liked the woman.

Apparently, Erick needn’t have worried.

On the fourth floor of the log mansion Adventurer’s Guild, where drinks and quests were served to the powerful and skilled, Guildmaster Mog held her rough and tumble court in the corner, near the rails, overlooking a good chunk of the building. Erick blipped into the Guild in the designated [Teleport] alcoves, and instantly locked eyes with the woman in question. Her big brown eyes got bigger as her ample chest heaved and one of her arms, which would put any bodybuilder to shame, shot up, in a wave. She laughed.

A human girl and a human woman sat on the other side of Mog’s table; they had been talking to her when Erick blipped into the room. Those women looked to Erick with questioning eyes, then sudden passivity. They had recognized Erick, with the woman being slightly faster than the girl. He had no idea who they were, though.

“Hey!” Mog yelled, over the general hubbub of the busy Guildhouse. “Erick!” She waved him over, smiling, revealing huge lower fangs. “Come! Sit with us!”

Erick returned her smile as he walked closer, saying, “Hello, Mog. Glad to see you.”

Mog pulled out a chair at her table, by her side, as she gestured to the woman and the girl, saying, “Gwynewyn Clayfield and her daughter, Alandria Clayfield. Baroness and Lady, from the Republic.”

Erick paused, right as he was getting into the chair. He unfroze, as a smile came unbidden, and he sat down, saying, “A pleasure to meet you? From…?”

He had not truly noticed their clothes until this moment, for they were mostly unremarkable creations of brown leathers and white cloth. But now that he was closer, he saw that the white fabrics were also slightly silvered, every few other threads replaced by something stronger than fabric, but just as flexible. The leathers themselves were heavily tooled, and likely highly enchanted. Or maybe minimally enchanted, so it would last longer? It was crafted with Ancient Script writings in some of the whorls and straights, and some of it looked like [Ward], or a variation on [Ward], but Erick still wasn’t knowledgeable enough to identify magical equipment at a glance.

Of the two women themselves, Gwynewyn was an older woman, around Erick’s age, with dark skin and dark hair tied back in a bun, and bright blue eyes. Hers was an odd look to see on a person, but she was quite pretty. Her daughter was slightly lighter of skin, and maybe not yet twenty. She matched her mother in most ways, and especially in the eyes.

Gwynewyn nodded cordially at Erick’s question, then said, “Always a pleasure to meet an archmage, especially one that helped our people in Odaali. My daughter and I are from a small holding under Greendale, known as Steelbend, across from the Fin river, from Redder.”

“Apologies. I have only the vaguest idea of where that is.”

Gwynewyn said, “There are many places like ours scattered all over the Republic. It would be impossible to expect anyone to know of them all.” She added, “But we’re a little over a [Teleport] east of Odaali.”

“Ah!” Erick said. “Okay.”

Mog spoke up, “They’re thinking of moving their Adventuring Branch from Frontier to Spur.” She smirked, saying, “They might be your neighbors, Erick.”

“Oh?” Erick’s smile remained for a moment, entirely due to emotional inertia. And then he lost his joy, as his thoughts turned to paranoia. “Oh.”

Mog noticed, and chuckled, saying, “It’s nothing nearly so sinister—” Her tone switched to teasing, but with an undercurrent of actual danger, as she looked to Gwynewyn, saying, “Unless it is?”

Gwynewyn rapidly said, “It is not.”

“I joke! I joke.” Mog lightly nudged Erick, saying, “Ever since your windstorms, I’ve been meeting with potential noble houses that wish to come to Spur, to take part in our bounty and our protection.”

Erick’s paranoia did not leave him, but he did feel slightly better at Mog’s words, and her friendly touch. His thoughts returned to the moment, as he found himself asking, “No one has started building any houses nearby?”

Gwynewyn said, “Silverite has already imparted to us that your presence in Spur is much more important to her than any possible noble connections to any other part of the world.” She looked to Mog. “But I was not expecting this meeting to happen right now, either.” She said to Erick, “We’re still laying groundwork; attempting to contact you has not yet been approved by any of the powers of Spur.”

Mog laughed. “I did not expect it either, but I’m happy this is happening in my presence.” She reached over and patted Erick on the shoulders, with her fingers reaching all the way to the center of his back. “Erick is important to us.” Her hand lingered for the barest moment, before retreating. She eyed Gwynewyn, saying, “You are a wildcard, as are all your kind.”

“I accept this designation, but I hope to prove you wrong in time, and right now.” Gwynewyn said, “The Clayfields have been housed in Spur before, and we were valued members then. We look to regain that status, due to current world events and power proven, yes, by Archmage Flatt, but also in the face of what is to come.”

“What’s wrong with Frontier?” Erick asked.

“That’s what we were discussing.” Mog said, “Go ahead and say it all again, Gwynewyn.”

Gwynewyn said, “Viscount Helix is a man experienced with mortal wars, but Silverite is something more than that. When the conflict against the Shades begins, we wish to be inside the proper command structure, in order to assist, and to take our fair share of the bounty afterward.”

“A rush for gold?” Erick asked.

“Artifacts, gold, prestige, experience, physical power and magical might. The downfall of shadow. All of it; like anyone else in the adventuring business.” Gwynewyn said, “But most of all: Frontier is stifling. They have no Forward Base. They enter the Dead City by climbing over the wall, causing many to die in their first entering. I was lucky. Twenty years ago, I survived a dozen trips within, killing enough monsters in there to gain level 50 and a Class. I brought that power back to my part of the world, back home to the Republic. But the survival rate of wall-hoppers is steadily decreasing.

“The average survival rate for first timers has been around 45 percent, for several decades. Spur is around 45 percent, so it’s not much better. But ever since Candlepoint popped up from the sands, Frontier’s survival rate has dropped to 20 percent. Even in the last year, a few groups have been wiped out, to the person, including every single veteran.

“Therefore, the only option for my family— for my daughter’s survival and for her to eventually take over my position as Baroness, is for us to open a branch in Spur, and gain entrance to the Dead City, from this city.”

Erick glanced from Gwynewyn to her daughter, Alandria. The young girl sat straight and strong, but turned slightly to face Erick’s eyes. She averted her forward look after half a second, returning to a casual, regal posture. Maybe she was nervous, and hiding it, or maybe she was exactly as calm as she appeared, while the discussion of her death hovered around her like a dark cloud? Erick wasn’t sure.

Mog started, “That survival rate is the only reason we’re talking right now.” Mog said, “Your grandparents and great grandparents fought by Spur’s side, but when the Great Purge took most of them, those left behind, both in the Kingdoms and in your Republic, decided to abandon Spur, completely. Your people, once at least friendly with the incani, then went to bloody war with them over Kal’Duresh’s mountain oasis.” She said, “And it’s only gotten worse from there.” She thumbed at Erick, “But he’s a planar, and his magey neighbors are humans from Oceanside. They’re pretty okay.” She looked to Gwynewyn, saying, “Your family, the Clayfields, were a part of the problem.”

Gwynewyn said, “And dear old Grandpap is forty years dead, and his personal vengeance long since gone cold. We have no stake in further Quiet War nonsense, and haven’t for quite some time.”

Mog asked, “And what do you say about the other houses that have tried this very same thing you are attempting? Trying to get in good with Spur when Spur is doing well? What say you about when we caught one of your Green Circle here, in Erick’s house, parasitizing his food?”

“I say that we are a Republic of a thousand Houses, and while some have chosen to fight fate, a great deal of us have seen the writing in the sky. Frontier will fall; Bulgan will ensure it.” Gwynewyn said, “I also say that before the Great Purge, the Clayfields were pillars of Spur, with two archmages and countless more warriors raised within this orange city, and within this Guild, here. We deserve the opportunity to try to regain the stature we once had in Spur. If none of our other reasons should convince you, than this history we have should at least be honored in some decent way.”

Mog asked, “And of the Green Circle?”

“Everyone thought Archmage Flatt was a Shade plot, and that Spur was too enamored with the Dead City to do what needed to be done.” Gwynewyn looked to Erick, saying, “But he is not a pawn of the Shades anymore than anyone else.” She looked back to Mog, saying, “Spur made the right decision. I can safely say that Viscount Helix would have done differently. It is a good thing that he never got the opportunity.” She added, “Which is yet another reason that we wish to be out of Frontier, and joined to Spur.”

Once again, Erick felt some weird kinda way, about being implicated at working with the Shades. But he had already been inoculated against such an event, ever since Anhelia accused him of the same thing. He did not have a visceral, gut wrenching reaction, this time.

Still, though…

Still, he felt a flickering of anger, and an impetus to look back over all his previous actions with anyone in power, to see the extent of which he had been sounded out as a Shade conspirator. But as quickly as that emotion took hold, and as he thought to Poi’s presence in his life, and all the little conversations with Silverite, and paranoia threatened to take hold, he forced himself to calm.

Of course they would think him a Shade conspirator. Erick had always thought that the Green Circle assassin just didn’t want any knowledge to go to the incani.

Ah. But yes: they could have multiple reasons for doing what they tried to do.

Mog’s voice brought him out of his spiraling thoughts, as she said, “If you are approved, the Clayfields will not gain any power to make decisions in this city. We will not respect your noble title in these lands, but neither will your noble title cause you problems unless you bring those problems here yourself. The laws we have work, and they have barely changed, ever since Spur’s founding 800-odd years ago.”

Gwynewyn said, “We are aware of the laws and are willing to bind ourselves with them.”

Mog sat back, silent; thinking. Gwynewyn waited.

The air was filled with the cacophony of bar life and adventuring stories, as it had been since Erick entered the Guildhouse. Because of that, there was no silence to fill the air, as Mog appraised Gwynewyn, Gwynewyn waited for the outcome, and Alandria sat still, and silent, like a perfectly polite young woman. Erick had no idea what was happening, but it was important.

Mog spoke, “You have my vote.”

Alandria’s countenance broke, a tiny bit, as she allowed herself a smile. Something like relief passed behind her eyes.

Gwynewyn nodded, ever the perfect noble, and said, “Thank you, Guildmaster Mog.”

“The Guild Network vouches for you, and your house, but it is good to hear your answers.” Mog asked, “How is your vote looking?”

“Guardmaster Merit has voted in favor, after vetting our intentions. Quartermaster Liquid has voted in favor. Guildmaster Zago has voted against, but it was important for us to approach her, anyway. The Merchants of Spur have given us a positive vote as of yesterday. With your vote, we have four. We have meetings scheduled with other voters, in the following days. Unless something untoward happens, we will reach our necessary five votes, and then we will approach Silverite for a final confirmation, and a final vote.”

Erick found himself asking, “This is a complicated thing for you, isn’t it?”

“Complicated by design.” Mog said, “Nobles have a lot of political weight and resources to throw around, so inviting one of them into your city as a citizen is a big deal. Before you know it, they’ll get votes on the big stuff, and then there’s problems, and then there’s blood on the streets and divisions all around that could have been avoided if the nobles were never invited in, in the first place.”

Gwynewyn said, “We will not violate the sanctity of this city’s neutrality. I simply seek to see my children raised in the best possible way, so that House Clayfield can continue to hold back the Darkness in our own land, and abroad.”

