“And now we return to it,” Vatreece said, ignoring his comment. She hovered up to his eye level, apparently having grown tired of playing along with gravity. “Will you allow me to read your history willingly, or am I going to take what I must, as I must?”

Rain closed his eyes, then nodded. For what little difference it made.

All I can do is...trust her.

“Thank you,” the Warden said.

The only sign that she’d started was an expression of discomfort crossing her face, but she swiftly spoke through it. “Pain? Ah, I see. You placed memories of the obelisk at the fore, like a shell. I find myself surprised again. Few enough can enter their soul, but fewer still can order their thoughts into mnemonic defenses.”

“I’m as surprised as you are,” Rain said, feeling her press deeper. “I didn’t think it would really work.”

“Intent is the first and most important step,” the Warden said, pressing deeper. He got the sense that she was taking her time, being cautious, possibly for fear of anything the Majistraal obelisk might have left in his mind. Nevertheless, she was merciless, effortlessly peeling back the outermost layer of his defenses. She paused again to give him a look.

“Osaran tax law? Really?”

Rain shrugged helplessly. “I found it hard to get through.”

The Warden rolled her eyes, digging deeper. “One eight seven seven...Kars for Kids? This tune is infuriating.”

Despite everything, Rain smiled. “I warned you. Also, you just lost the game.”

“Childish...” the Warden muttered, abandoning her caution and roughly punching through. Rain hardly needed to hear her sharp intake of breath to know she’d found what she was looking for.

Already, the thread of the Warden’s conciousness that was speaking to Custodian Rain had been drawing heavily on her due to the speed of his inner world, but what it had just learned was enough to bring her entire mind to a stuttering halt.

Even with Barstone’s lesser brain supplementing her own, the deluge was overwhelming. The problem was information density, as she’d expected, but the magnitude of it surpassed anything she’d prepared herself for. A memory record taken from a farmer was easy to process, each day much like the rest and easy to skip. This... A lifetime of practice was of no help without a frame of reference to let her winnow the seeds from the chaff.

Even something that should have been familiar, such as a pencil sitting on a desk, contained so much. The fact that the yellow-painted wood contained graphite. The fact that it had been manufactured in a factory. What a factory was. How the machines within one worked, moving faster and with more precision than any awakened. How the Custodian had learned about them by watching television.

That the worldwanderer’s mind would be filled with foreign concepts went without saying, but he knew so MUCH.

About EVERYTHING.

Important. Unimportant. Downright trivial.

It was all there, all with the overwhelming, crystal-clear immediacy of a Dynamo.

Vatreece stumbled, almost dropping herself from the blade of her axe.

The INTERNET? Almost eight BILLION people, more than half of them connected, and they use it to share pictures of CATS?

Her various other threads staggered, disrupted in their conversations with Ascension’s members. Honed by a lifetime of experience, her mind was already working to defend itself, locking the infectious minutia away, compartmentalizing it behind barriers of pure thought. The Custodian lying bonelessly before her had no such protections.

How does he FUNCTION?

As awareness of her threads returned, she found herself the subject of concern, and not just from the Custodian. Yet another surprise for the day. Even Ascension’s adopted Imperial had rushed to her aid—though granted, he had only the vaguest concept of who she was.

“I’m fine, thank you,” she said, or some variation thereof, spoken from hundreds of imagined mouths in hundreds of imagined realities. Withdrawing her threads from all but a few of the minds around her, she left the rest in blissful catatonia while she resettled herself on her axe. She was already regretting the decision to use it as a chair.

Used to be, I had a little padding back there.

Ameliah jumped, her eyes shifting to the Warden’s. From her perspective, the world around her had just shifted, illusion falling to truth. “What just happened?” she demanded, stopping short as she spotted Rain collapsed at her feet. “Rain! Rain, are you okay?”

“No,” Rain said, reaching up to close his visor as she helped him sit. “She took my memories, Ameliah. All of them.”

“No,” Ameliah said, turning to the Warden with a horrified expression.

“Relax,” the Warden said, speaking to Rain as she worked on his mind’s defenses in the background. She knew of no other mentalist capable of direct memory extraction, having dealt with the last one years ago, but as the Custodian was proof, the universe was full of surprises. Giving no sign of the effort she was exerting, she continued speaking with a casual wave of her hand. “Nuclear fire was not unknown to me. Even a middling Alchemist may wield it, provided access to fissionables and sufficient Insight.”

“WHAT?!” Rain demanded.

“You really are saying that a lot,” the Warden said with a smile. “You are only surprised because you know so little of this world. Both fission and fusion would be common knowledge, I think, if the damage limit did not prevent them from functioning on the surface, and were the required elements not so scarce. You are right to fear proliferation, but your concern is overblown. There are far easier ways to destroy a city, ones not requiring such an absurd supply chain.” She snorted. “I must say, what your society managed to accomplish without magic is truly impressive.”

Finishing her repairs, Vatreece paused to survey her handiwork, double and triple checking to make sure they were exactly as they’d been. Memory Wipe, Command, and the like were all well and good, but actually editing a mind’s mentality was an exceedingly dangerous and manual process. Even the smallest, most innocuous change could ripple outward, destabilizing the entire thing and leaving its owner a drooling shrub. To build proper, lasting defenses for the Custodian, she would have needed to immerse herself in his thoughts to the point that she knew him more intimately than he knew himself. Apart from not having the time, such a thing would have been distinctly unwise. Even as it was, she would be chasing dank memes from the nooks and crannies of her consciousness for months.

Constructs, though...

Retrieving a flask from her hip, she blocked the nerves leading to her taste buds before taking a long draw of the phenomenally-strong restorative within. Ignoring Rain and Ameliah’s curiosity, she closed her eyes and returned to work. Constructs could be placed within a mind safely, and when they expired, they would simply fade away, but making them last was tricky.

First, she wrapped Rain’s entire mind within a Thought Shell, like any silver Mentalist might have made, exceptional only in its strength. Second, within that barrier, she coiled up something far more advanced—a twisted spring blade that would shred the Custodian’s memories to ribbons should the outer thought shell be breached. The final construct was the most complicated by far, her mana plummeting as she began weaving it into being.

“Um, excuse me, Warden?” Ameliah asked.

“Yes?” Vatreece asked, splitting off the barest sliver of her mind to guide her body while the rest of it concentrated.

“What did you do to them?” Ameliah asked, gesturing at the dead-eyed expressions of Barstone’s constables and the other Ascension members near the frozen ramp.

“They’re having a nap,” Vatreece said, taking another long draw from her flask. “They are not needed for what comes next.”

“And what comes next, exactly?” Rain asked. “Are you going to kill us? Wipe our minds? Order us to do your bidding?”

“You think so little of me,” Vatreece said, not as a question. Almost done now. She gestured to herself. “In my younger days, I was faced with a choice: to become a monster, or to hold myself back. Obviously, I chose the latter. I drew lines, lines I would never cross, no matter the need.” She had Barstone gesture to himself in turn, then spoke with his mouth. “Lines like this.”

“What did you do to him?” Rain asked.

Vatreece sighed, returning her full attention to the conversation as she finished her construct and set it to slumber within the Custodian’s mind. “I have suppressed his consciousness and taken his body as my own. It is what I mean to do to the rest of the Citizens.”

There was a long, stunned silence in response to that.

Finally, Rain spoke. “I guess your lines don’t mean much, then, do they?”

Vatreece smiled sadly, having her Barstone body help her original down from her axe. “Fecht isn’t playing by the rules, so why should I? The threat of him must be ended.” She stretched, then walked forward to punctuate her next statement by rapping her knuckles against Rain’s breastplate. “For. The greater. Good.”

“The end doesn’t justify the means,” Rain said, but the words sounded hollow. He knew she was right. He feared she was.

“The DKE could have defeated Fecht on their own by now,” Vatreece said. “However, they have proven that they will not work together, occupied as they are with defending their individual territories. Pointless. How has it worked for them so far, eh?”

She continued as Barstone. “And so, I will make them work together. I will make each of them more than they could ever have been on their own.” She gestured to her stolen body. “They will be my instruments. A deadly symphony—” she tapped her wrinkled temple, switching voices, “—guided by my singular mind. I will take them—” she switched back to Barstone, “—and I will strike for the heart.”

“That’s...” Ameliah said, sounding sick.

“Necessary,” Vatreece said, this time with Velika’s voice.

Rain and Ameliah whirled, and Vatreece smiled before deciding to tone down the theatrics. The Citizens were overly reliant on their Mantles, but eventually, they’d find a Diviner and begin Scrying to see what had happened to Barstone. She needed to be done before then.

“Let her go,” Rain said, shifting his gaze to Velika, then to Barstone, then back to Vatreece’s original body, as if he was unsure where to look.

“Why?” Vatreece asked through Velika, honestly curious. “She has caused you no end of trouble. I would have thought you’d thank me for taking her off your hands.”

“I had a deal with her,” Rain said, meeting Velika’s eyes as he responded. “She promised to teach me.”

The Warden scoffed with all three of her bodies. “You don’t care about that. Not enough, anyway, and besides, she knows far less than she believes.” She tilted Velika’s head. “No, you want me to spare her because you pity her. Even after all she’s done.”

Rain shook his head. “I understand being trapped in a corner. She’s an asshole, sure, but nobody deserves...this.”

“She enjoyed it, you know,” Vatreece said. “Killing that friend of yours. She regrets it, now, sure, and so much else besides, but then? All she felt was her power and the fleeting rapture of revenge. They weren’t even people to her. Just obstacles that had dared stand in her way.”

Rain looked away, his thoughts a confused mess.

Ameliah, though, stepped forward, kneeling down to confront Vatreece’s original body. “Everyone deserves a second chance. She turned over the city in the end. She fought the Empire with us.”

“Only to save herself,” Vatreece said. She held up a hand, her voice soft but heavy with the weight of Command. “Enough.”

Ameliah’s mouth clicked shut. Rain tried to speak up after her but found that he could not.

“Have it your way,” the Warden said. “Make her your little project. She is little use to me anyway, with only a single sword to her name. She does have one thing, however, that I will be taking. Did you know that it takes full concordance to forge a new Mantle, but that transferring one doesn’t even require a vote?”

As Velika, the Warden raised a hand to her chest. Using the technique she’d lifted from Barstone, she directed Velika’s essence, latching onto the crystalline spike lodged in her soul. Velika—the real Velika—screamed silently, experiencing the unmitigated agony of a vessel too weak to withstand the load. Not so much as a bead of sweat dripped from her body’s forehead, however, the pain locked away along with its owner in the deepest, darkest dungeon of her mind.

The spike came free at last, and the Warden directed Velika’s hand to draw it from her chest, the shard phasing through her flesh. “I’ve been wanting one of these for the longest time,” she said, passing it to her real self. Velika collapsed bonelessly as the Warden released her, the woman’s skull impacting solidly against the dirty ice. The former Citizen—now fully so—wasn’t conscious to feel it, not that such a hit would have done anything to her. When she woke, though, she would have a colossal hangover waiting for her, along with another surprise or two.

Ignoring Rain and Ameliah as they rushed forward to help the fallen Citizen, Vatreece contemplated the shard, bringing it to hover just in front of her heart. She angled her hand, and the point slipped through her failing flesh like it wasn’t even there. There wasn’t even a flicker of discomfort for her to block as the artifact dug into her soul, linking it to others all across the continent.

The Warden smiled.

She could feel them. Feel their souls, and through them, their minds, powerful...bright...and from within, unshielded.

All she had to do was take control.

And so she did.
