The way forward into Pan Si Xing was fraught with peril and menace, but Rustram knew the real danger would come on the journey back.

An odd statement to make considering their ambitious goal. With less than a hundred-thousand soldiers in total, they were going to march into an Enemy city occupied by millions of Defiled combatants and take the head of their General Commander, the Living Legend, Lord of Martial Peace, and Prince of Barbarity Bai Qi himself. This, according to Lieutenant General Baatar, was supposedly the easy part of their mission, and to his great dismay, Rustram had no way to refute that statement. Killing Bai Qi was the easy part, but only because the rest of their goals were nigh impossible to accomplish. First, there was the issue with getting into the City unnoticed, because low as their chances of success might be, those odds plummeted to near zero if the Enemy was alerted to the Imperial presence beforehand and had time to prepare. This meant nine days of travelling in a cautious, roundabout fashion while avoiding Defiled patrols, which was easier said than done. To beat the heat, they slept in their airy, lean-to tents by day and travelled only at night, navigating through the winding desert dunes by the warm glow of the moon while moving quiet as a mouse, a tense and stressful affair given how the Enemy might well have been hiding in any shadow or around every bend.

Thankfully, Lieutenant General Baatar had enlisted the aid of Gao Liang and his band of obviously Western soldiers to help guide the way, and everyone was happy to pretend the bronzed-skinned locals were actually Northern soldiers as they claimed to be. To avoid the blazing heat of the day, their army travelled by night in a long and loose formation to keep the overall sound levels low, so each retinue was assigned a group of Western scouts to keep them from getting separated. Rustram soon came to wholly rely on Ghishan and his band of grim and dour locals, not that he held their dark mood against them. Determined was the first word that came to mind when thinking of these Westerners, and Ghishan was no different, a dogged, middle-aged man with a low, raspy voice he used sparingly as if each word cost him dearly.

Which it turned out was actually the case. “Breathe through nose,” he’d told Rustram during their first night of travel. “Too much moisture lost, mouth-breathing.”

The Westerners had done well to adapt to life in the desert, and the depth and breadth of their knowledge astounded Rustram to no end. After their first full night of travel, he tried to gauge how far they’d come by taking in the lay of the land, but none of the landmarks he saw matched what the maps depicted. When he brought his concerns to Ghishan, the gruff Westerner shook his head and gestured at him to put the map away. “Maps be no good,” he said, gesturing at the dunes around them. “Wind blows and sand shifts. Peaks and valleys change with every storm, without care for lines or landmarks drawn on parchment.”

It turned out that the Westerners learned to find their way through the deserts by following the sun, the moon, the stars, and strange as it sounded, shadows and angles. The next evening, Rustram woke to find his tent facing a new sand dune instead of the flat expansive horizon he’d fallen asleep staring at only a few hours earlier, but Ghishan took the changes in stride. “Three sides be the quickest way across a square,” he uttered, an incomprehensible statement he couldn’t be bothered to explain as he stuck his staff in the sand and studied the shadows it cast in the light of the setting sun before setting out on an easterly heading when they should have been moving south instead. As there were no other retinues in sight, Rustram had no choice but to lead his Stormguard to follow, hoping that the Western scout hadn’t lost his nerve and abandoned the mission entirely. His fears were all for naught however, as Ghishan repeated his actions every quarter of an hour or so until they’d been marching for half the night, at which point he turned them south once more. Throughout it all, Rustram kept an eye on the new sand dune that appeared overnight, and after another hour of marching, he finally realized why Ghishan had led them around rather than over it. If they’d gone straight south from their campground, they would have trudged up to the peak of the dune only to find a steep drop awaiting them on the other side, leaving them no choice but to follow the winding peak path until they found a way back down again. Easy to get lost taking a meandering track like that, not to mention how their way forward could easily have been cut off by another steep drop at any given moment, forcing them to backtrack and find a new way forward again. Safer just to navigate around any potential pitfalls by taking a ninety degree departure from your intended path and track the distance travelled, because then you knew that two more ninety degree turns would eventually bring you back on the right course.

Water was also an ever-present concern, because even though the desert nights were comfortably chilly, the air was arid and dusty as ever, sapping away moisture even without the added exertion of keeping pace with their time and a half march while breathing through their nose. It wouldn’t be half as bad if they weren’t forced to avoid all common watering-holes in order to remain undetected, but they were, which meant they had to make the journey to Pan Si Xing without stopping to resupply. As such, when Lieutenant General Baatar said they would travel light, that was only in reference to their usual kit, for every soldier carried everything they would need to survive for the entire trip, including their full allotment of rations and water. A recipe for disaster with less disciplined soldiers, because for reasons beyond Rustram’s comprehension, drinking a full day’s worth of water in the morning would not keep a man from collapsing from dehydration by mid-afternoon. That same amount of water taken in small allotments over the course of the day would keep them going, but while it was more than enough to keep them mobile, those few sparing mouthfuls were never enough to wholly quench a man’s thirst.

Ideally, Rustram would have kept the water under strict guard and only supplied enough to each soldier for a half-day’s journey, just to ensure none was wasted, but the only vehicles coming along on this trip were the cattle-dawn chariots of the Legate’s retinue. This meant the Officers had to keep their soldiers to a strict drinking schedule and ensure everyone abided by it, a schedule Ghishan had the timing down pat for without the need for a pocket-watch. ‘Drink’ was the word he said the most often, delivered at precise intervals in a curt and almost contemptuous tone, as if disdainful of their inability to keep track by themselves. Without the Westerner around to keep time, Rustram could have easily blown through his first day’s worth of water within an hour, or worse, accidentally let too much time go by without a drink. The fatigue from going too long without water was not so easily fixed, for the debt accrued interest quickly as it took a toll on their bodies, meaning a dehydrated soldier needed even more water to get back to fighting strength.

Thankfully, Ghishan and his comrades knew all the tricks of the trade when it came to getting water in the desert. Any stones they came across in the early hours of the morning were promptly overturned, revealing a thin layer of dew clinging to its underside more often than not. Nocturnal birds were also tracked as they made their way quietly across the starlit sky, and their paths revealed no less than four sources of water that the Defiled had yet to come across. Only three contained potable water, with the last being too sandy and dirty to drink from, but the Westerners dipped their headscarves in the water and used it to cool themselves off. “Less sweat, less moisture lost,” Ghishan had said, in reply to Rustram’s unasked question, and while he couldn’t bring himself to do the same, many of his Stormguard were not above getting dirty if it meant keeping just that much cooler.

All in all, Rustram was pleased with how his Stormguard behaved out in the field, which had been something of a concern coming in. Lieutenant General Baatar had certainly cobbled together an elite force of veteran Warriors, and truth be told, Rustram felt mildly out of place with his retinue considering almost every last soldier under his command had been merely a commoner less than a full year ago. He might feel different if he were still in command of the Legate’s retinue, but these Stormguard were not only new to the Martial Path, they were also largely untested in the field. Sure, they all saw action in Castle JiangHu and the subsequent fighting retreat, but they’d been mere Irregulars at the time and therefore coddled like the commoners they’d been. They had wagons to carry them, flags directing them where to go, Bekhai archers guiding their shots and dedicated retinues safeguarding them from Defiled, but now they were Martial Warriors in truth, which was a whole different kettle of fish. They performed impeccably in drills and exercises, but Rustram was withholding full judgment of their abilities until after their first foray into true battle as Warriors of the Empire. To say that his expectations were high would be an understatement, but he would have much preferred to start the Stormguard out on something simpler than a near-suicidal mission to assassinate a traitorous Living Legend.

Despite all his concerns however, Rustram discovered his Stormguards were weathering the hazards of desert travel well enough. Better than most in fact, and while part of it was due to their harsh training and strict discipline, most of it was due to the fact that the Stormguards had all taken their first steps along the Martial Path rather late in life. There weren’t many fresh faces in his retinue, as even the youngest of the bunch were generally closer to thirty than twenty, while the average age of the Stormguard sat around thirty-five, give or take a year or two. Unlike most soldiers, who generally formed their Cores somewhere between ten and twenty, the Stormguard had experienced the vicissitudes of adult life as mere commoners, which made them... not exactly tougher as a whole, but better equipped to handle the harsh circumstances they now found themselves in. Having been drawn from the Legate’s Districts, most of the Stormguard were former farmers, hard-working, salt-of-the-earth peasants who were no strangers to going to bed hungry. Going thirsty for a few hours was not all that difficult after surviving for weeks in a state of near constant starvation, to the point where Rustram’s greatest concern wasn’t keeping his solders from drinking too much water, but rather ensuring they were drinking enough when they were supposed to instead of trying to save water and do without.

They were hardy soldiers, these Stormguards of the Legate, and Rustram was proud to serve alongside them. He only hoped enough of them would return alive to keep their enduring spirit alive...

The march across the Western deserts was one of the most harrowing journeys Rustram had ever experienced, which was saying something considering they saw neither hide nor hair of the Enemy until Pan Si Xing came into sight. The last stretch of the trip was actually the easiest part, for Ghishan led Rustram’s Stormguard down to a hidden tunnel entrance that opened up into a massive labyrinth of mining shafts that had long since fallen out of use. During the early years of the Defiled occupation, a rag-tag group of Imperial soldiers stumbled across these long forgotten tunnels and hid within them for months until hunger and dehydration forced them out. Eventually, that group found their way to Gao Liang and pledged themselves to his banner, but Ghishan was adamant that the tunnels had never been discovered. How he knew this became evident after a half day of travel as they spotted the bright glow of lantern light ahead, but rather than go on alert, Ghishan broke away from the ranks to run headlong into the light.

Just as Rustram was about to give the order to kill the man for betraying them, the dour scout stopped short to embrace a hooded figure that had all but melted into the stone walls. Turning back with the most unexpected grin, Ghishan waved at him to come closer and said, “This be my wife, Aliyah, oasis of my heart. Wife, this be Major Rustram, great hero of the North and trusted subordinate of the Legate.”

Covered from head to toe in ragged, filthy wrappings, there wasn’t much to see of Aliyah besides her sunken, goose-egg eyes, which went wide when her husband mentioned the Legate. Pressing her hands together in prayer, she bowed her head in reverence as if Rustram were the Legate himself. “Praise be to the Legate,” she whispered, and Ghishan, stony, dour, irascible Ghishan, echoed the sentiment with similar moon-eyed reverence. “May the Mother watch over him from above.”

Since he didn’t know how to respond, Rustram muttered a quick ‘Praise be’ before asking, “If you don’t mind me asking, you’ve been here since the start of the war?”

