“And if we leave Pan Si Xing without even trying to free the captured populace, we will have trampled over the hope that kept them alive for so long.” Standing tall, Rustram’s anger slipped out as he snarled, “Two years! Two years they’ve suffered under Defiled rule, two years they’ve endured. If they’re willing to fight, then the least we can do is give them a chance.”

“At what cost?” Gesturing at the map laid out across his table, Baatar posed the question without anger or frustration, and Rustram finally realized that the man’s reproach was directed towards himself. This was the Legate’s father, for Heaven’s sake, so of course he would want to do everything he could for the enslaved populace, but he saw no way forward. “We will need all of our forces if we are to succeed with our plan, and even then, our chances are not as favourable as I had hoped. The Lord of Martial Peace is no stranger to assassination attempts, for he was reviled long before he turned traitor to the Empire. Though there is no discernible threat to be found in Pan Si Xing, I expect he will make no move without an honour guard of Half-Demons escorting him about. From what little we have gleaned of the patrol routes thus far, there is no avoiding conflict once we are inside the city proper, meaning our window to take surprise action will be measured in minutes, if that. Any longer, and our foe will stand ready and waiting to meet us head on. Though I yearn to cross blades with the traitor in a fair match, I will only do so if left with no other choice, for I doubt Bai Qi’s underlings would be so kind as to honour our duel and stand idly by or allow me to walk away unhindered.”

Even in this hypothetical situation, there was no doubt in Baatar’s mind that he would emerge victorious in a duel against Bai Qi, and Rustram had to wonder if his confidence had substance, or if it was just the mindset of a Warrior without peer. Despite the long history of the Empire, Rustram could count the number of heroes who stood undefeated in their time on one hand, for there was only one. Aside from the first Emperor Himself, who united the warring states together under His banner to do battle against the Enemy, every other hero in history had known defeat at least once. What’s more, as formidable as Baatar might be, his foe had already proven his prowess in single combat, while the Bloody Fanged Wolf was still something of an unknown quality, so Rustram could hardly be blamed for harbouring some doubts. Still, even if Baatar failed to take Bai Qi’s head, the Lieutenant General already had plans in place to get his soldiers out as safely as possible given the circumstances. The broad strokes of the strategy had been laid out beforehand, but now that they were here and could see the lay of the land for themselves, they were ready to start hammering home the details before they were ready to begin.

With Baatar’s fierce combat prowess, Chen Hongji’s godly tactical acumen, and Situ Jia Yang’s... presence, then surely they stood a chance of success, right?

Baatar’s hands took Rustram firmly by the shoulders, which was both comforting and terrifying at the same time. “I say this now not as your commander, but as your Mentor’s husband, so listen well. You are a Warrior of great potential, a young Talent fast approaching the Peak and a General Officer in the making, or at least that is what my wife tells me.” Rustram blinked, because that didn’t sound like something Mentor would say at all, and Baatar chuckled to see him so bewildered. “My rose, she is many things, but prone to flattery, she is not. She believes ego is the reason so many young Warriors fail to live up to their potential, forgetting that she too once believed she could conquer the world with only her spear in hand. Regardless of our connections, know that I chose you to join me on this mission here not because you are my wife’s Disciple or my son’s close friend, or any other reason you might concoct. I chose you because you are a talented young Warrior and commander who I know and trust.”

Hearing the emphasis on that last word, Rustram’s eyes went wide with surprise. “I would never disobey orders,” he stuttered, panicking now that he knew Baatar was worried he would run off half-cocked in a futile bid to save the commoners rather than heed his orders. “I’m just... frustrated.”

“You misunderstand my meaning, boy.” Pulling Rustram aside to stand over the table, Baatar gestured at his map again. “I told you how I see things, the risks and stakes involved. If you see a different path forward, one in which we can save more lives, then I would welcome your suggestion, for I know it will be worth consideration.”

That wasn’t any less surprising, especially when Situ Jia Yang and Chen Hongji both nodded along. “I’ve seen your work on the sparring fields,” the latter said, and Rustram desperately wished he had somewhere to hide from all his shame. “You’ve done well with the Stormguard, as they have all the markings of an elite force in the making.”

“And your progress along the Martial Path hasn’t slowed even a bit,” Jia Yang added, though he seemed less than pleased at the prospect. “When did Domains become so commonplace? I can’t remember a time when there were so many young Talents so far along the Path.”

“War has a way of rousing sleeping tigers and hidden dragons alike,” Baatar declared, puffing up proudly as he pounded Rustram’s shoulder once again. “If you have any thoughts now, then share them with your Mentor’s husband. If not, then do as I tell you, and do not stray from the battleplan, for my wife will have my hide if I leave her prized pupil behind, to say nothing of the pain your absence will cause my son or your wife.”

Since he didn’t have a plan, Rustram excused himself and scurried away unsure if he should feel pride due to the compliments he’d been given or shame for his own incompetent actions. What was he thinking, openly arguing with his commander like that? If anyone had overheard them, he would have brought shame not only to Baatar, but to his Mentor and parents as well. The Legate and his family treated Rustram like one of their own, always inviting Sai Chou and himself over for dinner and all the big events, yet here he was acting like an ungrateful fool who lacked confidence in his commander.

And yet, he still wanted to do something for the people of Pan Si Xing, but he was just too powerless to help. Feeling lost and forlorn, Rustram wandered over to Jorani’s camp in search of solace and greeted all the familiar faces along the way, but try as he might, he couldn’t find his wife. After asking a few soldiers if they’d seen her, he was finally directed over to Jorani’s command table where he found Ulfsaar standing guard with Neera and a half dozen their largest and most intimidating comrades. “Sorry, Major Mister Rustram,” Ulfsaar rumbled, holding a hand out to stop him from coming any closer. “You here to see the hangman, or your missus?”

“My wife, if you please. No need to interrupt her if this is a strategy meeting. I can wait.” By now, Rustram had noticed something was up, because the members of Jorani’s strategy meeting were all looking at him strangely. What’s more, they were also sheltered behind a Sound Barrier, which was normal for Baatar who was a Peak Expert and Lieutenant General, but Jorani would’ve had to specifically ask someone to set it up, which seemed a bit overboard for discussing sentry shifts or camp layout or anything else he might have to cover just yet.

“The Hangman says you can come in.”

Stepping aside, Ulfsaar’s inviting smile was anything but, though Rustram knew the man well enough to know he was trying, so he patted Ulfsaar’s arm as he strode by and greeted his successor with a smile. Sai Chou was less than pleased to see him here, as she’d made it clear that in the field, she was a soldier first and his wife second, so she wouldn’t stand for any stupid heroics from a Major trying to impress his woman. That was the thanks he got for Developing his Domain and saving her life, a tongue-lashing for being an idiot, but he loved her all the more for it. “So,” he began, flashing her a brief smile before looking around at his former subordinates, “What scheme are you cooking up now? Should I be concerned?”

Deflating in that self-deprecating way that served him so well, Jorani grinned and rubbed his head. “Ah, I was right, wasn’t I? Sed he’d see right through us, I did, sharp as a spear this one.”

“And yet, not smart enough to remember he commands a different retinue now.” That was Sai Chou, who looked none too pleased, but Rustram could tell she was happy to see him again too.

Pretending to have not heard their marital squabbling, Jorani looked around in conspiratorial fashion and said, “Between you and me?” Waiting for Rustram to nod before he continued, Jorani moved aside to reveal an almost exact copy of Baatar’s map, one that detailed the buildings of Pan Si Xing right down to the last latrine. Siyar’s work most likely, since Jorani couldn’t draw to save his life. “See, I’ve been asking around, and it turns out there’s a good number of slaves workin’ down in the mines. Not the mines connected to these tunnels, as they ain’t got the right kind of walls, but these ones over here in the south-west. The Defiled got them quarrying away at the walls fer stone, which just goes to show how desperate they are fer materials, though one of the monks tells me that the stone ain’t no good fer buildin’.”

“Stop.” Meeting Jorani’s gaze in an effort to match Baatar’s energy, Rustram said, “If you’re thinking about doing something behind the Lieutenant General’s back, then don’t. Any information you have, you bring it to him, and he will do with it what he will.”

“But what if he - ”

“It doesn’t matter what he decides.” The statement came out more sharply than intended, and it was clear Jorani wasn’t expecting so much opposition, but even though Rustram knew his friend was just trying to do right by the people of the Empire, he wasn’t giving Baatar enough credit, the same way Rustram hadn’t. “Trust in the Lieutenant General. You think he’d leave those slaves to die if he has any other choice? Bring your information to him, and he will do what he can. Don’t plot and scheme to work against him, not here, and not now. If he can save them, he will. If he says he can’t, then that’s the Mother’s own truth.”

“Damn me.” Huffing a sigh and shaking his head, Jorani nodded in begrudging agreement. “Didn’t look at it like that, but when you right, you right.” Sheepishly gesturing at the map once more, he asked, “Hear me out beforehand? Ye know, so ye can tell me if I’m onto somethin’ or if I’m just full of shit?”

“If you think it’s worth acting on, then that’s all I need to know.” Grabbing Jorani’s shoulders the same way Baatar just grabbed his, Rustram paid the gesture forward and said, “You’re a good commander, Jorani. Have more confidence in yourself and you will be a great one.”

“...Thanks. That means a lot comin’ from you. Really do.”

Grinning like a fool, Jorani turned to gather up his map before heading off towards Baatar’s camp, leaving Rustram free to greet his lovely wife. Rolling her eyes, she presented her cheek for a kiss, which he gladly supplied, before shooing him off. “Off ye go now,” she said, leaning into her folksy accent that he loved so much. “Any fool can see yer burnin’ with curiosity. Ain’t a woman alive that can match that.”

Reassuring her of his endless love for her, Rustram followed after Jorani in hopes of seeing how it all played out. Though he himself had little to do with how the strategy would unfold, today was a grand learning experience for him. Rather than go straight to his commanding officer with complaints and demands, he should have been more like Jorani and gone looking for solutions, except he would never have dared to plot in secret like the half-rat just did. Then again, Jorani had two Divinities looking out for him, so he could afford to play things fast and loose, but who was Rustram to argue against that?

Even though they’d come to Pan Si Xing solely to kill Bai Qi, preferably with a bullet from afar, Rustram was sure that they would find a way to save the people as well, or at the very least, share in the burden of guilt. Such was life, trials and tribulations without end, but at least Rustram had met many good friends along the way.

Chapter Meme
