Ghishan nodded, and Rustram’s heart ached for the poor woman and her companions. Two years they’d hidden underground, spending their days in fear and terror. “We had food enough for the commoners to survive,” Ghishan replied, gazing at his wife so tenderly his love was clear to all. “And even if the Defiled were to find them, my Aliyah could easily have led the people deeper into the tunnels and back out of two dozen different entrances, so we soldiers struck out on our own to do battle against the Enemy. We didn’t dare return after we left, not in numbers at least, so when the Maj... When Gao Liang was forced to retreat North, I feared for my Aliyah and the others, but the Legate, he sent people to deliver food and water as soon as he heard of their plight.”

This was the first Rustram was hearing of it, and knowing the Legate, he probably delegated it to someone else to handle, a suspicion which was soon confirmed as Aliyah pressed her palms together again and uttered, “Praise be to Situ Rang Min, who delivered us from our darkness.” No doubt using the same smuggler routes he’d supposedly shut down, though Rustram was of the opinion that Rang Min only knew those routes because he’d played a part in establishing them in the first place. Nothing short of a decree from the Mother on high would convince Rustram otherwise, because there was no way an operation as massive as the one Rang Min took down could have ever gotten by without his notice. Even Rustram’s father knew how to get in contact with the major smugglers of Shen Huo, and he was as straight-laced a merchant as could be, so how could the former Patriarch of the Situ Clan not be aware of a smuggling ring working out of the Society Headquarters?

This time, Rustram didn’t bother echoing Aliyah’s little prayer, though it went a long way to explaining why Rang Min was even here. During the officer’s meeting, Lieutenant General Baatar claimed that every Warrior present was worthy of trust, but more than one head had turned to glance at Rang Min. Hopefully, the former Patriarch had gotten over his enmity with the Bekhai, or at the very least, was willing to put aside his grudges to deal with the Enemy first, but truth be told, Rustram and many others weren’t all that convinced. It was too late to complain now however, this deep in Enemy territory, so Rustram swallowed his trepidation and followed Aliyah and Ghishan into the cavern which these Westerners had called home for so long.

It was... bleak, to say the least, and it made Rustram more than a little uncomfortable to see so many hopeful gazes turned his way, especially from faces so gaunt and worn as these. There were hundreds of survivors gathered within these tunnels, and they’d all seen better days, each one a bundle of rags and bones that seemed ready to collapse in a stiff breeze. In fact, Rustram almost ordered his Stormguard to share their rations, but then Aliyah brought him to a tunnel entrance where eight spindly figures stood guard with spears and staves they could barely lift. The weapons of dead Martial Warriors it would seem, no longer Spiritual in nature, but still sturdy enough to break bones at the very least. “Here be the storeroom, Honoured Major,” she said, sounding stronger than her fragile frame would lead him to believe. “Food, blankets, and medicine, everything the Legate has delivered us lies within.”

Lifting his torch to see deeper into the tunnel, he saw bags and barrels full of rations and water among other things, enough to feed the survivors outside until they were bursting. “You didn’t eat any of the rations?” he asked, incredulous at their incredible strength of will, and beside her, Ghishan’s expression mirrored Rustram’s surprise.

Holding her head up high, Aliyah shook her head and said, “We took enough to stave off starvation, and a little more for the children, but better that this food be spent nourishing the Warriors of the Empire who come to deliver us from our captors. It will be a long and difficult fight, but know that the people of Pan Si Xing stand ready to fight alongside you.”

Oh, no...

Now this was awkward.

Meeting Ghishan’s eyes, Rustram pursed his lips and took the cowards way out as he left it to the scout to break the bad news to his wife. “They know we’re coming?”

Aliyah nodded like a chicken pecking grains, wholly ignorant of the danger her honesty landed her in, but Ghishan’s hand slowly landed on the hilt of his dagger, as the staff slung across his back would be too unwieldy in the tight tunnels. “We have always known that the Empire would not abandon us, and our faith has held strong these last two years.” So... known in a general sense of the word, rather than anything specific. That was a relief, because if the slaves knew an army had arrived in Pan Si Xing, then so too would the Enemy. “These tunnels lead straight into the heart of the city,” Aliyah continued, “So we keep watch for escapees and the hunters dispatched to find them. Those who manage to evade their captors were watched closely, and if they proved themselves able and trustworthy, we took them in. From them, we learned of news from afar as well what was happening inside the city itself. The Enemy, they quarry the mines for stone and soil to build their walls and defences, so the slaves are kept strong and able. Given the chance, the sons and daughters of the sands will rise up and slit the throats of our oppressors, if only to show the Heavens that the West still resists.”

There was more than a hint of madness in the woman’s eyes now, lovely as they might be, and Rustram tried his best not to sympathize, just in case. “Well, with luck, things won’t go that far. See to it that everyone is fed,” Rustram commanded, and it broke his heart to hear Aliyah raise her voice in protest before Ghishan tenderly gestured for her silence, because even starving as she was, she would rather continue to go without food to ensure the soldiers had strength to fight. Damn Rang Min for not making things clear and giving these people such poisonous false hope. They thought Rustram and the others were here to free the city, but in truth, their sights were not set so high. They were here for Bai Qi’s head and nothing else, but Rustram had been so focused on completing the mission that this was the first time he considered what would happen to the people left behind. Nothing good, he imagined, for the Defiled were not known for their restraint or forbearance and part of the plan was to make use of the chaos left in the wake of Bai Qi’s death to escape. Unlike with the Imperial Army, the chances of Bai Qi having a capable second or even a reliable chain of command was slim to none. Even though the disciplined Chosen might adhere to commands, the tribal Defiled venerated the strong and would not heed orders from a commander who had yet to prove themselves.

Hence Lieutenant General Akanai’s plan to target the Enemy leadership, a move that could slow or even cripple the Enemy’s ability to respond in the field. However, now that Rustram cared to consider the more immediate effects, he realized there was a good chance that Bai Qi’s death would cause the nearby Defiled Chieftains to slip their leashes, for which the poor people of Pan Si Xing would pay dearly.

Moving deeper into the tunnel to link up with the rest of the assault force, Rustram sought out the Lieutenant General and found him deep in discussion over a makeshift table with Situ Jia Yang and Chen Hongji at his sides. The soldiers had taken their lean-to tent poles and fashioned something of a command tent, albeit one lacking a roof and door, but it served its purpose well enough to provide the three commanders with a measure of privacy. Not that it was entirely needed given how they were sheltered behind a Sound Barrier as well, meaning Rustram had to request a meeting with the guards and wait for them to pass word inside. Taking this time to study his Mentor’s husband, Rustram still wasn’t entirely sure what to make of the Bloody Fanged Wolf. Neither short nor tall, broad nor slim, Baatar’s physique was about as middling as they came, and yet the way he held himself hinted at a vast reserve of power and violence contained within, exuding an intimidating aspect of menace with his every look and movement. It wasn’t that he appeared threatening or brooding like Ulfsaar on his best of days, nor did he have the wild look of a man steeped in violence to the core, like Wang Bao once blades were drawn, nor was it the same as the threat and danger effortlessly exuded by killers like Ravil or Siyar. No, Lieutenant General Baatar was far more intimidating than all four of the aforementioned men combined, but it was difficult to describe it with words alone.

The Lieutenant General was Righteous Violence personified, that was the best way to put it. The virtuous had nothing to fear from him, but the wicked quailed before his icy gaze, and upright as Rustram tried to live his life, no man was utterly without sin.

And so when the Lieutenant General gestured for him to enter, Rustram did so with trepidation despite having shared many a meal with the man and his family. Doing his best not to quail before his commanding officers, Rustram reported what Aliyah shared with him about the people of Pan Si Xing being ready to rise up. “She’s been down here for two years,” he concluded, wishing he’d thought to ask for more specifics rather than accept the word of a veritable shut in who might well have no idea of what the outside world was like anymore. “Yet there’s still fire in her yet. If the people of the West are like her and truly ready to boil over, then maybe we should add some fuel to the fire.”

“To what end?” Baatar asked, his eyes hard and cold as ever. “Encouraging the enslaved population to fight is akin to driving them onward into Defiled spears. The unfortunate survivors would then serve as a warning to the rest, a burden I will not have on my conscience. If the people of the West rise up and fight, then so be it, but I will not spur them on to certain death.”

Taking a deep breath, Rustram clasped his fist in a salute and bowed. Though his mind intended to accept the rebuke and drop the subject, his tongue had other ideas on how this would play out. “With all due respect, Lieutenant General, most will die regardless. The Defiled will not treat the people of Pan Si Xing kindly after the death of their Commander General, even if our means of ingress is never uncovered.”

That was the crux of the issue, for the Defiled would most certainly learn of the mine shafts leading into the city and scour them clean in the aftermath. A glaring flaw for a city’s defences, but Pan Si Xing wasn’t much of a city, not by Northern standards at least. It was more of a settlement that sprung up around the mining operations over time, with buildings sprawling out in all directions with little rhyme or reason. As such, there were no walls or towers to defend from, nor was there any strategic or commercial value to be had once the mines dried up. The city’s only saving graces were its central location and the sizable natural aquifer buried deep underground, which combined with the dearth of alternative water sources nearby, allowed the city to serve as a hub for travellers and caravans bound for more distant destinations. These same qualities made it an optimal command centre from which to coordinate the Enemy forces, not quite on the front lines like Shi Bei or Tang Zangli, yet not so far away as to be too far removed from the fighting.

Which was why Lieutenant General Baatar had gone to such great lengths to arrive here unseen, for a chance to take Bai Qi’s head while his guard was down. “Killing the traitor general will not end the war,” Baatar began, and Rustram wasn’t sure if he was imagining the hint of reproach in the man’s tone. “Even if we succeed on all fronts and kill Bai Qi, the Mataram Patriarch, and Mao Jianghong, there will still be others to take their places. This is merely the first move in a bitter war that I hope will last years, if not decades as we fight to reclaim the West. I hope for this because if this war were to end any sooner, I fear it will be for reasons we will be worse off for.” Which made sense. If the war ended early, it could only be for one of three reasons; Either the Legate’s forces had suffered a devastating defeat in the field, the Emperor Himself had issued a decree in contradiction to the Legate’s call to arms, or the Defiled decided they had enough of fighting and turned around to head home. Only two of those scenarios could realistically happen, and neither one would end well for the Legate, or the Empire really, so Rustram could only pray that the war would last a long time as well.

Then again, maybe Baatar was wrong and the Enemy would collapse into bitter infighting once Bai Qi, Mataram YuGan, and Mao Jianghong were all dead. Oh, and the famed Uniter as well, though the mastermind behind the Defiled invasion had yet to show his face, but that didn’t make him any less hated.

Rustram knew what Baatar was trying to say, but even though his head knew the man was right, his heart refused to let him sit idly by. “I know the path to victory will be long and arduous indeed,” he began, drawing on all his courage to look the Bloody Fanged Wolf in the eyes. That was a mistake, as the man had an intense, piercing gaze that made Rustram’s manhood want to shrivel up and waste away for fear of never being able to measure up, but he couldn’t back down now. “But I also know that now, more than anything, the West needs hope.”

“Where there is life, there is hope,” Baatar replied, but Rustram refused to back down, not even in the face of the Legate’s own words.

