“Oh,” Cora said, her expression dropping. “Well, you said you wanted a movement skill. It looks like the dungeon was listening.”

The archer looked shocked by Cora’s suggestion.

“Will it not work for you?” I asked, tilting my head.

I could easily imagine his leopard form teleporting around a battlefield, slicing necks like a phantom. He’d be a terrifying opponent.

“No. I mean, yes, it would work amazingly, but I can’t keep this. It’s too valuable.”

“Meh. Need before greed. If someone in the party needs and wants it, then that takes priority over selling it. We were just talking about how you needed a movement skill for combat. I don’t personally need it since I already have Teleport slotted.”

“I have Shadow Step, so slotting Teleport would be redundant, even if it is, arguably, a better skill since it isn’t limited to moving through shadows,” Cora said when I looked toward her.

“I guess I could technically use it, but I don’t need it. I’m also fairly certain I’ll get the ability to move through earth once my Earth Manipulation skill upgrades. It’s something I could do before, so… Yeah. It’s all yours, if you want it.”

“But it’s worth a lot of money, and I thought we agreed to sell any of the really valuable skillbooks we found.”

“Yeah, if nobody needed it,” I countered. “If you really don’t want it, we can sell it, no problem. If you’d rather have some other kind of movement skill, I’m sure you’ll be able to afford it if we sell this one.

“But I just imagined you in your leopard form, teleporting around and absolutely massacring your opponents. I cannot imagine a better movement skill for you, especially after you get the hang of it. I will say that using it will probably be harder to use than you expect at first.”

I could remember how disorienting teleportation was in the beginning. It took a while to get used to it.

Stephen looked longingly at the skillbook in his hand before shaking his head.

Before he could decline, Mike said, “It seems kind of obvious that the dungeon wants you to have that skillbook. You’re the one who found it, and it came from one of the mobs that you killed alone.”

“And that was immediately after you mentioned wanting a good movement skill,” Cora added. “Really, it’s fine. Take the skillbook.”

Looking absolutely flabbergasted, the shifter looked from the skillbook to each of our faces before finally giving in.

“Okay. Thank you. I’ll remember this,” he said before activating the book to slot the skill.

I noticed that neither of my permanent party members seemed particularly upset by the potential loss of funds. Instead, they seemed pleased by the entire exchange.

I was glad to see, once again, that my instincts regarding the pair were dead on.
