Erick was a bit surprised, but he also realized he shouldn’t have been.

[Incandescent] operated differently here, than when he cast it on the sands outside Spur. There was actual plant matter and moisture in the ground here, so that made sense. This was why it was imperative to test things! Erick hadn’t been thinking about this particular complication when he decided he needed to Aurify [Incandescent], but now he knew.

He turned off [Lodestar], and then he cast.

[Incandescent].

Aurify.

The world turned to flaming fire in every direction, melting the ground underneath into black glass and the air into a ripping tempest. And yet Erick was not harmed, for he was a being of light in the center of those flames. There were entirely too many flames, though. Barely a second had passed, and Erick was already setting fire to all of his surroundings. Even from ten meters away, under a bubble of [Prismatic Ward] that extended outside of all the rest, Erick’s fire was reaching the yurt and blackening the white wood, not to mention he had exploded the land for a good three meters in every direction and set fire out to fifteen meters away.

A blue box appeared, exactly as Erick expected it to.

Incandescent Aura, instant, close range, 1 mana per second + Variable

Heat your surroundings to brilliance. Effect can be modulated at will.

Erick pulled back the flames, controlling his aura into something smaller; lesser. A [Cleanse] erased the damage around him, turning burned brown grounds into thick air, leaving behind a suspiciously clean spot in the prairie. He would leave that damage for now, for he doubted that he was done doing damage to his surroundings for the day. Stepping upon the light, Erick moved away from the divot in the ground, controlling his new aura to the palm of his outstretched hand, forming the spell into a small, yet brilliant plume of white fire. As he moved back to the steel ingot area, he played with his new spell, flickering the flames higher, then smaller, then denser, then into stars, then a square, then a series of triangles, and finally, a collection of spheres.

With a grab of light, Erick picked up an iron ingot and began applying his new aura to the metal, while simultaneously protecting the rest of the area from the rush of heat with a dense application of hard light. Soon, the metal was cherry red, but it wasn’t getting much hotter than that.

So Erick funneled more mana into his new aura, strengthening the spell, rapidly turning red hot steel into white hot metal, then into a sudden liquid state. The liquid almost exploded from the rapid temperature change, but he felt this much through his light, and he kept the metal together. The metal relaxed into a bowl of light. With this much contact against his lightform, Erick had to shove more mana into [Greater Lightwalk], too, to keep himself together. He could partially feel the heat, himself. It was not a great sensation, but it was manageable. Erick retracted his heat aura, and soon, the metal calmed down, solidifying once again—

His thoughts about the particle makeup of transistors shook loose thoughts regarding the particle makeup of this steel. Was it steel? Or was it iron? What sort of carbon content was necessary to make iron into steel? A lot of carbon? Or very little?

Were these ‘steel ingots’ actually cast iron?

Erick smiled wide. He could actually find out the exact components of this steel. He had all the necessary spells to do so, from [Condense Carbon], to [Condense Iron], along with all the other various spells to see what sort of trace elements they threw into their metal.

So Erick did just that—

Ah. Wait. He needed a vacuum spell, didn’t he? Something that could create a space that allowed for no other particles to enter… Or perhaps he could just harden his light and expand it outward, manually creating a vacuum?

Erick tried for the easiest solution, first. He took his light and made a bubble in front of him. The bubble was only a handspan across, and that was more than enough. With a pulse of intent, he made the light solid, to push out all the air in the space.

He barely got a single inch of vacuum space in the center of the light bulge before his lightform collapsed back down. Hmm. Not too easy, making a vacuum! He tried again. Erick flexed his light outward, pushing against everything, stretching his lightform into a bubble of pure vacuum— The edge cracked and wind whistled into the interior of his light.

So that was a failure.

He set down the still-orange block of steel and tried a few more times to make a vacuum, stressing his lightform —without [Lodestar]— into producing a void, but he knew that he wasn’t going to get anywhere with this level of magic, alone. So he turned off his heat aura, and turned on his [Lodestar]. This time, Erick easily kept his sunform together, creating a vacuum a meter across without any trouble at all. Keeping it together required focus, but this much focus was easy enough to achieve. But he couldn’t directly work [Incandescent Aura], [Greater Lightwalk], and [Lodestar], all at the same time, by himself. Aurify only allowed him to have two auras active at any one time; not three.

There were many solutions here. He could split his focus through multiple Ophiel and do everything he wanted to do at the same time. He could just plain ignore fidelity in his material sciences; who cared about metal contents! Leave that up to the people who came next. But…

Erick could make a new magic to solve this problem.

Erick chose to make some new magic.

He expanded his mana sense into the recent past, as he sent off a hundred mana and a question into the manasphere.

Divine fire flickered through the sun-bright air, like golden flames barely visible in the light. Erick’s own voice came back to him, saying, ‘Go for it.’

Erick smiled and returned to himself. He stared out into the sky, then he focused on the world directly in front of him. This would be a small spell; something for precision work. Something that would allow the [Condense] line of Particle Spells to work well within its confines.

A limerick would do.

“I heard once tell of a room,

“That was, in effect, a tomb

“For all particles were cowed

“Though some were allowed

“But for most, it was perfect [Vacuum].”

The manasphere flexed.

A spell popped into existence; a simple, three meter wide sphere with a faint white sheen to the surface. The interior was empty, but the sphere soon began to fill with white glows, like fog appearing in the morning. Whatever was happening in the interior began to spread to the exterior, the fog churning like whirlpools. Suddenly, that fog swirled out of the edge of the space, shooting out of a dozen pores in the surface of the spell, looking and sounding like high pressure water from a hose. The spell whined, with a low whistle, like a teapot revving up with steam.

That sound soon lessened, as most of the interior of the spell was forcibly moved to the exterior.

Erick watched as the enchanted space emptied itself of air, the white fog inside thinning with each passing second. Eventually, there was the barest amount of white fog left inside the space. The magic’s edge remained thin, as if only to warn onlookers that something was there, but as those final dregs of white gasses left the spell, the entire sphere cleared to a simple ring of white.

It was still very much a sphere, but the only part of the spell that Erick could actually see was that thicker edge that seemed to form a ring in the direction he looked from.

A few blue boxes appeared. There were the normal ones that congratulated him for adding magic to the Script, and then there was the actual spell description. Erick cast a [Greater Treat Wounds] on himself while he read, though he didn’t actually feel that had damaged himself— Ah. No. There’s the nosebleed. And now it’s gone.

Particle Vacuum 1, instant, medium range, 100 mana

Create a medium area that strips out extraneous particles from its interior, and which continues to remove extraneous particles for the duration of the spell. Will not remove particles that are purposefully placed into the space, by you, or any other. Vacuums can cause physical damage. Lasts 1 minute.

Erick smiled. [Particle Vacuum] was just about perfect!

Perhaps he could add a [Cleanse] effect to this spell, to clear out the last bits of contaminants, to make a truly [Perfect Vacuum]... But that would be playing around with the actual functionality of [Cleanse], and there was no need to be that dangerous in this experiment. Whatever fidelity of vacuum was provided by [Particle Vacuum] was probably good enough for Erick, for now.

But that was probably all of the metallurgy that Erick was going to get done, today.

People had been showing up at the edge of Erick’s protected property for the last hour. As it was nearly noon, it was almost time to start talking to all of them, even though most of them looked perfectly happy to watch his experiments of metals and fire and to witness the creation of new magic.

Erick grabbed some chairs from the yurt, floating them behind him as he walked toward the edge of his temporary property. His destination was a stone platform beyond the edge of his [Undertow Star] and his [Prismatic Ward], where he had planted his mailbox. An Ophiel perched above that mailbox, ensuring that people could grab applications if they wanted, but otherwise he chased them off of the area. The archmage was not ‘in’, yet.

But now, as Erick moved toward that area —and Poi rushed out of the yurt to follow Erick to the worksite— only about a third of the petitioners quickly lined up; those people were used to the bureaucracy of the Highlands, for sure. It showed in their well made robes and polite demeanor. The other two thirds formed loose groups here and there, and some of them were obviously from the Highlands, too, but they did not feel like falling into line. From what Erick was seeing, only two people of the gathered 47 had come on their own, without a group.

About half of the people out there were human, incani, or demi. The rest were an eclectic mix of the various races of Veird. There was a duo of snake shifters, with scaled masks and the smallest, faintest scales upon their bodies; only the most blind of people would mistake them for dragonkin. There was even a trio of harpies with bright red feathers, and very little in the way of clothes; they stood together, off to the side.

Five goblins had come together, and those tiny green people stayed well away from absolutely everyone. Their eyes studied every possible threat around them while they kept their hands on their sheathed swords, though calling those tiny daggers ‘swords’ was only true because of the height of the wielders. Apart from their rather unique stature, their other most notable features were that they were all dressed in black iron breastplates, with two of them wearing fullplate made of the same black iron. And it was iron, too; it was not conjured Force. Kinda unique to see that much metal on display.

There were even some pixies. Those decimeter tall people were a bit of a surprise. Messalina, the Life Binder, had created that race a few hundred years ago. Were these people an envoy from the Headmaster’s old flame, who was now his enemy? Or were they independent? From what Erick had heard, most of the pixies were independent, but rumors said that if you needed the Life Binder’s services, all you had to do was ask enough pixies, and you would eventually find the Life Binder. Wonder what they wanted?

People watched as Erick stepped onto his stone platform. It was only five meters square, but it was more than large enough for small meetings, especially since he wasn’t going to meet with whole groups, if he could help it.

Erick set down his chairs and turned to his petitioners. He projected his voice, “Many of you were here yesterday, though some of you are new to me. I will attempt to get through those who were here first, yesterday, and then the rest of you afterward. But before that happens, I am going to attempt to decrease my workload. To that end, if you have a quick question, or if you want something you don’t mind other people seeing, please hold up your paperwork now, toward me. I will read them all quickly, and then solve whatever problems I choose to solve, or I will send you on your way. Monster kill requests fall under this category, unless they’re deep in the Underworld or exceedingly far away. And by ‘far away’, I mean ‘outside of Nelboor’s surface’.”

A few people rapidly held up their paperwork, while a few others spoke quietly amongst themselves. Eventually, half of the petitioners raised their paperwork, while the others kept theirs hidden. Their requests either did not fall under the constraints Erick had put out there, which meant their kill requests were for monsters outside of Nelboor, or else what they wanted was more complicated than ‘kill this monster’.

Ophiels flitted through the air, around the scattered groups.

Erick started reading.

Almost everyone who raised their paperwork needed a monster killed. Erick decided that he needed to add another few boxes to his application; primarily a check box for ‘Monster: Y / N’ and then a space for an approximate location and description of the monster. A few had included proper directions and descriptions, though, which was nice to see.

The goblins started yelling at each other. A fight rapidly ended before it could begin when a female goblin hit the lead male goblin on the head, grabbed the application out of his hands, and held it upward. The bonked goblin held his bumped head and frowned over his wounded pride. One of the armored goblins put a comforting hand on the lead male goblin’s shoulder, which seemed to soothe the guy’s pride.

Erick mostly ignored the commotion, and called out, “Okay. Looks like almost all of you have monster kill requests. Except for you three.” His Ophiel indicated the three groups. “I will answer your questions first: All are ‘no’.” The three groups frowned, but accepted their answers. Erick spoke to the rest of the people, “All of the rest of your requests look doable except for the variant toxic hydras in Nergal. That might be a bit too far to complete this very moment. You’ll have to wait around until I’m done with everyone else.” He asked the pixies, “Is your homeland in danger right this second?”

