As all eyes turned toward the pixies the central pixie floated forward, his dragonfly wings barely beating. In a voice that sounded like it came from a very large man, the pixie succinctly explained, “The Decay pools caused by the toxic hydras threaten a major population center. For the last week, we have sent out representatives to every archmage and power that we know of in an attempt to kill the beasts, and yet all those who have tried, have failed. We have three days to kill the beasts before the protective measures we have been able to take will be overwhelmed. At that point, we will need to evacuate thousands and thousands of people, and we already have no other easy place to go.”

Erick said, “Okay. Thank you for that quick explanation. I will deal with that later today since your problem might be the furthest one of all the rest. You may come back when I am finished with everyone else, or you may wait around.”

“We will make ourselves unobtrusive and return at the end of the day.”

The pixie and his two people dipped in the air. And then they vanished from sight, and most senses. They couldn’t fool Erick’s [True Sight] and his mana sense, though. While a few people stared at the space where the pixies vanished, or rapidly looked around, trying to see where they had gone, Erick ignored the pixies as they flitted off toward Ooloraptoor.

Erick said to the goblins, “Your request is a strange one, but I can do it. The only problem is that you’re in the near Underworld. How deep, and where, exactly?”

As some of the goblins yelped with joy, the female goblin squeaked out, “Homeland be a great big hole just north of the South Western Tribulation Split! It may be Underworld, but it’s exposed to the sky, it is!”

The leader goblin spoke up, “Almost directly southwest, 13 [Teleport]s.” He glared at the woman briefly before he snatched the paperwork out of her waving hand. He set the paperwork backwards, onto a conjured bit of [Force Platform], and began writing as he said, “We can add a map.”

A map was a good idea, and Erick vowed to add that to the next generation of his applications, too, but the few directions the goblins had given had been enough. Erick found their ‘Homeland.’

Ophiels stretched their connections from the grasslands, to the South Central Tribulations, across a bit of ocean, and then to another landmass further beyond. Beyond even more rolling hills and forests and expansive land, the western branch of the Tribulations rose into the sky, looking much like all the rest of the Tribulations; mountains much bigger than any natural process could have ever created.

A bit of rapid searching beyond that had brought Erick’s sight to a giant wound in the world that went three times as deep as the mountains were tall. This place was the Near Underworld, and this particular rent in the world was filled with towers and buildings and walls and farms and lots, and lots, of goblins.

Erick said, “A map is good. In fact: everyone with a monster kill request, please add a general map and a description or lightsculpture of the monster you wish eliminated. As for you five, I will have to talk to you directly, and that will come after the other monster kill requests. Please make yourself comfortable, or come back later.”

The five goblins each heard and understood Erick’s words in their own ways. They kept their eyes out on everyone else nearby, but they backed down from high alert. Erick got the distinct impression that they were a persecuted people, and that his words had put them at ease. The girl goblin nodded rapidly, then began creating a wardlight sculpture of the monster they wanted moved; not killed. Their request was an odd request, for sure. Erick almost dismissed it out of hand, but he would at least hear them out.

With that settled, Erick began organizing the rest of the people according to what they had written on their paperwork.

Three groups wanted tangled hydras killed before those monsters threatened their coastal cities, while the rest of the kill requests were similarly dangerous monsters which most people couldn’t handle on their own. There was even one instance of ‘mystery monsters’ that had been disappearing people out of the middle of a city, located on the other side of the South Central Tribulations, in a land far north of where Terror Peaks had been. Those mystery monsters turned out to be a small group of moon reachers that had made their home in the nearby forest. When those petitioners heard mention of ‘moon reachers’, they freaked, but Erick had already killed all of the moon reachers in a thousand kilometers, according to his [Cascade Imaging]. He had actually managed to kill more groups of moon reachers than the few who had preyed upon that clan, too; about 120 in total.

Those kill requests didn’t take much time at all. In a little over 45 minutes, Erick had ended existential threats to thousands and thousands of people, or enabled refugee populations to return to their homes. It didn’t even take a full hour!

Erick felt a wave of disgust for all monsters, and also that most people would never be able to fight against many of the ones he so easily dispatched. A few of the monsters, though, like the moon reachers, should have been killable by the defenses of an average town. Erick expected that those people had something wrong with them, though; some reason to bring this problem to him. Like, sure, he had killed hundreds of thousands of moon reachers, but those people didn’t even know that they had a moon reacher problem, and that was a bigger problem than the moon reachers themselves.

Most of the petitioners didn’t pick up on his disgust, though.

Those with solved problems moved on, cutting through 29 of the original 47 people who had been there when Erick started doing this. But even though Erick had gotten through half of the crowd, the actual number of petitioners had not decreased, at all. Now there were 75 people waiting for him, though as for the number of groups, there were only 31.

He elected to speak to the goblins, now.
