A differential was what they called the collection of gears that was located, usually, in the rear axle of a car. This 6 part gear system, allowed the turning force of an engine to then turn a large gear that connected to two smaller gears, that were then connected to the left and right halves of the axle. This complicated structure allowed the engine to supply power to the wheels, while it also allowed those wheels to turn at different speeds, to allow a car to take corners without skidding.

Making the frame was easy enough, since precision wasn’t needed for that, for now. All he did was stretch metal out into a dune buggy-like configuration, leaving all of the innards fully exposed. Two latticework chairs went into the two available spaces for seating, which was located directly above the central axle. Erick created basic metal wheels out of spun steel, and then he attached them to a split rear axle. Those two rear axles then went into the differential, which was then connected to the central drive shaft.

And that was it! There were about a hundred other parts to make and shove together and experiment upon, but this was the basic differential setup that Elder Uriol was so fascinated with. It allowed wheels to take corners, without one wheel digging into the dirt, or lifting out of the dirt, like with what happened on solid axle setups.

Now… if it worked, Erick would be truly surprised.

Erick took his seat, and looked down, and back. Everything was exposed. The parts were not in oil, and they should be. Erick frowned. From this perspective, the gears looked a lot more wonky than they should…

Still! He tested it.

He held his breath, and manually turned the central drive shaft with his light. This, in turn… broke the gears of the differential. Ping! Snap! Crunch!

Crunch was never a good sound to hear when starting a car.

“Ah. Well then.” Erick realized something important. He mumbled to himself, “Because I made the gear teeth like normal gear teeth. They need to be beveled gears. Ah. And those ones need to be helical. Right…”

The second generation differential worked better than the first, but odd stresses broke the gears in different places, this time.

Erick went back to the drawing board.

[Metalshape] was the problem, here. It was a well known problem, actually. Shaping metals worked fine for enchanting, or for other low-stress needs, but when the metal was to be stressed, either in weapons or in armor, then you needed to know how to make metal both hard and tough, and that’s what Smiths did. This ‘Problem of [Metalshape]’ was what gave rise to the Class of Smiths, of all types. A Smith usually achieved their mastery of metal through secret formulas of metallurgy, and temperature control, and legacies passed down from master to apprentice, but Erick had none of that. All he had were youtube videos that he barely watched, years ago, and wikipedia pages that he skimmed only out of a bare interest in the subject.

But hey!

All of that free knowledge had helped him out lots, before! And it would help him out here, too.

Erick recognized that he’d need to do a lot of experimenting on his own, though. A lot of tempering, and diagram building, and metal smashing tests— Oh! And hardening, too. Tempering and hardening were different.

Tempering was the addition of heat and cooling to a metal in order to remove hardness and add toughness. Hardening was the exact opposite, where you used heat and then cooling in order to… create hardness, and remove toughness.

Okay. So. Erick realized that his knowledge was lacking, and probably mixed up, somehow. This might be more difficult than he thought it would be.

Erick sat back down in his captain’s chair and had a think. When he came out of that think, he knew one thing: He would need to experiment. For normal steel production, Erick expected he needed to heat his gears until they were cherry red, and then he needed to cool them in oil, or something. That was his starting point.

It was probably wrong! But everyone started somewhere.

Oh. He had a half-remembered thought about only heating the teeth of the gears? To create toughness? While leaving the center not-that-heated, in order to create hardness? Eh! Sure! Maybe?

Okay!

Erick had never done this before. And yet! He smiled. This might be fun. There was one more question, though: How to get the requisite heat in order to get metal up to temperature? [Heat Ward] wouldn’t cut it, for that was only useful for cooking, and Fire Magic actually burned metals, so you couldn’t just use [Fire Beam], or something, to make metals hotter. Erick knew that much about smithing on Veird, but not much more than that.

Oh! Induction heating! Would that work?

… How did that work?

… Induction heating worked by, for example, having a metal wire wrap around an empty space, and then an alternating electrical current was run through that wire, creating a powerful magnetic field inside the wrapped space. When a resistive metal is placed inside that wrapped space, the resistivity of that metal butted up against the electric field, and the friction of the electrons in that resistive metal caused the metal to heat to truly high degrees, depending on the strength of the electrical field and the resistivity of the metal.

… That seemed correct.

Erick already had an electricity spell, too.

Battery X, instant, medium range, 500 mana

Electricity flows. Lasts for 1 minute per spell level.

But [Battery X] was a direct current spell.

… He could invent power inverters? But if he invented power inverters, he would probably need to invent transformers, too, to decrease the power of [Battery X] to something smaller, and more manageable. [Battery X] was a darn powerful spell, after all. So how did a transformer work?

Well, those worked by having two wires coiling around two sides of a circle of electrically motive metal. Depending on the number of coils on the input versus the output, you could increase or decrease the voltage of the output. All three electrical systems needed to be insulated from each other—

So he’d need to invent electrical insulation, too?

But plastic needed oils, and there wasn’t a lot of that on Veird; not like there was on Earth.

Could he create oil from thin air, using Particle Magic?

Heh. Such a spell would be world changing back on Earth. Ya know. If the oil companies didn’t kill or bury whoever made such a magic. Honestly, Erick expected more of that sort of situation to happen to him, here on Veird— Meh. No more of that sort of thinking.

How to make plastic from air?

Hmmm…

Probably not going to do that.

At least he already had magnets sorted! He already knew [Magnetize]; Archmage Ryul, the Force Mage harpy Erick had met at Oceanside, had invented that spell.

Ryul lived in Nelboor, right? Why hadn’t Erick met him, yet? Where did he live?

Eh! Too much going on right now to worry about that. If he showed, he showed, and that he hadn’t already, likely meant he wouldn’t at all. To be fair, though, Erick hadn’t sought out the guy, either.

Anyway!

Magnets! And Electricity! And metal!

Erick felt torn in several directions at once.

He went where his mood took him.

- - - -

Jane woke up an hour before noon.

When she stepped outside, she paused, and tried to understand exactly what she was looking at. She got most of it easily enough. Her father had created multiple stone platforms all around the yurt, and atop some of those platforms, he had recreated bits of Earth in the form of car parts. Gears. Axles. Frames and wheels. But then she looked to the left, the rest of the platforms. One of them, which was truly puzzling, contained stone containers— Oh. Crucibles. Have to be. Except... They were not normal crucibles. Instead of air and fire spells and pushing fire, metal rods coiled around the crucibles, and all of the crucibles were broken. Some of them had melted into slag. So… Failures? All failures, then.

Her father was on yet another platform, further to the left, working at a stone table, upon a bunch of small metal bits. She walked over to him, and looked over what he was making. She didn’t understand any of it.

“Hey, Jane” Erick fiddled with some small wires while asking, “What do you remember about transistors and other fast-switching electrical currents? AC power?”

“Absolutely nothing at all.”

“Ah.” Erick’s Shaping spells went still. He took one long look at what he was working on, and said, “Well. Then…” He put down his bits of metal. “This was going too far, I think. I think I need to do something else.”

Jane only had the barest idea of what her father was doing. “Good luck, dad. I’m gonna go see what’s happening at the cheese yurt and bring back lunch. You need anything?”

“Nope; I’m good. Nirzir and Teressa brought back sandwiches earlier.” Erick waved her off, saying, “I think Nirzir is at the cooking yurt.”

Jane nodded, then walked off, passing layers of [Prismatic Ward] and then walking under an [Undertow Star]. The [Undertow Star] was new since she went to sleep. Had something happened? Or was her father just being more defensive?

Whatever her father was working on, he was at least doing it on high alert, and that made Jane kinda happy. She had wanted him to put a Star into the sky last night, but she feared asking him to do that would set off his paranoia.

Granted, he had reason to be paranoid.

Jane kinda missed when he was just her laid back father, though.

… Ha!

She almost laughed at herself. What an odd thing to want! Her father, back to being a laid-back pacifist? No way! Jane was glad for the changes she was seeing.

Well… Most of them.

Some of them.

This life certainly wasn’t great for her father. He wasn’t cut out for the blood and the killing. He was getting there, for sure, but… He was changing, too, and it was anyone’s guess what Erick would look like once the changes reached equilibrium.

- - - -

Erick stared at his failed transistors. The bits of metal and stone were little more than imitations of the real thing; There was absolutely no way that Erick was ever going to recreate this major, tiny bit of technology out here, in the middle of cow land—

Oh. Transistors were made out of silicon semi-conductors, with two types of silicon, either doped with phosphorus, to give one side extra electrons, to make them naturally negatively charged, or boron, which had a valence shell holes in its makeup, which made them naturally positively charged. These materials, when sandwiched in NPN and PNP type transistors, created electrically stable open circuits, until an electrical force was applied to the central area. When electrical force was applied to the central part of the transistor, the depletion layers vanished, and the circuit closed.

It was because of this physical arrangement of physical forces, that transistors could open or close their circuits very, very fast. Billions of times a second, even!

This was how computers worked!

Ah.

But.

Hmm.

Transistors were used for a variety of things, but for Erick’s purpose, he needed them in order to make his direct current [Battery] work as alternating current, so that he could use induction heating to precisely melt metals to make gears not break… under… loads.

Erick realized that he was trying to recreate way too many technologies, too fast. He didn’t actually need to do any of this, either. But...

There was a future problem that Erick was trying to solve, that wasn’t apparent when he first spoke of cars to the Elders of Ooloraptoor, and that problem was a future energy crisis. Yes; he realized this was thinking too far ahead, and there were so many problems right now that he was effectively just making more work for himself.

But.

When [Gate]s to other worlds opened up, there wouldn’t be any resources at all in those new places. There might not be any Script-assist, either, if Melemizargo got his way, and Erick expected the Dark God would get his way at least a little bit. Therefore, electricity, which could be stored and recharged through a simple application of [Battery X] (or more realistically, some other mechanical force), would be necessary in lands where magic might be different. Therefore, solving an electricity crisis before it became a crisis, and before market forces and other powerhouses got their hold on this technology, would be a good thing.

Of course, this was also not Erick’s problem to solve. But, if he could solve this problem before it became a problem, then wouldn’t that be nice? Or, phrasing it another way: Wouldn’t it be nice to not create a future problem for himself, or anyone else, by skipping the oil and burnable-fuel industrial revolution? Just go straight to electricity!

… This was obviously too much of a problem to solve here, in these grasslands, surrounded by cows and mobile houses and with none of the materials that he needed to have, in order to actually create any of these technologies. All he had was iron. He didn’t even know how to get silicon. But even trying to solve the transistor was trying to run a marathon while in a full body cast.

Eh! Whatever! It was still nice to know the distance to the new goalpost.

But anyway!

Back to metallurgy:

Erick already had the spell necessary to help him heat up metals, and it wasn’t an Elemental Fire spell, so it should work fine in this application. It was a spell that Maia of the mage trio had created and which Erick had gained through witnessing her magic.

Incandescent X, instant, medium range, 25 MP

Heat a small area to brilliance, dealing physical damage per second. Effect stacks. Lasts 10 minutes.

In exchange for that spell, Erick had created one for Maia.

Shimmer X, instant, long range, 250 MP

Tiny specks of incandescent heat fill a large space, dealing physical damage and possibly igniting flammable objects to deal even more physical damage. Lasts 10 minutes.

The smaller spell would fill out a meter-wide space with heat energy, rapidly turning stone to magma and passively setting fire to the surroundings. The larger spell did the same thing across an area the size of a house. Erick would not be using [Shimmer] to harden and temper steel, though. [Incandescent] would work just fine, once Erick made it into an aura.

Erick stepped away from his workbench, then walked over to stand atop the bare, grassy ground. With a flicker of intent, he exploded a meter-wide section of plains into burning debris. Hot dirt fell down in a five meter radius, with some of the more distant burned dirt landing much further than that, while a small cloud of black smoke rose into the air. What was left of the targeted area became a dip of melted and melting ground that sent even more black smoke into the air. Soon, the smoke vanished, as all burnable materials were consumed by the spell.

