Erick woke up as the sun crested the horizon and began to shine through the windows of the yurt; solid beams of pale yellow light crossed over his bed, filling the room with warm glows. He gave a great big yawn, and then he got up. Jane and Poi were awake, but at Erick’s appearance, those two went to their own beds, and Erick got to making some coffee.

The hot brew woke him up all the way.

For a while, he just sat on the front porch, sipping his drink, watching the sun rise. A few clouds hung high in the sky. It might rain in the afternoon, but for now, the air was clear, crisp, and a little bit cold. It was good.

To the further north lay the designated areas of other clans. Clan Pale Cow was to the west. Mostly, Erick’s little slice of the world was empty, for a good hundred meters in every direction... Except for about thirty meters to the east, where three groups of people had managed to spend the full night under the stars, waiting for Erick to wake so that they could talk to him. Now that Erick was awake, a few people from those groups met Erick’s eyes from across the way, and they started talking to each other about how ‘the archmage was up’ and ‘now we can talk to him’. Of course, layers of [Prismatic Ward] separated them from Erick’s space, but they pressed forward anyway, to stand right on the other side of the dense air.

They were quite insistent, weren’t they? He had told them that he’d see them in the afternoon and Erick did not feel bad about this; he had already snooped on their applications. They were well within his mana sense, after all.

The first group wanted some [Exalted Rain] on their magical crops, hoping that Erick’s breakthrough in rain magic would allow them a similar breakthrough in raising ‘spiritual herbs’. They were not going to get their wish. If they truly needed [Exalted Rain] for their crops, they could contact the Church of Atunir. Erick had given the Goddess of Field and Fertility that magic months ago. Maybe they had tried, and failed to get a priestess of Atunir to work for them? Whatever the case, Erick wasn’t going to work for them, either.

The second group wanted to interview Erick for a book. That was way too much of a hassle. Not happening.

The third group needed Erick to kill some mist stone gluttons in a mine to the far west of Eralis. Their application promised Erick 25% of the profits of the mine for the next month. Wow! A whole 25%! Such generosity! Erick almost wanted to slap the petitioners. He was not going to waste his time to solve these people’s monetary problems, and for 25%? It was an insult, is what it was.

Erick sighed, swirling the steam from his cup of coffee.

And then he spoke through the light to the three groups, giving them each an individual reason why he was not going to help them. The farmers walked away, dejected, but they understood and accepted Erick’s reason for denial.

The biographers gave perfect bows and accepted Erick’s words of denial with perfect politeness, but they wanted to leave their card, anyway. Erick refused to take the card. This was accepted, as well, though with less perfect manners.

The trio of miners, two men and one woman, all started talking at once, trying to get Erick to overturn his decision. Erick managed to make out, “We got the primest claims with the deepest veins of Overworld ore that them wrought ain’t yet got to!” and, “It’s ours for the taking, but dem monsters are too much! You gotta help! That’s all you archmages’re fer, ain’t ya?” but the one that made Erick mad, was, “You help us! Or we’ll tell people you a Wizzard!”

Erick frowned. “Tell people whatever you wish, just don’t break your neck falling in the water.”

The three miners reappeared about a kilometer away, to the east, directly above one of the many empty pools that surrounded Ooloraptoor. Under the watchful gaze of Ophiel, to ensure that they didn’t break anything except for their pride, the miners made a great splash, disturbing the muck at the bottom of that pond as they struggled to regain their bearings. The three of them slipped half a dozen times before one of them got the bright idea to [Cleanse] the waters.

Cleaned, and yet wet, the three miners cursed the sky and Erick, too, as they made their way back to Erick’s yurt. Not ten minutes later, the three miners reappeared at the edge of Erick’s [Prismatic Ward]. They were not happy.

… Erick was a little bit happy, though. The miners looked messy, and it was kinda fun to dump them in the muck. Erick instantly crushed that small glee, not wanting to make a habit of dumping people in mud for his own enjoyment.

But it was a little bit fun!

It was less fun when the three miners attacked the dense air with explosions and conjured weapons, chipping away at the magic that kept them good thirty meters away from Erick.

Erick remained sitting on his captain’s chair; stunned.

Being attacked was not unbelievable. What was unbelievable, was that someone would ever try to attack with as little power as these three people seemed to posses. Seriously, those [Fireball]s were more air and flickering flames than any true threat. Their conjured weapons looked as dull as baseball bats, completely without the cutting power possible with a truly well-made sword, like what Jane could conjure.

Erick sat stunned for a full ten seconds, just watching the show.

Other people at distant yurts began to watch the show, too.

And then Erick egged on the attackers, for some bizarre reason, “Come on! That’s the best you got? That’s weak shit! No wonder you can’t clear out a glutton mine on your own!”

The mining trio briefly paused, and then they roared and started beating on the edge of his dense air even more. Every so often their swords glowed with [Strike]s of flame and frost and lightning, empowering the damage they did to his [Prismatic Ward], sending cracks racing through the protective magics. From the failing density of the Solid Ward, Erick guessed the miners were doing about a thousand points of damage per [Strike]. Only 250ish with a normal sword swing, though, for they could not sustain that many [Strike]s, and they were supplementing their attacks with many, many normal blows. Each [Strike] cost 40 Health, after all.

They certainly weren’t flagging, though. If anything, they looked to be speeding up their routine-like attacks. In that moment they truly looked like miners, hacking away at a wall. They were using swords though. Erick would have expected them to use pickaxes. Pickaxes would probably do better against [Prismatic Ward]. Meh. These people didn’t seem that bright.

Erick almost blipped them away again, but he decided it was more entertaining to see how long it took them to break his first layer of defenses. Oh, they’d get blipped away, for sure. But not yet.

There were a few obvious things Erick picked up as he watched the show. Each of these people were likely a Scion of Balance, and with the bare number of Stats in each category; 25 Strength, Vitality, Willpower, and Focus. This meant that they had 1500 Health and Mana and resource Regeneration. Erick could tell this much because they weren’t going all-out like a Scion of Focus or Vitality would; they were pacing themselves… Unless this was truly as good as they could fight?

They certainly did not have Classes, though; that much was easy to see. All of the skills on display were normal for many of the stronger people in this part of the world, and these people were perfectly normal ‘stronger people’. If they were actually strong, then they likely would have been able to go out and kill mist stone gluttons all on their own. They never would have come here, asking for his help.

A paranoid part of Erick guessed that these three attackers were a part of some ploy.

Erick recognized that paranoid —and likely correct— part of himself, and moved on.

These people were each putting out about a thousand damage per second, maybe 1200. They weren’t activating a [Strike] every Script Second, but they were attacking rather fast. After 30 seconds of attacking, though, Erick had to lower their estimated damage per second from a thousand, to maybe half that. [Prismatic Ward], when cast by Ophiel, offered roughly 78,000 points of defense. These three people attacking at 1000 damage per second would have had them broken through after only 26 seconds, but they had yet to break through the outermost layer after a full minute of attacking. They were about 3/4ths of the way through, though!

Too bad these people didn’t have better Skills.

And that was another thing. None of these people had [Ward Strike], which meant that they were truly bottom-of-the-barrel warriors, attacking him based on pure anger, or something. Erick wasn’t quite sure what they expected to get out of this assault. Perhaps they thought him unwilling to work with weaklings? This much was categorically untrue, for —and not to toot his own horn too much— Erick only worked with weaklings. And these people were certainly weak.

Erick decided to allow them a small victory before he ruined the rest of their day.

Swords clanged off of dense air, chipping it here and there, sending white cracks across the whole of the outer layer of spellwork like the thin shell of a frozen lake, almost ready to break. Suddenly, one of their [Strike]s sent a flaming crack up and across the density, fully breaking the [Prismatic Ward]. White glitter returned to the manasphere, revealing the second [Prismatic Ward] waiting right behind the first.

The trio of miners briefly cheered at their own success, and then they stopped cheering.

For Erick had had an Ophiel expend himself to recast the outermost layer of dense air with the exact same strength as before. He spent 75 mana to create 78,000 points of defense and to crush the hopes of three upstart miners. A good bargain, if ever there was one.

The miners’ faces fell, as they realized they had no hope of getting through Erick’s power.

Onlookers from Pale Cow laughed from the porches of their own yurts; their cackles and woots filling the cool morning air like the sounds of roosters crowing to greet the sun.

And then Erick blipped the miners to a different mudhole, further south of the one they [Cleanse]d.

They came back almost as quick as they did before, but this time they came with contrition on their face, and in their postures; hunched shoulders and hands folded in one another, held low. The three miners stood on the other side of Erick’s dense air, and bowed.

One of the men said, “Since our attempt at hitten your shield ain’t what you wanted, is there a way to prove ourselves as worthy of your time?”

Erick called out, “I read your application while it was in your pocket. If there was something you needed to say that you were too afraid to write down, then you should have written that. But as for what I saw: I’m too busy and too rich to be interested in a mining operation. Good luck clearing out your mine.”

The woman shouted, “We’ll give you 50%— No! 65%!”

“Not. Interested,” Erick said, then he sipped his coffee.

The other miner man glanced around, nervous, and then went for the lie, saying, “We ain’t write it all down! We got secrets in that mine! Gold— Gold and— Uh. Magic books! Magic books are in that mine!”

Erick frowned.

Even the other two miners could tell that that the third had way overstepped. They looked at their friend like he was a village idiot.

Erick responded to the lie with an [Undertow Star] cast into the sky, Shaped to keep its power in the sky, and to touch down around his yurt. This targeting included the miners. White streamers of light pulled away from the miners and they started to freak out. They ran away from Erick’s power, escaping the Undertow after getting about eighty meters away.

The Drain did not reach Clan Pale Cow, or anyone else.

… Erick decided that he would leave the Star up and active until he was receiving visitors again.

For a little while longer, Erick simply enjoyed his coffee, and watched the sun rise all the way. Blue twilight turned into a cloudy day, with great big piles of white fluff crowding out the horizon in every direction. The scent of cows flavored the air, but it was not that disgusting of a scent. The cows were rather clean, after all. Erick found that the scent went well with the sounds of mooing.

For a brief while, everything seemed right with the world.

Eventually, Erick finished his coffee, took a look at the metal ingots, and began sketching out a wardlight diagram of a car. Or at least the frame.

Now how did a car work, exactly?

Erick had talked a big game with the elders, but he only knew the broadest strokes about all the moving parts inside a car. Most of his knowledge was filled in with obvious solutions, thanks to Intelligence.

After ten minutes, he had a working model of a differential, and a transmission, and suspensions, and all of the other, larger and more obvious parts of a car. He smiled, then he got to work.

Erick pulled apart metal with magic, Shaping it into frames and gears and axles. He ran into problems almost right away. It was the same problem he ran into when he made his gramophone, and when he cut diamonds, and when he made anything mechanical; mechanical designs required mechanical precision. A simple Shaping, no matter how well constrained, could not account for the precision needed so that gears actually turned with each other, instead of gradually tearing each other apart, or just not working at all how they should. Erick could certainly draw a perfect circle with one hand, thanks to Dexterity, but to replicate that feat across the whole of a car? Impossible.

So, first came the tools. Or rather, the first set of tools.

A crude lathe, made with stone for a weighty base, and steel for strength and flexibility. [Control Machine] worked well to iron out some of the problems of his crude machine, like getting the spinning parts to spin without flexing in odd ways. From there, [Metalshape], held against guides, helped to carve out better parts for the next iteration of tools.

The second lathe ran like a well-oiled machine, with a central yoke that spun without flexing and parts that were capable of machine precision. Erick had thrown together the first lathe, but this one would last for a while. He even Shaped a stone platform out of the grasslands for it, set away from his yurt. In fact… Erick went ahead and Shaped a few different platforms, for all of his immediate needs.

From there, Erick made straight axles and gears with properly segmented teeth. And then he put them all together.

