“Of course not,” Rain said, again trying to will honesty into his words, though he left off the qualification to his statement that had popped into his mind as he spoke it.

“Truth,” Sana said slowly. She craned her neck to look up at him seriously, trying to peer through his visor. “But there’s a but.” She looked down at his chest again, then made a rolling motion with the hand not currently touching him. “Of course not, but...”

Rain hesitated, then spoke the whole truth as it had come to him. “I don’t want to kill anyone, but I will do whatever I have to to protect myself, my friends, and as many innocents as I can.”

“Okay, great,” Officer Sana said, suddenly laughing nervously as she stepped away, removing her hand. “That was clear enough, and also the absolute right answer.” Her smile lasted a moment more before shattering like glass. “But that means... That means...” She slumped down on the chair again. “Leeka give me strength. The Empire really sailed past the badlands?”

“Yes,” Rain said. “Not with literal sails, but yes, they traveled past them. Their ships are like the Bank’s, powered by journey cores and able to go over deep water somewhat, being made from metal and shielded against Divination. Each one is large enough to hold about a thousand soldiers, and we’ve seen three of them so far. Do you want to write any of this down?”

“Yes!” Officer Sana squeaked, popping up and rushing for her desk. “Just wait there!”

Rain turned to look at Officer Mattem but had to pause to shoot Carten a glare. The big man had another scone in his mouth and yet more grasped in both hands, having moved over to where Jamus had placed the tray. Seeing he’d caught Rain’s attention, Carten gave him a look as if to say, ‘what?’

Rolling his eyes, Rain turned back to Officer Mattem, then addressed him as he’d intended. “You don’t happen to have a mindcaster here, do you?”

“No, uh,” Mattem managed, looking like he would benefit from using the chair Officer Sana had just abandoned. “No, we don’t.”

“Darn,” Jamus said. “So much for reinforcements.”

Mattem shook his head, taking hold of himself. “There’s one in Estervale. I’ll use the platform to get there after we’re done, but I wouldn’t count on reinforcements. Even before the war, Vigilance never had staffed us properly. We were finally meant to get a fresh recruit from Fel Sadanis this month, but... You do know about that, right? That we lost the city?”

“I was there,” Rain said, gesturing to the Custodian’s plate hanging from his neck. “Sentinel Bartum gave me this for opening up the dome. I left for Vestvall before—”

A dull clunk interrupted him, followed by a shout from Officer Sana. “Leeka, you’re actually him!”

Rain looked to the officer staring at him with almost as much shock as she’d displayed when he’d told her about the Empire, ink spreading across the table from a fallen inkwell. Her mouth worked as she pointed at him. “Your armor’s a different color than the report said, and you were supposed to be a bronzeplate, but it’s really you! Death Zone, the Night Cleaner!”

Rain groaned.

“Looks like your nicknames have preceded you,” Jamus said with a chuckle, clapping Rain on the shoulder. “They’re even combining them now.”

Carten, meanwhile, was spluttering on his scone, being much less reserved in his amusement.

Rain let out a defeated sigh, turning Tactile Transference back on so he could rub at his eyes. “Please, just call me Rain.”

The sun was creeping toward the horizon by the time Rain’s party left the Watch office. Officer Mattem departed for Estervale, carrying Rain’s report about the Empire’s attack on Three Cliffs with him, plus an account of what had happened in Vestvall, including the rank shift, the incident with the Crimson Swords, and what had happened with Lady Sale. To lend weight to the entire tale, and because he’d always intended to, Rain had also given Mattem all of the Watch accolades they’d recovered, having brought them for just that reason.

Officer Sana, meanwhile, insisted on tagging along to the Guild, bringing their party up to four. Rain wouldn’t have had the heart to tell her no even if he’d wanted to. Her presence would lend his story credibility, and being a little extra careful about what he said was a small price to pay. Besides, he kind of liked her—and Mattem too, for that matter. They reminded him of Bartum in that they actually seemed to care about the Watch’s cause, not just about obeying their superiors.

“It’s just down that street there,” Sana said when they got close, also acting as a local guide.

“Got it,” Rain said, heading that way. The street ended at a gap in a wooden palisade, but without a gate or anything, only a signpost bearing the sword-and-quiver Guild symbol and a helpful listing of buildings, arrows indicating their directions. Rain glanced at it as he walked past, more interested in what Detection was telling him. Monsters?

He looked, seeing a stack of cages near what looked like an arena, complete with stands.

Oh.

Returning to his physical senses, Rain scanned the area, finding the main Guild building straight ahead of them near the fence surrounding the delving. It was far from the only building in the complex, though. There was a dormitory and a large tavern off to the left, plus several shops, one being a Havenheild Outfitter like the one that had stood across the street from the Fel Sadanis Guild. Training fields abounded, complete with wooden dummies, archery targets, and the like, many of them currently in use. Besides the arena, several smaller dueling rings were scattered around as well.

“Hey, look!” Carten said, pointing as he noticed the cages. “A Fatbird!”

“Mmm,” Rain said. “And two other things I’m not familiar with, plus a bunch of Slimes in those crates. I guess they use them for fights.”

“They do,” Sana confirmed. “We’ve been trying to get leader Everiss to stop holding them up here, but she refuses to move the arena down into the delving. I’d say it would take something nasty breaking loose to wake people up, but something did a few years ago, and Mattem says there was an even worse incident twenty years back. People like their entertainment more than their safety.”

“Fatalities?” Jamus asked.

Sana nodded. “Eight the last time.”

“Come on,” Rain said sourly, leading the way toward the main building. “Let’s just find the branch leader. Everiss, was it?”

They entered the main building through one of three sets of doors, and immediately the difference between this Guild and those in Three Cliffs and Fel Sadanis jumped even more to the fore. The quest hall on its own could have fit the entire Fel Sadanis Guild comfortably inside, both walls lined by windows where blue-coated clerks worked to serve the waiting Guilders and townsfolk. The main floor hosted a trio of three-sided kiosks, completely papered with quest postings as Guilders huddled around to peruse them. Light came not from fires or evertorches but from white-glowing crystals set high in wooden sconces on the walls.

Turning his attention to people, Rain began counting plates with Detection, finding over three hundred bronzeplates in the complex as a whole, not just this room. There were only five silverplates, though—less than he’d expected and less than there’d been in Fel Sadanis. There weren’t any goldplates either, but that was in line with what he’d heard. Halgrave was an oddity when it came to branch leaders, most being silver as a rule. Blue-coated clerks rushed about, mixing with the crowd of Guilders and townsfolk, and at the back of the room, Rain saw yet more lines of adventurers waiting for the horse-driven lifts that would take them down into the delving. One of those lifts arrived as he watched, the doors opening to reveal a pair of blood-spattered swordsmen watching over a team of tired-looking workers and a cart of rubble.

“Karum’s beard,” Carten swore, staring around in awe.

“How deep does the delving go?” Jamus asked, turning to Sana. “All these people...”

“Rank six,” she replied. “But the rumor is that a few spots are getting close to rank seven.”

“Oh, it’s no rumor, officer,” said a man in a blue uniform, rushing up to them and greeting Rain with a deep bow. “Silverlord, welcome to the Barstone Guild, home of the most promising delving in the DKE, with no less than three active lairs under our management. How may we serve you today? Would you care to peruse the postings, or would you prefer someone provide you with choice selections suited to your skills?”

“Take me to the branch leader, please,” Rain said, ignoring the man’s dubious claim and sweeping an eye over him. Other than the Guild logo, he was nondescript but for the unexpected name tag, which said ‘Tiller.’ The most interesting thing about him, in fact, wasn’t something that was there, but something that wasn’t.

No plate? Unawakened?

“Meetings with leader Everiss are by appointment only, I’m afraid,” said Tiller, his eyes flicking to Rain’s Custodian plate, then to officer Sana, his expression one of mild confusion. “If you and your party will come this way, I can check your Guildscore and place you on the schedule.”

“It’s important,” Rain said. “Please just take me to her.”

“Pardon, Silverlord, but leader Everiss is a very busy woman, and without checking your Guildscore, I cannot take your word as to the importance of whatever it is you wish to speak with her about. The Barstone guild places great stock in the contribution system, and if—”

“Officer Sana,” Rain said, cutting him off and gesturing to Sana, “Please tell him what I told you.”

Sana stepped forward, a determined expression on her face. “Three Cliffs has fallen to the Empire. Their ships may be on their way here soon. As an officer of the Watch, I have verified the truth of Custodian Rain’s words, not that his position should cast them in doubt.”

“Custodian...?” Tiller asked, glancing at her, then back to Rain. “I don’t understand. What does that mean, Silverlord? I did not wish to pry, but why do you wear their symbol?”

“Because I earned their trust,” Rain replied. “Now, you know the Watch can detect lies, so please just take me to branch leader Everiss. Now.”

“But Silverlord, without verifying your contribution, I cannot break procedure without getting myself—and you—into trouble.”

“Carten,” Rain interrupted, beyond done with this day. “Would you kindly take care of this?”

“You got it, cap’n,” Carten said with a grin. “How, though, specifically?” He looked at the clerk, who took a nervous step back in response. “Wouldn’t want any...misunderstandin’s.”

“Just be yourself,” Rain said, gesturing broadly at the room. “As loudly as possible, if you would.”

Carten laughed, then lifted his shields from the ground and cracked his neck from side to side. Without any further warning, he began slamming them like one of those cymbal monkeys, scaled up to the size of a gorilla, making a truly cacophonous racket. Stillness spread through the room as he slowed, hundreds of heads turning in their direction, and with one final clang, Carten lowered his shields, then bellowed at the top of his lungs. “Oi! The Empire attacked Three Cliffs, an if ye don’t listen, we’re all gonna die when they come ‘ere next!”

“Thank you, Carten,” Rain said. He turned toward the mortified clerk as chaos exploded around them. “Now, then, Mr. Tiller. The branch leader, if you please. If it’s not too much...trouble.”
