His leg glitched, and in his attempt to compensate, he fell. The memory resurfaced, unbidden, and he had to fight it off. It was still powerful, even walled away as it was. Rather than get up, he curled himself into a ball, closing his eyes and trying to will himself out of this strange place.

Needless to say, this didn’t work.

It took him a while, but eventually, Rain recovered, pulling himself back to some semblance of coherence. Clearly, whatever memory block he’d built wasn’t one hundred percent effective. The fear of that pain was like a tangible thing, driving him to irrational panic. He was worried that he was going to need to add a fear of the dark to his growing list of phobias.

He pushed himself up into a sitting position and scanned the darkness once more.

Still no obelisk… I can feel it out there. Lurking.

He sighed, looking down at his knees.

Okay, time to think this through. If I’m in my soul, why do I see…me? Shouldn’t I be inside…me? Maybe this isn’t my soul after all. Am I…in the obelisk? No, that doesn’t make sense at all. I was here before when I got the accolade. Hmm.

He looked back up, fully prepared for the obelisk to be right there in front of his nose. It wasn’t. There was only darkness.

No more games. Detection.

Rain cursed as nothing happened. Winter had been running the whole time, so he knew that his magic was working, but it hadn’t switched to the other aura like he’d wanted.

Detection. Detection. Detection.

He concentrated, willing the spell to activate as hard as he could. Nothing happened.

Okay, seriously, what the hell? Status.

Richmond Rain Stroudwater

CLASS

LVL

CAP

Dynamo

18

18

EXP

NEXT

TOTAL

12,749

22,750

514,832

Vitals

CUR

MAX

RGN

HP

600

600

200/d

SP

211

920

190/d

MP

8,017

8,017

1.8/s

Dark Revenant’s Armor

CUR

MAX

RGN

DUR

6,754

13,338

0

SAT

0

13,202

-92/s

CHG

49

14,209

-65/d

Attributes

163/143

EFF

TOTAL

BASE

BUFF

SYN

STR

8.7

30

10

20/37

29%

RCV

8.8

20

10

10/15

44%

END

8.84

46

10

36/16

34%

VGR

8.93

19

10

9/24

47%

FCS

35

35

10

25/49

100%

CLR

263

263

200

63/93

100%

Resistances

50/?

FLAT

PERCENT

HEAT

4.6

0%

COLD

4.6

0%

LIGHT

4.6

0%

DARK

54.6

0%

FORCE

4.6

0%

ARCANE

4.6

0%

CHEMICAL

4.6

0%

MENTAL

4.6

0%

Rain peered at the brilliant blue window, thinking hard.

Why do my menus work normally, but my spells don’t?  Hey, hang on a minute here. That isn’t right. Two hundred eleven stamina? It was two-ten before, but I slept for… How long did I sleep for?

He glanced at his HUD.

10:53:09 AM

Over twenty-four hours? No, that’s not possible… Wait, is it? Damn it, I should have added a calendar to this thing.

Rain’s eyes flicked to his character window, then back to the time displayed on his HUD.

10:53:09 AM

He stared. It wasn’t changing.

Time is…stopped?

“Okay, seriously, how?” he asked the darkness. The darkness didn’t respond, and he shook his head with a sigh.

Fact one: I’m in my soul, or in soulspace or wherever. Fact two: the obelisk is here, but it’s hiding. Fact three: time is—

“Gah!” Rain twitched as Winter abruptly canceled itself. He felt Detection replace it, but the activation of the spell felt sluggish. Rather than the near-instantaneous response he usually got, there was a delay of a few seconds before a signal bounced back to him, one meter above him and slightly to the left. A second signal followed almost instantly, one meter above and slightly right.

Snapping his gaze up, he saw nothing there but darkness, though the signals remained clear in his mind. They weren’t fading as they usually would have. His clock caught his attention out of the corner of his eye, and he suddenly realized what was going on.

10:53:10 AM

It’s not stopped, it’s just slow.

…

Really, really slow.

Additional signals started returning to him from farther above. One by one, they appeared on his radar and stayed there. That in itself was unusual. Normally, the signals only lasted for a single second.

I was searching for entities, so either there are invisible monsters in the darkness, or I’m sensing people standing around my body in the real world. The ones coming from far above would be on the surface, supposing I’m still near the obelisk. The distance is about right.

He adjusted his filters, setting Detection for ‘humans’ for the next tick of the spell. After around a minute, the old signals vanished, then started appearing again, as the magic radiated outward. Rain nodded to himself. It was humans that he was sensing.

Okay, so I’m in bullet time. My spells normally tick at a rate of 1 Hz, or one tick per second. I’ve never been able to switch between auras faster than that, either. It’s only because I’m thinking so fast that it feels like they aren’t responding. Whenever I try to change something, it looks like it will only take effect precisely on one of those one-second ticks. Hmm. This means something.

He scratched at his chin.

These signals, they’re a meter above me because…I fell over? How long ago was that?

He glanced at his status display, then the clock, running the numbers.

I’ve only regenerated one point of stamina since before I slept. At one-ninety points per day, that means it’s only been seven and a half minutes since then, give or take.

Just how slowly is time going in here?

He looked back at his clock, waiting. The moment the seconds display incremented, Detection began its refresh, and he started counting. When he got to a count of seventy-four, the display ticked up again.

Okay, that’s a factor of seventy-something.

He immediately started counting again, getting eighty-one this time.

High seventies, anyway. I’m a doctor, not a metronome. Anyway, that’s really, really, slow.

With a thought, he changed his focus, singling out Bartum with IFF. It would be a while before the world caught up with his command, so he had some time to think.

Okay, this is insane. A factor of eighty would mean that regenerating a single point of stamina, real time, would be around ten hours, subjective. Holy flaming shit balls. From their perspective, I probably collapsed ten minutes ago or something. To me, it’s been like half a day. At least.

Detection ticked, confirming that one of the signals closest to him was coming from Bartum. Rain set his next ping for the obelisk itself, wanting to know if he was still in the room with it. He already knew it would work. Detection couldn’t pierce the Majistraal defenses as he could with his physical sight, but it worked just fine from inside, including on the artifact itself.

Once more, Rain found himself with some time on his hands, so he did another quick survey of his surroundings. He almost had a heart attack when he spotted the obelisk. It was just hanging there in the distance as if it had never left. Moments later, the signal indicating its presence popped into his mind, about a meter above him, and in the complete opposite direction.

He sighed and shook his head, staring at it. Of course. My orientation in here isn’t the same as my orientation in the real world. I mean, I can move around, but I’m pretty sure my body isn’t moving. Damn, this is freaky.

Rain spun, trying to align the obelisk he saw with the one in his mind. When he looked back over his shoulder, it was gone again. A few more spins, and he needed to sit down.

The obelisk showed up roughly every 720° if he was turning clockwise. Worse, it only took something like 270° if he was turning the other way. Moving toward it made it drift off to one side, rotating diagonally in the process. Backing away sent it flying straight up until it flickered, then appeared off to his left.

Non-Euclidean. Great. How can rotation be different in different directions? I think… I think I’d like to wake up now.

Rain sat and once more tried to will himself home. A few seconds passed. A few real seconds.

Nothing happened. He wasn’t going anywhere.

Shit.

Ten hours of subjective time later, Rain had learned a few things.

First, the time acceleration factor was based on his effective Clarity. He could still change the settings on his ring, it turned out, even though it didn’t appear here. Like his spells, the changes to his stats would only update on the one-second tick. In any event, the formula worked out to:

Acceleration Factor = (Effective Clarity) * 3 / 10.

The multiple of three was no doubt coming from Dynamo. His class was supposed to triple the effect of the Clarity attribute, after all.

With no buff, the acceleration was 60x, meaning one second out there was one minute in here. With +50 to Clarity, that increased to 75x. At +100, 87.9x.

Why not 90x? That was fairly straightforward. It was effective Clarity that mattered, not total Clarity. His tolerance was only 93, making his maximum effective Clarity 293.

Rain had almost tweaked his character display right then and there to take his class bonus into account. However, he’d stopped when he’d realized that his mana regeneration was calculated by tripling his total Clarity instead. He’d have had to triple that as well, and that would have just made things more confusing, not less.

He was considering changing his terminology again, inventing a new name like ‘applied Clarity’ or ‘resultant Clarity.’ His indecision had led him to shelve that issue for the moment. Naming things was hard.

The second thing of importance that he’d learned was that this place wasn’t his soul.

No, his hologram-form was his soul, or at least, a manifestation of it. An avatar for his mind. Was the soul the same as the mind? That was the question, wasn’t it?

Either way, he wasn’t inside anything. He was just in soul form. That form had been transported somewhere else.

Soulspace.

Like subspace, but different.

There were a few important clues that had pointed him to this conclusion. First, the darkness, specifically the tangible kind in the distance that was pretending to be smoke. It was repelled by his avatar out to roughly the same range as the effect of his pseudo-oversoul in the real world.

As if that wasn’t coincidence enough, he’d also tried triggering his training overview. On the one-second tick, this had sent an invisible blast of energy out from him in a sphere, pushing back the darkness. Then, the flow had reversed, the darkness rushing into him for a moment before returning to equilibrium.

It was violent and difficult to see, as doing this made him glitch out for a good ten seconds of subjective time. The effect matched Bartum’s description, though. When they applied experience to themselves, souls breathed something out, then something back in.

The second clue that this place wasn’t his soul came when he’d attempted to meditate. Calming his mind wasn’t easy, but the formless void of soulspace was almost as good as the one created by Aura Focus. As long as he didn’t move, the glitches of his avatar didn’t interfere with the process. In fact, they occurred less and less frequently as he became more relaxed.

Eventually, he’d reached the threshold and felt the chaos within. He’d then been hurled back into his avatar, unable to maintain focus through the intensity of the sensation. The process had played out exactly the same here as it always did in the real world. Thus, he couldn’t be in his soul. You couldn’t try to enter a place you were already in.

The final clue had been the appearance of another soul. Now that had been a surprise.

Rain had been in the middle of determining his spatial orientation in the real world, using Detection to search for hands, feet, elbows, etc. He hadn’t bothered to limit his search to his own appendages, and he’d noticed someone else’s hand headed straight toward him. When it had come into contact with his forehead, there had been a flicker of light in front of him, and a fuzzy form had appeared, barely visible, but unmistakably there.

Wallace’s avatar wasn’t fully formed, perhaps because the man didn’t believe in the concept of souls. It just looked like a faint, floating bubble of red light. It had wafted its way unerringly toward Rain through the insane geometry of soulspace, ignoring all of his attempts to communicate with it. Once it was almost on top of him, Wallace’s avatar exploded, launching countless tendrils of crimson light.

These tendrils drilled into the simulated skin of Rain’s avatar and went rooting through his insides, like worms digging through an apple. He could feel the foreign mana inside them, though he couldn’t affect it in any way. It left him feeling violated on many different levels, though the experience hadn’t been physically painful. It was just Tissue Scan, he was reasonably certain, but still. It was invasive enough in the real world. In here…yeah. Not fun.

Wallace’s avatar had pulled away before Rain could attempt to murder it, drifting away into the darkness. It had only vanished completely when the healer had removed his hand. Accelerated as he was, that had given Rain plenty of time to observe it, not that there was a lot to see.

From this whole experience, Rain guessed that the ability to perceive something in this strange place was related to the ‘domain of the soul.’ When Wallace’s domain overlapped with his, Wallace’s avatar became visible. If Wallace’s consciousness—mind, ego, whatever you wanted to call it—had been in soulspace as Rain’s was, then they might have even been able to talk or something.

That brought him to the obelisk. In the real world, Rain was literally stuck to it. If the obelisk had a soul or some sort of soul-equivalent, then it was definitely within his domain. From his spatial orientation scan, he knew that his hand was glued to its surface, with his comatose body dangling limply below. His shoulder was not going to be happy when he finally figured out how to get out of here. Nobody had thought to shove a barrel under him or something, and he’d been hanging there for at least twenty minutes of real time.

Rain rolled his shoulder. His avatar didn’t appear to be feeling any discomfort, at least.

The third thing of importance that he’d learned involved accolades. He’d managed to summon his—the perception boosting one from the Everdeep Fortress. It had shown up as a point of darkness shining on his chest when he’d focused on it for long enough, like a pin on a jacket, had he been wearing one. He’d been able to remove it like a pin as well, at which point it had smoothly transformed into the familiar metallic plate. The other accolades in his possession were nowhere to be seen.

