There was no easy explanation for that, other than the fact that they weren’t directly touching his skin. They were tucked into pockets in his forceweave beneath his breastplate, added specifically for that purpose. Nominally, that should have placed them within his domain. He had the feeling that they should be around here somewhere; he just couldn’t find them without exploring the darkness.

That wasn’t something he was keen to attempt, given the geometry of soulspace. Losing track of the obelisk in the endless dark seemed like it would be ‘a bad thing.’

He’d been making a point to never move without the black pillar directly in his sight. Even then, there had been a few scary incidents where it had disappeared unexpectedly. Now, he’d finally managed to make his way over to it, and he wasn’t about to move away. Geometry seemed to be stabilized within his soap-bubble, at least.

As much as he hated being near the thing that had caused him so much pain, it was also his only way out of here. He hadn’t touched it yet, though. He wasn’t quite ready for that.

Anyway, accolades. The important thing was that when he’d summoned his, it had brought with it a thread of connection, linking the plate to the center of his chest. It wasn’t physical—as much as anything was physical here. It was something else. He perceived it with some sense that he couldn’t describe, as no analog to it existed in the real world. He was calling it ‘Linksight’ for now, even though it was nothing like seeing.

The existence of the thread had led him to search for others. Now aware of what he was looking for, he’d found four more of them.

One led to Dozer. It had been there the whole time, he’d just never thought to look for it, already too used to the slime’s presence in his mind.

The link didn’t lead anywhere, precisely. It just had the feeling of going ‘out,’ which made perfect sense, as Dozer wasn’t in soulspace. Rain hadn’t found a way to follow the thread, dashing his hopes of using it to escape. He’d tried a few other things with it as well, such as pushing his thoughts through it in an attempt to contact Dozer. There was an obvious issue there, however.

Rain was thinking at something like eighty-times normal speed. Dozer’s thoughts were half-speed on a good day, bless his heart.

The next two links were smaller and more difficult to sense. They led to the Malleable Ring and the Dark Revenant’s Armor. These were the soul bonds that Tallheart had added. Rain had found them by following the flow of mana from Mana Manipulation when he’d tried charging them.

The final link was the hardest of all to find, and, in retrospect, the most obvious. Again, Mana Manipulation had been the key. The spell seemed to work almost the same way here as it did in the real world. It allowed him to circulate mana through his avatar, just as he did with his body. When he tried expelling it to the environment, it had simply vanished. The next obvious question had been: what environment was the mana being expelled to? Soulspace, or meatspace?

Rain had spent hours pondering that question, turning his mana sense inward. Mana Manipulation’s description didn’t say anything about ‘resolution’ or ‘sensitivity’ or anything like that, only max transfer speed. He’d long known, however, that what the skill card said wasn’t the complete picture. Detection was another good example. In any event, with Mana Manipulation at rank eight, he had much finer control than he’d ever had before. Certainly better than the time he’d hurt himself by trying to modify Purify.

Sitting in soulspace, he’d used all of his spells. Winter, Essence Well, Immolate and Refrigerate—carefully, of course, there were people around—Purify, Velocity, and so on, including the modifiers. All of them seemed to take effect out in the world, not in here. Velocity didn’t make his avatar faster, for example.

His friends were probably thinking he was having a seizure or something, flicking between spells like that. He just hoped that nobody would try anything stupid to free him, such as cutting his arm off. He was regularly using Detection to keep an eye on things for that reason.

He had come up with a plan to communicate if it became necessary: timed pulses of Purify, forming a rudimentary code. It would be super annoying to do, given that he’d have to teach them the code first, and each pulse, to him, would take over a minute to send. He’d set that aside for the moment, focusing on understanding his own situation first.

Even in his accelerated state, and even with rank-eight Mana Manipulation, the spells themselves were still incomprehensible. Even at eighty times slower than normal, the patterns changed faster than he could follow, shifting and seething through his avatar.

It was like trying to debug code when you only had the faintest idea of what it did. In this metaphor, the only visibility Rain had was the raw contents of memory, updated in real time and not even saved to a log file. He didn’t have the source code itself. Also, from the way the patterns changed each time, he was thinking that the spell was encrypting its memory space. Certain pieces didn’t change from cast to cast, however, likely those that were necessary to apply the effect. The outputs, essentially.

It was by analyzing these static pieces that he’d made his breakthrough. He’d been looking at Velocity, tracing the tiny threads of mana that fanned out to where his muscles should have been in his avatar. By following those tiny threads, Rain had discovered others. Ones not made of mana, but of something else. Something ‘visible’ to Linksight.

The connection between his body and his avatar wasn’t a huge cable or something. No, it was distributed. Tiny threads, omnipresent and uncountable. Together, they formed a fabric that wove body and soul together.

Further investigation had revealed that there were six different kinds of thread forming the tapestry of connection, one for each attribute—Strength, Recovery, Endurance, Vigor, Focus, and Clarity. While isolating a single thread was almost impossible, determining the relative abundance of the types wasn’t that difficult. It directly corresponded with his Synchronization.

That is what Synchronization was. The degree of connection between his body and his soul. Focus and Clarity, both at 100% sync, were connected everywhere, the other stats, less so.

Again, obvious in retrospect. Also, in his current situation, mostly useless.

Rain shook his head slowly, staring at the obelisk. Enough was enough.

All of the experimentation he’d done was nothing more than procrastination. It had only taken him an hour of trial and error to reach the barrier stone. The rest of the time, he’d just been sitting here, within arm’s reach, yet unable to touch it.

He was just being careful, he’d told himself. The delay didn’t matter, not with the time acceleration. He would have been a fool not to take advantage. No, it made sense to wait. To study. To reflect. To figure out how the hell he’d actually walled off a memory. After all, the pain would likely reoccur.

Rain lifted his hand and stretched his fingers toward the black crystal, stopping just above the surface.

The list of equivocations went on and on. The real reason for his hesitation was much simpler: He was scared.

Rain forced his hand forward. Forced himself to acknowledge the fear. To accept it, and to carry on anyway.

He squeezed his eyes shut as his fingertips came into contact with the stone.

…

…

There was no pain.

…

…

Rain’s eyes opened.

He stared at his hand. As he watched, one of his fingers glitched slightly, then snapped back into place. The black surface of the obelisk felt cold and smooth, like glass.

He looked around, just in case. No dialog boxes had appeared. There was no sudden booming voice of a long-dead Majistraal. No overwhelming torrent of knowledge being downloaded into his skull.

Nothing.

Rain took his hand away, letting it fall to his side.

Huh.
