Tala blinked a few times. “Well… I’ll be. I think I might have encountered them… but that was more than ten years ago.”

“Well, that encounter might be the source of this revelation… whatever it was. Elves are famously slow to adapt and long in their internal debates. Honestly, if this is because of such a recent interaction, I may yet be proven wrong. These elves just might be the sort to see progress and change as worth pursuing.”

She grunted at that. “I suppose that we will see.”

“Indeed.” The discussion continued through a few others who might be called until he came to the final one. “The House of Iron has been begging for an audience for days now. They are among the oldest Houses, and as such we have a rather… fraught history with them. Even so, I cannot put them off any longer. Apparently, something has them up in arms with excitement, and the fact that they are reaching out might be a good thing. If they choose to directly join the war effort—especially if it can be under our banner?—it would be a boon I could scarcely have hoped for. They are often seen as the most stalwart of the Houses, and no one likes fighting against them. Where they go, many will follow, despite their oddities.”

Tala grunted. “I think I met some of them in Platoiri? They were at least at my welcome back assembly on the outskirts. I don’t recall any direct interaction. I wonder why they approached us here instead of there?”

“Between Houses as ancient as ours, branches do not have the authority to make lasting deals. The delegation is from their central House. I only delayed receiving them because your arrival had been planned, and given the nature of such an agreement, I felt that your position should be decided upon before I heard them out. Changing terms once we’d begun would not have gone over well.”

She nodded again. “Understood.” A smile pulled at her lips. “I absolutely loathe this type of thing, but I suppose it cannot be helped.”

He chuckled. “Yes, I rather assumed that would be the case. Thankfully, your post is not a political one. Soon enough, you will be established enough that you can delegate without it undercutting how you are perceived. You will never be entirely free of such duties, but they should lighten with time.”

Tala sighed, appreciating the sentiment. “May it be so.”

Head Corinis stood, pushing back from the table. “Well then. Shall we?”

Tala blinked a few times. “What? Now?”

“Unless you have any further questions? The delegates have been notified to be ready for a summons at any point today.”

She considered for a moment before shaking her head. “I suppose I don’t.”

“Well then. Shall we?” He grinned.

Tala chuckled, standing. “As you say. Let’s see what we can forge of these opportunities.”
