Sometime in the mid-afternoon, Lord Husband and the Abbot both fell mercifully silent, and though Luo-Luo cherished the unexpected hush of tranquility, her joy was short-lived as the barrier fell and the clamorous din of metal on metal reached her ears. Grabbing the handrail, she exerted her Chi to Stabilize her bearings and stood to peer at the source of the commotion. Off in the distance stood the dusty earthen walls of Fort Sinuji, their ultimate destination still at least an hour’s ride away yet already close enough to hear the distant clamour of battle. The blood drained from her face as she considered how loud it would be when she stood in the midst of the chaos instead of several kilometres away, a most humbling and terrifying prospect which set her knees to shaking.

Mother in Heaven... was it too late to ask Lord Husband to send her back?

A warm hand slipped into Luo-Luo’s and she turned to see Lin-Lin’s comforting grin. “Don’t worry,” she said, pulling Luo-Luo back into her seat. “There’ll be plenty of Defiled for us to kill, so don’t worry if we can’t make it there today, ya?”

Even sweet Lin-Lin was as bloodthirsty as the rest of the Bekhai, though Luo-Luo still didn’t understand why the Medical Saint and his daughter weren’t considered Bekhai. No one would say, though it helped that Lord Husband also admitted his ignorance so she wasn’t alone.

Only now did she notice that their convoy had slowed, and in her shock, she didn’t even realized she voiced the question out loud until Lord Husband replied, “With battle in full swing, we’re slowing down until we’ve informed the commander of our presence. If we approach too quickly without warning, we could be ‘mistaken’ for flanking Defiled.” Shrugging, he added, “Normally, flying our standards would be good enough, but considering the current political climate, I don’t blame Colonel General Nian Zu for playing it safe.”

Despite his outward calm, his set jaw and unusually straight posture gave away Lord Husband’s agitation, as did his grasping hands reaching for a weapon which was no longer attached to his waist. Oh how it hurt to see his disappointment when reality reared its ugly head, having forgotten his frail condition at the first sight of battle, or that his ruined Spiritual Weapons still sat on the wall of his room back in the Citadel. As much as he professed otherwise, it was easy to see that Lord Husband not only thrived in conflict, but relished it as well, and that he dreamed of a triumphant return to his glory days as the Number One Talent in the Empire.

A shame he refused to accept that his glory days were behind him and focus on the future instead, but in time, he would come to see that even though the Martial Path was forever denied him, there were still many avenues left for him to explore, some of which he would excel at. ‘Lending’ their workshops and facilities to Marshal Yuzhen had been a calculated gamble, one Luo-Luo prayed would work out since she didn’t expect the good Marshal would ever return Lord Husband’s properties. More likely she would ‘request’ to retain control of said properties in exchange for a place in her inner circle, an advisory one at first which would eventually lead to an official posting as a Lieutenant Marshal after enough time had passed to avoid the impression of bribery.

It wasn’t illegal, just simply how business was done, but since Luo-Luo couldn’t outright speak her mind, she wasn’t sure if the Marshal would keep to her end of the implied bargain. Hopefully she would, since she was slated to marry the cheerless and taciturn Gerel, but nothing was certain when it came to politicians.

None of this would matter if Lord Husband didn’t survive, so Luo-Luo put aside her errant thoughts and reached for her sceptre. The cold touch of metal reassured her as she reached for Balance and watched the battle unfold, though she could barely see through the billowing clouds of dust raised by the melee. Thundering hooves, ringing steel, booming horns, and crashing drums, there was a rhythm to the battle which she didn’t quite understand, but one she sensed all the same, a powerful cadence laid over-top the distant screams of the dead and dying.

Palms slick and stomach twisting, she clutched her sceptre tight and wondered if she possessed the wherewithal to use it in battle, against the brutal Defiled no less. Before she left the Academy, she’d never even seen a dead animal, much less a dead person, and while she’d seen her fair share of the former in recent times, the sight of a skinned chicken ready to cook still made her queasy. What’s more, she had yet to even spar against anyone, for after Yan left, there was no one to supervise her training, so it was easy to imagine how she would fare in true battle.

Poorly. She would fare poorly, and a quick death would be a mercy, for she’d heard tales of how the Defiled like to play with their prey...

“Hey.” Lord Husband’s voice shook Luo-Luo from her thoughts, and she found his outstretched hand waiting for hers. Reaching over to take his hand, she grasped his fingers tight as he smiled and said, “Relax. There’s nothing to worry about.”

And strange as it may seem, his kind words and warm smile were enough to reassure her, for they held an unspoken promise of safety and security. This was a man who, despite his physical frailty, was still the same confident and courageous Martial Warrior who took the Empire by storm, a true dragon among men.

Or at least, it was reassuring, until he added, “Besides, if the Defiled get close enough for you to use that thing, then we’re probably all going to die regardless.”

Quashing the urge to smash his smug face in with her sceptre, Luo-Luo almost regretted turning down the Grand Marshal’s offer all those years ago...

Chapter Meme (Youtube)
