Alinar blinked his eyes and stared at Ren as he came to, then he tried to get to his feet and continue the attack.

“Don't make me hurt you.” Ren warned as Alinar stood up and hefted the Keacaryn Ancestral Sword.

“High Lord!” Allynna yelled, and Alinar looked at her. “I have politely declined his meal request.”

Alinar took in a deep breath, and sheathed his sword. “You are fortunate that I listen to my underlings.” He said to Ren.

“As are you.” Ren commented, and someone behind him chuckled.

“Who laughed?” Alinar asked and glared at the other High Elves.

“It doesn't matter.” Ren said and looked at Allynna. “M'lady, it was an honor to meet you.”

“I am honored to meet you as well.” Allynna said.

“I would like to arrange meeting more of my kind, with your help.” Ren said.

“There are quite a number of us here.” Allynna said. “It can be done.”

Ren held out a platinum coin. “Please choose an appropriate venue, and make arrangements for everyone in this city that wants to meet with me.” He said. “In 3 hours. That should be enough time.”

“Enough time for what?”

“To see if any of the High Elves survived the healing.” Ren said.

Allynna didn't look at the High Lord before she took the offered coin and stashed it. “I will make the appropriate arrangements.”

“Thank you, M'lady.” Ren said, and walked over to the railing. “I will return.” He said and stepped out into the open air. “I sincerely hope you will be at the meeting.” He looked at Alinar. “I will understand if you aren't.”

“Don't expect to see me there, M'lord.” Allynna said.

Ren nodded and ran across the sky over to Zetaya, then asked the fire elemental if it wanted to be shrunk back down. The fire elemental shook it's head stub and stood up on all four limbs, and Ren took out the All-Seeing Mirror. He asked where the closest ghoul nest was, and showed the location to Princess and Zetaya. The High Elves watched in amazement while the colossal fire elemental tromped over the hill and up into the sky as it ran as fast as it could towards the next encounter. They barely noticed the small speck running through the air beside it.
