“I see,” the True Royal goddess nodded. “Perhaps the best approach would be to go through the Order of the Malefic Viper. We already have some connection to the faction, but increasing our bond wouldn’t be unwise, especially after the last declaration. Perhaps it could even help strengthen our somewhat strained relationship with the Pantheon of Life. Having more political allies could prove beneficial.”

“Certainly,” Vesperia nodded, deep in thought.

It was true that the Endless Empire did lack allies. They didn’t have a lot of enemies, mind you, but neither did they have many factions whom they would dare call their true allies. In fact, most large factions wanted to keep the Endless Empire at arm’s reach and only kept the relationship neutral due to the Endless Empire’s power.

The Pantheon of Life, Holy Church, and Risen were all in the camp of factions who looked upon the Endless Empire with unfriendly gazes. The Holy Church and Risen had somewhat similar expansionist tendencies to the Endless Empire, leading to a natural conflict. Meanwhile, the Pantheon of Life disliked how the Endless Empire ravaged local biomes and terraformed them to better serve the Empire.

Other factions, such as Valhal, the Dao Sect, Nine Hells, the Court of Shadows, and various mercenary and merchant organizations, were entirely neutral toward the Endless Empire, gladly trading with them whenever the opportunity arose.

When it came to allies, the Endless Empire only had a few. Perhaps a bit surprising was the Altmar Empire. The Altmar Empire was also a close ally of the Automata Legion but had managed to position itself in a way that allowed it to be an ally with both.

For the longest time, the Order of the Malefic Viper had been in the same camp as Valhal and the Court of Shadows. Sure, they had dealings with the Endless Empire, but they weren’t outright allies.

Changing that wouldn’t necessarily be a bad thing, especially after the Malefic Viper’s return and the rise of his already famous Chosen.

“Will you be returning to Nevermore now?” Odonestra asked, changing the subject rather abruptly.

“Yes, that’s the plan,” Vesperia nodded.

“How many years you got left in there?”

“A bit under seven,” Vesperia answered. Considering she had reached level 340, those years should prove enough time for her to reach peak C-grade and begin to make her preparations to evolve.

A scenario where she found herself hitting any kind of wall didn’t even cross her mind. For any True Royal, much less her, such a sentiment would be ridiculous.

“Good,” Odonestra nodded. “Be safe when there. You’re still the only True Royal of your Lineage.”

“I’ve created some Hive Queens who have a chance to evolve should I fall,” Vesperia tried to calm the concerns of her sister.

“It would still be safer if we found a mate for you to ensure a proper heir,” Odonestra sighed. "We have had interest, you know."

“In due time,” Vesperia waved off the notion for now. “Besides, I have no intentions of falling any time soon.”

Odonestra nodded in acknowledgment as she led Vesperia to her chambers. There, Vesperia fully resupplied before quickly leaving for Nevermore yet again, planning on spending another few years there hunting, with it likely being her final trip for C-grade.

Vesperia knew her sisters were all looking forward to Vesperia’s evolution, as her becoming B-grade would mean she was a fully grown True Royal. But there was one thing she hadn’t discussed with them yet. The Vesperia from the first era and the Vesperia now were both True Royals of the Vespernat Lineage; however, even among True Royals, despite their race names remaining the same... there was variance. They were all considered extremely high-tier and powerful, yes, but as individuals, they still varied in power and potential.

And not to discredit her own ancestor... but Vesperia was very confident that she surpassed the one she inherited the name from and would be the one to show the multiverse what a true Vespernat Hive Queen was capable of.
