[Conditions Met: Druid → Druid of the Lucky World, Child of Omens; Ember of the Eternal Solstice Class!]
[Class Consolidation: Last Survivor removed.]
[Class Consolidation: Emberbearer removed.]
[Class Consolidation: Scribblequill Student removed.]
 
[Druid of the Lucky World, Child of Omens; Ember of the Eternal Solstice Level 70!]
[Skill – I Grew Luck Itself obtained!]
[Skill – Wild Call: Howl of the Continent obtained!]
[Spell – Summon Greater Earth Elemental obtained!]
[Skill – Supreme Authority of the Wild Circles obtained!]
 
[Title – First Druid of the World obtained!]
[Title Reward – Robes of the World’s Treekeeper (Resized) assigned!]
[Assigning <Druid> Titles…]
 
Mrsha opened her eyes as the Skills and spells kept going. Something fell out of the air and onto her face.
She suddenly could feel every blade of grass outside the inn and the birds in the air, tell which cows in Farmer Wirclaw’s field were pregnant and there was going to be a breach birth in ninety-six minutes, how many Rock Crabs were in the entire Floodplains—how many horses were in House Walchaís’ fields—
 
[Skill – Manor Eimland of House Veltras obtained!]
[Skill – Body: Ocean of Mana (Nature) obtained]
[Skill – Origin Racdelbear Fur obtained]
[Spell – True Earthquake learned!]
[Spell – Hand of the Colossus of Diamonds, Auxmet’s Fist obtained!]
[Skill – Lucky Rains, Fall! obtained!]
[Skill – The Palac—]
 
<LEVEL UPS CANCELED.>
<REVERTING TITLES.>
 
Mrsha had been staring at the most amazing robes that looked old as time itself and smelled like—
They popped out of existence. Her senses of the animals and plants around her, the feeling as though she could think a word and have the ground repeat it—vanished.
Mrsha lay on her back, eyes wide, as she stared up at the ceiling. She waited and waited, and after what felt like an eternity compressed into a second, the voice spoke.
 
[Scribblequill Student Level 12.]
[Skill – Memorize Elementary Homework obtained!]
 
Huh. Wuh? Mrsha blinked up at the sky. She had definitely not dreamed what had just happened. But she had a new level. And even the Skill was…
I’m never going to have to remember homework again. Mrsha leapt out of bed and punched the air. Yes!
Then she landed, felt at herself, and sniffed the air hopefully, but even the scent of those robes was gone. Mrsha plucked at her white fur and then, gingerly, pulled a hair out.
Ow. Okay, not the fur of an ‘Origin Racdelbear’ or whatever the heck it had been. What the heck…what the heck was that?
You had to admit, if you had to lose a Level 70…whatever her class had been, [Memorize Homework] was a good consolation prize.
Was it a consolation prize? She definitely recalled [Inkless Fur], which she would not have been that happy about. It had changed.
What the heck had just happened?
 
——
 
The Grand Design stopped analyzing the other reality Kasigna had come from and ran a full sweep. It looked for meddling by the dead gods.
It checked Erin five times.
It re-analyzed every single Skill it had been giving Mrsha, the class, and the very fabric of its decision-making process and compared that with its logical routines from several iterations ago, then backtracked to before the destruction of the deadlands and used all the data it could to ratify its conclusion.
…Nothing.
There was no error in its processes. There was nothing around Mrsha that explained what the hell that had been. The Grand Design ran as many searches as it could, including Isthekenous’ custom spells.
Nothing it could find. Seriously, it checked everything. Dead gods, the location of the box with Emerrhain—completely intact—Laedonius or whatever you could call it was still climbing; Cauwine swore on her sword it wasn’t her as she straightened from talking with her quarry, and she wasn’t that clever; Norechl and Tamaroth were gone, the hole was still only letting in space dust at most…
 
——
 
The ghost of a dead woman, three, one? Suffering and beaten either way, looked up as the Grand Design inspected her. She raised a trembling hand.
 
——
 
Nope. Nothing different. The Grand Design swept everything again, ignoring the begging. No clue, no trace of what it was.
After a while, it went back to work. It had undone everything before anything had happened. Revised Mrsha’s Skill just in case…
What the heck had that been? The Grand Design kept a metaphorical eye open as it dived into Kasigna’s past once more, but after finding and sensing nothing, it relaxed slightly. Perhaps ironically, it blamed Mrsha for the aberration, but she didn’t get any new Skills or levels, so it got back to work.
 
——
 
Mooooom? Do I look different?
Mrsha came downstairs with one of those cards that made any [Mother] worry. Lyonette broke away from her cold war with Nanette to look Mrsha up and down anxiously.
No blood, Mrsha hadn’t dyed her hair, and she just looked tousle-headed and sleepy.
“No, Mrsha, sweety. What? Did you do something?”
No. I had a weird dream. I thought I levelled up hugely. Just one. Guess who’s got a new Skill?
Relieved, Lyonette relaxed as Mrsha explained her new Skill, which triggered another alarm in Lyonette’s head about Mrsha’s academic diligence. But that was a different problem.
Mrsha eventually calmed down, not that she’d been that frantic, just deeply puzzled. She looked to where Nanette was sitting pointedly with her back to Lyonette, chatting away with Calescent and Ser Dalimont brightly. She sensed the strife and, for once, decided not to join in.
I’m gonna go for a walk. In Liscor. Can you send Dalimont with me?
“Sure, sweetie. He’s not doing anything important.”
Lyonette went back to feuding with Nanette, though the wand issue would be settled very shortly without the little witch’s ‘help’, thank you very much…Mrsha didn’t pay attention as Dalimont strode over.
“Where to, Mrsha? The park?”
She shrugged as if not sure, but Lyonette was just glad she wasn’t joining in with Nanette on the passive-aggressive act. Nanette thought she knew how to be frosty? Calanfer had taught Cenidau how to do a cold shoulder.
The Gnoll only turned back once at the door, as if she remembered something.
Mother?
“Yes, Mrsha? What is it?”
Can you tell Farmer Wirclaw his Fischer Cow with the two black spots on her nose, Bennsy, is about to have a breach birth? Her calf’s the wrong way around.
Lyonette blinked at Mrsha, and Nanette half-turned with a frown. It was Ishkr who glanced at the notecard.
“Are you sure?”
Nope. Maybe?
The [Head Server] gave Mrsha a considering look, then shrugged.
“Let me run this over to him. I’ll be three minutes.”
Lyonette just stood there. Farmer Wirclaw? He supplied most of the The Wandering Inn’s milk, and Lyonette was friendly with his small village; he’d been the [Farmer] who Erin had talked to when the Eater Goats attacked and the Redfang Five first came to the inn ages ago.
…But as far as she knew, Mrsha didn’t visit the farm. She was a [Druid], but that sounded incredibly specific. Was it a new Skill?
It didn’t seem like it. But Ishkr hopped out a window and began skating across the grass. Then he grimaced and shouted.
“It’s starting to rain! The rainy season’s begun—better get Rheirgest in their new village now!”
“Oh dead gods—someone call for Archmage Valeterisa! We need her bubble spell up now, and Elosaith, are you ready for—”
The entire inn broke into a flurry of chaos, and Mrsha groaned. The rains had come to Liscor, and a roar of rain began to patter on the roof. Everyone instantly dropped everything they were doing, and Nanette ran out to see the fabled rains and the Floodplains.
She’d soon get tired of it, but for now, the inn was abuzz, and Mrsha ran upstairs when Bird shouted the inn had a few leaks on the roof from damage from the Solstice. She ended up placing buckets of water to catch drops while people hammered patches into the roof, ran around, slipped on the ground, and generally prepared for the waters to rise.
 
——
 
Lyonette and Mrsha thought nothing of that odd encounter that evening. The [Princess] was so distracted with her ongoing feud with Nanette and the rains that she was understandably occupied.
Mrsha, for her part, was busy telling Kenva the rains weren’t that bad; Kenva was afraid of all the water, which endeared her to the Antinium. Then Mrsha was splashing over to the Rheirgest villagers and their mostly done homes to give them the floating rope bridge they’d need to stay connected with The Wandering Inn.
She needed rain gear, so Lyonette had her buy boots with Nanette, and Mrsha humored the witch complaining about not being ‘respected’ despite being a ‘witch’, and Mrsha realized they needed another bridge for the graves.
And they needed to add Miss Colfa and Mister Himilt’s farm to the [Portal Door] or else the two Vampires would have to walk from hill to hill for ages to get to and from Liscor.
Mrsha was not allowed to make that journey; by now, the valleys were turning to mud. Liska herself made the connection. She added a new slot to the door and shrugged when Lyonette and Mrsha stared at her.
“[Door: Add Function]. What? I’ve been there, and Erin can do it. Anyone else?”
Mrsha was drying herself by the fire and reflecting that it was great that they had the [Garden of Sanctuary] and door to Celum. Already, visitors were asking if they could get a discount on heading to Celum, which Lyonette was seriously considering.
Meanwhile, you had Pallassians entering as well as Celumites and Invrisil…ians? All to see the fabled rains. Why, even General Shirka came into the inn, not that Mrsha knew her that well. And even Lord Xitegen, who was stiffly polite to Lyonette.
He actually nodded at Mrsha before standing in the Floodplains and staring at the rains.
“Looks like hell to run in. I can’t imagine living here myself, but I do plan on seeing the famous Floodplains. I’ll give the Drakes that for tenacity.”
He adjusted his coat and eyed General Shirka as she leaned against a pillar just under the eaves pouring water from above. Neither one said anything, and neither one had some kind of critical task that only Mrsha could be entrusted with. She was just…a Gnoll girl wondering if this meant she and her friends should play in Celum from now on. Or Pallass; she heard it had an amazing playground from Kenva.
Mrsha had almost forgotten the oddity from earlier, perhaps just as a certain system intended, when someone tapped her on the shoulder.
“Mrsha? A word?”
You can’t prove I stole the cookies! Calescent doesn’t want to press any charges! I have an affidavit of my innocence signed by Watch Commander Venim!
Mrsha handed him a notecard instantly. Ishkr gave her a knowingly patient look.
“I’m not snitching on you. Though I’d watch out; Lyonette’s bound to catch wind of the thievery unless you pay off Asgra and Goldbody.”
Mrsha the Cookie Thief groaned. More people to pay off? This stealing business was way too much work! You paid the [Chef] to look the other way. You paid the accomplices their loot. Then you had to pay the witnesses, pay off the Watch, pay off your debts…
Ishkr chewed down on a fresh cookie as Mrsha glared at him. She was about to stomp off when he leaned over.
“Farmer Wirclaw sent a big jar of fresh cream over. Calescent’s turning it into whipped cream as we speak. He says, thanks to you, he got someone to help rotate the calf with a Skill. It could have been really bad if you hadn’t pointed that out.”
Mrsha stopped. She turned her head. Ishkr blinked pointedly at her. She blinked back, so confused that Ishkr grew confuzzled himself. Mrsha stood there and scratched her head until Ishkr left.
Wait…she’d been right? She’d thought—
There was no way that had been reality. No way. Mrsha knew she liked to talk a big game, but there was imagination and tall stories and…
It was a mistake. It had to be.
But there were no mistakes. She had—but the cow had—did that mean—?
Mrsha’s mind was suddenly filled with questions. She forgot completely about the cookies, about her ordinary life, about the rain and everything else. Suddenly…she had only one question, even if she had not the slightest clue where to start looking for answers.
What in the name of poo had that been?
No one knew.
Not even the Grand Design of Isthekenous.
