The next few jobs were all homes which needed patchwork repairs, all of which were handled quickly enough. Until an hour later, when the ledger showed all the jobs within Ogdenborough as being done. He’d gained a singular level in Woodworking over the course of the work, but that he’d gained anything at all doing such basic things meant there truly was a lot to be learned from the humble drudgery of a trade.

“You really finished all of those orders…” the apprentice muttered. “Eleven jobs done in an hour, where did you learn all this Orodan? Can… can anyone do all of that?”

“Of course. It’s merely a matter of how much time, dedication and intensity you’re willing to put in on a consistent basis,” Orodan said. “It’s not simply a matter of doing the job, but doing it well, and keeping a mind open to making constant improvements along the way.”

She nodded, taking in every word like a sponge.

“Well, we could turn in for the day now that the Ogdenborough backlog’s done…” she muttered. “But there’s so much to do in Exerston County too.”

“Then, what’re we waiting for?”

And off they went.

Orodan mainly operated within Volarbury County. And although he’d often patrol the road leading towards Exerston County during his militia days, he’d only been in the county proper twice in his life. Both times for the purpose of pursuing some fleeing beast or criminal that was on the run.

Volarbury County had wilderness in-between its towns, but the wild forests and plains of the county’s interior weren’t anything too dangerous. At worst, minor monsters would roam about, and the county militia oft took care of them. To the east of Volarbury County was the Aenechean Forest, a dangerous place whose inner portions were rife with deadly things, but Velestok, the town nearest to the forest, protected the rest of the county, and the deadlier creatures of the forest didn’t seem too interested in approaching the towns either. To the north were the decently guarded coastal routes, to the west was Karilsgard and sprawling civilization, and to the south was Jerestir where a natural chokepoint formed and Novarrian towns were past that.

Needless to say, Volarbury County wasn’t too dangerous a place to live. It was civilized, and humans had dwelled there for a decent amount of time. The same couldn’t be said for Exerston County, however.

During the time of Novarria, Exerston County hadn’t been settled too well. It was a wild place, and the forests between the towns and villages were deep and untamed. Ogdenborough was the town nearest to this place, and many of the monster incursions Orodan had to respond to during his time with the militia came from Exerston County. The Republic upon securing independence though, had made a great push to settle and tame these lands.

Upon crossing the border, Orodan saw frequent road patrols by the Exerston County militia, mounted riders and hunters walking alongside each troop, ready to pursue and eradicate any monsters. Yet despite their best efforts some would get through, making the roads noticeably less safe than the roads of Volarbury County were. Adventurer parties were also commonplace on the roads, oft being hired to aid in taming the wild nature of this place.

Three times something had seemed ready to assail them, scared off by Orodan as the re-connection of his fate and soul to the tapestry meant monsters could now get an instinctive feel for how strong he was again. Needless to say, the carpenter’s apprentice traveling with him would normally walk alongside a road patrol or any adventuring party. The roads of Exerston County simply weren’t safe for solo travel the way the roads of Volarbury County were.

The first town they went to seemed normal enough. A few requests for minor repairs and maintenance which Orodan ended up tearing down and building from the ground up entirely. It was past the towns in the ‘safer’ part of the county that one could notice differences. Past a certain point, towns, villages and even hamlets began to have walls surrounding them.

And soon, near the walls of their destination settlement, he could see why.

“Fire! Shoot that troll!” a sergeant of the Exerston County militia yelled.

The salvo of arrows and bolts turned a troll who was threatening the walls of the village into a pincushion, dropping dead shortly after. A large bear with glowing eyes also tried charging the gate, only for a member of their militia’s mounted unit to lance it through the head at full gallop.

“Travelers! Come in! Come in!” the sergeant beckoned. “Open the door for those two!”

Although it was nominally a village, Axenshield was closer to being a town. He’d heard some talk about it being due for such recognition soon, in the old days before the time loops. Inside, the village seemed rather normal, with farmers, shepherds and tradesfolk walking about, unconcerned about the fight the guards just had.

“Volarbury County militia, eh? Rather far from home, aren’t you?” the sergeant asked, offering a hand. “Sergeant Alamar Taj.”

“Orodan Wainwright. Just here to do some Woodworking,” he replied, taking the hand. “I’ve never been this far into the county before.”

“Neither have I seen any man or woman bearing the Volarbury uniform this far in. Well, except when my cousin visits, I suppose,” the Sergeant said. “He’s a mounted unit captain up in your county. Ever heard of a Keharion Taj?”

“I might’ve seen him a time or two,” Orodan replied. “Small world.”

“Indeed! Who would’ve thought you knew him too?!” the man cheerfully exclaimed, sounding quite excited at the prospect of someone knowing his cousin. “Come on in and welcome to the village of Axenshield! I have not a clue why you’re here to do Woodworking, but it’s no business of mine. Truth be told, this village has been waiting for the arrival of a carpenter for at least a few weeks now. The people will be glad to see you.”

“Such a long delay?” Orodan asked. “I’d heard the Woodworkers and carpenters of this county are swamped with work, but I wasn’t aware it was that bad.”

“Eh, it’s just a normal part of life this time of year. Bluefire sends out recruitment offers and scholarships, and the noble houses and wealthier merchants do their headhunting for talent, and before you know it half the tradesfolk in town lose their assistants and apprentices as they leave for greener fields and better opportunities. Which of course leaves trades like Woodworking, Blacksmithing and the like in high demand with not enough hands to do the work,” the Sergeant explained. “Our county’s local crafting academies are working overtime to get the matter sorted, they have multiple Woodworkers in training, being worked to the bone as we speak so that they might hit the field and alleviate the burden. Still, for now there’s simply too much work and not enough people to do it. Doesn’t help that Exerston County’s such a wild place and the villages and towns have their walls attacked so regularly. Lots of repairs to be made.”

A quick glance at the walls verified that last statement. The walls of this village could certainly use some work, given the number of cracks, scratches and breaks.

“I will handle the repair of your walls,” Orodan declared, deciding he would take this village on as his project.

“You… what? Apologies, I mean of course we appreciate the help, but Burgher Rockwood’s carpenters will be arriving three days from now and I fear the town couldn’t afford their salary and paying you for your aid,” the Sergeant stated. “The walls are quite expansive too, so I doubt you’d get more than a section done before their arrival. And I assume you also have customers you’re here to service?”

Orodan simply nodded in acknowledgement. Payment would not be necessary. He would return to the walls soon.

He and the carpenter’s apprentice tagging along then made for the customers in town.

The first, the blacksmith.

“How good’s your Woodworking?” the heavy-set man asked, hammering away. “Wasn’t aware Westwater of Ogdenborough was sending someone else in his stead.”

“Elite,” Orodan answered, causing the man’s hammer to freeze mid-swing.

Even the girl with him seemed shocked at the admission.

“An actual Elite? Something tells me you aren’t lying either… what’s someone like you doing in this village?” the smith asked. “Axenshield’s main export is food, and the occasional batch of magical ingredients put together by our gatherers. We don’t have anything valuable that the likes of you would be interested in.”

“Be at ease, I’m not here to cause trouble,” Orodan assured.

“I certainly hope not. Haven’t seen any Woodworker carry a sword and shield around or look the way you do,” the man remarked, and then put a metallic axe head on the table. “To business then. The woodworkers are busy fortifying the towns and keeps, which means I have nobody capable of making hafts and handles for a number of the weapons I need to create. I’ve dabbled in a bit of Woodworking myself, but while I can make Apprentice-level weapons… I cannot attach an Adept-level weapon head to an inferior handle. Can you help me?”

“Certainly, let’s get to work,” Orodan declared. “Bring me the appropriate quality wood for each one, and I shall start fashioning the handles and hafts you require.”

The blacksmith was prudent and immediately brought out high-quality logs. The sort which must have been sitting in his storage for a while. Of course, at the sight of Orodan tearing it down to size with his bare hands, the man looked ready to faint.

“Wait! Wait! Those are delicate and expensive! Sourced from House Simarji themselves!”

“If it’s the lack of tools you’re concerned about, worry not, I work better with my hands or tools of my own making.”

“Of your own making…? You’re a blacksmith too?”

“Only Adept.”

“Only…!”

The man remained rather quiet after that.

Orodan took his time carving the handle, making sure it was clean, of a perfect shape and the grain aligned perfectly. The material itself was Adept-level, but by the end of it he was confident his Woodworking had brought it a step higher.

Identify shot out.

[Name: Pure Red Ash HandleDescription: A finely carved wooden handle, made of red ash wood. Hundred-percent material purity.Tier: Elite]

Not too shabby, but he felt there was room for improvement. It was at least a tier lower than the time he’d perfected the structure of his sword down to the smallest particle; and Orodan wondered if he could do the same for his shield somehow. Still, he hadn’t used his Celestial skill to the extreme either; if he did Orodan was confident in producing a Master-level item.

“Should be good enough for your purposes, yes?” Orodan asked.

“This is simply too much! Ugh… you realize I’m but an Adept-level Blacksmith, correct?” the smith asked and Orodan nodded. “How am I supposed to market this as my work when the handle’s an entire tier stronger than the blade?”

“Market it as an axe excellent for defense?” Orodan suggested. “In any case, we have more fittings to do, and I have no time to waste.”

The man could only accept what was occurring. He created a dozen more wooden handles, hafts and poles before finishing and the blacksmith looked almost relieved to have Orodan out of his smithy. The smith had been the main client in this village, the remaining few were all customers with minor requests, during which Orodan began showing the apprentice with him some of the finer points of Woodworking.

Over the course of those few hours of work, he’d gained one more level in Woodworking.

At last, with the work done, he stepped out of the gates and approached the palisade walls once more.

It was a hideous sight. The construction of the walls was done adequately enough… by the standards of an amateur erecting a hasty fortification. To Orodan’s Elite-level Woodworking though, he saw many points which could be improved upon. Cracks, splinters and more riddled the wooden palisade surrounding Axenshield. It had clearly taken a beating and repairs hadn’t been done. Hells, even the ropes and fibres binding each log of the palisade together were fraying at many points, and the nails securing many of the reinforcing backboards on the defending side were worn and coming out. The earthwork too, established as the foundation for this wooden fortification, was beginning to fall apart at certain points. It was as though an amateur had constructed a rushed wall and any professional woodworkers coming by for repairs and maintenance had then been too lazy to redo it correctly from the ground up.

More than just a woodworker would be needed to fix this.

Building a proper wooden palisade wall was nothing revolutionary. Orodan had learned the theory behind it during his education at Bluefire, and he’d seen successful wooden fortifications constructed by an Elite throughout Volarbury County and the Republic. Now, instead of just beholding them he would serve as the Elite, responsible for constructing a proper fortification for this village.

His first move then, was to get wood. He began uprooting trees by hand. A simple task with little concern of deforestation given how wild Exerston County was and that this village was practically surrounded by the thicket.

Of course, the soldiers on the walls had a lot to say about the display.

“Who the hells is that?!”

“He’s uprooting trees with his bare hands!”

“Must be an Elite! A hidden Elite’s come for an inspection!”

“Oi! Isn’t that the militia man from Volarbury County that entered a few hours ago?”

