The landscape of Alastaia’s moon was a lifeless grey. Naught but rocks, dust and the distant flitting of herds of soul-devouring monsters were visible. A shame, considering what this barren husk had once been.

Orodan had a thought, kept closely guarded, that one day he wanted to give back to Zaessythra for everything she’d done for him. He idly filed it away for a later time.

“A rather bland and desolate place, the decor could use some work, and the gray color scheme is a tad overdone.”

“I apologize that the Alastaia’s barren moon isn’t to your liking, your royal wandering majesty,” Orodan sarcastically spat. “This used to be a sprawling world once, rife with its own cities, history… and even a ruler.”

“I suppose the ruins beneath my legs might be a worthy endeavor for exploration and choice bits of looting,” Talricto said.

“Long as you avoid the many construct guardians and the various soul-devouring beasts braying for anything which looks edible,” Orodan said.

“I’ve traversed far harsher locales, my foolish student,” Talricto reminded. “The various planes of the elemental spirits, the burning layers of the hells and even brief forays into isolated places between galaxies where naught but death awaits. Even the most hazardous of these locations still had a deadly beauty about them. This place is just dispiriting.”

“That tends to be the case when a world’s core is destroyed and the life dies out over a few hundred-thousand years. Nothing left here but soul-sucking things which are in a state of perpetual starvation,” Orodan remarked. “Kept away only by the threat of guaranteed death which I pose to them.”

“Which is why I set foot onto this desolate waste only at your behest,” Talricto said. “I’ve plundered the vaults of the dwarves and pilfered holy relics of those sanctimonious fools from the Conclave. I’m used to being surrounded by splendorous treasure and a landscape of art and refinement.”

“Then why were you bare of any such things when I met you?” Orodan asked.

“T-two separate things, I assure you!” the spider stammered out. “When you found me, I was a noble wanderer at his lowest! Forced to flee after angering one too many resentful beings across the cosmos. Many of my possessions were left behind in the chaos of my escape.”

“And who did you anger exactly?” Orodan asked, suddenly curious.

“Er… nobody of import, certainly none who would bother my eager but untalented student!”

“You mistake me, my wise but incendiary teacher. I ask because I’m always looking forward to a good fight,” Orodan clarified, a happy grin on his face. “Lead your pursuers my way and I shall happily face them myself.”

“Right, I’d forgotten your brutish tendencies. How do you expect to enter Lonvoron acting like a two-bit goon?”

“A two-bit goon?” Orodan asked, more amused than offended.

“Yes, a two-bit goon, not even a creative one either. Our meeting began with you thuggishly assaulting and holding me hostage, from there you made some crude attempts at pitiful craftsmanship and any problem you’ve spoken about thus far has had a solution which has either involved direct force or the implication of it,” Talricto said. “How a ruffian like you was chosen for these time loops you speak of is beyond my comprehension.”

“I have my… redeeming qualities,” Orodan defended.

He wasn’t even that much of a ruffian!

“You entirely are.”

Zaessythra could shut up.

“I suppose your thick skull and obstinate nature have a rudimentary charm. Now tell me why you’ve brought us to the moon of your world. Wait, I see! In case something goes wrong, and you’re detected you want an out-of-the-way secondary location to escape to?” Talricto asked. “Surprisingly forward thinking by you, my student! Perhaps there is hope for-”

“No. I brought us here so I don’t kill any innocent people with how much power I’m about to channel.”

Orodan ignored Talricto’s mutters about him being a savage lout, and he focused.

Traveling to another galaxy was an extreme endeavor. The distances between them were colossal, and prior to acquiring the foundational Systemless understandings of spatiomancy and creating his own System, Orodan could not have attempted this at all.

Now though, was a different matter. The ground under him began coming apart as he channelled truly massive amounts of power, to the point where Talricto’s body became translucent, the spider halfway stepping into another plane to avoid getting hurt. His control over spatiomancy was no longer tenuous with the application of tremendous power.

Yet even then this would be a trying test.

In the past, when Orodan performed high -level displays of spatiomancy, space itself sometimes shook, perhaps it trembled, maybe it even shattered.

What he wasn’t expecting, was that it would completely unravel.

[Space Mastery 92 → Space Mastery 94]

[Spatial Fold 86 → Spatial Fold 88]

He could possibly shatter space over the course of a destructive battle against a peer adversary, but to directly manipulate it with his full power? It caused the unravelling of it, and suddenly everything became far looser, making his Spatial Fold far easier. However, Orodan could sense hungry things in the cracks of loosened space.

“You…! You’re unravelling space itself, you feckless dimwit!” Talricto scolded, seeming quite terrified. “Has no one taught you to be wary of what can come crawling through the gaps in loosened space?”

Frankly, nobody actually had. In fact, Orodan wasn’t even aware that space could outright unravel, mainly because it wasn’t a phenomenon ever seen before. He’d never tried throwing his all into a Spatial Fold which might cross the distance between galaxies.

“You did that intentionally, don’t lie. A Teleport would’ve sufficed just as well,” Zaessythra said.

Perhaps he had. It had been far too long since he’d tested the true limits of Spatial Fold.

His Spatial Fold shot out in a straight line from Alastaia’s moon, past the galactic boundary, and through the void between galaxies all the way to just outside the edge of the Vystaxium Galaxy. It was ready, waiting for him to step through.

A few hungry things began entering through the unravelled space though. Transcendent-level creatures.

“Void beasts! They hunger for our flesh and souls!” Talricto warned, whipping its webs towards the first of them, a gray-skinned humanoid which looked rather similar to a Void Horror. It was sliced into neat cubes, courtesy of the new Blessing which empowered the spider, allowing it to channel far more power into its attacks.

More came through, and Orodan’s sword got to work.

The second, a flying whale-like Transcendent creature lunged for him, only to be sent flying, head pulped, as Orodan’s shield bash brutally smashed it in the face. The third, a strange glowing red cloud of gas, some kind of amorphous being. He felt a subtle attack on his mind, soul and sanity but easily brushed it off. A follow-up charge and a thousand strikes with the sword caused the cloud to scatter and fade within a second.

A tentacled horror came through, as did an ethereal being made entirely of energy, but upon seeing him slaughter the gaseous cloud they both turned around and went back to where they came from.

“It seems they have some idea of self-preservation,” Orodan said. “Let’s step through before more arrive. The cancellation of my Spatial Fold might return space to normal.”

“No. No it will not,” Talricto said. “You’ll have to manually repair it, or someone else will. Your short-sighted idiocy has broken the boundaries of the very galaxy, and now who knows what will get in.”

Well… that truly was short-sighted of him. In his defense, Orodan hadn’t known space could utterly unravel like that if too much raw power was thrown towards it. A less destructive spell, like Teleportation, wouldn’t have caused this issue. But Spatial Fold’s entire function was the gripping and folding of space.

Pouring too much power into it ran the very real risk of tearing the very canvas apart.

Orodan was just starting to think about using chronomancy to salvage the situation when the emergence of something rather large changed any thought of those plans.

Orodan, like any reasonable being of six feet, six inches of height, was prone to looking upwards when something gigantic appeared in front of him. Of course, when the creature presenting itself cast a shadow across their entire star system, it was a different matter. Frankly, with the way it loomed over him he would have to break his neck and look behind his back to see the end of it.

As Orodan began falling upwards, he realized that it was larger than the sun, larger than any interstellar object he’d ever seen. It began affecting the moon and Alastaia’s gravity with its very presence. What the hells did they feed this thing? Talricto had fled once gravity began changing, wise.

He’d slain a mutant dragon the size of a large world. Yet, to stand before a round, blue crystalline being with glowing eyes the size of massive stars was a different matter. It was larger than a solar system, and Orodan had a singular moment to use Observe.

[Observe 11 → Observe 15]

[Name: Ur-Vah’sahn the Harmonious (Species: Living Crystal)Title 1: Embodiment of Assimilation]

And he learned, that he wasn’t the only one who could choose to use less title slots than they had available.

The universe was a big place, and Orodan had forgotten that Administrators aside, there were plenty of beings in the same tier of power, even if they weren’t their equals.

A crystal tendril reached out from the gargantuan mass, making contact, impossibly quick. It wanted to bring him into its fold, show him love, happiness… harmony.

Orodan fought the mental attack off and replied with his own answer.

[Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 73 → Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 74]

It was a mighty blow, one which could’ve slain even a peak-Transcendent and destroyed an entire star! Indeed, Orodan’s strike, fuelled by all his might, caused a horrible gouge to appear upon the face of this Embodiment-level thing. He wasn’t weak and helpless. He could at the very least, harm something, even at the Embodiment-level.

The crystalline being resonated, and an ear-piercing noise which sounded like ice shattering erupted. It was in pain… and it was angry. Which was when the blue crystals composing the being began roiling with copious amounts of cyan energy, and Orodan, and all Alastaia behind him was poised for instant eradication.

As the attack which could destroy multiple star systems approached, Orodan wondered if he too should re-adjust his titles. After all, he had an unused fifth title slot from when he’d reached the Grandmaster-level.

And as the darkness took him, Orodan scratched Spatial Fold off the list of potential methods for entering Lonvoron.

#

“By the seven hells… they build you soldier sorts different, eh?”

“Regardless of what path one pursues in life, both mind and body are equally important to hone. One in turn empowers the other, a feedback loop of constant improvement,” Orodan said, twisting the wheel into its correct shape with his bare hands. “But you seem to already know this, those arms are respectable.”

[Maintenance 34 → Maintenance 35]

“While I’m not on the level of my sister or a muscle-bound rock like you, I suppose I’ve wrestled a boar or two growing up on a farm,” the stocky woman said with a grin. “Hannegan told me about what you did to the warehouse; you plannin’ on taking your skills to the Burgher?”

“No. My journey will take me someplace far from here,” Orodan said to Bodil Bistrid.

He was in Scarmorrow, specifically, in the warehouse belonging to the Republic’s Department of Infrastructure. He had drained the ancient machine, sent Baron Viglas packing, abducted and secured a deal with Talricto and sent a letter to Destartes. This then, would be the routine for his new set of loops while he figured out through trial and error, how to enter Lonvoron without alerting anyone.

Stealth - not normally his way of going about things - was necessary not just to find the paranoid previous time looper, but also to avoid a battle of titanic scale where plenty of people would end up dead on Lonvoron as collateral. Given what had occurred to Alastaia a singular loop ago during his clash with that Living Crystal, it was better to be safe than sorry. A fight at the Embodiment-level seemed… quite destructive.

He and Talricto agreed to meet upon the moon tomorrow, which still gave Orodan a full day. He intended to maximize his training during this full day on each attempt.

“Far from here? You headed out into the forest or somethin’?” she asked. “Or… maybe you’re crossing the border and headed to Novarria! I always wanted to see Novar’s Peak since I was a little girl. My mother would tell me stories of how the old emperor’s spirit still wanders the halls of his grand citadel.”

He would be crossing a border alright, a galactic border. Still, he remembered the days when his world was only as large as Volarbury County.

“Novar’s Peak’s a pretty place. You might like it there,” Orodan remarked, finishing up his work on the second wheel and slotting it back into place. “And there’s always some truth to those tall tales and fables. Personally, I think Balastion Novar’s still alive, sitting in meditation at the bottom of his citadel.”

“Heh! No way! Who told you that one?” she asked with a laugh, causing Orodan to smile. “Can you imagine someone being that old? I’d go mad.”

