“He was being a bit dramatic,” Orodan clarified. “Can’t say I have any interest in becoming your new apprentice though.”

“With some of the work I saw, I should be your apprentice,” Westwater said, frowning. “What was it? A Blessing? Bloodline? Possession by a demon?”

“Neither of those. Now then, here’s your ledger,” Orodan handed it to him, and the man practically snatched it.

Westwater opened it, reading through… and the man’s eyes began to widen.

“By Halor… it really is true. They weren’t blowing smoke up my rear when they said some mad county militia man’s going around rebuilding everyone’s homes and fences,” Westwater said, and then looked at the pouch on his apprentice’s lap. “All the money’s here too… you really did clear out my ledger.”

“It was good practice.”

For a moment, Westwater was entirely silent.

“I see… you must be some sort of hidden prodigy. Well, I shan’t question who you are or why you’re doing what you do,” the old carpenter said. “But I sense, more than money… you’re after skills and learning, yes?”

“Quite so, glad you’ve caught on quick.”

“Heh… I’ve met wandering nutters of your sort a time or two in my long life,” the old man said, and then pointed to the wooden scraps all over the floor. “Do you know the Recycling skill?”

Recycling? Orodan had heard of it a handful of times but had never bothered to learn it. From what he knew, it was mainly used by low-level crafters to save wasted material. Nothing a crafter of means or skill bothered using. Scavengers who picked battlefields and tombs dry would sometimes invest in the skill too.

Westwater was known in Ogdenborough for recycling discarded wooden waste and creating new products through it. It was one of the main reasons the poorer people in town could afford any furniture. If anyone knew the skill, of course it would be him.

“I do not,” Orodan admitted. “…will you teach me?”

“I was hoping you would ask,” Westwater said. “Come. Work with me and let’s turn these useless shavings and discarded wooden detritus into something useful. Do not use that strange magical wood-binding skill of yours either.”

Under the old carpenter’s direction, Orodan worked. He gathered the various shavings from different types of wood and labored to join them all together into a cohesive product.

“How do I even do this? Some of these shavings are from Apprentice-level products, some are from Adept-level material. It makes no sense,” Orodan said, struggling.

“Keep working on it, and you’ll see.”

He really didn’t.

How was this silly Recycling skill supposed to work with so many disparate objects which had no congruity? As Orodan worked, he thought about his own attacks, and how much energy he wasted. His spells, his mana, his soul energy.

Over the course of the next two hours, he finally cobbled something abysmal together. The product of a lot of adhesive, wilful thinking and stubborn insistence. Of course, he refused to use Wood Communion as the carpenter said, and he also refused to use his Celestial skill as that would be cheating.

[New Skill → Recycling 1]

“I have the skill, but still I do not understand how this can be congruent,” Orodan said.

“Do you not?” the carpenter asked and then pointed to the floor. “Did you not ask me if you could lend a hand in cleaning?”

What did this old man mean?

As Orodan’s eyes scanned the floor and saw nothing, he then finally understood what Westwater meant.

A bare floor. A new skill.

But most importantly…

…a perspective.

Orodan’s fist clenched in elation.

“How… how did you know I would gain from this?”

“You had that dumb look on your face that all plucky prodigies do. Sometimes they can gain a lot by studying the humblest of things.”

The carpenter wasn’t wrong. Orodan would remember this favor.

It was time to tackle the attempt at Lonvoron once more.

#

“So this entire time, you’ve been dawdling, building silly wooden walls and cobbling garbage together while working as a carpenter?”

“There’s more to it than you’re making it seem. I also had to make some arrangements with a group of revolutionaries after I purged certain divine influences from Alastaia.”

“Seems no more than buffoonery to me, my ignorant student,” Talricto said.

Orodan sighed, used to the dimensional spider’s antics by now.

“I hope you get eaten by something on the way to Lonvoron,” Orodan said.

“I’m afraid that’s your job, given all the attention you’ve been attracting. Try not to die this time, will you?” Talricto asked, winking out of existence.

“Feh… I’ll show that arrogant bug…”

Orodan really would too. This time, he was ready.

[Teleportation 87 → Teleportation 88]

As always, the Teleportation initially felt fine, but he was beginning to pick up on the subtle tells that someone else had hijacked his spell.

“At last, the source of this disorder is revealed.”

Orodan looked directly at where the spider tried hiding. Seventy-two tries and he now knew where it stood each time.

The golden arrow of light coming his way was dissipated via a mighty Smite of Abrupt Deliverance.

[Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 79 → Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 80]

“Impressive, as expected of a being which can cause the tapestry to upend. Transcendent, yet capable of standing against those who have achieved Embodiment,” Alagameth called out.

Orodan however, was done wasting time.

A brute force teleport shot out, and he attempted to close the distance towards the spider.

Over the last seventy-two attempts, Orodan had graduated from making the spider exert itself, to forcing it to immediately use its full spatiomancy power.

“Tch! To think such a brutish approach could be so effective… where have you learned spatiomancy from?” the Embodiment of Space asked. “Hmm, I suppose it matters not. Your techniques though powerful, are still crude and no match for my finesse.”

It wasn’t wrong either.

Orodan had definitely come far, but he was still at least a few hundred loops away from being able to outright overpower this being whose very existence was geared towards spatiomancy. Or he would be, if he hadn’t learned some new skills.

And these new skills in tandem with a particular one… could make Orodan Wainwright’s spatiomancy very terrifying.

[Combat Mastery 107 → Combat Mastery 108]

Combat Transcendence activated.

Logistics, the humble skill which guided it all, immediately took the reins. Orodan had communicated his expectations to it ahead of time. Right when he’d learned his latest skill, this was the moment it had been waiting for.

Space Mastery was the backbone, Teleportation was the offense, and Logistics brought it all together with the latest skill in his repertoire… Weaving.

The fine movements of the skill initially confused Orodan when he learned it. It forced him to move his fingers in novel ways. And while that was beneficial enough if applied to his physical skills, the real gain came from applying the winding and twisting concepts of weaving to the flows of his soul energy and spells.

[Space Mastery 95 → Space Mastery 96]

[Teleportation 88 → Teleportation 89]

[Logistics 25 → Logistics 26]

[Weaving 30 → Weaving 31]

His teleport shot out in a weaving pattern, efficient, possessed of far more power packed into a tighter cast, and just better. Furthermore, its casting was erratic, confusing for any opponent to read correctly, much less control!

Spiders were, however, natural weavers. And the foe he faced wasn’t just any spatial spider, but an Embodiment of Space. He’d faced Administrators before, but they were so far beyond him that the differences between them and Transcendents weren’t obvious at a glance.

Now though, facing one that he stood a chance against, he realized that an Embodiment was a peak existence of the cosmos in its chosen skill.

Orodan’s teleport, backed by his endless power clearly flummoxed the spider. However, just as he could have mid-battle breakthroughs, so could his opponents. After all, a being didn’t become an Embodiment of Space by being lazy or untalented.

It lost control of his teleport, but at the very least managed to get away.

But that too was fine!

For the last skill Orodan added to the mix accounted for even the unnatural talent of his monstrous opponent.

[Recycling 1 → Recycling 5]

[Combat Mastery 108 → Combat Mastery 109]

The soul energy, the spatial ripples, the collateral destruction tearing through space as a result of his failed teleport… Orodan grabbed it all with Domain of Perfect Cleaning and brought it back to himself. And with it, he fired off another brute force teleport, adding the previous cast’s power to it.

Alagameth’s beady little eyes widened in terror as Orodan successfully managed to overpower its control over space for the first time. It tried getting away, but Orodan’s left hand gripped both its front legs tightly, his raw might clearly superior to its own.

It looked ready to tear off its own limbs to escape! Unfortunately, Orodan’s free hand promised only death, and as it descended towards the spatial spider’s head, it looked to hit first before any escape could be made.

It would be Orodan’s first kill of an Embodiment-level being. The first step towards truly facing monstrous opponents like the Administrators.

His hand descended…

…and the resounding echo of a well-deserved smack upon the head reverberated through the void between galaxies.

A red welt appeared where Orodan’s hand connected, and he could almost see a handprint.

“You… slapped me.”

“Of course I did, who goes around pulling people from their teleports to give them a beating?” Orodan pointedly asked and then let go of the spider’s legs. “Now let’s go again, that was good, but I have more to learn.”

“You actually slapped me…”

“Repeating it over and over won’t undo it,” Orodan said. “Accept it like a man and let’s continue.”

“Spatial spider, not a man,” it said calmly, the hostility slowly vanishing from its body.

“Eh, semantics, accept it like a spider then, I care not. Let’s resume our bout!”

“You are a mad man,” it declared. “What is your name, mad one who shakes the web of fate? What brings you to traverse the void between galaxies when hungry predators circle about, intent on finding the source of this chaos in the tapestry?”

“Orodan Wainwright. I was trying to travel to Lonvoron undetected, and then you showed up ready to give me a beating. Not that I mind, as I’m always down for a good brawl.”

“Lonvoron…? Ah, right. The world so secretively guarded by that paranoid being…” it muttered. “A predator beyond the likes of which you can handle approaches. What will you do now, Orodan Wainwright?”

“Well, I was going to fight it and then after I win, find a way to travel to Lonvoron without being detected.”

“A true mad man… but one with a colossal fate, and a man possessed of a merciful heart.”

“What are you talking about?” Orodan asked.

“I am afraid, I cannot allow you to die, Orodan Wainwright,” the spider said. “Go now, to Lonvoron.”

“I’m perfectly capable of getting there mys-”

Any protests Orodan had were cut off. The spider must have been taking it easy on him, or he must’ve gotten lucky and surprised it. The following grasp on his body via spatiomancy was monstrously powerful and sent him hurtling through the folds of space.

For an instant, he saw land. The black smoke of a gigantic metallic building, rainy streets flooding with a thunderstorm, and various metallic carriages powered by steam. And then, the sudden crash through the roof of a building.

Orodan extricated himself from the pile of rifles he fell into, only to find an amused Talricto hanging off a web from a part of the now broken roof.

“Despite your brutish countenance I see you’ve actually managed to enter undetected,” Talricto said. “How many loops did it take you? Thousands?”

“Not even a hundred… but that stupid spider… I didn’t even ask to be sent here!”

He hadn’t earned this damn it!

“Oi! Who’s there?! Is that a vagabond I hear!”

Orodan grabbed the lanky man about to look around the corner and put a hand over his mouth.

“No vagabonds here… just a sorely disappointed man…”

“A sorely disappointed idiot you mean. Not everything will want to kill you or even see you dead.”

In any case, here he was, on another world in another galaxy. He was certain he’d mess it up a few times and have to loop back; he could have his fair entry then. But for now, dissatisfying and unearned as it was, he had made it to Lonvoron.

Around him, a world of steam, magic and metallic vehicles. And in his hands, all the opportunity to learn and take the first steps towards his grand ambition.

And also in his hands, a scared laborer whose mouth was still covered by Orodan’s hand.
