Its alarmed reaction let Orodan know that it would certainly be an effective avenue. It hissed and reared back hastily, however at his current level, Dimensional Step simply wasn’t quick enough. The moment Orodan entered the material plane via Dimensional Step, multiple spatial rifts were waiting for him, re-directing him further away and also sending his foe to safety.

Transporting him via spatiomancy, while impossible for most, wasn’t so for this spider who was a complete natural at the art of manipulating space. Orodan could only hold so much soul energy in his body at once without dying, and this spider seemed capable of working directly manipulating him.

It was terrifyingly powerful.

The thought brought a mad smile to his face.

“Clever, holding your dimensional abilities in reserve to surprise me,” it said. “It shall not work again.”

“I don’t plan on trying it ever again either,” Orodan said. “If I cannot beat you through spatiomancy alone, then my name isn’t Orodan Wainwright.”

Using Dimensionalism? Using chronomancy? What sort of cheap way out was that? Orodan would face it head-on and train his spatiomancy, using it as his whetstone.

Just as a House Argon archer had once been his whetstone at the Apprentice-level… this Embodiment-level spider archer would now be the same.

Against all odds, it backed away.

“Orodan Wainwright… I will remember that name. You are reckless and will die acting as you are. While I have no interest in killing you, something else out here certainly will,” it spoke calmly, quite rational. “I shall depart now; our playtime was entertaining but any longer and the hungry predators will come sniffing. One already makes its way hither. It can deal with you and put an end to the havoc you have wreaked upon the tapestry.”

With a wink of power, the spatial spider vanished, leaving just Orodan.

Not for long though, as the familiar approach of a solar system-sized crystal mass approached.

Orodan fought hard, but as usual, he wasn’t a match for the monstrous Embodiment-level Living Crystal; not yet.

A keening wail ringing in the night sky awoke him, and Orodan’s eyes narrowed.

A steep barrier lay in front of him.

“Or… you could just extricate yourself from the tapestry of fate and use Dimensional Step?” Zaessythra suggested. “Alternately, you could use dimensionalism while fighting that spider.”

What a silly thing to recommend. Hells, given her tone even she hadn’t seriously thought he would take that advice.

Remove himself from the tapestry? Use Dimensionalism?

He might as well join the Cathedral and become a pacifist.

Orodan would beat these new adversaries at their own game. The spider would be dealt with via spatiomancy alone… and that over-sized crystal… would be mined of all useful material and turned into something useful.

No matter how many loops it took, Orodan Wainwright would do it no way but the hardest way.

Wake up, handle his ancillary matters relating to the machine, Destartes and House Argon, and then kidnap Talricto before spending a day working on a skill or two.

Who knew? He might learn something useful.

#

“Old Westwater, I’ve come to lend you a hand!” Orodan declared, opening the door forcefully enough that some of the items on the shelves fell to the ground.

“O-Orodan! What in the Gods’ name are you doing here?”

Old Westwater. The only dedicated carpenter of Ogdenborough. Somehow, the man looked even older than Old Man Hannegan did. How he operated a woodworking shop despite his advanced age and frail-looking frame was beyond him. If Orodan recalled, the man was nearing the Adept-level as a Woodworker. Not someone who’d be contracted by the nobility, but for the purposes of day-to-day life, more than enough.

In Ogdenborough, the clientele and needs of the population were rather varied. On one hand, Old Westwater served the more well-off people in town such as the crooked mayor, Sergeant Woodgard, and of course… the tavern in Eversong Plaza. But on the other, the man was quite decent at recycling old wooden items and scrap into functional furniture, something which allowed the poorer people in town to have some furniture. Orodan’s bedside table was one such item, which even if a bit dilapidated, still served him well.

“What else? Here to offer you a hand in your shop,” Orodan said.

“What? Since when do you know any Woodworking?” the man asked, suspicion apparent. “And I can’t afford to pay another apprentice. The one I have gives me headaches enough. And pick up those things you dropped, will you?”

A casual display of chronomancy had all the fallen items returning to their proper spots on the shelves. Something which caused the old carpenter to stutter and stammer for a few seconds.

“I don’t need any money, I’m just here to work,” Orodan said.

“Since when do you know magic?!” the carpenter barked out in surprise and then took on a considering look.

“For a while now. But we’re getting off-topic, will you let me help you?” Orodan asked, eyeing some of the in-progress jobs lying about the shop. “Lot of jobs here and not enough hands to do them.”

“What’s in it for you?” the carpenter asked. “And my apprentice and I work hard, but the demands of the town are many and varied. We’ve been behind schedule for a long time now.”

“I get to clear my head and think on other things. Important to balance battle alongside a calmer hobby,” Orodan said, scrutinizing a particular piece. “This wheel’s not made incorrectly, but it won’t be able to tolerate much stress. Better hope whatever cart it’s meant for isn’t going to carry a lot of weight. Who ordered this?”

The carpenter frowned.

“Damned girl… the wheel was supposed to help fix some cart in Scarmorrow, ordered by the supervisor for a warehouse, I think. I have a bunch meant for that customer but filling them is proving rather difficult when the various requests from you militia, the mayor and my customers in Exerston County keep piling up.”

Orodan idly noted that Bodil Bistrid in Scarmorrow was probably the customer the carpenter was referring to. Good thing he’d fixed the carts himself last loop.

“Exerston County? Why would you be getting business from there? They don’t have their own woodworkers?” Orodan asked.

“Woodworkers who are entirely tied up with servicing the adventuring parties or repairing town fortifications after all the monster attacks they’ve been having. Any spare time they have is then monopolized by nobles and the highest bidders,” Westwater explained. “The regular folk still need things done, and the carpenters of Exerston County are too tied up to do it. And speaking of doing jobs for the regular folk, welcome back, my clumsy apprentice. You owe me three wheels.”

“W-what? I did them right, Mister Westwater, I swear!” the girl protested and then noticed him. “You!”

“Me?” Orodan asked.

“Yes, you! You have some nerve showing your face to me after what you did!” the girl said, angry. “Laneia won’t even go by the barracks thanks to you!”

“Who the hells is Laneia?” Orodan asked, bewildered.

“You idiot! You and her had a tumble in the hay last year! Don’t you remember? The blacksmith’s daughter?!” she pointedly asked, and only now did Orodan recall who this girl was talking about. “She’s my friend, and your impromptu vanishing act impressed no one. I don’t care how big and scary you are, somebody needs to tell you to your face that you’re a no-good rascal.”

“Breaking hearts already? Should I be worried, Orodan?”

Zaessythra sounded more amused than jealous. If anything, Orodan was a little irritated at this dumb line of questioning.

“Well, Laneia should’ve known what the expectations were. She certainly said nothing to me,” Orodan said, not remembering much about the event. “And instead of gossiping about other people’s affairs like the village hag, you could stand to focus on your Woodworking.”

The girl turned red and sputtered in outrage.

“What would you know about Woodworking?!” she angrily demanded.

“Enough to know that these wheels were made for the wrong sort of load. These are meant to go onto carts, not wheelbarrows. The Department of Infrastructure and their carts tend to undergo heavy duty work. These wheels won’t be able to bear the strain for long,” Orodan explained.

“Mister Westwater! Why are we letting this troublemaker into our shop?!” the apprentice exclaimed, too embarrassed and angry to receive any criticism. “If you’re not here to buy something, then get out!”

“Now hold on. Orodan… can you fix them?” the carpenter asked, and he nodded.

Orodan grabbed the wheels and began using Wood Communion to strengthen them. Nothing too excessive, just enough that they would now be suitable for whatever heavy-duty work awaited them in Scarmorrow. Of course, it was rather visible to the naked eye that the wheels began changing shape in front of them. Using Wood Communion wasn’t what he’d come here for, but for now it would suffice as a demonstration.

“M-mage! He’s a mage!” the apprentice shrieked.

“Quiet girl! Have you never seen a mage before? Bumpkins… I swear…” Westwater grumbled. “I haven’t heard anything about you being a mage, Orodan, nor do I care to pry why you’re here when you should be with the militia. I’ll offer you the standard rate of apprenticeship, three gold coins a year, plus a fifty percent bonus for the magic at your disposal, which comes out to four-and-a-half gold annually. Work with me for a year and I’ll even sponsor you for an academy.”

A generous offer. The old carpenter was clearly a pragmatist, swooping in to tempt Orodan with a job right away. And if the way his current apprentice paled was any indicator, she’d just realized how expendable she was. Fortunately for her, Orodan had no interest in apprenticing under old Westwater.

“I have no need for an apprenticeship or an academy at this time,” Orodan said. “I really just came here to work.”

“Really? A shame… the offer’s always open if you want it. Certainly no lack of room for a competent mage who can do what you did to that wood,” Westwater said, bringing out a ledger full of contracts and work orders. “You said you wanted to work, right? Well, there’s more than enough of it to go around. I’m quite behind schedule as a matter of fact. Take the girl with you, she’ll handle the payments from the clientele and assist with any actual Woodworking that needs to be done.”

“I don’t need her help for the Woodworking either, but I suppose having someone around to talk to the customers helps save me time,” he said, grabbing the ledger and heading out the door.

“Well? What’re you waiting for girl? Go follow him and get to work!”

She stumbled out the door, still dazed, but trailing behind him, dragging a cart of lumber, planks and nails alongside all the tools necessary for the trade.

His eyes scanned the pages, and immediately he identified the nearest job. It was one of the houses near the outer perimeter of town.

The customer was in the middle of drying laundry upon a line when they approached.

“About time you lot showed up! It’s been weeks and the fencing on my chicken coop’s still broken. Having to put cheap linens as a barrier is getting old and one of the chickens even got out two days ago.”

“I apologize Miss Belina, we’ll get to it righ-”

Orodan uprooted an entire tree and threw it down upon the ground.

“In Agathor’s name…! Is that you, Orodan? Since when have you become so strong?!”

Orodan ignored the woman and kept working. She was a chicken farmer on the outskirts of town and his patrol routes would occasionally take him past her home. She had always been a bit loud-mouthed, but a hard-working woman, which he could respect. And she was also the wife of corporal Botterson.

The tree was debarked with his bare hands, and then mana flowed as a Candleflame came to life.

[Candleflame 22 → Candleflame 23]

With the small flame in his hand, he began the process of drying the wood. Orodan had to give Destartes respect where it was due; the array of spells he’d learned from the wizard now came in handy as Candleflame was far more versatile and capable of finesse than Draconic Fireball was.

Yes, he could’ve used his Celestial skill to simply clean the moisture out, but there was wisdom to be had and mastery to be attained in honing the very basics. Plus, Woodworking was a craft Orodan genuinely enjoyed. It was the first one he’d picked up after all.

To the side, both the customer and the carpenter’s apprentice were gaping at him, but he paid them no mind.

The wood dried and he began the process of sawing poles, beams and planks from the material. These were then honed further into solid and beautiful pieces. Orodan took a look at the damaged portion of the customer’s fence and frowned.

What an ugly fence…

He decided, it was due for an overhaul.

“W-what are you doing?! My fence!”

“It’s horrid work. I’m going to replace it all,” he calmly declared.

“But my chickens will escape! They will… uhm… never mind…”

[Intimidation 27 → Intimidation 28]

At the sight of Orodan’s glare, the clucking little birds went right back into their coops, not wanting to deal with the madman who was tearing the coop apart.

The woman was assuaged once Orodan began replacing her fence with his properly carved pieces, and she was ecstatic as she paid more than double the agreed upon sum for the work.

