“Long as you have your sights focused on something, it’s not all too bad. Losing sight of what gives you meaning though…” Orodan said, thinking of the Custodian and particularly, the Reject. “Now that might cause one to go mad.”

“You saying you’re mad?” Bodil asked. “Then again, Bryna did tell me about you; how you like fighting a bit too much.”

“Nothing wrong with enjoying a good fight,” Orodan said. “Keeps me sane.”

“I thought you said you’re mad,” Bodil asked.

“You assumed that, not me. Anyhow, the cart is just about done.”

[Wainwrighting 28 → Wainwrighting 29]

Orodan pushed another gear into place.

“I still don’t know why ya’ bothered coming here,” Bodil said. “Nothin’ better to do but fix carts? Not that I’m complaining… Gods know how long it would’ve taken to get these fixed otherwise.”

“As I said before, both mind and body are important to train. But most importantly…” Orodan trailed off before continuing. “I really wanted a particular title.”

“A title? For Woodworking?”

“No… for Wainwrighting.”

The final wheel was slotted back and secured in place. He’d made complex carts before, but there were skill gains and insights to be found in fixing the most basic of them.

[Repair 22 → Repair 23]

[Wainwrighting 29 → Wainwrighting 30]

And as expected, no title came along with his increase of Wainwrighting to the Apprentice-level. Not all skills had associated titles. Scholars and historians studying and cataloguing the various skills of the System often debated why this was the case, but they had no answer besides circular arguments or it being ‘the will of the Gods’.

Orodan though, had seen the System’s grand store of knowledge which all skills and advancements drew from. He had his own, sealed in the central rune of his own System.

Nothing was perfect, not the System’s store of knowledge which didn’t know much about Celestial or Mythical skills, nor his own. The same applied to titles, where the System had some gaps.

Gaps… which could be filled.

“Wainwrighting’s got no title! What’re you on about you big lug?” Bodil pointedly asked.

“Correct. But it can be created.”

Orodan delved into the central glyph of his own System. The coiling ouroboros which denoted infinity. He entered the pool of knowledge, focusing on the connection to Wainwrighting. Just as his Celestial skills added to that store of knowledge, so too could more be added.

He peered into that maddening abyss of experiences, skills and knowledge…

…and added just one more thing…

[New Title → Wainwrighting Apprentice]

“You know the Observe skill, right?” Orodan asked.

“Mandatory training for us supervisors, why?” Bodil asked.

[Fate Disconnect 56 → Fate Disconnect 57]

The gain in skill level occurred because it was a tricky thing, to open the shield only so much that his soul was readable by observer orbs and individuals who knew the spell. But his mastery over his own soul energy and his now increased Fate Mastery allowed him to handle it just fine.

With his soul now a part of the System’s tapestry of fate, it was subject to the observer orb or Observe once more.

And then… Orodan cleared all his active titles, leaving only Wainwrighting Apprentice.

“Use Observe on me.”

She did as he asked, and her eyebrows quirked up in surprise.

“What in the… is this some sort of practical joke? I never heard of a title for Wainwrighting before…” Bodil muttered.

“You’ve heard of it now,” Orodan said, and his face then took on a serious expression. “I, Orodan Wainwright… am an Apprentice Wainwright.”

“Ugh… you are the worst…”

Zaessythra was a stick in the mud who knew not the significance of this moment.

With this, he could move about far more freely. Yes, the tapestry of fate was in active chaos thanks to him, but he planned on gradually developing Fate Disconnect to the point where it ceased. No more diviners being alarmed at his lack of soul, no more people alarmed by his Status.

He could feasibly spend loops in places while acting far weaker than he was.

“If your bull-headed and direct nature doesn’t slip you up right away.”

A good point. Still, whether he failed at remaining discreet or not, the avenue was at least there.

And it was time to try more avenues at entering another galaxy.

#

“If what you’re telling me is true, then I hereby forbid you from attempting a Spatial Fold in my presence again.”

“It wasn’t that bad…” Orodan defended.

“You dim-witted, heedless simpleton! You caught the attention of a Living Crystal! And not just any Living Crystal, but one whose approach and hunger are feared across multiple galaxies! Ur-Vah’sahn consumed a tenth of a galaxy once before an Administrator showed up to put a stop to it!” Talricto scolded fiercely. “What would have happened if it actually tried assimilating you? Where would your time loops have gone then?!”

“It did try assimilating me. I simply fought off the mental attack and gave it a smack upon the face to dissuade any further attempts. Naturally, it wasn’t pleased and decided to take it out on me and Alastaia.”

For the next three minutes, Talricto looked to be having a conniption as it gave Orodan a lecture on what an utterly reckless and suicidal mongrel he was, and how he was a thoughtless and inconsiderate oaf for daring to drag the majestic spider into his hare-brained schemes.

“…and you will never again do such a thing while I am around you!”

“Alright, alright,” Orodan agreed, tired of hearing the spider’s ceaseless chittering and skittering. “I do apologize for doing that in your presence. I had no idea that space would unravel when I cast a Spatial Fold capable of crossing galaxies. Matter of fact, I knew not that space could unravel at all.”

“Hmmph! I suppose you being an ignoramus is the one excuse I can deign to accept,” Talricto muttered, finally simmering down. “Now then, have you considered just using dimensional travel to reach Lonvoron?”

“Now, why would I do that and admit defeat?” Orodan asked. “If I cannot somehow get past the anti-spatiomancy wards and all the defenses through spatiomancy alone… then what’s the point to being in a time loop?”

“Though your wits are abysmal, your ambition is at least respectable,” Talricto said, beginning to phase into another plane of existence. “I shall see you there, my obstinate pupil.”

Almost entirely imperceptibly, Talricto winked out of sight, leaving just Orodan. In truth, he didn’t know how that arrogant spider prone to bouts of admonishment knew how to get onto Lonvoron. Talricto seemed to know of Embodiment-level beings and the Administrators too and hadn’t appeared surprised when Orodan relayed his tales involving them. He hadn’t met any other dimensional phase spiders and therefore didn’t have any reference as to whether Talricto was normal or far from it.

Though Talricto hadn’t been able to harm Orodan, the spider killed a Transcendent-level monster easily enough, and it appeared to know much about the cosmos. Well, musings on his teacher could come after. For now, he had another galaxy to get to.

As he’d learned the hard way, Spatial Fold was out of the question. He did want to fight that Living Crystal again, but not upon Alastaia’s moon and definitely nowhere near his own solar system. Not when it would involve so many innocent people as collateral.

It was with the swift channelling of soul energy then, that Orodan tried his next method.

The distance was titanic, but it was a spell meant for near-instantaneous travel between two points. He’d also been to Lonvoron before. This, Orodan figured, should work.

[Teleportation 76 → Teleportation 78]

The Teleportation proceeded as normal. Everything was fine…

…until it wasn’t.

Teleportation truly was instantaneous, yet it immediately tipped Orodan off when the split-moment of travel between points was dragging on longer than expected. He was stuck in the folds between two spatial points, something he didn’t know was possible until now.

Something had interfered with his Teleportation.

“At last, the source of this disorder is revealed.”

The voice was calm. And it echoed, seeming to come from every direction.

“Who are you and what do you want?” he asked, not sure to whom or where.

“What I desire, is the cessation of the pandemonium within the tapestry of fate. Chaos. Disorder. All of which can be traced back to you.”

Perhaps the Teleportation had allowed whoever this was to trace the mess in the tapestry back to him. In a way, it made sense. If something was causing haphazard waves in one place, then suddenly shifting elsewhere very far would make it rather apparent.

A blazing golden arrow of light sailed towards him from directly underneath, and his own Smite of Abrupt Deliverance met it.

Space returned to normal at the collision between the two attacks as his Teleportation failed. He was overpowered and sent flying out towards the void between galaxies, at some random point between Alastaia and his original destination. Still, his own attack had caused the arrow to dissipate.

“Impressive, as expected of a being which can cause the tapestry to upend. Transcendent, yet capable of standing against those who have achieved Embodiment,” the voice called out, and then Orodan saw it.

His enhanced sight could see it, but most people with regular vision might think it was a giant bow being wielded by an invisible creature. Like some sort of bizarre stick-insect with eight legs. Its limbs and torso were but the width of needle, and Orodan had no clue how it pulled the bow with enough force when it looked to be that frail.

It was a spider. An exceptionally long and lanky one, and it used a bow.

And how could a spider use a bow? He wasn’t sure before, but as four legs curled around the bow frame which made the wielder look minuscule, and the other four curled around the string, he was learning that it was very much possible. It was a ridiculous sight. One which quickly became not-so-ridiculous once Orodan felt the sheer power behind those arrows of light.

And it felt positively ancient.

Observe was used yet again.

[Observe 15 → Observe 17]

[Name: Alagameth the Silent Oracle (Species: Spatial Spider)Title 1: Embodiment of SpaceTitle 2: Fate Transcendent]

Orodan was certain this diminutive spider was hiding titles related to archery and light magic. He’d felt the element of light scalding his skin even as the arrow dissipated against his attack.

“The tapestry? Is that what you’ve dragged me out of my teleportation for?” Orodan asked, drawing his weapons.

“Cease whatever it is that causes the tapestry to violently shake,” the spider demanded, tranquil wrath in its ancient voice. “I will brook no further disruptions to my peaceful meditations.”

“I… am working on it!” Orodan shouted back. “But if it’s a fight you want, it’s a fight you shall get!”

He tried teleporting towards it once more, only for its utterly unfair control over space to casually re-direct him elsewhere. Orodan successfully teleported, and nothing about his teleport felt off or wrong at a glance; but it wasn’t anywhere he’d intended to go. What ridiculous control over space.

Again, he teleported, throwing an even greater amount of soul energy towards it, and again it managed to deftly control the outcome of his teleportation, throwing him a mile away.

“Madness. Attempting the same thing over and over despite failing is the height of lunacy.”

“Then I admit to being a mad man!” Orodan roared, throwing even more soul energy into the next teleport, enough that his body began to suffer damage from his own power.

[Teleportation 78 → Teleportation 80]

[Space Mastery 94 → Space Mastery 95]

It was absurd. Teleportation simply wasn’t a spell meant to take or require large amounts of power. And nothing had simply taken control over Orodan’s own teleportation before and re-directed him. Yet, all things had their limits, and this spatial spider genuinely seemed to be putting effort in now.

“Your power is anomalous and your energy endless. But brute force alone will not overpower me,” the spatial spider declared, sending more golden arrows towards him, engaging in a clever game of hit-and-run.

Once upon a time, he might’ve considered such tactics the height of cowardice. Having fought enough foes by now, he could respect the devious tactic for what it was. A spider, talented in space magic and using a bow was a fearsome opponent. It could pelt an enemy with arrows and either flee or give chase with impunity while remaining at range forever.

It brought Orodan back to the very first death loops he had against a House Argon archer in Scarmorrow.

“I offer you once chance, surrender. Yield, that we may work together to quell this horrid chaos your existence causes,” the spider offered. “I do not wish to kill you. Yet what has been done to the tapestry has disturbed my peaceful existence.”

“You’re far more reasonable than most things I’ve met out here…” Orodan muttered.

“Then submit. We need not come to blows, I simply wish for the return of my peace and quiet.”

“…no. We fight.”

“You are being unreasonable, human. How is it you’ve survived thus far with so reckless a demeanor?” it asked.

“That’s the thing… I haven’t,” Orodan replied, charging in once more.

No matter how he advanced, its fine control over space simply proved too strong. Which was when he decided to forgo space entirely and attempt a Dimensional Step.

