Orodan continued his work, trees hoisted atop his shoulders and being thrown into a pile near the wall, when the duty sergeant approached him, quite fearful.

“I beg your pardon for the interruption sir… but I wasn’t made aware you were an Elite,” Sergeant Alamar Taj said, seeming quite deferential. “Nobody told me the Elite response unit from Volarbury County would be paying us a visit.”

“I’m not part of the Elite response unit. I really am just here to help reinforce the palisade wall,” Orodan said as he set the last of the uprooted trees down and began putting the handsaw to work on them. Not because he needed to, but as a display for Old Westwater’s hapless apprentice who was paying rapt attention to whatever Orodan did. He turned to her. “Watch closely, debarking a tree is a simple task but one where a lot of waste can occur if done incorrectly. Additionally, an amateur can damage the grain or ruin its alignment if they don’t smoothly carry this step out.”

“Debarking? I thought stripping the bark was unnecessary for the construction of a mere palisade…” the apprentice muttered. “Should we not just pack the trunks together with little space between them?”

“Something done only for the purpose of saving time,” Orodan clarified. “We aren’t throwing up a rushed defense in hasty preparation for an imminent attack but building a long-term palisade for an entire village. Even the army’s engineers will tell you this, even if they themselves might skip debarking when time is in short supply.”

“But… you’re not debarking the entire tree?” she asked.

“Correct. As you can see, I’m only debarking the sides of each tree, where the tree next to it will slot in, forming a palisade wall. Difficult and labor intensive, but necessary if you want the palisade to hold well,” Orodan explained. “Hastily built palisades are often just a few tree trunks slapped together. There are many gaps and imperfections between each log as a result. This way, if done right… there should be virtually no gap between one trunk and the next.”

[Teaching 58 → Teaching 59]

“Will the debarked portions not need to be treated?” the Sergeant himself asked, suddenly quite interested in the work. “Surely moisture will cause the wood to rot at certain segments? We’ve had to replace various parts of the palisade over the years for that reason.”

Domain of Perfect Cleaning could do the job, rendering the wood immune to any form of rotting or corruption, but that would be cheating.

“If the grain is perfectly aligned, the only exposure will come from the top and bottom of each log, which are the only parts requiring treatment,” Orodan explained. “Now then, we’ve spoken enough. This will take time.”

And it did.

Each tree was carefully de-barked on the sides, creating a perfect slot for the next one to stand side-by-side with. Orodan’s enhanced vision allowed him to ensure the grain was aligned down to the very particle. He would accept nothing less than perfection. The apprentice was attempting to mimic him, a fire had been lit under her, yet she often struggled with smoothly debarking the logs in a single motion.

Orodan recommended she begin rigorous and consistent physical training to improve her Physical Fitness. Crafting involved both the mind and the body. Neglecting either one would naturally lead to an incomplete crafter.

He had her chop her own failed logs into firewood, a task that was quite gruelling but beneficial for the thin woman.

And while she trained, Orodan did too, focusing on perfecting this section of the palisade wall he was intent on replacing. Each log was honed to perfection, and once those were done, they were stacked together perfectly.

The soldiers and sergeant watching began to slowly realize that this was no farce. And the thought of having a proper palisade wall seemed to rouse them into action.

“Militia! Sally out and form a perimeter! Guard the Elite!” the Sergeant ordered. “Kressida! Keep your troop ready to aid him however he needs.”

The gesture was appreciated. Even if Orodan needed no protection, he could still use a hand or two to fetch things in a village he wasn’t familiar with. He called upon the troop soon enough.

“I need rope,” Orodan said, prompting the soldiers to get a move on. “A lot of it. The logs are stacked together well, but having fibre to bind them together will make it even more secure.”

“Yes sir!” the corporal affirmed and then shouted to the guards on the wall. “Throw a few coils of rope down here! As many as we have!”

Bundles of rope were thrown from atop the walls, and Orodan started using them to tightly secure ten logs at a time, in neat arrays. A task made far easier by his Laboring skill and his extensive experience in using rope during his tenure as a laborer working under Old Man Hannegan.

[Laboring 43 → Laboring 44]

Still, Orodan couldn’t help but frown as he took in the rope itself. Many of the bundles were frayed, or just weak. He made a mental note to himself to learn the ways of rope making.

As the work went on, Orodan oft asked for more things.

“Bring me as much scrap metal as you can find.”

The village was scrounged and the trash piles searched to bring him piles of unwanted metal. A Draconic Fireball melted these down for re-forging into nails, which were then used to further secure Orodan’s new palisade.

“Get me wax, we need to moisture proof the exposed parts of the wood.”

And they brought as much wax as the village had. Of course, the palisade covering Axenshield was quite expansive, telling of the size of the village. Naturally, there wasn’t enough wax on hand to treat the wood for the entirety of Orodan’s new palisade.

Before he knew it, he started engaging in Alchemy to create more wax via animal fats, oils and solvent distilled from the trees he was uprooting.

The work took time. Unlike a warehouse, building a new palisade wall meant to surround an entire village took time, especially when it was many miles big, and he refused to compromise on quality. Orodan gained another level in Woodworking, two in Laboring and one in Tool Mastery.

Halfway through, a few Elites came by to confirm what they were seeing, and one of them must’ve used Observe and gotten a read on that Wainwrighting Apprentice title of his. Needless to say, they didn’t buy it for a single moment and the group of Elites left without saying a word to him.

About two-thirds of the way through was when the nominal head of Axenshield’s ruling noble house decided to come by for a visit.

“Is this him?”

“Yes, my lord, said his name was Orodan Wainwright,” the Sergeant said in the distance. “Told us he came here to do some Woodworking and repair our palisade.”

“Hmm… it isn’t unheard of for hidden geniuses to go wandering about and engage in seemingly random activities which foster their growth,” the man said, and Orodan recalled kicking in the doors to some noble house once, and this man had not-so-subtly reprimanded him for it. “Let me speak to him.”

“I’m afraid I won’t be much for conversation, Burgher,” Orodan said, tying more logs together. “I mean your village no harm, if that’s what you’ve come to ensure.”

“Partially, yet I also hoped to make the acquaintance of the man who would give so freely of his time and energy to my people,” the noble said. “Burgher Alarduin Rockwood. It seems you know of me already.”

“Your son Claridin is a bit of an arrogant fop, but I suppose you don’t seem too bad.”

The Burgher sighed and rubbed his forehead.

“I apologize if you have had any poor dealings with that foolish boy. Claridin has always taken after a particular ancestor of ours.”

“Hmm, I suppose it makes sense why he acts a big thuggish, if Alcianne Rockwood is who he tries to emulate.”

“You seem to know much about our house, Mister Wainwright, yet you have me at a disadvantage as I know little about you save the report I’ve heard about a private of the Volarbury County militia,” Burgher Alarduin said. “We both know you aren’t truly Orodan Wainwright.”

“Why not? Who else would I be?”

“According to the instincts granted to me by the Rockwood Bloodline? Someone exceedingly dangerous, beyond even the ancestor,” the Burgher said, his eyes narrowed. “What do you want in the Republic?”

“The answer might be simpler than you think, Burgher Alarduin. In fact, you’re looking at it right now,” Orodan said, putting another section of his new palisade up.

“…very well then. Take care, Mister Wainwright.”

“…you’re really just leaving?” Orodan asked, a bit confused for once.

“Of course. My instincts do not lie. You would doubtlessly kill the ancestor with ease if it came to a fight, and while I do not know for certain what would occur if the Republic’s army became involved, at the very least the casualties would be heavy. And there’s certainly nothing I can do to stop you,” Burgher Alarduin said. “If my years of politics and seeing the world have taught me anything, it’s to sometimes leave well enough alone. Have a good day.”

Huh… a sensible noble who wasn’t looking to cause any problems.

Orodan thanked the Burgher and resumed his work. Nobody else interrupted him.

At last, as the hours passed and the time for his departure to the moon came, the work was done, though Orodan was deeply dissatisfied with it.

[Artificing 34 → Artificing 35]

“I-incredible…! An entirely new palisade!”

“It’s so sturdy too… wonder if even a troll could knock it down?”

“Looks so fresh that I could lick it…”

Orodan ignored the last oddball guard who’d spoken. Frankly, he was unhappy with this palisade.

Yes, he had made gains in taking on this interesting endeavor, but looking at the minor imperfections in it, he couldn’t help but grumble. The sheer scale of the undertaking meant that mistakes were bound to occur over the span of it, especially when he was multi-tasking and doing other things at the same time such as Alchemy, Laboring and melting scrap metal into nails.

Out of the hundreds of tree trunks used to create his new palisade, Orodan had perhaps gotten four-fifths of them done perfectly.

Out of curiosity, he used Identify on one of the perfect ones.

[Name: Pure Gray Poplar LogDescription: A perfectly carved wooden log with immaculate grain alignment made of gray poplar. Hundred-percent material purity.Tier: Elite]

Pathetic.

“Orodan… you are without a doubt a madman. Who can remain dissatisfied after creating hundreds of perfect logs whose grain alignment is perfect down to the particle level?”

“I can. This result is unacceptable…”

The real problem was that not only did Orodan strive for perfection in everything he did… but he actually enjoyed Woodworking. What sort of shameful display was this, for him to achieve anything less than a perfect result?

He had a number of targets then.

To perfectly carve out every single log. To cast every single nail used in the construction of the palisade himself. To perhaps construct some fortified earthwork first, that the foundations for the palisade would be even sturdier. And to learn some damned rope making skill, because the shoddy quality ropes the Exerston County militia gave him meant that the integrity of the palisade wasn’t as high as it could be.

And above all else…

…to finish this damned palisade within a reasonable timeframe.

This endeavor of his might take a few loops though.

#

“You encountered that moralizing bore? How surprising… that his sermons didn’t put you into a relaxing slumber.”

“You know that irritating spider?” Orodan asked. “Well… I suppose you’re both spiders-”

“And you and this random human I met a while ago are both humans, right? Surely you must know him, right?” Talricto asked, irritation in the spider’s tone. “Ignorant buffoon…”

Orodan had brought that one upon himself.

“Right, my stupidity has been noted,” he dryly remarked. “Back to the matter at hand, what’s that spatial spider’s deal?”

“In truth, not much, to the great displeasure of his sanctimonious lot of fellows.”

“Sanctimonious lot of fellows?” Orodan asked.

“Why yes, Alagameth is one of the ancient ancestors of the Conclave. Did his pretentious name and the pointlessly flashy arrows of light not tip you off?” Talricto asked. “The Conclave keep begging him to return and become involved, quite risky for anyone who has attained Embodiment. He refuses of course and takes it a step further, choosing to remain hidden in secluded meditation. Your boorish disruption of the tapestry must have bothered him enough that he got involved for once.”

Orodan supposed that if he were silently training and some loud upstart came along breaking the thing he was studying… he too might be slightly annoyed.

“A moment of self-reflection that you might tone down your destructive tendencies?”

Absolutely not. She might as well ask him to swear off fighting.

“In any case, this is quite the opportunity,” Orodan stated.

“Hmm… I suppose if anyone could potentially help you get onto Lonvoron via spatiomancy alone, it would be the elusive Alagameth,” Talricto agreed. “Though you should at least make a show of removing yourself from the tapestry after meeting him, as a sign of goodwill. How else will he ever agree to teach a brash and violent oaf such as you?”

“Oh, but you mistake me. I never said I wanted to sit down and learn from him,” Orodan said, a vicious grin appearing on his face. “Rather, I intend to test my spatiomancy against his, as many times as it takes, until I can best him through brute force.”

