“…you truly are mad. Enjoy dying over and over,” Talricto said. “I shall see you upon Lonvoron whichever loop it is you succeed in.”

The dimensional phase spider winked out of existence, and Orodan got to work.

He’d carefully prepared his weapons ahead of this attempt too. His sword, perfectly arranged through absolute cold forging, was now at the Master-level. He did the same for his shield, bringing it up to the Master-level as well.

He cast a Teleport and was predictably pulled right out of it, leading to a clash with the Embodiment-level spider.

The fight didn’t go much differently aside from Orodan stubbornly attempting to reach Alagameth via spatiomancy alone, something he predictably failed over and over at.

Though, when it came time to fight that oversized Living Crystal, the gouge Orodan left upon its face was at least three times bigger than before. Courtesy of his upgraded sword.

The subsequent death was entirely worth it.

A keening wail ringing in the night sky awoke him.

And Orodan knew that this would take many loops but would well be worth it.

#

The chicken farmer looked at him agape, as he finished replacing the rickety wooden fence she had with a brand new one yet again.

“Well, I’ll be… this fence is incredible! Since when have you known Woodworking, Orodan?” the woman asked. “Either old Westwater or that apprentice of his was supposed to come by and repair my fence. And here you are having replaced it entirely with an accompanying cover and all. Let me pay you at least.”

Orodan felt slightly guilty about essentially stealing work from under Westwater’s nose via the cheap advantage of knowing what was in the man’s work ledger. But he vowed to repay it on the next few loops after he was done getting what he needed from this woman.

“I don’t require payment in coin, but tutelage,” Orodan said. “I notice you have a shed full of rope. Where did you get that from?”

“I made it myself. Any excess lumber or poor-quality wood from Westwater or Fodgarton comes my way with the provision that a third of what I make goes to them,” the woman said, and then her eyes took on an understanding look. “I see, you want to learn Weaving then?”

“Is that what skill rope making falls under?”

“Right you are. I’m no professional weaver, can barely weave clothes for my little ones… but what I’m a fair hand at is turning fibre into twine and then fashioning that into rope,” she said. “As you know we’re not well-off around these parts, but rope sells well. Always some laboring or construction project that needs coils of the stuff.”

“Then, I’d like to learn. Will you teach me?” Orodan asked.

“I can only teach you the basics, I’m not even an Apprentice weaver,” Belina said. “But since you’ve done my fence so well, I suppose I can show you a thing or two.”

Orodan was led into the woman’s home where her two little children were playing. The infant among them even crawled over and tried clambering up his leg! She stared at him with wide and curious eyes, ready to confront the world.

“…adorable,” Zaessythra remarked.

Orodan gently pried her off and gave her a serious look.

“Climbing is good training,” he said, giving her a pat on the head. “Keep it up.”

In response, the child appeared quite serious and nodded back.

Good. He sensed this one would make something of herself in life.

“Don’t mind the little imps… that one gives me headache enough. She sees anyone in the militia uniform and can’t stop herself clambering up their legs,” Belina said. “Confuses them for her father I think.”

“Corporal Botterson’s a good man. Though, I wasn’t aware he had two children,” Orodan said, following her into the connected shed where coils upon coils of rope lay, and an entire table dedicated to rope laying was. In the corner, multiple pools of dirty water were present, with wood bark soaking in them. “Quite the expansive operation. Water’s a bit dirty though…?”

“Had that unbearable goblin a few months ago,” she said. “And the process of soaking goes faster with dirtier water.”

Immediately Orodan focused in with his enhanced vision to verify this.

She was right, the small life, unseen to the average naked eye, was in fact consuming the rough and sturdy parts of the bark, leaving just the tough but flexible fibres. These soaked fibres would then be extracted, dried and woven to create rope.

“I see… so that’s how rope is made from plant material…” Orodan muttered. And immediately he had multiple ideas on how he could improve the quality of any rope he produced. If the fibres came from trees, then the better quality the tree… the better his resultant ropes would be. “Botterson told me long ago that his wife made rope on the side… this is a large set-up and not just a side project.”

“With two mouths to feed someone’s got to bring in the gold. Gods know that Selric’s salary alone wouldn’t comfortably cover our expenses,” Belina explained. “It’s not a bad trade. I’m near to saving up enough that we might move onto Scarmorrow. The little gremlins might have a better life there and my husband’s always said he gets a bad feeling from that wicked tavern at the plaza.”

If Orodan hadn’t put a stop to the machine this loop… Botterson, his wife and two little children would have died today. Protecting families like these… this was one of the reasons he sought strength.

“Well, you need not worry about the tavern. The matter’s been resolved,” Orodan assuaged.

“Right, saw all the soldiers from the capital marching that way earlier, wonder what that’s about,” she remarked, and gestured for him to follow. “Anyhow, gossiping like old crones on the deck won’t help you learn any faster. You already know how to work with wood, so this makes the job a lot easier. Pick up that log and debark the outer layer entirely.”

Orodan did as asked, peeling the bark off smoothly with his fingers.

“Use the knife… ugh… right. I forget how much Selric goes on and on about what a lumbering ox you are,” she said, directing him to move the bark aside as she spoke. “Do hit him a little softer when you spar, will you? He comes home whining to me and then it becomes my problem.”

“To be fair, I probably go the easiest on him out of everyone in the barracks,” Orodan said, after all, he probably liked Botterson the most out of all his militia colleagues. “What next? I notice you have inner bark soaking in the water, are we carving strips of that out?”

“Right, good eye. The inner bark layer, carve it into long strips lengthwise along the log,” she instructed, doing so herself with a log as a display. “This part I doubt you’ll have any problems with.”

As she said, Orodan had no issues. His Woodworking skill was at the Elite-level, and his hands were strong and steady. Wood was like air before his strength. As he worked, he made sure to peel the inner bark off perfectly along the grain.

“By the Gods… I can’t do it anywhere near that smoothly,” Belina said. “I suppose I could stand to look into Woodworking lessons at some point.”

“You’re better than you think. Only a half-step behind old Westwater’s apprentice who’s at the Apprentice-level,” Orodan praised. “Keep at it and you might be able to add Woodworking to your list of trades. I don’t think the carpenter would mind giving you a lesson or two given how much you help him.”

“I’ll keep that in mind, but my hands are full enough with farming, ropemaking and the little terrors already. If anything, Selric could stand to get off his lazy rear and pick up a second trade,” she said. “Alright, inner layer of bark’s been peeled perfectly, now soak it in the water.”

Orodan did as asked and dumped the long strips of inner bark he’d peeled off into the vats of dirty water.

“Where’d you get the water from? A stale pond?”

“Aye, you’d be right on that. Pond water’s quite dirty, and while I don’t know the scholarly theory on it, I think the natural water helps break the bark down faster,” Belina explained. “Now then, let’s pick up these dry fibres from the rack and we’ll get to the process of laying.”

The woman was pointing to rack on the side, while Orodan’s bark strips that he’d just dumped into the water lay before him.

“I don’t see how the process works…” Orodan remarked.

“That’s because the bark’s supposed to soak in that bath for four to six weeks at minimum,” she said with a loud laugh. “Did you think it would be that quick? Takes time for it to break down.”

Right, that made sense to him. Still, there was certainly a way to speed this process up.

The sound of a sword leaving its scabbard echoed through the shed.

“W-what are you doing…!”

She backed away just in time to see Orodan’s sword glow with the power of the Smite of Abrupt Deliverance. Yet, instead of focusing on delivering a strike of power… he focused on the Time Compression aspect of it.

In an instant, weeks’ worth of growth and development was compressed into the span of a second. And the bark which he’d soaked in the water suddenly became quite limp, the hard parts broken down while only the tough but flexible fibres remained.

“Just speeding the process up,” Orodan explained.

“You’re a mage?”

“Not primarily, but I’ve picked up a spell or two,” Orodan remarked.

“Well, unlike Selric I’m no country bumpkin who’s never seen a spell,” Belina said, her finger lighting up with a small fire. Seemed she knew Candleflame. “Don’t know what you did there though.”

“Chronomancy.”

She became a lot quieter after that revelation. Perhaps she knew the significance of time magic?

In any case, under her instructions Orodan began separating strings of fibre from the now broken-down inner bark he’d soaked, and once he’d gathered enough, a Candleflame dried the fibres, making them look quite like the material ropes were made of.

Then, the real work began.

“Now comes the weaving process, we can use a spinner for it, just hook separate strands here, here and…” she stopped and sighed, watching as Orodan began manually twisting the strands into something resembling rope by hand. “Or I suppose you could do it by hand. Selric wasn’t exaggerating about you, was he?”

“Tools are nice, but true mastery comes from honing the basics,” Orodan insisted. “I would rather not rely on a device to weave the rope for me.”

“Fair enough. Let’s see just how butter-fingered you are. Most struggle with this part even with the spinner.”

And she wasn’t wrong. Orodan, despite being intimately familiar with his own hands, still took at least five tries to properly weave the bark fibres into cordage. It was an altogether new method of using his hands, something which challenged his finesse in a way he didn’t expect.

As he worked, his fingers were forced to move in novel ways, having to grasp the fibrous strands and weave them into rope correctly.

“This is quite challenging…” Orodan muttered.

Belina though, stared with her mouth agape.

“C-challenging? You… you’re doing it on the first try without even using the spinner!” she exclaimed. “Is this what talent is? How unfair!”

“To be fair, I’m a swordsman and also dabble in Enchanting. I’m not an entirely clumsy oaf who doesn’t know how to use his hands in a fine manner. Would be more concerning if I didn’t manage at least this much,” Orodan said.

Frankly, with how strangely his fingers were forced to move, Orodan began wondering if the finger movements from manual ropemaking could also be applied to his swordsmanship. His fighting style was direct, brutal and aggressive. Explosive strength and power channelled into raw savagery were his chief attributes when fighting in melee.

These flexible finger movements which relied on dextrous agility were novel and forced him to think and move in a way he was unused to. A way which could potentially be applied to his combat to make it even deadlier.

At last, ten minutes into making rope, he got what he came here for.

[New Skill → Weaving 7]

And suddenly, his hands began moving more fluidly, more dextrously. The process became even easier…!

And then, Orodan immediately shut down the connection to the central glyph of his own System.

This, he insisted on practicing manually. He had a feeling that the gains from this would extend to more than just Weaving.

Belina frowned at the sudden competence, followed by the sudden drop in skill back to his usual struggle. Still, she said nothing about the matter.

“Well, since you said you want to practice… how about using that fancy magic of yours on all these other vats of soaking bark I have?” she suggested. “For every vat you do that to, you can take a third for your own practice.”

Sounded like an excellent deal to Orodan.

#

On and on the loops went.

He awoke, handled his ancillary business of the machine, House Argon, Talricto and sending a letter to Destartes, and then spent the day either practicing weaving with Belina Botterson or working with old Westwater, filling orders. For now, he left the palisade endeavor be.

He made excellent gains in various related skills and felt these humble toils were truly beneficial for him.

And as his crafts improved, so did his combat skills and spatiomancy as he repeatedly clashed against the Embodiment-level spatial spider who kept interrupting his teleport to give him a beating.

