He and the apprentice were off, with Orodan dropping her into the cart once again that they might finish up the remainder of the jobs in Ogdenborough.

In less than twenty minutes, the eleven jobs in the ledger listed for his hometown were done, and Orodan had little time to waste as he channelled a Teleport which brought him to the nearest town of Exerston County where there were more work orders pending for old Westwater.

If the poor shell-shocked apprentice alongside him was scared, she didn’t have the courage to voice it.

He made a round trip, clearing the ledger entirely of all the minor requests in the various hamlets and villages of Exerston County before making Axenshield his final stop.

He teleported just outside of the walls, in time to see a troll assailing them.

“Fire! Shoot that… what in Halor’s name?”

Sergeant Alamar Taj’s orders were interrupted. He and the militia atop the walls stared as the troll flew up and away into the horizon. Courtesy of an encouraging backhand from Orodan.

“Greetings, we’re Woodworkers, here to service clientele in Axenshield,” the carpenter’s apprentice announced, still sitting in her little cart.

“…woodworkers?” the sergeant muttered, looking at the disappearing dot in the sky that was the troll before looking at Orodan again. “O-of course! Please, welcome to Axenshield, esteemed woodworkers. We are happy to have you.”

“Got to be stronger than an Elite…”

“He sent it into the stars…!”

The hushed whispers and not-so-quiet mutters continued, and he was fairly certain Sergeant Alamar’s communications amulet glowed, sending out a message for assistance.

In any case, they entered the village, and he quickly aided the blacksmith. The extra time he now had thanks to his increased skill and fast pace meant that he could afford to take some time. He used this to go above and beyond by not only creating the things he’d requested Westwater help with, but also by aiding the man in properly reforging all the weapons in his shop and removing all impurities from the weapons.

Naturally, this caused the weapons to jump a tier at least, and in some cases, two.

He walked out the smithy and made for the walls, where his first move was to channel mana towards earth magic.

[Earthen Construct 28 → Earthen Construct 29]

The earth all around Axenshield rose up, creating a formidable and stable earthwork upon which the palisade could be constructed. Not only did Orodan ensure the earth surrounded the village all around, but he also made sure to create a tough layer of earth beneath the town. Subterranean monsters capable of digging would find no purchase if attempting to burrow under the walls.

With that foundation laid, he immediately began tearing trees out of the ground at blistering speed, throwing them all into a pile. He’d done the palisade enough times. He now knew the exact number of trees he would need to uproot. There was no need to contribute to the deforestation of these poor woods any more than necessary.

A large soaking pit was created via a gentle downwards punch…

[Waterstream 19 → Waterstream 20]

…and it was filled with water. Which, via his Celestial skill, was swiftly turned into the thriving ecosystem of murky pondwater he needed.

Immediately he got to work, stripping the bark, sharpening the tops of the logs and then placing them to the side. Over the course of roughly an hour, every tree that he needed for the palisade was debarked, carved and prepared.

[Woodworking 83 → Woodworking 84]

Orodan felt, that would probably be the final skill level gain for Woodworking that he could acquire by repetitively attempting this palisade.

With the wood done, he swiftly used the Smite of Abrupt Deliverance to compress the soaking of the bark, granting him a singular level in it, dried his soaked fibres via Candleflame and then got to work with Weaving.

Seventy-two loops of this had made Orodan a deft hand at the task. He’d been training Weaving without any aid from his System too. And while there were other things that rope could be made from and Orodan professed no exceptional familiarity with those materials… with wood fibre, he felt exceedingly familiar.

His hands were utterly invisible to any present, working at a speed far faster than sound. At points he was forced to use Galewind to lower the temperature lest he set the rope and the forest ablaze due to his sheer pace.

[Weaving 28 → Weaving 29]

[Galewind 27 → Galewind 28]

And what took three hours before… took only thirty minutes now.

And with the finishing touch upon the last length of rope, fashioned from wood fibres which he’d personally carved along the grain perfectly, came a welcome title.

[Weaving 29 → Weaving 30]

[New Title → Weaving Apprentice]

And because he thought it would be quite funny, he set his second slot to carry this new title.

“Ah yes… the man with more muscles than sense, wielding a sword and shield is a weaver and a wainwright… quite believable at a glance,” Zaessythra remarked.

She was no fun. If the Embodiment-level beings between galaxies could do it, then why not Orodan?

In any case, the work didn’t take long after that. The assortment of scrap metal he’d gathered from across the village was melted down to make nails. The animal fat collected from the butchers and the vegetable oils gathered from across the village were made into wax, and slowly but surely, everything was put together.

Halfway through, a party of adventurers approached him. They were at the Master-level, and it was plain to see that the leader was wielding a weapon Orodan had helped the village blacksmith create.

“Are you the one who made this spear? My family would love to have a Woodworker of such raw talent in our employ! Whatever the cost is, House Altamari shall bear it!” the adventurer declared. “This weapon is simply exquisite!”

“Thank you for the offer, but I must decline. I have things to do,” Orodan declared.

The man reached out to grab Orodan’s wrist.

“Such as?! I assure you friend, an offer like this does not come by so easily!” the adventurer said, red-faced.

“Building this palisade wall,” Orodan said, continuing his work without any concern. He felt no need to shuck the man off, instead, simply dragging him along into the dirt as he casually continued his movements of making wax via alchemical methods. “Now excuse me. You’re in the way.”

If the adventurer had thought Orodan to be an easily bullied craftsman, the man now learned the embarrassing way that it wasn’t the case. The adventurer hastily got to his feet and quickly beat a retreat, muttering something about letting his ancestor know.

Not that Orodan was concerned in the slightest.

The nails were prepared, the wax was created and the work continued. And finally, eight hours after he’d started, the palisade wall stood complete as Orodan secured the last reinforcing backboard on the defending side of the palisade with a nail of his own making.

[Construction 37 → Construction 38]

[Artificing 39 → Artificing 40]

[Laboring 49 → Laboring 50]

[New Title → Laboring Adept]

It was done at last. With less than half the overall time taken compared to his very first attempt.

The reinforced palisade wall was majestic, covering the entirety of Axenshield. Their old palisade was still there but relegated to the position of a secondary barrier now; an inner wall from where small retractable bridges allowed the militia to reach the outer wall which Orodan had built.

It was a true marvel of construction, not for the scale of it or the quality of the materials, but because of just how… perfectly every bit of the palisade fit together. He’d intentionally avoided using Wood Communion to fuse the logs together lest other woodworkers need to make repairs, and despite that it still felt so symmetrical and well put together.

There were defensive fortifications upon Inuan which surpassed this palisade by a mile. Yet this one was special, because Orodan had done it entirely on his own. His own toil had created this, and the experience and insights he’d gained were priceless in and of themselves.

“Unbelievable… you actually built it…” Sergeant Alamar muttered. “It looks so beautiful too…”

“I suppose I can tolerate this,” Orodan said, looking at how each nail was sturdy, how each length of rope securing the logs in place was exceptionally durable and well-made. “At the very least it has no structural weaknesses save brute force of an overwhelming nature, or an exceptionally hot magical fire. Nothing below the Elite-level should be breaking the palisade with force.”

It would take a Master.

Of course, the two nobles walking towards him were beyond that.

A burly woman, one Orodan knew as the Chosen of Halor. And a slim but severe-looking old crone who Orodan knew to be affiliated with the Cathedral.

Alcianne Rockwood immediately froze upon getting within a certain distance of him. The look on her face suddenly becoming quite serious.

“Apologies, I don’t mean to set off your Bloodline like that,” Orodan said. “No Burgher Alarduin? I finished before he usually gets here too.”

“I do not know who you are, but your strength is quite alarming,” Alcianne said. “I do not seek to start any conflicts against someone who has done my lands and people a great boon… but I will come to blows if I must. Who are you?”

“Orodan Wainwright,” he answered.

“I do not know that name, though my progeny tells me it’s tied to a mere Apprentice-level militia man from Ogdenborough,” Alcianne said. “Might I ask what you want in the Republic?”

“I already did what I wanted. The palisade is built is it not?”

Alcianne looked over his work and nodded in approval.

“Well… that is one fine palisade,” she said, her tone becoming less guarded. “Is that all you wanted? To build a palisade?”

“Aye. Something relaxing in honing the crafts,” Orodan said.

“One of those sorts who enjoy wandering and practicing his skills, eh? I can respect that,” Alcianne said. “Come now Varna, he seems alright enough.”

“What are you saying?! We cannot just let an unknown individual of great power freely wander our lands!” the dual-Grandmaster said. “Heredin must be informed of-”

“No need for that,” Orodan said. “I know how this goes. You try to push the matter, I give you a beating, you escalate things, then a Chosen arrives, then an Avatar arrives, and before I know it an army’s ready to face me down.”

“So, you’re well aware of how we deal with foreign threats,” Varna Altamari said. “Now how about you come with us, and we discuss things peacefully? Surely you wouldn’t want to kill any innocents in any battle we might have? We have a Chosen here too, ready to enter Avatar form at a moment’s notice. You’re outnumbered and backup is close by.”

“You mistake me, hound of the Cathedral. When I say there’s no need for that, what I mean is there’s no need for you to call your superiors or escalate at all,” Orodan said. “…because I’ll be purging them here and now.”

“What do you-”

Before she could finish, his broom touched the ground.

Frankly, Orodan wondered why he even bothered wasting time with the toadies of the tyrant three. What was the point of having strength if he needed to negotiate with scum?

His Domain of Perfect Cleaning spread out evenly across all Alastaia. It purged the overt Eldritch, it purged the crown of the first emperor, and it purged the world core. And it also cleansed each and every Blessing of Agathor, Eximus and Ilyatana from the world, fortifying the planet against their divine tendrils of tyranny forevermore.

The effects would doubtlessly be felt worldwide. Divine power relations would undoubtedly change, and he would have to deal with a thing or two. But here and now, in the moment, the two Grandmasters before him froze as they felt his power erupt outward in a wave.

Varna herself, a dual-Grandmaster with two Blessings of Ilyatana, immediately felt the effects.

“W-what… what have you done?! I cannot feel my Blessings!”

“You do not deserve them,” Orodan rebuked. “Leave, before I decide you’re undeserving of your life too.”

The Altamari ancestor’s eyes widened, and she took the hint, immediately fleeing from his sight. That left only Alcianne Rockwood.

“You… you purged all presence of three of the Prime Five…” she muttered. “Which means you purged all traces of… of Agathor!”

“Arvayne is free now. Go ensure his well-being,” Orodan said.

Halor didn’t seem too keen on seeking retribution against Orodan for the feat, and Alcianne immediately erupted off the ground in a bolt of divine energy right towards Karilsgard.

The poor carpenter’s apprentice was frozen in place. He smiled at her.

“I suppose we should let old Westwater know we’ve done every job in his ledger, eh?”

The poor girl fainted. And Orodan had to load her into the cart and perform a quick teleport back to Ogdenborough, specifically, to Westwater’s shop.

“We’re about to close!” the angry voice of the old man rang out from behind the front door.

Orodan opened it anyway, walking into the scene of a floor covered in scrap wood and wood shavings.

“Bit of a messy shop. Want a hand cleaning it?” Orodan asked, wheeling the cart with the apprentice in. “The payments are all with her, but I think she was a little overwhelmed by what she saw.”

“At this point, I don’t even care. First, I have everyone and their mother coming to me asking for more jobs, saying they demand to see my ‘new apprentice’, and then, just a while ago some raving nutter was screaming on the street corner about how the Gods’ grace left his soul and that we would all die,” Westwater ranted.

