The first ten loops of this routine went normally, though Alagameth began to show signs of increasing exertion in dealing with Orodan’s brute force methods of spatiomancy. If anything, Orodan quite liked the spider. It didn’t want to kill him and only seemed insistent on giving him a beating because Orodan was bothering it. Far nicer than most things he’d met over the loops.

He had a sneaking suspicion that if he brought the full force of his power and the various abilities he had out to bear, he might be able to beat his foe who was an Embodiment of Space… but that would’ve been cheap and boring. Better to beat Alagameth at its own game.

He learned, he fought, he died. And above all, Orodan truly enjoyed himself. Enchanting and Alchemy had their charms, but above all else Orodan truly relished the humble work of helping regular people with their common problems. Bringing his Woodworking, Laboring and other skills to bear against such modest toils brought him quite some satisfaction and helped give him perspective.

Yes, he was mighty enough to destroy entire worlds, but could he fix Belina Botterson’s broken fence with Woodworking? Could he repair someone’s creaking door which had slipped off the hinge? Helping the common folk of Volarbury and Exerston Counties helped solidify the perspective in his mind.

He’d always had it, but it was good to be reminded of it. After all, he too came from such beginnings. While power was the central tenet which governed existence, not all of reality revolved around who could destroy more interstellar objects.

The loops went on, and by the seventeenth repeat, he saw results in his efforts to aid Axenshield, attempting to build the palisade again after a lengthy break during which he’d practiced just Weaving and regular Woodworking.

“Militia! Sally out and form a perimeter! Guard the Elite!” the Sergeant ordered. “Kressida! Keep your troop ready to aid him however he needs.”

The gesture was appreciated. Even if Orodan needed no protection. Yet now, he didn’t need their hands for fetching rope nor wax either.

He walked a slight distance away from the wall, and a downward fist hit the ground, creating a decent sized hole.

[Earthen Construct 9 → Earthen Construct 10]

The hole he created was swiftly sealed with smooth rock.

[Waterstream 10 → Waterstream 11]

And the hole was filled with water. Of course, the fluid produced by his spell wasn’t dirty at all, a natural result of the spell. Which meant it wasn’t exactly the thriving ecosystem of wood-eating unseen filth that he required. But that was a problem solved easily enough.

After all, what was Cleaning if not the imposition of one’s own version of cleanliness onto reality.

[Reality Alteration 55 → Reality Alteration 56]

His broom swept outwards, and the clean water altered, turning into the stale, festering reservoir one might find in a pond. Full of life, particularly the sort which would help break any wood fibre down. And it smelled quite ripe, far worse than the vats Belina had used in her home for soaking the wood.

Cleaning wasn’t always about purity. Sometimes, cleanliness was about balance.

“That’s one smelly pit…” Sergeant Alamar Taj of the Exerston County militia muttered. “What’s it for?”

“Soaking the wood bark so that it breaks down into usable fibre,” Orodan said, uprooting trees with his bare hands and beginning the process of debarking them.

It was an efficient process. Previously, he’d thrown the bark away after debarking the trees lengthwise along the sides, but now that he knew rope could be made with the inner bark, any bark that was trimmed away was thrown right into the soaking pit.

Belina had taught him that rope could be made from a variety of sources. Even the types of trees she sourced wood from mattered, as some plants and trees were well-suited to making rope and others were not. The Simarjis also grew magical fibrous plants which were cultivated specifically for making strong rope, and the leather from certain animals and monsters could also be used for it.

Fascinating things all, and something he would delve further into down the line.

For now, the work continued at a steady clip. The trees were uprooted, debarked along the sides and the useful bark thrown into the pits. Like last time, Orodan planned on building his new palisade wall section-by-section.

Thus, when the logs were prepared and sharpened at the top for the first section… Orodan attempted something for the first time. Necessary to the establishment of a proper fortified palisade.

Energy wasn’t an issue. Even if the spell was fuelled by mana… Orodan had more than enough of it to put the mana reserves of entire armies and dragon flights to shame.

[Earthen Construct 10 → Earthen Construct 14]

“T-the ground! It rises like an angry demon!”

“We’ll be swallowed by the earth!”

“Shut it you dumb bumpkins!” Sergeant Alamar roared, scolding the newer militia who were witnessing such magic for the first time. “It’s just earth magic!”

Still, even the sergeant appeared in awe. In truth, Orodan didn’t consider it that big of a deal. He’d done far grander and more ostentatious things before. Though, with how the spell was supposed to be used, he could understand why an observer might be impressed.

Earthen Construct, a spell meant for the conjuring of earthen mass in various shapes. Most mages might use it to erect barriers, perhaps a shield to block hostile projectiles or even a shelter. The average Adept-level earth mage might conjure constructs which were the size of a small building at most. The Elites and Masters, perhaps the size of a castle, and that was considered on the high end.

What Earthen Construct wasn’t normally used for, was the raising of an earthen wall around the perimeter of an entire village. One stretching out five miles across. Orodan considered it a wholly unremarkable feat by the measure of what he normally did, but these men and women of the militia and the other observing civilians on the walls clearly thought otherwise.

With the raised earthen embankment now conjured, Orodan began planting the sharpened and prepared logs side-by-side, forming the actual barrier of the palisade. With these placed, he quickly utilized a Smite of Abrupt Deliverance to compress time and ensure the bark strips were thoroughly broken down and in usable condition for rope making.

Then, the tons of soaked bark were brought out, dried via Candleflame and placed to the side.

[Candleflame 27 → Candleflame 28]

That was the message he got at the end of two hours of work, as he dried the last bit of soaked bark. He had multiple tons of material now, more than enough bark to weave rope for the entire palisade.

And then came the most toilsome task of them all. Actually weaving the rope.

By hand, weaving the entirety of the collected and dried bark strips into cordage would take many hours. A significant addition to the labor put upon him. Yes, he could have used the time compression aspect of his new smite, but that would’ve been cheating. Either Orodan would get good and fast enough at weaving that he would complete the entire thing before the day ended… or he would try and try again until he could.

There would be no compromise on this.

His hands blurred, and he worked at speeds invisible to the eyes of any present. Even Burgher Alarduin Rockwood who came by could not keep up with Orodan’s hand speed. And multiple times he had to use a controlled application of Flash Freeze or Galewind to prevent the fibres from catching fire due to how fast he was going.

[Weaving 17 → Weaving 18]

At the end of a three-hour session of just making rope, that was the message he got. He’d gained many levels in the skill over the past seventeen loops of practice, but he’d gained two levels over the course of the last three hours of hard work.

He continued working, well into the night, however failed to finish the entire palisade in time.

The gains to Woodworking, Laboring and Alchemy were nice, but they didn’t quench the burning fire in Orodan’s heart. The desire to see this damned palisade built perfectly in the span of a single day.

The subsequent battle against Alagameth went well, with the spider actually having to go all-out to stop Orodan’s brute force spatiomancy which was getting stronger every repeat. And he found that his sword struck just a little bit harder, and his grip upon it was just a tad bit tighter when incorporating all the muscle memory and movements he’d learned from weaving.

The Living Crystal wasn’t pleased at the larger gouge Orodan left upon its face, but he cared not for its opinion.

Finally… it was on the seventy-third loop of this routine, that Orodan got some results.

#

“Westwater! I’ve come to help you!” Orodan declared, slamming the door open and causing everything to fall off the man’s shelves.

He had no time to waste. Even with how many skill levels he’d gained over the past seventy-two loops, every second counted.

“O-Orodan! What in the Gods’ name are you-”

A quick usage of Time Reversal brought all of the carpenter’s products back to the shelves they were upon.

“You’re a mage?!” the old woodworker exclaimed.

“Yes,” said Orodan in the interest of saving time. He then gently pulled the carpenter’s work ledger out from behind the desk. “Here to practice Woodworking, let me work on your backlog of orders. I’ll drag your apprentice along with me so that she can collect the payments for you.”

“W-what…?” the man asked, confused.

“Here, watch what I can do,” Orodan said, using Wood Communion upon the various slightly imperfect products on the shelves and laying about the shop. “Those wheels aren’t built to specification, and those hafts are meant for high quality Elite weapon heads but are barely Elite-level themselves. It can lead to damage.”

“Hmm… you’re not wrong…” the carpenter muttered. “I can’t pay-”

“I don’t need payment, keep all the money,” Orodan said, marching out the door. “Keep your apprentice too. I don’t want her job.”

“Want who’s job?” Westwater’s apprentice asked as she walked in the door. “You! What are- guah!”

Orodan nabbed her by the collar like a mangy cat and plopped her into the cart she was dragging behind her.

“Come, we have little time, and I can’t waste it telling you how I don’t care about your friend and what happened between us,” Orodan declared, pulling the cart, and the apprentice within along. “We have a backlog of work orders to complete.”

“What in the hells are you doing?! Unhand me this instant!” the girl got up, about to exit the cart.

Only to stop when the booming voice of Westwater rang out.

“Don’t set a foot outside that cart girl! You heard him! There’s a backlog to complete!”

“B-but… Mister Westwater!”

“Less complaining, more working! Go with him and collect payment for each job! Go on! Scram!”

Orodan had tested this social situation a few times now. This, he had found, was the quickest way to drag the girl and Westwater’s ledger along. Of course, he could’ve just gone to Westwater’s clients without involving the man at all, but that would’ve been stealing business from an honest carpenter.

The first destination was Belina Botterson’s house, and Orodan immediately got to work.

“About time you lot showed- my fence!”

A singular sweep of his broom, and the entirety of her dirty fence vanished from existence. The air practically blazed with heat as Orodan swiftly rushed back with an uprooted tree and got to work.

[Galewind 22 → Galewind 23]

Another level gained as he used it to moderate the temperature from his furious pace of work. In less than a second, the tree was turned into a set of pristine boards, beams and wooden pieces meant for a fence and covering.

A curious infant crawled over, and Orodan allowed the little one to clamber up to his shoulder while he worked, moving gently that she wouldn’t fall off or have too difficult of a time. The only job where he allowed himself to slow pace that the child might be safe and learn.

“As you can see,” Orodan explained to the little girl. “Woodworking is an endeavor which tests not just the mind and one’s dexterity of hand, but also the strength of their arm. Are you ready? To commit to such a path?”

He felt the little wiggle of a little head upon his shoulder, signifying a nod.

“I see, your determination is evident to me. Watch then, that you might also step upon the path to mastery,” Orodan said, making sure to methodically use tools so that the infant could spectate and see how it was done. “First, we must implant these fence posts into the ground…”

Orodan continued on for about five minutes, instructing both the little girl and the apprentice accompanying him, before the little one’s mother pried her off of his shoulder. The infant didn’t seem happy about it either, grumbling at her mother but not crying.

“That child might just have a knack for sensing souls,” Zaessythra said. “In most of these loops she’s found a way to gravitate to you and her eyes flit and move in timing with the pulses of your own soul.”

“Good. She will make something of herself one day, for the determination in her eyes is plain to see. I cannot be the only talent in Ogdenborough after all.”

In any case, with the girl off of his shoulder the work was resumed at a blistering pace, and when Belina Botterson tried paying Orodan more than his fair share, he refused, handing it back to her.

“Spend it on that one’s education,” he said.

He owed the woman for the valuable skill she’d taught him anyways.

