Two bright yellow lights appear on opposite sides of the Great Belt of Brymia's star system.

One of the bursts is very bright and concentrated, as the ice prison on an asteroid out in deep orbit explodes, and an army of 1st Class True Cored Morvale Demons is freed.

They all immediately turn toward the red star at the center of the system, led by one head Demon that sends update messages on their situation back to the Demonic Realm, and another copy up to his family head, Lucian Morvale.

Streaks of yellow light fade away into the vacuum of space as they all propel themselves forward.

The other burst on the other side of the star system is not as bright, but it is far larger and wider.

It glows with yellow light, a faint aura around a fleet of dark transportation ships filled with over a thousand Vermillion Demons.

Each dark black ship has a half dozen true cores, tens of yellow cores, and almost a hundred red and orange cores that stand behind them, waiting for the airlocks to open to fulfill their mission orders to take over a small red sun civilization used as a trading hub.

One of these ships holds a true cored Demon named Pluto, who has been sending Bri updates as they approach ever since they left the Demonic Realm.

"The star system is within visible range. Less than 5 minutes until we touch down. Awaiting your word to sabotage the fleet." comes in as Bri, Fisher, Lydia, Monk, and Luna all stand together in a room.

Many members of the Crimson Army begin teleporting in as well.

Rodrigo organizes the troops, pulling everyone out from closed door cultivating, and gathering them from stationed points on the human world as well.

There are three dozen troops, all of them have consolidated their red cores, and have triple ranked up buffs. Most including energy forms of some kind, and fully equipped with specialized soul weapons imbued with element stones and loot from Kelfar to create the strongest affinities created by Bri.

They are technically all graded as Basic Class Soul Weapons, but they are the highest quality that the Lower Realm can buy.

In addition, using the Knight Rank perk of the Rising Emperors Domain, all members of the Crimson Army has access to a small percentage of borrowed stats, just like the commanders in the room.

However, as they have this news of approaching forces come in, none of them feel fully prepared...

That is because massive battles are taking place in the Upper Realm.

Every single borrowed stat that is necessary to face threats of this magnitude is not available to them.

The Rising Emperor is using the full 50%, and the generals are using their 20%. Even now, everyone stood in this room feels drained, as 70% of their stats and mana control are being siphoned out to be used.

There is not even a single True Core here on the base.

Fisher and Lydia are extremely close, with massive cores tens of times stronger than a normal yellow; and Bri is at a close second in strength behind them.

But... Bri does not even have the ability to pull stats like the others.

The only True Core nearby that is truly on their side is a Demon... that is currently coming toward them undercover with an army filled with hundreds that are even stronger than him, as most are at least 3rd or 2nd Class Demons. A small few even 1st. Pluto is a commoner without any bloodline to unseal.

As the team brainstorms they even propose the possibility of sending out a help request to the Galactic Trade Commission, as some of them certainly have a few True Cores per planet. Yet, that would waver the trust that many have in the Rising Emperor's Strength, and there is not much time left... organizing transport and getting random troops battle ready is not very plausible.

To make everything even worse, Alveron joins the mental chat, and sends an alarming message.

"The Prisoners have escaped. The Army that the generals subdued before ascending are coming your way, and they are seeking revenge."

–

All of these telepathy chats echo in the back of my mind, but these problems are far from urgent on the timescale I'm operating on at the moment.

They say there is an imminent attack on the Great Belt of Brymia in minutes, but I swing my Soul Sword back and forth over 100 times in the next 3 tenths of a second.

There are thousands of tendrils of black coiling energy that surround me on all sides again.

I have to use every single ounce of mental and physical energy in order to spin, bounce off the air, and dive through the moving energy attacks.

Every sword strike I make against the energy tendrils has to be extremely calculated, finding its bend points and weak spots to know how much they will break and how fast they will form back together before I can fly through.

To make things even harder, Miriel Vermillion is still growing stronger...

The never ending pool of corruption below him does not only try attacking me, it also continues seeping in through the demons feet, allowing it to grow larger, compress in on itself to become denser and harder to break, and also seeping into the monstrosities flesh, making its High Noble Vibrations strengthen and try to suppress mine further.

I can feel the massive pool of black buildings below the citadel shrinking, as they are all turned to liquid corruption and flow into this Demon.

Some of my counter attacks even slam into Miriel's open palms, and I feel shockwaves of cold darkness ripple through me, like I'm slamming a metal pole into a brick wall that won't budge.

This is a freak-like existence... something even with the entire Citadel's commands at my fingertips, I would have never imagined him to be this powerful.

One thing that does make the corners of my lips curl up just slightly as I fight to dodge and counter is the fact that more stats are trickling into my Rising Emperor's system.

Ava pulled it off... she's slowly managing to bring new Lords to my side.

Though, as my Astral Form breaks the 80 kilometers tall mark, still growing in size, Miriel's body surpasses 100 kilometers, and the black armor of corruption that surrounds him gets thicker and denser as well.

The enormous Demon lets out rage-filled laughs, and grabs onto dozens, even hundreds of coiling whips of corruption at a time and sends them flying my way.

His eyes are filled with dark purple pools of shadows, and it appears as though he's entrapped in a bliss-like state as the waves of corruption flow into him. The volume of dense black liquid looks like it's getting compressed by hundreds of times, compacting and condensing inside the Demon's body. Yet, even as it is distracted and experiencing an energy high, I can't find a single weak spot on his body.

I'm merely a fly, zipping about, dodging massive coiling tornadoes of corruption.

Thousands and thousands of close calls pass in less than two seconds.

The entire inner city fractures and crumbles to pieces.

Massive cracks in the pillar that protects this battlefield from the wilderness break open, and hundreds of thousands of biomes of Lords get knocked out by the unfathomable clashing hot and cold High Noble Vibrations.

Eventually, my Astral Form stops growing... at roughly 120 kilometers tall. The enormous Demon before me stops expanding too, sitting at roughly 200 kilometers tall, covered in thick corruption armor head to toe, easily 10 kilometers thick, and hundreds of times more dense and potent than even the deepest depths of the sea of corruption I trained in.

All of the violent and randomized attacks stop once the last of the corruption seeps into the Demon before me, and he just floats in the air in silence, vibrating with a dark black and purple glow, like a black hole of shadows, with long curved horns that come off both sides of its head.

In contrast, I point my blade back at it, flickering with dark red fire, yet a pristine white hot aura comes off imbued with High Noble Vibrations.

I can feel the cold surrounding me.

It is just like when I was on that video call with him a month ago.

The disparity in power is still so great... it's unbelievable.

Without even attacking, or having to lift a finger, the absolute power of this dark force grows before me.

The fact that even now. Even over the last few seconds, as I believed I was fighting him off, and nearly surviving by a hair thousands of times in order to bide my time, Miriel was still playing with me.

He still hasn't activated two of his ranked up buffs...

My vision starts to blur as the cold aura around me grows stronger and stronger, then a calming sleepy feeling washes over me, and my grasp on my system weakens.

The Demon's low laugh echoes through my mind, "We are Royals! Not even a one in a hundred trillion outlier like you could even fathom my existence. You thought that was the extent of my power? Ha! You are nothing. You are a Lower Race. That is all you will ever be. Demons are the Gods of Existence. We shouldn't have ever existed... but now we do! –And to think it was all your race's fault in the first place..."

Buzzing starts to get louder in my ears, and the Demon's laughs, and rage-filled roars echo out as well.

I see tendrils of corruption burst out from the monstrous Demon before me again to go on the attack, and at the same time hear a series of system dings ringing in my inner ear.

I don't have enough mental space to even check to see what they are, but it's paired with a small 5% boost in power that gives me enough energy to reach into my storage, and pull out the clear bottle of elixir Ember gave me. I chug the whole thing in a single gulp deep down inside my energy form.

–

At the same time, as the final liquid pools of corruption are pulled out from the crater in the bottom of the Citadel, a perfect hole down to the bottom of the Realm itself has been opened up.

A white streak of light, covered in ether commands to hide their identity flashes through one of the cracks in the wilderness, and sneaks below the battle of two titans in the sky.

Ember is unaffected by the enormous release of High Noble Vibrations, but looks to the sky while the white and red High Noble Form of a human finally refines the 110 Million Low Quality ether sitting dormant in its pool.

"Good luck... We're both going to need it." He whispers.

Then, dives head first down into the dark crater, and releases his full dragon form, and activates his Astral energy Form right after.

He plummets down toward two purple eyes looking up from the bottom, over a million kilometers away, at a beast that is curious to know what woke it up from its slumber.
