She laughed as her team formed up around her. A Gazer [Wizard], a Stitchman [Monk], and a Dwarf [Axe Thrower]. Members of one of the most famous Gnoll-led teams in the world, and one of the few Named Adventurers of her kind.
Stargazer’s Promise, and Lehra Ruinstrider, the [Magical Warrior].
The fighting stopped. Mad with rage they might be, but the Decles tribe wasn’t suicidal. Nor did anyone want to challenge the Named Adventurer. Not even Venaz. Tkrn, panting, saw more Gnolls flood forwards in the sudden silence.
“Is that Lehra? The Stargnoll?”
Chieftain Eska stared for only a moment. Deskie didn’t even stare.
“Inkarr! What happened? We heard the Decles tribe was kicking up a storm after you and came. Are you hurt?”
The old [Magic Spinner] checked Inkar over, and then the Longstalkers were surrounding her. Not just them; eighteen of the Ekhtouch and Chieftain Orelighn of the Greenpaw tribe was there with his people too.
“What is happening? Why are my warriors engaged in a brawl—”
Another Gnoll strode through the chaos. Krshia and Akrisa approached as Chieftain Eska looked up. Lehra turned and gasped.
“Chieftain Iraz!”
The Chieftain of the Steelfur tribe was one of the most famous Gnolls living, such that even Tkrn knew his name. And Steelfur’s might was founded on his Skills.
His fur looked like metal itself. And it was apparently tougher than even steel…sort of a misnomer for the tribe, then. Tkrn saw him halt.
Silverfang. Greenpaw. Longstalker’s Fang. And Steelfur. The Chieftains regarded each other in the aftermath of the fighting. And this too was familiar. Tkrn looked around.
“All you need now is a crazy Human to serve cake.”
He saw Inkar jump and look at him. Krshia stared at the slightly-dizzy grin on Tkrn’s face.
“What happened here? Lehra, those are my warriors you’re pointing your spear at.”
The Chieftain of the Steelfur Tribe was first to speak. Iraz looked at Lehra. The much-younger Gnoll looked guilty.
“Sorry, Chieftain Iraz. I didn’t mean to pick a fight with them. It was just—they were going to throw this Human out and I had to stop them.”
“Throw a Human out?”
Iraz’s brows came together. Instantly, the Steelfur warriors protested. They hurried forwards, clearly worried.
“Not that, Chieftain! We were coming to the aid of Decles, who were in a fight over custody of the Human who broke the Meeting of Tribes’ laws.”
“She did not!”
A howl came from the back. Oor stumbled upright, extremely battered but furious. Eska gasped.
“Oor! Who did this to you?”
“Those brutes went after Inkarr for being in the inner camp! Even though I said Ekhtouch and our tribe vouched for her!”
“And Greenpaw!”
Chieftain Orelighn added. Iraz looked around.
“Chieftains Akrisa, Eska, Orelighn. Are your warriors mixed up in this?”
“It appears so. One of our kin came to the aid of Longstalker’s Fangs. We just heard of it, Chieftain Iraz.”
Tkrn winced as Krshia and the other Gnolls glared at him. But not too long. Oor was still talking.
“They didn’t take our word for it. Nearly twisted Inkarr’s arm off and said that their tribe would decide things even after I told them to go to you, Chieftain Eska!”
“Is this true?”
The Decles Gnolls were off-guard and unhappy at the sudden change. They glowered, and one spat.
“The Longstalker warrior attacked us first! That Human was in the inner camp and we did exactly what we should have when one of ours spotted her!”
“You didn’t think to ask Plain’s Eye or the tribe involved before dragging her off? As for my warriors—did you jump into the argument without even establishing whether Decles was right?”
“And who would not take Ekhtouch’s word? If we vouch for her, one has either lied and used our word without our consent—or there is nothing to say.”
One of the Ekhtouch Gnolls sniffed haughtily. That actually helped since every Gnoll rolled their eyes at this. The Decles Gnolls were quiet. Iraz looked around, vexed. It was Krshia who coughed.
“No tribe is entirely without fault. Perhaps we should make amends and come to the truth later.”
“Well said. Inkarr, you will come with us. And if anyone would like to argue, come forwards!”
Deskie snapped. The esteemed weaver looked around for a challenge—even Decles wouldn’t step up to that one with her.
But they weren’t happy. Tkrn relaxed slightly as the mood deescalated. Iraz turned to Akrisa, Eska, and Orelighn.
“I will speak to Decles’ Chieftain. He will be furious—let us talk later.”
“Skies willing. Thank you, Chieftain Iraz.”
He nodded curtly and strode off. Half the Steelfurs went with him, but the other half remained to help fix the damages.
In the aftermath of a fight in Liscor, Tkrn was used to outrage. Drakes coming out in safety to assign blame, the Watch taking names and damages for punitive fines and so on.
This was different. The tribes were helping fix the damages, talking, making up—and, surprisingly, doing so with a fair amount of goodwill. A Steelfur warrior rubbed her jaw as she offered a paw to Merish and he took it.
“Good fight. Nice to see other tribes can still punch.”
Another Gnoll commented. Tkrn shook his head. This would have been the start of some serious grudges in Liscor. But the Plains Gnolls had a different attitude towards fighting. Sometimes it was necessary.
Then again—the Decles tribe’s Gnolls just spat and stormed off back to the inner camp. Someone tsked.
“They drew weapons first and they can’t even acknowledge a good fight? Someone should have slapped all of them as cubs.”
A Gnoll with those markings on his fur who had come for the good fight groused. It was an old Gnoll with grey fur—the same one Venaz was avoiding—who walked over and kicked him.
“You don’t beat children, you fool. You beat adults. Children are too small to understand, and too fragile. That was a good fight. But we missed it because all of you were too slow!”
He growled. Tkrn, reaching for a potion, eyed the newcomers.
“What tribe is that?”
Dekava glanced over as she produced a potion to help tend to his and the other Silverfang’s wounds.
“That has to be Wild Wastes. They train [Barbarians]. [Berserkers] too. If I know that old Gnoll, he’s a famous one.”
“Too right! And there was no one to fight. I wanted to take on another Named Adventurer.”
The old Gnoll had heard her. Lehra Ruinstrider was surrounded by admirers, but he seemed to be interested in her for entirely different reasons. He grinned.
“You were two feet taller in the fight.”
“[Berserker]. We’re Wild Wastes tribe. And those Decles Gnolls needed a good initiation ritual. I am Berr. Some called me Honored Berrigral. But I don’t care. You, youngling. You fight well for a City Gnoll. Shame you haven’t fought enough.”
He gave Tkrn a gap-toothed grin. Here was a scary old Gnoll. He reminded Tkrn of Tekshia.
“Initiation ritual, Honored Berr?”
“To toughen up young Gnolls. We don’t beat cubs. But we do kick out the stupid of our young warriors when they’re nearly of age. Every Gnoll thinks he or she’s the toughest [Warrior] in the world. So. We make them fight a cow when they’re sixteen.”
The two young Gnolls looked at him.
“You mean…a Razorhorn Bull or something like that, Honored Berrigral?”
He looked puzzled.
“No. I mean a cow. An angry one.”
“So just a bull.”
“Mm. They don’t have to be male. We don’t give them any weapons. They get to fight with their paws versus a cow. All those spitfire Gnolls think they’re so strong until a cow sits on their legs. They usually don’t die, though. That’s what those Gnolls need. Traditionalists. Always arrogant.”
“Isn’t Wild Wastes a traditional tribe?”
Berr gave Dekava a blank look.
“I suppose it is. But we don’t care. Good fight, younglings! Call me if you have another. Especially if you get Iraz. I want to see if he’s any tougher.”
He wandered off. Tkrn stared after him. Truly, the Meeting of Tribes brought all kinds of Gnolls.
Krshia smacked him. Then she pinched his ear.
“And what were you doing?”
“Aunt! I was just trying to help—my ear!”
Tkrn whined. Krshia was in the middle of tongue-lashing him when someone came over.
“Excuse me. Please do not be too angry at…Tkrn? He helped me. I would have been hurt otherwise.”
Tkrn and Krshia turned. Inkar had come over with the Longstalkers to apologize and thank him. Chieftain Eska nodded, a touch warily, at Akrisa. Krshia let go of Tkrn. She smiled, ruefully.
“At least he did some good this time. You are…Inkarr?”
“Inkar of the Longstalkers. Yes.”
“Inkarr the Traveller. And she is Honored Inkarr. I think of her as a granddaughter!”
Deskie put in fondly. Krshia blinked, but she smiled.
“Honored Inkarr. I am Honored Krshia. And this is my nephew who causes much trouble, Tkrn!”
He hung his head. But Inkar nodded at him.
“Thank you, Tkrn.”
“It was nothing. I’m uh—a [Guard]. I just acted on instinct, Miss Inkar.”
She blinked.
“Say that again.”
“I acted on instinct?”
“No, my name.”
“Inkar?”
The young woman was delighted. She clapped her hands.
“I knew someone could say it!”
Tkrn realized he hadn’t put the rolling r’s on the end of her name that every other Gnoll did. A city accent—Inkar was laughing.
“Oh good, she’s safe. And is this Silverfang? I was going to play baseball.”
A commotion. From the side came Lehra Ruinstrider, as some of her tribe kept the crowd back. Tkrn and the others stared. Half the Gnolls bowed—but she grinned.
“Hello. Is it Tkrn and Inkar? I’m Lehra.”
She casually stuck out a paw. Inkar hesitated, then she took it, and Tkrn did likewise. He blinked at her.
“You’re the Stargnoll. The youngest Named Adventurer in…”
“Don’t call me that. Just Lehra is fine. And you’re from Liscor, right? The city with…popcorn. I’ve been dying to try it, but not even Oteslia had any!”
“Popcorn?”
“And cake. I heard you have special, tall cakes. And ice cream and…”
The Gnoll looked longingly at her team. Half of them rolled their eyes—and when a Gazer did it, that was something.
This was the moment. Merish was shaking his head, a bit embarrassed. But he too was looking at the Human. Tkrn was speaking.
“Thank you for helping. I just—we have Humans in my city. So when I thought someone was trying to get rid of one because she was Human—”
“I like Humans. My entire team is like me!”
Lehra grinned. Merish looked at Viri, who was hopping forwards, excited to meet a Named Adventurer. And that was the attitude. He himself remembered a glorious company. It had been so short…
“You too. Hello. Thank you so much for coming to help.”
Inkar smiled shyly at him. Tkrn turned and began to thank Merish profusely. The [Shamanic Warrior] waved it away.
“I am warrior Merish—of Plain’s Eye. I only did what I thought was right. This is Viri, from Baleros.”
What a strange group. Venaz listened from afar, remembering his own business in Liscor. Tkrn was trying to assure Lehra that it wasn’t actually that hard to get popcorn.
“You can make some with dried corn and oil. And salt. And…yeast, although that might be optional. But we have some if you want. And cakes, I think.”
“Really? Can I buy some?”
Tkrn shrugged. A second later, Chieftain Akrisa nearly knocked him flat. She smiled at the Named Adventurer.
“The Silverfang tribe would be honored to give you as much as you want, Adventurer Lehra. You and your team! And to a warrior of the Plain’s Eye tribe—please, you are all friends this day.”
Merish ducked his head, more reserved than Lehra, who was practically dancing at the idea. She turned to Akrisa.
“Chieftain—are you all from Liscor? Did the Silverfang tribe go there? I hear there’s all kinds of exciting stuff that way!”
“Not our tribe, Honored Lehra. But our kin work there and have come all this way to join in the Meeting of Tribes. This is Honored Krshia, my sister, who leads them. You know Guardsman Tkrn. Here is also Honored Beilmark…”
They did the introductions. Tkrn felt odd, standing next to such an important Gnoll. He saw Inkar keep glancing at him—and then at the baseball field, currently being repopulated—and then her Chieftain.
“Is this where baseball comes from? They are playing…baseball, Eska.”
A meaningful look. Tkrn nodded, without seeing the way Krshia’s eyes sharpened at the correct pronunciation of the game on first go. And…a Human among Gnolls. She nudged Akrisa ever-so-slightly as Eska’s ears perked up and she stared at Inkar.
“Yes. A Human in Liscor invented the game. Actually—I know Joseph, the Human who made soccer. Football, rather.”
“Really?”
Different emotions. Viri was excited and Merish, tired, was happy to see that in the Lizardman. Simple and plain. Lehra was interested.
Venaz curious as he came over to introduce himself.
Inkar? She blinked. Krshia Silverfang looked at her, and then saw Eska and Orelighn looking at her sharply. She smiled.
And she knew. She stepped back as she let Tkrn talk to this chance group, of extraordinarily important people. Feshi, who trained under the Titan of Baleros and whose tribe was as great as the Plain’s Eye tribe represented by Merish? The Named Adventurer, the Stargnoll?
That was one thing. But most importantly—she looked at Inkar. Whom they called Inkar the Traveller. Krshia bared her teeth as Akrisa watched her.
 
—-
 
Later that day, Elirr, taking a break from another Council meeting to discuss the war with Hectval received a simple missive from the Silverfangs at the Meeting of Tribes. He read it, reading the hidden code in the [Message].
 
Please prepare Mrsha to come. She will be needed.

Also—send one of the Humans. We have met another.

 
His eyes widened. And the Meeting of Tribes truly began as Tkrn met new friends and people after a game of baseball and a fight.
It was almost like the old days.
