Inkar lied desperately. She might have told the truth—but these were not friendly-looking Gnolls. They weren’t necessarily warriors either. They looked like camp-Gnolls. But angry ones.
“Liar. One of ours saw you in the inner camp! No non-Gnolls are allowed there! The Decles Tribe is going to find out how you got in. Come with us.”
One took Inkar’s arm in an unfriendly grip. She shook her head.
“No! I am with the Longstalker’s Tribe! Let me go!”
She protested. One of the Gnolls snorted.
“Longstalker’s? That’s some tale. They’re good, traditionalists. Not like the mavericks.”
He cast a glance at the Silverfang tribe and shook his head. Inkar didn’t see what was wrong with this game, but the Gnoll clearly did.
“If you are, the Chieftain will find out! Come with us!”
His grip tightened. Inkar yelped.
“Ow! Stop!”
“Here now. At least escort her without tearing her arm off.”
Merrik, the Dwarf, scratched at his beard. The Gnoll from the Decles tribe snarled at him.
“Back off, outsider! This is tribe business and this Human broke our laws!”
Merrik frowned, but the Minotaur put a hand on his shoulder.
“Tribal business, Merrik. We respect the laws or Feshi would have our horns.”
“Pah.”
Inkar wasn’t resisting. She marched with the Gnolls, reluctant to cause an incident—and besides, Eska could sort it out. It was uncomfortable, but she was moving with the Gnolls right until a Gnoll ran into the four, panting.
Oor. Late by a minute. The panting Gnoll had run everywhere, trying to track Inkar’s scent through the Meeting of Tribes. He would have arrived sooner if he hadn’t lost it at the checkpoint.
“Wait! She’s with us! Longstalker’s tribe! My Chieftain sent me to go with her!”
He gasped. The three Gnolls halted. One eyed Orr.
“We’re Decles tribe. This Human was in the inner camp—”
“Yes! Yes, she’s with our tribe! Sorry—she’s with us.”
Orr! Inkar sagged with relief. But the three Gnolls didn’t seem happy with that. One eyed Orr suspiciously.
“You might not be Longstalkers. You could be a random Gnoll. And why would the Chieftain of the Longstalkers make such a foolish mistake?”
Orr bristled at that. So did Inkar.
“Chieftain Eska has her reasons. And both Ekhtouch and Greenpaw know a human is with us!”
The Gnolls snorted at ‘Greenpaw’, but frowned at Ekhtouch. They looked at each other uncertainly, but their leader bared his teeth.
“Fine. Then our Chieftain will investigate both matters! Come on.”
He tugged Inkar and she yelped. She was willing to go with them, but did they have to drag her? Oor frowned.
“That’s not necessary. We’ll go to Longstalker’s first if we have to. Let Inkarr—Honored Inkar go.”
The Gnolls around looked up. The Decles Gnolls gawked.
“You must be mad. Honored…? This is a bad ruse. You’re both coming with us.”
Oor reached for Inkar.
“I don’t think so. If you want to ask—ask Longstalker’s or Ekhtouch! Inkarr, I’m sorry. Let’s—”
“Don’t.”
The other Gnoll pushed Oor back. The [Warrior] stumbled—and then his eyes narrowed. He looked at the three. They glared back, fur rising. Inkar tried to say something.
“Oor, it’s fine. We’ll sort it out. Peacefully.”
“I’m not going to let them drag you to another tribe’s camp like a criminal, Inkarr. I am Longstalker’s warrior! Let her go!”
The other Gnolls shook their heads. One growled.
“Decles doesn’t answer to Longstalkers. Follow us if you want to, but we’re taking her—”
He yanked Inkar and she stumbled. That was the last straw. Oor went for him. Which, in the annals of combat decisions wasn’t the most intelligent.
There were three of them and one of him.
 
—-
 
Tkrn was busy showing the other Gnolls proper form for swinging. He didn’t notice the fight and commotion at first. Then he heard a shout.
“Stop! Stop it!”
He looked up. So did other Silverfangs and Gnolls. One called out.
“What’s that?”
“Fight. Two other tribes. Don’t worry; Plain’s Eye or Az’muzarre or a Chieftain will sort it out.”
Reassured, the other Gnolls went back to the game. There was always minor stuff like that; even this morning, Tkrn had seen Akrisa break up a fight between the children of the Silverfang tribe. But his attention had been diverted. Then he heard the second shout.
“Stop! Help, help!”
He turned and dropped the bat. It was unconscious. In the outfield, Jerci’s mother, an avid player of the game, was warming up her glove. She saw Tkrn turn and go running.
He was a [Guard]. A member of Liscor’s Watch. He might not have been Beilmark or Klbkch-level, but there was one thing a member of Zevara’s force learned and that was that if someone called out, you ran.
[Guards] got paid to run towards danger.
Not blindly of course. Tkrn was already scanning the crowd. Looked like a classic brawl to you. And that was a female voice shouting for someone to stop.
It never occurred to him that he was out of his jurisdiction. Baseball had brought him home. So Tkrn bellowed, reaching for his side reflexively.
“City Watch! Out of the way!”
Gnolls turned and moved aside as he rammed through them. It worked—although their response was a bit different than Liscor’s citizenry.
“What did he just say? City…?”
Tkrn halted as he saw the scene. Zevara had taught him well.
Assess the scene for critical threats. Weigh the odds. 
It was three Gnolls beating on a fourth, with a young Human woman being held back by one as she tried to drag them back. By the looks of it, the Gnoll being knocked around had given as good as he got; two Gnolls had bloody noses and looked a bit battered.
But three versus one wasn’t an easy fight. And it was definitely this Gnoll receiving a classic beat down now. Tkrn strode forwards.
“Alright, break it up! City Watch! Who started it?”
The tone of command worked everywhere. The Gnolls and crowd turned. They stared at Tkrn.
“City Watch? Who are you?”
The one holding back the young woman blinked. And Tkrn remembered that he was not in Liscor. His authority wavered—and went out.
“Er—Silverfang tribe. You can’t just beat that Gnoll to death!”
He pointed at the Gnoll [Warrior] who was trying to swing dizzily. One of the Gnolls growled.
“Stay out of it! We’re Decles tribe, and this Human was in the inner camps! A Gnoll tribe brought her in! We didn’t start this either—that Gnoll came at us.”
Tkrn saw one knock the dizzy Oor backwards. He nodded—and unconsciously interposed himself between the fighting Gnolls. Oor stopped. And the crowd murmured.
He’d done it now. But the [Guardsman] in Tkrn was telling him to do one thing—his brain another. What was he doing? Krshia would have his tail. But he remembered what she’d said.
You did the right thing in the end. Next time, do it faster.
“I think he’s had enough, don’t you? Let’s all calm down.”
The Gnolls eyed him, but it was another skill that any member of the Watch learned. Reasonable tones got you a long way in a heated situation.
“Fine. We have the Human.”
“I didn’t do anything wrong! Oor! Are you okay?”
The young woman protested. Tkrn frowned. He was stepping on the edge, he knew, but he held out a paw.
“Hold on. What has she done wrong?”
“She was spotted in the inner camp!”
The leader was losing his patience fast. But the crowd was watching and he needed to justify himself—even if he clearly thought it was a waste of time. Tkrn looked at him.
“You have eyewitnesses? On what authority are you taking her?”
“Eyewitnesses? We’re not conducting some city-investigation! One of ours saw her and we identified her! We’re bringing her to our Chieftain. Stay out.”
The Gnoll snapped back. Tkrn tilted his head.
“I have a truth stone. You didn’t even ask her if she was in the inner camp?”
That was proper procedure. Some of the Gnolls looked amused as the Decles tribe Gnolls stared at Tkrn.
“He’s got a point! Leave the poor Human alone! So what if one slipped into the inner camp?”
“Shut up. This is our tribe’s business!”
“Your tribe’s business? Says who? You’re Decles. Not Plain’s Eye.”
“We’re traditional! And Humans shouldn’t be allowed at the Meeting of Tribes! Any more than these other outsiders! Drakes especially!”
The Gnoll snapped. He gave an unfriendly look to all the non-Gnolls around. Tkrn frowned. The atmosphere was turning ugly. Confrontation did that. He wished he had a calming Skill.
The Gnoll behind him tried to push forwards, heedless of the danger.
“She’s not an outsider! She’s part of our tribe! Our Chieftain calls her Honored! She’s our guest to the Meeting of Tribes! You have no right to take her!”
The Gnolls listening were surprised. The Decles Gnolls? Contemptuous.
“That’s reason enough to bring her!”
“So—you’re arresting this Human because she went into the wrong camp? Despite being there because she came with a tribe?”
Tkrn made sense of it at last. One of the Gnolls shot him a warning look.
“She’s a Human in our sacred grounds. That’s enough. Now, we’ve wasted enough time! Move aside!”
He went to shove past Tkrn. And both Oor and Tkrn blocked him.
“No. That’s not good enough. You’re not Plain’s Eye and this Human has a right to be in the camp if a Chieftain vouches for her. It’s your tribe’s will against…”
“Longstalker’s Fang! And Ekhtouch and Greenpaw vouch for her!”
The crowd blinked at Ekhtouch. The Decles Gnolls snarled—but they sensed they were losing ground.
It was a debate—or a quasi-one. Tkrn blocked the path of the Gnolls…but he had a bad feeling he knew where this was going. And he didn’t have any backup. He looked around—
“Enough!”
The Gnoll in front of him took a swing as Tkrn’s head turned. The [Guardsman] was ready for this, though.
“[Fast Leg Sweep]!”
The Gnoll’s fist never reached him. He went over backwards with a shout of surprise as Tkrn moved. Oor leapt over him and tackled the second Gnoll. The third growled and Tkrn reached for his baton…
…And remembered he wasn’t on-duty. Also? Not wearing his leather armor or chainmail. He raised his fists and blocked a furious punch. Ow. Tkrn lurched backwards, his hand-to-hand training coming to him. It was Relc who taught that. And Relc taught—
Tkrn’s fist hit the other Gnoll in the solar plexus. The Gnoll coughed—and the one Tkrn had downed was scrambling up, Tkrn obligingly kicked him in the stomach. Oh—
Shit. Suddenly, it was a fight. The two Gnolls took on the three from the Decles tribe as the crowd watched. Tkrn moved back, keeping them from getting around him. Watch training. He was actually better than a Gnoll [Warrior] in this kind of scramble. His heart was pounding. But more than that?
He knew Krshia was going to kill him.
 
—-
 
It was one fight among many in the Meeting of Tribes. And in an area of miles upon miles, no one was coming to break it up right away.
Anyways, it was normal. So many Gnolls of different tribes and there was always a quarrel. Sometimes you had to let it ride out.
The danger was in…escalation. But as of yet, the crowd was just watching. And to the surprise of the Dwarf, he wasn’t holding the Minotaur back. If anything, Venaz was calmly holding him back.
“Not tempted to join in, Venaz?”
“What am I, a savage, Merrik? This is clearly a dispute over law. We’d be interfering in a serious way if we got involved. That Gnoll with the leg sweep is doing well.”
Indeed, it was three versus two, but the Longstalker [Warrior] and the Silverfang city [Guard] were holding their own. The three Decles Gnolls weren’t exactly the highest-grade trained combatants. And no one was throwing out more than a [Quick Strike] or [Leg Sweep].
A proper brawl. But only five contestants. The young woman was hovering, but wisely not actually joining in. All five Gnolls were fighting as more Gnolls abandoned the game or came over.
“What’s happening? Are they fighting? What’s the issue?”
Some of the Gnolls turned their heads, catching more interested parties up.
“Fight over a Human being where she shouldn’t. Those two are defending her. Silverfang and Longstalkers, I think—the other tribe’s Decles.”
“Hrm. And the Human broke the rules?”
“That’s what they’re fighting about. Hey, you want a pop-the-corn?”
A Silverfang Plains Gnoll offered some of his gift to the newcomer. The Gnoll snorted. He watched as Tkrn, bloody-mouthed, got one of the Gnolls in an arm-bar.
“You…are…under…arrest.”
The Gnoll wheezed. Another Decles Gnoll was on the ground, stunned or unconscious. Oor was beating down the third in a reversal.
Tkrn was reaching for his cords, which he did have on him. And he was wondering what to do next. He didn’t have Zevara or a patrol of [Guards] to help him haul the Gnoll off. He should just find Krshia, Beilmark, or a Silverfang and…
Someone broke the ranks of the circle of onlookers. Tkrn was restraining the cursing Gnoll. He heard a voice.
“Which one of you is Decles tribe?”
“Me!”
The two Gnolls on the losing end of things shouted. Tkrn turned his head. He saw a Gnoll with thick, almost metallic gray fur nod.
“Understood.”
Then he grabbed Tkrn and hit him with an uppercut that sent Tkrn flopping off the downed Gnoll. Tkrn stared at the sky for a second and then jerked. He sat up. The Gnoll with the strange fur was standing over him.
“What are you—”
The other Gnoll kicked at him. Tkrn rolled away. He saw the Gnoll advance—then pivot and kick Oor off the third Decles Gnoll. The two awake Decles tribe Gnolls jumped the Longstalker [Warrior] again from both sides.
“What are you doing?”
“Supporting allies. Steelfur tribe.”
The Gnoll cracked his paws. Tkrn scrambled up. He hesitated. Did he just say—
The other Gnoll lashed out with a much faster punch than the other Decles Gnolls. Tkrn dodged it and countered. His fist struck the other Gnoll in the jaw; the Steelfur Gnoll didn’t even try to dodge.
“Ow.”
Tkrn felt like he’d just punched chainmail. Spiky chainmail. He stared at the other Gnoll’s fur. Steelfur. Oh Rhir’s hells—
 
—-
 
“Now what’s happening? I can’t see. Give me a ride on your back, Venaz?”
“I would rather die. Another Gnoll’s joined the fighting. Seems to be on the side of the Decles tribe. He’s taking apart both of the other Gnolls. Well, it is three to two again.”
Venaz was commentating to Merrik and Peki. The Garuda was fluttering up.
“Steel fur. Not fair, not fair.”
“They’re losing.”
Venaz agreed. He was munching on some popcorn. He offered the Silverfang Gnoll some coins, but the crowd was passing around snacks.
“Isn’t anyone going to help the Silverfang? His tribe’s here!”
Merrik exclaimed. Some of the Silverfangs looked uneasy. They glanced sideways—
