Seven Steelfur Gnolls looked around. They were watching the fight where their lone friend had joined in. Merrik sighed.
“Ah. Superiority by numbers. Good lads.”
A few Gnolls shared Merrik’s opinion, but they had reservations.
“We should do something.”
“They’re Steelfur. You fancy fighting armor for fur?”
Some of the Silverfangs were whispering. Someone was already running to get Akrisa, Cetrule, or another Honored Gnoll. In the meantime?
 
—-
 
Tkrn felt like he was fighting mini-Relc. Not as strong or as fast, but nearly as tough, at least without anything more than his fists.
The young woman was trying to stop them, but a Gnoll shoved her off her feet. Oor was down again—Tkrn growled.
This wasn’t right! He felt…he looked at the young woman, who had been singled out for being in the wrong place at the wrong time, but mainly for being Human. He remembered someone else who had had a bad entrance to a good city. His city.
“Give up and lie down.”
The Steelfur Gnoll advised Tkrn. The [Guardsman] shook his head. His face hurt.
“Not a chance.”
He backed up though. Even one-versus-one, he was going to lose. The Gnoll advanced and Tkrn saw his buddies keeping back the Silverfang tribe. Tkrn’s head was ringing. Was he in Liscor?
Assess the situation. Weigh…
Brawl incident. Escalation with member of Liscor’s Watch. Danger of accidental death or injury. Human civilian in dispute. At this point in time, [Guardsman], what is the correct move?
Zevara was bellowing in his ear. He knew the answer. Tkrn dizzily reached for his neck. He produced something. The Steelfur Gnoll went cross-eyed. Inkar, lying on the ground, stared. Then she reached up.
She covered her ears before Tkrn blew on the whistle. Every Gnoll in a hundred meters shouted in agony and clutched at their ears. Tkrn blew again before the Gnoll knocked it out of his mouth. Then he punched furiously.
Reinforcements! Another Watch patrol would be here in—
A fist knocked him back into reality. Another one threatened to knock him out of consciousness. Oh, right. There wasn’t more of the Watch…
But the sound had definitely attracted even more attention. More people were asking what the heck was going on. Including some Gnolls investigating the weaving who recognized Inkar’s voice.
“That can’t be Inkarr, can it?”
One of the weaving group looked over. More were hearing.
“It’s a fight over a Human! Some Gnolls want to kick them all out! Steelfur and Decles are kicking the fur off anyone who disagrees!”
That was the garbled version of the truth that made its way out of the immediate event. Other Gnolls looked at each other. More went running for Krshia or Akrisa, but they were deep in their camp, discussing white Gnolls and Humans, ironically.
 
—-
 
And Tkrn was out of time. Dizzily, he looked up; the other Gnoll had a grip on him and was punching him. He blocked—then his arm slipped. The Steelfur Gnoll raised an arm—Inkar was being held back by the third Decles Gnoll, on his feet.
Someone grabbed the arm. The Steelfur Gnoll twisted.
“Who dares—”
“Enough. Stop this. Let the Human and these Gnolls go.”
Someone spoke. Tkrn was too dizzy to make it out. The Steelfur [Warrior] wasn’t about to listen to that, no matter how reasoned the tone, though. He spun—
“[Power Strike]!”
He hit the other Gnoll in the stomach with all his might. Tkrn heard a whoof and groan from the crowd. The other Gnoll growled. The Steelfur Gnoll went cross-eyed, staring at his fist. Then the answering punch laid him flat.
Everyone saw the Gnoll hit the ground. They waited for the Steelfur [Warrior] to rise. His eyes were rolled up in the back of his head.
“Erad!”
The other seven Steelfur [Warriors] rushed forwards. They charged Tkrn and the other Gnoll—the second Gnoll spun. The Steelfur’s Gnolls were fearless. Their fur was steel thanks to their Chieftain! They—
—saw the magical sigils light up. They tried to stop. Merish hit a second Gnoll with an elbow in the jaw, then picked up a third and tossed him. The [Shamanic Warrior] squared off against a fourth and punched.
Tkrn got to his feet. His head was ringing. Suddenly—more Gnolls were fighting. One seized him and he saw more Decles warriors flooding into the fight. They jumped the lone [Shamanic Warrior]—for all of five seconds.
Then more Gnolls shouted.
“That’s Merish! Plain’s Eye tribe to me!”
Gnolls spotted one of their kin under assault by Steelfur and Decles. They charged away from their posts and entered into the fray.
“Wait, stop, st—”
Tkrn kicked the Decles Gnoll who was shouting. Too late for both! He grabbed Inkar and dragged her back.
Protect civilians in a brawl—
“Stay back!”
He shouted. She nodded, wide-eyed.
What had been a five-person fight was now in the dozens. And the reason was getting more muddled by the second. Three more [Shamanic Warriors] and a number of Plain’s Eye Gnolls without [Warrior] classes ran forwards.
“What’s happening? Merish! Merish!”
An angry little Lizardman was hitting Gnolls with his staff. But he was one of the few using weapons.
 
—-
 
“What’s happening? Why are they brawling?”
“It’s a fight over whether Humans should be allowed into the Meeting of Tribes at all! They’re trying to kick that Human out!”
“What? Inkarr?”
The anti-Human Gnolls were increasing in number. Whereas Tkrn and the Gnolls embroiled in the fighting—now Silverfangs—were trying to shelter the one Human in the midst of the chaos.
Three students of Baleros watched, increasingly antsy despite the Minotaur assuring them it was a Gnoll affair and they were compelled not to interfere. They saw some of the Decles Gnolls grabbing at Inkar as the [Guardsman] tried to block them. It was looking bad—
The Steelfur Gnolls were just too tough for anyone but Merish and the [Shamanic Warriors] to go fist-to-fist with. Two joined the Decles group and they were dragging the young woman away. She blinked out of existence and the Steelfur [Warrior] snarled. He turned and saw her running.
“Stop!”
He ran after her. Tkrn was shouting.
“Halt, criminal!”
But he was embroiled in the fighting. The Steelfur warrior lunged at Inkar and ran neck-first into the arm. The second figure threw him to the ground.
“I like Humans! Who’s bullying people?”
She cracked her knuckles and removed the spectacles. The coughing Steelfur Gnoll tried to get up—the female Gnoll hopped on his chest and then leapt forwards. Merish was tangling with four Gnolls at once.
“Emper! Elgrinna! Get over here!”
She leapt and drop-kicked one of the Steelfur Gnolls in the back. They both fell down—and the unknown Gnoll hooked a leg as she came up. Then she shoulder-tackled another in the gut.
The angry two tribes found more outsiders joining into the fight. A Stitchman stopped a charging Gnoll with a palm to the chest. Inkar saw the Gnoll go flying and stared as Emper lowered his hand.
“[Force Palm]. Stay behind us, Miss.”
The [Monk] bowed to her again. The Dwarf just grunted.
“I’m going to kill Lemming—Suxhel, watch our backs!”
She lowered her head and charged headfirst into a groin. Emper strode forwards and the other Gnolls around Inkar were flung back. Not by a physical blow, but by a look.
The Gazer’s five eyes swung from target to target, moving them by force of…something. The four adventurers were joining in.
Venaz was vibrating. Merrik was staring at the female Dwarf, frowning.
“I swear I know her. How many female Dwarf adventurers in Izril are there? Venaz, are we just going to stand here with our beards up our asses?”
“No! Dead gods! For the House of Minos!”
Venaz charged into the fight. Peki and Merrik grinned. Although—at this point it wasn’t clear whom the Minotaur was fighting. It was just a brawl, and as Tkrn could have told you, at some point the reason behind it was lost.
The Gnoll staggered out of the fighting, spitting blood and feeling as though he’d cracked at least one finger. He looked around for Inkar and staggered towards her. Something began to pick him up, lifting him into the air—
“No! He protected me!”
Tkrn was dropped. The Gazer shifted her attention away. Inkar rushed forwards.
“Where’s Oor?”
“Who? That guy? He’s—”
Either enmeshed in the fighting or out of it. Tkrn looked over his shoulder.
The fighting was still making its way towards her. Some of the Decles Gnolls were rushing past them towards the Gazer and Tkrn and Inkarr. They passed some older, female Gnolls.
“It is Inkarr! She’s in trouble! Go find Chieftain Eska! Or Deskie! Now!”
A Gnoll exclaimed. One went bolting through the crowd. The Decles Gnolls passed the weaving circle Inkar had made friends with—
One of the [Weavers] grabbed a Decles [Warrior]. She was twenty years older than he was, but she put him in a chokehold and two more went down and the older Gnolls began kicking them.
Tkrn was laughing even as he towed Inkar away. It was—he looked at the young woman. She was different. But it reminded him of her.
Chaos for the right reasons. Merish yanked Gnolls away from Viri as the Lizardman insulted his opponents, hopping away.
“Where’s the Human? I—”
Someone charged into him and punched the Gnoll. He howled and knocked his opponent flat.
“The Human’s not here! Back away!”
He snarled at his smaller opponent. The Gnoll with white stripes on his cheeks hesitated, his paw raised to strike.
“What Human?”
Merish stared at him.
“Why are you here?”
“We heard there was a good fight!”
The Gnoll grinned and punched Merish—then regretted it.
 
—-
 
Venaz was carefully demonstrating the superior fisticuffs of the House of Minos. He was aiming for the Steelfur warriors, who were a proper fight, when he saw an old Gnoll walking through the brawl.
Instantly, he snapped out of his fight-mode.
“Old Gnoll! You! Honored elder! It isn’t safe!”
The Gnoll was short for his kind—closer to five foot five, which was a short Gnoll. He was gray, as old as the oldest Weatherfurs Venaz had met. The Minotaur blocked the combatants as he tried to steer the old Gnoll away.
“Safe? Ah, it’s a fight. A fight. Good…”
The old Gnoll looked around. He was naked except for a single, very traditional, loincloth. He looked at Venaz.
“Minotaur. Excellent.”
He grinned. Venaz stopped. His internal warrior’s senses were tingling. He saw the Gnoll’s eyes open wide—and then his teeth bare themselves. Venaz saw veins stand out under the old Gnoll’s fur—then tendons.
Then the Gnoll’s eyes developed that spark of…rage…that Venaz recognized in Minotaurs. His body seemed to convulse. And was—he suddenly taller? Like, an entire foot taller at least?
“Ah—elder. I don’t want to—”
Too late. The old Gnoll [Berserker] grabbed Venaz’ arm. And the Minotaur suddenly had serious reservations—
 
—-
 
“Did someone just throw that Minotaur?”
The female Gnoll who had been wearing spectacles blocked a punch with her armguard. Some of the brown paint flaked off and revealed—instead of the disguised leather—a brilliant glow beneath. She punched back, then whirled.
Someone behind her! She raised a fist—
And Tkrn held up his hands, shielding Inkar.
“Stop, stop!”
The Gnoll looked at Tkrn. She blinked.
“Ah! It’s the Human! Get her to safety!”
“I’m trying! But it’s chaos!”
Even the nearby tents and stalls were involved in hundreds of Gnolls fighting. Even if that was only throwing things or cheering on their favorite tribe. The Gnoll adventurer grinned.
“Follow me! We’ll get you out! Emper! Where are…?”
“There! There is the Human who started this!”
A howl from the left. Tkrn and Lehra turned. Inkar, looking around for Oor, froze.
Warriors from the Decles tribe, including the original three. But this time—
They’d drawn their weapons. Tkrn groaned.
“Oh no. Escalation.”
The Watch knew this. Let a fight go on too long and eventually, if it wasn’t contained or just a spirited brawl, it turned ugly. Someone drew a knife. And that wasn’t necessarily the dangerous part. The dangerous part was—
“They have weapons!”
One of the [Shamanic Warriors] with Merish shouted. Instantly, he drew a steel throwing axe. The Steelfur and Decles warriors around him scrambled back. And they went for their weapons.
“No! Stop! No bloodshed!”
Someone cried that out. But it was too late. Ill will or the desire to fight had turned into real bloodlust. The Decles Gnolls advanced. Tkrn reached for the sword or baton he hadn’t brought—because the Meeting of Tribes was supposed to be safe.
“Stay behind me.”
“No, I’ll run! Don’t—”
“Stop.”
The female Gnoll adventurer looked calm. She blocked the way as the armed Gnolls advanced. They aimed their weapons at her.
“Move aside! We are Decles tribe and we will have that Human even if we have to draw blood to do it!”
They were beyond reason—and indeed—the inciting incident was too petty for this. The female Gnoll held her ground.
“No. You’ll have to go through me to do that. And you don’t want to do that.”
“Watch out! They’re not going to stop!”
Tkrn shouted at her. She just grinned at him. He heard more howls.
Silverfangs had arrived at last. Dekava had arrived with her spear, but that was just adding to the danger. It was going to be a battle!
“Enough! This has gone on long enough! By my authority, that Human’s under my protection!”
The female Gnoll shouted. The Decles Gnolls charged, heedless. Tkrn looked around for a weapon. A torch on a pole. A baseball bat! Something to save the suicidal brave Gnoll—
The adventurer raised her arm. And the flaking brown paint on her armguard fell off. The Gnolls staring at her saw a flash of light on a metal beyond steel. She raised her arm and shouted.
“In the name of the City of Stars!”
The gauntlet glowed. And then—the Blade of Mershi flashed. The Gnolls around her cried out. Tkrn shielded his gaze. And when he looked again, the Gnoll was holding a spear. Her body was covered in segmented, glowing armor.
The armor of stars. Drake armor. The last heirloom of the Walled City of Stars. The Decles tribe halted as Lehra Ruinstrider, Named Adventurer, lowered the blade.
Everyone halted. Merish, panting, shielding Viri. Venaz, Peki, and Merrik, as Feshi and some Weatherfur Gnolls halted, skidding forwards.
Krshia and Akrisa, with Beilmark and some of the Silverfang tribe’s best warriors.
Wide-eyed, Dekava, Tkrn, and the others turned. Lehra lowered the spear, looking a bit embarrassed. She scratched at the back of her helmet.
“Darn. And here I was hoping to keep my cover for at least a day!”
