So two days had passed. And on the third day, there were all kinds of activities to be done! Water needed to be hauled, the sheep fed—you could spend an entire day just doing tasks for the tribe and apparently they were shorthanded so Inkar had no choice, even though some Gnolls who should have been helping if they had all this work were already coming back talking about what they’d seen.
“There’s Lehra Ruinstrider in the camps! People are surrounding her tribe’s camp and asking to meet her!”
“I met one of the Steelfur clan! They have…steel fur! He let me touch it! It’s not painful—not much, but it’s spiky!”
She wanted to join in, but Eska said there was an emergency with the Greenpaw tribe’s [Cook] and they just needed Inkar to help make some of her lovely dishes. So Inkar made some of her dishes from Kazakhstan.
…On the fourth day she figured out what they were doing.
“Inkar, I know you must be anxious, but could you help us build a new spinner? We can’t quite figure out how all the pieces work.”
One of the [Spinners] looked at Inkar a bit too innocently. And Inkar knew that the entire weaving group could put together the spinners by hand, and carve the pieces themselves if need be.
She went to find Eska.
“Why am I not allowed to enter the Meeting of Tribes?”
The [Chieftain] was talking with some of the Honored Gnolls from the Greenpaw Tribe and the Longstalker’s. Inkar knew it was a breach of etiquette, but she was too angry and hurt to care.
Eska looked up and made an excuse to the others. She sighed and took Inkar away to her Chieftain’s yurt to talk.
“Inkar, the Meeting of Tribes is for Gnolls. I would let you join in if I could, but we must make sure you are…allowed to participate. Few outsiders of your species are allowed to go to more than the periphery.”
“Then can I at least go there?”
Inkar pleaded. Eska sighed.
“I fear you may get into trouble or stand out, Inkar. And you are something of a secret that I hope the Chieftains will discuss. But it will be celebrations and politics will not come for a while.”
“I must wait until then? It is not fair! Please, Eska?”
The [Chieftain] hemmed and hawed, but she would have been blind and heartless not to see how cooped up Inkar felt.
“Very well. Tomorrow, though. I will ask the…Plain’s Eye tribe to make a statement to the other Chieftains about outsiders this Meeting of Tribes. I have been trying, Inkar, but they are busy meeting with the other great tribes. But tomorrow, even if I cannot secure their agreement, I will send someone with you.”
Inkar was content with that. She spent the rest of the day brushing the Shockwoolies—her clothing allowed her to do it without those nasty static shocks—and cuddling the friendly animals. Although, part of Inkar remembered that the ‘friendly sheepies’ could and would cluster together and stop someone’s heart if they detected a threat.
Well, good for them. They liked her, and she liked the animals. But she was restless all night, waiting for her chance to explore the meeting of tribes!
 
—-
 
The next day, Eska yawned as she rose bright and early. She sighed. Another day of waiting to meet the more important tribes. Skies willing, her tribe’s fortunes would change after this year…
“Oor. What are you doing loafing around? Is Inkarr not up yet?”
She spotted a male Gnoll taking his ease at one fire, having, well, a meat sandwich. More meat than sandwich, really. He was toasting the bread. He looked up.
“Inkarr, Chieftain? No, she woke an hour ago. Practically bouncing to see the Meeting of Tribes.”
“And you’re letting her wait?”
The [Chieftain of Herds] frowned. Oor had befriended Inkar, along with Orreh—not surprising since they were from the same family. But since the [Stalker Hunter] was busy making eyes with one of the Ekhtouch tribe’s [Warriors], Eska had picked him.
The Gnoll gave Eska a blank look.
“Why would I make her wait, Chieftain? She went into the Meeting of Tribes already. Barely stopped to appreciate good food.”
The [Chieftain] looked at him.
“…And you are not with her.”
Oor nibbled his sandwich delicately, savoring the crisp bread, the juicy meats mixing flavors.
“I will catch up, Chieftain. You did say I should show her around. Just as soon as—”
Eska nearly kicked him into the fire.
“I told you to escort her! That does not mean let her wander off, you idiot, you! Go find her! If she gets into trouble—”
Oor scrambled to his feet. He ran past Deskie as the old [Magic Spinner] tsked. But then she smiled.
“Do not worry, Eska. Inkarr is a good child. She would not cause mischief. Worry more about our other Gnolls than her. We have many of our tribe exploring out there. She is not alone.”
“I do. But I do not worry about what Inkarr will do. I worry about what other Gnolls will do to her!”
 
—-
 
Eska was right to be worried. Because despite Oor assuring her it was fine and that he’d catch up in ‘five minutes, just as soon as I prepare a proper breakfast, yes?’ He did not. And an hour later?
She was lost.
Not metaphorically lost. Not spiritually lost, or morally lost. Just lost. Physically, among the countless tents and places of the Meeting of Tribes.
In theory she wasn’t. As Tkrn had observed, Inkar had seen the same; each tribe had their own grounds. The areas between the camped tribes was neutral space where everyone could walk.
The problem was—there were no signs. And she couldn’t just walk up to random Gnolls. Well—she could—but she was suddenly shy. Everyone was staring at the lone Human in the crowd! Inkar tugged the hood over her face. Like that, she was just a short Gnoll.
She wandered through the Meeting of Tribes, staring, smelling the delicious roasting meats, seeing a Gnoll breathing fire—and then run around shouting as he accidentally caught the hair on his face on fire.
Gnolls of every type were here. Artisans like Deskie, [Warriors], [Shamans]—
No, that wasn’t right. All kinds of Plains Gnoll were here. Few of the cities. Some came, but they were almost as much outsiders as Inkar. Twice, she saw Gnolls laughing at an ‘overdressed’ Gnoll who had a suit of all things, or a dress!
It was a culture unto itself, as fiercely proud of being nomadic as Inkar had known from home. City versus countryside. Old versus new.
She was content to wandering until Oor found her. But Inkar was lost. And getting more lost by the minute. The problem was mainly that…she didn’t have a good nose.
 
—-
 
Tkrn understood how the Meeting of Tribes was laid out. Similarly, while he’d have a chance to wander, Krshia impressed on him and the other younger Gnolls not to get lost.
“Remember the scents of the camps around ours. We are setting up our boundaries now, but if you get lost—try to find a similar scent.”
That was how they did it. Scent! No signposts—and why would they be needed among Gnolls? Each tribe was marking their area. Tkrn eyed the [Shamans] and Gnolls assigned to the task.
“Er, Aunt. I mean, Honored Krshia? How will we mark our area? By…peeing on the ground?”
Krshia’s head slowly rotated. Jerci stared at him. Dekava, who was tasked with helping guide the City Gnolls, laughed so hard she nearly threw up her breakfast.
“Bite my fur, Tkrn. Are you insane?”
Beilmark slapped the back of his head. She pointed.
“We’re using scents. What are we, animals?”
Indeed, the Silverfang clan was burning some incense in bags along the border of their camp. Spice and silver. That was their scent. It would be easy for Gnolls to pick it out from afar, even with all the other thousands of scents.
Tkrn rubbed the back of his head as the others made fun of him until they were released. Dekava was still laughing.
“Shall we explore the Meeting of Tribes together, Tkrn? Or would you like to help mark our territory first?”
She teased him. Tkrn glumly knew everyone in the tribe would hear of his idiocy by nightfall. He shook his head. Think of the fun stuff!
“I would like that, Dekava. Er—exploring the Meeting of Tribes! Not the other part.”
She laughed. He felt like he had two left feet around her. Why, oh why did he turn into a fool? Especially because he thought—
Tkrn was reminded of another ‘date’ he’d gone on, at his aunt’s insistence. With a young Human woman who’d come to the city just a month or two ago…
His heart sank again. Erin was like a shadow over everything. Sometimes he forgot for a moment. But it was still fresh.
Dekava noticed the sudden slump but clearly pretended she didn’t.
“There’s so much to do. I want to see the Steelfur tribe and how much they sell their Steelcloth for. I don’t have much gold…does being a [Guard] pay much?”
“I wish. I haven’t been saving up so I can spend like…a gold piece, at most.”
That was his entire savings, not including some money Krshia had given him for the event. Dekava shook her head at him.
“We’ve been saving for years for this day! What were you doing?”
She meant the other Silverfangs. Tkrn hunched his shoulders defensively.
“I didn’t know I’d be coming! I thought—well, there’s still a lot to see, right? Can we meet some of the Named Adventurers, do you think? I’ve always wanted to meet one. I mean—I have. But a Gnoll one. Like Gamur the Axe. I had a toy of him when I was small. He’s here, right?”
“Is he a true Gnoll? Of course he is! But I don’t know if we’ll be able to meet him. I want to meet them too, and all the Chieftains.”
Dekava sighed. Tkrn looked blankly at her.
“Why not? This is the Meeting of Tribes. If they’re here…”
She frowned.
“Tkrn, did you not hear your Honored Aunt?”
“Er…I was thinking about peeing on doors.”
She rolled her eyes.
“We can’t just walk into another tribe’s camp! Only the free ground. And I’ll just bet the important Gnolls won’t let us in. Unless we’re invited by a member of the tribe or we’re given dispensation…”
Tkrn realized each tribe would have guards at the entrances. The areas outside of each camp were free game, which was why Gnolls were setting up there. But his dream of meeting his childhood hero—he drooped.
“Oh. Fine.”
“Come on. Someone had better make sure you remember all the rules. What’s this about peeing on doors?”
“I thought it was something you did! We did it as kids all the time—”
“So you’re saying you did this recently? As an adult?”
Tkrn had a terrible feeling Dekava was laughing at him, not with him. They entered the Meeting of Tribes as he wondered if he could bribe her not to tell.
 
—-
 
Inkar had no special nose. Special hearing thanks to her gift of friendship as a [Worldly Traveller]—yes. But not the nose of a Gnoll, which was what she needed here.
She wasn’t helpless, though.
“One, please.”
She handed over some coppers for a stick of meat. It was very cheap, but good. The Gnoll minding the rotisserie where he was slicing off bits of meat and putting them on sticks gave her an odd look, but he took her money.
She savored the hot bite. Of course, she could have eaten in the camp, but there was something to this. Buying food, walking around, eating it…
It was so exciting! Look! There were Gnolls showing off weapons to each other. They carried everything from wood and ivory to iron and steel and enchanted weapons! Inkar was no warrior, but she found it fascinating, like the warriors of old in her world.
Some were competing—others just talking, catching up with friends from afar. And they were old and young!
A little Gnoll ran up, sniffing.
“What’s that? Where did you get it?”
She was on all fours. Inkar smiled at the child as an exasperated parent pushed after her.
“Right there.”
“Do you have to pay for it? Can I have a bite of yours?”
“Vrers! Enough! I am sorry, Miss—”
The mother snatched up her daughter, and then did a double-take.
“A Human? Here?”
“Oh. I’m sorry—”
“Who let you in? This is the inner area, not—”
Inkar ducked back as heads turned. She saw the mother stare at her, then look around. Inkar turned quickly, pushed past some Gnolls, and vanished.
Where was Oor? She was going to give him a hard time! Maybe she needed to find her way back to the Longstalker’s camp, or failing that, maybe move out of the inner area. Inkar looked around.
The problem was that there were very few easily-accessible high spots. The plains were flat. And Gnolls did not build up, but out. She frowned.
Then—she saw something peculiar as she scanned the sky. Was that…a bird?
It was not the Roc, the gigantic bird that could be ridden by multiple Gnolls, even before fully grown. But neither was it a proper bird. It was too large for that. Was that a bird…person?
Yes! The figure was flapping in the distance, circling, then descending. Inkar stared.
Garuda? She knew only one species in the world were native fliers—besides the Oldblood Drakes. One of them was here?
Oor forgotten, she headed in that direction. She had to meet one! She passed down the street, avoiding a tribe’s camp. The [Guards] were armed with some shiny metal—but a Gnoll was shouting.
“Demas Metal Tribe! We are accepting orders! Our Chieftain will talk to yours about the metal! No peeking!”
Inkar half-turned—but the guards in front of the tribe were frowning at her and she certainly couldn’t afford a commission.
Human. So she hurried on, and found the edge of the inner camp.
Perhaps it was wrong of Eska to have camped in the inner area. But her tribe was next to Ekhtouch and Greenpaw’s smaller contingent. A place of honor thanks to the Ekhtouch and it would have been wrong to abandon Greenpaw, who were really too small on their own.
Still, the inner camp was not for outsiders. Inkar saw some Gnolls with a distinctive ‘eye’ dyed onto their fur or armbands manning a kind of checkpoint. She gulped as she realized she was on the wrong side of one.
She didn’t know how they’d react. She knew they were Plain’s Eye—Deskie called them powerful traditionalists. And she didn’t want to cause trouble for her tribe and Chieftain. So…Inkar edged forwards. She strode towards the Gnolls idly waiting at the checkpoint and sipping tea—they really weren’t doing anything other than turning away outsiders. Before they noticed her coming up from behind she called upon the magic and—
Pop.
Inkar appeared past the checkpoint and a tent. A Gnoll jumped as she saw Inkar appear.
“Holy not-my-Ancestors!”
She exclaimed as Inkar appeared. The Waisrabbit cloth—expensive, highly prized—whispered in Inkar’s clothing. She’d used up the magic charge to hop a tiny bit forwards.
“Sorry!”
Inkar apologized. She rounded the tent as she backed away from the Gnoll and her companions. The Gnoll adjusted her spectacles, staring.
“That was so cool. Did you see that?”
