Tkrn’s head turned. He saw one of the older Gnolls, a senior [Warrior] by his dye and well, age, step forwards. He expected Dekava to argue. Her face twisted—but after only a second, she proffered both acid jar and matches.
“I would be delighted, Great Warrior.”
The other Gnolls who had fought so avidly over both acid jars and matches turned. Instantly, they offered their gifts to the other senior [Hunters] and [Warriors].
Tkrn’s mouth opened but he felt an elbow hit him in the ribs at once. Beilmark. He closed his mouth as he saw something peculiar take place.
The older Gnolls liked his gifts as much as the younger ones. So much so that they instantly put them in their bags of holding if they had them, or took a match box, remarking how handy it was if you didn’t have a [Shaman]. The younger [Warriors] looked longingly, but then they began to fight over the whetstones and blade oil—those that were left.
What was that? Tkrn looked at Beilmark. She beckoned him aside and whispered very quietly.
“More honored Gnolls get preference. Dekava gave up her gifts for the tribe. It’s customary. Don’t worry—she got something in return.”
What, exactly? But Tkrn already saw the Gnoll whom Dekava had given her items to, advising her on how not to wear down the whetstone and her smiling.
“Status. Now that brings me back.”
Jerci’s father had stopped smiling as much. He chewed on the same bit of gristle as he watched the younger ones fight over what was left. Tkrn looked at him.
“Mister Orrl…is that normal?”
“In the tribes, lad? You see that all the time. It’s one of the reasons I left.”
The Gnoll spoke more like a city person than one of the Plains Gnolls. And Tkrn remembered—he made axles. Not a useless occupation here, but more of a city thing. The Gnoll stretched out.
“Let’s say you’re a [Hunter] and you find a dead adventurer’s scabbard or something. Enchanted. Well—if you were in Liscor, I’d say that’s your luck. Here? The right thing to do is to show it to the Chieftain or [Shaman] or a senior, Honored Gnoll. Maybe they let you keep it if you’re lucky, but chances are you give it to the best Gnoll who needs it.”
“Or most senior.”
His wife murmured just as quietly. Orrl nodded.
“But you’ll be credited for it! Your status in the tribe goes up, especially if you give something good. And someday you’ll be in that spot so…that’s the tribe for you. Tribe first, Gnoll second.”
Tkrn blinked. His first thought was: well, that sucks. But he wisely kept it to himself.
 
—-
 
The second peculiarity of Gnollish culture came moments thereafter. Gnolls were drinking now, and a second wave assailing the cooking fires and eating merrily—and talking about the gifts!
“A blacksmith’s puzzle? You shouldn’t have.”
“Oh, it’s just this little thing. You can experiment with how to solve it…”
“Really, you shouldn’t have. How much did this cost compared to those matches, say? Or that lovely cookbook? Thank you so much…”
The point was that most people were happy with their gifts. Also, that Tkrn’s second-cousin Zekoon couldn’t pick out presents.
Another Gnoll waved something at Orrl.
“Er—Orrl. What is this? A cheap club? Couldn’t you even add metal to it? And what are these? I can’t use them in my sling and they’re not much better than our balls. Even our young have some enchanted ones. As for these…gloves…”
Orrl grinned as he threw an arm around the perturbed Gnoll.
“My friend, you will enjoy this. Have no fear! Have you ever heard of…?”
Tkrn was grinning as he saw Orrl begin to explain. Then his face fell as he remembered why the Gnoll knew of that game at all. And then his ears perked up as he saw the first drinkers begin talking loudly around one of the fires.
“I’m glad our cousins enjoy Liscor enough to live there for a decade. But I’ve been to Drake cities too. And you know what my experience is? It’s being called ‘dog’.”
Tkrn’s head turned as a Gnoll groused to the others. Some of the City Gnolls were blinking.
“Dog?”
“It’s Drakes. Not only do they go to you first if someone’s stolen something, they’re always saying it. The bad ones don’t even lower their voices. ‘Smells like a dog’, or ‘untamed savage’. You know, I once worked under a [Foreman] and after a day of hard work, he actually said ‘good dog’ to me. That’s what it’s like living in a Drake city.”
The [Guardsman] actually laughed at that. The listeners turned to him as he trotted over.
“Wait, are you serious? That can’t be true.”
The Gnoll complaining had slightly ragged fur, and looked rather upset. He must have had a bad day; burrs were still tangled in his fur.
“You think I’m joking?”
It was a large group around the fire, and their heads turned to Tkrn and the speaker. The [Guardsman] raised his paws.
“No! I mean—it sounds incredible.”
“That’s never happened to you in Liscor? Not once? Your fellow [Guards] don’t talk behind your back?”
“Nope.”
Tkrn couldn’t even imagine it. The other Gnoll scoffed, but Tkrn scoffed at the idea. Zevara would string that person out to dry!
“No shopkeepers or people on the street?”
“Not a one. They’ve done stupid stuff before. There are plenty of Drakes who’ve had issues with us—well, before the Humans came along. Now they mostly hate them. But we don’t stand for it.”
“How do you mean, don’t stand for it?”
A curious question from Dekava. Tkrn shrugged.
“We just boycott the shop or business. There was a problem with Wishdrinks not letting in as many Gnoll groups. So we all stopped going and they changed their minds. Well, the new manager did. I’ve never had what you describe, mister…?”
“It’s Serral. And you must be exaggerating. I know what other cities are like. Ever heard of Paworkers?”
Tkrn had, but only recently. He spread his paws out.
“That’s some cities. It’s not what living in Liscor is like. Believe me, it’s fine.”
He told the other Gnolls, trying to inject some reality into the rant. He didn’t mean to offend Serral—but realized that was what he was doing.
The other Gnoll bristled.
“Oh, so Liscor is perfect, then? Tell me, until recently how many Gnolls were on your Council?”
“Well…”
“And how many Watch Captains were Gnolls? Has there ever been a Gnoll Watch Captain?”
“No, but we have a good one. So no one’s lining up for the job…”
“And if they did, would they get chosen, or would a Drake be chosen first? For that matter, if your precious city is so good, why haven’t I heard of other Gnolls having wonderful experiences in theirs? Who here has been to Drake cities and had that kind of experience?”
The Gnoll looked around angrily. No one raised their paws, although some of Liscor’s Gnolls looked uncomfortable.
“Maybe it’s one city where you think everything’s fine. But is it really? Or do you just not see what’s wrong?”
He challenged Tkrn. The [Guardsman] hesitated.
“No, I admit there’s things that are wrong. It’s just—not all cities are bad—”
“And you have been to more than me, yes?”
“Well, I’ve been to Human cities—”
“Where there are tons of Gnolls, yes?”
Something was happening. The group around the fire, including Dekava, was growing, and Gnolls were nodding or talking to each other as Serral spoke. Tkrn had invoked something by accident. Not knowing the rules, he tried to reply.
“Look, Liscor is really nice, Serral. The Drakes are kind, nice. Some other cities might be bad, I don’t know.”
“You speak kindly, Tkrn. But you are naïve. Young.”
Serral scoffed back. He turned, and he was addressing the listening crowd around the fire as much as Tkrn. He took a swallow from his drink and went on.
“Maybe the only reason Liscor is so good is that there are enough Gnolls to force the Drakes to treat us civilly. Maybe if there were not so many Silverfangs and so organized with Honored Krshia, we would see exactly how ‘nice’ the Liscorian Drakes are. What I experience is tolerance at best, and incivility and insults and suspicion most of all. But why trust my opinion, no? I’ve lived and travelled to more cities than young Tkrn here…but that’s all.”
More agreement. Tkrn felt himself shrinking as he struggled for a response and found his tongue wasn’t quick enough, especially with the food and drink in him.
Someone came to his rescue before Serral could go on. Tkrn jumped as he felt a paw on his shoulder. He looked left—
And there was Krshia. She cut off Serral.
“You say that despite not having been to Liscor, Serral. It seems there is a lack of knowledge on both sides, yes? And I have been to more cities than both of you combined. And am older than both! What if I told you that Liscor truly was good?”
The angry Gnoll turned. There was a murmur and Tkrn felt Krshia nudge him back. Suddenly—it was Serral and Krshia. They were…
Debating. Tkrn saw the crowd’s heads swing back and forth, listening. Now hundreds of Gnolls were listening from afar as Serral scoffed.
“And was Liscor so wonderful as Tkrn described, Honored Krshia? Or was it just as I said, and Gnolls had to fight for their rights?”
“No. It was not always so nice.”
Krshia held Serral’s gaze as she dipped her head. He smiled—but she undercut him with her next sentence.
“However, Tkrn is not wrong. He speaks from his only viewpoint, which is just as honest as he says. Liscor was uncomfortable with us when we first came. But it was not force that made the citizens warm to us, but that we were there and they grew used to us. Just as they grew used to Antinium. Because both species mixed and mingled. Perhaps the problem with other cities is that they only know Gnolls who come and go, not settle in numbers.”
A second murmur, of intrigue. Serral frowned.
“And why should we, if they treat us so?”
“Perhaps because Gnolls of the plains sometimes come to Drake cities with as much disdain for them as they do for us, Serral. Or do you show up to your job smiling?”
Polite laughter. Krshia waved a paw as he began to growl.
“I am not saying that you are wrong, Serral. Only that you call all Drake cities one thing. When I say it depends on how well they know us. There are good cities with good people—perhaps many cities, only some ruled by hostile Drakes or not used to us. And I say Liscor is one such. That is all.”
He hesitated. But after a moment’s thought, the inebriation seemed to be too much for him to tack on a coordinated response. Defeated, Serral just growled.
“Would that every city were Liscor, then.”
He stomped off to get another drink. Krshia looked around and so did Tkrn. He heard murmurs of agreement, some sharing their own experiences. Then Krshia turned to him.
“Your first day in camp and you must start a debate, hrm, nephew?”
She pinched his ear roughly. He yelped.
“Aunt! I hate when you do that! What did I do?”
“You participated in a debate, Tkrn. Do you not know one when you see it? And you very nearly made yourself and Liscor look like fools, yes?”
Krshia indicated the crowd. Tkrn, wincing, pulled his ear to safety.
“I don’t understand. Did you win the debate? Serral just stormed off.”
She gave him a long look.
“So? I persuaded the ones who matter and thus I won.”
She indicated the listeners. Tkrn saw they were nodding at her, and even the Chieftain looked approving.
“I don’t understand.”
One of the Plains Gnolls chuckled. It was Cetrule. The [Shaman] nodded to Krshia, who smiled.
“It is a custom of tribes, young Tkrn. When Gnolls argue, others listen. Whomever is judged most right ‘wins’, even if the two never reconcile. The goal is to persuade those who listen of your correctness, not to simply talk. And the one who wins often sees the other side come around if all agree.”
Serral hadn’t, but he was having a longer drink then going back to the conversations, which were indeed skewing positive. Tkrn shook his head.
“I can’t imagine trying that in Liscor. Some of my fellow [Guards] would never admit they’re wrong.”
“Well, they are Drakes. We are Gnolls.”
Cetrule laughed. Tkrn hesitated. He’d meant his coworkers in general, which now included Humans. Jerci was incredibly stubborn.
“It is good you had Honored Krshia with you. She is quite renowned and her tongue has not lost its skill, I see. Silvertongue Krshia was your nickname, wasn’t it?”
Cetrule addressed Krshia. She rolled her eyes.
“Silvermouth they called me, since I picked too many arguments. Well, you will hear more such debates, Tkrn. Larger ones, between tribes. Then—the audience is [Chieftains] and [Shamans] and the outcome matters. Try not to cause any more trouble tonight though, yes?”
Chastised, Tkrn nodded. He slunk back to his tent—which was a rounded dome shape, small though, and he was sharing it with two more male Gnolls. But it was protected from the wind and he had drunk and eaten well. The Silverfang tribe was welcoming.
It was just a tiny bit different. That was all.
 
—-
 
To Inkar, the Gnolls had never been that different from her culture. At least, they had many overlaps.
Magic sheep? Magic sheep were different. And so was this.
She knew horse fairs. She knew cities. But the Meeting of Tribes was a wondrous event, such that the young woman was glad to have come to this world.
Despite the heartache. Despite the loss. Despite danger and death.
She still felt sad when she thought of the crashed airplane. But enough time had passed that she had stopped mourning and come out of her shock. More importantly—this was the time when she might find her answers.
The Meeting of Tribes. She was practically bouncing to see all the things here. You could trade for valuable goods! Pay to learn secrets, have fun seeing each tribe’s wares and antics, and of course, play games.
However, it had been four days since the Summer Solstice begun and the Longstalker’s Fang tribe had arrived and she had yet to go out and see everything.
The first day they’d just arrived and setting up and finding a space with Eska negotiating for room for their herds had taken all day. Inkar didn’t begrudge that.
Or the next day, when they had to build some temporary fences. After all—thieving and poaching existed in the tribes and the rare animals of their tribe were valuable. Inkar had hoped to go into the main Meeting of Tribes, which was already bustling that night, but she’d been asked to keep Deskie, the [Magic Spinner] who was so important and Inkar’s friend, company.
Sometimes Deskie needed help since she was older. And Inkar’s clothing was proof of their great friendship. Deskie had woven the fabric of Waisrabbits into the lining of Inkar’s clothing.
