“I asked Aunt—I asked Krshia why she took me after what I did, Beilmark. And she gave me this.”
The Senior Guardswoman eyed the knife. She blinked, wrinkled her brow, then groaned.
“Oh, the knife. Bite my fur, she’s doing that? Well, do your best.”
She shook her head. Almost amused, she rode after Krshia. Tkrn stared at her back. Another Gnoll passed.
“It was a bit of armor for me. Ah, this brings back memories!”
Chuckling, he rode with Beilmark after their leader. The Gnolls passing Tkrn as he slowed chuckled, or shook their heads. They seemed to know what it meant, the older ones. Jerci just gave Tkrn a blank look. But that gesture somehow made the Gnolls look ahead, straighten slightly, even in their grief.
They were heading into the plains. For them…home.
They were coming home. Tkrn stared at the belt knife. He looked around.
“But I hate riddles.”
His plaintive voice was ignored by all.
 
—-
 
Later that day, Krshia looked up as the others were having a brunch on the road. Tkrn had patted his horse down and given it a bit of stamina potion and they were just about to go.
“Ah, nephew. Do you have my belt knife yet? Or have you not understood?”
She smiled as he squatted down around the small fire and boiling tea. He hesitated—Beilmark, Raekea, and some of the older Gnolls were sitting there. They looked up and he flushed under his fur—but he nodded.
“I think I do, Aunt.”
He proffered her the knife. Krshia regarded it, but didn’t take it. Tkrn had thought for about two hours as he rode; there wasn’t much else to do. The Gnoll Plains, love ‘em or hate them—got sort of similar after you stared across the flat, flat landscape for a while.
“It’s a lesson. You want me to understand it. You gave me the knife because…of this.”
The Gnoll indicated the one obvious thing on the knife. Raekea didn’t stamp her blades; she trusted the quality to will out. The tool was old, but still sharp as a razor—he’d cut his finger while playing with it. Yet that notch on the handle was noticeable.
“It’s damaged. A bit. You should really fix the gap.”
“I’ve been meaning to replace the handle for years. But I never get around to it. Your point, nephew?”
Tkrn took a breath. He thought he was right; it was obvious and there was no other answer he could think of.
“Well, the knife is me, isn’t it? I’ve made a mistake. But I can still fight and…and do what’s needed. That’s why you took me, right?”
He waited, as the small group of Gnolls looked at each other. Their faces were unreadable, but then Krshia stirred. She took the belt knife, carefully put it in her belt, and patted the notched handle.
“Hm. Hrm. Well now. I like that answer. I think I’ll take it. What do you all think?”
Tkrn blinked. He saw the other Gnolls grin toothily. Beilmark slapped one knee as a laugh burst from her throat.
“I like it too! Good answer, Tkrn! Although, if it were a notch on the blade I’d disagree! I wondered if he’d come up with something.”
She chuckled. The others did too. Tkrn looked at his aunt.
“Wait. Was that the answer?”
She shrugged.
“I have no idea. It sounds good, though.”
His jaw dropped.
“But I thought—you gave me that knife because—why did you give me that knife?”
“To see what you said.”
She winked at him. The young Gnoll’s eyes bulged. The other, older Gnolls laughed harder because of it. Raekea pulled herself upright and fondly patted Tkrn’s leg. She offered him a fresh cup of tea, chuckling.
“Sit, Tkrn. Don’t be too mad. My mother did the same to me when I was your age and ruined one of her crucibles. It’s a time-honored tradition…although among Plains Gnolls. Krshia, is that what inspired you?”
The [Shopkeeper] ducked her head modestly.
“I thought it was appropriate. I wondered if Tkrn’s parents had done it to him, but he was always dutiful.”
Tkrn turned redder as the others chuckled.
“You mean, you didn’t know what I’d say and you didn’t have a lesson?”
“Mm. Pass the tea, Raekea. What’s this flavor? Mint? Eugh. I hate mint.”
Krshia sipped from the cup as she sighed.
“It’s a good answer, Tkrn. It has bones in why I did take you. You are my nephew—more than that? I thought it would be good for you to see the Meeting of Tribes. But that is a Gnoll way of teaching. Every Gnoll of the Tribes learns that lesson. It helps us understand how you think. Sometimes the answer is very good. Sometimes, not. Right, Beilmark?”
How, he thought? Tkrn blinked. He turned to the Senior Guardswoman. Embarrassed, Beilmark scratched behind one ear.
“Ah, well, many are younger than you when we are given something. I spent two days with the dagger my father gave me after I lost a horse. I wanted to know, ‘why do you put up with me even though I make such bad mistakes’? Came up with many stupid suggestions he refused to take. In the end…I got him to take it back.”
“What was your answer?”
Grinning, and very amused, Raekea’s husband leaned forwards. The Drake was treating this as a holiday; he was the best [Smith] for tools and weapons, Raekea the best [Armorer]. Beilmark chuckled ruefully.
“I think I said, ‘because I can carry things for you’. He laughed and decided that was good enough.”
The others guffawed. Another Gnoll, a [Tracker], raised a paw.
“I bought my mother a new bow after she gave me hers. I thought that was what I was supposed to do. Saved up for two months. She laughed herself sick and took the bow.”
More laughter. Tkrn began to feel a bit better. Although he was still flushed as she sipped at the hot mint tea.
“Children travel a lot and get very impatient, you see, Tkrn. We have to think up ways to keep them silent on the move—and hopefully actually grow!”
Krshia reached over and ruffled the fur on Tkrn’s head. He sighed and sniffed.
“Very well, Aunt. But really—am I supposed to just learn and enjoy myself?”
She became more contemplative at the serious tone in his voice. The others looked at Tkrn and he felt that unpleasant feeling. But at last—Krshia shook her head.
“No, Tkrn. I did take you because I thought it would be good. But I could have taken many Gnolls, yes? I took you because we are related, because I know you, because you are a decent level—and because you did do the right thing in the end.”
“Only at the last moment, Aunt.”
He hung his head. Krshia nodded.
“Yes. Only then. Not enough—but at least, nephew, I know you will do the right thing then. Next time, do it sooner.”
It was a painful relief to hear. Tkrn looked up and she smiled at him. Then she sipped at her mint tea and gagged.
“Enough wasting time! We are close to the Meeting of Tribes! I want to be there sooner! Sooner! Tea break ends in five minutes!”
“You mint-tea hating tyrant.”
Beilmark huffed as she sipped at her cup, and then produced a canteen for more on the road. That was Tkrn’s first introduction to Plains Gnoll tradition. It would be far from the last. And as midday came, the rolling plains began to rise slightly. They crested a hill—and saw the first smoke trails rising in the distance. Hundreds of them, thousands. A vast encampment in the distance. The Gnolls pointed and shouted—
There was the Meeting of Tribes. And the Silverfang Tribe, their kin, were waiting to greet them.
 
—-
 
She heard and smelled them before she laid eyes on the Gnolls.
To be a Gnoll was to experience the world in ways that Humans and Drakes could only understand a fraction of. Their sense of smell and hearing was so poor! Then again, they could happily walk through places that had rank odors and barely complain about it.
And as Krshia had observed, keeping secrets was hard around a people who smelled and heard everything.
Still—the wind. She sniffed the air and smelled the odor of thousands of fires, albeit terribly far away. Smoke, cooking scents, even blood—oils and steels in countless profusion. And the natural scent of the Great Plains.
To her, it was home. But she heard the howls from behind and in front of her as well. Gnolls stood in their saddles and howled greetings from afar. And the answering ones?
There was a timbre and pitch unique to a tribe. The Silverfang’s were long, loud, with a curious warble thrown in. Krshia bared her teeth. Raekea exclaimed with a laugh.
“They’re waiting for us!”
“Of course!”
The Gnolls picked up the pace, their maudlin mood forgotten for a moment. Krshia smelled a new scent coming directly at them as the wind sent it downwind.
Silver and spice. Not necessarily each Gnoll having one or the other, but there was that mix of both scents on the natural odor of Gnolls and so on.
Silverfangs were great [Traders], and they also had claimed old silver mines and worked them. Moreover—as the new Gnolls came into sight, loping across the ground from where they’d been camped, outside the central profusion of tribes—Krshia saw decorations on their fur.
Plains Gnolls. Less clothed then their City Gnoll kin, except for the warriors. Also, bearing earrings, armbands, and of course, dyed fur.
Silver streaks in their fur, rather. Tkrn blinked as he saw the curious pattern on one of the Gnoll warrior’s fur along the mane of her neck. Krshia recognized it.
Warrior’s markings. In the past, they were more than symbolic. You decorated the neck and down your back and even your arms with a special silver dust dye. To ward away ghosts and…bad things.
Krshia remembered wearing the same dye proudly herself. She had been a [Hunter], apprenticed to the [Shaman] for a year or two…her heart swelled with nostalgia and memory. In this moment though, it was more good than not.
“Kindred!”
The howl came from afar. Two of the Gnolls were riding back towards the Meeting of Tribes. Krshia slowed her gallop and laughed as she raised her hand.
“Silverfang kin! Do you recognize us at sight alone?”
It was a group of a dozen, minus the two heading away. They slowed, waving up at her as she slowed. Huge, toothy grins. They were half-warriors, half other Gnolls, wearing the traditional silver ornaments. Silver and ivory, silver and jewel—the Silverfangs had a motif and they let people know they embraced it.
“Is that Honored Krshia of Liscor? Councilwoman Krshia, or so we have heard! Greetings, Aunt! We were told to sit here and not return until you arrived! We are glad you did; we want to join the Meeting of Tribes!”
The female Gnoll with silver dye running in stripes down her mane and back spread her arms. Krshia dismounted. The two embraced there and then, and Krshia sniffed the younger Gnoll politely as she did the same.
“We were delayed unavoidably. We are sorry, yes? I shall tell my sister—the Chieftain the same! Is Chieftain Akrisa close?”
Akrisa, her sister. Long had it been since they’d seen each other. The younger Gnoll beamed—then turned her head and sneezed.
“Well met, Aunt Krshia! Yes—she camped the way you would be coming. And two of us rode to get her. She’ll be here soon—how many are there? Sixty?”
“Just under.”
“I—achoo! We were ready for ten times that number if need be! But that is well. Honored elders, greetings!”
She bowed, very politely to the older Gnolls in front in turn. That included Tkrn, which amused Krshia. Until she realized it was her mistake.
“Tkrn, move back. You’re not Honored yet.”
Beilmark laughed as she nudged Tkrn. The other Gnolls were dismounting to pat the Silverfang Plains Gnolls, hug—they were more intimate physically than Drakes might be, or Humans with formal handshakes and whatnot.
Some of the Silverfang Plains Gnolls began sneezing, and apologizing. Krshia raised her eyebrows.
“Allergies? I forget—I have not asked your name.”
“No, Honored Krshia! Forgive me! I am Dekava! [Hunter-Warrior] of four full years since my markings. It’s just—you smell of the city! Oil and dust and Drakes all over you!”
Krshia blinked. They did? She hardly noticed, but if Dekava insisted, it must be so. She self-consciously sniffed herself, then smiled.
“Not that bad, surely!”
“No! Just different! Apologies! Will you introduce us?”
Krshia nodded. Ah, yes. This was back home alright. The request was more than just formality—she pointed, singling out the six Gnolls.
“This is Honored Beilmark, Senior Guardswoman of Liscor. Honored Raekea, [Armorer] and Councilwoman of Liscor…”
The eight Plains Gnolls bowed slightly to each in turn. Memorizing the names of the six Honored Gnolls. Of course, Tkrn and the others knew them as the same, but Krshia noticed Tkrn blink as Dekava bowed to Beilmark, placing her paws together as she bowed.
“A warrior of the cities! Honored Beilmark, it is good to meet you! We would love to see how they fight there later. And an [Armorer]! We knew you were coming, Honored Raekea! Our smiths will wish to exchange knowledge.”
“And I will be glad to do so. Well met, Dekava. And you are…?”
They made a point of saying ‘Honored’ each time. Which was much like City Gnolls. Except…Tkrn coughed.
“Beilmark. Do you want the guards to spread out or…?”
Beilmark half-turned.
“I think we’re fine, yes, Tkrn? The Az’muzarre tribe patrols. Just keep them nearby.”
Dekava’s ears perked up. She turned to Tkrn.
“Ah, you must be Honored Beilmark’s son?”
“No.”
The other Plains Gnolls blinked.
“Her…nephew?”
“No.”
“Husband?”
They eyed Beilmark. She snorted with laughter. Tkrn shook his head.
“I’m Tkrn. [Guardsman]. Regular Guardsman of Liscor.”
Dekava’s look of confusion turned to one of understanding. She smiled and seized his paws. She shook his hands vigorously with hers.
“Ah, I see! Pleased to meet you, Tkrn! They’re [Guards]. The same group.”
Ah. The others nodded. Krshia coughed, but only half in amusement. She was going to have to remind the others to always say Honored Beilmark and so on. She’d forgotten how seriously…
Ten years. Her head turned as she heard another howl in the distance. Massed voices—she looked around and stopped.
There came the true Silverfang Tribe. Nearly a thousand Gnolls loping across the ground, and leading them, a familiar form and voice. She howled again and Krshia answered her.
Akrisa Silverfang was, in fact, shorter than Krshia. But far more athletic. She did not stand behind a counter all day. She raced across the grass, her tribe racing past her.
“Wow.”
Tkrn stared. He had scarcely seen so many Gnolls at once! No—that wasn’t correct. He saw countless Gnolls every day in Liscor. But here was a mass of furry bodies, fur ranging from blonde to black—and not a scaly tail to be seen among them.
A Gnoll tribe. They bounded forwards and, abruptly, stopped. Krshia and the sixty or so Gnolls from Liscor were on foot, hurrying forwards.
“Sister! It is good to see you, yes!”
