She turned to her companions. Adventurers? The Gnoll was wearing spectacles, and there was a Human man next to her. Inkar blinked. Another Human! Then she did a double-take and stared.
Wait a second. His skin was dark—a bit darker than hers, and he had a different clothing style—a type of robe made of one piece of cloth looped around his body.
But he was…not Human. Not unless they looked like that movie with the monster made out of parts in it. His arms, his neck, his ears all had little stitch marks in them!
“Emper, did you see that? She just appeared!”
“I saw. Good morning, miss.”
The Stitchman replied. He half-bowed to her. Inkar caught herself bowing back.
“Stop being so impressed, Lehr—Lenna. It’s a minor teleport spell.”
That came from someone standing next to the Gnoll with spectacles. Inkar’s head turned. She saw a five-foot high…
If she had stared at Emper, the String Man in surprise, her eyes nearly popped out of her head at the second person standing there. And her gaze was answered by five eyes.
The…the person was short. And she had five eyes. Had Inkar mentioned that already?
Three central ones. Top, left, right. Like a triangle, occupying most of her face. Nose? She had two nose holes, much like a Drake’s. But she was not…similar to Gnolls, Humans, String Folk, or Drakes, who all alternated on the basic humanoid shape.
For one thing, this person had oddly-segmented arms, fingers, and though Inkar could not see them, feet. An odd curl to her ‘fingers’ on each hand—and she only had four of each.
She was squat. Her neck, if she had one, was not one that allowed her to crane her head. That didn’t imply she wasn’t flexible; it was only that her head wasn’t the flexible part. Her lower body seemed to have far more articulation.
Her skin was a dark orange, neither fur nor skin as Inkar knew it. Call it a hide, then. But it transformed to a kind of green the lower it went down her body, in a striating pattern. Oh, there was more to add to her—she was as alien as Inkar had ever known. But the main thing were the two…tendril eyestalks looking Inkar up and down.
“Waisrabbit fur in her clothing. Very lovely stitching.”
The Gazer announced. The Gnoll snapped her fingers.
“So that’s what it is. I should buy some! Imagine me teleporting like that! Bam!”
“Grandfathers spare me from the thought, Lerh—Lenma. Whatever your name is.”
A short woman added. Inkar saw a Dwarf—practically the least interesting member of all four. Aside from the Gnoll, who wore a shining armband and…spectacles?
They were all wearing spectacles, Inkar noticed. The Gnoll adjusted hers and then nudged the Gazer.
“Suxhel. You’re staring.”
“Don’t touch me, please, Lemm. You know how much I hate it.”
The Gazer swiveled an eye-stalk without turning around. Her voice was mild. She did something odd—her eyestalks dipped rather than head nod or bow or anything else.
“Greetings, Miss Human. Apologies for staring.”
“No—I—I—I am pleased to meet you? I am sorry, I have never met…any of your people!”
They smiled at that. Inkar saw Emper turn to Suxhel.
“And she does not scream or run. I told you your fears were unfounded, Suxhel.”
“That is statistically one Human out of thirty eight, Emper. They have a poor track record.”
Emper, Suxhel, and the Dwarf woman held out a hand.
“Another Human at the Meeting of Tribes? I’m Elgrinna Geostrand. Pleased to meet you.”
“Inkar. I—are you a Dwarf?”
“Ah! Yes I am.”
The woman grinned. Meanwhile, the Gazer had discussed ‘how many good meetings’ she had observed versus poor with the Stitchman. The Gnoll was bouncing about.
“Do they sell Waisrabbit fur stuff? I want to buy some!”
She addressed Inkar. And her name was…Lemm? Lenna? Lenma? Inkar blinked and shook her head.
“No, this was stitched by the best [Weaver] of the Longstalker’s tribe…”
“Really? We should visit them, guys! Magic clothing for all! It’d help us get away from Niila and Lord Dragial every—”
All three of the Gnoll’s companions shushed her. Lemm fell silent guiltily and they all adjusted their spectacles.
…Which had no glass, Inkar noticed. They might have been magical, but she didn’t see any magnification in the places where the lenses should be.
“Where are they?”
“Inner camp, I think. Sorry guys—you can’t go in just yet. Chieftain’s talking about it—”
“Well, we can check later. And you’re not spending our gold on teleportation gear, Lemmy. You’d just teleport yourself into a Creler’s stomach. Nice meeting you, Miss.”
They nodded to Inkar and strode off. The Gnoll was protesting.
“Name one time I’ve make a mistake like—”
“This morning. You kicked over an entire barrel of fresh fish.”
“Ah. But on the other paw—we have fresh fish for dinner. There are no unhappy mistakes, right, Emper? You believe in goodwill and stuff, right?”
“There are. I’m a [Monk], not a [Saint], Leena.”
Inkar stared after them. The Gazer had to stride to keep up with the others. And Inkar was relieved to see other people doing double-takes as well as her.
There were more species than just Gnoll in the outer areas of the Meeting of Tribes. Gnolls still predominated by far, but there were Humans and Drakes and other species trying to capitalize on the event.
Inkar felt more at home here anyways. She’d see about getting back to the Longstalker’s tribe later. For now? She strode past the checkpoint, smiling. It didn’t occur to her that her brief appearance where even a team of adventurers couldn’t go might have raised a few eyebrows.
And Gnolls had exceptionally thick eyebrows.
 
—-
 
Tkrn lost Dekava. It wasn’t his fault! One second they’d been talking, the next?
Poof. She’d run off the instant someone shouted that the Woven Bladegrass was holding a sparring tournament. Winning warrior got an enchanted weapon of their choice!
“Dekava! Dekava! Where did…?”
Tkrn gave up after ten minutes of searching. He hadn’t seen where she’d run off to with the other [Warriors]. Nor…secretly…did he want to watch a fighting tournament, at least right now.
Crossbows. They’d shot Erin with crossbows. Tkrn found some benches installed and sat down on one glumly. He was still processing that.
He wished Dekava well, but this Meeting of Tribes mattered more to her than him by far.
“I might be able to join another tribe, Tkrn! If a Chieftain sees me and likes me, she might offer me a position in her tribe!”
“Do you want to leave Silverfang?”
“Yes! No. It’s just—I want to be important, and it will take a long time here. I can make my fortune during this event. Anything can happen. That’s how Satar, the Chieftain’s first daughter, came to be, you know. Last Meeting of Tribes, the Ekhtouch and Silverfangs made an agreement for children.”
Children. So Satar was a child of a union between this Ekhtouch and Silverfang—and that was one of the agreements that could be reached here. A Gnoll could be headhunted by other Chieftains. Tribes could buy vast supplies of armor, or a powerful artifact…
Tkrn realized he didn’t know what Krshia or Akrisa hoped to gain from this event. He wondered if the magical tome would be the most important thing on display. Surely so.
Anyways, the seat was nice. It was a shame he couldn’t find Dekava—
“Fighting tournament on the fourth day of the Meeting of Tribes! There have been four winners! Everyone who wants to participate, this way! Gnolls only!”
—Not a chance of finding her. Tkrn watched the Gnolls march past excitedly. He wished her the best of luck. Wherever she was.
He was going to see if he could find wherever his idol Named Adventurer was, or check out the sights. Tkrn had seen a Garuda flying above just a minute ago, and he was smelling good food…he was still a bit depressed and sort of at a loss, really, though.
Erin was dead. He wished she were here. She’d be running around, shouting something and Krshia would be exasperated, but she belonged at an event like this. She was the event. She was Liscor. If she had been there last night, he wouldn’t have needed to explain there were good people who thought kindly of other species.
She’d be dashing past him shouting something like—
“Are those flying pigs? Pigs can fly? I mean, of course they can! Did you see that?”
An excited voice. Higher-pitched, more…Tkrn’s head spun. He shot to his feet.
“Er—”
A little figure hopped through the crowd. Tkrn saw a Lizardman, using a stick like, well, a jumping rod. He hopped with amazing distance, bracing his one good foot on the stick. The other was missing—so he jumped rather than walked.
For all that, he was fast. And an exasperated person was trying to follow him through the crowd. A big Gnoll with paint on his fur—Tkrn heard him calling out.
“Viri! Come back!”
“Merish! Merish look at that! Flying pigs!”
Where? Tkrn was distracted by both things. He heard a squeal and a shout. A…pig with wings flew past him, loose of its tether.
Tkrn stared at it. Yes, it was a pig. Yes, it had wings. But those two things conjured a much different image than the flesh-colored wings on the pig’s back, not feather but a kind of horrible membrane reminiscent of bat’s wings…he shuddered.
Some things should not be allowed to exist.
“Careful! It bites! It’s carnivorous! Someone grab my pig!”
And flying pigs were only one thing to see out of all of it. But—and this was perhaps a problem only for him—there was such a thing as too much to do. Everywhere Tkrn looked there was an activity. Something he should spend all of his time looking at since he might not see it for twenty more years.
And what he really wanted to do was go to an inn far, far away, and visit an [Innkeeper]. Or just sit and process it still. Pee on Hectval’s walls. Pee on their damned Council.
So, then—when Tkrn heard the sound, his head turned. He stood up—and smiled for the first time that day. He went back the way he’d come. Because that sound made even the people clustered in the Meeting of Tribes’ outer grounds look around.
It was a crisp sound. Meant for summer. It reminded Tkrn of where it had come from. An idea—and a gift from a city. He remembered an inn. And a glorious day.
 
—-
 
Crack. Inkar’s head turned when she heard the sound in the distance.
It could have been nothing. One sound among many. But she had the gift of Gnoll hearing. And that sound was…distinctive.
It was not the most important thing in the world to her. But she had heard it enough that it lodged in the memory. A bit of familiarity. She nearly went back to admiring the Gnollish pieces—they did wonderful tapestries and she wished her smartphone were working so she could show Deskie. Well, maybe the older Gnoll would want to visit? Inkar was marking the place in her memory and trying to create a map of the Meeting of Tribes when she heard it again.
Crack. More Gnolls looked around. And that keen sound made Inkar remember it. She walked the way it was coming from.
It could not be. It was probably only something similar. And yet—and yet. She did not truly believe she’d see it, but as she passed by camps, towards the edge of the Meeting of Tribes closest to her, she saw a familiar gathering. She heard that sound and saw the bat swing.
Crack. The baseball bat met the ball and it went flying. The Gnolls stared at the ball soaring through the air and someone ran in a mad pelt to grab it.
Inkar stopped, eyes wide.
“It cannot be!”
But it was. One of the Gnolls pointed as the ball was thrown a bit clumsily back.
“And what did you call this? Wait—I’ve seen it on the television the Drakes broadcast. It’s called…”
“Based ball. One of my kin from the cities gave us a set of the playing tools. We’re playing a game.”
“That sounds like fun. Entertainment for the Meeting of Tribes! Have you seen the Foot The Ball game?”
“We have one of those too!”
“Really? But I heard it was all the way from Liscor! Is there a tribe that’s gone that far north…? Or has someone figured out how to make those balls? The ones with the black and white dot-things?”
Gnolls were congregating to a new activity. And it seemed the tribe putting on this impromptu game and providing the tools was…Silverfang? Inkar wasn’t up to date on all the tribes, but she knew this was a bigger one.
And it was status, status, even for providing free things. The Silverfangs were tentatively setting up a field with some Gnolls with more clothing explaining the game. The Plains Gnolls listened, some drifting back to the Meeting of Tribes, some willing to give this a shot.
Inkar looked at both games. And she knew.
Oh—she hadn’t actually seen the broadcasts. The Longstalkers had debated getting a scrying orb, but Eska had called it frivolous and their [Shaman] agreed. They didn’t need to stare at something all day—although Deskie had privately told Inkar that the weavers were going to buy a cheap one so they could work and watch!
But Inkar had not seen…anything…yet. Until a week or two ago she had thought she was the only person in this world.
Then she had seen the crashed airplane and known. Now? She saw the game and had another thought.
“Excuse me. Excuse me. Do you know this game? Baseball? Where does it come from?”
She began asking the other Gnolls around her, urgently. Most had no idea, but a watching person uncrossed his arms long enough to inform her in a slightly surly voice.
“Baseball. Comes from Liscor. It’s been on Wistram News Network. Liscor, again. We need to head there, Merrik.”
“Later. We still can’t move Yerra.”
“Hrmph.”
The Minotaur snorted. Inkar gave him a wide-eyed look, but thanked him, ducking her head. He nodded.
“Maybe I should try it. The swinging of that ‘bat’ seems very much my style.”
“Well, if I play, it’s going to be that. You’re not going to get me running after a ball all day. Peki’s down for it, though.”
The Dwarf indicated the Garuda, who was already joining the Gnolls kicking the ball around and listening to the rules.
“Tkrn! Will you help us explain the rules? I forgot how many players there are!”
A Gnoll waved at a younger one trotting across the ground. Inkar looked at the Silverfangs. It was unlikely they knew—there was not a Human in sight here. But she had to ask.
She walked forwards. And someone grabbed her roughly.
“That’s the one. Colorful garments—smells of animals. You, Human. How did you get into the inner camp?”
Inkar looked around. The Minotaur and Dwarf turned back. An angry Gnoll—in fact, three of them with an unfamiliar tribe’s markings were glaring at her.
“What? I—I wasn’t anywhere.”
