The [Chieftain] rose—rather—she got someone else to get some freshly baked flatbread. Krshia had already undone the jar and put a huge amount of the Gnollish spread in a bowl. She was glaring as Akrisa reappeared. Krshia grabbed the bread, tore a piece off, and held it up sarcastically.
“This kin from afar thanks the Chieftain for the food. We share it as Silverfang alike.”
She pasted some silkap onto it and bit. The fact that it tasted really good after her long trip didn’t help. Hot bread, silkap tasting of meat, some chive, strong with lard like their mother made it—mm. She masticated furiously.
Rather than rise to the bait like she normally would, Akrisa just helped herself.
“That’s quite good. You should say that tonight when we eat in public.”
The City Gnoll stopped mid-chew. Her eyes narrowed.
“What? Akrisa, you are tempting my patience.”
“I am, yes? Well, that is terrible, no? For kin—much less sisters—I should have given you an embrace. A kiss and welcomed you without ceremony or gift! How could I?”
The [Chieftain] murmured softly. Krshia nodded furious agreement.
“You humiliated me in front of my people.”
“Hrm. Your Gnoll-people. Your Liscor-Gnolls. Your…City Gnolls.”
“We are of Liscor, now! But we are still Silverfang! What has gotten into you to make you so distant! What’s wrong with you? You should be rejoicing! I have brought a great gift! I—”
Krshia was snatching another piece of bread when Akrisa’s paw moved. She reached out and, before Krshia could dodge, snagged Krshia’s ear.
Between two fingers. Krshia yelped.
“What are you—”
Her older sister twisted her ear.
“You little brat. You were always like this. Why are you so mean, Akrisa? Why do you not hug me? What happened to the dozens of spellbooks we sent money for you to buy, hrm? What about the [Fireball] you told me blew up our gift? Why are you three days late?”
“Ow! Let go of—”
Akrisa twisted her younger sister’s ear harder. Krshia yelped. And she had forgotten.
Firstly, that her sister had never been less temperamental than she herself could be. Second? She was an older sister. And some things never changed.
“You come here late, and you think I can just run over on all fours and lick your cheek? Twist my tail, Krshia! I am a [Chieftain] now! I have to establish you are returning and make you follow some traditions or let half the tribe accuse you of being favored! Which you are! You are mad that I made you show everyone the gift our tribe has labored for ten years to bring after you said it was exploded?”
“I told you we got a new one!”
“And there were weeks of the entire tribe fearing we had lost all! For that matter—you act like there is nothing wrong? What happened to the warriors I sent to you, hm, Krshia? What happened…to Brunkr?”
Abruptly, the fingers let go. Krshia leaned away—but suddenly her anger was gone.
“Oh.”
“Oh?”
Akrisa looked at her, almost disbelieving. Krshia hung her head.
“I—”
“If you say you forgot, your cousin will kill you. And she will have to find a way to turn you into a zombie, because I will kill you first.”
Akrisa’s eyes flashed. Krshia raised her paws.
“I did not forget, sister. I would never. It is just—another important person was lost to us recently. That is why we were delayed. We were grieving.”
The older Gnoll’s face flickered. Abruptly, her ire went out and she sat down.
“More death? Another Gnoll…? No? Either way—that city seems to bring death. So many. Not that the plains are ever safer. But Brunkr…Menoa mourns. I made her stay. But she will want to speak with you.”
“I brought his ashes and belongings.”
“Good.”
They sat once more. This time, Krshia didn’t take the silkap. She had…forgotten. Somehow, Erin had wiped the memory of it.
“Warriors to aid you—killed by Gazi Pathseeker before she rejoined the King of Destruction. Brunkr—lost to a Named Adventurer who turned out to be false. Regrika Blackpaw. Our kin, eaten by our foe thought lost to time, lost in battle with monsters from the dungeon. This is what I hear, Krshia. I have feared for you for the last year.”
Akrisa spoke now, directly to Krshia. The younger Gnoll hung her head.
“I sent word each time. But—it must have been harder to hear it.”
“It was. Time and again? Six times, the tribe asked whether your going was a mistake. Whether it would be best to travel to Liscor to bring you all back, rather than to leave you in what seemed to us to be death and danger. What is happening there?”
“Much. A dungeon, a…there was an inn. I cannot explain it, Akrisa. It is a longer story. And a sadder one. The Human I wanted to bring? She is…gone.”
Akrisa’s gaze darkened.
“More sadness. Krshia—”
She reached out. Krshia guarded her ear, but this time Akrisa just drew her into a one-armed embrace.
“I am sorry, Krshia. I am. We have much to say. It is just that I could not welcome you with open arms. Not after what was lost. You had to present yourself, and even then, I did not make you ask or wait upon my judgment. Some wanted that. If only to preserve my power.”
“What? Preserve it? Are that many trying to unseat you as Chieftain?”
Krshia blinked. Akrisa let go of Krshia and gave her a crooked smile.
“Aside from the usual malcontents, you mean, yes? Only one. And she sits across from me.”
Krshia’s mouth fell open in denial. Akrisa waved at it as she took some silkap and bread.
“You have done too well. A year before? I could have welcomed you, the loss and accidents aside. Now? Councilwoman Krshia, who sits on a Drake city’s Council comes here. Some wonder if you are a Chieftain of the Liscor Tribe instead of a sister to the [Chieftain].”
“I would never—”
“I know. But they said it. That should have quieted them down. Just do say something before we eat.”
Krshia stared at her sister. She saw Akrisa sigh. Then look up. Unbidden, but in unison, the two began to chuckle.
“I’ve been gone too long from the tribes. Not a day back and it is all the same.”
Akrisa’s chuckle was more rueful.
“A bit. Some things have changed, but I did not upset the old ways of the tribe. Ah, Krshia. It has been too long. Sit. Tell me what needs telling before Cers scampers in. He will want to know all the stories—but some things must be told only to me, mustn’t they? Well, perhaps tonight with Cetrule.”
Krshia relaxed. Now—now she felt like she was back. The uncomfortable welcome began to make sense. And her own guilt? She remembered it.
Brunkr. It felt too long for how shortly ago it had been. She ducked her head—but more silkap was offered—and Akrisa got up.
“Some cheese! I have goat’s…unless Cers took it to snack on. Aha! There it is.”
She produced some crumbling cheese—and then a brie for contrast. And some baked yellat, and some wine. It was hardly the most expensive spread, but it was filling and tasty. The two properly broke bread now.
“There’s too much to say, Akrisa. Erin—I can tell you all her story. For it is a good one. But enough to let me say that I am a Councilwoman thanks to her. And that Liscor is a city with its own troubles. Vast ones. The Antinium…”
“Madness. The thought of you living with them under you? I still shudder.”
Akrisa shook her head. Krshia sniffed.
“They are quite nice. In fact—they have names. They are a people now, a proper one. Perhaps even allies.”
“You must be joking, no?”
“Not at all. But that is for you and Cetrule—even Honored Gnolls to hear. Let me think. For us two? Well…I am a bit mixed on how I feel, but I am a [Royal Shopkeeper] now. Level 33. And I have some interesting Skills there. A Level 11 [Councilwoman]—oh, and I leveled up in [Shaman] after all these years.”
Akrisa’s eyes widened.
“Royal? How did that come about?”
“Part of the story. I met a [Princess]—there is one living in Liscor. I did not write to you of that. But it is my hope we meet her, when we summon Mrsha.”
“The Doombringer? You wrote of that, Krshia. The [Longstrider Scout] I sent—Vvrow? He thought you were mad.”
She had sent Vvrow to coordinate things. He had been impressed by Krshia’s class—but perhaps that was one of the reasons Akrisa had had trouble. Krshia sniffed.
“White Gnoll-child. Not a Doombringer. I intend to prove that to the tribes.”
“Good luck. I cannot believe it myself—but I will listen! Do not give me that glower, Krshia.”
Akrisa took another sip of wine. Krshia sighed.
“She is a good child. A [Mage]! She learned magic from the book, Akrisa. It can be done!”
The Gnoll [Chieftain] coughed.
“Stop telling me things while I drink, Krshia. It is going to come out my nose. So many developments in one year! Because of that Human?”
Krshia’s face fell. Still—she waited as Akrisa took a longer draft of wine.
“I’m also sleeping with that Drake I wrote to you of, Lism. On the Council.”
Akrisa sprayed wine onto the floor and her fur. Krshia laughed so hard she fell over. Her older sister threw the empty cup at her.
“You little—you are mad! Mad and—Lism? I thought you wanted him dead!”
“Things change. Oh—and by the way. If you want me to get you better wine, give me a barrel and I’ll give it back to you after a month or two. [Appreciating in Value] is my Level 30 consolidation Skill. I have some gifts from Liscor that have increased in value in my care.”
Akrisa’s jaw dropped.
“What? You must be joking with me.”
“Not at all. Here, let me just…”
Krshia went to her bag of holding and belongings. She reached in and fished out the first of the gifts she had brought from Liscor. She handed something to Akrisa. It was a bottle of wine.
“I bought this for barely a few silver on bargain. I didn’t taste this one, but I had a second bottle of the same and it was the cheapest, foulest wine I could think of. It’s been in my care since I got the Skill, about four months now.”
Her sister eyed the label and cheap glass.
“It looks like it’s not worth the cost of the bottle.”
“Well? Let’s have a try.”
The Chieftain of the Silverfang tribe gave Krshia a long look.
“I’m reminded you were a trickster, Krshia. If this is one of those pranks like the time you covered our old [Shaman]’s tail in sap…”
“You wound me, Akrisa. I’m dignified in Liscor. People respect me.”
“I’ll bet. Well—”
They poured a cup. Akrisa sniffed suspiciously and Krshia held her breath. She hadn’t opened the bottle, and the uncorking made her heart flutter. But the first sniff made both Gnolls do a double-take.
“That can’t be right. It smells like—”
Akrisa dipped her tongue into the cup. She did a little taste and her eyes went round. Krshia inhaled a proper bouquet. She took a sip and gasped.
“Oh, that is good.”
“Marvelous. But it’s—”
The two looked at each other. Then they both began to laugh. Krshia chortled and Akrisa took a huge draft and smacked her lips. Then she began to guffaw.
“Cers! Cers, where are you? Come here and have a drink of your aunt’s ‘wine’!”
She laughed as she poured a cup of the finest grape juice Krshia had ever had into a cup. It tasted like it was made of excellent grapes, but—Krshia was laughing as the tent flaps opened and a Gnoll raced through.
“Grape juice? Where? It smells so good!”
The little Gnoll could detect the quality even more than they. Krshia scratched at her head, bemused.
“It must have been closer to grape juice than wine! Either that or…? I don’t know how my Skill works!”
“Have you tested it? Sip, Cers! We’ll share this at dinner with the others. It’s the product of your aunt’s hard work!”
“It’s so goooood! Do they have this in Liscor all the time? It’s so tasty! My tongue feels like it’s sparkling!”
Cers took a sip, and then rolled about on the floor happily. It was such an innocent thing Krshia laughed and felt her heart gladdening for the sight. She talked as the boy raced out with the cup to show his friends.
“I have tested it! Kept it secret, mainly—but the key is that it takes time. A week is barely enough time to notice much! Mind you—I have tested it.”
“And?”
“It works on two objects at most. There is a…a limit to the expense I think it can reach. And as of yet, it does not work on magical objects.”
“Ah, these limits make sense. And you are only Level 30.”
Krshia nodded. She was an odd Gnoll, she would admit herself. She had reached Level 30 by consolidating her [Trader] class—but she had still achieved it in ten years of coming to Liscor. And she was a [Huntress], a [Shaman], and a [Councilwoman] now. All parts of her life.
“So we cannot give you magical weapons to keep. What about quantity?”
The Gnoll winked.
“Well, I had tested it on smaller objects since people ask questions—it has to be where I sleep, you see? In my actual care, not my shop. But if you would like to roll a barrel of something into my tent…”
“People will think City Gnolls drink wine like water! I will have it done. Then what did you try it on, besides this juice?”
Akrisa chuckled. Krshia shrugged.
“Since I had this maturing for four months, only one thing at a time. I experimented. I put some grit in butter—in a week, it was all gone. Two weeks and it was good butter. Then I tried it with a rock.”
“And?”
“Nothing. It was a rock. I think it has to have actual value. I gave that up, and then I did water.”
“Water?”
Akrisa snorted. Krshia held up a paw.
“Listen. It was fresh after three weeks. I could swear it was like a minor stamina potion, yes? Excellent water. I could make money from doing nothing! Although…it’s not much.”
“Amazing. And you got this Skill because a [Princess] helped you? Here I work for my Skills and I feel mine is suddenly less worthwhile than yours! I can protect us from monsters with [Tribe: Warding of Safety]—all but the worst! But yours is so fun.”
The [Chieftain] huffed. Krshia gave her a little smile.
“I suppose it is in our natures. You became Chieftain, after all. It is not a ‘fun’ job. And I…”
She stopped, the cup halfway to her lips. Akrisa sighed.
“You had to leave. Well—you have done well, Krshia.”
She smiled, and so did Krshia. Ten years ago, Krshia, [Trader] for the Silverfangs, had proposed the idea to the new Chieftain of the Silverfang Tribe, Akrisa. She had been granted the Gnolls and funds to go to Liscor and try this great venture. Because her mother, the old Chieftain, had refused her. And because…Krshia did not fit into the tribe. Because, she had told her sister then, she needed something else.
