Because being a Plains Gnoll was not for me. Krshia sipped quietly, savoring the taste. Soon, Cers would race back in, with his sister, and she would greet Akrisa’s new partner. Say her apologies to Brunkr’s mother. Mourn and bear her burdens and respectfully show deference to her sister.
She was willing to do all of it. She was glad to be here, now. But it reminded Krshia—
This was not her home. There were reasons she’d left the tribes. She would always be a Silverfang. But not all that Plains Gnolls did was right. So she felt. But for now, she drank grape juice and looked at her sister’s family. Ah—
She was just a bit jealous.
 
—-
 
Tkrn did not know what he had been led to expect since he had no expectations. So he couldn’t really complain about the Silverfang tribe.
Not that he would. But if he did—
It was just a bit weird. That was all.
The introduction to the Silverfang tribe hadn’t been that odd to Tkrn, although he’d noticed the older Gnolls eying each other during the ritual greetings. But soon they were in camp and Tkrn had a real welcome.
Gnolls were not afraid to put paws on each other and one practically dragged Tkrn off to give him a celebratory drink. And again! No complaints!
Tkrn felt odd drinking by day since a [Guard] was always sober on duty, but the Velrusk Claw was a fine, more savory mead. Also, purple. But he liked it and it wasn’t as astringent, which Gnoll palates shied from in large. Drakes loved Firebreath Whiskey for the same reason. Tkrn could only stand oozing from every pore for so long after each shot.
“You’re from the city, yes? What’s it like? Do those Drakes give you a hard time? You brought the magic book—tell us about that—no, this dungeon first!”
“Is Liscor like Oteslia? Smaller? Did Honored Krshia bring anything else back besides the magic tome? What happened to the other spellbooks?”
“Guardsman. So do you get [Warrior]’s Skills or is there some difference in class? Show me your best one!”
It was like being at a family reunion, only, he was the center of attention rather than the cousin expected to greet everyone and not get in the way of the adults. Tkrn rather enjoyed that.
He also enjoyed meeting Krshia’s family—he didn’t know there were two children of Chieftain Akrisa! Tkrn memorized names dutifully.
There was the [Shaman], Cetrule, who had…not married [Chieftain] Akrisa. But they were a couple so it was a technicality? Let’s see. Satar was a half-sister to Cers, the little Mrsha-age cub who kept running around offering grape juice to everyone.
Satar was a [Shaman] in training, or a new one. Cers was clearly beloved—if rascally as most Gnolls his age. Everyone seemed to respect Akrisa, which was good.
No problems! The only issues were when Krshia brought out an urn of ashes and the objects of…Tkrn saw her approach an older Gnoll. The Gnoll took the urn, the belongings, heard Krshia out, and then punched her.
Brunkr’s mother. Also one of Krshia’s cousins. Half the tribe stirred and Akrisa held up a paw. Some of the [Warriors] began to move, but Menoa was already walking away.
“Whew. If they had to drag her off, it would have been worse.”
Raekea breathed. Her husband, Jekss, was coughing out his drink.
“That wasn’t bad enough? She nearly broke Krshia’s jaw in front of everyone!”
“Her son was killed while under Krshia’s care. Shouldn’t she be angry?”
The Drake blinked. One of the Plains Gnolls sniffed at him. They regarded Jekss much like the Gnolls from Liscor.
Outsiders. Curious and in the case of the other Silverfangs, beloved, but strange. Tkrn saw Krshia rub at her jaw. She didn’t immediately heal it either, although it was gone by dinner.
That was uh, interesting. But the real interesting stuff? It came after dinner.
 
—-
 
Dinner was a huge affair. It took place over hours since not all the tribe would eat at once. Tkrn listened to Akrisa’s speech—and Krshia thanked her as kin once more, which seemed to be approved by everyone.
Silverfang food wasn’t as outlandish as anything Tkrn might have expected—again, if he’d done that. Because, obviously, Silverfangs comprised most of the Gnolls in Liscor and they had brought their cooking with them!
There was more of an emphasis on dried foods, however. A bit more dried meats rather than fresh cut you could buy at markets, and not so many vegetables that couldn’t be easily acquired. The Silverfang tribe transported their food, so they didn’t have the luxury of warehouses with preservation spells.
“Our [Shamans] can delay the food rot, but we don’t sit and grow food. Only the Greenpaw tribe and a few others stay in one place.”
Dekava laughed in amusement. She was eating with Tkrn, Beilmark, and some of the others; the Gnolls of Liscor were spread out, to socialize with their kindred. Dekava had attached herself to Tkrn, Beilmark, and Jerci and her parents. Not out of sheer politeness or the Chieftain’s command, either. She was clearly interested in Tkrn and Beilmark and Jerci as [Guards]—it was she who had pestered them to show their Skills off.
Tkrn was uh, politely, average for his level and age. Which meant he was a Level 16 [Guard]. Not exactly impressive. His best Skill?
[Fast Leg Sweep]. A variation on the traditional [Leg Sweep] Skill he’d gotten at Level 10. It meant he performed the Skill…fast.
He could take down even a Senior Guard if they weren’t careful and it was definitely useful in a scuffle! However, it wasn’t uh, the ability to strike three times simultaneously or a [Blade Art].
Dekava had given Tkrn a polite smile before demonstrating her [Hunter-Warrior]’s ability—[Pinpoint Strike]. She could place any arrow or blade wherever she wanted once. It was considered similar to [Unerring Throw] or Skills like that, but superior in accuracy, if limited in uses.
She wasn’t that higher-level than he was. Only…Level 19. Soon to be Level 20. And she was a year younger. Tkrn was at least glad Beilmark had agreed to show off one of her Skills.
“Well, how do you get your food then? You can’t buy all of it.”
The Gnoll [Warrior] bared her teeth in a grin—then realized he was serious.
“We raise herds! Most Gnoll tribes do. The plains have lots of food. Just not for us. Sheep for clothing, goats for milk—cows if you can stand herding them—horses to travel, pigs for meat—all of it for meat in the end.”
Indeed, it was meat and dairy as much was vegetables. Tkrn chewed appreciatively; Gnolls were not meant to live on legumes alone.
By the same token though—fruits were a delicacy. Which was why Krshia’s grape juice gift was so welcome. Tkrn wondered how much she’d paid for it. He hadn’t gotten any since they had brought it, but it smelled heavenly.
“We do get fruits now and then. From Oteslia. We trade with the cities or other tribes for things we don’t have. But we stick to our lands. Where the silver mines are. We can’t leave them anymore; we left two thirds of the tribe there.”
“Two thirds?”
Tkrn looked around at the vast sea of Gnolls. But then he remembered; Liscor was far larger than the Silverfang tribe these days, even with their full numbers. It was just that they were all in one place!
“It’s rare for them too, Tkrn.”
Jerci’s father leaned over as he snagged another piece of gristle, his favorite. He chewed happily and spoke while chewing.
“Normally, Gnolls work and carry out their tasks and don’t see the entire tribe except for special occasions like this. I grew up in a smaller camp and only saw all the Silverfangs once or twice a year. Some tribes send younger Gnolls to work in cities, and so on.”
“Hmm. Those days were nice. Sleeping wherever you wanted, always seeing something new, hunting…that was how we met!”
Jerci’s mother snuggled closer to her father. The rookie [Guard] looked horrified.
“I never should have come here. Gah!”
She stood up to get a drink. Tkrn laughed and saw Dekava nearly falling over. They looked at each other. The Plains Gnolls really weren’t that different from City Gnolls!
“Honored Beilmark! Will you show us your Skills?”
Before Tkrn could say something, Dekava leapt up. Beilmark groaned.
“I just ate. But I suppose since we’ve all settled in…one time.”
Some of the younger Gnolls looked around excitedly. They clustered around and from the Chieftain’s fire, Akrisa and Krshia glanced their way. They watched as Beilmark massaged her back.
“I can put on armor if you like, Honored Beilmark! What shall we do? Spar? Or will you demonstrate if it’s dangerous?”
“I’m not putting on armor after days of riding in it. You can use your spear or dagger or attack me with bare hands if you want, Dekava. I’ll show you my Skill.”
Beilmark sighed. She wasn’t reaching for her weapon though, and Tkrn knew she could use a number at will. Dekava noticed it too. Her eyes narrowed slightly.
“Won’t you draw a weapon, Honored Beilmark?”
“Nope.”
The Gnoll woman smiled slightly. Tkrn saw Dekava’s ears flatten slightly.
“I am a full warrior, Honored Beilmark. I wouldn’t want to hurt you. I was told [Guards] of Liscor were only half as prone to combat as a [Warrior].”
There was a murmur and ooh of laughter from the watching Gnolls. Tkrn frowned—but Beilmark just smiled.
“That’s certainly true, Dekava. My job is to keep the peace, not fight all the time. Although I do both. I can tell if you’re guilty, and stop you if you steal something. But I wouldn’t want you to take me lightly. Go on.”
She spread her paws. The younger Gnoll frowned as her friends and onlookers laughed. She hesitated—and then grabbed for her spear on the ground. She whirled it up and thrust at Beilmark.
Tkrn made a sound, but it was butt-first, not spearhead. It was still the kind of blow that could crack a rib if—
Beilmark knocked the tip wide with one arm and stepped in. Which wasn’t necessarily good because Dekava was already moving her spear up to clip Beilmark’s j—
The Senior Guardswoman touched Dekava and the Plains Gnoll was suddenly lying on the ground. She blinked up at the fading sky as everyone gasped.
“Wh—what—”
Beilmark knelt on her chest as Dekava struggled to rise.
“And you are under arrest. This would be where I take away your weapon and restrain you. Guardsman Tkrn, see to the criminal.”
Tkrn stood up, grinning, as Dekava struggled—but Beilmark had her pinned. The older Gnoll let go and grinned as the others demanded to know what she’d done!
“[Immobilizing Touch]. Locks up someone for just a few seconds depending on their level. Relc barely stops. But if you want to end a [Thief]-chase…”
She walked back to her seat. Jerci’s parents were applauding her and laughing. Dekava got up, flushing.
“But that’s not a [Warrior]’s skill you use in battle!”
“It got you.”
Beilmark was unruffled. Dekava was spitting mad, but Tkrn was delighted by the rebuttal from one of the Watch’s best [Guards].
Skills and perspectives. It was going well, and Dekava was pestering Beilmark for a rematch with a group of the new [Warriors] of the Silverfang tribe when Krshia stood up.
“Kin! We are honored to be here. And it is my honor to return to my tribe. By the Chieftain’s will—”
She nodded to Akrisa, and her older sister inclined her head with a slight smile.
“—we bring more than the great gift for the Meeting of Tribes! We also have smaller tokens from our city. We will share them now.”
“Oh, the gifts! Jerci, get ours.”
Her mother called out. Tkrn brightened up and Dekava’s head swiveled. The Gnolls of Liscor had brought gifts—tons of them, in fact! They’d packed their saddlebags and bags of holding with things from home.
Things the Silverfang tribe needed or personal tokens of affection. Apparently, they should share them now, so Tkrn dug out some of his.
He’d been given some money by Krshia and bought items the other Gnolls had said would please. Tkrn hadn’t been sure…but after their brief chat, he understood the value of his gifts more now.
“Whetstones! Good ones, too!”
“Straight from Esthelm. I know it’s nothing fancy, but they’ll put an edge on any steel you have.”
Beilmark was passing hers out to the other [Warriors]. Dekava crowed at the high-quality equipment—better than what Tkrn owned. He grinned.
“Will you take a gift from me, Dekava?”
She spun, and then looked at him quizzically.
“What is this?”
He gingerly—very gingerly—proffered one of his gifts.
“Please don’t drop it. And don’t open it either! It’s…a weapon.”
She stared at the glowing green liquid in the glass jar. A little black fleck floated in it—a dead fly.
“What is…this? Not a potion.”
She dubiously inspected the glass jar as the others clustered around, admiring the glow.
“It’s acid. Don’t drop it! You throw it at a monster and they uh, melt.”
Dekava nearly dropped it and everyone dove back as she stared at the acid jar.
“This is a powerful weapon! This is your gift?”
She looked at him admiringly. Tkrn coughed. He felt he needed to be honest.
“You can actually buy them cheaper than you think. I also have some oil for blades, and um…”
Besides the other acid jars he’d bought from The Wandering Inn, he had oil for maintaining steel weapons, and the last thing he was sure the Silverfangs didn’t have. Dekava practically grabbed the long, flat box and sniffed it—then sneezed again.
“Another [Alchemist] thing? What is this?”
“Matches. You take them out, strike them and—you have fire! I thought it would be useful for someone without flint or tinder.”
“I should have thought of that myself. I’d forgotten they were cheap. Good work, Tkrn.”
Beilmark gave him an approving look as Dekava experimentally tried out a match. She struck it too slow the first time, but the second time it lit on the red stuff on the box’s side. She nearly dropped it into the match box, but then waved it about!
“It’s so fast! Faster than a flint and tinder and—hot! What is this? From Pallass? It’s new!”
“Don’t let it burn your fur! No, an [Alchemist] in Liscor made it! It was all the rage a while ago.”
Tkrn puffed out his chest, delighted at the reaction. Then he saw the other Gnolls storming over.
“Tkrn! Friend Tkrn, may I have a box?”
“No, me! I have to scout out and I’m sick of trying to start a fire when it’s wet and raining!”
“I want an acid jar! Great friend Tkrn—”
Amused, he was passing out his collection of goods when Dekava and the other younger Gnolls squabbling over his awesome gifts abruptly fell silent.
“Those are useful tools, both. Our cousins bring back much of use, Dekava. Perhaps it is so useful you would consider letting the older [Hunters] and [Warriors] inspect them?”
