Hunched over his desk, in the dark of his room, a pale man who hadn’t seen the sun in too many days typed furiously. No one understood the beauty of Kasser, the beautiful cat-girl in the latest installation of Absolute Apex. Sure, she was trash, a character thrown out solely to attract the attention of horny men who had no other reason to exist in the series, and the series had become trash, but that was exactly what no one understood: the beauty of trash. The exquisite perfection in a series so trashy it had completely fallen apart at the seams. It wasn’t good. He wouldn’t dare accuse it of such a thing. But it was bad, tasteless and trashy in a way that tugged at the heartstrings and made him laugh at the same time. In other words, peak entertainment.

He hit enter and sat back, crossing his arms, his glasses reflecting the screen’s light. With a final stroke, he finished his manifesto on Kasser’s beauty, then added one more message:

god_of_trash: if you don’t think Kasser is perfect, you can leave right now.

anyone321: he’s gone. there’s no saving him.

peaker-93: conversation’s over, dude. no one likes kasser. she’s trash.

god_of_trash: that’s the whole point. trash is the best.

2face2u: hey, anyone remember when AA was good?

The conversation moved on. He sighed, shaking his head. The unenlightened would never understand. Absolute Apex had never been good. At best, it had peaked at average. It was only now that it truly transcended, as the author lost all the fucks they’d had to give and plunged into insanity. How else would they have gotten that scene where the Demon King forced a waiter to tap dance for fifteen hours? How else would they have received the gift of the main character, never a powerhouse but rather the weak, wishy-washy sort, literally turning into a fly on the wall for fifteen chapters so the characters everyone cared about could have a turn in the spotlight? If the series hadn’t become trash, it would have been nothing.

A private message appeared in the corner of his vision. With no hesitation, he clicked it. Did someone still want to argue? Please! He welcomed the challenge.

absolutexistance: you love trash?

He snorted. Obviously this absolutexistance fellow hadn’t been on the forum for long if he had to ask that.

god_of_trash: duh

absolutexistance: I have a problem with trash. can you help me?

Confused, he tilted his head. A problem with trash? What, like in his house? That was his business. He wasn’t talking about cleaning some guy’s room, he was talking about literary trash.

A second later, he chuckled under his breath. Why was he thinking of physical trash? Obviously, given the context, absolutexistance was talking about trash like Absolute Apex. So without hesitation, he replied:

god_of_trash: you’ve come to the right man. lay it on me. what can i do to help you appreciate trash?

The typing-message animation played, and played, and played. He sat back, knitting his fingers together to wait. At last, the response came back:

absolutexistance: it’s best if I just show you

He lifted his hands to type, show me? how? but his fingers never found the keyboard. Bright light poured down on him, blindingly bright. He lifted his hands to block the light—and stared. Squinted. Turned them over, then back again. They were small. Too small. And the skin was tan, and soft, and supple, not pale and cracked from the dry cold. He peered against the bright light, only to find it emanated from one overwhelming round source in a pale blue canvas, instead of a big flat rectangle like he was used to. His arms were short, but something soft brushed against his cheek, and he touched it to find a long, well-kept, not at all greasy ponytail dangling behind his head.

His eyes widened. He sat up, only to find himself in ragged clothes, sitting on the edge of a massive field of rubbish. But not plastic rubbish. No broken cellphones and food wrappers filled his vision. Instead, he faced a mass of rotting foodstuffs, broken pottery, tattered clothes and shattered wood furniture. Beyond it, a medieval village clung to the side of a mountain, where a delicate, white city glistened at its top, impossibly constructed. In fact, he could almost swear some of the buildings were floating.

He took a deep breath. Clean, fresh air flowed into his lungs, cleaner than he’d ever known. He had a child’s body, about ten, eleven years old, if he had to guess, and faced a vista totally unknown to him. That could only mean one thing. “Holy shit. I’m in another world, aren’t I?”

But why? He delved his memories, but there was only one thing he could come up with. That strange conversation with absolutexistance in the chat room, immediately before he’d arrived. Pinching his chin, he frowned. It made no sense, but was absolutexistance maybe a god of this world? One who had somehow metaphysically connected to the internet, chosen the random forum he frequented, then somehow misunderstood him as an actual god god due to his username ‘god_of_trash?’

It was so impossible that it boggled the mind, but he couldn’t come up with anything else. He was undeniably in another world, in a brand-new body. No matter how he wracked his brain, he couldn’t come up with another reason for him to have jumped worlds. He hadn’t been hit by a truck, and if he’d had a heart attack or aneurism, it had come and gone so fast he hadn’t felt a thing. It was possible he was in a coma, and this was all some extended dream, but well, in that case, he might as well enjoy it.

It was too late now. However he’d been transported to another world, it had happened. Here he was, in a place that was very much not in front of his computer, in his sad little apartment, up too late chatting on the internet about anime he didn’t even like very much, even if Kasser was the absolute pinnacle of catgirl design.

He stood, dusting off his ragged clothes. He wore patched, threadbare brown trousers and a simple sort of robe-slash-tunic, tied at the side. The robe might have been white, once, but sweat and dirt had turned it the same shade of brown as the trousers. His head ached, and when he lifted a hand to it, it came away sticky with dark-red blood. He looked back. A short cliff loomed over him, and under his back had been an expanse of hard, gray stone. A blood splatter marked where his head had been, moments ago.

He pursed his lips, understanding. This kid had been dead. The god, or whatever had brought him here, had seen fit to toss him into this kid’s dead body, and he’d brought the kid back somehow. He didn’t understand it, but he didn’t understand anything about what was just happening. God shit, probably.

As it was, the fierce ache in his head assured him this was no dream. Casting left and right, he looked around for a way back up the cliff. The medieval town was before him, but it was up a somewhat-considerable lip. In fact, all the trash around him had been thrown into the depression that he also found himself in. If he had to guess, he’d spawned in the town’s trash pit.

Looking around, he chuckled under his breath. He really was the god of trash, wasn’t he? Born in the trash, stuck in the pit…

“Learned your lesson now, Rhys?” a child’s voice asked petulantly from atop the cliff.

He looked around. Seeing no one else in the trash pit, he pointed at himself. “Me?”

Two boys, about the same age as his body, peered over the edge of the cliff. One was fat, and the other was thin. A third boy’s face joined them a few moments later, burly in comparison to the first two.

The fat one scoffed, and the same voice sounded again. “Hit your head so hard you forgot your name? Yes, you. No one else here named Rhys, is there?”

He considered for a second. Amusingly, although he could remember his username clearly, and most of his past life, his name slipped his mind. It felt like that should bother him, but for some reason, it didn’t. Maybe it was because he’d been reborn. His name was attached to his old self, so shedding it felt appropriate in a new world and a new body. He nodded. Rhys was a good enough name. “I suppose not.”

The skinny one cleared his throat. “So? Learned your lesson?”

“No,” Rhys replied earnestly. How could he, when he didn’t know what lesson he was supposed to be learning?

The fat one scoffed. “As if he could. Duller than a brick and smellier than a pig, that’s Rhys.”

The burly one looked on, a disapproving frown on his face. He crossed his arms and said nothing.

Rhys turned away from the boys, taking in the pit once more as he tuned out their voices. It wasn’t as if he cared what they said about him. He wasn’t actually an eleven-year-old, and their weak attempts at bullying didn’t so much as annoy him, let alone actually sting. Better to focus his energy on escaping the pit.

These boys had probably killed his body. Not intentionally, he didn’t think, but neither had they acted in a way that preserved human life and dignity. Putting someone in a position where their actions could accidentally kill them was still manslaughter. He would have to punish them somehow, but he didn’t know how yet. Still, he put it on the backburner for later, looking up for just a moment to commit their faces to memory before taking on the pit once more.

There was no real break in the pit’s walls. They were almost unnaturally smooth, as if they’d been dug by human hands, but not even modern tools could have left such a perfectly round, smooth-walled bore. It was as if a hammer had struck down once from heaven and left the impression of its strike in the soft earth. Either that, or it was a sinkhole, but he preferred the fantasy answer. He was in a new world, after all. He was allowed to dream.

He twisted his lips. The walls were six feet tall. If he were an adult, he could probably reach up and scramble over the lip. As it was, he barely cleared five feet, and although he could barely reach the edge, he didn’t fancy his chances clambering over it. His arms and legs were stick-thin, with barely any fat or muscle on them. If he had to guess, his body came from a poor family, if he still had a family at all. Pulling himself up over the edge of the pit was a pipe dream.

He turned, taking in all the trash. He was god of the trash, wasn’t he? Might as well get started. Plenty of raw materials, right here. And he’d watched enough DIY videos to get the gist of basic construction.

Leaving the boys behind, he set off into the pit, picking over the trash. There was a chair with two legs, and a shattered table with a single intact leg. A few rusty nails stuck through a scrap of wood nearby, and those joined the pile. He dragged all of it through the trash, away from the kids and toward the town.

“Hey! Get back here!” the fat kid shouted.

“Yeah! Get back!” the skinny one repeated.

The burly one jumped up and ran along the outside, chasing after Rhys.

Out in the middle of the pit, Rhys stopped. It was a large pit, larger than he’d expect for a town of the size he’d seen on its edge, probably about twenty feet in diameter. Some of the materials in it were far finer than he’d expect, too, richly carved furniture broken into tiny pieces and sumptuous robes stained with red-brown fluids and torn asunder. A small, glittering vial caught his eye. He paused, kneeling to pick it up, and gave it a sniff.

A strong, astringent scent wafted up, strictly medicinal. Blue liquid clung to the walls of the vial, just a few small drops. It looked like a potion. Smelled like one. Could it be? This really was a fantasy world, with gods and the like, and this really was a healing potion?

Only one way to find out. Rhys swirled the vial, collecting the drips into one larger drop, then fished it out with a fingertip and licked it.

The pain in the back of his head instantly abated. Warmth flowed over the back of his head, and when he tried touching it again, his hand found crusted blood, sticky hair, and smooth, unblemished skin.

His eyes widened. He looked at the vial in his hand, then turned back to the trash. His construction project sat to the side, forgotten, as he dug desperately through the layers of refuse. This, what he held in his hand, was gold. Pure gold! Potions were always worth exorbitant sums in fantasy worlds—at least compared to the money the average mortal could make. If he found enough bottles, who knew? He could even combine all the drips of potion into one whole potion and sell it. Given his destitute state, he’d need that kind of desperate action to make it as an adventurer—obviously his goal. He didn’t even need to say it. He’d been reincarnated in another world, so naturally, he had to become an adventurer. But adventuring took money, money he didn’t have. Money that was sitting right here, in the trash heap, for anyone to come along and grab. Even the vials had to be worth something, crafted as they were out of fine crystal-cut glass.

Wonder why the original Rhys didn’t do this? Then again, Rhys was a kid, scared of silly things. And people tended to look down on picking through the trash. What a waste, honestly, when there was so much good stuff in the trash.

Maybe he was wrong, and no one wanted the vials. Maybe they really were nothing but trash. But in that case, all he’d done was waste some time. He lost nothing, and he potentially gained much. That was the kind of gamble he was willing to take.

“Tam, I think Rhys has finally lost it. He’s digging through the trash like a rabid dog,” the skinny one commented.

The burly one returned to the other two’s side, jogging back without ever breaking a sweat.

The fat boy—Tam—looked up. He chuckled. “We already knew he was a dog. He’s only showing his true nature. Bast, watch over him while Den and I check in with the matron. If we don’t show our faces soon, she’ll catch on that something’s off.”

“Since when have I been your servant? It was your idea to push him in, anyways. I told you not to. I’m not sticking around to take the fall while you go make an alibi,” the burly one, Bast, returned. With that, he walked away.

Rhys raised his brows. Interesting. Bast was smarter than he looked. And not the ringleader. That’d be Tam, the fat one, which made skinny Den… his toady? He watched the two remaining boys over his shoulder. The skinny one, Den, followed at Tam’s heel, quietly nodding along with the other boy’s suggestions. Now he fretted, looking between the retreating Bast and Tam, who scowled at the burly boy’s back.

“What do we do?” Den asked nervously.

Tam scoffed. “We aren’t going to stick around to get caught, either. Let’s go check in. If Rhys doesn’t show up, no one will bat an eye. That empty-headed day dreamer never shows up for lunch, anyways.”

