Upon learning that he would be left alone, Rhys turned all his attention back to the trash. The spot he dug in was a hotspot of the little vials. It seemed that someone had chugged a bunch of them all at once, then dumped them away all at once. Many of the vials had droplets in them, which he collected into one of the fuller bottles, one that had a whole dreg in it. He gathered the fully emptied vials into a pouch he’d made out of the ragged fabric strewn around the trash heap. Bit by bit, the vial slowly filled. One drop at a time, so little it was impossible to see it grow, and yet, it still filled. He ran out of vials in his original potion well and moved on, searching out more vials. They were easy to find, glittering in the sunlight.

Abruptly, he stopped, holding up a vial to the light. Orange liquid sloshed in the half-full vial. His brows furrowed. That wasn’t a healing potion. Healing potions were blue. His eyes narrowed. If it wasn’t a healing potion, what was it? Mana? Some kind of strength or speed boost, maybe?

Only one way to find out.

Very carefully, he tipped out a tiny droplet onto his skin. When his skin didn’t react, he sniffed it, then delicately licked it and held it in his mouth, on his tongue. The orange liquid had a strange scent—medicinal, but also spicy and mysterious, somewhere between cough medicine and a spice cake. Its flavor was somewhat similar to licking a dry spice mix, as if he’d snuck a taste of dry gingerbread cookie mix before adding the liquid. Very strange, to say the least. It had a powerful clearing effect, too, as if he’d bitten into a pepper, and his nose began to run. He swallowed. The droplet rolled into his stomach, tracing warmth all the way down, and then a message appeared before his eyes.

Mana awakened!

Less is More 0 > 1

Rhys’ eyes widened. It was a mana potion! And not only that, but he seemed to have unlocked something by using it. He poked the floating blue message bubble, and it went away, replaced with a larger one.

Rhys Foundling | 12 | Mana Gathering (Tier 0)

Title: Trash-born

Skills:

Hunger Resist 5

Survivalist 1

Pain Resist 1

Scavenging 2

Less is More 1

He pinched his chin. After a bit of investigating, most of the skills did about what he’d expect. Hunger and Pain Resist let him overcome those two common troubles, while Survivalist helped him survive the elements and Scavenging made it easier to find valuable items in trash—it was a passive skill that functioned by giving a boost to the same kind of instincts an experienced thrifter might have, when paging through junk in a thrift shop. Less is More was the most mysterious skill, but also the most obvious: when he used items, they became more effective at smaller quantities. In other words, he could gain more mana from a drop of the mana potion than most people would, and more healing from a drop of a health potion.

His eyes drifted to the top, to his name and title. Foundling wasn’t a family name. He’d spent long enough delving free encyclopedias to know that in medieval eras, a name like that would be given to orphans. He’d been found somewhere, not born into a loving family. It tracked with his experiences so far, so he didn’t dwell long on it. He was twelve, too, and not eleven; never would have guessed, from how small he was, without even a hint of growth. Mana Gathering, Tier 0… was that his strength level right now?

Rhys smirked to himself. In other words, trash-tier. He was in his element. Literally and figuratively.

Finally, he glanced at his title. Trash-born. It was rather mysterious, and one he didn’t understand, unless it literally meant he’d been born in the trash. Given that he’d been reborn in the trash, he didn’t discount it as a possibility. It suited him, however, so he didn’t complain.

I really am the god of trash, huh. Rhys looked around him. Although he’d been talking about literary trash when he’d spoken to that mysterious absolutexistance, he didn’t really mind real trash, either. When he’d been a child, he’d enjoyed building things out of discarded cardboard and cans. Even as an adult, he would repurpose materials others would throw out for crafts. Never mind that he used them building cheap armor for his cosplay, the point was—he was a resourceful kind of guy, who had always seen value in every kind of trash, material or literary.

Although others might use the word trash to dismiss a work, to him, it was only the beginning of the discussion. Yes, it was trash, but what kind of trash? And just because it was trash, didn’t mean it lacked value, or beautiful moments, or great characters. Just because the overwhelming sentiment of public opinion stood against something, didn’t mean Rhys would dismiss it too. No—he refused to. If someone called something trash, to him, that was an invitation to find the diamond in the rough. Sure, sometimes there was a lot of rough. Sometimes there was even nothing but rough. But if no one was willing to polish up the rough and go hunting for the diamonds, they’d never have any diamonds in the whole world.

That metaphor kind of got away from me, but anyways. The point is, I’m not going to overlook the trash just because the townsfolk think it’s beneath them. He’d already advanced by leaps and bounds just by crawling in the trash. He’d unlocked a system, and even gained a skill! And in his hands were two half-empty, no, half-full potions, one of health, the other of mana, that could either help him advance further or that he could sell for money that he could then use to grow stronger.

There was no doubt in his mind that he needed to get strong. This wasn’t the kind of society where one could live a good life as a weakling. Right from the moment he’d entered it, spawned into the poor dead body of weak Rhys who had been killed for no other reason than because the other boys could overpower him, he’d been face to face with this truth. No, the other boys hadn’t meant to kill him, but that only made it more frightening. He was in a world where the weak would be accidentally killed by the strong, trampled on with all the more care as though they were insects underfoot. He might love trash, but he didn’t want to be a bug, stuck beneath everyone forever. Trash was going to propel him upward, to the top of society, and who knew? Maybe even all the way to becoming a true god of trash, in more than username only.

Rhys kept going, all thoughts of escaping the pile totally forgotten. His potions slowly filled, though the health potion made far more progress than the mana potion. Apparently mana potions were more valuable, which only made him treasure the vial of orange liquid more. Between selling it for coin and using it to advance, his heart slowly drifted toward using it to advance. The health potion he could hold in reserve to sell or use, depending on the situation, but if the mana potion was so valuable that there were only a few in the trash? He couldn’t overlook this kind of heavenly luck and toss all his advantages away.

On top of potions, he also came across strange wrinkled papers with powders clinging to their creases. He tasted a few of them, only to be beset by a dozen strange effects, everything from strength increases to a sudden bout of drowsiness. The papers, therefore, he collected separately, carefully tucking each one away on its own for later observation. Whatever pills or powders they had contained, there was clearly a far greater variety of those than the potions, so he couldn’t carelessly combine them based on color alone.

As the sun set, he gazed upon his gatherings with the warm joy he usually reserved for his figure collection. Dozens of bottles glittered back at him from the pouch, alongside a stack of wrinkled paper. And his pride and joy, front and center: one full health potion, a second quarter-full one, and a three-quarters full mana potion.

Since his first awakening, he’d not dared to try the mana potion further. There was still a sensation of great heat in his stomach, as though he were on the verge of being overwhelmed by the little mana he had. Besides, the potion was such a valuable and rare resource that he didn’t want to carelessly drink too much in one day and overlap the effects. Better to take a drop a day, and experience the full effect of one drop before he went on to try a second drop. Plus, he got the feeling that he could level up Less is More by, well, experiencing that less was more, rather than taking on the whole potion at once.

He tucked the vials with potion in them deep in his robes, hiding each individually. As someone who’d formerly been bullied, he knew the kind of depths kids would go to in order to harm one another. If the three bullies knew he had something valuable, they’d take it from him even if they didn’t understand its value themselves. And when it came to potions, he was pretty sure they’d recognize the value immediately.

It almost made him want to drink the whole mana potion, but he held back. Leveling his skill was more important—and that heat in his stomach. It really was on the verge of overwhelming. He’d only taken a drop of the potion, but between the skill and being totally untrained, it was too much for him. He didn’t want to die in the trash from mana overdose, or whatever other hazards mana held in this world. Until he knew more about how mana worked, he intended to listen closely to his body and stop when it experienced the least discomfort. Once he knew more, he could start pressing the boundaries of how much mana he could absorb. Start expanding his horizons, as it were.

He was a bit concerned that he ended up full of mana from such a tiny drop, but that was a concern for later. Then again, if he thought about it, he wouldn’t be the god of trash if he didn’t start with trash-tier stats. The thrill was in overcoming the trash to shine himself into a diamond anyways, not in starting with overwhelming power.

…And maybe that was him coping just a little bit, but who was to say? Who was to say.

In any case, he wasn’t afraid of hard work. As long as it meant he’d end up with powerful magic this time around, he was happy to work hard. Back when hard work just meant he weighed a little less, it wasn’t particularly appealing. But now… hell, now hard work meant he could fly and shoot fireballs from his hands, or something. That was what he was talking about.

As he contemplated his magical future, he pried the nails out of the piece of wood, then used a nice thick piece of wood to hammer them through the chair’s seat and into the table leg. The resulting three-legged chair wasn’t the sturdiest, or steadiest, thing ever built, but it held, and when he tested it, it held his twelve-year-old weight. Being twelve was less of an asset when it came to hauling the awkwardly-shaped construct back across the pit toward the town-side to climb out, but he managed it. One step at a time, he dragged it toward the edge. The pouch clanked on his hip, and that heat glowed in his stomach.

Abruptly, he paused. Why was he doing this the hard, non-magical way, when he had magic literally burning a hole in him? He reached out to the mana and called it forth.

The mana leaped out and raced through him, pouring through his body. His strength instantly surged, but so did the heat. A fever blush spread over his cheeks. Rhys huffed and breathed slowly, pushing through it. His body rebelled against mana, and he rebelled against his body.

He was sure of it now: he was trash. Inexcusably, unrelentingly, trash. But the thing about trash, the thing that he really loved about it, was that there was always something that shone in the very bottom of the trash. One joke he could enjoy, even if the rest of the entire series was nothing but a convoluted excuse to display fanservice. There had to be something about this new body of his that shone. Some aspect that it succeeded at. He just had to find it, somewhere under all the trash.

Fever raged, beating against his forehead, but he pressed on. For all that it hurt, the fever didn’t constrain his newfound, mana-powered strength. The chair’s shape was still awkward enough that his short arms couldn’t heft it, but he dragged it with ease and had no trouble lifting it for short times when it snagged on something else in the trash. The encroaching night made it hard to see too much of the details of the trash around him, but he mentally tagged any promising regions as places to come back to later.

And then he froze. Slowly, he turned.

Metal glittered in the darkness. Sharp, pointy metal.

Rhys’ eyes shone. A dark chuckle sounded from his throat as his revenge against the bullies took shape. He knelt and snatched it up, sliding it into his robes with the potions. It would be a good time tonight. A good time for everyone, but mostly Rhys.
