It was crass, but he had the class.
You would never know his name; he was just a man who lived in a city of important people that theoretically included himself. But he had never aspired to, well, anything.
He was a Terland, but if you heard ‘Lord Xitegen’ or ‘Ulva and Petra Terland’, the famous [Twin Virtues of House Terland], or even ‘That Lord/Lady Who Definitely Has Sex With Golems’—you were barking up the wrong tree.
His name was Molen Terland, and he was a [Lord] whose passions in life included eating, visiting brothels in First Landing, having a drink with what associates he had, and visiting the Adventure Rooms. But not in any excess like Lord Calidus, that legend of debauchery.
Molen had a liver problem; his [Healer] told him to drink less and maybe go for walks more. He couldn’t drink a [Sailor] under the table and would be rather dismayed at the lowborn company. He was a man who remembered the Goblin King, who could not? But he would never claim he had fought or wanted more such events in his lifetime.
He was…well, a Level 8 [Lord]. And thirty-nine years old. He didn’t even level as a [Lord] like his peers due to their obsessions with Golems. He thought they were helpful, and, uh…that was it. Gold came in monthly, and he spent it in First Landing. Occasionally voted on lesser measures if someone pestered him about it.
Molen Terland had a new class this year. It was Level 23. One of the fastest levelling speeds for a noble in recorded history; he hadn’t told Great Aunt Ulva about it. He was afraid of what she might say. This man who had no passions, even for his hobbies in life, shot out of his bed where he’d been flirting with some brie cheese and juice for breakfast. He, who did not go on healthy walks, ran.
He ran, and the [Servants] whirled in alarm as he shouted—he, who hadn’t raised his voice for love or rage in two decades.
“The television! Get me a [Message] scroll and—”
He flung himself into the room where a gigantic scrying mirror had been installed. The [Avid Watcher], Level 23, felt his Skill pulsing in his head like a [Dangersense]. All alarms blaring.
[Television: Sense Entertainment]. It was calibrated to what made the man happy. So not news like the King of Destruction winning another battle, but it went off if he should see the newest ring-match in Pomle or he was missing a really good Drassi segment.
Now, it howled. And he howled as he wrote furiously.
 
(User ‘Molen’ has entered the group chat — “Viewers of Wistram News Network, Group Chat”. 114 Users present. Please be advised this is an experimental feature and subject to delays or interruptions in service.)
Slimy_Snark: I’m just writing the facts. Sir Relz is right, it’s disgusting.
Mattiah Reinluc: Your name, sir, is as objectionable as your dialogue. I wish once again to complain to the [Mages] overseeing this affair for gross speciesism. As well as your name, which I believe is not your true one.
Molen: Something’s happening! I can sense it!
Slimy_Snark: Oh hey, Molen. What’s happening?
Molen: I can sense it with my Skill! Which channel?
 
He was flipping between them nonstop, desperate to see…but none of them were the right ones. The chat, who knew Molen by name and was more familiar to him than most of his family—despite this chat having only existed for about two months—was intrigued. Many had a [Watcher] or [Viewer] class, and they knew he was high-level…for this group.
 
Molen: Is it not on the news? It’s like when I saw the war in Pomle, or the battle at sea. But far, far greater.
Slimy_Snark: Oh dead gods, another disaster?
Gardener V: Is it the inn? Some tragedy? Another Goblin King?
Slimy_Snark: Wrongwrongwrong. Didn’t happen, all a hoax.
Wistram Magus (Admin): Please keep conversations about ‘Goblin King’ phenomena or the moons out of this channel, Gardener V. You have been issued a warning (1 of 3 for today). Wistram does not verify any claims of Goblin Kings or such matters, and messaging about recent events involving Goblins has been relegated to “Wartime Discussions — Group Chat, 17+ ages only” for users’ sensibilities.
Molen: I don’t…think so. It wouldn’t trigger my Skill otherwise.
Gardener V: I apologize, so it’s not anything on the news right now?
Mattiah Reinluc: I have been observing the news all morning. Nothing is happening on any channel, sir. Is this another ‘prank’? I find it not amusing.
Molen: I swear it’s not. Someone check, please?
 
Silence. But his actions, inadvertently or not, caused the bored [Mage] overseeing the chatroom to sit up at their own desk in Wistram Academy. The young [Magus] sipped at a cup of coffee, then turned.
“[Diviner] Eileen? Is there an event going on on the other news channels that we might not be picking up? Someone with a Skill claims something is going on.”
The [Diviner] wasn’t exactly having a thrilling time coordinating the news channels. But she glanced at the words on the scroll, shrugged, and waved her wand.
“We have scrying orbs monitoring the other news channels. I didn’t see anything, and there’s someone from Channel 1 News who does that nonstop. I can ask them.”
She sent a [Message] off as she flicked through other continents’ channels with her wand. She tapped the orb in front of them, and they saw Terandrian ballroom dancing, a battle against monsters in the Dyed Lands…
“Oh, that’s nasty. Is that…?”
“No, it sounds bigger. What about Chandrar? The seas? Rhir?”
Chandrar merely revealed Wonders of Nerrhavia doing a showcase on Djinni building a city. The [Diviner] shrugged as she cycled the news channels one more time. She had just tapped on ‘Wonders of Nerrhavia’ when the broadcast shifted. The [News Anchor] at the desk stopped monologuing from their script.
“Exalted viewers, I apologize for the—what? What? The Silver Killer has just leapt into the Coliseum of Monarchs! She’s killing everything? Do we have a—”
The Silver Killer? The [Diviner] and [Message Mage] exchanged one look, and then they recognized that name. The Horns of Hammerad. WNN had done a little news piece on Channel 1 News yesterday showing her smacking into the barrier spell like a bug. It had been part of an ‘amusing scenes’ compilat—
The [News Anchor] had leapt to her feet.
“I’m twenty-five minutes away from the Coliseum! I can see it out my window—what do you mean alone?”
She whirled as an image flashed onto screen. It was Yvlon Byres, a recording from the Coliseum of Monarchs, which of course had full broadcasting on scrying orbs under Manager Bnirm. Someone had helpfully begun with the moment the match had been about to start.
“Jurdic. Get me Sir Relz or Drassi right now. I’m overriding the broadcast with Wonders of Nerrhavia until we can get our own feed.”
The [Diviner] made an immediate judgement call. The apprentice scrambled for a [Message] spell as Molen’s scrying orb lit up and an unfamiliar channel began to play. He gasped and saw her.
Yvlon Byres, the Silver Killer of Izril. The video was on a delay, so it began with her accepting a speaking stone and peering down into the Coliseum of Monarchs. He knew her, of course.
The Horns of Hammerad. One of his favorite teams…ever. The [Lord] leaned forwards, breathless, as his chat-scroll lit up with messages proclaiming he was right.
 
Slimy_Snark: Oh shit, it’s her. The rabid metal dog of Izril!
Gardener V: Yvlon! I have to tell my husband and everyone else!
Mattiah Reinluc: Once again, Slimy_Snark displays his or her animosity towards Humans and blatant speciesism.
Ciminec, [Trader]: I’m telling everyone on the street! This is huge! Wait, what is she doing? Didn’t she hit the barriers yesterday?
LoveHeer: Step on my face metal queen.
Gardener V: What.
Molen: She’s going to fight. Where’s Drassi and Sir Relz? Why aren’t they covering this?
Slimy_Snark: Don’t be stupid. There are dozens of [Gladiators], and that Champion of Monarchs is higher-level than she is. There’s probably hundreds of [Guards]. Even she’s not that dumb.
 
Molen was too busy watching to write how stupid Slimy_Snark was. He sensed the [Servants] watching, and someone ran out to spread the news to his friends in First Landing. And he’d called it! He wondered if everyone was watching. Surely…who wouldn’t?
 
——
 
Lord Yitton Byres was sitting at a meeting of the Bloodhunters of Izril somewhat stiffly and uncomfortably. It was an odd mix of commonfolk and nobles, and they were rather intense.
House Byres was providing arms and ammunition at a slight discount to its best clients who ate up all it could manufacture, and as such, they had very close relations. Close enough for Lord Yitton to be in almost daily contact with his associates and lend them space on House Byres land to operate. They paid exceptionally well, and he believed in their cause. But the coin was important. Especially since all the funds needed to rebuild House Byres and hire guards against future sabotage would not come cheap.
Things were going well despite all the terrible attacks on his House. His relationship with Emperor Laken? Strained. But the [Emperor] who was so reasonable in many ways had blindspots when it came to Goblins and this.
If Yvlon did what was reasonable and Ylawes’ expedition went well…Lord Yitton was coughing.
“I believe those are Lord Llendal’s lands. If any hunting were taking place, the [Lord] might object.”
Everyone at the round table turned to him, and he shifted uncomfortably. Lord Yitton kept bringing up nobles or cities whose lands were private as the Bloodhunters discussed pursuing their foes. He felt this was necessary, but it was an uncomfortable position to be in.
“Surely he wouldn’t object if we requested permission. What does he have to hide?”
A [Knight] glowered and got a chorus of agreement. Delanay d’Artien smoothly interjected.
“What Lord Byres means is that we should send a message to avoid more incidents.”
“Of course then.”
Yitton sat back and was relieved by Delanay’s nod. Another village then. The last few hunts had been—bloody. But no one was discussing the possibility they’d made mistakes; they had Skills.
Even so, that many Vampires killed…there were more than he’d thought. Far, far more. And history told him how dangerous this scourge was, but he had sensed discomfort in some of his peers who’d written him to ask about his knowledge of the threat. If you didn’t know they were bloodsucking monsters, it seemed like ordinary civilians were being cut down.
A terrible misconception that had to be dispelled. Though Lord Yitton was firm: House Byres was aiding the Bloodhunters in material and some [Armsmen], but it was concerned with the production of Silversteel armaments which were being bought up. He felt this was the best position to take.
The [Lord] was hesitating over the map and about to bring up the question of budgets again—the Bloodhunters were financed by several private donor groups and House d’Artien—but they had ordered more weapons. He was happy to take their gold—if they had enough. The issue of enough arms and people to hold them had made Delanay turn to Terandria, but if they wanted bases and more than this roving force…
He was saved from having an emotional back-and-forth with the passionate group at the table when Shallel interrupted the gathering.
“Yitton. I hate to interrupt, but the news…”
“Yes, Shallel? I apologize, all.”
He rose, and she wore a familiar expression of dismay and concern. His heart tightened before she spoke.
“It’s Yvlon. She’s on the news. A [Lady] from First Landing I know told me…”
“Yvlon? What has she done now?”
He’d heard of some kind of incident in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, but she was a Gold-rank adventurer. Ylawes was far more controlled than Yvlon, but her fame had led to plenty of people recognizing his House’s name recently. Even if she hadn’t written a reply to his letters…was she not getting them?
Shallel had a scrying orb from Wistram in her hands. Delanay half-turned in his seat as even the Bloodhunters stirred.
“The Silver Killer, Lord Byres? Your daughter would be an ideal ally here. What does Chandrar have to offer her team besides dust and war?”
There was a laugh as one of the Order of Clairei Fields jested. Yitton hadn’t actually tendered their offer to Yvlon yet—he hesitated, but showed the scrying orb around.
“Some adventure, I trust. Or an altercation caught on scrying orb. There seems to be too many of them. They can capture one in a bad light.”
Oh, of course. The Bloodhunters didn’t like them being so common either. As for her nickname…Yitton frowned as he peered at the scrying orb.
Silver Killer was entirely unbefitting of Yvlon. He’d thought it was just a passing nickname, and she’d sworn it was a mistake. He was explaining that to the table as he stared at Yvlon. She was in some kind of coliseum…and there were Stitch-folk everywhere. Such a surreal thing to see so many non-Humans about. Everything, from their skin tones to the very material this coliseum was made of, was foreign and exotic to Yitton. But what was she doing…?
Nothing that would disgrace House Byres, he was sure. His eyes widened as Yvlon Byres leapt and crashed through a barrier of magic. When she landed, his eyes found a metal face appearing out of a cloud of dust.
“Yvlon?”
Shallel was watching too as the Bloodhunters sat up. Yitton Byres remembered his well-mannered daughter, Ylawes’ little shadow, standing politely to attention and speaking with her good graces—
A screaming woman with a face of silver charged out of the sand. Two blades for arms. She leapt on a [Gladiator] who fled her, yelling, and chopped down. Then spun, blood coating her—
“Yvlon?”
She was laughing. Lord Yitton Byres’ eyes widened, and he sat like he’d been turned to stone. Where had his good daughter gone? He saw a stranger on the scrying orb.
A woman of metal, savage and undisciplined. Had she forgotten who she was?
 
——
 
It was news spreading across the world. As ever. The King of Destruction didn’t halt his armies for the Horns of Hammerad at first.
“Bah. I’m getting tired of competing with a Gold-rank team for attention! What could she possibly be doing that matters more than a siege of one of Nerrhavia Fallen’s fortresses?”
He shouted as he held a shield up, watching the ladders rising across one of the towers that his people were besieging. After a few seconds, Flos Reimarch rubbed at his face with his free hand.
“…Show me the scrying orb. Fate would laugh at my words.”
He took one look at the scrying orb, then he grinned. The King of Destruction glanced at the fortress under siege, and his eyes found a figure on the walls dismantling the garrison as they tried to hold her back.
“Oho. Someone fetch me Mars.”
 
