“Yvlon’s doing what?”
All thoughts of the company name were thrown out the window as Qwera brushed aside the papers, and Ysara saw her sister. Her eyes widened as she saw Yvlon fighting in the middle of a Chandrarian arena.
“Yvlon…”
She was bareheaded and running down Stitch-people. What was she doing? Qwera whistled.
“Your sister’s a Gold-rank adventurer to the marrow.”
“She’s doing it all wrong. No—even if she’s Gold-rank, she knows better than to do this!”
Ysara stood up in agitation, hand on her own sword hilt. Qwera raised her paws.
“Calm down, Ysara. We can’t do anything. I’m positive this recording’s on delay anyways. What’s wrong? She’s got them running scared.”
Ysara snapped back.
“For now—she doesn’t even have a helmet on! I don’t care if she’s Gold-rank, no one but a fool runs around without one.”
“She has that metal Skill—wait, it’s worn off.”
Qwera sat up, fur rising as she saw Yvlon was indeed a lone woman beset by all sides. Ysara’s hairs rose as well as she saw arrows sprouting from the sand in Yvlon’s wake. Fired from above.
Ysara had learned how to cut arrows in midair, but it wasn’t a trick she would have relied on in combat, even if she had a [Swordswoman] class. Even with armor on, Yvlon was courting madness.
Not least—there was a high-level [Warrior] there. The Champion of Monarchs moved like a master of some kind. His steps were too carrying, his footwork too fast. He flipped a spear up, hurled it, and it nearly hit Yvlon. Her head moved out of the way, and Ysara’s heart caught in her throat.
One millisecond’s hesitation and Yvlon would have lost her head. She kept chasing the Stitch-man as he retreated, but he was baiting her, easily able to outrun her on the sands.
He’s got her on movement Skills, he’s got throwing Skills, and he looks strong. What is she doing?
As if Yvlon sensed she wouldn’t catch him, she pivoted left, sprinting at a [Gladiator] and a group of [Guards] who’d emerged from some of the gates. Qwera winced as a censored blur obscured the brief combat a second too late.
“Dead gods. Mrsha talked about the Horns like they were friendly, silly adventurers. That’s your sister, Ysara? No wonder Mrsha turned out like she did.”
She’d torn apart the entire group so fast Ysara couldn’t believe it. The [Gladiator] had tried to ward her off with a trident; Yvlon’s metal arm had morphed into a swordcatcher’s blade, which had stretched out, blocking the trident. And her other arm had elongated and chopped until she was amidst them, arms swinging.
They might be alive since they were Stitch-folk, but there were arms and legs and blood on the ground as she ran on.
“We apologize for the blood, ladies and gentlemen—oh, Ancestors, are they dead?”
Sir Relz was commentating as Drassi spoke over him.
“They might be alive. Why is she doing this? Yvlon, duck!”
A [Fireball] touched down, and the smoke and dust cleared only to show Yvlon had escaped the blast. More spells falling. Ysara whispered.
“They have height on her. They’re completely encircling the arena, and reinforcements are coming in from all sides. She was trained better than this.”
They hadn’t studied military strategy, but anyone could see this was a killing field. Yvlon had seemed far, far more independent and freer when they’d met last, but this? Ysara’s hand was so tight on the hilt of her sword she was in danger of tearing her skin. Qwera glanced at her and then at the scrying orb with wariness.
She had lost one of her own loved ones recently. Tesy…she made to block the scrying orb, second-guessed herself, then sat tensely. The Golden Gnoll glanced around, as if trying to make the camera shift angles. She asked the question everyone else was thinking.
“Where is her team?”
 
——
 
Pisces wasn’t fighting. Those first eight minutes of chaos, he stood, [Invisible] to all. People rushed past him; [Guards] taking aim below, members of the crowd fleeing or trying to get better angles, and he…
Well, he wasn’t as ashamed as he might have been in ordinary circumstances. There Yvlon was, tearing through the ground floor of the Coliseum of Monarchs, and he wasn’t helping her.
He had good reasons why, of course. All very tactical, but it still made his stomach twist. Still. He was one [Necromancer], and he felt she had underestimated how many [Guards] the coliseum held.
To wrangle magical beasts or deal with [Gladiators] or unruly captives? There had to be hundreds, and Manager Bnirm was calling on all of them now.
He was, in fact, headed below, screaming orders into a speaking stone.
“Kill the Silver Killer! If she survives, I’ll have her imprisoned, but just stop her!”
He was furious. Nor was he worried about repercussions from the [Queen]; the [Manager] snarled at one of the anxious people around him when they mentioned Yisame’s name.
“Damn the [Queen] and her spoiled foreign pets! This is my coliseum! What is Lenxiol doing?”
“Avoiding her. He’s missed both spears—”
“He outlevels her! Put more [Archers] above and shoot her!”
In truth, Pisces hardly blamed the Stitch-man for choosing a ranged battle. Lenxiol seemed rather attached to his health, which Pisces could relate to. But mostly…it was Yvlon.
If she came at him, Pisces would run, even if he had three dozen Skeleton Champions in front of him. In close-combat, he wondered if even a Named-rank adventurer like Eldertuin would come out ahead. Once Yvlon grabbed you, she was both insanely strong, would never back down, and her arms were very…pokey.
Pisces strode after Bnirm as the man ran down the sloping hallways towards the ground floor. He was aware each passing moment left Yvlon alone, but again—
He could not act without thought. Indeed, Pisces had to keep his steps clear of a [Mage] who was holding a glowing wand aloft.
“Where’s the other one? The [Necromancer]?”
Bnirm asked as he panted, sweating; his physique was clearly all cloth. One of his bodyguard answered, glancing around.
“We don’t know, Manager. We saw the others the Silver Killer was with, but he vanished…”
“I have an [Invisibility Purge] spell at eighteen feet, Manager! And I have [See Invisibility]! If he is about, I will know!”
The [Mage] with the pulsing wand insisted. They cast around, and Pisces stepped behind one of the [Bodyguards] again. The [Mage] had helpfully repeated how far their [Invisibility Purge] spell’s radius was several times. And the thing about [See Invisibility] was that it only worked if your line of sight actually, well, saw said [Invisible] person. A [Flash Step] carried Pisces smoothly backwards around a corner before he saw the [Mage] glance ahead.
“Is she not dead yet?”
Bnirm asked as they reached the first floor, which let him stride out onto a balcony overlooking the fighting below. The screaming and shouting outside let Pisces hear the answer to that.
“Keep her away! Get back—she’s coming at—”
“Yvlon! Get to cover!”
“Someone call for reinforcements! Shoot her, you blind-as-bat fools!”
[Guards] screaming as a Level 45 [Silversteel Armsmistress] ran at them. Voices calling for the [Archers] above to hit her, but she was fighting at the edges of the coliseum, meaning half of the [Archers] had to lean over the railing to try and shoot her….
And help? A Stitch-man was fighting in a knot with a group of [Gladiators], taking out the coliseum’s defenders. Bnirm roared.
“That traitor, Mectail—! Is that Granith with them? Pethore? Romen? Kill all of them!”
That seemed the bridge too far for the Stitch-folk around him. One protested.
“Manager, they’re just standing with the Traitorous Three as they did in the past. None of them have killed—”
“All of them! Kill all of them or I will have you stripped of your stuffing and turned into Hemp! No one goes against my coliseum!”
It was rather disappointing. The Stitch-man was ranting and raving as he pointed down at the chaos below, and he had not said anything that revealed to Pisces a greater motivation for his actions other than pure, petty power.
The ‘Traitorous Three’ suffering for so long. The dead [Soldiers]. And the [Slaves] and criminal gladiators killed for what?
“Surely there is a reason.”
But no. Pisces remembered Hrome and that banal face of evil. He heard a muffled sound from a speaking stone, and a [Bodyguard] stirred.
“Manager, our [Sharpshooters] are in place. They beg forgiveness; one has a shot.”
“What are you waiting for? Kill her! Silver Killer, you have made your last mistake!”
Manager Bnirm’s voice rose; he had seized a speaking stone and amplified his voice into the Coliseum of Monarchs.
Pisces could not see outside or know that the scrying spells had focused on Bnirm. Or that Yvlon, aware of the danger, was sprinting for her friends. She swerved, dodging a third spear tossed by Lenxiol as a pair of black-clad figures took aim at her with bright, gold bows.
The [Necromancer] knew none of this. All he knew was that his blood ran cold when he heard the [Manager] speak and saw his teammate was in danger. His hesitation vanished.
Pisces drew his rapier and took the longest [Flash Step] of his life. Twenty-nine feet past the [Bodyguards]. His free hand reached out, and the tip of his fingers touched the robed back.
“[Dispel Magic].”
Manager Bnirm half-turned.
“Wh—”
Pisces’ blade flashed across the man’s neck. The [Necromancer] felt a shock of resistance against his sword’s hilt, but he swept the blade through the protection spells.
A spray of blood splashed one cheek, warm and sticky, and he flinched. Before the eyes of the horrified Coliseum of Monarchs, Manager Bnirm’s head left his body. It spun with the force of the slash, a surprised open mouth and suddenly-vacant eyes twisting in the air, before it dropped.
Then he was there. Pisces Jealnet appeared as the [Invisibility Purge] claimed his enchantment, and his free hand pointed at a [Bodyguard] frozen in horror.
[Deathbolt]. He fired the spell through their open mouth, pointed left and hit the [Mage] with the same spell, and ran through a third [Bodyguard] and kicked the woman off his blade. Then he turned and shouted down from the balcony.
“Yvlon! Watch out!”
The surprised [Armsmistress] dashing for the gates glanced up at him. Yvlon opened her mouth to respond.
“Pisces! Be c—”
A pair of arrows struck her in the neck and head before Pisces’ eyes.
She dropped without a word.
 
——
 
“…Yvlon?”
Ksmvr awoke from his dreams in the Synectic Maze for a moment, the colors flashing around him. He emerged to find himself bound in the wagon again, Vofea’s voice the only sane one in this maddening hall.
But his lucidity was not all his willpower. Not this time. It was something else. Someone else.
His…friend. His teammate. His gentle, kind, impulsive protector. Family, if he deserved such a word.
Yvlon. He often spoke of her. Often thought of her.
He missed her most of all. If that was a treasonous thought to like one member of his beloved team more than the others, it was true, and he would submit himself to punishment later.
He didn’t know what was going on with her. They were under anti-scrying spells and anti-[Message] spells, shielded for their own safety from pursuers and enemies. But he was a [Teammate]; she was never far from his mind. And down here…
Vofea heard his voice and came running.
“Ksmvr, you’re awake again. What was that about Yvlon? What about her, Ksmvr?”
The Antinium had a Skill. [Monitor Attribute (Health)]. It worked on all of his teammates, but he kept it on Yvlon most of the time. He mumbled as he twitched in his bindings.
The Antinium tried to trace the only link he had with her. As if he could see the line that connected him from Baleros to distant Chandrar. He had no idea what was going on. Just faith that she would find him or he her.
He was glad she wasn’t here, dying in this sea of colors. But it was not necessarily safer for her in Chandrar, he knew. And Pisces…Ksmvr’s voice trembled slightly as he responded to Vofea.
“She…it is not the same as when she was fighting the battle earlier.”
Against a terrible foe. This time…Ksmvr stared into the distance as Vofea tensed. The Satyr’s eyes followed his gaze as she tried to see through the mortal world as well. But all she could see were the colors swirling above them, the darkness.
“What? What, Ksmvr?”
The Antinium gazed at the measure of her life given to him by the system of levels. His voice was confused.
“I—she has had the barrier from her Ring of Barriers protecting her health at all times unless she takes the ring off. But now? She has a thousand times more overshielding on her health.”
He smiled weakly as Vofea blinked at him. The colors were dragging him back, but for a moment, the Antinium smiled, and the grey of his willpower hardened and shone with the relief in his voice.
“She must have found a super-Relic. It is very reassuring.”
 
——
 
The Silver Killer was down. She lay on her face in the sands as her friends screamed, and Mectail almost ran out to grab her—but they’d all seen the arrows. They’d hit her in the cheek and throat. She was dead.
Helmetless and headshot. A squad of [Guards] with spears, nets, and a healing potion were approaching her. One had a magical collar, and they bent over the fallen women. There was a chance she might be clinging to life. She was a high-level warrior.
The Champion of Monarchs hadn’t moved from his spot, spear raised uncertainly. He seemed confused, as if he’d expected more from his foes. He was glancing around for Pisces, but the [Necromancer] had vanished.
Which was a pity; Yvlon had hoped Lenxiol would come over to gloat like he had for Vitte. She waited until one of the [Guards] rolled her over with the potion and collar in hand. His eyes fixed on her unblemished throat and cheek, and she saw the Stitch-man’s eyes go round as he perceived what no one else had.
The faint blue shimmer over her skin. Rippling from where he touched her. Rather like the Coliseum of Monarch’s own barrier spells. And, as her hand rose and spikes of metal exploded outwards—
The glowing ring of scaled shields on her finger.
The Silver Killer rose in another storm of blood as the screaming turned to gasps and silence. The Champion of Monarchs jerked, and she smiled.
Just as planned.
She didn’t have a full, complex strategy in mind. Yvlon Byres’ plans had pretty much begun and ended at confirming her hypothesis. Which was, namely, that her Ring of Barriers had a function beyond the mere damage shield that had protected her until now.
