She was panting, but as Colth inspected her attributes with his own [Teammate] Skills, he realized she was just tired from fighting. She hadn’t taken much damage until now. Yvlon drank a stamina potion as he tossed it at her; Ceria was hesitating.
“Captain, please. Trust me.”
The half-Elf locked gazes with Yvlon, and then her lips twisted.
“Aw, damnit—the circlet thinks you’re stupid, and I agree. But what do we know? Get him. You’d better not lose!”
She backed up and glanced at Colth. He received a [Message] spell.
If he’s winning, get ready to stab him in the ass.
Colth kept his face smooth as he stepped backwards. Lenxiol was grinning as Pisces lowered his rapier after saluting Yvlon. The Champion probably thought he could beat Yvlon and take her hostage—or at least escape or beat the rest of them if he took out their [Warrior].
All valid concerns. Assuming he won. Because Colth was thinking the same thing as the rest of the Horns as the audience cheered the Silver Killer meeting the Champion of Monarchs. Faster, higher-level, more experienced…
Lenxiol’s cocksure grin wavered as Yvlon Byres stared up at the sky, then closed her eyes and exhaled. Like the rest of the Horns, she didn’t have many powerful Skills to end fights.
She’d used her [Aspect of Silver] and her [Sword Art: Curve of the Moon]. But there was one thing missing from their teammate’s fighting style that they hadn’t seen recently. A sign they were truly cornered or that the moment called for it.
Yvlon Byres opened her eyes. And then she began to tremble slightly. A smile edged over her face unlike the other ones, and her blue eyes, when they focused on Lenxiol, were a bit…wild.
“I’m losing my temper.”
Lenxiol’s brows creased in sudden alarm. Ceria edged behind Colth. For his part, the [Ultimate Supporter] blinked. He had [Berserker] Skills, of course. He copied everything. But he supposed Berr taught better berserking than Colth had expected.
The steam was new.
 
——
 
“You’ll rage a bit differently after my tutelage, Yvlon Byres. Don’t be alarmed…eh, tell your team not to be alarmed. Keep it in. All your anger, your rage, the little and big things. Until you need it. Then unleash it. Fear your rage. I fear myself when I am angry. That is a good thing to have.”
—Berr the [Berserker], Year 1 of the Journey of the Living.
 
She was hot. The woman screamed with relief. With fury. With sorrow for her friends who she had abandoned and let down.
At this man, who she knew could kill her. She didn’t care. She unleashed the only thing she had on him: her rage.
After so long, she let it out. Not the battle at sea nor even Bograms had seen her use it fully. This?
This was the moment. 
It was the same fury that had seen her go against the Adult Creler. She was just as angry. Angrier. It burst out of her until her heart was beating what felt like a thousand times per minute. Her body was unbearably hot. Steam—steam was rising from her sweat and the blood that had splashed her.
The heat of her body alone caused a burst of steam to rise, but she lunged out of the cloud before anyone could react. Mouth open, screaming, because she had to scream—fists swinging for him.
No blades of metal. No tricks. Just—
Hit him.
He was strong. He was fast. His blows dented her arms as she reached for him. Struck her armor and kissed her ribs in agony.
She didn’t feel it. But she did slide under a blow. Dodge. You had to d—
Knife in one hand slashing across her face.
She ducked it as her master had taught her. Exploded upwards with an uppercut. He dodged it, but she brushed his chest. The edge of her arm turning into razors sliced his skin open. Just a line, but she touched him.
“Damned brute of—”
He spoke, wasting his mewling breath. But then she was screaming. She grinned as she lunged again. Block—
His punch was the hardest yet and dug her feet into the dirt. When she saw him recoil, her arms were dented together.
Just like Mars, he could punch so hard he made her arms deform. But unlike Mars, it wasn’t easy for him. His fists hurt. He wavered. Sprinted backwards—
The [Necromancer], her [Necromancer], appeared, flaming blade in hand, and pointed.
“[Deathblast].”
The [Champion] barely dodged it and tried to seize him, snarling. The brown-haired man’s eyes were wide—but not for fear of the Stitch-man. He threw himself aside as Yvlon leapt.
This time, she caught Lenxiol. Faster than even he expected. She kneed him in the chest and felt him exhale hard. He punched her in the throat. She had his arm.
Her fingers ripped pieces out of his arm as he tore it away, and he cried out, feeling at the bloody grooves in his arm. He backed up— walls of ice rose, blocking him in. The Squirrel, cackling as she sat atop them.
A grinning Demon barring the other direction. To get away, he had to go through—her.
He tackled her back. Threw her with a twist—ducked the noose of metal she had tried to twist around his throat, a garroting line that would have beheaded him, with an oath.
Rattled, he whirled back. She rose, chuckling.
Tricky. Tricky—be tricky even in rage. Or you’re too simple. Now—kill him.
A voice was growling in her ears. While he waited for the trick, she sprinted at him. Feinted with her hands. He threw a punch, backstepping. At last—she hit him in the ribs and felt one break. Now throw another punch. And another. Another, another, anotheranotheranotheranotheranother—
 
——
 
“She’s too fast.”
That was Flos Reimarch’s only comment. He sat as Mars the Illusionist drank water and eyed the siege. She was disinterested, but she humored her liege and shrugged as Flos’ voice made the others turn to him.
“She’s berserking, Your Majesty?”
“No. She’s faster than even that.”
The King of Destruction said simply. He watched as the Champion of Monarchs tried to get away, and she caught him in another flicker of movement. Mars spat.
“The current Champion of Monarchs is a showoff. I heard he had few worthy challenges; he’s good enough with his fists, but he hasn’t had to bleed for his title in a true match in years. She’s out for blood. As for speed, well, I suppose I noticed that.”
“She has galas-muscle before Level 50. Much more than most warriors.”
That was what it was. The other [Soldiers] started as Flos Reimarch frowned. Mars shrugged innocently.
“Perhaps I helped it along. More likely, she’s got no muscle in her arms. So it’s concentrated.”
The King of Destruction grinned. This time, Lenxiol met Yvlon in a collision, striking her, hammering her side, trying to get an arm around—
 
——
 
The howl from the Stitch-man as he leapt back revealed blood. Barelle wasn’t surprised. Lenxiol’s first mistake was trying to stay when the Horns assaulted the arena. The moment Bnirm died, he should have fled.
“She bit him.”
Trying to grapple with a [Berserker] was a foolish move. The Silver Killer spat blood and flesh onto the ground as Lenxiol clutched at his bicep.
“The Coliseum of Monarchs has become a genteel arena if their Champion is unused to such actions.”
Cognita Truestone was watching with mild interest. Barelle turned to her as the Silver Killer advanced, punching and striking. If not as fast as Lenxiol—her arms hit him harder than he hit her, and she didn’t seem to react to the damage.
Barelle well knew how dismaying it was to face an enemy who didn’t seem to be taking damage.
“Cognita, your verdict on who will win?”
“A Level 40 warrior is facing a Level 50 hybrid bereft of items and backup. The conclusion is evident.”
“Speaking as another hybrid, if not of those levels, he might surprise you.”
Barelle spoke in offhanded defense of Lenxiol. Cognita sampled another popcorn piece.
“Doubtful.”
 
——
 
He bled. Yvlon Byres felt her rage running hot and pushed more through her body. It was not unlimited. She felt a limit on how much she had—and perhaps how much she could withstand—but she could intensify it and catch him.
Her legs were burning. He was panting. Bruises mottling his flesh, dark and heavy. She knew she’d broken ribs.
She wanted to break those legs. She almost threw herself at him again, but forced herself to stop.
More lessons from her master, and they were important. She was a good student. She had always been a good girl…
Pause. Assess. Do not be predictable. If you are winning without, press—but throw his tempo off.
She stopped, breathing in and out smoothly, then tilted her head. Tilted her body until it was a sideways stare at the Stitch-man. Her eyes were wide, her face expressionless as she saw how he favored his left side.
The Silver Killer had no notion of how she seemed, a blank-faced woman with blood running from her mouth, steam rising from her body, as she inspected the Champion of Monarchs like prey.
 
——
 
“Master! Master!”
Berr hit one of his apprentices who kept shouting in his ear. He was trying to watch. He was grinning though.
“Shut up.”
“But Master—you taught her your Look?”
All the little cub-warriors were howling and running around in excitement. Berr sipped from his cup of Velrusk Claw, chuckling.
“I did not. And it is not a Skill no matter how much you all whine it is. She is just a natural student.”
The Look was just intimidation. A wide-eyed [Berserker] studying you in the middle of a battle, suddenly silent and calm, would throw even a seasoned warrior off. It meant nothing if your heart was steady.
This Stitch-man’s was not. She came for him, and Berr laughed.
“Get him.”
 
——
 
He didn’t know she wanted his leg until too late. Punch it. Punch it again. He kept kicking her with the other, so punch that out of the air. Punch his stomach—when he tried to force her back, strike up with all her strength.
Until she saw the stitches on his shoulders stretch and a few snap and his neck almost elongate. Almost—but punch that damned running leg.
Then it snapped. She was not fooled, of course. She was ready for the real fight now. His leg breaking wouldn’t—
“—cy—”
He didn’t get up. So she lunged at him and punched and punched—until a foot kicked her off. Then she rolled upright, shedding the armor crushed against her chest. Snarling. And saw only his mouth moving.
“—Mercy. I surrender—”
Yvlon Byres’ haze of fury cleared slightly. He wasn’t getting up? He…
The Champion of Monarchs lay there, leg broken and lying at the wrong angle, panting, holding his hands up. Yvlon was suddenly conscious of her own broken ribs. The pain radiating from her body.
She heard again, over the roaring of the crowd, Elena’s voice for some reason. Staggered.
“Mercy?”
He had crossed his arms, and there was fear in his eyes. The Silver Killer waited for the trick. She knew he could still fight. But she realized—
He didn’t want to. His hands were hovering near his bag of holding. He had weapons. He had tricks. But—
“Face me, Champion of Monarchs.”
He shook his head as she mumbled the words at him. Yvlon was drooling blood. She wobbled, but the fury had left her weak. Dangerous…she cast around. And realized he was done.
So she’d won? She’d been ready to face more. Mars…
He was no Mars. She wobbled as she tried to pivot on one leg, and it sang agony.
Colth was beside her in a moment.
“Just keep standing, Yv. Just turn around and walk away. You got him. Good job.”
He was whispering as he supported her, and she felt her strength return as her fury left her. She stood, breathing in and out.
“The [Guards]—”
“They ran. Mind you, we have a small problem: someone reactivated the barriers. They’ve locked us in.”
Colth nodded upwards, and she saw the shimmering forcefields had been reignited. Yvlon fingered her ring. It felt cold—
“I don’t think my ring—”
“Don’t worry. Just look good as you walk off. We’ll patch you up, and if there’s more trouble, we’ll clear this area first. Pisces is working on something, anyways.”
The [Necromancer] was scratching at the ground with his rapier, and a bunch of skeletons were helping him. Yvlon looked around.
“My friends. Where…?”
There. There were Mectail, Thexca, and Vitte. She stumbled towards them as Vitte drew back. But Thexca just reached out, then hesitated. They were all hurt. Mectail had a terrible gash down one leg, and Thexca had two arrows sticking out of her shoulder, but they were alive.
“Mectail. Thexca. Vitte. Thank goodness you’re alive.”
Yvlon spoke automatically as Colth helped her come over. She saw slave and criminal gladiators staring at her from the fortress. When she glanced up, they drew back.
“Y-Yvlon?”
Thexca was hesitant as she stepped forwards. The Silver Killer of Izril brushed at her bloody hair. Then she smiled, relieved.
“I’m so sorry I took so long. Are you alright? I’ll make it up to you, I promise.”
The raging woman who had bested the Champion of Monarchs stood there, and it was a pure expression that crossed her features. Like a girl concerned for her friends. An innocent smile for friends she had been worried for.
The [Gladiators] gazed at her, each one silent for different reasons as Yvlon turned. She saw a few [Guards], the [Gladiators] who hadn’t yet surrendered or played dead, gathered on the far end of the arena. Or above, watching from outside the forcefield they’d erected to contain her.
In a more normal tone of voice, she continued.
“I’m relieved. Now, let’s get you out of here. On my vow as a Horn of Hammerad, I promise—no one is going to harm you.”
Her voice rose, and she shouted it at the enemy, who flinched.
“Silver and steel be my guide! Everything dies! EVERYONE DIES.”
They ran. Very refreshingly. Yvlon turned back to the others and winked.
“That last bit is just knighting.”
Funnily, they didn’t seem to quite believe her.
 
——
 
Ceria Springwalker stood in the quiet arena, watching Pisces work. Anyone who hadn’t immediately wet themselves had thrown down their weapons and begged for mercy after Yvlon had yelled at them.
Not for the first time, the half-Elf envied her insane friend. It wasn’t easy to be Yvlon, if Ceria was right about how hurt she was. But being Yvlon felt like a winning formula in a lot of ways.
A barrier-absorbing ring, her metal arms, and a [Berserker]’s rage. She was a [Mage]’s worst nightmare unless you could fly. Ceria decided to add anti-flying spells to her research list.
She had to keep up. The half-Elf was cold; Pisces kept glancing at Yvlon, as if he hadn’t made his own impact. She and Colth were the ones who had just shown up. Who hadn’t quite trusted Yvlon.
“Well, I suppose I’m getting my just desserts. Like my team, Lenxiol?”
She turned to the Stitch-man. He was lying on his back, fumbling with his broken leg. His face was contorted in agony, but he gasped at her.
