“That one is almost as mad as the Scourge. The enemies you’ve made for killing Bnirm you can’t guess at!”
“Is that a threat?”
He finally undid the stitches and lay back as the agony from his broken leg left him. Sweating, the Stitch-man found a replacement leg.
“Not from I. Did you have to come to my coliseum?”
“Well, you were torturing her friends.”
“They betrayed—I have done nothing permanent to any—enough, I am done. I shall slink off and lick my wounds. I know better than to fight a second Mars.”
Wow, he was being really good with the lipservice. She supposed a [Gladiator Champion] really was half entertainment-type Skills. She saw Lenxiol begin to tie his leg onto his body. He seemed to use thick, visible cords you could hand-tie instead of needing a needle. Very smart, that. She bet, aesthetically, it appeared weird or something.
Ceria waited until the Stitch-man had his hands full tying the cords and then fired the [Ice Lance Barrage] straight into his back.
He was fast. He almost threw a blade at her when the [Tidal Wave] washed over him and froze solid. He was gasping as he tried to break free.
“Please—”
She aimed the [Ice Lance] spell at his throat and fired, and that might have done the job. But to be sure, absolutely sure, she [Snap Froze] his head in a block of ice. Then snapped her fingers.
When it shattered into colored fragments of flesh, then she was sure he was dead. Shocked screams and voices called from around her. She turned and gave Pisces an innocent look.
“What? I’ve heard they can survive even having their heads cut off. Did you think he was going to just walk off and never trouble us again?”
“Ceria—!”
She pointedly took her circlet off her head, switching it out for the Crown of Medain. She really hoped Yvlon wasn’t going to come over and punch her, but her friend just stared at her as Colth gave Ceria a covert thumbs-up. He sidled over and began looting Lenxiol’s bag of holding and belt pouches.
She knew he’d get it. Ceria regarded Pisces.
“Lecture me later. I thought there was a non-negative chance of him stabbing us all in the back the moment he put that leg on and reinforcements arrived. My bet is Bnirm’s friends want us dead. I’d rather not sit in this barrier while they line up some [Assassins]. Are you doing what I think you’re doing to get us out?”
The [Necromancer] was pale-faced, but after a second, he seemed to compose himself and jerked his head.
“Stand back. Wall up in the [Fortress of the Ice Queen]; I don’t know if this will work. In the worst case, we’re fighting two battles.”
“Hey, great. You have a bad idea, I have mine.”
She watched him walk back to the circle of magic he was drawing. Then she spoke.
“I didn’t enjoy it.”
“A good thing you remember some morality, then.”
“They played for keeps with you, Pisces. I’ll do worse to them.”
The half-Elf’s eyes glowed with a pale light as Pisces glanced up. He hesitated.
“He wasn’t them, though.”
“Bnirm seemed close enough. Lenxiol practically runs this arena. We’ll discuss it later.”
Without a word, Pisces went back to work. Ceria saw the death magic activating and glanced up at the barriers overhead.
Yep, that’s a lot of power. I doubt we could bust through if all of us wailed on it. Even if Lenxiol had helped with his bags of holding…Yvlon’s ring definitely lost the magic it absorbed faster than he did damage to her. Still scary as shit. No wonder the adventurers carried this ring. It’s made to slay [Mages]. Steal their protections and guard yourself in one fell swoop.
She jogged off, shrugging. Pisces kept working for a few more seconds, then stood back.
“Owners of the Coliseum of Monarchs, we desire release! There is no more blood to be shed—let us out!”
No response. Ceria didn’t know who was in charge of the barrier spells, but she probably wouldn’t let them out regardless. Still…what did those above see?
The Scourge of Roshal standing there, sword drawn, in front of an ominously-glowing magical circle. Pisces’ voice was raspy.
“We have each done what we felt we must. We will not be caged again. I have warned you.”
After a minute of silence, he stood back from the circle. Ceria noted he’d already deanimated his Skeleton Champions and collected his bones. Pisces finished drawing the line in the magical circle. Made sure it was working—then [Flash Stepped] over to her where she was raising layers of magical ice.
“Wait, what’s he doing?”
Yvlon was so woozy she hadn’t really figured out the plan. Colth was grinning that desperate smile as Ceria gave Yvlon a beaming grin.
“Oh, you know. Forcing their hand. The only way we know how. You ready to keep fighting, Yvlon?”
“You killed Lenxiol. Fight what?”
Pisces appeared next to them and dove into cover as the other [Gladiators] drew back from him. He popped up, and Ceria raised a triple-thick layer of [Ice Walls].
“Er…remember Hraace?”
 
——
 
Just what did you think of it all?
The Silver Killer’s madness that had humbled the Champion of Monarchs. Pisces, the Scourge of Roshal, killing Manager Bnirm in a single moment before bringing undead to rout the others. The Ice Squirrel’s cold, cold killing of Lenxiol—and Colth the Rookie, who had performed exceptionally adequately, if not showily?
Yisame was trembling. She had already given orders for the army to escort the Horns back to the palace, but she knew Bnirm’s faction had to be shaking with a rage of their own. So she watched her beloved team, wishing only that Ksmvr had been there. And she wondered…what others saw.
For she saw Pisces Jealnet make his demand—then activate the spell about half a minute before a [Mage] came screaming into the Court of Silks.
“Your Majesty! Your Majesty!”
Her [Bodyguards], who felt much vindicated after all that had been seen and done, blocked the [Mage] with blades at the woman’s throat.
“Who dares interrupt the Queen?”
The Voice snapped, but the [Mage] gasped.
“I beg your forgiveness, Queen! But—but—a Death’s Door has opened up in the capital! It is unleashing death magic!”
A gasp of horror from those in the audience who actually knew what that meant. Queen Yisame was very proud of the calm way in which she lifted her head. She shifted the scrying orb so all could see the arm of the Bone Giant reaching upwards, pressing against the barrier spells.
“It seems the Scourge of Roshal fears no undead. Are the barrier spells not lowered? Assemble the royal army—to close this portal of course.”
 
——
 
An unbounded circle of death.
Just like the Hero of Zethe had told Pisces, it was possible to make if you had enough magical ability and the right conditions to allow death magic to flourish. Like this arena filled with dead bodies. Of course, he had told Pisces of the incredible danger and the potential to create an entire death zone from one such portal.
The [Necromancer] had sworn to, naturally, never create one…unless he really needed to. It wasn’t that useful, after all. Even a Bone Giant wasn’t that helpful if it was wild and rogue, and it sucked up all the death magic around, so it was a quite dubious trick.
…Unless you were threatening to unleash a Bone Giant on the city. It was swinging its arms against the barrier spells and, as of yet, not paying attention to the mortals in the cage with it. The audience was running.
Quite a gamble. Still, you had to admire the coxals on that [Necromancer] for raising the ante. The allies of Bnirm were in a quandary: let the Bone Giant rampage and risk taking some of the blame or keep the spells up and risk the Horns just blowing a hole in it anyways? And the Queen was demanding action be taken…
The question was rendered moot not by their choices, but by someone else. High above the Court of Silks, in one of the towers of Tyrant’s Rest—not the palace, but in the sprawling city itself—a person awoke.
They’d been lying abed all morning. It was, after all, barely 10 AM. The hither-to slumberer stumbled to one window.
“Eh, eh? What in Silk is that?”
His tone of ire was followed by explanations from worried, lesser apprentices and his own contacts in the city. The [Mage] shielded his eyes and hunted around his rooms.
“A Death’s Door? In my city? Foreigner-made? Unacceptable. Where is…aha!”
A window opened on the tower facing the Coliseum of Monarchs, and a staff was pushed out of it, held at the very end. It wobbled alarmingly until the [Mage] spoke.
“Pinpoint coordinates…[Meteor Storm]. There.”
He did not actually keep watching to see the clouds darken overhead and the first glow break through the skies or the chunks of superheated rocks falling. The disgruntled [Mage] of Silk, the highest-levelled spellcaster of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, went back to sleep. He tossed, turned, and was about to fire a second storm off when the portal vanished.
Then he went back to sleep. He was no [Mage] that needed or would fight the King of Destruction’s armies or these lesser wars that happened now and again. He was above the mundane politics of the Court of Silks.
Amerys would have called him a coward. He would note that of the [Mages] she would fly to challenge, regardless of their will, he was not one of them.
 
——
 
The tale of the Silver Killer’s return to the Coliseum of Monarchs was told and retold, but not at the lengths one would expect. After all, who needed a [Spinner of Tales] when they could simply rewatch the broadcast?
Much was said of the reception the Silver Killer had upon her return to the Court of Silks. Some small rumors had begun of the Queen’s behavior around her—that perhaps Yisame was too affectionate or too weak-willed towards this Gold-rank adventurer.
Such rumors were turned on their head, and one had to, in fact, admire the way the [Queen] embarrassed the faintly-blushing [Armsmistress] without fear of…well, everything. Indeed, though the allies of Manager Bnirm raged, they did so privately.
It was said that the Minister of Defense privately stormed to a meeting of his colleagues, who sat in mild apprehension of this actually dangerous team, and made a simple demand.
“Find me any team, any adventurer who can put these Horns of Hammerad to shame. [Assassins]! Poison! Whatever it takes!”
The bearing out of such plans was, of course, a later tale, but it marked the value the Horns had to the Queen and all of their allies. If the Silver Killer was to be likened to a dog at all—something that one would best do when she was asleep, far away from her, behind closed doors, in another city—then she was more bite than bark.
Nor was she that tame nor would it be wise to stray within arm’s reach of her. Even at the very meeting in which Queen Yisame forgave the Horns of Hammerad their numerous crimes and pardoned the ‘Traitorous Three’—and every other [Gladiator] who had fought with the Horns—there was a small incident.
Nothing more than two [Princes] bickering. Prince Zenol of House Isphel, who had made it known he was a great friend of the Horns of Hammerad, had led the applause of their feats, whereupon Prince Esceit of House Quarein had insulted him.
A safe action given how much stronger House Quarein was than Isphel…or not, because it was uttered in the presence of the Silver Killer. It was said she turned on the spot and challenged Prince Esceit and his escort to a duel of honor—in the very same arena still stained with the Champion of Monarchs’ blood.
Prince Esceit refused, of course, citing his unwillingness to duel over a remark, even by proxy, much less with a foreigner. It was at this point that the Silver Killer insisted that if a duel was not to take place in the arena, it might well be here and now. With the [Prince] himself.
By then, such was the understanding of the citizens of Nerrhavia’s Fallen that when word and image came of Prince Esceit running from the palace’s steps, screaming and fleeing into the city from the Silver Killer, he was judged not a coward, but a sensible, intelligent man.
Thus, the adventures of the Horns of Hammerad continued.
 
——
 
Pisces Jealnet rather liked the recounting of his team’s adventures when you put it like that. He was lounging in the open window on the second floor of the Palace, and it seemed the people of Nerrhavia’s Fallen rather had a Hraacian-like ability to tell stories.
This particular retelling of events was from one [Servant] to another. A girl telling a boy around her age the entire event, perhaps flirting as well. Who could say?
Not him, according to Colth. Anyways, Pisces was resting. Yvlon was asleep, having the most to heal, and Colth and Ceria had gone off to debrief and capitalize on their fame. Delitandra and the Heromakers of Hraace were celebrating and basking in their own fame…
He should really get to know more of them than just Delitandra by name. They’d pulled their weight in this last affray. Without them…well, Pisces just wondered what levels Yvlon would get.
Unstoppable. He knew they’d helped, but she had just done it all from start to finish with her unique style. He had to keep up with her. That final attack thing had proven Pisces needed to have one or two. Something catchy.
He was brainstorming ideas as he fiddled with some new bones he’d obtained. Not Lenxiol’s—Pisces hadn’t had the heart to loot his corpse. But he’d obtained some rather fine Manticore bones…
“Pisces? You okay?”
The [Necromancer] glanced up. Elena had found him. Her voice was scratchy from all the commentating she’d done; he’d not even heard her, he’d been so focused on the fighting. She had some honey tea in her hand, and she offered him some too.
“Heck of a day, huh? Does this happen often?”
“More than one expects, though I doubt I shall become used to the sensation. I apologize for not considering you; Yvlon was wary for me and I for my own hide, but we completely forgot we weren’t merely the four of us.”
She accepted his apology with a bright smile.
“After seeing you all in action, I think I’d better get used to stating my objections and advocating for myself. From Yvlon deciding it was time to free her friends—even if she had a plan—to you summoning a Bone Giant, you all do whatever you want!”
Pisces flushed, but she continued, voice level.
“And Ceria murdering a man after he begged for mercy, of course.”
The [Necromancer] sat up a bit, and he recalled that too. The expression on her face was so…he hadn’t made an issue of it. Yvlon had not either, but Pisces rather suspected the bloodloss had more to do with that than peace with Ceria’s decision. As for Colth, Pisces bet the [Supporter] would have done the same thing, albeit more stealthily.
His comment was simple.
“Then was hardly the time to argue. Now we are safe, we may reflect.”
