“Ancestors! That was horrific! Stitch-folk or not, that had to be a drop of—they’re dead. Aren’t they dead?”
Sir Relz grabbed at his neck spines as he saw Ceria tossing the group of Stitch-folk. He was on Channel 1 News. Drassi was on Channel 2, shouting.
“Get ‘em, Ceria! Who’re those guys who saved Elena? The Heromakers of Hraace? Good for them! Where’s Pisces? Zoom in, zoom in on—”
Chaos. Was this good commentary? Absolutely not. Drassi and Sir Relz were just reacting to the battle in the Coliseum of Monarchs like ordinary people.
If you flipped to Wonders of Nerrhavia’s channel like a certain Molen might, then you got a markedly different experience. They had no high-level [News Anchors] and no better perspective on the Coliseum of Monarchs than anyone else; everyone was just using spells from inside the arena.
Instead, the news crews there had found two special guests who weren’t panicking or shouting. Indeed, they were levelly sipping glasses of water.
“Another group has died to the Ice Squirrel. The Silver Killer pursues the Champion of Monarchs, but thus far, she has not caught him. Surely, her magical protections will wear off soon.”
“This is truly said, Rexel. However, if Yvlon Byres catches him first, he is a dead man, the great desert be my witness.”
Rexel and Leprel, advertised as ‘veteran gladiators and former comrades of the Silver Killer’, sat straight-faced in two plush chairs with the screen positioned just behind and above them. A completely different atmosphere. Rexel took a measured drink from her waterglass as she nodded.
“Quite, Leprel. Having fought with the Silver Killer once myself, I do not think it matters if her barriers run out. The Champion of Monarchs will have to stab her even if he puts a hole in her face.”
“Yes, her teeth will be buried in his arms even if he somehow kills her. I am merely astonished any stand before her. It is well-known the Silver Killer murdered a thousand Stitch-folk before being apprehended—and this was when she was wounded and sick! But then, is there anywhere in Chandrar one could escape her, Rexel?”
“Nowhere, Leprel.”
The two bandits-turned-gladiators that had once followed Yvlon—unwillingly—through her gladiator debut were making the most of their moment in the limelight.
However, none of it was quite what you wanted. No voice on the news was actually part of the action, just spectators giving their opinions as well as any [Armchair Viewer].
—That was until someone began shouting in the Coliseum of Monarchs itself.
 
——
 
The safest place to be in the chaotic arena was, of course, the [Announcers]’ booths. It had doors. It could be held by a small group like, say, the Heromakers of Hraace, who fought their way to the abandoned rooms overlooking the coliseum and barred the entrances.
Several of the [Trainers] had bows and wands they used to keep anyone from breaking down the doors, and Delitandra searched the rooms and seized the ‘microphone’. She spoke into it with a flourish of pure delight.
“I am Delitandra, Hero Trainer of Hraace! It is my honor to proclaim that the Horns of Hammerad face the entire Coliseum of Monarchs! Below me, Ceria Springwalker herself has cleared the stands of [Archers]! She fights with the aplomb and skill of a true [Cryomancer], and her skin is ever-frozen, that of a species unknown to all but those familiar with half-Elves. A Boreal—”
She was giving valuable context and insights to the audience roaring and shouting at the multi-faceted battle. However, Delitandra had never actually done commentary work of this kind—Ceria was already skating towards another group of foes as Delitandra tried to explain her species, which of course she knew.
So, like last time—Elena grabbed the microphone and screamed into it.
“GET THEM, CERIA!”
The shriek of noise shocked Delitandra and the entire audience. Delitandra recoiled, then realized it was happening again and tried to grab the microphone, but Elena just leaned over the balcony.
“They’ve got the [Archers]! I think I see Colth down there! Look! By the fortress!”
Parts of the coliseum were rising, traps going off. Elena pointed, and everyone looked; they saw the [Ultimate Supporter] had appeared, and an entire group of [Gladiators] were fighting from the fortifications.
“He’s rallying the [Gladiators]! The criminals and [Slaves]—and Pisces’ undead are everywhere! I don’t see him—he must be taking out [Mages]. You hear that, you idiots? Run! What are you doing fighting Gold-rank adventurers? They already killed that horrible stupid [Manager]—are you fighting for money? You’re not getting paid.”
Elena’s voice crackled over the speaker systems, and some of the [Guards] glanced up and heard a counterargument to the voice of the Champion of Monarchs shouting at them. Their instinctive obedience and sense they could control the situation wavered. Manager Bnirm was dead?
The [Beautician] was fighting off Delitandra, and the other Heromakers were helping her as she kept shouting.
“If that doesn’t sway you, then think about this: Yvlon is going to mince you into itty-bitty pieces! She’s taking out the last of the [Gladiators] fighting her! Look! That poor Centauress is two seconds away from being glue!”
Said Centauress had been taking potshots at Yvlon, but the Silver Killer was almost on top of her, and Elena’s words made the horse-woman panic. Elena winced.
“Oh! She might not be dead? Who was—”
Delitandra had grabbed the other microphone rather than continue battling Elena.
“Centauress Thilvetames, of Maelstrom’s Howling—”
“What are they doing down there? There’s another one who thinks he’s got a chance—oh, he cut her!”
The sword had gone through her barriers, and Yvlon twisted as Elena screamed.
“She blocked it on her armor. And now he’s dead.”
“That was Mageblade Noix—”
The [Gladiators] weren’t blind, and with Elena’s commentary, even the best fighters took a glance at Yvlon’s bloody swathe through them and the odds, decreasing with every [Guard] who decided to flee or [Gladiators] joining Yvlon’s side. One tried to escape, and a spear took them through the lower back.
Lenxiol stood in the stands, aiming at more running figures. He glanced up as Elena shouted down at him.
“He’s right there! The Champion of Monarchs! I’d surrender if I were you—aah!”
Delitandra had grabbed Elena just before the spear blew out the enchanted glass of the booth they were in. Elena’s head poked up as she shakily shouted.
“He’s the highest-level person left. Someone get him, please?”
Yvlon had spotted Lenxiol’s throw and was coming at him again. He whirled with a snarl and threw his last javelin. It snapped on her body. His arms blurred—
[Storm of Daggers]! The enchanted daggers flashed every color of the rainbow, striking her. He hurled a satchel of flasks and kicked backwards. [Explosive Stepback]. The Champion fired an arrow from his enchanted bow, aimed a wand and let loose a bolt of [Grand Lightning]. Watched the Silver Killer run through the trap runes he’d baited her into. Ignore the [Cutting Windslash] from his shortsword, take the pair of bolas he tossed and ignore the white-hot glow of their burning heat—
A speeding boulder of metal coming at the Stitch-man who stood, drawing a buckler with his other hand. He cracked it across her face in an explosion of sparks, and she swung a fist; his blade met her arm, and they locked together as she strained, heaving. The enchantment gave—he leapt out of the vortex that nearly sucked his arm into nothingness. It took the buckler as Yvlon stumbled. She raised a fist and threw a punch as he snarled.
He threw a punch as she instinctively guarded. There was a moment of silence as the breathless audience watched him leap backwards. And Yvlon Byres—
Stumbled.
Glanced down at her metal arm. The imprints of a fist were visible on the metal. Her punch had missed. She leapt forwards in another swing—
His kick tossed her off her feet. She landed on her back, blinked, and rolled out of a stomp that tangled in her hair. Strands tore out as Yvlon rose—the uppercut he gave her sent her reeling. She spat blood, her arms turning into spikes that shot outwards as she retreated.
The barriers—
Lenxiol snapped one of the metal spikes shooting for him with one hand as he dodged around them. His eyes were locked on Yvlon’s. She bared her bloody teeth at him as he drew another fan of throwing knives and a mace.
Elena breathed in the sudden silence.
“Oh no. Yvlon—”
The Silver Killer spat onto the sands as she grinned at the Champion of Monarchs. At last.
He’d stopped running.
 
——
 
Her Ring of Barriers was down. Yvlon was vulnerable again. And the Champion of Monarchs—
Too fast. Even as Colth leapt off the tower and shouted into the speaking stone he carried, he saw them trading punches. Or Yvlon was trying to.
Lenxiol leaned out of the way of a swing, then snapped forwards, suplexing her before she could tackle him. Her arms exploded in that pincushion trick; he was already behind her and delivered a hammer-blow to her back that bent her armor in.
She was tough, but that hurt her. She grabbed one leg as he stomped on her arm; her razor-fingers scratched him. He leapt back again, resetting his distance, and tried to pincushion her with daggers.
“Horns, on me! [Hex of Maligned Aim]!”
Colth flung the hex, but he wasn’t sure if it was the hex or just Lenxiol’s reactions that threw the hail of darts off. Yvlon had formed shields from her arms and was up as he charged forwards.
“Leave off, Colth. I can—”
“Shut up. Pisces, where are you? Get him!”
Ceria. She came sliding down a ramp of ice from overhead, circling downwards. She cursed; a spear from below blew the ramp to pieces, and she was falling. Easy target. She shielded her face with her arms as Lenxiol flipped up another spear—glanced sideways—
Slashed through a Skeleton Champion, shredding the [Invisibility] spell that Pisces had cast. He leaned under the stab from the [Necromancer] and swung his spear at Pisces’ chest. The [Necromancer] flash-stepped backwards.
Colth fired an arrow from his shortbow. [Homing Arrow]—he curved it where he thought the Stitch-man would be, and Lenxiol caught it.
“Damn. I hate people with diverse Skills.”
Anyone like him, rather. The [Ultimate Supporter] saw Yvlon rip a healing potion from her belt and drink it.
Lenxiol snarled at the potion, and Colth thanked the King of Medain for that. Not many healing options for either group. Yvlon had her ring. After that…
Ceria landed next to them and spoke over her speaking stone.
“He’s way too fast. Over Level 50. We hit him together, Bograms-style. Ready?”
“Ready. [Team: Coordinated Assault]!”
Colth raised his hand and thought to them—now. The Champion of Monarchs was tensed, wary. A cornered beast. But he wasn’t prepared for the Horns to just start running at him.
Oh, but he was quick. He lunged away, trying to sprint towards the fortress so he could place it at his back, but he didn’t expect Colth to throw a net at him. The damn slave-carriers of this continent had tons of them, and they were free if you left the slavers choking on their own blood.
[Capture Net]. Colth gave him a Demon’s smile as Lenxiol chopped through the net with a snarl, and then his foot caught in the sands.
Frozen in ice. His eyes widened in alarm as Ceria Springwalker burst out of a cloud of ice spraying to his right, cutting him off. She appeared, morphing out of the snow, and screamed.
“Now! [Ice Lance Barrage]!”
Four [Ice Lances] hit the Champion of Monarchs straight-on. Yvlon Byres was right behind the barrage of ice as Lenxiol reeled. Her arm extended, and she screamed.
“[Sword Art: Curve of the Moon]!”
Colth was on Lenxiol’s other side and saw the [Gladiator Champion]’s bulging eyes.
“[Copy Skill]. [Crosscounter Strikes].”
The two hit Lenxiol at the same time, and the explosion of dust drowned out all sight as the audience screamed, on their feet. Ceria howled.
“Pisces!”
“Oh, uh—[Shatterbolt]! [Deathbolt]!”
He flicked his ring-hand and fired the spell off his ring, then fired the spell with his offhand. Without any other readied magic, or a blade art, he came to a halt as Colth and Yvlon stared at him. Yvlon raised a fist—and Lenxiol punched her backwards a dozen steps. Colth was clipped by a foot and did a [Double Backflip] to avoid another blow.
“Huh?”
They had to have hurt him! What was—
Then the dust cleared, and the disbelieving audience of the Coliseum of Monarchs recalled his name. Lenxiol stood, skin undamaged by the combination of attacks, his clothing torn off, revealing a muscled abdomen, tanned skin flexing in the sun as he posed.
Lenxiol the Invincible.
Champion of Monarchs. 
[Pride of the Arena: Your Greatest Blow, Worthless]. A Level 50 [Gladiator Champion]’s Skill.
Lenxiol smirked, letting his blue-green hair brush over his eyes, his body unblemished save for one leg where Yvlon had cut him previously.
The Horns of Hammerad glanced at each other in sudden silence as he waited for them. Ceria Springwalker spoke coolly as she nodded.
“Cute trick. I bet that was his best one. Hit him again, harder!”
“I have it this time—[Flame Rapier]. [Bound Spell: Spear of Light]!”
Pisces flicked his rapier out, and it glowed as he bound a glowing spell to the tip. Colth grinned at Lenxiol’s face as the air around Ceria grew colder.
“[Imitation of Might: Jaganismet].”
He sheathed his blades and activated his other best Skill. Pisces was [Flash Stepping] left as Ceria’s magic swirled around her.
“This time, I’m going to put a hole in this guy. Colth, cover me.”
“You got it, boss.”
The Champion of Monarchs was more disconcerted by the Horns’ reaction than anything else so far. Because, of course, he was used to fighting fellow [Gladiators] in this lovely little arena. Special attacks? Final moves? Ultimate, battle-ending blows that could turn the tides?
They didn’t have any. Well, the Horns of Hammerad didn’t rely on such things. They were adventurers. If you kept moving after their finest blow, they hit you with the second and the third.
Until you were dead. Lenxiol’s eyes were flickering from Ceria’s spellcasting to Colth to Pisces and the undead advancing from behind him when Yvlon’s gravelly voice interrupted them.
“Wait. Let me face him alone.”
She held a silvermetal hand in front of Ceria, and the [Cryomancer] stopped chanting ominously. Colth half-turned.
“Yvlon, you’re underlevelled.”
“Just keep him from running. He’s out of ranged weapons. I started this; I’ll end it. There’s no glory in beating down the Champion of Monarchs together. He wanted the Silver Killer. Here I am.”
