Her punching the barrier spells yesterday had been the clue: Yvlon had not hit it that hard. Hard enough to mash her fist, but not enough to equal her Sword Art, surely. If you took the obvious of her doing that much damage away, then what was it?
Great Sage Etrikah and Pisces had proven what Yvlon had suspected. Her ring was the thing that could eat a barrier. No Gold-ranker’s ring, this. The adventurers who had slain the Putrid One had come armed with the best, and, she suspected, this had been how they’d broken into his sanctum to slay him, despite all his protections.
This was a Ring of Siphon Barriers. Or something more impressive-sounding. And right now?
Yvlon had all the power of the Coliseum of Monarchs’ barriers protecting her.
They didn’t understand, not at first. A second and third arrow struck Yvlon in the temple and a gap between cuirass and arm where only her underarmor protected her. They snapped before even hitting Stalker’s hide armor, and the pieces pinwheeled away. She’d actually been hit several times by arrows from the [Archers] above; they must have thought they’d missed.
“Pisces! Keep hidden!”
She roared up at the 1st floor balcony and charged across the sands again. Straight at Lenxiol, hoping he’d take—no, he used the spear like a vaulting pole and soared away. Yvlon cursed, then swerved left. Straight into more [Gladiators] who came at her.
“[Free Blow]!”
“[Spear Art: The Sandstorm of—]”
“[Poisoned Jab—]”
They were good. Even if she’d been weaving, Yvlon would have taken hits meant to slow and wound her. She’d known the risks, which was why she’d only dared this with the ring. But with it—
She ran straight into the enchanted spear, and the [Spearmaster]’s eyes went round as he saw his blows weren’t slowing h—
Her fist left a dent in his armor as Yvlon seized another fleeing [Gladiator]. Her hand turned into razor blades, and she ripped a stitched arm off. Fight. Fight—but she was still not raging.
This barrier wouldn’t last forever. She had no idea if it had a time limit or if the ring could contain all the magic it had absorbed. So she hurled the screaming [Gladiator] aside.
“Lenxiol! Face me!”
His reply was a spear that struck her shoulder and actually sent her staggering back a few steps; the impact was from the Skill. She brushed the deformed metal spear away and saw his eyes narrow.
Damn, he’s no fool. She spun on her heel; there had to be an end to these damn [Guards]! The archers on the second floor—she couldn’t reach them. But when she ran at the next group of [Guards], they began to flee. Take out the supporters and [Gladiators]. Then—
Yvlon had a moment’s warning before the angry Manticore leapt and knocked her flat. It bit her with its lion’s head, stinging repeatedly with the scorpion’s tail as the goat’s head baaahed encouragement. The monster bit and bit—and then developed a confused, worried expression as it realized it wasn’t actually biting this hard object that—
Yvlon’s arms exploded like a ball of needles in the lion’s mouth, and both heads shrieked in agony as it collapsed, pawing at its mouth. She kicked her way free, wiping drool clinging to her barriers, and saw the second Manticore from yesterday snarling at her.
“Monsters now. Right.”
Can’t take too many hits. She’d told Pisces to stay [Invisible]—he didn’t have her protections. Not that she’d really expected him to stay hidden. She heard a scream behind her as she advanced on the second Manticore.
“Undead! Undead in the—”
That reckless hero. Yvlon Byres grinned. And he called himself a coward. She had a magic ring.
He was just brave.
 
——
 
“You knew what that ring did.”
“I have seen its like before. The conclusion was natural, especially given the evidence.”
Cognita sampled a piece of popcorn as Barelle figured out what was allowing Yvlon Byres to walk away without injury. He shook his head ruefully.
“She fooled even her teammates. Myself, I thought she was merely claimed by a fury Skill.”
“Yes. Artificial women such as myself, and to some extent her, are often underestimated mentally.”
Barelle half-twisted. He’d never heard Cognita group herself with anyone else except her lost sisters. Not even other Golems. His head snapped back around as he realized she wasn’t just watching Yvlon.
There was more than one adventurer in the Horns of Hammerad that Cognita followed no matter how much she might deny it. Her eyes were locked on a seemingly-innocuous patch of air where [Mages] were gathered on the 2nd Floor balcony.
“They’re going to try and dispel or use [Barrier-Piercing Arrows] on her.”
“Yes. That is a predictable action. As is his. Nevertheless, I am slightly entertained. He reminds me of Archmage Chandler’s lessons in combat.”
Another astonishing statement. But when the [Necromancer] reappeared, Barelle saw it. What they seldom said of the Archmage of Death was that he had been daring. Not craven, hiding behind his undead, but a duelist.
He had never been good at armies, ironically. Barelle’s lips moved.
“Once again, a [Necromancer] draws his sword in morality’s name.”
 
——
 
“I’m sorry.”
He was ashamed for the sneak-attack, but the [Mages] were trying to lock down Yvlon. So he cut one arm off and then both legs before the leader had any idea what was going on. Kicked another off the balcony and slashed the third’s hand off as they whirled.
No barrier spells. They hadn’t thought anyone was going to threaten them. Pisces pointed his finger, which glowed with green magic.
“Don’t—”
He saw the magic flickering in the eyes of the fourth [Mage] and fired the [Deathbolt]. Saw the life drain out of the Stitch-woman’s eyes, and he stood over her as she fell.
Almost, Pisces bent down to check her pulse, but he knew she was dead. She must have been under Level 20. She should have…
Guilt. Followed by action as the [Mage] he’d delimbed started screaming. Pisces whirled; Bnirm’s [Bodyguards] and more of the staff were in the hallways, trying to find him.
“Close your stitching. Run or I’ll kill you.”
He spoke to the first [Mage], and the second raised her bloody stump of a hand.
“I—I—I—I—surrender! I swear it on Nerrhavia’s bones! Don’t kill me, Scourge!”
Who? Then Pisces remembered his nickname. He put one foot on the balcony’s ledge and gazed down.
They were still coming at Yvlon. Someone was ordering them about. He heard a voice from the speaking stone.
Lenxiol. The Champion of Monarchs had taken over.
“All [Warriors] will engage her below in squads of twenty! [Mages], dispel that damned ring! Those above—find her comrades. There was a Human—take her hostage!”
Elena! Pisces swore, but he saw more [Soldiers] moving below. Too many. They had nets; even if Yvlon was temporarily invincible, they were going to web her down and stab her until she was vulnerable.
No helping it. Pisces threw his bag of holding’s contents over the balcony. Then leapt after it, casting [Featherfall].
—He landed behind a group of [Soldiers] as they flinched. Strange objects were landing around them. What—one caught a fragment of bone falling and then saw the [Necromancer] dropping.
“The Scourge.”
One of them threw away their blade and held up their hands at once. The others drew back, as if he were more terrifying than Yvlon. What kind of stories were they telling about…?
The [Necromancer] raised his hand, and his voice boomed as he amplified it.
 
——
 
“Arise!”
The Scourge of Roshal lifted his hands, and his eyes flashed with green magic, and the dead rose. Bones clattering upwards, Skeleton Champions seizing worn blades.
Not just from the bones around him, but in the sands. Lenxiol leapt away as a half-rotted body of Hemp rose from where it had been buried by the sands. He cut it to pieces with a shortsword, cursing.
The Coliseum of Monarchs had seen endless death. It had disposed of many bodies, but how many fragments of bone and bodies had been missed…?
“Undead! Undead in the arena!”
Panicked voices rose as the audience gasped and screamed, but these were Stitch-folk watching a famous [Necromancer]. Not Izrilians or Terandrians who would have fainted. The [Necromancer] was dueling the [Guards] that still fought—then surrendered as his Skeleton Champions cleaved through them, almost as fast as the adventurer himself. Lenxiol raised his spear to throw—but cursed.
The [Necromancer] had already vanished. However, his undead had not, and they were peculiar indeed. Lenxiol had fought lesser undead before, even a mindless Draugr for sport. But these…
A Skeleton Champion with a greatsword planted the blade as it adjusted its helmeted head. Its eyes flashed blue as it made a gesture at a [Gladiator] across the arena. It advanced, swinging the blade onto one shoulder. Gladiator Nimble, known as the Acrobat’s Blade hesitated, facing a challenge from an undead. He tried to advance confidently, flicking his own rapier and throwing daggers up. He threw twice; the Skeleton Champion didn’t even slow as the daggers hit its forehead and shoulder.
The Stitch-man paled and leapt backwards. He screamed as the rotating blade-trap cut him off at the legs. The Skeleton Champion with the greatsword paused and stared at the trap that had unburied itself from the sands and struck the unlucky [Gladiator]. It searched around for another foe, clattering its jaw in annoyance.
The traps? Lenxiol sensed the sands warming and remembered that on the edges of the arena—he leapt aside as a jet of flames roared up.
The arena’s traps! But how…? Bnirm had the keys to activate them, and Lenxiol hadn’t seen that blade-trap before. He’d heard they’d been damaged and never repaired since before Mars’ time.
The clue was when he saw the bone fusing the spinning blades together. Then the Champion of Monarchs felt a shiver run down his spine.
He’d reanimated the coliseum? Lenxiol cursed, then drew an enchanted bow from his bag of holding. He sighted on the Silver Killer and fired the first arrow he had: an Arrow of the Glacius.
The frozen pillar of ice stopped her, frozen within the ice. Lenxiol drew his real weapon, an enchanted shortsword, as he stalked forwards. He had to end this now…!
The iceberg cracked before he was a dozen steps forwards. Lenxiol thought the Silver Killer had broken her way out of the ice when he glanced up. An [Ice Lance] missed him as he dodged left.
They were standing on the walls! Ceria Springwalker conjured a ramp of ice and began sliding down as Colthei fired an arrow back at Lenxiol.
The rest of the Horns of Hammerad had arrived. The Stitch-man roared into the speaking stone.
“Take that Human hostage! Now!”
Then he was sprinting backwards—the Silver Killer burst out of the cracked ice and came straight at him. He fired the second arrow, and a storm of light arrows burst from his bow and slammed into her.
She kept coming—
 
——
 
“Colth! Take out their leadership! Link up with Pisces and cover him! I’m freezing the [Archers]!”
Ceria screamed at him as she focused—not on the [Archers], but the strings of their bows! They snapped as they were flexed, and she and Colth slid straight into the fighting. It had taken them too long to get into position, but they’d realized the same thing the audience had: Yvlon was using the barriers!
Screaming, cheering. In any other moment, the [Prankster] would have been showboating for attention, but she just fired a barrage of [Ice Spikes] down fast as she could, reinforcing her own [Ice Armor] as arrows cracked off her.
Colth didn’t hesitate; he shot towards the tunnels heading downwards, his baneblades drawn, and vanished with his armor. That left Ceria Springwalker dueling all the [Guards] on the upper floors.
Most of them just had bows. She had ice armor. Ceria kept skating, letting arrows glance off her protections—it was when one of the arrows cracked her armor and sent her spinning that she swore.
“[Sharpshooters].”
Two could play that game. One of the figures dove as she replied with an [Ice Lance]. Ceria’s circlet glinted as she drew on its magic—
“[Speed Spell]. [Lightning Bolt].”
The crackle of accelerated lightning blew one of the [Sharpshooters] off their feet. Ceria glanced left; a group of [Guards] were waving swords and charging out of the lower tunnels at her.
“[Ice Wall]. [Adept Iceform]. Spikes.”
She didn’t know if it skewered them; she was too busy spinning to focus on more of them. The [Cryomancer] glanced downwards. That damn Champion of Monarchs was blasting Yvlon with everything he had, a full grab-bag of tricks.
I have to get down and stop him. She shot another [Archer] through the chest with an [Ice Spike] and shouted.
“Run or I’ll kill the lot of you! I’m a Gold-rank adventurer, you idiots!”
None of them ran. She just wasn’t as intimidating as Yvlon or Colth by nature. But even so, why were they still fighting? Against just Yvlon and Pisces would make sense, but…
Then Ceria heard a familiar voice screaming her name and realized what they were up to.
“Ceria! Help!”
This was what came of having people attached to the team. A group of [Guards] was pursuing Elena as she ran, clearly intent on capturing her. Ceria aimed her wand at them—an arrow knocked it out of her grasp.
That second [Sharpshooter] had just sped up the part where they died. Snarling, Ceria tried to conjure an Ice Elemental on their heads and saw a [Guard] grab Elena’s arm as the half-Elf hunted for her wand. Elena slashed desperately with a dagger, and the [Guard] raised the hilt of a sword to club her down.
That was when Trainer Delitandra executed a flying jump-kick that launched the Stitch-man down three rows of seats. She disarmed the second [Guard] in three strikes as she parried two blows and swept the sword from the woman’s hands. Another of the Heromakers of Hraace kicked the legs of one of the [Guards], and a third just ripped a seat off its hinges and tossed it at the others.
“Oh. Huh.”
Ceria rolled to her feet as Delitandra shouted, posing with the rest of her group.
“Holding a valued ally hostage is a classic scenario facing any good [Hero]! We, the Heromakers of Hraace, teach style and grace under form. Like so—”
She spun and kicked another [Guard] coming up the stairs, and her cohort spread out around Elena, blades drawn. Delitandra pointed, and they fought rightwards.
“—keeping any valued personages safe while letting the enemy think they have an advantage and overcommitting to their plans—”
Ceria wasn’t really listening, but she grinned, for once in the mood to hear the preachy [Trainer] talk. She swept her wand up, and an [Ice Wall] angled at a forty-degree angle shot forward from the floor, tossing the [Guards] coming at her over the balconies.
 
——
 
