——
 
The Wild Wastes Tribe was one of the last groups to notice. Mostly because they didn’t have many scrying orbs and were already on the move during the morning. They were loping along when one of the [Shamans] howled. Honored Berr and his [Berserkers] at the head of the group didn’t even glance back—until a Gnoll raced over.
“Berr! Honored Berr! Your disciple is on the news!”
When Berr the Berserker turned and saw a familiar woman on the scrying orb, he did not freeze, curse, or grow excited.
He merely smiled and raised a paw.
“We halt then!”
Chieftain Perale would have objected, but he knew the old [Berserker]’s ways. In a trice, Berr had flopped down, and the Gnolls around him did likewise. They broke out food and blankets, and he called for a drink. His disciples, [Beserkers] and [Barbarians] and [Warriors] all, gathered around. Berr ordered them to gather closer to the scrying orb they sat in a circle around, crowding and pushing to see.
“Come and see, you young ones! Nerrhavia’s Fallen, hrm? Let’s see what my cute little disciple is up to now. She’s keeping her temper.”
He nodded, pleased, as the image of Yvlon Byres appeared on-screen, charging across the coliseum floor. Arrows were flying down around her, and she leapt at another [Gladiator], who backed up, whirling two blades, and whose face suggested he had come face-to-face with a ravening bear.
One of the younger Gnolls tilted his head and hesitated.
“…She’s attacking an entire coliseum, Berr.”
“Ah, but very deliberately. You can tell she hasn’t activated her Skill yet.”
An arm flew past the scrying orb, and it zoomed out to show panicked [Guards] racing around from above, streaming into the ground floor where it seemed Manager Bnirm was unleashing everything to try and slow her down. Monsters, [Gladiators], and the security. Berr nodded, arms folded, pleased.
“Oh, and the noisy Drake is on the scrying orb.”
He saw the image shift, and Sir Relz and Drassi were fighting.
“This is Sir Relz, breaking news—”
“This is my segment! My friends, my team! Drassi, Channel 2 news—”
They shoved at each other as Berr chuckled. Then he had an idea.
“Is there a Drake city nearby with [Mages]? Someone run to one and find out. We should…hrm, what’s the word? Advertise, yes? Tell them she is Berr the Berserker’s apprentice.”
He pointed at the scrying orb as more blood flew. Chieftain Perale opened his mouth.
“Is that the best advertisement the Wild Wastes tribe needs or wants, Berr?”
The Gnoll gave Perale an innocent expression as he glanced at the scrying orb.
“It seems very honest to me, yes?”
He was relaxed, but Chieftain Perale leaned over and whispered as he saw how many warriors were fighting the one lone woman. A few [Gladiators] had taken her side, but arrows were landing about her, bouncing off her metal skin, and he saw magic licking downwards in a plume of flames.
The woman with her metal skin was ignoring it all, but such Skills would not last forever, Perale knew.
“Will she be okay, Berr? Against so many? She is not your level.”
“No. And I would not take on so many alone and come out unscathed. Or even live, necessarily. Dodging is hard, yes?”
“Then—”
Perale grew worried, for the Horns were friends of the Gnolls. But Berr just rested his chin on one paw, watching with calm eyes.
“She is a very delightful child I wish I could have raised longer. Angry…all my disciples are. But no fool. She has a plan, I hope. If not, I have taught her wrong. We watch.”
His eyes followed Yvlon Byres as the [Aspect of Silver] vanished. And then she was ‘merely’ a woman with blood on her cheeks, helmetless, as she charged at a group of [Guards] with her arms exploding into deadly pincushions of metal. Berr added softly.
“Besides. She is with her team. She does not fight alone.”
 
——
 
Ceria Springwalker and Colthei didn’t know where Yvlon was. Oh, they suspected, but they didn’t know until they were halfway out of the palace and heard the roar of sound from the Coliseum.
“Oh dead gods. Did she try and take Bnirm hostage or something?”
Colth paled. He’d thought Yvlon had been acting wild of late—well, she’d nearly attacked King Perric of Medain, but that was understandable given the man himself. Manager Bnirm was no easier to stomach, but this was beyond crazy. She hadn’t even told them!
Because they would have stopped her, obviously. Ceria just cast an [Ice Floor] spell and began sliding down the steps. Colth followed her as she shot down—her eyes were fixed on the distant coliseum.
“We’re going in.”
“If she’s started something, I’m going to kill—”
“Colth, shut up and get ready. We’re going in cold.”
She shouted at him, and he realized she was taking this as seriously as he was. Ceria drew her wand. Then cursed.
There were vast crowds around the Coliseum of Monarchs. People going in—as well as some fleeing? They clogged the many entrances.
“We need a route in now. She’s going to be killed if she’s up against that Champion of Monarchs! Why didn’t she…? She’s not crazy. So what am I missing?”
She leapt off the [Ice Floor] spell as Colth ran past her, trying to use his Skills to spot an entrance. But the entire damn arena was packed; Stitch-folk knew what was happening and he saw [Mages] from Wistram pushing to try and get in. Then Colth passed by a [Bard] who was scratching at his head, appearing ruefully amused.
“So that’s what she meant. The price of a seat.”
Barelle the Bard glanced up as Colth stumbled. Ceria spotted the [Bard] and skidded to a stop.
“Hey, you’re that guy.”
“Captain Springwalker. Colthei. If you’re trying to get in, the scrum is virtually impenetrable. My Skills don’t work if the audience is this packed, and I am loath to play my harp to get people out of the way.”
He nodded to them and gestured at the coliseum. Colth bared his teeth desperately.
“Sir Barelle! Would you care to join us for a little affray? We could use some backup—”
Especially if what I think is going on in there is happening. How the hell did she bypass the barriers? If she didn’t, we have hostages below. Wait, her [Aspect of Silver] is a magic-killer. Would she even survive impact with that tier of spell?
Barelle lifted a hand, eyes flickering as he turned to Ceria.
“Excuse me, but I must decline. I am just an observer.”
“Fine, great. Then get out of our way, old man—Colth, get me an entrance or I’m firing [Ice Lances] through the least-crowded entrance.”
That was a blood-chilling statement. Colth turned to Ceria and feared she was serious. Her eyes were glowing. She knew…Barelle’s eyes fixed on Ceria as his own expression turned cold. Colth’s head whirled around.
[Supporter] Skills…he borrowed from a [Problem Solver] he’d once met.
[Speculation: Logical Analysis]! How did they enter the Coliseum of Monarchs? His mind presented a few options.
Sewers. Too slow. Possibly warded.
Crowd control at the gates? So many bodies. Perhaps a [Fear] Skill or Ceria could [Ice Floor] them, but he bet the sheer press of bodies was damned annoying.
Teleportation wouldn’t work into this area…his eyes flickered.
“The walls. We could go over the walls.”
Ceria’s head rose as she inspected the tall walls of the Coliseum of Monarchs. She grunted as she eyed the people fighting to get in or out.
“We don’t jump like Ksmvr. I could probably use [Ice Wall] to create ledges, but—”
“I have jumping Skills. Don’t kill anyone.”
Grimly, Ceria pointed, and a wall of ice shot out horizontally from the side of the coliseum. The beige, weathered stone was occupied by frozen ice that created a platform ten feet off the ground. Another one shot out, twenty feet up—steps for a half-Giant to climb. As she cast, Colth glanced around.
Maybe I could make a ladder for her. He wished she just knew [Levitation]; he might have the ability to jump with her in his arms, but his Skills weren’t unlimited.
A solution came to him as he saw someone running their way. A familiar Fox Beastkin girl he’d identified from yesterday…
“Zirre, yes?”
“Yes! My sister’s in there! Wh-what’s going on? They said the Horns of Hammerad were in the coliseum, but you’re out here?”
She held up a hand as Ceria pointed a glowing finger at her; when Ceria realized who it was, the half-Elf blinked.
“You’re that fox-kid that Yvlon saved, right? We need a way in. Wait…don’t you know gravity magic?”
“Me? Yes, a bit—”
Ceria’s eyes lit up.
“Excellent. Start casting. We’re going up and over!”
She pointed, and Zirre whirled, confused, then gasped.
“Up that? Are you crazy?”
“We’re the sane ones in our team. Cast or just show me how and I’ll copy the spell!”
Ceria snapped at her. Zirre only hesitated a moment, then began to cast.
“[Reduce Gravity]—!”
The three ran for the first platform as people outside turned and saw the two Horns of Hammerad leap up into the air. Ceria landed on the ice and nearly slipped; Colth used [Anchor Boots] and caught her.
“Don’t fall.”
“Damn ice. Alright, go—”
A second leap carried them higher as people tried to climb onto the platform below. It shattered into pieces as Ceria pointed down, and Zirre squeaked as they landed twenty feet up. Then jumped. Thirty…
Agonizingly slow. Colth heard the screams from within but knew it had only been minutes. Enough time for a lot of combat—he glanced down and saw something watching them.
 
——
 
Barelle the Bard had captured the entire, desperate interplay of ideas and problem-solving by Yvlon’s teammates. As he watched the trio jump higher, the [Bard] mused to himself.
“They are no doubt adventurers. But how does one make a song about this?”
If you had to do it, it would have to be a ballad encompassing more than this moment. Which required the full story. He frowned, took a step—
—Appeared next to Cognita Truestone in the empty seats, and took in the scene inside the Coliseum of Monarchs. She turned; she had a bucket of popcorn in her hands.
“You are late, Barelle.”
The [Bard] glanced around and raised his brows at her. He’d lied to Colthei; it was just not expedient for him to enter the fighting. This was their adventure. They didn’t need his help. The [Bard] touched the harp at his back as his other hand flicked out his journal, and he made grudging notes.
“Merely admiring youth, Cognita. The other Horns are on their way. Did she smash through the coliseum’s barriers? All of them?”
“Something close to that, yes.”
The Truestone Golem’s eyes were unsurprised by any of this; she had to understand and be processing this battle at speeds he could not comprehend. Yet her eyes found the woman in the center of the arena.
Barelle glanced at [Archers] lining up on the balconies, drawing a bead on Yvlon. He had seen this too. His hand twitched towards his sword, and Cognita put a hand on his stomach as he unconsciously began to rise.
“Cognita—”
“She made me a bet. We will watch.”
The Truestone Golem saw Barelle waver, then sit, aware of how easy it would still be for him to move. Cognita added after a moment.
“Besides. You are not in possession of all of the facts.”
She glanced at a scrying spell as it passed over the Coliseum of Monarchs. It began to focus on her, and because it annoyed her, she dispelled it. Her eyes gazed into the [Scrying] spell and saw a hundred thousand outlets.
Ylawes Byres could not see his sister, trapped in the New Lands as he was. But her family was watching.
All of them.
 
——
 
A few moments before Yvlon Byres stormed the coliseum and got on the news, Ysara Byres had been arguing with Qwera.
The Silver Merchant and the Golden Gnoll, two successful businesswomen with a rather metallic theme. They’d known each other before recent events of course, but their association with the inn and Mrsha had thrown them together.
Given their shared interests and the unpredictable state of the world, it was almost inevitable what had happened next. The oldest Byres daughter and the secret Doombearer were sitting in a room in an inn that Qwera had rented.
Ysara was more used to caravan life, but Qwera liked her amenities. She was more of a big-city performer with her entire network; Ysara was still a one-caravan woman who did riskier, more remote deliveries like the Bloodfields run. She knew alchemy and weapons; Qwera did more general and entertainment goods.
Right now, they were sitting around a contract on the table and brainstorming. Qwera put a copy of a list before Ysara.
“I had a few [Trendsetters] and experts come up with some names for us. I even paid for a Hraacian consultation. So—the best name I found was Heartmetal Industries. What, you don’t like it?”
Ysara had pulled a face. She was no stranger to odd bedfellows—it was one of the reasons why she never went home. But this was a business proposition, not romance or desperation.
“It sounds like we’re smithing metals. I’m all for combining the names, but why that?”
The Golden Gnoll consulted her list.
“According to the expert, it’s symbolism. ‘Heartmetal’ denotes a fantastical magical metal, and ‘industries’ sounds weird, but it’ll signal to certain groups we’re advanced. Modern.”
“Oh, all the ones chasing children around. I still don’t like it. Let’s be more honest. What’s wrong with Silvergold Enterprise?”
That was on the list, and Qwera shuddered.
“It’s so boring. Moon Aurum Caravans?”
“I get ‘Aurum’, but silver doesn’t equate to the moon. How about ‘Mystic Metal Caravans’?”
“I’m not advertising us like [Traders]. We’re combining our businesses for bigger things, Ysara. You can be the woman who runs about, but I’m buying property and warehouses.”
The Gnoll woman was waggling a claw at Ysara, and the Human [Merchant] was rubbing at her brows. They got along, and they didn’t need to be kissing-friends to make this work, but this might be the hardest battle they had to fight.
…Well, Ysara would fight it all day. It beat the things they couldn’t talk about because it hurt Qwera too much. Like Tesy, or Vetn, who was still missing. The Golden Gnoll still glittered, but she looked thinner. She hadn’t been eating or sleeping well, and this argument was doing a bit for her.
Even so, it crept out. There was a moment as Qwera drew breath when her eyes flickered. Then she stared down at the list of names and spoke one not on the list.
“What about…‘Second Chances’? Everyone should have at least one of those. At least one.”
Ysara hesitated.
“Second Chance Caravans? It has a ring to it…”
Qwera didn’t respond, and Ysara bit her lip. Thus, she was relieved when the door burst open and one of Qwera’s helpers thrust a scrying orb into the room. Ysara sat up.
