The land north of Spur was a blackened and grey stretch of sand a little over two kilometers across, surrounded by short, two meter high walls. Standing atop Spur’s ten meter high walls, Erick had a good view of the whole place, as the sun shone down hot and brutal, and the northern wind rolled across the sands, and curled into his clothes.

Roughly evenly dividing the right hand ranching land from the left, was a meter high stone wall. Gently rolling hills dominated the cattle side, along with a central stone barnyard and other smaller structures built atop a few of the larger hills. An off-center depression in that lumpy space had been carved down, below the level of most of the rest of the space. From Erick’s perspective, that central depression was likely both the drainage field and water source for future cattle; they wouldn’t be drinking from the Lake, not with that wall in the way.

To the left of the short, central wall, was a surrounding edge of black land that encircled a grey and orange clay bed that would eventually become the Lake. The depression was shaped like a squarish blob, with parts of it much deeper than the rest, maybe as much as five meters, while none of the future Lake was anywhere near the main walls of Spur, or the smaller walls of the exterior. If this entire new addition to Spur’s territory was three square kilometers, about the same size as the entire Human District, with the Gardens, then the Lake had to be just under a single square kilometer.

Erick smiled, as he stared out across the land, imagining cows and swimming and fishing. He said, “I like that the cows get their own watering hole.”

Silverite, standing next to Erick, said, “Cows shit an awful lot, Erick. We weren’t about to have that runoff go directly into the main reservoir.”

Al, standing on Erick’s other side, laughed, and said, “Aye! Best head off that problem before it happens.”

Erick was glad to see Al again. He hadn’t seen or spoken to his friend since the morning after Savral’s party. It had been a nice night, but Savral had grown unusually tired as the sun came up, and Al had to take care of him. Al had also promised to show up some time later for beers, but that just never happened, for some unknown reason. He looked happy right now, though.

Al continued, “The Ranch and the Lake are topographically perfect; runoff will go where it has to go, so there’s no need to worry about that. I expect, that after we get the whole thing set up and the plants are stable and the basins are soaked, that a rain a day will be able to keep the place properly under water.”

Apogee, the planar brownscale and soon-to-be Rancher, said, “It’s going to be beautiful. I’ve got clover planted everywhere, and Silverite planted something for the Lake—”

Silverite said, “Veil lilies. Great for water quality.”

“Yes! Those!” Apogee said, “So start her up, Erick!”

“Not so fast!” Al turned to Erick, and said, “A single rain right now. Ten minutes. Just enough to prime the soil and dampen the clay so that it begins to stick together and create a barrier. Then more, later. As soon as the land stabilizes, then you can fill the Lake over the course of a week.”

Apogee said, “Use the silver rain to grow the field, first.” He looked up at Al, saying, “That’ll keep the ground in place.” He added, “And then break open the sky, Erick!”

“If you don’t give the clay a chance to soak up the water, you’re just gonna wash it all down into the desert sands below. That bedrock is not near the surface, Apogee.” Al said, “The clay needs a chance to prime.”

Erick cut a building argument short by raising white clouds from the ground, extending his [Exalted Storm Aura] forward, into the wind, making sure no clouds appeared over the city behind him. As Apogee and Al went silent, white mist roiled out into the northern sky. Crackles of white light flashed behind a now-cloudy air, as platinum rain began to fall upon dark sands, and the tiny seeds hidden therein, all across the Lake and the Ranch. In moments, grey sands turned black, water soaking into the land.

Suddenly, green swept up hills and down into dips in the dirt, covering acres and then hectacres and more, filling out Spur’s new addition with twisting, tiny clover, like a green, shag carpet. The green mostly stopped at the edge of the lake, but here and there, tiny blooms of green appeared where there would eventually be water.

Erick cut the platinum rain. Clouds turned to back to mist, to blow away on the wind. He said, “You could do with some tree cover, too, for the cows and such. Chickens like to roost in trees, right?”

Silverite smiled upon the green land, and said, “I heard you want to make a tree [Familiar], so if you want to plant one out there, go ahead.”

“Well— I didn’t mean… I kinda wanted it by the house.” Erick added, “But there should be some other trees out there too, ya know? Cows like to relax in the shade, don’t they?”

Apogee said, “Enough prattling. Bring on the rain!”

“Who’s the Stone Mage here? Who’s the Sewermaster?” Al asked, rhetorically. “Listen to what I’m saying, Apogee.”

“Bah!” Apogee said, “I waited a whole week to get this place up and running! I got cows to import.”

“We’re going to do it right,” said Silverite. “We’re going with Al’s plans.”

Apogee grumbled.

Al said, “The clover needs to be turned over, anyway, and you need to plant real grasses on top of that. And why not Farmer’s Grass? It’s better than clover for soil preparation.”

“I like clover! Cows love clover, too.” He turned to Erick, saying, “So soak ‘er down!”

“The lake needs to be filled over a period of a week, with multiple growing cycles and much more than just clover. Some trees would do wonders for erosion. Apple, ribbon, arnnian, whatever kind you choose.” Al said, “This is brand new land, Apogee. You put cows on there now, and they’ll fall through the sand and break their legs while they’re at it.”

“I will never believe that, Al. You don’t need to do it that way, I’m sure.”

Al laughed, loud.

Silverite said, “We’ll go with Al’s plans, for now.”

Apogee grumbled, his tail tapping the walkway, as he said, “Fine,” before blipping away in a bronze flash.

Al said, “A good [Call Lightning] would be fine, right now, Erick.”

Erick smiled. Ophiel blipped off of Erick’s shoulder, and took his spot flying in the center, between the Lake and the Ranch. Erick shaped a [Call Lightning] from Ophiel’s position. Dark clouds spilled out of the sky, casting shadows across the land. Thunder rumbled above. Erick cast again, and the dark clouds began to rain, heavily.

Al asked, “Was that one, or two?”

“Two.” Erick said, “Two casts makes the rain start immediately.”

Al grumbled.

Erick teased, “What? Apogee seemed at least a little right.”

“He was not,” Al said, with an air of finality. He sighed. He said, “It’s fine. I’ll fix it up tomorrow.”

Silverite stared outward, into the storm, smiling wide as stray drops of rain blew on the breeze and touched all three of them. She pointed to the Lake, almost squealing as she said, “It’s filling!”

It was filling. The deepest parts of the Lake, in the center and further north, began to layer over with a small sheen of water. Erick smiled.

Al grinned, as he said, “Looks like the topography is correct, too. Everything is draining as it should on the Ranch.”

Erick looked to the Ranch. The land was draining onto the cattle pond. It was already showing at least a foot deep of water, but no more. Erick expected it to continue to fill up, but it wouldn’t.

Al must have seen Erick’s disbelief, because he said, “When the basins are settled, I’ll remove the underground pipe from the cattle pond to the Lake.”

“This is great.” Silverite smiled, as she said, “I’m really happy for this.” She added, “Erick, if you want to make a tree [Familiar], the lake is a great spot. Don’t make it inside the city. Trees always turn into domineering beings, and I won’t have something like that living in my city, expecting people to respect its ‘sovereignty’ or ‘space’. But something like that living near the Lake? I can allow that, and even support such a choice.”

“But… It’ll see that the cows are being used for food?” Erick said, “It’s a strange concern, but exposing a nascent life to something like that seems like a bad idea.” Erick called Ophiel back to him, and set his winged, slightly damp [Familiar] on his shoulders, adding, “The Compendium of Summons says that exposing a budding life to death is a bad idea.”

Silverite smiled, as she said, “Direct exposure is bad, but I disagree that total censoring is the proper way to raise a tree. Placed by the Lake, your tree would merely see the same cycle of life it would see in any natural part of the world. It’ll see cattle, and then those cattle vanish and never return. It’ll probably see people fishing at the Lake, and grilling those fish. It will see murder and death, and mimics just beyond the wall that want it dead. It’ll see a lot about a lot, while growing up in a communal piece of land.” She added, “It would grow up knowing its place in the world, instead of as a master of its domain, which is what I think you would make if you put a tree by your house and gave it the task of raining on time.”

“… But what if I make him with [Gate]?”

Silverite lost her mirth. She thought. She said, “People would try to control this living being. Do not do this to your [Familiar].”

Erick felt a profound exhaustion. “Fine.”

“In other news,” Silverite said, “I heard that the Converter Angel entry on Candlepoint’s Monster Board was taken down. Which is just all sorts of weird.”

Erick flubbed a, “Huh? Wha? What does that—” He asked, “Does that mean what I think it means?”

“We’re not sure what it means. The Angel might have just gone inactive.” Silverite said, “What has been confirmed, is that Candlepoint’s Monster Board tracks the existence of every single active monster and calamity on Veird. The most egregious entries have all proven existent. Ballooning Spiders were spotted leaving Quintlan, just yesterday.” Her silver skin rippled under her sundress, as she said, “Those things are awful.”

Al’s voice turned serious. “Where will they land first, this time?”

“Northern Nergal, near Eidolon, according to the Weather Witches.” Silverite said.

“What are Ballooning Spiders?” Erick asked.

Al said, “Ballooning Spiders are an Underworld species, but when there’s enough of them, they break the surface and spin webs lighter than air, to ride the high winds of the upper atmosphere, around the planet. They drop when they see settlements and otherwise, consuming everything organic and laying invisible eggs, before they continue on the winds, or dig back down to the Underworld.”

Silverite said, “The bigger ones are the size of a Shadow Spider, but all of them are incredibly venomous. It’s the tiny, slime-sized ones that will get you.” She added, “The larger ones mentally control the smaller ones, almost like a group mind.”

“… But they are monsters, right? With rads?” Erick asked. “Does Eidolon need help?”

"They're monsters, but..." Silverite shook her head, then said, “Even if they do need help… The wind tunnels and mana streams of the upper atmosphere go around the entire world in a few days.” She added, “We could have Ballooning Spiders dropping on our heads at any time between tomorrow and an entire month from now.”

“Oh.” Erick said, “That’s bad.”

Al said, “It can be, but if you see them coming they’re not too deadly.” He asked, “Are we buttoning up Spur, yet?”

“Tomorrow, we’ll begin.” Silverite said, “I’m having people put up announcements right now.” She added, “Might be calling on you for more [Withering]s, when the time comes, Erick.”

“Of course,” Erick said.

The clouds of [Call Lightning] up above began to break against the northern winds. The rain stopped. Sunlight shimmered across green fields and grey water basins.

Silverite sighed, and smiled small, as she looked out across the land. “Work is never done! Not for me, not for you, not for anyone. Time to get back to it.” She nodded toward Erick and Al, then blipped away in a crash of silver light.

Erick asked, “Hey, Al? Want to get a beer?”

Al smiled down at Erick, but said, “Sorry. Not if I got a day of buttoning up the city tomorrow. I still got work left over from today, too. Some rowdy kids demolished a section of the sewers this morning, but I wanted to be here for this.” He gestured toward the Ranch and the Lake, saying, “I’m going to do a once over, then get back to fixing the problems down below. Some other day?”

“Sure.” Erick said, “Whenever.” He added, “So I’m just supposed to rain… how? To fill the lake?”

Al said, “After an hour, after it’s soaked a bit, a single rain every hour thereafter should be okay. I gotta check it, now though. Fix small problems before they become big problems. See ya.” Al blipped away in a clear light.

Erick stared at the spot where Al blipped away. What was all that about? Erick turned toward the Ranch, and saw Al standing by the cattle pond, his feet sunk into the sand and mud. Water flowed in minor creeks all across the Ranch toward the pond, but vanished into a hole in the center. Al stepped out of the mud, and walked across seemingly solid land, through green fields of clover. He didn’t fall into the dirt again, so he must have been using some sort of magic.

Erick watched Al for a second longer, then sighed out into the damp air, and said, “Whatever.” He turned to Poi, standing a meter away. “So Ballooning Spiders?”

“A problem every ten years, or so, though the last one was only eight years ago.” Poi said, “What they didn’t mention, because it doesn’t really affect us here, is that the spiders are all levels 10 through 40, meaning that in other parts of the worlds with lower level monsters, the spiders either get killed, and the other monsters level up, causing a monster rage, or the spiders win, and they dig back down to the Underworld to nest and wait for the next spawning.”

“So… Are Ballooning Spiders a large concern around here, or not? I'm getting mixed messages.”

“The mimics usually eat any that fall in the Forest, but they can be a problem for some people in the cities. They're worse than shadowolves, for sure, but not much worse, if you're prepared.”

Erick thought that over, then asked, “Care for a blip back to base?”

Poi took Erick’s hand.

They departed Spur’s wall in a blip of white.

