She woke on Day 5 to the basin thrush calling in fours.

She was out of the bedroll before she had consciously registered the change -- four syllables, not three, the bird's signal for *check the sky*. She stood at the tarp's edge in the grey pre-light and looked up through the canopy gap. The sky was cloud-layered, uniform, not the hard-edged cloud of incoming weather but the soft grey ceiling of something that had been moving in from the south overnight and had simply arrived while she slept. The air smelled different. Damp, but not the Thornwild's usual vegetative damp -- something more mineral in it, a trace of altitude, as if the plateau's colder air had finally remembered where it was going.

The high wind. The one the Shelf had relayed on Day 3, bending the rowan west. It had taken two days to reach the basin floor.

She dressed and went to the fire.

---

Theron was already there. He had rebuilt it from coals, poured water, arranged things. He did not look at her when she sat.

She did not speak.

They drank tea in the grey morning while the basin thrush called its four-syllable check-the-sky above them and the canopy gap showed nothing but cloud. After a while Theron looked toward the northeast -- not his south-east glance, not the grief-compass. Northeast. Toward the ruins.

"The east structure," he said. "Hadley's slab."

"What about it?"

"The root system holding it." He turned his cup. "Ghost-elm root. The same species as the grove." He paused. "The roots grew to catch it. Not by accident. The tree grew its lateral roots toward the stone after the slab fell."

She considered this. "How long ago did the slab fall?"

"Forty years. Maybe fifty." His hands were still around the cup. "The tree was there first. It redirected its growth."

She said nothing. She was thinking about roots and intention, about whether a tree that grew toward a falling stone was making a choice or following a gradient. She thought it was probably both, and that the distinction mattered less than the result: the dry space still existed. Something had preserved it.

"We should see it properly," she said.

"Yes." He drank. "After Maret."

---

Hadley emerged at the smell of flatcakes -- the cloud cover had not changed his internal schedule -- and delivered, over the first flatcake, a complete theory about the canopy disruption pattern's relationship to root-system geometry in the ruins' northeast quadrant, which he had been refining since yesterday. He stopped mid-sentence and looked at Theron.

"Maret's coming today," he said. It was not a question.

"She'll be here by midday."

"Right." Hadley looked at his flatcake. "I should probably not narrate my root-geometry theory at Maret."

"No," Theron said.

"Or at all, initially."

"No."

Hadley nodded with the gravity of someone receiving tactical advice before a difficult negotiation. He finished his flatcake in thoughtful silence.

---

The ruins in cloud-light were a different place.

Without shadow, the walls lost their dimension -- the stones flattened, the mortar lines less distinct, the whole structure more ancient-looking, as if the grey light had removed the present tense and left only the past. [Wayfinder's Eye] still showed the grey shimmer, but softer today, less edged. The shimmer looked more natural in cloud, like something the ruins had been doing quietly for decades and had only revealed in direct sun because she happened to be paying attention at the right moment.

She went to the east structure first.

The slab had fallen at an angle, a section of roof-stone, large enough to create a sheltered space underneath that was approximately the length and width of two people lying side by side. The ghost-elm root system held it from below: three thick lateral roots that had, over decades, grown parallel to the ground and curved upward at exactly the right points to brace the slab from beneath. The roots had bark that pressed against stone and stone that had worn smooth where it met root, each surface shaped by the other's presence over time.

Under the slab, it was dry.

Not merely sheltered -- dry in the specific way of spaces that have been dry long enough to develop their own atmosphere, a quality of air that had not been rained on in years. The soil under the slab was different from outside it: finer-grained, lighter in color, the kind of soil that held heat and released it slowly. She crouched at the slab's edge and pressed her palm to the ground inside.

The ground was warmer.

Not the stone's ambient warmth -- that was the bond-potential expressing itself. This was soil warmth, the warmth of something insulated. In a space this small, this well-sealed, the temperature differential between inside and outside might be enough, over winter, to keep seed stock viable.

*Seed storage,* Theron had said. *East-facing, dry.*

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  DISCOVERY LOGGED
  Location: Unnamed Ruins — East Structure (Seed Storage)
  Type: Architectural Feature (Structural Adaptation)
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Ghost-elm root system has grown lateral braces beneath
  collapsed roof slab, maintaining a sheltered dry space.
  Root-stone contact surfaces show mutual wear: decades
  of cohabitation.

  Interior soil analysis: finer grain, elevated temperature.
  Consistent with original function maintained by
  incidental ecological succession.

  The building is still doing what it was built to do.

  +45 XP (discovery: architectural + ecological)
  Surveying: +2 proficiency
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

*The building is still doing what it was built to do.*

She held that for a moment. Then she stood, brushed the soil from her palm, and went to find Hadley.

---

He was at the prayer-notch.

She had expected him to be at the central clearing, or measuring the northwest wall, or doing something productive and loud. Instead he was standing very still at the north wall's upper course, looking at the small pale plant that grew in the rectangular cut the Rimfolk builder had left. His notebook was open but he was not writing in it.

"You know what it is," she said.

"I've been trying to decide if I know what it is." He did not look at her. "It looks like a cave-pearl fern. I've seen them in the limestone karst near Millhaven -- they grow in enclosed spaces, protected from light, and they produce spores rather than seeds because seeds would need more light than they can access." He paused. "But I've only ever seen them underground. In caves. In hollows in the escarpment face."

"This isn't underground."

"No. But it has the same quality of enclosure." He finally looked at her. "The prayer-notch is facing east, and the moss has grown over the upper lip. The interior is almost entirely dark. The plant found it the way a cave-plant finds a cave -- not because it's underground, but because it's protected. Because something made room for it."

She looked at the pale plant. It was small -- perhaps ten centimeters tall, with fronds that were not quite green, more white-grey, adapted for minimal light. Growing in the dark because someone had left a rectangular cut in the stone that was exactly the right size and orientation to create the conditions it needed.

"The Rimfolk builder left that cut for the land's memory," she said. "And the land used it."

Hadley was quiet for a moment. "I've been gathering in the Thornwild for three seasons," he said. "I've walked past this wall I don't know how many times." He looked at the notebook he was not writing in. "I didn't know there was a wall."

She waited.

"It's a different feeling," he said, "than not knowing there was a rare species of fern. Not knowing there was a wall means I was -- I was living in someone's home. I was gathering food from someone's garden, effectively. For three seasons." He closed the notebook. "I don't know what to do with that."

She thought about what to say. She thought about the Warden's Shelf, the way she had pressed her hands to limestone that had been holding the Thornwild's acoustics for a thousand years before she arrived, and the way the System had called it *not yet properly met.* She thought about what it meant to meet something properly.

"I think," she said, "you do what you've been doing. You pay attention. And now you pay attention with the knowledge that someone else paid attention here first."

Hadley looked at the plant in the prayer-notch. He opened his notebook. He began, carefully, to draw it.

She put her hand on the wall beside the notch -- not in it, not touching the plant. The stone was warm. The [Dormant] trait in her chest was quiet, the way the Shelf was quiet on its coldest nights: not absent, but sleeping deeply.

She closed her eyes.

She recognized what was happening. The threshold stone had taught her: distributed attention, extended presence, no grasping. The system opened [Lay the Path] when you stopped trying to make it open. She knew this now the way she knew the basin thrush's four-syllable call -- not as a rule but as a fact of the place.

But the prayer-notch was not the threshold stone.

The threshold stone was warmth without identity -- a sleeping thing, deep and impersonal. The prayer-notch had Hadley beside her still drawing, had the moss-darkened lip above the fern, had the builder's cut in the stone that someone had deliberately left and something had deliberately used. There was intention in it, layered down through how many tenants she could not count. The cave-pearl fern. The moss. Whatever the moss had succeeded. Whatever had been here before the stone was shaped at all.

[Lay the Path] opened, for the second time in this place.

Not quieter. More specific. As if the ruins knew which kind of attention she was paying and had been waiting for exactly this.

The bond formed at the prayer-notch.

She felt it seat differently than the threshold stone had -- not warmth spreading upward but something more like recognition, the quality of a place that has been seen and tended across generations finally acknowledging that it is being seen again. The threshold stone: [Dormant], sleeping, waiting for depth she hadn't reached yet. The prayer-notch: awake in the small persistent way of things that have never been entirely abandoned. The cave-pearl fern. The moss. Hadley's careful sketch. Her hand on the stone beside the notch. A chain of attention she had just become part of.

```stat-screen
-------------------------------------------------------------
  SYMPATHETIC BOND FORMED
  Location: Unnamed Ruins — Prayer-Notch
  Bond Depth: Glimpsed
  Trait Active: [Tended] — Elemental family
  Bond Type: Cluster Node 2 of ?
-------------------------------------------------------------

  Cluster map updated: 2 nodes bonded.

  [Tended]: This location has been continuously cared for
  across multiple generations of tenancy. The care was not
  always human. What is cared for persists.

  Discoveries at bond: 2
  Active Bonds: 4/? [Warden's Shelf, Warden's Eye,
                      Ruins — Threshold Stone,
                      Ruins — Prayer-Notch]

  Network connections: 6 (geometric, 4 nodes)

  +75 XP (Cluster Node 2)
  Surveying: +3 proficiency
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

Six connections. She read the number twice.

Two bonds had been one connection. Three bonds had been three connections. Four bonds were six. And a fifth bond -- when it came, wherever it came -- would make ten. The network was not growing arithmetically. It was growing the way ghost-elm groves grew, each new tree increasing the resonance not by one grove's-worth but by every possible relationship between all the groves.

She opened her eyes.

Hadley had not stopped drawing. She did not tell him what had happened. She stood beside him and looked at his sketch of the cave-pearl fern, which was detailed and precise and showed, in the careful shading of the fronds, that he had been paying attention to this plant for longer than the drawing had taken.

"Hadley," she said. "What will you do, on your upslope run?"

He looked up. "Take the letter. Buy iron wire and birch-bark strips for Theron. Leave at first light tomorrow, back in four days." He paused. "Why?"

"I want to write another letter. Before you go."

---

Maret arrived at midday, as Theron had said.

She came from the east -- along the basin's edge, through territory Wren had not yet mapped. She arrived without announcement, stepping out of the treeline and into the camp's clearing with the practiced ease of someone who had been walking toward specific places for forty years and had no doubt about her navigation. She was shorter than Wren had imagined, and older -- not elderly but well into her sixties, with grey-white hair bound back and a face that had been weathered by the same forest that had weathered Theron, though differently. Where Theron's weathering was compressed, made angular by wind and cold, Maret's was layered. Sedimentary.

She looked at Wren.

Not the way Theron looked at her -- not assessment, not recalibration. Something slower. The look of a person who was filing. Who had heard something and was checking it against a version she had carried for a long time and was deciding which version to keep.

She set her pack down beside Theron's lean-to. She accepted the cup of tea he had already prepared without speaking. She sat on the flat stone at the fire's south side -- not the stone Wren usually sat on, not Hadley's log. Her own position, chosen after a single glance at the camp's geography.

She did not speak.

Theron did not speak. He looked at the fire.

Hadley opened his mouth. Theron looked at him. Hadley closed his mouth. He looked at the root he had been examining, which was not the counter-clockwise root but a different root, a companion mystery he had been accumulating. He turned it over in his hands without speaking.

The fire crackled. A branch settled. The basin thrush, somewhere in the upper canopy, called three syllables: the weather was steadying. The cloud cover was not lifting, but it was not worsening.

Wren drank her tea.

She was aware, in the way her EMP 10 made everything in the peripheral field of emotion available to her, that the silence had a shape. It was not Theron's functional silence. Something more active.

She let the fire speak.

After a while -- ten minutes, perhaps, or twenty, it was difficult to track time in the specific quality of attention Maret's silence required -- Maret looked at her.

"You hear them, don't you," she said. It was not a question. "The places. They talk to you."

"They don't talk," Wren said. "Not in words." She thought about the Shelf's stone-coldness in winter, the Eye's change in register at dawn, the threshold stone's warmth under her palm this morning -- warmer than yesterday, she had noticed, and filed without understanding. "They -- relay. They tell me what they're feeling."

"Yes." Maret looked at the fire again. "That's what she did."

Wren waited. She did not ask who. She did not lean forward. She sat with the same quality of stillness she had learned to sit with at the Warden's Eye on the morning the pool had reached back.

Maret turned her cup. "The Rootmother. That's what the stories call her. We don't say her name -- oral tradition doesn't name the dead, they become the stories instead. She bonded places and the places remembered her. When she walked through a location she had bonded, the bond walked with her. You could feel it in the stone. In the water." She paused. "My grandmother's grandmother felt it. At the pool. On a seventeenth night." She looked at Wren. "That was the last time."

Wren held the silence.

"And now you're here," Maret said. Not with wonder, not with weight. Factually, the way Theron said true things.

"And now I'm here," Wren said.

Maret drank her tea. She looked at the fire for a long time. The camp held its silence. Even Hadley was still, his mystery root in both hands, watching the coals.

Then Maret said: "Varethen."

Wren looked at her.

"The settlement," Maret said. "The upper-basin way-camp. That's what the Rimfolk called it. Varethen. It means -- roughly -- *the place that watches the road.*" She turned her cup again. "The road is gone. But Varethen is still there, you say."

"It's there," Wren said.

Maret nodded, once, in the way of someone confirming something they had not quite believed they would ever confirm. "Good," she said. And that was all.

---

Wren wrote the letter by firelight, after dinner.

Not the careful, considered letter she had drafted in her head -- the summary of five days, the catalogue of discoveries. That letter would take too long and would arrive already wrong by the time Hadley reached Millhaven. She wrote instead the things that were most true:

*The ruins are called Varethen. There is a woman here who carries forty years of what was here before. The forest is twelve days from something I don't understand yet but I'm learning to ask about. I am carrying four places and they are all well.*

She thought about that last sentence -- *they are all well* -- and decided it was accurate. The Shelf was cool and steady. The Eye was watching, as it always watched. And Varethen: the threshold stone warm, the prayer-notch tended, the east structure dry.

She sealed the letter and set it beside Hadley's pack.

Then she opened her journal to the page where she had written *14 remain* and added, below it:

*Day 5. 13 remain.*

*The settlement is called Varethen. "The place that watches the road."*

*The road is gone.*

She thought about what it would mean for a place to watch a road that no longer existed. Whether the watching continued. Whether a location could outlive its purpose and become something else, or whether the original purpose slept in it the way the [Dormant] trait slept in the threshold stone. Waiting to wake up when there was a road again to watch.

She did not write this speculation down. She let it sit.

---

Hadley left at first light, as he had said he would.

He had packed with the efficiency of someone who had made this run many times: light, functional, the iron wire and birch-bark strips in the main body of the pack, Wren's letter and the older letter in the inner pocket, a day's food on top. He had said goodbye the previous night, in his way -- a detailed inventory of everything he would look for in Millhaven, what he would bring back, a request that Wren document the northeast wall's root penetration pattern in his absence, which he phrased as a personal favor.

He was gone before the basin thrush called.

The camp was quieter with him out of it.

Maret was still there. She sat at the fire with Theron the way she had sat at the fire the night before -- not speaking, not requiring speech, taking up exactly the amount of space she needed. Wren understood now why Theron moved with such economy of word and gesture: he had learned it somewhere, from someone. The compression was inherited.

She was at the east structure when Theron found her.

He came through the young growth with the quiet of someone who had been moving through this forest for fifteen years and did not need to think about it. He stopped at the slab's edge, looked at the dry space beneath, looked at the ghost-elm root braces.

"My father built here," he said.

She turned.

"Not this building." He crouched at the root, ran his fingers along the junction where root met stone. "But in Varethen. He was born here. They had left by the time he was three, but he was born here." He looked at the root-stone junction. "He never came back. He said there was nothing left to come back to."

"He was wrong," Wren said.

Theron looked at her. His face did the thing it did when she said something true in a way he had not expected -- a brief internal adjustment, the equivalent of Hadley's "yes, yes" but quieter, private.

"He was wrong," Theron agreed.

He did not say anything else. He stood, looked at the ruins around them -- at the walls standing plumb against all reason, at the prayer-notch in the north wall where the cave-pearl fern grew in the dark -- and then he walked north toward camp.

She stayed.

The threshold stone was warm at her back. She had not turned to touch it; she did not need to. It had been warm since she bonded it and it would be warm after she left, after she went home, after everything that would happen between now and first frost. Theron's father had left thinking there was nothing to return to. The stone had been warm the whole time, holding what he couldn't.

She thought about what it meant for a bond to outlast a person's certainty about a place. The warmth was not conditional. It didn't know he had given up.

The prayer-notch was to her north: [Tended], a small and persistent life in the dark. She thought about Theron moving through the ruins the day before -- the brief pauses, his hands going to the walls as he passed them. She hadn't understood it then. She thought she understood now. Something in him had known before his mind had the words for it.

Six connections in the network, running through her chest in three pairs, each pair a different color of knowing.

The Thornwild breathed around Varethen the way it breathed everywhere -- sweet, heavy, full of itself. But here the sweet smell was a little thinner. The ruins created a mild resistance. The corruption could not claim what was still, in some sense, occupied.

She thought: *I am occupying it.*

Not possessing. Not the hostile imprint's claim. But she was here, and her bonds were here, and the warmth she left in the stone was a kind of tenancy that the corruption would have to work against. Not dramatically. Not like a ward. Just -- she had been here, and the stone knew it.

---

On the third day of Hadley's absence, Maret spoke again.

Not at the fire this time -- in the morning, while Wren was reviewing the ruins survey sketch at the camp's edge. Maret sat down beside her, looked at the sketch, and said nothing for long enough that Wren went back to her notations.

Then: "Hadley will bring something back from Millhaven."

Wren looked up.

"A name." Maret said it with the matter-of-factness of someone who dealt in names, who understood that names traveled ahead of people. "Someone has been asking about you. At the supply post. Young, by the description Theron got. Not a ranger, not a gatherer. Restless." She looked at the survey sketch. "Your mother told Aldric Vane. Aldric told his niece. The niece has been standing at the supply post counter asking questions."

Wren turned this over. Her mother's handwriting appeared in her mind -- Sera's cramped, ink-stained letters, which would say exactly as much as was needed and no more. *She has been in the Thornwild four days. She has formed attachments to two locations. She does not appear to be dead.*

"Do you know the name?" Wren said.

"Brecca Vane." Maret looked at the fire. "Aldric's niece. She arrived from Thorngate six months ago. She has not found her class yet." She paused. "She will come south."

"She doesn't know where I am."

"She will find out." Maret said it without drama. "The ones who need to come south always find out." She stood, with the ease of someone whose joints had been trained by forty years of forest terrain. "Names travel faster than feet. Her name will arrive here before she does."

She walked back toward the camp.

Wren looked at her survey sketch. At the careful notations she had made of Varethen's walls and foundations, the ruins that still stood plumb, the ghost-elm roots threading the mortar gaps with their grey-green shimmer. She thought about a girl she had never met, standing at her mother's supply post counter, asking questions. She thought about what it felt like to be fifteen and without a class and to know there was someone in the unmapped south who had a class that no one had ever had before.

She thought about how that would feel. And then she felt it -- a ghost of a feeling from a person she had never met, running through the forty-mile gap between Millhaven and Varethen as clearly as the Shelf relayed wind through the bond network.

She let the feeling settle and went back to her sketch.

---

Hadley returned on the fourth day, as he had said.

He arrived in the late afternoon, mud-booted, carrying two additional packs that had not been there when he left. He set them down at the camp's edge, produced a letter from his inner pocket, and handed it to Wren.

The letter was from her mother.

Sera's handwriting -- cramped, precise, ink-dark -- filled both sides of the folded page. Wren read it by the fire that evening, while Maret sat in her usual position and Theron tended the clay pot and Hadley delivered a running account of everything that had happened in Millhaven over four days, which was a great deal, including a dispute about mirewillow bark pricing that had apparently consumed the Millstone Inn for two days and been resolved by Aldric Vane with characteristic brevity.

Sera wrote: *Your father has reread your first letter four times. He has not said what he thinks of it but he has been studying his old basin survey notes every evening, which is what he does when he's excited and won't admit it.*

Wren looked at the fire. She thought about her father with his soft-cracked journals and his second-best compass and his thirty years of the same two-hundred-mile circuit. She thought about him reading her letter and going to the shelf where he kept the old notes.

Sera wrote: *Aldric's niece Brecca has asked about you twice. I told her you were well. She has the look of someone making a decision.*

And then, at the bottom, in the smaller hand Sera used when she was being precise about something important: *Come home before first frost. That was the promise.*

Wren folded the letter. She put it in her journal, between the page where she had written *Varethen* and the page where she would write tomorrow's observations.

The fire had settled to coals. The insect chorus was running in its full evening register -- still dry, still the long-count of the cycle. She counted forward from the last time she had updated her journal. Day 9. The cycle had 9 days remaining. Nine days, and then one night of weeping, and then the morning that was always thicker.

She opened her journal.

*Day 9. 9 remain.*

She looked at what she had written two entries above: *13 remain.* And above that: *14 remain.*

The column of numbers going down the margin was a different kind of map. Not spatial. Temporal. She was charting the approach of something she could not yet see clearly, the way her father charted river levels -- not because you could stop the river, but because knowing what the river was doing was the difference between being caught in the flood and being ready for it.

Maret was watching her.

Not intrusively -- from the fire's other side, with the same quality of attention she gave everything, the oral historian's habit of observation that was itself a kind of record-keeping. When Wren looked up, Maret did not look away.

"Nine days," Wren said.

Maret nodded. "Are you afraid?"

She considered the question honestly. The Eye in her chest, attending. The Shelf, steady. Varethen's two nodes -- the threshold stone's warmth, the prayer-notch's persistent small life.

"I don't know what I'm afraid of yet," she said. "I know there's something to be afraid of. I don't know its shape."

"Good," Maret said. "Fear without a shape is useful. It keeps you paying attention." She looked at the fire. "Fear with a shape makes you look at the shape instead of what's around it."

Wren wrote that down. Not in the margin with the numbers -- in the main body of the journal, as a field note, the way she recorded everything that was true and that she wanted to keep.

She closed the journal.

The Thornwild breathed around the camp. Through the bond network, she could feel all four places: the Shelf cooling in the plateau dark, the Eye watchful at its mirror-surface, the threshold stone of Varethen warm against the night, the prayer-notch holding its small tended life in the dark. Six connections, running through her in pairs. The ruins to the Eye, through her. The Shelf to the ruins, through her. The Eye to the Shelf, through her. A web she had been adding to since she crossed the escarpment edge, each new bond making the whole structure more itself.

Nine days.

She went to sleep carrying four places, and a name she had not yet met, and the sound of the Thornwild waiting in the dark outside the camp -- that low almost-sub-audible tremor, not weeping, not yet. But closer to weeping than it had been a week ago.

The numbers in the journal's margin went down.
