Warm air caressed Ava’s skin, curling into her hair, tickling into her plain, brown tunic and loose pants. It was a good feeling; not quite the same as being safely surrounded by stone, but she had never shied away from the surface, unlike some of her clan. But looking up, she knew that some of those true underworlders, if they still lived to this day, would not mind this cloudy view. It felt safe, for some reason, to be in this half light, under these deep clouds.

Upon realizing her thoughts, Ava frowned.

She did not like that shadows felt safe. Shadows should not feel safe. This strange affinity for the darkness was a part of being a shadeling, and though it gave her mental comfort, it was not comfortable. She had tried her racially-granted [Shadowblend], once, and did not like that it gave her similar comfort to [Stone Body], and she much preferred [Stone Body]. [Water Body] was adequate, but nothing compared to the sheer joy of flying through the Underworld, and seeing all the threats around you before they came too close.

She would have to work on regaining [Stone Body]. She kicked a mental list around inside her mind, of spells she needed to possess and make, and achievements she needed to fulfill, once she was a person again. She had refined herself a thousand times in her previous time on Veird, making spells that were too large for her current self to use, so she’d have to get used to the small life, for a little while.

After she regained herself, she could go kill mimics till level 34. Unfortunately, this low level meant certain uncomfortable measures would have to be taken, and lived with. A level 34 did not function the same as a level 85...

But that was okay!

She smiled, as she considered all the failed spells in her former Status. Could she truly try all of them again? … Maybe not all of them, but her tier 5s were certainly in reach.

… But? Did that tier magic cooldown carry over when you didn’t have the original spell? Or any of the components? Ava had a hard time believing it did. And with that stray thought, she smiled again. She could remake all of her magic, and this time, she might even succeed! She almost laughed at the thought, at the joy of possibilities. But she did not, for now was a time of do or die, and she was procrastinating. There was little room for mirth in this place.

Ava stood in the Crystal Courtyard, beside the eponymous Crystal itself, in the previous center of Candlepoint. The square was now lakefront property with the western buildings having fallen into the waters. Most of the other structures remained perfectly intact. One of those buildings, in particular, was Ava’s destination. It was a dark box of a structure, maybe only five meters cubed, sandwiched between an alchemist’s burned-out shop and a smith’s store. This building was bland, except for double doors that resembled Melemizargo’s wings, and white handles that resembled fangs, or maybe claws. The doors were shut tight. Of all the destruction scattered through Candlepoint, this place suffered none.

Or maybe the shadelings fixed this place up first? That was also a possibility. But, no. Melemizargo likely missed this place on purpose, when he cast his [City Shape] and made a lake for Candlepoint. He certainly missed the Crystal; that dark stretch of smokey darkness still stretched straight up into the sky, a good 50 or so meters. It was certainly pretty to look at—

She was stalling. Procrastination came easy when one was on their way to meet their maker.

Marshaling her wits and her courage, Ava set her shoulders straight… And then she looked around, again.

Ava was not alone in the square. The dark Captain of the Guard, Slip, stood beside her. A few others held back, watching from the shadows of nearby buildings, or standing out in the dim sunlight. Their shadowy eyes glowed with interest. Some held disdain on their faces, but some had visible emotions larger than simple hope. With glowing eyes fixed on Ava, and hands held in front of their mouths, they wished for miracles, but not for Ava’s success; she was just the one attempting Fate, at the moment.

They hoped for someone else to brave death, and succeed, so that they might follow on a cleared path.

… She was stalling again.

She mumbled to herself, “I didn’t think it would be this difficult.”

Slip said, “You don’t have to do this.” He glanced up, to see an ooze of light hanging in the air above the courtyard, before turning back to Ava. “No matter what favors you think this might gain you—”

His words crystallized something extra, something deeper inside Ava, that was not the rad by her heart.

With her gaze locked forward at the doors to Darkness, Ava said, “This is not about favors, but this is about gain. I refuse to live in squalor, Captain. I refuse to live in a hovel, begging for scraps from my betters. Since Melemizargo seems content with monsters begging for scraps, I refuse to be a monster.” She glanced at Slip, saying, “It’s a simple choice.”

Slip whispered, “You might die.”

With her head held high, she walked forward, saying, “And I might not.”

- - - -

Sitting on the couch of the sunroom, with a viewing window in front of her, Syllea half scowled, saying, “She seems dramatic. Like this is some sort of play.”

Sitting on the opposing couch, and viewing the scene through an Ophiel on site, Erick defended the woman, saying, “She’s just building herself up to try her chances against death.”

Bayth harrumphed, behind Syllea.

Poi remained silent, behind Erick, but Teressa was taking an awful long time to get more coftea for the group. That was just as well. She likely didn’t want to be near for this event. Another person was also absent from the event; Justine had quickly made herself scarce after fulfilling her duty of speaking to Syllea. Erick took a moment to check on them, and saw that both women were on opposite ends of the house; as far away as they could get from the sunroom, and each other.

An hour ago, Erick had invited Archmage Syllea and her friend, Bayth, into his house, after Justine had time to calm down and build herself up to speak again to the archmage. Justine dutifully put on her best face and answered some more questions, while Teressa served lemon cookies and tea, and Erick made sure to keep everything calm and peaceful. Over the course of the talk, Syllea revealed that her brother had turned full traitor, but no one knew how far his influence had spread. The investigation was ongoing. Syllea didn’t mention anything else beyond those few words; the event clearly hit her rather hard.

Erick was more than a little unsure of what to do when he heard that there was some unknown, massive shadeling plot happening in Treehome. But it wasn’t his place or concern to deal with what was going on all the way up there, in a different part of the world entirely. When it spilled down to Spur, or more likely, to Candlepoint, then Erick would get involved.

Somewhere in the beginning of the third round of questioning, and when the second round revealed barely more than the first round, Erick’s attention on Candlepoint had told him of an important happening. And thus, the questions went on hold. Justine visibly relaxed; slumping her shoulders as Syllea conjured a viewing screen and the archmage’s attention fully turned from the incani. Justine excused herself from the room, after that, barely hiding how grateful she was to become as scarce as Teressa.

And now, Erick, Syllea, Bayth, and Poi, were in the sunroom, all of them watching Candlepoint, and each other.

Bayth peered over Syllea’s shoulder, to look at the archmage’s viewing screen, clinically saying, “She’s not... human. She’s too skinny.”

Syllea narrowed her eyes at the hovering screen. She had not asked any questions, either. When Erick mentioned this happening, she rapidly transitioned to focus on this possible transformation.

Erick said, “Her name is Ava Jadescale. Jadescale tribe. Underworld. She’s a snake shifter who woke up this morning and said she was a sewermaster in her previous life. I heard this from Mephistopheles —I told you about him? Anyway: He interviewed Ava for her position several hours ago.”

“Jadescale…” Syllea mumbled, thinking, as she frowned at her viewing screen. “Don’t know that one.”

Erick didn’t know anything about the scattered shifter tribes, either. He hadn’t really thought to ask, either, until now. He looked to Poi, “Can I get some context?”

Poi nodded, as he sent out a dozen tendrils of thought. After a moment, he said, “Silverite says the Jadescales are no longer a clan. Dead over a hundred years ago due to a cascade of failures, without any real answers as to why they perished. There might have been an incursion from the Fractured Citadels, but the truth is unknown. Some Jadescales sought refuge in a neighboring clan which was, and still is, quite prosperous, known as Obsidianscale, but they all moved closer to the surface of Quintlan after the Jadescale city became a nest of shadows a hundred years ago. The Obsidianscales are regular trading partners with Portal.” He added, “I also informed Silverite of what was happening. She is now watching the event as well.”

“Thank you, Mister Fulisade,” Syllea said, as the doors of the dark building opened in front of Ava. “That is enough.”

- - - -

Doors, like wings, unfolded from the building, opening wide. Beyond was a pit of darkness that rushed inward, like a suddenly retreating fog. As Melemizargo’s influence opened like the setting of a trap, dark stone pews stood revealed to the sides of a central aisle. Ava marshaled all of her courage, and walked forward, under leathery wings, trying her best to ignore how stone had turned organic.

A skylight in the center of the Dark Temple suddenly cast a pillar of light into the gloom, revealing the central effigy of the unholy domain.

The shrine, for that is what it had to be, waited for Ava at the end of the aisle. Set upon a waist-high pillar of black stone and capped with a crown of white fangs, lay a splash of crystal that was darker than black. Ava could only tell it was a crystal formation from the shape of the object, all hard edged and spiked into the air. It hurt to look upon, as though she was seeing a void in space. The black stone of the building seemed almost grey by comparison.

Ava steeled herself, holding her hands at her sides. Shoulders straight, she walked forward, all the way into the temple, under the wings of Melemizargo, to meet her maker, and demand to be remade. Cold wrapped around her body as she stepped across the threshold, into the Dark. Three more steps, and the door folded down behind her, trapping her in silen—

“Hello.”

The words came like a melodious avalanche. Like a song she had forgotten, but that once remembered, filled her from her toes to the top of her head with comfort, with certainty, with purpose. She never wanted to hear anything else ever again.

But she tore herself from that feeling. What was the Dark Song, compared to a life of deeper meaning? It was ephemeral and useless and tied to that great evil waiting in the shadows.

“You have invaded my mind, Darkness.” Ava stood strong, saying, “I do not appreciate this.”

A light chuckle filled the air, coming from every part of the temple at once, except from the dark crystal in front of her. “What a curious perspective!” Melemizargo said, “It is you who have invaded my mind, Ava Jadescale. But that is an old thought, and I’m trying to think new ones.”

A brighter glow flowed down from above. Ava looked up. The archmage’s [Familiar] hung above the skylight, watching, filling the shadows with light. Ava took a step further forward, to step into that light.

“If you don’t want an audience, I can shoo them away.”

“I will have my final moments known to more than you, thank you.”

“As you wish.”

“I also wish to be returned to my true self.”

“Making a wish to the Darkness! How bold.” He asked, “Is that all you [Wish] for?”

Melemizargo’s inflection upon that dangerous word was unmistakable. Ava managed to control herself to a small shiver. She remained standing, and silent, but from one moment to the next, she almost panicked.

If it weren’t for Ava steadying herself with all her might, she might have collapsed anyway, considering what came next.

The walls of the building stretched away, into an endless abyss. The skylight was still two meters above Ava, hovering there in the great emptiness around her, glowing with the light of the [Familiar] beyond, but in every direction, darkness stood, and in those depths, hunted the Darkness, flapping his wings and slashing his claws across endless tunnels. White teeth flashed in the gloom. A jaw opened, then shut.

Ava was in the Deep Underworld, but also not.

In the deep gloom, on the other side of the void crystal, a line of light slipped open, from left to right. That line stretched sideways, up and down, for it was not a line of light at all. It was an eye. It blinked open, all the way, an orb of hateful white light, suddenly filling the abyss with radiance.

Melemizargo stared into Ava’s soul.

Ava was suddenly a little girl, covered in scales, barely able to control her body. She almost cried, but she was not a child. She hadn’t been a child in a long time.

The eye blinked.

Ava was a crone, ten years from her death bed and hunched with age. Bones ached. Wrinkled skin flapped in the wind as scales fell to the floor, too weak to hold on any longer.

