Nathalia climbed onto the bed and curled up into a fetal position. By the gods, I want him so bad! She thought. When everyone was here, this feeling was so easy to ignore... but... when he came in, and my dress was open like that... and I remembered how he fought that giant boar...  Her body quivered in anticipation. He... he wasn't scared or anything! She held herself still and hoped that a few hours would be enough to calm herself down. I can't lose control like that again. I'm a woman. A strong woman! Nathalia took a deep breath. I won't let my feelings for him drive him away.

*

Find anything Teepo?

“Yep. There's lots of squirrels trying their best to get back to their trees.”

Ren smiled. Keep a good eye out... I'm going to walk the perimeter and see if there's anything I can find.

“I'll warn you if anything's coming.”

Thanks, Teepo.

Ren stepped over the barrier and walked until he could see the road. Ren looked both ways to see if there was anything moving, but didn't see anything at all. He walked to the left, parallel to the road, back towards Dornrach for a few minutes. Still seeing nothing, he walked into the underbrush and all the way back towards the tent, then passed it and kept going for another few minutes, then headed to the road.

There's no good trees here, either. Ren thought.

“There's a forest back about 4 hours.” Teepo suggested.

I don't remember seeing that.

“That's because you were too busy staring at Nathalia.” Teepo said.

I was not! Ren thought as he walked back to the tent. I was just making sure she wasn't slipping off the saddle, and trying to keep an eye out for Trouble at the same time.

“Uh huh.” Teepo chittered in laughter. “Every 10 seconds.”

I haven't been here before. I had to keep looking around!

“I know.” Teepo said. “I'm just teasing you.”

I can live without that, thank you! Ren thought, and Teepo chittered in delight.

Ren made it back to the tent without incident, and went inside to get a chair. He saw that Nathalia was lying motionless on the bed, and breathing evenly. Ren left the tent and put the chair right behind the protective barrier he'd set up, and sat down.

Once Nathalia gets enough sleep, I'll be checking out the mountains behind us. Ren thought.

“She'll be out for a few hours. Do you want me to scout ahead?” Teepo asked. “I'll be able to get pretty far now.”

You just want to show off. Ren smiled. Just be careful.

Teepo chittered in delight and climbed across the rope to the nearby tree. He climbed halfway down, jumped to the ground, and then skittered away at about twice as fast as he used to.

Go for it, buddy! Ren thought as Teepo's form disappeared from sight.
