But even for someone like Cale, there had to have been a first time, hadn't there? The man seemed to live for first times, if anything. He'd also gotten past a sphinx without fighting it or answering any of its riddles, all because he'd happened to know... the... rules...

Flia slowed.

"Flia? What are you doing?" Leo cast a panicked gaze past her into the darkness and flinched, but forced himself to slow alongside her, not wanting to leave her behind.

"Cale didn't exactly say to run," Flia said.

"What do you mean? That's exactly what he said! He said all mages need to know when to run!"

"Exactly," Flia said. She stopped entirely in her tracks, and although Leo looked incredibly reluctant, he followed suit. "He told us that we need to know when to run. And he told us we'd know when."

"He said to run the moment we see it," Leo hissed.

"I'm not talking about just now," Flia said. "Back during Professor Imrys's class, in the labyrinth, remember? He said above all else, a mage needs to know when to run."

"The creepy thing following us isn't enough reason to run?" Leo demanded. Flia shook her head slowly.

"Magic has rules," she said. She did it more to convince herself than anything—she wasn't entirely sure, and she was really hoping she wasn't wrong. Flia might not have known exactly what was happening or what they were facing, but all magic did have rules. Mythologies like the sphinx were bound even more tightly by those rules, as a tradeoff for their power.

Cale had taken advantage of that. He'd known the rules. Flia didn't, but... surely she could learn what they were? If this space was so powerful that it could suppress their magic so thoroughly, then it had to have its own rules. Something they could use.

Every time she glanced back, the curse was closer. The speed at which they were running almost seemed like it didn't make a difference—the amount of distance closed was always the same.

Five paces closer, every time.

She took a few steps forward, then glanced back, mentally recording where it was. "Don't look back yet," she told Leo. "Keep looking down the hallway. I want to test something."

Leo stared at her for a moment. "Now?" he asked. There was a tight edge in his voice. "You better not get us killed, Flia."

"It'll be fine." Flia tried not to let the tension show in her own words, though she was pretty sure she failed spectacularly. Whatever was following them was now close enough that she could see its yellowed teeth for the briefest of moments before it vanished again.

It felt almost like it was a manifested curse of some kind, although she had no idea if such a thing was possible. Her core trembled in sympathetic resonance with it, though. That was pretty damning evidence.

But what if that sympathetic resonance was hiding something else? What rules did this thing have to follow?

Flia stepped in the opposite direction, this time toward the curse, then risked another glance.

It was exactly five paces closer.

"You only move when we try to look," Flia said out loud. "A set distance every time, and not only that, but your position is relative to ours. You're already anchored to our cores, aren't you? Or is there more than one of you?"

Leo glanced back at her and nearly jumped with surprise, but caught himself before he started running again. "Wait," he muttered. "You're right. Is it... are there two of them? One for each of us?"

"Mine's about thirty paces from me," Flia said.

"Same," Leo said, and his eyes narrowed slightly in realization. "If it only moves when we look back, then all we have to do is stop looking back, right?"

"That's one way to deal with it." Flia frowned slightly. "But if this thing is moving relative to us, then it's already bound to us in some way. I'd rather we get rid of it entirely. I'm just not sure how we're supposed to do that, without our magic."

Leo took a deep breath, and something in him seemed to settle. "Okay," he said. From the look on his face, he was thinking rapidly. "It's bound by a rule? Like living mythologies are?"

"Seems like it," Flia said. "You have an idea?"

"I've spent a lot of time reading about living mythologies," Leo said, his fingers tightening around his notebook as he thought. "If this thing works anything like one of those, then we need to force it to break that rule. It'll break whatever hold this thing has on us."

Flia's brows drew together. "How are we supposed to do that?"

"It's supposed to stay behind us and get closer every time we look, right?" Leo asked. Flia nodded. "Alright, then I'm going to keep looking ahead. You turn around and look down the opposite direction. That way, there won't be a 'behind'. On three, we both glance back. That should force it to try to manifest in two different places at once."

"Are we sure this is going to work?" Flia asked. She had to admit, though, it sounded right. And Leo had read far more about living mythologies than she. "What's going to happen once it breaks its rule?"

"It's not going to kill it, but it should stun it," Leo said. "...Based on what I've read, anyway. There's a chance we just piss it off, but I don't think I want this thing stuck to my back."

"Me either." Flia managed a smile she wasn't really feeling, and was gratified when Leo smiled back at her. "You ready?"

"Terrified, actually."

Flia snorted. "Me too."

They took their positions, back to back. "One," Leo said. "Two... three!"

They each glanced back at once—

—and there was an impulse.

The magic around them shuddered and contracted, and then something neither of them had noticed unbound itself from their cores and flew back into the darkness. Flia caught a glimpse of what seemed like ribbons and teeth and a manic, permanent smile, and shuddered at the sight.

Leo had it worse, though. The poor guy looked like he was struggling not to vomit.

"Did we—did we do it?" he asked. Flia stared down the corridor, not entirely sure herself; her heart was still hammering.

"We did," she said, but even as she spoke, she saw a shape moving in the darkness. "But not for long. It's moving already. It's just not bound to us anymore. Which means—"

"Now we run." Leo completed the sentence. "I think I get it now." He still looked a little sick, but he managed to flash her a grin, and Flia couldn't stop herself from grinning back.

"So do I," she said. She started off at a sprint, with Leo following close behind.

Then she frowned to herself. "Cale better not be infectious," she muttered.

Sneaks-In-Darkness had no idea how long she had been walking along the same boring stone hallway, but she was pretty sure she was getting close to her targets. She could track them easily enough, at least, no matter how much this strange space dampened her abilities—soul-links were difficult to break, after all. Those who argued the ethics of soul-links with mage initiates simply didn't recognize the importance of the Red Hunters and their mission.

All that said, she couldn't entirely shake the feeling that something was wrong. She didn't know what brought her here in the first place, and it was stranger still that her targets had apparently been brought to the same space. What was that thing that the human captured? Was it the cause of all this?

Now that she thought about it, if she could bring that information back to Commander Isyanek, she would almost certainly be rewarded, wouldn't she? It might even make up for her failure in preventing their involvement from getting out.

The Commander loved esoteric magics like this. Anything that could be used to control, anything that could be turned into a weapon—he wanted them all. They were safe only in his hands, he said; anyone else might abuse the power they granted, but he would make sure they were put to use for the mission.

She shivered at the thought. Every time he spoke of the mission, his eyes burned with such mesmerizing passion. She knew, deep in her heart, that he must have suffered some truly terrible tragedy at the hands of the wild mages. That explained his dedication, his will to see the mission through.

Sneaks-In-Darkness would not disappoint him.

That meant she had two priorities now. First was to find her targets so she could get rid of them—the initiates had failed, and failure was unacceptable among the Red Hunters.

Second, though?

Second was to find that human, that... "Cale," and get him to tell her all his secrets. Maybe she could even bring him to the Commander. She would surely be rewarded for that.

Mind made up, she ran forward. She had to keep running, after all. The human had said something about it, and she wasn't foolish enough to just ignore advice from someone that clearly knew what all of this was.

Behind her, a flickering being of red-purple flame followed, growing with every moment that passed.
