“That one’s ours!” Natalie Choir called from where she stood on top of a chair across the room. Hadiza was standing in a neighboring one. They waved at Alden wildly, and he just gaped at them.


<<Look at his face! He is turning so red!>> Emilija shouted over the other voices as she grabbed the front of his shirt and tugged him through a gaggle of cheering Meisters.


<<I told you he didn’t know we did this!>> Paolo shouted back.


People from every class in the tower were down here. There must have been at least three hundred of them. An Adjuster Alden had met at a couple of events patted him on the back and shouted <<Good luck!>> in Turkish.


A pair of Rabbits from the eighth floor were saying the same.


He finally managed a startled “Thank you all,” just before he and his handlers broke through the back edge of the crowd at the lobby doors.


<<You’re one of the first ones to come down,>> Emilija said, straightening her ponytail and smiling at him. <<Good luck on your big test day!>>


A moment later, the lobby burst into cheers again as a girl Alden thought was an A-rank Life Shaper emerged. She looked embarrassed but not shocked at all the cheering and clapping.


The other Shapers in the room were being particularly loud.


<<It’s so fun that we get to cheer for a Rabbit,>> Emilija said in a satisfied voice. <<Natalie and I came down to cheer for the last batch of hero school applicants during our second morning here at the dorms. It’s not as exciting when you don’t have a class representative.>>


“So this send-off happens every time?” Alden asked.


<<For the intake residents who reach the final stage for the hero track at Celena North,>> said Paolo. <<Since you all leave first thing in the morning together and have the big practical testing day. There are usually parties for the art school finalists and the other programs in Apex since their application processes are different.>>


“I didn’t know.”


<<Because you’re married to Neha’s schedule and never check the community calendar anymore.>>


That was true.


When the Shaper girl reached the doors, she and Alden made their escape together just as another explosion of sound erupted in the lobby.


“It’s lovely, isn’t it?” she said as she adjusted her backpack straps. “Helps a bit with the nerves.”


“It is nice of them.”


It was still hours until sunrise. It had rained overnight, and the lights from the windows of the apartment towers were reflected in the puddles. A bus was parked outside the Brute tower. They crossed over toward it and headed up the steps.


<<We’re going to be full,>> the driver said. He was brushing powdered sugar from a donut off of his uniform. <<No loading the seats with your bags and gear. >>


Alden hadn’t bothered to find out how many people had made it to the final round from intake, so as he walked down the aisle to the back, he counted the seats.


Sixty of them.


Annually, the high school accepted two hundred and fifty students for the hero track, give or take a few. They held the practical talent tests every two months. So it stood to reason they’d be taking in around forty new students this time. On top of that, the teens from intake would be a fraction of the applicants, since all the island-born people and the non-natives who’d already left the intake dorms would be included.


Lots of people are going to be disappointed at the end of the day.


And that wasn’t even counting all the ones who’d been kicked in the first and second interview rounds.


He snagged one of the window seats and sat tapping his umbrella against his leg while he listened to the bellows and shouts of encouragement coming from the Brute lobby. It was so jammed with people that their well-wishers actually spilled out of the doors onto the sidewalk.


Watching the bus fill was interesting. Nobody took a seat next to anyone until they ran out of space and had to start. A lot of these people must know each other. They’re probably friends.


Avowed had a tendency to divide up along class and rank lines. Especially the high levels. Alden had thought Anesidora would be this way. Apex existed for a reason, and it was just how human relationships usually worked. But even so, outside of the rare classes, it was a little more stratified than he’d expected. Even in intake.


So there was no way those two S-rank Adjusters didn’t know each other. And the thirty or so Brutes on the bus had to have been hanging out together before now. But there was still tension. And not a lot of talking.


Everyone wants it. They’ve got to be feeling that even more than I am.


Finally someone came to sit beside him.


She was wearing a black hoodie with the hood up, and she had long dark pigtails sticking out the front. Her hands were shoved into the pockets of her jeans, and she plopped into the seat beside him. She folded herself in half and stuck her feet against the back of the seat in front of her. Her sneakers weren’t quite as dirty as Alden’s had been on Moon Thegund, but they were headed in that direction.


“Hi,” he said.


“Hello,” she muttered. “Maricel. S. Shaper of Ground. Philippines. First time taking the practical.”


Well, that’s one way to do it. “Alden. B. Rabbit. America. First time taking the practical, too.”


She didn’t look at him. “Rabbit?”


“He’s that guy,” one of the Brutes sitting in front of them whispered to his neighbor. “The guy who got stuck on a planet with no System for a couple of years.”


At that, Maricel turned to see Alden better. She had very dark brown eyes.


“It was a moon. And it was only half a year,” said Alden. “Um…I have a movement trait that involves ground. It’s a really interesting element.”


“Ground’s not really that great here on Anesidora, though,” the Brute in front of them said. He turned around in his seat to peer at them over the back. He was wearing sunglasses around his neck, though that didn’t seem like a practical choice given the day’s activities, and he looked like a stereotypical surfer dude. “To really play with ground as a high rank shaper you’re basically taking bites out of the island itself, right? And I bet they frown on that. I’m Winston.”


But that is not the name of a surfer dude.


He had his name tag up. His full name was Winston Reginald Heelfeather. He was from New Hampshire. He was a speedster. A-rank.


“I’m glad somebody started talking finally. It was a bummer to come out of the lobby pumped to show off my talents and get on board the gloom bus. This is my second time going through this, and it was a gloom bus last time, too.”


“You participated in the acceptance cycle two months ago?” Alden asked.


“Yeah. I was so close to making it. Just a few little hiccups on the interview portion. They love speedsters, but they play mind games. Today I’m wearing these, so they can’t see what I’m thinking.” He pointed to his sunglasses. “Like a pro poker player.”


Alden wondered if maybe Winston had failed last time because he was the kind of person who thought wearing sunglasses indoors during an interview was a clever idea.


“God, it would be embarrassing if I didn't make it this time. I'd have to start a general studies program at Franklin High and move into the dorms there while I prep for the next round. So what did the aliens do to you on the moon?”


“Idiot,” said a girl halfway down the aisle. “You can’t just ask someone a question like that.”


“Hey!” said Winston, whipping around too fast to pass as a regular human. “I’m just curious. It’s not like he has to answer.”


<<I’m more curious about how a Rabbit ended up on this bus with us,>> his neighbor muttered in Portuguese.


“I think rumors have gotten garbled,” said Alden, choosing to answer the speedster’s question, since if he didn’t the rumors would get even more garbled. “I wasn’t with a bunch of Artonans on the moon. Just one friend. A little girl. We tried to stay out of the corruption as much as we could. We watched a lot of television and had language lessons. And I learned to operate a greenhouse and drive a magic car. When help came, we headed for it.”


“But what are you going to do in hero school if you get in?” Winston asked as the driver shut the bus door and started up the engine.


“What are you going to do?” Alden countered.


“I’m going to run really fast, grab bad guys, use my superior strength and knowledge of judo to pin them to the ground, and get lots of sponsorship deals from sports drink brands.”


“You know judo?”


“No. Not yet. It’s a goal, man. But…what’s a Rabbit hero supposed to do?”


Alden sighed. “I want to be battlefield support,” he said. “I haven’t got it down perfectly. My skill is potentially good for things like shielding and medical evac. It’s flexible. I’m sure I’ll figure more uses out as I go along.”


<<They only accept around a dozen B’s a year,>> Winston's seatmat said. <<They’re not going to take a Rabbit no matter how interesting his backstory is. B-rank Rabbits get sixteen to twenty foundation enhancement points usually, and five of them are completely useless. Physically, this guy’s just a human.>>


Wow, he’s devoting a lot of early morning energy to being a dick.


The dick was also assuming that Alden had gotten the average number of extra foundation points with his skill. Which was ten, as Jeremy had pointed out when he was going through his initial selection process. Bearer of All Burdens had only come with three and a half.


Authority cost for affixing a base skill is in a range, obviously.


I only got twelve and a half foundation points to start with. And that was with the signing bonus…which…damn. What a scam that is if it actually used my own authority. I don't think they can just gift you more...can they? And getting points early isn’t that great. Unless you’re someone who plans on it taking you years to level. I should definitely have taken The Fragile Atmosphere tool.


Or maybe not.


If his body was just a little weaker, if his affixation was just a little smaller, he might not have made it out with Kibby. His free authority might have overbalanced too quickly. He might not have survived the teleport. It was hard to say what the value of taking those few measly points had been.


Alden was so lost in pondering how the Earth System made its calculations and presented them to Avowed that he was on the verge of forgetting to respond to the other boy, when Maricel spoke up.


“You’re a Brute, too, aren’t you?” the Filipino girl asked the asshole quietly. She was still folded-up in her seat. “All you Brutes are point-obsessed. Just because your own skills are pathetic doesn’t mean ours are.”


“Hey! My skill isn’t pathetic,” said Winston. “I admit I haven't completely figured out what it does. It’s some kind of force-adjustment thing that turns on automatically as soon as I start to run at a certain speed? But it’s not—”


<<Shapers aren’t that much better than Rabbits. What did you get? Thirty points?>>


“I said I was an S-rank. Were you even listening?” Maricel replied in an acidic tone. “And my foundation points don’t matter. They’re not what’s going to get me into the program.”


“Someone’s confident,” the girl across the aisle from them said.


<<It’s her first time,>> someone else replied. <<She doesn’t know anything.>>


“Look!” Alden said loudly, pointing out the bus window. “They’ve decorated the arena for Halloween.”


Everyone ignored him. Apparently hostility was more appealing than the orange and violet spiderwebs of light being projected across the smooth metallic surface of the stadium where many of the Avowed sporting events were held in F-City.


Well, I tried.


“I know enough,” Maricel said. “I know I will be getting into the stupid hero school today. And I will go to the stupid hero college. And I will become a superhero as fast as possible, so I can leave this place behind for good. <<I’m going back home to my family! Everything between now and then is an obstacle.>>”


That shut most of the others up.


Finally, the Life Shaper Alden had left his building with earlier said, “You…you know that’s a fine goal. To be a superhero in your hometown. But putting it like that…it isn’t really the best way to impress the interviewers.”


“Don’t help her, Sue. She’s the competition.”


“It doesn’t matter,” Maricel muttered, tucking her neck and yanking her hood as low as it would go so nobody could see her face. “If I don’t get into hero school, I will just train. I’ll train until I can lift the earth from four kilometers away.”


<<That’s ambitious.>>


“It’s crazy is what it is,” someone said. “She’s a nut. How’d she make it this far?”


“That’s…two and a half miles?” said Winston. He was gesturing in the air, probably looking up the unit conversion. “Is there even a Shaper alive who can do that? The Gloom works across miles, I guess? But I don’t think there’s a Ground Shaper who does…”


“Why that distance?” Alden asked curiously. It was so specific. “If you don’t mind answering. No pressure or any—”


“That’s where the seabed is in this part of the South Pacific.” Maricel spoke in a flat voice. “Four kilometers below us. That’s where all the ground I’ll ever need is.”


“To do what?”


“I don’t care if some politician decides I’m not popular and exciting enough to allow back home,” she said to her knees. “If I can’t get to Manila by becoming a hero, then I will rip up the earth below us. And I will build a bridge. I will walk back to my family.”


The silence that fell was oppressive.


