“Oh. You’re a cool person!” Alden exclaimed.


One of Maricel’s feet slipped, and the sole of her sneaker squeaked against the plastic backing of Winston’s seat.


Ah…way to go, Alden. That must have sounded like you were making fun of her with the others.


“I’m being serious,” he said, when she didn’t look at him. “After we both get accepted, if you don’t hate the idea, we should hang out?”


<<God. Everyone is a lunatic this morning,>> someone farther up the bus whispered. <<Now the B-rank thinks he’s getting in for sure, too.>>


Alden didn’t care how it sounded. He didn’t care that leaping to initiate a friendship with a stranger wasn’t like him at all. It was a pure, visceral reaction—one of the strongest he’d had to another person since arriving back on Earth.


Maricel didn’t want to show off. She didn’t want a branding deal. She didn’t want to fit in. She didn’t even want to save people.


She just wants to go home. She just wants her family back.


She wanted it so desperately, she’d do anything for it. She was willing to walk across a planet.


Realistic? Not at all. But even if it wasn’t realistic, something about it felt real.


And she’d stood up for him. It might have only fanned the argument…but…yeah. She was cool.
 


***********
 


The bus put them out at Celena Circle, a sort of mini-park in the middle of the high school campus. The circular green space’s central walkway split and branched off in three different directions. The left path went to the School for the Arts, right to the School for Sciences, and central to the School for Superhuman Studies and Talent Development.


They should just give up and change the name since nobody ever calls it that, Alden thought as he hopped off the bus. The rest of the trip here had been uneventful except for a few ugly looks and whispers, thankfully.


Maricel hadn't responded to his friendship request, but she clearly didn’t have a problem speaking her mind and she wasn’t telling him to buzz off, so he decided she was still considering it. He activated his skill and his trait as the two of them trailed behind the others up the concrete walk.


“See,” he said, taking a bounding step forward. “Ground.”


She watched him for a second, then asked, “Did you take that just because you’re a Rabbit, and it makes you bounce a little?”


“I consider the comedic potential to be a drawback. I can make it look pretty much like a normal run. Or I can go extra bouncy with it. My trainer and I have been practicing to find all the ways that are easiest on my joints.”


Rrorro wasn’t going to be around to fix him if he destroyed himself again. And just because other healers would be available to him didn’t mean he wanted to repeat the experience.


As they passed under a streetlamp, Maricel threw out her hand and made a cupping motion with the middle finger extended in a point. A chunk of dirt at the edge of the sidewalk pulled loose and floated over to them.


“Ground,” she said, directing it toward Alden with a gesture. A yellow flowering weed stood on top of the softball-sized clod.


He held out his left hand since his umbrella was in his right, and she dropped the dirt in it. He grinned as some of the damp soil slipped through his fingers to plop onto the sidewalk. “You gave me a flower. We’re definitely friends now!”


She sighed and stared ahead of them to where the other slowpokes—Adjusters and Shapers mostly—were walking. “I shouldn’t have been so honest on the bus. They’ll all talk about it. It will make me look bad to the admissions committee.”


Alden plucked his weed free of the dirt and tossed the rest of it into the grass.


“Yeah…” he said quietly. “That might not have been the best idea. I’ve been operating on the ‘Pretend You’re a Hundred Percent into It’ model myself for a while now. Not brave enough to tell a bus full of competitors that being a superhero isn’t my very first priority.”


She pulled her hood back for the first time and looked over at him. “It’s not?”


He shrugged. “I want to get stronger. I want to be in the best superpower development program I can get into. And that’s here since I’m not trilingual enough for the other big Apex schools.”


“…why seriously pursue combat talent development if not for hero work? Especially if you’re a Rabbit. You’ll get work work anyway, won’t you? From the Artonans.”


Alden tucked the flower into his shirt pocket. “I want to survive if I’m ever attacked by demons. Or if some wizard summons me and forces me to fight alien sea monsters. Or if a bomb explodes in my face.”


She stared at him.


“I don’t know why you’re giving me that look,” Alden said mildly. “You’re planning to build a land bridge from here to Manila. We’re both at hero school for different reasons from most people.”


“Ha!” she said, still examining him. “Okay…”


“Anyway, I did really want it once. The superhero thing. Maybe I will again.”


They followed the group. Just before they hit the hero program’s section of the campus, the sidewalk wound between a pair of stately stone buildings. They looked like they belonged on a European aristocrat’s family estate instead of an island that was less than a century old.


Architecture-wise, both Celena North’s high school and the adjacent university campus had an identity crisis. The buildings were all grand and expensive-looking, but they didn’t go together. Contemporary structures sat beside traditional ones from multiple cultures. These two out-of-place manor houses were part of the dorms that he and Maricel might be staying in one day.


Some of the windows were lit, and they’d already passed by a couple of people out running.


“Early risers,” Alden noted. It was five thirty AM.


“Apex schools aren’t for lazy people I guess?”


“That’s why you’re going to get in.”


She frowned at him. “You seemed really confident about that on the bus, too. I think you’re the only one.”


“You’re an S. Ground Shaper is a great class for hero work. And even if you don’t want to be a hero for the normal reason, you still want it more than most of them do.”


“How do you know that?” she said skeptically. “There are a lot of ambitious people in this group.”


“I was listening. Your ambition is to become so powerful that nobody can stop you from being with the people you care about. I don’t see how a guy whose current life goal is to advertise vitamin-laced fruit punch is going to compete with you.”


She frowned down at her feet. A minute later, she said, “It’s Alcantara. My last name. I’m fifteen.”


“I’m Alden Thorn. Sixteen.”


“Thorn is a good name for a hero.” She considered it a moment longer. “It might be better for a villain, though.”


“That can always be my backup plan.”


A few minutes later they arrived at their destination. Despite the division of the high school into distinct educational tracks, a lot of the spaces were shared. Hero students took classes with the art and science kids, and they used the same dining and entertainment facilities. But this particular building was mostly just for the future heroes.


It was a huge cement block, doing its best to hide from the more attractive buildings behind a line of narrow, leafy trees Alden couldn’t identify. There was no sign out front in reality, but the letters on his interface served the same purpose.


[CNH MagiPhysical Education]


“It’s just PE, with an M on the front,” he muttered. “No big deal.”


Maricel was staring at it, too. “So this is where we fight.”


Alden grimaced and tightened his grip on his umbrella. “It’s not all going to be combat testing. But…yep. This is where we fight.”


“Do you think they’ll let me shove dirt into that mean Brute’s lungs?”


Alden side-eyed her. “I’m going to guess the answer to that is no,” he said. “Also…since we’re friends now—”


“I’ll treat you like a fellow S-rank.” She smiled at him. “Out of respect.”


“You know, that’s not necessary. They’ll just take one or two B’s today, right? Two max. So they’re probably going to compare me to other B’s. Maybe the weaker A’s. You and I are worlds apart. If they pit us against each other, I’ll be feeling really respected if you just wave at me, and then gently trip me or something.”


They stepped through the double doors and headed down a short hallway into the building’s gymnasium. There were wooden bleachers, but the resemblance to Alden’s former high school gym ended there. It was a massive space. The ceiling high above them was transparent; the floor was smooth, white, and unmarked by lines. The second he entered, he had to approve an area-customized name tag for himself.


“You now have the letter B on your forehead,” Maricel informed him.


She had an S on her own, but Alden was barely paying attention to it. “There are so many people here.”


He had thought there would be a couple hundred. But there were more than twice that many, and people were still pouring through the doors.


“Look how many of them are B’s,” she noted. “It’s a lot more than I expected.”


Alden scanned foreheads. Around one in four were fellow B-ranks.


“So I just need to beat a hundred plus people. No sweat.”


“You’ve got no idea,” a familiar voice said, and Alden turned to see Winston Reginald Heelfeather slipping around a lost-looking A-rank nearby. He wiped his sunglasses on his shirt and then put them on.


“Some of these people have been trying for a year or more to get in. They’re on the verge of being too old. The hero track won’t even take you once you hit seventeen, no matter how amazing you are. You have to wait and shoot for the university program instead. But that means some of them have had time to level. And then there are the locals…” He leaned toward Maricel and whispered, “The locals are terrifying. If you need any advice from someone with some experience, let me know.”


Alden stared around at his fellow B’s, trying to guess classes based on subtle cues. It was a fairly useless thing to do. Unless someone was showing off talents at this very moment, then he couldn’t tell much. Only the Meisters were easy to pick out as a whole class since they had all brought along the tool of their trade. Mostly weapons, of course, both Artonan and Earth-based. Meisters could be craftsmen or artists, too, but getting into this program with those powers wasn’t going to be easy.


That guy has a big flashlight. Is it because he walked over in the dark, or does he use it to do something?


People were filling the bleachers. The group from the intake dorms was all huddled up together in a big pile, and Winston headed over to join them.


“I guess it would be strange if we sat with some other clique, wouldn’t it?” Alden asked.


The island kids were so obvious. They were all broken up into smaller friend groups that were joking around with each other despite the anxiety in the air being so thick you could practically taste it. A few of the S’s were relaxed.


Maricel shrugged at him, then she headed toward an empty space in between the intake kids and a large posse of silent A’s and B’s who looked like they might puke at any minute. Some of them had bags or shirts for teams at Franklin High, so he was guessing this was a group who was hoping to transfer schools from there to here.


Maricel sat precisely in the middle of the empty area.


I guess my new friend and I are loners today, Alden thought as he joined her. But at least we’re loners together.


He didn’t mind it. Though he’d been actively trying not to be a recluse since arriving on Anesidora, hanging out with one or two interesting people had always been more his speed than inserting himself into big groups. “Loners together” had been business as usual all through middle school with Boe.


A moment later, a hush fell over the room, and the few people still milling around hurried to find seats as a group of twenty adults entered. Most of them were chatting, yawning, and sipping from travel mugs. But the woman in front of the pack was all business.


Her black hair was pulled back in a tight bun at the nape of her neck, and she was wearing a form-fitting gray body suit with black athletic shoes.


“Good morning,” she said in a carrying voice, as she strode to the center of the gym. “As all of you should know after enduring the selection process to get here, I’m Head of Program Saleh. You can call me Principal Saleh, Director Saleh, or whatever equivalent term of respect works best with your native tongue.”


She stood tall, arms loose at her sides as she scanned the crowd of hopefuls.


“However, I will ask you not to call me Ghosten. I’ve retired, and another hero now wears the name.” She smiled and lifted an eyebrow. “If you can beat me in a fight, you can call me by my first name. Lesedi.”


I would like to see someone other than me try that, thought Alden.


Lesedi Saleh was a U-type, and she was one of the rare, rare Avowed who’d moved up from their original rank designation. She’d gone from A to S. And her power set was nightmarishly hard to deal with in combat. She was strong, fast, and agile enough to be mistaken for a balanced version of a Brute, but on top of that, she could phase through solid objects.


There seemed to be limits on how long she could use that skill, from what Alden had seen on old videos of her in fights and demonstrations, but it didn’t change the fact that having it made her extra scary.


She could deliver devastating strikes without receiving any in return.


