*
 
I’m nervous.


It was eight o’clock on the night before the talent testing, combat assessment, and final interview. They were the last hurdles Alden had to clear to become a student at Celena North High. He stood in front of his closet, staring at his clothes without really seeing them.


His laptop was on his bed. Victor was lying beside it rubbing his head against the edge of the open screen, which showed the latest message from the school’s admissions office. Alden had read through it several times. It was congratulatory. The bulk of applicants were cut prior to reaching this stage, and he should be proud of himself for making it this far.


I think, before, I would have been.


He suspected that applying to one of the most difficult programs on the island would once have been a rollercoaster of hope, desperation, and anxiety. But until now, he hadn’t felt even a glimmer of stress about it.


I’m more stressed about the fact that I haven’t been stressing.


Jeremy’s visit had been fun. Except for Boe’s absence, it had been normal in the best way. Just hanging out with a friend, talking mostly about things that weren’t too serious.


But there were so many little moments when Alden realized he wasn’t matching up to who he had been. He kept thinking about the enchantment on the NesiCard. When he held it away for too long with his preservation, it couldn’t be put back again. It would either partially reattach, but the card wouldn’t work anymore, or it would just fizzle into nothing when he dropped it.


I’m like that. Partially the same, but not enough to work exactly how I used to.


So the nerves were welcome. He would definitely have been a nervous wreck if he were an alternate-universe Alden who hadn’t lost a percentage of his life to a disaster. This was milder, but still a reminder of the old him.


He couldn’t even figure out what to wear.


Assuming Neha wasn’t totally off-base, and he was destined to pass, he wouldn’t just be meeting some future teachers but also many of his future classmates tomorrow. Graduates from the high school’s hero program were funneled straight into the university program. Both tracks were so intensive that they didn’t allow for much free time. So these are people who I’ll be spending most of my days with over the next few years.


Not the gym shirt for sure. People would think he thought he was hot shit. That was never a good thing.


And not his Rabbit housekeeper outfit. Unless he wanted to commit social suicide right off the bat.


He had dressed up a little for the first and second interviews. But the interviewers themselves were in casual clothes both times, so at this point, it would probably seem like he was trying too hard.


Is the skull shirt too villainous? Is that a thing in hero school?


He doubted it. He could think of a few superheroes whose public personas were deliberately dark. Maybe it would counteract the Rabbit factor that was inevitably going to be the first thing people remembered about him? Or maybe it would make people think—


Ugh. Never mind. I’m getting ridiculous. I’ll just go for safely boring like every other self-conscious, fashion-clueless teenager ever.


Jeans. Plain brown t-shirt. The dark green plaid shirt unbuttoned over the top instead of a jacket.


Done.


Casual. Comfy. Inoffensive unless there was a secret society of plaid-haters among the Avowed.


Before he shut the closet, he gave the newest additions to it a look and shook his head. A few days ago, he’d received a parcel from LeafSong. It had been teleported in and delivered by a courier. Alden had had to sign for it like it was something very important. But it was just the paper copy of his certificate of merit for responding to an emergency on the campus and a new human necessities package, identical to the one he’d received on his first night there.


They’d thrown the contents of his locker out, and they were upset about it because the turtlenecks, jogger pants, and alien hygiene supplies had been given to Alden instead of loaned. They felt like they’d trashed his possessions, so he got all new ones. Right down to the intimidating hooked razor and the tin full of tooth gum.


He shut the closet door and went to read the email from Celena North yet again. Athletic shoes were a must, but protective gym suits would be given to them when they arrived. No armor, weapons, or magic items for the test unless they were completely necessary for power function.


Ingredients for spell impressions had to be provided by the prospective student. Enough for ten casts if you wanted the impression to be considered part of your power set for admissions purposes.


I wouldn’t even be able to show off my spell impression if I wasn’t rich now. I guess money is a superpower, too, huh?


Temper spheres cost two hundred argold. And they almost always lasted for two uses, but sometimes only one. Alden was bringing twelve of them just in case.


No unnecessary magic items…


Alden’s fingers went immediately to the auriad around his neck. It was coming with him. There was really no question about that. He wasn’t sure he was even able to leave it behind for an extended period without the connection between them being damaged, and if he was, he still hated the idea so much it wasn’t happening.


He’d bought a wide leather cuff bracelet, and he’d spent the past several days breaking it in and making sure it completely covered the authority control tool no matter how he moved around. If he was in a situation where the bracelet wasn’t convenient or allowed, he’d wear the auriad around his ankle and cover it with a sock.


It’ll be fine.


The only thing left was to figure out what the heck to have along with him for preservables tomorrow. He was assuming he could bring anything he wanted, since items were completely necessary for his main skill use. It wasn’t as straightforward as a Meister showing up with their tool, but he didn’t think the school was going to be that picky about it.


The problem was, he knew how test day worked in general but not what he’d be asked to do with his skill specifically. There were blog posts and videos online from people who’d participated in the past. Lots of advice for the more common class subtypes, none for anyone with a skill similar to his.


He had some thoughts about the combat assessment, and he suspected being a teenage battle prodigy might not really be the point of it. So there was a case to be made for trying to show off some creativity and flexibility instead of sheer efficacy. But some of his ideas were so creative that they might make the assessors think he was just being a clown.


When he was having a bad night and trying to distract himself by coming up with unique materials to use as shields, a bouquet of helium balloons sounded like a really good idea. But maybe that was sleep deprivation talking and he would look like he’d lost his mind to experienced heroes.


He’d actually gone to the trouble of tracking down a florist’s shop that sold balloons just to see what holding a single one felt like. He’d been almost positive the skill would work on one but he wasn’t entirely sure how a lighter-than-air item was going to react.


It had been absolutely fine. Instead of feeling the downward weight he was used to, he had the same upward tugging sensation he would have had if the balloon was unfrozen in his hand.


I swear it would work. The balloons or their ribbons would all be touching. They’d count as a single stack. If a string snapped or a few popped when they weren’t being preserved it wouldn’t matter much. I could adjust the size by dropping some on purpose, or I could adjust the distance between the bouquet and my body by choking up on the string and then re-preserving.


But if a man showed up to hero school with a balloon bouquet, everyone was going to want him to prove he knew what he was doing with it. And regardless of whether it succeeded or failed epically, it was definitely going to be unforgettable.


Alden hadn’t had much time to practice. His skill was only just back online. What time he did have had been spent working on his trait under Bobby’s guidance and experimenting with the new enchantment-moving feature, which was one he most likely wouldn’t even have an opportunity to use today. Another month would have been ideal, but he didn’t have that.


In the end, instead of ordering up fifty balloons from Dragon Rabbit, he settled on a couple of items that he thought would show off his skill’s flexibility without being confusing for him to handle or making him look like he was joking around.


All that was left to do was try to get some sleep.


He’d gotten a couple of good luck texts from Connie and Jeremy. He thanked them, then placed a call to Boe.


“Guess what, Boe?” he said as he transferred Victor to the floor and tried to brush cat hair off the bed. “I’m actually nervous about doing a good job tomorrow, and I’m mildly worried about what people will think of me at my former dream school. It’s a miracle. I may be turning back into a normal-ish person. You’re supposed to be here to give me a sarcastic pep talk. Or something.”


He paused.


“Call me back, okay? As soon as you get this…even if it’s just to tell me to knock it off for a while.”


He wanted the call notice to flash, but it didn’t. Jeremy had said Boe was getting in touch every few weeks. It had been nearly two months now. And still no word.


Alden lay in bed, using his auriad to practice some of the string figures for the spell that would brutally crush small objects. Now that he’d memorized the patterns, practicing them and funneling his authority through the tool in the necessary way was relaxing. Not easy enough to be mindless yet but almost.


He’d be able to cast this spell. One day.


For now, there just wasn’t enough of him unfettered by the affixation. The patterns required a more forceful use of his free authority than the elementary school graduation spell he’d learned with Kibby. He got tired too quickly. He couldn’t push all the way through yet.


The next one in the book is nice, he thought, staring up at the dark ceiling after he’d completely exhausted himself. It would pull heat from target area. A small one—held within the the bounds of the final pattern in the sequence. It would freeze room temperature water in around half a minute. I’m going to make my own ice when I’m on the Triplanets and carry it around in my pockets to throw in drinks so I don’t scald my tongue anymore.


It was important to have goals as a wizard, right?
 


*******
 


The alarm Alden had set through his interface woke him up at 4:00 AM. His eyes snapped open.


It’s today. Power testing. Final interview.


Rest of my life starting. Maybe. I guess I could always flub it and declare myself retired.


He rolled out of bed. He was already buzzing with nervous energy, so he decided coffee was a bad idea this morning despite the early start.


He got dressed, grabbed his things, and filled a dish with expensive diet cat food that wasn’t poisoned despite Victor’s feelings on the matter. He read the email from the school again because his overhyped brain said it might have changed overnight—nope—then headed out the door.


The halls were devoid of people, and so was the common area. Alden went down a floor. As soon as the elevator opened, Gustavo waved at him from the beanbag chair he was occupying in front of the big screen tv. <<Hey! There’s The Warren’s one and only hero school candidate!”>>


“Hi, Gus. How’s the soccer?”


“The football is <<magnificent>>,” said the night counselor.


“I Americaned it up again. Sorry. Football,” Alden walked over and handed the man a compact red umbrella with a sturdy wrist strap.


<<I will treasure this,>> Gus said dramatically. “Thank you so much.”


“You can keep it if it means that much to you.” Alden grinned and targeted him. “But I would appreciate it if you handed it back to me.”


<<Your weapon for the day?>>


“Yes. I assume I’ll be carrying people and switching out between things they give me all day? But just in case they’re really strict and won’t let other people entrust me with stuff for some reason, I figure I’d better have an object ready to go the second I walked through the doors.”


<<Rabbits are the most prepared class.>>


“Are we?”


<<We are the handsomest, the richest, the cleanest, and the most thoroughly prepared for every eventuality. Forty-eight seconds? It’s no trouble. A Rabbit man carries all he needs to survive the ravages of interplanetary travel upon his person.>>


“Huh,” said Alden. “I hadn’t thought of it that way. But we should be the most prepared class.”


Gus nodded, stood from his beanbag, and gave a full bow, arms flared outward. It was a fancy Artonan “Welcome to the House, Very Important Person” bow. Gustavo did a lot of work on Triplanet weekends as a fill-in butler.


After standing back up, he returned the umbrella.


“Thanks.”


<<Make us proud, Hero Rabbit!>>


“I’ll try.”


“Big smile!” said Gus, as Alden entered the elevator. <<When you get downstairs, make sure you smile for them all.>>


Who all?


A few seconds later, the doors opened again, and Alden flattened himself against the back of the elevator, clutching his umbrella in both hands, as he was greeted by squeals, cheering, and applause.


Ohmygodwhatisthis!? he thought frantically, while dozens of overlapping subtitles blitzed across the lower half of his vision, and Emilija and Paolo dove into the elevator to drag him into the crowded lobby.


