It was a very tight and tidy package of talents for a U. Many of the uniques seemed to have powers that didn’t quite go together or even ones that outright clashed. It was as if the Artonans had designed them at the end of one of their parties, when all the wizards were drunk and making a botched version of a Sky Shaper who communed with small animals on the side seemed like a hilarious thing to do.


Bedlam Beldam has made it work for years, but it can’t be easy…


“Congratulations on coming this far,” Principal Saleh continued. “As high ranks, you represent the top fifteen percent of young Avowed.”


She’s including B’s with high ranks. That’s good of her.


“As young people who have made it to the final stage of this selection process, you represent a much more exclusive percentage. Now, before I finish my welcome speech, let’s take care of a few matters.” She paused. “Those of you who have been through this on multiple occasions should now be seeing interview times and room numbers appearing on your interfaces. If your slot is in the next half hour, please proceed there now. There is no need for you to listen to information you’ve heard more than once before. As usual, you will note that returnee interviews are only five minutes long. If you fail to impress your committee in that time frame, you will not be allowed to return for power testing. Good luck to you all.”


A few dozen people stood, including many from the Franklin High group near Alden and Maricel. They left quickly. Some of them were grim-faced, others sweaty and wide-eyed.


“To the two of you who sent special testing requests into the school last night,” the principal said in a disapproving tone, “you may stay and observe today if you wish, but you won’t be allowed to participate. Your applications have been rejected for this cycle. We are pleased to accommodate unique powers and unique situations, but the window to notify us passed a month ago. Others who made such requests were prepared and respectful of our faculty members’ time. You were not. You may try again in December.


“To the rest of you, thank you for all the hard work you’ve done to get here. The School for Superhuman Studies and Talent Development provides a close-knit community of like-minded young people, and an excellent but grueling educational environment. As students hoping to join us, you are prepared to commit to a complete academic education on top of the talent development program we are known for. If you are accepted, you will not be allowed to neglect either. You will devote twice as much time to your schooling as most of your Avowed peers do, and it is our hope that in turn you will reap more than twice the results.


“Your personalized schedules for the morning are being sent to you now. Some of the times listed are very specific. Showing up late to anything will result in your dismissal. Please look over them now, and if you have any questions, let us know immediately.”


All over the room, people started scrolling through schedules with their fingers.


Alden’s own arrived, and he flicked through it with a thought.
 


[Alden Thorn - B4✶ - Locker 311]



06:30 - Special Talent Assessment - MagiPhys Lawn, Green Tent


07:38 - Substance Abuse Testing - Room 1002


08:00 - Gym Suit Fit Check and Usage Instruction - Main Gym


08:45 - Runner Group B2 - MagiPhys Track


10:00 - Combat Group 2 or Private Assessment (TBD) - Main Gym


11:30 - Interview - Room 1005


12:00 - Lunch - Locations Throughout Campus



* Please remain on campus until rejections and acceptances have been announced.

 

That’s a busy morning.


“Why is there a drug test when we’ve already had one as part of our physicals?” a guy sitting on the far edge of the room asked loudly.


“The physicals most of you had done months ago?” Principal Saleh said in a light voice. “Why wouldn’t you have to do another one?”


“It’s just…I don’t think…”


The principal raised her voice slightly, “Random substance abuse testing will be a feature of your life in most countries if you become a superhero or superathlete. It will also be a regular occurrence as a student in this program. Here, it involves spitting into a vial, wiping a drop of blood onto a magic test strip, and stepping briefly into a scanner. If that’s a problem for you, for some mysterious reason, then you should choose a different school and a different career. Any more questions?”


There weren’t.


“All right,” she said. “You are dismissed. I look forward to seeing you all throughout the day.”


People started to stand and exit.


“Which dining commons are you going to for breakfast?” Maricel asked, propping her foot up on the bleacher to tighten her shoelaces.


“I don’t have a breakfast time slot,” said Alden. “I have Special Talent Assessment now.”


“What’s that about? I don’t get to do that.”


“I think it’s probably for people who are coming in with less common powers. To make sure the faculty know how we work before they start throwing us at other students.”


“Oh…” she said. “What do you do? Other than your bunny run?”


“Let’s not call it that. I preserve stuff.”


“It’s a kitchen Rabbit skill? You turn food into pickles? Or jam?”


In that moment, Alden experienced an unexpected mix of horror and amusement. The thing was…instant pickling absolutely sounded like a skill the Artonans would include in the Rabbit class. There were plenty of kitchen-focused Rabbits out there. And it would even be useful for preserving all of the dead things and magic plants that wizards used for potions, tool creation, and spells.


There’s no way that skill doesn’t exist. It’s got to be on the list somewhere. People are probably walking around Anesidora with it right now.


“I think I’ve told dozens of people ‘I preserve stuff,’ without explaining any further,” he said in a stunned voice. “They all assume I’m a pickle maker. That’s definitely what they all think.”


“You don’t do that?”


“I surround objects someone else gives me with an invisible protective barrier that stops them from changing and prevents outside forces from interacting with them.”


“Oh!” she said in a relieved voice. “Good! That’s so much better. I was thinking maybe you could instantly pickle peoples’ body parts, but it didn’t sound like it would work very well.”
 
 

 

*
