“You say the person you met is one of the first to ever select it. She could’ve topped it off a decade or more ago. I’m sure there aren’t any C-rank Rabbits running around at level four or five who could make you too shy to get help when you were injured. And since it’s such a beloved talent, it might end up being a situation where people with it just have to be more open about their profiles from now on to prove they haven’t taken it really high. It’ll still be upsetting for them, but not life ruining. The Artonans might even change the skill for future human users…wouldn’t count on it though. Sounds like the mind control might be a desirable part of it, if it wasn’t a bad person using it that way.”

Alden threw his legs up onto the loveseat. “You think they want it to do that?”

“You think they designed one of their own favorite skills for their most frequently summoned class haphazardly?” Lute countered. “Tailor Environment is about arranging things so that they’re exactly where someone likes for them to be, right? Say you’re a wizard about to do some stressful wizard job. You snap your fingers, and a Rabbit appears. They clean your potion kitchen or whatever, prep your equipment in the perfect way and put all your tools exactly where they’ll be the most useful to you. Then, before you send them off with a pocketful of argold, you have them tuck your doubts and stresses behind task-focused thoughts so you can get down to business. Like having someone put the files in your head in order…it would be great.”

“I assumed she was pushing the skill way out of line from its intended use,” Alden said.

“She sounds like a freak. She touches brain without permission. If telling her victims makes the word spread, it’s a shame for all the nice Rabbits. But sometimes Avowed just have to deal with people thinking our powers are icky. And maybe, if it does work like I just guessed, it’ll be seen in a more positive light.”

Alden glanced back at Manon’s hourglass animation. He checked his other messages just to make sure Boe wasn’t back from catspace yet.

[Boater is getting their warnings today,] he texted. [Doing it the way we talked about. When you get back from your timeout, it’s your turn.]

Then he went into his System profile and, for the first time ever, he got creative with his name.

The Contract didn’t care what Avowed called themselves, and it didn’t mind them setting their preferred name to be entirely different things for different locations, people, or situations. It was normal among some species for an individual to have tons of names, and the Artonans were used to calling aliens whatever they wanted to be called.

Sending messages under false identities was frowned upon among human Avowed. Just like spam mail was frowned upon. But nobody could punish you for doing it if they couldn’t prove beyond a shadow of a doubt you had.

Alden changed his name to Alice. It was a decision he’d made in around a minute when he was working out the details of this plan. A female name was better for a couple of reasons. It started with A. He liked it…probably because someone named Alis had kept him from dying recently.

He set the emails to go out at staggered intervals. He’d spent hours tweaking them until they were as perfect as he could manage. Laura would receive hers in a few minutes. Half an hour later, the second would go to Chris. Then half an hour after that, to Naya. And so on…all the way to Pineda.

Then he hired a courier service to deliver hard copies of the emails to all the members of the boater in a few hours, after the last one had been sent. One would also be delivered to Alden at his dorm, as if the sender was concerned about him, too.

Finally, he created a special social rule for himself. Every action he had just taken had been done under the preferred name Alice, and the rule said that when referencing these past few minutes of his life the System should never call him by another name.

It was a sneaky feature from a human point of view. But the System liked doling out tons of options for the most trivial things…or maybe it was there because the Yumanit species had the concept of “momentary names.”

Alden switched his name back.

All the messages he’d just sent would now be from Alice. And if someone asked the System who’d sent them it would still answer “Alice” even though his name was now back to his original.

It was secure because the Systems were disinclined to tattletale.

Alden hadn’t always planned to send his warnings anonymously, but he’d decided there were significant benefits.

First, Manon had pre-disposed the boater to dislike him. What if her brainwashing would prevent them from believing any message with his name on it?

Second, if this all turned into a huge shitshow, he didn’t want Manon to try to sue him for defamation of character or something.

She was probably going to think it was him. Cly Zhao would think it was him if the news ever reached her. The boater members, if they didn’t suspect one another, would think it was him. Everyone and their uncle was going to suspect Alden Thorn, but if his name wasn’t on anything, how would they ever prove it?

He’d even used a girl’s name. Alice could have been ThwartHog, and there was no way they were going to get her onto Anesidora to say otherwise.

The physical letters were being sent in case the boater people had their interfaces set to block messages from non-friends or people with recent name changes. And so that Alden would have a copy of his very own to take with him when he went to talk to Laura. He could say he’d gotten the same warning as the rest of them and use it as his opener.

“I did it,” he said. “I warned the cultists.”

He’d expected to feel a sense of relief once the job was done. He was glad that he would wake up tomorrow with this task erased from his to-do list, but he also felt a little like he’d just stepped off a ledge without checking to see how far below him the ground was.

“Neat. That was fast.”

Lute could out him as the sender, but Alden didn’t think that he would. If he did…if anything did…Alden would just have to stand behind the letters and say, “Yeah. It was me. Manon Barre hurts people. Sorry that the way she does it is going to make a whole bunch of other Rabbits look bad.”

He hoped that a few of the boater members would go get themselves checked out…or even just one of them. And then, with proof in official hands, the legal system could deal with it all in a graceful way.

Maybe Anesidora is good at this kind of thing. If they’re not, then nobody else could be.

“The plan was in development for a while,” he told Lute. “Will you stay on the phone with me this evening while I go talk to one of them in person? In case she gets angry and attacks or the cult leader shows up and tries something on me.”

He’d promised Boe he’d have local backup.

“Of course. We’re having a special day together anyway.” Lute held out his hands. “System, I need my books.”

A stack of books that looked like they ought to be called “tomes” appeared in his hands. His head barely peeked over the top of them. “Impressive, aren’t I?”

“For using System storage?”

“For having free System storage,” said Lute. “It’s just for the books and some other job supplies, though.”

He turned and dropped the books onto the foot of the bed. “Good thing, too. They’re going to give me even more of these if I ever finish the first set.”

“What are they?” Alden asked.

“Most of them are full of wordchains I’m supposed to be learning. Sometimes it feels like my job as an Avowed is just perpetual homework. So much memorization.”

Alden stood and went over to look down at the book covers. “These are all written in logograms. Can you read them?”

“They get read aloud to me while I follow along. Like incredibly boring bedtime stories. To make matters worse, a lot of them aren’t even in modern Artonan. They’re from before the lingual unification. I was just memorizing the sounds of those ones…and then it turned out my boss was not impressed with that method even though it was working for me. So now I’m supposed to remember what all the sounds mean. You can imagine how well that’s going based on our Conversation classes.”

He rolled his eye.

“This…” He grabbed the smallest and plainest-looking of the books. It had a simple brownish red cover that flipped open from bottom-to-top instead of side-to-side. “This is what I was actually getting. I wanted to show off my homework and complain about it in the process. You can have this.”

“Do I need to read it?” Alden asked.

“No. It’s a ledger. They gave it to me on my first day as a Chainer for whenever I wanted to take a student.”

Lute held it out toward him, and he took it.

“You asked whether Self-mastery was an ‘exclusive’ wordchain, and I told you it wasn’t really. That I’d just need to vouch for you and get permission to teach it. This is the final step in me vouching for you. Giving you this means I’m taking responsibility for your wordchain usage.”

He scratched his head. “You’re supposed to write down all your chains in here. And then show it to me or send me a copy through the System, so I can remind you when it’s time to pay them back. Sorry…I know it’s childish.”

Alden flipped open the book. Inside, the first page had a spot for him and Lute to both sign their names. There was a line in logograms down one side that talked about following sacred paths. The second page was a grid. Despite the thick paper and some more poetic language sprinkled around, it was quite simple. There were spaces for chain names, casting dates, and finishing dates.

“You want me to write down everything I use?”

“Just what I teach you. If you wanted to write down more common ones when you use them, too, that would be a good thing for me. Parethat-uur is going to ask me about you all the time since he’s decided you’re the best, and you having a fuller ledger would make him very happy.”

“I don’t mind doing this,” said Alden, thinking it through. “I can’t imagine why it would be a problem for me. But I don’t understand why it’s necessary. Wordchains pay themselves off if you don’t pay them off in a timely fashion, right?”

“This is one of the things I was happy my boss ordered me to teach you about. The duty that I totally knew I’d get assigned when I called him. Wordchains do land the debt on you. If they’re healthy.”

“Healthy?”

“Let’s sit down,” said Lute, throwing himself at the green velvet chair. “This is only going to take a second to explain, but then we have to have our tutoring session and that’s going to take ages. Try not to get into trouble for the next few hours, all right? One mind control cult per day.”

*
