[Already? Meet me on the side farthest from the street. By the trees.]

“Found him,” said Alden, even though he hadn’t yet. “Bye, guys.”

He spun and headed away from the street, walking along the edge of the park to steer clear of the skateboarders. A second later, he saw Lute drop out of a tree and take a seat on a metal railing that marked the boundary between the park and a walking trail.

When Alden joined him, Lute said, “We’ve got half an hour until our car comes.”

“Car?”

“We’re going in style because we can…and because my boss is paying for it.” He nodded toward the park. “You want to go hang out with Haoyu and your hero program friends while we wait?”

The girls Alden had just left behind had their heads together. He wondered if Maricel was getting some kind of Lute-related gossip right now.

“Are you going to hang out with them?” Alden asked.

Lute pulled his knees up so that he was sitting on the railing like a gargoyle. He was wearing his safety pin pants and a t-shirt with a Jolly Roger flag on it. It wasn’t the first time Alden had seen him boldly go for pirate themed clothing with the eyepatch.

“Not my thing,” he said after a moment.

“Well I’m tired from jumping on boxes, so I’m good over here, too.”

Lute smiled. “Tell me about meeting Plopstar then.”

“She cheered me on while I exercised. Or maybe it was heckling. One or the other. Normally, Bobby would’ve asked her to stop. The gym has a ‘no bothering’ policy.”

“Don’t tell me you expected your personal trainer to yell at a hyperbole for you.”

“Of course not. I was just noting the difference.”

“A kooky hyperbole, no less.”

A thought suddenly occurred to Alden. “Do you think you’ll be one someday?”

“Huh?”

“A hyperbole,” said Alden. “I just realized you’re probably the person I know who has the best chance—”

“No!” said Lute, gripping the railing and staring at him. “What a thing to say!”

“You are super strong and you’re only fifteen,” Alden pointed out. “I know you’re not a Unique, and nobody except the rank-uppers have got confirmation about how the System makes the upgrade choices. But power has to be a major part of it. Surely people mention it to you sometimes?”

Lute coughed. “No. They don’t. That’s…probably because most of them think I’m jerking everyone around with the second S. But even if they did believe me, it doesn’t mean anything. S’s get second and third S-rank talents. It doesn’t mean you’re about to hyperbolize.”

Not fifteen-year-olds, thought Alden.

But Lute was looking wild-eyed, so he let it drop.

They watched the skaters for a while, paying more attention to the older people who were doing tricks with their magic than to Alden’s hero program classmates. While Lute was saying that someone who could float was way less impressive than professional non-Avowed skateboarders, Alden got a notification email he’d been waiting for and dreading.

[New Update from Barre Fine Environments!]

When he clicked the link, it took him to Manon’s main social media page, where, instead of the usual photo post filled with luxury goods and interiors, her away notice had appeared. It was an animation of a gold hourglass with the words “Currently Designing for Clients on the Triplanets” beneath it.

She’d been summoned.

He watched the hourglass turn over. He knew from looking at older posts that she was usually gone for at least a few hours.

So…this is our first chance to go through with the plan since we decided what the right plan was.

He sighed so heavily that Lute looked over at him. “You good?”

“I have to send a bunch of messed-up cult members messages letting them know I have observed the fact that they are in a messed-up cult and advising them to go promptly to the nearest Sway or Mind Healer to have themselves checked out for their own safety.”

“What the hell?” said Lute, tilting his head and giving Alden a confused look. “I need to ask. Do you just wake up every morning and try to make your life bonkers in a brand new way?”

“This is the first bonkers thing since I’ve met you!”

“Do you want me to give you a blow-by-blow of your past week? You did attend classes like a normal person. Sort of. But usually, prompting me to place a phone call to Parethat-uur on your behalf would be enough action for a couple of months, don’t you think?”

Alden stared at him. “Would it?”

Lute huffed. “I knew you didn’t think of it that way at all, which was why I wanted to do it for you in the first place. And then you had your own interesting phone call a couple of days ago. And now this. You are so busy, man.”

“I thought the past few days had been relaxing,” Alden said. “Actually, I know that they were relaxing for me.”

The System had totally pointed out how relaxing and pleasant his week had been before it trapped him in his old school counselor’s office and threatened him with levels.

“I’ve even been sleeping at night!”

“Oh yes. Sleeping at night, of all times, is proof that you’re taking it easy.” He slid off the railing and punched Alden lightly on the arm. “Come on. Our ride’s here. You have got to tell me about why you’re involved with a cult. I’m excited. Living with you is exciting. Let’s go spend five thousand argold on a tutoring session.”

“How much?”

“Probably more than that actually. I’m not sure what the little gifts cost.”

“The what?”

******

They got in a car with tinted windows and a driver who spoke not a word to either of them. He took them to a parking garage where there was another driver in another car with tinted windows. They didn’t transfer vehicles. They just waited for a few minutes, and then both cars drove out of the garage together and turned in opposite directions down the street.

“Lute, is all of this necessary?” Alden hissed. “We’re going to talk to each other, not commit crimes.”

Lute was sitting crosslegged in his seat, eating a chocolate bar that had been provided in the car’s snack basket.

“Call me Mr. Velra. That’s my crime name.”

Alden snatched a bag of peanuts from the basket and started eating them nervously.

“Chill. It’s just part of the experience. If we were actually doing crime or concerned about people knowing we were having a private meeting, then we’d be doing something completely different. You can arrange a much more secret rendezvous if you’ve got enough money and put enough forethought into it. Teleportation is what the best bad guys use.”

“Seriously?”

Lute nodded. “The allotment the System gives Anesidora is enough for the government to sell local rides. Just not that many.”

The car made two more stops at locations where it could have put them out without them being spotted before it arrived at their actual destination. It was another parking garage. This one was for a luxury mall in midtown Apex, not that far from where they’d started.

Alden raised an eyebrow at Lute as they followed a slender woman in a tight black pencil skirt down a service corridor. She looked like she was in her early twenties. When they reached the end, she turned to them.

<<My profile,>> she said in Spanish.

A moment later, her full Avowed profile appeared in front of them. She was a D-rank Sway with nothing but a lie detection ability. <<Do you consent to me using my powers to confirm the honesty of your answers?>>

“Yep,” said Lute.

“Okay,” said Alden.

He felt her target him almost at once. Being targeted was even more subtle now that he wasn’t suffering from post-affixation sensitivity, but he still noticed it when he wasn’t very distracted or when he was a little on edge. <<Do you have any intention of damaging the privacy booth you are about to enter?>>

“No,” he said.

<<Do you have any intention of leaving a device of any kind behind when you leave?>>

“I don’t.”

<<Do you have any intention of betraying your companion’s secrets to any entity?>>

Alden looked at Lute in surprise. Was this a standard question or one he’d requested specifically? “No.”

Lute answered the same three in the same way. “Both parties are honest.” She cracked a smile for the first time since they’d met her in the garage. “You’ll have to trust me on that since you’re not traveling with your own personal Sways.”

To Lute, she added, “The packages that arrived for you are waiting inside.”

Then she knocked on the wall behind her six times, and it swung open to reveal a room that definitely didn’t belong in this dull back corridor.

“It’s a replica of a suite on a European luxury train,” Lute said as soon as the door closed behind them. “I’m glad you picked snobby.”

It was compact, but the quality of everything made it feel like it wasn’t a closet. The walls were glossy wood with decorative geometric inlay. Light came from glowing sconces and a line of panels along one wall designed to look like windows with semi-transparent shades pulled down. The tiny seating area was just a green velvet chair, a cream-colored loveseat, and a side table with a stack of packages on it. Right behind the chair, a queen-sized bed with an inlaid headboard filled the rest of the room, and if they squeezed past the foot of it, there was a tiny bathroom behind a sliding door.

“Privacy spaces tend to be small,” Lute said. “It’s expensive to magically shield them from the million different ways people can pry, I think. So it’s smart if they’re designed to look like cool places that are supposed to be cramped. The underwater one was going to be a little submarine.”

Lute kicked off his shoes and flung himself on the brocade bedspread.

“Do they all have beds?”

“It seems to be a common feature.” He clucked his tongue before rolling off the bed and stepping past Alden to examine the boxes on the table. “We’ve got this place for six hours, so if you need to send your messages or something, go ahead. I’ve got to look through the supplies before we get started to make sure I understand what it is Parethat-uur expects me to actually do with you. While I’m opening these, please do tell me about your cult problem. I am incredibly interested in peoples’ cult problems.”

Alden took off his own shoes and sat down on the loveseat. It was so soft that it took him a second to stop appreciating the fabric with his fingers before he spoke.

“If there was an Avowed talent that was capable of mind control and it wasn’t known as that kind of power, how bad would it be for the people who had it if the news got out?”

Lute was undoing the latches on the front of a leather case.

“It depends. There’s plenty of magic that skirts the edges of mind control, and people usually don’t freak out about it. Everyone knows if you whack Appeal up far enough interesting things can happen before the System cuts you off or starts offering you alternatives. And there are some iffy spell impressions outside of Sway. As long as it’s still in a gray area where you can’t say for sure the person used magic directly on your actual thoughts—”

“I’m ninety-nine percent sure she does something directly,” said Alden. “I don’t think it’s the main way she controls her minions, necessarily. But it exists. I was really suspicious of her one day, and I knew she’d behaved badly toward me, then a couple of days later it was like that knowledge was at the back of my thoughts. My friends had to remind me that I had a problem with her, and I’m not usually forgetful about people who creep me out. And I was having a picnic with her cult once, and they were all being nice to me and I was being nice to them and then they just started strongly disliking me again mid-supper. And she totally convinced a lady with a busted leg that she was too shy to ask the medic for help.”

Lute looked up. “Yeah…that’s less gray area and more actual mind control. It would be awful for the people who had the talent without knowing it.”

Alden groaned. “I don’t want to ruin the skill’s reputation, but if the people I’m trying to help take me seriously, it’ll probably come out. I feel terrible about it.”

“It’s not your fault someone found a dangerous use for a skill.” Lute shut the case and opened a carved wooden box. “This kind of thing happens. Anyway, if it’s got a mind control component, it’s going to be news eventually. If it’s today or twenty years from now, the only difference is when it gets ruined for people. And there could be someone taking it right this second who wouldn’t if they knew it would make them look suspicious for the rest of their life. So you might be saving more people than you destroy.”

“Could we not use the word ‘destroy?’”

“What’s the skill?”

“It’s Tailor Environment. You know, the—”

Lute spun toward him. “Shit. That’s bad. I was assuming it was something obscure. That skill is so popular.”

“I know.”

“It’s one of the sure-thing skills for C-rank Rabbits.”

“I know.”

“Everyone loves that skill. It makes the world comfortable. And it makes people so much money.”

“The woman who’s misusing it is older. Probably one of the first people to acquire it, before it even got really popular here on Earth.”

“Ohhhh…” Lute bit his lower lip and furrowed his brow. “Has the skill found its top yet?”

“The guy who really popularized it says his is at level fourteen now. So probably around there.”

“So it’s a skill that gets fat, too. That makes it more desirable. But it should make you feel better.”

“Why?”

