Andrela's face flushed red from embarrassment, even though she had been topless in front of him every night they had slept in the same bed together. Her skin was as white as it could possibly be, nearly transparent; but surprisingly, she didn't have a single freckle anywhere. Her breasts were only a little bit more than a handful, and Ren had to concentrate to make out the tips. They were so light that it was hard to distinguish where the edges were, and then he quickly glanced down at her special place to see that she had already stored her underwear. The most surprising thing Ren noticed was that there wasn't a trace of hair anywhere on her, except for her head and eyebrows.

Just like him.

Andrela's long straight red hair highlighted just how pale she was. Her blush travelled down her neck and the top of her chest turned a little red.

“D-d-don't s-stare at m-me like th-that.”

“You're too beautiful not to admire.” Ren said, and she felt that it was true. He really believed she was beautiful. Her eyes teared up, and Ren took her into a hug. She put her arms around him, and she felt how much he wanted her.

“Thank you, thank you, thank you...” Andrela repeated, almost like a chant, and Ren leaned back a little to look at her.

“Thank you, Andrela.” Ren said, and kissed her. Her hands dug into the skin on his back, and he felt her desperation. It was even worse than Anabelle's had been when he had neglected her, and Ren picked Andrela up in his arms. “I'm going to make love to you now.”

“P-p-please!” Andrela said, and he gently put her down onto the bed. He ran his hands down her body and rested them on her thighs. She didn't need any prompting as she eased her legs apart.

“Look at that.” Ren said and kissed his way up her thigh, then stopped right at her special place. He used his tongue to lick the very edge of her, and her entire body tensed up as she went. Warm liquid trickled out of her in a steady stream, and Ren wasn't going to let that go untended.

“It seems I have a bit of a mess to clean up.” Ren said and dug his tongue inside of her.

“AHH!” Andrela yelled as she went again.

“You poor thing.” Frikara said as she laid down on the bed beside Andrela. “I didn't realize it was this difficult for you to be near him without being with him.”

“I... I hid it.” Andrela said. “I couldn't... he couldn't know I... that... AHHH!” She yelled as she went again.

“She's like an overstrung bow.” Anabelle said, her voice full of concern. “Ren, you can't keep plucking her string, or she's going to break.”

Ren stopped licking, then gently kissed Andrela's special place. “I really like doing that.” He said and moved up to place himself at her opening. “I usually work a woman over before getting to this step.”

“Just do it!” Verwynn said, and everyone looked at her. “Can't you feel it? She's... all I can think of is that she's starving.”

“Not any more.” Ren said and pushed himself inside of her. Andrela wrapped her legs around him and gripped his shoulders. “I'll feed you as much as I can.”

“Oh... oh, Ren!” Andrela said as he started to move, and she knew he would keep his word and 'feed' her as much as she wanted. She was really tight, so he had to go slow for the first few minutes; then she adjusted to him and eased down on how much she gripped him. He leaned close and kissed her, then moved faster.

Ren could feel it building within her, and so did everyone else. He was sharing everything; his feelings, her feelings, and even the feelings of the other maids. He could tell when Andrela was getting close, so he slowed down and felt it move away.

“Wh-what... what are you... Ren, please...”

“I'm not ready yet.” Ren said and kept moving. “Soon, though.” He almost laid on top of her and put his face beside her head and kissed her ear. Andrela gasped at the sensations he was bringing out of her, and so did the other maids. After a few minutes, he started to throb inside of her. He picked up the pace and Andrela's body matched his movements. For every thrust he put into her, she pushed her hips up to meet him. He reached deep down inside of her, both physically and emotionally with his Emotion Siphon ability; and when he was about to finish, he spoke softly into her ear so that only she could hear him.

“I want you to have my child.” Ren whispered, then spilled himself inside of her as he orgasmed.

“BY THE GODS!” Andrela yelled as her entire body reacted to his words. She clenched up so hard on him that it felt like he was in a vise, and then she finished as well. She bit into his shoulder with her teeth, then growled and tried to chew on him as her arms and legs held him tightly. No one tried to stop her from biting him, because they were all going along for the emotional roller coaster that her extreme pleasure was giving them.

None of them could believe how much she had repressed her sexual desire, and Ren felt how much she wanted him to bite her back. He wasn't really into that kind of thing; but since he wanted to make her happy, he dug his teeth into her soft shoulder and bit her.“GRRR!!” Andrela growled and moaned as she went again, and that made Ren go again. They all felt how happy she was, and then she started to calm down as their feelings of happiness and joy for her let her come back to herself. She stopped biting him, and he stopped biting her, and she opened her arms to slide them up to his shoulders; but, she kept her legs wrapped around him.

“My Lord, I... Ren, I...” Andrela tried to talk as sorrow for biting him filled her.

“Don't be sorry.” Ren said and kissed her. “You can bite me as much as you want.”

“B-but...”

“Does my shoulder look damaged?” Ren asked, and she looked at it.

“It... but, I... I chewed on you!”

Ren chuckled. “I never thought I'd ever be used as a chew toy; but, I'm really glad it was someone so cute that did it.”

Andrela's face flushed red again at his sincere compliment, and he gave her another kiss. He tried to move out of her, but she kept her legs around him.

“Andrela?”

“Just... hold me for a few minutes.” Andrela said. “I want to... to keep this memory.”

Ren smiled and hugged her, then nuzzled her neck for a few minutes. “How was that?”

“It was... how can you still be so hard?” Andrela asked.

“It's a gift.” Ren said with a smile.

Andrela unwrapped her legs from around his waist, and Ren pulled out of her. He equipped his armor bodysuit for an instant to clean up, and stored it again. He turned to Frikara and smiled.

“My Lady, would you do me the honor of accepting me as a potential suitor?” Ren asked.

“By the gods, yes!” Frikara said and jumped on him. Ren laughed as she kissed his cheek and his nose, and then he felt her feelings turn very serious. He looked her in the eyes, and she very carefully kissed him and stared at him. She broke the kiss and smiled.

“Undress me.” Frikara said, and Ren obliged. He undid the back of her dress and eased it down, to reveal a pair of the nicest breasts he had ever seen. She felt his appreciation of the sight, and touched his cheek. “I think it's time you tasted them.”

“Yes, My Lady.” Ren said and cupped one of her breasts with both of his hands and stuck the tip of it into his mouth.

“OH!” Frikara said as he sucked on it like it was going to give him milk to drink, and her heart beat faster as he switched to her other breast and did the same thing. He played with her breasts for several minutes, then laid her down on the bed and slid her dress off all the way. Anabelle didn't even have to move over, since the bed was so big; so, she stayed where she was as Ren eased Frikara's underwear off to reveal her completely naked body.

Frikara had dark black hair that would have been long, had it not been constantly done up in a tight hairdo. It kind of looped in on itself and looked quite stylish; and Ren asked her to undo it for him. She did so, and her dark hair cascaded down and over the bed like a wave. Her light skin was as appealing as her chest; which was a good size, had dark tips, and contrasted with her dark hair nicely. Her womanhood was obscured by hair as thick and dark as the hair on her head, and he felt that it suited her quite well. She was statuesque and a little thin, even for her short height of 4 foot 5 inches; but, it suited her body type well and she looked tantalizing as she laid on the bed to wait for him.

“Can I go down on you, or...”

“You can do what you want.” Frikara said, and Ren felt her utter freedom as it filled the shared Aura. “I'm yours, and will be forevermore.”

Ren smiled and laid down between her legs, and she felt how much he was going to enjoy it. When his lips touched her there, she shivered. He liked that a lot, and he made sure to lick and taste everything. She had much more composure than Andrela did; and Ren wasn't sure if it was because she had already gone several times or if she would always be this composed. He found a sensitive spot on her and used it with his tongue, then added a finger.

Frikara was already soaked, even though he hadn't made her finish; and he doubled his efforts to make sure she was going to feel good. Frikara had thought Ren was going to give up on trying to please her that way, mainly because it was taking so long; but, he kept at it. Being played with there wasn't one of her favorite things, and Ren could tell that she wasn't as into it as she could have been.

Time to pull out the stops. Ren thought, clamped his mouth over her little nub, shoved two of his fingers inside of her opening over and over as he sucked on her and flicked his tongue on her sensitive part.

“AhhHH!” Frikara exclaimed and went. She had never had that happen before from being kissed there; so, she was quite unprepared to see a stream of warm liquid spray out and onto Ren's face. “N-N-NO!”

Ren felt her shock at the spectacle, so he let both tranquility and happiness fill the shared Aura. “It's all right, Frikara.” He said. “That was great!”

“B-but I... you're face is...”

Ren used a hand to wipe at his face and licked his hand and then his lips. “I couldn't have had a better compliment.” He said. “I could feel that you weren't really into it, so I tried my best to make you go.”

“It worked.” Frikara said. She was still embarrassed; but, she could feel that Ren really did like that it happened. “Now stop playing and become one with me.”

Ren equipped his armor bodysuit for an instant to clean up, then stored it as he laid down and positioned himself at her opening.

“Are you sure you're ready?” Ren asked.

“More than I ever have been.” Frikara said. “Of all the times I thought I was ready, I wasn't. I never knew that you... that we... yes, dearest. I'm ready for you.”

Ren slid inside of her and only had to push when he was almost all the way in. Frikara closed her eyes as they became one, and a tear escaped the corners. He used a hand to wipe her eyes, and she opened them to look at him.

“I'm so happy!”

“I know you are.” Ren said and kissed her. He made love to her for almost half an hour before he felt her start to get close. He knew the fast and quick approach wasn't going to work on her, since her body's response to stimuli was so low; so, he kept going at a slow and steady pace.

“R-Ren!” Frikara said and he felt a spike in her emotions. “I'm... by the gods, I... I'm going to...”

Ren leaned in close to put his mouth by her ear, just like he did with Andrela, and spoke softly so that only she could hear him. “Give me an heir.” He whispered and kissed her cheek, then spilled himself inside of her as he orgasmed.

“AHHHHHHHHHH!!!” Frikara screamed as she felt Ren fill her up, and she orgasmed hard as an emotional volcano erupted inside of her at the same time. The other maids yelled as well, as they felt all the years of her frustration and sorrow at being discarded and ignored. It flooded out like lava from her and tried to burn them all with it's negativity.

Ren used his ability to scoop it all up before it could do any damage to anyone, and swallowed it whole. They all looked at him with wide eyes as he used his ability to delve deep into Frikara to find all of those feelings, and he pulled them out of her.

“R-Ren!” Frikara's face was covered in tears, and he kissed them.

“You are not alone. You are here, you are loved, and you are needed.” Ren said. “You can feel it, right? How much we all need you? How much you mean to us?”

“I... I do.” Frikara said.

“Then you never need to worry about being ignored.” Ren said. “I might not have been here the last little while; but, I was always thinking about you.”

“I k-know.” Frikara sobbed. “You wanted to get back to us, even while you were fighting for your life.”

“Of course I did.” Ren smiled and kissed her. “I'm sorry I didn't tell you that this could happen between us before I was hurt during my Adventurer's business, and I regret that I couldn't make it back to you until now.”

“Oh, Ren.” Frikara said, and the other maids echoed her. He felt 5 hands on his back, and the emotions they shared with him made him smile. Gratitude, disbelief, satisfaction, desire, and contentment. He eased out of Frikara and sat up, while the others kept their hands on him.

Verwynn looked at Ren's still erect member and shook her head. “It really is Mjolnir.”

“I think someone just volunteered to be the next one to 'feel the thunder'.” Ren said in a deep voice, and that made everyone laugh.

“Yes, please.” Verwynn said, and Ren made her feel the thunder. She liked it. She liked it a lot.

Lusinia was next, and then Navruth; and much to everyone's surprise, he satisfied them all.
