“No.” Ren said. No matter what it said, he knew what the real update was for... and the 'bug fix' was actually the company's attempt to get him out of the system. He looked down at himself and saw that he wore his Elven Court outfit... and the beetle crown was on his finger. Cool.  “Summon Teepo!” Ren said and tapped the ring with his thumb.  Teepo appeared and Ren picked him up. He put Teepo on his shoulder. It was now his regular perch.  “M-m-master? Are we...” Teepo shuttered. “...in the great beyond?”  Ren laughed and it echoed in the empty space. “No, Teepo.” Ren said, but then stopped. If anything, this would be 'the great beyond' for Teepo. It was the loading area for the game... but Ren didn't want to scare the little guy like that. “I'm just waiting to get back to the city.”  Teepo skittered from one shoulder to the other. “So... so this is... Limbo?”  “Yes... yes, Teepo! That's it exactly.” Ren smiled at Teepo and Teepo chittered in delight. They both waited to get back to their 'lives'. Instead of Ren fading out of the white expanse as usual and going into the game, this time the game faded in and formed around him instead. He thought it was a bit weird, but figured it was the update that messed things up. When the game came into focus, he realized where he was. He was back in the mansion, in the room he'd first woken up in. That was an odd restore point to have, but he didn't question it. Ren went to the door of the room, but didn't open it. He activated Sneak and listened. He could hear nothing on the other side and then opened the door. He still heard nothing and moved down the hall to the left. He knew how to get back to the main hall from there. Teepo hadn't seen this part of the mansion and was all excited. He stayed on Ren's shoulder, despite wanting to skittle around on the beautiful tiled floors. Ren chuckled to himself. If he thought he had the time, he'd let Teepo do just that.  Ren got to the stairway and he heard noises come from downstairs. He stopped and listened, but he could barely hear people talking. He slowly crept down the stairs, one at a time, and paused on each one. When he was almost at the bottom, a group of four people passed by in the hallway, right below where he stood. They didn't see him, but he froze anyways.  Teepo, go!  Teepo jumped down and skittered down the stairs and barely touched them. He disappeared around the corner. Ren waited for a few moments and then Teepo spoke.  “Master! The party is still going on!”  What? How?  “I don't know... but there are still lots of people here and they look like they are performing some type of mating ritual.”  Ren was shocked when he heard this, and turned off Sneak. Teepo must be seeing things... Ren thought as he walked down the stairs, down the hallway, past some bystanders, and into the main hall. Ren almost laughed when he saw what Teepo had seen. People actually were doing a kind of mating ritual. They were dancing. Ren looked at the crowd of people that were now gathered in the middle of the hall.  They're dancing, Teepo.  “That's what I said, master. A mating ritual.”  Ren laughed and looked down at Teepo. He wasn't going to try and explain the differences to Teepo tonight. When he looked up, a young girl with glasses stood in front of him.  “Would you care to dance?” Rosie the Librarian asked as she held out her hand.  Oh, crap. Ren thought. Teepo chittered in laughter.
