The artwork was eclectic and spaced out like a conversation with Night and likely for the exact same purpose—to give people time to absorb and consider what they’d seen. The first painting that Ranthia witnessed (alongside a rabbit) bore an amazingly realistic apple surrounded by a strange, abstract background that felt somehow unsettling. Despite being painted using only three shades of orange!

Some paintings were whimsical, others moody, and more than a few were unashamedly lewd. Before each, Ranthia stood next to Clover while they both stared until the bunny moved on. She had no idea if her Bond was even really looking at the art or if the rabbit was just mirroring her for brief periods of time—and she found herself seriously questioning her entire thought process more than once as they moved deeper within the building. The halls branched and shifted—though they were always curved, to prevent anyone from seeing too much of what was to come. It was easy to see how people could get lost within the halls, even without the distraction that the art provided.

To the surprise of no one, the first sculpture they found was an erect phallus. Ranthia chose not to linger.

By the time they found an exit, Clover seemed to be somewhat done with the whole affair. But Ranthia was proud of her—she never even tried to chew on anything! Together they grabbed lunch and ate in a nearby park, before Ranthia carried a drowsy bunny home and tried (and failed) to get Clover to climb into her new, soft bed.

Instead, the bunny slept on a towel under Ranthia’s bed.

“I’m just here for a drink and to relax, I swear.” Ranthia justified her presence to the scowl on the massive elf’s face.

“Fine. Sit.” The woman half-snarled, before she turned back to the bottles and casks that lined her bar.

It was still a bit early by her standards, but the Lodge was already moderately rowdy with a wide variety of Hunters in varying states of intoxication. Taverns were taverns wherever she went, it seemed. Aside from the tiny detail that people actually rushed to clean up after themselves if drinks spilled or food hit the floor—often accompanied by fearful glances toward the proprietor. That part was new.

“Rare to see a crowd full of Adv—er, [Warriors], [Mages], and [Rangers] show so much deference to the owner.” Ranthia commented.

Not that she was surprised. Not only was the woman an absurd spectacle of physical power, but she had the levels to match. [Warrior – Pyronox] level 2560, [Warrior – Lava] level 2560, [Warrior – Mountain] level 2560. There was probably a story about why she was staying at a class up point, but that wasn’t a second visit kind of query.

“Mn, I’ve been here more than four hundred years. Long before any of these fools ever started up their inane little club. I never wasted an opportunity to make sure they knew respect; least not after I came to learn what happened if I tried to tolerate bullshit.” The elf gave a response before she set a crystalline cup down in front of Ranthia, full of dark liquid.

“…Um?” It wasn’t like she’d ordered yet!

“First drink’s on me, and don’t ask why I do that. I made a guess about what you’d like, and I’m rarely wrong.” She explained, before she walked to the side to hear another patron’s request.

Ranthia shrugged and took an experimental sniff and sip. The drink was tart—delightfully so—with blackberry and spices. The burn of the alcohol was obvious on her tongue and down her throat, but there was surprisingly little trace of it in the well-balanced flavor of the drink.

“Huh, you weren’t wrong. This is pretty damn good.” Ranthia called out her compliments.

“Grand, it’s a medium emerald a cask, so I’ve been needing someone else here that’ll drink it to make it worth stocking.” The distracted reply came a few moments later, as she finished filling one mug and turned to the next.

“What, been looking for a drinking buddy?” Why did she sound hopeful?! Gods and goddesses, there really should be a word for someone that was both inexplicably interesting and intensely intimidating.

…Oh, wait, there was one in High Elvish.

But seriously, Ranthia seldom found herself very interested in muscular women. She wasn’t even sure if she was genuinely attracted to the (thus far) nameless tavernkeeper or if it was just some sort of bizarre fascination at the sight of someone so far removed from Ranthia’s own sense of normalcy.

That or she had a thing for women that could break her in half with their pinkie and just had never found an opportunity to discover it before then.

…She probably shouldn’t explore those thoughts while seated at the woman’s bar, wearing nothing more than mistweave.

“Fuck no, I don’t drink my own wares. It’s a different one of these idiots that likes that stuff—she isn’t here currently or I’d let you bother her.” The woman was at the other end of the bar, setting drinks on a serving tray, but it wasn’t like the place was noisy enough to make it hard to hear her. It was rowdy and had a great ambiance, but there was surprisingly little shouting.

Ranthia took another sip of her fruity beverage while she studied the bar itself. There had to be a hundred and twenty-eight different bottles and little casks on the simple wooden shelves behind the bar, to say nothing of the tapped barrels that lurked beneath them. Though Ranthia’s eyes kept wandering further up.

The previous night she’d assumed it to be a decorative bit of flair—as if there was any trace of such frivolity in the Lodge—but the more she looked, the more convinced she became that it was horribly real. A sword that was even longer than Ranthia was tall—and was almost as wide as she was, no less!

The hilt was simple and bereft of any design beyond raw practicality, with worn leather wrapped around the grip and a solid lump of metal serving as the pommel. The blade itself couldn’t be seen, though the sheath seemed to be a seamless, single piece of impossibly massive bone that’d been carved to accept the blade. It was hard to imagine the weight of such a weapon, but bands of black iron with massive spike-like nails kept it firmly in place.

“That’s Steel, and yes, she’s my real blade. I hung her up there as a promise and to keep myself from reaching for her every time someone pisses me off. Read between the lines all you want, or gossip with the rest of the fools—I’ve never told anyone more than that, and I hope to never have to.” The woman had her hand raised toward the blade, but she kept her arm lowered and stiff, even as she studied the shape of her hand imprinted into the leather after untold years together.

Her voice was even more honest—there was no way to miss the longing in those words.

Nor did Ranthia miss the note of apprehension.

But everyone had their own past, and Ranthia knew better than to pry. They barely knew each other, and only time would allow her to earn enough trust to ask to hear a little more. Not that she had any idea what to expect from her future; until Avyna showed up and they discussed their plans, she was, more-or-less, just spinning her proverbial wheels.

She had no idea how long she’d remain in the City of Arts; she just fully intended to enjoy however much time she had. She’d barely gotten a glimpse of the city, but she was undeniably fascinated—and not just with the pretty (and/or terrifying) women.

Who knew—maybe by the time she finally reunited with Avyna, she’d finally truly understand how to be an immortal. Or, preferably, how to stand amongst her newfound peers as an equal instead of feeling like she was an outsider intruding on something greater than she could ever hope to be.

Elves truly were unfair…
