Hear my song.

Hear it true.

Hear this hymn.

Hear this tune.

Hear these strings within your mind.

Hear these notes unraveling the ties that bind.

For what was will never be again.

And for what I sing to be the truth, beginning, middle, and end.

Hear me now, and hear me through.

What once was lost, and thus fades the truths you knew…

-Kathereine the Songbringer, Hymn of Ensured Truth

260

Loyalty [II]

"I see you looking at me there like you don't remember this butchery happening. Well, that's normal. Most people don't remember that to be the exact turn of events. Instead, they know this little period of history by another name. They call it the Half-Cape Rebellion."

Jessica's words caused Adam's mind to reel in disbelief. "What? No, nonono, the Half-Capes were trying to overthrow the Ascendants on behalf of the Southern Gods. They were in league with the Scarred Ones and the Lords of Blood and Sacrifice. They seeded cults across the capital in some of our most major cities. They primarily targeted other noble houses. Eventually, it was estimated that 25% of the nobility were affected. This is basic history. I don't recall ever seeing an exact casualty count, but…"

"Now, you might be thinking, 'But wasn't the Half-Cape Rebellion some kind of Anti-Ascendant conspiracy created by the Southern Gods of Sacrifice?'" Jessica rolled her eyes. "Absolutely. It did happen. Except that the Half-Capes of House Alano were put down before they could ever truly fan the flames of rebellion. But thanks to Kathereine, that little conspiracy stole my spot as we rolled in a grand rebellion to rip the nobility apart from the inside."

"So, you're telling me that Kathereine somehow used her divine powers to twist everyone's memories? To make them forget what actually happened?" Icicles were forming in the depths of Shiv's chest. If the Songbringer was capable of such power after all, then just how much didn't the Republic know about the outside world? Was this something they'd used against the Abyss? How many times had they rewritten the past?

"Close, but not quite," Jessica said. "The Ascendants are powerful, but there's a limit to that. There are other gods across Integrated Earth. There are Legends too. And Legends have the capacity to resist the will of gods. So, even if you manage to get practically everyone, there will still be a few people who remember what actually happened, who resist the pull of retro-history."

The Giantsbane shook her head and laughed. "The Southerners tried to use that on us a few times. They hit us with these Psychomantic bombs that were supposed to mentally enslave everyone they hit. It affected some people, but almost everyone with a bit of Magical Resistance shrugged off the effects because of how dispersed the bombs’ mana was. And also, our gods responded in kind.”

She waved a finger in a spiral motion. “You know, the thing about trying to rewrite history is, it's more than just memory. Erasing someone's existence means more than just wiping them out from everyone's recollection. There will still be rooms where people used to live. Items they had, things they left behind, traces they left on the world. And once you notice these things, well, it hurts the mind pretty bad to try and recall something that wasn't. Or something that was and then made not to be."

Before Shiv could respond to any of that, Jessica waved him off. "Look, the whole Psychomancy thing is a fucking mess. I don't like mind magic, I don't like Psychomancers, and anyone who uses it is kind of a creep in my book. And the powerful ones usually leave entire sections of the population broken mentally, never truly achieving their goals anyway."

"So, what did Kathereine do?" Shiv asked.

Jessica gave him a cold, cruel smile. "She didn't use Psychomancy to change the past. She used a Social Skill to twist the present. It wasn't a thing of, uh, what the fuck did they call it… felling… retroactive design. It was propaganda in motion. The moment I began my massacre, the Inquisition responded. Initially, they were dispatched to bring me down. And the bastards did, after less than twelve hours. “Apparently, they have contingencies planned for every single Legend or High Hero in the Republic, and they can assemble specialized teams meant to counter you. They dropped a series of dimensional wards so I couldn't use Rusty to maneuver or escape. Then they threw a bunch of expendable monsters at me while their specialized Psychomancers drilled through my Magical Resistance and turned my lights off. Sure, capturing High-Tier Primal Dragons is expensive, but it's less expensive compared to losing a Legendary Pathbearer you spent years of time and tons of resources training."

"So, they captured you," Shiv said.

"Oh yeah, they even put me in a cell. Kind of like you, I guess. Stripped naked, chained down... One of the Ascendants comes to talk to you. Who'd you get? Was it Cripple?"

"You know it was Cripple," Shiv shot back. "You were there when Chandler ambushed me during my escape."

Jessica nodded, and the grim mirth never faded from her eyes. "You want to guess who came down to speak with me? Who decided to comfort my wounded heart and try to fill me with purpose once more? Come on, guess. Let's see if you get it."

Shiv frowned. Part of him wanted to push past this, but he was also genuinely curious. He read her face, and there was something there for him to discover. A hint. As he focused on her, he realized there was a glint of irony in her eyes. He had to have a connection to the Ascendant she was thinking of, and that left only a few choices.

It couldn't be Cripple. No, Cripple likely would have told Shiv something about Jessica if they had a prior arrangement. More importantly, Cripple wasn't responding now. Radio remained silent within Shiv's cape. So it was either Halsur, Kathereine herself, or the Starhawk—and only the last one suited the System's insatiable urges.

"Was it the Starhawk?”

The Giantsbane clapped. "Got it in one! The Starhawk just strolled into my cell and talked to me about why I did what I did, like a kid in detention. Even tried to empathize with me. He told me he was sorry about Jackie, about my kids having to grow up without a father, that he understood there's a great many injustices being committed within the Republic. All that corny shit I really wanted to hear."

She noticed the look of near disbelief on Shiv's face and shook her head. "Look, this was before the time he decided to do a little rebellion of his own. He still fully bought into the whole Republic project. And he was practically the most loyal out of all the Ascendants. He did what he could to keep everyone together. He cared the most. Even as they all degenerated, he just cared some more. Because he was Starhawk the Just, and he was trying to do the right thing, always—for the kingdom, for his family, for his people. Up until all three of those things started clashing with one another. Which is how we got into our current mess."

"What happened after that?" Shiv asked. "Did you just go along with the Starhawk?"

"Hah! Fuck, no. I was still on my suicide run. I told him to let me out of my chains, give me back my sword, and give me a proper end. I wanted to die butchering the noble shits who got us into all those messes, who killed Jackie. Now, the Starhawk wanted to keep working on me, but halfway through our little conversation, Veronica Chandler decided to drop in, and she told the Ascendant to take a walk."

Jessica licked her lips and gathered herself. And Shiv saw it—a flicker of something snaking out from her body. The faintest trace of fear, thinner than string but truer than doubt. “That was the first hint I got of who was really running things in this Republic. My conversation with her was very different. I tried to provoke her into killing me or letting me out. She told me to shut up, and it felt like someone dropped a mountain on my head. It hurt. It tore into my mind and it battered my soul. You ever have someone beat you into submission using their words? You ever find yourself coughing up blood as someone recounts your flaws and breaks you from the inside?"

"You literally saw her use her Rhetoric on me," Shiv said plainly.

"She didn't use her Rhetoric on you, kid. She barely whispered to you. She wanted you intact, just like she wants me intact. She's not a cruel woman, but she'll do cruel things. If you give her a choice, however, she'll default to efficiency, and she'll give you the carrot while waving the stick somewhere far away. Which is what she did to me."

Jessica drew in a long breath, then, and the blade hovered near her. Rusty cleared his throat. "We shouldn't tell them so much. We shouldn't. They do not need to know."

"Why the fuck's it matter, Rusty?" Jessica scoffed. "Either way, we're going to be working with him in the future. Hell, if I had to guess, Veronica is going to have me serve as a mentor to you and Young Lord Arrow, if he's willing to come into the fold as well. Speaking of which, tell him to come out of your circus cape. Just him, not the other clowns."

Shiv almost let his surprise show on his face. "You knew they were there this entire time?"

"Kid, Rusty here has Legendary-Tier Dimensionality. Of course we knew. And if you were going to start a fight, the first thing he would have done was rip your cape open."

Shiv's lips thinned, but she ignored him. "Anyway, after torturing me to near-death with her words, reminding me how shit of a mother I was for up and leaving my kids without any farewell or forewarning, and telling me that Jackie was dead over and over again, I was pretty close to begging for death myself. Then, she stopped. Then, she fixed me with a few words. That was another experience: having every bit of your self-esteem and your broken soul put back together by someone convincing you that you're alright. And then she broke me again, and she made me alright again. And so on. By the time it was over, I was pretty close to being done. There wasn't much left of me. Not until she whispered something. Not until she brought me back fully for us to begin our proper conversation."

Jessica held up her index finger. "She explained a few things to me: firstly, I was supposed to become a hero of the Republic. In fact, there was a propaganda campaign positioned and ready to kick off all across the Republic about how I was the one that managed to stop the Half-Cape Rebellion. My slaughter of a few noble houses became a peacekeeping operation. It was described as clearing out cells of cult-like conspirators who wanted to bring our great nation low and turn us into slaves for the Southerners."

"And everyone just… believed that?" Shiv was stunned. It didn't make any sense. If the noble houses knew, then how could they go along with this?

"Of course everyone believed it," Jessica replied without any hesitation. "Because the alternative is that the Ascendants and Veronica Chandler, Legendary Councilwoman and the most trusted woman in all the Republic, is lying, and that she's doing something to cull the nobility. That also means that the Half-Cape Rebellion was something she decided to foment. Something she supplied off the side. Until it was ripe, until there was an opportunity for them to spend them as political capital."

Jessica realized he still didn't get it, so she elaborated. "Alright, unknown to me, there was a bigger game taking place then. It was between Veronica Chandler and the late Councilman Hendricks. Now, Councilman Hendricks was a member of House Hendricks. Square jaw, nice hair, big fucking asshole—wanted to shove his cock into anything that moved, and sometimes did. You can see why Longinus loved and used him as an Avatar. At the time, there was a struggle going on between him and Veronica. He wanted to split the power of the state to divert more authority from the top and divest resources to each of the noble houses. His argument was that it would make the Republic more responsive, allow the local rulers and nobles to strengthen themselves and diversify the Republic's capabilities, and all that drivel. More practically, however, it would make him and his family even richer than before and would allow them to dictate the future of the nation."

"And Veronica was against this?" Shiv asked. "Isn't she supposed to be a noble too? She's descended from Kathereine."

"But there's no House Chandler, is there?"

Shiv paused. He couldn't quite recall ever hearing about a House Chandler.

"Right, exactly. There's no such thing as House Chandler. That's because the Inquisition is House Chandler. That's because the upper echelons of the Republic are House Chandler. That's because control and rulership over the entire political apparatus concentrated into one woman is the idea of House Chandler—not nobility, not bloodline, her.”

Shiv grimaced. “So, this was a fight between a woman trying to stay as close to an absolute monarch as the Republic has, and a fucker trying to pull some of her power over for himself and the rest of the elites. I don't know who I want to root for less."

"You want to root for her," Jessica said, as if he were simple.

Shiv gritted his teeth. "I would never root for Veronica Chandler, no matter what she did. She disgusts me. Who she is disgusts me."

