The Giantsbane looked him up and down and gave him a smirk. "You know, you sound like her sometimes. You act like her, just with a lot more anger and a lot less control. Yeah, I was wrong. You probably won't become like me if you live long enough. No, she'll use me as your whetstone, but eventually she'll be molding you into something or someone like her. Just maybe not greater than her. She probably wants another monster, a reliable monster, one she can understand. And before you say that's not happening, get this—it's not up to you. I thought it was up to me, and then it wasn't. Now, where was I? Right, Hendricks. He was the Avatar of Longinus. At the time, they were going through a bit of an imperialism kick. There were still pockets of land in the East we hadn't claimed, and we had to drive back the Storm King from the Atlantic, so, plenty of money to be made in wars and conquests. But it's also expensive—expensive in lives and expensive in resources. Veronica wanted everyone to sit tight, to build up, to play defensive for a while.”

Jessica didn't make it hard for Shiv to guess where the issue arose. “Hendricks disagreed?”

“Hendricks disagreed. And then he started gathering support from all the High-Tier Pathbearers, because the strongest of the Republic had the opportunity to make money, but they were being ordered to stay away from hostile borders under the rule of law. Didn't seem to make sense to most people, right? If you're powerful, you should be able to do something without someone even higher up the political ladder telling you otherwise."

"So, Veronica ended up using you against Hendricks? Wasn't he supposed to be an Avatar of Longinus?" Shiv was getting a picture of the chaos, the political machinations. Always some bullshit up at the top. Always.

"He was, but for most of the Ascendants, Avatars come and go. Frankly, there are only two that have remained consistent after all these years. And that's just the way Veronica likes it. Back to me, though. Turns out, one of the houses I decided to empty out was House Hendricks. The boy who hurt my oldest daughter? Yeah, another Hendricks brat. Didn't know his name, didn't want to know, just wanted to kill. And now I find myself involved in someone else's war, in a struggle that initially had nothing to do with me, but now sees me taking the center stage as someone assisting the Inquisition in an operation to ‘preserve the Republic's sanctity and security’ or some felling shit like that."

Shiv began to put the pieces of the story together. There were conspiracies arrayed against conspiracies. The Half-Capes were supposedly a group of rogue nobles that didn't hold that much significance in actuality. They were just patsies used by Veronica to justify her actions against a rival. Now, Jessica's involvement was circumstantial and beneficial; made possible through happenstance. But there was something he couldn't quite figure out yet. Something that didn't fit for him.

"Why'd she need to use you?" Shiv asked. "Yeah, sure, you're a Low Legend by that point. But why you? She has plenty of other resources. If the Half-Capes were in place to be expended... why you?"

"Because I'm the Giantsbane," Jessica said, an empty smile on her face. "Because I'm the one the smallfolk love and the nobles fear. Because my name echoes through the Republic, and because people look up to me for whatever stupid, delusional reasons. And because it's easier to shape propaganda using people who are already involved, twisting the actual situation rather than trying to change what actually happened."

"So, you ended up butchering most of House Hendricks and a bunch of other ones, and now she wants to take advantage of that. She wants to make you seem like a hero for what you did." But then things clicked for Shiv. He understood what Veronica was thinking. "Holy shit, you were also expendable, weren't you? She was using you against Hendricks, but she didn't know if you were going to succeed. If you failed, she would disavow you, and then she would say that you were simply a mind-broken Legend who went on a rampage. But since you succeeded, the propaganda played all the way through, and so you basically became a hero that put down a spreading cult trying to destroy the Ascendancy rather than someone who was venting her rage by committing mass murder on the nobility."

Deductive Reasoning 12 > 15

Gardener of Doubt 60 > 62

The Giantsbane looked surprised. "Good shit. And here I thought you were a little bit dim, kid. You know, sometimes I can't tell if you're really smart or really fucking dumb."

"Depends on the moment, I guess," Shiv said. He had to admit, the scheme was devious. Of course, Veronica would use Jessica this way. The Giantsbane had nothing left to lose, was desperate, wanted to kill the nobility, and had the capacity to bring down a Councilman.

Now, how Jessica managed to kill an Avatar, Shiv wasn't sure. Maybe Longinus was disabled somehow, but he could imagine it happening. And since Jessica was the one coming after Hendricks, Veronica could keep her hands clean.

"You know, the funny thing about loyalty," Jessica continued, "is that everyone's loyalty is mostly to themselves or their family or something personal. No two people have the same amount of loyalty to the same thing. Hendricks, for all his flaws and for how much of a piece of shit he was, really believed in Longinus. He believed in traveling, expanding our horizons. Longinus liked Hendricks mainly because they shared similar flaws, you know? Sex, mithril, drugs, wanderlust. But Hendricks's greatest mistake was thinking that he was Longinus's friend. Before Hendricks, there was another, and another before him, and probably at least one more before him. The Wanderer knew Veronica far longer than he did Hendricks, and though Longinus wasn't the fondest of the Councilwoman, he knew which way the coin would probably land."

Jessica paused. "He also knew that Veronica always offers a larger carrot than the stick she promises to hit you with if you don't play along. She'd already found a replacement for Hendricks. One of his retainers, funnily enough. Some guy he forced into his service. Poor bastard. Wasn't even a High-Tier Pathbearer in martial terms. He was just some artist, a chef, I think? George or whatever. Can’t fully recall."

Shiv felt his breath catch in his throat. "Georges Archambault?"

"Yeah, something like that. Anyway, she managed to strike a deal with Longinus. If he, perchance, would be absent for a period and find himself venturing over into the Fairwoods while one of Veronica's operatives smuggled the chef into the land of cyclical wonders, well, let's just say Hendricks would be caught with his pants down, and his unprepared ass would be fighting me, a battle-hardened, don’t-give-a-shit-if-I-live-or-die Low Legend without the support of his patron god."

Shiv barely paid attention to the last few sentences. This changed what he knew about Georges once more. Hells, maybe Georges doesn't even know this about himself. He just said Longinus kept him captive, not that he was being groomed to become an Avatar…

"Anyway, I tried to resist Veronica at first, just because I had a few lingering bits of spite. I'm a pretty proud girl, but it was just for show. She had gotten all the way down to my barrel, and if she hurt me again, I would break completely.” Jessica smiled again, and Shiv felt himself unnerved by the expression. “But she didn't. She asked me to reconsider and made me an offer. An offer that ruined me. An offer that made sure I would always go back to her. And made sure I would never be alright again.”

"What was the offer?" Shiv asked, though he felt an undercurrent of dread beginning to build.

"Jackie," Jessica breathed. "Jackie was the offer."

"What, your husband?" Shiv asked. His brow creased. "You said he was dead. He died carrying the city of Delphia."

"That he did." Jessica nodded. There was something dark building behind her eyes. A hint of storm clouds. But also of glory, and the closest thing Shiv had ever seen to true, genuine happiness played across Jessica's face.

It was like she was a beacon briefly flickering before forgetting how to shine, and it filled him with horror. "Jackie is dead, but Veronica has a gift. Powerful Psychomancers can make you dream of things, can alter your memories, and adjust your personality. I don't want to forget Jackie. I don't want to remember him having… gone somewhere. I don't want him to be taken away. So, they don't do that. They don't take my memories of him away from me. No. Sometimes, Veronica and her grandmother get together to tell me a story and sing me a song. They make him real for me, for some periods of time. They make me believe he's still around. They bring him back to me. I'm with him for a while. Even if he's not there, I'm with him. You don't understand how wonderful it is, to just… just… just…"

Jessica's fingers twitched as her breathing grew fast, and her blade drew close. It nudged her like a dog trying to comfort its owner, and she shuddered. She held on to herself, and for the first time, Shiv saw Jessica Hawgrave for who she truly was.

She wasn't uncaring. She wasn't indifferent. She wasn't just some monster leashed to the Inquisition who did whatever the Republic wanted. This had nothing to do with patriotism. She was broken, conditioned like a dog, dependent like an addict, and the only ones that could supply her with the right kind of hit were the ones who controlled the Republic—Veronica Chandler and Kathereine the Songbringer.

"Fuck," Shiv whispered.

The ghost of a smile appeared on Jessica's face. "Yeah. Fuck. When I woke up from that story, and I turned around in bed, and… and he wasn't there, I knew that there was no more hope. They had me. They didn't need to threaten me with torture anymore. I folded. They sing me that song and tell me that story, and I'm with him. I am. He's real. You don't get it. You would never get it unless she did it to you. And she's going to do it to you one day, kid. You're going to lose someone, and she's going to give it to you. She's going to whisper that sweet fantasy so good with her tongue that it becomes real, and that song is going to turn the world around you into something you could only dream of. No, better than what you can dream of. And you're going to hate the real world every time you return. Every time. Every time!"

Shiv flinched at the intensity in her voice. "Is… is that why you looked the way you did when you were at the bar?" he asked, taking a step back. "There's just no stimulation that lives up to that, huh? You're just passing the time while you're here, and you're living for those moments that aren't real—"

"They're real to me!" Jessica almost shouted. "They're real to me," she said again. Her voice fell quiet. Her fingers dug into her bedsheets. "They're real, alright? I—I know he's not actually here, but it's real to me. You can judge me if you want. You can think that you're better than me if you want. But let me tell you this: I'm not the only one who chose the felling Ambrosia. I'm not. You're going to be next. Someday, somehow, you're going to choose that. I thought I was better. I wasn't. And neither are you."

The room was swallowed by a flood of discomfort. Shiv stared at the Legend and realized she wasn't that. She had the Tier, she had the skills, but she wasn't really a Legend. She was barely a Pathbearer anymore. She belonged to someone else, and she was consumed. Ruled by fantasy.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: And we have her greatest weakness. Her loyalty isn't to the Republic at all. It's to what Veronica can provide—Jackie Hawgrave, her lost love. Everything she does now is because she can't let go, and because she doesn't want to be here. She likely has a hard time even facing people like her family because she cannot turn away from the past, and they remind her that time moves on.

"Why are you telling me all this?" Shiv finally asked, his voice quiet.

Jessica didn't reply at first. She made a gesture that he couldn't decipher, and after a few moments, simply shook her head. "You know, I was just thinking that. Maybe I feel bad for you. Maybe I don't think that you deserve what's going to happen to you. Maybe I'm just in the mood for something unusual. I don't know. Does it matter?"

"Yeah," Shiv said. "Yeah, it matters. Because, well, because I might be able to provide you with more than a fantasy."

The Giantsbane became as if a statue in terms of stillness. When she moved again, there was a dangerous gleam in her eyes. "Alright, I'm gonna need you to explain that. The fuck are you saying?"

"Rusty," Shiv said. "You saw her. You saw Rose Van Erren while you had Blackedge inside of you. Did you tell her?" He gestured at Jessica. "Did you let her know?"

The dimensional blade hesitated, but Jessica didn't.

"Yeah, the illusion," Jessica said. “What about her? Come on, kid, you can’t use a fake to—”

"It's not an illusion!" Shiv snapped. "She's real. She's back. Back from the dead." He cut Jessica off before she could respond with outrage or offense. "I'm not bullshitting you. You told me a bunch about you, well, here's something about me. I'm Shiv. I'm called the Deathless because that's my Path, and that's my Path because I'm some kind of fucked-up experiment made by Udraal Thann intended to resurrect the Great One. Before that, he's going to use me to try and resurrect his mother. How that works, I don't know. I do know this, however: Approximately a month or so back, I gained a Skill Evolution, and that caused Rose Van Erren to crawl out from my soul. As far as anyone can tell, it's her. In the flesh. She's missing some skills, but it's her real soul, her memories are the same, and her personality hasn't changed."

