"The fuck's your game now, kid?" Jessica asked. There was genuine anger rising inside her. Enough that even her strange, tranquil core couldn't douse the flames.

"Not playing any game at all," Shiv said. "You want to talk to her? I can arrange that, but I'm going to need some assurances from you, and I'm going to need to discuss some other terms with you."

The rival Legend laughed. "You must think I'm drunker or stupider than I look right now."

"I don't," Shiv hissed. "Look, I know it's hard to believe, but you know who Udraal Thann is. Think about why I would lie to you. You want some more honesty? Here: I want to know where one of Maiden's temporal gates is because I need them. I need them so I can save the people I care about. So I don't have to suffer my own Jackie."

Jessica's body tensed, her fists clenched, and her dimensional blade slithered through the air, hovering before her, presenting its hilt so that she could grab it.

Shiv sighed. "Look, I didn't come here wanting to—" He stopped himself. "Okay, part of me wants to hurt you for what you did to my ass. But right now, we have the chance to do something that matters. We can help each other. If you don't trust me, then..." She looked over her shoulder. "Cripple, is there anything you can say to her?"

Radio didn't reply. The Deathless gritted his teeth. "Alright, stay silent, then. Fucking hells. Jessica, I'm not bullshitting you. Rose Van Erren did get resurrected by me. I can do that. How? I told you before, I still don't know. But Udraal does. And Udraal wants to do a lot more than just resurrect a person. So, if he can bring back a god, then—I'm not saying that I definitely can. I'm not promising anything, but, you know…"

"You said you have a way for me to speak to her?" Jessica asked. There was no more playfulness in her voice, no more rage. It was all cold, all unflinching intent.

"Yeah," Shiv replied. “Yeah, I do. I know you still might not trust me, but—”

“Take me to her,” Jessica said without preamble. She got up, and to Shiv's surprise, Rusty swept through her. Instead of being cut, her body shifted. A magical layer of flickering blackness flowed over her, and in its place, the Inertium armor she wore into battle surfaced. "Take me to her," Jessica repeated once more. "I want to see her. I want to see for myself this ‘resurrection.’ After that, we can talk about whether I'm going to put you down, or we can negotiate about what you want from me."

A quiet breath of tension slipped out of Shiv. "Alright, that's fair. But we're going to be dealing with some people you might not find trustworthy."

Jessica scoffed. "Please, kid, whoever your sketchy friends are, I doubt they're worse than the crowds and Pathbearers I used to run with. Hells, I even had to work together with that creep Hades Hymn a few times under Veronica's orders. And that guy made my skin crawl. Motherfucker smells bad, and I saw him talking to a book made from human skin once. Bleh. Trust me, I can deal with weird.”

A beat followed. Shiv coughed. "Well, since you worked with him before…"

"Oh, fuck me," Jessica groaned. "Really? Hymn? Me and my big felling mouth. I'm regretting this shit already. I'm gonna need another drink or three before I go…"
