“But then I had to kill my family because they were going to kill me. My father hadn’t actually turned cannibal, but looking back on it, he was too surprised by my mother’s change that he let her get the drop on him. I killed him first, but only because I aimed at my mother, and [Fireball] is a large spell. Mom took two blasts to kill. I had to stab my brother to death with a wooden training sword, because I was out of mana.

“And then I ran. Into the wind, into a sandstorm.” Tinawa said, “That’s the start of my trauma.”

A small part of something broke inside Jane, as she listened to Professor Tinawa. When he was finished, Jane just breathed.

After a moment of that, she said, “I almost died to Moon Reachers. In my first moments on Veird, I saw Melemizargo, and then I was chased by one of his [Familiar]s. I was there helping the Champion of Atunir make her way through Ar’Kendrithyst, seeing all that horror and rescuing people when I could. I even rescued the Champion and the Prince from their end, but failed to save the others. The Shades have marked me for something because of what I did and who my father is, but I know not what.

“And then there’s the other parts of this shitty world! The Sovereign Cities are a cesspool of people harming each other in the face of dangers like the Dead City, and the Forest.

“I don’t think I will EVER be over the puking and the shitting and the— The last two months have been very rough, to put it way too mildly.

“And what makes it all so, SO MUCH worse, is that I come from a world where most people never think to kill something or someone else in order to survive, because we have tamed the world. The only threats still existent are ourselves and each other.” Jane felt warmth trickle down her face, as her throat clenched, trying to stop her words. But she spoke through the pain, anyway. “Back on my world, the life I planned for myself would have had me working for the most powerful nation in the world, doing things that would have directly harmed other people in order to… I knew what I was getting into. I knew I wouldn’t have been doing the right thing all the time… But here…” Her tears kept coming, but Jane knew her face did not show sadness, but pure anger. She spat, “But there is so much here that needs to end. There is no moral quandary. There are only monsters.

“But how do you fight against an evil wizard god? How do you kill Shades and Ancients? How do you solve the complicated problems of the Sovereign Cities? How do you end even the most simple of threats, that by their very population, are impossible to solve, like the Crystal Mimics? Or the existence of the monsters themselves?

“And it all makes me so angry.

“It makes me angry that people live in these huge cities instead of spreading out and taking back this world. That anyone is under level 50. That if everyone got that high of level, in order to kill the monsters, that everyone would end up killing each other, instead!

“And the Moon Reachers! Holy FUCK those awful things!” Jane shivered in rage, asking, “How do you solve these problems?”

This time, the smile that crept upon Tinawa’s face stayed longer than a simple moment. But he put that smile away when he saw it spike Jane’s anger higher. He stood strong, and said, “You kill, and you kill, and you never stop, and when people come to you for help to learn how to kill the Darkness, you help them as best you can, for maybe they will succeed where you have failed.”

Jane held back her angry retort. She breathed deep, sniffling, then stared right into Tinawa’s bright blue eyes. “That’s enough therapy for me for today; thanks.”

Tinawa nodded. “Physical therapy, then.” He asked, “Do you know how to find the Elite Board?”

“No.”

“It’s here, today.” Tinawa sent her a mental image of new location. “If someone is there and they scare you into attacking: Don’t.”

Tinawa blipped away in a yellow flash.

Jane breathed deep, her whole body shaking from emotions unexpressed. Then she breathed calmer. She stood straight, and muttered to herself, “It’s gonna be that sort of mentorship, eh?”

Then she blipped dark blue, following Tinawa.
