“I do not mean to frighten, only to instill information and the proper degree of necessary caution.” The Headmaster moved to stand on the other side of Jane’s desk, to separate him from her with a flimsy, foot thick oak desk that probably weighed two hundred kilos. He added, “For caution is required.”

Jane looked up into deep golden eyes, and nodded, slowly.

The Headmaster continued, “I will give you a few hints. The first, is that achieving the Special Action you are searching for requires an expression of dominance few are capable of producing.” He said, “The second, is that Body skills may cost Mana, but there was a rather large debate on if they should have cost Health, as each Elemental Body was an attempt by the Script to allow the now-extinct Elementassi to survive on Veird.” He looked over to a nearby desk. In a flicker, a stack of papers that had been sitting there, appeared in his hands. He set the stack in front of Jane. “The last hint, is that Intent is All, and you already know the way. You just need to unclutter your mind.”

Jane might have been recording what she knew about the gaming systems that had been stored on her laptop, but many of those systems were connected to other ideas from Earth. As such, there was a lot more than just D&D spells here. There was everything in this room from the Mythos of Cthulhu, to short essays on fantasy movies she had seen, to Greek Mythology, to memetic hazards and that whole barrel of fun, to knowledge of the nations of Africa.

She kept most of the high-technology stuff out of her writings, though. Veird might have had magic that was more powerful than guns, like [Force Beam], and something of a ‘nanobot swarm’-ish magic in the creation of magical plants like the Daydropper, but there was no need to go adding guns to this planet. If those got invented here, it would not be because of Jane.

None of what she had written was very detailed, with most tables only having a few booklets. The table containing the topics of martial arts and xianxia was one of the smaller tables. She also never got too far into the cultures and ideas of the East, but she certainly knew the tropes in their fantasy, since some of her gaming friends were heavily into all that. So Jane had read one of the better stories that her friends insisted upon. And then she read another. She kind of liked cultivation, but they were not her favorite.

Jane looked down at the stack of papers the Headmaster had plucked from the xianxia section. The title to this specific work Jane had penned was on the second page, hidden behind a cover letter, but Jane already knew this stack of papers, since it was the thinnest of that table. She had named it ‘Killing Intent’.

Jane looked up at him. “… What?”

The Headmaster smiled at Jane, then turned his gaze to the rest of the room, saying, “None of your ideas match up exactly with existence on Veird, not truly, but enough of them are close enough that some would think you a Prophet sent by the Mana Itself, while others would simply marvel at what your society has managed to think up in their spare time.” He half-quoted something, saying, “A million [Unseen Servants], given enough time and magic would create the next best seller, and all that.”

Jane looked down at her thin booklet.

“Here is another bit of help for you:" The Headmaster said, “I am an archmage, practiced in the true nature of the Script, but my path is not your own. You need a warrior to guide you, and I know just the one. Talk to professor Ulogai Tinawa down in the Arena. Tell him I sent you. I will tell him the same. He will test you, and if you prove satisfactory, he might help guide you further toward your own Truth.” He added, “When you’re done today, that is.” He asked, “What do you have left?”

Jane opened up the booklet the Headmaster had laid before her, saying, “I guess I have some of this left.” She looked over to the desk with the xianxia stuff, adding, “And I guess I can add more to that.”

“Maybe you’re not so close to being done?”

Jane frowned. She reluctantly agreed, “Maybe I’m not so close to being done.”

- - - -

The Arena was exactly what Jane expected; an oval of sandy land a few hundred meters across, lengthwise, entirely surrounded by short, stone stands, for whatever audience might feel like watching people beat the shit out of each other.

It was a good show. More people should be here, thought Jane.

Blood splattered. Bones broke. Teeth flew. As the sun wound down toward the ocean, Jane sat on the stone, watching the fights, feeling a little happier than before. Her Dragon Essence sickness was over, she had ground out every Elemental Body there was, save the one line of Body skills she would never touch again, and here she was, ready to get back in the fight against something larger than a pile of slime cores.

Her eyes drifted past a surprisingly agile orcol woman, who slipped through the guards of much smaller combatants, to send her assailants flying meters away, into the dirt. She glanced at a young human man, who lost his sword in a four-way melee, and was forced to fight three-on-one against those still holding weapons. But mostly, Jane marveled at the pure physicality of it all. The hard fists, the grimacing faces, the sweat and the blood.

Magic was great, but physical fighting was certainly better.

Jane also watched the professor, Ulogai Tinawa, in his bright yellow plate armor. He moved among the fighters, pausing conflicts to offer advice or change up the battles, stressing whoever seemed to be lacking, while sending away those who got too heated to rest under stone awnings. He yelled, and tempos increased. He yelled, and the spars stopped. He yelled, and attendant doctor students rushed in from the side of the field to grab, pull away, and heal those who had been too roughly knocked out of their fights.

She probably got too into the action. She had to stop herself from raising her hands and pretending to dodge in her seat, and going ‘OHHH’ when one of the guys got a great hit in against someone else. She could barely contain her excitement, because did you see that one guy?! His right cross sent that woman flying, spinning end over end, directly into a suddenly appeared [Air Cushion]. The attendant Healers had the woman up in no time, and she came right back to the fight and laid that dude out flat.

Jane wasn’t the only one watching, and she wasn’t the only one sitting by herself, but there was no doubt in her mind that Tinawa had spotted her. Tinawa looked directly at her when Jane arrived at the Arena, and again when the intense sparring was over, and the class switched to slow sparring. In one of the lulls of the evening, Tinawa set up his students against each other, then looked toward Jane, his blue eyes glinting in the thin slit of his yellow helmet.

He sent, ‘I heard from the Headmaster. Stick around after class.’

Jane sent back an affirmative, then she watched, and waited.

Class finished. Students bowed to Professor Tinawa, and then to each other. Some of the students left with those in the stands, as parents complimented their kids and the kids tried to deflect their embarrassment. Some students left with each other, the trials of the day forgotten as they happily exchanged tips with each other. There were some hardened emotions out on the field, but those combatants left the Arena in different directions.

Professor Tinawa remained in the center of the Arena, speaking softly to two students that stayed behind. And then those two students left, together.

Tinawa looked up at Jane as he dispersed his yellow [Conjure Armor]. Blond hair, blue eyes, and with pale skin, the Professor of Physical Studies looked like an old general who was still young enough to toss down with the students. He stared at Jane from the center of the Arena, and sent her an image of a rocky shore, a general idea of where to go, and the words, ‘Meet me there,’ as he blipped away in a yellow flash.

Jane vibrated a little in her seat as her blood pumped hard, shaking her ears. She had been smiling for the last half hour, and her face was a little rigid, but at Tinawa’s words, she forced herself to relax. This was going to be fun.

She first sent a [Scry] eye to the location, and then she blipped in a dozen meters off center of both the eye, and the location Tinawa showed her. She didn’t really know this man, after all. She had never met him before. But blindly following a set path would be a foolish thing to do.

As Jane appeared where she wanted to appear, the ocean roared in the afternoon sun, sending sprays up rocky channels carved into the short cliffside by both erosion and magical destruction. It was a short drop to the waters below, but the waters below were deep, as the land angled almost straight down to the ocean floor, a kilometer below. Jane knew that much because she had already explored near here with her water slime form. That exploration didn’t last long, though. There were some pretty large beasts down in those deep water—

Tinawa spoke up directly behind Jane. “Good instincts, but—”

Jane whipped around, and she was, on retrospection, a bit wild with her punch. Ulogai Tinawa just raised a hand and deflected Jane’s punch upward, as he slipped down and around her, striking three times to hit her unguarded stomach, ribs, and kidney. Each [Strike], and they were definitely [Strike]s, did something different. The first flickered Jane’s [Personal Ward] to sight, like a blue-black shimmer across her skin. The second broke that [Personal Ward]; all 12,000 points of it vanished in a single tap of knuckle against shirt. Jane had just long enough to register that maybe she should have donned her armor —but he even took his off before he blipped over here! Jane saw him do it!— when the third [Strike] crashed pain through her body, dropping her to zero Health, but no further.

In the following moments, Jane would rapidly understand what moves Tinawa had used. First came a normal [Strike], to test her defenses, then a [Ward Strike], to peel away her [Personal Ward], then came a [Merciful Strike], to hit her as hard as he could, in a near-Critical location, but inflicting minimal actual damage. But that understanding came later.

Right now, Tinawa stepped away while Jane collapsed to the ground, fully exposed to the world, all her defenses gone. She coughed up blood, as her thoughts caught up to her situation. If he had wanted to kill her, he would have. But he didn’t? Yeah. He didn’t.

“What the fuck,” Jane said, but it came out strained and difficult, and probably not at all understandable.

Tinawa said, “Usually I have to goad a bit harder than that to get the student to strike me.”

Jane breathed. She cast [Invisible Rejuvenation] on herself, gradually ticking her Health upward, while she flickered dark blue, casting [Greater Treat Wounds] upon herself. Her pain faded over ten seconds, as she turned her head and frowned at the Professor. She wanted to glare, too, but she stopped that before it happened.

Tinawa said, “As I was saying: You have good instincts. Checking with a [Scry] orb then [Teleporting] into an area outside of the designated spot was a good attempt.” He added, “But your base is missing.”

Jane spat blood on the rocky ground. She stood up, saying, “Yup.” She asked, “What I am missing?”

Tinawa briefly smiled, before vanishing that emotion from his face. He said, “Based on what I have seen and what I have been told: [Erase Presence] and [Melee Reflection] would do you well. Or, we could focus on the real reason you’re here, and work together to help you find your way forward.” He asked, “Where would you like to start?”

“Skills first.” Jane said, “I tried for [Erase Presence], but I couldn’t get it right. Same went for [Melee Reflection].”

Tinawa stood silent for a long moment, looking at Jane like one would inspect a spreadsheet. He said, “We’re going to work on your battle trauma.”

Jane instantly said, “I don’t have any battle trauma.”

“… Riiight.”

“I don’t.”

Tinawa frowned a little, then said, “I’ll go first.”

Jane grumbled.

“Here’s my trauma: When I was a child, I lived in a flick-of-shit nothing village in northern Nelboor. The latest batch of Matriculations happened, as they always did on Festival Week, the only time each year when the Registars were allowed to travel the continent without facing reprisal and death. It was my year. I was already level 5 when the troupe of revelers came to town the next day, following the Registrar like normal. I was tired as fuck, for I just wasn’t used to spending that much Mana and Health in a single day.

“Every single last reveler turned out to be an enemy combatant from Blue Waters, though I didn’t find that out till many years later. They got the parents drunk and set us all to sleep with herbs tossed into the bonfires. I was already crashed out in bed, in my room on the windward side of the house. That was probably the only reason I survived. I was already Resting, and the poison was rather sparse where I laid.

“I woke up to see my mother eating my father, while he failed to hold her off, and my little brother munching on my arm.

“I had been working on [Fireball]. I was going to be a soldier in the Sand Lion’s Army, out of the Capital city of the Sand Lion Empire, in Plateau Keep. You need [Fireball] to be a part of that, and I had made the spell before level 10. I was all but assured a good starting position in the army.

