“Anyway, long story short, there’s some neat rifts in the Tier 28 and 29 range in the Sects that we want to delve, and because stronger is obviously better, Allie said we should try team-delving a Tier 29 rift once we all get some spare time. She’s still working on expanding her waypoint system, and Zack is, I think, playing with his new spell array thing. You’ve got your aura rifts, I’ve got to prepare for our other planets showing up… Basically, it’s still a few years away, but the five of us delving something fun in the Sects seems like a good way to get back in the swing of things, yeah?”

Liz could see as Matt processed all of that before he cocked his head to the side. “Hey, wait. I didn’t see any of these conversions, and I don’t see any threads about it.”

Liz grinned. “Girls only thread. Sorry big boy, but you aren’t invited.”

Matt pulled back and put a hand over his heart. “I’m wounded. Hey wait, why isn’t there a boys only thread? I’m starting one.”

A moment later, his attention came back to her. “As for the delving, it sounds fun. The aperology department is actually about to split in half. Half of us are going to continue with aura rifts, and the other half is going to start working on other projects like making custom rifts. Maybe we can end up making fun rifts for us to delve?”

Liz leaned up, giving the idea more of her attention. “Oh, that could be very fun. I assume you are going to start low, right? Finally going to pull delvers into the guild?”

Matt nodded. “I already talked to Mathew and Vinnie, and our first delvers are going to be their schools best at Tier fighters. They’ll technically be contractors, because Kees brought up the fact that being officially part of a research guild means they can’t keep much of what they find in the rifts. But if they’re contractors, their contracts can allow for more flexibility of rewards. Theodore's Talent is great, as it allows us to know the rift drops. Oh, remind me to tell you about the Lamia rift later. The drops were so weird. But just knowing a drop table can only tell us so much. We need blades in hand and boots on the ground to delve the rifts to gather more actionable feedback if our custom rift ideas can come to fruition. I just worry about someone getting hurt.”

Liz understood where Matt was coming from, if he was making rifts and someone died that was at least partly on him, but it was also a reality of life. Rifts were dangerous.

“What about the tether project you were trying to create?”

Matt shook his head. “There’s a team working on it, but currently it’s looking like we can’t get it under Tier 20 materials, which obviously don’t work for the Tier range we’re experimenting in. If they can’t make any progress in a decade or so, I’ll shelve it for something more immediately useful. I’m sure there has to be a way, but it's going to be incredibly complicated to get any teleportation function to work with low Tier materials, that's for sure.”

Their small talk continued for another few hours before they both had to get to work. Liz would be taking over dealing with the political stuff for a little while so Matt could focus on his guild.

Liz liked politics about as much as Matt did, but unlike her husband, she could put up with them. Thankfully, enjoyment of politics wasn’t a requirement for participating in them, because there was no way she was going to run the duchy herself. Despite his dislike Matt was more than competent, even if he tended to handle things with less finesse than she normally would.

That was fine, though.

Long term, the two of them having two distinct styles of governance would ensure that people went to who they felt would handle their requests in the way they wanted, and Matt and her could both play into that and flip the switch when necessary to best effect.

The first thing she did was go through the documents from Soerilia, and she had to shake her head.

Screw their past selves, she was tempted to just appoint a baron and wash her hands of the problem, but they had started this unveiling and they needed to see it through personally. She just needed to remind herself that strangling some of the country's leaders wouldn’t actually be helpful. Even if they weren’t intent on keeping a light touch.

As Matt had said, far too many of the countries had failed to meet their first year’s benchmarks, which the other countries had used as an excuse to start dragging their feet. The other countries weren’t necessarily wrong for that, but they were using it as an excuse to skip more than was appropriate. The idea had been for the world leaders to move their countries together in a sort of lockstep to keep from crashing local economies when an innovation wasn’t taken up by one country, but the first year benchmarks were incredibly simple.

The only one they had all universally hit was spreading the healing devices through their hospitals and getting young and skilled doctors brought to Lily, where they could be given a crash course in magical healing. Part of that was undoubtedly Matt yelling at various world leaders in the first days of the magical devices not being appropriately distributed, but Liz suspected something else was at play. A quick check of the plantarty AI confirmed that all of the country leaders kept at least one healer near them.

Liz contemplated reprimanding them for misuse of something that was supposed to be used in hospitals to help injured civilians, but all but a few countries rotated the healer in question in something like an on-call system, which meant the healers were still able to help people with their skills.

Having read the typical unveiling information packets, Liz checked how Soerilia was explaining the magical healing. From the reports, there could be some very amusing cover stories.

Soerilia wasn’t one of them. They went with a breakthrough in stem cell medical technology. Liz would have rather they tried explaining it as nanobots or something funnier.

All told, stem cells weren’t the worst cover story. It even matched the biological signs… well enough. Her own blood healing looked even more like actual stem cell med-treatments than simple healing-aspect spells did, but she wouldn’t expect someone unfamiliar with magical healing to be able to tell the difference.

That was the only bright spot. A full half of the countries had failed to solve their homeless problems, which should have been easy. They were providing plenty of resources for handling all of it, but from what she could tell, they just kept dragging their feet. Retrofitting hotels, refurbishing apartments, setting up shelters was not complicated, and they all got people off the streets to where they could get the help they needed in a controlled environment.

There was one country that especially caught her eye as being far too liberal with exile compared to what the statistical models said they should be having to do. Exile was a last resort, for people who absolutely refused civilization, not the thing you did because you didn’t want to build an extra bunkhouse.

Gah. There were plenty of countries who were citing drug issues and mental illness as reasons why they’d missed their goals, as though those weren’t oftentimes self-creating issues. Actually, she knew they’d been providing plenty of clearview to Jesmaop. What were they requesting more for? The number of addicts who had been treated was definitely below the amount they should be able to treat with how many doses of the stuff they’d been supplied, and now they were asking for more?

Something was going on there.

Some nobles, usually first-generation ones, didn’t care about their mortals and were happy to let them waste away if they wanted, no matter the current political pressure. Liz however, refused to let her and Matt fall anywhere near that particular class of noble. Even from a simple cost-benefit analysis, a productive mortal was just as expensive as a wasteful mortal, but was far more likely to actually be a net benefit to society.

That logic should have held extra true in a fully-mortal government, where they couldn’t rely on the excess productivity of high-Tiers to support mortal needs. Yet some of these countries seemed adamant to do everything they could to avoid helping their people.

Thankfully, it wasn’t everyone.

A number of the countries had taken the money they were giving them and were making good changes that would see their integration into the Empire all the smoother.

Liz loved him, but she was sure Matt would just go over there and yell at people until they did what they were supposed to, but Liz saw another opportunity. Carrot and stick.

She drafted a proposition to have some of the countries who were actually meeting their benchmarks open their borders to the homeless, and offer them the same that they had done for their own people. That would put pressure on the recalcitrant countries, who would either get their own programs started, or the people would leave and be given the help they needed. It might exacerbate her issues with the country that kept exiling their homeless, but she’d make sure that it didn’t turn into a disaster.

Either way, it was a win.

After getting the administration team to look over the proposition, Liz had it distributed along with the rewards for any countries who did actually take in and properly care for refugees.

The other first year benchmarks were more hit or miss. Some countries seemed adamant in refusing to make public transport reliable and free, while others had already been doing that and took the money for said projects to improve or expand their coverage.

Another issue that shouldn’t be an issue was chemical pollution.

Mana was already a very efficient energy source, and what miniscule waste products it did produce were easily recyclable or otherwise dealt with by tossing them into a rift. And while the planet did have some mana-based energy producers, they were decidedly in the minority. She could relate to the difficulties that would come with retrofitting a lightning-based power grid to be a mana-based one, but that didn’t excuse their refusal to stop burning coal instead of, at the very least, refitting their generators with new mana-based reactors.

A handful of countries on Soerilia had blatantly refused to change, and in fact started burning more coal in what she presumed was some sort of act of defiance.

Liz genuinely couldn’t understand the logic, but the unveiling best practices had ways to deal with this. She implemented a few of them hoping to, if not reverse these counties' decisions, keep the madness from spreading.

With Soerilia handled, she turned her attention to their own nobles. While they only had a single planet, the next five years promised to bring them another fifty planets as their particular section of chaotic space became the center of a local spatial whirlpool of sorts.

That meant most of their prospective nobles were still spread across the Empire, but a few had arrived at Lily, and she scheduled meetings with all of them to get a feel for them.

She was meeting with one of their counts when she got a high priority message from the administrative team overseeing Soerilia.

One of the countries who had been unwilling to help their homeless populations had decided that instead of doing what they were supposed to, or letting their people leave to go to a neighboring country who had started taking them in, they would arrest all of the homeless.

Liz’s blood turned to lightning, and a wave of power burst out of her as she finally lost her temper. Before anyone could even register that anything had happened, she’d used her skills and Domain to put everything back the way it had been before her outburst.

Soft touch, Liz, soft touch.

She was trying to prove she was more than just a hot-tempered Ascender. To do that, she needed to make sure she was delegating properly. Some guards arresting the offending politicians would do adequately, and would send the appropriate message to the appropriate people.

***

Aster jumped into the air, body a perfect aerodynamic missile of fox. She paused at the top of her arc before dropping down nose first, plunging into the snow. There were no rabbits, mice, or moles for her to snack on, but the image would make for an amazing picture with her tail alight with tendrils of illusory colors.

The director directed the photographers to each side and Aster twisted left then right, giving them each a good view of her flank.

These images would make for amazing material for her ice cream containers.

As they were getting ready to change scenes, Alice pinged Aster’s [AI] and she nodded. Even as she sat there and let the makeup artist pat her now human face with various makeups.

They all had the appropriate Talents and it took only seconds to do what would have taken her minutes, and the results looked twice as good.

As she moved from pose to pose, Aster chatted with Alice. “So how did they react to the news?”

“As we expected my lady. The winter wolves immediately said they would support the expansion of ice bloodlines, though their contracts were looser than we expected. Closer to variation 6d.”

Alice sent over the contract, and Aster scowled. The photographers took even more pictures so Aster turned the expression into one more stylized.

Damn, she looked good.

But she was also irritated.

