With Matt making his own guild wanting to change the realm, and Liz already taking the bloodline research angle, Aster wanted to improve the Empire in her own way. After chatting with the other bloodline people she knew, she decided to offer support for the various ice bloodlines. It would be a pseudo sponsor program, but not limited beyond having some version of ice or cold bloodline. Aster had expected the winter wolves, the bloodline clan with a stranglehold on the Empire’s winter rifts, to balk. But they had instead played it smart, and were at least nominally supporting her initiative.

That was annoying!

They should have been like movie villains and immediately resisted her so she could crush them directly. But instead, she needed to actually play the game of politics and public relations.

Not that Aster wasn’t ready for it, but it would take longer.

She had considered just ignoring the winter wolves and having Matt eventually make ice and winter rifts outside of their control, but they couldn't just stay in their lane and quietly slip into obscurity. No, they needed to resist and struggle, trying to keep their position as the most dominant winter bloodline.

Aster was tempted to crush them and dismantle their control entirely, but that was the petty part of her speaking because they were trying to nose into her venture.

They were assholes, not truly evil, and should be treated as such.

Still, if they were going to try and counter her opening maneuver, she was going to strike back.

Just not immediately.

She and Alice had a plan to deliver one firm but calculated strike to the winter wolves, but it would take time to set up and prepare for.

“Ok, let's go with plan Alpha then. I—”

Aster paused as she got a different message.

Cameron had arrived!

She was actually a little early, which meant whatever she wanted to talk about was probably more serious than Aster had thought, but that was fine. It was good to see her friend either way, and Cameron had said she needed to vent.

Alice thankfully went and escorted her friend into the photo shoot area, and feeling mischievous, Aster grabbed her and pulled her into the shoot.

Cameron resisted, but their Tier difference made that futile. “Aster stop! I’ll mess up the photo shoot! Stoooppppp.”

Aster laughed as she pulled her friend into a hug before grabbing her face and squishing her cheeks and pressing their faces together.

The photos were adorable and were instantly sent out in her bond academy group chat. Because it was a normal, non-secret chat between a bunch of academy friends and only including a single Ascender, it would take up to a few months before everyone saw the picture, but Aster knew the reactions would be amazing and worth the wait. Really it was their own faults for not staying close to the Capitol so they could hang out easier.

“Ugh I’m covered in your makeup now, Aster. It's all ice based, this is gross!”

Seeing that she had finally gotten a smile out of her friend, Aster gestured for the makeup artists who quickly came and got Cameron camera ready. It would ruin her original photoshoot, but they should have enough good material for a few decades of branding. And it was more important to have fun with her friend.

It took a little prodding but Cameron did get into it and they went through a dozen scenes in both human and beast forms. The pictures came out incredible. They had better be for what Aster was paying for this, but even ignoring the images for her ice cream company, the pictures with Cameron were worth the price.

An hour later and freshly out of their respective showers, Aster and Cameron curled up on a loveseat in her penthouse room.

“What's up Cameron? You said you needed to vent, so here I am.” Aster held her arms out wide but got a hand shoved into her face for her efforts. “Rude!”

“Yeah well, it's your fault. I’ve been trying to apply for junior steward assistant positions, or lower, since your guys entered the war. But anywhere I apply tries to give me jobs I’m not qualified for. Damn it Aster! This is your fault!”

Aster felt a pang of genuine sorrow for her friend. She knew how much her Magma Otter friend wanted to rise through the ranks on her own merits, and their close connection was hampering her career.

“Sorry.”

Cameron’s hair flashed as she nodded and sighed. “Yeah, I know. It's not really your fault, but I can’t complain to anyone else.”

Aster wanted to offer Cameron a position in her duchy, but knew that would go over about as well as an ice bath for the Magma Otter.

Even trying to get her a position in Matt and Liz’s duchy, or even Allie’s or Zack’s, would be met with the same response that Cameron hadn’t earned it yet.

Wanting to bring up the mood, Aster transformed into her fox form and tackled Cameron, who instinctively transformed into her otter form. Their wrestling used to be a ton of fun, but Cameron was just too low Tier for Aster to let loose like they did in the academy.

Her friend was only nearing the peak of Tier 16 in two hundred years, and needed to hurry up!

Aster was thinking about how she could otternap her friend and drag her through a few rifts when she had a thought.

Cameron needed to advance, and she needed a job that wasn’t just handed to her.

Jumping on Cameron and causing repeated ooph’s, Aster yipped, “I know how to fix this!”

“Stop jumping on me, you stupid fox! Your feet are like daggers! How are your paws so damn small? All the pressure is right on me.”

“Lalalalalala. I can’t hear you. I have an answer, though!”

“Fine! What is your answer?”

Finally letting her up, Aster sat next to her friend and poked her face with her cold nose. “Matt’s guild—”

“That’s just more nepotism, Aster!”

“Let me finish! You apply under a pseudonym. Matt was complaining a few months ago how hard it is to find good, reliable administrative staff. Too many people just want to work for him for a couple decades so that they’ve got it on their resumes that they worked for an Ascender, then move on. You have your degrees, so you should be a perfect fit for the lower level positions, which is where you want to start anyway. You said you wanted to see these places from the ground up, and here is a perfect chance!”

Cameron sat up and started worrying her paws. “It still feels too much like nepotism. Also, it's illegal to apply under false pretenses.”

“That's why applying to Matt’s guild is best! Even if it does come out, he’s not going to press charges. It's worth a shot. And if you get the job, I can get you a mask that will hide your identity so you can be sure your eventual promotions are all because of your efforts. It's perfect!”

It would also give Cameron access to rifts, which meant she would advance faster. Matt had talked about letting his people delve once they had rifts of the appropriate Tier or be carried. At least, she thought he had. She was pretty sure he had. Even if he hadn’t, she could mention it and get him to do it anyway.

Easy!

Two problems solved.

Cameron would get a chance to prove that she was competent, and she would advance so Aster had a good partner to play with again.

Maybe she could get all of her academy friends jobs at Matt’s guild so they could advance faster as well? Probably not, but the idea was worth considering when she had more time.

It would also put them close together, as eventually, Matt and Liz’s capital would be near hers with how their duchies were doing to mirror each other, so it would be super easy to pop over and say hello.

Aster needed her friends, damn it!

“Aster, this will never work.”

“You won’t know until you try! Come on, I'll help you fill out the application.”

“What do you know about filling applications?”

“I’ve done it loads of times. It's easy.”

“When have you ever applied for a job? You are an Ascender.” Cameron looked aghast, and Aster’s mind raced as she came up with a convincing answer.

The one she landed on wasn’t even a lie. “In my folded reflection lives. So really, I have more experience than you do at this.”

“Did you get any of those jobs in your other lives?”

“That's irrelevant!”

Cameron smacked her with a nearby pillow, speaking around a full mouth. “It’s incredibly relevant!”

It took almost ten minutes to convince Cameron to try, but eventually she caved, which told Aster exactly how much Cameron wanted this.

Finally, Aster had enough of her dawdling. “Come on and hit send. I’m growing old here! If you send it now, it will go out with the pulses and it means it should arrive at Lily in like a day or two at most.”

“I just looked it up, it takes a month on average for standard messages to reach Lily!”

Aster flicked her tail in dismissal. “A month, a day, same thing really.”

“No, it's not!”

Instead of waiting around doing nothing, Aster demanded they go to a nice restaurant. Aster wanted Cameron to meet Cynthia, and the actor was in the Capital right now so the timing was perfect. If Cynthia had the time, they might even be able to sneak onto one of the sets she was working on.

There were four ascender movies currently being made about the last war, and two of them were actually more serious types instead of the comedic ones, which meant they were the perfect distraction for Cameron until the news of her application came back.

Then, once Cameron was settled and on route to her new job, Aster would return to plotting the downfall of the winter wolves and preparing her ice cream's new flavors. She sent a message to Alice to tell an annoying peacock that they needed to have a chat sooner than later about the roll out of new flavors, and she needed to get her tail feathers over to the Capital pronto.

Before she could get distracted with work, Aster dragged Cameron to get ready. If they looked good enough, maybe they could get a spot as a background character or two, which could be fun.

Maybe Allie would like to crash the movie sets as well? She and Cameron would probably get along great!

One message later, Allie popped into the room already wearing a hat and fake mustache. Her sudden arrival scared Cameron enough that the otter actually passed out. “I’m ready bitches!”
