To start, we're not sure what fallen heavens are, not fundamentally. What we do know is that they're fragments of an older reality that predates the System and got caught inside Integration.

The first thing you should know about entering a space affected by a fallen heaven is that you shouldn't.

Why? Okay, imagine looking at a distant star that seems a little weird. Maybe you notice the star’s an oval, or a square, or maybe it has bunny ears, and the next thing you know is your head is in two pieces, or you have one trillion rodents exploding out your eye sockets. These things aren't hypotheticals. They happen all the time.

Yeah, it gets fucking weird out there, kid.

Now, within these fallen heavens, there's no ambient mana. They are more devoid than certain sections of your world contaminated by radiation, and that might be for a similar reason, be that respect or maybe even fear on the part of the System toward those areas. Again, we don't know why. The System isn't exactly talkative. We just know it works that way.

More than that, though: the laws of reality work differently under a fallen heaven. Up might be down, or up might be forward, or there might not even be an up. Maybe there's no three dimensions at all.

Yeah, that last one is especially nasty. You see, you don't go back to being three-dimensional if you somehow manage to leave one of those fallen heavens again, and most of us common folk don't deal too well with being squashed so flat you lose out on an axis of spatial reality.

By that I mean we die. Doesn't seem so bad for you, but the rest of us got one shot at this life thing. At least that's how it is without getting into religious talk, and I don't really feel like getting into that with you right now.

Speaking of religion, these fallen heavens, they're tied to faiths. Not the faith that exists under the System and feeds the things it categorizes as gods, but a sort of older, more primordial form of divinity. You might have a concept of them if you're a big reader of these esoteric texts. They're closer to Outsiders in a way, but any Outsider that's been noticed by the System has already been stained by Integration and categorized. Nothing about fallen heavens is categorized. They work under their own logic, whatever that may be.

If you said that your friend exhibited a field of absolute Tyranny or Peace that managed to burn the Red Rider's hand, yeah, that's something to worry about.

The Farwalker Mysteria are sending me quest after quest—some of them got to do with you, some of them got to do with the seeker you're with, but a lot of them, they're worried about Adam Arrow. He's got something inside of him that shouldn't be there at all, something we can't control, something that can't be known. If it is a fragment of a fallen heaven that he has in place of a Sacred Phylactery, then he needs to be at Chorus post-haste, because he might just end up as a fatal problem for himself or your entire world besides…

—Myth John Produveral to Shiv

424

Kingdom of the All-Seeing [II]

“Get up,” the rumbling, annoyance-tinged voice repeated again. A rush of will tore out from something buried deep within the fibers of Adam’s soul, crashing within his heart like a wave upon a cliffside.

But Adam was spent and broken. He was drained of spirit, and his mind was shredded beyond coherence. It was something else, not his own mind, that was holding him to this state of sanity, but he was still so close to tumbling over the edge. He was—

“You mistake statement for request. I have not had a wielder as pathetic as you, and I will not be represented by one such. Get up! It is not my will that you lie there and die. It is not your purpose to be weak and mortal. Get up! Do not shame us in the face of that stain, that cancerous tumor granted tongue and limbs to represent the fetid icon of war.”

“Hurts…” Adam moaned. He clutched at his skull, and the headache threatened to burst out of him. It felt like a thousand locusts hatching from his brain matter, the blossoming of purest agony.

But no pity came from the old power within. The denseness of the mist started spreading out from him once more. Yet this time, it wrenched him upward. Its will, conveyed by his subconscious, forced him to stand, even as his flesh quivered with weakness. It spoke to him no more, the echo of its words overshadowed by the strength of its vulgar intent. It was Tyranny, and Tyranny did not persuade. Tyranny acted.

The boot fell, and those beneath were crushed or bent.

A rage burned in Adam. It came alight, and the itch returned with it, inflamed and infuriated. He wanted to rip into the mists shrouding him, to defy this second slaver that hid within his being. He was tired of gods, he was tired of Divinity, he was tired of being used by the Challenger and now by this unknown thing that wished to dominate existence so.

“What worth is your weariness if it cannot be enforced upon the world? What worth is your pain, your suffering, your misery, before the totality of existence? I am telling you this not out of cruelty. It just is. The stars do not care, nor does the emptiness between them. That System's will is not yours. You do not count, not in terms of empathy or force. You cannot decide, so you are decided upon. I am your only absolution. I am that which you must embody. Whatever ideal you hold toward the shape of a utopia, whatever dream you have will only be made manifest within a Domain you control, within a zone of your absolute sovereignty.”

Drool dribbled out from Adam's mouth. He wanted to say something, but a spiking, searing ache stripped the words from his tongue and left him too incoherent to even babble.

“This mortality you display is unsuited for what you must overcome. There is a task at hand, Arrow. I have spoken to you twice now. The first left me disgusted. The second was unnecessary. But you are the wielder now. You are the descendant. You are the inheritor, and you are to live up to this Domain you have received. If you will not bend to my Tyranny, then bend to your own. Heed yourself, for you must be your first subject, your first slave. If you do not hold your own leash, someone else will tug on it.”

The mists roughly pulled up his head by the base of his hair, and they forced open his left eyelids like a pair of fingers. “Gaze upon the home that you failed. Gaze upon that which you couldn't protect, that someone else claimed through wrath and violence. Gaze upon the subjects you let die, and know that right now, in this moment, you have power. You have the ability to unleash your might. You have the capacity to declare this place a land of peace bound and force broken.”

Once more, the notification came alive before Adam, and it taunted him, reminding him of what he had to do if he wanted to escape. The weakness was still there, but the choice slowly dissolved.

And for once, he spoke to himself. He spoke to himself, if only to spare his ears and senses the psychological and metaphysical onslaught of the little petty tyrant that festered within. “One pain or another. Blackedge or my misery. No way out. If there is no way out then… No, even before there was a way out, I needed to do this. This is what it means to be a Pathbearer. This is what it means to…” Adam swallowed, his breath starting to quicken, but he clenched his teeth hard, and resolve took hold. “Pain is a sensation, but failure is a scar in my forever. Too many scars ruin the flesh. I can survive the sensation. It's just a feeling, and feelings pass. It's just a feeling, and feelings pass. It's just a feeling, and feelings pass…”

Those words became a mantra, and guided by them, the mists went silent as Adam moved of his own accord once more. His resolve became something greater as the itch and hurt inside him rose to challenge the recognition of his spirit. Something else cemented itself deep in Adam's psychology. There was the will, but there was also a faith, a tenet, a truth he wished to embody, and the truth was absolute, beyond the capacity of entropy or suffering to defy.

He wished to protect all he could not. He wished to stand beyond destruction. He wished to be like his father. And in his heart of hearts, he wished to overshadow his father, to shine brighter than even the Starhawk, to be something of justice and truth, to be that ideal that was lost to him when the Ascendants revealed themselves to be what they all really were. He wished to be truly holy, and he wished to give that holiness to all, across this land and all others.

“I am so tired… of false and weak gods.” And in that disappointment, there was a promise. There was a truth in manifestation.

Adam Arrow was broken, but that was irrelevant. It was no excuse. He would be a real Pathbearer, even if he would find himself destroyed. A broken arrow could still be jammed into another's eye and see a battle won. So long as something was just real, it could topple empires, everything else be damned.

So long as one's will was real, so was their motion. So long as Adam Arrow was real, so was his skill and strength.

And so his Awareness exploded out from him, ripping through the underside of the town in a crashing wave. He felt and tasted, heard and smelled every grain that made up the dirt and bedrock beneath Blackedge. He passed through the stone, the metal supports, the wooden walls, and the glass panels that made up that panoply of color, lighting the frescoes upon the Perch's front windows. Midway through his egress from the castle dungeons, distracted by pangs of suffering, Adam hesitated as he looked upon the encounter descriptions again. He was hunting people infected by the Vicar's plague.

The Vicar's plague…

A pulse of pain briefly burst his thoughts, but he recovered as something else snapped back into place. His thoughts were coming clearer now. There was more of him reassembling itself as he stood against the suffering it forced upon him.

Yes, the Vicar. Vicar Sullain, the one who invaded Blackedge, who brought an army from the Abyss to besiege Adam's town for weeks upon weeks, its people denied any help or hope thanks to Havel Van Stormhalt’s betrayal. Sullain had cast his sickness upon the town, murdering thousands and bringing more to the brink, including… Isabella.

Adam remembered he was supposed to marry Isabella. Here, in this Delve, he was still in his pure-white groom’s suit.

But in the real world, they'd never married, instead torn apart and separated for months, and when he'd finally reached her, she'd been as good as gone. And now, she was still sick. She was in Gate Piety, his Gate, and as that realization came, more and more memories flooded back.

He quickly realized why The Delve Quest bestowed upon him so much discomfort. This was the misery he wished to correct in life; this was the suffering he wished to overcome existentially and emotionally. In the rare moments when he allowed himself rest, nightmares and dreams came to him in equal measure, delusions of getting to Blackedge in time to save everyone he'd wanted to save, of slaying the Vicar before he ever got a chance to unleash the Tarrasque or do any harm at all, long before the town was swallowed by the darkness of the Stranger's Garden.

So, of course, it would be part of his delve. Of course, he would have to face this struggle now. It had been his dream to save his town, and it was a dream that had died. But now, in this place, even false, it could be a dream made manifest. It could be an act of worship against destruction.

But I cannot do this without clarity. I need to think with clarity. I need to act with clarity.

Beating back the thunderclaps of pain that sought to make him flinch and buckle, he directed his billowing Awareness back toward the castle in search of an expert. Adam lacked the lore of Biomancy, and he needed someone who could detect the festering sickness that was spreading through the town. However, as he tore through the Perch in a pertinent instant, his Awareness spreading ever wider, becoming an explosion of information and sensory data that spilled over from every square centimeter he crawled across, Adam found himself surprised. Starhawk's Perch was empty of specific experts. It wasn't just the castle Biomancers that were missing. It was also the Diviners, the Aeromancers, the Geomancers. The staff that remained were logistical cooks and cleaners, and nothing more. Even the guards were only pure Martials.

This Delve stripped him of all support. He had to rely on himself. He had to push his own senses to the very limit.

“So be it,” Adam snarled. He argued no more against the unfairness of the System. He thought nothing of the cold cruelty of life and the great difficulty of the task that stood before him. It was here, righteous or not, fair or not, and since Adam Arrow was also here, he was going to succeed regardless. He had to—if only to defy this pain inflicted upon him, if only to make true the virtue he sought to embody.

He scanned the people around the Perch at first, examining their bodies for any discoloration or oddities, trying to see if any of them exhibited traits of fever or illness. That process took too long. Even with his swelling omniscience, his explosive Awareness now contained within a moving bubble of constant sensory input, he couldn't receive and review all he learned at a fast enough speed. He was forced to rely upon his Divination once more.

Adam called upon that skill of his, transformed and granted by his Path Evolution. He sought the Prey that was Promised as his eyes came alive with violent mana once more—and found nothing.

Unlike with Whisper and the Animancy bomb, darkness prevailed. No information was granted to him by the System, and no image nor words gave Adam any clue as to what he sought or what he had to do.

