Adam didn't even finish reading the notification as his mind immediately snapped to full alertness. It was like a storm going off inside of him. Electricity, rich with violence and intent, threaded through his limbs and imbued him with killing intent. This was a simple task, a target he could strike down. The Vicar, once represented by his plagues, was arriving in person, and so Adam would see this guest received before that tragedy he wrote in the real world could unfold once more.

As Adam flew higher and tried to invoke his Divination once more, his eyes glowed violet, and he felt his enemy reaching back for him. A vision of Vicar Sullain stood manifest before Adam—his colossal, serpentine form engulfed by rolling clouds—but he was a hundred kilometers away, masked by Divination wards, and shaping a calamitous spell that was beginning to build above Adam. The seams of space tore open above Adam as a chasm of magic twice as wide as Blackedge began to ripple with overflowing mana. His enemy knew where he was, but the opposite didn’t apply; the threads of fate and narrative were unclear, and so Adam wasn't sure of the Vicar's exact position. Thus, he cast his Awareness, commanding it to go further north, up, and then sideways as it scoured the bend of the horizon.

But as fast as his Awareness could move, it couldn't match the speed at which the Vicar cast his spell.

A chain of shifting mana types wove together, and it was more than Divination and Dimensionality that came from the chasm above Blackedge. It was Pyromancy, Chronomancy, Cryomancy, Biomancy, Dynamancy, and more. It was a coalescence of force and destruction. It was a thunderstorm of spells that fell one after another, and they rained down upon Blackedge, stripped of its magical barriers, unmanned by its protectors, without Roland or Arrow to guard it.

The true champion of Blackedge was missing.

In his absence, Adam stood as his replacement, the younger, the lesser, even as a god. Adam fired his Shards, and, in a moment's instinct, he invoked These Arrows, My Memory. Versions of him across the past loosed their shots as well, allowing him to unleash salvos more than he could alone, but he was a paltry stream trying to stop a falling ocean. As his light crashed against the descending spells, his Divinity was snuffed by the Vicar’s overwhelming spellwork.

He didn't see the spell that killed him. He felt it, though, sundering him in flesh first, then magic, then soul.

With that, the world went dark.

But not for long.

Encounter Failed

Resetting Delve

Adjusting Legendary Skill…

Applying Partial Skill Evolution: Kingdom of the All-Seeing
