“Why?” the Paragon hissed, his frustration turning into undisciplined rage. “Why, damn you! Why? Give me a reason why this shouldn't work! It's my skill too! It should be allowed. It should be!”

But when the System didn't reply, as usual, he stopped talking to it. It clearly wanted him to strain his Awareness to the extreme, even if that was utterly unreasonable. Or maybe it just wanted him to fail.

He had failed repeatedly in his prior Delve Quest Encounters. He didn't even know how long he'd been here, how many times he'd tried while his consciousness was consumed by a haze of blood and wrath.

Maybe he would fail a million more times. But if he was to fail, then Adam Arrow would fail gloriously. He would fail only after he expended every possible avenue of success beforehand.

And so Adam adopted a broad, tactical approach. He considered how the System might assault Blackedge. The town wasn't that big, but there were still thousands living there—over 40,000 people, any one of which could be the original victim, or maybe not even that. There could be a dozen victims already, a few hundred, even a few thousand. Trying to sift them out from all the others would be difficult.

He needed a higher view—and patience.

The Encounter description said to eliminate those infected. There was no number of required survivors given. And so, if he let the infestation spread and focused on keeping a small fraction of the town alive before wiping out those diseased, would that make him pass the Encounter regardless?

Likely yes. It wouldn't be ideal. It would maul his emotions and force him to watch his town die a second time over. But it might just be a way to pass this Encounter and reach the next.

And so, instead of hunting down everyone who was sick, Adam decided to corral a few people that he knew were healthy and seal them inside his room.

He did this the most efficient way possible. He fired an arrow to return to the central lobby of Starhawk's Perch. His shot impacted the soul of an Arrow Family Guard, and as Adam manifested before him, he gave orders to some startled passersbys, telling them to go upstairs and sequester themselves in the Young Lord's private quarters. They were not to have any contact with anyone else until he returned and gave them allowance.

As he spoke, however, another aspect of his soul, once dormant, activated. The mists exploded out from him. The mists swelled over the people, and their bodies went stiff. All momentum was stripped, and all hint of defiance or violence was made impossible.

Adam wrenched the mists back, expecting the hidden god or whatever it was to mock him for some weakness, for some act of indecision, but it was gone. Its voice was not even an echo, no longer a shadow upon his person. It was only there when he failed, when he didn't embody what it wanted him to be, perhaps, or maybe it wasn't real at all. Maybe it and the Challenger himself were but delusions, moments of mania made manifest through his psychosis.

He decided it didn't matter if they were real or not. He would do this. He would do this because it built who he wanted to be, in defiance of the pain that tried to strip him down.

Rose found him mere moments later, rushing toward him. There was an animation and worry to her features that made her more person-like than any other inside the castle. Almost everyone else felt like a puppet to some capacity. They acknowledged his words, but their reactions were openly artificial. Not hers, though. She asked him what was going on, her eyes wide, her body tense. She clutched him by his arm and wouldn't let go, even as he told more people to retreat into his room.

“Adam, Adam, what was that? How did you—never mind that! You tell me what the fuck's going on right now, son. You tell me so I can help you, you got it? Is there something wrong? Are we under attack? What is it?”

Adam turned, and he looked upon his mother, this simulacrum made so close to her image. Gently, he unclasped her hand from his arm and pulled her along. “I'll explain on the way,” Adam said, swallowing.

He led her upstairs, along with a small crowd of retreating guards and guests. It was only now that Adam noticed another breach in the facade. Some of their faces were repeated, two of them looking exactly alike, yet they were definitely not family, not in the way they spoke to each other regarding one another as stranger, noble, and servant. The Paragon shook his head—that made things easier, but speaking to Rose still filled the lump inside his throat.

“I need you to keep everyone safe inside the room, mother. There is a plague that's spreading through Blackedge. I am going to try and track down its source, but I need you to stay here so that you don't get sick, or so that you don't spread the sickness in case you already are.”

“A plague?” Rose sputtered. “But that's not possible! The wards—”

“Mother, I'm begging you—I'm asking you to trust me and—”

Adam choked back a rising scream as he nearly lunged at her—her bare and pale throat was so inviting; just a bite could give him a moment’s relief…

“—just stay there and wait. I will be back. I will see this done. Just don't... don't say no. Don't ask for anything else. I'm trying to…” Adam clutched at his head again. He tried to remind himself that she wasn't real, that the true embodiment of his mother awaited him outside the Delve, that he would be reunited if he just succeeded.

And yet, the look of absolute terror on her face and the concern for him that lingered in the aftermath cut him deeper than any blade and hurt truer than any burning itch or what the Crown of the Anti-Savior afflicted him with.

Reluctantly, Rose nodded. “Alright, alright. But you keep yourself safe. Don't fucking get yourself killed! I need you to promise me that if I'm going to promise you this.”

Adam didn't have the words. He didn't have enough strength. It felt like a lie if he said yes, so he simply nodded.

With that, he closed the door and sealed her within, alongside twenty-five other people. He prepared to dive out the window and take to the sky, to see if waves of tumult or infection would make themselves known. But before he did, a feeling took hold inside of him, an instinct that called for him to unleash one of his newest skills.

The words appeared before his eyes as he called upon them.

Zone of Absolute Dominion

It was a skill that greeted him when he briefly awoke from his agony-ridden stupor. It was a skill that arrived with the mists, with the revelation of his true Domain, and though he hesitated, he knew in his bones and deeper that it would keep Rose and all others safe.

He compelled the zone to manifest from him, but rather than spread like a gentle mist, it slammed down in the shape of a crushing palm. Clouded and vicious, it imprinted itself upon the world like a boot’s heel pressed against the skull of a person. Within that zone, all violence became impossible, all movement was stripped, and all force was severed, all except that which Adam performed.

With the zone unfurled, he rose, his geometrical wings glowing bright. He broke through the windows while everyone inside his bedchamber was held stiff within his divine vapors, and then he went skyward, seeking Isabella to perhaps move her and a group of other people into a new safe zone, if possible. But that hope died immediately. As his Awareness settled upon her, on the lawn behind the castle, he found her kneeling, clutching at her mouth as she hacked up blood and those around her collapsed one by one. Within moments, rivers of red ran as cascading rivulets down their bodies, staining their dresses as their flesh desiccated and their mana fields fractured. It wasn't just their bodies that were rotting away. It was also their souls.

Adam accelerated in her direction and came to a halt just before her. Once more, he was on that grand patio at the rear of Blackedge, and he took Isabella into his grasp, but the moment he touched her, she came ablaze, smitten and seared by his arriving Divinity. Where she writhed and moaned before, now she shrieked. It was like he was an open flame pressed against her skin. Though Adam opened his mouth, telling her that he was here to help, that she was going to be safe, she combusted. She burned as the sickness inside her detonated, taking her flesh with it. A bonfire greeted Adam, one built upon a pile of ash connected to four severed limbs.

Her death was so sudden it caught Adam by surprise; it didn't give him a chance to respond or pull away.

Shell-shocked and numbed to horror after horror, Adam just stared on at his hands, the ash resting upon them blown away by a passing breeze. He didn't have any tears left to shed.

This wasn't real, but it had happened too many times. He had seen too many people die in front of him. He had seen too much bloodshed and death, and there was something once soft scabbing over within him.

All around him, more bodies burst, going off like firecrackers. It was as if his person smoked out the sickness, but also destroyed the vessel in turn. His breath was too much. They were paltry cauldrons, incapable of holding the foul, festering gas inside. He was like a flame cast into the depths of a cave, making the concoction a bomb.

What followed was carnage and bloodshed, a brutal, methodical culling. The castle was purged by Adam through arrow and destruction. He fired Shard after Shard, and they rained down upon the sick, his Divinity detonating them, purging them of the sickness. Flames broke out all across and all around Starhawk's Perch, surrounding it in a concentric pattern of death and rising smoke, but in that fire was incandescence, and the glory of the castle was preserved, even as the people that once manned its walls were cut down one after another.

Then Adam moved on to the rest of the City. All across Blackedge, scenes of unfolding mayhem unfolded. People fell in the streets, hacking pitch-black blood over each other and into fountains, and they toppled down stairs and out from windows. Adam was no fool. Even if it hurt, he was scarred and numbed, and he used that to his advantage. He was no Biomancer, and so there was only one way he knew how to cure the plague. He fired his arrows one after another, over and again, and so the fire spread to the rest of Blackedge. That divine flame, that glorious flame, that holy flame greeted those he'd dreamed of protecting... but what he offered was not protection, but death.

He butchered the majority to preserve the minority, and he did that so that he could push on to the next Encounter, so that he could fail at the latest possible instant. Maybe in the next run he would do better. Maybe he would suffer more regret if his head wasn't trying to come asunder with suffering and torment. But right now, this was all he could do. He wanted to embody virtue, but this was as high as he could fly. The fact that he flew at all, the fact that he could act at all, was a miracle in itself, because even still, it was too much. Here, where the dark fled his dawn, a dark, darker, and yet darker thing took root in his heart.

Encounter Completed (2/5)

He didn't know when he cleared the Encounter. It could have taken a few minutes, or it could have been hours, but by the time he finished, the sun was going down. The splinters of the broken moon rose to shroud the horizon’s fading, dappled colors of twilight to bring up the curtain of night.

Adam hovered alone in the sky, his being flanked by three inverted pyramids on each side. A cool night breeze rustled his long hair as he looked down upon the town he was meant to guard and watched as buildings burned away, watched as his divine essence consumed the lower sections of his home in a building conflagration. The residential clusters had to be destroyed, down to their foundations. The sickness that once spread within went off like a massive explosion that erupted upward.

The Slayers Guild was preserved, with most of the Pathbearers there still alive. It was one of the few points of pride Adam granted himself. Yet it was likely not all his doing. The Slayers were martial Pathbearers, imbued with higher Physicality and Toughness and used to orders and mayhem, and so, when he commanded them to hide within the teleportation anchors and seal themselves, they did.

He returned to the castle, using his Awareness to examine his mother and the others in his room. His Zone of Absolute Dominion had faded at some point, the mists breaking, allowing them freedom, but they'd continued to follow his instructions. And they did because Rose stood in place, threatening to personally beat anyone to death who went against her son's orders.

She wasn't real. But she was close enough.

A feeling of bittersweet sorrow greeted Adam as he realized he hadn't spent much time with her at all. He'd been avoiding her, hadn't he?

He'd kept himself busy, keeping his focus on everything he faced, the things he learned about the Republic and the man he once idolized above all others, his father, all that he had to do.

He'd been avoiding her after an entire lifetime without her. He'd been given a glorious gift, and he had squandered it all this time. When he did return in truth, he would learn who she was. He would get to know her—he would make up for the lost lifetime.

Initiating Encounter (3/5)

Encounter 3 Objective: Defeat Vicar Sullain before he

