“Exactly. More than one Drake city doesn’t realize how much of their meat or animal products come from Gnolls. Or how they take out monsters as well! Sure, Drake [Hunters] do better, but now there’s monsters attacking farms, and there’s no Gnolls to trade with—it’s been a hard winter. And the spring hasn’t helped everyone. Not everyone’s able to grow crops with the speed of a high-level [Farmer].”
Of course, Garry knew this. But having a [Merchant] tell him this, and realizing the Merchant’s Guild had maps of ‘trouble spots’ and areas where you could take a risk and sell goods like food at high prices, was illuminating. Garry, of course, didn’t talk to anyone about this.
Whom should he talk to?
 
——
 
Belgrade? Belgrade was at war in Hectval. Pawn? Pawn had his Painted Antinium to lead and created free bread. He was sympathetic, but often preoccupied with winning back Lyonette, Erin, or faith.
Anand was dead. Bird? Bird got bored if you didn’t interject Bird-based metaphors at regular intervals. The Free Queen was vaguely interested, but unsympathetic to non-Antinium. Pisca and Runel talked, but they didn’t have huge vocabularies. And Erin had been busy with the Winter Solstice.
Garry visited The Wandering Inn, of course, but he understood his moment to be part of the inn, to take Calescent’s spot, had come and gone. He didn’t resent it. He liked the Goblin a lot, and he’d come by and swap recipes with the [Spice Chef], trade for some of Calescent’s own ingredients, enjoy the inn. But he was no regular.
He was alone. Alone but for all the people and friends he made, his own community. What Garry truly was was independent.
He had no Erin Solstice to lead him. He had no one to report to, not even the Free Queen. There was no guide, no leader to follow, no road to forge save for the one he wanted. And this was fine by Garry. He had his own guiding light. He always had, he’d just had to develop eyes to see it. A heart to feel its brightness.
This was what Garry did on his off-days as winter ended and spring rains fell.
 
——
 
“You…want to be a merchant.”
Every head in the Merchant’s Guild was peering at Garry. He had brought his initial investment of fifty gold coins—you could apprentice in, but this was a deposit for fees and other things that proved you were solvent.
“Yes, please. I believe I must be as I am trading goods and services within Liscor.”
“To…to who, exactly?”
“Whom. And it is to other Antinium, of course.”
“Oh.”
The Gnoll [Guildmaster] did not like Antinium, so he’d sent out a senior [Merchant] within Liscor who was more amenable. The Drake brightened up as he tried to think this out.
“So you’d like to pay us for doing business within the Antinium Hives?”
“Yes.”
“Well, I think we can arrange that. Of course, there’s paperwork to fill out, but why don’t I have one of our trainees help you with that?”
For the rest of the day, Garry patiently filled out paperwork. They had to omit some boxes or just write ‘Antinium Hive’ for others, but the end result was him putting more money down for his annual dues and then the Guild informing him how much he owed them per transaction over a certain value.
The rather tired Gnoll trainee was a very nice young woman named Tiveria Silverfang. Garry got the impression she didn’t like her masters, but she did like the free bread none of them had wanted. She coughed into one paw.
“Er, how much business are you planning on doing that we’ll have to collect dues for, Trader Garry?”
“Oh, zero for now. But I have high hopes of business improving once we issue more Antinium with pay.”
She paused. None of the other [Merchants] were listening.
“But you said you did a lot of trading in the Antinium Hive!”
Garry smiled politely at her.
“I do. It is all very lucrative in terms of goods sold and bought. It is just not coin-based. Antinium do not use coins within our society.”
Her mouth dropped open. Tiveria twisted to peek at her master, but Garry had waited until everything was signed to say that. She bit her lip, then covered a smile as Garry’s mandibles rose higher.
“Now, Miss Tiveria, I would like to access the Guild’s many fascinating resources, please. And pay for copies?”
“Er, at once, Trader Garry!”
He ended up paying for copies of current maps, local prices, and such and walked out of the Merchant’s Guild. He did not return even after they sent him several letters asking if he’d come in and discuss the state of his finances and dues to the Merchant’s Guild. He just wrote back, politely, that he would assess his yearly incomes and certainly make all lawful contributions to the Guild. He had heard there was an annual party, and did they need him to bring anything special?
 
——
 
Garry liked to visit The Wandering Inn once a week. He often did it via the secret tunnel, because it beat waiting for the door, and he could march through the Free Hive with a wheelbarrow and a Chest of Holding in it and then come upstairs.
One day, Ishkr found him; he and Lyonette sometimes noticed Garry and came to say hello.
“Oh, Garry. Can I help you?”
The Gnoll saw Garry admiring some of the stacked and now preserved foods. He blinked at the Worker, but Garry just nodded.
“Hello, Ishkr. I apologize for coming in via the basement once more. I do not like the water.”
“Not at all, Garry. Can I get you a drink? Lyonette would love to see you.”
Garry walked by the old furniture and supplies in the basement; things Lyonette hadn’t put in people’s rooms like spare dressers and rat-free food stored away. Sometimes goods for transit, but not often.
Garry sat in the common room of The Wandering Inn and received a rather handsome cocoa drink which he savored. He wasn’t very hungry, and he listened to the people talking.
“Hello, Menolit. Hello, Mrsha. How are you doing?”
They came by, recognized him, did their own business, and he was just there. Garry was not very important, but they smiled at him.
He knew chatting to him was sometimes not important to them because, of course, he was not very interesting, and this was fair. It was also harder sometimes for Garry to be part of conversations.
Take in point this case. Miss Uriesta was a nice Drake who knitted a bit of magic into her creations these days. She was an original guest. Nothing had chased her out, and she’d become a [Magical Knitter] on the side. Just a bit of magic she claimed to have picked up from Erin now and then. She was in talks to maybe join Honored Deskie’s collective, but she wasn’t sure if she wanted to take the plunge into full employment.
Menolit was a successful business-Drake, but he came by because this was where he’d gotten his start. They were having a lively conversation on the New Lands.
“I’m telling you, it’s a trap. More and more I’m hearing about super-monsters—”
“There has to be a better name for them, Menolit.”
“Well, if there is, I don’t have one. Super-monsters, everyone. No magic. Limited food, and overcrowding! I’m sure all the idiots who rushed there are having a great time.”
Menolit’s stump of a tail lashed the floorboards as Garry sipped his cocoa.
“I hope they are, yes.”
The others nodded, but distractedly. Menolit sighed.
“It makes Liscor Hunted look easy.”
“Surely some groups are doing well. I have it from a friend, a half-Elf I knew since I was a girl—well, she’s barely aged a day—but she’s a pen-pal from Gaiil-Drome. We started writing each other after the first Antinium War. Back when they did care packages?”
Menolit made a gagging sound.
“Dead gods, were those the baskets of fruits and vegetables? I remember eating those for a month! Half-Elven generosity.”
“We got those in the tribes, even. I think I was pooping green for weeks.”
A Gnoll muttered. Garry smiled.
“It does sound very kind of them. What kind of vegetables?”
This time, Menolit hesitated.
“Er—I don’t recall. All kinds. What about your friend, Uriesta?”
“Oh, well, she always has the latest gossip, and she says the half-Elves are doing fine. It’s not easy, but bigger groups are managing. They can even sustain magic.”
Menolit rolled his eyes and pushed his half-eaten burger back.
“Oh, good for them. Glad the bigshots get to eat while everyone else starves.”
Everyone nodded dourly at that, and Garry interjected.
“Yes. One hopes they will help the smaller, less-big-shots.”
He was aware of a silence as they all turned to stare at him. And then Menolit grinned.
“I, uh, that was sarcasm, Garry.”
“I know. But it is my sincere hope that they render assistance anyways.”
The Drake’s mouth opened, and he glanced at Uriesta, who murmured.
“From your mandibles to their earholes, Garry.”
The conversation shifted after that, but that was the problem as Garry understood it.
 
——
 
He was aware of sarcasm. Or irony. Or black humor. It was just that because he tended not to employ it, every now and then someone would give him that supercilious, searching gaze.
Perhaps they suspected he was a fool or overly optimistic. Garry preferred to think of it in other ways. He understood the sentiments Menolit expressed, for instance.
He just disagreed it required sarcasm to say something or face an idea with hope. Perhaps it was naiveté. Garry would be the first to admit he was a very naivé person. For instance, he was nearly done with his preparations when the mysterious door came to him, and he knew it belonged to Erin Solstice.
He smiled, and opened the door without a moment’s hesitation. When he walked through and saw the [Innkeeper], her face alight with joy and pain and fear, he spread his arms and smiled.
The [Baker] was glad to see her. Just in case he died. Oh, yes.
It was a distinct possibility.
 
——
 
“I don’t understand, Garry. How—how are you in danger? You? Is someone trying to mug you or something?”
The [Chef] was too busy peering around the gazebo, admiring the grand space, to worry about his impending demise. And inspecting Erin. Oh. He gently reached out, then stopped.
“You are very hurt, Erin. May I hug you?”
She hugged him first, hard, and he was surprised how strong she was. She yelped when he hugged her back fiercely.
“Whoa, you’re strong! You silly guy. What…what’s going on, Garry?”
“I do not know what is going on in general, Erin. I am a very closeted bug.”
“Yeah, me too. I…okay, let me start from the beginning. I’m sorry I haven’t talked to you since the battle at sea, Garry. Lyonette—Lyonette knew I was okay. And you saw me on the scrying orbs, right?”
“I certainly saw an Erin Solstice, yes. But I am very glad to see you. What is this new Skill? It is very spacious. Have you considered decorating or using it as storage?”
He patted the gazebo, and Erin had to explain it didn’t work like that, to his vague disappointment. Then he sat and listened for a while.
Garry was a good listener, though he was relieved to know that he wasn’t wasting time here, otherwise he would have wanted to roll dough or prepare food while chatting. Erin hesitated.
“And then we stayed in Lemoste and, uh—things are good. Sometimes not perfect, but good!”
“I see. So you have made it somewhere safe and friendly. That is very important, Erin. I am glad, and I will keep this secret, of course.”
The [Innkeeper] nodded, as if it had ever been in doubt, and then looked him up and down. Garry had on his baker’s hat, an apron, and even, she realized, clothing. Perhaps some people objected to Antinium’s seeming nudity, because he had on some very widely cut work clothing—an oversized ‘shirt’ and pants that didn’t actually cover his back-shell. Purely ornamental.
He looked, well, like a professional baker. First of his kind. She was so proud of him, and she didn’t understand. Who would hurt Garry?
Whom did she have to tell Lyonette to kill? Erin exhaled.
“My Skill can do more than find people and make them tell the truth, Garry. I asked it to find the person who was in the most danger, and it said…you were. More than Rabbiteater or the Horns or anyone.”
His antennae waved as Garry sat there, and she swore there was a twinkle in his insectile eyes.
“Oh. I have been ambushed, bested by your Skill. I did my best, but I could not defeat you, Erin. Foolish me for trying.”
“Trying? Garry, what’s going on? Do you know you’re in danger?”
He shrugged, gazing down at the scars on her wrists, around her neck. What ‘good’ looked like to Erin.
“I was very much aware I was in peril, yes. Not immediate danger, but soon-to-be.”
“How can I help? Is it Roshal? Is it rival [Bakers]? Octavia can help; I let her down with her rivals, but she’s got a club. I’ll send Ishkr—”
“No, Erin. It is not that I am in danger now. I merely shall be. I have a plan I have been planning in secret for the last few months. Tomorrow, I think, or maybe today, I shall execute it. It is a risky plan, and clearly, death is possible, so perhaps I must reconsider using Runel, Pisca, and the others. But it is a thing I will do.”
A plan? He was so calm that Erin had to reset herself mentally. She took a breath, then saw how steady Garry looked. How he felt.
She had always had a sense for things. It had deepened as she levelled, and it worked on everyone. Well, almost everyone. Super high-level people were hard to read, like Zinni, and Erin couldn’t tell what Ulvama felt, but that was normal.
But Garry? She got not a trace of fear from him. Erin peered at Garry, then sat back.
“Tell me, please.”
He was only too happy to. In fact, as Garry sat forwards, Erin realized that the twinkle in his eyes was no illusion. Nor was his smile. He had a huge one, even jolly. And he wasn’t that fat, but if you stared at his stomach, the apron and folds of cloth, could you perhaps say he had a round stomach?
…No, that was a stretch. But for answer, Garry explained it all to Erin with a laugh. He said:
“Ho, ho, ho. It’s Christmas time again, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] gave Garry an open-mouthed, round-eyed stare. Then she looked around.
“—No, it’s spring. I’m pretty sure it’s spring.”
“It is Christmas.”
“It’s n—oh. Oh. Oh, Garry.”
 
——
 
That was the plan. All of it. Garry had not forgotten last Christmas. Nor the one before that, but this last one he had been, for a short time, someone who gave gifts and watched people smile. And he had thought ‘how wonderful. How grand’.
Why must I wait an entire year to do this again?
Statistically, a year in this world was longer than an Earth one by a considerable margin! Nor was Garry’s plan merely ‘second Christmas’. He had been preparing meticulously for months, and he actually walked Erin through his preparations once she showed him how to conjure images.
