Ulvama shivered. Erin murmured.
“I wish you could meet her and kick her butt.”
“I’ll kick yours for you.”
“…Sorry, again, about the armpits thing.”
Poke, poke.
“Say it again.”
“Double sorry.”
“Hmmf. So, he’s delivering food. That’s…good. Very nice. Just because they’re hungry.”
Erin smiled, then, and it lit up the room. Bowom swore it was a palpable increase in ambient light.
“He’s the best. I just hope he’ll be alright. I’m…”
“You should check on him before dinner, maybe.”
“Good idea. Thanks, Ulvama. Do you, um, want to say anything to him? I offered to boon him even though Nerry needs it, but he said he’d be fine. And he had a plan!”
“Um. Um, maybe hello? Ask if he knows me.”
“He definitely does. But I’ll say that!”
After getting the loaves of bread in the oven and instructing Ulvama on when to take them out, Erin vanished to check on Garry. Bowom admired the sun setting in the distance as he walked over to help clean the kitchen. Ulvama was peering down at the cutting board. Only when six fingers crab-walked over and snatched a piece of unused dough up did she jerk back. Then smile at Bowom.
“Erin says dough shouldn’t be eaten before being baked.”
“I respect her opinion much like [Healers] who tell you to get bed rest or hydrate more.”
Bowom cheerfully bit into the dough, and Ulvama pulled a piece out she’d been hiding. They chewed on it solemnly.
“…This pretty good.”
“Oh yes. I can’t say it’ll be better than this bread, but the appeal is there. What’s the danger?”
“Uh, you get Matha-sick, maybe?”
Bowom thought about it and carefully inserted another piece into his mouth. They watched Matha slipping again as the Corumdon Beetle shook suds off its body.
“Since we’re not Matha, I’ll take those odds. So! Forgiven Erin?”
“Eh, she’s sorry.”
Ulvama shrugged and glanced at Bowom, but his face was utterly consumed by chewing dough. Then he ate a bit of eggshell. She made a face at him.
“What? I’ve never seen an egg so big before! Chickens. Damndest things. This tastes horrible, by the way. So, all mended, really? Even though she doesn’t get what she did wrong?”
This time, the Hobgoblin visibly hesitated before scowling and looking the other way.
“I’ll talk with her later. She…she’s worried about Garry. Her people. Her tribe. I have to be here in case he gets hurt. Or dies.”
“How likely is that?”
“He an Antinium leaving his city. It’s Human lands to the north.”
Ulvama’s face was bleak, and Bowom eyed her. But it was Matha who popped up outside the window, clay in her hair, and spoke.
“What’s that mean, Ulvama? I don’t get why it’s a problem.”
“Aaah!”
Ulvama screamed, and Bowom saw her jump back, smack into a counter with her hip, and then grab it in agony. Matha wilted as the Goblin cursed her out in her own language, but Bowom scratched at his chin.
“I’m not an expert myself, Matha, but I suspect it’s rather like if a bunch of Dretonamis Fraerlings walked into Lemoste’s most haughty groups. But a lot worse. If a bunch of Tallfolk entered our villages without asking.”
“Oh. Oh. I get that, sort of.”
Different species. Ulvama blinked at Bowom, and he waved at her.
“Yes, we don’t mix with other species much. I see the problem, then.”
Matha nodded eagerly.
“Can we help Erin? Is she stressed?”
“She’s fine. I’m helping her. Go finish washing Beetle.”
The pestering annoyed Ulvama, who was rarely as short with Matha as Erin was. She went to close the window on Matha’s fingers until Bowom interrupted as he put an experimental piece of dough in the oven to bake his own bread. He wanted to know what happened if he rolled it up into a cylinder and put something inside.
“And why are you upset?”
The [Shaman] hesitated, ears twitching. Matha scrunched up her face, staring at Ulvama then Bowom. A glower and poke, which he blocked with his hands. Ulvama turned away, wiping her hands on her apron.
“It’s fine. Erin needs to check on her…tribe. She does that. It’s one of her best qualities. She loves everyone she gets to know. Makes her enemies friends, some of them. Someday, she’ll care about you like that, Matha.”
Ulvama’s head rose as Matha opened her mouth and pointed at herself, but the smile on Matha’s face evaporated as Ulvama leaned over the windowsill. She spoke down to Matha with a terrible smile.
“When she does, she’ll make you into a hero of your own story. She cares about everyone equally.”
The Hobgoblin finished speaking and stuck her head out of the window and took in the breeze passing through the city. Matha stared up at her until the Corumdon Beetle nudged her, and the Hobgoblin had no bow. But Bowom wagered she shot down at least a few Fraerlings passing by.
“Ah, makes sense.”
That was his comment. He went back to watching his bread burning, and Ulvama waited there. Until Erin Solstice came back, cheeks flushed with delight, eyes sparkling.
“He’s alive! He’s delivering bread to [Bandits]! Like you, Matha!”
“Hey.”
 
——
 
Two days later, Garry returned to Liscor just as planned. He didn’t expect a party, but there was one.
“Front-line newspapers! Tell me it was from our bakeries. No, even if it wasn’t, just lie!”
Councilmember Lism was in campaign-mode as he grabbed Garry, posed for a [Magic Picture], then someone was hurrying his way.
“Baker Garry? I’m with Channel 2 news. [Action Reporter] Rubri. Can you tell me why you decided to deliver bread wearing a Santa costume to villages in the north? You’ve created a lot of outrage.”
“Garry! Garry! The Free Queen demands your presence!”
One of the Antinium was shouting as Lism tried to get into the camera frame. Garry was being beset from all sides. Ishkr appeared out of the crowd.
“Invitation to go to the inn tonight, Garry?”
“I may be busy, Ishkr—excuse me, excuse me.”
Garry had to stand up and shout before everyone fell silent, expectant. He adjusted his hat, checked his empty wagon, then nodded at the Flying Antinium.
“Thank you for your attention. I must now go back to work. Please direct all inquiries as to my motivations to Councilmember Lism.”
Then he hopped off his wagon and strode back towards the bakery. They tried to follow him of course, but Garry hurried down one street and performed the radical move of removing his hat, apron, and other articles of clothing. Then he passed by a group of Workers and thus vanished entirely.
 
——
 
Garry did attend The Wandering Inn’s party where he shook hands with a number of people and was congratulated on his efforts.
“You know, Garry, we could fund a few of those trips if you needed, er, gold.”
He smiled at Lyonette when she suggested this. But to her surprise, he shook his head.
“I believe, Miss Lyonette, if you would care to send a Knight of Solstice or your own representatives, such villages would benefit from your insight and perspicacity more than of my bread. They will not need more for quite some time.”
She hesitated and smiled, embarrassed, while brushing at her hair.
“Well, I, ahem, that’s very good of you to notice, Garry. Yelroan? Xinthe? A word, if you please.”
Garry enjoyed his celebratory dish of wheat-free pappardelle bolognese and packed enough for the entire team to eat in the Hive. He walked back to his rooms in the Free Hive—he had not bought any space in the city above because it was too much of an unnecessary expense—and had Runel and Pisca share Calescent’s excellent cooking.
Garry made a few mental notes that night as he rolled loaves of Scaethen Dough. He had plenty of energy given his three-day hiatus.
“It would appear that the Erin-deflection trick works quite well. Very good.”
He checked the calendar he had hanging up.
“It’s Saelsmorn. Then…Nendas will do.”
He named the 2nd day of the week and the 4th day, respectively. After some thought, Garry added up his vacation days, which he had never taken any of, and went to check how Liscor’s Bakery was doing.
Actually, tomorrow would do. He wrote in his name on the paperwork, told Runel and Pisca, and went to bed early.
The next day, at dawn, Drassi was waiting at Garry’s Bakery, first in line, to interview the recalcitrant [Chef]. She was dozing against the side of the windowsill, but she’d come in person because it was a feel-good story, because Garry was a friend, and because she suspected he’d try to dodge her.
“Hey, is Garry in yet?”
She asked the [Baker] several times when they appeared to give out bread, but the [Baker] just said Garry hadn’t been in yet. Eventually, the head [Manager] came out.
“Garry? He’s taken a vacation, Miss Drassi. Sorry. He’s on a two-day break.”
“Must be tired from his trip. Do we risk the Free Hive, find the Antinium, or what, Reporter Drassi?”
The film crew muttered. They had to fill the timeslot somehow. But Drassi’s eyes narrowed. Her [Reporter] instincts were telling her something.
“I think…wait.”
Then someone came skidding around the corner and almost shoulder-charged into her.
“Boss! Boss! He’s done it again! He just left Invrisil!”
Drassi spun, and her jaw dropped. Then she was running. Everyone in line turned, and one of the [Bakers] stuck their heads out the server’s window.
Garry was already on the move. No one expected the [Baker] once, let alone twice. It rattled them, from the news team to The Wandering Inn…to Erin Solstice, when she found out a full day later.
They did not understand. But some people were beginning to.
 
——
 
The first person to meet Garry who got it was a [Knight]. A fellow on the ground. Not the Clairei Fields [Knights] who shouted in alarm and galloped around, but a different sort of fellow.
“Ser Solton, the Order of Haegris! My good man, my good man. Are you Baker Garry?”
He rode over with pot-bellied armor and coins emblazoned on a shield, horse practically jingling with supplies. When Garry acknowledged that yes, that was him, Ser Solton saluted him with a lance and nearly hit his horse with it.
“Oh, sorry, Bela. Damn things. I just wanted to ask, sir, if you needed an escort. I’m not much of a fighter myself, but the roads get a tad tricky now and then.”
“I would not wish to take up your time, Ser Solton, but thank you.”
“Not at all, not at all. Personally, I just wished to introduce myself as a fellow in the same line of business. Quite admirable, but I worry about the blowback. I do what I can, and I have a rather substantive backer who’s funding my efforts in Izril, but I fear I need far more [Knights] from my Order. I would request every member, if they were not necessary the world over, you understand? If I could help with distribution or delivery—”
Solton rode with Garry as the [Chef] considered his words, then replied.
“But if I did, Ser Solton, would I not impede your own good efforts?”
Solton mopped at his brows as he rode in full armor.
“There’s a shade of truth there, sir. But I have put my offer out on the table, and it is yours to take up. Goodwill abounds between people making honest deals, and I should hate to press. But if I may, could I pay for a loaf of this most-excellent bread? Much less that delightful glowing bread I espy there?”
He was so taken with the Scaethen Bread that he bought some, trading quite a number of gold coins to Garry in the process while promising not to share it about. And he was the first.
Miss Drassi galloped in after a while and harassed Garry, but she didn’t count on figuring out what he was doing. Not quite. He was honest, though.
“Yes, I am delivering bread. If you see me, please do not ask for free bread as it is one Liscorian Mark per piece, and I intend to deliver the excess to villages in need. But if you see me coming, and you are hungry, please call out.”
“And you’re doing this despite the objection of the Reinharts and other powers to your presence in the north, Garry? Are you confident in navigating these risks?”
“I am utterly confident there are risks, Drassi.”
“But you’re doing it anyways. Why? Charity? Wanting to keep others fed?”
“Yes.”
Drassi waited for more, but Garry just rode on. She smiled.
“That’s a noble goal, Garry, but some might say there’s too many mouths to feed and your deliveries of bread, helpful as they are, can’t do much.”
“I am sure this is the case, Drassi. But I have a spacious wagon, and I make a lot of bread. If it helps some, I will do it.”
“Even if people disagree?”
The microphone returned to him. Garry nodded and produced his red hat. He attached the beard to his face.
“Even if people disagree. Ho…ho…and ho. I am also Santa.”
Apparently, a number of people saw the broadcast across Izril and the world. Garry didn’t know what to do with that information, so he let it lie.
He suspected he hadn’t been the best interviewee, anyways. He hadn’t given Drassi much to work with. Sometimes, honesty was boring. At least, from certain angles.
 
——
 
It was only a two-day trip this time, anyways. But the second and third people who knew what Garry was about intercepted him at roughly the same times as Erin called him to check on him, and he told her he was on a second delivery, could they talk tomorrow, please?
The first was a woman on horseback, who would have seemed like any other urgent woman with places to be—except for the [Maid] outfit. She slowed and called out.
“Excuse me, Baker Garry! Would you have a moment to speak with my employer, please?”
She kept glancing around, which he thought meant she was afraid of trouble finding her, and that was confirmed when a [Lady] in pink swam into being on the scrying mirror the breathless [Maid] held up.
“Ah, Baker Garry! Good evening! Might I have a word?”
“Hello, Lady Magnolia Reinhart. It is, in fact, Chef Garry.”
“Oh my, is it?”
Magnolia was visibly surprised. People were working behind her in what seemed like a construction zone. [Maids] and [Butlers] with helmets laying down bricks, arguing with Drakes doing the same…Garry wondered if she was building her wall.
“How can I help you, Lady Reinhart?”
She smiled at him with a touch of uncertainty, he thought. The [Lady] adjusted her iconic pink hat, steepling her fingers. Ducked. A huge wooden beam passed overhead, and Ressa walked past her, carrying the beam, having stripped down to an undershirt.
She had a lot of muscles. Garry admired her strength as Magnolia glared.
“Ressa! Do excuse me—renovations. If I may be frank, Garry—may I call you Garry? Call me Magnolia—I never thought to have such a conversation with an Antinium before. I thought your people were entirely devoid of empathy…again, until recently. But even for a people with the capacity for empathy, this stands out.”
