Erin stood there, a troubled expression on her face. Ulvama took another bite of soup. And that was the [Innkeeper] for you. All morality and, well, bright goodness. Like flames.
Ulvama had already figured out enough. She trusted Bowom as far as she could throw him. Time would reveal the rest. She couldn’t be a judge. That was for someone who didn’t have guilt in a mirror. The Hobgoblin just wished she could figure out more than just bits and pieces of Erin’s personality. The [Innkeeper] confused her in ways few other people did.
 
——
 
What was Erin Solstice doing while Ulvama spent her time investigating Lemoste? Well, kickstarting her musical career as a top-selling musician.
Not by choice, you understand. It just turned out that when you performed an Earth-original song to a Fraerling city with a new style of instrumentation and music, they didn’t just tip their hats, say, ‘cheerio, good show’, and leave it at that.
That was how Erin found herself singing to a die-hard audience day-after-day with Matha. In fairness, the Vision of the city and the entire Architect council had asked her to do it; they credited her with raising morale and considered her act a function just as important as Eurise’s queen-hunting.
Being respected by any city’s governing body was so novel that Erin hadn’t the heart to turn them down. But the downside, of course, was Matha.
The lead guitarist and newly-minted [Punk] annoyed Erin. It would have been easier if she was just an annoying, reformed [Raider], but they discovered that even without Erin’s [Boon of the Guest], Matha really could play on the guitar.
Erin wanted to believe it wasn’t ‘good’ music yet and that Matha was only shredding as well as an amateur, but with proper accompaniment and enthusiasm, even an amateur band could make any cover good.
…And they had a band. It felt like half the Fraerlings under thirty, and a quarter of the Fraerlings above thirty, had volunteered for tryouts. Erin had six backup bass players, eight drummers, and a bunch more Fraerlings starting their own bands for fun. The Architects had mandated that everyone had to work, but once you’d contributed to the rebuilding effort, many would flock to her band and beg to get a copy of the latest sheet music or try the newest enchantments meant to mimic the sounds of an electric guitar or piano.
The sheet music was where Matha was useful. Erin couldn’t write it, but the former-[Raider] would laboriously figure out the notes from Erin and then make copies.
Again, this wouldn’t have been bad. There was lots of drama, naturally. Bands starting and breaking up, Fraerlings vying for the ‘top spot’ of the bands who got to perform nightly with Erin’s band or in her group. Funny stuff, too, not just petty.
Like…imagine being some cool, fifteen year-old [Musician] who could play the guitar. Elohi had taken to the new musical genres and earned her [Rock Bassist] class within two days of the performance. Solid. Nice music Skills.
Then imagine what happens when Elohi’s mother shows up, and it turns out she and her husband can outplay their daughter. That they, in fact, have the true spirit of rock n’ roll in their blood and outlevel their outraged, youthful daughter with their band Fallin’ Gnomes.
Ulvama had nearly laughed a kidney out when Erin had told her about that. Most Fraerlings were genuinely cool. Erin had trouble quantifying it until she’d explained to a bemused Eurise what she meant while watching Fallin’ Gnomes performing.
“It’s like you guys don’t get old, you know?”
He pointed silently at his white hair, and Erin waved a hand at him. Eurise had a few cuts from fighting, and she felt guilty as ever, but from the way he was munching down some popcorn she’d created with her Skills, it was clear that he enjoyed this break greatly.
“What I mean is…the Tallfolk I know act old. Like—they can’t change. Half the people I’d show music to back home would complain about this ‘young person stuff’ and never give it a chance. Like, my mom complains about pop songs, which I don’t even like, but I’ve heard her favorite songs, and they’re not better.”
He chuckled at that.
“That’s just liking the first thing you heard. The rest? There’s plenty of Fraerlings who can’t change, Erin. You just don’t see them. They live in their cities, and they wouldn’t survive a month in Dretonamis. They wail and cry when they stub a toe. This attack…well, I think it broke some of them. They hide away and wait for the walls to come up.”
The [Explorer] shook his head, glancing at the city above them, and Erin knew he was right. Complaints had been made about the music, but she just meant…there was a greater proportion of ‘cool’ Fraerlings. Eternally youthful ones, like Elohi’s parents. Eurise nodded to Erin as he took another bite of the yeast-covered popcorn kernel.
“With that said, the attack probably unearthed a lot of folk’s resolve. I’ve seen that too. So have you. Those Fraerlings, they’re levelling. I can’t speak for you Tallfolk, but I think you came at the right time to meet the ones who’re ready for change.”
“I guess you’re right. Darn. I was trying to talk Fraerlings up, you know. All those other species have great people and sucky ones, but I’ve never met a Fraerling I hated! I guess I want to believe you’re all awesome.”
Eurise snorted, but kindly.
“How can you say that when you’ve met Roja?”
He and Erin ducked as she hurled her boot down at them, and Erin thought of Zinni. Or, again, Matha. She scowled at the [Guitarist] who was performing a song so Erin didn’t have to, covered in sweat and pumping her fist up for the cheering audience.
“I guess you’re right. I’m just…I like this city, Eurise. Despite the lack of walls and all that’s happened. I wish my city accepted me and Ulvama so much. But I do like Liscor. It just needs work. More paint. Less rain. And the Antinium—of course I have to go back. There’s nowhere like Liscor. And I’ve never met a…a…Dwarf I didn’t like! All, uh, three of ‘em are great. Pelt, Dawil, Dasha…ooh. I’ve never met a Selphid I didn’t like! Except for one of those [Slavers]. Um. I’ve never met—a Dragon—no, wait—”
There was a faint hooting sound, then she realized it was Eurise laughing. He lay back against the seats, laughing, and she saw him glance at her in amusement and—jealousy?
Jealousy, yes. He wiped at his eyes as she chuckled too.
“You’re the only person who can say she’s gone further and seen more, Erin. I’m glad you stopped by. I was getting bored.”
She ducked her head, embarrassed.
“Well, your people are the only ones who don’t blink when I do something crazy. It’s nice to be normal.”
She peered down at the stage as Matha waved at her, having done a stage-dive into the crowd and surfed her way back to the front. Erin hesitated as the cheering grew louder.
“Well, sort of normal.”
 
——
 
After performing six more songs and nursing her hoarse voice with some tea, Erin was high-fiving the bands, congratulating a sulking Elohi, and smiling.
Once more, things were actually fun. It was just…Matha.
The [Raider]-[Punk] stumbled into their storage and practice rooms with a new haircut that Erin was relieved to see wasn’t hedgehog spikes, a new ant chitin jacket and leggings, and three Fraerling women.
“Hey, Erin! The crowd loves us. I’m gonna teach the guitar to these girls. You, uh, seen Ulvama around? When are we eating?”
Erin gave Matha a long look but cleared out as the other Fraerlings laughed good-naturedly. If Matha’s reputation had earned her some doubt, she’d seemingly made up for it of late.
“I’m whipping up some aphid stew with a recipe one of the [Cooks] gave me. Be there or be…unfed, Matha!”
“You got it, boss-lady! That’s our Human. I know she doesn’t look like a Human, but she’s crazy. Did you know that I first met her when she took out our entire base? This was back when I was a [Raider]. She dropped on us and blew half of it apart. Miracle she didn’t kill anyone, really. So what do you all do around here when you’re not rebuilding…?”
The annoying part was that Matha caught up to Erin less than forty minutes later as Erin was finishing her soup. Erin glanced at her.
“You’re early. Where’s the bowls and stuff? Weren’t you teaching them how to play the guitar?”
“Yep. Gave them a practice guitar and everything. I’ll get the bowls!”
Matha came back with bowls, and Erin stared at her.
“Wait, that’s not a euphemism?”
“What’s a euphemism? Some new instrument?”
Matha caught on as she began sampling Erin’s soup and got a smack on the hand with a ladle. She grinned.
“Oh, that? They really wanted to learn guitar! Mind you, I have a date after dinner. And another date tomorrow morning. And a third after practice—nothing serious. Everyone knows I have to keep going with you and Ulvama when we’re leaving. When is that, by the way? I want to schedule everything out.”
“You really don’t have to come with us. You could stay.”
Matha peered at Erin sidelong as the young woman wiped her own brow, still a bit sweaty. The Fraerling found a towel and gave it to Erin, who snatched it after a glare.
“Nope! I’ve got to. I’ve been to Lemoste; it’s different now, but it’ll get old. I want to see the world, just like Mera and Zemmy. So…how’d you think we played? I really liked that new song you showed us.”
“What, 21 Guns? I never liked it that much when I was young. My dad was the big fan.”
Erin had spent a lot of car trips as her parents dueled over their music listening while playing chess in the back seat. Matha exhaled.
“Oh. But you sang it real well.”
“I guess I like it more these days.”
Erin realized that was true. A lot of the songs she would have groaned at and insisted be turned off were just ‘okay’ now. Or even positive. Heck, any music from home was nostalgic. She could even get into rap music. Probably. She didn’t know how much rap she’d ever really listened to.
Distractedly, Erin wiped at her face as she served soup into a bowl.
“They used to have concerts in my city. I never went to one, not ever. My parents did. I wish I’d gone. I just thought it’d be too noisy and lame, but if that’s what it’s like—”
She’d never really gone out that much. Ryoka was the cool girl who’d gone to parties, ridden motorbikes, and stuff. Erin wasn’t sure if she regretted it. She wanted to know what that was like but…
“I don’t think the Erin back then would have enjoyed it, anyways. The now-Erin wouldn’t mind.”
She was rambling to herself, and it was entirely pleasant musings about herself—until Matha interrupted.
“Hey, if you want to see more of Lemoste, I could show you around. Or we could go with Ulvama next time. Say the word. If you wanted to, I could take you to, uh…a Switchem Storehouse right now! They’re always open.”
Erin glowered at Matha.
“A what the what? And no, I’m not interested. But what is that?”
“It’s this big warehouse where you take things you don’t want. You can either help fix it up, or someone does it for you—so you can get furniture, tools, all kinds of stuff. It’s great. We don’t have ‘em in the villages because there’s not enough people, but you can wander around there for ages.”
That…sounded like an antiques warehouse, but again, without the element of buying and selling. More Fraerling stuff in a society where money wasn’t that valuable. Erin was actually interested.
She’d go with Ulvama tomorrow. Not Matha.
“Or we could go get a mystery brew from an alchemist. That’s always fun. Sometimes, you’re half your weight; other times, they turn your head around so it’s the wrong way or something else! Only…the city’s damaged, so I guess a lot of the magical stuff won’t work.”
Matha’s excitement faded as she gazed out at the shattered walls of Lemoste-Under-Cliffs. It was halfway done, at least, the first layer, which spoke to the speed the Fraerlings were working at, but it was a sobering reminder. Erin spoke as she stuck a spoon into the bowl and saw Ulvama and Bowom trudging back.
“Yeah, they can’t waste time or energy on that. It’s okay. We’ve got to help the city, even if it’s just music. Not, say, steal all their food and resources and harass innocent people, right?”
The former-[Raider] shrank as she sat down and went quiet. Erin felt slightly guilty, but then waved.
“Hey, Ulvama! Food! Guess what I made?”
The [Shaman] was not hungry. Neither was Bowom. He gave Erin a fake smile, and she could tell he was upset. Rattled. Ulvama wasn’t that off-kilter—Erin’s new [Innkeeper] senses put her on alert.
“What’s with Bowom?”
Ulvama told her about the meeting they’d had over dinner. She picked at her food until the Corumdon Beetle and Battle Hamster came over with Mera and Zemmy. They were all starving and scarfed down a good chunk of the pot—the Battle Hamster happily swapped vegetables for aphid meat with Mera—and Erin tried to talk to Ulvama. She felt like she’d gotten less time to hang out, which was fine since they’d come to Lemoste, but still—
The Hobgoblin instantly flopped down next to the Battle Hamster and began combing his fur. He wiggled into her lap and ate while closing his eyes, and Erin tried to scooch in on the left and got an immediate twister-punch to the side.
She had to sit away from the Battle Hamster and talk.
“So, uh, want to hit the city tomorrow, Ulvama? If you get an awesome free knife like that, I’ll go out shopping with you!”
Matha opened her mouth, and Ulvama hmmed as she glanced at the new knife she was wearing. Erin had sort of wondered if it was for her, but apparently, the Orichalcum blade was something the [Shaman] wanted. Ulvama peered over at Bowom.
“Maybe no shopping tomorrow. What if we went to the hospital? With gifts?”
Bowom glanced up.
“Ah, splendid idea. And a length of rope for our [Healer] to hang me with!”
Erin’s face fell, and Ulvama snorted.
“Fraerlings can’t die by hanging.”
“Aha! I knew that was a good Tallfolk reference! Physics! Gets you lot every time.”
Bowom brightened up. Ulvama pulled an ant mandible out of the Battle Hamster’s fur. She nudged Erin. The [Innkeeper] frowned at her.
“What?”
“Encourage him. He should visit the patient.”
Erin blinked, then realized what Ulvama was talking about and turned.
“Oh, yeah. That’s true. Let’s go, Bowom.”
“She’s got everything she wants. There’s standing orders to arrest me if I get anywhere near there.”
The [Mad Doctor] was adamant, but Erin frowned.
“Well, then we can ask. But she came out to see you, right? I don’t know if there’s anything we can give her—”
