It had been seventeen years, she decided. Seventeen years, and they were long years. A lifetime. Two, really. Which meant she had lived at least three lives so far.
No one living knew her. She was a ghost, in a way. People looked at her and saw something. A pleasing configuration of skin and bone, even if it was green. A monster. Spellcaster. Hob. Goblin.
Ulvama. But ‘Ulvama the Hobgoblin’ was just her last life. Before that, she had just been ‘Ulvama the [Shaman]’, a Goblin who had not been so tall or powerful or important.
And before that, she had been a masked Goblin in the volcanic tribe, chosen for being so smart and full of potential that she had been allowed to enter the great Witch Anazurhe’s tribe.
Lives. Each one had been different. A young Goblin learning magic from Goblins who spoke of an island, a [Witch] who bowed to no one. A Goblin waving a wand and running around with a mask over her face until the day she strayed too far and found out the world beyond their volcanic home was not so kind to Goblins.
Not at all.
Then a Goblin who learned to fear Humans. Someone who suffered and relied on the terrible, cowardly ruler of the mountain, Tremborag, and scrapped and fought for power. A Hobgoblin who did or watched terrible…terrible things happen and ignored it because she lied to herself it was vengeance, it was how things happened, and because she couldn’t change anything.
That life had come crashing down as well. That terrible archer, flames sweeping her home and unravelling the work of a lifetime in hours. A march unto death until they fought in a muddy field, Goblins killing each other for someone else’s plans.
She had not died there, of course. Merely become captive and survived. But she had not been the same Ulvama as before. She’d tried, but a new one had stepped through that door.
Tribeless. Magicless. Suspicious and old and alone.
Then, she had known no one living remembered her. Oh, Rags had met one Ulvama. Anazurhe, if she remembered the young [Shaman], would have recalled another. But no one knew Ulvama. Only a few Goblins had seen her every life, and the two that she had loved and hated, each in their own way, had left.
Pyrite, the thoughtful, aggravating genius who recognized everything but his own potential. The only Goblin who had ever won Greydath’s friendship she had met. And…Tremborag, the Goblin who would have rather been [King] than Goblin King. Who, in his own way, understood the truth of their species, but refused to do anything more than hide away.
They were gone, and the weary [Shaman] had rested at the inn, wondering who she would become in her third life. She had not expected her life to begin by having to take care of a Gnoll child nor that she would remain in the inn so long.
Or the [Innkeeper]. Much could be said of how Ulvama viewed the strange woman who was both annoying and sympathetic. Erin Solstice had taken burdens upon her that Ulvama had never considered. Terrible ones put down by destiny and dead souls, and she had picked them up, and so…the Hobgoblin had witnessed something rare.
Another person who changed lives. On the days leading up to the Winter Solstice, the merry [Innkeeper] had begun shedding who she was, until that long night.
Then, she had woken up on that ship in chains and darkness and sailed her way through a war. When the skies fell, she had said goodbye to the woman who lived around Liscor and merely ran an inn.
Was she on her third life? Most likely, as Ulvama reckoned such things. It was not a Goblin idea, living ‘lives’. Just how Ulvama thought of the world. From what she had been told of Erin, the [Innkeeper]’s story, she had lived three lives, just like Ulvama.
Changing lives was no small thing. It was trauma and rebirth. Most lived only one or two lives at most. To change a life in moments was always some great act, whether horrible or good. Mostly, people changed slowly.
Like…parents. A Goblin warrior strutted around, brash and bold, proclaiming they’d live forever. They fought, they watched friends die, they bled and recovered from wounds. Lost teeth like fights. Levelled and lived and probably fucked. Sex being quite normal for someone who thought they’d live for a year at most, if they ever thought of it at all.
But one day, perhaps, they found someone who they didn’t stray away from. Or they found a little Goblin being born that was theirs. Or simply took an injury that meant they were no longer that invincible warrior. They grew tired of fighting and became…another Goblin.
A parent, a bitter, wounded veteran trying to keep younger Goblins alive. A leader.
Two lives. Maybe three, if they changed again, but mostly, it was two.
Every Earther had lived at least two lives already. Erin, before she had come to this world, had been a child of a safe land. Safer by comparison, if nothing else. Whatever she had been—Ulvama wondered how hard she’d tried to cling to who she was.
Her values, her sense of how things should be, her convictions—she’d broken pieces of herself off in Liscor. Exposed harsh edges and cracks in her soul. They told stories of how she had first been swindled by a certain Drake [Shopkeeper], then come back to win a game of chess.
The Goblins told stories of how she had killed a Chieftain in single combat. Ulvama listened to the stories and what was unsaid, and she knew what the Chieftain had tried to do to Erin.
From the remains of one life, the second Erin arose and found her edges were sharp in places, stronger than she knew. She had lived well, but she had not changed lives.
Not even when her Redfangs had died. Surely it had hurt her. Even now, their statues stood in her garden. She carried the dead like flames, but she had still been that same Erin. Until the moment she too died.
Literally died; a rarity, that. Ulvama had never heard of a non-Antinium person dying and coming back to life in this age, but Erin had done it. And thus had begun her third life. But that winter, when she awoke?
That had been her fighting her new life. The beach, the silly [Innkeeper] rolling around in her wheelchair, annoying Ulvama to no end—that had been the young woman resisting the moment she had known would come. Begging for an hour’s reprieve, a month’s grace, until she faced the Goddess of Death herself. Though she had not known it, that had not been the hour when she let her past life go.
No…that moment had probably been in the cells of The Naga’s Den. Or—or perhaps in the hour thereafter, when she turned that ship north to save a single life at any cost. And Ulvama had been there, because she had thought someone had to be, for Erin Solstice.
This third life they now led, these two women, was a strange one. Frightening and harsh. But not always bad. For once, in the care of the smallest people in the world, the ills they suffered seemed balanced.
Lemoste-Under-Cliffs. Some time had passed since Erin and Ulvama had stopped here with Eurise and the company from Dretonamis. The city was still rebuilding, shoring up its defenses, and soon they would leave.
Soon, on another adventure, but something strange happened to Ulvama here. Something she had not asked for nor dreamed of. It took her a long time to realize what was going on so surreal was the feeling.
But for the first time in seventeen years…Ulvama realized she felt safe.
Not just in a room where she had at least one emergency exit and could bar the door. Not just in an inn where she was sure someone would come if she screamed.
Safe.
Lemoste was no city of Izril. It was not Drake or Human. It did not…think of Goblins. At all. Goblins weren’t monsters to Fraerlings. They weren’t anything other than a kind of Tallfolk. If they were a threat, they provoked no feelings in Fraerlings other than pure curiosity and wariness for anyone odd.
In fact, more than once, a Fraerling had mistaken Ulvama for one of their kind with a unique illusion or skin dye! It was that realization, as she began to wander the city after a certain [Innkeeper] had broken the ice with her concert, that made Ulvama remember her previous lives.
Or maybe they’d always been there. Just…waiting until she thought she was safe and allowed to not always be glancing over her shoulder.
She didn’t know. But certainly, a change came over Ulvama that her companions noticed.
 
——
 
There was a quirk the Hobgoblin had. Which was that she refused to go out into Lemoste alone. Naturally, Matha was only too willing to go with Ulvama, but Erin would then boot her in the behind and tell her to go help build houses.
Then Ulvama, realizing that to invite one was to get the other tagging along, promptly would go over and invite her companions of choice for an outing.
Namely, the Battle Hamster or Bowom. Since Eurise and the others were often hunting either ants or local animals for food, they were the only two who could navigate Lemoste with her—the beetle was far too big and being used to haul things around, anyways.
The Battle Hamster would oblige one out of every ten times, and mostly to get food. Which meant that Bowom was often the one strolling around with her. If he was busy, Ulvama would pull a face, and Erin and Matha would dash over.
It worked out that she spent good time in everyone’s company, but more than once, the [Mad Doctor] was given a death-glare by Matha and various hand-gestures, which he’d cheerfully return. Erin, for her part, would complain about not being invited…unless she realized Ulvama was going window-shopping; in which case, she’d decide to make some magical food or help somewhere else.
The Hobgoblin could wander through a commercial district in Lemoste for hours. Even with all the shops closed, Ulvama would peer into windows or ask people passing by what was on sale nonstop.
“It’s not weird. Shoo! Go bother Matha.”
She chased Erin off as the [Innkeeper] complained.
“C’mon, Ulvama, let’s do something fun like use my color-Skills or, I dunno, cook.”
“Cooking is for people who make food.”
Ulvama sniffed as she grabbed Bowom’s arm. The [Mad Doctor] waved at Erin, appearing only slightly harassed as she towed him off. Erin waited.
“Yeah?”
“I don’t.”
Whereupon Ulvama glued herself to a window where various-sized knives were on sale until the bemused shopkeeper invited her in.
“You like knives, Miss Goblin?”
She was a known sight in Lemoste, of course, and Ulvama peered at the knives.
“I like these knives. Why have all these different types?”
“To cut better. That one’s a steak knife, that one’s a deboning knife, that one’s a skinning knife, that one’s a carapace cutter—see how thick it is? Want to try one? I’ve got to deliver a bunch for the butchering efforts.”
The Fraerling was packing knives into cases, padding each one and wrapping them—but they were going to people mass-butchering things Eurise and the [Hunters] killed. From the way he placed a display knife in the box, Ulvama knew it was valuable. She peered at the knife, then him.
“This one is very good. You could put another in, maybe?”
Wistfully, the Fraerling man studied the handle, which was some pearlish inlay that turned out to be a bug’s chitin mixed with a salamander hide wrap. It complemented the slightly purplish metal of the blade, which had a wavy forging line and, to Ulvama, was unto a [Blademaster]’s blade, only in knife-form.
But he packed it up anyways, shaking his head.
“It’s a fine, fine knife. A masterpiece I got cheaply and never found the right person to sell to. This isn’t the time to hold onto it. It’ll cut finer than most knives. Let a [Butcher] or [Cook] use it.”
Ulvama peered at the blade before the [Shopkeeper] slid the lid of the box closed, then she inspected him. Bowom stopped yawning and tapping his roach’s leg on the floor as he inspected some knives he reckoned might be useful in surgical matters. He glanced at Ulvama as she bit her lip—but she’d been here long enough that her shyness was gone.
“You didn’t make it?”
“Nope. I’ve dabbled, but I’m no crafter. I’m a [Shopkeeper]. Classic.”
Classic…unless you knew that this was a Fraerling city. As in—Ulvama’s brows wrinkled up.
“How do you shopkeep? Fraerlings don’t have money for lots of stuff.”
Not like other species. Even Goblins had a hierarchy of ‘Chieftain gets what they want’, but Fraerlings were a post-scarcity society. The [Shopkeeper] winked at Ulvama.
“I got my class by being good at buying and selling. Usually not currencies; they go in and out of fashion. You trade favors and goods. Build up relationships. This was from a fellow I’d known for twenty years. I got the blade off him, and that was a trick.”
“Why be a [Shopkeeper] in a Fraerling city?”
Ulvama lifted one of the knife-boxes the man was taking, and surprised, he smiled. Both used their Bags of Holding, so it sort of made the gesture meaningless, but the Hobgoblin still walked with him as they chatted. The Fraerling’s eyes lit up, and he adjusted the dapper vest he wore, a twinkle entering his eyes. Behind them, Bowom stole a knife.
“What’s not to love, Miss Goblin? I always thought capitalism was fascinatingly fun. Accumulate wealth, get more, spend it to get…I set out as a young Fraerling with no real talents, which is a pain in a city like this, let me tell you. Now? I’ve got enough to have an Orichalcum knife in my displays.”
He tapped the side of his nose as he casually flipped another knife out of a display, then hurled it over one shoulder. It caught Bowom’s sleeve and pinned him to the wall.
“That costs something, friend. Put my knife back unless you’re helping prepare food. Now, Miss Goblin, we’re just heading down to the ground floor…I can take the boxes unless you mind the walk.”
“I want to walk, please. What does Orichalcum do?”
That was what fascinated Ulvama. Not the knives alone; it was the blade that had caught her eye, and the [Shopkeeper]’s story. The thing was, you could always find a moment of fascination in a city. Erin would have been bored of finding out there were so many knives, but she would have probably grown interested the moment the [Shopkeeper] revealed his class and rationale.
Now their roles were reversed; it was the [Shaman] who was endlessly talkative with the Fraerling, because she had nothing to fear from him. He was quite pleased to discuss haggling with her, and she was an expert bully and negotiator in her own right.
“The key, in my experience, is not to let your class dictate your actions. I had a moment of panic this morning when I thought about giving my knives away for free. Then I looked myself in the eyes, and I said, ‘Thist, what are you doing?’ Is a knife worth anything right now?”
“Ah, so you wouldn’t mind if I took—”
