Most people didn’t know you could do that. If they did, they’d not trust the Watch or a lot of official bodies, but sometimes Luciva wondered. After all, if she knew you could defeat a truth stone, then it cast into doubt…a lot. It would make for a more suspicious world. A more chaotic one.
But perhaps…she shook her head.
“Eleven minutes, Dragonspeaker. Do you need anything? Calming tonic?”
“This isn’t a war, soldier. No.”
She smiled, amused. They were going to put Skills on her. Manus [War Bards] were lined up with Skills like [Eloquence of Speech], and someone had cast [Mental Clarity] on her, as if Drassi were a high-level enemy officer.
Well, in a way, she was. Luciva knew her job, though.
Talk about the threat he can reasonably possess. Talk about the Antinium Wars. The knowledge we have of the Hives. Talk about the moments when Antinium had attacked Drakes despite the truce, even if it meant acknowledging the reverse was true.
The truth was easy. She heard a voice.
“Eight minutes to the call, Dragonspeaker.”
“Mhm. What’s with the door? I thought I was giving the interview here.”
Luciva waited for a response. Then her eyes snapped open, and she rose, drawing a shortsword. She whirled, and time had stopped. The Dragonspeaker pointed her blade at the door, and her eyes narrowed.
“What is this?”
A report was taped to the door. She hesitated, eyed her surroundings, and snatched it. Her mind was going down a shortlist of who this could be. Belavierr? If it was the Demons and she was hit with a [Timestop], she was dead already, so she read.
If this is enchanted with [Explosive Words], I’m going to be very upset.
It was not. The Dragonspeaker blinked, then flipped the page. The report was set out in precise handwriting, listing the specifications of the Skill, the terrain she was entering, and the battlegrounds. She grunted.
“Hm.”
She paced around the door, then took the handle.
Information was vital. Besides—she gazed into the empty landscape and nodded before marching down the road in the void towards the gazebo.
“I thought I should meet you, eventually.”
Erin Solstice sat in her [Pavilion of Secrets], and the truth sprang from Dragonspeaker Luciva’s lips. She added, calmly, as she pulled the seat out.
“I don’t know if I should have had you killed. I don’t think you’re Manus’ enemy. But I do believe your actions can go against that of the City of War. Are you responsible for this?”
The [Innkeeper] wore a sad smile on her face. But there was an intensity around her that Luciva respected. The Dragonspeaker sat forwards as their auras met.
An inn’s sanctity versus a raging battleground. Neither one pressed—but the divide between them was palpable. Erin spoke softly.
“No.”
“Interesting. But you’re aware.”
She was in Baleros, but the [Innkeeper] had not weighed in on events in Izril at all, even the Goblin King. Luciva’s eyes narrowed further, to slits.
“Do you know what occurred to bring the Goblin King into existence? Was that the genuine article?”
“Yep. And yep.”
“Is that your doing? What a ridiculous question.”
This was a chance to get all the answers she wanted. Erin peered at Luciva thoughtfully.
“You’re sort of like what I expected. But not. You’re…honest. More honest that you’re a killing machine. I thought you’d be different from what Rafaema said of you. Or Lulv.”
Luciva hesitated. She hated sitting in a room with someone with high-level soft power Skills. Nerul always rattled her a bit. Nevertheless, she continued.
“I will take your lack of replies on any questions as partial confirmations. Do you know Rafaema well?”
“Not well. But I do know she’s a Dragon.”
That child. Luciva nearly shot from her chair, and then she wondered if she did need to kill Erin. But the [Innkeeper] was just watching the Dragonspeaker.
“Do you think I want her dead?”
“N-no.”
The word came out of Luciva by accident, and she cursed, realizing that the truth in this place really couldn’t be beaten. She added swiftly.
“But you are a liability. My job is to minimize risk to the City of War. Right now, you are one of Izril’s greatest liabilities in many senses. Your level is too high. Everything you touch seems to turn to chaos. That [Baker] is an example. I have to kill him.”
The [Innkeeper] exhaled. Softly.
“You don’t have to.”
“I have said it here, Erin Solstice. There is no feasible option where letting him go is preferable.”
The [Innkeeper]’s aura pushed forwards suddenly, and Luciva’s chair moved back. She focused, and the air stopped pressing against her. The [Innkeeper]’s eyes were blazing.
“There is if you consider the fact that he’s not an agent of the Hives. There is if you realize he doesn’t want war. He’s not a warrior. He’s not a [Strategist]. He’s a [Baker]. Kill him and you’ll get your war faster. He just wants to feed people.”
The Dragonspeaker thought. She tapped one claw on the table, thinking, assessing. Such a valuable place this Skill was. She wondered how long she could engage the [Innkeeper] in conversation.
She had to do the interview, but since this apparently let her split focus…they had so much to discuss.
“Since I can believe that…no, I don’t quite buy it. Say he’s truly independent. This wasn’t a Queen-mandated action?”
“No. Garry did it himself.”
Luciva nodded.
“Then he’s still an asset. A high-level [Baker] will contribute to the Hive in a material aspect.”
This time, Erin exhaled and sat up.
“Wow, I’m having a really crummy day, and you—you’re not making it better. I thought I knew the most stubborn idiot in the world, but you’re just a helmet on a stick. No, Luciva. I mean, even if there’s a war, Garry doesn’t want it. He’s not ‘an asset’. I think that if he disagrees with the Free Queen going to war, he won’t help her. He’ll just leave. That’s what’s happening in Liscor, you stupid idiots. The Antinium aren’t just levelling and becoming independent. They’re choosing. They might choose not to go to war!”
Luciva blinked. If it were anywhere else…instantly, her mind began racing.
We could see a civil war. Too risky if they still take the Hives’ side, but true insubordination in the ranks? Invaluable. Unless Erin could be lying by ignorance? She leaned back in her chair.
“Fine. That moves the needle slightly towards the [Baker] being less dangerous. It still damages too much.”
“Feeding people does?”
“Reputation. Drake ideals of safety. The authority of the Walled Cities. Even if I wanted to, they’re already shooting at him, and that is without my orders.”
“—They are?”
She didn’t know? Maybe she was stuck in here. That gap in Erin’s weaknesses closed, and her mouth firmed.
“You can halt it. Luciva, do you hate the idea of him feeding starving people?”
The Dragonspeaker hesitated. Then ground out an answer.
“No. If he weren’t Antinium, I’d allow it. Even Humans. But he is Antinium. I can’t be certain. I cannot, will not allow it.”
Erin Solstice sighed. Then smiled brightly at Luciva, as if she were a stupid cadet in her first year of class at Manus’ academies.
“Okay, Luciva. Listen very closely to me. I have spoken to Garry in this place. I know his delivery is not poisoned, not trickery, not anything but genuine goodness from the depths of his soul. An act of someone who is so innocent, so genuine and caring that you or I will never walk under the same sky that he shines under. He will harm no one. He only wants to feed people who are hungry. He went because no one—not you, not I—no one in this world cared about that Drake village or the people he wants to help. Understand that. Do you understand that?”
She leaned over the table, and Luciva Skybreath didn’t glance away or flinch.
“I understand. I believe you, and I know you’re telling me the truth here. It is commendable, then, what this [Baker] is doing. I wish he weren’t Antinium. His life would be easier. However, my decision cannot change for that alone.”
If your inn becomes an enemy, perhaps that’s my calculus. But you were Chaldion’s asset, or he treated you like one. Make me an offer. The [General] was prepared to play hard with all the information she had on Erin’s inn and its guests, and she knew enough about the [Princess] and other facets.
But the [Innkeeper] just stared into Luciva’s eyes. Then she rose and smiled. It was not a nice smile. It was weary, frustrated, furious, but she cloaked it all behind the curve of her lips.
“You’re a dangerous person, but an honest one. Like a swinging sword, I guess.”
“I use a spear. Why?”
Luciva got up warily. She didn’t know why, only felt like something was wrong. But the [Innkeeper] just walked over to the railing and leaned over it.
“A stabbing spear, then. But I think even Relc is more tricky than you. Who knows? You don’t scare me in the way other people do, Luciva. Nerrhavia, the dead gods, Yazdil, Thatalocian, all of them I can’t fully predict. When you come, you’re just a straight line, and that’s…not scary. Don’t kill Garry or I will remember it, and we will war, Luciva.”
She looked back, and the Dragonspeaker braced. That was a threat, but if Manus bowed to any individual…it had before. It would not do so, except to Dragons. She strode forwards, focused on the important parts.
“Nerrhavia. Is she alive? Is she alive? Answer me! What are these…‘dead gods’? What did Wall Lord Aldonss face! Give me intelligence on the threat!”
She shook Erin’s shoulder roughly, and the [Innkeeper] whispered.
“I really should. But you’re threatening to kill my little [Baker]. And sometimes? Sometimes I’m not so nice as he is. I’d damn a Walled City for him. No, not really. But for a second, I can say that. For a second—I believe it.”
“General Sserys told me these dead gods cannot be killed. Do you have any weapons? What are your intentions?”
She shook Erin again, and the [Innkeeper] rattled about, but she was grinning at Luciva. Erin Solstice spoke.
“My intentions? My intention was to tell you the truth about Garry, Luciva. Just the truth and nothing but the truth. I’m an enemy of the dead gods, and we need the weapons of the Elves and Gnomes in the deepest dungeons they left. Relics. But right now, you and I are at war over Garry.”
“Damn the [Baker]! You can’t change my mind, so just talk to—”
Erin Solstice was dissolving. What was going on? The door was opening in the distance, and the [Innkeeper] spoke, and then Luciva felt that sensation crawling up her spine.
Ambush.
“Enjoy your interview, Dragonspeaker.”
Then Dragonspeaker Luciva—
 
——
 
—stopped for a moment as Drassi finished introducing everyone to their segment. Luciva’s eyes opened wide, and the staff around her thought she seemed rattled.
Very rattled, but Drassi hadn’t done anything. She was smiling, though, sitting as if she knew something.
“Ah, Dragonspeaker. I think that’s my cue. So, I know you’re going to tell me about the Antinium threat, but I have just one question I think we should lay out before our audience, right here, right now.”
Luciva’s claws drummed on the armrest of her chair, and the [Strategist] started. But she knew what to say! He glanced around, then dashed to the side. The claws kept drumming.
“Which is, Reporter…?”
Luciva wore an expression like someone ready to be stabbed. Drassi leaned forwards and fixed Luciva with a focused gaze.
“To your knowledge as head of the City of War, is Garry the Baker in any way a threat? Honestly and truthfully, Dragonspeaker. No lies nor evading the truth. Yes or no. Because I think you know the answer.”
Well, that was easy. Just say ‘yes’. The [Strategist] was staring at Luciva. She didn’t conclusively…he saw her claws drumming, and then he realized something was wrong.
“Cut the broadcast. Cut the—”
Too late. Luciva hated soft power. She hated it with every fiber of her being. The Dragonspeaker sighed as she was walked into the check that Erin had put her into.
“…Like a Level 2 [Soldier] up against Plains Gnolls.”
“What was that, Dragonspeaker? Yes or no. Surely, it’s an easy question. Surely, anything but that would be omission, and we’re plain-speaking women, right?”
Drassi was smiling. She was almost dancing with joy, because a friend had found her and given her the chance of a lifetime. Dragonspeaker Luciva sat upright, and her eyes found the cameras fixed on her. She gazed dead into the cameras.
“As everything I say here is being authenticated by Reporter Drassi, please understand that I am being truthful. I dislike lying. Therefore, I would like to make a public statement. It has been known to Manus for quite some time that [Detect Truth] spells can be falsified. Especially by underworld classes or those with high-level Skills. It is possible to lie under the effects of the spell, especially for the rich or powerful. Higher-level Skills are far better able to detect truth, but we have no perfect guarantee of integrity, even in the City of War.”
Perhaps it was a check, but Luciva played enough chess to know that you didn’t always have to move the king out of check. Drassi’s eyes opened wide, and there was a choking noise in the background.
Cut the broadcast. If Manus couldn’t do it, then Wistram—? Drassi’s eyes flashed and she lifted a hand.
“[Keep Those Cameras Rolling], folks. No one takes me off air.”
Ah, and there it was. Luciva smiled despite her pounding heart. She wondered what level Miss Drassi was and whether someone would try to assassinate her—again. And then there was no time to stop the broadcast. It hit the 5-minute delay, and everyone saw it.
Across the world, rulers and individuals sat up as the Dragonspeaker unloaded a Tier 7 spell of her own into the public mindset. The Blighted King began cursing the Dragonspeaker out, and Drassi Tewing sat there, genuinely lost for words for a second. Then she lifted a claw.
“Okay. Breaking news, everyone. We’ll dive into that just in a second, but Dragonspeaker, you didn’t answer my question.”
Luciva sat back in her chair.
“No, I did not.”
She gritted her teeth and prepared for an ugly engagement as the [Reporter] came in for another assault. That was all the [Innkeeper] could do for her beloved [Baker]. And he appreciated it, even if he had not asked for this or Magnolia’s help or anyone else’s.
It was, Garry knew…lovely.
But meaningless.
 
——
 
His shoulder kept hurting. He suspected the arrow was poisoned, so, to cheer himself up, he ate another piece of Scaethen Bread. He wished it made him really tough, but stopping an arrow? He’d take it.
