It was a long-ranged shot anyways. The Drakes did fear him. As if he’d explode or charge them and kill them all. Reputation alone had them so scared they fired at long-range, missed.
Thunk. The tip of the arrow went through the side of the wagon.
“Close enough.”
That was all he said as the second rain of arrows fell. This time, Garry had seen the [Riders] coming down the road and leapt into the back. They fired two showers at him, wheeled their horses, then fled.
Most of the arrows hit the wagon, the bread, or glanced off his back-shell. Most. He got up slowly, and someone appeared in front of him.
Garry! You’re shot!
“I thought I told Lyonette not to let you watch. I am aware, Mrsha.”
Two arrows were sticking out of his backshell. Garry reached for them, then discovered a problem.
“Ah.”
He couldn’t reach behind his back. Unlike other species, his arms wouldn’t articulate backwards. The [Baker] tried to snap the arrows off and pull them out with the back of the wagon or fashion a claw to yank, but they were stuck in hard, and they began to hurt when he did.
So, after ten minutes, he just sat there, and they itched. Lyonette came back to urge him to stop, and he knew there was debate, this was being televised, and maybe that stopped some.
“I know.”
The second town was half a day’s journey away, and he had set out at dawn. How much further? The ride was no longer as comfortable, and Garry…
Drassi appeared after a while.
“Garry! You’ve been shot.”
“I am aware, Miss Drassi. Forgive my bad mood.”
“Nothing to forgive. I just—I just spoke with Dragonspeaker Luciva, who did not say you were a threat to Drakes. She refused to say you were not, but I think for any viewer with a brain, that said a lot. But you are being attacked.”
“I know. It is upsetting. I am here to deliver bread, Drassi. I wish to feed people.”
Definitely poisoned arrows. He felt a bit hot, but Antinium were tough. He was tough enough, he supposed. Drassi turned to some camera.
“Under truth Skills, which I believe in, that’s accurate. Garry, tell me. Why did you come by yourself? You could have gotten someone else to do this. Another Drake, a Gnoll. Even a Human.”
“Oh, yes. I could have gotten a Human. As Drakes are very welcoming to other species. Like Architect Hexel or Erin. Or Gnolls.”
Drassi paused for a long moment, and Garry added as he adjusted his red hat.
“I apologize again. My back hurts. Is it bleeding?”
“Only—only a little bit. But you know what I mean, Garry. Why an Antinium?”
It was the question, wasn’t it? Garry thought he saw movement ahead around a bend in the road. He spoke louder.
“Because I am an Antinium, Drassi. I could send someone and say it was not me who baked the bread. That it was from Liscor. Or just somewhere else, and it would have gone, and it would have been easy.”
She nodded, confused.
“Then why didn’t you?”
He turned to gaze at her, and now the Antinium’s eyes no longer sparkled. His mandibles were lowered in an expression everyone realized, instinctively, was a frown.
“Because, Drassi, it is not true. Because the truth is that an Antinium made this bread. I made this bread. Even if not every loaf, it is my doing. It is my bakery, my work that made bread that I wished to give to hungry people. I will not deliver a lie.”
There was something at the end of the pass. He and Drassi both saw a group poke their heads out, draw back. Not [Soldiers]. Drassi murmured.
“Adventurers. Hey, you’re on television!”
Garry kept staring at her. He went on, voice rasping.
“I made this bread, and I am an Antinium who does not want war. We are not all monsters. If this truth makes it harder to go to war again, then it is worth telling.”
“Even if it results in you getting shot? Garry, we all can see the danger you’re in. Is this worth it?”
“Yes.”
They were speaking as if they couldn’t hear the voices from around the bend. Drassi’s eyes were locked on his, and she gave him a frustrated expression. Her tail curled up.
“Garry, I know I shouldn’t critique you, not right now, but—this isn’t optimal. You have an ego.”
If she expected him to be angry or defensive? Garry’s head rose, and he cast around. The bread wasn’t going to stop a sword. Maybe he should have made Erin’s Shadowloaves after all. But it had to be public. Had to be—he was tensed, hunched over, but he relaxed and glanced at Drassi. Just once.
“Yes, please. I do have an ego. It was how I decided I mattered.”
Then he faced ahead and raised his voice.
“I am here to feed starving people. If you have a problem with that—show me.”
Drassi swung around and grabbed a Gnoll [Cameraperson] and dragged him into view next to Garry.
“You’re on television! We’re recording all of this!”
That made Garry smile, and he leaned over and patted her on the imaginary shoulder.
“They are very lovely words to say, Drassi. As if they mean something. I hope they work, but in the end—this is the truth.”
He nodded ahead as the Silver-rank team of Drakes broke around the bend, riding at him. The [Baker] sighed.
 
——
 
He didn’t fight back. That was the outrageous thing. Instead, he just checked his red hat and white beard, like they were armor, and held up his four arms, shielding himself with—loaves of bread. That was all. He didn’t move, just swivelled as the first saber slashed across his chest.
And that was how children learned that Santa’s blood was green. The first pass by the Silver-rank adventurers was bad. Perhaps they weren’t used to mounted combat, but knowing they were being watched also added to their nerves. They avoided Drassi, as if she was real, trying to hide their features from her. But one still slashed a saber across Garry’s chest and arm, and another hit him with fire.
The bread caught some of the fireblast, and he patted at the wagon’s seats as the horses cried out and began to gallop. But then he just set himself. Waiting.
Fight back! The Silver-rankers swung their horses around, ignoring Drassi, who was running after them.
“Get a shot of their faces! Why are you doing this? Stop! Stop, he’s unarmed!”
“Tough bastard. Spears!”
One of the Silver-rankers yanked a long spear up, shaking out his sword-hand. He’d cut as hard as he could, but the Antinium’s shell…they rode down the pass.
This time, three spears hit Garry, and he rocked as they cracked his back-shell, but one was aiming for the horses trying to gallop. Garry saw it, and as they swung the spear down, his lower left arm shot out. He grabbed the spear and nearly took the Silver-ranker off the horse.
“Ancest—”
They let go before they were literally carried off the saddle, and the spear fell as Garry dropped it. Now, he was swivelling as lightning played off his armor.
“What. Are. You. Doing? They’re just…horses.”
Third pass. He was bleeding. One of the Silver-rankers snapped.
“Just get the arms down and I’ll use [Power Strike] on his head. Hurry up!”
Their horses were getting spooked by the blood and shouting; they weren’t trained animals. Six Silver-rankers, forming a wedge, began to ride at the motionless Antinium.
Was there any hesitation when they saw he would not move, even now? Or were they just in too deep, committed? A shout burst from the six Silver-rankers as they galloped.
Thundering hooves. King Allorev scooped his son up and handed him to his older sister. Now, people were writing into the television networks, thousands of [Messages] and letters. As if it had the power to stop anything.
They weren’t there. The illusory [Princess] did nothing even when she spoke with the voice of royalty. Too weak, too low-level. No spells to throw across the world. No grand Skills.
Not for a [Baker] and a delivery of bread. The galloping horses rode down the pass, two frantic animals tethered to the wagon. Seven riders.
One of the Silver-rankers locked on Garry noticed something despite the tunnel-vision. She gazed up and cried out.
“What’s that?”
The lead rider aiming the [Power Strike] at the Antinium jerked the spear up. He blanched, cursed, and aimed the spear straight. But it was still—too short.
The twelve-foot long lance struck the Silver-rank adventurer and carried the figure out of the saddle. Then the shield swung around as the armored [Knight] passed by another adventurer. The blow clipped the Drake, who swung their spear, shouting in panic. But the weapon just bounced harmlessly off Ser Solton’s armor.
The Knight of Haegris passed by the Drakes, scattering them as his warhorse bit, and he shouted, swinging the shield and lance. Then he was raising his lance, coming around. Garry stared as his head came up.
“You?”
“Back! Back! In the name of the Order of Haegris, I challenge you ruffians! Oh, hullo, Master Garry. Fancy meeting you here.”
The man winked through his visor. His potbellied armor clanged as an arrow rang off it, but he was in full plate, and his horse was barded too.
Possibly, the Drakes had never seen a [Knight] in the south. Garry glared at Ser Solton even as his heart leapt.
“I told you, if it wastes your time—”
Ser Solton’s lance lowered. And his voice was suddenly precise. No longer the jovial [Knight of Trades and Fair Deals], but a [Knight] upon a crusade. The only kind that the Order of Haegris respected.
“I know. But it goes against my chivalry to let a good man die as well. I don’t know if I can best this lot, sir. I’ll try. Turn back, I pray you.”
“I cannot.”
“Then neither can I. Order of Haegris, witness me!”
Ser Solton raised his shield overhead. Then he struck it with the butt of his lance, and a yellow caterpillar fuzz of lightning stole over his shield. It ran down the length of his enchanted lance, and he began to canter. Then gallop at the Silver-rank adventurers spreading out and shouting.
 
——
 
A lone [Knight] charging, outnumbered.
Defending a wagon of bread.
Far from home. In his silly potbelly armor, no less. Who could cheer that?
Well, aside from the Prince of Shade, the audience of millions—how about the Order of Haegris? They were on their feet in their gentle keep with its outdoor market and standing on the banquet tables, pounding and shouting Ser Solton’s name.
“Grandmaster! We must launch a crusade to Izril’s shores! We are needed there!”
[Knights] were petitioning their Grandmaster, alight with the reflection of Ser Solton’s valor. The [Grandmaster] of the Order of Haegris, a woman, paused.
“You mean a second crusade, [Knight]? Squire Cathenay is receiving our first reinforcements in First Landing now. I may allow it. Now, silence! Our brother is fighting.”
The wheeling [Knight] galloped and turned, raising the lance everyone knew he hated overhead. And the Antinium—one of the [Knights] murmured.
“He would make a fine Knight of Haegris. But he is too mad, even for chivalry’s pride.”
The [Baker] was continuing. Smiling, as if that one [Knight]’s charge had saved something precious in the world he had begun to doubt.
But he—the Order of Haegris cheered Ser Solton as he rode, harrying the scattering Silver-rank adventurers despite his dented armor and the arrows sticking out of his pauldrons.
Then they went silent. For there was a line between bravery and madness. And still—
The Antinium kept going.
 
——
 
He told them not to help him, and they did. The [Baker] was grateful, but—he was not counting his miracles. Just waiting.
He was still not at the town, but another hour—another hour and he’d be there. The wagon was heading uphill now, and the frightened, exhausted horses were flagging. He’d fed them more bread and stamina potions, pushing the wagon uphill, when they found him again.
Not Silver-rankers this time. [Soldiers].
Just twelve. They came off the back of a Wyvern. Only one. The Wyvern took to the air, screaming, and the horses panicked. Garry cursed as the wagon swerved.
“No. No. Stop—”
They were splitting in either direction, then pulling right. They were going to pull the wagon, and it would crush the silly animals from sheer momentum, lashed to it as they were! He had no choice. Garry grabbed a belt-knife and slashed one’s reins. The other was fighting. He felt the wagon turning—and a Drake cut the reins on the other side. The horse tore free as the wagon halted, held in place.
“Thank you—”
The sword stabbed into Garry’s stomach and twisted. The Drake grunted as the blade snapped, the tip breaking in Garry’s shell, the rest shattering.
Another flash along his back. Garry looked down, and a sword was in his side. His arms holding the wagon steady trembled. The Drakes backed away.
“It’s just bread—”
The wagon began moving. He tried to grab it, and it dragged him downhill. The [Soldiers] gave chase with shouts. Garry was being pulled across the ground and—
Screeching overhead. The Wyvern and its rider were following him as the wagon rolled down the hill, hit a stone, and stopped. Garry lay on his back as the giant Wyvern’s shadow passed overhead.
It shrieked a third time, a voice of terror, and the [Soldiers] stopped. Waiting.
The shadow passed overhead again and then turned. Garry waited, then heard a shout.
“Antinium! Antinium—”
“Yes, me. Am I so scary? Please, just let me—”
He sat up slowly, and he was bleeding. He had…no healing potions. But he did have bandages and some of the Antinium’s healing gel. Then Garry saw her.
She wasn’t really there. If you looked closely, her image flickered a bit. A hologram, though no one knew that word. But a Wyvern should have been able to tell she was fake as she had no shadow.
But Bird was a good [Liar]. The archer stood there, bow lowered, an arrow placed to it. Her eyes followed the Wyvern, and it turned. It fled, ignoring its [Rider], fleeing the Antinium that looked like utter death to its eyes.
“Bird?”
“I…would offer you a hand up, Garry. But I am muchly afraid I cannot. Please stop.”
Liquid was dripping from Bird’s eyes, and once again, Garry envied her. Slowly, he got up. Her face flickered as an arrow passed through her head. The [Soldiers] were still here, and they knew she was fake.
“Not yet. I have to know.”
Bird turned, then vanished. Garry limped over to the wagon. The [Soldiers] advanced silently, surrounding him. He rasped at them as he felt at his side and gazed at the green blood coating his hand.
“There’s no point to this. Look. The food’s fallen on the ground.”
He bent over to pick up a loaf of bread, and one of them stabbed him as he bent over. The rest rushed forwards, swinging, as if afraid to attack him while he was watching. And the [Baker] wondered, as he covered his head—
Is this it?
Would they stop?
“Are you—blind?”
