Mit closed his eyes. And Garry saw a boy peeking at him, who had heard that tale, perhaps written a letter to King Fetohep. Like the Wind Runner of Reizmelt, the stories that children passed along and told each other were the ones they loved the most. And Santa…
The [Bandit Leader]’s face was of a man suddenly ambushed, in pain. Garry was not the sort of Antinium who would kick a man when he was down.
Physically. He adjusted the beard and waved at the boy.
“Hello, child. It is I, Garry Santa Claus. Tell me, are you hungry?”
Mit ran back, but the boy was staring at Garry. And his eyes were on the bread. Garry walked forwards, and the moment to stab him was in the reflexive jerk of arms. Then—it was past, and he was in the moment that Erin Solstice had claimed. Chaos, when he could walk past the swivelling [Bandits] and take a loaf of bread that thankfully didn’t have boot dirt on it, just the covering. He unwrapped it and broke a piece off.
“It is a very good bread. But you must eat it slowly to avoid straining your stomach. And I have bread here. I would like to give it to all the good children.”
The boy looked as hungry as the others. He hesitantly took the piece as Mit almost grabbed for it, but then the boy gazed up at Garry’s face.
“I’m not a good kid, though.”
Guilt was written across his little expression, and Garry bent down and tugged at his beard.
“Nonsense. I am Santa, and I can tell these things. But your father is trying to do something he thinks is good and is in fact very mean. I hope you will help me change his mind. Also, bringing children to a bandit attack is very amateurish.”
He added that last bit just on general principle. Garry didn’t want to encourage banditry, but someone had to say it. The boy peered up at his father.
“Dad…”
Mit tore at his hair and glanced around. He didn’t know what to say, so Garry nodded.
“Help me unload the bread and tell me how many people are in your camp, Mister Mit. I have a very nice fish paste that goes well on the bread.”
No one moved, so he began unloading bread himself until the Flying Antinium came over. Then the [Bandits] couldn’t quite look at him. But that was alright. Garry cut a piece of bread and added condiments, then began handing out sandwiches.
 
——
 
He left them with a lot of bread and bags of goods. More than they thought. The [Bandits] were staring at his wagon as the Flying Antinium began to re-hitch themselves to the harnesses, but Garry wasn’t done.
“I hope these supplies put an end to your need for banditry, Mister Mit. I do not think you are very good at your class. Also, I would have the children stay at your base with custodians rather than commit your entire force to the raid, but I do not wish to encourage such things.”
The man was giving him the strangest look ever. At least he could meet Garry’s eyes.
“You’re…stranger than even the stories, whomever you are. You really came all this way to give bread out?”
“Yes. I am pleased you did not rob me.”
“Hard to do that. I’m…sorry. Half of us ran off. Don’t know if they’re dead of starvation or had to steal or what. We had to start jumping people. We wrote to our [Lord], and we paid our taxes. But no one ever came. House Everight should’ve given us…but old Lord Toldos is dead. I think we were just forgotten.”
He spoke as if expecting Garry to lecture him about excuses or failures, but Garry didn’t know Izrilian geography or politics. He just made sure Mit’s son, Berry, was munching slowly on the bread. Then he turned.
“I will come back. Next time, please just wave at me. Or—”
“You won’t come back. Thank you. Please come back. Maybe this is enough to—the fields are barren, though. But maybe…”
The others were gathering around. Now trying to ensure Garry would return. But the [Chef] just replied with the hint of a smile.
“If I am ambushed again, I will hurt your feelings again. And your children’s. I apologize if I have caused undue mental anguish. I am not a very nice person, you see.”
Mit stared at him, and Garry climbed back into the wagon.
“Oh, and please eat the glowing bread quickly. It spoils fast, but it is tasty. Thank you for not taking everything.”
He flapped the reins and called out.
“Now, on Runel, on Pisca, on Fred, on Cherry, on Leafwing, on Carla…”
The Flying Antinium began to trot off, and the [Bandits] stared at him, some pinching themselves for the umpteenth time. Mit stood there, with Berry under one arm, until he finally croaked.
“Let’s—let’s get this back to the village.”
Only when they had lugged the bread and other bags of supplies—jars of condiments because one could not eat bread alone—back to their village did the [Bandits] get a final surprise.
Garry had added one final ingredient to his gifts after consultation with Erin and some thought. How did you do the most good?
‘Feed a man for a day and you feed him for a day. Set him on fire and you keep him warm for the rest of his life.’
Garry had felt like Erin had bungled the quote slightly, but he hadn’t wished to correct her. But he had taken the concept and gone to his Antinium [Farmers].
The final bags contained seeds and a note on top in Garry’s actually semi-messy handwriting. He used to have good handwriting but writing countless lists and recipes meant he was a bit slapdash these days.
When Mit managed to decode it, it read:
 
Liscor’s Public Bakery in Liscor is happy to buy all ingredients at reasonable prices. Please inquire with the Merchant’s Guild for potential trade-opportunities. Please ask for ‘Trader Garry of Liscor’.
 
——
 
Garry hummed to himself after they escaped the [Bandit] ambush and retrieved his list. He rubbed at the chip on his shoulder and crossed out a name.
“We will be going west at the next fork, everyone. I believe there are less-starving [Bandits] there. Oh, wait. What is that?”
His head snapped up, and they all froze as something rustled in the forest. Then something hork-quawked as the foliage moved.
A Garbichug, quite big and quite noxious, waddled out of the bushes where it had been foraging. Garry and the Flying Antinium stared at it, and he lowered his hand.
“Oh. Phew.”
The Garbichug sniffed the air and brightened when it detected food. It waddled forwards fearlessly.
“Hork-awk!”
The ‘awk’ was of Garry nailing the open mouth of the bloated, most disgusting bird with an acid jar. He watched it roll around then go still and sat back down. One of the Flying Antinium scuttled over and cautiously began kicking it; they only died when you got the acid directly in their mouths. Garry shook his head as they continued onwards.
“I must bring more acid jars next time. How many of them are there?”
Bird was right. They were really gross.
 
——
 
By the time Garry made camp with his little helpers under the moonlight and ate—what else—bread, he was a news story.
Drassi covered it on Channel 2 News, whereupon it was picked up by Channel 1 News who immediately pretended it was breaking news. Whereupon Drassi kicked open the doors to Channel 1 and had a screaming match with Sir Relz to the side of the camera, but you know what that was?
Entertainment. Garry had plenty of room in his life for entertainment; he had a scrying orb installed in the Liscorian Free Bakery kitchens, and it had cut down on fights immensely, though you only let it be on for mindless work. A lot of unwatched pots boiled over otherwise.
But he, personally, didn’t care. Nor was he in a region where anyone could actually send a team to interview him. The very nature of his delivery was, well, that no one cared about this place.
The point was, he wasn’t top-tier news, but he was certainly captivating to the nightly audience. An offseason Santa.
You know whom he was most captivating to?
The Wandering Inn.
The moment Lyonette heard about Garry being in Celum, she went around interrogating everyone she could find, demanding to know who was responsible or at least aware of the Garry expedition of mercy. She refused to believe no one had known about it and even went to bother Emperor Laken Godart and the Knights of Solstice.
But they were just as shocked as she was to learn that The Wandering Inn wasn’t behind Garry. No one had given him money, helped him smuggle bread, or even found him a map! Of course, everyone proceeded to blame Erin, but even that was wrong.
 
——
 
Erin had no idea of what Garry had been planning either. But because she now knew, she spent the rest of the day worrying.
Worrying, but mostly confident that Garry would be fine. Because he was a tough Antinium, and he had the Flying Antinium, emergency acid jars, and unless the Bloodfeast Raiders appeared, he wouldn’t be in much danger. Right?
He could always ditch the bread. Griffins like bread. Right?
Matha was actually out of the bathroom by now, and that was how Bowom and Ulvama learned where Erin was; she’d been holed up in the library searching up whether Griffins ate bread in between teaching the bands bread-based songs.
Bowom had been keeping Ulvama company as the upset Hobgoblin wandered Lemoste. Mostly because he’d lost a rock-sword-wand game against Roja and Eurise. You’d think having six fingers gave some kind of advantage there! However, negatives aside, it meant he was in place to observe an interesting phenomenon.
The moment a scowling Ulvama had been told Erin was off library-hunting by Matha, he saw a curious expression flit over the Hobgoblin’s face. It looked like…paranoia? Fear was too banal, and Bowom refused to classify generally; you might as well ask if a patient was ‘breathing’ as signs of ‘life’.
Fight or not, Ulvama made a beeline towards the library, and just inside the huge stacks of books was Erin Solstice, sneezing from all the dust she’d inhaled. She hesitated when she saw Ulvama.
“Um.”
“Hello.”
The [Shaman]’s face was frosty, but she had said hello. Erin brightened a bit, then blinked. Clearly remembered why Ulvama was angry and scuffed her feet.
“Ulvama, I’m stupid and an idiot and I shouldn’t have bothered you. Will you forgive me? Please? Or—or at least talk to me so I can apologize?”
Ulvama squinted at Erin, then chopped Erin’s head. Hard. The [Innkeeper] yelped.
“Hey, that hurt! I didn’t have my [Reinforced Structure] on!”
The Hobgoblin shook her hand out behind her back.
“Why not all the time, stupid? You’re stupid.”
“Yeah, I am.”
“Very stupid.”
“Absolutely stupid.”
Erin ducked her head, and Ulvama gave a Pisces-level sniff, whomever Pisces was supposed to be.
“I’ll forgive you, because you are incredibly stupid and I’m an adult. Why are you looking up Griffins eating bread in the library?”
The [Innkeeper] peeked up at her, and Bowom tugged at his upper lip thoughtfully. He couldn’t read emotions like Erin or Ulvama, but he had dated an [Angry Druid], Vrilla. Ulvama hadn’t seemed like she was ready to forgive and patch things up, but what did he know?
A lot, so Bowom listened while pretending to inspect some books on display as the two talked.
“I, uh, was using my [Pavilion of Secrets] when you left. I felt like it was time to check in on people.”
“You didn’t talk to the Quarass or anyone else?”
“Nope, no. I—well, it’s hard to explain. I asked it who the person most in danger was that I cared about and—”
“You what?”
Oh, here came the ear-pinching. Ulvama glared at Erin, but the [Innkeeper] had activated her defensive Skill and protested.
“It’s a good idea, Ulvama! And—and—you guess who it was?”
“Mrsha?”
Genuine worry until Erin shook her head, and Ulvama let go of her ear.
“No. Garry.”
Her face had all the graveness of a Tallguard commander preparing to repulse a clowder of cats or a Creler nest. She gazed at Ulvama, and Bowom saw the Hobgoblin shift out of the corner of his eye.
“Um. Who Garry?”
Ooh. Bowom experimentally poked at the air and tried to cut it with a scalpel, but no good. The [Shaman] filled the silence, a touch breathless.
“I never met him. I don’t know all your friends. Sorry.”
“You did! I bet he came to the inn. He’s the guy with the baker’s hat. Remember? He was in the baking competition with all the Goblins during the Siege of Liscor and—”
“I wasn’t there. When did he come after that?”
“All the time. He was just—there. You have to have seen him. The cooking competition with Tyrion! Remember?”
“I don’t. Sorry.”
More silence. Bowom swished his scalpel experimentally and weirded out a [Librarian] who stared at him through the bookshelves. Ulvama cleared her throat.
“How is he in danger?”
“He’s delivering bread.”
Bowom smiled to himself. You had to hand it to her. Excellent use of language and timing. Perfect delivery of everything and nothing, he was sure. Just begged the questions. He liked hanging out around linguistic masters.
A fascinating thing. Erin and Ulvama began to chatter about an ‘Antinium’, ‘delivering bread’, in ‘Liscor’, all concepts that Bowom found fascinating.
Especially that middle one. Who wanted bread delivered? He followed them back to the guest house, interjecting a few questions here and there, noting that their rift was, if not patched up, then glossed over.
When Erin began to argue with Bowom that bread was worth being delivered, especially Garry-bread, she came to a realization.
“Oh snap! You guys don’t really use wheat! I’ll make some bread with my exchanged ingredients! How about bread and cornbread and…”
And then she was baking with some of the flour-stuff she’d introduced to Dretonamis. Which Bowom was content to let her and Ulvama work with and talk over until she mentioned it was explosive.
Then he squatted outside the window, making flour bombs with Matha, until a member of Lemoste’s security yelled at them. They hadn’t even been that big! Bowom retired to a fur couch as he listened to the two talking. He noted Matha was paying attention, though she just stared at the two of them until they made her scrub down the Corumdon Beetle outside, who’d gotten mucky from hauling clay.
“So he’s going now.”
“Yeah, I’m checking in tonight. He’ll be fine. And I don’t want to distract him. Besides, Pavilion-Me told me that there’s a limit. I can’t just keep resummoning someone over and over.”
“She never said that.”
“Yeah, she’s a jerk like that. Add that to our notes on her. Makes sense.”
“What…what is Pavilion-You like, Erin?”
Ulvama stopped kneading dough as Erin stared out the window at Matha slipping in the clay suds, trying to think.
“Imagine someone smart as you—maybe smarter—who knows all your weakpoints. And the only reason she’s not using it all is because she has to help. Or she wants to see something interesting.”
