“They are that. But this’d do us for…we could bring in the next harvest and not have to dig up anything ahead of time. It’s good. It is good, right?”
One of the suspicious Humans staying away from Garry but eating the bread glanced at Fals. The City Runner raised his hands.
“I can only say what Lord Terland bade me deliver, everyone. Though I will say, I have been to Liscor, and Antinium do all kinds of jobs there. They don’t lie that I’ve heard, except for one, and he’s the weird one.”
He meant Bird, of course. The Humans eyed him.
“A whole city full of…?”
Fals winked at Garry when they turned back to the [Chef]. The Runner was not helping, merely observing, and Garry was grateful. Fals could not go with him the entire way, and so Garry had to figure out what worked.
“Would it help if I said this was courtesy of Liscor’s bakeries? Bread made by the city?”
“Drake bread?”
“Ah, I am sensing from your tone that this is not helpful. What if I said…this bread is a surplus the city does not need?”
“Why don’t they store it, sell it, or grind it up as feed?”
Why indeed? These were all good, logical ways to earn more coin, and Garry was going against the very principles everyone in Izril knew. The [Baker] thought about it and came back to his simplest answer.
“I have been hungry. I wish to give bread to people so they are less hungry, if I can.”
They were still doubtful, but the boy who’d emerged from the house gazed up at Garry with huge eyes, then blurted out.
“Are you him? The Santa man?”
Garry still had the beard on, and the Humans eyed him and whispered.
“Are you the Santa fellow? I thought he wasn’t…y’know, Antinium.”
A little candle lit up in Garry’s mind, and he knelt down. The boy promptly hid behind his parents, but Garry adopted a very serious tone of voice.
“This is fundamentally correct, little boy. I am…Santa. Though my name is Garry. I have a huge bakery in Liscor, and I give out toys and such to children every Christmas. Which is why I am here. See my wagon and twelve helpers?”
The twelve Antinium helpers fanned their wings as the Humans drew back. The little boy had an expression as he stared up at his parents that suggested he thought he’d been lied to and resented the fact greatly. He blurted out.
“Then why’re you here? It ain’t Christmas!”
“No indeed. I am here because…I deliver bread year-round. Presents are only on Christmas. Ho-ho. And ho.”
Fals’ mouth was visibly open as Garry completed his pitch to the villagers of Eress. If anyone had asked him if Antinium lied…the [Headwoman] passed a hand over her eyes again.
“I don’t see nary a splotch of guilt on him. I think it’s the truth, and if a Terland [Lord] is watching, the bread’s good. Eat up, everyone. I…I thank you, Antinium fellow. Mister Santa?”
“Garry. Santa is my middle name.”
“What’s your last name?”
“Claus.”
The look the woman gave him told Garry that he had to work on that particular falsehood. He didn’t know how Bird did it. But she drew closer.
“Thank you. It feels like something out of a tale. We’d heard of the Unseen Emperor and thought…but even that beggared belief. This really is all good? It ain’t a trick or poison or…?”
“No.”
“If it is, I’ll curse you across Izril.”
She looked him in the eyes, and he nodded seriously. Then the woman brushed at her eyes and blinked again.
“Ach. I trust you. Can’t look at you straight on.”
“I realize I am horrific to Human sensibilities. I do not mind.”
“Not that. I ain’t ever seen something bright as you.”
“Bright?”
“My eyes have [Detect Guilt].”
“Oh.”
He didn’t know how that applied; he had plenty of guilt. Did she know how many pies he’d dropped before his Skills that revolved around accidents? But Garry smiled as he saw the pace of bread-intake increasing.
One village down, nine more to go. Fals jogged out of the village with Garry.
“I’m paid to spread the word a bit more, Mister Garry, but I won’t be able to go much further than this. You’re approaching the limits I can run, and frankly, it’s bandit territory up north.”
“So I am told, City Runner Fals, but that is all the more reason to go. May I offer you a loaf of bread?”
The man grinned and demurred, but at the second village, he did have some and blinked.
“This is the best damn bread I’ve had…ever!”
Garry put his hands on his hips as the cautious villagers took bites.
“Yes. I am the highest-level [Baker] you have ever met. Why would you think otherwise?”
“Well, er, it’s free.”
“And why would I give away bad bread for free?”
That stumped everyone so utterly that they were still working on the many levels Garry was apparently wrong on when he pulled away.
 
——
 
On the first day, Garry managed to visit two villages and be attacked by [Bandits]. It turned out that if everyone knew the [Bandits] operated out of Gulfwaters Ravine, then they preferred to move south of there into a forest where everyone didn’t know where they were.
Garry eyed the shortbows and another pitchfork pointed his way and guessed they were hunting bows and farming implements. Even the Antinium Workers in the Free Hive had better bows.
These were not the Bloodfeast Raiders. Garry believed this on the grounds that the [Bandits] were poorly armed, not mounted, and looked worse-for-wear. Also, he believed the Bloodfeast Raiders didn’t have children.
Those only appeared after the [Bandits] had surrounded his wagon and fired a few arrows—mostly into the bread stack. All the Flying Antinium were tensed, on the ground, ready to buzz upwards.
Garry had a jar of acid in his bag of holding. He did not reach for it. Instead, he spoke calmly to the leader, who was demanding he get off the wagon.
“Excuse me, sir. I do not have any gold for you to take. My cargo is bread.”
“I said get off the wagon. We’re taking everything, got it? Just back off and we won’t fill you full of arrows!”
The man was visibly nervous as he shook the pitchfork at Garry. The Antinium scared the [Bandits], who backed up every time one of the Flying Antinium moved a wing. One was motioning the children to get back, but they all had eyes on Garry’s valuable cargo.
The bread.
Garry slid from his seat and was herded away from the wagon. Then he saw someone rush forwards and cut the cords. They exclaimed.
“It’s filled with food. Mit, look—”
“Shut up. Grab it in case there’s more. There’s no horses, so get it back to—”
Their leader was having trouble organizing everyone. Half the [Bandits] rushed forwards to grab food, and Garry calculated that if there was a moment to attack, it was probably now. Certainly, Runel tensed, but he just put out a hand in front of her. The [Bandits] were hauling the bread away when he spoke.
“I baked that bread, and it is my intention to deliver it to the other villages along my route. So I will please ask you only to take a certain amount for yourselves.”
He stepped forwards, and the weapons snapped back up. The [Bandit]’s leader jabbed with the pitchfork, the tines nearly grazing Garry’s apron.
“You’re not taking anything. Just—just back off and go back wherever you came from!”
“No. I must insist on keeping the bread. It is needed for other people who are hungry. I observe you and your people are hungry. This is what the bread is for, but you cannot have it all.”
The altercation had swung the group’s guards back up. Garry saw more than one person scramble up on the wagon to aim down at him. He stepped forwards.
“Do not step on the bread, please.”
“Get back. Back, I said!”
The pitchfork thrust at his chest again, and Garry caught a tine. He saw the Flying Antinium tensing out of the corner of one eye and raised his other hands.
“Excuse me—”
“Stop eating bread, you idiots! Get the kids back!”
“I would like to state—”
“Get lost! Get back or we’ll kill you! We ain’t warning you twice—”
Garry thought about Erin, then drew in a breath.
“EXCUSE ME.”
Two bows twanged. One shot went wide, and the other arrow, stone and crude, hit Garry on the shoulder.
“Ow.”
It bounced off his carapace, and he wondered if it could have even hurt a deer. Probably meant for rabbits. Garry spoke into the ringing silence.
“I am Garry, the Chef. Also Santa. I have been delivering bread to hungry people, and this wagon’s bread is for you. But not all of it. Please leave me and my helpers the rest that we might feed people in need. Thank you. Also—”
He dug out his fake beard and attached it under his chin. Then the hat. The [Bandits] stared at him. The surreal Worker standing there deepened his voice.
“Ho, ho, ho. Merry Christmas.”
When his mind finally processed that this wasn’t a dream and after a surreptitious pinch, Mit, the [Bandit Leader], called back, licking his lips.
“What, you’re just giving out…food?”
“Yes.”
“Why?”
“Because people are hungry.”
“That’s…not a real reason.”
“It is a very real and good reason. If someone is hungry, should you not feed them?”
“Hah! We’ve starved this entire damn winter and no one’s fed us. Not our nobles or anyone else.”
Someone spat into the dust of the road, and Garry saw angry eyes peeking over a veil at him.
“If that is so, then it is a terrible thing. But I have come, because I had to. I mean to feed all those who are hungry.”
“Including us? Mighty convenient.”
Cynicism was warring with suspicion on Mit’s face, but Garry spoke without a hint of irony, just like he had to Menolit, and now they were all eying him for a hint, a break in his tone or features, foreign as they were. Surely, there had to be…
“Including you. Which is why I am pleased to meet you, though not that you have stood upon my bread and wish to take more than you need. Please, give the rest back.”
“Or what?”
Aha, a splendid dialectical counter. Doubly effective with all the pointy metal objects aimed at Garry. He didn’t miss a beat.
“Or you will no doubt take all the food, which you cannot eat before it spoils. There is more than enough in the Chest of Holding, and you will not be able to eat it despite the lesser preservation on the chest.”
“A Chest of Holding! Do you hear that, Mit?”
They grew excited, and Mit jutted out his chin, smiling now with clear relief.
“We’ll have that and maybe leave the wagon to you. How’s that sound?”
“No. The Chest of Holding contains more bread than you need. I insist you let me allocate the bread to you as well as appropriate supplies.”
At this point, some of the [Bandits] began checking the trees, even the ground, on the suspicion that Garry had to have backup. Mit clearly had the same idea, because he licked his lips, casting around.
“What’ll you do if we don’t agree? We’ve got you surrounded and outnumbered.”
He probably should have just run Garry off at blade-point or opened fire, but the kids were watching, and besides, this had that dream-like quality of surreality that occurred when things didn’t go how you expected. So everyone was listening as Garry returned evenly. He didn’t pause. As if he had no expectations whatsoever and thus could react to the most absurd moments that he took seriously.
“Well then, Bandit Leader Mit, I suppose you will then steal my entire cargo and I will be forced to return without the bread as I will not fight you. Nor will my helpers.”
We won’t? Pisca, Runel, and the others clearly thought they had a chance, even surrounded. Mit grinned in relief, showing some rather excellent teeth. He rubbed at his chest, and Garry saw how badly his clothes fit on him.
Thin. The pitchfork was clearly too heavy for him to lift for long, so he rested his weight on it.
“Sounds good to me.”
“This will happen, then, Mister Mit.”
The [Bandits] were turning to grab the supplies and dig the Chest of Holding out when Garry added pointedly and sharply.
“Other villages will starve because you have stolen the bread that could have fed them. I take the fact that you are [Bandits] as a sign you are desperate and need food. I did not think you murdered children.”
Mit’s head snapped up, and some of the kids watching stirred.
“The hell did you say to me? We’re not killing any children.”
Unless the Flying Antinium…? His confusion was clarified by Garry.
“I see you have children in your company. You will feed your offspring with the bread you hoard, that you cannot fully use, and others’ children will starve as a result. I knew [Bandits] were criminals. I did not think they were monsters.”
“We’re not killing any—shut up.”
Mit was rapidly losing patience with Garry. He lifted the pitchfork and thrust it again only to have it stop dead when Garry caught it. The Human tried to yank the pitchfork back, but it was like a vice held it. Garry pointed a finger at the children.
“I will give you enough bread to feed you for a considerable amount of time. But if you steal that bread, children will die. Is that what you want, Mit?”
“Get off. Get—no, that’s not what we’re doing! We’re just protecting ourselves!”
Mit realized he was arguing philosophy with an Antinium with a white beard and a red hat. Ridiculous. Surreal. But the Antinium wasn’t backing up as someone jabbed him with a quarterstaff. If anything, he got louder, and he was speaking to the children now.
“It is very simple, bandit-children. No one will buy this bread. I doubt it is very economical to sell. But if you do not take all of it, some other children whose stomachs are rumbling as loud as yours will get to eat it. Are your parents bad people?”
“Don’t listen to him. Get back in the trees.”
An adult shouted, and more people prodded Garry. But the Antinium was just yelling louder.
“Are they? Or are they murderers? I am giving people free food, and I will not go. If you rob me, then I will not come back. And then you will all go hungry. Let me go and I will return, I promise.”
That made them hesitate. Mit was laughing.
“You’re insane. A lying, talking bug-person. Kids—”
“Do you believe in Santa Claus, children? I do not think you have been naughty. I believe it has been a hard year, but surviving is not naughty. This is wrong, though. Help me convince your parents—”
That was it. Mit punched Garry before he thought better of it and regretted it because he felt like he nearly broke a knuckle on the hard face. Garry stumbled back a foot.
“Ow.”
The Flying Antinium instantly opened their much bigger mandibles and fanned their wings, and the [Bandits] fell back a step. Mit was about to pant at someone to just grab the chest and go when a voice spoke up.
“Dad…is that Santa?”
