“I give you permission to shoot the walls, but nothing else, Bird.”
“You cannot boss me around. I am Bird, and no one rules me.”
They took the wagon through the door into The Wandering Inn, but Liska paused when Garry asked to just be dropped off at an old destination.
“The Bloodfields? Why the heck do you want to go there?”
“I wish to deliver bread south, Liska.”
“South? Hey, isn’t that a really bad idea?”
The Gnoll glanced at Bird, and the [Hunter] replied.
“Yes.”
“No.”
Garry and Bird locked gazes, and she raised the bow and hit him.
“Ow.”
She hit him again.
“Ow. Bird, stop that.”
Her arms were trembling.
“I must stop you. I must. Why can you not stay in this city? We belong here. In that circle around the inn.”
Four gaps in the ring of statues. Garry peered at the frozen Antinium forms for a second. Where was Anand’s…? He looked back at his sister.
Bird pointed at the [Garden of Sanctuary] and that hill where the statues stood in the mists, and she was crying. Garry envied her that, his beautiful sister who had become more than he could dream of. But he stood with that feeling that had carried Erin Solstice so far, and whatever Liska saw in him, she silently changed the door. Garry put an arm around Bird’s shoulder and shielded his face as she raised the bow again.
“That is where you belong, Bird, and I hope you stay here as long as you wish to. I? I see another hill to stand on. And there is no one there but me. I am going. The place I am trying to reach is somewhere that not even Erin has found. The world does not need another [Baker of Presents, Gifted Chef].”
Miss Uriesta and Menolit, who’d just come through the door, and everyone in earshot who’d been impatiently waiting for the wagon to turn or listening to this moment stopped.
Their eyes fixed on Garry, and he smiled as they found a tiny window to view him through. The true him. Liska’s eyes went round, and the [Baker] smiled.
“That is to say—the world will probably take many more like me. And it may need what I can give. But it is not enough.”
“It’s enough for me.”
Bird threw her arms around Garry, and he hugged her, then gently lifted her off him and climbed into the wagon. The horses, who were nervous, had been chewing on Scaethen Dough, and he turned and spoke to Bird.
“Selfish as it is, Bird, I must tell you the truth for I am a poor [Liar]. It may be enough for you, but it is not for me. I must try at least once. Then…I will be able to sleep again.”
He rode the wagon through the magic door into the reddish, smoothed dirt road heading south from Liscor. And he knew they were watching him, but he had a while. The Antinium gazed up at the sky.
“I’m very nervous, Erin. Is this how it feels each time? Wish me luck.”
Then he shook the reins, patted one of the horses, and he began to ride south. Facing the enemy that would be his greatest danger.
Drakes.
And the people he had to try to help. Who needed him.
Drakes.
 
——
 
The [Baker] began rolling around the stained Bloodfields, watching clouds of insects funneling upwards from the huge pillow plants that disgorged them without end. Delicately driving the nervous horses further away from the sporadic Watchertrees, who stood like silent sentinels, and occasionally just admiring a red rabbit because there were always rabbits, apparently.
And only a few people knew where he was going or why. For those first few hours into a journey that would last days, Garry just sat back and listened to his heart hammering.
“But the reason is correct. So it should be done.”
He was not, then, fearless. Garry had just learned every lesson that his teacher had shown him. It was that determined expression, of someone walking into flames, he wore.
 
——
 
It was not the face that the [Innkeeper] wore after she emerged from her [Pavilion of Secrets]. When she reappeared and Ulvama and Matha saw her as they were washing dishes—well, Matha was washing dishes and Ulvama was supervising—the young Fraerling nearly dropped a plate.
She had never seen Erin Solstice looking so dreadfully calm. And that was the word for it. Her eyes were a bit puffy, but she looked like how Eurise said she was when he had first met her: a washed-up survivor with magic still coursing through her veins.
Ulvama knew. But she grabbed a chair.
“What happened? Sit, sit. Is he…? I thought he was safe. Someone else?”
“He’s going south. I couldn’t stop him. I didn’t. He’s going to deliver bread because it matters, and—he’ll live. He promised me.”
The [Innkeeper] sat as Ulvama’s eyes went wide with alarm, and Matha was utterly confused. Bread? The stuff they’d eaten last night?
Hunger for a Fraerling was a rare concept—at least, in Matha’s village. Her raiders had been hungry, but they just had to kill a bug if they were desperate, even if it tasted horrible. There had always been Zinni nearby.
She had never starved. As Ulvama had pointed out, Matha had never really known so many of the fears that she and Erin had, despite her size.
But it would also be wrong to say Matha was a fool. She understood what this Antinium guy was doing as Erin softly murmured to the increasingly-agitated Ulvama.
“Hey, that’s great, isn’t it? Isn’t it a good idea?”
Both Human and Goblin glanced at her, and Matha shut up. Then listened, because they were talking. Somewhat to her, and mostly to each other.
“It is a good thing.”
“He is going to be killed. Didn’t you tell him that? They’re Drakes. They will shoot him and hang his body up just—just to warn the others.”
“They’ll…what?”
Erin didn’t glance at Matha. She was gazing down at her fingers, which twitched as she moved them.
“I told him, Ulvama. But he had to go. He had every good reason. Everyone tried to stop him. Magnolia. Teriarch. Even some [Knight]. But he’s going to do it.”
“Why? Tell Lyonette!”
“Because he’s going to level. And because they’ll pay attention to him. Because he feels like he has to, Ulvama. I was so…proud of him. I couldn’t say a thing.”
She smiled, then. Like a treehouse collapsing. A home splintering into pieces. Matha didn’t know faces could make such expressions.
Bowom should have been here, Matha felt, but he was visiting his patient alone this time. Or Eurise or Roja; although all but one of them called her an idiot, sometimes they explained things, even if most of it was ‘figure it out, dummy’.
All she knew was that if Erin was both triumphant and about to cry—Ulvama was visibly upset now. She tightened her hands on a teapot she’d been pouring water into and then whirled.
“I understand why he thinks this. He…he’s a good child. But they will kill him. Erin, go back and stop him.”
“I can’t.”
“You must! You’re the [Chieftain], Erin. He’s a warrior. He wants to do something dangerous. Sometimes, yes, sometimes you say, ‘go’. Not for this. Not to waste his life. You tell them no.”
Matha knew that too. Like telling one of her people not to try and solo the wild jungle cat just to impress the new kids. But she was torn. It sounded important. And Erin?
She frowned at Ulvama as the Hobgoblin sat down and took her hands. The [Shaman] thought, then her crimson eyes lit up with a sudden idea.
“Take me. I’ll talk to him.”
“Take you? Oh. I could—I never thought about that. Can I?”
The [Innkeeper] blinked, then smiled at the idea. However, then her face went calm again. She brushed at her eyes and appeared surprised there was nothing on the back of her hand.
“I won’t do that, Ulvama. He’s right. He put himself on television the last two rides. And I promised I wouldn’t stop him. I didn’t promise I wouldn’t help—”
Her head rose, determined. Then she started, because Ulvama grabbed her shoulders and shook her.
“No. Stop him.”
Her voice rose, and Matha saw the Hobgoblin display another rare emotion: anger. Her arms were tensed up as she held Erin hard.
“Hey, Ulvama, that hurts—”
“Tell him to stop. He is going to die. You’re—you’re doing this again, Erin. Only, it’s him. You taught him wrong. He is going to get himself killed or hurt, and you are going to break apart again. Your heart will. Tell him to stop right now.”
The [Innkeeper] was blinking, shaking her head.
“Ulvama, he wants to feed hungry people. Like Rheirgest. He’s…the only person who just wants to feed people. Not survive. I stopped. We stopped at the inn. Maybe someone like—like Magnolia is doing it. Maybe she’s done it and no one pays attention because she’s just Magnolia Reinhart.”
Erin grew distracted, and Ulvama poked her hard. Then slapped Erin on the cheek gently, but like someone trying to wake up a dreamer.
“None of that matters. If he dies, it is all over. No one comes back anymore—you said so. Don’t do this. Open the [Pavilion of Secrets], now, and take me. That is an order.”
“Ulvama…I’m not going to do that.”
This time, the poke from the pointed claw made Matha wince. Erin rubbed at her chest, and Ulvama hissed.
“This is your tribe, and you will fail him otherwise! This is not about right or wrong. It’s about survival! You’re the [Chieftain], and I’m your—”
“I’m not a Chieftain, Ulvama. Garry is his own person. He did this himself. He didn’t ask for help, because he knows he has to be independent. I’m proud of him. I’m not going to stop him. I don’t think I can. I don’t think Lyonette could. I don’t know if the entire Order of Solstice could unless they just held him down and never let go.”
Matha saw Ulvama jerk back, her ears tremble and droop, but Erin didn’t notice. The Hobgoblin listened, then her eyes blazed, and Matha didn’t get…
“If you don’t stop him, him dying is your fault. It is your responsibility, dumbass!”
She shouted at Erin. She reached down to yank Erin up by her shirt, and the [Innkeeper] grabbed Ulvama’s wrists. Then her eyes rose, and Matha instinctively hid behind the 2nd floor stairway because Erin was suddenly angry. Not as furious as she’d been when she’d attacked Matha’s base, but—her hazel eyes flashed.
“Stop him? Like you stopped Tremborag from raiding villages and attacking women in your mountain?”
The Hobgoblin froze. She opened her mouth, and Erin let go of her hands. Ulvama leapt back, and Erin stared at Ulvama, then away.
“We never talked about that. Rags told me, and…I never brought it up, but I wondered, especially after the ship. Why did you tell me all those true things if you let that happen?”
“I—I—”
Ulvama glanced around, but Matha was hiding, eyes wide. Biting her fingernails. The Hobgoblin swallowed.
“That…sometimes, Erin, sometimes you—you compromise. If I had tried to stop him, he wouldn’t have listened to me. I was—”
She stopped. Closed her eyes.
“Sometimes, you compromise. Like Garry. He wants to do something good. But if he dies, it’s not worth it, is it, Erin?”
Erin stood, and the two spoke in increasingly long periods of silence. Eyes locked on each other. At last, Erin nodded.
“I know you’re right, Ulvama. I’ve done that too. You are right. But I never want you to be a casualty of that—compromise. Not in that ship or ever. Not again. I’m not stopping Garry.”
Relief, regret, then—as she saw the [Innkeeper] gazing down at her wrists again, fury. The Hobgoblin shouted.
“Then you’re going to kill him. Just like you kill everyone you love, including yourself! He’s the last of the ones you love. Are you going to let them all die? Bird, Pawn, Belgrade? The one who died? The other one, who died at sea and you didn’t even know? Anand? How many times will you kill them, Erin? How many—”
She was going to shove Erin, poke her, but the [Innkeeper] knocked her hand away and then brought her hand down on Ulvama’s shoulder.
Slap.
The faint sound of flesh meeting flesh wasn’t loud, and Ulvama recoiled. Erin pushed her back. Then she lifted her hand and blinked. The Hobgoblin backed up a few steps.
“Sorry. I—”
The [Innkeeper]’s voice trailed off, and then she just stared at Ulvama. Her face froze up as Ulvama whirled. The Hobgoblin stormed out of the room as Matha leapt out of hiding.
“Um—wait—why don’t we all calm down and—”
Too late. The [Innkeeper] sat back down slowly. And then?
Well, Bowom kicked Matha with his roach-leg when he came back, and everyone else blamed Matha, but what was she supposed to have done? Ulvama came back after only a few minutes, anyways. But the mood got—worse.
Still, the Antinium rolled on.
 
——
 
It would be a longer journey, and conscious of this, Garry did let the horses rest. He fed them bread, which he had been assured would be okay for them, especially his bread.
He gave them pats, but he didn’t love animals like other Antinium. He quite liked them, but like chess, it was like rather than love. He jogged along the wagon when he realized that the horses were trained enough to actually just follow the road. Mostly trained. Twice, one of them tried to wander off to eat some grass or got too close to the Bloodfields, so he had to run over and push them back on course.
Garry had never run so far as he did in those first four hours. He wasn’t sure he cared for the experience. But he was bursting with energy and he had no bread to knead, so he was restless.
In time, the road taking him around the Bloodfields ended, and a far older, much less well-maintained road began. Garry blinked at the little sign at the end of the road.
 
This roadworks project was completed on 23 A.F. by Master Reikhle and the builders of Liscor. Also, the lives of the Silver-rank adventurers and those who perished battling monsters from the Bloodfields.
 
It was just a little bit of stone carved with the words and placed into the grass. Despite the weather, it had not deteriorated and looked sharp. A Skill, no doubt. Perhaps it would last a long time.
A reminder. Garry remembered that moment, too, when he had heard the alarm coming from Bird and worried for the Horns of Hammerad.
He had not been there either. He had missed Toren’s final return. Missed the Siege of Liscor where Pawn had led his Painted Antinium to protect Erin. Missed so many grand events.
He was only the [Baker]. Slowly, Garry stepped off the smooth dirt road and onto the muddy ground. And now, he was past the Bloodfields. In Drake lands. He stared ahead as the ground rose even further. Hilly terrain.
South of Liscor were the hills which Hectval and the other Drake cities inhabited. It came down to the more-prosperous plains and Pallass’ domain after that. He would head south from here, but soon, he would need to abandon the ‘main’ road.
The villages he needed to reach were geographically isolated. As much as the Yoldenites. Garry checked his map then set out.
 
——
 
