“Immensely. But it would be horrible for a Drake to associate with an Antinium, especially if scrying spells were to activate.”
“Probably. You see any cowards?”
For the second time that day, the [Chef] smiled. But he just willed more energy into his legs, and the [Farmer]’s brows rose.
“If I slow down, I will accept a ride.”
Then he was running ahead of the wagon, and the outraged donkey pulled neck-and-neck, refusing to be beaten by a running beetle. More than one Drake was jogging along purely for their health or to see the wounded Antinium…
Slow?
Two hours later, the [Farmer] peeled off as his donkey lay down on the side of the road. The Antinium saw the pony and rider heading back towards the foothills, and all but a City Runner had long since given up. Even said City Runner was drinking a stamina potion and eying him.
He?
He could see the Bloodfields. Or at least, he really hoped they were the Bloodfields. The Antinium ran onto a familiar dirt road and kept going, refusing to stop. His legs screamed and ached, but he just kept moving.
He had bread to knead, and it wasn’t that much further. Besides…his vacation ended tomorrow. He only slowed, in fact, when he saw someone sliding his way.
Neither Garry nor the Gnoll heading his way looked like they were runners, nor did they think they’d get any running-based Skills because running sucked. Ishkr, at least, could slide.
“Chef Garry. May I invite you to a meal? I’m sure you’d make it the rest of the way on foot, but we have a dinner reservation, and the food is getting cold.”
The Antinium Worker slowed, and Ishkr seemed a bit tired himself, but the two were of a level. And Garry? He stared at Ishkr’s paw, then sighed.
“Oh—very well. Just this once.”
The Gnoll smiled, touched his hand, and Garry stumbled—and then he heard the cheering. He glanced around as a common room full of people shouted, and someone ran forwards with a healing potion.
“Garry? Can I offer you a drink and something to eat?”
Lyonette du Marquin was standing there respectfully as they waited. Calescent poked his head out of the kitchen with a warm loaf of bread in his hands, and Garry found a chair and sat down. Then, he seemed to relax. He let out a long breath he’d been holding and nodded.
“Yes. I do believe I will take a meal, Miss Lyonette. A bowl of Acid Flies, please.”
She wavered. The bread heading his way halted as Asgra paused.
“Er—no bread?”
“No. I’m rather sick of it today.”
Then the [Baker] closed his eyes and slept. Just for a moment.
 
 
[Baker of Presents, Gifted Chef Level 45!]
 
[Title – The One Who Delivers Gifts Obtained!]
[Title Skill – Reputation: A Name Every Child Knows Granted!]
