Fissival: 34.5??? We have garrisoned towers with a higher combat rating. You can’t even find it on half our maps. Let alone this village the Antinium is claiming he’s going to.
Manus: Imec, founded 62 years ago. Population of 82 at last count. Notes indicate they refused to live in the city of Hilldem due to disagreements over taxation law. No known products of value. Strategists, I remind you that you are being witnessed by High Command.
Salazsar: Our apologies, Manus.
Zeres (Matriarch): No, do go on, this is very entertaining.
Zeres (Asale): The [Baker] is indicating they are experiencing famine. Can we confirm this, and that his cargo is safe?
Oteslia: We’re on it. An agent is buying bread from his store.
Fissival: He could just poison the wagonload, Oteslia. Intercept and detain is probably the best move.
Manus: Establishing contact. Captain Gllitten. Most Drakes have ‘gll’ in their names from this city.
Oteslia: Well, that’s insane.
 
The [Captain] had realized that trying to threaten a wagon with a lance wasn’t really working. Especially because Garry kept moving, so he ended up having to pull the lance up and shout.
“Halt!”
Garry did not halt, but he greeted the [Captain], who hesitated. The Drake was not…willing to grab the reins. While his horse spooked the wagon’s horses, they glanced at Garry and kept moving along. In fact, the Drake was tensed, visibly trembling.
Afraid Garry would go for him?
He was afraid, and Drassi was between them.
“Hello, Captain!”
“Er, you’re that lady on the news. Miss Drassi, Channel 2.”
She was also surreal to the poor man. He’d only seen Drassi on the two scrying orbs placed in the gathering square and park of his city. The one he had was a personal orb from one of the Councilmembers. Now, he was on the news, and he didn’t know what to do.
So he was more genuine than the rest of the world, who had more of a sense of what it meant to be on television. He leaned over the saddle, blinking at her, then snapped his gaze up.
“Antinium! By order of the Walled City of War, you are to halt immediately! I have orders from their High Command—halt or we will shoot you!”
Drassi waved her hands frantically, but Garry replied levelly.
“I trust you will not, Captain. Because—”
“You can talk?”
The [Captain] nearly rode his horse off the side of the road. His city just turned off the scrying orb whenever an Antinium appeared, to avoid unrest. The horrifying bugman was raising his mandibles at the [Captain], and Gllitten hadn’t wanted to say it to Manus, but if he attacked, he feared half his command would flee back to their city.
“I can talk, sir. And with respect to the City of War, I do not believe I have violated any laws. Nor do they have authority over me as a free citizen on the road. Furthermore, I am wearing a Santa hat. And delivering food to your sister-village of Imec. You would surely not shoot an unarmed [Baker] trying to feed the hungry on live television, would you?”
There it was. A twinkle in his eyes. Drassi squinted at Garry.
“Did your eyes just shine, Garry? Er, yes, no killing, please! Although, I have to point out, it’s not Christmas—”
“And you’re not that Santa-fellow! That’s the undead [King] in Chandrar!”
Captain Gllitten clung to what he knew. Which was what he’d seen on the scrying orb, of course. Garry paused.
“You are referring to King Fetohep of Chandrar?”
“Yes, him!”
“He is not Santa. I am. He does have a rather magnificent beard, but if it helps you, Captain Gllitten, it was the village of Imec who wrote to King Fetohep as well, requesting material aid and quite a lot of gold. He forwarded their names to me upon request, so you may also take this as an express delivery from Khelt.”
Both Drassi and the [Captain] stared at Garry. Somewhere, the King of Khelt sat on his throne and ordered a drink. He could use this as a change of pace from his duties. A hopefully nice change of pace.
Fetohep had his doubts.
So did the rest of the world. The [Captain] fumbled for his side. He had burned two [Message] scrolls now since the city didn’t have an unlimited one. He read the flashing scroll, gritting his teeth.
“I have a scrying orb with High Command on it! You are under arrest and will halt your wagon while we sort this out. Excuse me, Miss Drassi.”
“Under what laws are you arresting him, Captain?”
“Er—being an Antinium on the roads! Unsanctioned delivery of goods!”
The [Captain] blustered, and Garry pulled something out of his belt pouch and handed it over. Or tried to; the [Captain] swayed away in his saddle, then stared. So did Drassi. So did everyone.
 
Oteslia: Is that a passport?
 
“This is my official passport and clearance papers as well as my Driver’s Guild permit, Captain. I believe you will find everything in order. I also have my Merchant’s Guild registration if you would like to confirm that. Unlawful detainment of a sworn member of the Merchant’s Guild without due cause is subject to penalty, you know.”
The Merchant’s Guild issued a statement denying its involvement in the following affairs as the [Captain] gingerly, with the tips of his claws, accepted the passport. He read it, then stared at the clearance.
“Grade 4?”
His [Riders] had drawn nearer, and Garry was continuing to head down the road. At a good clip; Drassi had to stop, panting.
“Hold on, my legs are killing me. Can I just…what do you mean I can teleport? I’ve been running around this stupid Skill for the last thirty minutes and you—okay, show me.”
Meanwhile, Garry held the scrying orb that Gllitten had tossed at him up to one earhole. Unlike the worried Drassi or the terrified [Riders], the voice on the other end of the scrying orb was calm.
Very calm.
“Antinium. I am warning you once. Continue your actions and you will be killed. You are not welcome in our lands. Do you understand?”
“Hello. This is not a very pleasant way to introduce oneself. I am Garry. Who is this?”
“Dragonspeaker Luciva. I am not joking around, Antinium.”
“Nor am I, Dragonspeaker. You had your chance. A Drake village is hungry.”
“It is our village, Antinium. Turn around.”
“You do not have the right to starve it. Kill me and everyone will see it. It’s Christmas, Dragonspeaker.”
A pause. Perhaps the Dragonspeaker wasn’t used to someone giving back retorts like Garry. Most people physically could not given her aura. But his voice was…intense. Not like her chilling tone, but no less hard in its way.
“Are you…aware of the date, Antinium? Did your Queens authorize this?”
“I am aware it is spring, Dragonspeaker. Believe me, I have been rained on enough. I was employing a literary tool. It is always Christmas in this analogy. My Queen did not authorize this. I came alone.”
“Then, is it war if you die, Antinium?”
Her voice growled, and he spoke instantly. He raised his voice, and Drassi, edging closer and trying to get the conversation on television, halted.
“No. It will not be. Not for me. That is the opposite of what I wish. If the threat of war is the only thing you respect, I cannot stop you. But I say again: I am delivering food. Just what part of that is unclear?”
“You—”
He tossed the scrying orb over his shoulder and shook his head. She had made her threat. The Walled Cities were watching.
He waved up at them.
 
Manus: Communications have failed. Antinium acting alone. He has indicated the Hives will not, say again, not go to war if he is killed. We are considering options.
Oteslia: He said that? The First Gardener and advisors indicate this is a bad idea for optics, Manus.
Zeres (Matriarch): What optics? Oh, how it looks? We’d be applauded.
Salazsar: He’s claiming to deliver food.
Fissival: It is clearly deranged. Someone get on the news, both channels. It’s everywhere. Start correcting this narrative. Pallass?
Pallass: Who should be arranging this? We have General Edellein being apprised of the situation now. Standby.
Manus: Have General Edellein contact me at once. We will send representatives. Fissival, Salazsar, who has a high-level speaker who can interject? Also, spells to analyze this bread. Couriers may have to deliver a sample. Is Diplomat Nerul available?
Salazsar: He is in consultation but claims to be unavailable.
Fissival: We can do this. Er, who is ‘me’ in Manus?
Manus: This is Dragonspeaker Luciva.
Pallass: Contacting General Edellein at once!
Zeres (Matriarch): Oh, Luciva! I notice you didn’t greet me either.
Manus: We are on the business of the Walled Cities, Ieneessa. Be professional.
Zeres (Asale): This news story is playing on every television network across the world. Lots of little children, Dragonspeaker.
Manus: They surely don’t believe he’s Santa. Multiple individuals were on that broadcast, including the King of Khelt.
Zeres (Asale): No, children, Dragonspeaker. Watching the scrying orbs. Recommending against sniping or blood.
Manus: Of course, noted. Fissival? Can you cut scrying spells on the Antinium as well as broadcasts?
Fissival: We could blank the region, but it’ll take time and setup. We need a zone designated and coordinates locked on first, Dragonspeaker. Wistram and every television station? Not reliably…but the [Scrying] spells going down would blind them. What we cannot be certain of is that Skill that Miss Drassi is using. We’ve been unable to experiment with blocking it since it hasn’t been used on us. So that Miss Drassi has to stop interviewing him. This is Headmaster Tierres, incidentally.
Manus: We’ll get you those coordinates if needed, Headmaster. Reviewing maps.
Oteslia: If it’s really just bread…
Salazsar: It’s an Antinium, Oteslia.
Oteslia: We’ve had them in our lands before. The one in the Gnoll Plains. Entire companies. The Slayer’s been bouncing around cities beating up Named-rank adventurers. And kidnapping Gnollish [Prostitutes] for reasons unknown.
Zeres (Matriarch): What?
Salazsar: The Slayer is their living weapon and there’s no attention being paid to him. This Antinium is making a fool out of us in front of the world.
Oteslia: Oh, there’s a first.
 
——
 
There were plenty of people at this moment who wanted to speak to Garry. Or shake him. Or protect him or…
None of them mattered. In a very real sense, only the Walled Cities did and one other power who represented this intrusion, this breach of authority. And that other faction was the Hives of Izril, and one individual of all of them understood what Garry was doing.
She alone did, because she had perspective. This wasn’t just territory or lives lost or gained or resources. This was about prestige, authority, the worth of a species or nation in visible terms.
The Grand Queen understood that an Antinium found in Drake lands was, if not welcomed, an understood act by the Walled Cities just as they sent infiltrators to sabotage her Hives. She had learned to be politic and what one could get away with.
This, though, was an assault of a different kind upon the Walled City’s power, even if it was merely via perception.
It was dangerous. As dangerous as Bird the Hunter standing in Pallass. Perhaps…more so. She understood this, and this was why she was the greatest Queen of the Hivelands, the one who must lead the others.
The Grand Queen lifted something off of a huge, golden plate. A goblet encrusted with jewels, massive and silver, and filled with wine. A novel treat. The Free Queen made much of her cooking from the same [Chef], Garry, but she did not have this. The [Slaves] holding the plate moved back slowly, and the Grand Queen sipped from the straw.
Wine, cup, and plate were all gifts, of course. From her new allies. Another masterstroke, that Antinium now had allies. But they must be wary; a war now seemed suboptimal to the Grand Queen, and she was in concert with her other Queens, formulating a response. The gesture with the goblet was reflected in their mirrors, in fact, that they might notice.
“Is…that a cup, Grand Queen? What are those? Not Antinium. Captured Humans?”
“Oh, these? [Slaves]. Auxiliary individuals I have procured. Examples will be sent to each Hive in turn. Examples which the Hives will accept as proof of their usefulness.”
The Grand Queen indicated the mixture of species with a practiced wave of a feeler. The other Queens eyed the new additions to the Grand Hive with skepticism or outright scorn. The Free Queen had refused them before, but the Grand Queen would make them all accept them. This was very important to swaying their opinions, according to her contacts in Roshal. Accepting [Slaves] in was the first step, and then they’d be worked on. Made more pliable, more useful, like the Hives should be.
They were not united. The Flying Queen was restless, upset. Showcasing Devrkr who sat, unusually silent, by her side. She had refused to send him to other Hives until a cessation of hostilities was issued by the Free and Armored Queens—which they refused to give. The Twisted Queen’s scrying mirror was very still, and she had gone silent, even more so than usual.
Why, even the Armored Queen was being a skeptic—her, the loyal one!
“Are these…useful, Grand Queen? Our allocation of resources to the Grand Hive now makes sense, but the amount we have given in materials such as gold and other objects for non-Antinium feels odd.”
The other Queens murmured agreement. Only the Silent Queen actually seemed to be trying to be a good subordinate, and even then, she pestered the Grand Queen endlessly about more research, more resources for her projects, and having to send her Silent Antinium away on ships. None of them saw the big picture.
The Grand Queen did, and she spoke waspishly.
“They are capable of levelling at speeds Antinium cannot match.”
“Except for my Antinium.”
The Free Queen put in, and the Grand Queen did not look at her.
“Speeds unmatched by other Antinium and with unique classes. Such as…[Cupbearer].”
“I—I do not see the value in that, Grand Queen.”
“There is…n-none.”
“Silence. I have a full report on how these [Slaves] will be used to great effect, and more are to come. You shall recognize the error of your words and the comforts my new amenities provide. Such as wine.”
“I prefer grape juice.”
Once more, the Grand Queen clicked her mandibles and went on.
“We discuss this upsetting incident. A loss of control of one of the Free Queen’s Antinium, again. Very humiliating. We are in contact with the Walled Cities. Manus specifically. They regard this action as dangerously close to war. It is my decision that we indicate this Individual is acting against our will.”
“What? He is delivering bread. He has done so before. How is this a declaration of war?”
“I concur. The logic does not make sense to me. Are Drakes this foolish?”
“Did we poison the bread? This would be an effective move.”
