“Hey, Bowom! I’m ready to meet this patient. Though we need a few more gifts instead of, y’know, potions. What’s she like?”
“I’m not certain. What’s the shouting about?”
The [Mad Doctor] wished Roja were here in moments like these. Roja was actually fairly socially savvy for an [Explorer]; Bowom was just insane. Erin turned as Ulvama shifted, looking away from her.
“Oh, I was trying to get Ulvama to put something else on. Because, you see, there was—”
She stopped, hesitated, and seemed to decide explaining was going to just make appear stupid. Probably an accurate assessment. Erin pointed a finger at Ulvama instead.
“Look, help me out here, pal! Ulvama’s got hairy armpits, stinky ones, or will! Stinky—”
The children didn’t get a chance to take up the chant. Bowom handed the basket to Ulvama, then drew Erin aside with a smile. He leaned over and whispered in her ear.
“Erin?”
“Huh? What?”
“Knock it off.”
“But—”
“Right now.”
She met his gaze with a half-grin, which he did not return. Erin’s smile became a floundering fish in dead waters as she turned to Ulvama and saw the Hobgoblin was red to the tips of her ears. Erin hesitated, then whirled.
“Hey! Uh, show’s over! Shoo!”
She chased the Fraerling kids away, which gave Ulvama a moment to wipe at her face with an arm. Bowom stood there, sighing.
Misery loves company. He just didn’t actually enjoy the silence that fell over the two of them, which only deepened when Erin came back. The [Innkeeper] stood there, glancing at Ulvama, as if she hadn’t noticed…well, anything.
And Bowom was wondering about suitably insane things to say when Ulvama grabbed his arm, gave him a huge smile, and practically towed him forwards.
“Why don’t we go visit your patient, Bowom? Let’s go.”
She didn’t glance at Erin. Nor did she address the [Innkeeper], who walked in silence for a few minutes, then tried to engage Bowom in conversation.
“So your patient. How’s she, uh, like, Bowom?”
“Alive against all odds?”
“Um…sounds rough. Do you know if we can actually do something for her? Like food or—”
“I imagine her diet’s incredibly restricted, Erin. The [Healers] would get her anything she was allowed.”
“Right. Right. Ulvama, do you think she’d like fashion or a toy or something? We could find one. Or what about some magic? Music?”
Ulvama didn’t respond to Erin. But after a moment, she turned and smiled at Bowom.
“Bowom, we should get her something she can use again and again. Maybe a book? Reading can be hard, maybe, with her hands, but can you get a spell that reads books? Or just have someone do it for her?”
“I suppose that would work. Maybe a new book in the library?”
“Yeah! Or we could tell her a few we know! Nice idea, Ulvama!”
Erin broke in, trying to take Ulvama’s other side. The Hobgoblin instantly stepped around her and walked on Bowom’s left. She didn’t respond to Erin.
That was the beginning of a day that, amazingly, got more uncomfortable than Bowom had been expecting.
No…maybe less, all things considered. Just a different kind of uncomfortable that undercut the horror of Mieve and him sitting in a room and trying to make small-talk. If anything, he thought the Hobgoblin and [Innkeeper] brought her some amusement. So Bowom was grateful for that.
But after three hours of playing go-between for Erin and Ulvama, since the latter refused to acknowledge anything Erin said—to her or anyone else—Bowom realized this might be a bigger issue than he’d thought. And he’d not exactly thought it was trivial.
“Ulvama, I’m really sorry. I am. I didn’t mean—I just meant—”
Erin tried her sixth apology as the [Shaman] turned to Bowom with a huge smile.
“I’m going to check on Matha. You okay, Bowom?”
“Sure. I’ll just go walk in front of that wagon for a second.”
Bowom glanced at the hospital and caught Erin’s shirt before she could stride after Ulvama. She dragged him half a dozen steps, then glanced back.
“Hey, I just—”
He shook his head. Erin opened her mouth, closed it.
“I—”
Bowom slung an arm around her shoulders.
“Let’s give it a moment, Erin. And go for a walk.”
He led them down the street, ignoring the Fraerling [Driver] shouting at him until the wagon hit them and rolled over their bodies. Since it was being pulled by a moderately fast slug, it didn’t really do much to him.
Bowom had high hopes, but the next morning, Erin and Ulvama were both now not speaking to each other. Also, Matha was still in the bathroom.
 
——
 
Erin was upset. She knew she’d made a mistake, but Ulvama got that it had been a joke, right? Erin had been trying to—
This was stupid. She wasn’t going to keep arguing with Ulvama, who was being annoying about talking with everyone but Erin. The [Innkeeper] had messed up, but Ulvama was being rude, and that was…fine.
They’d patch things over in a bit. If anything, it was good that Erin was left alone that morning. It let her focus.
Aside from Matha, Erin was left alone in the guest house, and ignoring the occasional gurble-spurt sound and the ‘Gnomes save me’ voice she heard plaintively echoing…the [Innkeeper] just sat there for a while.
“Right. Time to do something with myself. Enough being silly. Gotta do something important.”
“Kill me.”
The [Innkeeper] glanced out the window, but Ulvama had gone off—nevermind that. The young woman folded her arms. She closed her eyes. Glared at the table. It was not 100% her fault! It was like…72%. It took two to tango! She wondered if there were any other handy Earth-expressions that would come to mind.
She didn’t know. After about thirty more minutes of not-quite actioning on anything, Erin finally looked up.
“Guess there’s no help for it.”
There was only one person more unpleasant to hang out with than Matha. The [Innkeeper]’s face smoothed out, and she took a huge, slow breath.
“I guess I have no excuse anymore. I’m good enough. I can do it even if it’s hard.”
“Nothing’s hard. It’s all liquid.”
“Shut up, Matha. Tell everyone I’ll be back later.”
The [Innkeeper] took a breath, then regretted it. She vanished, and Matha’s plaintive voice echoed into the house.
“Are you doing the Skill thing? Can I see? Can I get some toilet paper before you—Erin? Erin?”
 
——
 
It had taken a while, but the [Innkeeper] returned to the [Pavilion of Secrets] as she had known she must. She sat in the gazebo as her counterpart shuffled a deck.
“Euchre? Cribbage? Oh Hell? Crippling Guilt? Blackjack?”
Erin folded her arms and glared silently. She didn’t have the energy for this. Instead, she closed her eyes, put her feet up on the table, and exhaled.
“It’s time. I wasn’t ready for it before. I’m better now. A bit. I can handle it.”
She had to go back. To Izril and Liscor in general, but to her friends and family specifically. She had been avoiding them.
Oh, some people she’d talked to, like Ishkr and especially Lyonette, even if the latter seemed to be doing a lot of drinking and partying. Well, Lyonette was happy, and good for her. Erin decided that was a good place to start.
“Let’s start with Lyonette. She can tell me who I need to talk to.”
“Sure thing, boss-lady.”
Pavilion-Erin put the cards down and vanished. The deck remained. Erin eyed the cards and reached for one. She picked it up and grunted.
The Hanged Man. Only, it was a woman.
“Ha-ha.”
“Something funny? It’s not like I’m predicting anything fates-wise. At least, that’s not something I’m aware of. That’s just a random deck of cards.”
Pavilion-Erin reappeared fast, and Erin jumped.
“Where’s Lyonette?”
“Busy. She declined your call.”
“She—what?”
Niers had declined the [Pavilion of Secrets], but Lyonette? Erin grumbled.
“Is she busy or something? She knows she can work and talk to me.”
But then, it had to be weird getting a download of a conversation in the middle of a work day. Erin drummed her fingers on the table.
“I could do Mrsha, but she’s probably at school. Fine, it’s fine.”
She was putting off the real stuff, anyways. Erin spoke to herself and Pavilion-Erin, because she needed her thoughts in a row.
“I need to start checking in on people. That’s what this place is for. I mean, I know it’s supposed to be used for ferreting out secrets and underhanded stuff.”
“Plenty of doors not opened, but don’t mind me.”
Erin ignored that too. She went on, glaring at the ceiling.
“…But I can use it to check on everyone. The Horns. Rabbiteater.”
She’d been avoiding it. It wasn’t like the first conversations had been, um, easy. Telling everyone she wasn’t dead and talking to them about the Winter Solstice was going to be hard. Real hard. But Erin could do it without literally melting. Besides.
She had to know they were alright. This Skill that had been granted to her by the Grand Design was her way of keeping The Wandering Inn running. She might not be able to—no, Erin smiled to herself.
“I can even serve them a blue fruit juice and pasta. Zero calories! Got a preference on who I should talk to first, Pavilion-Me?”
“Quarass? Nereshal? Silvenia? Archmage Eldavin or…Thatalocian. Top 5 list.”
Erin scowled at the faintly smiling Skill.
“I meant important people, idiot. Pisces! Ksmvr! Numbtongue…I hear he’s being weird. Maybe I can figure that out. Hal…”
She stopped. Closed her eyes.
“…I have to check on them. Who else? Olesm?”
There were so many people she hadn’t talked to in person, she realized. The [Innkeeper] felt an invisible sense of weight pressing down on her, but she squared her shoulders, exhaled.
Hard things. Important things. Yes, she had to do this. She drummed her fingers on the table, trying to strategize.
“Okay, my first pick would be Ryoka, but she can’t be done. I don’t know…Geneva that well. Nerry I talked to just the other day. So Pisces, Yvlon, Colth, or Ceria. Hey, can I do multiple people here?”
All four Horns in Chandrar appearing in her [Pavilion of Secrets] would be crazy. Erin smiled at the thought. Wait, could she get Ksmvr and Vofea in there too? Were there limits? The idea called to her, but then she hesitated.
“Or what about gun-dude? Gaah! I need a list! Got any paper?”
“Nope.”
The [Innkeeper]’s head swivelled around, and she pointed accusingly.
“You’re literally holding a deck of cards.”
“I’m not your [Secretary].”
“You butt.”
“Armpit-shamer.”
Erin cast around for something to throw, then gave up. She collapsed back into the chair and tried to think. Who to start with?
Well, she thought glumly, there was only one person to start with.
“Alright, give me Nerrhavia.”
She was rewarded with just the slightest expression of uncertainty on Pavilion-Erin’s face. As if even the Skill thought that wasn’t the best idea. Erin flicked up her hand.
“No, give me Nerrhavia and the Quarass together. Psych. Just kidding. Give me…”
There was only one thing to ask for. She closed her eyes and used her brain and really thought about the power of this place. Sheta’s great weapon in her age of rulership. It was more than a ‘search and find’ tool. As Erin had observed when she’d met Eurise…her eyes opened, and her hazel gaze gleamed as the [Pavilion of Secrets] pulled a card.
“Pavilion. Search all my friends and family. Of them all, choose the one who’s…who’s closest to dying. Who’s in the most imminent danger. I’d like to talk to them.”
The [Pavilion of Secrets] paused, then showed Erin her card.
Death. Erin took it and gazed down at the skeleton holding a scythe with blue flames in its eyes. Pavilion-Erin cracked her neck.
“I’m not omnipotent. There might be a few candidates. Best judgement?”
“Yeah.”
Again, the woman vanished. Erin sat there, wondering who it was. Ryoka, well, she couldn’t appear here, so Nerry? Rabbiteater? Her Horns? If it was Mrsha, she was going to have words with the Gnoll girl.
This is what this place should be used for. This is good, this is important. She waited, a heavy resolve in her bones.
After a moment, Pavilion-Erin reappeared.
“We’re talking close friends, not acquaintances, right?”
Erin groaned.
“Can’t you just do a news report? I’m going to have to figure this out by talking to everyone instead of you being helpful, aren’t I?”
“I’m not Sir Relz or Noass either. Want them?”
“Get lost.”
It was a bare five seconds before the [Pavilion of Secrets] came back. And in that time, it did a lot of calculations based on relative levels, the danger of certain events, and timing. In fact, the Grand Design refused a dozen requests for more information about the Synectic Maze, the state of things in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, the Dungeon of Liscor, and so on. Details that it was pretty sure the [Pavilion of Secrets] was only asking about because it wanted the juicy lore.
Make do with what you’ve got.
When that door opened and the visitor walked into the [Pavilion of Secrets] for the first time, pausing to take in the endless vista, the Skill that made their heart leap, and their beloved [Innkeeper], it was the person that Erin—and thus, the [Pavilion of Secrets]—believed was in the most immediate danger.
The [Innkeeper] half-rose from her table, and her fight with Ulvama, her anger and guilt and hurt and everything else left her for a moment. She rose with the little tarot card in her hands, and her guest smiled. He spread his four hands, and his poofy, silly [Chef]’s hat stood proudly, still dusted with a bit of flour.
“Garry?”
The [Baker] beamed at her. He walked forward as she vaulted the gazebo’s railings to run and hug him. The oft-ignored Antinium who baked free bread for Liscor. The last of the four survivors from the chess club, the originals.
Of all of them, she would have never expected it. When Erin let go of Garry and told him he was in mortal danger, the Antinium just smiled.
He already knew that. Whether or not Erin realized it, or the upset Ulvama trying to eat her feelings in Lemoste, this was not a tale about them.
This was a Garry tale, and it had been baking for a while in the oven. But only he knew what he’d been up to.
 
——
 
Garry had been doing some thinking recently on top of the copious amounts of thinking he liked to get away with in general. Just for fun, he’d done some calculations, and he thought he was currently the most criminal Antinium…ever.
You had to assume that Rhir-Antinium didn’t break many laws inside of their own culture. And while you did have a few war criminals like Wrymvr, Xrn, and probably Klbkch, they operated under Antinium-law quite often.
