But by his personal count, Garry was guilty of lying to his Queen, embezzlement of city funds and resources, preparation to commit a crime, misrepresentation of priced goods, several violations of acceptable workplace health and safety codes (Antinium couldn’t wear safety hairnets for one), being arrested for brawling, lying to the Flying Queen…
The most criminal Antinium in the world plotted his devious plans while working at 3 AM in the morning. He always got up early to begin baking bread.
You had to. Especially with his new city-bakery—even with all the workers and help he’d been allowed to hire, baking bread took time.
Even with all his Skills! Garry had a lot of mass-production Skills these days. As a Level 39 [Baker of Presents, Gifted Chef], he was replete with Skills, and they were almost all cooking-based.
[Mass Quick Rising], for instance—invaluable. It cut the time yeast took to ferment and rise dough until you could actually watch the loaves of bread rising. He had [Kitchen: Prevent Spills], which saved a ton with some of his workers like Runel and Pisca.
The two Flying Antinium who were his top assistants bustled around their own kitchens these days, since he’d graduated them to full [Cooks], and he felt like Pisca might make [Chef] soon—she was very good at doing delicate work like sculpting the cakes the Free Queen loved to eat. However, a Flying Antinium with their fly-like design could knock things over even with the new kitchens he’d designed for them, so that Skill saved in gold. And gold made more food.
Ah, the kitchens. Garry had his own, of course, in the Free Hive, but it was actually a bit small these days. Runel and Pisca both had a custom-built kitchen that the Free Queen had paid thousands upon thousands of gold pieces to custom-design and build with lower counters for the two Flying Antinium and implements Garry had Miss Raekea forge just for them to use with their different limbs.
It allowed the duo to fulfill the Free Queen’s appetites and left Garry able to supervise his kitchens in Liscor. Of course, since he employed them and ran the Liscorian Public Bakery, which everyone called ‘Garry’s Bakery’, all his Skills worked everywhere.
Very handy, that. Garry had already levelled once, and he suspected the reason he hadn’t hit Level 40 was simply because it was a big capstone, like he’d heard everyone talking about. Of course, no one except the Free Queen knew his level. It wasn’t something Garry advertised.
 
——
 
“You are the highest-levelled Antinium in the Free Hive, Garry. Pawn, Belgrade, even Klbkchhezeim is not, kzzch, your level.”
She had said that to him one time he was serving her an omelet, sounding rather mystified. The Free Queen had peered down at Garry.
“Is…baking bread so difficult?”
“It can be, my Queen. But perhaps it is whom I bake bread for that matters. I make a lot of it.”
“I see. Serving a Queen of the Antinium is valuable, and your foodstuffs have earned the approval of the other Queens.”
“Yes, my Queen. I am very glad to hear it.”
 
——
 
That was the truest explanation he had and why the Free Queen gave him a large discretionary budget to run his bakery with. Garry levelled. And it would also be wrong to say that making bread was easy.
Bread was different. Sometimes, the flour was cold. Sometimes, the air was damp. Sometimes, your yeast was different or your oven had a hot patch or it was just…chance. Not that bread had to be perfect, but consider that it could be tough. Kneading the dough took time and a lot of grip strength. Sure, you could mix up the dough fast, but Garry was hand-mixing the dough.
He didn’t have a Golem. He didn’t tell his employees to do it. He took a stick and spatula and would mix a bowl while walking around the kitchens. Then toss the bread down, knead and fold it until you could stretch it so it was transparent, silky-smooth.
(Assuming it was a kneading dough, of course; he did tons of different stuff. Croissants to soufflés, but a lot was just the free bread.)
Kneading took muscle. Anyone could knead dough, but could you knead enough dough for twenty loaves? Forty?
While other people were making breakfast or brushing their teeth, Garry was kneading dough. While they were walking about or taking a break to chat, Garry was kneading dough and chatting. When they were going to bed, he was kneading dough.
Few people realized how much bread it took to guarantee anyone at Garry’s Bakery got a free loaf of bread. How much did you have to make to feed a city?
Oh, sure, it wasn’t everyone. Plenty of people refused to get anything free on principle—even if Garry wasn’t sure what they were—or eat Antinium-made bread. But the numbers he had to feed and guarantee bread for were insane. Yet his bakery did it, and he already had plans to expand so there was a bakery in every district.
Thus, the question became, if you understood how much Garry was doing behind the scenes—
Why is he only Level 39?
Garry tossed some dough on the counter, kneading one roll as his other two hands rolled and kneaded a second pile of dough. He could get it to good consistency within five minutes. The Drakes and Gnolls on the morning shift would come in at 4 AM to help out of course, but he liked getting the first batch of dough ready ahead of that.
He wore his poofy chef’s hat as he hummed in the dark kitchens. Starting his day. After this, Garry would oversee the bakery for the morning, but he had a very nice Drake who didn’t mind the Antinium Workers and Soldiers who’d oversee the morning shift.
After that, Garry would do some deliveries of his ‘special orders’ to his clients. He still did them. Comrei, Miss Biscale, and all the other Liscorians who’d visited his shop needed food. He could not do it for everyone, so he had to be circumspect about it.
That made Garry guilty. He had already had various officials inspecting his workplace for cleanliness and been told often not to use anything but Liscor-approved funds for his work. Nor, obviously, to give out more bread than one per person and such. People had been caught lining up to get more bread samples—that was a Watch matter, and Garry left it to them to figure out.
He didn’t steal from Liscor’s bakeries to feed his special clients. Nor from the Free Queen’s dedicated food budget. He didn’t need to.
Garry had Skills unique to his class.
[My Pantry Overflowed With My Deeds] was a big one. Every day, he’d wake up, assess the new and often rare foods in his personal kitchen, and make custom food for his special clients. And Antinium in the Free Hive.
Anything extra went to his employees. It was not uncommon for Garry to come around with tarts or food for them as they came off shift. More than one Drake and Gnoll had complained they were putting on weight. But that, of course, was another devious plan in Garry’s arsenal.
[Rested, Fed, Appreciated and Paid, My Workers Surpassed Mundanity]. Treat them well and they managed to feed a city with bread from one bakery. Garry had been told by the nice [Guardsman] assigned to his shop that it was…
 
——
 
“Hypnotizing?”
The Drake man, Gittorl, nodded as he watched the [Bakers] and [Cooks] at work, kneading dough, mixing more up, loading them into the massive ovens on huge wooden racks, turning them, taking them out, always a flurry of motion.
“You blink, er, Baker Garry, sir, and more bread appears. Like magic. It’s like a blur around me.”
Garry peered over his shoulder. If anything, he felt like everyone was taking it easy since they were nearing the end of the day. But he nodded respectfully to Guardsman Gittorl.
“They work very hard, Guardsman. I am pleased to know it is interesting to watch. Would you like your free loaf of bread?”
“Oh, um, thank you. The kids liked it a lot. Had the missus in a bit of a stir because they said it was better than hers, even if it’s free.”
Garry smiled politely. A [Housewife], if Gittorl’s wife was such, would be, what, Level 20+? He did not think most who had that somewhat rare class in Liscor passed Level 20.
He was a Level 39 [Baker]. There was a reason people lined up for his bread each morning, even if he was a filthy, weird Antinium bug.
“I am sure she could make better, but I have fresh flour and the many Skills of my talented employees at work. I could give her the recipe if you like.”
“Oh, thank you. I reckon that’d make her feel better.”
 
——
 
Which, of course, was the point. Make them feel better. It cost Garry nothing to reassure Gittorl’s wife that it was not a contest, or only a few seconds to write down a recipe.
Everything else cost money, but so what? Garry had been Santa at Christmas, and that had been important. When Erin had seen his vision, what he had intended, she had smiled. He thought about that Christmas. A lot, actually.
Oh, the Winter Solstice afterwards had been terrible. Garry had listened to the Free Queen giving orders as he stood with Runel and Pisca.
He was no warrior. Nor did he wish to be, even if he could have saved lives. He was no Pawn or Bird, and he admired his fellow Workers, but he was not them.
He was Garry. He made bread.
You didn’t understand what that meant. You didn’t understand how much. You didn’t understand what the bread was for. Being eaten, of course, but still. You didn’t understand.
Not yet.
…A question emerged if you understood the fiscal realities of bread. Where the heck was all this flour coming from?
Eggs, flour, salt, water—well, the water was easy. Just stick a bucket out the window if it was Liscor’s rainy-season. But the rest? Well, there was an eggless bread you could make, and Garry had experimented to find the optimal bread at minimal cost to ingredients, but you couldn’t get around the flour problem.
The answer to that, obviously, was the Antinium [Farmers].
Garry employed them too. The collective who had begun their work and learned to farm by trial and error were still churning out wheat even in the rains thanks to extensive work on primitive greenhouses and a bit of magic from Archmage Valeterisa to allow sunlight to grow the crops.
Also: Riverfarm. The Unseen Emperor was only too happy to sell his own wheat and eggs to Liscor, so for the moment, there was bread aplenty.
Not so across Izril. Garry talked to [Traders] and [Merchants] in the course of finding more recipes and acquiring ingredients. Most had avoided him, but after they found out he had gold over the course of the last year, they’d warmed to him. These days, most knew him on sight—by the hat if nothing else—and they talked about the state of Izril.
Things weren’t perfect.
 
——
 
Merchant Farri sold magical trinkets, not bread, but he was only too willing to chat about his travels. He wrinkled his nose as he polished a ring on his shirt and kept out of the rain.
“Oh, aye, it’s not nearly so good for food anywhere else. I’ve taken to buying up a bunch of supplies myself. Just long-term perishables, nothing fancy. Flour, cornmeal, you know? Now, if I’m lucky, I just resell it as it gets bad, little coin made or lost.”
“If you are unlucky, [Merchant]?”
Garry had some bread and cheese he had taken to the [Traders]. They were devouring it appreciatively, and he made sure their assistants got some too.
Farri Slightly, the Human, munched hungrily on the bread and cheese before sighing.
“If I’m unlucky? I’m making bread myself in my wagons! Or eating damn cornmeal. Some of the villages and settlements further from the trade routes are doing bad. Not a scrap to be bought at reasonable prices. Sometimes, I trade the flour at knock-down prices. Or, uh, give it away. There’s calculations to be made.”
He tapped the side of his nose as another Human merchant came over. She hesitated, eying Garry, and wiped her hands before accepting the food, but one bite made her come around to it. She interjected.
“You’re giving away goods, Farri? For shame!”
She was half-joking, but the younger [Trader] was new to the game. Farri gave her a patient, even patronizing gaze.
“Trader Mins, goodwill is everything in our business.”
“Oh, of course, but for free?”
Farri reached for another piece of bread with cheese.
“This is wonderful stuff. I shan’t need lunch—ahem! Better to be seen to be giving away your food and going a bit hungry than to have it all. That’s how you get [Thieves] or a village politely asking you to, ah, offload cargo. They don’t even want the merchandise or coin unless they think it’ll buy more food. That’s the most dreadful thing. Folk don’t turn to banditry or theft, not all of ‘em. But there’s desperation.”
Trader Mins shivered.
“Where, exactly, is this?”
“Oh, north of Reizmelt there’s Gulfwaters Ravine. Terrible area. It’s marked on our routes, I’m sure. Not just that, though. There’s spots all over, Baker Garry. And it’s not only for bargaining or goodwill! Twice I’ve dumped all my food as cargo and the [Bandits] have gone after that rather than my wagon.”
All the other [Traders] and caravaners were shaking their heads, exchanging similar stories, as Garry nodded.
“Your job is certainly dangerous, Merchant Farri. So people are this hungry, please?”
“North and south. The New Lands made it worse. Half the folk who would’ve hunkered down or found work nearby decided to risk it in the New Lands—or sold provisions to people wanting to stock up. Add that to the damn plagues and fires? I don’t go that far into the south, but I hear the Drakes aren’t doing as well. Plus, without the tribes…”
Garry was a fool. He knew he was, as someone who couldn’t even read two years ago. Even now, when he read books, he often had to get a dictionary to look up the really difficult words. He was practically illiterate when it came to reading philosophy, and he knew some of the Erin-movies that he was occasionally invited to watch in her [World’s Eye Theatre] went over his head.
But since he knew he was a fool, he listened, and Merchant Farri was very kind and explained these things Garry didn’t understand.
“Why, the tribes suffered that blow at the Meeting of Tribes, everyone knows that, Mister Garry. But think on it—most of ‘em either moved when a local Drake city attacked them or joined together. Made their permanent Meeting of Tribes in the center of the Great Plains. When one tribe leaves an area, what’dya think happens? Sure, there’s less mouths in the region, but most Gnoll tribes are self-sufficient. And what else do they do?”
Garry thought about it and thought about the goods the Silverfangs who’d camped here had provided and his own knowledge of the goods that flowed across Izril.
“Ah. They are herders.”
Farri was surprised, but nodded appreciatively.
