Garry adjusted his hat, and now, he spoke to them. He spoke to himself, and he spoke to her, the [Innkeeper], even if the words were not exactly the same. He turned to them all, and his voice was steady but outraged. He was not calm; he merely appeared to be. But if you could see that flame that a Lady Firestarter had once seen or the qualities that other people had learned to view the world through, he would be ablaze. An outraged light twinkled in his eyes, gentle, but furious not at any one person, but the state of the world.
“Some say it is dangerous, and they are correct. Some say wait: help will come. Surely. Let someone else do what is necessary and this will be righted. Only, it seems to me that the help does not always come. I do not wish to wait. And you may say to me, ‘surely there is someone else, someone better, someone who can do it easier or more conveniently’, but I am here, and I see no one else. So it occurs to me: I am that surely.”
He paused in the doorway, smiled at them, because they hesitated, each and every one, and one could have stood up, but no one did. Nor had he expected it of them, and that—perhaps that hurt most of all.
Then he was gone, and the [Innkeeper] knew. And she said one word.
 
——
 
“Drakes.”
Now she saw it.
The thing that had been in his heart that the [Pavilion of Secrets], her other self, had glimpsed. Who is in the most danger?
Even if he had still been down there, it would have not been Rabbiteater, a Goblin Lord fighting through the Synectic Maze. Nor Nerry, when she had descended into Oelnnox in the company of mercenaries and friends. Not Niers against the Dyed Lands nor even Yvlon Byres rampaging through the Coliseum of Monarchs nor any other event around this time.
Who is in the greatest, truest danger?
Garry. She sat there as he showed her his map, and this time, the line did not go up, but down. South. Just like before, only past the Bloodfields towards Pallass because of course they would never let him through their side of the door. Towards villages in the foothills where the mountains met plains, then, if he was able, even into the plains to remote spots.
Drake villages. Starving ones, she was sure.
He had never been going to stop. Fool, Erin. You idiot. She’d fallen for his trick just like Drassi and everyone else. They thought he’d go and deliver bread. Thought he’d do one good deed and call it quits, but Garry wasn’t like someone doing this for a moment. He was Antinium.
He had calculated exactly how much he could give, and the answer was everything he could spare. He had more bread, and having proven his model worked…she whispered as she sat there.
“They will kill you, Garry.”
“Perhaps.”
“Not perhaps!”
She shouted at him. She rose and yelled, and he didn’t flinch. A year ago, he would have, but he just sat there across the chess table from her, smiling.
When had he changed so much? She thought of Christmas and realized perhaps she had planted these seeds, even back then. His bakery—yes, she latched onto that.
“Garry, let someone else do this. You can’t go. What will happen to little Comrei if you get hurt or…?”
“I have instructed Pisca to take care of my special clients in my absence. Lady Magnolia Reinhart made the same offer, Erin.”
“Then take it!”
“I cannot, Erin.”
“Why?”
He took his time replying and laid out his reasons logically, simply.
“There are several reasons. Firstly, if Lady Reinhart were able to be everywhere, I think she would have already helped. I believe that her removal as head of House Reinhart curtailed these activities which she participated in, in her way, greatly. It is a suboptimal use of her time or Ser Solton’s or anyone else’s to help me. If I could involve a third party for coin, such as the Driver’s Guild, I would.”
“A Courier, then. They do anything for pay.”
“They are too expensive.”
“Get Lyonette to help! Or the inn! They can do it! They have gold! Unlimited gold!”
She shouted, and again, he shook his head.
“The Wandering Inn will attract enemies who hate it and you, Erin. Pardon me, but I wish to continue this without interference. It must be me, because I can ensure this system will not stop.”
“It will stop when you’re dead and they assassinate you for crossing into Drake lands, Garry!”
She shouted at him, and he nodded.
“Yes, perhaps. But my second point is this: I must do it because it will draw attention. This is a value too. They will see and, I hope, understand what I am doing.”
She sat there and realized he did know what he was doing. The attention…he was her student after all. But dead gods, she wished he had not learned so well. The [Innkeeper] sat, suddenly still, and her face was shadowed.
“And the last reason?”
Garry’s gaze was calm and certain, and she could have dismantled both other reasons, but the last one was deep and, she realized, hinted at the game that ran beneath all of this. His final strategy.
“The last reason, and the reason why I do not wish you to give me a boon, talk to Drake leaders, or help or hinder me in any way, Erin Solstice, is this: I will level. I will level, and I must, because my simple bakery can only provide bread to a city and a few others. I will level because I have to. Level 40 is not enough. And I do not wish to wait to reach Level 50. I do not wish to stop at Level 50.”
Now she saw it on him. The twinkle in his eyes no longer looked like the jollyness of fat old Santa Claus, or perhaps it did fit Santa. The real Santa. If there was a man who dressed up in a red suit and jumped down chimneys across the world, who made toys for nothing while employing potentially enslaved elves in the north pole…perhaps he was that mad. But she knew that twinkle in his eyes now.
It was Saliss’ madness. The eyes that dared the world, that saw a simple equation and played the game every way possible.
“I forbid this, Garry. Promise me you’ll do something else. You can level—safely—but swear to me you will not do this. Or I will tell Lyonette to drag you back to the Free Hive. I’ll tell the Free Queen, I promise.”
He tilted his head, not innocently. That innocent, little child of a [Baker] was gone. There was a different innocence about him now, a pure one like a glittering blade of morality. But dead gods, it cut her. It hurt her to look at because it was beautiful, and he would die.
“Ah, I see now you were the final obstacle I should have calculated into my plans, Erin. Before I leave and you leave, I must convince you to take my side and not stop me. Very well. Let us begin.”
He sat forwards, and Erin felt the hairs on her head shift. She glanced up, and somewhere, the [Pavilion of Secrets] came alive. A wind seemed to blow in this void, and Garry smiled as he scooted his seat closer to the table.
The first challenger to come against Erin Solstice in the [Pavilion of Secrets] was not the Quarass. Not some daring foe. She had brought enemies here. She had brought third parties, but never in the spirit it had been meant for.
Now, they faced each other with bare truth, and Garry smiled at Erin. She hesitated just once.
“Shall we play a game of chess, Erin?”
 
——
 
They had not played a game of chess in so long. Erin realized…Garry didn’t really like chess as much as she did. He admitted it, even.
“I like the game well enough, but it is not my passion, Erin. Only, if you have nothing, then something is beautiful.”
He was losing games. She hounded him across the board without mercy, destroying his position as if that alone could win this conversation, but he just reset the board each time.
It was not a long conversation. There was nothing to dance around. Just two opinions clashing.
“They’ll hurt you, Garry. They won’t hesitate. You know you’re Antinium.”
“I believe I have realized this, yes, Erin.”
“You’re sassing me. When did you learn to sass me?”
“I am a [Chef], Erin. I work in a kitchen with employees. Sass is the very least of what we use against each other.”
She was wiping at her eyes, trying to focus on the game and him.
“I know…you’re not afraid, Garry. But it’ll hurt everyone. Liscor, your employees, your friends. Your Hive. You can’t risk your life over…nothing.”
He raised two fingers, smiling.
“You have made two clever fallacies, Erin. Firstly, you claim this is ‘nothing’. It is, potentially, a life. Many lives. That is not nothing.”
“You don’t know them.”
“Neither did you. That is my second point, Erin. I have seen you do this from the day I met you. I…am that starving Antinium you chose to feed. I was there when you asked Pawn his name and gave him kindness. You did not know Esthelm when you saved them. You did not really know Pisces when you stepped in front of him or the Goblins you have saved. But that is besides the point. I do not need a reason to save a life.”
His words struck her, because it was true. She had struggled to say ‘nothing’, because she had known it wasn’t very accurate. Whereas he needed no trickery. He hit her over the head with pure, brute honesty. And she…she felt like she was on the wrong side for the right reasons.
Was this how it felt to be a bastard like Tyrion? Nevertheless, she persisted.
“If you’ve seen me, Garry, then you know the cost. Look at me. Look at—”
She stretched her hands across the board, knocking pieces of Drakes, Gnolls, different species to the ground where they vanished. She showed him her wrists, scarred, and he took in every injury he saw on her, healed and not healed.
“I know.”
The [Innkeeper] whispered, and images flickered around her. Faces like her garden’s statues.
“I couldn’t save them. You won’t be able to either. Magnus, Knight, Headscratcher. You’ll lose so many and never, never forgive yourself.”
Gently, he took her hands, and she gazed at him, her hazel eyes swimming in the faint light shining down on them. The [Chef] was still smiling, but his hands did tremble. She felt them shaking. Yet he had the effrontery, the gall to nod.
“I know. But with greatest respect, Erin? I believe you are suboptimal. I admire you and all you have done, but I believe I can do better than you. I am not a threat in the way you are. I am a silly Antinium with the power of television and Christmas on my side. I’m giving away bread. It is hard to make bread scary, even when you decorate it.”
She laughed, shakily, and shook her head. Tears rolled down her cheeks, and he gently offered her a handkerchief. She wiped at her face.
“Sheesh, Garry. How…how’d you ever learn any of this? I never taught you this. I barely taught you anything!”
Her eyes filled with guilt, but the Antinium Worker just grinned, and his antennae waved playfully.
“I learned from observation, Erin. And I taught myself the rest. A fed mind and body and I will want to learn. Not enough people have that. That is why I am going. Do you have any more arguments, please? Because I do not think you will stop me. I would rather have advice.”
She stared at him, and she searched for something that would change his mind. A true statement, and against that deep, simple morality, there was none. Just right and wrong, and that was the problem. She needed the complexities of the world, the greyness to tell him why the right thing to do was wrong.
But he was using the [Pavilion of Secrets] against her. The weight of his truths pressed on her, pushing past her half-truths, her attempts to prevaricate. In the end, she could only sit there and hug him.
“…Don’t go tomorrow. At least, not right away.”
“I must—”
“No. You’re not ready. You’ve probably done a lot of things right and stuff, and I know you can overprepare, but do one thing, Garry. Get permission first. All your ducks in a row. Do it the right way.”
That was the only time he frowned, perplexed.
“The system you wish me to use is broken. It does not have a place for me in it, nor will it help them. It is a waste of time.”
She met his gaze, smiling then with simple intelligence, and tapped him on the chest.
“That’s why you do it their way first. I never did, but it’s important. Not because they’ll let you or it’ll work, but to prove you tried.”
“Oh. Oh. That is very clever, Erin.”
“Thanks. Garry? I can’t stop you. But promise me you won’t die.”
“I promise.”
 
——
 
The next day, Garry got up and informed the anxious [Hostler] he had a slight delay. He took his time filling out paperwork in the Driver’s Guild and then headed to Liscor’s City Hall.
It took some doing to talk his way into a meeting with a Councilmember, but Garry effected it with the Erin routine.
“I know that the Councilmembers are very busy. But this is, sadly, a very important thing which I must have done. I would hate for it to become an issue affecting any election chances. But if you would like, I will happily discuss this at increasing volumes.”
Councilmember Raekea met with Garry within ten minutes, and he outlined what he needed. She blinked at him.
“A passport?”
“Yes, Councilmember. If it can be created for me and issued the highest clearance, I would appreciate it.”
“Why? You’re not going to Drake cities, surely!”
She laughed, then peered at him with a sudden suspicion. But Garry just smiled.
“No, Councilmember Raekea, I will not. But I have realized it is a matter of Liscorian law to have any employee be a full citizen of Liscor. As well as requiring maximum clearance to interface with any members of the Hive. It is in the lawbooks. I would, regretfully, have to close the bakery until this paperwork is done, so—”
Her fur stood up on end, and she whirled.
“Right now? When you’re so popular? Tribes, no! You there, get me whomever is in Olesm’s old office. We can probably write one up and have it stamped—”
Erin had told Garry that it was probably possible to get any paperwork in the world done as fast as you wanted if you harassed the right person about it. Regardless of how complex and how long you had to supposedly wait.
He had a Grade 4 Passport, the highest Liscor could issue, within half an hour. Garry thanked Raekea and strode out of the door to ‘resume baking’. He met the final obstacle to his departure scuffing her foot on the ground and standing in front of a wagon with horses.
Everyone was beaming at Garry, expecting him to head to Shivertail Plaza at any moment. But instead, he just stood there as Bird blocked his way.
“It was a very good lie you gave me, Bird. You are indeed a master.”
“I am a mistress, but apparently that sounds wrong. I am going to stop you, Garry. By hitting you until you fall down.”
Garry put a hand on Bird’s shoulder as the female Antinium raised her bow half-heartedly.
“You will not, Bird.”
“If they kill you, I will shoot their cities.”
