There weren’t many of them this far north. None around Imec. There just…wasn’t work here. Dead gods, it really was the boonies. Most of the time, you ignored contracts even if someone wanted to off a Yoldenite or something because it wasn’t worth the slog all the way here and back.
“There’s a bounty on a Strategos Olesm. Not much given the dangers. Anyone up for that after this?”
One of the six Drakes whispered as the others spread out along a ridgeline overlooking the road where the Antinium was coming. He was just riding his wagon along at a steady pace.
Ludicrously easy to hit. The one complication was timing; they had to wait for an ‘all-clear’ and then dispatch him in a five-minute window. Scrying spells.
One of the Drakes, hired by Salazsar—each one came from a different Walled City with mostly-similar instructions—grunted. He was stringing a longbow and keeping well away from any [Scrying] spells that might be on the area. Once he was done, he’d make it known he was in on the kill, but being seen was super unprofessional.
Mind you—he glanced at the chatty Drake from Zeres.
“Are you planning to go down there with an axe?”
The Drake woman lifted a battleaxe.
“Sure. You can take the shot, but I’ve got orders to make sure he’s dead. You know, Antinium? Say, have we met?”
“Possibly.”
The two whispering Drakes got a glower from another one who had blowdarts and was leaning out of cover. They fell silent, and the Salazsarian [Assassin] moved over and whispered.
“Pardon.”
“It’s fine. Six of us—I’m probably not getting paid.”
She heaved a sigh, and he raised his brows.
“What’s your city? Mine is paid upon completion, regardless of who swings.”
“Mine’s Oteslia. They just want him knocked out or the wagon stopped.”
“Ah. Do we have a problem?”
It’d be five-versus one. The blowpipe-wielding Drake lifted her claws and let the blowpipe fall out of her mouth.
“I’m not going to ruin good business. Just a long ride and an unhappy client for nothing, you know?”
“Ah. Of course. Let me buy you a drink later.”
“Thanks. Here he comes.”
The longbow [Assassin] moved back into position, glancing at the [Message] scroll he’d laid out. He’d indicated he was at the spot, and he was waiting for confirmation, mostly hoping some other idiot didn’t foul things up.
What did he think about Garry’s delivery? Well, if anyone had asked him, he’d have said that he knew some veterans from the Antinium Wars—both of them—who’d fought the Silent Antinium. Deadly battles against the camouflaged killers, and no one had ever applauded them for it publicly except Krsysl Wordsmith. It was one of the reasons why no one had ever accepted a bounty on the [Writer] even though he’d made enemies.
This? This was just business. If it were a Human delivering bread? Well, the [Assassin] might have still taken the job; work was work. Hard to have principles in this line of employment. But he liked to believe the bread was off or poisonous or something.
Otherwise, he’d feel like this was a waste of a lot of things, including his arrow. The Drake drew back on the bowstring as the Antinium came into view, and the [Message] scroll pinged. He whispered.
“Shame.”
“Isn’t it?”
For a moment, he thought the quiet, female voice was from the Oteslian [Assassin]. But it was a bit too loud, accented differently. The Drake paused, then swung his longbow around in an instant.
[Point Blank Sh—]
No one was there. He stared around, then saw a man in a [Butler]’s uniform offering the Oteslian [Assassin] a flower. She had her hands up. And she was staring at the Salazsarian [Assassin]. No, behind—
Ressa, still out-of-uniform because she’d had to run a long ways and was sweaty, leaned on the [Assassin]’s shoulder.
“It really is a waste of gold and everyone’s time. My fair lady wants to make it clear: she’s on the right side, but she detests a waste. Not just your fee, but four months.”
“What’s, uh, what’s the four months?”
“Recovery time.”
He twisted, going for his dagger, and heard a crick. That was his neck.
Ressa laid down the Drake [Assassin] very carefully as he stared up at her, and four more figures collapsed. She wiped her hands, then turned to Reynold’s [Assassin], who was the only one not currently in need of medical attention.
“Clean up for us. Tell the Guild the Flower Lady isn’t happy.”
“Er, of course. Is that the Flower Lady as in…or the Pink Lady?”
Ressa rolled her eyes.
“Whatever she’s supposed to be called.”
Then she began looting the [Assassins] because, well, you always could use some more gear. The [Message] scroll was still blinking.
 
S: Go.
S: Status?
S: Report.
Assassin: Sorry, job’s failed. Build some more walls instead of trying to kill a [Baker].
S: Who is this?
 
Ressa thought about it for a moment, then began illustrating something on the [Message] scroll. Reynold winced at the phallic imagery.
“I thought Lady Reinhart told us to be diplomatic, Ressa…?”
She raised her brows at him. He shut up.
Garry’s wagon rumbled on as the [Baker] glanced up at the silent ridgeline. He kept humming to himself.
“If this is where I were ambushing, it’s where I’d put it. La-la, dumbledy dee—”
Nope, he didn’t like singing either. He sighed.
 
——
 
The city of Luldem, part of the Hectval-Luldem-Drisshia Alliance, was close enough to Garry’s next destination that he was passing through their claimed territory.
They were only too happy to state to Sir Relz that they did not approve of Antinium feeding anyone in their area and dispatch an armed unit of [Soldiers] to sort the matter out. What was the worst that was going to happen? More war?
They might have underestimated what that kind of news would do to the frontlines when the Antinium [Crusaders] and a certain [Strategist] heard their statement, but that was a later consequence, and no one had accused the Hectval Alliance of being good at predicting those.
The very real, very immediate danger was an armored contingent of [Soldiers] riding up the road to find Garry, and they weren’t the only one. Several other Drake groups were coming towards him, some of whom had indeed been riding through the night, like the [Assassins].
The Luldem Drakes were almost at a crossroads where they’d catch the wagon coming down out of the pass when they heard a shout. They whirled in alarm, but the Drake poked his head out of the bushes and roared.
“[Soldiers]! What are you doing out of position?”
“Sir?”
The [Captain] of the Luldem troops blinked as a Drake in an unfamiliar uniform rose, clearly camouflaged with little branches and leaves glued to his armor. The Drake hissed.
“Give me your damn rank, [Private], and tell me you’ve got either an enemy bearing down on our six or a good reason or I’ll have you court-martialed for incompetence! The Yoldenites are nearly on us, and you’re breaking our trap!”
The Yoldenites? The Luldem [Soldiers] spun, now worried. The damn Yoldenites fought and attacked like real hill-Drakes, and they knew the terrain well. The [Captain] hesitated and rode forwards.
“We’re not after them, sir. We have orders to dispatch the Antinium.”
“The Antinium? What Antinium?”
“The…the one with the bread, sir.”
Wait a second. Any Antinium were the enemy, surely? But the Drake with camouflage armor was giving the [Captain] a strange look. Then they both checked out each other’s uniforms.
“Wait a second. You’re not a Savilite officer!”
And that Drake wasn’t from the alliance! The Luldem forces recoiled, and the camouflaged Drake’s eyes narrowed.
“Luldem? You bastards are in our territory! We’re being raided!”
“Wait, no, that’s not true!”
The Luldem soldiers began to panic. This was Savilite’s territory, but the Drake city which sometimes clashed with the Alliance had to know—
Unless they were also at war with the Yoldenites. But that concern was becoming a sudden, increasing worry as the outraged Drake spun. His stump of a tail brushed against the ground as he shouted.
“Enemy attack! It’s Luldem! Take aim!”
“Back, back!”
The Luldem [Soldiers] spun their horses as figures armed with crossbows seemed to rise up from the ground or pop out from behind rocks. They must have been using ambush Skills! Drakes and even Gnolls—
“Fall back! Don’t shoot! We’re not at war! Fall back!”
The [Captain] screamed at the other officer, praying he didn’t hear the ‘loose’ order, and the Savilite officer hesitated. Luldem’s forces fell back in a panic, galloping for their lives. They began sending desperate [Messages] back to their High Command as the angry Savilites kept shouting.
Only when they were out of sight did Menolit adjust his uniform and take off the helmet. He winked at Nanette, who’d done the designs for Savilite armor based on some sketches Ser Dalimont had found.
“That’s one group down. Okay, places everyone!”
 
——
 
Another group of [Riders] had been dispatched from the relatively distant city of Holls to deal with the Antinium. They were sleep-deprived, and their horses were exhausted from a sleepless ride, but an Antinium was an Antinium.
Greatest threat to Izril. It had to be, right? There was nothing worse than an Antinium in their lands. Nothing.
That was what the [Lieutenant] thought as she led her column up the road—but the sight of a dead child lying with her guts strewn on the ground rapidly changed her mind.
A crying Gnoll cub was howling in front of the dead Drake girl as the [Riders] blanched.
“Ancestors. We’re too late! The Antinium—”
“Visma. Vismaaaaa! They ate her! Oh no! Now they’re going to eat me!”
The crying Gnoll boy ran at them. He looked slightly—the dead Drake girl was really distracting the horrified [Soldiers].
“You there, what did this?”
The Gnoll boy pointed a trembling paw.
“Crelers! We ran and ran, but there’s hundreds and—”
“A Creler nest?”
All thoughts of the Antinium threat left the [Lieutenant]’s mind. The blood-soaked Gnoll boy pointed.
“They—they attacked us, and we ran, but there’s hundreds! And a big one, tall as a house.”
“Lieutenant, an Adult Creler—”
“Where?”
Ekirra pointed and then began to run.
“Oh no, I hear them! Now they’re going to eat meeeee—”
He dashed off on all fours as a horrible chittering sound arose. Far off, but the [Lieutenant] was grasping at a [Message] scroll.
“Prepare for combat. We have to see. Ancestors—I’m messaging High Command, and we’ll need reinforcements. Prepare to engage and ride like hell! Kid—”
She cast around, but he had vanished. Cursing, the [Lieutenant] ordered some to find the child as she rode, demanding to know how many healing potions they had. Only, the chittering died down, and the Drakes didn’t see the foe—but Crelers were known to hide and ambush. They could be anywhere! The Drakes had to keep searching—
 
——
 
Ekirra was not a good actor. Mrsha and Nanette would have done his job, but, Mrsha couldn’t speak, and Nanette was a Human, so the act was harder to pull off.
Nevertheless, more than one Drake patrol was diverted by strange happenings. Creler attacks, mysterious orders, and even once, just a ghost Gnoll child popping out of the ground and scaring their horses.
Disappearing [Assassins]. Waylaid soldiers. Garry rolled out of the pass as the morning dawned on his carapace, and he heard a half-musical twang.
He twisted, and the arrow struck him in the shoulder. It drove an inch into his carapace, and he flinched. Green blood ran down from his shoulder, and a figure leapt up and fled—the Worker lifted his arms, shielding his face.
The second arrow struck his hand and glanced off. He took cover as the horses kept plodding on, and the celebrating in The Wandering Inn went quiet. The [Baker] waited, crouched low.
The second volley didn’t come. After a second, he snapped the arrow in his shoulder and tried to yank the arrowhead out.
“Ow.”
 
——
 
“Which group was that?”
Dragonspeaker Luciva was enduring someone putting makeup on her scales. Not to hide her greying ones, just to play up some features. She glanced at a [Strategist], and the Gnoll checked his notes.
“We don’t know, Dragonspeaker. Not ours. There was no timing. It could have been any number of local groups or even ones far off.”
She glanced at the scrying orb. The wagon was still rolling. The [Baker] had removed the arrow and dressed his wounds with decent speed. Luciva’s claws drummed on the armchair. Drassi’s Channel 2 had covered the entire moment, and the Arbiter Queen and her guests were arguing on Channel 3 about it.
“I see. Identify them and have the report ready in the hour.”
“Yes, Dragonspeaker.”
Luciva re-focused on her job. She didn’t like the polls that they were showing her, but numbers were numbers, assuming they were accurate. Nevertheless, this situation was becoming—political. The [Strategist] flipped back to the first page.
“Your interview with Reporter Drassi is in fourteen minutes, Dragonspeaker. I repeat, this is the language you must use regarding the Antinium.”
“I’ve memorized my lines, [Strategist].”
She read them anyways. The [Strategist] continued adding commentary, more nervous than she was.
“Her Skill is able to best any countermeasures we have for a standard truth stone, and we cannot ascertain which countermeasures, if any, will bypass the Skill, so you must use wording you can justifiably claim as true, Dragonspeaker. If you need help, drum your claws. We have a five-minute delay, but Wistram may well save the recording.”
“Don’t get into trouble. Understood.”
Luciva grimaced as she looked at the many ways she could claim that Garry the Baker was carrying a threat to Drake safety. It was not a statement she personally thought was a lie, either. On many levels, he could be carrying threats, even if the possibility…
Enough for this interview. She was honestly surprised Drassi had possessed the stones to interview her, but the Dragonspeaker had felt like it was a good example to move Drake sentiment back where it needed to be.
That there were doubts at all…she grimaced.
“Television is an uncontrollable force. We need more experts in social dynamics.”
“Especially with their Skills defeating our countermeasures for truth spells.”
The [Strategist] added sourly. He was comfortable voicing his opinion around a superior, but Luciva just glanced up. Her lightning-bright gaze wasn’t as annoyed as his.
“Defeating truth spells. Is that the kind of world we want to live in?”
