“Now, the Antinium, Garry the Baker, has placed the bread on the ground, avoiding conflict with Imec. No doubt they’re forewarned, but an Antinium appearing at your walls? Has to be terrifying, Noass. Even now, when I see them on my visits to Liscor, my heart skips a beat.”
Noass turned.
“You visit Liscor, Relz?”
“Oh, uh, now and then on my off-days. I wanted one of those new charms…”
“You should have taken me!”
“You were working! The next time, then. But look!”
A few villagers had left Imec’s walls. Well, more like vaulted it. Noass murmured.
“Ancestors, Sir Relz. They are a bit…thin. Is that a trick of the eyes or what? [Unprecedented Viewing Angle]!”
The scrying spell zoomed in, and Sir Relz made a sound as it gave them a look at the Drakes no mere spell or camera could afford.
“They are thin. Dead gods. It stands to reason. A harsh winter here? Yellats would probably be your main crop given the soil. Or—what do you grow in such places? It appears we weren’t misled about the, uh—uh—privation these villagers are facing. Does their local city not have food?”
“I think we heard it was in conflict with the city, Sir Relz? So it’s independent.”
“Even so—well, as we can see, they’re investigating the bread stack. Give the Antinium this: it’s a very symmetrical pile. But are they going to check it for poison? Now how would they do that without dedicated [Mages], Noass? Feed it to animals? Or perhaps the old ‘sniff and skin’ test? A sample eaten by a volunteer and monitored at—oh. Oh wait. They’re, uh, eating it.”
He and Noass stared. After a moment, Noass coughed.
“Yes. Erm. Well, they’re hungry. Understandable.”
“Quite. I, uh—those poor people. Oh, and there’s Drassi doing an interview. Let’s watch.”
 
——
 
They. Were. Hungry.
That was the thing that the Walled Cities’ strategists and experts forgot. The reason he had come. Garry leaned in the driver’s seat in his wagon, and his heart hurt.
It hurt. His chest filled with outrage…and relief. And guilt that he had not come faster.
“I’m sorry.”
No one had come here. Had they known? The [Riders] watching him, the [Traders] who’d marked this place as not worth the visit except to gain cheap goods?
They sold their boots. Garry saw them glancing up at him now and then. After a moment, he leapt off the wagon and ran back.
They scattered like flies. But he only halted to shout.
“Miss Drassi! Do not let them eat too fast! They must eat slowly!”
She started, then realized what he was referring to, the dangers of refeeding. Garry cursed himself as he swung back into his chair. He needed to write a note. He watched as Drassi ran over, trying to stop a little Drake from stuffing their face, but they were eating.
That was all he wanted. Garry watched for another minute, just to see them slow eating, and then turned.
“Let’s go, horses.”
He fed them lumps of sugar, gave them a pat and a bit of stamina-potion, and he was off. And what did you think of him then? Everyone argued. They loved to argue, but Garry just rode through the night towards the next destination. Another remote village.
He was not ignorant of public sentiment. He just had a fairly good understanding of how useful it was in reality. He let Drassi do what Drassi did best. Into the night, people kept talking.
 
——
 
It was, after all, a humanitarian story. Even if no Humans were involved in said story. It was fascinating because it was an Antinium delivering aid to Drakes.
It was captivating because he wore that Santa’s hat. And the beard.
That alone made someone stop. That alone made it very hard for Drakes to scream about him being a monster, because it was a very funny beard and hat. That was why little children peered at their parents and asked…
“Is that Santa? The real one?”
A young boy sat on the lap of his father, jiggling up and down as he was bounced, eyes locked on the scrying orb. He was Human, round-cheeked, very pale of skin, and already a bit tall despite being only five.
The boy was dressed in clothing like an eclipse, only the faintest pale lines distinguishing the utter blackness of his garbs. Rich clothing, but stylized. For the boy was a [Prince].
The question threw the royal court into murmurs at the silly nature of it, but they had watched, and when the boy’s father replied, it was absently and unprecedentedly.
“I don’t know, my boy. It seems like it, doesn’t it?”
A full gasp now. But the [King] who sat upon the throne had the attention of the entire Court of Dusks. Cobwebs and spiders—lots of spiders—hung overhead as King Allorev Nicte, King of Noelictus, King of Hosts, sat with his youngest son.
An audience like so many. But royalty, so in theory, more important an audience than most. Even if they were far from this moment. Gedal was yawning since it was late, but he was Noelictan so he’d go to sleep well past midnight, even as a boy. He murmured.
“His bread looks nice. Like it’s made of baked light.”
To him, used to Ashwheat, it surely seemed bright as day and foreign. Allorev chuckled.
“Yes, it’s quite appealing, horrified Drakes or not. The people he fed seemed to enjoy it, didn’t they?”
“They were awfully thin. Are…are there hungry people like that all over?”
Then it was the father’s turn to grimace with the weight of a [King], but also a parent who had to tell his son the world had sadness in it. But Gedal was a son of Noelictus where the dead rose eternal.
He knew that.
“Yes…yes, Gedal, there are. Even in Noelictus, at times, though we tend to make enough food that it’s one of the few things we don’t have to worry about. It’s why we have silos and storage for food. But yes: across Terandria, I imagine there are villages like these.”
“Even though we have the kingdoms?”
“Even then, Gedal. Sometimes the [Kings]…”
Allorev hesitated. He didn’t want to say ‘forget’, because that wasn’t true.
“Sometimes we overlook things we think of as small. It’s not right, but that’s what happens. This [Baker] seems to pay attention, though.”
The King of Shade had been watching. Wondering how this story would end. But it was his son who stared at that red hat and remembered the gifts that ‘Santa’ had left him on Christmas, to his delight.
“Dad. Don’t we make a lot of bread?”
“Oh, delicious bread, m’boy. Ashwheat by bushels upon bushels. Haven’t you eaten some this very night?”
Gedal had since everyone was hankering for a sandwich or bread after hearing it discussed so much. But he had an idea.
“Could we give bread if people are hungry? To villages?”
It was a child’s idea, a simple train of logic, and it made the King of Shade’s face light up. He ran a hand across his hair, and a smile split his lips.
“Well, why not? If an Antinium can send a single wagon, the Kingdom of Shade can send more! Would you like that, Gedal?”
“Yes!”
The boy brightened up, and King Nicte glanced around. His Landsreight, his court of nobles, susurrated with approval. Ah, of course! If he was doing it—
It wasn’t just for show, though surely that was motivation for many, much like the other times nations had vied for attention. But King Allorev just murmured.
“It might be a trick if they’re not in our lands. Shaming another kingdom’s risky business, Gedal.”
“Why would they be upset if someone’s hungry?”
“Ah. Well. That’s something I don’t know if I can explain while you’re sleepy. But we’ll see it done. Allow me a moment to speak with your mother. It shall put a smile on her face. Oh, and I suppose we’d better call into these television networks. Advertise and whatnot.”
After all, the King of Hosts was a savvy man when it came to attention and spectacle. Politicking, gain, peacocking—he rolled his eyes, but Allorev was glad it was distracting Gedal. Otherwise, the boy would be worrying about Cara like everyone else…he glanced at the boy who’d curled up on the throne, dozing a bit.
The intention was pure as a child’s desire to help. He glanced once more at the Antinium. Perhaps that was the difficulty the Drakes had. You could cut apart someone else’s plans, designs, schemes, but simple intention was hard. They might not even believe it was just simple desire to help.
King Allorev shook his head. He was in no position to lecture other foreign powers, but if he were to have given the Drakes some advice…
“I’d make sure no one touched a hair on his head and sent Couriers racing ahead of him with deliveries of my own. Funny. I don’t believe a single one of them has considered that yet.”
But what did he know?
 
——
 
Into the night, and the next morning, Garry rode. As the day dawned, he ate half a piece of Scaethen Bread and shared the rest with the horses, having slept in the wagon, and kept rumbling along. This was the day when it grew…difficult, but it began with a trial of sorts.
“Order! Order! One voice at a time or I will eject you from this conversation! We are gathered to debate the actions of an Antinium delivering bread. Prima facie, the case is ludicrous, yet it has true ramifications for Izril. It captivates the eye; already he is heading to another Drake town, higher in the foothills, known as Aethdell’s Summit.”
A woman banged the hilt of a rapier on a podium where she stood as the other voices died down. She spoke into the camera, her green hair combed and enhanced with an alchemist’s tonic, wearing the crown of her kingdom and adorned in royal finery. Her voice was level.
“The question before us is: should the Drakes stop him? Does he violate any laws of either actual law or principle, as the Antinium have made war on the Drakes? I will render my own judgement, such as it is, but I invite, first and foremost, King Allorev Nicte of Noelictus to speak. King of Shade, I have heard you have organized a convoy of your own. Will you discuss this?”
The Arbiter Queen and a dozen other callers on the morning segment debating the bread delivery turned as King Allorev smiled into the camera. And yes, multiple monarchs across the world had taken time out of their not-very-pressing days, in most cases, to weigh in on the Antinium’s journey.
Actually, it had been a fight by many to get on this broadcast. King Allorev had been the first to announce his actions, and Jecaina was enduringly popular, but a certain King of Medain hadn’t even gotten on the reserve list despite offering to send fifty caravans of bread if it got him a slot.
It was just the morning show while Garry finished breakfast and rode on. By now, the machine of television was producing more content about the event that was ongoing to feed its hungry audience. A few things of note made the broadcast event-worthy.
Firstly, it was a reminder that the power that Santa had was worldwide. Drassi, Sir Relz, and Noass had plenty of callers who’d written in opining about Garry and asking if he really was the spirit of Christmas. Most non-Izrilians had a lot more sympathy towards the Antinium.
Secondly, the Arbiter Queen was on this call giving her opinion, making the other rulers shut up and listen, and ejecting anyone who didn’t want to be silent.
Not…King Raelt of Jecrass. The celebrated King of Duels who’d pursued the war against Medain and split his nation with his peace-loving daughter paused in the background behind Queen Jecaina, munching on a banana in some pajamas. He stared at the camera until she covertly waved him off-screen. His expression of surprise at his daughter’s aplomb, in her element, made King Allorev smile and nearly laugh, but a touch sadly.
“—And so we are sending our own Ashwheat bread out, but I must repeat that it is no attempt to impugn my cousin kingdoms. It is simply a reality, Arbiter Queen, that information is sometimes lost. Officials become corrupt or die, or people slip through the cracks.”
She nodded slowly, eyes alight on him, and lest you think she’d lost her edge—Jecaina took a breath.
“Your words, King of Hosts, are indeed kind. But too kind, perhaps? I believe you speak to avoid offending your neighbors by implying any citizen of theirs who starves is the fault of the crown. But if a subject does starve in the borders of our nations, is it not still the responsibility of the crown? Regardless if we were aware or not, does the guilt not belong to us, and if not us, then who?”
King Allorev dipped his head in agreement, a slight smile on his lips. Jecaina pointed.
“Duke Rhisveri of Ailendamus. You had an opinion?”
Allorev’s eyes flashed at Rhisveri, but the Wyrm polished his fingernails on his jacket.
“Oh, merely a comment. Absolutely the shame of it falls upon the throne! I, myself, have petitioned my brother, His Majesty, to send out similar tokens of aid to Taimaguros Dominion. Lovely nation, but Taima and Gura fight, and an outside force will make the matter less…fraught.”
“Not within Ailendamus’ own lands, Duke?”
Rhisveri’s smirk increased.
“Well, we would. If anyone were going hungry in our kingdom. And before one speaks, I do invite you to find an example. If one was found, it would be instantly corrected. I cannot imagine the inefficiencies of rule that lead to one leaving their citizens to starve! Though I would toss the Antinium in prison for violating my sovereign territory.”
He began a furious argument, instantaneously, as every other member of the call turned on him. Jecaina sighed, though inwardly, she was content. Every conversation needed a villain, and the Duke was a very good one.
They argued, bickered, remembered their consciences, and watched. Forgetting, perhaps, that this was a Drake affair. Drake and Antinium. The Walled Cities had not spent the night idle.
 
——
 
The [Assassins] of the south had their own guild, even if they weren’t numerous as the north were, or had been.
They also had two kinds of contracts. Official and unofficial. That was, from a city or not. Private individuals or a client whose opinion mattered a touch more.
Pay still had to be good, but the mostly-Drake [Assassins] could sometimes be patriotic. That also differed; Symphony was a known supporter of their Walled City. Admirable? Stupid? Who could say? One didn’t speak ill of other professionals, and they had excellent concerts you could get a ticket to, cheap.
The point was, sometimes you took a job because you believed in things. Like, say, that the Antinium were a menace. Of course, the flipside of the coin was wondering if you were about to start the Third Antinium War.
The six [Assassins] had thought about it on the sleepless ride north as they abandoned their horses and climbed into the foothills. They weren’t the deadliest, but rather, the fastest.
