Did they even hear him? The pain kept growing until he heard a scream. A buzzing and then shouting. The stabbing into his back shell stopped, and Garry heard more.
The sound of wings. His head rose, and Pisca took one of the [Soldiers] off their feet, biting, clawing.
“Stop! Stop!”
He shouted as Flying Antinium descended, swarming the [Soldiers]. Antinium and Drake blood stained the road, and Garry rose, despite the blood, and shoved Runel off a screaming [Soldier].
“Let them go!”
The Flying Antinium buzzed backwards. Some of them had lost limbs. Pisca had a terrible slash across her face. The [Soldiers] ran. Garry saw the Wyvern land, shrieking, and he spread his arms.
“What are you doing?”
“Zaving you. Can’t die. Not you.”
Runel whispered. Garry stared up at the sky.
“Go. Fly back to Liscor. Hurry. You cannot do this.”
Now, he was afraid. Now, he knew that war, true conflict might be hanging on the edge. But they were more concerned with him, producing bandages, the gel—he grabbed Pisca and wound a bandage around her face.
“Pisca. You cannot protect me. You must go back.”
“No. Come with. Pleaze.”
She tried to cover him with her wings. The others buzzed around him, but Garry pushed at them. Pointed. He spoke.
“I cannot let you get hurt. Not for me.”
“Why? Why keep going? Makes no zense.”
They protested, and Garry pointed up the hill. They had gotten the wagon free, replaced the wheel, and he had stopped…bleeding. Another miracle. He was getting tired of them.
“I have to know how far they will go. If there is ever a chance I will deliver that bread to the hungry Drakes, it cannot be with one-time miracles and by scaring them, by hurting them, Pisca. This is not…once. This is all part of my plan. It may be a stupid, foolish, naïve plan. But I will believe in it. Please, go home. If I am wrong, do not make my mistake. But—”
He hugged them, each and every one.
“I do not think I am wrong. No matter what, I will not attack them. That means something. Look: they’re watching.”
He pointed up at the sky. The Flying Antinium stared upwards, then gathered around him.
“Pleaze…”
The horses were gone. Garry pushed the wagon until it was facing up the hill and began to shove. To the Flying Antinium’s surprise, it moved. Garry kept shoving, and it moved. Step by step…the Flying Antinium began to shove with him, but he turned.
“Go, please. I’ll be back soon.”
They stood there watching him push, ascending the tough hill step by step. It was heavier than anything Garry had pushed, but he was used to working.
Whatever they decided…they buzzed off. Garry was shoving, trying to get more purchase, when he heard frightened whinnying. He glanced up, and two horses came galloping back. Pisca buzzed back.
“Not ztupid. At least you go not ztupid.”
Garry gazed down at the wagon, his trembling arms, and then relaxed.
“Okay, not stupid. This is true.”
 
——
 
He pushed to the top of the hill and the Flying Antinium were already gone, having turned into specks on the horizon. Pushing with the tired horses.
“What…kind…of Drakes live this high up?”
Garry was questioning their life choices. But a man answered him as he sat, bandaging his own shoulder.
“As I understand it, ones who farm high-altitude magical crops and collect from animals and monsters here. Profitable. But if a field goes fallow or takes on blight…their [Farmer] died. He was ninety years old. He fed most of them.”
“Oh.”
Ser Solton was wounded. But he replaced his armor, rose, and pointed ahead.
“Garry. There’s a bridge just ahead of us crossing a chasm. But there are also fifty Drakes.”
He was looking at Garry. Just looking, and the [Baker] stopped riding the wagon. Walked over to put his hand on Solton’s shoulders.
“The trouble with miracles, Ser Solton, is that they run out. I am from The Wandering Inn. I have seen it happen. I did not come searching for them. I am grateful, but you must understand this. You are young.”
The [Knight] with grey hair, in his forties, met the eyes of a two year-old Antinium, and his face crumpled up a bit. He didn’t ask Garry to turn back. Or if he was certain.
He finally understood. Solton took in a shaky breath, then another.
“Then—ach, damn visors. How is a man to fight with tears in his eyes? What does one do in the face of such certainties? When you don’t even believe in miracles, man? What is there to hope for?”
Garry could see the Drakes now. Waiting silently in front of the wide bridge over a ravine. The only route to the town of Aethdell’s Summit. Right. Summit. It really should have clued him in. He hadn’t read those maps right. He was a silly, young bug. But he smiled at Ser Solton.
“When you run out of miracles? You just hope, Solton. One step at a time. The world can be better.”
The visor clicked downwards, and Solton replied softly.
“By blood or coin or deed, let it be so.”
“All I can do is bake bread.”
 
——
 
The silent Drakes moved apart, slightly, as the [Knight] rode down on them. His lance wasn’t lowered. Not against so many. He had a hand on one sword.
“Make way. Make way! We are delivering bread to the starving! If you have a conscience, for the love of family, for the love of decency, please—make way!”
The wagon was rumbling down the slope faster and faster as the horses whinnied nervously. They did not like the chasm, but Garry had fed them the nice bread. Despite their fear, despite their nerves, they glanced at him, and perhaps…
They moved faster. Once they were on the bridge, the Drakes wouldn’t be able to swarm. Garry was sitting forwards in the driver’s seat, braced. He hurt all over. His stab-wounds were patched, but he was so tired.
“This time…”
The silent Drakes were just watching him. Slitted eyes unblinking. Garry could have said a lot of things.
I have met a Dragon. My [Innkeeper] has bested a god. Boastful things, true things, things he believed in, perhaps even things to make them stop or change their minds.
But this should have been all it took. Garry held a loaf of bread with two of his hands as the other two held the reins. He saw the first rank of Drakes shift aside as the wagon rumbled past the [Knight]. Then, Ser Solton sighed.
“Sirs, madams. Have you no hearts?”
They drew blades, and Ser Solton’s warhorse reared.
“Garry!”
The swords slashed at Garry. Spears knocked him back in the driver’s seat, and the horses screamed. They ran forwards, and the press of bodies kept Solton from Garry. Forced the [Knight] back as he slashed, shouting.
“Stop. Stop—”
Garry was yelling, and the press of bodies was about him, attacking, before, suddenly, they drew back. All at once. He was shielding his face, glancing around as they rode onto the bridge, and above him—
All the [Scrying] spells abruptly cut out. Garry’s anti-appraisal ring buzzed, and he heard only the clip-clop of hooves. He turned, and the Drakes were backing up from the bridge.
The [Baker] rode forwards for another second. Then ten. He stared behind him as Solton shouted, a distant voice, and then the Antinium peered up. His eyes found the orange glow, the falling pinpoints of light.
“Truly?”
The pair of [Fireballs] shot down from the sky. He saw them touch the other end of the long bridge, then felt a ripple under the wagon wheels. The bridge rolled downwards into the chasm, and Garry reached out.
The horses halted as the bridge dropped. Garry grabbed for them.
“I’m sorry—”
Then he knew.
The wagon fell as the bread, the Chest of Holding, the horses, and the [Baker] dropped. Down, down, down. 
Leaving his hopes behind. The wrath of Drakes. The chance to do some good in the world.
Down.
Down.
Down.
To a place where there was only pain. The ground.
And his [Innkeeper].
 
——
 
She was crying when he woke up. The Antinium’s right arm was broken. Blood was running from his shell. His legs—all his bandaged wounds had torn open again.
 
He sat in the gazebo, at the table, as she leaned against the benches, tears falling from her eyes and gazing into infinity.
 
He awoke at the bottom of the chasm, lying on squashed bread. Amidst his own blood, next to the two dead horses.
The Antinium got up after crying out in pain. He hunted around for bandages. Anything. Gave up; there was only blood and destruction. Nothing left. He stared up, but the light was so faint down here. Just a wall of stone and…he gazed at his hands.
Then he walked over to the jagged stone and put his three good arms to the stone. Pulled and felt slight pain in his fingertips from the hard stone. He pulled up again. Digging his fingers into the rock.
He began to climb.
 
The [Innkeeper] noticed he was awake, and she gazed at the green blood dripping from his side. His back. Every wound on him. From swords. Spears. The arrows still sticking out of his back, snapped off.
She had seen each and every one. The [Baker] did not ask how he had come to be here.
He had been here from the beginning. Night and day. 
 
He fell. Misjudged a hold and slipped, and he went crashing back down. Landed on his back-shell, and the agony nearly made him pass out again.
 
More blood. It ran down, and it had stained the gazebo’s floor. Even run into the nothingness around them. Green and bright. Nothing like the red of her blood.
He had seen her after she had died. He had missed that too.
Now…she sat there.
 
The Antinium began to climb again. This time, he tried to judge each hold. Secured himself so that even if one hold gave way, the other two would cling on. But every time his grip slipped, his fingers cut into the rocks.
And his carapace was not invincible. He was digging his fingers into tiny cracks, forcing his unmalleable digits into crevasses to hold himself up by sheer friction.
 
Blood began to drip from cracked fingers. Garry gazed down at his hands, then up at her. The [Innkeeper] rasped into the darkness as she watched his blood drip onto the floor.
“They have done nothing for us. Nothing, and we try again and again to make this world better. To show them it matters. To give just one thing, and all they do is take it away. They don’t deserve anything.”
Her eyes were filled with hazel and hate. Helplessness. 
She pointed a hand that shook at him.
“We try. Even after all of it, because it matters. Until we can’t remember why we cared so much. Until it doesn’t seem to matter. The world stops shining so brightly. Why do we do it? For them? Why do they deserve it?”
 
—Fell, again, as an entire section of stone gave way. Bad stone. The Antinium lay there, knowing it was loose from rain and erosion. The entire cliff face might give way and bury him.
He got up.
This time, his fingers dug into the stone despite the pain. He pressed with all the strength he had. Whispering.
“[Hands of Steel]. [Enhanced Grip].”
The strength to knead dough. He pulled himself up, arms burning. Clinging to the rocks. Whispering.
“They killed the horses. Why did they have to kill the horses?”
It hurt. He never should have brought them.
His fault.
 
More blood. But it was slowing from everywhere but his fingers. The Worker gazed down at the empty chess table dripping with blood. Then his head rose.
“You don’t even know them.”
He spoke to the [Innkeeper], and she blinked. Erin looked at him, and Garry’s head rose. To the sky he could not see here. He whispered.
“They don’t even know they can climb. We do.”
 
—Half an hour? He didn’t know. He slipped as a rock tore loose, and he heard it fall. Far—he drove his left hand deeper into the stone, desperate, and clung there. Panting.
Garry peered up, and he still couldn’t see the sky. He was feeling for another handhold, swinging back and forth, his stomach shaking, when something ran onto his head.
Water. He opened his mandibles skywards, then stuck his foot into a crack in the wall.
He could not fall.
 
“I believe this is it, Erin. I do not know. But I think…”
He held her as she hugged him and refused to let go. But the [Baker] was smiling.
“I hope I win, even if I lose.”
“I’d trade them all for you. Open my door when you see it. Please. Please don’t leave me alone.”
She wasn’t shaking. Just weeping, as if—no. They’d broken her heart before. The [Baker] smiled as his hands stung and bled.
“I promise.”
Then he stepped through the door and—
 
—Remembered. The [Baker] stopped, panting, and he was no stronger. No happier, not as it rained on him, cold water pouring down the stones occasionally falling by his head. But he forced one arm up. Gripped a stone until it cracked, then dug his fingers into the cliff face harder.
Up. Up.
“Remind her. I made a promise. I—”
He’d made another promise. Garry stared down for a moment, as long as his limited head movement would allow.
“Why the horses?”
His arms were in agony. He was searching for somewhere, anywhere, he could just…rest. Anywhere he could cling to to regain some strength.
“Please…”
Then he did see it. An actual ledge of stone that had not given way. A flat surface fifty-some feet away from him. Only, it was already occupied. Something had come tumbling down, and by luck, fate, it had smashed onto the little ledge and tangled there, the remnants of the reins anchoring it in place.
The Chest of Holding.
Garry stared at it as the rain let up, and his trembling fingers kept bleeding. He regarded the wet box and tried to calculate how heavy it was. Looked up and still could not see the cliff’s edge. The [Baker] took a trembling breath.
“…gOod.”
 
——
 
He lashed the Chest of Holding to the only place he could tie it to and know it wouldn’t slip off given the slippery leather and his crude knots: his legs.
They weren’t much good anyways. His stumpy feet couldn’t articulate or wedge themselves into gaps like a Human or other species. Flesh was malleable. Chitin, not.
So he pulled with his arms. One handhold higher. Then another.
His mind was going white, wanting to lift him up into a place that felt like Pawn’s Heaven. But every time he felt it, he dragged himself down into the cliff and forced his arms to rise.
“Not there. No matter how beautiful it is, I will not go. I’m not—”
He drove a fist into the stone as he slipped again. Pulled.
Up.
“I’m not needed there.”
Then he stopped talking. Drove a hand higher and pulled himself up one more foot.
“Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah! AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHH—”
He screamed skywards, and there was only one thing that heard him. Who climbed with him, broken and bloody fingers fighting for every inch, until he hauled himself onto the ground and dragged the Chest of Holding up.
