“Well, I mean, c’mon, Garry! Give me a heads up! Okay, fine. [Door: Oversized Transportation]. Wait, how full is this wagon? Garry!”
She had to order everyone out of the waiting room so the wagon could come through the door, despite the impossibility of the doorframe. It seemed to just slip through, then Garry had to back it up as he told her he wanted to bring it to Celum.
Liska was swearing about the mana costs that’d have the door on low-power all day, and the delays, but she didn’t need to call in Lyonette to make it happen. Plus, it was Garry—and the red, glowing loaf he handed her smelled great.
“Aw—okay. Just for you, Garry. What’s this nice stuff?”
“Scaethen Bread, my specialty. You are very good for putting up with me, Liska.”
She smiled and waved that off, highly embarrassed, and actually leapt through the door to clear Celum’s people out. Only after she heard gasps and screams at the Flying Antinium and Garry rolling through did it occur to Liska that maybe this was weird after all.
“Wait, why are you going to Celum?”
Garry flicked an antenna at Liska like a wink. There was the clomp of Golems and a shout to ‘halt’ as he rode the wagon through the door.
“I am delivering bread.”
“Oh, cool. Nice. I didn’t know your bakery did that.”
She went back to sitting on the couch long enough to see Lord Xitegen striding up and made sure Garry wasn’t in trouble. Then Liska sat down on the couch and began to reorganize people, warning every city that mana was low for the moment. She didn’t think much of it until Lyonette came running to find her, and that was hours later.
Mostly, Liska had been just wondering who ordered that much bread.
 
——
 
The Liscor passage was quite easy, though Garry did note the imposition on Liska and reflected that moving the bread through to Celum and getting a wagon there would have been faster.
But the Humans panicked at the sight of Flying Antinium, and Lord Xitegen Terland was there very quickly. He did not like trouble.
“I do not like trouble, Antinium. Nor is Celum a city you can enter with impunity. Be told. What are you doing, and why should I allow it?”
Garry didn’t know Lord Xitegen at all. He’d seen him and heard he was a very important, very impressive man. He still had bandages from fighting the Goblin King, and Garry knew the Golems could probably break his wagon apart. Pisca, Runel, and the Flying Antinium like Cherry, Leafwing, Carla, and the others, were not actually that dangerous in hand-to-hand combat. They liked to strafe their opponents on the move. And he would not fight anyways because he thought Golems, like people, did not deserve violence.
Garry smiled from his seat at Lord Xitegen, who gave him an annoyed look. He lifted one cover on the wagon.
“It is merely bread, Lord Xitegen.”
“Ah, trade goods. And I should allow an Antinium to enter my lands and cause more inn-style havoc because…?”
He was peering around for Lyonette, ready for a fight, obstreperous. A nice word that Garry had just read in his dictionary.
But the Antinium knew his opponents. Sadly, in this battle, Lord Xitegen was outclassed, disadvantaged, helpless. Garry replied cheerfully.
“I would like to clarify, if I may, Lord Xitegen, that I am not trading this bread at all. I am giving it away. Ho. Hoho. Ho.”
Amazing how those three words rang a bell in some minds. Children glanced around, and even adults wondered why…?
Lord Xitegen didn’t recall the significance of the words immediately, but when Garry explained his route and turned over the map, the [Lord]’s eyes narrowed.
“Charity? That’s [Bandit] territory. Far too far outside the range of Celum or even Brigadier Forount’s commendable alliance of cities. No-man’s land. You’ll be attacked on sight.”
He stabbed a finger at Gulfwaters Ravine, and Garry nodded.
“I may be attacked, it is true, Lord Xitegen. But I will navigate that as I must. And if it is no-man’s land, then it is surely no problem, because I am an Antinium.”
“Hah. I didn’t realize you buggers understood humor.”
Lord Xitegen’s features twitched for half a second, then he handed the map back.
“And I should allow this because…? You’ll cause a scandal the moment you leave my city. You already have driven traffic to a standstill.”
His Golems loomed over the Flying Antinium, who fanned their wings, but Xitegen was a clever man. Garry put his four hands together politely.
“I believe, Lord Xitegen, that you will allow us passage now. And perhaps give us an escort, though I do not believe one is needed in your lands.”
“Why the hell would I—”
The Lord of House Terland began, then stopped. He gazed at Garry’s smiling face. Then at the wagonload of bread. Then at Garry’s map.
The [Lord] went pacing back and forth, and Garry took the time to admire the man’s thighs, which Bird had said he should inspect if he ever got the chance. Lord Xitegen pressed two fingers to the bridge of his nose. He spun back.
“Primera, scan that wagon for magic and have a sample of the bread tested for contaminants, poison, anything.”
Garry waited patiently and offered Xitegen a free sample of bread. The Thigh Lord sighed when he heard Primera report a negative.
“The glowing red bread is an unknown to me, Lord Xitegen. It appears to contain positive magical effects, however.”
“Yes, yes, and I see how much he’s…”
The Human [Lord] stood there, staring at his feet, until Garry politely cleared his throat. Then his head snapped up.
“Give them an esc—”
He caught his words, then gave Garry a flat, flat stare. He made a motion.
“Issue a public notice, Primera. The Antinium have passage through my lands, and that is not a guarantee of anything. I trust you will commit no crimes…Baker?”
“Chef Garry, Lord Xitegen. Thank you.”
“Hmph.”
The [Lord] spun on his heels and strode away. Garry heard commands being issued by the very surprised woman who commanded his militaries, then the streets cleared. He and the Flying Antinium began to roll through Celum towards the eastern gates.
All according to plan. The people of Celum were staring at the Antinium, calling for scrying orbs, checking to see if this was on the news—and it was not because no one was paying attention.
Yet.
Now word was spreading, and Garry rolled forwards until they were out of the gates. Only then did Runel buzz around him.
“Garry. Garry. Quesztion.”
She flew like a fly, left, right, buzzing around him as an open-mouthed [Farmer] nearly crashed his wagon into the wall trying to get away from the giant Flying Antinium.
“Yes, Runel?”
“Why did Lord Zitegen let uz go? I do not underztand.”
Garry stared ahead for a moment as the Flying Antinium got them up to a decent clip. He hoped they could keep the pace up; they wouldn’t be nearly as fast as horses without riding Skills, but they were moving fast already. Of course, all the Humans who saw his wagon panicked.
Chaos on the roads, but one of Lord Xitegen’s Golems was striding ahead, shouting the news.
Xitegen was an efficient man. A deadly foe, Garry was certain, for Drakes. Brave, intelligent, and he had never stood a chance. Garry responded to Runel kindly.
“He let us go, Runel, because he understood what we are doing.”
“Zo?”
“He has been hungry too, Runel.”
“Oh.”
She landed, after a moment, on top of the stacked bread until Garry shooed her off so she didn’t squash the top layers. He sat back and admired the blue skies, inhaling the spring air as word finally began to percolate into people’s brains.
There was an Antinium doing what? Slowly, he reached down and checked on his secret weapon. The hard part would not be Celum’s lands. The hard part would be when they reached the first settlements and tried to actually deliver their cargo. Around Celum, people had at least heard of the Antinium; past that? He and the Flying Antinium were true monsters of legend.
Yet Garry had a plan. He hoped he didn’t die executing it.
 
——
 
The first Human village was named Eress, and it was actually almost due north of the place that old Rheirgest had been. Unlike their reclusive, [Necromancer] sister-village, Eress was a more traditional farming hamlet. They should have been well-set, but mysterious crop blight had killed their entire fall harvest.
Only fish from the creek had kept them from true famine. Eress had a low, ten-foot wood wall, partly fallen inwards in places where the old wood had just rotted away, and no one had bothered to repair it. It was not a thriving place, but until now, it hadn’t been starving either.
It just…had no [Lord]. No city. No valuable goods that would be why [Merchants] stopped by. Anyone who reached levels above 30 would leave for somewhere better. But the village continued because it had been pleasant and safe enough. Not living near the High Passes.
The winter had been terribly long. Stores of coin had vanished, and belts had tightened. Now, anything that grew went straight into the pots, but that meant there was no coin to buy essentials.
All that to say that more than one soul had left, heading either for the New Lands; Celum, where there was said to be work under a [Lord]; or a magical door. It was, in fact, near enough to Celum that a City Runner could come pounding up the road with a missive for the [Headwoman]. When she read the letter and realized it was from none other than Lord Xitegen of Celum, they were shocked.
When they read an Antinium was coming their way—there was a panic. Half the village was ready to pack up and run, but he was apparently right behind the City Runner, Fals. In the end, everyone who couldn’t fight hid inside the cellars while the villagers grabbed bows and axes and pitchforks and took to the walls. Several spots immediately gave way from too many bodies, and it was then, as they were picking each other up, that the wagon appeared.
Give Lord Xitegen this: he had probably set up Garry’s arrival as best as possible. The Worker slowed the wagon as the Flying Antinium’s wings buzzed, then went quiet. He saw, in the distance, several bows being drawn back.
Garry had no armor Skills. He hadn’t tried to fight since Erin’s inn when the undead and Skinner had attacked. An arrow would kill him if it struck him in the head, but he just kept the wagon rolling forwards.
He had prepared the only way he knew how. His secret weapons were ready and deployed. And the villagers, squinting, called out.
“What’s that? T-those aren’t beetles. They’re like oversized flies. Dead gods, a dozen of ‘em!”
“No one loose!”
“What? They’ll eat us if they come nearer—”
“The letter said—”
“Damn the letter, look at that one! Wait. What’s with the one riding the wagon? What’s…on its face? On its head? Is that a—a hat?”
Several villagers of Eress shaded their eyes. They pointed, and the keen-eyed among them confirmed that, yes, it was a hat.
A red hat with a white stripe along the trim. And a poofball of white on the tip. And the Antinium Worker had something else on his face.
The kind of thing that made you look twice, because in your fear, this nightmare, you had to look twice and go ‘wait, am I really seeing that?’
The Antinium had a white beard he’d attached to his face with a bit of string. The fake beard waved in the spring breeze, and the bright red wagon gleamed under the sun. He’d been very particular about the color.
Garry hopped off the wagon a hundred feet from the village. He walked forwards, a bundle in his arms, and arrows drew back as he approached and halted, a dozen steps from the closed gates.
“Who—what are you, and what do you want?”
A nervous man called down from the walls, aiming a spear at Garry’s chest. The Antinium lifted the object up in his hands. They moved back, but Garry just spoke, his voice loud, carrying, and fearless.
Fals, watching with his breath drawn, saw Garry lift the loaf of bread skywards, and the golden-brown crust caught the light.
“Bread. I baked it myself. I would like to give you some, people of Eress, if I may.”
Perhaps they had not celebrated Christmas, but they had heard of the funny tradition in Liscor. Stories of an Unseen Emperor delivering food in the winter, and perhaps they had wished for the same.
The villagers glanced at each other as stomachs rumbled, and they mouthed.
Bread? From Antinium? 
It has to be a trap.
But Lord Xitegen had written…
“Why?”
The [Headwoman] called down to Garry and stared at him narrow-eyed, with the suspicion of someone used to shady [Traders] or dodgy travellers. [Thieves], not good strangers. She searched, with a [Detect Guilt] Skill, for any malfeasance, any trickery in him.
The Human woman shaded her eyes, though the sun wasn’t shining in her face. She blinked her eyes rapidly until the instinctive tears faded. One of the other villagers whispered to her, anxious.
“Canna? What’d you see? How many blotches?”
She shook the spots from her gaze and glanced back down just in time to hear Garry’s cheerful reply.
“Someone fed me when I was hungry once. Ever after that, I no longer wished to feel hungry, so I started making food. I was told you needed food, so I came.”
“We have nothing to pay you with.”
Canna shot back at him, shading her eyes, squinting. Garry shook his head.
“I do not wish for payment, please. This is free bread. Would you like a piece?”
He broke off a section of his loaf and happily inserted a piece into his mouth. They watched, entranced and uneasy, as he ate it. Garry called out.
“I have more.”
 
——
 
It took the villagers of Eress a while to open the gates. Longer still to try the bread that he and the Flying Antinium unloaded for them, and all the while, Fals watched and did not help.
Only when the nervous [Headswoman], Canna, took a piece and used some complimentary butter to spread on it and took a bite did they believe this wasn’t some trick. One look at her chomping down and half would have risked it, even if it was poisonous.
Garry believed it had worked when the first little boy peeked his head out of the cellar, saw his father eating some bread, and dashed out to take some despite his mother shouting at him to come back.
“I don’t understand. Why us?”
“You were close by, and I heard you needed food. It is not much, but I hope it helps.”
“It—it will. And it won’t go bad?”
“It will go bad slowly since I have [Slow Spoilage], but I do encourage you to store the bread in a cool, dry place, and then check it for mold. I estimate it will begin to grow stale in fourteen days.”
“Fourteen days?”
“Yes, I have tested my bread extensively. This is in the rainy season of Liscor, so it may be subject to change. Also, be very wary of mice and rats, please. Though rats are very edible.”
