“The Wandering Inn has stopped giving out food and supplies, especially healing potions, since the winter ended. So has the Unseen Empire, though they occasionally render aid to other settlements and people that come to visit.”
“Well…yeah. The winter’s over. Now that spring’s begun, people can grow food, can’t they?”
Erin sat on one of his counters in violation of health and food safety regulations, but Garry allowed it because he was only in an imaginary kitchen, rolling some dough. He put it into the oven because there was no sense in doing things wrong and turned to her, flour dust on his apron.
“That is what I hoped, Erin. But it turns out starvation and hunger is a year-round thing. Many villages need food. Always, yes?”
She ducked her head, and a shadow crossed her face.
“Yeah. In my world and yours. Even if there’s plenty in some places…okay, I get that. But where’s the food coming from? Liscor can’t feed other cities, Garry.”
“I am aware. I am also aware there is plenty of food to spare if one is careful. I have made Yellat Bread, which is moderately successful, and perfected my Daily Bread recipes, Erin. I also make Scaethen Bread, but it is very difficult, even now. I can only make two small loaves of that a day, so it is not sustainable…but I make plenty of bread for one Liscorian Mark.”
“One what?”
He showed her the new Liscorian Marks and she snorted.
“What, are people making new money these days? That’s weird. Looks sort of nice, though. Who made it?”
“Councilmember Lism was the creator.”
“Lism.”
She shook a fist at the air, and Garry went on as bread appeared from the ovens, hot and fluffy and ready to be eaten. He placed them on trays, which imaginary staff members took. Most to be stored in safe containers for the hungry lines. Some to store if it kept well. Antinium Workers trundled out of the back or down into a cellar that led into the Free Hive.
He wasn’t technically supposed to alter the bakery that way, but it let Antinium not crowd the street, and the Council turned a blind eye, if they knew. Erin watched as a single Worker carried a cart of bread down into the cellar.
“Wait a second.”
Embezzlement. Garry walked with the Worker as the bakery changed, showing her the Hive. The trays of bread went down, down past fascinated, hungry Workers, Soldiers, and into a kitchen where they were popped into a pantry enchanted with Runes of Preservation.
It wasn’t very big. But he didn’t take that much bread per bake, and only at the start and end of the day. No one noticed. Why would they? There was always enough bread, and what was stale could be ground up and re-used as bread crumbs or given to [Farmers] as feed.
Or Garry took some. Now, he walked over to some bread that had unacceptable bread mold, the worst enemy of his, on it. He tapped it.
“[Restore Food].”
“Wh—you can do that? That’s magic! Is that a kind of restoration? That’s way too high-level!”
The [Witch] shouted. Garry turned to her.
“It is a Skill, and it does not work on large things. Just spoiling.”
But now he had two carts’ worth of bread. His poor pantries couldn’t contain all that! So, Garry loaded the bread into a Chest of Holding he’d bought. He put the chest on a wheelbarrow and began to walk it again.
This time, he had to walk for a while, but it was good exercise. It was a long walk to—
“Hey! My inn! You dug all the way here?”
“Yes.”
“Wh—but it’s at the other end of the Floodplains!”
“We like having underground entrances. How do you think the construction crews get here each day?”
Like heck they were going to brave the damn rains over those rickety bridges. Only the most courageous Antinium did that. Garry rolled the cart up into the basement, then stopped. Erin was already goggling when he walked over to a somewhat-dusty dresser in the corner of her inn. Garry slid open a drawer…and began to pop loaves of bread inside.
“What? What? Whaaaaaaaat?”
He turned to stare at her, genuinely perplexed.
“Erin. This is your Skill. [Compartments of Holding].”
“Wh—yeah, but—I’ve never used it like that!”
Erin protested. She knew Numbtongue had hidden weapons around the inn, at least before it got moved, but this? Garry hummed as he worked.
“It is all, as I believe the Earthers say, free real estate. I have filled up a number of furniture items with bread. I do not think Ishkr or Lyonette notice, but I am sure they would understand. But I am not troubling them. They are very busy fighting Goblin Kings and such.”
That was a mere part of his plans. Then he showed Erin the maps and very lovely routes the Merchant’s Guild had provided to him. When she saw that, the [Innkeeper] grew quiet.
“Oh, Garry. You’re not…”
He had drawn, in red chalk, a weaving route heading north from Celum across as many places as he thought he could reach. From small village to small village that only a [Merchant] knew or places Garry had heard of. Through forests, under the High Passes, northwards…the first time would be short.
“Three days. All that remains is to take my paid vacation, which I intend to submit paperwork for. Then—”
When he looked up, she stood there, eyes locked on him, an expression of pained pride on her face. He wished it were not pained.
“Garry. I’ve always been so proud of you. So much because you’ve never stopped giving, and I forget.”
“You give in your own way, Erin. But I have bread to deliver.”
“It…it’s an amazing idea. I’m sure there are hungry people. But you’re an Antinium. Can’t you go to the Driver’s Guild or get the Knights of Solstice to do it?”
She hesitated, and he did not. Garry shook his head.
“They are busy saving lives. The Driver’s Guild I do intend to approach—to rent a wagon from. I have purchased the largest Chest of Holding I am able to, but I must go, Erin. After all…”
He reached up and tugged at a white beard which had materialized on chin.
“I must be Santa Claus. He comes when needed, does he not? Ho, ho, and possibly, ho.”
Her eyes filled up with tears. Erin whispered.
“So that’s why. But it’ll be dangerous.”
“I know.”
“You—you could wait, Garry. Christmas was beautiful, but it comes once a year.”
“I am aware, but I refuse to wait, Erin. If someone is hungry, now, they must be fed.”
“There are [Bandits] and monsters and—”
“Yes.”
He knew. Nevertheless, Garry smiled, and he was excited, not afraid. Concerned he might fail or be suboptimal, but he had to go.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice let him go after that. She had lots of advice for him, most of which involved getting Acid Jars from the inn. Garry got two, for monsters, but he was no fighter.
He did approach the Driver’s Guild to rent the wagon, of course. They were hesitant about giving him one, but his gold was good, and when he told them he needed no horses, they were surprised.
“Do you, er, have animals, sir? Not all’re fit to pull a wagon, even a lighter one such as this. Don’t you at least need a harness?”
The [Hostler] asked Garry, and he replied with a smile.
“I have a team already, thank you.”
His team were Flying Antinium. He would have done Corusdeer, but they were apparently not very easy to tame, and Flying Antinium…flew.
There were more than a few assistants that Garry employed these days who weren’t merely Free Antinium. He was sure that when the Silent Queen or Flying Queen sent their Antinium to the Free Hive, they were intended to be used as warriors, scouts, or experimental subjects for the Free Queen.
Kitchen staff was probably not their intended use-case, but Garry employed as many as he could justify. Oh, and a number of the Flying Antinium could fly.
Not just Pisca and Runel. One day, after the giant Harpy had led an army against the Goblin King and the mountains had stopped shaking, Garry had woken up to find two dozen Flying Antinium snoozing in his kitchen. He had, of course, done the responsible thing and asked the Free Queen for chambers to house the lot and given them jobs.
He didn’t know where the others had gone, but the Free Queen had certainly taken in more than he himself had. Another omission; when the Flying Queen asked, they pretended not to know where any of her subjects were.
That explained how some of them flew, gifted by the last Empress of Iltanus who flew into this reality with Skills approaching the power of the divine.
…He was pretty sure the reason Pisca and Runel flew was because of his bread.
 
——
 
Scaethen Bread was probably Garry’s other major capstone Skill of note along with his employee and pantry-Skills. It was a red, glowing loaf of hyper-kneaded dough.
The more you kneaded, the brighter and more magical it got. It required Sage’s Grass and more expensive ingredients to make the highest quality of it, but the main factor was just…kneading.
Garry had tried to get one of his non-Antinium employees to make it once. The poor Drake had kneaded for eight hours on-and-off and had to call off the next day due to muscle cramping from making one piece of bread after six attempts. But the result was worth it.
A finished loaf of Scaethen Bread was always small. Barely larger than your hand in diameter, and it looked underbaked. It was soft as a pillow, but you could taste the crunch when you bit into it. Perfectly baked at a low temperature of 146 °F for thirty-six minutes, it had a strange, magical aroma, and the taste…
Garry described the taste as ‘energy and Sage’s Grass’, but he felt like it missed a key word he lacked the vocabulary for. Pisca, who often ate it, or failed samples of it, as a treat, had a better description.
“Niceezzzz taste. Tastez like hard, good work. Successz.”
If you could turn that into a taste, then yes, Garry supposed it did. Scaethen Bread filled you up. A single loaf was enough to keep him full well past dinner, and it was also, he had to emphasize, magical.
It did things to you the longer you ate it. At first, it was just magicalish effects. Garry gave it to the [Farmer] Antinium and his employees in the kitchen, and he ate it himself now and then. He, personally, didn’t feel much of a change, but he was sure something was going on.
In Pisca and Runel? It was pretty simple: they flew.
In the beginning, it was glowing orange wings, magic enabling them to achieve the dream of Flying Antinium. But at some point that had stopped, and he’d sensed some subtle changes in their bodies. Maybe longer wings? Back physiology altering?
These days, they could buzz around or cling to walls when not working. No more effects had been observed, and he didn’t know if their powers wore off if they stopped eating Scaethen Bread. He sort of doubted it, because in some of the farming Antinium?
Well, at least one Soldier had begun speaking, and he was 99% sure that they hadn’t been altered by the Free Queen and had been mute since they had been created. Not everyone demonstrated the effects, and Garry was keeping his bread on the down low.
He didn’t have much, and he had a feeling the other Queens, including Xrn, would confiscate it if they knew he could make it or have him solely devoted towards making the bread. The Free Queen only demanded some regularly for herself, so Garry was bribing her to keep it secret. He had more important things to do. Garry hadn’t even told Pawn, either, because, well…
Pawn could make free bread. He didn’t really need more.
A bit of rivalry, that. Garry’s bread versus religious free bread, which he, personally, thought wasn’t as good as his. Anyways, the point was that when he gathered up a symbolic twelve Flying Antinium, all of them could fly.
“Pisca, are you sure you and Runel wish to fly?”
“Yessz. We must go with you, Head Chef.”
He was uncertain. They could stay, but a Silent Antinium [Novice Cook] was taking over for them serving the Free Queen, and the custom harness he’d had an Antinium make for them was sized to Flying Antinium.
It was going to look a bit silly with them, but six Flying Antinium had enough strength to pull the light wagon along. Six more would keep pace, trading off as needed. Garry was highly tempted to see if he could buy a glowing red [Light] spell to give to one of the leaders, but that would have been childish.
This was symbolic. He had packed a hat and beard in his bag of holding, but that was actually important.
“This will be a dangerous trip. The Humans may attack us, and there may also be monsters or [Bandits]. I cannot guarantee your safety, but we are attempting to feed those who are hungry.”
He gave a simple address to his company as they gathered in front of him. Rain pelted them as he stood next to the wagon in a street just off of Shivertail Plaza. People glanced at him, recognizing Garry by his hat, but he was just…calm. He surveyed the twelve Flying Antinium and went on.
“We are Antinium. We know what hunger is like. Not just hunger of our bodies, but hunger to see the sky. Hunger to eat something that tastes good. Hunger not to be a yawning chasm, alone, with nothing to live for. There are lonely people who require feeding. No one has gone. So, we must. If you become lost or hurt, fly back to Celum or Liscor. Do not put yourselves at risk. It is only bread.”
He patted the wagon where carefully-covered loaves of bread had been stacked up as high as he could; more were in the Chest of Holding. He had other bags in the wagon, but all of it was paid for by his personal funds, which were not unlimited.
Only the bread was stolen. Thus, Liscor’s most criminal Antinium clapped his hands.
“Let us go, then. Thank you all.”
He knew Erin could not watch him, but perhaps that was fine. She had promised to check on him tomorrow, and no one else was watching him.
No one at all. That was, Garry thought to himself, the ideal way to launch a surprise attack.
He had been a [Tactician] learning chess from Erin, after all. He just didn’t care for killing people.
Feeding them was better.
 
——
 
The only person who noticed Garry’s actions at first was, of course, the one who saw it all. Though she didn’t tell anyone, because, well, no one listened to her.
“You want to bring a what through to Celum? No way! No oversized cargo!”
Liska was grumping out that morning due to the rain and people trekking it in, and also freaking out because of a Flying Antinium scaring everyone in line. She had to keep shouting and using her Skills to stop them from stampeding.
Then they wanted to bring a wagon through? She snapped.
“I don’t care if you know it’s possible! The answer’s no! No! Go around and tell the Free Queen to shove—oh, hey Garry. Wait, you’re the wagon-guy?”
Garry waved at Liska through the door, and she changed tack.
