Ulvama waved a hand at Bowom to shut up. She began to ask about the Orichalcum thing, and Thist the [Shopkeeper] showed her the knife again.
“It’s all about magic with Orichalcum. Partly why this never sold and was such a good showpiece; I never got it enchanted. It collects magic. Look at the shine a [Light] spell has on the metal. You can’t get that from mithril or Adamantium. One’s light, the other’s nigh unbreakable. But with knives? Most are going to cut what you want, even steel. This is beautiful.”
In fact, Thist appreciated Ulvama’s talk and walk with him so much that when they dropped the knives off, he offered her the Orichalcum knife. Her eyes grew wide, and her ears visibly rose.
“You’re giving that to her? What about me?”
Bowom complained, and Thist gave him a cool look.
“Giving it to our only Goblin guest ever is a good story for the store. I’ll have an [Artist] do up a picture of her, maybe. Besides, a [Shaman] could use a blade like this, and it hurts my heart less. Giving Bowom the Doctor a blade for free…no.”
“Ah, so you’ve heard of me!”
Bowom grew markedly less talkative suddenly, but Ulvama had to thank Thist. She shyly gave him a charm she’d made up for good dreams, then continued on her way. Getting free stuff wasn’t always the reason she wandered the city.
But it was certainly nice.
The second thing that Ulvama did was perhaps less endearing. After her heartfelt, knowledgeable conversation with Thist, she passed by a store selling confections. Fraerling-style. You’d think that would mean less sugar given how it was a rare commodity, but there were plenty of just as sweet alternatives, everything from bug nectar baked into tarts to globules of melted nali-sticks spun into various shapes to ground-down honey powder.
Part of the reason why Erin wasn’t Ulvama’s #1 companion for this kind of trip was because the [Innkeeper] refused to eat sweets these days, but Ulvama just sighed as she pressed her face to the glass along with several children.
“Oh. Oh, it’s so tasty-looking.”
Bowom sighed again as Ulvama gazed through the window.
“Someone should see what it tastes like. Just in case.”
“Far be it from me to deter our routine, but in case of what, exactly?”
He was already checking his belt pouch for some coins that Lemoste’s citizens liked to use as play-money. Ulvama was opening the door.
“In case it tastes like I hope!”
 
——
 
Not a shop, bakery, butcher, or restaurant could pass by Ulvama before she would suggest ‘someone’ try the food there. She was a glutton with at least two stomachs, and Bowom, as someone who’d had two stomachs, was amazed how she could pack it in.
The owners and the [Cooks] of the shops made it worse; they were endlessly amused by the sight of the Hobgoblin eating with clear delight, so they fed her.
“Keep it up and you’re going to be too full for dinner, which will annoy our [Innkeeper].”
Bowom predicted with the powers of a [Prophet], but Ulvama was too happy to stop. She was only halted from entering another café when a little child ran up to her.
“Miss Goblin, Miss Goblin. Boo!”
They hid their face, then made a scary face, shouting and scrunching up their features. Ulvama developed a delighted expression, glanced around to see an amused mother, and then hid her face.
“That not scary. This scary. Blergh!”
She used an illusion, and the resulting mask of toothy, warty horrors sent the child screaming and running for their mother. Ulvama beamed—after she’d made sure she hadn’t traumatized the child.
“You like children that much?”
“Eh. These ones cute. Goblin children are too much work.”
That was it, Bowom decided, as he observed the [Shaman] who was so little like the books he’d read. She was on vacation. She wasn’t the [Shaman] caring for a tribe. She was allowed to enjoy things without worrying for anyone except Erin.
And, perhaps, the books he’d read had been too preoccupied with the ‘Goblin menace’ to acknowledge their humanity, despite an understanding of their intelligence.
“Bah, what do books know? They’re only what’s written down, and anyone can do that.”
The [Doctor] was feeling at his belly, wondering if he could empty his stomach out so he could get more into the snack-expedition, when someone called his name.
He ducked on principle. Ulvama turned, but someone didn’t try to brain Bowom with a brick. It wouldn’t have been the first time, either. The [Mad Doctor] was known in Lemoste, though he’d not been here in over a decade, and he was not well liked. In fact, Ulvama got the impression that but for her and the disaster making his talents useful, most people would have run him out of the city already.
However, the [Healer] coming their way, who worked at the Fraerlings’ busy version of a hospital, wouldn’t have run Bowom off. No, Ulvama thought she would have killed Bowom outright. Yet she was approaching, and someone was walking with her.
Someone…tall.
Most Fraerlings were six inches tall, varying around that height, but the cloaked figure half-leaning on the [Healer] was eight inches tall. A veritable giant, and thin. And…something was wrong with their face, but they were hooded, and the moment Bowom turned, he froze up.
“Ah. Er, Ulvama. I might have to cut our trip short. I think…”
He was searching around for somewhere to run, and Ulvama wasn’t sure if she should help him or not, when the person the [Healer] was supporting looked up. She heard a very, very faint voice as the mother and child hurried away suddenly and the street cleared.
“Doctor. Doctor, they told me you’d come.”
Bowom shuffled his roach’s foot as the [Healer] halted, glaring at him, and Ulvama stared at the strange Fraerling’s legs. They shuffled very slowly under a long, obscuring dress, but her legs seemed to articulate at a waist set far too low. It would have meant her midsection was longer than her legs. And her limbs under the cloth…
“Mad Doctor Bowom, I insisted on keeping you away, but I was overruled. I trust you will behave with decorum?”
The [Healer], Restorer Ginthe, snapped, and Bowom didn’t respond. He just peered up at the woman’s face. She was quite attractive, Ulvama thought, but something made the Goblin viscerally uneasy until she placed it.
The head doesn’t seem right. Neither does the neck—
“Mieve. How are you doing? Er, you’re looking quite well. Very mobile.”
Ulvama was feeling that sensation on her back, a crawling, an unease, suddenly. Like the confines of The Naga’s Den. Had he—? Was he—?
She shot a glance at the [Healer], but the woman didn’t respond. Just glared, and Mieve…smiled.
“Very mobile, Doctor. I don’t walk often. I scare people. But I was glad…I moved around vigorously when the ants came.”
“I’m sure you did.”
Bowom was glancing at her robes, rubbing his six-fingered hands on his coat. He was glancing everywhere but at Mieve’s face.
“They tell me I saved many lives, Doctor. Don’t look so guilty, please.”
“Who, me? Not at all, not at all. So there’s no rejection symptoms occuring? How’s the old spine holding up?”
“It hurts now and then.”
“Ah, see, that’s the lack of chemistry between spine and flesh. Painkillers take care of it, I trust? I never could get the spines just right. They secrete so much. Crelers, well, they don’t have the same body structure, but that would have been a real landmark surgery. But they’d, well…not a long lifespan with them. It would have been even more impressive, mind you.”
Mieve was the only one who laughed. She drifted closer and moved her clothing slightly. Ulvama didn’t recoil; that would have been rude, but Bowom sighed.
“Ah. Rejection in your legs. I could prescribe—”
“It’s just overwork. She’s fine. If she needs anything, it will be nothing you prescribe, Bowom.”
Healer Ginthe interposed herself between them protectively, and Mieve bent down, pushing the Fraerling [Healer] aside with—Ulvama counted the articulation points on the arm. After four, she stopped.
“I’m fine, Doctor. I just wanted to see you. So you don’t worry. Are you still operating?”
“Not…right now. Just a few legs and hands, you know.”
Bowom’s cheeks twitched in what might have been an attempt at a smile. The Fraerling patient peered at Ulvama, then past him.
“I hope you never have to help someone like me, Doctor. But I know you can. Please don’t look so guilty. I miss your laughter.”
Then she grimaced. Rubbed at her legs, and Ulvama saw the [Healer] take her arm.
“We should go, Mieve.”
The patient nodded and turned. She held Bowom’s hand once as he murmured to her, gazing up at her, and then she drew the cloak around herself. She turned and shuffled backwards. And Ulvama?
She waited until they were alone before turning to Bowom. He stood there, staring after his patient, and murmured.
“If you’re going to throw something or stab, the spine is an excellent place, you know. Base-of-neck. Some monsters actually root themselves there to hijack a body. Extraction is exceptionally traumatic; I’ve never managed it without paralysis. But I was never good at putting things back together the same way.”
He kicked a stone on the ground. Ulvama peered at him, and now she was alert. But she did wait, assessing everything about him. How he breathed, how he looked…
“I think that if you had done something terrible to her, Lemoste wouldn’t have let you go. I think that if you did the worst things I can think of, Eurise would have pulled your head off.”
Bowom did smile at that.
“True. A highly ethical fellow, just like Zinni. You know, I’ve wondered if I could make myself survive that. Mieve…I don’t think I could put regular legs back on her, even now. The rejection, you see—”
“I saw.”
Ulvama’s voice was flat. There wasn’t enough of Mieve to restore to her Fraerling self. The Goblin waited, and Bowom brushed at his coat again. Then he smiled at her, and the madness in his eyes was banked. Just a normal man, right now, speaking with the class of a [Mad Doctor].
“That’s the problem, you know. You perform an operation on a patient. You do the old trick with a Jar of Lightning, put together your best body parts. Get a damn good laugh going when they sit back up, and then leg it before the mob can grab the torches. You’re not supposed to meet them again.”
She poked him in the side, but gently.
“Was that what happened? Did you bring her back to life?”
They began walking; people were staring at him, with knowledge, and Bowom strode along, kicking at bits of rubble.
“Hm? Oh, no, not her. Erin has some lovely stories about contemporaries in her world…I never got into the old ‘revive from death’ bit. I suppose I needed a love of my life to really get the juices flowing there. Living is fine with me.”
They walked on for a while, and Ulvama looked over her shoulder.
“Did she…ask for that?”
“That specifically? No. I’m proud to say that was some of my finest work. Real grab-bag of ideas that paid off, you know. Any parts at hand combined with inspiration. She…shouldn’t be alive. Medical miracle. I didn’t give her a year, and it’s been, what? Thirteen?”
Bowom counted on his fingers absently, then gave up.
“It’s not the kind of thing you ask for, Ulvama. It’s the scenario where you ask a darling young woman on the slab how she’d like to go. Fighting? Anesthesia? Or let me do my work?”
Ulvama shivered again.
“Fighting you?”
Another pause, and Bowom exhaled.
“No, not me. I daresay she would have been rather effective against those ants. I forgot she’d be—well, I thought after so many years, she wouldn’t have managed to—you know, there’s a comforting thing. If she really wanted to, she could run down and settle the score. It’s a beautiful moment when she runs, you know. From my perspective.”
He came to a railing over the city and stared out across it. Ulvama had lost her appetite for the snacks she’d bought and stood there with him. She patted him on the back after a moment.
“Silly [Doctor]. Scary madmen shouldn’t appear so guilty.”
He did laugh, then, a broken, crunchy-sounding laugh like falling glass. Then he winked at her.
“Well, I never figured out the brain-stuff either. Mostly just replacements and connections for nerves. None of that ‘where do I poke to turn you into a [Singer]’ nonsense.”
The Hobgoblin would have left it at that, but in her experience, people tended to want to say the rest. So she waited as the wind blew over them, and Bowom muttered.
“I was doing a damn fine job descending into the depths of my class. Another few levels, just a few, and I would have found out exactly how far the stairs led. The problem wasn’t the drop. It was doing the good thing. Turns out a madman’s act committed to noble cause still looks crazy.”
Ulvama nodded.
“I did very bad things in Dwarfhalls Rest too. Terrible things by doing nothing.”
Bowom found a waterflask and saluted her with it. He took a chug, then passed it to her.
“Your lovely [Innkeeper] was so heartbroken over her first torture. This is why they need a few veterans like us.”
She sniffed the flask, then drank and grinned at him. And that was her day in Lemoste-Under-Cliffs. Not bad, by far. Revealing. Meaningful, and she knew…
She knew their journey had to continue. For ill and good, as they found it, Erin changed things. Sometimes, it was a relief. This [Mad Doctor] had also lived two lives, she decided, at least two.
But was he onto a third, now? Ulvama realized Bowom would not be going back to Dretonamis, not ever. Nor would he stay in Lemoste. He was with them, but was it a new life?
Or an old one?
 
——
 
Erin was royally annoyed that Ulvama and Bowom didn’t have much of an appetite for the food she’d made for dinner that night. She kept feeding their portions to the Battle Hamster until she noticed how quiet Bowom was. Then she pulled Ulvama aside.
“What’s with Bowom?”
“We met one of his patients in the city.”
“Oh. Like—wait. What kinda patient?”
Erin developed much the same expression as the [Healer] and everyone else. Ulvama thought about it as she munched on some decently-tasty aphid stew. Erin had even put some spices in it, just like Ulvama kept bullying her about.
“Looked like…he made a living weapon out of monster parts. Only, she kept living after she killed something bad. Way longer than he thought.”
“He made—? Like, against her will? I didn’t think he was a bad guy.”
Erin inhaled and glanced at Bowom, who was giving them a knowing look as he stitched some fingers together. Ulvama smiled at him and whispered to Erin.
“Not against her will. I think it was like the gift of A’ctelios Salash in the ship cells.”
“Oh.”
