It said something about how many people were using the road around the Bloodfields, even with the new path and Liscor’s increased prominence, that Garry saw no one for two more hours after that.
Then again, he supposed the safer option was to actually go south to Pallass and just use the door rather than risk the Bloodfields in any capacity. The bugs hadn’t bothered him or the horses despite his bread. Or maybe it was because of his bread. Perhaps they realized his new Skill meant he was effectively carrying poison for them and stayed away.
Regardless, when he finally did meet someone on the road, it was, of all things, a Drake picking herbs. No Liscorian Drake wearing long, oiled cloaks and boots in the rain. And no city-Drake either; at least, not Liscorian-city.
He had on a rather windswept look. Second-hand cloth of different colors, clearly worn fabric now recycled into a drifter’s outfit. Wrapped around his body and even tail. Given the stiff breeze that sometimes blew down from the High Passes, it was sensible travel gear, and the fabric also saved his tail from the rocks as he used a little trowel to dig up plants.
A spiky blue daffodil in this case, and Garry had seen a tiny Sage’s Grass plant a while back being nibbled on by a Waisrabbit. The [Forager] straightened semi-warily when he saw the wagon, but relaxed when he observed no one but the rider around. He waved.
“Hallo! [Trader]?”
“Hello! Delivering bread! [Baker]!”
Garry shouted back. The Drake raised a tiny claw to his forehead, squinting. Then tilted his entire body left and right.
“…[Baker]? From where?”
“Liscor!”
“Liscor? What’re you…”
Then the Drake went abruptly very still as he realized the odd figure and the accented click to the voice did not match another Drake, Human, or Gnoll…he stumbled back a step. Garry shouted.
“I am bound to the village of Imec! Delivering bread! Are you searching for plants? I saw some Sage’s Grass back there.”
“I—I—”
The Drake dropped his trowel. He cast around for his horse. Went two steps towards it, stumbled, and then fell down.
“Oh! Are you hurt?”
They were on the same road, so Garry was approaching at a decent, steady clip as the horses exchanged whinnies with the mountain-pony who was sniffing the air, perhaps scenting the bread. The Drake was twitching on the ground. Trying to get up. His head came back up, and Garry saw terror on his face.
“I am not dangerous. I am merely a [Baker]. I would offer you some bread, but it is going to hungry people.”
No response. At last, the Drake got to his feet. He grabbed his pony’s saddle and hauled himself up, then kicked the horse.
“Go! Go!”
The alarmed pony whirled, and the Drake began to gallop. He peered over his shoulder so much so that Garry was worried he’d steer his pony into a rock or down a ledge. But then he was far away, and Garry sighed.
“It begins.”
 
——
 
To be more precise, it had begun already, but this lone encounter was prescient, really. After all, as Garry was aware, his presence had been noted in The Wandering Inn as well as in Liscor that morning. Everyone knew, by now, of the bread deliveries.
It wasn’t large news. Even the first broadcast hadn’t been worthy of the front page of any newspaper, including Liscor’s own. Drassi had covered the segment, but she would have rated it as B-grade material at best, even with an Antinium like Garry and it being charitable and heartwarming—at least if you didn’t hate Antinium.
No action, no scandal, no cute animals, nothing—moving on. However, it still had enough people who’d seen it and had paid attention to Garry’s loaded wagon in Liscor. So they’d dutifully mentioned it via [Message] spell to friends in Celum or Invrisil or popped over there to see him ride out. Only for no one to find Garry.
He wasn’t coming out of Invrisil. Or Celum. Or Esthelm or even the Unseen Empire. Weird. Then Lyonette got wind that Garry had brought his wagon into the inn and wondered where he was.
There was a feeling some of the guests got, like Miss Uriesta, who sat up with her knitting in hand.
“[Dramasense]. Oh my, this is going to be a big day.”
The veteran checked her [Advanced Dangersense], but determined she was unlikely to be in any immediate danger, so she had a word with Calescent. You had to get your order in ahead of time when there was a big rush.
And yet she didn’t know what was going on. No one did until the moment began in earnest, and it was this.
Drassi kicked the door open from Pallass to Liscor with muffled shouting behind her. She had gone through the security checkpoint, and she yelled.
“Liska, let me through! Oh, Ancestors, hurry! Hurry!”
Liska, who had some idea of what this was about, let Drassi through. A Pallassian [Guard] slammed into a [Forcewall] as Drassi ran through.
“Where’s the news crew?”
Liska peered over the Drake’s shoulder, but Drassi had run straight from Channel 2’s broadcasting room, up three floors, and across the 8th to get here. She was gasping for air, but she had just seen it.
A [Scrying] spell she had ordered on a hunch. She’d told Channel 2 to prepare, just in case they couldn’t stop this, but the [Mage] had panicked, and she hadn’t been able to catch the idiot before they went sprinting for High Command. Drassi crashed into the common room of the inn.
“Lyonette! Lyonette! Get a message out of the [World’s Eye Theatre]!”
She could have stayed and begun the broadcast, but there was reporting the news and…this. Lyonette whirled, and there was that sensation in the inn.
What now? What crisis…? But it wasn’t them.
It was Garry. And now, Pallass was seeing him riding his wagon into the foothills. In Drake territory, and the nearest city of Gllistove had just had a [Forager] ride through their gates, screaming about Antinium.
Now, it was beginning.
 
——
 
Garry was peering up at the sky. He had the vague sense someone was scrying him.
The Free Queen had given him one of those anti-appraisal rings when he hit Level 30 as she had deemed his level a valuable asset not to be shared, and it tingled whenever someone was magicking him.
It was tingling quite a lot right now. But Garry didn’t want to stop any [Scrying] spells. Quite the opposite. What did Bird say you should do?
Wave?
He shrugged at the sky instead. He didn’t really care for the television either. It was nice, but if he watched it too much, he felt lazy.
“Where’s my hat and beard?”
Might as well get started. Garry was putting it on when there was a shimmer, and Lyonette, Mrsha, and Ser Dalimont appeared to the side of the wagon. They spooked the horses, and he had to calm them. Mostly because the adults were shouting.
“Garry! What are you doing? Turn back now!”
The [Princess]’ features were visibly cracked; normally, she covered it up, but he noticed the makeup hadn’t been applied properly. She must have been panicked. Garry wondered how much pain she was in and if she needed help. He’d ask Bird later; it was always embarrassing not to be caught up on current events.
If he survived.
“Hello, Lyonette. I’m doing exactly what you think I am doing. I am happy to talk, but if there is trouble, I will need to focus. You may wish to turn the scrying orb off and keep little Mrshas and Nanettes from watching.”
He paused and thought about it.
“They have seen worse, but it is the principle of the thing, you see.”
Mrsha was staring at him with huge, solemn eyes. He smiled at her.
“It should be done, Mrsha.”
She nodded, but the [Princess] was speaking.
“Garry, I order you to turn around now. This is insane. We can have the Knights of Solstice doing this. Or I’ll pay for Hawk or—”
“The Knights of Solstice are saving lives. Hawk is expensive, and this is my work. No, Lyonette.”
“Garry! Come back now! I can have Ishkr teleport you back to the inn. I order you to turn around!”
The [Princess]’ voice shone with authority, and the horses began to move until Garry flapped the reins. He turned his head and addressed her politely.
“No.”
Her mouth opened, and the [Baker] rode on, faster now. Ser Dalimont took over.
“Baker Garry, you must understand that Pallass is in a state of alarm. You are on television.”
“Ah, good. Is Miss Drassi covering the news? I could interview with her if she uses your theatre Skill. Or perhaps she has her own methods?”
The [Knight] shifted as Lyonette’s mouth opened and closed.
“Garry. The local Drake city has just sent out riders from their army.”
“Yes. We’ll see if they respect my hat.”
Garry had swapped out his [Baker]’s hat for the Santa one. He turned to Lyonette.
“Drassi will save my life more than your authority. Everyone behaves differently when they think they are being watched.”
“You must be mad, Garry. This is wrong! This is foolish!”
She was angrily pacing up to him, limping. And you know what? He respected Erin’s point of view. He understood the others. But the [Baker] was not a calm Antinium like…Bird. He leaned over the wagon and spoke down to her.
“I am not mad, Lyonette. The world is mad, uncaring, and cruel. I respect that your inn is in danger, but I am the only sane person. I was told by a [Trader] that the village of Imec sold him their winter boots for silver to buy his food. He laughed as if it were a joke. Merchant Farri, I am slightly relieved to say, did not laugh. Nothing was done by the Merchant’s Guild or the cities near here. This is the state of the world. You may be slightly crazy, but I am very sane.”
The [Princess] halted, then looked up at him. She focused on the bread, as if seeing it for the first time.
“But Garry, we could do it. There are so many ways.”
“Yes. I hope you do. But this is my way.”
Garry thought he saw figures streaming down the side of a hill in the distance. Was that the city…? He shaded his eyes, and Mrsha saw it too. She tugged on her mother’s sleeve.
Mother, we must get Drassi now.
“I—oh, Dragonshit. Garry, keep away from them! We’ll get Drassi!”
Lyonette ran out of view, and the [Baker] sat back upright. After a moment, he commented to his horses.
“I was very rude back there. I hope you weren’t upset by that.”
He paused. They trotted on, and he sighed.
“…You’re animals. You don’t understand what I’m saying. I don’t see what Ksmvr gets out of this. He must think your ability to converse is on par with his team’s.”
 
——
 
General Edellein of Pallass was out-of-contact in the New Lands when Pallass was alerted to the event taking place just north of their territory. All the other Walled Cities were online, and they had to defer to their leadership.
Which was…who?
Several members of the Assembly of Crafts had gone running, searching for someone in charge, but General Shirka and General Forwek had been the only acting [Generals] in the city. Shirka wasn’t politic, and Forwek had declined to take charge, and the [Senators] had realized, to their horror, that left only them.
So that was how Errif and a dozen other [Senators] earned their own daily exercise: running from a secure room where a [Mage] was linked to the other Walled Cities and conveying their replies to the Assembly of Crafts.
Frankly, the average citizen might have more up-to-date info given they could just watch on the scrying orb.
And they were watching. Oh, yes. This wasn’t a Channel 2 slow, B-grade production. Channel 1 was covering it, but it was Drassi who was keeping pace with Garry, holding a microphone up on scrying orb; his face—and the Santa hat—was all over television.
That was possibly why the Drake [Riders] from Gllistove hadn’t attacked yet. One of them was checking a small scrying orb and glancing up at the sky. Shouting for a [Rider] to relay messages back to the city because none of them had speaking stones.
And the Antinium rode on. The Walled Cities were talking.
 
Zeres: They have to have at least one [Archer]. Snipe him.
Oteslia: Zeres, you must be mad.
Zeres (Admiralty): Belay that order. The Serpentine Matriarch is overruled.
Zeres: You can’t do that, Asale!
Fissival: Fissival’s Three are online. Pallass, how did you allow this?
Pallass: Standby.
Manus: No one is to attack at this moment. This is televised, delay of 5 minutes. If an attack is launched, the Hives may retaliate.
Zeres (Matriarch): Okay, don’t attack. Over one Antinium?
Salazsar: Is that a Santa hat? The Defenders of the Wall are being caught up. This Antinium was on television delivering to the north.
Oteslia: Correct, and no one thought he’d be crazy enough to go south. Here we are.
Zeres (Matriarch): I assume the First Gardener is attending? I notice no one has greeted me.
Oteslia: We are all speaking via [Strategists], Serpentine Matriarch. Are you on a personal [Message] scroll?
Zeres (Matriarch): I am. I was tired of having everything relayed. Wait, what is that thing saying? These Soldiers are hideous as I’ve heard.
Salazsar: That’s a Worker. [Appraisal] spells are blocked.
Manus: Garry the [Baker]. Connections to The Wandering Inn and ‘Chess Club Individuals’. Levels unknown. Not a combat-class. Check your dossiers. Attempting to make contact. Standby.
 
The interview between a breathless, nervous Drassi and Garry was rather simple. She was holding her microphone out as her camera-crews filmed her and Garry inside the [World’s Eye Theatre]. They had a close-up of Garry’s smiling face.
“I am smiling, Drassi. This is what Antinium look like when they smile. We raise our mandibles like so.”
He demonstrated, and she glanced over her shoulder at the Drakes—with bows—aiming at him.
“Halt! Halt or die!”
“Get on the ground!”
“I’m with Wistram News Network, don’t shoot! Garry, are you aware you’re riding through Drake lands?”
“I am very aware, Drassi. I am now winking, which is when I move my antenna sideways like—”
“Garry, this is not a joke.”
“I did not think it was, Drassi. I am utterly serious. I am delivering bread to the village of Imec. They are hungry. I trust that these good Drakes will not kill me for attempting to feed hungry people.”
Drassi licked her lips, then thrust her microphone closer.
“And if they do? Garry, we know each other, and you are being watched by everyone in the world. I’d like to reassure my audience that Antinium are not all unthinking monsters, but I am also going to be a [Reporter] and say that this is an extremely provocative move. You know the history of the Antinium Wars. Why would you do this?”
A [Rider] was coming their way. The [Captain] was grimly levelling a light lance at Garry. He was armored light with splint mail, and the Walled Cities began buzzing.
 
Salazsar: His armor is terrible. What’s the rating on this city? Gllistove?
Oteslia: It says 34.5.
