The watcher saw the harness slip as the chest came over the edge of the cliff and felt Garry’s heart stop in his chest with him. Only it knew that if it had fallen, the [Chef] would have jumped back down after it.
The [Innkeeper] would have believed. But the Worker started walking. He dragged the Chest of Holding with him up the circular path that went slowly higher around a simple town with silent walls, echoing with hunger, built with millenia-old stone bridges crisscrossing into higher plateaus.
Places where aeons ago, Drakes had built higher alongside Giants and Dragons and under the wings of a vast empire of Harpies.
No more. The Worker dragged the battered Chest of Holding up past the ringing gongs and through the old magical iron gates of the town that had heard he had been coming. They had been watching him.
Expecting him. But not after their bridge broke.
Now, they encircled him, a sea of staring Drakes, hunger eating them alive, as he finally stopped. They held hunting spears, throwing javelins, and a Drake riding a pony was whirling a sling and net, but the Antinium didn’t pay attention to the weapons.
Slowly, he sat down, bowing his head, as dried Antinium blood flaked off onto the street. He let go of the Chest of Holding.
Then, the voice was allowed to whisper to him.
 
[Baker of Presents, Gifted Chef Level 44!]
[Skill – Supreme Baking: Bread Mastery obtained!]
[Recipe: Shadowloaf Obtained!]
[Recipe: Loaf of Luck Obtained!]
[Recipe: Stitch-bread Obtained!]
[Recipe: Dragonpan Toast Obtained!]
[Recipe: Kraken Biscuit Obtained!]
[Skill Change – Vehicle: Fast Travelling → Vehicle: Magical Delivery!]
[Skill – Vehicle: Magical Delivery Obtained!]
[Skill – Moment of Protection Obtained!]
[Bound Item – Bag of Vast Holding Assigned!]
 
[Class Change: Tactician → Strategist of Sympathy!]
[Strategist of Sympathy Level 18!]
[Skill – Unpredictable Move Obtained!]
[Skill – Mitigate Harm Obtained!]
[Skill – Safe Retreat Obtained!]
 
——
 
This was his little plan.
Drassi Tewing had covered the broken bridge. Demanded answers of…anyone. Speculated as much as she was allowed.
But Ser Solton had only seen the [Fireball] falling, not who had sent the spells, and the wounded [Knight] had pursued the Drakes, who claimed not to have known what had happened either. It could have been any magic-user capable of long-ranged magical spells. Any Walled City of Incantations. There was no proof.
Garry…
She was sitting in front of her desk, staring at not-really-anything on live television.
The [Baker] was gone.
What had changed? Channel 1 was silent too as the two Drake [Commentators] hunted for some aphorism or statement that would make this feel less…pointless.
There was a commotion at the doors of her studio. The security guards tried, and they had plurality and levels on their side, but not against him.
The tall Rabbit-man literally shoved a huge Dullahan aside, shouting.
“Courier on delivery! This is a priority request! Sorry, Drassi—I’ve got something for you.”
“Hawk? I’m on air. Go away. Garry’s dead.”
Drassi wiped at her eyes, and Hawk stopped. He gazed at her with a guilty expression on his face and nodded.
“I know. This is a…deadman’s delivery. First time I’ve done one. In the event of his demise this week, my job was to, uh—give this to you. Here. I don’t need a seal, I guess.”
He handed Drassi a letter. Took a step back as he eyed the cameras. Drassi gazed at it.
“From…”
“Baker Garry. I mean, I don’t know, but that looked bad, and he said in the likely event—hold on. I’ve got to deliver this to Sir Relz and Noass.”
Hawk jogged back through the doors and delivered the other letter. Drassi opened the envelope, tearing the letter out with the tips of her claws. Then she closed her eyes.
“What’s it, uh, say?”
The Courier had come back, and he hovered, violating the Runner’s code, but he had to know. Everyone leaned forwards, even the television crew, and Drassi lifted the letter and showed it. She laughed hoarsely as they saw it wasn’t a proper missive, just an untidy scrawl like a [Baker]’s shopping list.
“It’s—a list of Drake settlements. I’m sure it is. Imec is on here. And so is—Ancestors. It’s the places he wanted to go. There’s a map.”
He had placed them across southern and northern Izril. Drassi lifted it up, then turned. Still crying, but now blinking furiously.
“Where—where are these places? This is what he was trying to do! It was just damn bread, and all of that? What was it for?”
She hurled her notes into the air, and Hawk took a step back.
“Hey. We all saw it. He was an Antinium doing a Courier’s job. He should have hired one of us. Just saying.”
He shrugged, a touch defensive, as everyone glared at him. Drassi’s mouth worked, and then she opened her clenched fist. She put her head down on the desk.
“Hawk? How was he supposed to do that? He was a [Baker] working for the city of Liscor. You cost too much. Someone…someone send out a [Reporter]. Show me those villages. Let’s see if killing the only person willing to make and send food to these places was a great strategic decision.”
The news crews moved, because this, at least, was something. They didn’t see the moment that was the true story, the second the Antinium pulled himself up over the cliffs. They didn’t know he was alive for a while.
But that was it, anyways.
The [Chef]’s plan. He kept it simple.
 
——
 
When Garry woke up, everything hurt. And he heard the sounds of, well, crunching. They were the sounds of someone eating toasted bread.
His bread.
They stood in the plaza in front of the gates, chewing. Someone had started a fire, and they were toasting his bread. Eating it with some cheese that must have been in the Chest of Holding.
How long he’d been passed out, he didn’t know. A long time? If so, they hadn’t moved.
They just ate. He hoped they hadn’t eaten themselves into danger, but the Drakes weren’t covering the Chest of Holding. They just toasted the bread and cheese on the fire. Then moved back. Staring at him.
No one had killed him as he slept and levelled. Nor had they patched his wounds. When he shifted, they jerked backwards, and dried blood fell again. They had stayed away from him; the footprints in the square had muddied everything but a circle around him, which was pristine.
When his head rose, they were afraid. But one of them, a Drake holding a scrying orb, called out. She was old and sitting in a rocking chair someone had dragged out, a canopy made of Razorbeak wings covering her and a goathide blanket over her legs.
“Antinium. The City of Growth has contacted us. They are sending food. So is Salazsar, and fuel and wood to mend the bridge. To other villages as well. The cities of Luldem, Savilite, the town of Oest, and the Yoldenites have all, also, dispatched parties bound with fuel and provisions.”
So Hawk had sent his letter. It was…light? He’d felt it had been dark. Then was it now morning? Garry tried to get up, but his legs didn’t want to, so he stayed there. A door was waiting for him, but he didn’t take it, not yet.
He was tired. In a second. Just let him sit one more second.
There was a pause as the old Drake waited before continuing.
“When the first provisions arrive, we will turn over this—bread and the supplies and burn the rest. Already, in the village of Imec, they have done the same because Drake provisions have reached them via Courier.”
The folk of Aethdell’s Summit waited. The [Baker]’s head rose after a beat, and his mandibles opened. He rasped.
“Good.”
Then he pushed himself up. The Drakes drew back, clearing a path towards the gates, and Garry saw some children staring at him. He’d lost his hat. But the look in their eyes…he walked over to the Chest of Holding, then began pulling loaves of bread out. They stirred as he began stacking them on the ground. They kept falling over, but he dumped them out and then closed the lid. Then he picked up the worn leather and began to pull.
“What—what’re you doing? That’s our food. We need it.”
A Drake blocked his path, his stomach still clinging to his spine. Garry jerked his head at the pile he’d left.
“That is half. I must take the rest.”
“But we don’t have the other provisions. The bridge is down. If we need—”
The Drake wanted to stop Garry, but someone grabbed his tail and yanked him back. An old Drake standing next to a pony, both appearing thin, kept chewing on the bread as Garry stumbled forwards a step.
The old woman in the rocking chair looked around, then called out.
“Antinium. Did you not hear me? The other villages—”
“I heard you. My list is not perfect. There’s another village up here, isn’t there?”
“Feather Rest.”
They murmured it, and the Antinium nodded. He started walking again, and again, there was a move to block him. They had been starving, and the food—Garry halted and looked a mother in her eyes.
“I will not do anything if you stop me. But if you do, then someone else will starve.”
The Drake hesitated and stopped blocking his path. Garry was dragging the chest towards the gates when the old woman spoke.
“You’ll never make it there. On foot? Dragging that thing?”
“I’ll try.”
Their eyes were on the provisions he was taking away. Even if more provisions came, the Chest of Holding didn’t contain as much as a town needed. The rest of it…
He would have fallen over if someone breathed on him hard. He was waiting, and he had run out of miracles sometime before the bridge collapsed. So, when he heard the ringing of hooves and a hand swung down, Garry fell as it struck him.
—Only after a moment did he realize someone was tying him down.
“Ah, torture is it? Or imprisonment?”
After a few seconds, he was embarrassed when he looked down and saw he was lying on a flat little sled. The older Drake finished hitching him to the pony, then mounted up. He kept chewing on the bread as the pony did likewise, and they began to ride out of the gates.
Some might say that lying on a sled as it navigated the bumpy terrain and then had to be hauled up onto one of the huge, flat stone slabs that made bridges from the Drake town to the other plateaus was torture.
But Garry’s legs did not. The Drake and his pony crunched the bread nonstop, and they’d brought enough to munch on for a good long time. Only after a while did the Drake glance down at Garry.
The Drake had a cowboy hat on his head. Which was very stylistic to movies Garry had seen from Earth, but also, coincidentally, was probably just a common shape and useful for braving the elements. The old Drake eyed Garry and said nothing.
Garry lay there.
After about another half-an-hour, the Drake spoke.
“It’d look mighty strange if good, honest Drakes were to eat bread made by an Antinium, y’know.”
“Yes. I know.”
“Can’t risk the wrath of a big city.”
“I know.”
“Even touchin’ one of them or giving it help would be a bad idea. ‘Specially when all the scrying spells started appearing.”
“Yes.”
“Funny thing. We didn’t have a scrying orb ‘till last night. Some Archmage of Wistram wanted us to be interviewed so badly he teleported it in. Took him ten minutes.”
“Very powerful.”
“It’s been a long winter. We ate every pony except this fellow, because he’s got the most Skills attached to him.”
“They killed my horses.”
“And our bridge. Only way down from here unless you go twenty miles across the old Giant Steps like this.”
“I see.”
“If someone was worried about how things looked, he’d have to dump you the moment a [Scrying] spell seemed to be finding you. Though I reckon that’s too late.”
The Drake was glancing at a round crystal ball on his saddle. Garry spoke.
“There’s a ring on my finger. It itches when a [Scrying] spell activates. You could be stealing bread from me.”
“And riding away back home. Sounds about right.”
The stranger dismounted and removed Garry’s ring. He didn’t get back up on his horse, though.
“This is the only right and proper thing to do. Some people would think an Antinium deserved thanks, otherwise. Or call him a hero.”
“That’s silly. [Heroes] kill people. I am a [Baker].”
“I expect you’re right. Need anything?”
The [Baker] nodded.
“Please let me stand up so I may relieve myself. Then I need to answer that door.”
“…What door?”
 
——
 
It was six o’clock in the evening when an Antinium Worker reached the trade-roads winding north towards the High Passes. How, exactly, he had reached the roads that fast was a mystery. He’d moved at incredible speed given where he’d been.
Horse-speed, which baffled the mind. And he shocked the hell out of the Drakes, who shouted in surprise and ran, then looked back because, well—
Half had thought he was dead. They’d turned the scrying orbs off the other night and had unaccountably bad days. The other half had found out he was alive, but he wasn’t…on the scrying orbs.
They were focused on the food being delivered to grateful villages. Not on the [Baker].
He was walking down the road. He had no wagon. He had no horses. He had no Chest of Holding because it was damn heavy and someone could use it.
He’d even lost his beard and red hat in the chasm. But he did have something else: his poofy chef’s hat. It was the only part of him that didn’t look beaten or cut or bloodied, but he kept walking as they pointed.
No one stabbed him. A passing Drake on a pony eyed the Antinium as travellers, even people going for a walk from their local city, all turned. And the Antinium just kept walking north.
At some point, he picked up speed. From a toddling walk to a jog that looked as unsteady as could be. Antinium were not built to run, at least, not in ways that other species felt were comfortable.
Because he didn’t have the same toes or build, Garry ran like he was falling forwards, arms moving to keep him from toppling.
It seemed painful. It probably was painful given the wounds on his back that looked partially dressed, but clotted. But he started jogging as the people following him had to pant and work to keep up. Then someone cleared his throat.
A wagon slowed. A [Farmer] staring ahead down the long road clicked his tongue.
Garry did not get on. After a second, there was an ahem.
Garry did not get on the wagon now directly in front of him. It slowed, and he jogged around. And conversely, seemed to speed up.
The donkey pulling the wagon and the pony-riding Drake both had to actually puff a bit as Garry kept moving, and the [Farmer] glanced sideways.
“You want a ride?”
The Antinium did not sound like someone who was enjoying running for the sake of it when he opened his mouth and gasped a response.
