“Nothing! She’s very well-cared for.”
“—But maybe you could still give her a gift? Or is there, like, something only you could make that’d help with the—things going on?”
Erin wasn’t exactly clear on the problem, but the question made Bowom go silent. He rubbed at his face, sighing.
“She did mention rejection pain. If I raided an [Alchemist]’s…”
Ulvama was nodding approvingly at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] nudged her and whispered.
“And once we do that, want to visit this weird place where you trade furniture and stuff?”
“Oh, a Switchem Warehouse? Zemmy, we should see if there’s anything we can use for our trip!”
Mera exclaimed, and Matha gave Erin a betrayed look, which the [Innkeeper] ignored. Bowom snorted as he watched them, and Ulvama? She began to nod, then thought.
“No. Can’t.”
“What? Why not?”
Now, Erin got a bit cross, and Ulvama patted the Battle Hamster’s head. It padded away to nap in the guest house assigned to them. She also polished the Corumdon Beetle’s shell, which it enjoyed greatly.
“I’m going to make a thank-you gift to the [Shopkeeper] with the knife.”
“Oh, I guess that makes sense. But what about after lunch?”
“Then you perform.”
“Poo.”
Matha leapt to her feet excitedly.
“Hey, what if you taught me some songs tonight, Erin? Then I could show the other bands—”
Erin scowled at the idea of more Matha-time.
“Pass!”
The Hobgoblin gave Erin an amused look as she went to find a cleaning cloth for the resting beetle. She whispered to Erin.
“That was her being nice. Then we could do something.”
“It was her being annoying. She just wants to perform for all her admirers.”
“Eh, your choice. We’ll do something day-after or at night. Do you think they have cooking supplies in the Switchem Warehouses? You could make more good food.”
“I made good food! You barely ate it!”
Outraged, Erin pointed at her soup, and Ulvama yawned. She was getting sleepy.
“I ate too many foods. The soup was good. Very tasty.”
Erin narrowed her eyes. Then she hesitated and adjusted her [Witch]’s hat on her head. She glanced sideways at Bowom, then at Matha, and then narrowed her eyes ever-so-slightly at Ulvama.
“Really? You liked it? You’re not just saying that?”
Everyone chorused that it was a good soup, tasted great. And Erin believed them, because, well, she could sense it was true.
She was a [Witch], after all, and her powers and her [Innkeeper] senses combined into being able to read people on an almost literal level. For instance, when she concentrated—and she didn’t like to do it all the time because it got awkward—Erin could tell that no one was lying to butter her up. Not even Matha.
Of course, she got a lot of other feelings, like Bowom’s, who sat lost in memories. She wasn’t sure how guilty he felt or how nervous about meeting his former patient he was. Erin’s sense told her he was literally remembering. A man falling into his own past.
The old her hadn’t been able to do that. In the same way, she could tell the Battle Hamster had an itchy left foot a moment before he bit at it and rubbed his fur. She was too good at figuring people out. And Ulvama, who smiled as she nodded at her soup, giving Erin a patient look?
Erin got…nada. Nothing. The Hobgoblin could have been lying and Erin wouldn’t know because she didn’t sense, well, anything.
Was it because Ulvama was a [Shaman]? Good at hiding her feelings? Erin tried to focus, and Ulvama sighed.
“I’m sorry I didn’t leave room for your soup. You happy?”
She poked Erin lightly, and the [Innkeeper] gave up. She wished her abilities did work on Ulvama. She couldn’t always read the Hobgoblin’s face, let alone her real feelings. The [Innkeeper] sighed and patted Ulvama on the shoulder, then smiled genuinely.
“I forgive you. Now we gotta clean up. Wanna help with dishes?”
“No. Too sleepy.”
“Aw, c’mon…”
Ulvama yawned again. She stretched upwards, standing on her tip-toes. She and Erin had gone completely native in terms of dress; Erin was wearing one of the new band-uniforms with a t-shirt and baggy pants with various band logos plastered on each—she’d also been given a beanie, but she’d gotten too hot and tossed it.
Ulvama, by contrast, had on a sleeveless top and long skirt much like Fraerlings would wear in the warm Balerosian weather. She twisted her arms up, folding her fingers together and groaned as she stretched.
This completely natural, completely innocent act happened to expose her armpits. The sight of Ulvama’s armpit hair went unnoticed and uncommented upon as Erin watched Ulvama. Except by the purveyor of lesbianisms, the icon of—Erin wasn’t actually very sure what Matha was an icon of, but it was definitely problematic stuff. Because Matha, who was collecting empty bowls, came to a dead standstill.
“Whoa. I’d lick those.”
For a few seconds, Erin didn’t actually process what she’d heard. Then she turned. Matha was walking across the outdoor patio that looked out onto lower Lemoste. Below them, construction work on the lower city was continuing. Such as repairing the sewers, which had been inoperable and leaking—a low priority even given the smell.
The young [Raider] was just walking over to an enchanted washbasin, along the railings, when Erin walked over and kicked her.
Not hard. It was one of those kicks that had more transferring energy than sharp impacts. Matha twisted around.
“Whuh—”
Everyone turned as she went spinning head-over-heels off the side of the railings. Erin felt bad about the bowls, and Matha screamed.
“What was that f—”
Fraerlings didn’t die from falls, so Erin just folded her arms. Ulvama turned and gaped at Erin incredulously.
“What? She deserved it.”
“What did she do?”
“Uh—”
Erin glanced at Ulvama’s armpits and hesitated.
“Stuff! Stop screaming, Matha! And get the bowls!”
She shouted at Matha, and Zemmy peered over the railings. The [Brawler] winced.
“Ooh. She went head-first into the sewer main. That can’t be good for ya.”
Erin peeked over the railing. Mera tsked as Bowom began cackling, and there were shouts of alarm from below. By the time a wet and foul-smelling Matha got back up, Erin had cause to regret her actions. A bit. She still refused to say why she’d kicked Matha.
She had cause to regret it more the next day when Matha ended up getting rather sick. Sick as in ‘things are uncontrollably coming out of every orifice’ sick. They had to cancel their band’s performance, and Erin resolved to be a tiny bit nicer to Matha.
Maybe.
But she had brought up an important point, in a sense.
 
——
 
The next day, Ulvama was fussing over Matha, who was stuck in the toilet for most of the morning. The [Shaman] was trying to get back to her class, which meant prescribing noxious tonics for Matha to drink.
She and Bowom had raided an [Alchemist] after all, and he was mixing up something before their visit to the hospital. Erin watched Ulvama passing something through a very stinky door.
“How that, Matha?”
Matha drank it down. After a minute, she screamed.
“It’s all coming out of me!”
Zemmy and Mera practically fled with the Battle Hamster to go fight ants with Eurise. Even the brave [Explorer] only lingered a moment.
“I haven’t found an ant nest since two days ago. Time, I think, to start heading towards another city. Cillencreith’s gone quiet. If you’re okay, let’s head out. Maybe tomorrow, so long as she’s well.”
He nodded to Matha. Then grimaced.
“We can always strap her down to something washable.”
Erin shuddered and agreed. Time to go, soon. She felt a pang, but they could probably get at least three more days, right? Three more days—they’d have to do something special before they went. She was going to ask Ulvama about it before they left for the hospital to meet this patient of Bowom’s. Well, two things, actually.
The [Shaman] was hmming over her potions as Matha made horrible, horrible sounds of distress from the bathroom.
“Maybe that cleared her out? Eh, you throwing up?”
“N-no…”
“So it half work. But the bottom half still spitting?”
“Like an overfull snail getting squished.”
“Okay, maybe I fix that next. You keep hydrating!”
Ulvama was wearing a sundress today—again sleeveless—patterned with a bunch of different-colored flames. She winked at Erin as she placed a bug into a mortar and pestle and put a finger over her lips. She began to mash, and Erin averted her gaze.
“So, uh, Matha going to live?”
“No thanks to you, but yah. You ready to go? We have to save Bowom from angry [Healers]. And talk. He’ll be silent.”
Ulvama nudged Erin with her elbow, and Erin smiled.
“Sure, sounds great! Oh, and, uh, nice dress. Is that new or something?”
The Hobgoblin developed an exceptionally pleased expression as she began combining the bug mash with some other roots and herbs.
“It’s very nice, isn’t it? The [Dressmaker] I met three days ago made it for me. It has your flames, see?”
She spun, and Erin blinked in amazement.
“Whuh—really? I thought it was a coincidence! That’s super cool!”
“Yah, you want one? She can maybe make a pair.”
“I dunno if I’m a dress person anymore. Maybe jeans or pants? What’s the difference between jeans or pants? Fabric?”
Once more, as was her custom, Ulvama gave Erin the flat look of someone questioning someone else’s basic knowledge about the world. She sighed overlong.
“Sure, jeans. We can do that. Go there, then hospital? Then the warehouse?”
“I wanna come too! Anyone got more toilet paper? I’m out! The nice stuff made of aphid wool from Grandma’s village! The parchment’s scratchy!”
Matha wailed as the toilet flushed repeatedly. Silently, Erin threw a toilet roll through the opening in the door. Stupid Matha. But Erin had made a point, despite it being—stupid yesterday.
“That sounds good, Ulvama. Although…it’s a hospital, so maybe we should change into something more formal. Y’know?”
Ulvama hesitated.
“You wear formal stuff to a hospital-thing? This isn’t the same. But in your world…ooh. Is it because the patients might die?”
The [Innkeeper] had to chew that one over.
“No…there’s specific clothing for patients and doctors. I just meant in this case.”
Ulvama blinked down at her dress.
“This is fine. Bowom says that wing is just for long-term patients. Only a very few.”
Drat. Erin decided to broach the topic another way. She shoved her hands into her pockets.
“Well, uh, maybe it’d be good to be more formal anyways. I wouldn’t want to embarrass ourselves. Or like, you to.”
The [Shaman] was pouring her mixture into a bottle when she blinked down at her dress in sudden paranoia. She spun rapidly, trying to look around.
“You can’t see through it? Or see—”
“What? No, no, that’s cool. I mean, you can see…”
“What? What?”
“Your, y’know, armpits.”
The Hobgoblin stopped inspecting herself in a flurry of motion, stared at Erin’s embarrassed, sheepish smile, then rolled her eyes up until only the lighter reds were showing. She picked up her bottle, plonked it against Erin’s forehead, and then rolled it into Matha’s bathroom like a grenade.
“Drink this! Maybe you stop!”
“Thanks…”
Then Ulvama turned and began packing her supplies away.
“Okay, we go.”
“What? I’m being serious, Ulvama—”
“My arms are not lewd, Erin. If they were, everyone would arrest Yvlon first. Or every Antinium.”
The Hobgoblin seemed so amused that Erin flushed, but she was now upon this hill of reasonable logic, and she would die on it. Plus, she wasn’t wrong.
“No, I think it’s a real thing! Trust me, Fraerlings here are like Humans from Earth. Matha’s the real problem; she was looking at them.”
“Yah, she a child.”
“I’m nineteen! What are you talking about?”
Ulvama and Erin ignored Matha. The [Shaman] poked Erin gently on the shoulder.
“Very old child. She pays attention. No one else does. Come, we go!”
She clapped her hands, but Erin stomped after her.
“It’s sort of embarrassing. It’s like—quasi beach-wear, what you’ve got on. What if there are kids around? Think of the children!”
She regretted that when Ulvama stopped and gave Erin a genuinely annoyed expression. She raised her arm, pointing at said pits.
“Children have these too. This not a problem, Erin.”
She was slipping into the Goblin cant, but so was Erin. The [Innkeeper] glowered.
“C’mon, be reasonable.”
“No. I’m not putting on something else. I like this dress. My armpits are fine.”
Ulvama’s eyes flashed, and Erin hesitated, out of objections except for—
“Well, what if they stink?”
“Stink?”
This time, the door inched further open as Matha peeked at the two of them. Both glared, and it shut. They stood in the doorway, arguing, as Ulvama’s eyes narrowed.
“My armpits. Do not stink.”
“It’s warm, and everyone sweats. They totally will. It’s gross. You’ve got stinky pits, Ulvama.”
The [Shaman] opened her mouth, peered around, rubbed at her face, then just walked out of the door. Erin followed her.
“Hey! You know I’ve got a point! Don’t be grumpy! I’m doing this for your own good! Think of the kids! Hey, there’s one now! Don’t get silent on me! Hey, Ulvama! Hey!”
 
——
 
Whatever Bowom expected about his visit to see the patient whose life he had changed forever…well, any nerves were hidden by that polite, smiling mask.
But the [Mad Doctor], clutching a basket of various substances in one hand, was not prepared for Erin and Ulvama to come marching down the street, arguing.
Or maybe it was more accurate to say that the Hobgoblin was shooting glares at Erin as she walked along, head held high. But her green skin was visibly red, and Erin?
Erin was shouting. Exactly when she’d begun, Bowom had no clue, and nor did he have context. But his amused smile at the scene faded when he heard what Erin was shouting.
“Hairy pits, stinky armpits! Boo! Get some deodorant!”
She was wearing a half-smile as she jogged after Ulvama, and Fraerlings were watching the two with amusement or confusion. But Bowom’s rapidly-diminishing smile noted that intentionally or unintentionally, the [Innkeeper] was in a social situation. And she had a lot more power in levels and her class than even a [Shaman].
“Stinky pits, stinky pits!”
The [Innkeeper] ran after the Hobgoblin, and there were about eight Fraerling children who followed Erin, taking up the call. Ulvama came to a halt and didn’t quite look at Bowom.
“Er. Hello, Ulvama. Ready for our visit to the hospital?”
She nodded as he proffered his basket for inspection. She didn’t say a word as Erin skidded to a stop.
