“A suitably treacherous idea, Flying Queen. Very representative of you.”
“Silence!”
They were not, which annoyed the Grand Queen. Her contacts in Roshal were respectful. The [Slaves] were, but her fellow Queens? This was why she couldn’t allow a war, of course.
Devrkr returning was an asset. The Free Queen was an asset, for all she was foolish. But the Hives were not united. Xrn had been revived. The Grand Queen had to consolidate their power, and so she spoke, sipping more wine from her straw.
“There is no argument to be had. This Individual, Garry the Baker, has acted independently of his Queen. Any Antinium, regardless of level, who disobeys the will of the Hive is insubordinate. Un-Antinium. Therefore, useless. I shall indicate this to Manus.”
The other Queens murmured, but it was the Free Queen who took immediate umbrage to the statement.
“Garry is one of the highest-levelled Antinium in my Hive. His value is beyond compare!”
“An Antinium who does not obey his Queen is a liability. A sign of defective production, Free Queen.”
“An Antinium who does not obey is a Prognugator, Grand Queen. Or a Centenium. They have always told us no.”
Every head but the Twisted Queen’s swung back to the Grand Queen, and there was an oooh from the Flying Queen. The Grand Queen’s mandibles snapped the giant wooden straw.
“You are allocated two Prognugators, Free Queen, no more. You are incapable of creating Prognugator-class Antinium from your Autonomous Antinium project, let alone Centenium. To imply otherwise is falsity beyond measure. I have made my decision.”
She waved a feeler, and the other Queens spoke.
“I request debate on this subject, Grand Queen.”
“Respectfully, my Queen, if this Garry is of sufficient levels, perhaps we could—”
“T-this. Is. Stupid.”
Enraged, the Grand Queen slashed a feeler, and one of the [Slaves] turned the mirrors off. They called her again anyways with the puppet-Workers who spoke with their voices, and she glared as she tried to think. The wine was relaxing, but she felt less…sharp? She liked it a lot, though.
The Hives were not ready for war. This was obvious; a single Antinium who was not Klbkchhezeim, Xrn, or Wrymvr was expendable. What part of this was unclear? She watched the wagon rolling on and wondered out loud—
“How would you save that one short of war, fools?”
Truly, and utterly, she liked his foods when they were sent to her. But look at him.
Just look.
How could any power allow that to continue? She waited, for there was a truth of power, and it was that it could not allow such challenges. The Grand Queen finished dictating a response to the Dragonspeaker of Manus.
It was good to talk to one’s enemies. Another non-Antinium concept, but she was the first Antinium of a new kind. Intelligent. Able to play the games and speak the language of power in Izril. She sipped more wine and waited.
 
——
 
Garry was not arrested at Gllistove by Captain Gllitten. The wary Drakes ‘escorted’ him down the road, but Drassi’s presence, more than anything else, saved him.
Mostly because after interviewing him, she interviewed the Drakes who did not resist the chance to be on television.
“Delivering bread? Who’d eat Antinium…didn’t know they could speak. We don’t even watch them on television.”
“You…you don’t? What do you do when they come on air, then?”
The Drake speaking to Drassi, along with the others, gave her a look as if she were crazy.
“Turn it off like proper individuals, Miss Drassi.”
“What, because you’re afraid of looking at them?”
Like cowards? That one statement provided over an hour of furious debate, because Drassi didn’t say that bit—but Noass did.
The Drake was on Channel 1, taking angry callers, defending himself as he and Sir Relz watched an aerial view of Garry riding his wagon.
You see, despite Garry’s [Fast Travelling] Skill that made this trip possible in days, he still was going a considerable distance, and that took…time. He just rode along, and it was boring. It took hours to get where he was going, but the drama had fuel from everyone else reacting to him. It was becoming an art-form.
“No, I’m not apologizing, callers! And the next Drake who calls me anti-Drake can eat their tail. I’m the most Drake Drake there ever was! I’m from Pallass, and here, we put on our big-boy pants and look at the big, scary Antinium. Gllistove? Gllistove never even saw them, but I was in Pallass when they attacked.”
“Hiding behind the walls! That Antinium should be shot!”
An enraged, female Drake was shouting, and Sir Relz interrupted.
“Er, on live television? And start the next Antinium War, Miss? I’m not saying we don’t have serious ethical and moral concerns here. We of Channel 1 are not Channel 2 news! Let me just state for our audience, worldwide, that there are a number of concerns around this ‘bread’ ‘delivery’ for ‘hungry’ Drakes.”
He made air-quotes with his claws as he swung his chair around to another angle where a second camera was set up and another Drake was on the call.
“I’m going now to a Magus Hitobil from Fissival. Magus, we had a sample of this ‘Garry Bread’ from Liscor transported to you by Fissival’s splendid teleportation networks. Can we verify claims it’s not…poisonous?”
By now, the Walled Cities had come up with a plan. And Magus Hitobil smiled and puffed out his chest as he showed the audience the bread on a clean laboratory table along with a sample piece of it.
The sample loaf…wasn’t as fluffy as Garry’s bread, and someone behind the scenes was screaming at Fissival to get a ‘better’ piece of bread or to ding up the next piece of Garry Bread off-camera.
It was about winning the audience—not just Drakes, but other species. And the other species were having a grand time with this. Everyone from Ulva Terland and her nephew, Lord Molen, to Chieftain Feshi and Adetr were watching with amusement or consternation, taking sides.
Obviously, the Antinium was a horrific bug-monster, and who wanted his bread? On the other hand…the Drakes were pretty great at making their opponents look good, sometimes. But this was the attempt.
“Ha-ha, yes, glad to be on the broadcast, Sir Relz! Fissival’s teleportation networks—better than Archmage Valeterisa’s—brought me the bread, indeed! Now, I’m going to conduct a few tests here to ensure the bread isn’t poisonous. But, well, there’s quite a lot of things you can do wrong in baking. Improper heating? Food poisoning. Wrong, dare I say, buglike materials? That won’t go down well! Too much salt?”
Too much salt? The thing was—the Drake was casting spells and talking a lot about the rather confusing results from [Oedman’s Ostentatious Gastronomic Analysis], a very dedicated spell, but the bread was not, in fact…poisonous.
Magus Hitobil would have loved to claim it was. Problem solved, look at this poison I found in the bread. The problem was, in fact, Sir Relz and Drassi. The [Reporter] was beaming at Magus Hitobil.
“If you’re just tuning in, ladies and gentlemen, we’re trying to see if this bread the Antinium is delivering is hazardous! I’m Sir Relz, and Magus Hitobil was just explaining that it’s passed a pre-emptive [Detect Poison] spell, but he has reservations. Just, uh, out of clarity here, you did state it was poisonous on Channel 2 News, Magus. Which you appeared on before us. But Reporter Drassi, a personal friend, did call you out with her [Detect Lie] Skill.”
The nervous [Mage] coughed a few times into one claw, turning red.
“A mistake, Sir Relz, I assure you! It seems there was some contamination added at some point which was entirely reasonable of me to assume—”
“From the teleportation grid, perhaps?”
“What? Nonono, Fissival’s teleportation network is utterly poison-free.”
Ding.
Sir Relz’s monocle lit up bright red, and Magus Hitobil froze. Sir Relz, like Drassi, had a [Lie Detector] Skill far more advanced than your average [Detect Truth] stone. Something you had to work around.
Someone in Fissival’s command rooms was not happy as the Magus had to walk back another statement.
“There is no poison in Fissival’s teleportation spells aside from the poison that is teleported at times—and it is clear in, uh, 99.9% of cases. What I mean to say, Sir Relz, is that I have reservations. About the bread. Let’s focus on the bread. Please. It may be passing some of our spells, though [Oedman’s Ostentatious Gastronomic Analysis] does not present yes-no binaries, merely a cavalcade of data outputs, and some of the readings were unusual—”
“For a bread altered by Skills, it would fall within acceptable margins?”
Sir Relz’s brows were raised high, but he was the picture of concerned skepticism. The Magus nodded, relieved.
“And look at this exceptionally concerning demonstration.”
He lifted a cage where a rather fat roach was crawling around. Sir Relz recoiled.
“I say, Magus, we’re on air!”
“Just watch!”
A piece of Garry’s bread was added to the cage, and the hungry roach scurried over to it. It took a few nibbles as Sir Relz watched, making a face. Then the roach jerked, scrambled back, twitched violently—and promptly folded its legs and rolled onto its back.
“Dead?”
“Now, this appears to be alarming, Sir Relz. We can’t establish the exact phenomenon, but if this bread had any toxins I were missing, I can estimate from how much bread that bug consumed and extrapolate that a full slice…well, a full slice might well kill someone. Butter or not.”
“Butter or not. Dead gods. That is something to worry about, Magus. Please, let us know if your testing finds out if that is poison. You heard it here first, everyone. Noass, back to you.”
That demonstration was certainly alarming. The Drakes in Fissival had been catching rats to also showcase the effects of this bread. [Pestkiller] was one of Garry’s Skills, after all, and everyone was watching.
Well, everyone was watching Channel 1, or flipping to it every now and then. It occupied a 33% share of Wistram News Network. And 45% were watching Channel 2.
2% were watching a football game on Channel 4, sports. But what they saw on Channel 2 News was, ah…
 
——
 
Menolit finished making his food and took the largest bite he could out of the Garry Bread sandwich. He chewed, crunching down his signature fish salad sandwich complete with pan-fried fish, Liscor’s local sauce, and leafy greens from the Unseen Empire on toasted bread from the Liscorian Free Bakery.
He swallowed, burped, and patted his mouth with a napkin.
“Excuse me.”
Drassi took her own bite of the sandwich and chewed.
“Yep, that’s good bread. And I believe our audience is probably getting bored of watching bread rise. But as you can see, the bread coming from Liscor’s bakery is being made according to, well, bread-making specifications. Not even by Antinium a lot of the time!”
They had a camera-crew in the bakery who had watched a nervous Gnoll mixing up some bread to get to the bottom of the poison claims. Menolit nodded.
“It’s bread. Buy one for a Liscorian Mark, cheap as can be! If Channel 1 News wanted, they could get one and take a bite. But hey, I’m happy to eat for them since I’m no coward.”
Drassi smirked and hid a smile. After a second, someone kicked their door open.
“I heard that! Who the hell’s calling me a coward?”
Noass rushed onto the set, and Menolit got up.
“I did! Eat the sandwich, fool! C’mon!”
“Don’t shove your inferior sandwich in my face! I’m not afraid of any kind of bread!”
“Hey, break it up, break it up!”
Drassi had to interject before the two Drakes threw hands live on the air. However, there was reasonable doubt about the quality of the bread, at least from [Reporters] calling into both channels and other rival Izrilian channels. Even other news networks conducted street-polls and found that some people were worried that Antinium-made bread would be, in some way, bad for you.
It was a reasonable concern and, therefore, a success on Fissival’s side to interject that note of uncertainty into the narrative. And Garry did nothing as he rode along. That [Baker] didn’t have social Skills or political savvy. He was a fool.
A fool…who remembered something that everyone seemed to have forgotten.
 
——
 
His first delivery at Imec was after seven straight hours of riding. Exhausted horses rested as he hopped out of the wagon at the limits to the village.
It had walls. It was, after all, a Drake village, but a poor one. A place settled by Drakes who refused to live in their local city. Eighty-two inhabitants.
Hungry.
The five-foot walls had Drakes standing behind them, aiming a handful of bows at him. They knew he was coming, of course. [Riders] had streamed towards their village, and someone had to show them a [Message] scroll since they didn’t have one themselves.
Garry did not enter the village. Instead, he patted the horses, then placed something on the ground.
A tarp. He anchored it with four rocks as the Drakes watched.
Antinium.
The sheer fear of him had them drawing back every time he turned towards them, but the Worker just walked back to the wagon, then over to the tarp four hundred feet from the village ‘gate’. He placed loaves of bread down and stacked them. Added bags which turned out to contain beans, seeds, salt, and so on.
It took Garry twenty minutes to unload the wagon. When he finished, he dusted his hands and called out.
“This bread is for you! Please eat it and store it in a dry, cool place! It will keep for a long time, and it is a nutritious meal. It also kills pests!”
“Go—go—”
One of the Drakes stuttered, waving a spear at him, but then fell silent as he looked at her. Garry stared at tiny shapes peeking out windows, who ducked down. He stood there, gazing around at the sky, at the rocks around this village and wondered, plainly, how you could farm here.
Why would anyone live here? He didn’t know. Then again, his home flooded annually. He did not know them, and he was reasonably sure that if he walked closer, they’d run or fire arrows at him.
But even so, when he got back in the wagon, he did not drive off to his next destination. He headed up the road a thousand paces and stopped. Then he turned in his seat and waited. Like everyone else.
Garry had to see, you see.
 
——
 
“Can we get a reporter on the ground? No? Damn. As you can see, everyone, we’re at the village of Imec, and Channel 2 may be able to interview them—but don’t change channels!”
Sir Relz was cursing Drassi’s ability to do that as he peered at the magnified image of Garry’s bread. He and Noass were leaning away from the sample of bread they’d procured.
