“I am glad you have cleared up that regrettable misapprehension, Lady Reinhart. But it is understandable given that Klbkch was our representative for quite some time.”
She chuckled at that, then gave him a longer, stranger, more pained look.
“Yes. But you would be rare as a Waisrabbit among regular folk, regardless of species. I wish to congratulate you.”
“I have done very little, Lady Magnolia.”
Her smile deepened, and now, he thought, she was genuinely pleased with him.
“It is good of you to see it that way. Nevertheless, I say it again: I am impressed. I would rather like to try that bread of yours myself, but…well, my little interests aside, I wonder if you would allow me to make some small investments in your business?”
“I am employed by Liscor, Lady Reinhart, and in service to the Free Queen. Regrettably, I am already remunerated.”
She waved that off.
“Oh, I know that. But I mean person—”
The [Lady] stopped, hesitated.
“…Did you really just use ‘remunerated’ in a sentence? Your command of language, Baker Garry, is most refreshing.”
“Thank you. I was not sure if I had used it correctly.”
“Accurate to my ears! Now, I do mean delivery. Allow me a bit of control and I am positive we can establish a system whereby you do not have to waste time rolling about. Much less with those darling but, dare I say it, more controversial Antinium in your vicinity?”
She indicated the Flying Antinium, and Garry nodded. He didn’t take offense to anything she was saying. They were speaking the same language.
“I have worried about the time I am taking with my helpers. I believe I shall transition to horses to avoid wasting their time.”
Plus, the Flying Antinium got tired, and they did need to have more of them working to satisfy the Free Queen. She’d liked the publicity he’d gotten, but miss too many meals and she’d get…stroppy. Magnolia half-smiled, then tapped her lips.
“That implies you yourself intend to lead more expeditions. Mister Garry, do forgive me if I ask if you understand the risks and problems that may arise?”
“I believe I understand them as well as the word remunerate, Lady Reinhart.”
She had to laugh at that. Then focused on him seriously.
“Did Miss Solstice put you up to this? I cannot believe she would. Not…presently.”
“If I was in contact with her at all, Lady Reinhart, I would be surprised, but she did not. I appreciate your offer of assistance, but I must insist. I know what I intend, and it may be I am wrong, but I believe I understand you.”
She peered at him, smiling again.
“You do, don’t you? How did an Antinium come to…? Or perhaps you are simply the best of the five?”
“I would never claim to be best at anything but cooking, Lady Reinhart, and only by comparison to Bird, Anand, Belgrade, and Pawn. I am simply—thinking.”
She paused, and then turned to watch Ressa putting the beam down. When she glanced back at him, her eyes sparked. Green like the depths of Izril’s forests.
“Then I do advise you to think again, Garry. I am not in the position to wish to lose valuable pieces on the board, even ones not under my control. The Mage’s Guild will forwards you to me or my people at any time. Unless you would like to keep discussing the matter?”
“No, Lady Reinhart.”
She gave him a brief, exasperated gaze, then half-rose.
“It is refreshingly agreeable to speak to someone who understands your language thoroughly. But sometimes, dismaying. The Order of Haegris is similarly fluent, but politely hold their own opinions on everything, just like you. One could wish we were all sharing the same bed. Do contact me again or I shall once I grow annoyed. Oh, and please don’t let the old man drone on. He has work to do.”
What, exactly, that meant, Garry had a few suspicions, but once the [Maid] had bowed and departed—with a free loaf of bread—he rode on until the mists covered his position and he found himself riding down the road.
That was when the old man he recognized as Demsleth appeared.
“I say, young man, have we met before? I would greatly appreciate a ride if you wouldn’t mind.”
“Of course, Mister Demsleth. Climb on. Would you like some bread?”
Demsleth eyed the bread that Garry offered him, but when no condiments appeared, he hesitated.
“Ah, well, perhaps not. I have to watch my weight, you know. So, you’re out and about doing deliveries. Fine work, fine…commendable, you know? I did not expect it of your people.”
He coughed rather sootily into one hand, and Garry nodded.
“Lady Magnolia said much the same.”
“Did she? Damn that brat always getting a march on…”
He glowered, then smiled like a man who knew why he should smile, and his multicolored eyes lit up. Garry smiled too, because something had made the old man happier, and this was good. Then Demsleth gazed at Garry.
“I feel like I should insist you take Ser Solton up on his offer. He’s not got as many contacts, but he’s a quite capable man despite his looks. Excellent instincts for business, if not battle, and he has morality. That rare thing, however it hangs on his shoulders. Presently, there will be other Knights of Haegris on the continent. They could deliver your bread far more efficiently.”
“Aha. I knew this day would come. I am being muscled out by the competition.”
Demsleth waggled a finger.
“Ah! No muscling is happening! Purely a few—tricks of the trade by veterans trying to be passed down to bright, commendable young folk such as yourself.”
“As I informed Sir Solton, Master Demsleth, I appreciate the offers, but is it not a waste of your own valuable time?”
The old man snorted without preening at that.
“Naturally, it is! But everything is. I’m not denying that. But there are…optimal ways to go about these things. We cannot be everywhere, and I feel as though I should insist. Especially given your nature.”
He fixed Garry with a serious look and was surprised, perhaps, when Garry met his eyes. Immovably. Though the old Dragon in disguise had some force behind his glare, the Antinium who returned the stare met those eyes where Devrkr the Glowing’s gaze of wrath had faltered, where even the Small Queen had fled.
Demsleth blinked first, then glanced away.
“Convictions are a wonderful thing, young man. Wonderful, truly. But optimally…”
He trailed off and then seemed to feel old. As if he were aging at hearing his words, and when Garry spoke, that weary head rose and fixed on him.
“I know I am doing things suboptimally, Master Demsleth. But so long as they are not wrongly done, I hope you will let me do them. Because we must be everywhere and doing everything, if I am correct in all these conversations which dance around the main topic. You must let me do things my way, and then, when I realize they are wrong, not just suboptimal, I will change.”
“Even if I feel I should insist, nay, demand and enforce my tyranny for the sake of better days?”
A spark. Just a spark of intensity in his eyes, and the Flying Antinium shivered and scuttled back a moment, then forward to protect Garry. But the [Chef] kept smiling.
“I believe you feel this way, and perhaps you should, Master Demsleth. But you have somewhere to be. Am I not wasting your time? I feel, strongly, that this is the true crime between us.”
The old man stopped for a while as the wagon creaked onwards. Then he passed a trembling hand over his face and stood.
“Ah. Oh. I do admire young ladies, it seems. Some of the scurrilous accusations lodged against me sometimes have merit. You have me bested, young man. Do not give me cause to regret it, please.”
He rose, weary, but then extended a hand, and Garry shook it. Quietly, the old man murmured.
“You, of all men and women in this changing era, remind me of a [Dancer] I once met. But I could not stop her either. Please reconsider. Magnolia knows where to find me.”
Then he hopped off the wagon, hesitated when Garry offered him some Scaethen Bread, and for a moment, just a moment, grew nostalgic and amused.
“Is that real Scaethen Bread? Dead gods, it is! I love the dough. You wouldn’t happen to have enough time to make a square cube, six feet by six…? Ah, I will ask later. I’ll pay for it!”
Then he was gone. Garry sat back and admired the stars. After a while, Pisca and Runel nudged him.
“Garry. Garry. What were you talking aboutz?”
“The future, you two. Don’t worry. They are good people.”
“Even the zcary Dragon?”
“Even him. Good people do the scariest things.”
 
[Baker of Presents, Gifted Chef Level 40!]
[Skill – Vehicle: Fast Travelling Obtained!]
[Skill – Kitchen: Remote Management Obtained!]
[Skill – Bread: A Nutritional Meal Obtained!]
[Skill – Bread: Pestkiller Obtained!]
[Skill – A True Gift, Touched by Fortune Obtained!]
 
He was rather surprised by levelling up this night, of all nights, but he supposed handshakes and conversations were worth a lot to certain people.
In truth, a certain arbiter of levels and classes was trying to get better about not waiting overlong on capstones. Besides, it knew what was coming next.
It was Erin Solstice who figured it out last.
 
——
 
Garry was in Liscor that evening as Pisca and Runel flew about their living quarters in the Free Hive, celebrating with a keg of mead that Ishkr had delivered with compliments. And a free bee.
Apista and the Flying Antinium were doing tricks, and Garry was happy for them. People in Liscor kept coming up to him to say that they’d seen Drassi’s coverage and that they were glad he’d done that, and was that special bread or just what he sold. He assured them quality was consistent.
Especially with his new [Remote Management] Skill; he could broadcast orders or check on things remotely. Not perfectly, but Garry was filing some paperwork—there was always paperwork with Liscor—when she found him.
A door opened and closed. Part of Garry got up with a smile and went to see his beloved [Innkeeper]. The rest of him just got to work, sliding the paperwork into a delivery slot in City Hall.
They really did have to figure out his job, because he had taken two vacations in a row with no consequences. There was no one to really replace Garry, and no one had tried very hard to find a way to punish him anyways. Then Garry went to the Driver’s Guild.
“Hello, Hostler. May I inquire about renting horses? I already have a wagon.”
The hostler on duty for the night was sleepy, but when he saw Garry, he woke up a bit. He grinned, exposing some teeth; he was a Human, but one who was picking up Liscor’s customs.
“Oh, aye, and I’ll bet you have a place to go. I can get you a team together. When d’you want them by?”
Garry tilted his head.
“Tomorrow would be appreciated, sir. But I will ask just to be precise—would you also consider doing a delivery for me to the following locations? I have a map, and I will pay for your best [Drivers], if they are available. Especially Termin the Omnipresent, Chaoisa the Contempt of Men—although I understand she is working with the Knights of Solstice exclusively—or Karsaeu and the Unmarked Coach.”
There was idle chatter in the Driver’s Guild, people working or coming in from long-haul deliveries or sleeping before the next leg of their trip. At those famous names, especially the last one that non-Drivers should not know, everyone went quiet.
The [Hostler] was no rookie; he’d come from up north and joined Liscor for the pay. He swallowed.
“How, er, how d’you know that last name?”
“I heard it once. I remember what I hear, Master Hostler. I take it, then, she is not a good option? I am uninformed about many matters, so do forgive me if I have erred in some way.”
They all breathed a bit when they realized he wasn’t someone…connected…to the Unmarked Coach. Then the [Drivers] got up, because Garry had work, and his was charitable work. Why not? Get applauded by some villagers and free bread? Why n—
They stopped as they found his map. The [Hostler] peered at it, and then his eyes opened wide. He leaned over, then looked up.
“Er—that’s not a good idea, Baker Garry. Begging your pardon.”
“It’s ‘Chef’, but I do understand. I had to ask, Hostler. Then horses will do unless anyone would wish to take me? No?”
Drakes and Gnolls mostly, but some Humans, all eyed Garry, then his map, then shook their heads. One of them, a Drake, leaned over.
“Listen, er, Chef. I don’t know Antinium that well, but I’ve been through Liscor enough. I know the score. I don’t mind your kind, but, uh, this isn’t a good idea. Stick to the north.”
Everyone nodded, but Garry just smiled.
“I understand your concerns, sir—”
“You don’t understand. They’ll kill you. They’ll shoot you the moment you go through the door to Pallass. I don’t care if that Bird guy—”
“Girl; she is female now.”
The Drake hesitated. Shrugged that off.
“—whatever, got through. You’re going to die.”
“I realize that is a possibility, sir. But I am told there are hungry people. Unless you would take the delivery for me?”
A long, long pause. Every Drake and Gnoll in the room gazed at each other, then at Garry. Thought about his cargo, which would be worse than an unmarked box that a [Rogue] gave you that you handed off. Far worse.
Garry spoke into the silence with that slight smile and a twinkle in his eyes.
“Then I am going. Hostler, I will come in the morning to pick up the horses.”
“We’re, uh, not supposed to rent them if we know they’re going to die.”
“They will not. I shall do everything in my power to keep them alive, but I must insist.”
Garry spoke to the [Hostler], and someone croaked behind him.
“Why?”
The first Drake was leaning on a table, eying Garry. Just eying him with that familiar expression of frank disbelief. Searching for some crack in a façade he had to believe was there.
“Why do this? They’ll shoot you when you deliver your bread, like as not. Even if they’ve seen the news. You don’t know them. They’d—we’d burn your Hives in a second given the chance. Why?”
For answer, Garry turned in the doorway. He pulled his Santa hat out and sat it on his head.
“If they are as hungry as I think they are, they will eat the bread if they see it, first. It is true I do not know them, sir. I hope to. It is also true that if I do not go, there may be no one to know. Many qualified people could have gone. [Merchants]. Couriers. [Drivers] such as yourself, sent by cities or Walled Cities. No one has gone. So it is me.”
“But why—?”
“Because someone must.”
