Chapter Two Hundred and Fifty-Two - Move Fast and Break ThingsMajor Springsong rolled out a map onto the surface of his desk. It was one of those black and white elevation maps with lines all across it and plenty of little notes. “This is the old quarry,” he said, tapping part of the map with his forefinger. “This is the location where the quarry is supposed to be digging next, this part of the mountainside here. The stone there’s the right kind for a specific kind of runework. I’ll admit I’m not exactly sure what they look for in the rocks to know which would be suitable.”“And the mole people’s village?” Bastion asked.“Over here, more or less,” the major said as he gestured off to the side a little. “Their village has been expanding in nearly every direction, so our initial survey of its location is likely wrong. We started digging a new quarry here, nearer to the village, and over that line we agreed upon, but it shouldn’t have been an issue.”“Only because of their expansion it is,” Bastion finished.“Exactly,” the major finished.“But they’re allowed to expand that way, right?” I asked.The major nodded. “Certainly. Sylphfree doesn’t usually care what the mole people do underground, as long as it’s not likely to cause some landslide that might threaten a sylph settlement.”“Alright,” I said. “So where’s the dragon?”“Not actually a dragon,” the major said quickly. “If we had an actual dragon on our hands, you can bet we’d have the entire army here by now, with every airship we can arm and every wizard and paladin worth their salt ready to fight.”“Wow, you really don’t like dragons,” I said.Bastion shifted a little. “Sylphfree has had... multiple issues with dragonkin. Of which this might be one. What are we dealing with here?”“An amphiptere,” Major Springsong said. “Not some little snake with wings, but a matriarch.”“Age?” Bastion asked. He was being very serious, I sensed.The major shook his head. “I don’t know. It seems somewhat dormant. The snake has a small injury along one side. I think it might have injured one of its wings. Perhaps it was hibernating and something fell on it, but that’s just speculation. It’s about sixty metres long, two metres wide.”That was about twice the length of the Beaver Cleaver. That had to be a huge snake.“So it’s an older one. Any idea of the level?”Another shake of the major’s head. “Three marks from my highest level scout. He’s at twenty, so...”“So at least level forty,” Bastion said. “I know some of them can be clever enough to enter a dungeon and eat their way through to the end. Otherwise, it simply aged enough to gain natural classes.”“Sounds like it would be a tough fight,” I said.“A very difficult one,” Bastion replied. “And no, before you ask, you can’t negotiate with dragonkin.”“But I’ve spoken to dragons before,” I said.“What?” the major asked.Bastion waved him down. “She’s an airship captain who isn’t from Sylphfree,” he said. That seemed to placate the major. “Dragonkin, such as amphipteres, drakes, or wyrms, aren’t any more intelligent than a wild dog.”“Oh,” I said.“They occur when a dragon... mates with a non-draconic creature. The offspring will have some traits of each. If you want more details... ask Amaryllis.”I couldn’t help but feel that the last comment there was some sort of joke at Amaryllis’ expense. “Alright,” I said. “So, the amphiptere is a monster-monster. We can’t reason with it, and... is it dangerous?”“It’s a quiet threat for now,” Major Springsong said. “As long as it’s still mostly dormant, it shouldn’t be an issue. The problem comes from when it awakens. The beast will be hungry then. But that could be weeks from now. For the moment, I’m securing the new dungeon, assessing it, and protecting it.”“You haven’t done anything about the creature yet?” Bastion asked.“I sent a request to the office of the Inquisition for assistance. A paladin or two to deal with the monster.”“I don’t know if even two paladins would be enough to deal with a creature in its fourth tier or above,” Bastion said. “We’d need assistance from the local garrison, as well as your group here.”The major seemed entirely onboard with that idea. “That would be wonderful. It’s hidden in a crevice near the old quarry. So hitting it from above won’t be possible. We’ll need to bait it out.”“I wouldn’t want to fight that kind of creature in any sort of crevice or cavern,” Bastion said. “No room for formation fighting.” Bastion shifted, a hand coming up to cup his chin. “This... is a problem. I came here to address the quarry though.”“We can stop digging immediately,” Major Springsong said. “It wouldn’t be hard. The issue then is that we need that stone. There are new fortifications going up across the kingdom that rely on near-daily shipments of stone from here. It’ll create a nationwide bottleneck.”Bastion breathed out a huff. “I see. We can’t continue to move towards the mole people.”“There might be a way to mine some small pockets near the old quarry, but that’ll mean having the workers near that monster, and I don’t know if there’s much left to find there,” the major said. “At the very least it will slow down production by a considerable amount.”Bastion nodded, then he tapped at the map. “This is where the amphiptere is?” he asked.“A group of miners found it a week ago. I swore them to secrecy. It’s in the location where the new quarry should be.”“And if we remove it, the mining operations can continue in this area unhampered.”Ensure your favorite authors get the support they deserve. Read this novel on Royal Road.“Effectively, yes. It will mean moving some equipment back, but that’s half a day’s loss, at most.”I leaned over the map myself, then hummed. “So, the solution to everything is to scare off that big beasty.”“There’s no scaring off dragonkin. They’re prideful to a fault. We need to kill it.”“It might mean a great bounty of meat and such as well,” Major Springsong said. “I know alchemists enjoy working with dragonkin scales.”“Don’t count your basilisks before they hatch,” Bastion said. “This will have to be a joint effort. I’ll need pen and paper—I’m sending a letter to Commander Warmwood, as well as General Holey.”“The mole person?” the major asked.Bastion nodded. “They despise amphipteres more than the sylph do, and participating in an action to eliminate one might be a good way to smooth out any ill will between the local settlement and Granite Springs. Commander Warmwood will be informed because he has the troops to assist.”“And Captain Ward,” I added.Bastion nodded. “Good point. The guard may be able to assist as well. Though I’d rather they not be the front line. They might assist with the clean-up afterwards. If the... spoils need to be carved up by civilians, it would be good to have the guard in place already.”“It’s already nearly noon,” I said. “Is everyone going to be ready for this today?”“If we move quickly they will,” Bastion said. “Broccoli, can I entrust you with a pair of letters? To Captain Ward and General Holey?”“I’d love to!” I said.Major Springsong didn’t seem entirely onboard with the idea, but he didn’t stop Bastion. He found paper and pen, and placed them before Bastion, who immediately started composing three letters.“The third is for Commander Warmwood?” I guessed.“That’s right. Major, do you mind letting me use one of your faster men? The commander’s garrison is already on high alert. They should be ready to move within the hour if all goes well.”“I’ll get one of my scouts,” the major said.Bastion set one letter aside after signing it with a flourish. “This is for Captain Ward. I think he’ll trust your word on the matter outright, but reassure him that things should, hopefully, end in an amicable way.”“I’ll do what I can,” I said.Bastion hummed as he composed the next letter. It seemed to take him longer, and he was more careful with his writing. I guessed that there was a lot more stuff involved when writing to a general, let alone one from what was basically another nation. “Here,” he said as he folded the letter. He checked the drawers around the major’s desk until he came up with a bar of wax. A small flame summoned at the tip of his fingers melted it and he pressed a ring into it to seal it. I’d never really paid much attention to the ring he wore. It was just a small black thing that was tucked neatly under his glove.“The captain first?” I asked.“If you run across him,” Bastion said. “The general is of a higher priority. I’m sorry for using you as a courier like this.”“I don’t mind!” I said. “Good luck hug for the road?” I asked.Bastion sighed, but he did allow me to squeeze him as best I could before I darted out of the tent and back into the middle of the camp. I made sure both letters were tucked away in my biggest pouch. They’d be a bit rumpled, but that was better than outright missing.A few of the soldiers looked at me as I bounced past, but I paid them no mind as I started to hop along. My sense of direction wasn’t the best, but it wasn't hard to make it to the quarry, then past that and back onto the main road leading towards the mole people dam.Feet thumping, I raced along, not so fast that I’d burn through all of my stamina, but still going at a good pace. I kept Bastion’s lessons in mind, pushing myself, but only enough that I wouldn’t tire.It didn’t take long for me to run into Captain Ward and the rest of the guards Bastion and I had ridden over with. “Captain!” I called out with a wave.The captain pulled on the reins, slowing the horse drawing the wagon until he came to a full stop. “Captain Bunch,” he said. “What’s the matter?”I guess seeing me rushing over alarmed him. “I have a letter for you,” I said as I moved closer and tugged the letter out. I stopped next to the wagon and reached up for him to take it. “I have another letter to deliver to the mole people.”“I see,” Captain Ward said as he took the letter. “Any news?”“A bunch,” I said. “I think the letter will cover some of that. I don’t know if Bastion wants you to go straight for the quarry or back to Granite Springs though.”“I see,” he said as he popped the letter open and started to read it, his brows bunching together as he scanned the page. “Hmm. So, it all comes down to one monster, doesn’t it?”“Seems like it,” I said.“Don’t know if my guard can manage against a big amphiptere. But with the Inquisition there, and the army as well... not to mention the paladin.”“Hey, I’m no slouch in a fight,” I said.The captain laughed. “Of course. Well then, it’s off to Granite Springs for me. I’ll gather what I think we need and return to the quarry. Will I be meeting you there?”“Of course,” I said. “I wouldn’t miss out on an adventure like that!”“Good on you,” the captain said. “We’ll be off again.”“See you in a bit!” I called out as I started to bounce off.“You as well!” he called right back.The sylph might have been stiff, but they weren’t bad people. Now I just had to go say hi to all the mole people again, and then... then I’d see what it was like to fight a big old monster!***
