“Keeping all of that in mind, and especially that part about a jump from tier/Mag 7 to tier/Mag 8 —which is pretty amazing, if true, Kiri,” Erick said, “I need to make an actual tier 8 or 9 spell, both to become a true, accredited archmage, as well as gain those points from creating a spell of that tier.” If he was going to walk into Ar’Kendrithyst in three days, he needed all the help he could get. Erick stepped to the chalkboard, and wrote as he said, “I’m going to try it this way, based on the harmonies I have already observed, how much I’ve already created in this vein, and the desired outcome as being something well above Mag 7. I’ve already done this part, so it should look partially familiar.”

(t1)[Force Bomb] + (t1)[Force Wave] = (t2)[Prime Area]

(t2)[Prime Area] + (t1)Mana Alter: Light = (t3)[Light Shift]

“That part came from Anhelia, when I was making those Light spells.” He added more text to the board, saying, “This part came from Opal, but instead of targeting every part of a spell in order to [Dispel] it easily, I’m going the other direction, to make a spell almost impossible to [Dispel]. The end goal is going to be super large anyway, and thus will have an automatic resistance to dispelling, but I want that resistance to be the main feature of this magic.”

[Light Shift] + Mana Shaping, 500 = (t4)[Segmented Light]

[Segmented Light] + MS, 500 = (t5)[Spreading Segmented Light]

[SSL] + MS, 500 = (t6)[Fully Immersive Segmented Light] to get into every dark space, including inside stuff

[FI SL] + MS, 500 = (t7)[Soaking Light] to linger

“And here’s the jump to tier 8.” Erick said, “Every part before this has been a functional change to the magic, and thus the Mana Shaping for 500 was not just an increase in size or power. I made that mistake when I was going for [Death Spiral Fire], so for this one, where the end goal is a spell with zero power but immense functionality, this should be fine.”

Kiri mumbled, “I’m not sure… any of that works like that.”

Erick smiled, as he wrote, and said, “Then we’ll find out! This is the point where I use Mana Shaping 500 for more size and transformative light, in the vein of [Stillness], that transforms sound into light.”

[Soaking Light] + MS, 500 = (t8)[Immense Light]

“And if that goes well, just for the fun of it:”

[Immense Light] + Aurify = [IL Aura]

He turned to Kiri and Poi, asking, “Thoughts?”

Kiri looked from the first part of Erick’s writings to the last, her eyes lingering on each entry. At the end, she said, “3000 mana per cast. Easily feasible, but hard to do. What does the end spell look like, to you?”

Erick brought out the box for [Light Shift], saying, “Something like this, but for kilometers and kilometers around. Undispellable. Self-reinforcing.”

Light Shift, instant, long range, 120 MP

Drastically empower your light aspect magic in a large area. Shadow aspect magic turns solid. Dark aspect magic is greatly weakened. Lasts 1 minute.

Erick added, “It should get around the Propagation Ban by not expanding past its borders.”

“Like a Rift, but different, and much, much larger.”

Erick smiled. “That’s my backup idea. I still haven’t made a Rift yet!”

- - - -

With still two hours left till Ratchet and Arial showed, Erick blipped himself, Kiri, and Poi, out into the middle of the Crystal Forest, right on top of a minor mountain of sand, facing north. Sand stretched from horizon to horizon, like solid waves of orange water, capped here and there by sparking Crystal Mimics, while endless northern winds scraped across the tops of those endless sandy waves.

Erick breathed in the hot, afternoon air. His skin broke out in a cooling sweat, and he luxuriated in the heat for a long moment. Then he turned to Kiri and Poi, and conjured two pairs of eyeglasses, handing them over, and commenting on the brightness of the day. They took them and put them on, as Erick turned back to the open sky. Ophiel fluttered on his shoulder, feeling the wind on his outstretched wings, then took to the air. Not too far. Just far enough to sing to the sky, as needed. Erick dismissed a superfluous Ophiel from Candlepoint, and reconjured the little guy there, in front of him, to sing in harmony the secrets of Mana Shaping, while the first Ophiel sung of [Light Shift].

Mana Shaping was like a feeling after a gong was struck, and the world vibrated in the passing of an immense force upon reality.

[Light Shift] was demure, by comparison, but calling this spell small would be a mistake. [Light Shift] was a coy lover, who hid within themselves an iron core of resolve and purpose.

Erick waited a heartbeat, listening to the music of the world.

Then he turned himself to light, joining the brightness all around. His heartbeat was gone upon his transformation, but he vibrated the iron core of [Light Shift] instead, expanding it outward, filling the world with purpose. Magic came together, flowing in harmony, joining and mixing and splitting and resolving, as Erick cast.

The dune in front of Erick turned from orange to neon orange. A subtle change, but still a good one. A blue box appeared, and Erick smiled.

Segmented Light, instant, long range, 620 MP

Drastically empower your light aspect magic in a large area. Shadow aspect magic turns solid. Dark aspect magic is greatly weakened. Lasts 1 minute.

Segmented Light will reassert itself, using up duration, unless dispelled with 10x cost.

A good start, but he wasn’t done.

The neon-orange dune still looked solid, and it was, but as the wind scraped the top, it was as though a metal grinder scraped away at solid iron. Sparks joined the wind, like hundreds of fireflies, flowing toward Erick on the breeze.

At the edge of his hearing, he heard music. At the edge of his sight, he saw white clouds in the blue sky. He was too far from Spur for the clouds around his city to follow him all the way here, so they had to be clouds from another source, from somewhere, or someone else.

A hum drifted on the northern winds.

Erick smiled again, and then cast.

The glowing dune rippled as Erick’s spell crashed against the sand, like a god thumped the world, setting sand to motion. White light crashed down in every direction, brightening the sky in the immediate area into white-blue brilliance.

Lambent Light, instant, long range, 1120 MP

Drastically empower your light aspect magic in a large area, without regard for the vagaries of distance. Shadow aspect magic turns solid. Dark aspect magic is greatly weakened. Lasts 1 minute.

Lambent Light will reassert itself, using up duration, unless dispelled with 10x cost.

The distant hum became a wordless song. A sound that bards would chase forever, and singers could only dream of imitating.

Erick cast.

The dunes and sky became a land of deep light.

Effulgent Light, instant, long range, 1620 MP

Drastically empower your light aspect magic in a large area, without regard for the vagaries of distance or depth. Shadow aspect magic turns solid. Dark aspect magic is greatly weakened. Lasts 10 minutes.

Effulgent Light will reassert itself, using up duration, unless dispelled with 10x cost.

The song of the universe took a deeper turn, a longer turn, as Erick barely noticed the increased duration of [Effulgent Light], and cast again.

Dunes and sky became a part of the constellations, as white light soaked into the world, and the sky, expanding from the dunes in front of Erick, to cover the land in brilliance. Under him, above him, all around; everything was soft and nurturing, but also harsh, and revealing. It was a brightness to rival the sun, or perhaps, a part of something more primal, more connected to Veird, here for the world to see it one more time, and bathe in its glory. The blue box that appeared did not do the spell justice, but it tried. It tried so very hard.

The Lingering Light, instant, super long range, 2120 MP

Drastically empower your light aspect magic in a super large area, without regard for the vagaries of distance or depth or time. Shadow aspect magic turns solid. Dark aspect magic is greatly weakened. Lasts 10 minutes.

The Lingering Light will reassert itself, using up duration, unless dispelled with 10x cost.

Those subjected to the Lingering Light are imbued with Light.

Congratulations!

You have combined parts of the Script to create your first tier 7 spell!

May your journey into magic be wide and fruitful!

+6 points!

The world thrummed with power, as the very desert under Erick thrummed with light. White light rimmed everything, from the neon dunes rolling across the land in every direction, to the very air itself, to the scattered sand lingering in the air like like a billion fireflies, or scattered topaz gems, glittering with brilliance and fire. The clouds above were close, now. White and heavy, they too were rimmed with light brighter than they were, as a serpentine form, ever moving, roiled within and without, her scales glittering iridescent, gold, and white, all at the same time.

Erick returned to his work, his mind stretching out along with his lightform body, as he cast, once more, ringing his small part of the Crystal Forest with the beating iron heart of his magic.

A brilliant flash filled the world. Radiant. Scintillating.

The flash passed, leaving the land transformed into a sea of light, with white-capped waves under an ocean of fireflies, themselves swimming in an ocean of possibility. His lightform senses saw from horizon to horizon, and then past that. Deep into the surface of the world, and high into the sky, where the true void touched Mana, and magic ended.

The complete transformation of reality into radiance was short-lived, as another, deeper shift passed by, and the land returned to orange sands and blue sky. This shift was not a part of the spell layering a change upon the physical world, but of the spell changing Reality itself. Those outside of the effect would be blinded by this space, no doubt, but for those inside, for those acclimated…

Erick still saw the [Light Shift] in the neon edges of the dunes, and in the fireflies floating under the sun. He recognized glowbugs among the wind-swept sands, also rimmed in neons, but more blue-green, to match their natural glows. Crystal mimics were rimmed in blue-white, while both Ophiels shimmered white. Reality was saturated with the power of Light.

Erick stepped down onto the sands, retreating back into himself, to see his skin rimmed in white. He turned. All of Poi was blue, including the parts that shouldn't be. The dragonkin gently smiled as he took off his sunglasses and looked to Erick with happy, sapphire-blue eyes. Kiri was green, and so was Sunny. The couatl [Familiar] played in the sky, trailing green glows wherever she flew, while Kiri waved her arm up and down, leaving green afterimages in her own wake.

The land was not brilliant or blinding at all, as it had been with [Light Shift], and all of the spells after that. The land was simply different. Like some threshold had been crossed, and some fundamental transformation had taken hold everywhere Erick turned.

Two blue boxes appeared.

Domain of Light, instant, super long range, 5000 mana

Harken unto the Truth of Light. Let no authority diminish your brilliance.

Undispellable. Uncorruptible.

Lasts 1 hour. Effects last longer.

Congratulations!

You have combined parts of the Script to create your first tier 8 spell!

May your journey into magic be wide and fruitful!

+7 points!

Erick smiled. He was up 22 points. That was enough to complete two more Class Ability Slot Quests, and cap out at 10 Class Abilities. Since he already had the Quest on him, he completed it, once. He would visit Irogh later to pick up the Quest again, and turn it in again. He’d also pick up two Class Ability Quests. But for now, he felt exhausted.

He also felt pretty damn good.

Kiri spoke up, “I take it… that worked?”

Poi just kept smiling; the most heartfelt, happy emotion Erick had seen on the man in a while.

“Yup.” Erick handed out copies of the spell, saying, “It worked. Is everything okay with you two? I want to experiment some with this new spell before we head back so I can meet with Ratchet and Arial.” He looked to Poi, “I also want to get in a meeting with Irogh. Can you make that happen, today, if possible?”

Poi barely read the box before he dismissed it and sent off a tendril of thought, saying, “Of course, sir.”

Kiri read the box; her eyes going wide like she had seen an unexpected monster enter her life. She breathlessly said, “A real Domain.”

Erick laughed. “I have another! [Domain of the Withering Slime].”

“Well, yes!” Kiri said, “But that one is an aura, and thus automatically resistant to most [Dispel] attempts because you can just keep casting it.” She poked at the blue box, dismissing it, adding, “But this one is literally [Dispel] proof! It’s right there in the text. I didn’t know you could do that.”

“I didn’t either, but I guess you can, but besides: An aura is the next step.” Erick smiled, adding, “I want to experiment with this one, though. Care to experiment with me?”

“Of course!”

The first tests were shadow magics. Kiri was the one who took front and center, here, since Erick continued to be unable to create a Shadow spell on his own, without creating some unknown spell effect that was more akin to annihilating force, than Shadow’s Willpower-based damage effects.

Kiri didn’t stand front and center for long. Her first attempt, [Shadow Bolt], fizzled from her outstretched fingers, turning into naught but green sparkles. She tried with other workings, including a [Force Wave]-based [Shadow Wave]. That spell spread green sparkles into the air around her, and nothing more.

Just to be sure, Erick’s own Shadow attempts resulted in white sparkles.

Erick tried a few other spells.

A fireball burst against a nearby dune, like so much confetti in a parade, with just as much effectiveness as confetti. A [Radiant Bolt], however, became something much more.

Cast normally, the Light-based Bolt would simply splash against the sand like normal Force, sending a scattering of sand into the air. But inside this Domain, the Bolt that ripped from Erick’s fingers splashed against the dune, like a cannonball launched from a ship. A meter-wide explosion sent gouts of neon-orange sand in every direction, like Reality was more liquid than not.

Kiri tried a [Firelight Bolt], next.

Erick had seen her [Firelight Bolt] before. He knew what to expect; a Bolt of incandescence that turned a part of the world to fire. In this case, a very small part of the dune in front of them would likely melt.

What happened, was exactly that.

Kiri tried a [Radiant Bolt] spell next. What she got, was exactly what Erick expected from his own, normally cast [Radiant Bolt].

