“Hold on a minute,” Faas said, glancing at Atyl, then back to the woman. “Are you really a core crafter?”

“I—yes?” Bluewash said, tilting her head. “Coresmith, actually. Best in the city.”

Faas harumphed. “Somehow, I doubt that. Why is your shop in such a shady part of town? Why is it full of junk? And why are you afraid of us, a bunch of unawakened? Aren’t we the ones who’re supposed to be afraid of you?”

“Junk?” she gasped, indignant.

“Faas,” Atyl hissed.

Faas whispered back. “Sorry, boss, but something’s not adding up.”

“That’s no reason to insult the woman,” Shet muttered.

“Okay, maybe some of this is junk,” Bluewash admitted suddenly, having been looking around and seemingly ignoring their whispered conversation. “Most of it, even. I’ve been meaning to clean it all out, really, I have, but it’s hard to let go, you know?”

Tristin rubbed his chin. “Who’s Petar?” he finally asked.

“That’s not our business,” Atyl interrupted. “Don’t be a Guilder.”

“Petar is my cousin, and he got me this shop after the old one, uh...exploded.” Bluewash waved her hands rapidly, craning her neck to look past them. “Forget I said that! I’m good with cores, I swear!” She pointed past them. “That’s a Lightcore model, isn’t it? I can tell from here. No wonder it needs seeing to!” She spun, headed back the way she’d come. “Let me get my tools! Bring it in, bring it in! Just park it in the middle there!”

“In the middle where?” Shet asked, but she was already gone.

“Can we go back to the part where her last shop exploded?” Faas asked.

“She’s the best kind of person we could hope for,” Atyl said in a hush, touching Faas’s elbow and giving him a pointed look. “Let me do the talking, all of you.” He took his hand away, then spoke in a more normal tone. “I’ll get the cart. Someone move those mannequins.”

“Be careful with those!” came a voice from behind the pile of chairs. “They’re antiques!”

With a shrug, Tristin moved to help Shet. Force Ward would protect them in case of an explosion, and Atyl was right. If the woman was as desperate as she seemed, she’d be much more likely to answer questions than someone who didn’t need to worry about keeping her customers happy. And if she was a fraud, well, the worst they’d lose would be some time and a cart that barely worked to begin with.

By the time the woman returned, Atyl had negotiated the cart through the double doors. It didn’t seem to want to follow him inside, going as far as to lock up its wheels completely, so the four of them had to drag it the rest of the way, leaving tracks in the dust.

“Let’s see here,” Bluewash said, unconcerned for any damage that might have just been done to her floor as she knelt to access the cart’s core compartment. She’d donned a leather apron covered with pockets and loops holding various delicate-looking tools. One of them was glowing.

Silently, Tristin elbowed Faas, then gestured to the tool and signed in hand code, “See? Glow equals power. She’s the real deal.”

“If you say so,” Faas signed back.

“Ah, gods, those lazy—” Bluewash said, already shoulder-deep inside the cart’s guts. “They didn’t even try to make it match. Let me just—” She grunted. Then there was a sharp snap, and the rune on the front of the cart flared before flickering and going out. “Oops.”

“Oops?” Atyl asked.

“What?” Bluewash said, pausing as she reached for the glowing tool. “Oh, don’t worry. I meant to do that.”

“Sure you did,” Faas said.

“Quiet,” Atyl said. “What do you mean they didn’t try to make it match?”

“The core,” Bluewash said, replacing the panel, then lying down on her back and pushing herself completely underneath the cart. There was a clatter as she tossed aside a different panel, then she levered herself back to sitting, worming her whole torso up into the cart’s innards. Her voice echoed as she continued over the scratching sound of the tool as she carved into something. “Every core is different, even two cores from the same lair. Subcores, sorry. This is obviously a subcore. Almost nobody works with full cores, so Coresmiths tend to shorten it when we’re talking to each other. Where was I? Oh, right, you asked me a question. You need to match the runes on the cradle to the nature of the core, or the friction will cause damage. Once it gets bad enough, it’ll stop working, which is exactly what—” She grunted again, and there was a sudden blast of wind that sent dust flying and toppled over something highly breakable, from the sound of shattering pottery.

“What was that?” she said with a gasp, struggling to free herself.

“That’s our line,” Shet said, watching as Bluewash wormed her way out from under the cart, then rushed to the shattered object, which seemed to have been a small vase.

“Oh no!” she moaned, clutching the pieces. “That was an original! From before the division!”

“What was that pulse?” Atyl asked, clearing his throat loudly. “You broke it, didn’t you?”

“Yes, I broke it, I—” Bluewash stopped, looking up from the shards, then over at the cart. “Oh, the cart.” She dropped them with a sigh. “No, that’s fine. That was just the residual charge dissipating when I bypassed the...never mind. You wouldn’t understand. Anyway, you’ll have to charge it up again, or, well, I guess I’ll have to charge it for you since you’re not...” She smacked herself on the forehead with a palm. “I forgot to even ask if you could pay! Why am I so bad at this?”

Tristin’s mouth twitched. She reminds me of the captain. She must have a lot of Clarity.

“Will this do?” Atyl asked, reaching into a breast pocket of his coat and removing a sphere of Bank silver.

Bluewash’s eyes went wide. “Um...two spheres?”

Atyl smiled. “You really are bad at this.”

“I know,” Bluewash said with a defeated sigh. “Fine. One sphere.”

“How long will it take you to finish the repair?” Atyl asked. “And would you mind explaining what you’re doing while you work?”

“Huh?” Bluewash asked with a blink. “Oh, it’s already done.”

Atyl raised an eyebrow. “Really?”

“Really,” Bluewash said, moving to hover her hand over the activation rune, but then she stopped. “Another sphere to charge it?”

“One sphere only, for the repair and the charge,” Atyl said, bemused, then tossed her the spherical coin. Bluewash yelped, almost fumbling the catch before she trapped it against her hip.

“Why they made them round, I’ll never...” she said, lifting the troublesome bit of currency to her eyes. “Fine, then.” Tucking the sphere into a pocket, she touched the activation rune and furrowed her brow. The rune lit up, then the wheels unlocked as the cart swiveled to face her, running over the discarded access panel in the process.

“You see?” she declared proudly, not taking her hand away, the charging presumably still in process. “I didn’t have to do that much, really. Lightcore’s work isn’t bad. Just lazy. Though if you ask me, they want them to fail. That way, you have to keep paying them whenever something breaks.” She hesitated. “I should probably tell you that they won’t honor your repair discount if you take this back to them now.” She removed her hand, and the light went out as she knelt to replace the access panel. “I kinda sorta maybe voided your warranty. Oh, and don’t tell them I told you anything about their design. That would just get them mad at you. And at me. I don’t want any trouble.” Finished, she rose, then dusted her hands. “Actually, I’m not really supposed to talk about this stuff outside the Academy. They like to listen sometimes, and I might have already said too much. I’ll..uh...stop talking now.”

Tristin had tensed at the mention of Divination, as had the others. Before the woman noticed their reaction, Atyl reached into a pocket, removing another sphere. “What if I paid you to say more?”

Bluewash’s eyes narrowed, and she tore them from where they’d seemed magnetically drawn to the sphere to meet Atyl’s gaze instead. “Oh, I see what this is. This is a test. This was all a test, wasn’t it? You’re trying to buy my designs. I should have known you weren’t merchants. Who do you work for? Is it Upton? Maybe Jennermar? No, he wouldn’t bother. Hmm. Wait, maybe you’re from the Academy. I haven’t said anything anyone couldn’t have figured out for themselves if they took one look at the runes.”

Atyl removed another sphere, adding it to the first. “Again, I have no idea who those people are or what this ‘Academy’ you’re referring to is. We’re just naturally curious people.”

“Ascension...” she said out of nowhere, as if tasting the word.

Tristin started, taking a moment to remember that Atyl had said it back when he’d introduced himself.

“Who are you four, really?” Bluewash asked, seemingly no longer interested in the money glittering on Atyl’s palm. “You’re not Guilders. If you were, I’d have to report you for walking around without your plates. Not that you could have even made it into the city, um...”

“We’re not Guilders,” Tristin said, earning himself a look from Atyl, though he didn’t care. His instincts told him there was an opportunity here, though it depended very much on what the woman decided to do. On how much risk she was willing to tolerate. On whether he’d judged her situation correctly. Maybe Atyl could get her to talk if he kept pulling out spheres, and maybe she was about to report them, but if he was right...

Stepping forward, he cleared his throat. “Some of our members are Guilders, but not us, specifically. We’ve got crafters, too.” He pulled out his day pass. “We’re just here to get our cart fixed and for some shopping. Ascension is leaving as soon as we get back to our ship.” He very deliberately didn’t stress the final word, but the stage play he enacted with his eyebrows should have made it abundantly clear what he was trying to say.

You can come with us.

“Let me see that,” Bluewash said, taking the token and giving it a long look. When she looked up at him, it was almost as if he could see the gears turning in her mind. She passed the token back, then tapped a finger against her ear.

Tristin nodded, then smiled. She gets it.

“Seems real,” Bluewash said, the barest quaver in her voice. She hesitated for a moment, looking around the shop before seemingly coming to a snap decision. “Let’s say I believe you, then.” Silently and with the first awakened-level strength she’d shown, she grasped the side of the cart, lifting her entire body into the air. “You still smell like trouble,” she continued as she just as smoothly maneuvered herself over the side. “I think I want you out of my shop now that our business is over.” Settling within the empty cart bed, she scrunched herself down, her head disappearing below its walls. “Demons and friends of demons are nothing but trouble. I see now that that’s what you are.”

“Are we really doing this?” Faas signed, clear disbelief written all over his face.

“Apparently, we are,” Atyl signed back.

“Should we cover her with a blanket or something?” Smet asked in hand code as well. “What if they search the cart again on the way out?”

“Why would they?” Tristin signed, grinning. Now THIS is a proper risk.

“Well?” demanded Bluewash from within the cart. “Get out, already! Shoo!”
