Tristin drummed his fingers on the back of his elbow, feeling the conspicuous absence of his sword’s weight on his hip. The line was moving slowly, leaving him ample time to scan for threats he wouldn’t be able to do anything about. He’d worked himself to exhaustion, day in and day out, earning the distinction of the top-ranked unawakened in Samson’s class. Here, finally, was a place where he could put that work to use. A place where he could excel. And he’d been hobbled at the starting line.

Swords were banned in Se.

More generally, weapons were banned, including knives, axes, spears, staves, clubs, bows, and a hefty list of things that blurred the line between tool and implement of death. Carrying anything like that through the streets would see you stopped and questioned, at the very least. As foreigners, they’d be watched twice as closely. If the guard presence inside the city proper was anything like it was at the docks, he’d hesitate to pick his teeth with a splinter.

“You’re doing it again,” said a voice behind him, and Tristin sighed, uncrossing his arms and trying to relax. He glanced over his shoulder at Shet, then clicked his tongue and looked forward again.

Of course, HE doesn’t care.

Shet was one of the few people he couldn’t reliably beat in unarmed combat—discounting the awakened, though he could beat some of those too. Only in a duel, though. In a fight where there were rules.

Duels were a good money maker. People tended to bet against him, no matter how often he won, but dueling prowess wasn’t something to rely on when lives were on the line. The Strength accolade he had bound at the moment, though it remained locked in the ship’s armory, was only a small comfort.

I should ask Ameliah to show me Bear Kata again. Maybe if I’d known what I was doing, Thrast wouldn’t have been able to break my arm like that. I could have slipped out of it or something. Probably not, but maybe.

Damn it. I need a blue.

“Next,” called a bored woman’s voice from ahead.

Tristin stepped forward, now at the head of the line. He watched with interest as the man who’d been in front of him walked forward, then placed his hand on the statue guarded by a pair of heavily armed and armored soldiers. Absolutely nothing happened in response, and the man moved forward again, stopping to speak to the official seated at the desk just beside the gate.

Tristin looked back at the statue, the thrill of the unknown running through him. It was of a pair of marble hands rising from a stone pillar to hold a jet-black orb, as if offering it to the sun. The base was granite, massive and immovable, ornately carved with what was either runework or decoration. Given the statue’s function, much more likely the former.

“Next,” called the bored official.

With a brief glance over his shoulder at his companions, Tristin left the line, walking the last few meters to the checkpoint. Imitating those he’d watched, he placed his hand on the orb without prompting or giving himself time to second guess. Immediately, there was a small static shock, and he pulled back, seeing the tiniest flicker of color swirling below the surface.

Shit. Am I sunk already?

“Maintain contact for five seconds, please,” the woman said.

Maybe not yet.

He placed his hand on the orb again, feeling the shock which grew to a tingling running through his entire body. The orb, however, did not glow. No alarms went off. Against all logic, he felt himself relax. This was his element.

“That will do. Come here, please.”

Tristin took his hand away, seeing the swirls of color again, but only below where his palm had made contact. He blinked, and they were gone. He risked a glance up at the guards, their expressions unreadable behind their scarves. The official, too, wore a scarf, as did every single Novian he’d seen. He couldn’t say for sure, but he didn’t think they’d noticed the colors.

Maybe it’s normal?

“Today, if you please,” said the official.

He stepped forward.

“Thank you,” she said, though her tone said she was less than thankful. “Do you have any weapons?”

“No.”

“Magical equipment perverting El’s order?”

“No,” he said coolly. Technically.

They’d followed the letter of the law, bringing no enchanted items that were offensive, dangerous, or that would enhance their stats beyond that of an unawakened. The accolades weren’t items, and the aura anchors tucked in his Tel pouch weren’t equipment. He’d gone first specifically because he was carrying a full set of Rain’s Wards, plus Detection and Purify. The unknown magic was sure to be a sticking point if they were questioned on it, but Rain had refused to let them go in undefended. He’d said he’d prefer they be turned away if it came to it.

The woman gave him a look.

Tristin grinned. “Well, I’ve got a Message scroll, but that’s allowed, right? Also a couple potions. Health and Stamina.”

The official made a noise of disgust, looking away. “Cease your barbarian lewdness. Showing me your teeth like that in public. Honestly.”

“Sorry,” Tristin said, closing his mouth but maintaining his smile. These people are weirdos. Wait, is this where Myth and Reason are from?

The woman sighed. “Those items are indeed allowed, if unusual. Do you have anything expressly prohibited? Do I need to read you the list? No accommodation is made for ignorance.”

“I read the list, yes, and I don’t have anything on it.”

It would have been hard not to read the list, with it painted in enormous letters on a sign beside the excruciatingly slow-moving line.

The official glanced significantly at Mlem’s journey cart, which was waiting with a line of others as yet more soldiers walked along inspecting them. “Your purpose in the city?”

“That cart, in fact,” Tristin replied. “It’s damaged. We’re trying to find someone to look at it. We’ll also do some shopping while we’re here. How much shopping depends on whether we can get it fixed. It tends to freeze up if you put too much—”

“Duration of stay?” interrupted the official.

“A few hours. Maybe half a day.”

“Very well,” she said, reaching into a drawer and pulling out a small wooden token, which she placed on the table with a click and slid across to him. “Your one-day token. Do not lose it, trade it, or give it away. Always have it ready to present when requested and upon departure. If you are discovered with a weapon, it will be confiscated. If you were seen wielding said weapon, it will be used to remove the hand that wielded it. Any other crimes will be punished according to the King’s law as if you were one of his subjects. You may stand in the waiting area there until your cart has been searched. That will be twenty copper for entry, or two Tel if you prefer.”

They’re not going to search us, just the cart? Tristin’s eyebrows rose, but he didn’t question it, paying and taking the wooden token before walking under the eye of the soldiers to the designated area.

Maybe they didn’t tell this lady we’re with Ascension, or maybe they’re turning a blind eye. If they know we came in with Ameliah, they probably think she’ll make a stink if they hassle us. On the other hand, if they don’t give us trouble, we won’t give them trouble, and everyone’s happy. They probably don’t expect four unawakened to be able to do much damage, regardless. No matter what we’re carrying. Idiots. What if one of these anchors were Immolate?

Reminding himself that they weren’t through quite yet, he waited patiently as first Shet, then Faas passed the checkpoint, joining him in silence. Silence was the rule of the day. Divination couldn’t be ruled out, even with Arcane Ward active.

Atyl came through last, long after the search of their cart had concluded. “Finally,” he said, striding toward it and beckoning to them. He tapped the activation rune on the side, then clicked his tongue and punched it instead. It took two more solid hits before the cart quivered, pivoting on its wheels to face him. Their story wasn’t just a cover story to get in contact with a core crafter; the arcane contraption really was acting up.

Under the supervision of the guards, they passed through the open gate into the city proper. Atyl had apparently had better luck charming the official and had gotten basic directions from her, so he led them westward along a wide thoroughfare.

Se was...different. The streets were immaculate, paved with smooth bricks of gray stone that looked like they’d been laid yesterday. The buildings were largely wood, but all were in perfect repair, though they lacked a certain vibrancy, almost as if their owners were afraid to stand out. The people, too, had a sameness to them beyond that of the black scarves they all wore. Hair color, build, height, the shape of their eyebrows, the way they all seemed to be on edge...

The gender ratio was off, too. There were too many women, except for the guards, who were all men. And there were no children anywhere.

Weirdos.

“Anyone else feeling like a pig in a henhouse?” Faas asked.

“Painted blue,” Tristin replied, looking down at his shirt. It wasn’t even that good of a shirt, and yet, he seemed to be catching every eye. The expressions, though, looked almost offended. “Does anyone know if blue means something to these folks?”

“It is the color of nobility,” Atyl replied. “If you see a blue scarf, that’s a Royal, though that doesn’t necessarily mean they’re awakened. Or important. Cousins. Nephews. Great-great-grand-somethings. If we ran into the Prince, we’d know.”

“Ah,” Tristin said. “If someone had told me that, I’d have picked green.”

As they wound their way deeper into the city, the stares began lingering longer, both from the common folk and from the soldiers that patrolled every street corner. People seemed less used to seeing foreigners further from the gate. Indeed, they were stopped more and more frequently, asked to display their tokens. Soon, shops and businesses became homes and small parks, and from one street to the next, the omnipresent guards seemed to vanish all at once. Like they’d crossed some invisible line, the bricks became dirty, and the homes rundown.

“Are you sure this is the way?” Shet asked.

“Reasonably sure,” Atyl replied. “There we go. That’s the building with the red shutters.” He pointed, and Tristin blinked to see the splash of faded color, exceptional only thanks to its dreary surroundings. “Nearly there now.”

“Some kind of inn?” Faas asked. “A drinking house?”

“No idea,” Atyl said. “Come on. I don’t like the looks we’re getting.” He remained silent for a long moment. “It occurs to me now that the directions I was given might not have been the directions I asked for. This could be a trap.”

Tristin frowned, eying a shifty group of men watching them from an alley. “You don’t say.”

Atyl clicked his tongue. “She said there were a few different core crafters we could try, but only one who’d be willing to speak to a foreigner. The rest just sell their workings indirectly. It’d be a lot more work to get an audience with one of those.”

“Audience?” Faas asked, then snapped his fingers. “Ah, right. They’d be awakened, so that’d make them Royal. Not used to that.”

“Should we turn back?” Shet asked.

“I...don’t know,” Atyl said, slowing.

“Let’s go a little further,” Tristin said, glancing over his shoulder. The group from the alley was out of sight now. They’d just looked like downtrodden working folk, suspicious of the outsiders, not criminals or muggers or anything. Even if they had been, they weren’t a threat, not with Force Ward going. The real threat would be what Rain would do to them if they got themselves into a pointless fistfight. He had no interest in joining Mig and Del on the shit list. Rumor was, they actually had to.

“There,” Atyl said, pointing with relief.

“Bluewash Fine Artifacts, Corework, and Curios,” Tristin read, peering at the faded sign. It hung over the double doors of a small shop front, exceptional for having glass windows, though they were so crusted with dirt that it was difficult to make out the tumbled wares on display.

“Do we knock, or...? Faas asked.

Tristin shrugged, then stepped forward. It was a shop, after all, so he simply turned the knob on the right-hand door and pushed. It swung open smoothly, though he didn’t step through, instead taking a moment to look around, then up. The shop was crammed with...junk...essentially. There was a small arm mounted above the door where a bell may once have hung, though there was nothing there now save dust.

“I’m open!” called a female voice from inside in a rush. “Just a moment! Come in, come in, what can I—”

The voice faltered as Tristin stepped through. “Foreigners?” asked the shopkeeper, frozen in mid-rush to greet them, having just emerged from behind a pile of dusty chairs.

She was surprisingly young—twenty or thirty, perhaps, though it was hard to tell with the blue scarf she’d just finished winding over her mouth. With all the ancient garbage piled here and there, he’d been expecting the core crafter to be a shriveled-up old man with a face like a raisin. Instead, he found his attention stuck on wavy blond curls falling over perfectly shaped ears and a pair of blue eyes he felt he could drown in.

Wow.

“Hello,” Atyl said, stepping around Tristin. “We are looking for a Lord or Lady Bluewash. Would that be you?”

“It would, but a ‘lady’, I’m not,” she said. “We don’t use that title in Nov, and even if we did, I wouldn’t really have the right to use it anymore, so...” She trailed off, her voice having become cautious as she looked past them. Tristin glanced over his shoulder, seeing that Faas and Shet had entered to stand behind him, the three of them towering over Atyl like hired thugs. It was easy to see how someone could get the wrong impression.

“What do—um...” Bluewash paused. “What do you want? Petar didn’t send you, did he?”

“I have no idea who that is,” Atyl said, clearly deciding to ignore her unease as he bowed. “My name is Atyl Wagarardrogrum, of Ascension. We were told this was the place to come to get our journey cart repaired. It’s just out in the street, there,”—he turned—”if you three could stop looming.”

“Sorry,” Tristin said, stepping out of the way.

“Oh,” Bluewash said, taking a breath, then exhaling and pressing a hand to her chest. Quickly, she took hold of herself. “Sorry. Never mind. I thought—” Stopping with a wince, she muttered something to herself about scaring away the customers, then looked up, her eyes and tone cheery once more. “I think I can help you with that! What maker?”

