Even without the bandages, her human form still stood out. She could make herself shorter if she wanted, given her heightened flesh-compressing abilities, but Pyre didn’t really feel like it. She was used to this form—moving with it, fighting with it. Relearning her balance would be a pain. Plus, she quite enjoyed towering over everyone.

A minute later, the driver waved at the three of them to get in the wagon box. Looked like the conversation had gone well.

Tugging aside the canvas top, Pyre hoisted Daphne up, then Callan, who had temporarily turned corporeal for the sake of pretending to climb in.

The demon entered last, needing to hunch down to squeeze through the narrow gap. The wagon lurched a little as she stepped into the box. The driver glanced back, but it soon righted itself. She’d forgotten that she was significantly heavier than she looked. Thankfully, it seemed the wagon (and the spells on the wheels) were able to handle her weight.

The inside of the vehicle was bigger than expected. Curious eyes immediately landed on the trio. A family of four sat in one corner while a man who looked like some kind of merchant sat on the other side. The entire back half of the wagon bed was stuffed with boxes, crates, and whatever other cargo was being transported.

Given the lack of available space, they ended up settling down just behind the merchant, who shot a scowl at them and muttered something probably nasty under his breath.

The moment they sat down, the wagon lurched. Whatever spells had been cast on it activated, and they sped forward at an impressive speed. The benefits of using magic and not actual horses, Pyre supposed. Like this, they’d reach Serindell way faster than expected.

The demon leaned back against one of the wooden crates, enjoying the rhythmic up-down movements of the wagon. She could hear the family quietly talking amongst themselves, and every now and then the merchant would grumble something while he flipped through his ledger. All things considered, this was probably the most peaceful stretch of traveling she’d had since waking up in Fred’s stomach.

And so, naturally, it didn’t last.

An hour after they’d climbed in, the wagon suddenly came to an abrupt halt.
