Calen’s mind swirled with dizzying complexity, but he agreed to let her leave it a little longer on top but crop the sides and back quite tight. At least, I think that’s what she said.

She worked quickly, her skills making the scissors blur with speed and precision, all the while complimenting him on his appearance in what he thought was a rather forward fashion. Certainly, he was blushing fiercely by the time she was done.

But when she conjured a mirror, the face that stared back at him seemed a little angular, more mature than he had expected. The hairstyle was modern, and far outside his comfort zone, but he had to admit she had done an incredible job. His mother was most certainly going to die from sheer happiness – she had been pestering him about his hair for years.

***

The thrum of power gripped him in a sudden disorienting lurch and Calen felt momentarily weightless amid a bright flash of light. When his vision cleared, he found himself standing on the familiar polished black marble of the Novaspark Academy of Magic in the center of the teleportation locus.

“Welcome, Pathfinder, your passage is free of charge.”

Calen blinked, shaking his head to clear the aftereffects of the powerful, long-range teleportation spell, and stared at the official in surprise. He was accustomed to having to pay mana for using teleportation services, but the official sitting at the table inclined his head respectfully. He’s waiving the fee because I’m wearing the cloak? Nice! Belatedly remembering his manners, Calen bowed his head slightly in a gesture of thanks before leaving the circle, heading out into the late morning sun and bustling streets of Myrin’s Keep’s artisan and crafting district.

It was not just the official in the academy. As Calen walked the streets, he felt the curious gazes following him – and not in the normal disapproving way he was used to.

“Pathfinder…” the whispers reached his ears as he went by a fruit stand.

People walking by him on the street reacted in surprise when they noticed him, moving out of his way, nodding respectfully, or greeting him. It was nothing particularly overt, and nobody made a big deal about it, but he found it to be a consistent and profound change – and surprisingly unsettling. He had grown up in this town and had always known the discomfort and disapproval of the general townsfolk toward a half-breed – an attitude so pervasive that he barely noticed it in the same way as he seldom noticed the air he breathed. An underlying axiom in his world that was now called starkly into focus by its abrupt and shocking absence. With nothing more than a good haircut and a Pathfinder cloak, he was being treated with casual respect by total strangers.

He endured the uncomfortable tension that had settled in on his walk through the town till he reached the storefront of his mother’s shop. He opened the door to the welcome sound of the familiar chimes, and the tension suddenly faded.

His mother glanced up from her work as he entered and she let out a squeal of joy, dropping the fabric and rushing over to hug him.

“You’re back!” At the smile and the happiness he saw on her face, the last remaining traces of his anxiety vanished.

“Mom, you’re squashing me.”

“Nonsense, you’re so big now, let me see you!” She stepped back to admire his new haircut. He had known that would get her attention first, especially considering how much she had always wanted him to do it.

“What is this?” she asked, touching the cloak, feeling the weave of the expensive fabric. “A Pathfinder Guild cloak?”

“Yes, Lyeneru signed me up as an Initiate. Mom, I went to Ciradyl!”

“No!” she gasped, and though he knew she was half playing along and half genuinely curious, he loved her the more for her reaction. “Tell me everything! Tea?”

“Would I ever turn down your tea?”

“Calen wouldn’t, but this handsome stranger?” She winked at him.

“Mom!”

He spent the next hour or so recounting his recent adventures with her over tea. He described Lyeneru Silverleaf, the fight with the Death Knight – which she wasn’t very excited about – and his subsequent impromptu trip to Ciradyl, the astonishing forest city of the Wood Elves. “It was so beautiful!” he said, finishing up with a description of the Well of Souls.

***

Calen dropped down into the sewer from above, flaring his wings briefly to land gracefully on the trash-strewn moss below.

[Explorer] You have entered a dungeon.Ancient Grove – level 50Affinity: Nature, Arcane.Age: New.Known Creatures: Kobold, Goblin, Ooze, Wolf, Bat, Plant, Elemental.Known Bosses: --Dungeon

Ali added a new monster, he thought, his eyes noticing the addition of bats to the list as he dismissed the notification. And she hit fifty.

His trip had been undeniably productive, and exciting, and he felt he had grown immensely, but he had sorely missed his friends and he sprinted down the sewer tunnels, cloaking his presence from the low-level monsters, eager to see them all again.

Ali must have reclaimed the sewer level, turning it into an incongruously beautiful maze of verdant moss, golden glowing mushrooms, and surprisingly pure flowing channels of water. Everywhere, he found slimes or very low-level Kobolds and Goblins. They were too weak to detect his presence.

And traps. Ali’s been busy. Good. While he couldn’t see them, his Explorer gave him an uncanny sense of where the traps were – and there were many. He even tested them to figure out what they did, finding most to be the Grasping Roots he was familiar with, but some now triggered clouds of green poison to billow out into the sewer channel – a rather impressively effective trap in the restricted space – but they only tripped if he walked over them several times.

I’m not the only one who earned some new skills. He was happy to see the evidence of Ali’s growth. As he continued down the passage, he began to find several corpses of Kobolds, ripped to shreds, and, after turning the next corner, he heard the sounds of battle ringing out in the close tunnels.

He kept his Eclipse running, cloaking his presence, and he approached in silence with the magic of his Explorer skill. As he glanced around the corner, he found the source of the ringing steel on armor and shouts of combat.

Undead! His bow was in his hand, arrow nocked faster than thought. Out in the sewer, the small group of novice adventurers tangled with skeletons, zombies, and Kobolds. As he watched, a figure reached down, and a skeleton ripped its way free of a dead Goblin and joined the fight.

What the… a Necromancer? But he stayed his hand as his sharp eyes picked out the details. He knew several of the adventurers. Basil was hiding in a recess at the back, making a potion. Teagan was healing. And the archer, Willow – who often asked him for archery tips when he was at the guild – seemed happy to have her back to the Necromancer. It was then that he noticed the guild emblem on the shirt of the boy who had raised the skeleton, and he slowly lowered his bow, though his hands shook.

He studied the group for a while, trying to figure out what was going on. But it was abundantly clear that the Necromancer was part of their group, and they were all working together – quite effectively too.

Well, now… that’s new. He shook his head, leaving them to their fight, and headed onward, his head buzzing with unanswered questions.

“Calen!” As he entered the library, Ali’s excited shout greeted him, clearly noticing him even before he had released his stealth. He let it drop, striding up to where she and Ryn were poring over some books on the table, notes and pens strewn across its surface.

“Nice haircut!” Ali said.

“You got a Pathfinder cloak?” Ryn gasped.

Calen took a deep breath, finding himself unexpectedly nervous and shy of his friends’ reactions. What he saw in their eyes reassured him, however. Clearing his throat, he smiled, “What are you doing?” He glanced at the books.

Making an inviting gesture, Ryn said, “Pull up a chair.”

“I’m just teaching Ryn Elvish,” Ali answered. “Never mind that, tell us what happened? Is there something – or someone – we should know about?”

Elvish… The language of his absent father. It was that thought that had always discouraged him from being curious enough to learn it. However, his lack of knowledge of the language had been a significant disadvantage in his Pathfinder classes. Perhaps it’s time I changed that too? He decided he would ask Ali to teach him later.

“I did it for my mother,” he chuckled, and laughed harder at their disbelieving snorts. “Are Mato and Malika around? I got a couple of things from the Pathfinder Guild store.”

“Mato is out cleansing the land of blight with his Tree Form. He usually comes back around dinnertime – you know him, he runs on stomach-time. Malika is in Kezda recovering from her bloodline going crazy,” Ali said.

Kezda? He didn’t even know where that was, nor what had happened to his friends. Bloodline? It seemed that there would be a lot to catch up on. “Here, Ali, I got you something, too,” he said, retrieving the Forest Band of the Perceptive he had bought in Ciradyl.

“Oh, wow, that’s so thoughtful, Calen, thank you!” Ali said, slipping the wooden band onto her finger at once. Her eyes glimmered slightly as she must have identified the object, and then suddenly, they were glistening around the corners. “Oh – vitality? And perception, too? Calen… I…” She reached out.

“Yes,” he answered, squeezing her fingers gently before releasing them.

Swapping stories took quite some time – especially as Calen wanted to share everything he had heard and seen. Lira even joined them halfway through, offering tea.

“She said that about Vivian?” Ali asked, her brows furrowed in thought. “That explains… a lot. That means the guild is in a very precarious position, doesn’t it?”

“That’s what I thought too,” Calen said.

Looking up, Ali said, “Oh, and don’t worry about the cost. If you find Lyeneru’s crafter, we’ll get you that bracer.”

“Thanks, Ali,” Calen said, drawing a deep breath of relief. Then he shifted topics. “So, I saw a level five necromancer in the sewer, fighting with Teagan’s team of novices.”

“I’m glad the boy is growing,” Lira said.

She knows him? Somehow the idea of the ancient serene dryad supporting a necromancer refused to connect in his brain. “What?”

“That would be Seth,” Ali answered. “He just joined the guild. He was the boy who saved Lira’s acorns. One of Alexander Gray’s sacrifices.”

Calen’s mind caught up, connecting all the pieces. Alexander Gray had brought several people with him under a foul compulsion, and in the chaos of the Death Knight and Lyeneru’s dramatic appearance, he had forgotten that one of them had survived and run off. Was that him? He was glad that one of them had survived.

But, a necromancer? That would certainly take some getting used to. Poor fellow. That’s a harsh fate.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
