“He crossed the desert while exploring the changes that had taken place while he was gone, discovering a regional resource in a cave behind a waterfall and meeting a friendly coyote along the way. His journey had been relaxing so far, but he was about to learn that the Bladewind Badlands’ name was a lot more literal than he’d thought, where is where I came into the story again.

“He found me while we were seeking shelter from the bladewind, and we decided to travel together for a while. I’m not proud of it, but I did my best to manipulate Nick into trusting me. I didn’t know he was a good person yet, and I had dealt with enough poweful individuals with hair triggers that I was afraid to get on his bad side. He saw through my deception and decided to trust me anyway, which is where our partnership truly began.

“After several pleasant days of travel, an event occurred that would change our lives forever, creating a bond unlike anything I’ve experienced before or since. Humanity cleared the requirements to evolve to grade-D, enhancing all our geneline traits in the process, thanks to the Diamond reward we earned. We gained an awesome new power called Blend into the Background, but the real gamechanger was the new attribute we voted for.

“When the tally came in, humanity had chosen Psi—the attribute governing psychic powers. As it happens, whenever a species gets a brand-new attribute, it triggers some manner of awakening. Back when the System jumpstarted Nick’s Magic, it carved energetic channels into his body and pumped his core full of mana until it hit critical mass, leading to a host of other changes later down the line. While that was an intense experience in any number of ways, it was nothing compared to what happened when our psychic potential was unlocked.

“Awakening our Psi expanded our awareness, letting us perceive each other’s thoughts, emotions, and memories like reading the words on a page. That was beautiful and not too intrusive, but the pull was so strong that our minds overlapped, blending the boundary between Elizabeth and Nick. We each took a good, long look into the deepest recesses of each other’s souls—until we knew each other on the most intimate level.

“I was overwhelmed by all the changes from my evolution, and didn’t remember what had happened for several weeks, but Nick figured it out right away. From that point on, we had a profound insight into one another, having seen the true selves lurking behind all the masks and walls. It was terrifying, wonderful, and indescribably strange, building a deep and growing bond, even though we were only one step shy strangers to each other before that moment.

“To distract ourselves from the bizarre and rather awkward situation, we spent some time learning about our new powers. Nick spent all the free points he’d been saving on Psi to shore up his psychic defenses and guard his heart and mind. He spent so many points at once that he left his body again, flying across the badlands as a thoughtform double for a few wonderful minutes.

“We also took Blend into the Background for a test drive, which provides a powerful form of optical camouflage along some other stealthy tricks for up to one hour each day. We played hide and go seek to learn the details as we journeyed toward the heart of the badlands.

“Before we arrived, the special quest we earned in our Diamond reward started—something the System called ‘Rebuilding Civilization.’ Across the globe, the System generated magical constructs in the form of powerful beasts, which it called Town, City, and Capital Bosses. Anyone who took out a boss earned the right to found a settlement, which came with a whole host of benefits.

“As we had hoped, the elite members of Team Earth who defeated the Guardian all came to the Bladewind Badlands, since it was the best place to grow stronger. We met them at the lake in the center of the biome, where we came across a titanic Capital Boss called the Armada Wurm.

“After reuniting with the Kenji and the rest of our people, we put a plan into motion to take out the wurm and earn one of the ten capitals the System had put on the table. It was one hell of a fight, and it took every trick we knew to bring the big bad down. We used siege engines, ice magic, and countless other tactics to lure the wurm into a canyon and trap it inside, at which point, the real battle began.

“The boss’s name wasn’t just for show. The Armada Wurm had hundreds of powerful beasts living inside it—an army that came running out of its body at the start of the fight. After putting on the best performance of our lives, we won without taking any losses. It wouldn’t have gone so well if Nick hadn’t jumped inside the wurm’s body and destroyed its brain with an assist from Fritz, the Kastillan king whose soul resides within Blightbane.

“Although he didn’t see it coming, we arranged for Nick to be voted in as the leader of our new settlement, which he named Aurora—the city of the rising sun. Founding a capital came with a ton of City Points and building vouchers, which let us start construction right away.

“Combined with our new Professions and superhuman bodies, we were able to build at an incredible rate. He put up a Weather Barrier to block the bladewind, and some Monster Wards to warn us if any creepy crawlies came calling. After getting some well-deserved rest, we threw a massive party to celebrate the accomplishment.

“It wasn’t all good news. Nick learned that Sophia had merged with the demon inside her—transforming her into the bonefiend—and she couldn’t change back. No longer fully human, she cut him loose and left on a quest to defeat her demon, which broke his heart although I understand where she was coming from.

“Over the next few weeks, everyone focused on developing the city, getting our industries up and running and building homes for our people. We picked up some quests to take Aurora to the next tier, which came with some awesome rewards we weren’t about to pass up. Nick formed an alliance with the farming settlement Desert Rose, acquired regional resources that provided mana wells to the city, and discovered a dungeon locked behind a puzzle door beneath the island in the middle of the lake.

“When he saved Dragon’s Tooth from a horde of monstrous ants, he cleared the conditions to take Aurora to tier four… and then jumped straight to tier five since we had already cleared those too. It made the settlement’s sphere of influence grow by hundreds of miles and granted us a portal connected to the other cities in our alliance.

“Not long after, our alliance became the faction Team Earth, unlocking the Vital Energy Manipulation skill for all our members. Nick upgraded Force Acceleration, letting him fire force projectiles while stopping his own momentum, which turned Sonic Slice into a powerful ranged attack.

“We traded in Rare vouchers for the Item Modification Station and Magitech Research and Development Center, both of which should make a huge difference during the days ahead. On that note, we still have some Rare vouchers to use when we get the mana wells to support them.

Nick unlocked a new technique, Predatory Domain—which uses his killing intent to suppress his enemies—getting into an epic duel with Ella in the process. He also upgraded Mana Dart, granting it the ability to disrupt vital energy and turn his enemies’ power against them.

He restored the Legendary sword Blightbane to its full power, letting him visit Fritz inside the blade’s inner world for half an hour of training every day. It also let Fritz materialize in the real world for five minutes at a time.

“Devin, Shaun, and Veronica left with a few other elites to quest for the Simulation Dome, and Kenji and Nick accepted a dangerous quest that would let them add beasts to our faction. Their mission was to travel through the Labyrinth to another node in our sector, where they were tasked to clear an elite dungeon called a ‘dreadbeast quarantine zone.’

“For the quest, the System paired the men with some friendly beasts. When he met up with them, Nick found out that one was Bandit—his lemur friend from the searing Isle. The other beast was from his tutorial too, a much-less-friendly dinosaur called the lurk.

“At the end of the book, Preservation attended a meeting with Taltos and his pantheon, who the demigod had been working against from the start. We don’t know it yet, but they are going to invade the fringe of the Labyrinth in full force, creating a monster stampede along the way. We were supposed to have a full year of protection, but it looks like we’re going to be fighting for our lives again a lot sooner than we expected.

“That brings us to the end of book four, which means we’ve reached the end of today’s recap. Thanks for spending some time with me and listening to our story. Time flies when you have such good company.

“I hope you enjoyed my little refresher, and feel free to stop by Aurora for a visit any time you like. I’m sure Nick would love to say hello when he gets back from the dungeon. Oh, and before I forget. If you are enjoying this series and want it to continue, please consider leaving a rating or review for volume one right now or mentioning Labyrinth of the Mad God to your friends. A story lives and dies by its reviews, and we could really use your help.

“Thanks to everyone who stuck with me until the end, and to all our readers who have supported us along the way. I’ll see you again soon, but now it’s time to begin Nick’s latest adventure.”
