It was near there, about a hundred meters from that blobby house, where the lands had been cleared of yurts and two and half podiums had been raised on a platform on the beach. The two main podiums were turned halfway toward each other, so that the speakers there could talk to each other and the audience. The elders were the primary audience, who would sit upon chairs in front of the platform to listen, and judge. All other clansmen were welcome to stand behind the elders to listen to the debates, but the elders were the only ones allowed to sit and voice their objections or questions to the speakers, though Erick was assured that mostly, the elders just judged, silently.

The half podium was reserved for the moderator, who also silently judged the proceedings.

On their way to the stage, Erick saw the elders he had met before; mainly Elder Uriol Red Dog, Elder Teer Silver Yurt, Elder Puuroi Yellow Fish, and others of which he had seen in passing, or briefly worked with when he helped with all the recent face stealer searching.

Actually getting to the debates had required walking near the semi-permanent territories of more than a few different clans. This caused a lot of people to come out to see him walk past. Getting this close to the waters, which was a very popular area for trade and the selling of food, and the fishing of fish, had even drawn a crowd to watch Erick pass. A few people had called out thanks to him, for helping them in some way that Erick had to think about to remember; he was still running a lot of side jobs while he had walked through Ooloraptoor, and so he wasn’t fully present all the time.

But now he was here, standing to one side of the stage, alongside Niyazo and a few other people. Koori had come to the debates, too, sliding into the entourage at the last moment, while Erick’s own people stood back, with the audience.

And what an audience it was. Thousands of people had come out to listen to the debates; a lot more than Erick had glimpsed here before, in the many times Ophiel had flown past this stage while he was doing something else. There might be three thousand people out there. Maybe 3500. The crowd stretched out in a half circle for a good 200 meters away.

… And now that he took a moment to actually look, with Perception and Intelligence working together Erick counted 3758 people out there, with the number growing every passing second, as more and more people trickled in from elsewhere. Almost everyone spoke to their neighbors, filling the air with a susurrus of sound, some of which Erick caught, but most of which he let flow past him, like the northern wind, unremarked.

In that moment, Erick found himself quite enamored with the political engagement he was seeing in front of him.

Most nations of Veird did not have anything approaching democracy. The grass travelers were mostly the same in this regard, but the separation between heads of state and the population of this land was almost nonexistent. Erick saw obvious clan leaders in the audience, but he also saw cowherds and grandmothers and children raised on the shoulders of fathers, all so that they could see how their nation worked at its best. The powerful stood right beside those people whom most would call ‘commoners’. It was a nice thing to see.

Erick did a quick calculation to truly understand what he was seeing, there on that sandy ground before him.

A full clan was usually three hundred to two thousand people, with almost all of the clans being on the smaller end. Pale Cow only had around 1150 people, while Green Grass had about 500. There were only about 180 clans in the entire grass traveler ‘nation’. So of an estimated 125,000 grass travelers, the number of people who physically turned out to see this debate was about 3% of their entire population.

And that didn’t include the thousands and thousands of [Scry] eyes hanging out in the air above; Erick wasn’t even going to attempt to count those, but he guessed there were 35,000 of them. Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye was the only one allowed near anyone, as it had remained on one of Erick’s shoulders the whole time, while a tiny Ophiel sat on the other.

There was a lot of transparency in these proceedings, and Erick really liked it.

He wasn’t sure if he liked being on stage in front of so many people, though, but that fleeting emotion was easy to squash.

The Elders of Ooloraptoor cared about the audience, too; though the 33 elders had set their chairs on the ground in front of the stage, facing the stage, more than a few elders craned their heads around to glance at the massive crowd behind them, or to look at the [Scry] eyes in the sky. They were also impressed by the turnout.

Elder Teer Silver Yurt sat in front, looking stoic. At a hundred and ten, she was perhaps the oldest elder of Ooloraptoor. It was her duty to bring the debate to order, and she did so by standing, her cane firmly gripped in her hand, helping to keep her upright. She turned to face the audience and tapped her cane on the ground.

A small magic amplified Teer’s voice, to ring out across the land, “We bring today’s debate of Integration to order.”

Voices fell silent. Eyes focused. Attentions narrowed.

Teer nodded. She turned back to the stage. “Clan Pale Cow versus Clan Green Grass. Integrator, versus True Traveler. Leader Niyazo, versus Leader Linxel.”

Erick hadn’t seen Linxel for a few days now. The warlord was looking about as… attractive as Erick remembered. Erick didn’t have time for that sort of thing, and he hadn’t in a long while, but facts were facts. Linxel was still tall. Rather tall, at over two meters, but not nearly as tall as an orcol. Muscular. Dark blue skin. Spiraling horns that sprung out of short black hair and rolled around his head like a crown. A deep blue soul. No changes there. No changes in his deep blue eyes, either, Erick saw, as they briefly locked gazes.

Linxel nodded at Erick; he seemed a bit... Happy? To see Erick? Mixed feelings? Why the mixed feelings— Oh. They were on the other side of the battlefield. Right. But then why mixed? There were lots of reasons for—

Ah.

Erick ignored a slightly stirring part of himself that recognized a similarly stirring part of Linxel.

Best ignore all of that.

People were always watching for weakness.

Teer spoke, “As the one wishing for change, Leader Niyazo will put forth his first speaker for his side, then Leader Linxel will counter. This was just a private debate between Pale Cow, and the three True Traveler clans of Green Grass, Blue Sky, and Brown Dog. But that has changed due to some recent events. The actual outcome of the debates has not changed, but since the recognition of the participants is of particular interest, I will be going over the rules for the benefit of those watching.

“Each speaker will get five minutes to state their side. After both sides get their five minutes, we will either vote someone off the podium, or allow for a full discussion between the two opposing viewpoints, which will take place in switching five minute segments.

“To facilitate this vote, we have these markers, here. If we do not hold up our signs, we wish to hear more. If we hold up our signs, that means we have heard enough of you.” She held up a two-sided paddle. One side was orange, the other side was blue; this matched the podiums on the stage. Erick’s side was blue. “If we elders hold up your color, that is bad. That means we want you off the stage.” Teer gestured to the side, where Sin Seeker Vania stood beside the moderator’s podium. A large 5-minute sand timer sat on the podium, while ten little figures sat on both sides of that timer. “Vania will be the moderator. She is the one to count colors and inform you that you have lost, though whichever speaker has lost does not have to vacate the stage because of her moderation. How today’s debate will actually end is when one side loses 10 speaker opportunities. When someone is voted off, that side might decide to keep that person up there, talking. Not always a good idea, as we elders will have likely voted you off because we have heard enough, but you do what you want; this is your debate.

“We elders won’t raise our signs if we believe that there is more to be heard, though any speakers may retire whenever they wish. We’re only here to facilitate a clean debate between the two sides. Ultimately, our decisions of winners and losers are not binding for either party. Ultimately, both sides might choose to have a polite battle to settle their differences. Those results will be binding with the force of honor at stake.

“It is our understanding that such a martial debate will be of the standard variety. Orthodoxy and Variant battles will not be happening.

“It may be that battles won’t happen at all. It is our hope that by facilitating these verbal debates, that both sides, and the rest of us, might come to understand each other better, so that wisdom may rule instead of power.” Teer said, “Pale Cow Leader Niyazo. You have the stage. Your first speaker.” She sat down.

Niyazo and his subordinate leaders had told Erick that they would try to get through this as quickly as possible, but Erick would not be speaking first. The usual arguments had to be tried, and Erick had no true knowledge of those arguments, and also no history with them. He was glad for that, now that they were here, standing in front of everyone. It would have felt wrong to step into that role of true clansman, anyway. He was here as a guest; a clanfriend.

This was very low stakes, and that felt kinda good.

Erick hadn’t done low-stakes in a while.

… And yet, this was not low stakes at all. There were dragons watching this. And Erick didn’t like that one dragon, in particular, was fucking over people with face stealers and soul mutilation to keep this land un-Integrated.

Niyazo’s first speaker was Birobar, one of the lesser leaders of Pale Cow. While Birobar took his spot at the blue podium, Linxel sent forward his own first speaker to stand at the orange podium. Erick knew the other speaker; she was Forage Leader Ooloori. The last time Erick had interacted with the woman, she had been aiming to take Linxel’s place as clan leader, while Linxel was knocked out with soul damage.

What Linxel had done, by putting Ooloori forward, was rather devious.

The first speakers were always the sacrificial pawns, but it was highly possible for a sacrificial pawn to annihilate the entire other side of the board. Mostly, people expected the first speakers to fail—

Well.

There was a lot of nuance to this debate that Erick didn’t feel the need to explore too deeply. So he watched and listened to the speakers speak, growing more and more invested as the right to speak seamlessly passed back and forth between the two sides. There was no yelling. There was no name calling, or snide remarks that were best left to nobility in other nations, or even to the nobility of certain parts of Songli. Erick quickly realized that he was witnessing the workings of what was perhaps the most open and honest system of governance that he had seen, all throughout all his time on Veird.

… If this was what the dragon Ordoonarati was trying to preserve, then Erick could get behind that; this was pretty honorable, actually.

The people in the audience listened intently. Moderator Vania kept track of time with a large hourglass that took five minutes to empty, while she kept track of ‘lost soldiers’ on both sides with two sets of 10-piece statuettes; one side painted orange, the other blue. The speakers spoke simply, and they went over everything. There was a bit of plea toward emotions on both sides, but that was perfectly fine. The whole argument was not complicated to follow.

Birobar spoke of how trade would be better for them if they could leverage the purchasing power of their entire nation against that of other nations. Didn’t you dislike it when you had to pay tolls to enter Alaralti's outer cities? Didn’t you dislike it when they didn’t treat you like the proper clansmen, just because your home didn’t look like theirs? Like you were some sort of homeless adventurer?

Erick found himself smirking when the man spoke of ‘adventurers’ like it was a bad word.

Ooloori’s argument was about the benefits of tradition. About how this very debate they were having right here would be impossible in a land like that of Songli, where there were homeless people (which was apparently impossible in the grasslands), and where the heads of state disdained the lives of those at the bottom unless those people were of actual use. Did you truly want to change your way of life, to include overseers in some far away place; to let others decide the laws of your land? Wouldn’t you rather have your leader live in the yurt three yurts down the way?

Birobar countered, of course, with words over the recent bouts of face stealers, and about how, if there was a central authority, that perhaps the inadequacies in face stealer protocols would have been noticed before those inadequacies became a problem. Pale Cow had 2 face stealers among them; how many did Green Grass have?

Everyone knew Green Grass’s numbers, and so Ooloori glossed over that fact.

The answer was 47, though.

Ooloori explained that Ooloraptoor had face stealers, too. They were everywhere, and a central authority would have been just as vulnerable to them as the traditional clan system.

That earned her a bunch of orange markers from the elders. Even those that Erick knew were aligned with the True Travelers had voted her gone, for Songli had just gone through a purge of their own, and before that, Treehome, and before that, the entire Crystal Forest. Erick’s magics and his searches worked; trying to insinuate a lie that didn’t follow established truth had cost Ooloori a lot of clout.

Vania announced the loss of one of Green Grass’s speakers.

Ooloori remained at Green Grass’s podium, though.

Birobar spoke of how the problem of a theoretically corrupted Sin Seeker organization would easily be solved by having multiple organizations, which would be possible with a city, with a ruling body capable of organizing such a thing. He went on to speak of what such an organization would look like—

And he ran into the 5 minute mark, so he stopped.

Ooloori tore down all of Birobar’s ideas, as she spoke of how putting the safety of one’s family into the hands of a ruling body was asking to be treated like lower clan citizens. It happened in Songli, and it would happen here, if they allowed it to happen.

It was here that Niyazo looked to Erick, nodding to him.

Erick nodded back.

Birobar had been keeping an eye on Niyazo and his backup speakers, and so, he said, “It is here, that I must retire my position to the next in line.”

He stepped away from the podium.

