Erick walked forward, taking Birobar’s place at the podium.

The audience was a bit bored with arguments that they had heard in many other places besides here, but now, at Erick’s movements, they focused once again; this was what they had come here for, and they did not expect it to happen so soon.

Linxel had been waiting for this moment, too. He mirrored Erick’s movements, to come to stand to the side of the orange podium just as Erick reached the blue podium. “Objection. Erick is not a member of Pale Cow. He has no cow in this race.”

A good two hundred people in the audience openly booed the leader of Clan Green Grass. The actual sound was more like the groan of a cow than an actual ‘boo’, but Erick understood the intent.

Teer arched her head back and spoke from her seat, her voice booming out, “Silence in the audience!” After the gathered people went quiet, Teer faced forward, and continued, “Your objection is noted and declared inadequate. Erick has proven himself a clanfriend to all who come to him, and that includes your clan, too.” Teer said to Erick, “But in the interest of fairness, please keep your words to a single 5 minute segment. Unless Green Grass decides to allow you to remain after those five minutes, please vacate the stage.”

Teer Silver Yurt was playing many sides of the political spectrum, if half of what Erick had heard about the old woman was true. She had been an Elder of Ooloraptoor for nigh on 75 years; everyone knew her. So that made sense.

What didn’t make sense was that Linxel, surprisingly, stayed at the orange podium. Ooloori stepped away. Erick would get to speak to Linxel, directly… And now that he thought about it for half a second, of course Linxel would take Ooloori’s spot. It was only honorable that Linxel face Erick, himself.

Down at moderator Vania’s podium, she took off another soldier from the orange side, leaving Pale Cow with 9 speakers left, and Green Grass with 8.

Erick spoke simply, “I will not take up too much of everyone’s valuable time, for Linxel is at least partially right: I do not have my best cows in this race, but I have one cow, for sure.

“I want to help people, and it’s hard to do that when I have no central authority that can help me help others. I ran into this problem just this last week, when I inadvertently set off a face stealer search throughout all of your lands, and your clans. That went about as well as it possibly could have, considering the unknown severity of the problem, but even so, it went rather poorly, too. I will tell you straight: that could have gone a lot better.

“When I offered this same service to Songli, they were able to organize a massive amount of people in order to help me, help them, hunt down every single face stealer and Hunter in all of Songli. Took us about 20 hours to end the threats of a thousand killers, each of which were responsible for dozens or hundreds of murders apiece. One guy, the Divider… I think I’ll remember watching that face stealer’s end for the rest of my life. That killer was one small part of a major problem. A problem that was scattered among 41 million people. And in 20 hours, we cleared up every single major case and busted thousands of Hunter rings, and face stealer rings.

“If the grass travelers had such a central organization capable of doing the same, then someone like me could come along and offer this service to them. We could have cleared out the face stealers and Hunter problems from this land in a very timely manner, and based on the numbers, you might have only had fifty face stealers, total. It was because of the lack of organization, and the lack of proper protocols, that this happened, at all.

“You need organization. You need a central authority you can trust; one of your own making, too. I can’t help you with that, and it’d be wrong of me to try, so I won’t.

“I will say that I’m running into a ‘lack of organization’ problem myself, personally.

“I’m sure many of you have seen me out there at my yurt, assisting people who come in here from all over Nelboor. It’s nice to rescue some kidnapped scion from some clan, or to save a coastal village from a tangled hydra swarm, or to kill every sky tether swarm from Songli to the Tribulations. But this world is always going to be dangerous. Problems solved yesterday need to be solved again tomorrow, and thus, I’m realizing that the sort of assistance I am providing people is not sustainable, at all.

“I need an organization, too.

“So that’s what I’m going to do, soon enough. I’m going to make something that will allow me to help others in a better, more coherent fashion. Perhaps I can try for an organization like the Headmaster has set up, with Elites and such. Or, I can just be like a normal archmage, and let people come to me. Whatever the case, I need a lot of like-minded people on my side, and some sort of organization to hold them all together, so that we can get work done. I’ll figure it out, just as I’m sure you’ll figure out your own organizational necessities in this new world, too.

“Make no mistake: the Veird of today is different from the Veird of a year ago. The shadows are less than what they have been, but that does not mean that all the usual problems of this world have stopped being problems.

“Monsters still exist. Nations still war. Face stealers still exist, and Hunters are still out there.

“I suggest you prepare yourselves for the coming changes by banding together.

“But it need not be a full denouncement of your traditions. I truly like what I have seen here, today. This calm, rational debate between various sides? And the transparency! It’s amazing; truly. I wouldn’t want this form of debate to ever vanish from Veird.

“I feel that if you wanted to, you could start with a single city, and with a governing body composed of representatives from every clan. Something that would allow a better collection of protocols that will enable you to prevent the face stealer problem from happening again.

“As for my own sort of organization, my instinct is to try and make something that lasts. Perhaps something that others can keep running long after I’m gone. I imagine such an organization to have at least three branches, each of which has checks and balances on the others, enabling everyone to watch over everyone else, while denying absolute power to any central body. Perhaps, an executive branch, responsible for enacting the law, a congressional branch, responsible for creating the laws and paying everyone, and a judicial branch, responsible for judging if the laws are good, or not.

“These are just a few thoughts, though. Nothing solid. Thank you for your time, and good luck making your own future.”

He hadn’t planned on offering actual suggestions, or on speaking of a governing body with checks and balances, but he had the time, so he filled it. Erick’s speech ended right as Vania’s timer ran out.

Not a single elder held up a blue sign, or otherwise indicated that they wanted Erick off the stage. A few of the elders, including Uriol and Puuroi, but not Teer, even held up preemptive orange signs.

The rest of the audience was of mixed emotions. According to the furrowed brows and the small words passed between people, who were not nearly as quiet as they thought they were, many people had no idea what to make of Erick’s suggestions. Was Erick trying to build support here? In this land that was not his? Was he moving here? Was he more than just a clanfriend? Or was that about Candlepoint, and the Crystal Forest? What was going on, here?

It took Linxel a second to formulate a response, but he did. “Green Grass honors Archmage Erick Flatt for the service he provided in illuminating our recent face stealer problems. We ask the archmage to come to Green Grass at his leisure, so that we might honor him with words and with a feast worthy of his accomplishment, and to talk of whatever he might want to discuss.” Linxel stood straighter, and his voice was more solid, “Though Green Grass does not believe in Integration, and we denounce the use of such an honorable figure to get your win, Clan Green Grass accepts the loss against Clan Pale Cow. Good day.” He stepped away from the podium, to stand with his people. They were ready to leave, right then, but they did not; they were waiting for something else to happen.

Erick stood a bit stunned, unsure of what to think. And then he stepped back a bit, to stand with Pale Cow.

A few people in the crowd asked, “What?” A few shouted, “What!”

Smaller, louder talks happened all at once.

Niyazo was already smiling a controlled smile, not wanting to display his open joy at the easy win. The other speakers lined up on both sides had mixed reactions. For Pale Cow, there was a bit of incredulity; it couldn’t be that easy. For Green Grass, there was no disbelief; They knew this might happen.

Elder Teer stood up, her voice ringing out, suppressing all others, “Attention.” A few people at the front of the crowd had been stepping forward, not willing to stay back when they didn’t like what they were seeing. A few others had laughed loud at Linxel’s response; happy for what they saw. A few smaller groupings of those two groups were almost to the point of fighting, but Teer’s single word stopped all that. Now, with everyone stilled, she spoke softer, but no less loud, “The debate between Pale Cow and Green Grass comes to an expected close. To that end: It is the judgment of these elders that Archmage Flatt has now discharged his goodwill as a clanfriend to Pale Cow. Unless he wishes to become a true part of Integration efforts, then he can no longer participate in these debates.” She said, “We’re done here.”

Niyazo and Linxel both wordlessly went to stand in front of their respective podiums. They both bowed toward one another, and then Linxel bowed a second time. And then, they broke apart. Both leaders went back to their groups. Green Grass walked off toward the west. Pale Cow, alongside Erick and Poi, walked east. Erick went with the group.

Various allies for both sides were already waiting in the wings for the joint departures.

Erick and Poi rejoined with Teressa, Jane, and Nirzir, and the five of them walked alongside Pale Cow’s procession for a little while, through the massive, dispersing crowds. Soon enough, Niyazo and his people had to go their own way, for they were already being mobbed by questions and tactics from other allies, and from those who watched the debate.

Niyazo left off saying, “I wish to speak to you of what you said up there. Later. After sundown?”

“Of course.” Erick shook his head at a few people who tried to talk to him. “Not right now. Take an application, at my yurt.”

As Niyazo was forced to walk further away, he called out over the crowd separating him from Erick, “You’re still a clanfriend, no matter what the elders say!”

Erick smiled at that, and waved in recognition, then he told another pair of people who hadn’t heard the first time he said it, “Take an application at the yurt.”

As soon as it wasn’t incredibly rude, Erick lightstepped everyone into the protected space around the yurt.

Under dense air, and the light of an [Undertow Star], Jane finally blurted out what she had been holding back for the last ten minutes, “So you are bringing democracy to Veird.”

Nirzir, who had been looking marginally interested, suddenly scowled. “That wasn’t democracy. A three part system? No…” She glanced to Erick. “Was it?”

“Democracy killed Quintlan,” Teressa said. “I don’t know the details about it, but ‘Democracy’ is a bad word in most learned venues.”

Jane said, “Okay. Fine. Republicanism.”

“Bah! Jane. I’m not getting political, but there is a certain need to think about these sorts of things.”

Jane said, “Suure.”

Erick said, “And that’s not what you’d call a three-branch system, anyway. I don’t think it actually has a name, as it’s just a three part system that splits power to ensure that the people at the top are accountable to each other in ways beyond assassination and murder or other heavy-handed solutions.” Erick said to everyone, “The people here have fine forms of government, but that debate was all about Integration into a state, so I felt the need to speak on my own experiences.”

Jane said, “I rather like it as it is, dad. People are accountable to themselves, or some guy who lives right down the street, or in a city just over the way. Even in Songli, or in other parts of the world; it’s like that everywhere here. Back on Earth, no one was accountable for their own actions, and if you wanted to point at a problem, all you could point at was a nebulous conglomeration of people.” She said, “Almost no one was living their lives the way they wanted to live, and everyone was subject to laws which they had no say in. There were no free spaces at all on Earth. I don’t think you should bring that three-branch structure here.”

“I agree with… some of that. Most of the problems back home are solvable with some foresight.” Erick said, “Look. I wanna talk more, but there’s a lot of people out there at the meeting platform. We’ll talk at dinner, okay?”

Jane waved him off, saying, “Yeah. I know. I just… felt weird there. Uh. Yeah. Kill all those monsters. Right.”

Erick paused. He looked at his daughter for a moment. She was slightly distraught about a dozen things, for sure, but he would have to ask her about them later… No.

Erick asked, “What’s wrong?”

Jane paused, frowning. Then she blurted, “Seeing you on that stage. I thought that I was watching the moments before your assassination. I mean. Yes. I know you’ve been in danger before. But this was different. It felt… too real. Too exposed.”

“Ah.” Erick said, “I’m sorry that I worried you.”

“I’m just being stupid, dad.” Jane said, “Don’t worry about it.”

Nirzir spoke in a whisper, “I was worried about that, too. It’s what I’m always worried about, being out in the open.”

Everyone looked to Nirzir. Nirzir reluctantly met Erick’s eyes.

Teressa said, “I was watching the whole time. There was nothing in [Future Sight].” She added, “I’m doing that almost all the time, now.”

Poi said, “There were various problematic thoughts all around us, but none that verged on action. He was about as safe up there as he was anywhere else.”

Jane burst a sad laugh. “Oh, gods. Yeah. That’s true.”

Poi said, “I didn’t mean it like that.”

Nirzir looked a lot less comfortable, while Teressa frowned a little, as she looked down at Poi.

Poi said, “Okay. Fine. Yes; we are in danger, but not more than usual.”

