“Aw, that’s sweet of you to say,” Sixiang laughed, twisting the wind into words as Ling Qi’s eyes flickered silver and she studied the frame and the surrounding walls.

“I wouldn’t trade them away for the world,” Ling Qi added as she let her technique fade. “I am surprised you don’t even have one though.”

Xuan Shi inclined his head. “There is no practical need, but perhaps I might find one in the future,” he said quietly. “This door has no malicious trappings, it seems.”

Accepting the change of subject, Ling Qi nodded. “I don’t see anything either. Guess we move forward.”

He nodded and jabbed his staff forward, pushing the door open.

Beyond the door lay a dimly lit room hung with streamers of silk. In one far corner, a pool of clear, clean water bubbled, flower petals floating on its surface, and in the other corner was a long couch, wide enough for two people to lie side-by-side. Faint streams of soft, airy music floated on the air, carrying strains of contentment and affection.

Stepping through the door beside Xuan Shi, she glanced left and right, taking in the mostly empty shelf that still had dusty cups and a single bottle of sweet wine, and then back to the full length mirror on the other wall.

“What,” she said dully for the second time this day.

Xuan Shi sank his face into his free hand. “... This one apologizes.”

“Just what kind of books do you read?” Sixiang asked in a delighted, sing-song voice.

“The Voyages of Yu Long are tales of romance and adventure,” Xuan Shi said defensively. “Not this… tastelessness,” he said a bit too quickly, gesturing at the room in general.

“Only because the old goat could not get his original manuscripts published,” said a voice from just behind them.

Ling Qi nearly jumped out of her skin as she spun around. How! She hadn’t felt anything at all!

Behind her stood a figure she had only seen briefly before. Staring down at her with serene gray eyes, Yuan He ran his fingers through his beard, an expression of faint amusement on his ancient face. Or… no, it was just an image of him, she thought, but she couldn’t tell for certain. He was simply so far above her that her senses could not discern the difference.

Immediately, both Ling Qi and Xuan Shi bowed deeply.

“Sect Head Yuan, this one meant no disparagement upon the Sect’s trials,” the boy beside her said immediately.

“Do calm down, disciples. As you have likely guessed, this is less a trial and more an attraction. I suppose it had slipped this old man’s mind that it still stood,” the Sect Head said, looking around with… fond reminiscence? Ling Qi tried very hard not to think about that.

She coughed, straightening up but still keeping her head respectfully low. “Sect Head Yuan, could I ask you to explain please?” she asked haltingly.

He glanced her way, and Ling Qi tensed her shoulders. “Hm, I suppose it must be difficult to imagine,” the old man mused. “But once, the Sect was a much smaller and less ordered place. My Sect Uncle Lang was a good man, but he had opinions on propriety and certain forms of openness that made him… unpopular.”

Xuan Shi had a terribly conflicted look in his eyes. “Do you mean to say that his works were meant for only -”

The bottom of a steel-shod cane cracked against the floor, and thunder rumbled. “Young man, if my uncle’s work spoke to you, then does it matter that it might have been planned to include some illicit content?” the old man asked blithely.

“No,” Xuan Shi acknowledged after a moment.

Ling Qi didn’t know that she agreed. Such things were kept well out of public for a reason; she had seen what it looked like when things like that were not handled with care, far, far from everyday life.

<Ling Qi,> Sixiang sighed.

“My thoughts on the matter aside, I can hardly allow this place to remain open in this day and age,” Yuan He sighed. “Still, the two of you have reminded me of good days, even if the two of you rather missed the point of the place,” he said with a bark of laughter.

“And what is that point?” Ling Qi asked, speaking before her mind could catch up. She didn’t blame Xuan Shi for bringing her here. He was a poor enough liar that she was sure that he genuinely hadn’t intended something untoward.

Yuan He gave her a look, and Ling Qi felt an unpleasant prickling on her skin like he was looking through her. “Young lady, I think you will find that the men and women of this world can take most anything and make it a horror. This place was, however, built to bring young men and women together in joy and comfort away from judging eyes.”

Ling Qi looked away, unable to hold the old man’s gaze. What a surreal conversation this was. But… she supposed it wasn’t impossible. Her experiences aside, she had glimpsed things in Sixiang’s memory. Something so fundamental to the human experience couldn’t be wholly awful. It didn’t make her skin crawl any less, standing here in this room.

“What happened to the author?” Xuan Shi asked, breaking the silence.

“Sect Elder Lang fell in battle with Ogodei, like many others,” Yuan He answered, taking another glance around the room. Once again, he rapped his cane against the earth, and very suddenly, they were back outside the ruin. and Ling Qi could hear Hanyi and Zhengui’s cries of confusion behind them, having been transported with them. “In any case, for bringing this to my attention, I will see the two of you rewarded. Now, get you gone. Sealing off this valley is going to take some time.”

Together, Ling Qi and Xuan Shi bowed again and turned to leave. It was an odd end to an odd adventure. Still, up until its end, she had had fun. And later, when she had a chance to check, she found that she - and presumably Xuan Shi as well - had been rewarded handsomely with ten contribution points and sixty sect points, enough for some potent cultivation medicines or a visit to the higher levels of the archive..

But it was time to get back to her duties. Cai Renxiang’s next social gathering was coming up, and she could feel the insistent tugging of the hole in her cultivation art, demanding that she decide which phase to empower.
