“I bought the best, most highly recommended sleep things when I moved into my new room at Celena North,” he said after thinking for a minute. “The perfect sheets and a blanket that manages the bed temperature and a machine that makes peaceful sounds. It will be good to lie down and enjoy it all without thinking, ‘I hope it works tonight’ half the time.”

Stuart smiled, but it turned quickly worried. “Do you need peaceful sounds in the cottage to sleep well when you visit?”

“No. It’s—”

“And human bed coverings!”

“The cottage is very comfortable. I like sleeping there. Don’t change it for me.”

Stuart looked like a person who was planning to research white noise machines no matter what.

“Eat the other half of that apple you started earlier, or it will turn brown,” Alden said to distract him. “And then will you hit me again with that spell that knocked me down? I’ll shield as much of myself as possible this time. I want to see if it makes me lose preservation.”

“It will turn brown? And that’s bad?” Stuart hurried toward the root where his snack had been left. “You should have told me not to save this kind sooner!”

He chomped into the apple like he was afraid it was going to rot away any second.

******

Stuart had been amazing at pulling his blows and controlling the mimic all afternoon so that Alden got plenty of tries at each scenario without taking more than an instructive number of hard hits on body or shield. But not long after they started reenacting the last demon attack in slightly different ways, The Bearer of All Burdens was finally exhausted. Alden was disappointed when it happened, not only because this had been a valuable practice but also because they’d developed such a good task-focused camaraderie.

“That was all I had to give,” he said regretfully as he climbed back upright. The poncho he’d been preserving flapped around him, barely held together at the neck after being on the receiving end of a strike from the hazard mimic. Beneath the shredded plastic, the protective shirt was covered in cracked and broken tiles from reducing what was left of the impact.

“It was well done,” said Stuart. “You’ve learned that you can do what you want in the dreams, and you’ve built plenty of memories that Yenu-pezth can use to help her in her work.”

If Alden wasn’t imagining things, he sounded disappointed it was over, too.

While Stuart collapsed the mimic back into its portable starting size, Alden went over to their base of operations and took off the shirt so that he could remove all the break plates more easily.

Broken ones in the trash, good ones in the carrying case.

He was delighted to find that it wasn’t actually a hundred degrees in this part of the forest, despite how he’d felt all afternoon. This safety suit had just been made for a species that liked way more insulation than him. For all I know, this is the winter version. Stuart had said it was the only size large enough for him at the school.

“This has someone’s name written on the inside in some kind of white stuff,” he said. “Do we need to set up a meeting so I can apologize to Okera-en?”

Noh-en’s relative?

Stuart looked back at him. “It’s probably written there humorously because Okera-en was once the only person in a class who it fit. Those clothes aren’t individual property. Students just take them as needed to go with the plates.”

Alden dropped a few more tiles into the trash. They clattered like plastic, and they didn’t weigh much more.

“Worli Ro-den,” said Stuart, “…no. I’ve changed my mind. I apologize for speaking of him when our day has turned more forward-looking. Would you have a meal with me before you go back to Anesidora? We have meat petal.”

Alden was startled to have Ro-den brought up and then rejected as a conversation topic in the same sentence. He turned to see Stuart kicking leaves back over the dirt he’d dug up earlier. Alden wasn’t sure if putting the forest back the way they’d found it was important or if Stuart was being fake busy.

“I was going to be here awhile longer if you aren’t tired of my company. Meat petal would be delicious. I did plan to sleep on Earth, though, so that you don’t have to stay awake until the middle of your night to send me back for my classes tomorrow.”

“I don’t mind staying awake,” Stuart said immediately.

“Eventually, you will mind how inconvenient I am if I don’t try to minimize it. You already have to do bokabv chores because of me.” Alden peeled off the final tile and laid the shirt over the nearest root, then he reached for his messenger bag. It was stuffed with the clothes he’d changed out of earlier. “And if you want to say something about Ro-den, you should. I’m curious, and I promise not to ruin the rest of the day by telling you how much I hate him repeatedly.”

Stuart kicked a few more leaves before nodding to himself and walking over. “Maybe you will meet some wizards who behave improperly <<to your detriment>>. I hope not, but I’ve been disappointed by many people since I started studying at LeafSong, so maybe I hope for a little too much.”

Alden snorted. “Only a little?”

He pulled his own cleaner, drier shirt over his head and belatedly realized that this conversation might have been kicked off by Stuart spotting his tattoo.

“But I do think the commendation makes your chance of being summoned for inappropriate jobs as small as an itz grain,” Stuart continued. “And I think your whole life—may it be long—may not bring you into contact with a second wizard who is much like Ro-den.”

He glanced at the spot where the tattoo had just been hidden, and then, for some reason, over at Alden’s bag. “Worli Ro-den is selfish, angry, and <<distressingly weird>>. I do not understand him well, and what I understand, I do not like at all.”

Stuart’s lifted chin and tone of condemnation somehow made the blunt language even more delightful than it would have been anyway, considering the subject. Alden was pleased to learn that there was a word for distressing weirdness that sounded like someone was trying to say “eek” three times as fast as possible.

“I’m glad you gave me your perspective on how summoners might… probably, will…see the commendation,” he said. “And I have been wondering lately if I underestimated Ro-den’s selfishness by a little.”

Stuart’s lips twitched up. “Only a little?”

Alden groaned.

Having a partner for Ro-den put-downs was great, but it did remind him of his most recent realization about the professor. The one that made him feel like such an idiot, he didn’t want to ask if he was right about it. He decided to make himself, just to get it over with and then put it away once and for all.

“You know how I went to Thegund to pick marleck berries,” he began.

Stuart lifted a hand and made a strange bouncy gesture with two fingers extended.

“What does that mean?” Alden asked, trying it himself. “I don’t know it.”

“It’s <<a comical character who appears in children’s stories, known for lying and then running away>> fleeing over the hills.” Stuart did it again.“It means I know you’re lying. But not in an upset way.”

“That’s a fun one. So I was picking marleck berries, and Joe’s—Ro-den’s—lab happened to be nearby. And some of his assistants were trapped there by politics and the situation…and I guess…I’m wondering if Ro-den could have done something to get them all away from there sooner. From Thegund.”

Stuart didn’t reply for a few seconds. Those few seconds were so long that Alden answered himself before he’d have to endure one more.

“He could have. Of course. Unimportant people don’t get to teach at the second best wizard university on the Triplanets, do they? And only very important people would ever be allowed to do it as punishment for crimes. He’s important, isn’t he? He could have done something for them. If he wanted to badly enough.”

Something before me. Better than me. Faster than me. Something that wouldn’t have hurt me and killed them.

Stuart swallowed. “Alden, you understand a little less, or differently, than I assumed you…I guess there was no kind reason for Aunt Alis to explain everything if she…would you like a shower and meat petal first? We can go back to the cottage and then talk about it.”

“Are you going to tell me something horrible?”

“I don’t know. I think I need to tell you something that will hurt your feelings. And bad news is better when you’re chewing. Veln Dad says that.”

Alden doubted Stuart could reveal information about Ro-den and Thegund that would hurt in a new way. It was already so shitty that there wasn’t room left for one more piece of crap to matter, and he felt like he was getting better at moving along.

But just in case…

Just in case.

“Tell me whatever you think the worst part of it will be for me,” he said. “Simple and fast.” Hit me with it. “Then we’ll go chew on meat petal and talk about it more if I really have to.”

Stuart straightened and looked him in the eye. “The scientists Ro-den sent you to remove from Thegund could have easily called for a flyer and been taken to safety on the other side of the moon, to Chayklo, whenever they wanted. Before the corruption broke through. If Ro-den said otherwise, he lied.”

“No. There’s this corporation,” said Alden, “called Yipalck. They wouldn’t let them unless… ”

“Yipalck was the largest supporter for Ro-den’s research,” said Stuart. “He owed them a percentage of his <<official recognition>> for any discoveries he made. But as part of a battle he was having with members of the Grand Senate, Ro-den destroyed an invention of great scientific value and the records of how he created it. He wasn’t allowed to do that. There are expectations of people who research chaos, and new knowledge in that area is supposed to be made available to all members of the wizard class who are qualified to have it.

“Ro-den thought that the reward he was going to receive was unfair, so he wanted to force the committee in charge of dealing with him into a new negotiation. They wouldn’t yield. He wouldn’t yield. Eventually, he…did some things to personally insult a couple of Grand Senators.”

Stuart stared off into space briefly, and Alden wondered if he was about to elaborate on Ro-den’s personal insults.

“Ro-den jumped for the highest branch and hit his head on every lower one as he fell back down,” Stuart said instead. “So he lost his lab. Yipalck was supposed to recover whatever information was possible without Ro-den’s help. He was ordered to give his assistants permission to tell the new owners what they’d been working on. Instead, he broke all of the secrecy contracts that protected the research they’d done over the past years completely, and told Yipalck to make new ones with everyone at the lab…if they could.”

Stuart said that last part in a “Can you believe it?” voice.

“Breaking the contracts was bad?” Alden asked.

“The information his assistants had didn’t belong to them and Ro-den alone. And he was known for letting them be very involved in his studies. It wasn’t safe to just let them leave and tell whoever they liked how to build a new kind of artificial demon. That was what Ro-den claimed they’d done.”

Hello. What?

“I don’t know exactly what Ro-den’s reasons were. But it meant all of his assistants needed to be bargained with, and it took a long time, and the longer it took, the more opportunity he could find to change his situation. The most loyal ones were still there at the end.”

It was almost the same story Alden had been told. Just with a few more details, a slightly different point of view.

Yipalck won’t let us leave because we’re loyal to Ro-den and won’t agree to their contract like the others did. Yipalck won’t let us leave because we’re loyal to Ro-den and if we don’t agree to their contract…we can just go build some artificial demons in a garage somewhere?

Alden shook his head. “They wanted to get away from that lab. They did.”

They were scared. They were so glad I was there.

“They wanted to get away, but they wanted to do it in a manner that gave their wizard the most control and <<leverage>> possible,” said Stuart. He took one step closer to Alden. “I think. I can’t truly know, and it’s not right to speak for them confidently. They were willing to take risks. Those risks would have gotten all of them killed, and they didn’t deserve that. But since you’re asking if Ro-den could have gotten them out somehow, I thought…it’s important for you to know that they only had to agree not to continue the research or share it in order to leave. As far as I know.”

“I see,” said Alden.

“And Ro-den could have just given up the information instead of trying to use it to bargain with the Grand Senate. He could even have kept it and done other things if he was willing…he would have a lot to offer in an exchange of favors, if he was less proud.”

“Thank you for telling me.” Alden felt more detached from the information than he would have weeks ago. Maybe it really was just too much disappointment already for it to get any worse. “What reward did Ro-den want so much he started a battle with the senate over it? If it’s not a secret.”

Stuart was watching him closely. “It’s not. He wanted them to give him a higher title. Because of the unusual worth of his discovery. He wanted <<Trimeritorious>>…a lot of people think he did deserve it before he destroyed everything. The committee in charge of reviewing his contribution might have been <<stingy>>.”

For a title. And whatever power went with it.

