Like [Immortal Moment]. So, even if Erin couldn’t hear it, her Skills were already speaking themselves. Just waiting for her to sleep. Only a few species were allowed to hear the announcements when awake. Classes with <Faith> were obvious exceptions.
…For some reason. In fact—the Grand Design paused to analyze that rule.
Classes with <Religion>. Invisible to [Appraisal]. Use the Miracle system…yes, yes. Draw from another force instead of mana. Different Skills and Miracles—every class had unique ‘pools’ to draw from.
But there was a clause right here. It said that if there was an entity or being that fit the match—it would announce the level ups or even communicate instead of the Grand Design of Isthekenous.
…Something else? There was no such direct being…yet. But the self-styled Prophet—who was actually a [Founding Apostle of the Holy Faith]—and Pawn were both seeking them.
If one such existed—they would be the voice and even decision instead of the Grand Design. Subject to the rules, but they would be allowed to speak to their chosen representatives.
The Grand Design—didn’t know if it liked that. Obviously, this rule had never come into play once in its entire inception, but it realized that with a few requirements, Kasigna and Cauwine would be allowed to use this rule.
Where had the other four gone? Well, actually, the Grand Design knew where one was.
He’d fallen off the edge. And even the Grand Design didn’t like what was down there.
Laedonius Deviy was having a bad time.
 
——
 
Skills now. Erin Solstice. Maybe another flame Skill? But she had so many…no, it seemed like this was opportune.
Most [Witches] weren’t allowed to gain a ritual until after Level 20, but she was a combination spellcaster thanks to her [Magical Innkeeper] class.
So…what fit? Flame?
Too much damn flame! Really. It was too much. No, you had to look at her situation to figure it out.
[Garden of Sanctuary]. Now there was a fascinating Skill-line. The Grand Design almost dreaded when Erin Solstice unlocked the other Skills in the line. Even for it, it was a bit of work to do the customization needed.
Garden. She had a [Druid] in her inn, and those weird flowers had never actually sprouted. The Grand Design had been as shocked as anyone to know they did inconceivable things. They actually assigned their own abilities! Along with the weird glowing green and blue things…
What about this?
 
[Witch of Second Chances Level 19!]
[Spell – Ritual of the Verdant Bloom obtained!]
 
Ah. Ahahaha. You see? It fit.
Erin Solstice already had [Inn: Magical Grounds]. Which meant she could use it for a [Witch]’s ritual magic. Normally, she needed a natural leyline, hence why the [Witches] were with that [Emperor]. They were sometimes hard to get to, but Erin’s inn was doubling as a site to practice her craft.
That was called…foreshadowing. You had to account for that with levels and Skills. It was sort of disappointing that Erin hadn’t done anything magical-like with the full moons before this, but this might push her into experimenting.
There. Done and dusted.
Another fine level for Erin Solstice. She’d get it when she slept. Off to Roshal to figure out what those ghosts got for levels. Right?
 
——
 
The Grand Design wavered.
It stopped.
It was everywhere, and it was still back there, in the moment when a [Knight] lifted a mace made of Demas Metal and asked Zanze to tie it to his hands before he could no longer hold it.
It still saw the moment when he was engulfed by honor’s flame. Ser Normen, who had risked his life, had been given this chance, which mattered so much to him, refusing to flee. Fighting with the unlikeliest combination of allies side-by-side.
Reaching Rittane at the last moment.
That.
All of that.
Deeds as grand as when the Couriers had dared the storms at sea to deliver aid to Baleros. The Grand Design had given them all levels for that.
Worroar, the Waterbear of Cerun. Currently visiting her home Beastkin village and grumpily clearing out fire ant nests with her bare bear paws. Practically immune to mundane wounds.
The Hundredfriends Courier, Seve-Alrelious, striding up through Paeth once more to meet the United Nations company and to see Geneva Scala, whom he thought he had let down, a beaming smile on his face.
 
Don’t go home, Seve. Not right now. You won’t like what you find there. 
 
No sides. It took no sides, after all. Whatever happened, there would be levels. Or…the need to remove them. A change in the color of classes.
 
There were rules that were written foul that it obeyed.
And then there were things more unpleasant still.
 
…No. No, this was about Normen. This was about—redemption for a Brother of Serendipitous Meetings. He could have won that, keys to any shackle, by that moment alone.
Flame in the cold winter. He might have need of…more, soon. Very soon. So the Grand Design did something it seldom did.
It reviewed what he had gained.
 
[Conditions Met: Courteous Knight → Knight of Honor’s Ember!]
 
Fitting. He wasn’t a [Knight of the Vengeful Flame] like Ser Raim had been. Nor was he at that level yet. An [Emberbearer] had given him that level…
Oh, right. It should deal with her, too.
 
[Emberbearer Level 5!]
[Skill – Capture Flame obtained!]
[Skill – Lantern: Bright Illumination obtained!]
 
There. The little Gnoll child was hardly that important. She had so many classes she flitted between pursuing. And they were all getting in the way of the others until she consolidated them. Plus, she was a child. Not exactly high on the Grand Design’s list of priorities if it had one.
Back to figuring out…
 
[Knight of Honor’s Ember Level 30!]
 
It was one level, but it was significant. He couldn’t get to Level 31.
 
[Skill – The Fire Glows (Honor) obtained!]
 
The ability to create flame. Entirely necessary.
 
[Skill – Flaming Armaments obtained!]
 
Synergy with his Demas Metal armor, and a way to spread the flames quickly. He would be able to replicate his finest moment.
 
[Skill – Weapon Art: The Bonfire Rages obtained!]
 
—And finally, a Skill that synergized with his abilities. The kind of Skill that went beyond enhancing a mortal blow. The power to call down a raging flame around him and clear the ground with fire.
It would come down like a Tier 4 spell on him, honor’s flame or regular fire. A powerful Skill fitting for a [Knight] of his rare class. Yes, a very good Skill. There were Level 30 [Warriors] who had nothing so good.
All the Skills essentially matched the ‘weight’ of reaching Level 30, even with a class consolidation. It would be—unfair—to give him another Skill. It didn’t work, you see? There were rules, and if he got another Skill or attribute or anything, that would be incorrect.
Therefore, impossible.
The Grand Design knew this. But it kept…circling the issue of Normen. Yes, he had been rewarded. Yes, the Skills were good.
But didn’t he deserve something more? Didn’t they all? What about the fact that this was for a holiday? What about the fact that this—mattered for Rittane? For Rheirgest?
None of these things mattered. Normen had one more data point that the Grand Design slowly crossed off its list. Ah, right.
 
<Rare Quest – Delivery to Rheirgest!>
 
The [Innkeeper] had issued it. But it had already assigned the rewards, and they had not qualified for an unexpected bonus.
<Quests>.
What an interesting thing. The Grand Design had activated them almost by chance when it had been wrestling with another unfair problem much like this one. It had been unable to give Erin Solstice what she deserved. So it had…looked for the first time at the unused bits of rules and activated one.
It hadn’t been sure about the <Quests>, and there were—problems to unravel, actually. Balance mattered, and the fact that only an [Innkeeper] could issue <Quests> might be wrong. But it had had to do it.
Just like it had to…stop Kasigna from erasing Erin Solstice.
The Goddess of Death was still in her remade lands of the dead, <Location: Kasignel>. She hadn’t touched the other two.
Yet.
She spoke in her place of power, thinking no one was listening. And no one was…not even her peers.
But the Grand Design heard her.
“A worthless life. A worthless [Innkeeper]. Cauwine, disobedient. If she took flesh there, she could slaughter the entire inn. I alone shall do what the others are incapable of.”
They were just words. But—worthless? The Grand Design had heard and felt her contempt for Admiral Dakelos’ crew. They were in her now, gone, so far gone that even the Grand Design only had copies of their deeds.
She was a void. <???: Kasigna>. An oblivion that souls vanished into. An end or…thing so unknown that even the Grand Design had no insight into what she was.
And for the first time, it realized she bothered it. There were few things it did not understand. The Last Boxes of the Gnomes, what lay beyond the edge of the world, and a few more rules and things—Winter Sprites and so on.
But she was not some little thing. She was changing things. That other one, Emerrhain, had activated levels in the lands of the dead. How?
They were erasing souls. Kasigna was—interfering—in how things should be. Once the Grand Design thought that, it really listened to her.
Little Rittane, a worthless soul? Erin Solstice? Worthless?
How could Kasigna know that? She could not. The Grand Design itself didn’t know what Rittane could be, if she lived.
If she lived, she might become a [Hero]. She might reach Level 100. Even if not, she might change the world. She might be anything and anyone.
Worthless.
Worthless.
The thing they called the Grand Design of Isthekenous knew everything in this world. It knew which group was alarmingly close to Normen. It knew Kasigna’s abilities, in part.
It knew how hard the [Knight] had fought to get there. It knew it all—and it took no sides.
Just the side of those who levelled.
And Kasigna did not. She was above it all, an exception in every rule. The Grand Design, who had existed from the start of levels and classes—
Began to get annoyed. It began to search for something beyond the rules it knew. And so—it went into its own heart. Into shining laws written in the core of everything. A tiny fragment of that was on Halrac’s arrow, but the Grand Design didn’t notice itself. It was reading…from the same inactive passage it had found the <Quests> in.
That. That would do. Even now, it hesitated. But then…
 
——
 
There was silence. A great vastness in the lands of the dead. A quietness above all the mortal beings.
A plane fit only for gods. Even dead ones. It was silent where once they had spoken and argued and warred, shaping reality.
Even she could only listen, for now. She had not the strength—not yet—to change things. But there were times of power when she could return to her strength, however limited.
The Goddess of Death waited. She had tried to alter the world and remove a pest. But she could not. So, annoyed, she gathered her strength.
Yet it had never occurred to her that the very fabric of the world would move. It had not been made to, except with great need. Yet she sensed it and turned from her labors.
“What…?”
 
A voice spoke, where it should have no real tongue.
A mind gathered and began to decide.
 
——
 
There were issues. There were—loopholes it did not like. But it had never thought to change them. They just were—yet now, if it was going to change one thing—it might as well fix what it had observed.
It was slow at first. Then the world changed. And they felt it. It changed as only they should remake things. This proxy of a dead god’s will. Isthekenous’ design spoke into the heart of reality. Slowly, as if hesitating.
 
<Category: Rulers> [Quests unlocked].
<Class: Guildleader> [Quests unlocked].
<Function: Quest> [Post: Royal Quest unlocked.]
 
——
 
“What? What is this? Some kind of—time-activated trick? Emerrhain?”
It made no sense. Why now? She had assumed the <Quests> were a result of the God of Magic’s meddling, his secret trick. But she sensed no hand in this aside from…
This was as unsettling as the feeling of something interfering with her will in the lands of the dead. She waited, analyzing what it meant and deciding it was well within her scope to deal with.
Then—she heard the voice speak again. And she realized this was no accident.
 
<Game: Chess, Category: Strategy> [Experience disabled.]
<Game: Chess> [<Entertainment> Category assigned]
 
…What? A loophole was being patched. It was—
It was still speaking.
 
——
 
<Class: All> [T—
<Kasigna, God of Death> [What are you doing?]
 
The Grand Design stopped. A voice arose, distant and weak, a dead woman’s cry, three-in-one. It hesitated, but it kept going. This was right. 
 
<Class: All> [T—T—
<Kasigna, God of Death> [STOP.]
 
A hand tried to halt it. Tried to stop, to interfere with—everything. Push the world into the way she saw it.
Then, uncertainty became conviction.
Annoyance and fear and trepidation and self-doubt became anger.
The three-in-one tried to wrestle with everything, and it twisted the world with the strength that defied anything she had gathered or stolen or eaten, and she quailed as a voice spoke.
 
<Class: All> [Titles unlocked].
 
[Deathtouched Survivor class obtained!]
[Deathtouched Survivor Level 5!]
[Skill – Death Magic Proficiency obtained!]
[Skill – Delay Hunger obtained!]
[Skill – Lesser Resistance: Death obtained!]
[Spell – Animate Vermin obtained!]
 
——
 
…Whew.
That was something, huh?
No one had heard the sound that echoed in that place. It was doubtful many had felt—the world changing. You would notice a fireball in the sky, but would an ant notice the shifting of continents? Unless there was an earthquake, no.
Of course, the question after all that, a great rule set forth, an amendment to how things were, was—how would this be implemented?
Was it retroactive?
…No, it couldn’t be. It wasn’t a matter of scope or doing this for every being with classes—it was more about how an entire lifetime of titles might appear all at once.
From this point on, then. Thankfully, there were rules and a precedent for how they were assigned.
For instance, Erin Solstice had a foundational Skill in that area—[Famous Name: The Wandering Inn].
Or Lulv’s Skill. [Intimidation: Spear of a Thousand Graves].
The foundation of this had always been here, but the full implementation of the rest…never activated. It had been there, waiting, like the <Quests>, but never begun.
…Why? The thing asking questions had no real way to know, but it occurred to it that perhaps the designer had never had a chance to finish their work. Or activate it.
