“Aha! I knew it. There are puzzles on the inside. I bet I have to solve each layer, then put this back together in its final shape. And there might even be puzzles inside each layer!”
Valeterisa bit her lip rather than reply, but the Drake puzzler was quite good at this. He was laughing, then frowning at an arcing bit of electricity.
“Gah! What is that? Lightning magic?”
“Do you know how lightning moves from metal to other things? You also need to know about that kind of thing.”
Valeterisa leaned over, belatedly realizing there were more things she had taken for granted. Relc grunted.
“I know how to dodge it…looks like I need to link it to something else. But if it’s all from pieces from the rest of this puzzle—yep. The key’s part of the link. Yeow, that hurts. You know, if I was an unscrupulous person, I could probably solve this entire thing with a bit of metal.”
He glanced up at Valeterisa.
“Just in case you were trying to proof this against cheating.”
The Archmage of Izril folded her arms and gave him an arch look.
“If someone wants to cheat, they are free to try any trick and bring anything they want. The rules say only to use the box—and your innate magic. Cheaters can do whatever they want and claim they solved all the puzzles. The truth is still the truth.”
Montressa was still standing there, looking between Valeterisa and Relc. And she saw the look of understanding and a smile appear on both’s faces.
Puzzle-heads. Montressa was about as interested in puzzles as she was in sailing. But she had rarely seen her master smiling like that. Valeterisa glanced up and realized Montressa was there.
“Apprentice, needles. And something circular. I can do a monocle. So. You’ve solved the Incomprehensible Maze. What about blacksmith puzzles?”
“All of the Pallassian ones. Up to this year. What about you?”
“All of the ones up to…wait, what year was it? 6 A.F.? Have they made more?”
Valeterisa’s eyes gleamed. Relc looked up and gave her a surprised laugh.
“Lots more if that’s the last time you asked! There’s a back catalog—but I could tell you what the good ones are. There’s a lot of the ones that are just fiddly—I had no idea an Archmage liked puzzles. I thought you lot just lifted cities and flew around. I saw you on the scrying orb.”
“I don’t normally lift cities. I like puzzles. Have you done Balerosian ones? Chandrarian?”
“Not really. They’re hard to import, and I don’t have much coin. Destrui was the only one I could get my claws on because, y’know, it’s Destrui. I had to have it.”
“Hmm. I have a bunch at my mansion.”
Relc looked up, blinked, and his tail wagged with excitement suddenly.
“Could I—buy or rent them from you?”
Valeterisa hesitated.
“I could bring them over. I’ve solved them all. For free. By the way—who are you?”
She looked at Relc and had no idea who he was. But—Montressa’s mouth opened—
Her master never asked anyone’s name! Not even fellow [Mages]! However, Relc just grinned.
“Relc. Senior Guardsman of Liscor.”
“I’m Valeterisa. From Wistram. I haven’t been around Liscor, actually. Is it nice? I’ve been to other Drake cities, but never Liscor.”
“Really? Well, I’ve been to the big six—”
“Which one is the worst?”
“Uh—Manus.”
“Good choice. The City of War is always lowest.”
The proud Fissivalian shot back. Relc blinked at her.
“Oh, right, you’re Fissivalian. You actually sound like one of them, ‘what’s the best city’? Well, I’ve seen Fissival’s library. It’s nice. But your street food sucks.”
“It does not. Why is it bad? It’s better than Oteslian food. It’s all vegetables and dip.”
“Yeah, but your food is just mana-heavy. It sucks if I don’t need mana. When was the last time you had vendor food?”
“Hmm. I don’t remember what it tasted like. B-but we have nice bathhouses.”
“Zeres’ are better. They have waves, and they’re on the water.”
“Ooh. I like those. Can we get more food? I’m hungry.”
Valeterisa was leaning over the table. She looked around and waved a hand for Peggy. Then—she was staring sidelong at Relc. And eying his tail without letting him know she was looking. And if Montressa could have heard her inner thoughts…
 
Thought-Process #4-25 (Emergency): This is a special exception! [Parallel Thoughts] activating!
Thought-Process #39 (Special Agent): This is a good exception. Can it be done?
Thought-Process #4-25 (Emergency): Spinning off processes for memory…
Thought-Process #26-38 (Memory): It’s all too long ago! Authorization for memory spells?
Thought-Process #4-25 (Flirting): Authorization granted. I need second-guessing up as fast as possible.
Thought-Process #26-30 (Second-Guessing): Ready to question everything.
Thought-Process #31-33 (Low Self-Esteem): Am I necessary?
Thought-Process #39 (Special Agent): No. Get lost. Wait, is our apprentice watching us?
 
Montressa was staring open-mouthed at Valeterisa with a look of shock, chagrin, and delight on her face. The red-haired [Aegiscaster] was paying attention to only the details she saw.
Valeterisa’s odd engagement. Asking Relc his name. Ordering food and the glances. And the slightest flush on her cheeks. She opened her mouth with a huge grin—
The Archmage of Izril drew her wand faster than she had at any duel. She hit Montressa with a barrier-piercing spell so fast that Montressa didn’t even have time to blink.
 
——
 
“Aaah! Archmage!”
Montressa popped out of the air just past Bird’s tower. He watched her plunge into the snowdrift and come out flailing. Bird lowered his bow.
“See? Erin was fine and so is Montressa. Ergo, I should not have gotten in trouble.”
He folded his arms. Montressa sat up, sputtering in the snow, and a [Message] spell hit her.
Apprentice, get me those needles and a pair of spectacles, now. Also, ask Larra to respond to my [Messages] via spell. Hurry up.
Montressa sat up in the snow, and then she was rushing through the door to the Adventurer’s Haven. She nearly smacked into Larracel, who had come storming across her inn, eyes wide.
“Montressa! Why is Valley asking me how to flirt?”
This was a crisis! She and Montressa rushed around—then decided they needed to call in reinforcements. This was a battle that couldn’t be lost!
 
——
 
In the inn, Relc was actually enjoying himself as he talked puzzles with the Archmage. He only glanced up once.
“Hey, Menolit, come and meet Archmage Valeterisa! The real Archmage! Valeterisa, this is Menolit, the guy who runs Liscor Hunted.”
Menolit was wistfully walking out of the inn, back to work, still staring at that vision of Normen standing there. But when he focused on Relc…he blinked at Valeterisa as she not-quite-glared at him, but then developed an interested look when Relc explained Liscor Hunted.
“That sounds profitable. Do you like hunting, Relc?”
“Not as much as puzzles, but I do take on Rock Crabs now and then for fun. I’ve meant to try the thing so I can get on the ‘leaderboard’. There’s a hall of fame.”
“Maybe you could show me where it is. I get lost.”
Valeterisa managed, and Relc grinned.
“Sure, along with the puzzles. Menolit, want to hang out? Look at this box! I can solve it now thanks to Valeterisa’s help. As soon as I get some needles—”
He was all too willing to have Menolit sit down and join the party. However, an excited [Princess] was making an ‘x’ symbol from behind the bar with two of her [Knights], and a Drake with red scales was pushing her way into the inn.
Embria was coming to see where her father was and ask how to resolve the issues with the other companies from the army who didn’t ‘get’ the Antinium thing and how to deal with Gna, who was having problems fitting back in.
Menolit saw Valeterisa, then he looked at Relc, glanced at Lyonette, who was pivoting with a look of alarm—and Larracel and Montressa were dropping the ball hard.
Some [Heroes] didn’t wear armor. Menolit turned.
“I’ve actually got to get to work, Relc. But why don’t you bring the Archmage over if she’s interested? Excuse me—”
He walked towards the door and halted Embria before she got into the inn.
“Wing Commander! Just the person I wanted to see.”
“Hi, Menolit. Have you seen Relc…?”
“Not at the inn! Maybe he was called in for duty. But why don’t we have a walk—you know, I was thinking of offering your soldiers some free tickets for Liscor Hunted. A way to support the troops. Maybe they don’t want to fight monsters, but there’s a hall of fame, and there are prizes.”
“Oh—well, that’s interesting. Let’s, um—talk about that.”
Embria brightened up at the diversion, and they were gone. Solemnly, the [Princess], [Aegiscaster], and Visma watched Menolit go. The little Drake was looking around, and she couldn’t believe Mrsha and Nanette were missing this. This…this was everything.
 
[Wingman Class obtained!]
[Wingman Level 3!]
[Skill – Serendipitous Intervention (Romance) obtained!]
[Skill – Notice Attraction obtained!]
[Skill – Feather Jump obtained!]
 
Like a thousand flying men and women taking flight from the walls of Pallass…the [Lord of Love and Wine] could not stand alone. Now you saw it, in the heart of your business, a flower blooming in the cold tent where you had to huddle together naked with Rock Crabs scratching at the fabric.
For what was love if not a life-and-death experience shared? Liscor Hunted had a future, and the only way was up.
…The Grand Design wasn’t quite sure about that last one, but it fit the name. And you had to foreshadow the big Skills. Wingman. The concept had been there in many other classes and forms, but the <Outsiders> had such odd names. 
 
——
 
Today was a red letter day, and the brakes were off. You thought there had been brakes to begin with.
There never had been, except in your head. 
—When you knew that, when you were used to Erin Solstice, you learned to jump when the world tilted upside-down. If you clung to your reality too long, you’d just fall. Jumping head-first was the only way to do things.
You might land on your face, but if you were lucky, you’d headbutt whatever was coming.
Even so—for Watch Captain Zevara, reading from the notecards a little Gnoll was presenting, this was unsettling. She eventually just grabbed all the notecards.
Hey! You butt!
Mrsha had to write this down, and slap it onto Zevara’s desk. Ser Sest coughed.
“Please excuse Miss Mrsha, Watch Captain. But may I ask you to return her missives?”
He was protective of his charge. The Watch Captain ignored both of them.
“Titles. Has anyone else gotten them? If it’s like a <Quest>…how do you get titles? And you’re sure Erin had nothing to do with it?”
Mrsha actually pointed to one of her notecards. Zevara was the third person she’d told, so she had copies of her ‘conversation’ with Krshia and Selys. Zevara read the card.
Erin is a cunning person, but even I did not see a twinkle in her eye or her usual, diabolical look. I think she was as surprised as anyone else! It’s still probably her fault, but she didn’t know it was happening.
“…That explanation checks out. Can we get a Title to test it? Do you know anything else?”
Mrsha shrugged expressively. So Watch Captain Zevara got up, found a little safe at the back of the room, and opened it. She came back and plonked something down on the table.
It was a box clearly marked ‘bribes’. Mrsha stared at the box open-mouthed, and even Ser Sest looked astonished at the naked corruption in the Watch. Zevara sorted through it. She pulled something out.
“If you tell me anything valuable, Mrsha, this is yours. See?”
She presented Mrsha with—a voucher for ten free desserts at Barehoof Kitchens. Mrsha’s eyes went round. Zevara waved it left and right, watching the Gnoll’s head turn.
The Watch had a budget they’d allocated for the purposes of bribing various groups. Zevara had, among other things, a single dried Faerie Flower, a scroll with a grant of land in the premises of Liscor, a few vouchers for free eats, and a day-off voucher for Relc in her box. All things that she, Jeiss, Beilmark, and the other Senior Guards had thought would work on various troublesome people they had to deal with.
In this case, the promise of glorious, high-quality sweets did not seem to be jogging Mrsha’s memory. The Gnoll girl begged for the coupon nonetheless.
I’ll give you gold for it! I’ll tell you what Lyonette’s planning to do! She’s going to make a tea parlor in the inn! Terandrian tea!
“Not good enough. If you have anything valuable…you know where to find me. Only for important matters, though.”
Zevara shut the coupon back on the box and wondered how annoying Mrsha would be in the future. Then again, the girl did seem to have a nose for trouble. Zevara had heard she found Crelers just by exploring caves.
In her troubled dreams of the city and her future, the Watch Captain had had one dream where she swept her city for dangers…by tying Mrsha to a fishing pole and seeing which way she swung.
She was half-tempted to try it in real life. However, the Gnoll girl was currently offering all kinds of gossip, like naming Numbtongue’s paramours in love or the fact that Joseph thought Liscor’s Rock Crabs were going to stomp Manus in their first football match.
All highly valuable. To some people. But Mrsha was also, as many people had observed, situationally annoying. She could be a loving, considerate girl far more mature than her age suggested.
She could also smugly be writing to an impatient Niers Astoragon only the minutest of details and demanding to be promoted to [Senior Commander of Military Forces] in the Forgotten Wing Company before she told him about Erin’s ‘newest thing’.
The Titan had sworn a blue streak at her, and Mrsha had thus failed her bonus objectives on the <Basic Quest>. She had also annoyed Fetohep for about six seconds. Then the King of Khelt had introduced her to Chieftain Zicrone of the Satest Fletching tribe, who was now living in his domain.
The Gnoll adult had glared Mrsha down as she quickly gave an abridged and informative account to the King of Khelt. Which just went to show that Fetohep, unlike Niers, knew how to deal with children.
The King of Khelt had no weaknesses.
Well, Mrsha had done her duty, and she was staring up at the sky, hoping for her four silver coins. And the cookie.
Sure enough…Zevara’s scales chilled a bit. She wasn’t used to seeing <Quests> fulfilled. But the little girl expertly caught the four silver coins that rained down practically into her paws—and then did a flying leap.
My cookie!
Ser Sest snatched the cookie out of the air and gave Mrsha an imploring look.
