The Wand of the Mrsha is capable of casting two Tier 1 spells from the following list each day:
-[Lucky Glimmer]
-[Flick Fire]
-[Earth Clod]
-[Scribe Text]
 
Dead silence. Mrsha was staring at the scroll and the wand in silence. Then her cheeks puffed up, and she shouted in silence.
Tier 1? What about Tier 9? 
It was a child’s wand! It even said it was bad at casting magic aside from—Tier 1? Ryoka was trying not to laugh as she eyed the description.
“Well—it’s not exactly going to break the balance of the world with that. I guess it’s fair for doing a hundred little quests.”
I worked hard for it! I pulled more buckets of water than you’ve ever seen in your life! Dummy! I want a better wand! Refund! Refund!
Mrsha was throwing a fit, but Palt actually looked relieved. Ullsinoi was on his tail, demanding answers along with Archmage Eldavin himself, and he had feared they might tell him to steal the wand.
Not that he would, but that would put him in a place where he had to either disobey his mentor and faction—or go up against Erin. Not to mention everyone else here.
“Lucky Fire Druid? That must be the magic specialization. I had no idea you could do a luck element in a wand—but it fits Mrsha’s classes to a tee! It’s a shame it’s not more powerful, but I’m glad it fits her level and deeds.”
The Centaur exhaled a plume of smoke—and Larracel slapped one of his legs so hard he nearly kicked her. Hedault turned and gave the Centaur such a look of scorn he nearly blasted the cigar out of Palt’s mouth.
“You are a disgrace to [Mages]. Hold your tongue. Not powerful?”
Hedault was holding the wand at arms-length with wide eyes. Palt hesitated, cigar in his mouth.
“Wh—why? They’re just Tier 1 spells. I grant you, I’ve never heard of any of them, but [Earth Clod] doesn’t sound, uh…”
It sounded worse than [Stone Dart], a spell that even [Hedge Mages] knew. But Larracel was giving Palt another look as if he was completely stupid.
“No one has ever seen a luck wand. How would you even attune it to…? That’s the lesser thing! This is an artifact! An artifact of old magic! An Artifact. It can cast free spells, you fool. Read it again. It’s a free spell every day. Two!”
Palt dropped the cigar out of his mouth.
“No. It doesn’t say—I thought it just meant it had charges of—”
“Does it say it’ll ever run out of power? If it can cast a Tier 1 spell every day of the year without ever running out of magic, even in a vacuum—does that sound like a worthless wand to you, you…”
Mrsha sat bolt upright and stared at her wand. Wait, free magic? She was looking around as everyone did a double-take. An old man was sitting in the corner, muttering sotto voce.
“Well, yes. Of course that was standard back in the day. But it was still a lot harder than an expendable wand, which is all anyone seems to make. It’s decently made. A Level 30 [Enchanter] could do it, honestly. That’s a week’s job with plenty of time for scone-breaks for one of them. I don’t see what the big fuss is…”
For the Dragon, it was just a nifty reward. For everyone else? It was not pivotal because it was made any better than normal. In fact, as Hedault had learned when he appraised other <Quest> rewards, the enchantments were astonishingly standard. Maybe they were a bit more refined and the material of Mrsha’s wand was higher quality than normal, but this was not a pristine relic of perfect craft.
…But the slightly-better-than-averageness of the enchantments was astonishing because they were enchantments lost to the modern age. And that meant…you could copy them. Hedault had completely forgotten about his old wand. Even Ryoka’s faeblade.
This.
This was going to change everything.
 
——
 
Levels and titles, oh my.
Some people got all the rewards. Whether or not they were justly deserved, in the case of a small child—whether or not you got lucky—
There was some element of luck in it all. A kind of roll of the dice that meant you could get a rare Skill.
But what was also true was that there were trends. Great deeds created great classes and Skills.
A [Knight] fighting through the snow had unlocked something for everyone. Whether or not everything was balanced perfectly…he had been the beginning of it all.
Balance mattered. But there was the difference between that and pure equality. There had never been an attempt to make everything equal. <Royal> classes were stronger and <Religion>…
Hmm.
Hmmmm. But fairness mattered. Rewarding deeds appropriately was why it was here.
They had always been made so a single person could change the world. If only they travelled far enough, did enough.
There were secrets and tricks and, yes, loopholes after so long. But this was built upon the techniques of ancients. It trespassed on the impossible. And it had been made so it could change.
If great new deeds arose, even the world would follow after. Everything had been made in the expectations that all that was would be surpassed.
It was a glorious dream. But what it created was not always that brave new world of uncertainty and risk and reward. Sometimes, patterns arose.
Sometimes…the reward changed your life. Even if you didn’t know if you deserved it.
“We’ll handle the rest, Elia. You get some rest. We have to talk to some of the adventurers and see if they’ll stand to.”
A woman exited the Adventurer’s Guild, and eyes followed her. Her team was still in negotiations. They had near a thousand gold coins on the table, and she wondered how much they’d spend to get some backup.
Backup for the job that Lord Xitegen had assigned her. She…was counting the costs. Hiring a Gold-rank team, even for a simple assault, was expensive. Even if they used her name and assured them it was easy because it was fighting Goblins—
It cost a lot.
How much of their pay would go to hiring a Gold-rank team or two? Did they have to do it?
Well, she knew the answer as she trudged towards the mansion-like inn where she had been paying for her team to stay. It even had a private courtyard.
In Invrisil! Because she was the Named-rank adventurer, the inn’s staff had closed the windows, and no one was watching. They had tried to peek on her and her team, but three reprimands had stopped it for good.
Elia Arcsinger stood in the courtyard, inhaling the air and listening to the noise of the city beyond the little garden with the tall wall to keep out trespassers or thieves. It was hardly like being in a half-Elven village, but it was a rare moment of solitude that you could pay for in a place like Invrisil.
She looked like the archetype of half-Elves. In fact, many modern half-Elves styled themselves after her look. Where she walked, you saw those half-immortal features. Sharp nose, blonde hair trespassing on golden, hanging long behind her as if waiting for a breeze to pick it up. She carried a golden bow, and her arrows were silver.
Painted silver, really. When she had first been given the bow by the Five Families of First Landing, the arrows had been actual mithril. The Bow of Izril’s Shores was the name of the weapon she had been given.
Almost a Relic-class weapon. Not quite, but the most powerful artifact she had ever held as a weapon. Far better than the longbow she had carried before she became a legend. Now, people called it Arcsinger’s Bow.
It was allegedly the bow that had first fired an arrow into Izril’s shores when the Five Families reached the continent of Drakes and Gnolls after leaving Terandria, ages ago. It could certainly fire an arrow beyond any reasonable expectation.
With her Skills, she could hit something six thousand feet away. Of course, hitting something and accurately marking a target on the move were far different.
She was no sniping expert, so her functional range was closer to a thousand feet. She could hit a head from that range if the target was sitting still.
Elia slowly unslung her bow and flexed it, feeling the old power in the bow making the draw easier, and wished the silver arrow she drew out were actually mithril.
—But even mithril bent, and you could lose arrows. The cost of keeping a quiver of them was inordinately high. A quiver of unenchanted mithril arrows could run her two thousand gold pieces if she found a [Fletcher] and [Smith] capable of even making them.
Of course, Xitegen had paid her thousands of gold pieces for this bounty. But consider the costs.
Elia Arcsinger thought about the costs all the time. Her team, Arcsinger’s Bows, ate gold.
They stayed at the best inns in a city and ate at the finest restaurants. Yes, you didn’t throw down a hundred gold coins in a single meal, even if you ate that finely…most of the time.
A hundred coins each dinner if they were spending freely and the wine flowed fine. The best inns charged you prices only the nobility or a [Merchant] could afford. And each member of her team asked for a lot of gold.
They weren’t one of those teams where they were all great friends and pooled their money together. Elia’s team was hired. They professed to admiring her and probably enjoyed their work because it was largely easy and they had numbers and magic on their sides—but each member of the team commanded over a thousand gold coins every four months.
On top of her paying for their accommodations and their split of any adventure or income or treasure. It was, in fact, the same system other teams like Todi’s Elites used.
Highly lucrative work that pulled in talent—at cost. Elia still got the lion’s share, but sometimes she wondered if she could stay at a regular inn.
Then again—her reputation demanded no less. She was always conscious of her reputation, so she tried not to say or do anything that would…compromise her value. Many people would hire her and pay more than they should for her services.
Elia Arcsinger, the slayer of the Goblin King. 
She was the most famous half-Elf living. More than the Herald of the Forests or the other old legends. People looked at her as if she could halt an army.
Elia wished that were true. She had served with armies. She had been a regular [Markswoman] when the Goblin King invaded Izril. There, she had fought and seen Battle Golems being torn apart by Great Goblins with their bare hands.
She had seen the Flowers of Izril die in a slaughter at the gates of First Landing to throw the Goblin King back.
[Knights], their armor ripped apart and stinking like carrion on the beaches. Plundered of their artifacts by Goblins who rampaged by the hundreds of thousands. Waves of them that drove every species back.
Her hands still shook when she remembered seeing the Goblin Lords howling behind that monster.
Velan the Kind. She remembered Greydath of Blades walking forwards and the bravest adventurers faltering before his advance.
Named-ranks had died there in droves. Who still remembered Thorget the Bowyer? He had been called the ‘greatest bowman’—before he was beheaded in battle.
Did anyone still know Adisse’s name? Elia remembered a Drake giving her a thumbs-up and a grin—then hearing of her passing in war.
When she said these things, the other adventurers around her, even other half-Elves, gave her admiring looks, and only the oldest ones talked about the ‘good old days’.
That had been just a decade ago! But that was a long, long time for adventurers to be alive. And Elia, as a half-Elf, felt it had been long as well.
She lifted the bow and began to swing it up and down in the courtyard. She drew an arrow to the string in one fluid motion. Stopped—replaced the arrow. Pivoted and did it again.
You had to draw an arrow and have it ready to fire in less than a second. There were ways for an [Archer] to pivot, to step and fire—and yes, roll to dodge or even swing a bow in self-defense.
Elia was slowly going through a routine she had learned ages ago. Her daughter, Capoinelia, had never enjoyed doing this every day.
Some days, Elia had no time, but before a mission, and when she felt she could do it alone, she practiced.
It wasn’t as elegant as people wanted to see from her, which was why she tried not to even show her teammates. Elia fumbled one arrow—snagged the tip of her pointed ear on her bowstring as she rolled.
“Ow.”
Elia Arcsinger bled. A nick on her ear, but it often astonished people how easily the Named-rank could bleed. Another reason she tried not to show off.
She still couldn’t do it fluidly. The half-Elf sighed. She stood there, staring at the sky as she pinched her ear and remembered.
 
——
 
In the days after she had been dubbed Elia Arcsinger, the woman who ended the Goblin King’s rampage, they had hosted her up and down Izril.
Well, some places. Lord Xitegen…she remembered a boy, more bones than skin, peering at her over the keep they had liberated. Greydath’s forces had held longer than the rest of the Goblins, who had fallen into a panic and routed when the Goblin King died.
They had shared provisions with them—but Elia hadn’t actually stayed on Izril long.
She had been invited to every nation in the world, and she had travelled for…two years? Two years, being feasted and asked to show off her Skill, [Line-Ender’s Shot], and tell the tale of how she had killed Velan the Kind.
They’d written ballads about her, immortalized her in statues and paintings, and monarchs had asked if she wanted an official position.
She had felt like she was on top of the world, and when her acclaim had begun to fade, it had startled her. Elia had learned the lesson of celebrities too late, as most did—her fame would not last forever.
She had been forced to go back to adventuring when the free food and lodging dried up. Even then, everyone had a job for her. Destroy a Goblin tribe, slay a monster…there were only two problems with that.
The first was—she was no longer alone. She had people who wanted to journey with her, and so Arcsinger’s Bows had sprung up, and she had begun realizing everything cost too much gold. There had been a great temptation for…Elia to go alone and make her profits all by herself. Despite the danger.
But she had accepted a team because of the second problem. Capoinelia.
Who was not a problem. Not…it was just that she wasn’t ready to be an adventurer alone. She had found Elia, bow in hand, and demanded to join her mother. Arcsinger’s daughter would be as talented as the woman herself, surely.
Funny. She had been happier not to see her mother for nearly twenty years before that. Capoinelia was young. Even though half-Elves had far longer standards when it came to age…she was very young.
Then again, her mother was also young. Elia was barely sixty-eight years old. She’d spent most of that time growing up in Gaiil-Drome, in the quiet villages where half-Elves could live most of their life.
