When she’d gone out as a Bronze-rank adventurer the first time, she’d come back with a baby. No partner. Just a lot of mistakes you got up to…
Capoinelia had grown up with Elia’s family while the adventurer had gone back out to earn enough for both of them. When she became the legend, Capoinelia had sought her mother out, and here they were.
Six years of adventuring together had given Capoinelia levels…but she was still young in Elia’s eyes. She felt younger than Elia had been, and Arcsinger’s Bows might be to blame.
Capoinelia had not ever gone through the rigors of being a Bronze or Silver-rank, not really. She had started at Silver-rank and been elevated to Gold-rank within two months. Her equipment warranted it, and her levels had more or less caught up.
…By the time Elia was done thinking, she had practiced her bow-swing about two hundred times. And she was sweating. She wiped at her face and reached out.
“Towel…”
No one was there to hand her a towel. Elia hesitated and would have used her shirt’s sleeve or hem, but it was expensive, lustrous pearl dust or something worked into a light garb. She didn’t want to wear it out, so Elia had to find a member of the staff and ask for a towel.
Only when she was patting at her face and sipping from some Pure Water in a crystal cup did Elia catch herself. She sat in a Lifewood chair in the courtyard and stared at her reflection in the glass. And the Named-rank’s face twisted in the little mirror.
She…knew how it looked.
She did. Some weeks, Elia had a flash of crippling insight, and she sat up and almost panicked at the idea of someone finding her out. Of—running into Greydath or a Goblin Lord appearing and challenging her team. Alone.
One of them would kill them all. Even a Chieftain like the Kraken Eater’s…
He was a Great Goblin. A Fomirelin of old, and his tribe had several in their ranks. She had refused every contract that even brought her near him. Elia was a Named-rank adventurer, a Goblin-slaying specialist.
…But she was also an imposter. She felt it in her bones. She knew that if you took away her bow and teammates…
[Goblinbane Markswoman]. That had been her class during the Second Antinium War. Then—it had become different.
[Renowned Archer of Goblin’s Demise]. More complex, more promising. Then—
[Nemesis of Goblins, Ranger of Renown].
Very nice sounding, wasn’t it? It certainly turned heads when Elia ‘revealed’ it to a potential client or a host. A comma class, like back in the day. But the ring on her finger that prevented anyone from scrying her Skills and exact level held a dark secret.
Because when did you think she got each class? That first class had been a common one that Elia had gotten as a soldier, like so many, fighting the Goblin King. Then you would expect the second to appear when…she was a rising star slaying Goblin Chieftains left and right. And the final class had appeared the day she slew the Goblin King.
Only, it was a lie. The day she had killed the Goblin King, Elia Arcsinger had become the [Renowned Archer of Goblin’s Demise].
Right now, her class was [Nemesis of Goblins, Ranger of Renown].
Level 42.
She had not levelled in years. Her level was ten levels below what everyone expected of her. She had hit Level 40 after killing the Goblin King.
 
——
 
There was a secret that only other Named-ranks, or people who had studied and met Elia Arcsinger, knew about. It was fairly open in some circles, such that even Grimalkin of Pallass had known it when he talked to Ceria Springwalker.
And that was that Elia Arcsinger was a Named-rank adventurer more on fame than deed. She had done everything the stories claimed of her.
She had killed the Goblin King.
Elia could still remember him charging. He had run through Tier 7 spells raining down from above, last-resort weapons trained on him from distant nations. Archmages from Zelkyr’s era were dead—he had run into the lines of the archers and mages trying to bring an end to his rampage.
The war had turned against the Goblin King enough to corner him, but he charged at the end, and they were all going to die. He was howling—a voice like thunder.
[Knights] quavered, and the only thing keeping the terrified archers in place was the knowledge they would never outrun him. They were loosing arrows at him, but he ran on, ignoring the metal in his body.
No ordinary arrow even had a chance of damaging his unnaturally tough body. She had one Skill left.
[Piercing Shot]. He was almost upon her when the desperate half-Elf lifted her bow. If this was his end—and the fires of magic had burnt him to his bones in places—
He would slaughter every single person here. Then die.
She lifted her arrow and sighted down the bow as so many had. And knew he would block or catch or simply dodge that arrow. But she drew it and loosed—and she had never fired a straighter shot in her life.
In that moment, he looked at her. Not the arrow—at her. Velan the Kind seemed to hesitate. He blinked—
Then her arrow struck him in the head, and he slowed. He came to a stop at last as the Goblin Lords began to scream. She met his eyes one last time, crimson eyes, staring at her. And she swore he spoke a name before he fell. Even now—
She wondered why he stared at her like that.
 
——
 
From that day on, she had become legend. Elia had never, ever told anyone that her greatest moment had been a fluke. Velan had hesitated, and the arrow had landed true. She should not have killed him.
But the world had recognized her. And she had been granted her Skill as she slept. Yet…perhaps there was some unseen force that knew the truth as well. For Elia was not the legend she should be.
Level 42. That was Named-rank territory, but she had met other Named-ranks. The ones who did not last long, but levelled most, threw themselves into battle.
Like Saliss of Lights, who had risen to his rank by sheer talent and grit. Or even Eldertuin the Fortress, a seasoned adventurer with a career as long as hers.
So, that was why Elia kept training. The techniques she was practicing had been taught to her by a [Bowmaster] of Avel. An old woman who had known exactly how good Elia was and taken pity on the Named-rank. She had drilled these routines into Elia’s head.
Step, shoot. Step, shoot. Step—
Her daughter came into the courtyard just in time to see Elia finishing her routine. This time, it was impressive. Elia’s bow sang, and three arrows arced out of the courtyard.
“You might hit someone, Mother. Don’t you always tell me not to shoot an arrow in the air if I don’t know where it’ll land?”
“I do say that. But these won’t land on anyone. Watch.”
Elia lowered her bow, panting. She looked up—and Capoinelia shaded her eyes.
Into the winter sky, three arrows flew. Each launched within less than a second of the first. The first flew unenchanted, and the second struck it. Then the third caught the other two and detonated.
[Explosive Arrow]. Three pinpoint arrows. Elia was proud of that. Her daughter was, too.
“Is that the trick you used when you killed the Adult Creler? You never said how it happened.”
Elia paused, and she leaned on her bow. She was trying…not to lie to her daughter, who looked at her like that legend.
“I—it was, but I had many, many supporters. My bow was one of dozens in Avel, Capoinelia. We had brave [Soldiers] and [Knights] guarding my flanks.”
She had slain Adult Crelers. A Named-rank was called upon for great battles, and some requests had to be answered. Elia Arcsinger had one of the world’s most powerful archery Skills. Her arrow had blasted a hole in that damned thing.
But it had gotten back up until she had helped blow it apart from the inside. Screaming at her. Mocking her fear—
“You always let everyone else take credit, Mother. That’s why people don’t talk about you enough. Same with that obnoxious half-Elf. Ceria whatever. Why did you let her have the Helm of Fire?”
Capoinelia interrupted, stomping her foot and rolling her eyes with exasperation. Elia was too tired to tell her she was serious. As for Ceria…she bit her lip and half-lied again.
“She had leverage, Capoinelia.”
 
——
 
The second time she met Ceria Springwalker, Elia was on the back foot. The first time had been ideal. It always was when she met her kin or someone she could ask for a favor on the merits of her reputation.
She had asked for a back position at the Village of the Dead, and it had been…fair. Her team was ranged, and even though they hired very good [Warriors] to act as a frontline, she had claimed, rightly, it was for her daughter.
And she had brought down multiple Giants in battle. It was just—
She and Ceria both knew that when it came to the blood they’d put into the raid, Elia had put in far less than even Eldertuin, who had held an entire street with undead gnawing at his shield.
But she was a Named-rank, and she wanted the Helm of Fire. Everyone did.
“Sister, can you give me the Helm of Fire? I’m prepared to very handsomely recompense you if you can. I know your team wants it, but your [Innkeeper]’s alive, and…”
Elia had sat with wine in the cups and looked at Ceria—and realized the [Cryomancer] had changed.
Her eyes were different. She had already had the mark of someone high-level, and Elia had been disconcerted to see how fast she was levelling. But Ceria was too-cool now. Too…appraising.
“You’re going to lean on me, Elia?”
“If I have to. I am the Named-rank adventurer, not you, and my team is famous. It would not look good for you to have multiple Relics. That sword your teammate—Ksmvr—has? At least one Relic belongs to our team or Eldertuin, and our team was there.”
Elia was uncomfortable. Ceria drummed her fingers on the table.
“Yeah, well…everyone wants the Helm of Fire, and they’ll tear me apart if I make a bad choice. Will you hear out my plan on how to distribute the loot?”
She described the auction, and Elia had to admit, it was fair…but too fair. She twirled a strand of her hair in her fingers.
“That is fair, but I think I’d make a rather loud objection to the Helm of Fire slipping out of my grip, Ceria. I wouldn’t want to be unpleasant.”
The other half-Elf had given her a mirthless smile.
“Fair. I’d do the same thing. But…sister. If you did that, I’d have to mention that you asked for a position at the rear. Which would be completely rude of me and damage your reputation. But I’d do it.”
Cold. Elia’s heart jumped, but she forced a smile.
“I had every good reason to do that. For my daughter. You saw me bringing down Giants. If you wanted to be open about that—we’d still clash, Ceria.”
She could make a lot of trouble, or her teammates could produce a kind of revolt against Ceria. Neither one wanted that, but the threat lingered in the air. Elia thought she had the [Cryomancer]…but Ceria’s eyes hadn’t ever changed, even with the threat.
“Okay.”
She gave Elia that disconcerting look, completely without fear, and the Named-rank hesitated.
“You’re going to do it? You’ll have a riot on your hands without my support.”
Ceria leaned forwards over the cup of wine she hadn’t touched. Her smile…had little mercy at all, and Elia’s heart began to pound.
“Do it, Elia. I can’t stop a Named-rank like you. But you know what? When you protest my decision…I’ll have no choice. I guess if you do that—I’ll have to challenge you to a duel. Then we’ll see what happens, huh?”
She looked straight at Elia and pulled the one card that Elia feared. A duel. She froze up—and then tried to play it off, but Ceria knew.
 
——
 
The odds of Elia triumphing in a non-lethal duel or just refusing were high, but her reputation had been on the line. She had stared at Ceria Springwalker and wondered if the [Cryomancer] could best her.
Elia had feared…she could. So the cost of acceding and forfeiting the Helm of Fire had been less than the damage to her reputation.
It was a pragmatic choice. Not a Named-rank’s choice. That was why her team was a Gold-rank team and she was the one Named-rank member.
“…I will shoot through the Goblins’ walls. But I want you to stay behind me, Capoinelia. No heroics. You’re not ready to be a Gold-rank adventurer alone. Let alone Named-rank.”
“So says the woman who slew the Goblin King when she was Silver-ranked. You never give me a chance!”
“You’re not ready! And neither was I!”
Mother and daughter warred in the courtyard. Capoinelia was taken aback, and the rest of Elia’s team froze on their way out to see her. They vanished—and Elia felt another flash of worry.
“Capoinelia, listen. Maybe after this…”
Maybe they should go back to Gaiil-Drome and just practice for ten years. Or live on the gold that she’d banked. It was expensive, how they lived now, but they could live frugally.
But her daughter just stormed off, and Elia was left there, contemplating her raid on Goblins. She didn’t like it.
She was a good hunter of Goblins. She had a lot of Skills devoted to killing them.
[Great Enemy: Goblin]. [Terror of My Name]. [Bane Arrows]…
But the world was changing. The inn—bothered her. She’d heard Shriekblade was defending it. What if the [Innkeeper] took the opposite side? Xitegen had claimed he could stop Erin Solstice directly and keep all but her ‘minions’ from interfering.
Elia needed to be sure. She didn’t like this anymore. She was tired of being the oversung heroine. It would be easier if she could have been an adventurer alone. She rested on one knee and stared at the winter sky.
Why was I the one who slew Velan the Kind? Why did you give me a Skill that defined me? It made my battles too easy!
She cried out to whatever force assigned levels. Then Elia rose. In a fury—she aimed straight up at the sky. The winter clouds overhead loosed more and more snow, a blizzard, though the worst was closer to Celum.
“[Line-Ender Shot]!”
The Named-rank screamed. And her daughter turned, wrath forgotten. Her team looked up—and the people of Invrisil pointed.
The imposter, the tired adventurer, the worried half-Elf. The archer aimed her bow up, and for a second, she was fit for that legend.
It looked like a beam of light, shooting into the heavens. Even by day—the air turned dark, and her arrow shone.
High. Higher. Far higher than six thousand feet. It pierced those grim skies. It punched a hole into the clouds—and sunlight and blue skies shone down on Elia for a moment. She shaded her eyes—and she remembered how Zeladona the Blademistress had cut the clouds apart with just a look.
But she could at least do this. A cloud with a hole hung over Invrisil. Elia lowered her bow and exhaled.
If nothing else—
Tomorrow, she would use that Skill when her talent, courage, and team failed. As she had for ten long years. She looked up—and then turned.
