“Miss Mrsha, in light of my stellar service—would you consent to sharing a tiny bit of your reward with me?”
The Gnoll girl looked up with an open mouth of horror. Was this what having sworn retainers was like? She had to share her sweets?
The little warlady-to-be was getting a real crash course in the nature of Machievellian politics where the princess had to appease the enforcers of her will. She reluctantly gave Ser Sest a sixth of her cookie.
“And perhaps the Watch Captain would like a bite? It’s the latest super-cinnamon cookie, Watch Captain.”
Mrsha’s look of increasing horror was so great that Watch Captain Zevara took pity on her.
“I’m not in the mood for cookies. Is this all?”
Mrsha took her cookie and sniffed it. She licked it and began to nibble at it. It was a fat cookie, incidentally. Not one of your stingy mini-cookies or even a palm-sized one. This one was six inches in diameter, and it was the reason Mrsha had taken the quest.
Calescent didn’t believe in weak cookies. He was even working on a jumbo cookie that was as long across as your fingertips to your elbow. But it had to be chewy and soft and not break apart…
He was the Goblin that little children needed. Not the one they deserved. Mrsha’s eyes rolled up as she ate.
To be a child again in this day and age. Ser Sest and Zevara watched, and the Watch Captain reflected that it wouldn’t hurt to buy a cookie like that. To share with members of her Watch.
It was as Mrsha was enjoying her just desserts that she realized she had once again not received any special rewards. Well, Yelroan had calculated it was almost literally a 4% chance. And he had a lot of data from Mrsha, at least. Although, when the Gnoll had reviewed the people who’d participated in Erin’s <Heroic Quest> to fight against the monsters attacking Orefell, he thought the chance was a lot higher.
[Fill Missing Data] plus interviewing Rags and the Antinium commanders and asking members of Wales and the Dwarves had given Yelroan a far, far higher number.
13% of all participants in the <Heroic Quest> had received a kind of bonus, however small. Which seemed to suggest…well, he was very interested in collecting data for <Rare Quests> and <Mythical Quests>.
…
Quests. Mrsha was closing her eyes and still enjoying her snack, despite Zevara’s continued hints to get out of her office now. She didn’t see the flicker above her head or the way Ser Sest began choking on his cookie bite. Watch Captain Zevara’s eyes went wide, and she reached for her coupon—then decided she didn’t need to bribe Mrsha for this.
Something was happening. 
 
——
 
The second person in this entire world to ever receive a Title was also connected to Erin Solstice. That wasn’t an important fact.
But the thing which assigned Titles still took note of that fact. Everything was in flux. It was running countless calculations at once and generating the kind of data sets that Yelroan would have died to see.
Tallies, individual counts of deeds—oh, so much glorious work! It was counting even more than it used to. Not everything would matter, of course.
But there were some…new rules it was pulling up. And one of them had just been triggered.
What a joy this was going to be. And yet—and yet—whatever kind of vicarious pleasure could be derived from the act of creation and reward was dimmed, even for this new event.
…Because it was her.
 
Mrsha du Marquin of the Stone Spears Tribe.
[Last Survivor], Level 13.
[Druid], Level 11.
[Emberbearer], Level 5.
[Scribbler], Level 6.
 
A lot of levels for a child. Hugely accomplished, one could say…except that she kept picking up new classes and forgetting the old ones. She could have been a Level 20 [Bearer of Luck and Calamity]. She could have been a [Druid of the Old Ways]. Or—or a [Page of Memory’s Flame]! A member of the Order of Solstice! At the very least, she could be a [Scribe].
But no. She was entirely inconsistent. And lazy. Her magical studies had slacked off. She had almost forgotten her [Emberbearer] class until now, and she only wrote messages. She didn’t write as more than a way to talk.
She had no…direction. And her mother was angling to give her a [Lady] class. Or at least, [Heir] or [Precocious Noble Child].
She didn’t deserve a fifth class. Also, Mrsha had no intention of becoming nobility, so that was two strikes in awarding her that class, ever. Unlike someone like Colth, who was a wonderful example of how you could specialize in everything, Mrsha was the opposite.
And she was going to get…
Argh.
 
[Title – Conqueror of a Hundred Quests (Basic) obtained!]
 
The little girl’s eyes went round, and the words flashed above her head. Zevara fell out of her seat. Ser Sest began screaming.
The [Guards] below leapt to their feet in alarm, but they heard a [Knight] singing the anthem of Calanfer at full bellow.
“Eternal Throne shine upon me~♪”
He knew how to make a scene worthy of the moment. Mrsha was choking on her cookie. She’d done it! She had gained a Title!
She was amazing!
The Grand Design, in the nigh-infinite time between flashing her new Title to the world, had to come up with her reward.
It…didn’t want to. She got a Title. Yes, the magnitude was an order lower than Ser Normen’s, but this was not the hardest title to get. It was, insofar as the word applied, glumly scrolling through a list of viable options when something occurred to it.
Hold on.
Hoooooold on.
The system checked its ‘notes’, or rather the rules governing it. It went through the formerly inactive system governing Titles. And it realized something.
There was nothing in here that said it had to assign a Skill. In fact, there were a number of branching rules that had broad, broad definitions. Almost as if one of the reasons why this feature had never been activated was because it was too broad. Too nebulous. And the original creators hadn’t been sure if it could work without direct oversight.
Whatever their plans were, they had been thrown to ruin. But in the ash of countless millennia later…their creation at last began to adapt to their work. It found that it could be—
Creative. Oh, of course. If it wasn’t a Skill—this was what Mrsha deserved.
 
——
 
Mrsha was raising her paws to the air above her head, closing her eyes with the smuggest smile on her face. Waiting for her great and powerful Skill.
Mrsha the (En) Titled waited patiently for ten seconds. Then she cracked an eye open.
Wait a second, where was her Skill?
Ser Sest had stopped singing and throwing his hands up as if worshiping the sun coming through the winter sky. He turned.
“Miss Mrsha, what Skill did you get?”
Zevara was using an [Appraisal] spell, but—she saw Mrsha’s new title right above her class. Yet no Skill. The Gnoll’s stunned, crestfallen face revealed that she hadn’t heard anything either. Then her face turned into one of pure outrage.
I’ve been robbed! Cheated! Give me my free skeleton! Give me my powers! Where’s my Skill? Where’s my Skill?
She ran around, howling silently in fury, kicking drawers, punching at the air. But no Skill appeared in her head.
—What did appear was a glowing flash in the air. Mrsha’s head turned around so fast it cricked. She looked up, and Ser Sest hugged Zevara as she rose to her feet in astonishment.
“What—”
Then the [Knight] wondered if it was dangerous and threw himself forwards with his shield raised. But what appeared was—
 
[Title Reward – Wand of the Mrsha assigned!]
 
And a wand appeared in the air. It had a glowing, yellow star on the end, and it was straight and made of a bright, pale metal. It bounced off Ser Sest’s shield, and Mrsha heard a clatter as it rolled onto the ground.
She slowly picked it up—and the world went crazier.
 
——
 
Hedault ran. He realized, halfway through the streets of Invrisil, that this was suboptimal. So he grabbed a skateboard out of his bag of holding and leapt onto it.
The sight of a skateboarding [Enchanter] weaving between pedestrians of the city then performing a kickstand in front of the door and rushing through it was what some people thought was ‘amazing’ or ‘odd’.
Like Elia Arcsinger, emerging from the Adventurer’s Guild in Invrisil.
She had no idea what was going on. 
Hedault emerged into The Wandering Inn and shouted at the first person he saw.
“Where is it? I have just arrived—where is—”
Liska didn’t even have to explain. She just pointed, and Hedault charged down the hallway. He was, in fact, the fifth mage to arrive.
Grimalkin, Palt, and Montressa were already fighting to see Mrsha’s wand. The little girl was showing it around, and her mother was in hysterics.
“Her wand? A Wand of—”
The only [Mage] not present who should have been all over the wand and trying to steal it was, ironically, Archmage Valeterisa. She was in Liscor’s marketplace, meeting one of Relc’s puzzle-merchant friends.
In light of her master’s personality, Montressa had not told her what was happening immediately. But if Hedault couldn’t figure it out—
“Why are you holding it? Drop it!”
The [Enchanter] snapped. Mrsha dropped the wand on the table. She was holding an unknown wand that had just appeared out of nowhere? Ridiculous!
Every other [Mage] remembered their basic safety precautions and backed up. Palt began casting a protective barrier as Montressa beat him to it. However—
Hedault was the fifth [Mage] to arrive. The shortest of the [Mages], but the highest-levelled, picked up the Wand of the Mrsha and twirled it between her fingers.
Larracel the Haven rolled her eyes as she inspected the wand’s custom grip, attenuated for Gnoll paws rather than Human hands.
“It’s well-balanced. Slicker handle than I would make, but Gnolls have pads, so there’s less need for friction. What is this star? It’s not painted wood.”
She turned—and she and Hedault noticed each other. Hedault caught his breath.
“Wizard Larracel.”
“Enchanter Hedault. So you’re the expert that Miss Lyonette sent for.”
Montressa blinked and realized the two knew each other, even if they had never been in the same room that she had seen. Of course the two high-level practitioners knew each other.
Then she saw Hedault, his robes askew, but fussily putting on some spectacles to better see his work, placing tools down on a table and looking around for a room to inspect this in a safe, concealed environment.
A fastidious man, but a genius at his work. And here was Larra, who had created her own Haven, a master of magic in her own right.
Montressa had just seen the impossible happen. Hedault was nothing like Larra, but they were both Human, good at magic, and…
Visma poked her head up from behind the adults, more excited about this than the wand. Could it be…?
Hedault broke the moment of silence by pointing at Larracel.
“Kindly place that wand down and step aside, Wizard Larracel. This is no place for adventurer-type amateurs with your scattershot, dangerous methods of analyzing artifacts.”
“Enchanter Hedault. The most useless man in Invrisil for my associates and I. This wand is perfectly safe. Mrsha was assigned it. She doesn’t have time for you to confirm it’s safe over the next ten days. I have this in hand.”
Hedault bristled as Erin herself gasped in a kind of awe. She had never seen someone insult Hedault like that before! The [Enchanter] turned red—and drew himself up.
“I will be dead before I let a mere [Wizard] do an [Enchanter]’s work. You are not the expert here, Wizard Larra.”
He didn’t even acknowledge her [Innkeeper] class. Larra shot back as she peered down the base of the wand, squinting one eye.
“I have heard it said that a [Wizard] can do anything a [Magical Artisan] can do, provided they are twenty levels higher. Therefore, I am the most qualified expert in this room.”
What an incisive cut! Hedault’s eyes narrowed, and he snapped back.
“A mage who cannot even lift her inn without her ridiculous oxen-driven carts has no place to lecture anyone about expertise.”
Larra’s head slowly swung to Hedault’s, and her eyes flashed. Instead of clutching the wand to her chest and running, she slapped it down on the table. And the two began to compete at rapid speed.
“—I detect a limiting magic on the output.”
“You mean, specialization, not limiter. It’s clearly enchanted for sturdiness—but you wouldn’t have treated it so carelessly without knowing that, would you?”
“And you don’t even know what it’s made of. It’s an alabaster wand base. The star-shaped tip is harder to appraise—”
“As if the shaft of the wand matters. What’s inside it?”
They were moving so fast that when Palt tried to touch the wand and inspect it, Hedault slapped his hand with a magical ruler and Larracel shoved him out of the way with a magical hand.
It was all exciting. But when Mrsha tried to pick up her wand and actually use it—every adult shouted at her.
But it’s my wand! I want to use it!
It was dangerous, though. Mrsha’s look of indignation only got worse. It might be weeks before she was allowed to hold it! In fact, Hedault and Larracel wanted to take it apart if they could put it back together!
…Hmm.
Well, that was a problem, wasn’t it? If you thought that this was the craziest thing to happen yet…Mrsha was sitting in a corner, sulking, as Lyonette tried to cheer up her daughter. The [Princess] was patting Mrsha on the back and wondering if she should break her ‘two sweets per day’ rule. Then she looked up and screamed.
“Not again!”
Mrsha blinked upwards—and her mouth opened wide, and her head craned back. Everyone whirled about. Then—
A scroll of parchment landed on Mrsha’s head.
Donk.
It was a scroll. It had brass caps on the bottom and top, and it unrolled vertically. Mrsha clutched at her head and wailed for exactly one second. Then she realized it wasn’t her being bullied—at least, not by a person. She unrolled it as Hedault and Larracel slowly turned, and Erin backed up.
“It’s really not me. It isn’t! It’s Ryoka’s fault! I knew it!”
“Me?”
“Well, who else would it be? Palt? Hah!”
“Hey.”
The scroll was made of ordinary parchment, but good-quality. And the handwriting was…eerily standard. Perfectly legible, in the widespread Terandrian written language, as opposed to Drake or Gnollish. But there was not even the slightest variation in the printed words.
It was unsettling to even Larracel, but Erin traded looks with Joseph, Imani, and Ryoka.
It looked like a computer had printed it. But what the scroll said was even more unsettling.
 
Reward Item: Wand of the Mrsha.
Type: Wand of the Lucky Fire Druid.
Description: A child’s wand. The star tip is made of moon rock. The Wand of the Mrsha is capable of boosting Tier 1 magic. It is highly ineffective for anyone above Level 20. 
