The sound he’d heard was that of a [Princess] and [Innkeeper] drifting off around the same time, then both sitting up, shouting, and falling out of their beds.
“—I just—quests—”
“Woohoo! Crazy magic! Wait. Did you just—Lyonette?”
The voices from upstairs were excited and nervous, and Relc decided he’d let them fill him in. Relc wanted some peace and quiet to think about that poor kid. Maybe he should ask to help do a delivery.
Could he be a [Knight]? Nah, he wasn’t that kind of guy. But he could help, right…?
He put something on the table absently. Relc Grasstongue inspected a huge cube and, with a sigh, began poking at it with a claw. It was, in fact, the same puzzle cube he’d had in Cellidel.
The impossible puzzle that wouldn’t work without magic. Relc had gotten a full refund from the [Merchant] who’d sold it to him, but he’d been allowed to keep the puzzle because the maker hadn’t specified the magic part. It had caused something of a scandal in the puzzle community, actually.
The thing was—it was so beautifully made. Relc couldn’t just give up on it. He’d solved no less than fourteen exterior puzzles, and he had a solution to doing the interior bits.
“Tada.”
He had a wand that cast [Light]. Relc was using it to poke pieces of the puzzle, hoping the magic would let him do something that his bare claws would not. The magical wand was causing a kind of reaction to some pieces of the puzzle, and he had hopes that he could manipulate it.
There was this…transparent set of ‘glass’ in the inside, which moved every time he poked it from a different angle. Relc suspected he needed to get it to form a picture that he’d uncovered on the other side of the cube—a ruby-red bird.
“Ooh. Bird.”
“Bird, that’s a puzzle. Don’t mess with it.”
Relc snapped, claw reaching for his food as he worked. He felt around, missed, and was too focused on the puzzle to figure out where his plate was. The Worker paused and sighed.
“There are so many off-limit birds. Very well.”
He walked off, and Relc kept working on his puzzle for a good three minutes until his stomach growled. Then he realized he had forgotten his food! He looked over—and saw an empty plate where his garlic bread was.
“Damn. Bird!”
He half-rose and realized the Worker had stolen his garlic bread, probably to attract ‘winter birds’. Relc could always get another, and it had been free, but he was annoyed.
However—when he saw half of his mac and cheese missing from the bowl it had been served in, Relc roared.
“Bird! My food!”
He’d eaten Relc’s food! The Drake hammered a fist on the table, and everything jumped. Then he grabbed for his hot cup of cocoa and realized it was half empty! That was it! Relc rose—and then stopped.
The cup of cocoa was rising of its own volition. It tilted upwards, and he saw the liquid disappear with a very familiar gulping sound. But it wasn’t coming from Relc.
His anti-invisibility senses were tingling. Honed from years of battle—Relc stared as the spoon with his food rose and disappeared into someone’s mouth. Slowly, he reached over and poked—
“Ow. My eye.”
Relc recoiled and stared at the empty space there. Someone spoke in a slightly testy voice.
“Please stop jostling the table.”
“Who are you and why are you eating my food?”
“Your food?”
“Yes, my food.”
Relc snapped angrily. A woman’s voice sounded miffed and distant.
“I was sitting here first. The food was placed in front of me.”
“Placed in front of—the chair is empty!”
“I’m sitting in it. Please stop shouting, whomever you are.”
Heads were turning as Relc shouted at what was ostensibly an angry chair. But Montressa, who had been roving the upstairs, heard the shout and began hurrying down with a groan. After all, there was only one woman who would steal someone else’s food and forget—
“Oh. I’m invisible. Oops.”
Valeterisa, the Archmage of Izril, reappeared, munching on Relc’s garlic bread. She looked up at him as the Drake’s mouth opened.
“My bread!”
“It’s free. Don’t complain. I’ll just have Larra, my personal fr—oh. This isn’t the Haven.”
Valeterisa swallowed, looked around, and seemed to realize she was not at the Adventurer’s Haven. She stared at the plates of food, and then at Relc.
“Ah.”
It wasn’t even the fact that she was using [Parallel Thoughts]. This was pure Valeterisa. Montressa rushed downstairs.
“I am so sorry, Relc. I’ll pay for another meal—Master, you can’t steal food!”
“It was an accident. This time. Apprentice—handle it. Thank you, you’re a good apprentice.”
Valeterisa held a spellbook between her and Relc and went back to reading as she kept eating his meal, and Montressa covered her face. Relc? Relc said nothing.
He was just angling around the chair for his best vantage point to use his Relc Kick. It occurred to him kicking an Archmage of Izril was not a good lifetime strategy, but no one stole his food and got away with it.
Perhaps Valeterisa herself understood that she had stolen a Drake’s meal—inherently worse than any other species because Drakes were petty and vengeful and hated sharing. She glanced up.
“I’ll pay for two meals.”
Relc hesitated. Valeterisa eyed his foot.
“…Three.”
Relc lowered his foot and sat down. Peggy walked over.
“You want me to get Alcaz, Relc?”
“Nope. I want a super-cinnamon cookie. Hot cocoa with whipped cream and a double-serving of mac and cheese. Two garlic breads and…a mini cake to go for my kid, Embria.”
“Ooh. Tasty. She pays for it?”
“I’ll pay. In advance. I am so sorry, Relc—Master! Apologize!”
“I’m sorry.”
Valeterisa glanced up, went back to her book, and kept reading. Relc folded his arms, annoyed—but Valeterisa did understand Drake psychology. The same thing that made them natural hoarders meant that they liked the feeling of getting more than they’d lost.
However, she was still sitting at his table, and he refused to move. Relc went back to poking the puzzle cube with the light wand, listening to his rumbling stomach. But now he’d have a cake to give Embria and…
He only realized after a second that someone was staring at him. Relc turned his head—and Valeterisa’s frazzled hair ducked back behind her book. He stared at her lowered eyes—then turned his head back.
He saw her head poke up out of the corner of his eye. This time, Relc’s head snapped around, and Valeterisa’s eyes widened before she levitated her book up. She didn’t peek again, but he had the distinct impression she was using a magical spell to watch him work when he resumed poking.
His hot cocoa was out in a minute and forty seconds with whipped cream, and Relc smiled when he got it. He took a big bite from the top with a spoon and then frowned.
The puzzle pieces just weren’t…working. He could move them with the [Light] spell, but—
“You’re not supposed to use a wand. I didn’t calibrate it for a wand. Just put mana in your claw and move it. The wand is too imprecise. It’s a cheap one too.”
The Archmage of Izril whispered loudly. Relc turned back and glared.
“How do you know wh—”
He paused and stared at the woman hiding behind the floating book. Then at the cube.
The puzzle cube made by the Archmage of…Izril…
“You!”
He leapt to his feet. Valeterisa scooted back from the table.
“Four meals!”
“Not that! You made this! You made this stupid thing, and it can’t be solved without magic! Everyone in the Puzzler community was furious!”
Valeterisa lowered her book with a miffed, hurt expression.
“Yes, they were. They sent me a lot of nasty [Messages]. And I worked hard on it, too! I had to refund all the [Merchants]…it cost a lot to make!”
“Well, I can’t solve it because I can’t cast magic!”
“Oh. Not even a little bit?”
The Archmage of Izril hesitated. Relc threw up his claws.
“No! I can’t even see it!”
“Oh. Oh. But I told them it was a cube for [Mages]. Oh. Not even focusing mana?”
“No magic at all.”
Valeterisa had a dismayed look, as of a woman who had grown up in Fissival, the City of Incantations, remembering the rest of the world didn’t get mandatory magical training. She muttered into her book as she stared down.
“That’s terrible. But I refunded the [Merchants].”
“I got my money back.”
Relc sat down, glaring, and plonked the cube down as his food arrived. Valeterisa retreated behind her book as Relc dug into his food and a boxed cake appeared. Relc just glared at the book, but she didn’t emerge. He muttered.
“It’s a shame, too. It was the most fun I had in a puzzle aside from Destrui’s famous Incomprehensible Maze. I got all fourteen of the normal puzzles until I realized I couldn’t do the inside without spells.”
The pale white of Valeterisa’s hair appeared along with her two blue-grey eyes as her book lowered enough that she could peer at the surly [Watch Sergeant].
“You’ve solved Destrui’s puzzle? Less than a hundred people in all of Izril have done that. At least, when I did it. How does a guardsman afford the puzzle? It costs lots of gold.”
Relc snorted angrily, but his neck-spines rose a bit, and he gave her a sharp look as he shoveled food into his mouth.
“It’s still less than two hundred. You have to rent the maze for a month, and if you can’t solve it, you have to send it to someone else for resetting.”
“Oh. Renting. I remember doing that.”
Valeterisa’s eyes lit up a bit. She sighed.
“I always got late fees. But my Gizeal Puzzle—this one—was supposed to be just as good. Even more complex. I thought everyone would love it.”
“We did. Until we learned we could only get fourteen steps in without magic.”
The Archmage of Izril paused and scratched at her head vaguely. She reached for the garlic bread and paused when she saw Relc glaring at her hand.
“…It’s twelve.”
“What?”
“Twelve. There’s only twelve mundane exterior puzzles. You can’t have solved fourteen.”
“Well, I did.”
Valeterisa leaned over with a huge frown.
“Which ones?”
Relc pointed them out, and the Archmage of Izril instantly pointed at a series of interlocking metal squares.
“You can’t move those without magic.”
“I know. That’s why I took the key I got from this puzzle and moved them with the tip of that. I thought it was a subtle trick.”
“Oh. No. It’s not. But how clever! And how did you solve this one with pins? You can’t tell which ones are which unless you can read earth magic and see which hole has the corresponding metal at the bottom.”
Relc tried to remember as she pointed at some tiny pinholes you had to insert a series of metal rods into in the correct order. He snapped his claws together.
“Oh, right. I knew there was something in there and I had to match the pins up. So I kept trying combinations and nearly threw this thing out the window. Then—I realized every time the right one’s put in, you can hear the sliiightest hum.”
“That must be the spells activating. You can—hear it?”
Valeterisa looked mightily impressed. Relc grinned proudly.
“Yeah, well, I had practice from the Incomprehensible Maze. You know, the one where you have to listen to those stupid—”
“Musical notes? I know that. I hated that puzzle.”
Valeterisa scowled, and Relc looked at her.
“So you did solve it.”
“Of course I did. I like puzzles. That’s why I made some. It’s too bad you can’t solve this without magic. All you’d need is…well, a needle for moving around a lot of things. You’d need a [Light] spell on the edge of a needle, a pair of spectacles enchanted with [Detect Magic]—it’s very low-level. A needle capable of the tiniest charge of electricity…eight needles would do it, and a pair of spectacles.”
Valeterisa had pulled out a needle from her bag of holding, and she was absently enchanting it. She poked the light magic around with it, demonstrating a far finer control, and Relc’s eyes lit up.
“Only eight needles and some [Detect Magic]? Why didn’t you tell everyone that and give them that? In, like, a little locksmith set?”
“I should have. That’s a good idea. I wish I’d thought of it, but I was probably only using one thought process to deal with business. At most.”
The woman was speaking to herself. The green-scaled Drake lifted a claw slowly.
“I have no idea what that means. But can I get those needles? Or I can get someone to make them for me. I really want to solve this thing.”
The Archmage of Izril blinked at him. She looked gratified and glanced down at the needle. She hunted around in her bag of holding.
“I don’t…hmm…it’s not hard to make a [Detect Magic] seeing receptacle. If I had just a piece of circular wood—do you think I could remove it from this table?”
“Erin will kill you.”
“So…no.”
Valeterisa looked around, and who should be coming back from apologizing and paying for her than Montressa. Her [Apprentice] looked ready to drag her away from the table to save Relc as Valeterisa called out.
“Apprentice! Eight needles and some unenchanted spectacles.”
“Archmage! You can’t—”
Montressa slowed as she noticed that Relc was suddenly engrossed in the puzzle cube. And—he didn’t look annoyed. In fact, her teacher was far more engaged than she was a lot of the time and peering over his shoulder.
“Ooh, you do know how puzzles work. You almost have—”
“Gah! No hints! I’ll hit you!”
He waved his claws at her, and she retreated. But Valeterisa was fidgeting with genuine excitement as she watched someone working on her puzzle. Then her stomach growled—probably because the meal she’d stolen from Relc was the first she’d had since yesterday. She’d been hiding from her apprentice all morning and thus had not remembered breakfast.
She looked at the garlic bread, and Relc silently shoved it over. He glanced up as he reached for his drink.
“If it’s only eight needles and a detect magic spell…what’s up with the center? It looks like I need something thin that’ll open each part of the puzzle—like a bent lockpick or something. You didn’t make it so I needed tools, did you?”
Valeterisa sat down, insulted.
“What am I, the creator of the Balerosian Pickbox? No. You just have to be clever with the things you have. But it only opens if you solve each puzzle in the layer.”
Relc raised his brows. Then he twisted the entire cube, and it clicked.
The fifteenth light puzzle was solved—and the entire cube’s exterior shell, the first of many, popped off to reveal an inner layer. Valeterisa blinked. And Relc?
His eyes lit up, and he looked at the second layer with even more puzzles inside! But then he eyed the shell of the first layer he’d pulled off with a knowing look.
