He was flushed with embarrassment, but none of the villagers seemed to doubt he deserved it. If they had the strength, they would have carried him around on their shoulders.
Actually, Ama was slightly angry that she hadn’t gotten the title. Only Normen and Zanze had—probably because they were the ones who’d taken Erin’s initial quest and charge.
But this might change so much! Two skeletons you could summon for free? Even if they weren’t that tough—that was two free skeletons! Even Jewel, a traditional adventurer, was muttering to herself.
“If I had a team of six…and we all got this Title thing…that’s six skeletons you could use as bait. They’re not that tough, but dead gods, six? And I bet they’re daily! Even if it’s one per week—”
Imagine the tactical value! For a team of three like Glitterblade, a free skeleton was a huge asset.
But that, of course, was just background to people lining up to shake an embarrassed [Knight]’s hand and thank him.
“Mister Normen, you have saved Rheirgest, and the world itself seems to know it. I…don’t know how we can repay you or your Order—or the inn!—but we will.”
Dorkel was speaking with Rittane’s hand in his. Normen was bowing, embarrassed.
“It was the least we could do, Mister Dorkel. It was…forgive me, I know it matters, but I can’t take responsibility for more than the delivery. Many people helped to get us this far. And I won’t wish to take anything from your village, not now after hearing how you’ve had to fight to survive this long.”
“Then can we at least offer you a night’s hospitality? Or…anything else?”
Dorkel was dismayed at the thought of sending Normen back into the snow—which was still falling hard! But the [Knight] was adamant. He looked back the way he’d come.
“Now I know how to do it—there are more villages, Mister Dorkel. Some need firewood, others food. I’d like to be on the road in the hour, begging your pardon.”
“In the hour? We just got here!”
Ama was appalled, and even Jewel caught her breath. But Vess and Antherr, soldiers both, just looked back to the wagon and groaned because they’d have to dig the wheels out.
“Can you get your cat to pull us back to Celum? It’s fairly fast in the snow, and unlike the poor horses, it doesn’t stop or get tired!”
Zanze was rubbing his chin, loathe to admit that the undead cat was better than actual steeds. If it was dry, regular horses would be faster, stronger, and smarter, especially since Skills worked on them, but in the winter, the tireless undead couldn’t be beat.
“I don’t want to! I have to stay and—where are the two other horses?”
The [Driver] grimaced.
“Back at the waystation. Miss Erin said she’d send people to get them back to Celum. We need your big-ass cat—”
“Sillias is not a workhorse!”
Leiithe had been listening in on the conversation. She broke in, looking at Ama and then Zanze.
“If you need a horse, Driver Zanze…we could provide two. It’s not hard. But you would have to have an excuse for them. Would Miss Ama take credit for them if we gave you two? We can make them last at least a week.”
Normen’s head turned as an unexpected solution presented itself. He had already been thinking that he’d need a lot of winter gear for the next trip. But if they had undead…
“I don’t want to be hunted by Celum! They’re already after me because of the graveyard bones!”
Ama squeaked, looking nervous now. However, Normen had an idea.
“What if—we returned the bones you stole, Miss Ama. I’ll make excuses, and Miss Erin can get her way. We claim we found some [Necromancers] frozen to death in the snow and recovered the bones. As for these—they came from another [Necromancer].”
“Not me!”
“No…Adventurer Pisces made them, and Miss Solstice is just using them.”
The villagers of Rheirgest looked over, and Ama’s look of nervousness changed to one of surprise.
“Pisces? Are you sure he’d like that?”
Jewel licked her lips, but Antherr was smiling, and Normen felt like he had finally pulled off a maneuver worthy of Ser Solton.
“Why not? He’s a good man, even if he has nasal problems and he likes to pretend he’s a bit of a high-and-mighty fellow. And if the undead are his—”
No one would question the one [Necromancer] who had any sort of credibility thanks to Wistram News Network. Indeed, the villagers of Rheirgest were so taken with the notion that Normen feared he might have given them the most perfect excuse they could dream of.
But horses? People hurried into their houses and pulled out bones, either from actual horses or carved bones from their mines. They were arguing about the animation spells, Thickmarrow versus regular—and entirely happy to do something in return for the [Knight].
And Normen? He realized he might have just found a solution for his problems.
After all—he hated riding horses, and he wasn’t good at it. But if a [Knight] had to have a horse—well, there was nothing better for an odd [Knight] than an odd horse, eh?
No one said it had to be alive.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice laughed when she heard Normen was getting a trustworthy steed. She laughed so hard she had to lie back in her wheelchair—until Ser Sest strode up.
“Miss Erin—with greatest respect, you cannot let Ser Normen ride an undead horse! Think of the Knight Order you’re founding! Is this a good example to set for all the other [Knights]?”
“It’s great, Ser Sest! Imagine what we’ll save on feed!”
She cackled. Erin actually cackled with delight, and Ser Sest opened and shut his mouth in horror. He could only manage a splutter.
“Well, your reputation may suffer greatly, especially in Terandria, Miss Erin!”
Her scowl was warning as she turned in her chair.
“Yeah? Well, as far as I see it, and from the [Necromancers] I’ve talked to, having undead that can till a field or pull a wagon—or clean a table—is really helpful! Unless they go crazy, but that only happened once. Skeletons are really helpful workers if they don’t have souls.”
Sest was so flummoxed by that logic he had no reply, but Lyonette winced.
“That—did not go well last time, Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] sobered at once and nodded. Her eyes were sad a moment.
“No…but a horse is a bit better than a random skeleton. And since the regular horses are in danger of freezing—Normen can do what he wants. Plus, that title! What’s going on?”
“You truly don’t know?”
Lyonette raised one skeptical eyebrow, and Erin threw up her hands.
“I don’t! I swear, it wasn’t me! I haven’t even levelled! Mind you, maybe I will? I should take a nap.”
It was barely morning! But then, it had been an emotional one, and Lyonette herself wiped at her puffy eyes.
“I think we could all use a break after that—that emotional moment, Erin. Good heavens. You really do inflict emotional stress on us at least once a week.”
She was picking up a few Earther-phrases. Erin puffed out her cheeks.
“Crying is good for you! Now and then. Hey, everyone! The show’s over—for now. No one bother the Rheirgest people by popping in, okay? Let’s all take a break!”
“I’m still sad, Erin!”
Relc shouted down at her, blowing his nose into his handkerchief. Erin waved back at him.
“Well—order a mac and cheese! And a hot drink! That’ll cheer you right up!”
 
——
 
The main room of The Wandering Inn was packed with the regulars very quickly. Erin’s [World’s Eye Theatre] had actually reduced the sitting space of the [Grand Theatre], so some of her special guests elected to eat in the spacious [World’s Eye Theatre] instead.
Ishkr no longer did the main room as much—he used his teleportation Skills and ability to produce items from the kitchen to serve the guests in the [World’s Eye Theatre]. Otherwise, it took minutes to get there unless you used the [Garden of Sanctuary].
The Goblins and Antinium were trained enough to serve the guests in the common room, and if anyone had a problem with that, tough poo. Relc sat down in a chair in the common room and stared out a window.
“Ancestors. The snow’s up to the windowsill even here! I’m still sad.”
He was in no mood to watch the news or whatever the theatre was up to. And his one buddy, his pal, his comrade, Klbkch…
“Klb, you’re not even crying.”
“It was the death of a Human child. Very distressing, but she is well, Relc.”
“You’re not crying!”
Relc punched at him, and Klbkch dodged.
“You are unmanageable in this state, Relc. You need not cry for an eventuality that did not occur.”
“Klb. Klb. You’re heartless.”
“On the contrary, I have two. But I can see this is another incident where I am ‘wrong’ despite being right in every factual way.”
He made air-quotes and dodged a Relc Kick. Klbkch retreated further.
“I must communicate this to the Free Queen. I will come back later to see if your mental state has stabilized.”
“Erin! Klbkch is being a cold, heartless bastard again!”
“Did you hug him? Where’s Klbkch—”
The Slayer exited the inn so fast he left a trail of snowflakes before Erin could come out and bully-scold him. Relc decided he would have Erin’s suggestion after all.
“One hot chocolate and the mac and cheese, er, Peggy.”
He ordered it, and the Hobgoblin smiled.
“Yep! And you get free garlic bread.”
“Really? Why?”
Relc was instantly happy, though confused as to why. Peggy gave him a blank look.
“Dunno. Lyonette said.”
He resolved to give her a tip and tried to remember not to forget. She was alright. Relc’s relationship with Goblins was still wary…but he had more sympathy for anyone who had lost a leg in fighting.
The Drake peered around the inn. Most folks were still snuffly, but the emotions of seeing all that had galvanized some. Mrsha, for example, was running around, on a high of relief and happiness especially because she had been the one to help save Rittane!
“Yes, yes, dear. It was your boon. But please stop rushing!”
Lyonette was catching her breath at a table. Mrsha’s face fell. Where was her applause? She ran over to Ser Sest, but he was discussing the use of undead with the other Thronebearers.
Nanette! She dashed over to her new best friend and roommate, but Nanette was heading towards the door.
“I’m going to Riverfarm to catch the witches up, Mrsha. Do you want to come? We’ll have some tea, and I’m filled up with happy sadness. They can use it, I’m sure.”
Mrsha’s face fell. Didn’t Nanette want to run around screaming?
The older girl did not. So Mrsha was left alone—and decided only Visma and Ekirra would get it. A shame they’d missed everything! Mrsha was bouncing off the walls!
She rushed back towards the [World’s Eye Theatre] and nearly ran over Montressa. The [Aegiscaster] yelped.
“Ow! Mrsha!”
The headbutt to her shins had Montressa hopping up and down, and Lyonette called out.
“Miss Mrsha! Watch yourself! Montressa, are you alright?”
The [Mage] rubbed at her shins.
“I am, Miss Lyonette.”
“You’re in the inn? You just missed—oh, so much! Are you moving out of the Haven?”
Montressa shook her head, looking around suspiciously.
“No…the Haven has a bit to go, so Archmage Valeterisa is fine—have you seen her?”
Lyonette had not and was sure she would have noticed. Montressa sighed gustily.
“She’s vanished on me, and I’m sure she came through the door. Liska counted her silver coins, and someone did.”
“Are you—fighting with her?”
Lyonete asked tentatively, and Montressa lifted her hands.
“What? No, no! It’s been wonderful, actually. She’s too supportive now. But she’s still my master…and I have to pay taxes. Her Wistram dues are in, and she doesn’t want to pay them anything.”
“Ah. Even Archmages pay taxes. Well, I shall let you know if I see her.”
Montressa smiled gratefully—only for both women to turn and see Mrsha coming back in Numbtongue’s grip.
“No annoying Mrshas! We’re watching Titanic! Anyone want to watch? Kevin says it’s three hours.”
The Earther had suggested they watch a movie, and so Octavia, Numbtongue, and a number of guests were all having a lunch-movie.
Mrsha was annoying, though, running from seat to seat and demanding praise or asking if anyone wanted to run about in the snow fighting Snow Golems. She was squirming so much that Erin gave up.
“Mrsha! You can’t be so energetic! I’m gonna do it!”
No! Noooo!
Mrsha groaned, but Erin pointed.
 
<Basic Quest – Go Annoy Someone Else! I Mean Spread the Word of Normen’s Success!>
Limits: Mrsha, immediate acceptance or refusal.
You’re sort of annoying, Mrsha! No offense. But seriously, you can’t bother people right now! Please go to Liscor and tell Timbor, Krshia, um, Watch Captain Zevara, and Selys about what just happened! They should all probably know.
Ser Sest will go with you to keep you out of trouble. Oh! And if you want, tell Niers and Fetohep.
Posted Reward: I don’t revoke your dessert privileges tonight. If you don’t wanna take the quest, fine, but no more trouble!
Quest Reward: 4 Silver Coins, experience in <Messenger> classes. One super-cinnamon cookie.
Bonus Objective: Inform Fetohep of Khelt and/or Niers Astoragon or Foliana. Politely and without annoying them.
 
Mrsha was about to spit on the quest when she heard that last part. A super-cinnamon cookie? Calescent must have made a new batch!
She was weighing the value of a tasty cookie on top of dessert. And…bonus objective?
The desire to tell everyone things first and the cookie won over Mrsha’s annoyance about being ‘dealt with’. Unfortunately, she had a questing addiction. Erin had given her a quest a day for months—sometimes two a day!
Mrsha had done hundreds of basic quests. Fetch water. Find my hair comb! Boil pasta! She was sick of it, but the random rewards she sometimes got made it so she had only ever refused three.
So off she went with Ser Sest in tow. Frankly, the two were good at hyping up any event, and they were good messengers.
Erin was unaware of the new change in quest-givers, but Lyonette was about to have a lie-down. And she was going to get a very interesting notification soon…
 
<Category: Rulers> [Quests unlocked].
[Post: Basic Quest obtained!]
[Post: Rare Quest obtained!]
[Post: Royal Quest obtained!]
 
As for Erin—
 
[Witch of Second Chances Level 19!]
[Spell – Ritual of the Verdant Bloom obtained!]
 
——
 
Relc was rubbing his claws together as his stomach rumbled. But he stopped, about to eat his steaming cheesy noodles with bread crumbs and bacon worked into them, when he heard the shout and thump from upstairs.
Garlic bread and hot chocolate were also next to his plate. Ideal for a cold day. But Relc rose a second.
“Everything okay up there?”
