Which begged the question—had someone designed it? The Grand Design of Isthekenous, belatedly, for the first time, wondered why it was called that.
Who…was…Isthekenous? And what had happened? It searched and searched and finally found an inactive entry in itself. A single entry on a list that was far, far longer than it had thought.
<???: Isthekenous>. Total administrative privileges.
The same as Kasigna? It didn’t like that at all. But the questions had to wait.
Action was required, and now!
 
——
 
All of this had taken place within a minute of Normen and Rittane meeting. A minute—and so the slowest announcement ever reached the [Knight] as he straightened.
As he was awake. Normen heard a familiar voice, almost triumphant. And the words…were orange as a Yellat in his mind.
 
[Title – Rheirgest’s Champion obtained!]
[Skill – Gravesummon Skeleton Retainer granted!]
 
“—Huh?”
He looked around, surprised. A Yellat Skill? He’d heard of them. The underworld had a few, but—
Title? Was that a new class? What was going on?
The [Knight] played it cool. Rittane was crying as she tasted the cake, and an [Innkeeper] had popped back in to whisper.
“Normen, Normen! Don’t let her eat too fast or she’ll hurt herself! They have to eat holy crap, what is that!?”
Erin screamed, and Rittane and her parents jumped. They turned, saw Erin, and Rittane choked on her first lick of frosting. But then her eyes went round, and everyone stared—up—
At the floating words above Normen’s head.
The [Knight] slowly went cross-eyed and stared up—and he thought he saw the words flashing there for a second. The title blazed in the air—then faded. Erin’s mouth was about to fall off her face. Rittane and her parents pointed, and then Rittane’s mother put her hands over her mouth.
“Gravesummon? A skeleton? A Title? What’s—”
“There are no undead in Rheirgest! We’re a mining town for bones, but we keep to—er—”
Dorkel blurted out loudly. Then he recalled that Normen had seen the undead and not been hugely bothered. He looked around, and Erin Solstice’s mouth was still open.
“Wh—wh—what the heck is going on?”
She turned in her chair.
“Who—Lyonette? Is this some—? I didn’t do it! Don’t look at me! Demsleth! What’s—what do you mean, what did I do? I didn’t do it this time! I swear! I didn’t—”
 
——
 
Madness. If word of the titles was limited only to Normen—well, it wouldn’t stay there long.
Not with Mrsha the Exceptionally Gossipy and her friend group. Or the Titan’s friendship with Erin. And not least because Chaldion had seen the titles.
However—the second part of the changes, chess, was actually discovered first and made public before Titles.
It wasn’t hard to figure out something was off. In fact, the first man to do so realized something had happened—because it was inconceivable it was his fault.
General Thelican of Nerrhavia’s Fallen had taken a break from the front. Everyone was talking about ‘Pomle’ advancing, and yes, they’d pushed towards Nerrhavia Fallen’s borders, maybe into them a bit. But they’d lost their oasis. He had things in hand.
He was grumpy and had been enjoying himself at an Oasis City for three days before he went back to the front. It wasn’t as if he had to be there until they encircled Pomle with enough forces to pound them. He was pointedly ignoring the Court of Steel’s missives, and after two glasses of wine for the morning, he was in a better mood.
So good, in fact, he humored the city’s [Magistrate] when he was asked for a small favor.
“A young lad? Your own boy? Well, if he wants to be a [Strategist], I suppose I could level him up a bit. What level is he?”
“Three, General Thelican! And only at eight!”
“Three at eight? Splendid! Well, if he plays the Great General of Nerrhavia’s Fallen—who locked blades with the Innkeeper of Scales herself—he will level at least thrice, by rights! I’ve done it many a time. Have a board set. I’m in the mood for charcuterie.”
Thelican indulged the lad, who came in and sat very respectfully on a pillow across from him as the [General] laughed, told the story of his great battle with Erin, and even did a patter-song and tried to teach the lad one.
“Ner-rha-vi-a. You do it so fast it rolls off the tongue, Ahnev. They say ours are some of the hardest patter-songs…ah, well, what a fine game!”
He won, of course. Thelican threw two Skills in to crush his opponent handily; the boy was talented, but hardly that good at chess.
But then, it didn’t really matter as long as he tried and Thelican gave it some good effort. It was an equation the [General] had learned.
Facing a high-level opponent with a rare class like Thelican meant that if he was inclined to, a low-level [Strategist] was assured of one to five levels. The first time someone played a member of royalty, a [General], or so on, they were practically guaranteed a level.
His understanding was not faulty. So, Thelican congratulated himself and enjoyed the rest of the morning with a romp with some of his more personal servants.
When he awoke from a midday siesta, he was thusly very confused—and annoyed—to hear the young lad hadn’t levelled once.
“What? Have him come back, and we’ll play a more spirited game, then. This is the first time it’s happened.”
He played another game—and then on a hunch, called for another [Tactician] and played a serious game against them—then two more. Thelican actually demanded [Sleep] spells cast, and when all four awoke and reported no levels…
Other, lesser, men would have assumed this was a personal failing of some kind. Or perhaps that they hadn’t put enough energy into their gameplay, or the conditions were wrong. Thelican…sat there and knew something had changed.
“But what? And why? Send word to…gah, to all of my associates in the capital. Tell them to test whether or not they can level via chess. And—send word to Great Sage Etrikah, that overly proud fox woman. Tell her something odd is happening.”
It would not cripple [Strategists] and their ilk, but Thelican was privately disconcerted. It felt like a constant in the world had changed. And…
Chess had not been the sole or even main way a [Strategist] levelled, but it accounted for a lot of practically free levels. It was one of the reasons why [Strategists] and [Tacticians] were so prolific; it was more efficient to level in than training for a [Warrior], and it didn’t risk your life. If chess vanished—what changed?
And why had it changed?
 
——
 
There were a lot of questions to be asked. But what was certain was what you could observe.
What the people of Rheirgest and Normen observed was the orange glow. What the guests of The Wandering Inn observed was—
It was almost eerily like Pawn’s [Miracles]. A portal opened in the ground, or a sense of…movement occurred, as if something were emerging from nothing.
It was not like [Necromancer] magic at all. The skeleton that rose with wisps of orange fire in its skull’s eye sockets, bearing a rusted sword and shield and tattered armor, had death magic in it, but its bones were new.
“Look at it. It’s not like the bones of a real person at all. You can’t even see the spells animating it. It—it’s terrifying.”
Someone whispered next to Ama, who was practically jumping up and down with excitement and awe. The [Necromancer] turned in surprise and realized—they were right!
The people of Rheirgest were good at necromancy. Ama had heard they were, which was part of the reason she’d decided to move from Invirsil to Celum, but they were pointing out what she had observed.
“It’s a summon-Skill. Normen, give it orders!”
“Er—attack that boulder?”
Normen pointed, and the skeleton turned—charged towards a boulder, and began to attack it, jaw rattling, bashing it with its shield, kicking it with a frayed iron boot—
“Yep, it’s definitely dumb as a regular skeleton. Looks tougher than normal, though. Ser Knight, can we…see it?”
Rheirgest was fascinated by the undead. Jewel, hand on her sword hilt, eyes flickering with unease, glanced around in shock as villagers stumped over. After they had had a tiny bit to eat, they were back on their feet and nibbling on a bit more every few minutes. To keep themselves from overeating, they were having a tiny bit of frosting or cake every thirty minutes.
Now, completely unafraid of the undead, they walked over as Normen ordered the skeleton retainer to stop. One felt at its arm, and the skeleton tried to stop them from lifting it.
“Oh. See how it’s stronger than a regular skeleton? It’s definitely a step up.”
Pulling a skeleton’s arm and seeing how hard it was to move it against its will was an old-fashioned [Necromancer] trick to gauge an undead’s strength. But Ama had never known it, and she doubted Pisces did!
A community of [Necromancers]! Her people! Some were giving her cat, Sillias, very approving looks, but they were also nervous of Jewel and Antherr and Vess.
Jewel because she was a Gold-rank adventurer and seeing their undead penchant, Antherr because he was one of the Antinium, and Vess because he was a Drake.
The funny part was that it was hard to tell which of the three scared the Rheirgest villagers more. But they couldn’t resist giving their professional opinion.
“Weaker than a Skeleton Knight.”
“That’s why it’s called Skeleton Retainer. As if you know how strong a Skeleton Knight is! You can’t even raise a Ghoul.”
“Shut it. The bone looks normal. Nothing fancy like a Thickmarrow Skeleton Warrior…I wonder which is tougher. You could make one that’d probably beat this one down in half an hour.”
“Ah, but this one is free—”
“Um. Excuse me. What did you just say? Thickmarrow Skeleton Warrior?”
Ama had to walk over to a group of people conferring over the undead. They were all death-magic users, including Rittane’s mother, Leiithe. They jumped and looked nervous, but relaxed when they saw Ama.
“Oh, you’re one of the heroes who…another [Necromancer]? Where do you hail from, Miss?”
Ama puffed out her chest.
“Terandria. Ailendamus…but I don’t intend on returning. I lead a local cabal, actually.”
“Oh…another roving expert. Are you that lot who’s been stealing from Celum?”
That introduction seemed to lose her respect, unfortunately. Ama instantly grew flustered.
“No!”
“Yes, she is. Look, they’re Celum bones. You can sense the local magic in them.”
Leiithe shook her head, and a dozen disapproving glares found Ama. But then the leader of Rheirgest coughed.
“—She did come with the [Knight]. Young miss, we tend not to associate with [Necromancers] that cause trouble. So you know, we have a tradition of some death magic…but we’re hardly experts. Nor do we rove or acquire bones anywhere but here.”
“But you’re a community? And you farm the earth with skeletons? We did that in Ailendamus! I’ve never…seen so many [Necromancers]. Let alone children and adults without the Watch or [Knights] trying to murder them.”
Ama saw a vision of Feren and Pisces and Gewilouna’s farm…but far more complete. In reply, the people of Rheirgest gave her sympathetic looks and warmed a bit.
“—We were here before the Necromancer popularized his farming. My great, great grandmother told me [Necromancers] were as common as any other [Mage] specialization. When Archmage Chandler was beloved—they were everywhere! Ever since then, we’ve been quiet. Hiding.”
“Your skeletons are so…intricate.”
That was how Ama had to describe it. She was proud of Sillias, whom even Pisces, far above her level, had acknowledged as a work of art Gewilouna would have been proud of. But the undead here…were different in how they surpassed her, and even his, undead.
“You have a beautiful cat, Miss Ama. But your death magic is—odd. Intricate in how it moves, but basic in other ways. Have you never heard of a Thickmarrow Skeleton? Who taught you?”
“No…I was taught by F—by other [Necromancers].”
“Without a spellbook? Someone show her what we mean.”
Then, Ama realized that this village had spellbooks. They had what even Wistram had lacked, according to Pisces.
The basics of how to learn a school of magic.
 
——
 
The Thickmarrow Skeleton was, according to Leiithe, just a skeleton with enhanced bones.
“Anyone can do it. They seldom appear in the ‘wild’. Frostmarrow, Thickmarrow, Ashmarrow—they’re just types of undead. See?”
The skeleton looked thick, as if the bones had swelled. It was disconcerting and gave it an oddly armored face—when a nervous Jewel agreed to duel it, the [Swashbuckler] was instantly dismayed.
“It’s—tough! [Piercing Stab]!”
She should have been able to behead it in one slash with her enchanted sword, but she only got a third of the way in. Even when she pierced its skull, the wound wasn’t perfect, and one of the [Necromancers] had the skeleton back on its feet in a moment.
“They’re only moderately harder to make. That Skeleton Retainer is another example of a higher-grade skeleton. It’s faster, stronger, and slightly more intelligent, but if it wasn’t Skill-based, you could upgrade its bones.”
“You—you know more magic than Feren ever did! He could animate greater undead, but never change them.”
“He must have been self-taught. Altering the materials of undead isn’t something a hedge-[Necromancer] learns. Why, even that Gold-rank adventurer, Pisces Jealnet, is just a talented hedge-[Necromancer]. You could learn a thing or two if you have time, Miss Ama.”
Hedge-Necromancers? Ama’s eyes bulged. They were calling her and Pisces…?
Well, Pisces was learning the same lessons that the villagers of Rheirgest were only too willing to share with Ama. But the fascinating thing was that their attunement to the undead—that secret?
Something had known about it and given Normen a Skill fit for Rheirgest in acknowledgement of his delivery of food. In fact, not just him.
A man was half wailing, half delighted.
“I don’t know what I’ll do! Explaining it to the Driver’s Guild’ll be a Creler in a handbasket! But—it’s too damned good!”
Zanze had his hat in his hands, and he was staring at a second Skeleton Retainer, who was obeying his commands. It charged down the hill—and straight into a gap in the rope-bridge.
“My skeleton!”
The tumbling undead fell into the ravine as Zanze clapped his hands to his head, but the laughing villagers assured him he’d get it back.
“It’s a free skeleton, Zanze. You could use it to guard your wagon!”
“I’ll be shot as a [Necromancer] by half the towns I run across! It—it’s wonderful, but dead gods is it odd! Me? A Champion of Rheirgest?”
