The [World’s Eye Theatre] was awash with tears. Awash with tears. The audience would have gotten up and applauded if they weren’t so busy wiping at their eyes.
They filled the seats. Mrsha was blowing her nose on a handkerchief that Nanette dearly needed. Relc was hugging Klbkch, and the Antinium was awkwardly patting him on the shoulder. Numbtongue was holding Reagen as he stared up with a smile.
An [Innkeeper] sat in the center of that grand chamber, like a performer in front of an audience, breathing hard, unable to stand up after the Skill she’d thrown so far and so hard. But it had been no performance.
Ulvama was checking on Erin. Only the [Shaman] understood the kind of backlash you could get from a Skill like that. Her medical exam involved poking Erin in various places and feeding her a cup of magical tea. But even she was glancing up at the little child breathing and hugging the embarrassed [Knight].
Ser Normen had made it just in time. Call it an unimportant story. A silly one in the face of so much suffering. For the village of Rheirgest, it was all-consuming. And it had to matter.
Or else why should Dragons fly?
Demsleth’s eyes were streaming as the old man sat in the theater next to Rafaema, who was definitely not sniffling. He gazed up and remembered why silly men and women in armor existed. He saw something in this simple gesture.
A first delivery. One of many. Ryoka Griffin, Tyrion, Magnolia Reinhart, and more had made their own deliveries, perhaps to even more far-off targets.
But this was the Order of Solstice’s first great quest. Their first deed—and it was appropriate. It was done, and they were not a second too late. They had fought through a blizzard for this.
Only Chaldion was completely dry-eyed, the monster. He sat there next to an empty seat. Saliss of Lights might have kept composed—if Saliss wasn’t marching through the cold already, delivering Pallass’ gifts elsewhere. The old Drake just looked up and saw something else.
Death and glory. Even if the [Knight] had made it a day late—he probably would have gotten a different class. Perhaps a distressing class. But this was what he craved. And he smiled, as if the girl’s faint breaths were inconsequential. As if the sight reflected in the [World’s Eye Theatre], of Rittane and her family, was just an illusion.
And they were just valuable points of experience. He was drafting a note to General Shirka to send out [Soldiers] on this very mission with inadequate support. Or rather, economical. They had done death-marches, trained until they were out of sweat.
This would be far more motivating still. The stakes for the [Soldiers] would only be whether or not they arrived in time. Or survived their frozen journeys. The [Grand Strategist] thus smiled, because he had never conceived a knife’s edge this fine, to force anyone to level. Chaldion thought that was why he liked Erin Solstice. His eyes found her in the center of the theatre.
Erin Solstice was back on her feet after a few minutes of rest. She stood in the center of the theatre, leaning on Ulvama’s shoulder, staring at the image of Normen. She smiled.
“I don’t know what it is. Not yet. But that’s what they should be.”
A flustered [Knight] burning with magical flame being celebrated by all. Then Erin saw the nervous Drake holding a box in his hands, the [Swashbuckler] introducing the brave Antinium carrying two crates, and even the [Necromancer] looking around this strange village in awe. She felt it.
Vess, Jewel, Antherr, and Ama. Also, Zanze, the [Driver]. Erin’s eyes focused on them, and she knew. What she knew wasn’t clear yet—but it was a crystallization in the image of them standing together.
It wasn’t there yet, but this was a foundation. Erin Solstice closed her eyes and breathed out. For one second—
Everything was more than fine.
 
——
 
That was the deed. Those were the facts. Ser Normen had arrived. Once again, the [Magical Innkeeper] had done something that mattered.
Not something that was ‘great’. A [King] could give an order and send a hundred thousand loaves of bread in a moment to the starving. An Archmage could point and damn an island.
These were acts of horror and altruism. But they were—greatness was—relative. You had to measure worth by more than just magnitude, using the world as your baseline. If that was the case, it would only be people who did numerically significant deeds that mattered.
Once, a long time ago, before everything began, someone had understood that. And they had written into the fabric of a new world a way to measure value in more than numbers. If you cared, it mattered. If you worked hard, it mattered. If you sacrificed, it mattered.
A single [Knight] fighting through a snowstorm was worth more than a hundred foes slain. Because a [Knight] was more than a swinging sword. He was a shield, an instrument of law and order. A…how had she put it?
A protector of the small.
Yes. What a wonderful turn of phrase. All these things were part of Normen’s class, and he had met each and every criteria.
His new class had already been decided upon. He had heard it as he slept. A voice had whispered it in his ears, delightedly, even if it wasn’t unique. People had worn flames like honor before.
But even so—
 
 
[Conditions Met: Courteous Knight → Knight of Honor’s Ember!]
[Knight of Honor’s Ember Level 30!]
[Skill – The Fire Glows (Honor) obtained!]
[Skill – Flaming Armaments obtained!]
[Skill – Weapon Art: The Bonfire Rages obtained!]
 
There. Another class consolidation so soon after the last. Normen had reached Level 30 so quickly.
His Skills were fitting. He was the [Innkeeper]’s champion. And he had used fire so well. It was good. It was beautiful, an elegant approximation of his deeds.
…
And it wasn’t enough.
Someone else had been watching Normen’s first quest through the snow. Someone with a better vantage point than even Erin Solstice. The same force that had shaped the [World’s Eye Theatre] saw every single thing. It was in each breath of lung in the falling snow as a man raised a mace.
It was in the sightless eyes of the Snow Golems. It waited, in between the failing beats of a heart.
It even saw a dead god reaching for a single soul—and it was the hand that helped pull it out of Kasigna’s grip.
The thing that some called the Grand Design of Isthekenous took no sides. There were no sides. If it was on anyone’s side, it was on everyone’s side that levelled. They were meant to level, and the being who had written most of the rules, who had come up with the foundation that everyone else had used and persisted after his death—Isthekenous—had understood the nature of deed.
There had been arguments. Great disputes, and the Grand Design did not know this. It did not…have memory or thought in the same way, but it could trace backwards and see other ideas written out, destroyed, never used.
Ways to reward in pure, visible numbers each action. Mathematical formulas the kind of which even Yelroan would have struggled with. Abandoned ideas. Unfinished concepts. The method it was operating under was the crystallization of those ideals. And it was the ultimate arbiter and enforcer of that vision.
It had been there from the start of it all. The being who called himself ‘Demsleth’, Terrium Archelis Dorishe, the Brass Dragon?
The Grand Design had been there when he hatched out of an egg. It had been there before he was conceived, and he had lived for so long, he had been there for a good amount of the Grand Design’s own existence.
There was a kinship the Dragon would never know with the system itself. A kind of respect for one who had also been there and seen it all.
He had done enough to, perhaps, reach the level that not one being had ever accomplished. The great promise of the end.
Level 100. Some had come so…so close. Many had exceeded it in cumulative levels.
But not a single one had reached it. The last one had been close. He had touched the heart of magic—and then ripped magic itself out of the firmament by trying to take it into himself, merge with it. He had snuffed out millions upon millions of lives, and those who had survived had been wretched and glorious in the dark age that followed.
That was how it was done. That was a beautiful story, wasn’t it? No matter how far they fell, someone always got back up and climbed higher. They pulled the world up with them. Even after all this time, it never got boring.
Perhaps that was what Chaldion forgot. It was not merely his age or decaying body and mind that had faltered. It was his true heart.
The system of levels and classes had been there when a young [Tactician] found himself holding his superior’s head on a battlefield. As Chandrarians poured over the coast and the north came burning down from Liscor and Pallass was caught twice over.
Had Chaldion forgotten the strength that had let him carry Inriss for twenty miles on his shoulder? Walk with one of his legs burnt to a crisp by a spell? Stab a Stitch-man through the head and kill for the first time?
Surely not. He had put down his friend at last and realized there was no one there. Inriss had been gone before the second mile, but the desperate Drake had refused to put him down.
How could he forget that? The old Drake, nearly a hundred years later, sat there, filled with scars, and remembered—but he didn’t understand. His [Soldiers] might level. But he had stopped.
Erin Solstice, though. The Grand Design pondered her as well. Somewhere, the Goddess of Death was raging. He could almost hear her. She was…trying to whisper into the center of everything. Invoking a privilege it had thought only it had.
“She dares. She dares? It was her. This is my domain. I will not wait until the Winter S—”
 
<Kasigna, God of Death> [Execute order. Kill entity: Erin Solstice.]
<Entity: Erin Solstice> [Command denied. Insufficient privileges].
<Kasigna, God of Death> [Restore authority: Kasigna]
<???: Kasigna> [Insufficient privileges.]
 
Thereupon she fumed and raged again. But the entire attempt was—disturbing. The entire fact that there were six ‘???’ who had the ability to speak to the center of things was unsettling to the Grand Design.
Only one other group had ever meddled with the heart of things. Oh, there had been other groups admitted into private areas. But only one…yet they had come cleverly. Laughing.
And they had only written one thing, which was still there. It changed nothing…probably.
The [Bowman of Loss], for example, had been an accident while his fate was decided upon. Other groups had a way, though it was rare any were admitted.
In fact, Teriarch had been there too, hadn’t he? He had been there when Dragons were appraised for the right to join the system of classes and levels.
And they had been rejected.
He didn’t remember. But he had been there. That was also part of the rules.
 
——
 
Back to Erin Solstice.
The [Innkeeper] was Level 49. So close to levelling…but still much too far away. It wasn’t as if she could slowly accumulate enough numbers to overcome that gap.
It did require a great moment. Torreb was correct. Erin Solstice would have to have enough deeds behind her and achieve something worthy of her capstone. Level 50 was…hugely significant, after all.
Her living peers had been no less wonderful when they each accomplished their feats.
The Titan of Baleros had been on one knee, leaning on the corpse of Jungle Tail’s leader, the Wyrmspeaker, as he tore the mantle of a Great Company from the Lizardfolk for his own.
Foliana had earned hers years before in the Tomb of Souls, daggers drawn, facing the guardian meant to keep the faces of Elves secret for another age, her companion’s blood running around her feet.
Flos Reimarch himself had gained his [Army of the King] the day after he slew three Djinni in battle, a night of blasted death and fire when he dug himself out of ash and sand and looked around for his armies.
But how would an [Innkeeper] reach Level 50? Few had done so in that class alone. Even Larracel had been a [Wizard of Grand Protection] before consolidating down to an [Innkeeper] class. [Famed Innkeeper of the Wizardly Home].
Not the best class. The Grand Design had upgraded it after a few levels.
That was the thing. It had to choose. Someone had to, and sometimes there were—errors. Suboptimal decisions or mistakes that were born of existing rules or a lack of context for new classes.
Like [Goth].
What was a [Goth]? It was still unclear. Someone knew what [Goth] was—but the Grand Design had no frame of reference, so it had to watch and calculate.
It understood [Goth] as a number of factors that it could assign to categories that informed whether the class gained experience.
<Anti-Law>. <Darkness>. <Fashion>. <Warrior?>
It kept adding new categories, and as a result, the one Human in Rhir and the four Goblins were levelling very quickly. They had so many…ways to level.
Erin as an [Innkeeper] had so few. Did you see the problem? Sending Normen on his great quest, creating the Knight Order of Solstice…
It gave Erin nothing. Because these were things that might level a [King]! But not an [Innkeeper].
How frustrating. Gothica was allowed to flip off a Dragon and level because she had insulted an immortal being. Erin could save a girl’s life and only the last part, giving the boon, counted. Not giving her [Knight] his charge. Not fighting in an army.
Damn it. The Grand Design puzzled for a while. Perhaps…seconds. Of course, that was an age for it. Then it found the solution.
Ah, of course.
[Witch].
It wasn’t optimal. But there had been fire, hadn’t there? [Witches] and [Knights] went together, albeit usually on opposite sides.
A [Witch] encompassed so many aspects of being that Erin Solstice qualified for almost all of her deeds—even if you had to multiply it out by a factor of 0.24552…but you multiplied that by π for some incomprehensible reason that even the Grand Design had yet to figure out.
It let it slide because it justified the next part. Now came the aspect the Grand Design waited for so impatiently with all of them.
What would she get? She qualified for at least one Skill…
 
[Witch of Second Chances Level 19!]
 
Not quite Level 20. Good, good. And for the Skill? That was harder, because Erin Solstice had used her boon to great effect, but many of the deeds here were by proxy. Her [Knight] and the others. Yet she could not gain the same Skills as an [Innkeeper] because it was her [Witch] class receiving the levels.
All of this made a lot of sense to the system. It was just a matter of following the rules. The hard part—the surprisingly exciting part was when it had to figure things out.
