The door is warm wood and an iron handle and light through the crack at the bottom.

She has been standing in front of it for a long time. Long enough for the glass bead to have left an impression in her palm — she has been rolling it too hard, which is what her hands do when her mind is elsewhere. She is not elsewhere. She is precisely here: in front of the door, in the dungeon, at the end of eight weeks and three hundred miles.

You would have known what to say about this. You always knew what to say about the last moment before a thing — the last firing, the last pull, the glass still moving. Something true and small. I have been rehearsing things you might say and none of them fit.

She sets the bead on the floor.

She opens the door.

---

*Three hundred miles ago, and eight weeks before the door:*

You would have noticed the way the road widened as it left the city — how the paving stones gave way to packed earth in four distinct stages, as if whoever built the road was slowly losing their conviction. You would have named each stage. I cannot remember what we called the fourth kind, the one that is more suggestion than surface, where the road exists mainly because everyone agrees it does.

I remember the morning I left. Not the leaving — I did not tell you I was leaving, which is the part of this I cannot make into a better story. I got up before you. I went to the workshop. I took the glass bead I had made the night before — the amber-gold one with the green in the center, the one I made while we were talking about something else — and I put it in my coat pocket and I walked north.

The door had been in my dreams for eight weeks. It was not a bad dream. That is the thing I need you to understand: it was warm. Every morning I woke up feeling the absence of it more than I felt the presence of anything real. More than the workshop. More than you. I do not know how to tell you that and mean it as it is rather than as it sounds.

It sounded, to me, like a reason to go.

---

The first town north of the city is called Brenwick. You have been there twice — once for the spring market when we were buying pigment stock, once when your sister lived there for a year and we visited at the solstice. You would have recognized the inn. I stayed two nights because the road north of Brenwick is poor and I was not in a hurry.

The Compulsion does not make you hurry. This is the thing no one who hasn't felt it would expect: it is patient. The door was not going anywhere. Neither was I.

I met the first of the others at the Brenwick inn — a man named Ossel who made no effort to hide where he was going or why. He had the same look I imagine I had: purposeful and not quite present. We did not travel together. People in this state do not naturally cluster. Each of us is walking toward something specific to ourselves, and the specificity is a kind of privacy.

You would have asked him where he was going. You always asked. I watched him eat his supper in the way I imagine you would have watched him — with genuine curiosity — and then I went to bed.

---

You would have noticed the point where the stories stopped and the silence began.

The towns closest to the dungeon have an industry now. A woman at a crossroads selling what she called protection charms — knotted cord, river clay, something dried that may have been herbs. A man at the entrance to the last market town with a thick ledger, charging two copper to have your name recorded: when you went in, where you came from, who to notify. He had been doing this for, he said, forty deaths. He said it the way a person says the weather — a fact about the world, not a judgment of it.

You would have paid him. I did not. It seemed beside the point.

The map was nailed to a post at the edge of the camp. Someone had drawn it in a careful hand on oiled cloth — the entrance, the first corridor they called the Gullet, a rough indication of depth. The map ended at the first junction and was labeled, at the bottom, *accurate to my knowledge, which is limited.* I liked whoever had written that. That is a very honest thing to write on a map.

There were perhaps thirty people at the camp. Some of them were merchants. Some of them were waiting. One older man sat by the fire at night and didn't speak to anyone — I watched him for two evenings and understood, eventually, that he had been here for some time. He was not Compelled. He was choosing to be here, which is different and harder, and I did not intrude on it.

---

The woman who stopped: she was perhaps twenty, with a pack she had clearly not bought specifically for this journey — a household bag pressed into service, the wrong shape for walking. She had been ahead of me for two days on the road. Same pace, same purposeful silence, same not-quite-here quality that I recognized because I shared it.

On the afternoon of the second day she stopped.

Not gradually. She was walking, and then she wasn't. She stood in the road for a long moment with her head tilted slightly, as if listening to something that had just gone quiet. Then she turned around.

She walked past me without looking at me. Her face was — I don't have the right word. Returned. As if something had been briefly visiting and had now gone home.

You would have spoken to her. I didn't. I had nothing to say that would have been true. What I felt watching her was not relief — I want to be careful about this — and it was not envy. It was something more like observation. She had been released from something. I had not. I watched her walk back the way we had come and I kept walking north, because the door was still there, still warm, and the wanting was the same as it had always been.

I did not think about what it meant that she could stop and I could not.

I think about it now.

---

The camp at the entrance: you would have loved it and been horrified by it in equal measure.

The fire that someone kept burning — there was no agreement about this, no designated keeper, but every time I looked at it, it was burning. An emergent property of thirty people who all understood what the fire meant. You would have noticed this. You noticed things that happened between agreements.

A merchant was selling lanterns at twice their city price. A boy of maybe twelve was selling water from a skin at a price that was either charitable or he didn't understand commerce — I couldn't tell. An older woman was writing letters for people who couldn't write, for a small fee. She was doing good business.

I sat by the fire long enough to roll the bead between my fingers one last time. The amber-gold one with the green center, warm from my pocket, smooth from the road. I made it the night before I left. You were talking about something — the kiln timing, I think, or the new apprentice's grip — and my hands were doing what they do, which is work, and the bead happened. I put it in my coat and didn't mention it. I don't know why.

The people around the fire watched me with a particular look. Not pitying. Not frightened. The look you give someone who is walking toward something they have decided to accept. I have given that look myself and I recognized it from the receiving end.

I went in.

---

Inside:

You would have read the walls the way you read everything — as information first, then as texture, then as something else that didn't have a name but that you could feel the shape of. The corridor was ribbed and warm and smelled of minerals and something living. The light was not lantern light — it came from the stone itself, or something inside the stone, a faint luminescence that made every surface look slightly wet.

The first body was in a subsidence crack. A man who had fallen through a weak floor. I stepped around the crack carefully and kept walking.

The inscriptions: I read each one. They were not at the death sites — I understood this later, when I reached the Warrens and found nothing there. These were the Maw's own registry, carved at the entrance in the Maw's notation: all-caps, clinical, each entry a record of precedence rather than a farewell. Not the personal inscriptions I had heard about — the ones the Maw carves in the entrant's own hand at the death site. This was a different document. A catalogue kept for whoever comes next.

*EDRIC VOSS — DEPTH 1 — FIRST TO ENTER.*
*MAREN VOSS — DEPTH 2 — FIRST TO DREAM IN THE DARK.*
*LIRA — DEPTH 1 — FIRST COMPELLED.*
*BREN ALDIC — DEPTH 1 — FIRST TO HOLD THE LINE IN THE GULLET.*
*DARA HESS — DEPTH 2 — FIRST TO NAVIGATE THE WARRENS BLIND.*
*MIRA DOSS — DEPTH 2 — FIRST TO TEND THE WOUNDED.*

Then a gap. The stone where the next inscription should be was smooth and clean and empty. I put my hand on it. The dungeon did not respond. There was nothing there — no warmth, no texture different from the rest of the wall. Simply: an absence.

I don't know what that means. I moved on.

---

The tool roll was just inside the second junction, tucked into a recess in the wall.

I knew what it was before I understood that I knew. Leather, rolled and tied with cord, the specific dimensions of a working glassblower's kit. I untied it.

Tweezers. Shaping paddle, three sizes. Two punty rods, small-gauge, worn where they had been held — held often, held well. A crease-marker with a chip in the handle that had been filed smooth. A folded piece of cloth with color-testing swatch burns on it: amber, gold, something between them that wasn't either.

I held the cloth for a moment. The color between amber and gold: I knew what they had been chasing. Every glassblower chases it eventually. I had chased it for two years when I was twenty-two, before I learned that it lived in the temperature and not in the batch, and even then it lived there only for a moment, and if you were watching for it you would miss it because you had to be watching the glass and not the color.

Whoever had made these tools had been looking for that color. The swatch said so. They had tested every batch they could think of and the cloth held the record.

I rolled the kit closed. I tied the cord. I put it back where I had found it.

You would have taken the crease-marker. The chip filed smooth — you would have wanted to know the hands that had done that. I understood the impulse. I didn't take anything.

---

The arch was at the three-hundred-meter mark and I crossed it without thinking. On the other side I turned and read the keystone.

*SYLAS RENN — DEPTH 3 — FIRST TO BUILD WHAT REMAINS.*

Below it: *THE ARCH HOLDS.*

A lantern was burning at the near abutment. Someone had left it there. I picked it up and carried it.

I kept walking.

---

You would have noticed the warmth before I did.

I am not saying this as a reproach — you notice things earlier than I do, always have, it is one of the things I loved first. But the warmth in the dungeon is not ambient. It has a direction. I had been feeling it since the entrance and had categorized it incorrectly as temperature until the Warrens, where it became clear that it was something more like *attention.* The dungeon was attending to me.

Not watching. Attending. The way you attend to a fire you are responsible for — not staring at it, not focused on it, but aware of it, orienting toward it slightly whenever something else claims your focus. A continuous low-grade care.

I did not find this frightening. I found it familiar.

The Asking came in the first chamber of the Warrens — a pressure behind the eyes that resolved, very quickly, into something I can only describe as *recognition.* The dungeon did not need to search for my desire. It knew what it had put there. The Asking was a formality, the way certain greetings are formalities — not empty, but not genuinely seeking information either. It already knew.

```stat-screen
ENTRANT DESIGNATION: THE GUEST

GIFT: WELCOME
The dungeon extends hospitality. Creatures will not attack unprovoked.
Environmental hazards will slow in your presence.
You are being guided. You cannot refuse the guidance.

COST: ARRIVAL
Each activation of Welcome moves you closer to your destination.
The dungeon is not protecting you. It is delivering you.

ATTUNEMENT: 0

STATISTICS
Vitality .............. 18
Resolve ............... 20
Attunement ............ 12
Fortune ............... 22

RESONANCE: Acquired before entry.
Note: Designation preconfigured. Standard Asking completed.
You are the most welcome guest the dungeon has ever had.
The door was always open for you.
```

I read the screen with the particular attention I give new information — the same way I read a new client's specifications, the same way I read a new kiln's behavior. Methodically. Without alarm.

*Welcome. Arrival. Guidance I cannot refuse.*

You would have asked: refuse toward what? This is the right question. I did not ask it at the time. The door was warm and close and the wanting was the same as it had always been, and the Welcome Gift was already active — I felt it in the way the corridor ahead seemed to breathe out slightly, the way the light brightened just enough to be useful. The dungeon wanted me to arrive and was making sure I would.

I had known this, I think, for three hundred miles. The door in my dreams had always felt like a place I was being taken rather than a place I was going. The distinction had not seemed important until I read the screen and understood that it was, in fact, the whole distinction.

I kept walking.

---

The Still Garden: I did not go there.

The Welcome Gift guided me north in the Warrens, the same direction Sylas had gone, and then — at a junction that should have led north — it guided me east, into a passage I could see had not been in the dungeon before. The stone was the same age as the rest of the dungeon but the passage had not been used. The air in it was still. Undisturbed.

Not a room that had been empty. A room that had been prepared.

The passage was perhaps forty meters long and perfectly straight, which is unusual — the Gullet and Warrens both follow natural stone features, curves and compressions, nothing architectural. This passage was architectural. Deliberate. Someone or something had built it. The walls were smooth, not worn smooth — shaped. The floor was level to a degree that the rest of the dungeon is not.

The dungeon built this for me. I understood this the way I understand the specific warmth of a kiln that has been lit for you — not the ambient warmth of a kiln that has been lit, but the directed warmth of something prepared specifically. The preparation has a different temperature. You feel it differently.

At the end of the passage: the door.

Warm wood. Iron handle. Light through the crack at the bottom — not harsh light but the kind that means *home* in the oldest sense of the word. Exactly as it had been in my dreams for eight weeks. Exactly.

---

I stood in front of it for a long time.

Long enough for the bead to leave an impression in my palm. Long enough to think of you — not dramatically, not as a goodbye, but the way you think of a person when you are about to do something they would want to know about. An impulse to turn and say: *look at this.*

You would have known what to say about this moment. The last moment before. You always did. Something true and small.

I have been trying to find what you would have said and I cannot. I know the shape of the kind of thing you would say — precise, a little dry, something that would make the moment smaller and therefore bearable — but I cannot find the specific words. This is the first time I have failed this particular attempt since I left. I did it constantly on the road: *you would have noticed the paving stones. You would have spoken to the man in Brenwick. You would have watched the Compelled woman go and named what was in her face.*

Here, at the door, I could not find you.

I think this was the dungeon. I think the Welcome Gift was completing itself — guiding me past the last thing that might have pulled me back. Not maliciously. As a kindness. The dungeon had been caring for me for three hundred miles. It was still caring for me. It removed the last obstacle with the same thoroughness with which it had smoothed my path from the entrance.

You would have understood this, I think, better than I did.

I set the bead on the floor. It was the last thing I made. I did not want to carry it inside.

I opened the door.

---

What is behind the door:

Nothing. The room is empty and still and warm.

Not empty in the way a room is empty when someone has just left it. Empty in the original sense: without lack. Without the shape of what should be there. A complete thing that happens to contain nothing.

And the wanting stopped.

Eight weeks of the door, of the light through the crack, of waking every morning into the absence of whatever was behind it — eight weeks of a longing so specific and constant that it had become the organizing fact of my life, more real to me than the workshop, more real than you — and then: it stopped.

Not gradually. The door opened and the wanting was gone, the way a sound stops. The sudden presence of silence where sound had been. I stood in the doorway and waited for it to come back and it did not come back.

The room was warm. The floor was stone, smooth and warm. There was no furniture, no window, no source of light — the light was ambient, sourceless, the same quality as the light through the crack had been in my dreams. I stepped in.

The door did not close behind me. I did not turn around.

I sat down on the floor.

You would have said: *so this is what you came for.* And you would have been right, and it would have been the kind of right that is also a little devastating, and I would have not been able to argue with it, and we would have sat together for a while in the not-arguing.

I sat alone on the floor of the room that the dungeon had built for me, in the absence of the wanting that the dungeon had put in me, and I thought: *this is exactly what it promised.*

I did not try to leave.

I did not want to.

I stayed.

```stat-screen
DEATH REPORT — ENTRANT: ASHA TREVANE
DESIGNATION: THE GUEST
DEPTH REACHED: 1 (GULLET — PREPARED PASSAGE)
TOTAL KILLS THIS RUN: 0

FINAL STATISTICS
Vitality .............. 18 -> 0
Resolve ............... 20
Attunement ............ 12 -> 14 (+2 Welcome activations: Warrens junction, prepared passage)
Fortune ............... 22

GIFT ATTUNEMENT AT DEATH: 14 (+2 from 2 activations)

CAUSE OF DEATH: Stasis. Entrant did not attempt to leave.
Duration in room: 11 hours, 43 minutes.
Vitality: progressive decline. No distress registered.

MEMORY CRYSTAL: Amber.
Quality: belonging. The specific quality of being exactly where one is supposed to be.
Warning: Consumption will produce, temporarily and completely, the sensation of correct placement. Exercise caution. This sensation is difficult to leave.

FLOOR MUTATION: Prepared Passage (Gullet, east spur)
Door: permanent. Status: closed.
Interior: preserved. Light: present.
Classification: Destination architecture. First of its kind.

DESIGNATION OUTCOME: GUEST COMPLETE
Compelled radius at time of death: 300 miles.
Resonance acquired pre-entry: confirmed.
Note: Entrant arrived as expected. Delivery complete.
```

The Ledger recorded the arrival.

It had been monitoring Asha Trevane for fifty-six days — since the moment the Resonance had taken hold at three hundred and twelve miles, which was a new high-water mark. The previous record was Lira at forty miles. The Maw's range had expanded by an order of magnitude in ten deaths.

The Ledger noted this as a data point. It did not assess whether it was meaningful. Assessment was not the Ledger's function. Recording was the Ledger's function, and recording it did.

*Death #10. Asha Trevane. The Guest. Depth 1. Cause: Stasis. Duration: 11 hours, 43 minutes. No resistance. Delivery complete.*

The door in the prepared passage remained closed. The light was still visible through the crack at the bottom. The Ledger did not know if the light would persist indefinitely or would fade. It had no prior data. It noted the uncertainty and moved on.

The glass bead was on the floor near the entrance to the prepared passage. The entrant had removed it from her pocket before stepping into the room — or had dropped it when the wanting stopped, or had set it down deliberately, or some combination of these things. The Ledger categorized it: personal artifact, handmade glass, amber-gold with green center, residual warmth inconsistent with dungeon ambient. Not a Memory Crystal. Not a weapon or tool. A thing a person had made with their hands on the night before they left someone who did not know they were leaving.

The Maw did not know what to do with it. It left it where it was.

*THE ARCH HOLDS,* said the keystone, to no one in particular.

The camp at the entrance had thirty-two people in it now. Someone had repaired the crude map. Someone else had nailed a second piece of oiled cloth next to it, blank, with a piece of charcoal tied to a nail: for additions. No one had added anything yet.

The fire was still burning.

The death tally turned.

*990 remain.*

---

*ASHA TREVANE — DEPTH 1 — FIRST TO ARRIVE*
