Upon my return to the battlements, I immediately notice the change in atmosphere, but only because I was looking for clues to what might be bothering Princess. It’s not evident at first glance, or even second, or third, but as I watch the soldiers of my retinue battling against the Defiled in abject silence, I can almost taste their despair lingering in the atmosphere. Even though they are still holding strong, Imperial morale is slowly being chipped away by the oppressive mood, one devoid of the customary glee or satisfaction from a battle well fought. Ordinarily, I would think that this was simply because Mataram YuChun was too formidable a Peak Expert, but the Tyrant is doing a fine job holding out against him, though partially because Lei Gong is watching from the wings, ready to unleash a bolt of lightning the first opening he sees. As such, morale should be improving all across Meng Sha, especially in light of Situ Chi Gan’s contribution to the cause as he mounts the Ebony Reaper’s head atop his own ragged banner pole and waves it about for all to see.

The old Guardian of the Situ Clan is built different, that much is clear, but even his heroic display of strength and disdain isn’t enough to lift the spirits of the Imperial soldiers. For long seconds, I struggle to find a reason for this depressive atmosphere, one that reminds me of what I experienced in LuZhou. It’s nowhere near as overwhelming as the slaughterhouse scene I uncovered at that first harbour, where the Uniter sought to elevate death into an art form by blanketing the area in atrocities as far as the eye could see. In doing so, he transformed the area in a veritable font of hatred and violence, misery and regret, but rather than the palpable air of death of suffering I found in LuZhou, the Aura is far more subtle and indistinct here.

And Aura it is, but not one emanating from an individual or Demon, but rather from the area in and around Meng Sha itself.

A realization I only reach thanks to Yuanyin’s seemingly meaningless ramblings, something about how a single spark is enough to light a mighty beacon of hope. There is something foul afoot here in Meng Sha, something spewing hopelessness and despair into the air to infect the mind and spirit alike, but I cannot for the life of me understand what it might be. Had I remained here on the wall instead of heading back to test my theory, I doubt I would’ve even noticed it creeping up on my psyche, the same way a frog in a pot doesn’t notice the water slowly heating up around it. That’s why the Defiled are going all out without fear, because while it seems like this can only end in mutual destruction, they believe this insidious Aura will tip the scales of power in their favour and drive the Imperials to despair and defeat.

Which means we’re fighting against the clock here in Meng Sha, unless I can do something about it.

I get it Mother in Heaven, these trials and tribulations are meant to make us stronger, but why is it that I’m always the one left to pick up the slack?

Chapter Meme
