That’s the long and short of it at least, a verbal description of the action itself, but the feeling? That’s harder to put into words. It’s the pleasure you get when you strive for a goal that could be beyond your reach, and yet you try for it anyways and end up pleasantly surprised when you succeed. It’s the satisfaction you get when you do something a thousand times and still don’t really understand, but then everything clicks on your thousand and one try, and you finally get it right. It’s the moment of suspense that comes from jumping off the last few stairs, except you’re not sure if you were already at the bottom, or if you misjudged your jump by a step or two. Take all of that, and add in the satisfying, tactile sensation of putting everything you have into a strike and hitting the target clean on, and then you have an inkling of what Pierce the Horizon really feels like, and it is this feeling which I try to convey.

Alongside an image of Binesi’s spear piercing through YuChun’s throat, because let’s be honest, that’s probably a lot easier to understand.

Alas, my efforts fall flat as Binesi executes Skewer the Blossom instead, though to be fair, it’s impressive to see how he’s taken what is primarily an offensive movement and turned it into a defensive strike. Defending isn’t just about blocking, dodging, and parrying, because sometimes, the best defence is a good offence, a lesson Binesi understands well. The issue is he isn’t thinking big enough, because instead of keeping YuChun off balance and buying room to breathe, he could have ended the fight then and there with a devastating thrust to the face.

A second opportunity presents itself, and I try to help out again, this time communicating that he should use Hanging Grasp Branch to target YuChun’s left shoulder. For the second time, my efforts fall on deaf ears as Binesi continues his staunch defence, and my third, fourth, and fifth attempts end in similar failure. Maybe there’s something wrong with my Aura, or maybe my message isn’t getting through clearly, so I give up trying to help and withdraw before I screw things up for Binesi instead. Turning my attention back to the battlements, I see Jorani throwing himself into the thick of things with the courage of a lion. A clever bit of ropework sees him catch his foe off-guard, and he sends Yu Kong’s would-be avenger sailing off the wall with a strangled scream of regret. Rather than the satisfaction of a job well done, Jorani’s eyes darken in self-condemnation, but he shakes it off and heads back into the fray once more. Probably has one of the Uniter’s minions whispering into his ear, seeking to sow doubt and misery in hopes of eking out some small advantage, but he has no hold over Jorani. There was a time when I’d have been worried about his mood and the possibility he might become tainted or form a Spectre, but he’s come a long way since Sanshu to become one of the people I trust the most.

And with that bond of trust between us, Jorani has no difficulties accepting my assistance and advice, given freely without even thinking. To an outsider, it looks like he’s blessed by the Heavens and fortuitously avoiding death time and time again, but it only looks that way because he’s following instructions even he himself can’t hear.

Much like Dagen, Bulat, and Jorani, Wang Bao also heeds my unspoken advice without hesitation, though I can sense his inner turmoil holding him back. He doesn’t get enough credit for all his hard work and dedication, which I know doesn’t come easily to him. This is a man who literally lived a bandit’s life, taking what he pleased without caring about the consequences, yet now, he is one of the most disciplined soldiers of the retinue. He’s as fierce a Warrior as any, but it’s his willpower which makes him stand out, because deep down, he is still the same black-hearted scoundrel who plundered and butchered at the Red Devil of Sanshu’s side. Though Wang Bao has long since left his past behind and turned over a new leaf, he still has the same lack of morals and murderous urges buried within, a near psychopathic mindset that sees himself as a wolf among sheep. The only difference is that he no longer lets the wolf run free, and while he yearns to break free of his constraining restraints to become the wolf once more, he knows there’s no going back if ever succumbs to his dark urges again. What’s more, in becoming a guardian to the flock, he has found a sense of fulfillment and satisfaction he never experienced as the hunter, so he continues to play his part as the fine upstanding citizen he wishes he could truly become. That’s why he’s so grateful to me, because I gave him a second chance he feels he didn’t deserve, and because of that, he wants to be a better man than the monster he thinks he is.

Much like courage is not the absence of fear, integrity is not the lack of immorality, but rather the ability to hold fast to honour and virtue despite the temptation to do otherwise. In this, Wang Bao is second to none, for he knows sin and temptation better than most, so while he might not have been born a good man, I believe that so long as he strives to be one, then he has already succeeded.

“There’s no need to fear your anger,” I tell Wang Bao, but again, not in so many words. “It is a part of you that will never go away. Fear only gives it power over you. Embrace it and master it so that it can never control you again.” Unlike with Binesi, Wang Bao understands the gist of my message immediately, and he lets loose with a roar of fury which sets his foes to shaking as he stops holding himself back. No further guidance is needed, for if there’s one thing he knows, it’s how to kill a man, Defiled or otherwise.

Several times now, I’ve helped the Warriors of my retinue, which makes my failure with Binesi stand out that much more. Belatedly noticing there’s more going on, I absently ‘recall’ how I’ve been lending aid to the other Warriors of my retinue without noticing, or even consciously trying. From my perspective, it’s as if I’m providing a passive buff on the macro scale with my presence alone, and I only become aware of what I’ve been doing when I focus on one specific person at a time. Bulat, Dagen, Jorani, Wang Bao, and Binesi all received my advice at more or less the same time, alongside so many others, but my mind is unable to keep track of everything happening all at once. I can only perceive events in a sequential fashion one at a time, but that’s a small price to pay considering I’m able to lend a hand without even needing to try, so I take my time and watch the battle unfold from a dozen different perspectives.

Ral, Chey, Ravil, Siyar, and others all heed my unspoken advice without hesitation, each one stepping up in the own way to help hold the line, but the one who stands out the most in Lang Yi. Silent as a Wraith, he fights without pomp or pageantry, but his moves are eye-catching indeed, for after coming to terms with his loss of love and hatred for those who took her, he has progressed by leaps and bounds along the Martial Path. So far that in some ways, his spearmanship is superior to Binesi’s and YuChun’s, though only in technical and theoretical terms. It’s more than just picking the right Movements to use, but also how he sets up his strikes to always target more than one enemy at a time, and he needs no aid from me to achieve this. With his first move, he skewers three Chosen on his spear, piercing through their throats with one swift charge as if they all just lined up for him to kill. Every sweep, strike, and thrust affects at least two Defiled each, and he does so as effortlessly as breathing.

A month ago, I might’ve said this was One with the Spear, One with the Self, and One with the World, but I see now that I would’ve been wrong. What he’s done here goes beyond all that, because he’s taken all these core concepts alongside a few others I don’t recognize and condensed them down to something more advanced, something that is both straightforward and infinitely complex at the same time. With spear in hand, he has become something akin to a force of nature, as if Blessed by the Spear itself, and I can think of no other Warrior who can match him in this facet alone.

Which is how Lang Yi, a former fisherman turned Martial Warrior who isn’t even an Expert, almost claims the life of Mataram YuChun, and in doing so, saves Binesi from near certain death.

Alas, Lang Yi’s base speed and strength are both too lacking for his thrust to land, and he most certainly would’ve died to the counter if not for Jorani holding YuChun’s spear back, as well as the combined efforts of Dastan, Wang Bao, and Chey, all of whom coordinate their efforts as only veterans of a hundred battles could. Though I know I’m helping in some minor ways, it pains me to sit and watch as my comrades are beaten bloody in one fell swoop, but I noticed the Azure Ascendants waiting in the wings some time ago and know they’ll step in if things get bad. Much as I would love to help out even more, I’ve an inkling suspicion that the Tyrant OuYang YuHuan will be even less responsive to my advice than Binesi, and I think I know why.

On a sidenote, Naaran really knows how to play to the crowd, belittling a Lieutenant General with only a few scant words. I didn’t know he had it in him, but I can see why he’s such good friends with Dad.

To confirm my hunch regarding my unreliable attempts to give advice, I head back to the docks where my body is strapped and ready for transport, while doing my best to ignore the indignity of my situation. To be fair, if I didn’t want to be carted around like luggage, then I shouldn’t have fallen into a coma, so really, I only have myself to blame. Seeing Li-Li struggling to get Princess back into her shoulder bag, I stop to watch the weasel-bear’s silly antics, but something tells me there’s more going on than what meets the eye. Sweet Princess is scared, but it’s not the battle which concerns her, because if it was, she’d keep glancing at the walls. No, there’s something else bothering her, a closer, more immediate threat than the distant fighting, but I have no idea what it could be. Whatever it is, I can tell Princess is scared, but not so scared as to become clingy and fearful. Instead, her efforts to stay with her favourite person stems from a desire to protect her, as if she thinks Li-Li will be in danger without her.

Seeing this as the perfect opportunity to test my theory, I gather my emotions and convey a message to Li-Li. “Bring her,” I say, without using any words at all. “Maybe she can help.”

Not sure how, but I’ve a gut feeling, and Princess is a stubborn girl wholly deserving of her name. She’s made her mind up to stick with her favourite person, so even if she’s left behind, she’ll just find her own way back to Li-Li on her own. Thankfully, judging by how she turns to look at my body in confusion, the half-cat seems to understand my message, and better yet, takes it to heart with little to no hesitation, proving my theory right. The reason why Binesi couldn’t ‘hear’ me isn’t because he was ignoring my messages, but rather because they’re not even reaching him in the first place. If emotions belong to the realm of the soul, then it’s possible that only people who trust and accept me can receive them in this form. What’s more, only the people closest to me can parse through my emotions, and there’s no one who understands me like Li-Li. She gets me in a way that not even Lin-Lin can match, because while Mila, Yan, Alsantset, and everyone else are all happy to give me the space I need, none of them really understand why I need it. Li-Li gets it, and more importantly, she doesn’t judge me for it, because she understands that it’s not that I need time away from the people I love, but rather that I sometimes need to be alone with my thoughts.

I don’t understand it either, but it is what it is, and Li-Li gets it. Huffing a small sigh, she puts on the shoulder bag and lets Princess crawl in, and I coo as the weasel-bear emerges with a honey-cake in each paw. “Hey pretty girl, you look after Li-Li okay?” Though Princess shows no sign of having heard me, she nuzzles up against Li-Li’s side and nibbles away at her treats while staring at the wall up ahead. Curious to see what’s got her hackles in a fluff, I take a moment to bid sweet Mila goodbye before I leave, but not in so many words or even emotions, more of a mental farewell than anything. Though she’s concerned about her father, my freckled, redheaded wife is one of the strongest people I know, and she doesn’t need me distracting her before a big fight. Much as I would love to support her in this moment of weakness, revealing my presence would likely do more harm than good, so I leave her in the arms of her father and head off towards the front lines with Li-Li and Princess.

