Lin-Lin nods, but she doesn’t say anything more, indicating I should quietly work on remembering for myself, but knowing I’ve already done something to help out is a giant weight off my chest. Looking down to give Buddy’s nose a little kiss, I settle into my pillow and hug my wifey tight while gazing upon my sweet doggo, who I only now notice looks oh so miserable despite being coddled and pampered like a baby. His big brown eyes are so sad and mournful, peering at me as if afraid I’m going to disappear, and it occurs to me that he’s still mourning the loss of my Natal Soul. He doesn’t understand that the Natal Soul wasn’t really me, and now he’s worried I’m going to disappear too, but I could never leave him like that.

Unless I did. When I died and reincarnated, did I leave the real Buddy behind? Poor puppy. I hope he made it out alright. No wonder he’s so sad. And to think, he was so excited about going out for a walk too. It’s okay Buddy. I’m never going to leave you ever again. Promise.

All the head pats and scritches in the world aren’t enough to shake Buddy from his funk, but he seems reassured by the attention and the fact that I’m not trying to get out of bed anymore. Heaving a long, doggy sigh, he slowly closes his eyes as I stroke his head and cheeks, and the only time he moves is when I play with his whiskers which annoys him to no end. I love my dog, but sometimes, it’s fun to tease him too, and he endures my shenanigans with grace and aplomb. Between him and Lin-Lin, I find myself relaxing as we all lounge in bed together, and while circumstances are far from perfect, they’re just perfect enough for me to unwind and unpack everything that’s been going on.

It’s not that I’ve given up on trying to remember stuff, but I find that the more I try, the harder it is to recollect anything of worth. So instead of stressing about something I can’t control, I do my best to focus on nothing while luxuriating in the company of my wifey and doggo. Slowly but surely, the fog in my mind clears away and I remember bits and pieces of the past two weeks. I’ve been going into the Sea every day, just like Lin-Lin said, but I don’t really remember much of what happens while I’m there. Perfection, would be my best guess, but it never lasts long, and I’ve an inkling suspicion why. I theorized that in order to take the next step, I need to bring my mind and soul up to par with my Refined body. Only then will I be able to reach my full potential and be ready to progress, though Lin-Lin did make a good point about me focusing too much on getting stronger and not enough on mastering my current strength. That being said, I don’t think anything needs to change, because I’m pretty sure I’m on the right track, with the only caveat being that it’s taking much longer than expected. I figured Blobby would have all the answers regarding how to Refine my mind and soul, and it seems I was right, because what other reason would there be for me to forget everything that happens every day? It’s probably a side effect from Refining my mind and soul, but I have no idea how far along I am and how much further I have yet to go, or really any inclination of progress or improvement.

Which honestly is far from ideal and exceedingly frustrating to boot. I would love a status log or quest journal or even a progress bar, something to tell me what I’ve accomplished, what I need to do next, or how much more I still need to do, but that would make life way too easy, wouldn’t it?

If I succeed at Refining my mind and soul, will I then be able to remember what perfection is like? Not sure if I would want to, seeing how life is imperfect by nature, and the memory of pure bliss might well haunt me for the rest of my days. Then again, what do I really have to complain about? I have so much to be grateful for, and I should be content with what I have, but I am a greedy, covetous man who wants everything and more, so until I learn to curb my greed, I doubt I will ever be happy.

Hmm... did I just stumble across the secret to happiness? Just lower your expectations. Damn I’m smort.

Nothing gets the blood flowing like self-deprecating sarcasm, and I realize Lin-Lin isn’t sleeping at my side anymore. Probably because something woke her up, on account of her being in the middle of a warzone and all. Gathering Buddy into my arms, I ignore his grumblings as I cradle him close and carry him over to the PC, but rather than plunking down in the chair, I hit the button to turn it on and take a moment to watch it boot up. The lights flash and the monitors flicker on, and everything is loaded up in the blink of an eye, a far cry from the clunky computer I used in the Call Centre of the Void. Those were work stations, bargain-bin rigs that were overpriced and outdated the moment they left the factory floor, but this PC here is my baby. I built it myself, complete with blood, sweat, tears, and most of my paycheck, and I love it almost as much as I love my dog, which is really saying something. It’s the flashy lights which does it for me, because as any true gamer knows, they not only make your computer run at least 10% faster, they also help you play better too. Though I don’t have any specific memories of building my PC or playing video games on it, I remember that I did it at the very least, which is enough to evoke a second-hand memory of joy and fulfillment from seeing it now.

I don’t remember remembering even this much before, which I think proves that my mind and soul are stronger now, though I’m not sure if I want to remember everything from my past life. It’s weird enough knowing it exists and the fact that I’m older than my twenty-two years in this world, not to mention how uncomfortable it makes me to admit I might’ve married three women who were less than half my ‘real’ mental age. Uncomfortable, but also mildly proud, which just makes me that much more uncomfortable, but in my defence, even if I was forty years old in my past life before dying, I’m fairly certain I have the mental maturity of a twelve-year-old boy, so if anything, it’s my wives taking advantage of me.

Okay, not really, but I love them, I married them, and I’m not giving them up. Not now, not ever, so I’ll just have to live with my sins and deal with it.

Knowing he won’t be comfortable if I only support him with one arm, Buddy slips out of my embrace and plonks down in my chair, curling up and taking up a good three-quarters of the cushion while leaving just enough room for me to place half an asscheek on the seat. I faintly recall having a second chair I could switch to when this got too uncomfortable, but here in my Natal Palace, I could sit on empty air and feel fully supported, so there’s no need for a second chair here. Technically, I could also make the seat big enough for both of us to sit comfortably, but sometimes, its more fun to squeeze in, so I take my eighth of a seat with a smile and pat his head as he settles his chin atop my thigh.

Keeping one hand on his head, I use the other to open up the browser and check out what’s going on, only to find a livestream of me strapped to a cot with Lin-Lin sprawled across me. Okay, so she didn’t wake up all the way, but the din of battle is enough to draw her out of my Natal Palace. Given how difficult it is to wake my wifey, this is concerning to say the least. The clash of steel and screams of the dying is so faint that I can barely make it out even with the speakers turned up to max, but if her hearing is anything like her dad’s, then she can probably hear it all loud and clear.

Panning the camera around, I see Mila and Li-Li on either side of Husolt nearby, supporting him even though he looks perfectly capable of standing unassisted. Not that he complains, because he loves his daughters dearly, and it shows in his silly, pleased grin which he wears to hide his growing rage and blood lust. Guard Leader Hua Lie and the rest of her sentries are scattered about the docks, alongside a smattering of Royal Guardians, Death Corps, Adherents, and Imperial soldiers thrown into the mix. Each one of them is Concealing themselves on top of letting Hua Lie Conceal them, which means they’ll be extra hard to spot even for someone as skilled at detection as Grandpa Du. An overabundance of caution all things considered, but as powerful as Hua Lie might be, she is still a bicorn bunny and therefore cautious by nature, something I never noticed before her heritage came to light.

I wish Taddy could fall in love with her, but only if she truly loves him back. Problem is I’m not sure that she does, because even though she’s done much to protect him and Lin-Lin, I feel like she sees it as more of a transaction than anything else, and that’s not how love works. I wish her all the best, I really do, but I can’t help but think her relationship with Taddy is doomed before it even begins, because my Teacher is nothing if not a romantic.

Turning my attention away from Taduk’s love life and my immediate surroundings, I move the camera to overlook the battle itself. Meng Sha is not the largest fortress I’ve stayed in, but it’s still big enough to house two-million soldiers comfortably. Knowing this, I take it slow and easy while making sure I don’t push myself too hard, but it seems I’ve recovered enough to not strain myself with Scrying anymore. That’s an improvement at least, though I’m not sure if I’m ready to rejoin the waking world just yet. I’ll try if I have to, but until I know more, I think it’s best to keep to the status quo and wait until I naturally wake instead of forcing the issue myself.

That being said, I will wake myself in a heartbeat if the situation demands it, but things are not so dire just yet. Spotting my retinue stationed above the main gates, I arrive just in time to see Old Bulat heave a Defiled Chosen off the battlements, and I mentally applaud his efforts with a smile. Even though he’s not the strongest Warrior in my retinue, he’s one of the most dependable people I know, and though I’d never put him in charge of the entire retinue, he makes a damn fine second with someone to keep him honest. His valiant efforts do much to inspire the soldiers under his command, and it’s all I can do to keep from jumping out of my seat when I see him casually shoot a Mataram Officer in the face. His gruff, no-nonsense attitude is like a breath of fresh air, though he almost smiles when Dagen tells him who he killed with that shot. Mataram Yu Kong, son of Mataram YuChun, a promising young Talent whose Path was cut short before even stepping foot on the battlements.

Sensing danger a heartbeat before it arrives, my instinctive warning gives Dagen just enough time to get Bulat out of the way of YuChun’s spear. Though the older Sentinel takes a grievous wound to do so, his life is in no danger, and he wholeheartedly believes it to be a small price to pay for his wife’s continued smile, for he knows how much she dotes upon her son. Thankfully, Binesi steps in to shoulder the Heavens, though after watching him exchange blows with YuChun a dozen or so times atop the parapets of Meng Sha, I fear that the Western General holds every advantage. Mataram Yuchun is stronger, faster, and more skilled in every way, a superior Warrior by every metric, but not so much so as to guarantee his victory. Against a lesser foe, he would have already won the match several times over, but the Immovable Binesi is no common Peak Expert. Most Warriors fight to win, but Binesi approaches battle with the mindset of survival first, because where there is life, there is still hope yet. Again and again, he thwarts YuChun’s attempts to end the match and skirts death by the narrowest of margins, but it takes more than a close call to ruffle Binesi’s feathers. All in all, I’d give him one-in-five odds of winning, which to me sounds better than saying twenty percent.

It feels odd to acknowledge this, but Mataram YuChun is not in his best state of mind, having just lost his son. At first, I find it surprising to learn that he truly loved his second son, and not just because Yu Kong was the most promising of the bunch, but on second thought, I realize I shouldn’t be surprised at all. The Defiled are not monsters in human flesh, but humans being led astray, which means they can always be led back to the light again. That being said, I am not kind enough to show leniency to an enemy, especially not at the cost of a friend. Binesi only needs one good hit to bring the victory home, but three chances pass him by before I feel compelled to lend aid, and I do so in a manner which I believe is the least distracting and disruptive.

“Pierce the Horizon,” I helpfully supply, but not through Sending words or images of any kind. An actual message might distract him too much, since there’d be too much for him to unpack, like who’s Sending him messages in the middle of a life and death duel and what message the words are trying to convey. Instead, I try to impart my advice through feelings instead, hopefully to make him think that the idea came from within rather than from a third-party observer, which should work in theory. In practice however, it’s not so simple. There are no words to describe the feeling of Pierce the Horizon, not really. In terms of physical movements, it’s a simple thrust that starts with the hand level to the hip and puts the full weight of your body behind it without needing to move your feet. Arms, shoulders, hips, and legs, everything moves in tandem to provide the maximum power in a series of push-pull interactions that is essentially an immobile, straightforward thrust that hides a thousand different transformations which makes it infinitely complex.

