What is perfection?

The technical dictionary definition would be the condition, state, or quality of being free or as free as possible from all flaws or defects, but I’m asking about perfection in a more personal sense of the word. How would I describe the perfect meal? The perfect activity? The perfect day? The perfect life? Difficult to say really, but even if I could put it into words, my version of perfection would be wholly unique. One man’s trash is another man’s treasure, meaning that at the end of the day, perfection is subjective.

Problem is, even though I can’t describe what perfection entails, I know what perfection feels like. I was just having the perfect dream, one I can no longer remember, but its absence is keenly felt. It was one of those wonderful dreams where everything was just... well, perfect and all my problems are easily solved, except for the fact that I was aware that it was a dream. I remember feeling the same way when fighting the dream Demon way back in wilderness by Shen Huo, when I was but a young man still yet to wholly understand how bat-shit crazy I’d become. The dream the Demon showed me was utter perfection, except my mind kept rejecting every scenario because I couldn’t accept being happy. That’s how I resisted the allure of its illusions, not due to a strong mind or soul or whatnot, but simply because I was so miserable I couldn’t even imagine life any other way.

This time however, was different. Things were perfect, and I was happy, but I knew I couldn’t stay there and continue being happy. I have no words to describe what perfection was like, and I lack any and all awareness of what the dream entailed, but I know it was perfect nonetheless, for I had all the answers and solutions I needed. Either that, or my questions no longer mattered, which in essence is really the same thing. Adrift in a sea of warmth and contentment, I knew I was safe, but more importantly, I was happy. That is how I felt while drifting through a haze of general bliss, so familiar and ordinary without any highs or lows to differentiate the good from the bad, just an all-around perfect existence.

It’s a far cry from how I felt when I first awakened to this new life.

I vaguely remember bouncing about in a moving wagon with the mother of all headaches, while struggling to understand who and where I was. It felt like waking from a dream, a dream in which I lived out an entire life, my past life, from start to finish. It felt so real I wasn’t even sure if it was a dream, but the details were hazy and indistinct. What I could remember was fast fading even as I so desperately tried to hold onto those memories for the sake of having them, because forgetting my dream left me empty and afraid. Every time the wagon bounced, I’d open my eyes to reality and forget a little more, which left me feeling empty and in mourning as if I’d lost something near and dear to my heart, a loss which pained me even though I couldn’t entirely remember what it was. All I knew was that something was wrong, and that I didn’t belong here in this world. A stranger in a strange land, wherein everything came with a heaping helping of horse shit and a living nightmare to boot, a stark contrast to the fast-fading memories of a pleasant and blissful existence which I was so desperate to return to.

My memories of having a past life are still intact, but I’ve never been able to really put together a coherent picture of what my past life was like. I had parents and a dog. I lived alone for awhile, but then I didn’t. I had a job I hated, a passion for video games, and a disturbing fascination with memes. As time went on, I uncovered bits and pieces of my forgotten memories over time, like Buddy and my room in the Natal Palace, or vague notions of how things worked, but there are no real hard details to go along with these recollections. Was I tall or short? Athletic or lethargic? Single or in a relationship? Even Buddy is largely a mystery, because while I know he’s my dog and I love him more than anything, there’s so much still missing. What kind of dog is he? A mutt of some kind, with big brown eyes and floppy ears that make him look oh so adorable, and a predominantly brown fur coat flecked with black and white, not really spots so much as literally singular hairs of a different colour, but enough of them that it shows. That’s really all I can say about Buddy, because aside from his appearance and general demeanour, I don’t really know much else about him. It’s not super important, but I’d still like to know, because it’s in my nature to be curious. That’s just one question of many regarding my dog, and there’s so much more I want to know in general, because maybe then I’ll figure out how I got here and what I’m supposed to do.

None of that matters as I am now, or at least it didn’t until awareness reared its ugly head and forced me to reject my dreams of blissful perfection. Now, all I am left with is the memory of a perfect existence and a sense of having lost it, but no awareness of what that perfection entails. The not knowing is what makes it so much worse, because if I knew what perfection was, then maybe I could figure out how to find my way back to it, except the more I try to hold onto those memories, the faster they slip away. The warmth and contentment drains from my mind and body leaving only emptiness behind, a vast gulf inside me which leaves me feeling hollow and incomplete.

I don’t really understand it, not one bit. Logically, I shouldn’t miss what I don’t remember, but I do. The memory of perfection has long since faded away, but I crave its return despite being unable to describe it, an ineffable and unattainable state of being which exists only in abstract. What happened to ‘ignorance is bliss’? If I can’t remember it, why am I saddened by its loss? It makes no sense at all, but that’s how it is, so what can I do except accept that I will never be whole? Perfection sits tantalizingly out of reach as the memory of having grasped it fades until only awareness remains, and I am made less for it.

This is just like how it was all those years ago, when I awoke as a confused and terrified little boy who couldn’t remember anything besides his name. Rayne, a name I no longer use because... well because it no longer fits.

What’s so great about my past life anyways? Could it have been better than this one? Sure, my life now isn’t perfect, but I have two loving parents, a doting sister and considerate brother, three beautiful and affectionate wives, a gorgeous consort whose beauty and adoration actually intimidates me, and the most adorable niece and nephew a man could ask for. I have great friends, reliable comrades, stalwart supporters, and a host of admirers, not to mention a whole menagerie full of adorable floofs to cuddle and play with to my heart’s content. Things aren’t perfect, but they’re going pretty great, so even though there are trials and tribulations aplenty, that’s just life. It is what it is, in this world and any other, so why am I so fixated on finding what I’ve lost?

No... a better question is why would I not be?

I am nothing if not curious. This much I know, so why wouldn’t I be curious about my past life? More importantly, why am I not curious about this one? There was a time when I thought myself an invader and parasite, a plague upon the true owner of this body, but I have since come to learn that’s not true at all. Whether it be Brother, Baledagh, Rayne, or Falling Rain, there is no difference or distinction between them, because when you take away the label, what you’re left with is just me. Doesn’t matter what you call me, but this is my body and my life, a truth I have long since come to accept, with a little help from the dearly departed Mahakala.

So knowing all this, why is it that I never bothered to ask Mom or Dad about who I really am, or how I, an amber-eyed member of the People, ended up in a slave camp run by the Canston Trading Group?

I know the answer. Not how I ended up in the slave camp, but why I’ve never asked. Because I don’t really want to know the answer. I don’t know how I ended up where I did, but I know the story won’t be pleasant to hear. That’s why I’ve been playing along and pretending it was just bad luck that saw me sent to the mines, when deep down, I know there must be more to it. I would rather live in blissful ignorance than face harsh reality, but I fear that there will soon come a time when I can no longer keep my head buried in the sand.

But that’s something for future me to deal with, so jokes on him. Present me just has to focus on the here and now, which for the moment, means chasing down that blissful dream once again. Alas, success eludes me and I suffer in cold misery, right up until a tiny bundle of warmth settles in against me and I remember a little of what perfection was like once more. Reality reasserts itself as I find myself curled up in bed with my dog at my side, and for a moment, I am whole again. It’s just me and Buddy against the world, but the world is far and distant, kept at bay by the warm and soothing comfort of my bed and blanket as I drift in that blissful state which exists between sleep and the waking world.

Time passes, and somewhere along the way, I become aware of another presence at my side, one which is every bit as welcome as Buddy. Though I yearn to chase my dreams of perfection some more, I am compelled to open my eyes and gaze upon what I consider an example of perfection in reality. My sweet wifey Lin-Lin lies asleep beside me, her eyes shut and breathing light as she presses her cheek against my shoulder. The sight of her fills me with love and adoration, and I drink in her presence like a man dying of thirst in the desert, reminded of the bliss I’ve found in this life once more.

Somehow sensing my gaze upon her, Lin-Lin stirs in her sleep and slowly blinks her eyes before coming awake with a wide-eyed smile. “Hi hubby,” she exclaims, leaning in for a quick kiss and snuggle. “Sorry we had to end your swim early today, but the fortress came under attack, yea?”

Swim?

End it early?

Wait.

Under attack?

Much as I would love to bolt up in alarm, my fuzzy brain is having trouble processing what’s happening, and all I can do is lie there and utter a flummoxed, “What?”

“Oh, sorry hubby. I guess you’re still disoriented, ya?” Wrapping Buddy in her arms as he pokes his head out to say hi, Lin-Lin nestles into my chest and sinks in with a contented sigh, one my sweet doggo echoes from inside her embrace. “Take your time and don’t worry hubby. Everything’s gonna be alright. You’ll remember everything soon enough.”

Remember everything? What did I forget? You know, besides the whole perfect dream with all the answers and solutions. That being said, even as I teeter on the brink of all-out panic, my memories slowly return to me and the world makes sense once more. I’m in Meng Sha, asleep and comatose while everyone is fighting to liberate the West. After my Natal Soul sacrificed himself to lend aid to the war effort, I asked Lin-Lin to bring me out into the Azure Sea so I could ask Blobby some questions, but I don’t remember talking to him or even going into the water at all. “How long was I in the water for?”

“Mm, at least two hours today, probably more.” Sounding sheepish as she buries her face in my shoulder, she adds, “Yan-Yan and Li-Li brought you out early, and Mi-Mi and I joined you once we woke up and ate lunch.”

“They’re back in Meng Sha?” As far as I can remember, Yan’s in Shi Bei, Li-Li in Pan Si Xing, and Mila is riding somewhere around Tian Zangli. Hang on... “I’m confused,” I declare, and Lin-Lin pats my chest to reassure me that everything is alright, while Buddy grumbles in muted discontent, which earns him a little chin scritch and a pat of the head. “Didn’t I ask you to bring me out into the sea last night? How did Yan, Mila, and Li-Li get here so quickly?”

“Because you didn’t ask me last night,” Lin-Lin answers, her tone so gentle and reassuring that my building panic falls apart at the sound of her voice. “You asked me two weeks ago, and I’ve brought you out every morning since, but every night when I come visit you here, you’ve forgotten everything all over again.” It takes some doing to wrap my head around that, but Lin-Lin’s calm and matter-of-fact demeanour does much to assure me, because I know she’d be more concerned if there was really an issue. “Your memory will come back soon enough,” she says, shifting so Buddy can rest his head on my chest too while she strokes my cheek. “Not all of it, but some, so let’s wait a little and see how much you remember before I go and fill in the gaps, ya?”

“...Okay.” Seems reasonable enough, until I remember the troublesome little detail about Meng Sha being under attack, but this time, even though I make a conscious effort to sit up and panic, Buddy’s reassuring weight sprawls across my chest as Lin-Lin holds me down. “Wifey, I need to get up,” I declare, in as non-confrontational a tone as I can manage. “The fortress is under attack.”

“And there are soldiers here to defend it, hubby,” Lin-Lin replies, while Buddy makes himself more comfortable atop my chest. “You don’t need to worry about the fortress. Everything will be fine, because you’ve already done everything you could, ya?”

“I did?”

