She was faster.
 
——
 
Klbkch was not ready for this. He had lost his Silver Illusion techniques. His swords could still move as fast, and he traced a killing pattern he had used to slay his foes in the direst of battles—
She was faster. Zeladona of Blades had been just as skilled, but this person—Cauwine—was even more dangerous.
When she swung her sword, his Chitrix blades rang. Rang so badly Klbkch had to drop them, where they cracked and jerked across the streets, tearing the road up until he seized them. And she sounded amused.
“It didn’t break. Few blades ever survived even a halfhearted blow.”
“I wILL KiLl yOU.”
He slashed across her chest, and she jumped, stepped on the flat of his blade, and leapt again. He barely felt it. Footwork Skill? She had begun jumping before he’d begun the slash.
She read him like one would read a book. The tip of her longsword touched his shoulder, and he staggered. It felt like Moore had struck him. His chitin was cracked.
She has the bladeskill of someone who can use it to bend reality. A Sword School—but more. Yet she wasn’t killing him. Klbkch pursued her four more seconds, then whirled.
“The [Thieves].”
He threw a sword straight at Bviora’s face. Cauwine caught it midair, then dropped the blade in distaste. She regarded her hand.
“That was forged to slay the likes of me. It has all the wrath of your kind in it.”
It hurt her? Or she didn’t care to—Klbkch snatched the sword up and leapt towards the boat sailing out of the harbor. This time, she cut the air, and he tried to block it.
Klbkch landed, facing the city of Covieke, and spun around. Had she just turned him around in midair? It felt like she’d cut a sliver out of reality and pasted it back in the opposite direction.
“Today is a poor day to do battle, Slayer. I remember a bit of who I was. You aren’t ready for me. Perhaps your kin on Rhir are closer to what I seek.”
She sounded disappointed as she stood there, blocking his way. Klbkch was panting.
“You want the Eye of Baleros?”
“Oh. No. I want them to take it. That’s why I appeared to you and them.”
Cauwine pointed her sword at Symphony. The Maestro stood on the harbour mouth as well, the thirty members of Symphony around him, taking aim at the two [Thieves]. Klbkch saw the Maestro staring at Cauwine. She’d left a cut down his cheek, running down all the way towards his leg.
“Why?”
Klbkch was ready to fight, but at this point, he couldn’t even tell if cutting her would do anything. Just like the other sleeping god. Cauwine stared up at the sky, then down at him.
“My mother makes plans. I do not. I swore to find what is new. Do you sense it? The potential of what they are trying to do with that thing called the ‘Eye of Baleros’—I want to see what comes next. For better or ill, I will give it that chance.”
She smiled wryly, like a child up to no good, and then like the oldest of beings eternally filled with youth, and he had no idea what she meant or what she saw.
But he decided the Eye of Baleros could not be taken. So Klbkch leapt, and she grabbed him mid-leap and bore him towards the sea. He swore as he slashed at her and she vanished into the waves, becoming seafoam and a whisper, that she was smiling in delight.
“I want to let the world turn, Slayer.”
When he surfaced—it was too late.
 
——
 
The Maestro of Symphony watched Klbkch and the woman who called herself ‘Cauwine’ fight. The Drake was bleeding; his handkerchief was pressed against his scales, soaked with blood. And he knew, in his very marrow, she’d barely bothered to wound him.
Linvios Reiscale did not know who that woman was, only that he feared her and adored her and would never cross blades again with her without the greatest reason in the world. Even Zeladona had not scared him as badly as she.
Covieke’s harbor looked like some horrible fairytale as the Maestro regarded the world around him. The tornado was still ripping across part of the city as the other Walled Cities’ agents tried to end it. Paint and blood was running in the streets filled with rubble.
In the distance, the two [Thieves] were fleeing. Symphony had raced along the harbor, but a wind had the boat, and there was no time to give chase. A Drowned Ship was rising from the waves, shedding water, magical shields glowing like a soap bubble.
This, the Maestro felt, was a beautiful, terrible painting. He stood at the water’s edge along the drydocks as the Thief of Clouds fought with Bviora to turn the boat around. The Gnoll boy was screaming something lost to the wind.
The Maestro was full of regrets. But—he adjusted his lapel as he spoke.
“Symphony has failed too many contracts of late. Take aim.”
That was all he said. The First Violinist nodded; no one but the members of Symphony and the figure kneeling in front of him heard. All the agents of the other Walled Cities saw was Symphony at the harbor, taking aim.
Trumpets raised, flutes loaded with darts. Two [Thieves] on a ship as a Drowned Vessel rose in the distance. Linvios looked ahead and heard a scream from the kneeling figure in front of him.
“Vetn!”
Symphony fired. A twenty-nine projectile volley, followed again in a second. Explosive darts, poisoned shards of metal. Linvios watched, then shook his head as Sellme’s winds blew the ship further out and it was engulfed by a Drowned Vessel’s shield.
He saw a burning vessel. Torn sails. A masterpiece of art collapsing into the waves. He saw the [Thieves] and the blood washing into the waters and heard a choking sound from before him. A figure trying to rise.
“One.”
“Maestro, we could give chase.”
The First Violinist offered. Linvios was already shaking his head.
“The Drowned Vessel is armed to the gills. We have orders not to raise tensions higher. Furthermore, if we even reached them before they surfaced, one of the Thousand Lances stands aboard the vessel. Prepare an exit and our summary report.”
Then he looked down at the white-scaled Drake trying to rise and do something, anything. Tesy’s eyes were locked on the burning vessel. Linvios drew his sword, slowly, staring down the blade.
“Sellme. Do you have any last words?”
He heard what sounded like laughter or sobbing. Then Tesy spoke. He looked lost as he gazed at that sinking boat, searching for movement. For anything. When his eyes rose, he met Linvios’ gaze.
“I feel like…I could draw a masterpiece for him.”
His eyes were swimming in an ocean the Maestro looked away from. The Drake saw the [Painter]’s lips moving and swung, faster than the words.
In the silence, the Maestro picked up Sellme’s head. He raised it high into the air for all to see as the body slowly toppled over and slid into the waters.
“Symphony! The [Thieves]—is that Sellme?”
One of Manus’ agents finally reached the docks, wild-eyed and panting. He stared at the head as Linvios felt red droplets stain his clothing forever.
“Is it a fake?”
The other Drake stared at the Maestro and Symphony. Linvios spoke without emotion or inflection.
“Paintings do not bleed.”
He lowered the head and gently tossed it into the waters. In the distance, the Slayer was trying to swim after the Drowned Ship. Symphony did not move. They stood there in silence, then turned and strode away as one without a word or sound.
A black eclipse began to rise at last as ‘dawn’ broke. A sun obscured. A pale ring of burning light casting a gloom over everything. Symphony fled it, back into the shadows.
The performance was over.
 
——
 
Vetn couldn’t breathe. He was lying on the burning ship, pieces of metal buried in his body. When he tried to pull himself up again, he understood why it was so hard.
Most of one arm was gone. The Thief of Clouds stared at it and started laughing. Then his lungs filled up with liquid, and he looked around. He had only one half of his vision. There was something sticking out of his face. The Gnoll croaked.
“Bviora?”
He wasn’t sure if he said it or just mouthed the words. When Vetn raised his head, he saw the Lightning Thief’s daughter.
She was staring at a hole in her chest where her heart should be. She was sitting against the mast of Tesy’s vanishing ship as the crew of the Drowned Vessel tried to reach them and a figure screamed down from above.
But all Vetn saw was Bviora’s eyes, searching her ruined flesh, then meeting his. The [Thief] whispered as the waters rose, dragging Vetn down.
“You are now part of the great game.”
Then she let go, and an eye rolled across the burning ship, filled with green light and shining as it reflected a continent he had never seen.
Then Vetn closed his eyes and wished he could hear Tesy’s voice.
 
——
 
9:12.
The deaths of Tesy and Bviora did not reach Erin Solstice’s ears. Be it her failing or Klbkch’s silence as he pursued a sinking ship—she did not think to check with him.
She did emerge from her World’s Eye Theater after bouncing around to half a dozen perspectives.
“And you’re sure nothing…huh. You’re bunkering down with people you trust? Good. Thanks, Cara.”
Erin Solstice had heard nothing from the Earthers. None of them reported anything odd. No figures offering deals. No mysteries. Many hadn’t taken her seriously. Many more she did not know and could not contact.
Yet for all intents and purposes, the day was beginning, and the only odd signs were the eclipse and the flowers.
Nothing was going on.
Nothing at all.
 
——
 
There was dissent in the ranks at 9:15 that Belgrade drew Olesm’s attention to. He marched over with the joint command around The Wandering Inn.
Tersk, Belgrade, and Calruz from Liscor’s 2nd Army.
Wing Commander Embria and the other two Wing Commanders were technically part of the forces under Liscor’s command, but the other two refused to go near the Antinium.
Lieutenant Caoraz and his irregulars from Pallass’ 8th.
And on the Free Antinium’s side, Pawn, Yellow Splatters, Purple Smile, and several members of the 7th Hive like the [Templars] and their own battalion leaders.
The one Antinium who could assume command over Olesm, Xrn, was more preoccupied with Perorn’s forces. Caoraz seemed happy to see people brawling, which said a lot about his soldiers, but he was confused as well.
“I didn’t know Antinium had dissent in the ranks. What’s this about?”
“Inefficiencies. Flying Antinium never squabble. Hello, hello. I am a friendly Antinium.”
Pivr fanned his wings as he scuttled along, and Caoraz promptly stepped behind Calruz, who just grunted as the Flying Antinium tried to extend a feeler.
However, even Caoraz owned to curiosity as they reached a kind of odd argument between three groups of Antinium. Namely, the Painted Antinium, the [Crusaders] of the 7th Hive, and the army’s soldiers.
They were…similar and not. Olesm had observed the stratification of the Painted Antinium and the [Crusaders] personally, but he had noted there was a schism of kinds even between the [Crusaders].
Even with the same class, there was a break between the ones of Xrn’s Hive, who used faith as a weapon and were the kind who became [Templars]—and the [Soldiers] like 5th Battalion or the Beriad.
In fact, it was such a familiar Antinium on one side of the arguing Antinium that Olesm covered his eyes, and half his commanders groaned.
Crusader 57 and a bunch of his buddies were arguing with some Painted Antinium.
“Why are you trying to paint us? We’ve got names and armor. Back off.”
A nervous Worker was holding a pot.
“But you do not have a place on the wall.”
Crusader 57 laughed and nudged Crusader 53, who slapped him, but the Worker pointed.
“Listen, we don’t need a wall. You know what we have?”
“What?”
Crusader 57 dipped into his pouch and dropped some shining pieces of metal into his palm.
“Coins. That’s valuable. Take your paint and shove it up your ass.”
The Worker regarded the pot of paint in his hands.
“I do not think that is an appropriate action, thank you. The paint is a gift. If you are painted, you will be remembered. Know that if you die in battle, Heaven awaits.”
Olesm stopped, unwilling to tell the Painted Antinium to break it up, but also feeling a sinking feeling in his stomach. Caoraz was eying the Painted Antinium with confusion, but the other Antinium and even Olesm and Calruz understood perfectly what was going on.
Pawn nodded calmly as many heads turned to him. He was the spiritual heart of the Free Antinium—though Yellow Splatters began trembling as the talk moved to Heaven.
Antinium, already quite fearless, had something to look forwards to after death. Yet, as was obvious, not all of them felt that way.
“Heaven awaits? Listen to this guy. Tell you what. Stand in front of us when the fighting starts, alright? I don’t care if it’s real or not. Does Heaven have a Garry-bread hamburger so large I can barely hold it in one hand?”
“Yes.”
The Worker answered instantly as Crusader 57 mocked him. The other Worker paused.
“…Well, that sounds stupid.”
Here, of all times, the [Acolyte] grew agitated and angry.
“It is not stupid. It is hope. Ask Pawn. Ask Yellow Splatters what it is like.”
Every head turned to the [Captain], but before the argument could further devolve, Pawn held out a hand.
“Peace. Thracian, let the Antinium who do not wish to be painted go. It is their choice.”
“Oh, thank you, oh mighty and wise Pawn. Do I have permission to wipe my ass, too?”
Crusader 57 was not done with his sarcasm. Unfortunately, he had chosen the wrong person to sass today of all days. Pawn turned to Crusader 57. Crusader 57 offered him four middle fingers—until Pawn’s multifaceted eyes seemed to catch the light and hold it. Like pupils made of light. They flashed, and the other soldier stopped.
“When the enemy comes for us, you will be grateful for our silly prayers and ways, Crusader 57. You are a better soldier than the Painted Antinium. Stand behind us.”
The Worker searched for a response, but then, in a show of rare wisdom, let Squad 5 pull him back and bow and apologize to the [Priest]. Olesm decided now was a good time to call out.
“Squad 5. Since you have so much fun mouthing off to your allies, make sure we have a second set of latrine pits. We might be here a while.”
“Fuck. Yes, Commander. Why didn’t anyone stop me? Stop hitting me—”
They moved off, and Olesm shook his head, checking his watch.
9:17. Time was crawling, today.
“I swear, they’re getting more unique every day.”
“It’s a good thing. Even if they fight. No, especially if they do. It means they’re comfortable saying how they feel. Wait until they start having fistfights. Then you’ll know they’re truly a people, and no one will mistake them for all being the same again.”
