And then she woke up.
It was pitch black when the young woman sat up with a gasp, jerking out of the sheets that barely covered her. Her tossing and turning had tumbled the winter bedding to the floor, and her head rotated. A wordless scream in her throat.
The Winter Solstice was here.
Ryoka Griffin had thought her nightmares would stop as the day arrived at last. But it seemed one last one had chased her through the night. She had barely slept, anyways, and had only laid down because she knew she had to be rested.
She doubted Erin had slept. The Wind Runner’s heartbeat calmed only fractionally as she checked the sky and realized it was still night. She fumbled around for a timepiece she’d bought with a stupid sun and moon that rotated around with the hands of the clock.
An hour to the Solstice. Good. She’d told everyone to wake her anyways.
Ryoka sat there, and then it hit her.
One hour to—
She was out of bed in an instant, thumping around, grabbing the clothing, artifacts, Faeblade, everything she had neatly prepared, in a rush. This guest room of Erin’s inn was decently spacious and quite nice, but even so, you could hear loud sounds through the walls. Today, Ryoka didn’t care if she woke up the entire inn.
It wasn’t like the children were here. And the other guests were not Erin’s normal clientele.
“Ryoka?”
Tyrion knocked on the door and thrust it open after a muffled response. He caught Ryoka rifling through a selection of scrolls. The [Lord] of House Veltras paused, then nodded.
“I see you’ve woken up without any need for help.”
One of the commanders of the northern forces, Lord of the Five Families, and Captain of the Obvious, Tyrion Veltras…made Ryoka feel better today. If the world ended in an hour, at least he’d say something like ‘this is bad’.
She almost thanked him—until she noticed how he was already armored up. A fur cloak hung around the ancient armor of House Veltras, adorned with symbols; the antlers of a stag and a lance set between trees.
He carried the sword and shield at his side, and someone trailed after him. Ryoka saw Jericha appear, sword and wand at her side, along with a squad of Tyrion’s bodyguards. Then Ryoka’s smile faded. There was an air of stillness and—oddly—surety that clung to Tyrion today.
As if the stone that bounced around and sank in every situation from romance to social niceties had turned into a boulder of confidence. This was the one thing Tyrion understood. It was the air that hung around House Veltras’ guards and in the inn itself.
War. Ryoka was not used to that odd scent or feeling. It made her limbs feel heavy. Her hands weak, like when you tried to clench a fist and found no strength in your grip.
To reassure herself, Ryoka drew her Faeblade and ignited it. A pink glow suffused the air, and the light shone from her window over the dark Floodplains.
Tyrion smiled faintly as Jericha snorted.
“Like a new soldier with a sword.”
“She isn’t a [Soldier], Jericha. Let’s muster. The commanders are taking their positions. Assuming it begins in—”
Jericha spoke crisply.
“Fifty-four minutes.”
Ryoka’s heart leapt, and she turned off the Faeblade and followed Tyrion into the hallway. He did not lower his voice; the other occupants were emerging. In the odd silence that was so still, Ryoka heard boots. Then she saw Drakes marching down from the third floor to the second.
They were ready. Wall Lord Aldonss, Spearmaster Lulv, Wall Lord Ilvriss, General Duln, General Shirka, and even Chaldion had all sequestered rooms here.
They wanted to be here in case of emergencies in the night, and Erin’s [Twofold Rest] had actually, apparently, been a huge lure even for seasoned [Soldiers]. They marched past the Humans without a word as Tyrion stepped back into Ryoka’s room to make way.
Lulv caught Tyrion’s eye for a second as they passed, a snarl on his face like a smile. Wall Lord Ilvriss ducked his head to Ryoka; his face was grim and set. The Wind Runner whispered.
“See you in an hour?”
“Breakfast first.”
Chaldion’s voice was dry, and the Drakes laughed at this. Ryoka almost flushed, self-consciously, until she noticed the Grand Strategist’s gemstone and real eyes glittering as he grinned at her. It was even clinging to him.
Tension.
Now, Ryoka heard sounds from below, and she realized the staff must already be up serving food. They had probably been up for at least an hour. General Shirka grumbled as they headed downstairs.
“It might not even start in an hour, you know. But here we are. I hate waiting for the enemy to arrive. Where’s Saliss?”
“He’ll be here…”
Chaldion’s voice faded as another door swung open. Ryoka happened to know that Pallass would be sending at least Saliss, Grimalkin, and a few others through, but the forces here had contrived to minimize the need for the door as much as possible.
On Invrisil’s side, Lady Bethal, Lady Pryde, and Lady Magnolia Reinhart and a number of nobles would come through from the City of Adventurers. Laken from Riverfarm, and…and then that was it.
Today was no day for intracontinental strife. Even the rules about Tyrion had been lifted for this day. Even for the man who appeared in his nightclothes, watching as a Golem shaped like some kind of maid or attendant ran a glowing, orange palm over his clothing.
“Ah, Tyrion. Ryoka. One second, if you will. I quite forgot to iron my battle vestments. Primera is doing that now.”
Xitegen Terland lifted his arms as the second Golem swung his coat about him, and Ryoka stared. No armor for this man. Instead, he had enchanted clothing, which half the nobility had elected instead of good armor.
House Veltras’ faces made it clear what they thought of trusting their lives to cloth, however strong, versus good steel. But Xitegen had on a very tight-fitting suit that made him look a bit like an orchestra conductor. It even had those long tail ends for butt flaps, and the black fabric turned glossy and bore House Terland’s seal in one huge crest on the left side; Xitegen’s personal crest was on the right.
“Lord Xitegen, you appear ready for a dance.”
The other [Lord] laughed as Tyrion commented.
“What is a battle other than a dance? I’ve heard it described as a game of moving flags, chess, two boulders grinding together, a fistfighter’s match—I should look the part regardless of what form this one takes. I am, after all, a lord’s [Lord]. Not one suited to battle as eminently as yourself, Tyrion. Never fear. Cloth is armor to the north. We’ll prove that soon enough. Less heat on the ironing, would you, Primera? My buttons are searing my flesh.”
He blew on one of his lapels, and Ryoka commented softly, without really knowing what to say.
“So ironing is a thing in this…I guess it was invented a long time ago.”
It was just heating metal or even rocks and warming fabric of some kind. But Ryoka swore she saw too much steam rising from Primera’s hands even for the winter, so either the Golem was burning Xitegen’s clothes or she had added some moisture.
Xitegen paused a second as he buttoned up his lapels.
“Why, yes. It’s a very traditional thing for most clothing in First Landing. Primera also uses steam; it’s one of those completely superfluous functions someone designed into her that I cannot do without.”
“Oh, got it. Full ironing.”
The [Lord] glanced at Tyrion, who just stared at the clothing with the kind of vague awareness some men had that ironing was a thing that existed and was done for reasons. Jericha’s face was straight, but Xitegen turned to Ryoka.
“And you know what that is. Strange. I don’t recall you meeting any Golems with that functionality; only House Terland has that kind of adaptability. The House of El once tried to make a copy of our steam cleaning devices, but I think it just blew up. Once again and yet again you know rather too much, Miss Ryoka. Would you care to explain?”
Ah, even now they were doing the dance. Ryoka Griffin saw the pants rise, and Xitegen stepped into them as Tyrion avoided looking. It was funny, because in this moment—she really didn’t care.
Her entire time in this world she’d been worried, obsessed over risks, and it was funny how things changed. Because she would have loved for some more support in this moment, at this time. All her efforts to keep Earth a secret…and she really wasn’t the only Earther. And Xitegen wasn’t the worst man to know about it.
“Xitegen, if you or Tyrion were actually allies with Magnolia, she might have told you ages ago. Wait, nevermind. She doesn’t even tell Bethal or Pryde. I know about ironing. And Grimalkin’s weights. And I, or Erin or a bunch of people, could talk to you about all sorts of useful and stupid stuff like Felkhr’s flying machine. I don’t really get how so many important people have missed it.”
Xitegen’s fingers slowed as he buckled his belt, and he glanced up. Tyrion glanced at Ryoka, face expressionless, and Xitegen’s head swung sharply to him, then the [Lord] focused on Ryoka.
“…Would you care to elaborate?”
“Maybe later. It’s crazy. I don’t understand why I was so worked up about it. No, I get why, but it doesn’t matter now. If anything, maybe the irresponsible part was me not sharing with people I trusted. I’m full of regrets, but it used to matter a lot—today? Not so much. Does this make sense?”
Xitegen’s brows lifted, and he exchanged looks with Jericha as a door opened and another noblewoman stepped out. Xitegen bowed.
“Lady Desinee El. Good to see another of the Five Families making an appearance. Wellfar couldn’t even send one, eh?”
“Lord Xitegen, am I late?”
She was also fashionably adorned, albeit in a riding dress, and her bodyguards had already been waiting: grim faced [Mercenaries] armed to the teeth. She had been listening to Ryoka babble. Lord Xitegen brushed at his hair.
“Not at all. Breakfast, then? No solemnity before battle, eh? Fine with me. I don’t care to fast. But a word to the wise, Miss Griffin? No need to spread fear. Act as if you know what you’re doing.”
Ryoka shut up. They headed downstairs in a second group as more people emerged from their rooms.
Relc and Valeterisa. Normen, Jewel, Embraim, marching as one group. Numbtongue, pausing by Lyonette’s room as if expecting a patter of paws.
Mrsha and Nanette were not here. And Lyonette and Erin were already awake. The Solstice was about to begin, and they were all ready.
No one was ready.
 
——
 
“You cannot go.”
“I am going to go. It is the most fun I’ll have in my life.”
“It will be the end of your life, you stupid part-Elf.”
A beak pecked a half-Elf on the head, snatching a battle-circlet from Silvenia’s grip. The Death of Magic turned her head and gave Serinpotva, the Death of Wings, a warning look that had spelled the end of fortresses and armies. Her eyes burned with magic.
The Harpy Empress pecked her on the head again. Czautha saw Silvenia reach for her circlet and rubbed a foot through the spell circle.
“You two—stop it. I have to go.”
“No.”
Both Deaths were reining in their comrade. And for all they were jocular, play-fighting—there was a conversation below the light one that was going on. They had been adventurers. Generals. Saboteurs. Traitors—at least two of them, technically, though Czautha was more kin to a rebel—and both heroes and villains.
Silvenia stared at one of her hands and wondered if it would look better as all bone. That half-Elf she’d met was pulling it off in style. She spoke, eyes flicking upwards.
“I am going. If it looks like I will gain intelligence.”
Negotiations. Serinpotva had the confidence of the Demon King; she was unto the war leader of all Demons. She folded her wings.
“If you can gain intelligence, you may observe. The scope of the threat dictates where you will even go, or whether you will ferry Czautha there.”
“But—”
“There is no reason for you to risk your life. There are at least ten champions of Izril present. They could slay you if they all turn on you.”
“They’re half my level.”
Czautha shook her head.
“Not all of them.”
Silvenia hesitated, then scowled with ill grace. It was unlikely even she would escape like some naughty child on a dare. When she went to war, not games meant to a purpose, she would be smiling, and then she would be the master of conflicts that Czautha and Serinpotva bowed to.
She was often bored—but she was serious, now.
“Very well. If we agree it is worthwhile. Because I will be used?”
“Oh yes. You are an arrow I aim where it matters. If not at Izril—then the Eyes of Baleros must not return to the Nagas. It is an ancient promise.”
Serinpotva narrowed her eyes. Silvenia’s eyes glittered.
“I always wanted to know what I could do with one of those. Very well. Just as long as someone has a bad time today.”
She began recalibrating her spell as Czautha silently exchanged looks with her partner. Not even the Deaths knew what was coming next, though. That was unsettling.
 
——
 
“I see. Truegold’s in place. There’s a weird Drake contingent still in the mountains…must be that Grand Strategist Chaldion’s doing. [Strategists]. I noticed a number of artifacts heading out the last two nights, including far too many to those Goblins and Antinium. Decent trap spells, and they’re dug in.”
From above, the battlefield at night really was set up well. You had to admit that the earthworks had flattened the usually lumpy floodplains in a vast area around The Wandering Inn, and a killing field had been set up.
Entrenched Drakes on a vast hill, forcing the enemy to charge up to The Wandering Inn or head through several channels where they’d be flanked on both sides. Trap spells waiting to be activated; the forces of Drakes and Humans were spread out, too. No tightly-packed nonsense where artillery could blow them to bits. The [Riders] were already warming up, and the Centaurs had pure mobility; they weren’t even near the inn itself. Clearly, they’d be ready to hit-and-run.
But there was an army around the inn. Liscor’s 2nd Army, as Rhisveri understood it from his bird’s eye view of the area. They glittered in his spell, though most of the crusaders refused to show him their class, which was annoyingly disconcerting.
They were the final defense before the inn itself. Pallass, Manus, and Salazsar formed the main lines while the Humans occupied secondary posts; a lot of their forces were irregulars, like the Golems, or were riding with Tyrion Veltras. However, they had shown up in force.
“Even trebuchets. On defense! Well, this is why Greatbows are superior. How are they making them anyways?”
