“Most places aren’t like this. Liscor, well, Liscor’s sort of on the edge. I meet people in the Walled Cities who think if you cross the street outside of a crosswalk it’s a mortal sin. People mad someone planted the wrong flowers somewhere. They don’t…get…the fact that tomorrow they could be homeless. Or dead.”
“They have never seen what you have. It’s a luxury we grant others. It should be that way.”
That came from a grim-faced adventurer. To his astonishment, Caoraz realized he was sitting with Halrac the Grim. The man was sipping goat’s milk, sensibly, but he looked at Caoraz. The Drake held up his claws.
“Oh, I know. That’s why I serve in 8th Army. I’m just saying—these people think that way. They act as if the world ‘can’t’ end tomorrow. As if you can’t be stabbed to death in an alleyway, even in Pallass.”
“It’s like losing a fight. The first time you get really punched or have your face blooded and wake up snorting blood—then you know it can happen. Until then, you’re a snot-nosed brat. Alcaz. Who’m I drinking with?”
A young man with a crooked nose and a bowler hat shook hands with a few people around the table, and Caoraz liked the company. Despite himself. And despite his best wishes—when the [Innkeeper] paused by the table with a refill and spicy, steaming noodles for everyone in bowls—she put it best.
“They have to live through it one time to believe it. I used to think like that. It’s no one’s fault. And maybe it’d be best if no one ever had to learn that lesson again. But that’s why I asked for you all. Because you won’t hesitate. I’m sorry.”
Erin Solstice gave Caoraz a hazel smile, full of guilt and sympathy for Yellow Splatters—and he challenged her, knowing it was probably stupid.
“So why’d you call us over to die if you did?”
The [Innkeeper] had no hat of fire today. She was just the [Magical Innkeeper], and her eyes flashed and she looked straight into him. The Drake hesitated. Erin Solstice leaned over and poked him on the chest.
“Because you can take it, can’t you, buddy? Pallass, I, the world needs people like you. That’s what makes you special. Not because I asked. But because you came when you heard me call.”
She left him without a reply. He hadn’t expected approval or that response. Caoraz took a bite of his noodles—and noticed several of the people at the table smirking at him. A passing [Lady] clapped her hands in delight.
“Oh, look, Thomast! Did you see that? Even at the end of the Winter Solstice, she still got one. And you said she doesn’t do romance! But I think even Wuvren would have admired that shot to the heart.”
Lady Bethal Walchaís passed by, laughing gaily as Caoraz turned beet red under his scales. And then…and then…
 
——
 
And then it was 11:30.
Near to midnight. Erin woke from a nap and stared around her inn. It was dark, yet when she went to the window, the lights still burned.
“Darn. I think we missed it.”
She couldn’t believe it. Not really. Erin pinched herself and wandered around her inn, bleary and guilty and nervous and—unhappy.
Surely, something had happened this day of days. She knew it. This was it. This was what she had prepared for for months! She had been warned by the last Gnome, by the dead, and she had placed all her bets, and…and maybe that was Kasigna’s greatest vengeance.
Doing nothing at all.
Yet if that was the case—what had the dead gods been doing? Erin feared not knowing their plans more than anything. She refused to believe they had done nothing.
She stood in her [Garden of Sanctuary], staring around at nothing, the Key of Reprieve in hand, feeling like the greatest dunce in the world when someone found her.
“Hey.”
“Aaaah!”
Erin nearly punched Ulvama. Even Ishkr had left the inn after the last guests; he was no combatant. The Knights of Solstice, Numbtongue—the inn was empty, most of her friends outside of it.
Ulvama had stayed. She was a powerful [Shaman], and Rags’ tribe had counted her among their number, but it seemed she wasn’t going to wait in the cold.
“Ulvama. Shouldn’t you be in position?”
“I am. Here. I’m not going out there. It’s cold. If there’s a fight, this is the final stand.”
“But Kasig—Kassy’s aiming for me. What if this becomes the most dangerous spot?”
The Hobgoblin [Shaman] puffed out her chest proudly.
“I. Will run away. Duh.”
That made Erin laugh. She sat down in the grass and confessed her worry to her dance-instructor and, well, friend. She hadn’t known Ulvama as well at the start of this, when she’d come back from the dead.
But now she counted Ulvama as part of the inn and hoped the Hobgoblin sort of felt that way.
“I feel like a huge fool right now, Ulvama. Look at what’s going on. I’ve been acting like it’s all about me, and I called everyone here, and I might have just wasted their time.”
“Eh. They have lots of time to spare. You think Thigh Lord does much? He sits around with Golems all the time.”
Ulvama scoffed, and Erin snorted at her term for Xitegen. She plucked up some grass unhappily.
“Yeah, but—I realized it while everyone was waiting. Why did I call everyone here?”
“…Because it’ll be a big fight?”
Ulvama didn’t really get the question. Erin tried to explain.
“Nah, nah. It’s all wrong. You see, think about it. I’m an [Innkeeper]. I’m making it about me, but it was never about me. Not from the start. Remember Relc and Klbkch and—well, you weren’t there. But I’ve told you stories.”
“Yah. A bit. What do you mean? I don’t get it.”
The Hobgoblin was poking some Faerie Flowers suspiciously, but they were just open-petaled, facing the dark sky. Two full moons…but the sky was too filled with clouds to even see a single ray of light. Erin patted the flowers gently.
“It was really all about them, you know. Here’s this weird girl who plays chess, and along comes the Gecko of Liscor and the Slayer. Best friends and Senior Guardsmen! They’re like—the coolest [Guards] in all of Izril. And Pawn became the first Individual Antinium, and there was Rags and Pisces, a future adventurer—and me.”
“Okay. But you helped them be…famous-ish.”
Ulvama twiddled her fingers, not seeing the problem. Erin nodded.
“Maybe a bit. But you see, at best, I was just one of them. Even after that, my inn was part of cool things. Sure, I helped teams, but the Silver Swords were going into the dungeon. When the Goblins stopped the Goblin Lord and Tyrion—it was them. Ever since I died and came back, it’s been all about Erin Solstice. When it’s not.”
“Eh…didn’t you have a stupid flag at the battle? They came because of you.”
Erin couldn’t deny that. She hunched her shoulders.
“I just don’t want to make more of myself than I should.”
Ulvama sighed. Then she poked Erin, as was her way.
“Dummy. You are important. You have to know what you’re worth. You’re stupid.”
“Sorry. I just—”
“And thoughtless.”
“Hey now, I don’t want to—”
“And fat.”
Erin hesitated. She stared down at her stomach.
“…Nah.”
Ulvama grinned, and her crimson eyes flashed as her teeth made glimmering spikes in the faint light of the [Garden of Sanctuary].
“Let me tell you a story, Erin. A story about a stupid, slow, fat Goblin. Back in the Mountain City tribe.”
Erin blinked. Ulvama’s eyes were distant, far away, and Erin hesitated.
“You mean…I haven’t ever met him, but I sort of do with Numbtongue. Rags knew him well. You mean Pyr—”
This time, Ulvama kicked Erin. Hard. The [Innkeeper] punched back, and Ulvama grunted.
“Shush. This is a story about a stupid, fat Goblin. When I was just an apprentice [Shaman]. Sometimes we talked. I was good at healing and paints even then. Because I’m a genius. He…always wondered why people attacked him. Other Goblins challenging him. Humans in battle. He thought it was because he was big.”
“Um.”
“He was. But not that big. There were taller Goblins, scarier-looking Goblins. He always thought it was some stupid reason. Not because they noticed him being at the center of things.”
Ulvama drew a swirl in the grass, and Erin saw a breeze run around and keep a single blade of grass standing, like something at the center of a storm. Ulvama’s eyes were sad, melancholic, and nostalgic, and that was not entirely without happiness.
“He thought he was slow and stupid. Hah. Him? The entire world was slow and stupid compared to him, sometimes. He never thought he could be something.”
“I heard he tried, once. Rags told me—”
Ulvama raised the foot of kicking, and Erin fell silent. The [Shaman] glared, then waggled her toes and went on.
“Before that. There was a moment, in the tribe, when he could have been. A moment where if he said ‘come with me’, Goblins would have followed him.”
“Including you?”
The [Shaman of the Old Ways] huffed, folded her arms, and nodded.
“…Including me. He had a stupid teacher. A teacher who thought you needed to be perfect at everything like he was…because he was born that way. We didn’t care about that. We wanted someone who cared about us. And made things better. One small thing at a time.”
She looked guilty, then. Ulvama stared across the garden as snow fell on one side and a dry wind blew across the arid lands on the other. Cocoa beans rustled from several trees.
“If I had gone with him, maybe things would have been better.”
“Wh—I understand the story. What’s it got to do with me?”
Ulvama blinked at Erin.
“Dunno. You figure it out.”
Erin opened her mouth, and the [Shaman] went on grumpily.
“Who cares if nothing happens?”
“B—but the amount of money and time they wasted. If nothing happens, then I missed my opportunity to—”
“Eh. Those idiots have lots of time and money. You wasted time? You made a mistake? So what. You’re important. Maybe idiots say afterwards, ‘oh, Erin Solstice is such a stupid [Innkeeper] who can dance really well because her teacher is amazing’. But they’ll also say you’re powerful. You can tell the Five Families and Walled Cities what to do. And if they forget because you made one mistake, you can sneak up on them. With a club.”
Ulvama made a gesture, and Erin smiled. It was true this was going according to Ulvama-logic, but there was something about the way she thought that worked with Erin. Erin had been the underestimated [Innkeeper] a long time.
Important. Me. Erin knew it was true, in a sense…she just didn’t want it to be. She didn’t want the burden. She didn’t want to be right or wrong about today.
Ulvama was patting Erin on the head. Gingerly, like someone patted a dog or cat, worried they’d get a bite. She met Erin’s eyes seriously.
“If you did what you thought was best, even if you were wrong, it was a good idea. That’s wisdom. Trust me. I’m a [Shaman].”
For some reason, that actually made Erin feel better. She stretched out, sighing, and knew that the Winter Solstice was coming to an end. Part of Erin wanted it to go out with a sigh rather than a bang.
Another part of her…was just waiting.
Waiting.
 
——
 
The little timespell was counting down the minutes as Erin stared at it.
11:47.
11:50.
She got to her feet, walking around the garden as Ulvama sighed.
“If everyone leaves tomorrow—eh. Stupid [Lords] and [Ladies] will stick around. If—after this—”
She hesitated and seemed conflicted for a second. Erin glanced at her as she absentmindedly did a circuit of her garden. Checking, waiting.
In her inn, she could sense Normen yawning as he and the Knights of Solstice surreptitiously played cards. Ryoka was in the outhouse. Tessa was sitting on the beams of the common room, curled up.
“After this, I gotta focus on some people in my life, Ulvama. At least Tessa and…and other things. Rabbiteater. I could throw my boon at him. I should have already, but he says today won’t be the worst.”
“Yah. But after all that. I…there’s someone I want to introduce you to. Another [Witch].”
Ulvama sounded so hesitant that Erin twisted around as they climbed the hill of the garden.
“A [Witch]? What kind of [Witch]?”
Ulvama grumbled under her breath.
“A special [Witch]. And after that—maybe—I want to show you a place. An island.”
Erin’s footsteps slowed in the grass as mist crept up around their ankles, rising by the moment. She stared at Ulvama.
“An island?”
The [Shaman] met her gaze slowly.
“Yeah. Maybe it’s stupid and dangerous. No, it is both. But if it’s you—maybe you’ll find answers.”
The answers Erin had promised to help Ulvama with. Answers Erin herself…the [Innkeeper] smiled and reached out a hand.
I’d like that. I promise.
Before she could touch the Hobgoblin’s hand, Erin felt it. Her hand froze in midair, and the shy [Shaman] paused—and she saw Erin Solstice’s face freeze over. Then she saw the [Innkeeper] turn, and all thoughts of the future or the truth became a quiet certainty.
“Oh. No.”
Erin Solstice began to walk forward through the misty hill without a word. And now, Ulvama checked the time—
11:53. 
“What’s going on? What, what?”
Erin didn’t answer. She was walking faster, now, through the swirling fog. The place where she had lain, frozen, where statues stood. But there were none around.
Yet she had been here over two dozen times during the course of the day. Just checking. Yet now, now she wasn’t checking. She was walking forwards, and a dread rose over her. When the mists parted, she stopped and cried out.
“No. Xarkouth!”
Ulvama rushed through the mists after Erin and stopped. She froze as a great statue of a weary Dragon, larger than any monster or being she had ever seen, raised his head in a silent roar. Even the grey stone hinted at the scales of pure blackness, wings like a distant purple nebula.
Weariness was on every line of Xarkouth’s body. His eyes were still alight, though, yet his mouth was open, and Erin thought she heard a whisper.
I’m sorry.
Erin fell to her knees in the grass—then tried to get up. She stumbled towards him.
“No. Nonononono—what happened?”
She knew what had happened. Today! Today of all days—she clung to him, crying out, and then she felt it beginning.
 
——
 
An [Emperor] was sitting and waiting, more nervous than anyone else for the Winter Solstice to end. He was about to ask Gamel for a drink of water and ask for the time—again—when he froze.
He shot to his feet. Laken whirled, nearly fell over in his tent, and cried out. Durene and Gamel rushed in and saw Laken flailing. His eyes were open and wide with horror, and they grabbed at him.
“Laken?”
“Your Majesty? What’s wrong?”
Laken Godart said nothing at first. Then he gasped in disbelief. In…relief?
“He’s gone.”
 
——
 
