The sound Klbkch heard was too high for most species to even appreciate. Musical theory hadn’t even acknowledged sounds above the regular registers of hearing for a long time, but a few species could appreciate what were known as ‘negative notes’.
Sounds that ranged into the ultrasonic. There were also ‘brazen notes’ that went lower than any normal voice or instrument could create. And yes, you could learn a Skill for the brown note, but that wasn’t classy.
They didn’t go through the gates. Too obvious, and too many [Guards] getting rallied by one of Manus’ agents to go after the Slayer. Instead, the first figure summited the wall and crouched, wearing black clothing, but not all black like some common [Assassin]. More like they were going to a performance, which they were.
Symphony. Thirty members of their assassination troupe followed a figure that sighed as he noticed the Slayer watching him. The Maestro gave him a salute.
Klbkch responded with a gesture. Linvios wondered where he’d learned it.
“Avoid the Slayer at all costs. We’ve lost too much time tangling with him. A lesson our ‘counterparts’ in Manus and the other cities have yet to learn. This is the final stop before they reach the sea. No failures. I want a haze in B Locrian. Then split by fives into the harbor.”
Symphony prepared for a performance, and a familiar haze and a haunting melody filled Covieke, drowning out the ringing alarm bells, and the [Assassins] leapt into the city as the Slayer vanished, hunting with commendable fury and speed—but little tact.
Everyone was eating from a humble pie today. The Maestro had to admit—the [Thieves] were good. They’d outwitted and outfoxed as many as four members of Symphony at once. Used their pursuers against each other.
No cohesion on the Walled Cities’ side. If he had been able to contact a counterpart in Manus or Zeres, they could have had this city locked down. Instead, half the Walled Cities had gone after trapping Klbkch or stealing his sword for the first week, and he’d put nearly fifty in [Healers]’ clinics.
“Let’s have some professionalism, people.”
The Maestro clapped his claws together, a rare admonishment for them—and himself. He hadn’t taken part in the hunt until four days ago, but clearly standards were slipping. Too much hobnobbing with old friends in Salazsar.
He drew a longsword out of the air with palpable regret. The First Violin already had a list of safehouses in Covieke.
“Signal me before springing the ambush unless there is no other option.”
Linvios sighed as his speaking stone lit up with affirmatives.
He hated killing young [Thieves].
 
——
 
“I think I heard the Slayer run into some more agents. Or Symphony. Sounded like music—for a second.”
“He’s got to be Level 40. At least. The files said he was Level 30 at best!”
Bviora sat in the safehouse they’d picked the lock of. The one good thing was that the Slayer had no tracking Skills—he would literally kick down doors or prowl around while fighting off the local Watch.
He’d been closer to them while they had the sword. It had begun ringing every now and then, a clear sign someone was tracking it, but they’d had to hold onto it.
“He’s pissed. I thought he was nice. Erin lied.”
Vetn was clutching at his side, breathing hard. It still must hurt, or he remembered being slashed by Klbkch.
“Anyone who likes Antinium and Goblins is a damn idiot. We’re almost out. The ship’s a Drowned one; it’ll dive. A friend called it in. You can still leave, you know. It’ll be waiting underwater half a mile out in…twenty-two minutes. We just have to get out there.”
The Thief of Clouds’ head rose, and his fur, matted with sweat, was smelling a bit. But his snarl was real.
“Can you run on water? What kind of operation is this? Tell them to surface and pick us up!”
“Can’t. It’s Covieke. The Drowned Folk don’t want to rock the boat any further. Listen, it’s a favor.”
“You have a lot of damn favors. Who’s doling them out? Your father? Or your mother? Which book is she from?”
Bviora turned red.
“Don’t talk about my parents like that—”
“The Lightning Thief got around. You told me there were a bunch of other kids competing. I heard about the Calanfer break in. How do you even win the ‘great game’? What’s the prize, again?”
“His legacy. Vetn—are you in or out? You can get out of the city.”
The Gnoll drank some water, sitting there and staring at Bviora’s hand. At the bag of holding still leaking magic. His voice was hoarse.
“I’m in. I told you, I want to see it through. So are we stealing a boat to get out there?”
“That’s the plan. We need a distraction. If I get the boat—as soon as we’re on the water, I hope he won’t follow. Antinium can’t swim.”
“Nothing’s certain with that guy. If he lands on the boat, we have to kick him into the water. Does your arm have a Skill for that?”
Bviora touched her arm.
“Maybe. I won’t know until he lands. He’s fast.”
The understatement of the century. They sat there, still breathing hard from fear as much as anything. This was a heist beyond what either had done before. Vetn had stolen countless treasures, even from the Meeting of Tribes and dangerous people.
But this? They had Symphony on their backs. Every Walled City had sent agents, and the Slayer was literally streets away. Why were they doing this? Bviora had a good reason. Vetn had one.
Tesy still thought they were mad.
“Vetn, this is nuts. Get rid of this crazy Human girl, and let’s get out of here. Qwera can hide us for a bit. Or maybe Erin can smooth it over.”
He lifted up part of the floor of the safehouse, and both [Thieves] nearly died. Tesy was filthy, covered in sewer muck, and he had just lifted the floor up like a manhole cover. It was a neat trick; even rogue safehouses weren’t immune to his powers.
“Tesy! Dead gods!”
“You stink! What the hell are you doing—get in here!”
Tesy scrambled up, and neither Vetn nor Bviora went to embrace him. He was panting, tired—and was hurt at the way Vetn glared.
“You idiot. Why did you follow us? Symphony’s on me, now, and they haven’t forgotten your bounty.”
At first, Sellme, Tesy, the [Painter], was so incredulous he gasped for words.
“I’m the idiot? Me? I’ve been saving your tail the last week, Vetn! Didn’t you notice me in Marwsh? What about Loeri?”
Vetn’s glare didn’t abate.
“I didn’t ask you to. Turn around. Go back to The Wandering Inn and get into the garden. This isn’t a game.”
“I know! I’m helping! You saved me—I’m saving you. That’s how it works. What’s the plan? I heard something about a boat? I can draw a boat. Let me just get some waterproof paints out…”
Bviora’s eyes lit up. But Vetn snarled before Tesy could get out his special paints.
“Tesy. Leave!”
His voice was a half-shout, and soundproofed or not, Bviora and Tesy froze and stared at him. All of Vetn’s hair was rising; he was angry, and Tesy didn’t know why. The Thief of Clouds glanced at Bviora.
“Bviora, can we get a second? In private?”
There wasn’t really privacy in the safehouse, but the two walked over to a room where you could sleep to talk. Vetn stayed at one end of the room, probably because Tesy did stink of the sewers. The [Magical Painter] turned to Vetn, spreading his claws.
“Vetn, this is crazy. I know you did this to save me. I get it. But you don’t have to help Bviora for a [Thief]’s honor. Even a token to call Symphony off my head…”
“Shut up. Just shut up. You’ve ruined it. I paid them to call the contract off of you, and here you are, probably getting re-bountied all over again. I wrote you a letter for you to stay put. And now you’re coming in acting like a hero?”
Vetn snapped back. Tesy swallowed hard.
“Hey. I saw you were in danger. If I hadn’t painted that street, Klbkch would have gotten you.”
“I don’t want your help. This is my choice. I could have left the moment Bviora got the Eye of Baleros. But I’m going with her because she’s after the Lightning Thief’s legacy. It’s some game between his descendants—winner takes all. She’s wearing his hand.”
Tesy’s eyes went round.
“His hand?”
Vetn scratched at his fur, distracted.
“Yeah. It has his Skills and everything. What I understand is someone’s got the Lightning Thief’s body or his limbs. One of his kids has his leg—”
“Whoa, whoa. His actual leg? That’s sick.”
Tesy held up his claws. He wasn’t as much a fan of the Lightning Thief books as Vetn, who’d read them with Qwera when they were all small. The Gnoll glared at him.
“His fake leg. Remember he had almost every limb replaced? Ear, eye, both legs, arm and hand—you’d have an easier time counting what wasn’t a prosthetic at the end of his life.”
Tesy had a pretty good idea what body part had survived. The Lightning Thief had been rumored to be prolific, and Bviora proved he must have a lot of kids.
“So it’s some kind of giant competition?”
“Yep. For the Eyes of Baleros.”
“Aren’t those…bad…to give to the Lizardfolk?”
That was the entire purpose of the books. Vetn nodded again.
“It is—but Bviora wants to know how her father’s body got stolen and what the ‘great game’ is about. You can’t find out without playing. Having one of the Eyes of Baleros puts her ahead of anyone else. The others have only stolen magical items, which also ‘count’—I’m going to find out more with her. She’s got contacts. Her mother seems like she was actually one of the Lightning Thief’s partners.”
Tesy grew excited, despite the dangers.
“Oh wow! Which one? The Drowned Captain? That [Knight]? Maybe the [Mage] who—”
Vetn’s eyes twitched, and then he snarled.
“Tesy! That’s all you need to know. Tell Qwera when she asks, and get lost, got it? No, draw the ship and then leave. That’s how you can help me.”
Once again, the white-scaled Drake froze. This wasn’t like how Vetn normally was. He got angry, sure, he was grumpy and a loner and stingy as heck, but he wasn’t like this.
He began drawing, avoiding the topic, dipping his brush in a magical pot of paint. A simple sailing ship—and Tesy drew a breeze behind it to get it out to sea fast. After five minutes of Vetn prowling around, sniffing the air and coughing about Tesy’s stench, the Drake found the words to speak.
“I’m going with you.”
Vetn turned slowly.
“No, you’re not.”
“You need me. A [Magical Painter] is useful everywhere he goes. Plus, Izril’s kinda dangerous right now. Think about it, Vetn. Remember our heists? We can pull the old cloud trick again, or I can help you get into a vault!”
Tesy grew excited just thinking about it. Some of their greatest escapades had been together, though he’d let Vetn take all the credit. He began smiling at Vetn, who was just staring at him, eyes tired and still angry and…
“Tesy. Did you even read my letter?”
The Drake’s brush slipped, and he quickly undid a bad stroke on his notebook. He ducked his head and, after a few seconds, muttered.
“Yeah. And?”
The Thief of Clouds stared at his friend for a long time. Tesy, Vetn, and Qwera. Three kids from the streets of nowhere, growing up together.
Big sister Qwera, always hunting for the next profit. Nervous about her fur and hating the tribes for reasons she’d never really explained until later.
Tesy, painting on everything, getting into mischief with Vetn, who stole and got caught and sometimes had to have Qwera bail the two of them out.
The good old days. Timeless, perfect. Only, it seemed like one of them didn’t feel that way. Vetn stared at Tesy as the Drake avoided his look, and that was classic too. In the end, Vetn found a chair until Tesy began to peek at him from behind his drawing. The Gnoll, though, didn’t look ready to make up and be best of friends again.
He just sat there and looked—lost.
 
——
 
Five members of Symphony were down. The Slayer was playing no games. But Linvios had found the right safehouse.
The one called Bviora, allegedly one of the Lightning Thief’s daughters, was in one corner of the room, Sellme and Vetn on the other end. Linvios knew that based on the [Detect Heat] spell. He was about to have hearing, too.
One of Symphony had finished boring a hole into the safehouse. Normally, that kind of thing was warded against, but the [Thieves] had picked the lock, and the safehouse was either cheap or the magical protections hadn’t been activated.
Sloppy. That was the mistake a young [Thief] or [Rogue] made only once. And they were…very young. The Drake, the Human, the Gnoll.
He had a job to do. Linvios knew there was a backdoor to the safehouse. There always was. So he was waiting for Symphony to locate and secure it. The [Painter], Sellme, could probably get out through the roof or the walls or the sewers.
Symphony was everywhere. For the moment, Linvios listened. Knowledge was power. His employers wanted to know who, exactly, wanted the Eyes of Baleros. The answer was almost certainly Nagas, but which ones and where?
He heard Vetn’s voice—at least one of the three seemed to know the odds against them. Sellme sounded like what Linvios had expected. Someone who would destroy Requiel ute Minen, that beautiful painting and everything else.
Strange, he’d liked Sellme before this. Thumbing your nose at the rich or corrupt or simply powerful was something you should be allowed to do without punishment. Such a disappointment.
They were very young. He was an [Assassin]. He’d done worse. Linvios felt not much of anything, certainly not doubt. Until Vetn began speaking.
“How long are we gonna do this, Tesy?”
“Do what, Vetn?”
The hazy form of Vetn’s heat signature was compacted. He must be sitting. Linvios checked on the Slayer’s position; he had apparently stopped by the harbor mouth. Intelligent. Maybe he’d be amenable to a drink afterwards. It didn’t do to cultivate enemies like him—for now—
“Don’t be stupid. You read my letter. I told you to do something with your life, not paint on walls and ruin paintings all the time.”
“I am doing something. I’m helping you. Listen, Vetn, I know I messed up—”
A thump. One of the members of Symphony near the Maestro twitched; someone had thrown something. Maybe a shoe? Vetn got up to pick it up.
“Did you read my letter or not? I risked my life—I got stabbed—for you. Only for you! I wouldn’t have done that for anyone else. Not Erin Solstice that everyone seems to love, not Mrsha. Maybe not even Qwera. And you—you act like you don’t even care. You followed me when I told you I wanted you to be safe.”
“We’re friends, Vetn. Best friends. I can’t just leave you—”
