He tapped one of the blades at his side. It was new, replacing the Shortsword of Frost he’d had for so long. A gift from her gardens.
“Nice swords. You’s generous to Goblins and Antinium. We see. Still. When the fighting happens…”
“I think it’ll happen. I really do.”
Redscar nodded; this was not in doubt.
“When it happens—how many do you think will die this time? Goblins? I should write Goblins in Goblinhome. Make little tombstones. Very cute.”
Erin stared at Redscar, her face slack, until he burst out laughing. He slapped his knee, then her shoulder.
“Hah! Your face! Hey—”
He threw open the door to the rec room, shouted something, and all the Goblins started laughing. Redscar turned to Erin, and she realized that was a joke.
“That’s not funny.”
“Is a great joke for Goblins. Especially Redfangs.”
His smile was more like a leer, and Erin glared until Thunderfur squeezed out the door and sat there. Redscar patted his mount and glanced at Erin.
“Antinium and Goblins will die.”
“Yes. I’m sorry.”
The Goblin went from joking to serious so fast, but that was Redscar as Erin vaguely understood him: Garen’s second, the last true Redfang leader. He had always struck her as, well, a fighting freak who loved battle, but she watched the way he treated Thunderfur with such affection. The Carn Wolf even rolled over so Redscar would scratch his stomach. After a while, the Goblin spoke without looking at her.
“You know, I used to not like you. Even with [Natural Ally]. Little voice in my head says trust her. I still didn’t like you.”
“Because of Garen?”
Redscar scoffed and kicked her leg.
“Nah. Garen got what he gave. Not because of Garen, stupid. I was mad because…well, now I’m happy.”
“I don’t follow.”
He rolled his eyes as he invited Erin to scratch Thunderfur’s belly.
“Because someone who likes Goblins is in trouble. Big trouble. Overwhelming death trouble. Death from behind fast trouble. I was mad when Rags told me about you. Because you helped us, and it looked easy. Easier than being a Goblin. Some Human gives Rags pasta and a fruit. Yay! Wonderful Human! Let’s die for her!”
He threw up his hands and danced around in a circle and laughed. Erin didn’t know what to say. But then Redscar tapped her on the shoulder.
“This…this is friendship. You die, we die. After this, I like you more. Maybe teach you to ride Carn Wolves. Being friends with a Goblin should be hard.”
“Should it? You guys are nice. It’d be better if it was easy, right?”
Erin frowned at Redscar, and he shook his head, thumped his chest, and looked around.
“Those Humans and Drakes still want to kill us. Friendship with a Goblin should be hard. Or else everyone is a friend until suddenly things get hard. Anyways, glad you suffer.”
He clapped Erin on the shoulder again and sauntered back into the rec room. Erin stared after Redscar, thinking about what he’d said. Thunderfur lay on his back, trying to hint that a real friend would keep scratching.
After a few seconds, someone who’d been listening in came over and gave Thunderfur his scratches. Peggy glanced at Erin and pointed after Redscar.
“He’s crazy.”
Erin stared at Peggy. The [Floor Boss] shrugged. After a second, Erin walked off.
 
——
 
8:00.
By now, some of the nobles were yawning or had been asleep with orders to wake them when the fighting actually happened.
Lord Tyrion had been in Invrisil with Hethon and Sammial and had a day of just touring the markets until the boys got tired. Every time they saw a soldier coming to tell Tyrion of something, they’d tensed up—it left them exhausted.
Tyrion didn’t really remember the day. He was more reflecting on the long wait and a revelation that he’d come to moments before he’d gone out with Hethon and Sammial.
 
——
 
To say that the [Soldiers] had grown restless after over twelve hours of waiting was an understatement. As the day had worn on, the rumors began, even in the disciplined lines of Drakes. Was this really going to be a battle to end all battles?
Or was this all stupid? People were still wondering if the Five Families had been duped. Tyrion Veltras, well, a man did things for love.
Xitegen was already in the area, but Magnolia Reinhart was a clever woman. Yet here she was with no less than, what…eight hundred servants?
Seriously. They had been lined up, [Maids] and [Butlers]. [Manservants] and [Cleaners] with brooms and more. Even what looked like a [Nursemaid]. Some were Drakes, and some were Gnolls, but most were Humans.
For a damn battle. True, the longer you stared at them the more you noticed some were quite well-armed. And some had chainmail or armor under the outfits.
Bekia, Reynold, Ressa herself; Tyrion knew how dangerous they were. A match for any high-level retainer in his family. But it had been when none other than Gershal of Vaunt was riding around, trying to relieve some stress, that a penny had dropped.
“Dead gods, is that Captain Rozmak of Falling Axe? Your team bailed Vaunt out of that gigantic rodent of ludicrous size attack. Remember? I had no idea you sought employment with House Reinhart! Sir, can I offer you a piece of cheese?”
He stopped, noticing one of the [Butlers] standing with Reynold and sipping from cups of tea and chatting. Instantly, one of the men, a swarthier fellow with less-sharp attire than Reynold, stiffened.
“I think you have the wrong person, sir.”
“I never forget someone I’ve given cheese to. Wait—your entire team is here? All eight!”
Reynold looked around, and several members of the servants tried to turn away too late. Tyrion Veltras had overheard and frowned.
An entire team of adventurers? Weren’t they supposed to be Gold-rank? The small conversation drew the attention of the bored soldiers nearby, and when scrutinized, more people began calling out faces.
“I say, is that Llemonth, the Silver-bell [Duelist] of Ersenshire? What is he doing working for House Reinhart? He’s got a job as a tutor.”
“I know that man…he’s a [Guardsman]! Is he pulling double duty here? He’s Level 26, you know. One of the better ones about—”
Tyrion Veltras didn’t get it until Jericha tapped him on the elbow as the servants broke up, denying the similarities.
“I count two more Gold-rank teams in their numbers, Lord Veltras. And a number of other individuals who have been noted as friendly allies of Magnolia Reinhart.”
Then Tyrion understood. He narrowed his eyes as Magnolia Reinhart fanned herself, sighing and muttering something to Ressa. Wait a second.
He’d heard Magnolia Reinhart had a private army, but one had never shown up even when the Goblin Lord attacked. But her servants were everywhere, and House Reinhart had mansions and holdings…everywhere.
It was well-known that tangling with a servant of Magnolia Reinhart was suicide. But what if she had employed even Gold-rank teams and disguised them as…
Bekia was apparently a former Gnoll [Chieftain]. Reynold was a former [Cavalry Lieutenant] who’d served with distinction until resigning his commission.
Slap a Gold-rank adventurer in a [Maid]’s outfit and they were still Gold-rank. If Magnolia Reinhart had concealed all her allies and supporters in her employment—she met his gaze coolly, eyebrows raised, and Tyrion Veltras felt stupid as Magnolia Reinhart smiled faintly.
As if they were children and he had come to a conclusion three months too late. And the look asked why he hadn’t figured it out ahead of time.
 
——
 
Magnolia had come ready for a real war. Though she had never trained armies like he had. She was…standoffish, he had realized over time. She often put her thumb on the scales, but when it came down to someone or somewhere surviving, she let them manage it and only gave them support.
He wondered who she’d learned that from. But her bringing in so many of her people, to the point where she’d given away one of her secrets, that warrior of the ‘fae’—it all had to mean something.
One of the reasons Tyrion was in Invrisil with his boys was that he really wanted to talk to Ryoka. But the Wind Runner was here and there, unable to sit still.
He knew the feeling. Still, while she had confessed privately to him in their talks on a more personal level that she felt like she’d been useless this last month, he had told her that the only reason Xitegen and some of the nobility, like Lady Desinee, were here was because Ryoka had convinced them.
Whether the Wind Runner saw it or not, she had a bit of decorum to her that she had learned. Maturity? Confidence? An attractiveness that he saw revealed in their personal talks.
He’d been writing Pellmia about his continued struggle to maintain interpersonal relationship relevancy, and the [Lord of Love and Wine] had advised Tyrion to stop disclosing the contents of his more intimate chats with Ryoka in asking for advice. Which was all very well, but that was the stuff Tyrion needed points on the most—
“Father, I think I found Ryoka. She’s at the Runner’s Guild!”
Sammial ran over with some guards, and Tyrion blinked. He smiled and strode to the Guild. She really had changed for the b—
“Fuck you, you sallow bitch!”
The first thing he saw of Ryoka was her tossing a smaller City Runner then trying to knee her in the stomach. The other Runner was shorter, thinner, and tried to do a cartwheel out of the way.
“I just want to talk! I just—”
Ryoka charged into her, and Tyrion, Sammial, Hethon, and the guards—as well as a lot of Runners—saw Ryoka Griffin tackle Persua and begin trying to punch her face in.
“Help! Heeeelp!”
Persua screamed. Ryoka was trying to sit on Persua’s chest and beat her face into the ground. Not many people were trying to stop her—no one at all, really—and Sammial wore a look of delight.
“She’s killing that other City Runner! Wait, do you recognize her, Hethon?”
“She’s the one who showed up after Ryoka and got tossed out. Whoa.”
Hethon saw Persua twist; she was pinned by the chest, but she actually hooked her legs up and got her ankles around Ryoka’s throat, pulling the Wind Runner off her a bit. Ryoka twisted, bit Persua on the leg, and the City Runner screamed.
“Ryoka, what are you doing?”
Tyrion shouted, but Ryoka just glanced at him, stared, and went back to now trying to stomp on Persua’s head.
“Should we help, Lord Veltras?”
His bodyguards were reluctant to get in the middle of that fight. Persua went running, trying to hide behind City Runners as a [Receptionist] called out in a monotone voice.
“No. Stop. This isn’t right. A Courier shouldn’t fight a City Runner. Don’t do it.”
Ryoka put Persua in a headlock as the other girl screamed. She started punching, and here Tyrion decided that it wasn’t a fair fight. He strode over.
“Ryoka, she can’t def—”
“Hands off, asshole.”
Ryoka punched him square in the face. Tyrion blinked, jerked his head back, but still caught part of the punch. He stepped back, shook his head, and Ryoka tried to suplex Persua onto the ground.
“I’m going to kill—”
At this point, a few City Runners and the [Bodyguards] did help break the two apart. It was hard. Ryoka got several damn good kicks in, and Persua was screaming.
“I just wanted to make up! I’m sorry! I’ve been working as a Courier and—”
She looked fairly bad before the beatdown of Ryoka Griffin. Tyrion noticed Persua had bandages all over one side, and she looked unhealthily thin.
“Let go. Let go or I’ll kill you idiots—”
Ryoka was thrashing. Tyrion stared at her; he hadn’t ever known her to be this angry.
“Ryoka, calm down—”
She stared at him, chest heaving, and he had to talk to the [Receptionist]. Fortunately, the man assured him it was just a Runner’s Guild dispute; he wasn’t inclined to talk to the Watch over this.
“Is the other Runner that badly hurt?”
“Miss Persua Mavva? Not from the Wind Runner, Lord Veltras. She did two nasty deliveries. One with a dangerous artifact—then she ran afoul of some Face-Eater Moths on a dicey delivery around the Bloodfields. She’s doing Courier-level deliveries, though she’s a City Runner.”
That explained the bandages. Persua was staring at Ryoka, looking—stricken. Tyrion thought she actually sounded serious when she tried to call to Ryoka.
“Can we talk? I want to—”
“I am going to kill you.”
 
——
 
Hethon Veltras had never seen Ryoka so mad. House Veltras’ guards actually had to tow her away, and when he approached, she nearly swung at him.
“Persua deserves nothing but having her face smashed in. Stop getting in my way. What do you want?”
“S-sorry, Ryoka. It’s just—the Solstice is happening, and I’m sure Father doesn’t want you to get hurt.”
Ryoka calmed down a bit, but she still looked wild-eyed and furious. Surely she had a history with Persua that Hethon sort of really wanted to know.
“You—your Dad’s an idiot.”
“Why do you like him, then?”
Sammial stared at Ryoka, and she stared back, blinking a few times. She frowned, opened her mouth—then glared at Persua. She shot to her feet as Tyrion came back. Barefoot, wearing casual clothes, not her windsuit, and not even shivering in the cold, Ryoka walked up to Tyrion.
“The Runner’s Guild won’t press charges. Ryoka, regardless of your grievances with this City Runner, now isn’t the time for—”
The slap Ryoka gave Tyrion made his head turn. Hethon’s and Sammial’s mouths made wide ‘o’s as the [Bodyguards] jerked. Tyrion blinked.
“That hurt—”
“You idiot! Don’t get in my way! What right do you have to stop me from taking out—you don’t even know what Persua’s done, do you?”
Tyrion blocked a punch to his gut. He grabbed a hand.
“I do not. Ryoka, listen to me. Now is not the time.”
“Let go of—”
She went for a groin knee, and Hethon felt that—but his father blocked it. They wrestled for a second, then Tyrion snapped.
“Someone take Hethon and Sammial back to Magnolia’s mansion. We will see each other—later. Ryoka!”
They left, arguing, as he actually had to tow her off the street. Ryoka had tears in her eyes, and she was still calling bloody murder out to Persua, who stood there looking—upset. Guilty? Hethon stared at the City Runner that Ryoka hated so much. Maybe not guilty, but…forlorn, he decided. As if she had lost something.
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin would not appreciate the compliment—he thought—but she had never reminded him of Salva more than the next twenty minutes.
Which, incidentally, was how long it took to get her back to the Terland’s Favor and upstairs. She kept trying to hit him.
“Ryoka, I know today is stressful, but enough.”
Salva went to fury like that sometimes, rarely. She and Magnolia had been enemies. Ryoka Griffin finally stopped, panting.
