Calruz looked actually approving as he grunted, his one hand on his axe. Olesm rubbed at his brows, but he didn’t miss Caoraz staring at him.
“Well, they are people. Why do you think Manus lost?”
He smiled when he saw Caoraz’s expression. Then Olesm had a wicked idea.
“Are the Yoldenites here? We forgot to introduce Lieutenant Caoraz to them.”
He pointed towards the two hundred Drakes, who began whooping as Caoraz groaned.
“Aw, no—”
 
——
 
Levity helped cut the wait. Erin Solstice stopped watching the Antinium fighting. She had wondered if she should go out there, but she’d had a pretty good idea she’d just add to the chaos.
Her eyes followed Yellow Splatters as he stepped back now there was no issue and sat down.
“Why is he so upset?”
She didn’t need an answer now. Everyone was stressed. Even if Yellow Splatters had about ten times the emotional stress of what Olesm did—she glanced at the phone.
9:18.
“Oh, come on. I turned [Immortal Moment] off. What’s taking her so long?”
Erin’s eyes roamed the battlefield again and again. This time searching for an actual sign of an invisible Cyclops or something. But she was sure her Cyclops, Chaldion, would be ready.
Were they ready? The actual answer was—not quite.
The defenders of The Wandering Inn hadn’t even fully been ready had the attack come at the start. Two notable warriors were absent from the lines. It might not have mattered, but there were two final combatants who were belatedly getting into position.
The first was an adventurer group. Not many were in this fight. Some, like Jewel or Saliss, were here as part of other groups, but for actual teams?
Todi’s Elites, Griffon Hunt, the Flamewardens, the Wings of Pallass, and the Halfseekers were the only Gold-rank teams. Some Silver-ranks had been contracted for the fight, but even the Horns of Hammerad were missing in action.
Halrac, as a Knight of Solstice, was with the inn’s crowd, but his team was fighting with Riverfarm’s forces, so he trooped back into the inn out of the cold after a while like a sensible adventurer.
Yet one team hadn’t been there for the battle at the dawn of the day. They did arrive for second breakfast, but it was later, and the Selphid, Jelaqua Ivirith, had stopped crying by that point long enough to smile. She was newly married, you know.
It had been a bad wedding.
 
——
 
It had already been an unconventional wedding because of how fast it was. Maughin, Pallass’ best [Blacksmith], and Jelaqua Ivirith, a Gold-rank Captain of the Halfseekers, looked good on paper when you wrote it like that.
However, it looked different when you wrote that Jelaqua was a Selphid and Maughin was a Dullahan who had come to Pallass for that community of Dullahans abroad.
Not—implausible. They were both from Baleros, and that explained how they had first gotten to like each other. But Dullahan courtships were predictably long affairs of protocol and getting to know the other’s families, which you understood if you knew anything about their fastidious customs.
The problem wasn’t just the way the two had decided to marry fast, though. It was that Jelaqua was a Selphid, and a Dullahan marrying a Selphid was—well, it was rare.
It was even more controversial than it would have been in Baleros, because these were Dullahans in Pallass, and there was a…perception…that Maughin should have really married another Dullahan in the community or found a spouse from abroad. Another Dullahan.
Not Jelaqua.
This had been implicit in their relationship from the start, and Maughin had always been clear he didn’t care for the rumors, especially since he had left home. So the wedding had been arranged on the day before the Winter Solstice because Jelaqua had heard it might get ugly. Then, after some thought, she’d moved it to midnight, the literal moment the Solstice began.
The wedding itself was a small affair, or should have been. Jelaqua, Maughin’s closest friends—most of them [Smiths]—a Drake official, and the Halfseekers had been part of the wedding. Jelaqua had saved on not even having to cater or invite most of The Wandering Inn’s crowd.
She had also amended the wedding dress; even the Drake official had been giving her the side-eye. It wasn’t unheard of—but it was still a sight to see Jelaqua, in one of the remaining Raskghar bodies, wearing a wedding veil and dress over full plate armor with her Demas Metal flail at her side.
If the enemy attacked, she would be dashing out of the wedding straight into the fight. Jelaqua had privately…hoped that might be the case.
Alas, Kaligma or whatever her name was had let the Selphid down. Because while Jelaqua and Maughin had invited very few people, literally only a dozen, the official venue for weddings was packed with Dullahans.
Despite it being midnight. Despite Jelaqua not even telling them where the ceremony was happening. Despite the glare on Maughin’s face when he looked back—you had to understand. It was a Dullahan wedding.
Drakes had a number of customs for weddings, like a tail-band sometimes instead of a wedding ring, and vows like inviting your greatest nemesis—at least, traditionally.
Dullahans had other traditions. One of which was that unlike how Dullahan society normally functioned with highly specific rankings of status and protocol, a wedding was seen as a group event. It needed the approval of not only the spouses, but the families and friends.
There was a tradition in some Human weddings. ‘Speak now or forever hold your peace’ and whatnot. Well, in Dullahan weddings?
They spoke the entire wedding if they had objections, or if they thought it was good. It was a rare moment when they spoke their minds. Because this was such an important occasion, they felt they should speak to reassure the couple this was right, or tell the two in no uncertain terms how they felt.
And this wedding—they did. Loudly.
“Under the august gaze of the Walled Cities, by the authority of Pallass vested in me by the Assembly of Crafts as a due official of marital matters—”
The Drake was trying to get into the ceremony, but he was having to read off his script. Because the voices were loud enough to actually make it hard for even Seborn and Moore to hear one row behind. The Dullahans had crowded into the wedding venue, and Seborn was wondering how much trouble you got in if you threw a smoke bomb into a crowd.
 
“She looks horrific, standing there.”
“Size is not everything. She has no decorum. No future.”
“The Halfseekers are a fraction of the size they were. Maughin is supporting her; she wears his armor.”
“Her family is not numbered here. She has only one member of her people present. This is an insult.”
“Smith Maughin is being taken advantage of.”
 
That last one came from a sharp-nosed Dullahan that Seborn knew was Maughin’s very mother. She glared at Seborn, and the Drowned Man held the gaze—but eventually turned around and watched Jelaqua. She was trying to smile, but he noticed her flinching inside her body. It was subtle, but he saw the orange veins move.
Maughin was ignoring his friends, relatives, and the community who’d come to naysay the wedding. Give the giant Dullahan this—and Seborn rarely gave anyone anything for free—he hadn’t backed down when they’d harangued him about Jelaqua.
If anything, he’d grown more stubborn about it. Seborn had it on good authority that Maughin hadn’t invited his own mother because of an incident where they’d had a shouting match. From what he knew of Dullahans, that sort of said how big an incident this was.
“Erin’s let us down for once.”
Seborn had to make a comment. He understood now why Jelaqua had moved the date around twice and actually timed it so they might have to run off to fight for their lives. That would have beat this.
Moore glanced down at Seborn with a face full of pain—and anger—and Ulinde’s eyes widened as she forced herself not to laugh. Jelaqua glanced over with a grateful smile.
Seborn just met her eyes.
Are you happy? He didn’t know, but he’d asked her directly, and she seemed to really like Maughin. The [Armorer] seemed decent, and Seborn thought he understood. After Garen, Jelaqua was probably tired. It was time for her to stop.
So be it. Seborn tuned out the Dullahans and stood taller. They didn’t matter. Even so, he saw how the other Dullahans looked at Jelaqua and Maughin. Maybe they’d drive him out of Pallass. They didn’t even see it, the idiots. Because credit again where it was due—Maughin’s head was lowered, and he was staring at Jelaqua as the Drake fumbled on through the ceremony. But he saw her flinching, and then his head rose, and he turned.
“Enough.”
The Dullahans standing behind the wedding guests froze a second as Maughin raised his voice. The dark night outside…Seborn waiting for a single sound from the speaking stone to tell him Erin was in danger…Jelaqua’s worried eyes and her hand reaching for Maughin’s…
It was one moment. Seborn smiled as he saw Maughin’s shoulders hunch and his entire body move to face the Dullahans, not just his head.
That’s right. If you hadn’t done this, you wouldn’t be worthy of it. The Drowned Man heard Maughin’s uncle or someone speak, as if they could not see the [Armorer]’s eyes flashing.
 
“This marriage is wrong. It was done too fast. It may work in half a year’s time. If Maughin had any respect for us, or that Selphid, they would not rush it.”
 
Apparently, you didn’t address the groom or bride specifically—you spoke around them like this. Yet it was pointed, and Maughin met his uncle’s eyes. Jelaqua squeezed his arm. He looked at her, smiled grimly, then spoke like someone swinging a hammer down on burning metal.
“I said enough. Be silent.”
The Dullahans gasped. A flurry of voices arose—and then Maughin turned and looked at the Drake. The nervous official kept speaking, and Seborn exhaled.
Moore didn’t quite get it, and Ulinde had to whisper frantically to explain. As Seborn understood it—
Custom was that the bride and groom had to listen to every compliment or complaint, no matter how petty. That meant you were still part of the community, even if Seborn imagined Jelaqua would barely be tolerated and snubbed every second they got.
But Maughin had just told them all to be silent. It meant, plainly, he would not listen to them.
Ties broken. Seborn turned to glance at the anguished faces of horror on the Dullahans and how they looked at Jelaqua with such resentment. They glanced at him, and he shook his head.
“You did this to yourselves.”
They always looked so blank like that. Every time. As if he were speaking another language. The Drowned Man looked at them—then calmly spat on the floor at their feet and watched his friend and Captain get married.
 
——
 
Jelaqua Ivirith was accepting wedding congratulations at 10 AM when the sun finally deigned to rise. The Winter Solstice was, after all, the shortest day in the year.
But many people had forgotten what it looked like.
“An eclipse! Look! Wait, no, don’t look. Erin said it was bad. I don’t know why, though.”
Bird pointed it out excitedly to the Antinium with him, some of whom stared up at the black disc surrounded by a nimbus of light.
An eclipse. It happened twice a year like clockwork and, rarely, other times. Auspicious symbols in the sky.
When people saw the eclipse beginning, they tensed, and for a bit, everyone expected this to be the moment. Yet—once again—nothing happened.
Twenty-four hours in the day, same as Earth. No motion for the first ten hours. The most unpleasant things so far were someone peeing on a Rock Crab by accident thinking it was a boulder and Jelaqua’s wedding.
This was not to say that the dead gods were inactive. On the contrary.
Kasigna stood in the lands of the dead. Cauwine was walking the mortal world. The whereabouts of the other four—unknown.
On this day of days, fate began something that, even if it was never fully clear, even to the gods, became tangible.
At moments of power, you could reach out and pluck at destiny’s strings. Similarly, if the boundary between life and death was normally a veil as insurmountable as a wall, you could reach across it now.
The first thing the dead gods did was look and see. Peer across the world for enemies and advantages alike. Then they spoke and acted according to their whims.
But—carefully. This day could not be wasted, after all. Like the [Innkeeper], they had plans, these dead gods. Plans that had to grind over reality and make the impossible a truth that they might live again.
Yet the last warrior had yet to arrive at the Solstice.
 
——
 
10:03.
The Human armies of four of the Five Families, three Walled Cities, and countless irregulars, like 4th Company and the 7th Hive, were growing restless.
They had been promised a great foe, and all they had gotten was cold. They had been told this mattered, and yes, the leaders of many forces had assembled.
But there was a growing question in the back of many heads: what if everyone had been duped by the [Innkeeper]? Was she really someone who had summoned Zeladona? Or was it all a trick? After all, if you didn’t see it happen with your own two eyes, had it really happened? That was logic. True, it was logic a child would come up with and recognize, but some people only got that far.
Some of them believed. The Free Antinium believed, but even the certainty of trained [Soldiers] gave way to skepticism. They knew logistics and distance. If the enemy was not within the range of their many eyes and spells—the odds of them even reaching Liscor by nightfall seemed low, surely.
Belief was a strange thing. Even Erin’s greatest friends and allies had good cause to doubt her; they had seen her come back from the dead, but her warnings about apocalyptic end times were hard to swallow.
Unless you had been there and seen Khelt’s ghosts or the Gnolls raising the new lands. If this was your first time—you could be forgiven for it all.
In fact, there was a nonbeliever in Erin’s very inn, amidst her sworn protectors. Ser Normen of the Order of Solstice, Grandmaster for his sins, did not believe that today of all days he had the Winter Faeries pestering him.
They’d largely left him alone. He’d even gotten the impression they liked him, but after two incidents where one had spiked a snowball into his earhole, he snapped.
“Fine! I’ll get you what you want!”
They followed him, jeering, exactly eleven annoying fae. Well, ten blue, one green.
 
“Finally!”
“Yer ears are full of cotton! And snow!”
“How hard is it to oblige us? Yer an armored clam; we’d have bothered Ryoka if we’d known it’d take this long, dumbass.”
“Yeah! Burned skin! Ugly!”
“Hmm. That one ‘tis too far.”
“Right. Hurry up, ye stupid spent match!”
 
