The Earl of Rains glanced up from his furious defense of the battlefield. Kiish was holding a bandage over a scratch from flying shrapnel. They turned as they saw the ghost of an [Innkeeper] walking through the sky. He straightened and lifted his sword—and she lifted a hand as she passed by his ship. Her eyes caught his, and he bowed his head, a promise unsaid on his lips.
Further—until she saw the [Pirates] themselves. They were miles upon miles out, chasing down the Terandrian fleets. And they were dying.
For every ship that broke away screaming triumph and fleeing to the seas, five more went down all hands, decks filled with gore. She didn’t know why.
It was in her head to tell them to stop. Offer them something, anything, or strike a deal. But when they saw her walking through the sky, the leaders of the fleet cried out.
The [Alchemist] roared, his eyes crazed with rage, his skin twitching as insects ran under it. Every mask of civility turned into hatred that she could feel. He was frothing at the mouth, the blood of his kin on his hands and deck.
But he was still enough of himself to worry about what she might do. He shouted the favor he thought she owed him into the air—but it was drowned out by the [Admirals].
Two of them. Half-Elf and Human, thrusting their swords up in the air. The [Innkeeper] halted as a strange ‘monster’ cowered behind his father. Yet the Bloodtear Pirates swarmed up onto the decks and screamed.
They cheered her as they had celebrated nothing else. Waving, even bowing and crying out. To her? No—she realized. To what she looked like.
A ghost. The [Innkeeper] hesitated, and Admiral Rosech lifted his sword, recognizing her, and gave her a smile like a bloody dawn. She met his eyes and looked for any regrets. Any uncertainty.
And it was there. There was a mortal man holding his son by the arm, pointing at her, then ahead. He was trying to tell her something.
‘Do you see?’
She looked at him, then at the fleet fleeing him. Erin Solstice stared at the [Pirates] and saw they were afraid. Yet what drove them forwards was a desire so great that all the heirs of the Hundred Families, all their steel and magic and royal blood—it would not be enough.
The [Innkeeper] stood a while as ships passed her, red sails speckled with blue tears, passing under the light of the eclipse. And she understood as she turned her head and saw more ships trying to reach the two fleets locked in running combat.
The Iron Vanguard, Dullahans taking off their heads to stare. A nod from their leader, wearing Mithril armor, and her wordless nod back.
The Dancer of Nadel, gazing at her with a silent resolve.
[Storm Sailors], nearly forty ships strong crewed by an [Admiral] who stared at her as she disappeared in the air.
Even ships from Izril, laboring through the storm. A laughing hand and eyes she recognized, fearless, that belonged to a woman who had lived well.
She saw it all, and she was too far away. And still, she waited for her own storm. So eventually—the [Innkeeper] vanished from the seas and lay down and closed her eyes.
Dreaming of a Goblin’s smile.
1:12.
 
——
 
The moment Erin woke up, she checked the time. 5:45…PM!?
She’d slept hours! She sat up, realized she hadn’t heard a voice chirping a level up, and swore.
“Fuck.”
She’d hoped that would work. She happened to know some of the other people who’d met Theillige had levelled, but it seemed her promise with…levelling itself…was on.
After the Solstice. And while it was the day—even now, even now—the Winter Solstice had not yet begun. Erin lay in bed until her stomach growled and she smelled something that made her get up and check the time again.
6:07.
Dinner was being served.
Eighteen hours of waiting meant that, at this point, people were sleeping in rotations outside. There was a sense of tension still, but there was a limit to how long it could last.
To break it up, to distract from what was coming—or so they still assumed—there was music. Of a kind.
Lyonette, Colfa, Lady Bethal, and Lady Pryde were singing in an impromptu group on the stage of the inn. Just singing. It was some sweet song that Bethal knew from House Walchaís about tripping down a road carrying a basket of roses.
Lyonette wasn’t really focused on the song, but the [Soldiers] listened. To her surprise, Colfa, Bethal, and Pryde all sang very well, and Lyonette had to work to keep up.
 
“I saw a flower blooming upon that hill
It gave my heart such a thrill~
I followed it across the sea…
Across the Dwarf’s mountains, through the great trees
—Until I found Izril’s shores!”
 
Bethal switched cadences, and the sweet song sped up and became swifter, and she laughed and clapped her hands as Lyonette and Colfa scrambled to keep up.
Even House Walchaís’ songs were surprising. The [Soldiers] didn’t care as Lyonette blushed and heard herself fumbling. They just cheered and loved it.
It wasn’t like singing in Calanfer, where a [Princess] should be heard only at a few times, yet be pitch-perfect, or if she flubbed, it was for reasons the populace could adore and admire. A carefully planned show.
Bethal and the [Ladies] of Izril were no less ostentatious at times, but there was less of that feeling of artifice. If they did put on a curated display of who they were—it was still in a way Lyonette liked more.
The laughing [Lady] of House Walchaís high-fived everyone after they were done. Colfa was smiling and hiding her fangs, and Pryde was harrumphing, refusing to acknowledge the applause. The [Lady of Pride] grumbled to Bethal out of the corner of her mouth.
“That song is the hardest damn one we sing each time.”
“We don’t sing it enough. Oh, this reminds me of the old days, when we were girls.”
Bethal clasped her hands to her heart, and tears sprang to her eyes. Happy, sad…Lyonette saw her looking around for Thomast. The [Lady]’s voice trembled a second.
“I would sing that with my younger sister and my entire family. I thought all fathers could sing when I was small.”
Pryde paused, and the last survivor of the Sacrifice of Roses looked at Lyonette. Her tears and smile were eminently fitting for this day. Lyonette envied Bethal her ability to do all of it.
“We’ll sing again like this. Promise, Lyonette?”
She extended a pinkie, and like children, yet solemnly, Lyonette hooked her pinkie around Bethal’s. The [Lady] hugged Lyonette impulsively, and then Pryde insisted Colfa teach them her song. Bethal Walchaís stepped back a second as Thomast offered her his handkerchief to dry her tears. She whispered so softly only he could hear.
“Thomast?”
“Yes, Bethal?”
He looked down as the [Lady of Thorns] gazed up into his face, then at Lyonette.
“This coming Solstice…don’t let Lyonette die, understand?”
The [Chevalier]’s hand tightened on Bethal’s hands as her eyes swung.
“She won’t be anywhere near the fighting.”
“Not until the final hour. That’s how it goes. Promise me?”
“I promise.”
Then Bethal turned her head to Lyonette, and her eyes saw another girl, her sister, in the [Princess]’ place. Time reversed on itself as her memories overlapped with the now. Pryde was a girl and there was Magnolia, older Wuvren, and a family standing in the inn, voices raised in song. For a second, until her tears stopped falling, Bethal saw it in the blurred vision of the present and past.
Then she kept singing.
 
——
 
It was that kind of moment as Calescent ladled hot food onto trays and pulled bread out of the oven. Where [Soldiers] stared at Goblins and Antinium and each other and ate—and listened—and it felt like everyone was waiting for the sky to fall.
The long wait and sense of dread had not gone on to no effect. Ryoka Griffin had been physically unable to sit still; she was flying here and there or running around Liscor checking for anything odd. Looking for the faeries too; they had all vanished.
Save for the figure who just sat at a table, eating and drinking in silence. Theillige said nothing when asked; it seemed like a vow of silence or just their new nature.
The Antinium were listening to the song, memorizing it as Erin Solstice wondered if nothing would happen after all. Six hours…though Kasigna did have the theme of darkness to her.
By now, the eclipse had vanished and night had fallen again over the Floodplains, albeit lit by so many campfires and magical light spells. Despite the relatively early hour, it gave the entire night, as the day, a surreal feel.
Someone found her as Lyonette stopped for a breath and got applause and whistles from the [Soldiers]. They wanted her to sing a Calanferian song next, and she began teaching the others the lyrics.
A bee buzzed around Erin’s head as she walked out of the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She had been checking it for…anything. Apista landed on Erin’s head, and the [Innkeeper] swatted at her.
“Apista! How did you get back here?”
She was supposed to be with Mrsha! Erin supposed the bee had hitched a ride on Magnolia’s carriage or gone with Sest—she’d even seen Hethon and Sammial pop by for lunch, though they’d been shepherded to Invrisil.
It wasn’t beyond Apista just to fly to the door, Erin supposed. Instead of buzzing off, Apista fanned her wings and seemed to be trying to carry Erin. She was pulling hard enough for her spiky legs to hurt a bit.
“Apista. Seriously. This is not a good time—unless you noticed something? Is it Facestealer? Is Facestealer in the well?”
Halrac stopped drinking—water—and glanced up fast. Apista froze, then buzzed off Erin’s head and shook her body right to left.
“No? Good. Then shoo, and go back and take care of Mrsha and Nanette! That’s your job. Silly bee.”
Erin stared at Apista’s replaced legs and wing, and she swore the bee saluted her with one antenna. Apista actually ‘nodded’ with her body, but then she bumped into Erin’s cheek and buzzed away. Came back. Buzzed away.
“…Okay. I’ll bite.”
Erin followed Apista up the stairs, wondering what the heck this was about. The bee led her to Lyonette’s room and then buzzed up behind the dresser. Erin stared.
“Um. Okay, let me get a chair.”
She got a chair, stood up on it, realized she was too short, and had to get a second chair. The combination of two wobbly chairs let her see a weird little nest up on top of the wardrobe. No…it was a single honeycomb! Made of wax? And in it—was the most beautiful honey Erin had ever seen.
It shimmered. It was magic. It looked—
Okay, it looked faintly toxic, but it was amazing, incredible, and Erin stared at Apista.
“What is this?”
Honey, duh. Apista rubbed her feelers over the honey, and Erin had to guess how she’d made it.
“You made this honey? Did you have help…no, there’s not much. Hey! Don’t fan your wings at me. It’s amazing. But h—oh my stars. The Faerie Flowers!”
It all made sense. Apista looked so smug, and Erin shook her head, lost for words. Would those flowers never stop surprising her? She hesitated, but Apista was actually pulling on the wax honeycomb, dragging it over to her.
“For me? Are you certain?”
Yep, yep. Apista buzzed around Erin as the [Innkeeper] lifted the honey up. It was thick—so thick it barely moved when she tilted it. Instantly, Erin decided she needed a jar. She stuck a hand out through her garden door, grabbed a glass jar from the kitchen, and put the honey in it.
“For me? Because I’m a [Witch]? Or [Innkeeper]?”
…Sure. I thought this far ahead. Erin was only guessing what the bee was actually thinking. But she had the impression Apista hadn’t actually developed that level of foresight.
She had made honey. It was good honey. Something was happening. Ergo, Erin needed honey. Erin held the bee, touched by the gift.
“Well, thank you, Apista. But I want you to go back to Mrsha now, got it? I’ll definitely use this for—for something.”
She thought of her destroyed coin. Well, now she had another odd weapon to use. Faerie Flower Ashfire Bee honey. What a world. Apista buzzed up, ‘kissed’ Erin on the cheek—and flew away.
 
——
 
There was something actually emotionally damaging about that encounter. If even a bee was giving her most treasured possessions to Erin…
When the [Innkeeper] went downstairs, she stood in the common room a second and sensed the fragility in the air. People were laughing, clapping, and bickering, but when they saw her, they fell silent a second.
Did they see a dead woman walking? Erin decided to go to the rec room. She wondered where Ulvama was; the Hobgoblin had been very quiet after they’d talked to Rabbiteater. Maybe Erin should check on him again.
Instead of Ulvama, she found a bunch of Redfangs in the rec room playing cards, arguing over how billiards was supposed to be played, and looking the most relaxed.
Seasoned warriors. Numbtongue wasn’t with them, but Badarrow was. Another sign, Erin supposed, of Goblin stratification.
They waved at her as she smiled.
“Hey, anyone seen Ulvama?”
Shakes of their heads. They seemed—friendly to her. Erin and the Redfangs actually had little contact outside of the five Redfangs who had come to her: Headscratcher, Shorthilt, Badarrow, Rabbiteater, and Numbtongue. And Bugear.
But she had never quite known the new Flooded Waters tribe as well as she wanted. Some of them, like Peggy, were now part of the inn, but there was a distance between them and her.
Still, they had shown up and were manning a bunch of Rags’ unique Thunderbows. But they were allies rather than friends. Rags was Erin’s friend.
Someone who was more like her ally…or just a guy she knew, stood up.
Redscar had been having a drink. He seemed to be of the camp that a single drink wouldn’t kill him, like Theillige themself. Right now, he was just eating popcorn and feeding some to Thunderfur, his huge Carn Wolf.
“Hey, Erin. Is nice place you have here. Very nice. Makes Goblins soft. I feel soft just sitting here.”
“Oh. Thanks? Do you want anything? While we wait?”
Redscar shrugged.
“Nah. Gotta question for you.”
He stepped out of the rec room as the Goblins laughed and bickered in their own tongue, which Erin didn’t know. She did feel like an outsider, even though she remembered what that [Chronomancer], Nereshal, had called her.
Goblinfriend.
Was she? Redscar leaned against the wall, and she was vaguely annoyed to realize he was taller than she was. Damn Goblins and their ability to grow. He still looked what you’d call lithe, especially since he had decided he didn’t even need armor on his upper body, only a fur kilt and Redfang paint. Wait, was this who Mrsha was copying with her dress? And the two swords he carried…Erin stared at one until she noticed his grin.
“What’s the question, Redscar?”
