“You idiot. Tyrion—Tyrion Veltras, you don’t have the right to tell me what to do. Even if we are in a relationship.”
“I am not telling you to…I am trying to refocus you on what’s about to happen. Getting hurt before the battle would be the most disastrous thing.”
Tyrion repeated himself, remembering similar conversations with Salva. Ryoka bunched a fist, and he tensed, then she rubbed at her face. Tears fell from her eyes.
“I’m so—angry. And sad. And worried! The Solstice?”
“Yes. Do you need a calming potion? Do you want to rest? It’s been a long day. Eighteen hours at least, if you slept.”
“I’m sorry! I didn’t mean to—”
She was distraught now, and he awkwardly tried to embrace her. Ryoka hesitated, pushed at him—then grabbed at him and suddenly raised her mouth. He blinked.
Tactical assessment. Is this the moment when you initiate a kiss maneuver?
Everything in him was saying ‘yes’, ‘push the charge’, ‘press the advance’. But Tyrion hesitated. Ryoka was closing her eyes, and he saw her panting, her clothing pressed taut against her body—
And yet she wasn’t quite right. Tyrion hesitated. Wait a second. Her hands. Ryoka was tearing at his clothes, and he was stating that this was a good time to go back to the battlefield. His feeling of strangeness—she wanted him to kiss her.
Tyrion Veltras was a weak man. He decided he had a little bit of time to spare, and he wondered if you mentioned this to Pellmia as well. P-probably not?
He wanted to. He lowered his head for a kiss and then had a thought in that moment.
She smells different too.
 
——
 
Hethon Veltras knew it was 8:16 because he’d been checking. He showed Sammial the timekeeper spell as they walked back towards their horses so they could return to Magnolia Reinhart’s mansion.
“Only four hours left. Let’s tell Mrsha about Ryoka. Maybe that’ll cheer her up.”
“She’s been nervous all day! You can’t even have a proper battle in four hours.”
“Who says that?”
“Old Lord Rothebud. He said that once.”
Hethon sort of doubted his brother’s knowledge of battles, but he was ready to agree it seemed like the Solstice wasn’t gonna be bad—or something unexpected might happen? He didn’t know, but the unexpected thing turned out to be running into someone on the way back to the stables.
“Hey! Hethon, Sammial! I heard Tyrion was looking for me. What’s up, guys?”
Ryoka Griffin landed in the snow, and the [Bodyguards] jerked. Hethon and Sammial stared at Ryoka, then over their shoulders.
“Ryoka? What are you doing here? Where did Father go?”
“Tyrion? That’s what I’m asking. Isn’t he with you?”
Ryoka Griffin, dressed in her wingsuit and wearing boots—because it was freezing—looked around. Then Hethon noticed the Faeblade hanging from her side and stared at her.
“You were just slapping him. And that Persua girl.”
Sammial had an amazing ability to point out the obvious, but it came in handy here. Ryoka stared at him.
“Me? Wait—is Persua here?”
Her face darkened in a familiar way, and she balled up her fists. But now Hethon felt this incredible unease on his body. He pointed at Ryoka.
“R-Ryoka. We just saw you. You were beating up Persua, then Father took you back to the inn to calm down.”
“What? I’ve been flying around for the last hour. I haven’t even been to Invrisil today.”
Ryoka gave Hethon a confused—and alarmed—look. But his eyes were on her hand.
Funny how you only noticed things in hindsight. Hethon whispered.
“I know. The other you was barefoot and looked—younger? Maybe. But she—she also—”
Sammial blinked, then his eyes went round.
“That Ryoka had all her fingers.”
Ryoka stared at them, then her face went white. Without a word, she, the [Bodyguards], and Hethon and Sammial went running.
“Which way is the inn?”
Hethon pointed.
“This way!”
 
——
 
Someone burst out of the inn, clothes disheveled, holding a sword, wild-eyed as Ryoka Griffin ran towards the Terland’s Favor. He nearly swung on Ryoka—then stopped when she recoiled.
“Stay back!”
Tyrion Veltras pointed his sword at her as his [Bodyguards] swarmed around. Ryoka lifted her hands.
“Wait! Waitwaitwait—it’s me! See?”
She showed him her fingers, and Tyrion Veltras hesitated. He stepped back, but kept his sword raised.
“There’s someone else that looks like her. She—it—can bend and twist through cracks. Find it!”
The [Bodyguards] looked at each other and spread out while they surrounded Hethon and Sammial. Ryoka stared in horror at Tyrion.
“Did it attack you?”
“Not right away. It was like you, but angrier. More emotional. I didn’t realize—it didn’t even know about the Solstice, in hindsight. But I was fooled.”
Tyrion looked incredibly disturbed. Ryoka hesitated.
“How did you tell it wasn’t me? Was it the fingers?”
“She didn’t have the faeblade and it’s cold outside.”
Sammial pointed at Ryoka’s sensible covering and boots. Tyrion glanced at his sons.
“No, I figured it out another way.”
“How?”
“It wasn’t you.”
He avoided Ryoka’s gaze. She stared at him.
“How did y—”
“It was not you.”
Ryoka stared at him until the pieces connected. Then she swung around into the dark night of Invrisil and gripped the Faeblade. But whatever that fake Ryoka was—it was gone.
For the moment.
And the minutes were ticking on.
8:27.
 
——
 
At ten o’clock, the tension was at its worst for some. A few [Soldiers] had written the entire event off, but the Antinium, Goblins, the ones who had been there and believed were just waiting.
Liscor’s 2nd Army believed. Olesm had been counting the people under his command. He had three companies from the regular army. Only three. And he only trusted Wing Commander Embria.
He couldn’t pull all his forces from Hectval, so it was a bare four thousand he’d mustered here and supplemented with Lieutenant Caoraz’s forces.
He was grateful that the Antinium that Xrn had pulled to form the 7th Hive were here as well as the Free Antinium. Dead gods, even Pivr and a bunch of Flying Antinium had shown up.
No one, even Chaldion, knew that. Olesm had been inducted into the command structure that included Pawn and Yellow Splatters and had been told Silent, Armored, and Flying Antinium had used the tunnels from the Hivelands and were ready to pour out. Not countless thousands…but a force.
Yet the tension was beginning to crack people. The first person it cracked was Lyonette. She was having a discussion with Erin that Olesm was listening to.
“It’s all gone wrong, Erin. Ever since you woke up, I’ve made so many—we’ve made so many mistakes.”
“Like what?”
“Silveran.”
The [Princess] pointed at the mop; the Antinium wasn’t a fighter and had been barred from the inn for today, but his old mop was leaning against a wall. Erin squinted at it.
“What about Silveran? We discussed this, Lyonette. Remember? He did a lot more good running Silveran’s Cleaners. Heck, he stays at the inn, and he’s even learned to splurge! Sometimes he buys three bowls of acid flies. Though he does share them.”
Lyonette was shaking her head. She took a shuddering breath as Pawn listened from one table as Yellow Splatters sat, running over the plans for the umpteenth time with Belgrade.
“—If in the case of spectral attacks—”
“[Crusaders] and faithful Painted Antinium first. Yes.”
Olesm tuned them out. Lyonette stomped her foot.
“I know we said that, Erin, but—Silveran could have run his business from the inn and just swept and cleaned up, couldn’t he? You know he loves to do it.”
“Yeah, but what’s the point, Lyonette?”
“Why didn’t we let him just—do it? He would have been so happy. We could have done more things like that. Why didn’t we?”
This wasn’t a conversation about Silveran, not really. Erin stood there, trying to pat Lyonette on the shoulder.
“I—sometimes we gotta do things that don’t make us happy, Lyonette. But matter.”
The [Princess] wiped at her eyes with a handkerchief and glared at Erin.
“Don’t say that. You sound like my father.”
To that, Erin had no reply. But she put her hands on Lyonette’s shoulders.
“Just in case, I want you to go to Magnolia’s mansion now, Lyonette.”
“But—”
“Please. Ser Dalimont? Take her?”
The Thronebearer bowed and, with Dame Ushar, gently tried to shepherd the [Princess] away. The anxiety Lyonette felt wasn’t just in her, either.
The Antinium showed fear just like other people. Olesm hadn’t realized it—but it was in their antennae. They shook. Even Yellow Splatters’ were shaking. Olesm didn’t mention it, but the [Captain] seemed like he was under great stress.
Only Pawn was rock-solid. He looked at Erin; he had not unclasped two of his hands the entire day.
“The sky. We will not let it fall. Be it one or all—we have been here before, and this time, we shall hold them back. No matter what. We have faith on our side. Remember that.”
He gazed around the table at the Painted Antinium, and Olesm, the [Strategos], silently met Belgrade’s eyes. They shared a thought—the Painted Antinium would throw themselves into the battle to the death unless someone stopped them.
It might come to that. Olesm felt a great stillness come over him, a certainty that was neither glorious nor overwhelming. Just—the focus that had suffused him in part since Maviola El had died.
Perhaps what she called the burden of the survivor. He put a hand on the Kaalblade, her last gift to him. He was ready. He was, the Drake realized—a [Soldier].
But the tension and fear were infectious, and though it broke over experienced campaigners like the Forgotten Wing Centaurs, Drakes like Lieutenant Caoraz, eying Pawn, and the faith of the Painted Antinium—it found the chink in the armor of the last person Pawn expected.
It was slow, and no one at the table noticed it at first until he was falling over backwards. But then Yellow Splatters fell out of his chair onto his back with a tremendous crash.
He lay on the ground, spasming, and Erin whirled.
“What happened?”
Belgrade was kneeling, trying to inspect the Soldier’s mandibles.
“Something happened to Yellow Splatters. Poison?”
“Don’t look at me!”
Caoraz backed up from the table, and Olesm shot to his feet. He gathered around Yellow Splatters, who was waving his antennae wildly. The Soldier with yellow paint was trying to speak.
“N—n—I cannot any—n—we must not fight. I cannot lie any longer.”
“Yellow Splatters? What is wrong?”
Pawn bent over the [Captain], and Yellow Splatters stared wildly, Olesm thought, at the [Priest]. At the Painted Antinium. At Erin. Yellow Splatters knew he should not say it like this. Not here. But it came out of him from the pressure. The fear. The guilt.
“There is no Heaven. I never saw it. We cannot fight and die. There is no Heaven. It wasn’t real. I lied.”
His voice was soft, like a confession, meant for Pawn alone, but it reached the other Painted Antinium, who fell still. Like that—Olesm saw part of his armed forces begin to break.
“What? Yellow Splatters? This is…this is a strange thing you say. That is a joke. Ha. Ha. Only Bird lies. Only Bird…”
Belgrade was not the same true believer, but he stood over Yellow Splatters. The [Captain] lay there, staring up at Pawn. And the [Priest] knelt and asked…
“Are you sure?”
“I saw nothing. Only when I was reborn did I hear a voice. No heaven. None of the others. I lied. The Free Queen asked me to lie so you could level. I am sorry, Pawn. Do not ask them to die.”
Yellow Splatters was shaking, shaking like a leaf. Olesm half-stood.
“Pawn, if this gets out—someone seal the doors. Can you block the telepathy?”
The other Drakes and Humans were staring at the scene without comprehension, but Caoraz was clearly memorizing this. Olesm could have punched him, but his eyes were on Pawn. On Erin.
He was hoping the [Innkeeper] had something to say, but Erin’s head was bowed. She…she had no reassurances to give either. She had seen no Antinium in the lands of the dead.
Pawn. Pawn looked at Yellow Splatters, then at Erin, then around at the Antinium, and for a moment, Olesm saw a crack like the one he sometimes thought was in him. A fracture point ready to split the Antinium apart.
For one second. Then—Pawn gently reached down and pulled Yellow Splatters up until he was sitting. Pawn paused, then spoke to him, gently, and to the others.
“I wish you had not lied, Yellow Splatters. But thank you for telling me the truth. I told you once: it does not matter if you saw nothing.”
“But—”
“If heaven does not exist, we will build it for ourselves. We must simply work harder.”
Pawn rose, and Olesm shook his head. Something in that Antinium truly was unbreakable. It was a strange light. Olesm wasn’t sure he believed in it or liked it—but his fears about the Painted Antinium routing went away. Yet the pressure seemed to only intensify, and if Pawn didn’t break…
 
——
 
9:44.
“Crazy Creler shit is happening today. Did you see that Antinium having a panic attack? I didn’t even know they could do that.”
Yellow Splatters was led away, and conversation resumed minutes after he’d gone. Lieutenant Caoraz had been told by Olesm, Caoraz’s acting commander, that he was going to check morale.
The Drake was confused by Olesm’s insistence they work together. Somewhat gratified, true; he’d been reprimanded many times for stating his opinion to his superiors, including Chaldion.
He wasn’t over the Goblin and Antinium thing, though, but Olesm wasn’t a bad one. So the Lieutenant got a drink and sat with some other Drakes and [Soldiers]. Be they on different sides, there was a camaraderie to this feeling before the battle.
“Stress. Seen it before. Had a commander freeze up. Some [Lord] who thought he was ready for a battlefield. He did a great job, you know. Led us into the fight—then we got minced on the shores of Sedwater. Half of us missing or dead, and he just—broke into pieces. Sat down and refused to speak or move.”
This was coming from one of Oswen’s Marshrangers, recounting a scene Caoraz was familiar with. The Drake grunted and decided not to poke at Human frailties.
Not tonight.
“It happens. Every time I go back to Pallass, it’s like I’m a stranger. Things are so safe in the Walled City. They locked down an entire block once because someone had found a Soap Slime in their house. A slime. I went over, saw it was the size of my boot, and stepped on it.”
Everyone laughed at that. Caoraz went on, staring out across Liscor’s Floodplains.
