“You let these people of Roshal through the Hivelands, even our secret tunnels. They could be mapping them. I point this out because I would do it, and it would be foolish to assume the enemy is not intelligent.”
Enough was enough. The Grand Queen waved them all to silence. She spotted Anand peeking at her from the Armored Queen’s perspective and grew angry.
“We have done this. We shall take advantage of the situation I have created. If you do not wish to collect your portion of Roshal’s goods, state so now.”
She waited as the other Queens fell silent, smug because she knew they wouldn’t object to that. Until the Free Queen lifted a feeler.
“I believe [Slaves] are against Liscorian law. I shall consult with my current Revalantor. I must go, Grand Queen.”
The Free Queen disconnected, and the Grand Queen was left angry and annoyed as the other Queens murmured their farewells. Well…well…the Grand Queen sat and stewed.
At least she had someone on her side, now. Even if he was a Naga or whatever he was called.
Come to that—she had sent the strange Courier who had been so cowardly, the one called, uh, Persua, with the Eye of Baleros object south nearly a week ago. She wondered if Klbkchhezeim had finally gotten his blade back.
As she understood it, it was a powerful object. Why, the Walled Cities had even privately asked her to not send it to that [Thief]. That obviously made her decide to send it even more. The enemy of my enemy is my advantage.
The Grand Queen was satisfied with her decisions. That Gnoll who’d done the speaking and trading had been very polite and effective. She wondered how much he cost. Buying people with money was so…efficient.
That was how she thought, today of all days. The Grand Queen knew she was pulling on threads. She doubtless thought of herself as a mastermind.
…Did she have any idea what she was really doing?
 
——
 
The Eye of Baleros was not a toy. It was not bartered for low stakes. Victims had been sacrificed, kidnappings gone unpaid, and streets flowed with blood until it was plucked from the ground by armies seeking to return it to its home.
Or prevent it from being used again. Did it have a will? The greatest artifacts of Lizardfolk might at that. Even when they were ‘lost’, something or someone always found them. Power attracted power.
The irony was that the Antinium of all species could contain it with the power of Xrn, use it to fuel their magic. They had seen magic of that scope in the depths of Rhir. But now it was out in the open.
Now, the Walled Cities knew the Antinium had it. A single City Runner had brought it to Bviora, the daughter of the Lightning Thief, Thivian Stormless.
It hurt.
It burned her through the bag of holding. Magical contamination so strong she had begun casting Tier 3 magic every hour to just reduce the burden on her. It should have been masked, and she should have been using a vault to contain the power of it.
But the Antinium had sent none, and the idiot of a City Runner had been slow and half-dead. Mana-poisoned. Give her credit for something—she’d run across Izril dodging interception and suffering the effects of the Eye.
The eye swirled with a dark green light that sometimes brightened, sometimes grew opaque and black. Sometimes Bviora thought she could see something in it. Visions of the temples it had been stolen from. It was hypnotizing. It lit up the dark night, giving Bviora away. A lurid light in the dark morning.
Her father had spent his entire life trying to keep it hidden. Now—she was giving it back. She would have been guilty. She would have looked at Vetn, still unsteady after running into Klbkch despite healing, and wondered if she should cut ties with him.
But there was no time.
The city was still dark, despite it technically being morning; the Drakes had raised the gates according to the time, not the light in the sky. It would not be bright for a while.
Bviora galloped the horse straight through the gates of Covieke, the Drake harbor-city that had just been attacked by the Drowned Folk. Guards shouted at her to stop and identify herself—they were idiots who’d left the gate open.
A Gnoll sprinted past the Drakes, looking over his shoulder.
“They’re coming—he’s coming—”
“[Alter Mechanism]!”
Bviora lifted her right hand, the hand made of crystal, her father’s hand. The Lightning Thief had lost many limbs in his life. This—was his very hand, and it had some of his power. She concentrated, and the Skill worked through her.
The Drakes had a winch that could slam the gates shut. They weren’t entirely idiots. A hand pulled on the release lever, and a copy of it worked the brake. The mechanism unwound—a [Guard] dove, and the gate smashed down on their tail.
Screaming. Bviora felt terrible; the tail was severed. Her father had never done that. The Lightning Thief had always made sure no one died or got hurt.
This greatest game for his legacy is going to kill all his children. Bviora rode down the main street, shouting at Vetn.
“There’s a ship coming into port! Get to ground—it won’t be here for at least thirty minutes!”
“Thirty—we’re not going to survive ten!”
He screamed at her. The Thief of Clouds was as old as she was, but without her gemstone arm, he was the better [Thief] by far. He looked over his shoulder—then around.
“Safehouse.”
“I’ll find a fence—”
“Damn the fence. Into the harbor! We’ll pick the lock! Go—he’s almost on u—”
Then they heard it from the gates. The screaming Drake, the shouts of confusion, and the sounds of pursuit being organized turned to alarm. The Drakes on Covieke’s walls had spotted something else—and now they began to blow horns.
Too late. She’d thought they’d lost him. Bviora looked back in a slow horror even as the horse ran pell-mell, galloping down towards the harbor. She had thought the hardest thing was guessing where the Eye of Baleros was when no one else had figured it out. The Antinium weren’t the scariest species in the world. She had thought it was more daring to steal from Calanfer’s palace with the Thronebearers and so many powerful nations.
“Antinium! Anti—”
The few Drakes in the dark street jerked up at the sudden, panicked shout. Bviora just turned her head and saw the huge, steel gates of Covieke. Like the broken harbor gates…this stupid city was getting a reminder today. She could barely see the gates even with [Low-Light Vision]. But she knew…
Something hit the gates of Covieke so hard they rang—and Bviora swore she saw them bend slightly. Then—a flash of silver. It traced a square so fast, two blades, that she would have missed it if she hadn’t been looking.
The section of the gate fell inwards, almost crushing another [Guard]. He looked at the figure that was behind the falling square of steel and screamed, jabbing with a spear.
Klbkch the Slayer slashed the spear in half, kicked the Drake in the chest, and sent the figure sprawling. His head slowly rotated from right to left, scanning the street.
He saw Bviora and Vetn, and the horse stumbled. Bviora felt the animosity wash over her like a wave. 
“tHEre YoU aRe.”
He began to run. Two silver swords flashed at his sides. The Antinium burst into a sprint as fast as Vetn in a second, sweeping down the street and leaving a trail of dust behind him.
“Split!”
Vetn shouted. But it wasn’t going to be in time. Bviora looked around desperately for something, anything to throw him off. Why was he still following them? For the Eye? 
They’d given him back the sword—but the Slayer was out for vengeance. Klbkch was sprinting down the street, tensing to explode into a leap, when the entire main street of Covieke just—caved in.
Cobblestones, masonry, just tumbled down into the sewers. The Slayer reacted with lightspeed quickness, leaping up onto a falling stone and pushing himself off it towards a wall of a building. He didn’t have the traction to run up the wall, nor the Skill that Vetn had.
Instead, he just punched one blade through the wall and used it to anchor himself. The Slayer hung in the air, staring down at the sewers as more pedestrians ran screaming. He turned his head.
“You again.”
The Slayer leapt off the walls, and someone else screamed as Vetn and Bviora looked away. Klbkch slashed, but a Drake with white scales and hood had already fallen through the street via a hole he’d drawn. Klbkch landed—studied the painted hole leading into the sewers as Tesy the [Magical Painter] fled, and grunted.
He turned back to Vetn and Bviora, ignoring the [Magical Painter]. The two [Thieves] were almost out of sight, and if they could just get out of vision, the Slayer would have trouble tracking them down for a bit.
They had done this dance across six different cities over the last week. Each time, Klbkch had caught up faster. The only things saving them were Tesy distracting Klbkch and the Slayer’s inability to use the underworld contacts and safehouses. And—
Klbkch paused as he made to leap over the gap of the collapsed street painting. He turned, raised one sword, and deflected an arrow aimed at the back of his head. His head turned slowly, and with the last sight of him she got, Bviora had the distinct impression he was getting angrier.
 
——
 
A week. Eight days of wasting his time. Eight days of chasing the two [Thieves] only to be stopped by every idiotic Drake city and that annoying [Painter], only to learn the Grand Queen had given one of their artifacts away for his sword.
He didn’t care they’d ‘returned’ it via the City Runner. This was now personal, and Klbkch would first stab, then arrest both [Thieves] and bring them to justice.
Unless Covieke allowed executions. He suspected they did. Just the one with the crystal hand, then. But everyone was getting in his way.
Tesy, again. The [Magical Painter] had caught up with the [Thieves] after half a week and begun stymieing Klbkch. He had some kind of amazing talent for getting out of trouble; even Klbkch had a hard time catching him. The moment he noticed Tesy was there, the Drake was already running away.
The other problem was—Klbkch twitched.
He could have beheaded Tesy right then and there. He had a clear shot as the Drake had dropped through his trapdoor. But Tesy was Erin’s guest. So was Vetn.
At this moment, he really wanted to murder Tesy. Even if he was Senior Guardsman—
Another arrow dropped towards Klbkch’s face, and he parried it. This time, it was a [Piercing Shot]. His glare made the Drake holding the crossbow freeze. They thought they could get the drop on him in the darkness.
Klbkch’s new eyes could pierce the darkness almost as well as daytime. He had missed Tesy’s paintings, though. If this were day, he would have picked up on the missed details. As it was, it gave the annoying obstacles more trouble. Klbkch ordered one of them to desist in a flat voice.
“Get out of my way.”
“By the authority of Manus—”
A second agent of the City of War skidded around the street. They were everywhere. Klbkch slashed the third arrow in half, leapt—kicked a Gnoll in the face, and tangled with the second agent. They were faster than the idiot [Guards]—he punched one in the face with the hilt of his sword and knocked out two teeth.
“I am incredibly angry. Stop getting in my way!”
They just kept—coming. Klbkch sensed the trap and whirled his swords up. He slashed through two nets, but the third one, made of vines, snared him. He slashed out of it as a Drake threw off her hood.
“By the order of Oteslia’s Peacekeepers—”
Klbkch ran across the ground, kicked her in the groin, and remembered she was female. It still worked. Now Oteslia?
That made four Walled Cities! Though he didn’t know the names of their organizations. The Eyes of Pallass, Fissival, Manus, Oteslia—secret agents everywhere. Salazsar was different. They’d sent another group.
“Get the Slayer! Get—”
The Peacekeepers of Oteslia were apparently [Druids]. A burly Gnoll grew a foot taller, and a furry mane sprouted from his neck and shoulders. He leapt at Klbkch.
“[Lionform Transformation]! [Mighty P—]”
Klbkch swung out of the way of the jump, and it took the Gnoll straight into an agent of Manus. He ducked a swing from another [Druid] with a staff and headbutted them in the chin.
“You are all testing my patience!”
There were eleven of them between the two Walled Cities. The old Klbkch would probably have been stymied by them, even apprehended. With his new body, he didn’t even need [Recaptured Sublimity].
But they did take up precious seconds. In the end, Klbkch held the leader of Manus’ agents. The Drake was trying to stab him with a poisoned dagger; Klbkch had sheathed both swords and was currently punching him in the face.
He could have killed the Drake. It would be so easy. But that would aggravate Manus. Klbkch had ties to Liscor. This was not the time for a war. He was a Senior Guardsman and technically had to acknowledge Manus’ authority.
But he was on a leave of absence. All this meant that killing this idiot was not acceptable.
More agents rushed blindly into the fight on the street. All they saw was a blurring figure in the darkness, a whirlwind of blows—and bodies curled up on the ground. Then a single Antinium holding the last one standing. Klbkch’s voice was loud as he struck the final agent.
“Do. You. Understand. The. Ramifications. Of. Me. Killing. You?”
Each word was followed by a punch to the face. Klbkch shook the Drake, then noted the rolled up eyes. He dropped the agent in disgust.
“How many people want my swords? You won’t get them, and I am in pursuit of [Thieves].”
He looked around. One of the [Druids], the one who’d snared him with a net, was still conscious. She was clutching her groin and looked up.
“The—swords? We want the Eye! The Eye of Baleros!”
Klbkch stared at her.
“That is the possession of the Antinium.”
“It cannot leave Izril. The Lizardfolk can’t—”
He ignored her. They were after the Eye, same as him, then. The problem was that every time they saw him, they clearly thought they could rid the world of one of their species’ biggest threats.
Klbkch was striding down the street again, trying to figure out where those [Thieves] were. He knew they were after a ship. If they got to sea…he would have lost them. So this was it.
He was so angry he almost missed the strange sound in the air. Then Klbkch slowed and groaned.
“Them?”
He swung around slowly, but didn’t instantly draw his swords. Even he didn’t have time to waste in pointless battles. Plus—these special agents were a cut above the others. He hated to admit it, but one against thirty or sixty was a bad bet.
 
——
 
