“Old man. How many times have we done this? You might have forgotten, but I don’t. ‘My last battle’. ‘One month of civility’. ‘One year…’. There’s always a next time. Until there’s not, I guess. But you used them up a long time ago. No, I’m not going to play nice. Any respect I give to you—if I give it—will be after you’re dead. And you’ll never know how much that was or whether there was any at all.”
The Grand Strategist opened his mouth, and Saliss’ gaze pierced his scales like a thrown javelin. In silence, the two sat there, staring at each other, and Chaldion only rose when one of his aides coughed.
“Grand Strategist. Fifteen…”
Without a word, the old [Strategist] got up. Saliss kept his feet up without even saying goodbye.
“Luck, Saliss.”
Chaldion spoke after turning back once. Saliss glanced up at him, and the older Drake waited for a flicker. Anything. All Saliss said was—
“That’s not my name.”
And Chaldion walked out of that inn into the cold, staring up at the dark night. He heard Khorpe singing again.
 
——
 
Inside The Wandering Inn, almost everyone was emptying out as the minutes counted down. And still…
Still, there was no feeling yet of impending doom. Just fear. Just restlessness. Normen had gotten into position, ignoring the blue sprites attacking them. They’d chased Ryoka off, and the Wind Runner had left the inn.
Everyone stood in readiness. Counting down the minutes until the moment when the Solstice, the final day of the 14ᵗʰ month, began.
Erin Solstice waited, too. She hadn’t really slept and guessed most people hadn’t. She stood in her [Garden of Sanctuary], waiting.
She was ready, too. Her heart was so calm…but it felt like being at the center of a great hurricane. All her fears and emotions and the tension swirled around her, but she was calm. She heard a voice from the door she’d opened in the inn.
“One minute! Everyone ready?”
Outside Erin’s inn, the Flooded Waters tribe was checking their Thunderbows from their position on the hill they occupied. A singing Antinium and a crew around a ballista were searching for targets.
Gershal of Vaunt stood, holding his new blade with a sweaty gloved hand. Magnolia Reinhart’s [Maids] and [Butlers] stood in a strange rank of their own.
Erin Solstice felt the Winter Solstice coming as Peggy counted down.
“Ten, nine, eight, seven…where’s Inkpaper?…uh…”
Now.
The flowers around Erin’s feet—rustled. She looked down, and the Faerie Flowers, which had closed for the darkness like any flower, suddenly bloomed. Erin Solstice’s heart picked up, and she looked around. The door flickered, and a second one opened, showing her the outside of her inn.
She gazed across Liscor’s army, spotting a Minotaur raising his axe. In the distance, Drakes began shouting, and she saw the orange banners of Manus shaking, Pallassians in their yellow armor taking aim.
A squad of flying Drakes and Garuda, led by Bevussa Slenderscale, was in the skies as snow crusted the Floodplains and High Passes. Looming shadows in the darkness before proper day.
The Winter Solstice had begun. Erin Solstice lifted the Key of Reprieve in her hands, waiting…
…And nothing happened.
It was unmistakably the Solstice. Erin couldn’t have told you why, but she felt it. A certain potential in the air. Not just the flowers; her witchcraft told her this was an auspicious day. A day of power, of meaning, at least in this world.
Yet nothing was happening. No thunderclap to shake the heavens. No eternal night…it was already night. Erin stood there for a minute, then exhaled. She sat back down.
“Oh, come on.”
 
——
 
Another five minutes had passed, and everyone was tense. But now Erin was certain.
“Hey—aaah!”
Every Knight of Solstice, Numbtongue, and all the other Goblins and Antinium instantly pointed their weapons at her. Even if she was immune, the sight of two dozen crossbows swinging her way was terrifying.
“Erin, what is it?”
Jewel was looking right and left, trying to see out the windows. Erin lowered her hands as everyone lowered their weapons.
“I think it’s not happening yet.”
For a second, everyone stared at her, and then Normen exhaled and lowered his mace. Numbtongue groaned.
“What.”
Erin gave him a guilty grin as she walked out of her garden, took a seat at the table, and Calescent lowered his death-spiced cleaver.
“…Is it in an hour?”
“I don’t know, but it’s not now. I warned you it might be like this.”
They all stared at Erin. Outside, the defenders were tense and wary, calling out anything they saw, confirming that they weren’t under an illusion or being tricked. Erin just stared ahead and suddenly felt tired. So it was gonna be like this, wasn’t it?
After a second, Calescent nudged Erin hesitantly.
“…You want breakfast?”
Erin stared ahead, and her stomach rumbled.
“Sure. What’s breakfast?”
“Food.”
“Sounds good.”
 
——
 
It took nearly three hours before the armies outside realized that if the attack was coming, it wasn’t going to be when they were all lined up and ready. So they told the [Soldiers] to stand down, but be at the ready or whatever you did militarily, and after two more hours of milling around, everyone was checking their timepieces in confusion.
5:11.
Almost everyone was carrying a timepiece, be it some fancy custom-made clock like Nerul had or just a timekeeper spell like Ilvriss and the others. After five hours, it began to sink in that they might have time or need to eat and pee instead of simply waiting with bated breath.
That was when Lyonette returned. She looked nerve-wracked and frantic, and Erin was yawning as she spoke to several commanders gathered around.
“No, I don’t know when it might be. Midday? I doubt it’s midnight because Kasig—Kaligma’s got a time limit. It might be a surprise attack.”
“Waiting game. Got it. Can we expect a stealth attack?”
General Shirka was still taking this seriously, and Lyonette stopped to listen as Erin sat up and rubbed at her face.
“…Maybe? She’s done it a few times, apparently. Invisible undead Cyclops? But she normally sends a giant army.”
“Got it. Keep us informed, Miss Solstice. Grand Strategist, I have an advisement to watch out for invisible foes…”
Shirka strode off, and the throng broke up. One of the Humans marched back to his troops, grumbling.
“Not a single foe in sight. Do we ‘win’ if we outlast the Solstice? That’s nineteen more damn hours…”
Erin Solstice sat back in her chair, yawning hugely until she noticed Lyonette.
“Lyonette! Why are you back?”
“I thought you’d need help if the inn’s not under attack yet. Plus, I was waiting for the attack.”
“Yeah, I guess I might need a hand in a bit. We might have a bit. Maybe. How’s Mrsha? Kevin and…?”
Erin yawned again, and Lyonette yawned too.
“Up all night. I think Mrsha’s dozing off. She’s too used to your Skill. Everyone is tense—Sest, run back and tell them it’s alright. Sest will be guarding the children.”
Dame Ushar and Ser Dalimont were staying with Lyonette. The Thronebearer bowed and departed, and Erin gave Lyonette a weary grin.
“Some day, huh? I really did think it’d begin now, but it’s just like her. Apparently.”
“How do you know?”
Lyonette sat down for a second; she smelled Calescent cooking and realized that if this was going to take a while, second breakfast and even lunch would have to be made. It was damn cold out there; the inn should re-open. She signaled Peggy, pointing at the messy tables, who gave her a thumbs up, and Lyonette called out.
“Go ask the regular staff to come in, Peggy!”
“Is that safe?”
“Well, we need them to wait tables. If this is all day, we can stand still and freeze up or sit down.”
Erin was sitting herself and nodded.
“Good point. Stupid Kassy. That’s my new name. She just has to draw this out.”
Lyonette watched Erin yawn a third time.
“How do you…know what she might do, Erin? Invisible Cyclops? Did you make it up?”
Erin opened one eye and blinked.
“What? No. She did that once. Sent an invisible Cyclops or something into the palace of this king dude who offended her and slaughtered all his family in the night. Really dark stuff.”
Lyonette swallowed.
“Is that a real story?”
Erin considered the question as she checked her own timepiece—Kevin’s smartphone he’d lent to her.
5:51.
She shrugged as she looked at Lyonette.
“It’s a real…story. It’s probably true, but it’d be like in a book of myths or the Bible. He—told it to me.”
She pointed. Lyonette’s head turned, and her heart jumped as she saw who Erin was pointing at.
Zineryr. The statue of him. The smiling Gnome and the pathetic three-in-one who didn’t seem so…silly today of all days. Lyonette’s head swiveled back to Erin for a wordless answer as some of the Knights of Solstice and Numbtongue looked over. Erin sat forwards, arms on her knees, and explained simply as Ryoka jogged into the inn.
“Erin, I’m going for a flyabout. I can’t sit still. I’m going to raid your kitchens, okay?”
“Sure, Ryoka. So, yeah. He told me stories in the brief time we had. About all of them, but especially her.”
“W-why? Isn’t it bad to know more? You said to glorify or worship them gave them power.”
Erin wore a crooked smile.
“Yes. But he said it was important to know their glories and mythologies. Because they will repeat them, you see?”
Oh. That made sense. Like the glory days of an adventurer or…no wonder Erin was so confident. Even so, the wait might prove to be the hardest challenge.
To distract herself, Lyonette found an apron, put it on, and clapped her hands.
“Okay! Second breakfast! Let’s have soldiers in and offer everyone half-off! We still make a profit that way. Yelroan should be with the Silverfangs still in Liscor. Someone tell him what’s going on?”
Erin stared at Lyonette, faintly appalled, but the [Princess] had the right idea. Because, after several more hours, people were coming in and out of the inn again, albeit still waiting and waiting.
During this long Solstice, the wait revealed secrets and omens of the future.
6:17.
Nothing was happening around Liscor. The same was not true everywhere.
 
——
 
Nothing had happened at Liscor, yet. But all these events. The battle at sea. The armies moving around. It felt like something, even if the outcome was yet in question.
The stakes were rising. The lull of small gambits and peaceful days had given way to moments where it was time to bet everything. Not just at Liscor. Everywhere. It felt like synchronicity.
While that eclipse rose and cast the world into odd twilight, everything felt possible and dangerous. Balanced upon the edge of a knife, waiting to fall.
To one Antinium, it reminded her of the quiet sea. The hour when the waves had gone still, the rain stopped, and she had crept onto deck to stare around only to see a wave larger than she had dreamed of rising across the horizon. She felt the same stillness and urgency of the day. The wave had yet to come.
Of course, this feeling worried people who wanted things to be, if not always the same, always orderly. Always right. Sometimes they forgot that rightness and always being in charge or on top were not the same thing.
Sometimes they justified the strangest of things because they too were afraid, uncertain, and flailing. But the trick to good leadership, as the Grand Queen of the Antinium understood it, was not always being the most correct or having the greatest moral rectitude.
It was making what you decided sound good.
“This is an unparalleled alliance in theory. It is not a commitment—yet. However, it is an unquestionable advantage to have multiple species serving the will of the Antinium where only one remained. Similarly, we have need of high-level individuals. The very fact that Klbkchhezeim was disarmed proves how our greatest champions can have their talents wasted.”
“I am uncertain of the legitimacy of this statement. I also raise another point of issue: you gave the [Thieves] the Eye of Baleros. Why did you do that? It was unclear when Klbkchhezeim stated he had things under control and did not need to effect the trade as of yet. He is still in pursuit.”
“I also object to your phrasing ‘serving the will of the Antinium’, Grand Queen. These…are not trustworthy individuals. With greatest respect.”
The Grand Queen paused with great annoyance. When had disloyalty become a trend? The Free Queen truly had disrupted everything with her ‘success’, which the Grand Queen was now viewing in air quotes. She waved her feeler again to repeat the gesture.
“This is an experiment largely in the same vein as the Free Queen’s successes. Which have met with such unifying success—I am sure you all understand the merit of my idea framed thusly?”
The other five Queens hesitated, and the Free Queen clacked her mandibles, but she wasn’t even facing forwards. She seemed distracted by some…oh yes, the Solstice event or whatever was occurring.
“This…is true, Grand Queen. But I note Klbkchhezeim was the liaison with one member of another species: Erin Solstice. A proven ally. This is how many untested individuals in the Hivelands itself?”
“Merely two hundred. Under my authority. They are—what is the word? Ah, yes.”
The Grand Queen consulted her notes.
“[Slaves]. From Roshal. A subservient, obedient way of using people that is as close to Antinium efficiency as possible.”
“I do not know this word.”
The Silent Queen broke in, clearly anxious about something outside her limited perspective. Which is why she needed the Grand Queen.
“I. Do.”
Was the Twisted Queen herself displeased? The Grand Queen tried to soothe them all.
“It is an experiment. Observe we have also been paid richly for our services.”
“For our Workers and Soldiers.”
“A fraction of the cost.”
“They could be researching our work and looking for weaknesses.”
Once again, she was getting pushback, and it was annoying. Even the Armored Queen wasn’t happy about this change. Yet these collared peoples were standing to attention, and they were good at following orders.
Everyone was so happy about Anand and his disobedience…the Grand Queen had been promised aid in more than just goods and people. If Roshal could help her Hive level, she would regain authority, so she kept explaining why this was good.
“Pah. No other species has our mastery with shaping. These are tentative allies…you should all be pleased. I sent the Eye of Baleros to rectify and resolve Klbkch’s situation with efficacy.”
And to undermine my enemies if what I understand is true. The Grand Queen rubbed her feelers together.
“I have taken the necessary steps to ensure our continued advantage against the Drakes.”
