Tesy’s voice was faint. But Linvios was feeling a kind of slow crawl down his scales. Now he was listening, listening and putting together a conclusion fast. Vetn dropped back onto the chair or bed and spoke wearily.
“Yeah. I get it. That’s how you think. You know something, Tesy?”
“What?”
“The last time we were all together, after we saved Mrsha, Qwera pulled me aside and offered me a job. To be her security or something. Easy pay, I guard her stuff, maybe sabotage other [Merchants], but nothing too illegal.”
“Sounds like you’d never accept.”
Tesy tried to laugh nervously. Vetn didn’t.
“Yeah. Well, she didn’t expect me to. But she did ask me—if I had any plan or anything. A goal. A future. She bugs us about it all the time.”
“That’s good old big sister Qwera.”
“…I used to think so too. But she has a point. She always has a point.”
Vetn’s voice was dropping now, and Linvios heard a murmur from the First Violin.
“Almost in position. Countdown, Maestro?”
“Ready check.”
He listened to the murmurs as Vetn went on.
“I thought about it a lot, especially after that bar with Mrsha and—and other things. How long are we gonna run around like kids, Tesy? Getting into trouble, breaking each other out of scrapes?”
“Those were the best times in our lives.”
Linvios adjusted his grip on his sword. He opened his mouth to count down from three, and Vetn’s voice rose.
“Yeah? It was for me, for a while. But I’m tired of it, Tesy. How long are we going to be kids, doing nothing but scraping by and stealing and getting into trouble? How long are you—going to pretend not to see how I feel about you? Even when I write it down?”
Linvios’ teeth clicked together. He paused and spoke a word.
“Hold.”
Now this was interesting. Not pleasant, but Symphony was listening now with real interest. They did love dramas, plays—and this was a tragedy in the final act.
“Feel? I—I dunno what you’re talking about, Vetn. Listen, we’re like family. That kinda stuff—”
“You know I’m a Turnscale.”
Dead silence, now. Even Bviora was probably listening in. Tesy responded after half a minute.
“I—I’m always helping when we visit.”
“When we visit. You don’t get it, fine. But you know I like you.”
“I…we’re friends, Vetn. I don’t—it’s strange, you know?”
Vetn’s voice was low now, a growl, but not of anger. Just…intensity. He sounded lost and tired.
“Strange. I swear you have the most fun there. You always hint at it. They love you, you know.”
“I know.”
“But you don’t dance. You draw beautiful clothing and help them live out their dreams and help us get back at the idiots, but you don’t dance. Because it’s weird? You like a lot of them.”
“It’s sort of weird, Vetn. Listen, I’m not—”
“Yeah. Of course you’re not if you say you’re not. But you could do me a favor and tell me to my face. I couldn’t do it for years, and every time you got into trouble and I helped, I wished I could say it. Now I wrote it down, and you pretend like you never saw it. I said I like you, Tesy. I don’t want to be best friends. Can’t you—can’t you even look at me?”
Linvios adjusted the flower in the button of his jacket. He leaned against the wall and closed his eyes. Now this was a painting sadder than he wished to see before his own eyes. He heard not a word from within, and out of courtesy for the Thief of Clouds, he did wait.
Counting down the seconds, and the minutes, that surely felt like hours. Until, slowly, Vetn got up and left the room. Then Linvios whispered.
“Now.”
The wall imploded in a single moment. Linvios leapt into the saferoom, looking Sellme in the eye. He heard a scream, then swore.
“Who—”
 
——
 
Klbkch wondered why everyone wanted the Eye of Baleros so badly after he ran into Symphony.
He didn’t know assassin groups, but he remembered them vividly from the inn and the Trial of Blades. This was not a second-rate group. They were apparently equivalent to the Named-rank team led by Deniusth the Violinist: Orchestra.
“Strange. All this effort. The Oteslia agent wanted the Eye. What is so special about that thing? Xrn uses it to fuel the preservation spells in the Hives. All of them, true…but there are artifacts with that much power. Back in Rhir, we used one to warm everything up.”
He supposed he really didn’t understand magic. But the thought occurred to Klbkch that maybe—just maybe—this was about something more important than his swords.
He sat there on one of the members of Symphony, who groaned faintly, at the mouth of the harbor. They weren’t dead.
“I could kill you. You are an [Assassin]. But I am a Senior Guardsman…politics about being friendly with Ilvriss’ stupid city. Ilvriss is Erin’s ally. Life was easier when I just killed everything.”
The Slayer felt gloomy. Here he’d felt like this was a return to his glory days. But you never got to go back in time like that, did you? It was all so complicated now.
Did he even have the will to kill? Klbkch thought about it. Then he heard a thump, saw the smoke rising two streets away, and rose slowly. A piece of roofing tile flew down from the sky. Klbkch let it hit him in the head, hard, and it glanced off and smashed onto the ground.
“yEP.”
At least a limb or two. From the one with the gemstone hand. Erin wouldn’t begrudge him for removing something Bviora had already lost. And if that Maestro got in his way—Klbkch would repay him for threatening Erin.
With a sword.
In the stomach.
He ran towards the explosion, but halted, aware the [Thieves] would be running. Sure enough—
“Run! Dead gods, run!”
Bviora, Vetn, and even Tesy were streaking away from black-clad figures chasing after them. There was that keening wail of a song—Symphony must have jumped them. Once again they got away?
“The luck of Demons. Not this time.”
Klbkch planted himself in the street. He saw Vetn running full-tilt, staring back the way he’d come with a look of disbelief on his face. Bviora, eyes widening in horror as she saw him.
And Tesy. That idiot who looked so stupid and confident, like a child pulling a prank and not realizing he was eighteen and could be legally held responsible for his actions under Drake law—
—He looked a bit off for some reason all of a sudden.
Like Relc had when Klbkch told him about his daughter being in danger. Like Erin had after meeting the Goblin Chieftain. Like someone had taken a brick and smashed it across his face, metaphorically speaking.
“Oh no—”
Bviora’s hand blurred. Klbkch saw a flash, faster than even he could imagine, reaching out towards him. To steal his swords!
The Slayer dodged. He leaned to one side, throwing himself back, and the hand—missed. Bviora tried to correct it, but she didn’t have control of the Skill. The hand flashed past Klbkch, and he whirled.
“Run! He dodged it! He—”
She was within striking range. Klbkch tensed—and Tesy threw himself forwards.
“Take the boat and run, Vetn! Run!”
Of course, Klbkch had already attacked. His swords came together like scissor blades. The hardest Chirtix blades forged in the True Antinium’s Hives hit Bviora’s arm right where crystal met flesh—
Bounced off—ringing—
Klbkch stared at his swords as they shook and emitted a sound that shattered every piece of glass on the street. Bviora screamed in pain and kept running. He’d hit her hard enough to cut her in half—
“What is that made of?”
Klbkch wondered aloud and decided to just take them down at the legs. Vetn was twisting with Bviora, eyes wide, as Klbkch lined up for a second attack—and the Slayer slammed into a brick wall.
He half broke through it, but it arrested his momentum. Klbkch stepped back and decided he’d beat Tesy to the point of unconsciousness first. And cut his stupid brush and notebook to shreds.
He turned, sword cutting through the air as Tesy drew with a blur. Klbkch had to admit Sellme was quick. But he wasn’t a match f—
Klbkch stared into the fiery glow for a second and jumped before a wave of magma crashed over the brick wall and ran down the street, setting fire to every piece of wood it touched. The heat was almost as intense as the real thing.
It was so hot it burned Tesy, and he staggered back, screaming. Klbkch landed on a roof. That was…not expected.
He leapt down, swords scything for Tesy, but the wind slammed into him, picked him up—Klbkch slashed wildly, trying to remember how to redirect his momentum. Tesy was flying too.
“A tornado?”
Sellme was going insane. Klbkch finally remembered how to do it and whirled his blades, counteracting the air pulling him up. He landed as the [Magical Painter] screamed at him, and now Tesy was pulling another page from the back of his book. Klbkch took one look at what Tesy had drawn in his darkest hours—and decided to go for Vetn and Bviora instead.
He wondered, as he leapt from roof to roof, dodging whatever the hell was crashing after him, some great beast of blackness with scales and horns and melted features—
—Why Tesy was crying.
 
——
 
Symphony was streaming after the [Thieves], leaping out of the sewers and their ambush routes, throwing poisoned blades and playing music that cut the air. Shadows chasing more shadows in the false night. But the cover of darkness wasn’t protecting the [Thieves].
Vetn dodged a wave of sound on pure instinct as he saw the First Violinist draw her bow across the strings of her violin. He felt the air ripple past his right arm, and the brick wall past him cracked, splintering stone and throwing up dust.
Salazsar’s best killers. His heart was in his throat. Symphony should have gotten Vetn and Bviora in the safehouse. Someone had stopped them, and even now, he and Bviora were dead.
More secret agents were marching down with all of Covieke’s Watch and militia, closing a net around the harbor. Klbkch was on their heels.
They were dead, but Tesy—
Tesy had opened his black pages. 
A tornado was raging across the city, tearing the roofs off houses. Vetn knew there were people in the homes. He could hear screams.
The tornado had eyes and limbs. It was no mere act of nature. Vetn had seen it. Sellme’s darkest dreams. The burning torrent of magma was streaming towards the sea, and the agents and Symphony were fighting.
A beast was rampaging down one street; stylized monsters thin and tall as houses were creeping down another street, biting and tearing with odd, asymmetrical grace.
Tesy had drawn those the day he had seen real monsters that looked like people. Vetn kept running as Bviora gasped, staring behind her at the chaos tearing apart the entire harbor area.
“Is that—Tesy?”
Covieke was being well and truly destroyed. There was fire raging from one street, a tornado in the skies, and Vetn had seen something huge demolish a house.
Sellme had come to another Drake city, but his paintings no longer adorned walls. They were bringing so much wrath that even Symphony had to turn and fight—or die. Vetn couldn’t believe his eyes. Bviora was just as wide-eyed as they reached the harbor mouth.
“You never told me he could do that!”
Vetn had never seen Tesy do that. He hesitated a second, then whirled and tossed the page on the water.
A boat appeared, wind blowing, and Bviora hesitated before leaping into it. Vetn panted.
“It’ll last for at least half an hour. Oh—that idiot!”
The sails were furled. He grabbed for a rope, glad at least that Tesy had drawn it accurately. Bviora squeaked.
“Let me help you with that.”
Klbkch tugged the sail down. Vetn turned—and froze as he saw a blade at his throat. The Slayer of the Free Antinium was smiling.
It was the kind of smile that wasn’t. Klbkch was exhaling harder than usual, but he’d lost the thing Tesy had conjured, and the [Magical Painter] was fighting Symphony by the sounds of it.
“You are not quicker than I. Now. Step off the boat or I will chop off your hands. Your left hands.”
Bviora and Vetn slowly stepped off the boat, and Vetn squeezed his eyes shut a second, then stared at Bviora, hoping she had something. Anything.
“It was almost fun for a bit. Until I decided it was not. I am incredibly angry. Move and I will kill…hurt you.”
Klbkch’s voice was calm. Vetn’s shook.
“If you let us go—you’ll have to fight all of Symphony to get at us or steal the Eye back.”
Klbkch paused a second.
“I don’t care about this damn Eye. I don’t care about you. I care that you stole my sword, and it feels like that was the least consequential part of this affair! Eye of Baleros this. Eye of Baleros that—”
His blade dug into Vetn’s throat and released a line of blood.
“What is so important about this stupid object, and why shouldn’t I just break it now? Answer me!”
He was going to cut them down. Vetn could almost see it. Bviora was going to try something, and Klbkch was going to take her arm off in a second. He wasn’t an idiot; this time he’d just cut her flesh instead of the artifact. And they were under-levelled against him. Vetn tried to find something to answer Klbkch to his satisfaction. An answer to maybe convince him to let them go?
There was none. Anything you told Klbkch would let him know how important this was, a fact the Slayer seemed to be realizing by the second. A voice spoke from the side, amused, light, and filled with a kind of rapturous delight in the very fact that she spoke and the words were heard at last.
“Why, it’s at the center of the fate of Baleros. Even mortals can see that. That you cannot, ‘Slayer’, is so very interesting. It drew even me out, before my mother.”
Then Vetn felt the silver blade against his throat withdraw, and Klbkch slowly turned to face the woman standing there with sword in hand, traveller’s clothing and a simple scabbard on her waist, as if she could have walked into any city, a nondescript Human among the many of this world.
Except that she smiled like Zeladona of Blades. Except that the air hummed around her, and her eyes looked like a hundred thousand battlefields, and there was an air to her voice like the scream of soldiers shouting defiance.
Except that she had snuck up behind all three without a word. Klbkch’s voice trembled.
“Who—what—I know this feeling.”
He forgot about Bviora and Vetn. He lifted his swords as Cauwine, the Goddess of Last Stands, dead goddess, set foot in this world and flicked her sword up.
“Yes. One of my half-sisters is buried in Rhir. I am Cauwine, Klbkchhezeim of the Antinium. I. Challenge. You.”
He froze one second, the Antinium, to understand what she meant and take in the gravity of what she was. Then he moved with all the speed and strength of his greatest hour.
[Recaptured Sublimity].
Vetn saw as he leapt into the boat and Symphony poured out into the harbor and he heard Tesy scream his name—
