Erin Solstice refused to let tears blind her. She was clinging to one of Xarkouth’s wings when she realized something.
There was no statue of Razia.
Surely there would be, even for one of the Agelum. Ulvama was panicking, asking if this was the Xarkouth who was keeping two of the dead gods away. Erin whirled around. Maybe—
11:56.
Razia stood there. Not as the kindly, aged, frail member of House Shoel that Ryoka had described, but in her warform, her true form. Six-armed, naked, multiple sets of eyes open wide. Her mouth was a thin line, and she looked wounded. Half-eaten.
Defeated.
Her stone pupils were all open wide in defeat, reminiscent of a Gazer’s, and Erin began to cry out again. Until she saw something odd.
Razia was pointing. All her arms on her right side were pointing, all three of them. Erin stared at the statue. She had never, ever seen a statue do that before. She followed the fingers to the one thing Razia could have pointed at—
Xarkouth.
Ulvama had noticed as well. The two looked at the Void Dragon, at the Agelum, and then Erin began to follow the fingers. She looked at Xarkouth, still laboring to fly in the last image of him. The statues, after all, were like the Deadlands had been; they showed you as you were. In many forms. Young. Old.
As you died.
Erin Solstice slowly walked around Xarkouth—then she gasped. She recoiled, and Ulvama rushed around. She uttered a sound and stopped.
Xarkouth’s other side was not the huge, beautiful scales. Instead, wounds had torn the scales. Something—a finger—had carved through his very essence. A deliberate wound. A…message.
If they knew they were dying…Erin gazed at Razia’s fingers and the grim expression on the Agelum’s face. Then she read the final warning of the two. It was written fast, in desperation.
 
fake stars
moons real
they opened a door
escaped
 
Escaped. Erin just read the word again and again in horror, but she didn’t even know what it meant. Ulvama was counting now, looking around.
“Is bad. Is very bad, but—hey, hey, look, it’s okay? See?”
She showed Erin the time.
11:59.
The Winter Solstice was ending. It was gonna be okay. Ulvama smiled at Erin. Smiled in relief, and Erin Solstice waited for that number to change.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss was checking the time on his personal clock. He waited until the number hit 12:01 and then lowered it.
“Done.”
The Drake exhaled and felt the tension leave his body. He sagged and stopped holding the hilt of his sword.
He’d felt like it would have come at the last moment, he really had. Some last, petty attack or a wave of malice to wipe them out. If not at the beginning, then the end. He turned to the other Drakes who were still tensed, waiting.
“Someone send a [Message] to Erin. No—I’ll go. Let’s figure out whether we want to stay on guard for the next day.”
After a second, one of the people in his personal camp looked over.
“Nephew, what? It’s not midnight yet.”
Nerul was staring at his own timepiece, a more expensive one on the [Diplomat]’s wrist. Ilvriss paused.
“It’s a minute past midnight.”
“Is it? Your timepiece must be fast. Mine’s still at 11:59.”
Captain Osthia glanced at her own timepiece.
“We calibrated ours. I’m reading 12:03, actually. Mine might be fast?”
“Damn. Is the thing broken?”
Across the Floodplains, there were cheers going up, and laughter, and Ilvriss began to get [Message] spells. He grunted as he read a scroll.
“Congratulations for a wasted day from Lord Xitegen…typical.”
Something nagged at him, though, and he glanced around.
“Does anyone else have 11:59? Just Nerul?”
The armies were too disciplined to break up right away, but there was more movement after midnight had passed, so Ilvriss saw the question go across the lines. He was glancing at the inn, relieved it looked quiet, when he heard a response.
“Someone else has 11:59, Wall Lord! The Archmage of Izril also does—she wants to speak now!”
“Call her over!”
Suddenly, Ilvriss felt a tingle on the back of his neck. He saw Valeterisa flying towards him and, of all people, Relc Grasstongue jogging after her.
“Hey, why’s everyone celebrating? It’s still 11:59 according to Valeterisa. The longest damn minute of my life. Are you sure it’s broken?”
Valeterisa was frowning.
“Over a minute has elapsed, but my personal clock shows it is not midnight yet.”
Nerul grunted as he glanced down at his wrist again.
“Mine too. Can you explain, Archmage?”
Valeterisa inspected the timepiece, and Ilvriss called for the other malfunctioning one as well. On a hunch, he wrote an urgent reply to Xitegen—
Wait.
Whether many knew it or not, Valeterisa was an expert in both magic and clockmaking. She deduced the problem very quickly.
“Aha. You see, I was a helper at a very renowned clockmaker store once. The answer is simple.”
She brushed some white hair from her eyes as she smiled. Ilvriss turned to her, hoping it was a simple answer.
“Magical interference? They stop at midnight?”
“No, no. Your spell is a very cheap one, Wall Lord. I could get you a deal on…I could have gotten you a very nice one. You see, most people here are using timekeeper spells. They simply do basic counting. One second? Add one. Then they show you the time.”
“Right. We all synchronized our timepieces. So why…”
Valeterisa was speaking too happily, lost in the explanations she found fascinating. But Relc was glancing around and feeling at the back of his neck. Something…was off.
“Well, you see, Diplomat Nerul and myself have more expensive timekeepers. Even counting spells can be desynchronized or go afoul. But ours are very beautiful pieces of light and calculation magic that—”
“Faster, if you please, Archmage.”
Valeterisa broke off.
“Skipping. I am affronted. Very well. Our timepieces automatically calculate the time based on the position of the moon and stars. You see, the stars are always at the same place in the sky depending on the month and hour. They move so slowly that the eye does not notice, but someone found you could calculate based on their exact position the actual time. Even if the stars are obscured by clouds tonight, the spells still locate them.”
“Meaning?”
Ilvriss’ mind was racing ahead of the explanation, and Valeterisa delivered it happily as the pieces fell into place.
“Meaning that somehow, despite time passing, it is still technically the…Winter…Solstice…oh dear.”
Then she stopped. The eager Archmage, Wall Lord Ilvriss, looked up at the very stars and around at the world, and Wall Lord Ilvriss’ mouth moved.
“The Solstice isn’t over. Someone’s stopped time.”
“Not for me.”
Relc looked around, trying to grin, but Ilvriss swung around.
“It’s a trick! Send a message—now! Wall Lord Ilvriss to all forces! The Solstice isn’t over! The Solstice—”
His shout was lost in the wild night. The campfires stoked so high, the cheering [Soldiers], and the Floodplains had been bright despite the obscured skies.
Now—as Ilvriss began shouting, the bonfire near his command tent went out. Piles of burning logs extinguished themselves and left only smoke drifting across the snow.
In a second. Relc swung right, lifting his spear, and a hovering [Light] spell vanished. Valeterisa’s own, personal spell flickered out, and the Archmage of Izril made a sound.
“That was no spell.”
Lights vanished across the Floodplains, reigniting as people cast spells or lit flames. But a true darkness suddenly swept the entire landscape.
And with it came a cold, a true cold that made Ilvriss begin to shiver despite the warming spells sewn into his jacket. He knew.
They all knew.
Horns began to blow, and voices began to speak across the speaking stones—but then they faded. As if sound itself had died.
Light. Sound. Then Ilvriss felt as if he were standing alone. As if he were the last person in the world. He looked around, but his head would not move. It slowly turned, his tendons popping and his muscles screaming in agony as he fought it. But he could not help it.
His head rose to the High Passes, to the base of those mountains rising black against the sky. And there stood a woman.
Three women. Young, mature, old.
Maiden, mother, crone.
All at once and by themselves. Three in one. She wore a shawl of pale white, like a grin of purest ivory, like a bridal veil or a shroud of death. The rest of her clothing was grey robes that seemed woven of nothingness.
She stood there, and he knew. Ilvriss saw her head rise, and her eyes found him and every person there for a second, and they knew Death when she appeared before them.
But her eyes were locked on only one thing. Narrowed as if seeing past a petty veil. Brow furrowed with disdain. She raised one wizened finger and pointed it.
The Wandering Inn.
The [Innkeeper] felt Kasigna’s eyes upon her. A door opened on the hill, and Erin Solstice stood in her [Garden of Sanctuary]. The two locked eyes, and one of them smiled.
There you are.
The Goddess of Death’s other, ancient hand clung to a staff made of midnight. A woman as young as the [Innkeeper]—no—wearing her exact face, stood taller.
Kasigna raised her staff, and Shauna Solstice met Erin Solstice’s defiant gaze. The two stared enmity and hatred at each other—and Kasigna drove the staff into the earth.
The Floodplains shook, and the High Passes trembled as snow and earth crumbled. The Goddess of Death said one word:
“Arise.”
