The Wyrm had to admit even one of Ailendamus’ armies would have a hard time cracking the defenses. It wasn’t just the way the enemy would have to charge across the Floodplains, then summit the vast hill and layers of defenses like a porcupine, it was the levels of the combatants.
Archmage Valeterisa. Multiple [Lords] on either side. Named-ranks…
The inn.
Now, he had no love for the inn. In fact, Erin Solstice had actually attacked him and insulted him and deserved to be sprayed with acid for it. But Rhisveri had some connections to the battle. That fool, Ryoka Griffin, was inept, so he’d given some Truegold to the defenders, and he was assured this was a mutual enemy.
So he had stakes; hence his interest. This was a good weathervane for his foes. What bothered the Wyrm wasn’t that.
Obviously, if the inn were destroyed, it was no scales off his back. It was just…well…he craned his head around the scrying orb he was using, as if to see better.
“…Where the hell is it? I know he’s there. He’s not more cunning than…argh.”
He couldn’t find it. After five more minutes of checking the magical clock, Rhisveri gave in.
“Dragonlord of Flames. Let’s…speak.”
He opened a spell and half-expected it not to connect. But to his surprise, it instantly did.
“Rhisveri of Ailendamus. Do you need something?”
Rhisveri hesitated. He coughed as Teriarch, the Dragonlord of Flame, responded with a weary, annoyingly calm voice. Damn living legends, even if he was grey of fang.
“Just checking in on my investments. I notice my Truegold on display. I take it those artifacts that have popped up among the officers are your doing?”
A pause. Neither one liked the other, but today was special. Teriarch grunted after a second.
“A small modicum of aid.”
“Yes, well…”
Rhisveri zoomed in on a sword, admiring the clear age of the design. It had to be another Rihal blade, nothing fancy, but had that damn Dragon looted the entire empire? He frowned as he kept searching.
“…It’s all very well and good, but I was wondering—purely so I don’t foul your fire if I decide to lob a few spells over—where you hid the bigger contributions to the battle. Grander magics. They must be well done.”
He hated admitting he couldn’t spot the grand magics from afar. To his surprise, though, Teriarch paused.
“…Grander magics?”
“Something Tier 6, Tier 7 maybe? A few of the old Hundred Heroes’ swords if you had them? Come now, let’s not be coy. At least tell me which battalions have [Greater Haste] on them.”
The pause made Rhisveri stop searching for a second.
“You did put down those protections, didn’t you?”
“In my experience, Wyrm Rhisveri, mortals excel when they do not have their hands held for them.”
The Dragonlord’s voice was deceptively calm, but Rhisveri swore he heard an undercurrent of…the Wyrm almost laughed. Wait, that was his line. His voice took on an incredulous strain.
“You must be joking. You didn’t even give them…? I could have lobbed a thousand sets of plate mail and turned some of those [Soldiers] into armored infantry.”
“Plate mail takes time to train in.”
“Well, I could have done it a month ago! I thought you were doing that! What happened to Brass Dragons forging armies’ worth of weapons in a volcano?”
“That’s a gross exaggeration. It’s all magic anyways, pulling raw metal out of lava. The part where they transform into smiths and swing a hammer is purely ornamental.”
That was stupid and banal, and the banter was just that. Yet Rhisveri went silent a moment, and when he spoke next, he was disconcerted.
“You really aren’t arming them with anything more?”
“You and I differ in many ways, it seems, Great Wyrm of Ailendamus.”
Even his Hydra Knights, who Rhisveri admitted were commoners given a chance at nobility, glorified infantry—he didn’t even give them horses, and they thought it was a part of their identity, the idiots—even they got full sets of steel armor. Training.
Mind you, he didn’t respect the Thirsting Veil Knights or Drell Knights either. But the Hydra Knights were a special project he’d gambled on and proven that a thousand ‘commoners’ could stomp any ‘noble’ Knight Order in morale, bravery, and yes, sheer numbers if given the chance. And he armed them well.
Because they were his. Rhisveri looked at the troops that he knew Teriarch could have armed better. Ah. Of course. They weren’t the Dragonlord of Flame’s. That famous champion of causes, that trickster and wily hero and dangerous foe…
“I see. It seems we do indeed, Dragonlord. Good day to you.”
Wyrm and Dragon disconnected their call, realizing once again how different they really were. Rhisveri lay there a second.
No time to send plate mail or toss a couple Lucifen over to set the stage. Seems like my contingency might be more needed after all.
He raised his head after a second, then growled into the air as he cast another spell.
“Visophecin? Get over here.”
 
——
 
“Thirty minutes to!”
A Drake thrust open a door, barked, and the last Drakes still eating leapt out of their seats. The Humans looked up and kept chewing.
The Wandering Inn was a flurry of movement. No one had seen the [Innkeeper], but Lyonette du Marquin claimed she was in position. Chaldion had gotten ahold of the [Princess] and saw Lyonette preparing to depart.
Bound for Invrisil. Sensible. She might be capable, but a [Princess] was a [Princess], and she wasn’t that much help here. Yet. Chaldion was still sitting; his bones wouldn’t like the cold breeze outside even with the cold resistance spells.
Cold resistance spells. There was a limit to how many enchantments you could put on someone, so every other officer had forgone cold resistance for just wearing a cloak. But Chaldion was so old he needed this spell instead of, say, one to protect him from arrows.
Mind you, if arrows were hitting his position, he was an idiot; he’d be commanding from the Drakes’ formation, which was deliberately away from The Wandering Inn. He would not go down with the proverbial ship. The ‘ship’ didn’t matter.
Erin Solstice did. Drakes did. Seeing what this foe was—did. Chaldion noted a few things as he got up.
One, the Knights of Solstice had all gathered. Halrac the Grim, two new [Squires]—one of whom was a City Runner, the second of whom Chaldion suspected he knew the name of—Vess, Ama, who’d overslept…they would be one of the final defenses.
Most of the staff had been evacuated. Of the ones who remained…Ishkr was there, and his sister had stayed to man the doors, and Peggy and several Goblins and Hobs and some of the Antinium had stayed along with Alcaz.
If the Knights of Solstice fell, then would be that Hobgoblin tuning his guitar, leaning against the Stitch-girl. Then would be the staff and the killing hallway—and then Erin herself.
If they got this far, it’s check. Checkmate is losing her.
Chaldion had plans. More plans than he’d even told Shirka. He was looking around for one person he needed to talk to if the battle began in thirty minutes. Saliss had not yet arrived, but Chaldion noticed things.
Someone was singing. No, two voices were singing. Damn that idiot—Chaldion closed his one good eye as he heard Major Khorpe singing from the roof. Even some of the Drakes heading out were pausing in the windows and turning back.
Major Khorpe, singing with another voice raised and matching him. A scandal in the making.
Bird.
 
“Ancestors, it was all ever for me. I did it all for none but I…”
 
Chaldion ignored the lyrics as he glanced around and noticed the Knights of Solstice were under attack. Some Winter Faeries, astonishingly defined unlike how they normally appeared as blue blobs, were dive-bombing Normen and shouting insults at him.
 
“Don’t ye argue! Get it for us! Yer a [Knight], aren’t you?”
“I’m a Ritter, I’ll have ye know! Get it for us now! Or I’ll spit on ye!”
 
Even the fearless Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice was ducking from them as they pelted him with mini snowballs. At the final hour? Chaldion wanted to know what they were doing, but then he heard the singing stop, and a figure leapt down from above, landed in the snow, and came into the inn through a window.
“I forgot to eat. Where’s the food?”
Major Khorpe was, as ever, slightly lost-looking, but Chaldion’s glare got his attention as the [Grand Strategist] crooked a claw.
Peggy dashed over with food, and Khorpe sat and ate. Chaldion couldn’t have said what it was or if it tasted good.
In the moments before the dawn while he ate and waited, it was food. If they lived, he’d start noticing details again. Right now, he was the entire battlefield, Liscor, sitting silent, the lines of Drake spears shivering and chanting and laughing and waiting in the cold…
Chaldion could even sense the other commanders, now. The damn nobles were grouped up. Xitegen was the largest aura next to Magnolia Reinhart, who had appeared like a shadow until she let her aura manifest. Radiant lights.
Perorn reminded Chaldion of a deadly breeze, like the passage of an arrow, but she was holding still at her camp. Solid.
Tyrion Veltras, General Shirka, Aldonss, Ilvriss—all rocks to hold around. Though Tyrion felt oddly weak. Maybe he was suppressing it too? Or one of Chaldion’s [Strategists] was dead on the money. Dead gods, Chaldion could even sense some of the new commanders on the board now.
Olesm, harder to grasp hold of, that [Strategist]…Belgrade? The Minotaur, the Armored Antinium’s leader, Tersk. Smaller presences, but still solid.
Chaldion wondered if the boy could sense what he did for the first time. If he realized he was now part of the board rather than a piece with no awareness of how it moved.
The quality of pieces was high. The weak link, if there was one, was…the fact that they should have had an army four times as large with more special forces. But you couldn’t tell even Pallass to send four armies out on an [Innkeeper]’s say-so.
And there’s another problem. Chaldion couldn’t remember what it was, and it panicked him. He sat there as one of his bodyguards glanced at him, waiting for the order to take Chaldion to the command area—until Khorpe spoke.
“I’ve seen healing potion shortages before. Never seen a battle like this.”
“Healing potions. Right.”
Chaldion twitched. He’d forgotten that. Almost. The feeling of forgetting…terrifying. He could not forget. Not in a battle. Not now.
The Grand Strategist took his anger out on Khorpe.
“I’ve always hated your song. The one you and that ‘Last Guard’ wrote.”
It wasn’t a Salazsarian anthem. Yet Khorpe blinked at Chaldion in surprise and shook his head.
“We only changed the words a bit. It’s an old…song? I think I heard my great grandfather sing it. Other species like it, you know.”
“Antinium don’t count. That one above rhymes about going to the bathroom.”
Khorpe started snorting and had to take a drink when he started hiccuping. Then he gave Chaldion a big smile. His eyes were rheumy, and Chaldion wished he could say Khorpe looked worse than Chaldion did.
A month ago, he had. Yet there was a kind of brilliance to the damn Drake that reminded Chaldion of Maviola El. Not the same transformation physically, but the same one in spirit.
Ancestors, what a glorious way to go. Chaldion envied it. Feared it. Hated Khorpe for his surety. And the [Rogue]’s reply disarmed him.
“No, more than just Antinium. Many species told me they liked it. I’ve heard Humans say it, Minotaurs, Selphids, Dullahans…do you know why we sing it, Chaldion?”
The Grand Strategist hesitated, then grunted.
“I don’t sing it to begin with. If my failures are ‘mine’, according to the song, then who should take credit for all my glories and successes? You’re a son of Salazsar. And I am Pallass.”
He paused for a second as the words made a few of the breakfasters nearby glance at him and felt embarrassed. Yet Khorpe just nodded a few times, absently, as if hearing and not judging.
“Sometimes I thought like that. But the song is old. Why do we sing it? Maybe old Drakes feel this way in the end, no matter how many eras pass. The song would die if it was wrong. Ancestors, my sins were always only mine…”
Then he stopped humming and gave Chaldion a disconcerting, direct look.
“Are you ready?”
Chaldion stopped playing with a fork. He looked up, and the old [Major]’s eyes were sharp. Chaldion exhaled, and then his heart stopped thumping so painfully.
“Yes.”
He rose as he saw the person he had been waiting for enter the inn. Time…twenty minutes maybe? Chaldion had to hurry. But there was one person he needed to talk to before he went.
 
——
 
“Saliss.”
“Old man.”
The Drake was gnawing on a piece of bread and barely looked up as Chaldion stopped by his table. The bodyguards stared at him. The [Alchemist] rotated one eye to stare at one bodyguard; the other eye moved the opposite way to stare at the other.
Even today, he was doing it. The old Drake paused, then began to sit. Saliss moved the chair out of the way with his tail at the last moment, and one of the [Bodyguards] had to catch Chaldion before he fell.
“You’re going to spoil my bread, old guy. Why don’t you go and take a nap? You look like you need it. Hey? I have a lost old man here! Can anyone pick him up?”
Saliss began shouting, and Chaldion grabbed a chair and sat in it, red-scaled and furious.
“Saliss! Can’t you act your part for one damn hour? Today?”
It was a mistake. Saliss paused, and his face became genuinely hostile for a second. The [Alchemist] was ready for war. Not in clothing, but he had pulled his potion stockpiles, and for all his jollity, he wasn’t distracting anyone.
Chaldion knew how much impact Saliss could have. But even now—the younger Drake stared at Chaldion.
“No. No, I can’t. Surprised? You’ve had decades to figure it out.”
Chaldion was breathing hard already. The Grand Strategist paused, then tried to restart the conversation.
“One day, then. For me. Civility. One—conversation, Saliss.”
Now, he was beginning to alarm his [Bodyguards] and some of the [Strategists] waiting for him to leave. But Chaldion was throwing caution to the wind. He looked at Saliss, meeting his grandson’s eyes. He still remembered when Saliss had been born.
Sometimes, he felt like a stranger instead of Saliss. And that—
That was the problem. Because Saliss bristled, then spoke slowly.
“No. Can’t you write a letter? Even a memo.”
“This is my last—”
Chaldion’s voice rose, and Saliss held up a claw. The [Alchemist] put his feet on the table, speared the piece of bread onto a neck-spine for later, and stared up at the ceiling.
