Silently, the visor rose, and only Erin Solstice and Ishkr saw what lay beneath. Then—the winter warrior tilted their head back and drank.
They downed the mug slowly, without pausing for breath, then lowered it. The visor snapped down. They pushed the mug back, nodded at Erin, and she stuttered.
“Uh—on the house. Thank you for coming.”
Another nod. Then the Winter Fae turned, put their elbows on the bar, and sat there as they regarded the inn. They nodded at Tyrion Veltras, at Relc, Halrac, Redscar, Shorthilt—Numbtongue jumped—Jewel, Durene, and then stood up.
Without a word, Erin and Ishkr began pouring mugs as Theillige took a seat at a table, and people clustered around. Then, the Winter Fae was smiling with their visor still lowered and communicating without a word.
A warrior of a hundred thousand stories. Sitting in the inn waiting for the Winter Solstice to start.
Daring Kasigna and Cauwine to arrive.
Then—
They were ready.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice peeked back into her own inn to confirm her eyes. Even then, she rubbed them a few times, and Theillige was still there.
Of all the times for Ryoka to miss this. Erin Solstice would have teased her—but for once, she had no ability to mock her friend. She got it.
This was possibly the coolest guest Erin had had, and that wasn’t even because of the pun. Certainly, the oldest. What was wild was Erin had the impression Theillige was chill. And appreciated puns.
They were simultaneously intimidating and ancient, and yet, they had come into Erin’s inn in a way that the [Innkeeper] understood. They sat there, possibly levelling the other warriors just by proximity.
And Erin thought that Theillige had caught her eye and reassured her without a word.
Yes. You were right. This is going to be hard.
What a bitter relief. Erin walked through her inn and had a single thought. Surely now that the last warrior had arrived—it was time for the Solstice?
Yet it was, what—she glanced down at the phone’s screen.
11:33.
Would Kasigna come at midday? What was going to be the signal that moved everything? Erin knew her foe. It would be something auspicious. So Erin felt she had a moment.
In that time, then, she went to check on one person. Only one person in this entire world could draw her attention away from the Floodplains.
Here, after all, was everyone she had loved and made friends with. From Rags to Lyonette…the Horns were invisible, even to her, and Erin knew Niers was safe and ready. They’d talked; in fact, the Titan of Baleros was in her [World’s Eye Theatre] at this very moment.
He was not blind to its potential and was using it as a way to command his forces. Perorn turned as Niers stopped talking.
“…kind of warrior do you mean, Perorn? Ah. Erin. I take it something interesting’s happened? Could you explain? Unless this means it’s time?”
His eyes were shining with a great fascination, and Erin offered him a weak smile.
“I honestly don’t know. This one’s all Ryoka, Niers. Let’s just say the Winter Sprites pulled a fast one on all of us.”
“So that’s not what they look like?”
Erin glanced back the way she’d come.
“I don’t think so. I think they just called for a Foliana of their own.”
To that, because he had to be Niers, the Titan raised one brow.
“Only one?”
He made her laugh and feel like a person again. But then Erin’s smile grew strained, and she looked up at him.
“Would you mind me borrowing the [World’s Eye Theater] a moment, Niers, Perorn? I want to—check on someone. I don’t think we’re under attack soon. I think even Kassy will take a moment.”
“Of course. If it’s Fetohep, he’s sweeping his kingdom and is prepared—”
“No. Rabbit—Ser Solstice.”
Then Niers Astoragon’s face clouded. He glanced at Erin, then Perorn, and nodded.
“Absolutely. Now might be opportune. They’ve disengaged—I see at least two possible forces moving to aid. Analysis looks strong, especially if they can make it another forty miles. Wistram is already throwing magic out.”
He spoke briskly and encouragingly, and that was how Erin knew how things were going. She glanced around, and at least one other person hadn’t been lost by Theillige’s presence. Numbtongue was channeling Shorthilt—but Ulvama was there.
She never forgot Goblins. Slowly, Erin Solstice walked into the center of her theatre. And she spoke.
“Rabbiteater? Are you there?”
At first, as Ulvama watched and a Goblin [Great Chieftain] strode into the theatre after Ulvama, the dome reflecting what Erin saw didn’t change. Then the glass blinked, and the sound of rain filled the air.
Rain, not snow. A storm that seemed without end was blowing across the sea, in the middle of the vast ocean betwixt four continents.
In this surreally flat landscape, hills and valleys were waves, and mountains occasionally arose with enough force to flatten islands. Only one landmark stood out here:
The Isle of Mages.
But it was a distant dot as it had been the last two days. At least it was visible now. Erin Solstice looked back and no longer saw Izril’s new lands.
They had fled them straight to sea, unable to make landfall. She looked back and saw distant clouds on the horizon, low to the water, billowing red.
[Pirates].
Ahead of her? She saw more ships. Then came sound beyond the crashing of waves and howl of wind and rains.
 
“Gallant Spark shall engage! Engage—”
“In the name of Pheislant! For the Order of Seasons! Summer fades!”
“Summer fades!”
 
A babble of voices. But the roar of one voice and the chorus following it was familiar—Erin Solstice saw a man in bright orange armor brandishing two axes over his head.
Ser Greysten, the Summer’s Champion, was at the head of nearly a hundred Summer Knights, helmets on, preparing for battle. They were on a ship, some kind of smaller escort vessel loading with soldiers and more [Knights].
Erin Solstice recognized Thronebearers crossing over the rocking waves. One fell into the waters even as she watched—but a [Sailor] yanked them out with a Skill, like someone on a fishing hook. Two [Knights], one wearing the green of a Spring Knight, the other wearing armor unique to him and a cloak of blood, hauled him back up. They steadied the Thronebearer and waited to cross as a nobleman with a yowling lioness, an anxious [Princess], and a woman with a helmet stood there.
“Rabbiteater.”
There he was. The Goblin turned as Erin Solstice appeared on the swaying deck of Calanfer’s flagship, the Throne’s Will. He broke off as Ser Markus began to cross over to the other ship then turned back.
“Erin. I’m glad you came. Are you alive?”
Of all the things to say, it made her smile. But now—Erin could almost feel the rains lashing her. She could not smell, but she swore if she could…it should smell of blood and thunder.
In the distance, she saw the flashes of magic and ships throwing projectiles and arrows and flame and spells at each other. She knew Rabbiteater was smiling.
“Where’s Altestiel?”
“Don’t bother him. He’s commanding. We’re about to go fight.”
“Fight? I thought you were getting to Wistram? Hundredlord Cortese. Lady Menrise and Princess Seraphel—”
“Erin Solstice. Is Lyonette safe?”
The 4th Princess of Calanfer called out urgently, and Erin nodded. Her eyes found a new rank of Thronebearers mustering. They were filling the smaller ship, and Erin saw the [Captain] white knuckling the wheel, staring ahead with wild eyes.
“She is.”
“Good. Then—I hope this Solstice goes well.”
Princess Seraphel was pale-faced, covered in water despite her two [Maids] trying to shelter her, and seemed not to notice it one bit. None of them did. Hundredlord Cortese shouted.
“Ser Solstice, we’ll go without you—”
“No. Erin, I’m going to fight.”
“I thought you were headed to Wistram! Why are you fighting?”
Erin tried again, and this time, Rabbiteater just jerked a thumb over his shoulder. Erin saw ships in the water between the Isle of Mages and the fleet around her.
“They’re in the way. Gotta break through. Most of them aren’t here yet. We might make it.”
No one else looked as upbeat as he did. Erin’s heart beat faster as she looked at the Thronebearers, and it had already begun to run in her chest. Some thin-faced man was shouting at them. Ser Thilowen had his sword drawn, and he was pointing in the distance at some ship blocking their way.
“With diplomacy, we are all made equals. With swords, we follow the dawn. Thronebearers of Calanfer, you will throw the enemy back.”
They shouted as they swarmed across the gangplank, reinforcing the warriors on what Erin now saw was called ‘The Shield of Phel’. Cortese swore under his breath, then addressed Erin curtly.
“Innkeeper Solstice, we have to go. The [Pirates] are insane. They are throwing themselves into a slaughter to get a piece out of us. They only stop once they’ve turned the decks red—I shall endeavor to keep Ser Solstice safe. He sails in the company of two [Knight]-orders and Kaaz’s own. Worry about your own Solstice, but if you have any <Quests> or tricks—”
He bared his teeth without a word. Erin Solstice looked at Rabbiteater. He still sounded like he was smiling as Cortese pointed and his bodyguard crossed towards The Shield of Phel as well.
“Badarrow and Numbtongue okay? Chieftain Rags? Redscar?”
“Y—yes. Rags is even here. So’s Ulvama. Do you want to—”
Perhaps only Menrise and Seraphel’s attendants heard, and the [Lady] of Tourvecall glanced their way, but Rabbiteater just shook his head. Now, Greysten was shouting as Ser Markus was waving.
“Got to go.”
He began to walk across the gangplank, down towards the ship preparing to intercept the Bloodtear Pirates blocking the navy’s way, and Erin walked with him. The [Knight] swore and nearly fell, and Erin grabbed at him—but her hand passed through his. The Goblin caught himself and laughed.
“Too far this time. Solstice hasn’t happened, right?”
“No. Rabbiteater—”
“You survive that. Then send some luck over, okay? Tell Mrsha to not be lazy. But…it’s not her fault if she’s not got much. Lots of luck needed over here.”
He kept walking, and Erin saw heads turning on the ship. She watched as the gangplank was withdrawn—then they were cutting through the waters.
It was all a scene. Rabbiteater’s helm slowly turned as rain sleeted down upon the [Knights]. On The Throne’s Will, Menrise waved a wand, showering the warriors with a mist that clung to their armor and seemed to infuse it with more protection. Seraphel shouted, lifting a hand and raising her voice to call above the winds. A desperate voice. Only words, but she shouted as if trying to make them more than empty wishes.
“Luck, Ser Solstice, Cortese!”
“Rabbiteater…”
Two people shoved past Erin into the projection, and Rabbiteater waved at Rags. She glanced around the deck as people recoiled from her and hissed.
“Can you run? Jump and swim.”
“Yah.”
Ulvama looked at Rabbiteater, then at Erin. Ulvama’s eyes were pleading, and Rabbiteater paused as his visor swung to her, then to Rags. The Goblin glanced at his Chieftain and shook his head.
“Ocean’s big, Chieftain. Besides…”
He glanced back at Calanfer’s ship, then at Cortese, who was glancing at the Goblins with a look of disgust. He gestured at Rabbiteater, then the Goblins, incredulously, and the Hobgoblin shrugged. Secrets…
One of the [Soldiers] on board the ship was speaking into a stone. Erin twitched a finger, and one of her gardens whispered and snapped a string. The speaking stone went dead—but too many eyes had seen. Did it matter? It didn’t matter, and it did.
The blockading ships ahead were still oncoming, but behind them came an armada that made a bell in Erin’s head ring, even from here. [Dangersense]. And surely the Goblin knew that better than anyone in the inn.
Rabbiteater turned to Erin as Ulvama backed away. But he glanced down at Rags.
“I sort of like them. Even the stupid ones like that guy.”
Bleakly, Rags looked up at Rabbiteater. She moved to brush rain from her face, forgetting she wasn’t there.
“Idiot. Then go fight like a Redfang, not a [Knight]. Redscar told me to tell you he won’t die before you do.”
The [Knight] threw back his head and laughed, and Erin looked around. Ser Markus was half-bowing, and Greysten was striding across the deck. But she only knew Rabbiteater. In a way, she only cared about him.
“Tell me when you survive the Solstice, Erin.”
“Okay. It’s a promise, okay?”
He reached out, and his hand passed through hers, but they tried to grip each other’s arms anyways. The Goblin nodded.
“Promise.”
The Goblin met the [Innkeeper]’s eyes, and he saw her weak smile. But she did try, for him. Then her image winked out, and he could focus. He turned his face to the surf and storms until he could hear the Bloodtear Pirates singing.
They had a style. All the [Knights] had was chants. But Rabbiteater didn’t know that the [Innkeeper] kept watching him as his ship locked with another and the crash threw him to the deck. She watched as the Hobgoblin rose, an axe in hand, and charged towards the [Pirates] cutting across the deck.
He did not stop, until one ship sank burning and he was kneeling, holding onto Markus’ neck as healing potion fused skin and stopped the bleeding. Then he was panting and cheering with the others—
Erin Solstice was counting the ships. Watching. And still.
The Winter Solstice had not yet begun.
 
——
 
A Goblin was holding an axe up in the rain. It sleeted off his armor, hiding his face. But a [Princess] was waving at him, almost falling over the gilded ship trying to look glorious as red rain poured over the fleet.
It made the gold look fake, and the noble sails twisted as the winds tangled the rigging. The battered armor of the golden Thronebearers wore and scratched—but sometimes it revealed a true luster of hard metal underneath.
The Order of Season stood like the burning summer in the middle of the winter storm. The Spring’s Warden saluted the Goblin Slayer of Izril as her [Knights] returned from clearing the way.
Ships at sea. Prince Iradoren’s flagship left two burning Bloodtear Pirate vessels that had tried to stall their advance. Yet they kept coming.
Wistram, in the distance, was glowing like a bubble of havens, but even they had raised their shields rather than let the [Pirates] close.
They looked entirely glorious, and the [Innkeeper] stared at the relieved smile on Seraphel’s face. There was a woman who had seen it all lost before. Someone counting every small victory and hoping for the best.
The [Innkeeper] left the sight of her guest and friend. Her…person. She walked among the waves, searching for signs of her foes. But all she saw was mortality.
