Ser Normen liked the fae…well, normally. They were a fascinating part of magic in the world, but today, when he thought Erin might die if he didn’t fight with all his heart? They were really getting in his way.
 
“Make it nice. Something good. I know you have at least one set. Remember, no iron!”
 
Shaestrel herself was lecturing him as he tore into the storage room where they’d put the Order of Solstice’s donated equipment and put together what they had demanded all morning. Jewel followed Normen in.
“Normen? Er, Grandmaster—”
 
“Does she call him that in bed? Hah!”
“Shut up, Theillige. ‘Tis an auspicious moment.”
“Only to you.”
 
Above Normen’s head, three faeries got into a fistfight. Jewel turned red, and Normen growled.
“Can you help me put this together? There should be a stand somewhere…it might stand on its own.”
Honestly, it wasn’t that much work, even if it was tedious. He remembered the lesson the other [Knights] had given him, and Jewel hunted for matching pieces as she pulled out a gauntlet and fitted it onto a vambrace.
They were assembling a set of plate armor. Standard stuff, nothing like his Demas Metal; they had enough regular metals to armor everyone from Vess to Embraim, albeit needing custom armor for Antinium. This one looked mismatched, and it wasn’t hard—just not the kind of thing Normen needed to do today!
He supposed he had more time than he thought. It really was hard to wait for a fight to happen. It felt like when you were eying the other bloke and waiting for your moment to hit him. When you were past words or stopping and it was just that unbearable moment before violence.
Yet—Normen caught himself as he gritted his teeth, and his armor blazed a second with green fire.
Remember your honor. He was more than a [Thug]. He was—
 
“Oi! Get a move on!”
 
Someone beaned him with a snowball to the back of the head, and Ser Normen wondered if he could put one of the faeries in a jar and then throw it across the Floodplains. He and Jewel worked until they had the set assembled. Jewel blew on her cold fingers and sighed as she sat back on her haunches.
“There. What is this for?”
“Ask them. Are you happy?”
Normen stared at the set of armor. It was…useless. Like one of the sets you could see standing for ornamentation, the suit of armor looked nice—but you wouldn’t assemble it like this even if you were going to wear it.
 
“Stand it upright, fools! What are ye, daft?”
 
Shaestrel bellowed at the two of them, and Jewel was developing the scowl Normen had been wearing all morning. They pulled the suit of armor upright as the faeries spiraled around it.
 
“Eh, it’s mismatched!”
“Spot of rust on the breastplate, there. Cheap stuff. Hey, lift the visor!”
“Is this a good spot? I’m bored already.”
“In a storage room? Are ye daft, ye cunt Theillige? Drag it outside!”
 
“In the snow? See here—”
Jewel tried to argue with them, and the faeries screamed at her.
 
“Hurry up!”
 
In the end, Embraim had to appear and help the swearing Jewel and Normen carry the suit of armor outside. The [Pyre-Knight of Glory] glanced at Normen’s fed up face.
“Grandmaster Normen, what are—”
“Don’t. Ask.”
They put the suit of armor outside in the snow. A few [Soldiers] who’d gotten lucky enough to go to the inn for an early lunch glanced at the annoyed Knights of Solstice. Vess, Halrac, and even Ama and Durene had appeared; all the members present around Liscor at the moment.
“Ser Normen, I have…do you need a claw?”
Vess waved something at Normen surreptitiously as they all glanced up at the faeries spiraling around and arguing about ‘timing’ and ‘placement’ and ‘audiences’. Normen looked over and saw Vess had a glass jar.
Ama had a net. Halrac shook his head slowly with Durene behind them, clearly warning the Knights of Solstice not to try.
If they made one more stupid demand of him, Normen was going to try the net. He glowered up at the Winter Faeries, who were laughing and bullying one of the blue ones.
“Are you done?”
He shouted, and they went still. Then Normen felt a chill as eleven pairs of eyes regarded him, and his bad temper became a sudden wariness, like meeting a Face on the streets or sensing a dagger at your back.
Sometimes he forgot they were supposed to be important. But then he heard a tinkling laugh, and someone hugged Shaestrel once. A single Frost Faerie spoke.
 
“Aye! I’m ready.”
 
Then the one called Theillige dove down as Normen watched, through the open visor of the suit of armor. A falling star of frost laughing as she vanished into it. The dark opening flashed, and Normen blinked and raised a hand to cover his eyes—
Then the visor snapped shut. Normen blinked—then recoiled as a gauntleted hand came up and adjusted the helmet. A shoulder rotated—the suit of armor moved, and he realized it was no longer empty.
There was someone inside it. Not just a tiny faerie either—Normen stepped back as the visor turned, and frost and blue light began to leak through its slits.
“What was—”
Ama pointed the jar at the suit of armor like a weapon. But then she dropped it. Because the armor looked different than the mismatched pieces of steel.
Frost-covered gauntlets rose, and the visor leaking a frosty mist colder than the winter air regarded the ancient tracings on the armor. A fur cloak hung around the shoulders of the warrior who wore a buckler and shortsword at their side. They weren’t the tallest warrior that Normen had ever seen.
In fact, they might have only been five foot five. Yet cold clung to them like it was part of their very nature. And when the helmet rose, Normen detected no eyes through the slits. Just a presence older than anyone he had ever met.
Older than Typhenous. Older than the eyes of Demsleth. And where the warrior stood, frost refroze the grass and mud. For a second, they stood there. Then a chorus of cheering voices sang overhead.
The ten faeries. They flew around the figure who had taken an aspect in the armor that Normen had pulled out, screaming. Sobbing?
 
“What a trick! What a joke!”
“Do you see it, three-in-one? Goddess of battles? Come here—come meet your betters!”
“You didn’t even notice! You daft idiots!”
“Hail a member of the Faerie Court! Theillige of the Wild Hunt comes for you!”
 
Kevin had returned to check on the inn. He was stepping out of the outhouse and froze, one hand on the door. Normen looked blankly at the warrior and then Kevin’s face.
The warrior called Theillige didn’t speak with the same chiming voice he had heard a second ago. Rather, they said nothing at all. They just stood there, helmet swiveling slowly. As if taking in this entire place once more.
But their presence began to change the world around them with each second they stood in the Floodplains.
 
——
 
“Damn wind. Now we’ll be freezing till the enemy comes around. Primera, warming aegis, would you? What’s the time, Seconda?”
“Five past ten, Lord Xitegen.”
Lord Xitegen Terland was sitting and waiting for something to happen, looking royally annoyed by the lack of anything in the morning.
His subordinates couldn’t hide their skepticism either. Why, even the Wind Runner had flown off, and the nobles were getting grumpy. They didn’t like to wait.
Lord Tyrion Veltras himself would have allowed he was impatient today. He had been weighing going to check on Hethon and Sammial, but as he stood with Lord Xitegen, his head slowly turned.
He caught it, frowning, and focused on Xitegen. Then—his head slowly rotated again.
“I would like to check on my sons, Xitegen. I should not be out of contact long, but given the—”
His head snapped back to Xitegen. The [Lord] noticed, and his eyes rose.
“Something caught your eye, Tyrion?”
“I don’t—”
This time, Tyrion let his head turn slowly. He had no idea why—but he stared at The Wandering Inn. No, at the door. His eyes narrowed as he picked out a crowd around the inn. Something was happening? He reached for his sword—then Xitegen swore.
“What in Rhir’s hells is that? To arms!”
He sprang to his feet, and someone started blowing a horn. The Drakes were already shooting to their feet. Tyrion reached for his sword and felt a chill run down all his body. Not just of warning; he felt the actual cold of—what?
A memory?
His eyes were drawn to a swirling vortex in the air high above Liscor. People were pointing, and Xitegen was rightfully alarmed.
It looked like a maelstrom of snow. Was this the attack? Tyrion didn’t think so, but the wind had picked up, and a blizzard was manifesting in real time! He stared at it, and his skin tingled as he remembered a moment during the Summer Solstice. Warriors, cold and faceless, accompanying the strange folk who had come to the banquet.
“I’m sensing something familiar. It must be the totems we put down. Gamel? Gamel! Am I having delusions or am I sensing…”
Laken Godart’s voice rose as his head turned. Then Tyrion Veltras was riding, ignoring the calls to muster up. It wasn’t a foe. At least—he hoped it wasn’t.
 
——
 
The final warrior to make it to the Winter Solstice was a single warrior of the fae of Avalon, smuggled in with the other faeries.
Theillige stood in the snow, one gauntleted hand held out, catching snowflakes that clung to the armor. Frost was covering their boots and rising across the armor; so cold were they that it refused to melt.
Yet they did not freeze the [Knights] and [Soldiers] staring at them. The warrior of the Wild Hunt seemed peaceful, and when that ancient visor turned to Normen, it nodded at him.
“Ser—Dame—[Knight]? Greetings. Are you an ally?”
Normen wasn’t sure how to address the figure. Above him, the faeries were laughing and spiraling, still calling out ancient titles and shouting in joy and sorrow and woe.
The warrior regarded Normen a moment, then nodded their head.
“Who’s—”
A dry voice, a cough. Lieutenant Caoraz had paused with some of the members of Liscor’s army who’d dragged him to the inn for a bite to eat. The surly Drake looked at the winter fae and put a clawed hand on his sword.
Out of reflex. The armored figure regarded him, and the Drake’s clawed hand clutched the hilt tight in alarm—then fell away. Slowly, Caoraz lifted his hands.
Normen was still staring when the sound of hooves heralded Lord Tyrion Veltras. The [Lord] dismounted in a single move, stopping when the visor swung his way. The Lord of House Veltras spoke breathlessly.
“Have we met?”
Another nod. Now, it seemed like the silent Theillige had gotten used to their surroundings. The eyes of the Floodplains and everyone on Liscor’s walls were on them. But all the warrior did was lift a finger to their brow, and a green faerie bowed in the air.
 
“The honor was mine, Theillige. Do as you wilt. No more rules.”
 
Shaestrel received a third nod, and then Theillige began walking. Ser Normen, Caoraz, Tyrion, Jewel, Wing Commander Embria, riding over and halting—they followed like a crowd entranced. Where were they going?
Where else? Straight into The Wandering Inn. A Winter Fae put their hand on the door’s handle, swung it open, and a howling storm blew into the inn like a traveller in the eternal winter seeking shelter. They took a step into the inn, and a napping [Innkeeper] woke up, fell out of her chair, and scrambled to her feet.
 
——
 
What is going on? What’s going on!?
The Grand Design of Isthekenous started panicking when it noticed Kasigna getting worried all of a sudden. It had been watching her wondering what the hell was going on, and it was not happy about what she was doing.
But then it noticed something—odd—happening around the inn. Even it couldn’t figure out what was going on—until that figure stepped foot in Erin’s inn.
Ding.
Erin Solstice hit Level 53 in [Magical Innkeeper]. Assuming she qualified for her Level 50 capstone, of course. The Grand Design started frantically recalculating. What was entering Erin’s inn? It couldn’t even tell. Every time it tried to lock onto the figure, it was—
 
——
 
Different. An ancient knight swung open the doors to Erin Solstice’s inn, walking out of a blizzard. A warrior of the frozen era, the challenger who would walk into the King of Knights’ court and silently challenge the greatest warrior to a duel.
A quiet soldier of frost that the Order of Seasons tried to emulate. Herald of the winter. Merciless, faceless warrior.
They took a single step into the inn and changed. The same person who some called ‘Theillige’ walked across the floorboards, but that was such a limited name in a limited language.
Liska poked her head out the portal room’s door, and later swore on her fur that she had seen a living piece of ice from the dawn of elementals walking through Erin’s hall, simultaneously over sixty feet tall, a colossus of ice armed with a crude shield and sword hewn out of the first glaciers ever made—and small enough to walk down the hallway.
Someone, something even older than mountains. A warrior to judge the very titans. Then—when Liska rubbed her eyes, the figure passed down the hallway as Lyonette threw open the doors to the common room—screamed—and fled shrieking.
For the [Princess] had seen a snarling beast’s jaws of a helmet and gore still clinging to the frozen blade. Hunched shoulders, the fragments of bone from shattered skulls clinging to their armor.
A killer without artifice. The Faerie King’s executioner, who had wet their blade on the blood of deities and killed without remorse. Winter’s merciless Wild Hunt that howled and slew innocents and the guilty alike where it rode.
And surely, the figure was all three of these things and more. They passed under the eyes of the hidden watchers in the hallway, put a hand on the door, and paused a second. Then—when they thrust open the door, it seemed they knew how they wanted to come into the inn.
The [Innkeeper] was waiting for the figure who entered the inn. She bowed, and a travel-weary figure stood in the common room, looking about as if it were their first time.
Erin Solstice stared at the strange metal-and-leather jacket. The helmet was closer to a motorcycle helmet, and a black, plastic visor frosted over was brushed by a gloved hand. A wild rider of the modern age rolled their shoulders, then nodded at Erin Solstice. The people in Erin’s common room stared.
Relc dropped his mug as Theillige walked slowly over to the bar. Erin Solstice hurried behind them.
“Um—what can I get you?”
A single finger rose, and Erin looked around. She searched around, then poured a Blackfur Ale into a mug. A generous head of foam—she carried it over to the silent figure as the inn filled up, watching the stranger.
