“Master,” Aeglos Argon said, activating the communication amulet around his neck. “I can confirm that we are indeed under attack on the surface. I do not have a gauge on their numbers. Yes Master, I will remain here and guard the tavern entrance. We shall await your arrival.”

Before Aeglos Argon’s necromantic master arrived then, Orodan was determined to end the cruel pyromancer’s life. And most importantly… he wanted to ensure that the wicked scum never saw it coming.

His loud footsteps upon the roof tiles he was running across must’ve been heard, for a group of ten guards led by an enforcer began running after him, causing Orodan to duck into yet another alleyway. They were on the verge of catching up when he saw a nearby well and hopped inside.

It was entirely dry. If he recalled, a replacement well had been built at the town center in front of the mayor’s mansion. This one was now defunct, the underlying aquifer having run dry and never having been suitable in the first place. At the bottom, a few skeletons. A likely spot used by the thugs of House Argon to dump bodies.

Orodan’s fingers dug into the inner stone walls of the well, and he hung on, waiting for more pursuers to arrive.

“Saw one of them come this way! Search the houses! You two, have a look at the well!”

The two guards approached, and Orodan immediately lunged upwards and grasped both their faces, pulling them into the well. It was a brutal and quick motion in which they had no time to even scream as they were smashed against the stone walls and put to sleep.

[Stealth 12 → Stealth 13]

“What the…?! Hey! Over here! I looked away for a moment and those two vanished! All of you gather, we’re checking that well! Ranged weapons at the ready, shields up front!”

Nowhere to flee now… or so it seemed until he saw a small alcove in the well leading into an excessively tiny tunnel.

Orodan simply wasn’t built for fitting into tight spaces, he was far too big. Consequently, he began shoving rock aside as he expanded the tunnel in the process of delving it. In the process of it, it he encountered a species of bats half the size of a human which quickly fled from him.

A minute of burrowing later he arrived in a mucky, brown and filthy pit.

The smell of it confirmed that it was a cesspit. Hmm, perhaps that was why this well was shut down. Poor dumping practices could often lead to the contamination of wells.

In any case, burrowing further out and up wasn’t a problem from there.

Of course, upon emerging and nearing the next group of guards, the stench became a noticeable impediment to stealthy movement.

“Good Gods! What in the seven hells is that stench? Karhagen, did you eat the tavern keep’s special milk and honey pastries again?!”

“Er… no sir, not today.”

“Then what-”

[Stealth 13 → Stealth 14]

[Surprise Attack 48 → Surprise Attack 49]

Orodan’s fist connected with the back of the Adept’s head, causing him to fall to the ground limply, knocked out cold. The other five guards immediately turned to face him.

The farthest left and the farthest right ones were thrown into the wall of a nearby building, while the central one was given a solid headbutt. The remaining two then had their heads smacked together and with them incapacitated the entire troop was down.

The scuffle hadn’t been heard, the other soldiers of House Argon were farther out. Near where Orodan had pulled two guards into the well. His stench might give him away, but that was a good training exercise in his opinion.

“Get moving! They say they’ve found an intruder near the old well! At least ten of our number are down! Stay sharp!”

Orodan allowed this patrol to pass without challenge. He used Vision of Purity and now looked over Eversong Plaza.

The previously heavy presence of guards and enforcers was far thinner now. With most of them having sallied out towards the well.

This left a skeleton crew of watchers, with the presence of Aeglos Argon providing the real force.

A presence which would soon be erased.

The tavern was up against the mountain; sneaking up from behind would’ve involved scaling Mount Castarian from the other side. Doable, but for now Orodan chose the far simpler method…

…of loudly banging upon the nearest empty building while remaining out of sight.

“What’s that?” a guard asked.

Aeglos Argon however, was far more paranoid.

“Step away or die!”

The warning was shouted for the Argon guards, as a large fireball sailed towards the building, practically wiping it from existence.

But that was fine, as Orodan had begun moving the moment the fireball left the pyromancer’s hands. Using the cover of its blazing light which disoriented the guards and blinded everyone else, he dashed and got right up to the nearest two.

[Stealth 14 → Stealth 15]

Two powerful fists clobbered them insensate, and Orodan ran back to the perimeter of buildings on the outside.

“Recall the troops! The intruder is here!” Aeglos Argon barked. “I’m certain I saw something moving!”

Orodan yet again began banging on another empty building from out of sight, and soon as the fireball came, once more he swiftly rushed out, beat two guards down and returned to the perimeter.

The next one would have to be the last. Mainly since he was running out of empty buildings to use as bait, and because Aeglos Argon had begun to catch on.

“Show your face you coward! Cease your craven behavior and face me head-on!”

Orodan thought it ironic that this clearly terrified mage would say so.

Still, the perimeter of guards had thinned out, and Orodan saw a clear opening to reach Aeglos Argon.

One more.

He banged upon an empty building while remaining out of sight one more time. Predictably, Aeglos Argon reacted, hands blazing with fire and his face showing clear signs of fear. Except this time, it wasn’t a fireball which erupted, but a blazing beam of fire.

The same beam which Orodan had died to many times over in his early loops. Smart, far less obstructing of his vision than a giant fireball. Less of a sudden blinding flash of light too.

But that was fine, for Orodan had recently learned to think like a mage.

And as the beam of fire made for the building, he recalled a trick he’d seen his old friend Mahari do once.

He stepped out for a brief moment, forgoing stealth and allowing Aeglos Argon to look at him for the first time. And as their eyes met, Orodan had a predatory smile on his face.

[Waterstream 20 → Waterstream 22]

The beam of fire met an overcharged stream of water…

…and a massive explosion of steam erupted outwards.

The sheer amount of fire and water meeting meant that the entire plaza was now covered in steam, making visibility quite difficult.

“I can’t see a thing! Get out there and sweep the area! Now!” Aeglos ordered. “You and you! Stand guard near me!”

The Elite pyromancer was frantically looking around, trying to get any indication of where Orodan might be. And then, he heard the cries of pain.

Gasps and choked screams began to sound out, as one-by-one Orodan began knocking out the guards who were sent into the steam. He intentionally waited a second after each hit, allowing them to get a shocked grunt or cry of pain out, that Aeglos might try and track their position through sound.

And it worked.

Terror and panic had stricken the pyromancer. He threw out fireball after fireball, the explosions clearing the steam away. Thankfully Orodan had thrown the beaten guards a distance away, the fireballs would have turned them to ash otherwise.

The explosions managed to mostly clear the steam away, but it was too late.

The nose of one of the lookouts scrunched up at the horrible stench Orodan gave off from burrowing into a cesspit.

That man was picked up and bodily hurled like a pebble towards the other remaining lookout, launching them both off the tavern roof. And before the pyromancer could turn around to wonder where that smell came from or who got rid of both his guards…

…Orodan’s hands wrapped around Aeglos Argon’s head from behind.

“Greetings.”

[Stealth 15 → Stealth 17]

[Surprise Attack 49 → Surprise Attack 50]

The mage’s neck snapped as Orodan turned his head a hundred and eighty degrees that he could look at his killer.

This was surprisingly good training all things considered.

And who knew what these previously seldom-trained skills could add up to?

#

“And that’s why… I need to find some way of dealing with bloody light magic.”

[Deception 4 → Deception 5]

Truthfully, he was surprised he’d even gained a level given how utterly bad he was at lying. Least of all through lying to the old man who doubtlessly saw through him like a piece of razor thin paper.

“Hold your horses Orodan. I barely understand half of what you told me, about being enemies with some ‘tentacled’ being from the void who’s disguised as a human who also wants you dead. It’s clear that you’re full of it,” Old Man Hannegan said. “You’ve never been one to lie, so quit horsing around and simply ask me what you want.”

Well, he’d lied by omission, not directly. But… when it came to Orodan, even that was enough to clearly be seen through, especially by the old man.

“Cut me a break old man… am I that easy to read?” Orodan asked.

And here Orodan thought he might try practicing his Deception skill. Perhaps blending it in with Stealth might help, or so he had thought. It was a whimsical idea anyways. Even the singular level gain in Deception felt off, and Orodan knew that he would never truly be in tune with the ability to lie and deceive people. It simply wasn’t in his nature.

“I’ve been dealing with you since you were an irritating delinquent with a penchant for causing trouble on the job site. You couldn’t lie to save your life.”

“Good thing I come back every time I die then…” Orodan off-handedly said.

“What’s that?”

“Nothing. It would only give you a headache, and I’m sure you’ll have enough of those with this warehouse I’ve now built,” Orodan replied.

“Don’t remind me you dumb delinquent! The silly yarns you’ve spun had me forgetting about this thing… how am I even supposed to present it to the client with a straight face?” the old man asked. “And these pipes you’ve put in are entirely worthless. What’s even meant to flow through them?”

“Er… right. I haven’t figured that one out fully as of yet,” Orodan answered. “One day though, steam will flow through those pipes.”

“And when’s that?”

“Today,” Orodan said with a smile.

One loop down the line he’d get the steam pipes right.

“Bah! You’re making no sense at all… it’s like you’ve been possessed by a demon that’s supernaturally talented in all these strange skills the real Orodan knows nothing about,” the old man said.

“What’s stopping you from running to the Cathedral then?”

“Who else would be this bad at lying?” the old man asked. Fair point. He was quite horrible at lying and he doubted even a toddler was as bad at it as he was. “Now if you’re done here… we can talk about that question you had.”

“What question?”

“Your question about countering light magic?” the old man reminded him. “What? You didn’t think I’m capable of reading between the lines? Easy enough when you have the subtlety of a rock.”

Fair enough.

“You know how I might go about countering it then?” Orodan asked. “Where should I look?”

“The Gods,” Old Man Hannegan said, causing Orodan to frown. “Specifically, the Cathedral. Who best to teach you light magic and the methods of countering it than those who use it themselves?”

Learning from the enemy? How foul!

Yet, Old Man Hannegan wasn’t exactly incorrect. If anyone knew light magic and knew it well, it was Ilyatana and her cronies. Bluefire didn’t cover light magic all that well, with most students interested in elemental magic opting for the flashier and more destructive pyromancy. Yes, he had many spells across various schools of elemental magic, but the two elements he hadn’t yet delved into were light and darkness.

To cross an entire tier, to fight an Administrator who was likely at the peak of the Embodiment-level… how else would Orodan do it? It was all well and good that he had somehow gotten to Lonvoron last loop, but even then… he would be floundering about uselessly unless he grew to become capable of standing against the wrath of the Prophet.

And one of the key centrepieces in standing against a foe so ridiculously superior to him, was learning how to resist light magic. His resistance skills were the biggest difference maker in combat. Against enemies who he had advantageous resistance skills against, he’d repeatedly beaten the odds.

In pure melee combat, if he kept working hard, he felt he could perhaps survive against the Prophet soon. Against those beams of light though? No chance. Not unless he learned a new skill.

And it seemed the best way of doing that truly would be the Cathedral.

“Well, I can’t say I’ll spend more than a day with those sycophants…” Orodan muttered. “I have other places to be.”

“You look like you’ve swallowed a sour lemon, Orodan. Did a priest offend you recently?” the old man asked.

He recalled nearly being mind-controlled by Ilyatana during his first meeting with an Avatar. He remembered how she’d participated in possessing him alongside Agathor and Eximus, commandeering him like a dirty meat puppet.

“…something like that,” Orodan replied, choosing not to elaborate.

