Orodan didn’t necessarily think so. The devils he’d met in the hells weren’t comically evil, and the myths of them rampaging mindlessly upon being summoned were more than a little fabricated and nudged forth by the Conclave’s propaganda.

The likelier outcome was it appearing, slaughtering its summoners and then leaving to return to the hells before it attracted any further trouble. The Alastaian Cathedral’s regular summoning of demons just for the purpose of exterminating them had done wonders in convincing the devils of the hells that the planet simply wasn’t worth it. And the longer it remained upon his world, the greater the odds of an angry Avatar or two descending upon it alongside World Guardians and supporting armies.

“Hah! You act as though we have any concern for the lives of the pitiful farmers and merchants inhabiting these lands,” the necromancer said. “You’ve caught us at an inopportune time; the ritual is incomplete and our ability to control the demon is not yet set. Regretful, but we can always raid the next village. I am all too happy to activate this ritual right now and teleport to safety myself, leaving you with an angry demon and no assistance! Now then… tell me where the rest of your force is. Your power is great, but even the lord of the famed Lumenarin Bloodline could not have slain Ereksigor; he was a Grandmaster vampire. Was it a Chosen? An Avatar?”

“Neither… it was my ally here,” Silestor declared.

The necromancer’s eyes narrowed.

“Who is this rag-covered slave you bring before me? Another corpse to add to my growing army?”

Rag-covered slave?

Orodan glared directly at the necromancer. And as he gazed into his foe’s eyes to look into their soul, so too did they look into his. His target’s mind was weak.

[Disguise 19 → Disguise 20]

[Intimidation 32 → Intimidation 33]

The man froze, and then suddenly… it was as though Orodan was no longer there.

“Come alone have you, Silestor?” the necromancer said. “How can you alone stand against so many?”

The nearby vampires and some of the cultists immediately frowned in suspicion. One of the cultists, a blood mage, immediately cast some sort of detection spell.

“No illusion or mind control…” the blood mage muttered.

The strongest vampire of the bunch seemed enraged. It didn’t look willing to tarry any longer.

“Lord Vajrath is compromised! Attack!”

As it was charging, a wave of light shot out from Silestor, turning half its body to ash and killing two more vampires outright, leaving only one.

The half-destroyed vampire laid on the ground, trembling and in its death throes. The nocturnal predators were feared not just for their strength but also their regenerative abilities. Yet, the reason why the Lumenarin alongside him was so feared and despised by them was for his ability to entirely halt their regeneration with his light. Something the standard light mage wasn’t capable of.

The Grandmaster necromancer who Orodan had affected with his disguise was far too preoccupied with Silestor’s movements. The gaunt foe was in the midst of casting a necrotic spell when his inability to realize Orodan existed was fatally exploited.

[Light Beam 8 → Light Beam 11]

[Surprise Attack 50 → Surprise Attack 51]

The necromancer’s body vanished in a beam of blazing light which carried on, punching through rock and causing the chamber to dangerously tremble. The raised dead immediately suffered a loss of power, the remaining necromancers struggling and having to devote far more mana to keep the horde at optimal strength.

Not normally how Orodan fought, with spellfire and surprise on his side. But it was good training, and necessary to hone his skills. Fighting these foes in melee would have been far too easy and he would’ve learned nothing. Though, it was a good opportunity to test his light magic and spellcasting abilities.

“Damn it all! Activate the ritual! Send in the dead!” the cultist ritual leader roared; her face red with rage.

The horde of shambling corpses advanced, and these looked to be a distraction for the various blood mages in the back who were poised to slaughter the captives.

Unfortunately for them, there would be no ritual sacrifice today.

His right hand glowed with power, the river of time stopping and then beginning to flow backwards.

“What the… where are they going?! What’s happening!?” the ritual leader demanded.

It looked a bit odd, seeing two-hundred captive villagers rapidly blur through the motions, movements and actions they’d gone through in the past day. Yet, like a blurry storm of bodies, the scene began to rewind. Through their binding, their captivity, and all the way to their arrival…

…and past that.

The undead horde were bowled over as Orodan’s power over chronomancy forced these captives through them and out the tunnels where they would be safe and sound in their village. Time Reversal, bringing them back to where they were before they’d even been captured.

“Chronomancer! Target him immediately!”

The blood mages quickly left their failed ritual and began launching spears, orbs and waves of blood at him. These harmlessly spattered off, dealing no damage whatsoever. To his side, Silestor was dealing with defending against numerous necrotic spells being cast at him, and the undead were still advancing about to close distance.

Orodan even felt a powerful mana channel try to connect him and a Grandmaster-level blood mage, the leader of the ritual he’d interrupted. Blood magic at high levels was a rather devastating field of magic.

Of course, against a warrior with a skill that allowed him an endless source of vitality, it was rather futile. Orodan not only had a lot of life force, but also the skill to control it deftly. He had a bloodthirsty grin on his face as he allowed the tether to connect, willingly disallowing the protective effect of Mana Resistance which would have otherwise stopped her then and there. The woman then tried boiling the blood in his body and even ripping it right out of him.

This, Orodan allowed…

…with the added gift of sending a flood of vitality down the tether so large that she would have no hope of containing it.

Using direct blood magic against him was a poor idea.

The woman shrieked and her body began mutating horribly due to all the excess vitality she was flooded by.

[Light Beam 11 → Light Beam 13]

And Orodan cast a continuous beam of light from his finger which eviscerated her and was then dragged across the ranks of enemy mages, slaying over a dozen of them and the final vampire which had been mid-charge and ready to meet him in melee.

This greatly eased the pressure on the light mage fighting alongside him, and Silestor began returning devastating spellfire of his own, scything down more ranks of undead minions and the remaining enemy necromancers and cultists.

Within twenty more seconds, and another level gained in Light Beam, the battle was over and the foes within all lay dead.

Orodan smiled.

“See Silestor?”

“…stealth.”

The light mage looked ready to have a conniption.

#

Needless to say, the corpses of the dead that the necromancers used were returned to life. The people of the village were grateful.

They’d gone around dealing with perhaps three more locations afterwards. Orodan had gotten additional target practice in with Light Beam, netting two more levels, and they now sat within a private office in the basement of Karilsgard’s Cathedral.

All was well.

Besides the clearly furtive Silestor Lumenarin of course. The light mage was pacing back and forth; stuck on deciding whether to glare at Orodan for reading the tome in front of him, or to just come out and say what he wanted to say.

“I suppose I can see what summoning does in theory, but it’s so… inefficient.”

[Fate Disconnect 57 → Fate Disconnect 58]

As Orodan studied, he also practiced strengthening the shield of soul energy around his fate, making the waves in the tapestry just a little less tumultuous.

“Which is a good thing! The less efficient the techniques of these foul cultists, the better,” Silestor barked. “Why are you reading these despicable tomes? Do you know how much blood goes into the writing of these? Much as I detest their zealotry, the Cathedral would rightfully see those texts burned.”

“Then I suppose it’s a good thing you’re shielding me from their corrupt arm, yes?” Orodan asked. Though the truth of it was that Silestor’s presence and Orodan’s fondness for the surly light mage was what kept him from rampaging within the Cathedral. For this loop at least. “Besides, knowledge is knowledge. The individual determines the morality, not the technique.”

“I fail to see how devil summoning is a useful technique for you to study. You’ve displayed half a dozen improbable skills which are far more versatile and awe-inspiring than mere summoning, and yet you fixate on this bloody craft?” Silestor asked.

“You don’t think I actually have any interest in summoning devils, do you? What would I even call them for? A cup of tea and a friendly chat?” Orodan queried. “At my level of strength, devils are akin to any other being I’ve encountered. Nothing particularly special, though some of them are quite proficient in enchanting and the soul arts.”

“Then why?”

“I told you that I seek to learn light magic in order to counter an enemy of mine. There’s more to it than that,” Orodan said. “They’re capable of drawing light from some manner of otherworldly plane or dimension. This devil summoning has some interesting tidbits that might help me understand the matter.”

The Prophet and the Conclave both pulled the light they used from some external plane. Orodan’s reason for studying the bloodstained tomes in front of him was so that he could understand how this occurred. Yes, he had Dimensionalism, but finding where the hells this extradimensional plane of light was would be a difficult task.

To that end, studying devil summoning couldn’t hurt, even if he had no use for it otherwise.

“They’re also capable of Dimensionalism? A deadly foe…” Silestor muttered. “You intend to disrupt the connection between them and this plane they draw power from?”

Orodan planned to do far more than just that.

“Something along those lines,” he replied. “In any case, while I can see how devil summoning works, it’s quite indirect. Having to use copious amounts of mana and vitality just for the purpose of ‘calling’ a devil seems utterly wasteful.”

Alastaian cultists and their technique of devil summoning really was no more than devil calling. Indeed, it wasn’t as though the cultists pulled a demon into the material plane. Rather, they simply expended a great deal of vitality and soul energy in the form of sacrifices, alongside mana, in order to call out to the hells and hope a devil would come answering their call. Even the Cathedral’s own method of demon calling was similar at core, though they had expensive and prepared energy batteries instead of live sacrifices.

It was the magical equivalent of a loud and powerful scream across dimensions. The most technically demanding part of the ritual was making sure that the call went out towards the right dimension. Alastaian dimensional studies weren’t very advanced; consequently the cultists didn’t know exactly where to direct the call. However, over generations of trial, error and fatal mistakes when monsters from the void were summoned and mistaken for demons… they’d come to a vague understanding of where to send the call.

Thenceforth, a demon might or might not answer, depending on how it felt. There was also a binding component to the ritual which sought to control the demon, but Orodan had no interest in that. The entire thing was mostly useless for him, who already knew Dimensionalism.

Frankly, summoning or as it really was, calling, seemed to be a dead end for the moment. At least until he could actually find where the extradimensional plane of light was. Only then could he call down the light from there.

…perhaps someone affiliated with the Conclave could help?

He flipped the bloodstained tome shut and began reading the other one.

“I suppose I can shelve devil calling for now,” Orodan said. “This Pillar of Light spell’s a tricky one.”

It was the spell he’d seen Silestor use earlier in the day, when the man had called a pillar of burning light down from the sky.

“You picked the most difficult recorded spell in the school of light magic. I can count on one hand how many people I know who can successfully cast it. Three of them are dead, lost to history, and the other one learned it after fifteen years of study and is still an Initiate,” Silestor explained. “It requires immersing yourself into a mindset of not just generating light via mana but calling it down from the very heavens.”

Orodan agreed with that advice. It was in fact why he was bothering to learn the spell. The act of ‘calling’ down light, he thought, might give him some tangential insight into calling the light forth from the plane his enemy used.

“I don’t quite understand how I’m supposed to call power forth and not just generate it myself,” Orodan admitted. “My mana comes from my own body. Even pyromancers casting a Firestorm or wind mages casting a Tornado will first form a mana tether above their target area and then the spell will form. This tome says some flowery nonsense which I just don’t understand.”

Even Orodan’s Spatial Fold and Teleportation required him to supply energy to the initial target area, from where it would carry on. But this tome had no mention of doing such a thing.

How was he supposed to just call a pillar of light down from the skies?

The answer… put a sour look upon his face.

