“Faith,” Silestor declared. “To call forth the light of the heavens, one must have faith in their own abilities and belief in something grander than themselves.”

“…what?” Orodan asked, finding the idea absurd. “You don’t even have faith in the Gods of Inuan… what nonsensical idea is this?”

“Not faith in the gods, Orodan, but faith in the result. To cast the Pillar of Light, one must weaponize their belief, truly set their mind to calling the light of justice and purity down from above that it might smite evil,” Silestor said. “Tell me, do you not have any skills which do the same?”

“Of course I do,” Orodan said thinking about Reality Alteration or Warrior’s Reciprocity. Even at a lower rarity, Wood Communion also required much in the way of belief, to sculpt wood and guide it into the shape he wanted. “But that would mean…”

“Yes. The spell is of Legendary rarity,” Silestor revealed. “What? Did you think all those people trying to learn it are untalented churls? That only five people in recorded history managed to learn it through luck alone? It’s a Legendary spell for a reason. Took me years to learn it myself.”

Orodan wasn’t delusional. He had the time loops on his side, and he certainly had the mettle and natural work ethic to learn Legendary, Mythical and even two Celestial skills. His humble roots would not allow him to get too big of a head, but it wasn’t inaccurate to say that he was talented.

At certain things.

Light magic wasn’t one of those things. If it took Silestor, who seemed to be a real prodigy of light magic, many years to learn the Pillar of Light, then it would take Orodan a decent while.

Furthermore, Orodan wasn’t sure if he could ever mentally submit himself and adopt the mindset of calling upon power from the heavens. His faith in the Gods had shattered long ago when they’d antagonized him, and the concept of calling upon purifying light was just silly to a man who relied only upon his own strength. If he was to learn this spell, it couldn’t be the regular way; a different mindset would be needed.

Still, learning light magic could only benefit him. And he was dead set on figuring out how to borrow the concept of ‘calling upon’ something.

[Fate Disconnect 58 → Fate Disconnect 59]

Orodan continued practicing that particular skill, even as he spoke. The chaos in the tapestry of fate, while still cataclysmic, had yet again noticeably reduced.

Orodan shook his head.

“Even if it takes me a long time to learn this, I don’t plan on easing up on my efforts anytime soon,” Orodan said. “This skill… the underlying concepts behind it are important for what I’m after. No matter how strong I get, there’s always something to be learned in the strangest of places.”

Who would’ve thought that Orodan would gain such knowledge and insights from the Cathedral of all places? Well, at least Silestor was a rather likeable fellow. Not a stooge of the Gods and only interested in keeping many of the supernatural threats facing the Republic at bay.

“No matter how strong you get, hm?” Silestor queried, his voice oddly subdued. “And just how strong would you say you are, Orodan Wainwright?”

“Not strong enough. Not yet… maybe not ever,” Orodan answered. “There is always something greater lurking beyond the horizon, just out of view. Though I’ll always embrace the responsibility to face it.”

“Responsibility, huh? You said that when we first met…” Silestor muttered. “I think, Orodan Wainwright… that you’ve also taken upon yourself the responsibility to deal with what comes down in six months.”

“What makes you say that?”

The light mage remained silent for a moment before speaking.

“I’m not a fate reader…” Silestor quietly said. “But some of the senior diviners, even if they can’t parse the threads right now, can still verify the existence of them. They told me some interesting news…”

“And what might that be?” Orodan asked.

“The majority of the Alastaian threads of fate, even in the midst of this storm… are no longer dark and corrupt. Tell-tale signs of the imminent Eldritch corruption,” Silestor said. “This event, it occurred around the same time as the tapestry of fate went off. Are you responsible for all this, Orodan Wainwright?”

“I believe you might’ve stumbled onto something, Silestor Lumenarin,” Orodan said with a smile.

“Your arrival in the Cathedral today was no coincidence, was it?” Silestor asked, and Orodan nodded. “The tapestry goes into flux, capital guard tip me off about a dangerous man and you arrive here with no fear of picking a fight, displaying one improbable ability after another. The only Orodan Wainwright my sources tell me of is a county militia man in Ogdenborough… right where some politically volatile events occurred. And you then come bearing the uniform of their militia, with the same name as that man.”

“And yet I haven’t had a pillar of light fall from the sky upon my head,” Orodan remarked. “You’re still trusting of me.”

“No matter what test I ran, what device or divine artifact I used, there’s no indication that you’re under any sort of possession or reincarnation. For all intents and purposes… you are Orodan Wainwright.”

“That is my name,” Orodan replied and then looked the man squarely in the eyes. “You wish for answers?”

“Though I’m in no position to demand them… yes.”

“Then sit down, Silestor… and let me tell you about a hot-headed idiot. A mere Apprentice-level swordsman who died charging a foe many times his superior,” Orodan began. “Let me tell you about how I died on this day and began the time loops.”

“The time loops…?”

And so, they spoke.

Silestor was exceptionally skeptical at first. The man rigorously questioned every detail of Orodan’s story, particularly about his first life. If anything, it was a nice change of pace as the majority of people he revealed the truth to focused more on the later escapades and the bigger events in later loops such as the Eldritch Avatar, the Hegemony and him assuming control over the time loops himself. The light wizard was particularly interested in his early loops, however.

After the first twenty minutes, the man leaned back in his chair.

“Alright… it’s apparent to me, utterly idiotic as you are, that you were chosen for this.”

“Of all the things to conclude, that’s what you took away?” Orodan asked. “People usually come to that realization far later in my narration.”

“You recount experiences that only a poor man raised as an orphan and having made it to the county militia would have. There are no attempts to portray yourself as exceptionally smart, cunning or chosen. You’ve made plenty of mistakes in the early loops, yet despite all that your hard-headed stubbornness has allowed you to succeed where others would have eased up or failed,” Silestor explained. “From what you say, your talent in Cleaning wasn’t even apparent in the early loops. Which can only mean that whoever chose you did so for good reason. You really were just a dumb bumpkin militia man.”

“…thank you? I never denied that aspect of myself…” Orodan muttered.

“Exactly. Now I know you’re no fraud.”

“Well, I suppose that makes sense,” Orodan said. “Moving on, Guzuhar was certainly a new experience. I’d never been to another continent before…”

They continued. And Silestor began to wholeheartedly believe Orodan once he gave intimate details of the north continent. He spoke of Cyvrosdyr and receiving the second Quest which guided much of his journey. Of Spearwater, of Clan Iron-Bear, Ozgaric, and his battles alongside the Iron-Bears against the raiders and their bloody God Agorhiku. And he spoke of his first encounter against the Eldritch Avatar where he gained Eldritch Resistance.

Then, he spoke of his long loop where he’d been betrayed by the tyrant three and continued on from there till the end.

Silestor paid rapt attention the entire time, shaking his head in confirmation whenever Orodan spoke of a betrayal by the Prime Five, or frowning in concern when he informed him about the Eldritch Avatar, Hegemony or the worse foes he faced beyond Alastaia.

Finally, after two hours of talking, back and forth and many questions, throughout which he increased Fate Disconnect two more times, his explanation ended.

“I do not normally feel so… but after hearing your tale and of all the world-ending monstrosities out in the cosmos who could end Alastaia and everything we hold dear on a whim, a deep mental exhaustion has set into my very bones,” Silestor said. “As unbelievable as it is, the notion of a time loop isn’t so shocking in light of all the things I’ve seen you do thus far.”

“You see now why I need to learn light magic? The enemy I face is a foe beyond any this world has seen,” Orodan said. “Even with my best efforts and much more time, I can’t be certain what it will take to survive against it let alone prevail.”

“If anyone’s suited for the task, I believe it will be you, Orodan Wainwright,” Silestor said. “Having heard your entire story, I can see how light magic would be important to you. Next… loop? Is that how you say it? Yes, next loop… come find me for more training. I appreciate honesty, so simply tell me up front what your circumstances are alongside a few relevant demonstrations of your abilities. I’ll believe you rather quickly and we can get to work from that point onwards.”

“I will not forget your aid,” Orodan declared. “We shall see one another again. Though, for now… it seems we have visitors.”

“Visitors? I thought I told them all to leave us be for at least a few hours… especially after all we’ve achieved, they should give us some leeway,” the light mage said.

“Ah, that would be my fault,” Orodan admitted. “I’ve been practicing a particular skill during our time together. One which is making it rather apparent where the disruptions in the tapestry are coming from.”

[Fate Disconnect 61 → Fate Disconnect 62]

The shield of soul energy around his fate grew even stronger, and with it came the accompanying reduction of the mayhem he was naturally causing in the tapestry. And as it did…

…the door swung open, revealing the people Orodan had sensed nearing their location.

A High Oracle with a livid look on her face, and multiple armored faithful of the Cathedral behind her. And at the rear of this group was the Chosen of Ilyatana, Heredin Aeronsul. The man’s eyes were glowing gold.

“I see… the pandemonium in the tapestry originates from here. Who are you, mortal? Come, let me take a look at you…”

“That will not be necessary, tyrant. I have only one thing for you,” Orodan said.

A broom was produced from his dimensional ring.

He would have to apologize to Silestor later for eliminating his employer and purging any Blessings of Ilyatana the man had.

#

“What an absurd notion! …will it work on me?”

“Arrogant and haughty as you are, I would rather not use that ability on any allies of mine.”

[Light Beam 16 → Light Beam 17]

He shot out a casual light beam from his fingers, using the nearby ravenous monsters as target practice. He kept the energy low enough to injure and send them running but not kill. And just when they thought the attack over, he swiftly pulled the dispersed energy of the beam back to himself and shot a new one, gathering the energy of the old into it.

“Bah! I assure you my mind is made of incredibly stern stuff!” Talricto declared. “Why, I’ve traversed the most horrific environments across the cosmos! This one time I…”

He tuned the spider out, choosing to continue his practice.

The spider elicited fondness and irritation in equal measure. But even then, funny as it would’ve been to use his new Disguise-Intimidation combo on the dimensional spider, Orodan thought it exceedingly irresponsible and more than a bit low. He’d seen how the Grandmaster-level vampire cowered in terror as though suddenly privy to a horrible cosmic truth.

Those who could not see past his disguise had it easy, their weak minds unable and unwilling to even acknowledge his existence. It was those who had minds strong enough to see him and resist the effect that had a problem.

Even without coming up with a full skill for it, his new ability was powerful. Orodan had an inkling that he could absorb Disguise and Intimidation into Incipience of Infinity if he kept at it. The problem though, was that the potential consequences of someone resisting it and suffering from madness were horrid.

This meant that until he had a better grasp on the skill combination and managed to successfully fold the two relevant skills into Incipience of Infinity, he couldn’t test it against innocents under any circumstances. Shattering a murderous vampire’s mind before executing it was acceptable. Accidentally driving hapless guards, soldiers or civilians insane was not.

Better to practice it against enemies only for now.

“Anyhow, I’ll see you on Lonvoron, Talricto,” Orodan said. “…assuming I even get there this loop.”

“I see… going to bullishly insist on making your own way there, are you?” the spider asked.

“Quite so. I have a meeting with a certain Embodiment-level archer. And I have no intentions of allowing it to shunt me away this time,” Orodan declared.

Talricto got the hint and took a hike, winking out of existence and presumably off to Lonvoron.

This left just Orodan upon Alastaia’s barren moon. Gray rocks, various creatures hungry for his soul but too scared to approach…

…and a confrontation with a spatial spider waiting to jump upon his Teleportation.

